

rBROKEN
CO IT?
pi|g
Si
d
i
AN
ALL-AUSTRALIAN Industry.
F- —IMI —=I
600,000 tons of SOUTH AUS-
TRALIAN IRONSTONE are
used annually at the Steel
Works
AJ.BQ
50,000 tons of TASMANIAN and
N.S.W. LIMESTONE.
In the transport of these commodities ,
fTEAMEIIS registered, owned or com
trolled in are employed.
500,000 tons of N.S.W. COAL are
used per annum for Coke
making, power and other pur
poses at the Steel Works.
350,000 tons of IRON and STEEL
PRODUCTSare manufactured
yearly, practically the whole
of which finds a ready market
within Australia.
AND IRON & STEEL MASTERS.
ffice: EQUITABLE BUILDING,
320 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
VoL 42.—N0. 2159
Thursday, June 30, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free'to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
“EVEN A GERM
WILL SQUIRM”
IF YOU USE
11
OOTH
PASTE
Kills Dental Decay within 30 seconds.
If you have not used Euthymol, write to
Euthymol Department B, Box 224, G.P.0., Sydney.
A free sample will be posted to you.
w
a n
ft
Exceptional Gripping Power.
For heavy angle and cross drives, for great speeds and
variable loads, as well as for main drives, there is no belting
that meets the demands of the manufacturer like
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HUE BELTING
It is unequalled as a power transmitter, driving the pulleys
with a powerful grip that utilises every ounce of power
produced.
Our expert engineers are always ready to advise you on
your transmission problems. Take advantage of their
practical knowledge.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Victoria : Corbett, Derham &Co., 397 Little Collins St., Melb.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
Tasmania : Henry Clark & Co. Ltd.,'Collins St., Hobart.
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
158-162 QCFORD SI Wl. I72.REGENT Si; W.l
2,QUEEN VICTORIA SI E.C.4.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
sas
m
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for I2per ons with Prince’s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterns, and
"Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince's Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company’s own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy’
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
Ail first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price.6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46*-
Post Free all over Australia.
SB
mm
CRAIG & AITKEN , 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory «
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
EBS
nto»o*. %xatrtx. ivts
•WBUWWOWtW»MeM
MWVtCB*.
C. HUD son:
For, Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: —“Proved to be effective bac-
tei'icidaUy as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
thev have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals. [6
The Red Page
“Banjo”
No writer of verse in Australia has en-
joyed greater popularity than “Banjo”.
Paterson; and very few have deserved a
better place in the esteem of their country-
men. His faults are very many. He uses
a poetical method, and is very seldom poeti-
cal ; he started with a very fine natural
sense of rhythm and rhyme, and never
gave himself seriously enough to his craft
to perfect his mode of expression; he had
the ball at his feet, and did not kick it hard
enough. Yet he did something for which
the Australian reader may be pro-
foundly grateful through all the years.
He it was Avho lifted the settled gloom
from our, literature of the, bush, let
in the full, happy 'sunshine and showed the
men of the big spaces in their moods of
sport and laughter.
Now that The Collected Verse of A. B.
Paterson (Angus and Robertson) has arrived
it seems more unfortunate as it is more
evident that “Banjo’s” first fine impulse was
allowed to fritter itself away. There is a
gradual falling off in the volume. The mirth
that sparkled in the early verses gives place
to something that is forced and rather
machine-made in the later pages, though
there is an occasional lift and suggestion of
something better; the hint of poetry gradu-
ally fades out into the commonplace. But,
in spite of all, Paterson is always interesting.
Even in his worst moods and when handling
the poorest themes a line here and there or
the sudden turn of a phrase gives a distinc-
tion which his numerous imitators lack.
Marred as the early verses are by tags,
forced lines and lapses into moth-eaten ver-
biage, they still stand alone and unrivalled
in their class. “How We Beat the Favorite”
is a tenth-rate piece of jingle compared with
the glowing pictures and splendid racing
swing of “The Open Steeplechase.” “Riley’s
Run” has a note of genuine pathos ; “Pardon,
the Son of Reprieve” is a yarn worth, telling
which ends in a perfect glow of humor and
exultation; “Clancy of the Overflow” has
good lines, in spite of its rather obvious and
overworked theme; and “The Geebung Polo
Club” is just about the finest example of the
humor of exaggeration in the language.
There was a time when Paterson could write
lines like these: —
The roving breezes come and go, the reed-beds sweep
and sway,
The sleepy river murmurs low, and loiters on its way.
It is the land of lots o’ time along the Castlereagh.
That catches the very spirit of the scene, and
is exquisite in its long and lazy lilt. “The
Amateur Rider” is another piece with a
quality all its own —a fine humor, a con-
vincing truth, a thrill of movement.
All these are things to be very grateful
for; but in our gratitude there is a sense
of regret. The early promise was not ful-
filled ; the man who might have been a poet
was content to remain a writer of clever
and popular verse—and the cheap glitter
wore itself out. In “Rio Grande” Paterson
had a theme after his own heart; but he
did not make his big tragic effort into a big
performance. The verse is too loose, too
badly tagged out and altogether too trivial
for the matter. Some thrill is there; but
the critical reader is overcome by the feel-
ing of might-have-been. With good crafts-
manship “Rio Grande” would have had a
chance of standing with the greatest of
modern ballads.
Making all possible deductions, A. B.
Paterson must still be given a high place in
Australian literature. His is a verse of
action : and when the writer of moving things
has a true sense of humor he must have an
abiding-place in the affections of many gen-
erations of readers. His collected works, a.
large handsome volume admirably printed,
deserve a place in every library, and will
stand alone in many a spot where libraries
are unknown.
D.M.W.
This World of Ours
'Mr. J. H. Curie has written another travel
book. It has more geographical and far
less human interest than his first, “The
Shadow-Show.” At such a multitude of out-
of-the-way places does the writer call that
This World of Ours should he read with an
atlas. Places interest Mr. Curie more than
peoples; consequently this world of his is
liable to leave the reader, though much en-
lightened, rather cold. “I travelled so far,
so wide, that perhaps no one has caught up
with me,” he says; and as the reader fol-
lows, panting, beyond Blaauwberg (look at
the map), and from Australia to the Klon-
dyke and over the Pacific Coast, through
the 19 Latin-American republics, over Arch-
angel to Astfachan, among the Mahommedan
countries, and on from China to Cochin China,
he will admit that Mr. Curie has put the Wan-
dering Jew and the Flying Dutchman and the
great Burton amongst the also-rans. In
fact, as a traveller he has been beaten only
by the influenza germ. He tries to account
for his travel craze by ascribing it to hered-
ity. His mother was a Pinson—English
descendants, to all seeming, of the Pinzons of
Spain. Three, brothers of this family not
only helped to finance Columbus but sailed
with him to the discovery of America. This
drop of Spanish blood colors one of the livest
chapters in the book —a bull-fight in Barce-
lona.
After Mr. Curie has dragged you at his
flying heels through a thousand places whose
names reek of romance or tragedy, you long
to pull him up and ask “Great Scot, didn’t
you meet or speak to anyone? Where did
you lodge? A Did. ravens or humans feed
you?
.Mr. Curie is an agnostic. He jabs that
at us with a loaded pen, but, like the rest of
us poorer mortals, he must needs love some-
thing and reverence something- He loves
the Scotch and be reverences coffee. For
a man’s book “This World of • Ours” has
little food in it, probably because the writer
cannot digest much. He admits that
intimate touch, Of references to coffee and
the Scotch there are many. He was
managing director of a’coal-mine in the East'
Rand. “The colliery had been well laid out
by an able Scotch miner....an economic
struggle with the other collieries round about
loomed ahead.” lie tackles the question of
patent-medicine supplies for the 800 Kaffirs,
and saves a farthing a ton on the cost of
mining the coal. Then the candles: "Two
per shift to each native might be reduced.”
One-evening as the Kaffirs were hauled up
the managing director stood at the top of the
shaft and searched each one. Rejecting
stumps, the haul was three bucket-loads of
quarters, halves, and a good proportion of
whole candles. "The manager.. . .We were
fellow-Scots. .. .our mine before I left was
producing coal a shilling a ton below our
We had added a Scotch sales man-
ager to our team.” Elsewhere in the book : “I
thought proudly of all the Scotch in the East.
How Scottish the Indian Civil Service ! And
the Indian Army! How entirely Scotch. ~ .
the City of Calcutta! Burma was but an
annex of Glasgow.... and as the Scotch
were in the East so were they in the North
and the South and the West -a tower of
strength to the British people.”
But—add this in justice to Mr. .Cories—he
admits that “we do not throw up the very
greatest, of the race” : that honor goes to the
English.
Sometimes the coffee is not good, some-
times it is superb, with something of Brazil
and something of Costa Rica in it. Once —
in Hungary, of all places—it was so perfect
that the connoisseur kissed the cook that
made it. She was old, and elephantine
in figure, but when you know Mr. Curie
through his two books you will realise that
that kiss was a tribute no mere youth and
beauty could have earned.
It is the only kiss in the book.
The coffee excelled all others the traveller
had drunk to such a degree that for the
moment he was lifted back to the piety of
his youth. He forgets his agnosticism and
■writes that it was “prepared God alone
knows how,”
Of the U.S.A. “Climate! Boundless re-
sources ! Freedom to develop! Add these
to the old stocks —our own in particular—
and yoYi get the American. Because of the
climate he is energy incarnate. And his tra-
dition is to use his head—get every ounce
from his brains.” Then the writer proceeds
to intimate that the Americans are weak
and mistaken in the way they treat their
women. They are too deferential, and their
women in consequence are losing respect for
them. He is so in earnest that he rises to
admonitory italics, ‘‘Don’t be humble to
women.” Well, the Zulus, of whom Mr.
Curie is a great admirer, think the same.
So did the super-philosopher of Germany,
where Mr. Curie was a student. “Thou
goest to a woman? Remember thy whip.”
And Mr. Curie’s distinguished fellow-Scot
John Knox, with his book, “The Monstrous
Regiment of Women!” (He had to publish
it in Switzerland, else had the Virgin Oueen
slit his weasand.) “My cast of mind re-
mained theological until I was twenty-four,”
says Mr. Curie early in his book, kidding
himself that he has shaken off all Knoxious
shackles! He hasn’t. Meantime Columbia
is eating her heart out because her men —-
“our own in particular”—are now going to
“treat her rough.”
A chapter of interest to devotees of
Wagner there is, in which the writer makes
a discovery in the matter of the setting of
Parsifal on Mount Salvat in Spain. Mr.
Curie pauses rarely for reflective writing:
but when he does he is forcible, original and
polished.
A.C.M.
Prose and Poetry
The essential difference between prose ancl
poetry is not so much in spirit as in mechan-
ism.
In ordinary speech certain words or parts
of words are singled out by being accented,
and the fluctuations produced in speech by
the continuous alternation of accented add
non-accented syllables are readily detected by
the ear, for which they are in the first place
intended, it is noticeable how, in monosyl-
lables, the accent continually varies; a word
accented at one time is unaccented at an-
other—the accents vary as the thoughts
vary, weaving a rude species of accentual
rhythm which, in prose, has no continuous
regularity. In obedience to some law, how-
ever, when the speech becomes emotional
the accents appear to become grouped at
more regular intervals; and when the speech
becomes poetry, the regularity becomes abso-
lute : the accentual rhythm accords with a
rhythm that lias been awakened in the
speaker and the listener—it has become
metrical. The rhythm of prose never
becomes continuously metrical. The accents
of this metrical rhythm are largely
independent of word-accent; they accen-
tuate, in fact, not the words, but a
rhythm upon which the words float. This
fact is brought out when it is said that the
Arabian Ai-Khalil Ibu Ahmad “invented
prosody as he passed a coppersmith’s and
heard him hammering a basin.”
An illustration may be given from a work
that is professedly prose in form: —■
Then the woods arose in folds, like drapery of
awakened mountains, stately with a depth of awe,
and memory of the tempests. Autumn’s mellow
hand was on them, as they owned already, touched
with gold, and red, and olive; and their joy towards
the sun was less to a bridegroom than a father. .. j
So perhaps shall break upon us that eternal
morning, when crag and chasm shall be no more,
neither hill nor valley, nor great unvintaged ocean ;
when glory shall not scare happiness, neither happi-
ness. envy glory
Here the rhythm that throbs throughout the
book trembles on the verge of metre, and in
parts surrenders itself entirely to metre, as
Lorna surrendered herself to the love of
John. The phrase
Then the woods arose in folds
is more .than prose; it is a half-catch at
lyric; and it rounds to full'lyric in
So perhaps shall break upon us that eternal morning,
When crag and chasm shall be no more, neither hill
nor valley,
Nor great unvintaged ocean....
(Continued on page 25.)


V
£1
ii
!
!
I
i
Coat Sweaters Reduced
The inclusion of a Cosy Coat
Sweater in your winter outfit is a
wise precaution to take. Reduced
prices, in harmony with a new
standard of values now pre-
vailing, reveal how you
economise by getting your
needs at Anthony Horderns’.
Knitted All-Wool Coat Sweater*,
in Grey, Navy or Heather.
V-Neck, Fine Knit—
Originally:
20/- 20/- 20/6 21/6 21/6
NOW 19/- 19/- 19/6 20/6 20/6
Men’s Hose Reduced
For keenest values in
dependable-quality Goods
Anthony Horderns’ are never
surpassed. This offering of
Men’s Reliable Half-Hose re-
duced in price is one that
will appeal to thrifty shop-
pers.
Men’s Black Cashmere Ha’f-
Hose. all wool. Australian made.
Medium weight.
Originally .. 3/0 4/6 pair
NOW 3/3 3/9 pair
18/3 half-doss. 20/9 half-doz.
Men’s Navy and Black Cashmere
All-Wool Half-Hose, made in
England. Medium weight.
Originally 4/9 5/6 6/3 8/3 pair
NOW 4/3 4/11 5/3 6/9 pair
Men’s Navy and Black. Cashmere
All-Wool Half-Hose. I. & R.
Morley’s English make. Medium
weight.
Originally 5/11 7/11 7/6 8/6 pair
NOW 5/6 6/3 6/9 7/6 pair
Heavyweight-
Originally .. 7/6 10/6 pair
NOW 6/9 7/6 pair
MAIL ORDERS arc executed
promptly and efficiently by our
expert staff.
Reduced Prices Mean Still Greater
Values at Anthony Horderns’
Prices are lower! Welcome news, this! Lower
costs have brought about this reduction, and it
is typical of Anthony Horderns’ to pass on to
their customers every advantage of their mer-
chandising facilities. Comparative prices are
shown so as to demonstrate the extent of the
money-saving opportunities that provide a “real
joy carnival” for the thrifty shopper.
m
.j.fM
*.014
LOl5
C 655
I.oll.—Men’s Dark Tan Calf Lace Shoes
genuine welled soles, medium toed last.
Sizes 5 to 10.
Originally 27/0
NOW 22/6
Lols.—Men’s Genuine Box Calf Lace
Shoes, welted soles, smart medium toes.
Sizes 5 to 10.
Originally 27/0
NOW 22/0
9XOI
pass
JLosB.—Men’s Genuine Box Calf Blucher
Cut Lace Boots, stout welted soles,
ieather lined.
Originally 35/-
NOW 38/6
I,ol6. — Men’s Lace Boots, in Box Calf,
welted soles, leather lined. Sizes 5 to
10.
Originally 30/-
NOW 25/-
H
The “Hordernia”
Sac Suit.
IRREPROACHABLE value.
A Serviceable, Smart,
Ready-for-Service SUIT, of
dependable quality, for 59/o.
Such is the brief descrip-
tion of the “Hordernia” Suit
ottering now featured by
Anthony Horderns’, and
which will make an earnest
appeal to economising men.
aue reputation eai-*eu oy
Anthony Horderns’ Ready-
foi-aeji vice suits in the past
ifj consistently maintained to-
day. That is why the de-
mand for these distinctive
and economical garments
continues to increase.
The “Hordernia” Suit has
no rival for Quality, Smart-
ness, Value.
The “Hordernia” Sac Suit.—
Newest Effects in Grey and
Brown Australian Tweeds; 2-
button coat, medium lapel, out
breast pocket, no vent; vest, 4
pockets, medium opening; trou-
sers, side and hip pockets, cuff
bottoms.
Originally 65/-
NOW 59/«
Carriage Paid on Family Drapery
and Men’s Wear in N.S.W. ; to
nearest port on Interstate orders.
Rich Silks are Reduced
Here are rich, lustrous silks offered at reduced prices. In their
richness and beauty and excellent quality they will instantly win your
favor. Such price reductions as these wdll make every purchase a
decisive bargain
37in. and 38in. Satin Duchesne M#us-
seline, in shades of Ivory, .Sky. Cham-
pagne. Potty. Helio. Pink. Grey. Yieux
Rose. Light Navy. Navy. Saxe. Nattier,
Tan. Lime. Reseda. Emerald. Bottle,
Violet. Royal. Old Gold, Brown.
Originally IS hi, 19/6
NOW 13/11 yard
:?85n. and 40in. Cashmere lie Soi. in
shades of Ivory. Pink. Ilelio., Sky,
Maize. Tomato, Emerald, Saxe.
Originally 19/6 yard
NOW 13/11 yard
40in. Georgette, in a good range of
colorings: White. Navy. Black. Lemon.
Pink, Saxe. Nattier. Amethyst, Helio..
Mole. .lade. Grey, Sky, Henna. Nigger.
Originally 7/11 yard
NOW' 5/11 yard
48Iji. Sealette, in Seal and Black.
Originally 55/6
NOW 29/6
48in. Sealette, in Seal and Black.
Originally 68/6
NOW 89/6
m
Women’s Hosiery Reduced
As soon as they read this list of re-
ductions in dependable-quality Hosiery
economising women will act quickly, and
secure a good supply of these examples
for present and future needs. Anthony
Horderns’ can always be relied on for
providing keenest values in reliable-
ouality Goods.
Plain Black Lisle Thread Hose, the ‘‘Blirson."
good heavy make, knit to fit, without a seam,
shaped foot, narrow ankle, a very elastic top.
double heels, toes and soles.
Originally 3/9
NOW 2/11
Plain White or Tan Lisle, full fashioned, not
the ordinary mock seam at back, but cut to
shape, and finished by a special machine which
gives a correct-fitting ankle. These have high
spliced heels and double soles.
Originally 3/tl
NOW 2/6
Plain Black Cashmere Hose, heavyweight, all
sizes, cosy and warm for winter wear, strong
double soles, toes and heels.
Originally , 4/11
NOtV 4/6
Smart Neckwear Reduced
And .just as charming' and pretty as your imagination could wish it
to be. It is amazing what a variety of artistic attractiveness can be
obtained by clever fashioning in dainty fabrics. Reduced prices make
these examnles all the more attractive.
Crepe De Chine Small Roll Collars,
with narrow pleated frill in delicate
shades of Sky. Pink. Champagne. Saxe.
Mauve, and Ivory.
Originally 5/(>
now :i/n
Fine Paris Net Vests, low neck, roll
collar, cascades effect, edged filet lace
and insertion, prettily tucked and
trimmed crochet buttons.
Originally : 15/11
NOW 13/11
Fine White Organrii Muslin Vests, liigli
roll collar and high neck, daintily
tucked and trimmed, finished pearl but-
tons.
Originally 4/11
NOW 3/11
Cosy Scarves Reduced
When such substantial money savings
as these come under your notice, you
will lose no time in securing one or two
examples. These truly useful winter
dress accessories reveal temptingly low
prices.
Pure Silk Motor Scarves, iu a choice and wide
variety featuring colored contrasting stripes,
in styles similar to illustration.
Originally 49/-
NOW 42/.
Evening Scarves Reduced
Rich Needle-Run Silk Spanish Lace Scarves,
very bold designs.
Originally 457.
NOW . 39/-
Handsome Black Georgette Evening Scarves,
prettily trimmed with Gold or Silver Medal-
lions.
Originally 4->
NOW 35/-
ANTHONY HORDERN <5 Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


\
*■■■■
m
'.‘V
4
Make a KODAK
your companion
A Kodak is a companion that appeals at all
times. Whether you feel gay or serious it
makes pictures that harmonise with your
mood.
The No. 2c Autographic Kodak Junior is a
model that is very popular with amateurs.
It has all the equipment for making good
photographs; while its ease of operation
enables you to learn to use it in half-an-hour.
For pictures 2| x 4| inches. Price £5/15/-
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
370 George Street. Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne2so-2521 Queen
Street Brisbane • The Valiev; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 4» Elizabeth Street. Hobart;
Ruthv’en Street. Toowoomba.; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co.. Perth; “The Kodak Corner.” corner LamUon Quay
and Willis Street. Wellington. N.Z
To hear the celebrities a Itheir best
play "His Master’s Voice” Records with an His Masters. Voice Needle on
an "His Master’s Voice" Instrument-
‘His Master's Voice
will thus give you an exact reproduction of the voices and music of such
artists as
MELBA
CARUSO
HEIFETZ
GALLI-CURCI
MOISEIWITSCH
PADEREWSKI
THE NEEDLE MUST BE PERFECT!
The continuous groove on “His Masters Voice” records is the
track which the needle has to trace. Look at it through a
magnifying glass 1 It is wide at the top and narrow at the
bottom. The full, pure tone of the voice or instrument is
obtained only when the point of the needle touches the very
bottom of that groove- —and only a perfectly shaped and abso-
lutely unworn needle will reach to the bottom.
An ill-fitting or blunted needle will trace, not the true bottom
of the track, but only its sloping sides. The result is a marked
loss of tonal purity and a rapid wearing-out of the record itself.
••His Master’s Voice” Needles are made with scrupulous care,
bach one is ground to the thousandth part of an inch. bach
one fits cofrectlv the groove which it has to trace. Each one
passes through our needle test and inspection department before
being packed.
Always buy “His Master’s Voice” Needles.- Always use a new
needle with each record.
‘HIS MASTER’S VOICE” NEEDLES,
2/6 box of 200.
Or buy an Outfit containing 200 each, soft, medium and
loud-tone Needles for 7/6.
Specially v-orthy of consideration is the Tungstyle Needle,
it has a “permanent” point, yet causes even less wear on
the record than the ordinary carbon steel needles.
If used carefully, the Tungstyle Needle will play from 50
to 75 records without changing.
Price 2/- per packet of 4.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest dealer on request.
m
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
“His Master’s Voice,
Re(/. Trade-murk.
•'Gramophone
Reg. Trade-marl:.
B


PINRETTES
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
dras ic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Full Directions with
Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
HOTEL
METROPQIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
dhy from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE! OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and avy men.
Used since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
9
m.
n
GREY HAIR
tells the
world yo u
are OLD!
Lose no time
in greeting
youth again !
Dr. Allen’s
famous VYnl-
n u t Stain
offers a youth-
ful color of
Walnut, is
easy to apply, harmless, perma-
ment and waterproof. Procure a
packet from your eheinist to-dav.
You canpot fail to be satisfied.
f .
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Play Safe with
Your Health!
Don't trifle with it. Don’t exneri-
ment with it. Your teeth are the
guardians of your health —give them
every care. Careful, twice--l-day
cleansing- with F r lf) v VT*
the tooth jpaeltc of proved
worth, will work
You will find an aftt r-ieelii g
like a “breeze in the mouth.’’
Sw
Your Chemist
sells it at 1/-
tube.
Tooth Paste
m
W
CF
WtoL
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—-far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs.,
10/6; 1 lb., 2/-; i-lb., 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb., 9d.; §-lb.. 6d.
extra. Interstate, 1 lb., 1/2; J-lb.. Bd. extra.
w
LO
VAI
BRAND
. WEED, SCRUB n
TREE KIR®
Manufactured in Australia by
MELBOURNE
. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE „
’llltß
Bearinqs a Dividends
Gut down Horse-Power Waste. You Can?
Executives are waking up to the relation
between lubrication and dividends. Pro-
duction must be increased. Shut-downs
were never so costly.
The better your bearings are lubricated,
the faster your work is done.
Practically every machine has some kind
of bearings. These bearings require lub-
rication. As oil saves power, it follows
that one oil saves more power than an-
other. If you have shared the now-fading
impression that it is enough to flood
bearings with reasonably good oils, your
attention is invited to the following facts.
Why Gargoyle Bearing Oils save Power and reduce Production Costs
Gargoyle Bearing Oils are unique in that
they are made from crude oils specially
selected for their lubrisoting oil value.
Oils can be used much more sparingly
than low grade oils.
Gargoyle Bearing Oils will separate
When Gargoyle Bearing
Oils are put to work,
changing temperature has
very little influence on
them. The variation of
the body of the oil is very
slight.
This is one of the reasons
why Gargoyle Bearing
Lubricants
A grade for each type of service
easily and quickly from
water and other impurities
when used in oil circula-
tion and splash oiling sys-
tems. Thus the life of the
oil is much longer. Our
services are at your dis-
posal at all times. Please
address our nearest branch
Write our nearest branch for free booklet "What is Lubrication ?”
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Danger Song.
There are snakes in yellow grass,
And an adder on the stone ;
If they strike me as I pass
I may lie below the grass
And my love shall sit and sigh all alone.
There is magic in the air,
And a glory on the hill;
If that glory I may share,
While I drink the shining air,
I shall live and love and laugh with a will.
Death is there and life is here,
’Twist the adder and the rose;
But tln> love of love is dear,
For the sweetness that is here,
Singing “Danger, danger, death! till it
goes.
Shall I fear the morning sun.
Or the dark upon the land?
This of life I asked and won,
In the shadow and the sun,
To go singing on and on hand in hand.
N.SAV.
D.M.W.
Intruding Death.
As I came up the highway
I saw the dreaming sea.
With dust-brown sails beside it,
Spread out in front of me.
As I looked o’er the sea-wall
The sheeted mists moved by :
The blue-bells in my hand were
No bluer than the sky.
The flower was on the tea-tree.
The gold was on the grass,
And deep among the scrub I heard
A crooning seagull pass.
Oh, scent of sun-parched places!
Oh, shining morning sea !
My soul broke into singing
That so much joy should be.
I looked along the highway.
I heard the death-bell toll:
I heard the prancing horses
Prance right into my soul.
The bell tolled on and ever,
And through the branching blooms
I saw the silken top-hats,
I saw the sable plumes!
The black plumes thev went dancing.
Went dancing joyfully.
As though old Death made merry
Right there beside the sea!
I heard thf> clicking horses,
The far-flung echoes wake....
Hod! Death on such a morrung!
I thought my heart would break !
VICTORTA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Fulfilment.
Pause here at the last, old friend, now at
the high noon’s ending,
Now as the scarlet shadows of passionate
evening flame,
Now as day’s sun-w r hite crystal with night’s
dark jewel is blending.
For this is the bourne of fulfilment, of
power and passion and fame.
Long, long since from the valleys we gazed
on its splendors aglittfr,
Set afar o’er the glad, kind smile of the
morning land like a flower;
And the fair home ways to our sight grew
sterile and parched and bitter —
Long, long since, as we dreamed of glory
or gold or power.
Hope, in our mutable lives one immutable
spark, like a levin
Of flame, glowed through us, transmuting
the clod of our purpose to fire.
Like a cameo clear and remote, on the terrible
sapphire of Heaven,
Fair and more fair as we gazed, shone the
goal of our vision’s desire.
Like lanterns of dreams, pale poppies burn
in the silken shadow,
Here at the ending of roads, where
Achievement is sated and grey.
Yet was it not roses we visioned, dawn-red
in our dream Eldorado —
Roses like passionate shadows of Love’s
brief golden day?
Here, like a shadowy Angelus, bells of the
twilight are ringing,
Fraught with an infinite quiet, yet surely
’twas dawn-song we heard
Like a breathless rush of rapturous music,
a young god singing—
Was it not morning we saw, like the
wings of a wild white bird?
Ah, this is the bourne of our dreams; yet
the wistful delight of our dreaming
Has faded, and faded the magic of blos-
soms and dawn-jewelled skies;
No mystical roses forbidden for us in dim
gardens are gleaming,
But poppies flame-filled with a sunset like
light in a courtesan’s eyes.
Lo! yonder the perilous road, englamored
and strange in the grey light!
Let us fare, dream-led as of old, with the
old wild hope at each breast;
For to us is the magic of hope, dawn-bright
as the blossom of daylight,
As we turn from the peace df fulfilment to
the joy of an infinite quest.
Far better the splendors and scars, the sor-
rows and bliss of our making.
Than von garden, Lethean, of shadows of
languorous petal and frond!
More sweet than fulfilment’s Nepenthe of
slumber for aye unawaking,
The wonder, half-shrouded, that beckons
beyond us, for ever beyond !
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


EDISON Glow ELECTRIC HEATER
Finish—Bronze green body with pol-
ished copper reflector and guard.
Three Lamp Radiator with
switches for controlling heat
Finish—Oxydised copper body with
polished copper reflector
Australian General Electric 0
35 45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY
116 QUEEISC STREET,
MELBOURNE
Phone: City 3510 80x2517G.P0
Phone Central 2646.
Box 538. G.P.O
AGENTS:
BRISBANE —The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C.A.(Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver, Hobart 8i Launceston
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins 6i Co. Ltd. 88 Currie St.
PERTH —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Limited,
" Mazda House,” 894 Hay St
N.Z.-The National Electrical & EngineningCo.Ltd.
Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Two Lamp Radiator:
Finish—Polished nickel body
with polished copper reflector.
Quead Industrial Fire,
for factories, cellars, pas-
sages, offices, theatres etc.
Finish—Black enamel.
A Fireplace always ready for use
CLEAN, Safe, economical and efficient,.the electric
radiator stands paramount as a reliable source of heat.
Place one wherever you will—every model is portable
—and turn the switch. The resultant glowing mass is
cheerful in appearance and intense in its radiant effect.
IVe have many styles on view in our Showrooms
and r will be pleased to demonstrate at any time.
Quead Electric-Fire with
switches for controlling heat.
Finish- -Stove enamel in all colours.
Electric Log Heater complete
with wire guard and stand.
Finish-Natural coloured logs—black
stand and copper guard.


The Bulletin
-Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2159
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 1921.
Price 9d.
JOHN AND HIS FRIENDS.
“The matter of the renewal of the Anglo-Japanese Treaty is being considered in London. "
JOHN BULL: “Ride with me? Certainly, my little friend! But we’ll have to leave room for Samivel, here. Him
and me are interested in the same blood-stock, you know.”


THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. 11. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for tlie White Alan.”
Printed and published by. William Maci.eod, of
Alusgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for The
Bulletin' Newspaper C 0.,. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnev. \.S. \V.. Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 2tSB Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 Jtts. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor uill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
.1000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.k;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Til Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and
Nexvs Go., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta,
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Fniladelphia, Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All" Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Ikd.: Bfoz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3id.; elsewhere, t/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 30. 1021.
THE TRADES-UNION CONGRESS.
A Trades-Union Congress which has been
sitting in Melbourne, has been styled by its
leaders “the most important in the history
of the workers’ movement'’; and it is claimed
that, as a result of the stimulus created by
its activities, “a Labor Ministry will, at the
next appeal to the electors, supplant Mr.
Hughes and his followers.’’ The two chief
inspirations are Australia’s old friend, “the
annihilation of profit and of wage-slavery,”
and a resolution which the Worker asserts
will pledge, individually and collectively,
“half the manhood of Australia to refuse.to
fight in any war outside the Commonwealth.”
In proportion to population unionism is
stronger in Australia than in any 'other coun-
try, but it still has a long way to go before it
can commit half the men in the Common-
wealth to dodge their responsibility for keep-
ing this country white and free. Accord-
ing to the latest figures of the Bureau of
Census and Statistics (Labor and Industrial
branch), Australia had only 523,000 union-
ists out of a population of 4,941,000, or a
trifle better than 10 per cent. So that, as
always all over the world, unionism has to
rely for anything that comes its way on the
immensely preponderating volume of opinion
which is not concerned wfith unionist prin-
ciples as such. There was not one major pro-
posal before the recent Congress which will
fail to revive bitter memories of defeat in
old inhabitants of the movement. Robert
Owen knew all about the 0.8. U. a century
ago, and his Grand National Consolidated
Trade Union, formed after 20 years of pro-
paganda work, had for its object, as the
Victorian Clerks’ Union has to-day, “the
transformation of the capitalist State into
a Co-operative Commonwealth.” Owen
relied on the general strike to ruin the em-
ployers and tints force them to hand over
their concerns to the workers, and on sec-
tional strikes to gain raised wages and
shorter hours pending the arrival or the co-
operative millennium. The effect of his
efforts was to produce a revulsion of feeling
against his followers throughout the King-
dom, and to give anti-Labor the opportunity
for which it was looking. There has been
no such triumphant and unabashed sweating
in England as there was during the quarter
of a century which followed the first organ-
ised attempt at. a general strike in 1834.
Ca’ canny, syndicalism (known in the middle
of the 19th century as rattening), the per-
secution of “scabs” or “loyalists,” and that
bastard form of pacifism which impels a
man to shirk his duty as a citizen —all these
were familiar weapons long before Karl
Marx conveyed hi?; mass of whiskers from
Germany to Soho. In all the years' that have
passed since the Combination Act went,
unionism has prospered in proportion as it
avoided such weapons, left chimeras like the
Communistic State alone, left its hymns of
hate against the rest of the community un-
sung, and mingled with its purely class
aims policies which appealed irresistibly to
non-unionists.
* * * *
The triumph in Australia of the Federal
Labor party under Andrew Fisher is as
good a case in point as can be imagined.
The people who now call themselves Nation-
alists employed against Labor every one of
the immemorial arguments by which local
Toryism seeks to block change. Fisher
was a “disloyalist” and an “anarchist,” as
Tudor is to-day. The Empire would be
disrupted, Liberty destroyed, Protestantism
overthrown and the marriage tie severed
unless George Reid was returned to power.
Unfortunately for Reid, the cautious Fisher
and the adroit Hughes were not putting for-
ward those policies, nor was any All-Unions’
Congress committing them to other schemes
equally distasteful to the general public, if
slightly less idiotic. The Labor party of
those days made its national appeal on
three main issues—citizen service, an Aus-
tralian Navy and constitutional reform,
which last contained in itself (as it still
does) the germs of many forms of industrial
betterment. The Fisher party swept its
opponents out of existence a decade ago,
not because the strength of trade unionism
was such as to enable Labor to pledge half
the manhood of the Commonwealth to any
particular policy, but for the simple reason
that Labor had fathered proposals of which
most decent Australians approved. The
tragedy of Labor at the present moment, the
calamity which threatens to give the W. M.
Hughes Government, disliked though it is,
another long spell in office, is its apparent
determination to go to the country as a
trade-union party and nothing else. The
war has not altered the Australian defence
outlook, except inasmuch as it has added
to the national sense of insecurity. It has
not left the United Kingdom in a better
position to defend our trade routes, but in
a very much worse one. The Common-
wealth’s national life depends on the sea-
roads being kept clear during war-time for
the carriage of guns, munitions and the in-
numerable army stores which we do not pro-
duce at present, and appear unlikely to pro-
duce for many years to come. And all the
1921 Labor party can find to say on the
question is: “We do not propose to dispense
with the protection of the British Fleet: in
fact, it is our intention to go on cadging its
services indefinitely. We shall expect it
to help us in the event of (Say) an Asiatic
invasion, which would menace our social
standard.. But we want it clearly under-
stood that, as self-respecting democrats, we
have no intention of reciprocating if Britain
is ever threatened ; and it is our intention
fo pledge as many Australians as possible
to stand aside and refuse to fight in that
event. The constructive policy we propose
to concentrate on, to the practical exclu-
sion of everything else, is raised wages in
the present and Communism in the future.”
No political party in the world's history
ever won general support on such plans. Not
only are they likely to fill non-Laborites
with those vague fears which disturbed
moderate-minded people all over the Empire
in regard to unionism right up to the cre-
ation of the “New Model,” but they are
bound to exasperate the many thousands of
unionists who are self-respecting White
Australians first and politicals a long way
afterwards. Yet, ironically enough, the coun-
try is yearning to be won by Labor, or,
anyhow, by some party which will offer
an alternative to Hughesism. There is a
widespread desire to get away from the
Potsdam ideals of government which are
typified by the War Precautions Act Repeal
Act, and by the recent attempt to fasten the
Army Act on our trainees, and to get back
to the Pai-liamentary methods which were good
enough for autonomous British communities
before the war. The Constitution needs to
be revised at least as much as it did when
Mr. Hughes was thundering against it seven
years ago. The Senate alone is enough to
damn it. There is a costly body, filled w r ith
third- and fourth-rate men, all but one_ of
whom are anti-Laborites in a country which,
normally, is at least 50 per cent. Labor.
These impostures regarded as representatives
are not the State champions they were in-
tended to be, but party dummies who may
be relied on to vote the ticket whenever
action to the contrary threatens their
Government. The Government will not
try to alter such a state of affairs.
Why should it? Its leader has just
taken £25.000 from the people who are most
interested in the perpetuation of a Senate so
constituted as to be in a position to silently
offer a knock-out blow to progressive legisla-
tion. Conservatism stands for most of the
objectionable, political features which have
been associated with its name in Australia
for so long, but at least it still retains pos-
session of the -Defence garments which
Hughes, Pearce and the rest brought over
from the Labor wardrobe. With them its
hold on office should be assured. What shall
it profit a worker if he gain control of his
industry only to lose his country?
A MATTER OF SIXTEEN MILLIONS.
During the financial year now closing the
Commonwealth Government advanced up-
wards of 10 millions to the States for
soldier-settlement. This huge expenditure
notwithstanding, there are notoriously
thousands of soldiers who have applied for
land and can’t get it. Must of tnese dis-
satisfied warriors have been back from the
Big Disturbance for two years. Apart
from the possession of sundry official docu-
ments, issued with bureaucracy's wild con-
tempt for punctuation <and. the paper
shortage, they are no nearer tue realisation
of their hopes than two years
ago. At the existing rate of settlement
some of them will be old men before their
land-hunger is satisfied ; others will have got
all the land they will ever need, but not
under the Commonwealth repatriation
scheme. Needless to say the position is
worse in N. fS. Wales, the Eternal Nark,
than in any of the other States, albeit the
Ma State Government has received more than
its due proportion of the money. In the
House of Representatives' recently -V. S.
Rodgers, Millen’s offsider in the Ministry
of Repatriation, was invited to make a few
remarks concerning “a communication from
the Lands Department of N. S. Wales to the
effect that a soldier’s application for land has
been refused, in accordance with the Minis-
ter’s decision not to accept any application
lodged after July 3, 1920.” Whereupon
Rodgers :
1 know of no good reason why the application of
any soldier for land in any of the States should not
be dealt with at the present time, and—should he
be an eligible applicant—approved. The X. S. >\ai£s
share of this vear’B expenditure on soldier-settlement
was £4,000,000. In addition, the Treasurer has
made available a further sum of £250,000 to expe-
dite land settlement in that State. 1 know of no
reason why soldier settlement cannot proceed there.
Which means in effect “It’s not our fault:
we gave them plenty of money.” But in
scoring a point against the inept and im-
provident N. S. Wales Government, Rod-
gers revealed the radical fault in the whole
system of soldier-settlement. The Common-
wealth Government supplies the funds, but
accepts no responsibility for their < expendi-
ture. It pays the piper, but doesn’t trouble
to call the tune.
* * * *
The Commonwealth should never have
parted with the control of soldier-settlement.
Repatriation in all its branches should have
been kept a national question, just as the
war was. If that had been done all the
landless warriors in the A.I.F. could have
been provided for, and great new provinces
added to the producing areas of the con-
tinent, for far less than has been actually
spent in six petty provincial “schemes” with-
out form and void. A truly national plan
of soldier-settlement would have included in
its scope the development of the Upper Bur-
nett district (Q.), the Gascoyne and the
Ivimberleys (W.A.) and the Northern Terri-
tory. It would have been associated with the
construction of railways and water conserva-
tion works, of freezers, woollen mills, fruit-
canning factories, dehydrators and so forth,
and a man like Monash might have been its
directing genius. And no effective opposition
to such a scheme could have come from the
State Governments. Certainly they control
the land, or some of it, but the national Gov-
ernment holds fhe purse-strings, and if an
argument had arisen over the delivery of
land required for soldiers it wouldn’t have
lasted long. But in a moment of utter
recklessness the Commonwealth Government
handed over the whole business to the State
Frights. It was an insensate proceeding,
and all Australia will suffer for it. Having
power without responsibility the State Gov-
ernments proceeded to play up the Common-
wealth money on no ordered plan, save that
of buying out capable farmers at boom
values and replacing them with tyros. Huge
sums have been expended in this way, with-
out benefit in many cases to either the sol-
diers or the community, although sellers and
speculators have profited enormously. Very
little new land has been placed under culti-
vation. No attempt has been made to develop
the great, empty fertile stretches of the
North. Production has not increased, nor
will it increase to any extent. Practically
speaking, Australia, under the present de-
mented “system” of soldier-settlement, is
spending 16 millions a year in replacing one
lot of cockies, who bought their land cheap
and are all experienced, with another lot, who
bought deaf and are mostly inexperienced.
And a large proportion of the soldiers who
want land can’t get it.
* * * *
It is probably too late for the Common-
wealth Government to regain full control of
this muddled business. But it is not too
late to call upon the State Governments to
render an account of their expenditure. There
must be an end of the insane policy of hand-
ing the State Governments 16 millions a
year regardless of whether they spend it
wisely or foolishly. In future the Federal
Minister of Repatriation should insist on
getting full value for every pound advanced.
Also if any particular State (N. S. Wales,
for instance) can’t or won’t provide suffi-
cient land for its soldiers, its grant should be
cut down in favor of a State that can and will
—Queensland or Westralia, for example. And
there should be a right of appeal in these
matters to the Commonwealth Government. At
present if a N. S. Wales soldier complains
that he can’t get a block the State Govern-
ment says, “Sorry, but we’ve spent all the
money the Commonwealth gave us, and we
can’t help it.” And the Commonwealth
Government says, “Sorry, but we’ve given
the State Government £4,250,000 this year,
and if you haven’t got a block it isn’t our
business.” It should be their business. It
must be made their business.
IF I WERE MAKING A NEW STATE.
Australia is dotted over with new States
which never come to anything for want of
the right kind of leaders, and in a less de-
gree the right kind of followers. Some of
them, notably the two in Queensland, are as
old as Responsible Government itself. The
subdivision of over-large and wholly un-
manageable provinces has always been -
garded in the United States, the mo
of modern Federations, as desirable, *
dispensable to progress, a matter ot cotu- <
and a thing to be pushed along by the t n-
tral Authority. Other Federations hate
followed this example—all save Austra m-
This country’s westernmost State is equ
in size to Uncle Sam’s States of Maine, - e\\
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Knode
Island, New York, Connecticut, New -Jersey,
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin.
Minnesota, lowa, Missouri, North Dakota.
South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania -tin:
whole 24 combined. To put the niattei
another way, Westralia is the same size
England, Scotland, Ireland, Holland. .Bel-
gium, France, Spain. Portugal, Germany,
Denmark, Switzerland and Italy were beloie
the war, with something over, and its most
outlying town is the same distance Iron* the
capital as Egypt is from London. I his b.g
estate hasn’t been subdivided with a view
to closer settlement or intense cultivation or
anything of that sort since the days of
Nebuchadnezzar. It has been the same
size on the map ever since it was on the
map or there was a map to put it on. It
is all empty save a corner. Yet the tair
measure of success that has attended on oil
years of Responsible Government in the part
which is near enough the capital to be neither
out of sight nor out of mind nor out of
reach suggests that the region has possi-
bilities. The fair measure of success at-
tained in localities within reach of Brisbane,
Sydney and Melbourne suggests the same
thing about other regions. The case lor
disruption is good enough in several States
provided the right disrupters were there.
If I were the Eari.e Page of a New State
movement, and had the chance to be a leaf
in the book of history, 1 would like to run
the business in some such fashion as this:
(1) 1 would try to raise a New State Convention
elected for two or three years—one that would look
as like a Parliament as it knew how. It would have
a fixed place of meeting that would look so like a
capital that few could tell the difference. '1 here
would be a Principal Standing Committee which
would be sufficiently like a Ministry to pass for one
in a dim light. I would personally look like a
Premier. There would be any other necessary Com-
mittees ; likewise a Speaker.
(2) Members and Ministers would be paid liberally
for their services in non-transferable bonds signed 1 y
me and the members of the Cabinet and the Speaker.
These would begin to bear interest and would become
transferable on the day when the New State was
recognised, save that any bonds issued to members
who were afterwards expelled for neglect of duty,
lukewarmness or treason would become null and
void. It would be a pity for the New State to begin
its career with an unproductive debt, but the
amount would be small and the emergency large.
(3) The Convention (or Parliament) would run
straight because the signed undated resignation of
each member would be kept in a weather-proof, fire-
proof safe, ready to be used if said member ran
crooked.
(4) The Convention would request donations from
all supposedly affluent inhabitants towards the upkeep
of the movement. It would, in fact, issue assess-
ments. The person who failed to pay-, unless he
proved inability, would be regarded as a bad citizen
and treated accordingly.
(5) The Elections Committee would find a can-
didate for every State seat within the New- State area.
His qualifications would be ability (if it could be
found), fair education, profound enthusiasm and free-
dom from connection with any other political party or
parties. The old parties might reappear in the New
State Parliament after success was attained, but till
it was attained all differences must be suspended. Each
M.L.A.’s signed undated resignation would be kept in
a burglar-proof, dog-proof, rabbit-proof safe ready for
use in ease he showed signs of falling away.
(6) The business of every member sent by the New-
State to the Old State Parliament would be to attend
every sitting unless he had leave of absence from
the Elections Committee, and to talk and vote against
every proposition of every Government every- time.
In fact, he would do the great Parnell act until
Home Rule within the Commonwealth was granted.
After that he would leave.
(7) The Committee for External Affairs would
maintain a constant propaganda, especially through
the press, and maintain correspondence with every
section of Australia which had a Separation move-
ment of its own. In season and out of season it
would urge them to do likewise. It would also
bombard the British and Irish press with literature,
and make them alive to the fact that there are
more Home Rule movements than one. British
politicians might find this a pleasing diversion. Irish
ones might sympathise and ask Irish Home Rule
politicians here what is wrong with their own creed
in their own country. It would be the duty of every
sympathiser, when Irish Home Rule was mentioned,
to shout “What about us ?” or words to that effect.
(8) The Committee for Internal Affairs would,
among other duties, have that of giving the icy eye
to all visiting State Ministers who refused to take
the Oath of Allegiance to the New State. It would
also see that they got the metallic laugh.
(9) When there were sufficient New States in
preparation to make a sizable Federal move-
ment, they would naturally, should the Old State
Parliaments remain obstinate, combine to return to
the Federal Parliament a solid phalanx of Secession-
ists. These would act like the State members in
the manner already described—the manner of the
tremendously efficient C. S. Parnell. The Federal
Parliament could do something if it tried hard
enough, and this would tend to make it try pretty
dashed hard. The signed undated resignations of the
Federal Secession members would be kept in a
germ-proof, cattle-proof, fool-proof safe as a precau-
tion against treachery.
(10) And if everything else failed the New State
Convention might just forget that it wasn’t a real
Parliament and proceed to be one. But this sort of
Direct Action, despite the precedents of Jefferson
Davis and Edmund de Valera, is to be repre-
hended, and in an even half-decently-managed move-
ment it should be quite unnecessary.
A secession movement run on these lines
would be a thing of joy and beauty, a break
in the drab monotony of life, a happy diver-
sion and something far ahead of a football
match, a pony-rac-e, a gamble in Theo-
dore’s Golden Brisket sweep, a faction fight
or a two-up adventure. It would open a
political career to many deserving young
men and make Australia known far and
wide. It might even attract immigrants and
help to develop our great natural resources.
Certainly it is time something was done,
for there is nothing in the present policy
of planless, purposeless, shiftless talk and of
blowing hot and cold. It is a case of defy-
ing the leaders of the old Big City Conges-


tion Brigade, yet grovelling to them for rail-
ways and punts, thanking them abjectly
when they promise some twopenny wharf
which lias been promised a score of times
already, supporting them in Parliament,
being kicked and scoffed at, and (most of
all ) being ignored as something not of the
least consequence. The New State move-
ment in the Northern Rivers district.of N. S.
Wales has been running quite a while now,
and all the management has got for its
pains is a patronising pat on the head, the
renewal of a few vague assurances which
burst 20 years ago, and full permission to
pay its share of the bill for repairing the
roads around Sydney.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Japanese Treaty and the Census.
On the whole it is good news that the Brit-
ish Government is favorable to a renewal
of the Anglo*.)a panose treaty, with modifi-
cations. I'or suppose the treaty is renewed
on such terms that Nippon will not raise,
or not raise seriously, the question of the
free admission of brown gentlemen to the
Commonwealth while the pact lasts, it will
not only be time gained so far as these par-
ticular brown gentlemen are concerned, but
will be a useful precedent as regards brown
brethren from India. This would •represent
a certain amount of breathing time. Oh the
other hand, Japan, untied, might raise the
question at any moment, and naturally at
the most awkward moment. Then Britain
would inquire, in the ordinary course of
things, how tropical Australia was tilling up
and developing; how far the White Aus-
tralia policy was vindicating itself as a work-
able proposition and one worth fighting, or,
at the very least, arguing, 'for; and what
force as well as argument the Commonwealth
could put behind its White Australia reli-
gion. Those questions are bound to be asked
'ome day, but the longer they are postponed
the better. The present position is that,
during 20 years of Federation, the Common-
wealth's population has grown by about
1,(152,000—it has half a person more to the
square mile than it had when the century
was cutting its first tooth. But 3,250,000 of
the increase lias been in the purely temper-
ate States and the Canberra Territory,
which together measure 804,541 square miles,
and only 402,000 have been added to the
population of tin; partly-tropical States,
which measure 2,170,040 square miles. The
increase is roughly 1-J persons per mile in
wholly-temperate divisions and one-fifth of
a person in the partly-tropical divisions.
This is the poor 20 years’ record, and it is
perfectly well known that the 402,000 in-
crease in the partly-tropical divisions is
mostly around Brisbane and Perth, which
in themselves arc far from tropical. Indeed,
these two cool-weather cities and their
suburbs alone represent half the growth of
Queensland and Westralia. So if, for any
cause, Australia is asked how the White
Australia policy is vindicating itself and
what extra force there is behind it, the
answer seems to be: (1) that Tropical Aus-
tralia is, in m-actiee, less of a white man’s
country in 1921 than it was in 1901, having
fewer white people in it; (2) that the trans-
continental railway, which is required both
for defence and settlement, is almost exactly
where it was; (8) that the steamship ser-
vices which are a poor sort of substitute for
a railway have grown worse: (4) that the
Australian Navy is pretty well worn out;
and (5) that a party has grown up and be-
come powerful which wants neither army
nor navy and which cares nothing for the
North or for any pioneering work whatso-
ever. In these circumstances it,certainly is
an advantage if a Jananese treaty or any
other treaty can postpone a show-down.
The Innumerable Unemployed.
It is marvellous what a Government of
“mere bull-headed roarers” (the picturesque
George Dibbs is accused of having invented
the phrase, though it has also been charged
to the more picturesque John Robertson)
can do with two great States, the most fer-
tile and promising in the Commonwealth.
In his latest pamphlet of statistics Ivnibbs
gives particulars of unemployment in each
State, showing the number of out-of-works
at the end of 1912, 1919 and 1920. Decem-
ber, 1912, was before the war and before the
arrival of either Ryan and Theodore in
or of Dooley and MoTiernan
in N. S. Wales. December, 1920, was after
those events. The- figures are based as far
as possible on the returns supplied by union
secretaries, so they are not the invention of
the capitalist, and any other returns are
those of State officials—Labor Govern-
ment officials in Queensland and N. S.
Wales. The lists don’t include “persons out
of work through strikes and lock-outs,” so
they leave out accidental circumstances and
only show the general state of things. These
are the figures:—
Unemployed pee 1000 Workers.
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’2o. Increase.
Queensland 46 • 163 117
K. S Wales.. .. 50 69 19
Victoria . . 67 73 6
S. Australia .. 51 51
Decrease.
Tasmania .. .. 34 30 4
Westralia . . .. 58 48 10
The number of workless workers in the
whole Commonwealth rose from 56 per 2000
in 1932 to 78 per 1000 in 1920; but if it
hadn't, been for the two States which Labor
Governments promised to turn into a para-
dise, there would have been a diminution of
the w’orldess class. And if S. Aus. and Vic-
toria hadn’t been so dependent on the
Dooeey-McTierxan paradise for coal and
silver-lead ore they would have shown up
much better than they did. Queensland is
now entering on its seventh year of the in-
fliction miscalled Labor, and the other day a
deputation told the distracted Government
that unemployment had reached and passed
the limit of human endurance and that hor-
rors hitherto unthought of might be expected.
As for N. S. Wales, the position, though bad
enough, would be vastly worse .but for the
fact that the Government has spent
£14.060,000 of loan money in the last year
to find Jobs for its victims at the cost of
posterity. According to the official report
work was found at posterity’s charge for
1240 men in Sydney alone during the merry
month of May, and still there were as many
unprovided for as ever. This is ascribed to
“the influx of men from other States.” If
there was such an influx it would be only
reasonable. The present fool Ministry, when
it was a fool Opposition and ready to swear
to anything for salary, promised that scar-
city of workers would be the only trouble
under its wonderful and blatant regime. The
immortal words of Jojix Storey, when he
issued the fraudulent prospectus of his
political wild cat, were that “the activities”
of his crew “would only be limited by the
available supply of labor.” Unless people
in other States took Johx and his accomplices
for unscrupulous people prepared to say and
do anything to get power, there should have
been an influx. Yet it isn’t certain that
there has been anything very wonderful in
that way. According to the official report
the gain by excess of arrivals over depar-
tures was 13,977 in 1920, which wasn’t very
unusual, and at the end of 1920 the Storey-
Dooi,ey- McTi kk.\A x bubble had pretty well
burst, so the influx probably slowed down.
Certainly the 13,977 don’t account for there
being 7500 unemployed and their families—
perhaps 20,000 all told —in Sydney alone.
♦
The High Cost of Cheap Living.
A year ago the Australian public was in-
formed, in various excited speeches and
newspaper articles, that the high cost of
living was deliberately manufactured by pro-
fiteers and could be remedied by Parlia-
mentary action. On this cry the Storey
Government-came into Office in N. S. Wales
with its half-mandate, and before long a
portentous Profiteering Act was passed and
an expensive court set up. Also a horde
of inspectors, all or nearly all of the right
color, wijs lured to prick the small shopkeeper
till he roared again. Meanwhile the Gov-
ernment which set out to kill H.C.L. bor-
rowed hard and spent profusely, with the
result that foreign commodities (largely
fluff), made dear by scarcity, maximum
wage rates, inflated paper currencies, high
freights and tariffs, came in a record rush.
And, assured that there was nothing to worry
about, since employment “would only be
limited by the available supply of labor,”
the people followed the Government’s
example and hit things up.merrily. Fluff-
sellers, jewellers and property agents were
never so prosperous. Publicans, proprietors
of theatres and picture-shows and share-
holders in pony-racecourses had the time of
their lives. And the pony and picture busi-
nesses are still flourishing amazingly ; in fact,
Acting-Premier Dooi.ey proudly remarked*
the other day that the cheap, mostly-imported
film was the basis of one of the leading in-
dustries of his State. But the vision of
general affluence combined with low prices,
the latter brought about by Attorney-Gen-
eral McTiernan and Judge Beeby, has
faded. Prices have fallen and are falling—
this irrespective of the Storey Government’s
legislation, which has had no more to do
with it than the comet —but sounds of re-
joicing arc nowhere to be heard. The situa-
tion has changed with a vengeance. Instead
of accelerating the downward movement of
prices for which the State Labor party
clamored not so lpijg ago, the N. S. Wales
Labor delegation in the House of Represen-
tatives has been urging the Government to
pass prohibitive duties so that prices may
be kept up. Driven to a choice between
cheap living, and the preservation of Austra-
lian industries from the dumping that, with-
out drastic safeguards, would overwhelm
them and add scores of thousands to the
already long list of men unemployed owing
to the fall in prices, they have declared for
the latter; and unquestionably they are right.
The N. S. Wales Profiteering Court has
become Australia’s prize example of wasted
effort. 1 'liable to accomplish anything of
•alue to the community, it has been reduced
to fatuous investigations touching the dif-
ference between silk-leg and silk-ankle stock-
ings, the reason why Sydney housewives
prefer hind-quarters to fore-quarters of mut-
ton. and the exact proportion of cow-meat
sold in the State sausage-shop. All this
while thousands of Australian citizens are
praying for prices to stop falling and thou-
sands of others are saying mournfully that
a job and H.C.L. were better than unemploy-
ment and slump. The bottom has fallen
out of the anti-profiteering fake. It grows
evident that a liigh-wage country like Aus-
tralia can pay too dearly for cheap living.
And some are beginning to believe that even
profiteers do less damage in the long run
than boy-politicians like McTiernajX or
economists of the pony-racing school.
The Passing of Self-Government.
The simple ideas of one adult one vote and
government of the people by the people for
the people grow nearly as obsolete as Eight
Hour Day now that the working of 48 hours
a week is almost a' badge of slavery. A
prominent feature of the programme before
the All-Australian National Congress of
Trades Unions is that the employees of
publicly-owned industries such as railways,
tramways, water supply, the post Office, etc.,
shall elect part of the management—one com-
missioner in three, as a rule., ’ They are to
have all the votes they are' entitled to as
citizens, though many of them are not State
taxpayers even to the average extent, and
any extra control they can exercise through
their trades unions, and a special vote in the
management which is denied to the rest of
the proprietors. Thus if 36,000 N. S. Wales
railway employees appoint one-fourth of the
management as proposed, and also help the
other 2,060,000 people to appoint the other
three-fourths, each railway man will have
about 20 times as much voting power in the
matter of the nation's biggest asset as each
non-railway man. The basic theory was that
employers of private firms should have a vote
in the control: but that hits”Titered- till it
is demanded that State employees, who have
a full-sized vote already, should have all
these extra votes. It isn’t specifically sug-
gested that the clerks in the Government
Savings Bank should have a big special share
in the management, for that might seem too
like giving them the run of the workers’ sav-
ings. Yet it is difficult to see how, under
the job-control system, this can .be refused—
nor the right of the staff of a Labor paper
to appoint a part of the directorate and
possibly the editor. In X. S. Wales, the
most populous State of the Commonwealth,
the Assembly, which had been purely elective
for over 60 vears, is slowly being filled up
with nominees as vacancies ha]Ypen, in order
to prevent the people expressing unpleasant
views of the Government's conduct at by-
elections. And it has been seriously pro-
posed by a i.ahnr Minister that, in effect,
the next Assembly should be purely nominee,
the existing members appointing themselves
for a further term. At the same time the
A.L.P. executive has issued its ukase that
the X. S. Wales Public Service Bpard,
which at least attempts to make appoint-
ments and promotions by merit, should be
wiped off the map, political patronage and
the distribution of public jobs to friends, rela-
tions and supporters being the natural
alternative. It is further proposed that
railroad construction should be taken out of
the hands of the Commissioners, who are at
least trained railroaders, and handed over to
the Public Works ±.»enartment, which, if the
Public Service Board goes, will consist of
nominees and dependants of the more or less
nominee Assembly. The Sydney Municipal
Council, controlled by a bare majority of
Labor politicians, and with a Lord Mayor
nominated bv unio'ns outside—a body which
controls the civic affairs of nearly two-fifths
of the State’s population—has distinguished
itself in various ways. It tried, to give a
firm of architects, without competition,
£40,000 or more to do mostly house-wreckers’
work. It' endeavored to buy for some
£75,000 a coal-mine Condemned by its own
officials and valued by an expert at £5OOO.
Xow, out of the municipal revenues, the Labor
majority is supplying the Council
with the means to form a fighting fund to
secure the re-election of a Labor majority.
One way and another the old simple ideas of
self-government are thus becoming back num-
bers very fast; and boss or Tammany gov-
ernment is a poor substitute, which has to be
paid dearly for. Public cos. registered in
X. S. Wales pay 2s. 6d. in the £ State
income tax as against Is. paid by similar
cos. in Victoria, and private individuals in
the Ma State pay anything up to five times
more than the corresponding class in the
State which hasn’t the benefits of what
passes for Labor rule. The Labor rank and
file are deluded with the tale that “the fat
man pays.” But if he pays he also collects;
and the collecting is done from the whole
community of workers. There is no mys-
terious fund out of which either taxes or
wages can be paid. Every man who loafs
in the public service of the country, every
superfluous employee, every loan that is put
into a work that does not earn full interest
(and that is practically every loan in the
present state of the money market'' is a tax
upon the producer, whether he works on a
farm or in a boot factory. If he does not
pay direct to the tax-gatherer he pays in-
directly through the grocer and the clothier,
on his railway and his tram ticket, even on
the ticket he takes from Moses McSiiort-
onns at the pony-races.
Australia’s Island Trade.
Ernest Osborne on its history and pros-
pects :
Australia’s island trade was inaugurated by some
Sydney-Maariland adventurer scenting a business
among the then practically unknown islands of
Oceania even more lucrative than the barter for
Maori flax, gum and greenstone. Apart from food-
stuffs and curios, the early island trade was prin-
cipally in eocoanut-oil, laboriously extracted by the
natives in crude lever-presses, and clarified by cook-
ing in eocoanut-shells. As with present-day copra,
the hulk of the oil went to TJ.S.A. American five-
and 10-dollar gold-pieces were much in favor among
the native potentates as payment for oil, and stories
of hoards of minted wealth buried by avaricious
native kings are still current among the islanders
of the Central Pacific groups. When the Hamburg
firm of Godeffrot introduced the method of drying
the kernel of the nut for the subsequent expressing
of the oil in overseas mills, the considerable waste
attending the crude native oil-making was eliminated.
Until about a quarter of a century ago the bulk
of the island trade was done by American vessels
trading out of San Francisco; but a few M.L.
vessels, and also German craft, sometimes with
Hongkong as transhipment port, participated. In
1888 systematic Australian trade to the Western
Pacific groups was inaugurated by the formation of
the Sydney- and Melbourne-owned Australian New
Hebrides Co., which entered the arena in competi-
tion with French Government-subsidised interests in
the Nqw Hebrides. Acquiring large holdings of the
best and most fertile land, in that exceedingly fertile
group, competitive trading was begun with direct
steam-communication to Sydney, thus marking a
stage in island progress by improving upon the
previous uncertain mail and trade communication,
which had been maintained by wind-propelled vessels.
Inter-island services were maintained first by s.s.
Truganini, and later by s.s. Croydon, in conjunction
with the A.U.S.N. Co.’s steamers, at the time main-
taining a service between Sydney and Fiji via the
New Hebrides. Having lost upward of £25,000 in
the venture, the company went into liquidation in
1897, and Burns, Philp and Co. took over tlie pro
perties, and placed its own steamers in the
service. financially supported by the N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments with a mail-subsidy
of £2lOO per annum. French companies, lib-
erally subsidised and more or less politically
controlled, had no better financial luek than
the Australian-New Hebrides Co. Burns, Piiilp and
Co., however, prospered, and gradually extended
operations to and in other groups, until it is now
the largest island-trading firm in the South Pacific,
controlling a fleet of fine steamers and schooners,
with copra-plantations and trading interests in many
groups.
In 1904 the co.’s regular services to the Western
Pacific groups were extended to the Gilbert, Marshall
and, later, the Ellice Islands. Grown sophisticated,
the natives were becoming dissatisfied with the prices
ruling for produce. Natives and traders alike were
entirely subject to prices fixed by the - German,
Sydney-Chinese and London-Sydney companies. As
traders purely these concerns had no space in their
vessels for the carriage of copra other than that
they themselves were in business to buy, or for goods
for barter other than those which filled their vessels’-
holds. A circular from a Sydney firm (Wixchcombe
Carson and Co.), inviting consignments of copra to
be auctioned at its Sydney mart, met, for these
reasons, with no response.’ The advent of 8., P. and
Co. was therefore hailed with satisfaction as a
change for the better by traders and natives alike.
But the terms offered In Captain Hitch field, of
the s.s. Titus, who inaugurated the venture in Botari-
tari Lagoon, differed very little from terras at the
time obtainable from the established firms.
On several of the Central Pacific islands the natives
will not tolerate a trader, preferring to eliminate
the middleman's profit by doing business direct!,', with
the trading vessels. Gradually the islanders enforced
higher prices for their produce and lower prices
ror goods. Grudgingly the companies, increased the
price of copra to the resident traders, but at a
lesser rate than that won by the natives from the
traders. In the Gilbert group the resident traders
saw the native-tax copra tendered for by the firms
(a deal wherein the small trader for financial reasons
was unable to participate) at a rate very much
higher than that paid to them for their trade-copra.
After 1907 trading in the Marshall group was prin-
cipally with the natives direct, and the small, inde-
pendent trader was practically eliminated in tin
competition ensuing between the Australian and the
•German cos.
Tile incursion of a .Japanese trading eo. into
the Mieronesian groups caused a fit of despondency
among the Australian cos. appropriate to the occa-
sion, coupled with a suggestion to abandon a trading
field allegedly rendered unprofitable through Japanese
competition. The mood passed, however, and the
trading cos. were evidently doing so well in the
war-years, with the Jaluit Co.'s competition in the
Gilbert group eliminated, that a Sydney-Chinese
concern entered the, ranks of;copra-buyers- -and again
departed.
Then came the marine engineers’ strike, followed
by Bvuns-Philp's decision .to transfer portion uf
their island-trade headquarters to Fiji, with an office
at San Francisco. Whatever contributory cause Aus-
tralian strikes might have been, the changing of the
centre of the copra trade was a natural outcome of
evolution, accelerated by war conditions. Diversion
of the copra trade from the round-about route via
Australian ports began long: before the war. C hart-
ered sailing-ships carried the produce of German
cos. operating in Ibc Central and Western Pacific
from the central stores at Butaritari, Jaluit, Ppnopo,
Matupi, etc., to the European and • South American
markets. When the great Jaluit Co. began to run
its own steamers in the Hongkong-lslands-Sydney
service, tire bulk of its trade goods were carried from
Germany in German bottoms and, usually at Hong-
kong, transhipped into German ships*for the trade
in the German and British island possessions. Also
at one end of the route the copra collected at islantl-
calls was transhipped for Europe at Hongkong, and,
on the return route, at Sydney.
In consequence of revived demand in the United
States for coeoanut-oil and the by-products of the
nut, the Fiji-Australian copra trade has dwindled
into insignificance. With regular steam and frequent
sailing-ship services, from and to the United States,
goods of most descriptions previously obtained
through Australian sources come direct to Fiji.
Although Fiji’s trade with Australia has increased,
its expansion is hampered by the direct American
trade, and is largely in cereals to feed the Indian
population, with return carriage of bananas, to the
detriment of Australia’s own banaiia-' and fruit-
growers. If the direct Fiji-London service now
under discussion eventuates, Australia’s island trade
will receive another blow. Sailing-ships have with
increasing frequency loaded copra' at British island
possessions for overseas markets other than Aus-
tralian. Almost complete diversion of the copra
trade from Australian ports is possible, though a
certain trade in supplies must remain. This diversion
is compelled by business necessity. And until mills for
the treatment of copra and manufacture of cocoanut
products for export become more numerous in Aus-
tralia, justification is lacking for the burdening of
island copra with the expense of transhipment at
any Australian port for the mere benefit of lumpers,
agents and shipping companies.
« ♦
Helping the Reds.
A Royal Commission that lias for many
months been investigating an allegation that
the politicians worked a point on the N. S.
Wales railway strikers of 1917, whereby in
the settlement several thousands were victim-
ised, sampled a series of incidents the other
day that left a sour taste behind them.
Briefly the discovery was that a Nationalist
politician supplied the Railway Department
with confidential information about five of
the men on strike, the general effect of
it being that they were undesirable persons
who “interrupted meetings,” “sang revolu-
tionary songs,” and were “extremists.” The
consequence was that when the men applied
for re-employment after the strike was over
they drew a blank. But they were not in-
formed why, except in the general terms here
quoted, nor who it was that had given evi-
dence against them. When one of them
urged that a long, unblemished history of
service should weigh in his favor against an
anonymous accuser, he was told the Depart-
ment “had nothing to do with his history,
only with his ideas.” When another demanded
to know how he could refute charges of “in-
terrupting meetings,” he was recommended
to get “as many statutory declarations as
possible.” That a man accused of revolu-
tionary vocalism had been practically ostra-
cised by his union mates for writing and
speaking in favor of constitutional reforms
as against the methods of Trotsky ; that he
had been given a had time on account of his
advocacy of conscription: that there was
nothing against him as a craftsman—these
things availed him nothing. So a calami-
tous strike which was settled on explicit
terms, and in which settlement no mention
was made of retribution or vengeance on the
strength of back-door gossip, was followed
by action that plays right into the hands of
the “class-conscious” disturbers. And Aus-
tralians get still another illustration of the
mournful fact that the individuals who roar
loudest against the economic folly of Direct
Action do most to keep the mad idea alive.
Man and His Job.
It was cabled a few days ago that the
workers in the British liquor trade had split
because a section advocated prohibition. The
“wets” of the trade gave as their reason for
declaring their comrades bogus that “pro-
hibition meant Bolshevism,” and they didn’t
want anytliina' of that sort in free England.
The point taken was sound enough. Gom-
pers, the American Labor leader, first pre-
sented it to the U.K. when he was in
London in the autumn of 1918, his opinion
having been formed after watching the ('fleet
of a beerless life on the industrialists of the
U.S. anti-liquor States. It mav be mere co-
incidence, but the white countries which
drink remain the most contented industrially,
and they are about the onlv monarchical one«


T h . e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustraIia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company,
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
left. No one disputes that the suppression
of vodka in Russia in 1914 was a powerful
contributing factor in the Revolution, while
the atrocious home-made mixtures to which
the peasants presently resorted added greatly
to the extent and general horror of that
slaughter-period which is a feature of all
revolutions. The world-war might be raging-
still, with Wilhelm and Karl on the Ger-
man and Austrian thrones, had not the
British blockade driven the Teutons to despair
by robbing them of their beer. Everyone
drinks wine in monarchical Spain, and it is
the soberest country in Europe. Denmark
is fabulously rich, very contented, a heavy
though sober drinker, and its people are
famous for their physical fitness. Sweden
has the Gothenburg system, and under it the
inhabitants drink fairly deep, keep well, and
are satisfied with life. Belgium, though it
has passed an anti-spirit law, drinks beer and
wines as freely as ever, and for all t its
troubles is as orderly and satisfied a mon-
archy as any in the world. M.L. recently
rejected prohibition on a plebiscite, and Aus-
tralia has hardly begun to think about the
policy. Both are the despair of Moscow.
Turkey, where murder never ceases and few
of the natives can afford soap, is, on the
other hand, teetotal. But there is another
and equally instructive aspect of the attitude
of the British liquor-workers on the prohi-
bition issue. During the closing stages
of the war, and for some time after it, they
clamored loudly for revolutionary changes.
They are no doubt calling for them now, but
only in so far as the. changes will not affect
their jobs. And it is this very human
world-spirit which has brought disaster on
every attempt to institute communism. The
peasants of Russia welcomed communism
when it only appeared to mean free farms.
When they' learned that the rent of their
farms stili had to be paid in the form of
corn for the city workers, they rebelled. Says
M. Phillips Price (“My Reminiscences of
the Russian Revolution”) :
The “middle peasantry” declined to deliver corn
to the cities. Excesses were perpetrated Pitched
battles were fought and parts of villages wrecked.
Spurred on by hunger and, by desperation, the urban
workmen regarded the “middle peasants” as traitors
who were stabbing them in the back. In return the
“middle peasants” regarded the Bolsheviks as the
agents of a neo-Tsnrism interfering with the sacred
liberty of the individual.
The British liquor-trade employees would
not object to prohibition, probably, if they
were sure that they would step into as good
or better billets in cordial factories; many
of them would welcome revolution if they
could be convinced it would mean more com-
fort for them personally. It is just this sel-
fish noil-communistic spirit which ruined the
Owenite settlements of the 19tli century:
which is dividing unions here as in Britain :
which is causing Leninism to become more
and more like Czarism as the weeks pass.
Man, and more especially married man, will
not readily sacrifice his job unless for a
better one. His charity not only begins at
home; it usually stays there. The British
unions which turned down communism so
overwhelmingly last week have not been
beguiled by the capitalist, whom they dislike
as much as ever. They would not object to
share the capitalist’s wealth. But, like the
theoretically revolutionary liquor workers,
they know that their comrades, being human,
beings, are not to be relied on to play the
communistic game.
In the Name of Loyalty!
The Sydney inquiry by Justice Edmunds
into the 1917 strike “black list” will have
been worth the money if it does no more
than bring before the public the state of
mind of Weaver, M.L.A. It was this
gentleman’s custom to collect information
about railway employees and confidentially
pass it on to the Commissioners. The fol-
lowing extract from the proceedings is en-
lightening :
Mr. Watt, K.C. (appearing to assist the Commis-
sioner) : Is your sense of morality such that you can
get a man the sack on the evidence of a man who is
afraid to give his name?
Mr. Weaver, M.L. A.: My sense of morality is such
that I think that when he is disloyal to his country
he deserves all he gets.
From this it seems that (1) Mr. Weaver is
prepared to believe a man disloyal though
his accusers have not risked swearing to
the matter, and have not submitted to cross-
examination in open court; (2) he is appa-
rently of the opinion that, because the
accused is “disloyal,” the informer who
seeks to ruin him is a worthy character and
a patriot and one who must be protected
from the embarrassment of exposure; (3) it
is quite clear to him that ruin is good enough
for one convicted of disloyalty on such testi-
mony, and for his family. Before the war
such an attitude would have been pretty
well unthinkable iu a British community—-
as it still is in the law courts. Even while
Mr. Weaver tvas contending before Justice
Edmunds that his friends had a right to act
as anonymous informers through him, one
William Fisher, a letter-sorter, was col-
lecting in the Chief Justice’s Court £250
damages from a former friend who had re-
tailed a number of lies about him to the
Post Office authorities on the highy moral
grounds .that Fisher, being as described,
should not be allowed to keep his job
“when brave and fit men would fill
the position with credit.” The Weaver
doctrine, which so scandalised the K.C. who
was assisting the Commissioner, is, of
course, the Continental one of droit admin-
istra'tif, than which nothing is more abhor-
rent to English ideas of law and justice. In
most European countries, and notably in
France, an official can libel and slander to
his heart’s delight without fear of having
his actions tested outside an administration
court composed of his friends. Underv the
British system no man can safely constitute
himself a court and in that capacity decide
as Mr. Weaver did (I) that some perfect
stranger was “disloyal,” and (2) that he
accordingly deserved to be destroyed. If
Mr. Weaver were a lonely freak he would
not matter so much. But he is not; he is
a sign of the times. The Commonwealth
has lived for so long under government by
regulation and proclamation, under a system
which denies the right of free speech—all
in the name of loyalty—that thousands are
beginning to forget their rights and obliga-
tions as British subjects. The methods
which Mr. Weaver defends do not make for
order and good government in any British
community; they produce anarchy. The
U.S.A. is having a taste of them in connec-
tion with prohibition. An exasperated
American lawyer, speaking to a meeting of
Londoners the other day on “the treacherous
part of the secret informer which has excited
in all ages the just contempt of honorable
men,” wound up:—
In regard to these creatures, there is just one
sound piece of advice to give to the young men of
England. If they come among you pick them up
THE NUMEROUS OLIVERS ASK BUMBLE FOR MORE.
and throw them into the sea, and throw them good
and far.
It is poor advice, no doubt, and ethically
as rotten as any argument advanced by Mr.
Weaver on behalf of the informer-class;
but it is useful as an indication of the
dangerous way in which foreign adminis-
trative methods react on men of British
origin.
Consider the. pacifists how they draw her-
rings across the trail of truth. Last week
Brennan, M.H.IL, opened the Labor party’s
“campaign” in Melbourne against “compul-
sory military training,” meaning the cadet
training that not one healthy youth in a hun-
dred doesn’t feel the better for. Listen to
the professional sophist- ,
Australia’s strongest weapon of defence was pro-
paganda for peace. The pacifists would be willing to
take their place in defending right against might
if Australia were unjustifiably attacked.
If his country were unjustifiably attacked
(which proviso allows for a probability of
the attack being justifiable) then would
Brennan have a bugle blown by the Lord
Mayor, or somebody, to summon a nation of
shirkers to arms —the arms they had not
been taught to use because the pacifists had
objected to any anus being on the premises
—to be mown down by the trained attackers.
It wouldn’t be defence; it would be butchery
—butchery of our own flesh and blood. And
Brennan, the “pacifist,” the humanitarian,
approves and recommends it!
Sydney has acquired a “Progressive Parlia-
mentary Debating Society,” which aims at
gradually training a roomful of young men
to be better qualified, so far as conversation
goes, for Parliamentary life. Then if they
like it and can secure a machine nom-
ination from some selection committee,
largely composed of men wholly unqualified
for Parliamentary life, they may go into
politics, provided they can stand the com-
pany. Two doctors were the leading spirits
at the foundation meeting. Neither would
have suggested attendance at a Progressive
Medical Debating Society for the prepara-
tion of young doctors as a substitute for
examination as a proof of knowledge; yet
the body politic shouldn’t be cut up by men
of mere talking capacity any more than the
human corpus. A fairly rigid qualifying
examination for Parliamentary candidates, in
history, political economy, the rudiments of
law and other subjects, would have these
advantages over the debating society—it
would apply all over the country and not
merely to a roomful of young men in one
place: it would establish a standard which
the talking business doesn’t, and it would
shut out the worst of the unfit, instead of
leaving the qualified man and the quack
an equal start. True, there are examinations
now—by selection committees. But the
trouble is that the examiners often know so
little that they are rejected students them-
selves, the subjects are generally useless, and
the teaching is nil.
- -♦
“Solomon Malaprop” writes:—
l have been young and now am old. I have
seen the European map change almost beyond
knowledge and various small countries acquire
Home Rule, or develop Home Rule into inde-
pendence, and various races which were partly
free or Home Ruled and partly still under the
oppressor recover their lost provinces. In my time
Little Serbia (1) got rid of its Turkish garrisons
and turned partial into complete autonomy; (2)
achieved independence; (3) regained practically all
'its dismembered’ parts and rebuilt Great Serbia.
Sixty years did it. I have seen Roumania and Bul-
garia go patiently through the same three phases;
the gradual making of Italy, which I first remember
as a collection of email States and Austrian colonies;
and the recovery of most of Lost Greece —to quote
only cases in which the Home Rulers had to fight
their own battles to a great extent, and do their
own diplomacy, buying assistance where they could.
But I don’t remember any case exactly like that of
Ireland, which throws the half-loaf back at th;
reluctant giver with such good aim as to blacken his
eye and give him a cauliflower ear, instead of seiz-
ing and consolidating it and then reaching for
more. Perhape the people lack the monumental
patience which has been the earmark of so many
liberators. Anyhow, Home Rule has come, after
long waiting. Many people drew pictures of its
coming, but probably very few thought it would
arrive just like this, with bombs and blankic; instead
of flags and hosannas. If Ireland was Serbia the
Southern Parliament would be in session, passing
polite resolutions and planning the next move, and
arranging to get its missing adherents Out of gaol
(it wouldn’t have elected members, to begin with,
who were in gaol), instead of taking to the hills
without even a Hansard. to its name. None of the
little countries I have mentioned were a whit better
satisfied with their first instalment of Home Rule
than Ireland i", but they lay low and dissembled,
and, when they had got their foot in the door,
awaited their opportunity to push in their knee, and
then their body, and finally their head.
"‘Friday Island” in a brown study :
In the winter of 1918 the Japanese light cruiser
Ytahagi lay off Townsville (N.Q.) one Saturday after-
noon, at Show time, when the city was deserted, and
all its inhabitants, Australian-fashion, were at th ?
Cluden racecourse. A steam pinnace towed a cutter
into Townsville laden with Jap officers, each armed
with a camera. They scattered ashore, some climb-
ing Mount Gudtheringa (900 ft. high), others Stanton
Hill and similar vantage points. It seemed to be
nobody’s businevs to disturb them. In any case
nobody of importance was handy to do so. After
a photographic half-holiday they returned aboard
their ship. About six weeks later the Yahagi
arrived at Thursday Island. On a Sunday morning,
when the T.I. garrison troops and the ratings from
an Australian gunboat were at church service ashore,
a party of five Jap officers, including a “three-ring”
brass-hat, did a photographic walking tour round
the tracks on the fortress hills. They did it more
than openly—they were blatantly preceded by two
bugler heralds. Of course Japan was and is an
ally. But, all} - or not, how far could an Australian
roam with a camera round the defences of Nippon
without coming the proverbial thud?
+
When young 110-110, the eldest son of old.
wise Wang Kee, lias passed his Chinese
exams., including the one about the habits
and morals of devils and the velocity of
disembodied spirits, and has become a junior
mandarin, he is taken to the town he is to
govern, and set down in his yamen with the
instruction: “This is your squeeze.” Sub-
ject to the raising of a sum for the Great
Mandarin of the province, the population is
his to shear. In Australia we now go one
better, for dnj/ place is the new Labor boss's
“squeeze.” Recently at Darwin two trees
had to be cleared away to make a landing-
place for the Smith brothers, the young pair
who made Australia famous by doing the
first air-voyage across three continents. The
local A.W.U. didn’t applaud and give way
to sentiment or emotion or patriotic pride.
It said, in effect : “This is our squeeze ! How
much will you give ns over and above our
agreement not to kill your blessed Smiths
by refusing to provide a landing-place?”
The removal of the two trees cost a good
many hundred pounds—the ransom of the
Smiths’ lives. This was charitably set
down to the fact that people at Darwin
haven’t votes. But people at adjacent
Wyndham (W.A.) have four votes each,
which is one more than the Labor Govern-
ments allow people in Queensland or N. S.
Wales. And when the State-owned steamer
Bambra came along the lumpers held it up
for ss. per hour (IDs. per hour on Sunday),
partly because the cargo was perishable and
the skipper didn’t care to throw it over-
board, and partly because there was a food-
shortage at Wyndham and the Government
didn’t like to let women and children go
hungry. It was one more nail in the coffin
of State enterprise. Some day in the pro-
cession of events vessels of a different kind
with a different flag may drop in at the
ports of fhe ruined North, and, by a little
persuasion with machine-guns, reduce lum-
pers’ wages to lOd. a day or less. More
remarkable things than that are mentioned
in history.
■ -
From one of the best known of Australian
writers: —-
T find Mr. Wise, Postmaster-General, claiming that
the “extraordinarily cheap postage rate” put upon
Australian-printed books is the outcome of a gener-
ous and whole-souled attempt to assist the Australian
author. This apparently is the best that can be
done for me in a land of high. tariffs, where it is
recognised that the Australian thing, whatever it be.
cannot hope to flourish if left exposed to the com-
petition of big countries, where the infant-struggles
and the trials of adolescence have passed and the
art or industry has developed its fullest powers of
attack and expulsion at home and abroad. If our
legislators can do nothing better for authors of books
than bestow peculiar boons upon the publishers. •
they might as least confess their ineptitude, and not
seek credit for a poor privilege given indirectly,
while taking directly from the pockets of the Un-
protected writer 10 times as much as is given. I
advance this charge against the Postmaster-General.
His department has made postage on my books cheap,
he has done nothing to secure any portion of the
advantage for the author, but the Post Office has
imposed very serious disadvantages upon Australian
writers. There was a time when I could send my
contributions to journals at the rate of Id. for 2oz. ;
to-day, because of the unreliable service, I am
compelled to put Bd. on the same amount of manu-
script, or face the very lively chance of my copy
turning up on the editorial desk five days after it
is of any use to anybody. In this way I am com-
pelled to pay what I call a G.P.O. Inefficiency Tax
of between eight and nine pounds a year. I hope I
am not naturally ungrateful, but when I get a puff-
ball disguised as a preserved plum accompanied by
a very definite boot in the back, T do not feel that
the occasion is one calling for lavish thanks.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
gggprON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
IT N S W-MONT de PIETE
C9Y LIMITED.
r 74 Casllereagh 5t.74 Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200,000 *Fhoi\e Cii,y 5325
jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle., N-SW- 71517 SwanstohSt Vic
40 Adelaide st,Brisbane.o.l97 A Castlereagh 5t,159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph VJ Hill, General W&n<s>ster\
n
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed,* and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
hen the Australian Labor party was
.strong and respected, its objective was de-
clared to be “the cultivation of an enlight-
ened and self-reliant community,” protected
as to its racial purity by naval and military
defence. But nowadays the people who do
Labor’s thinking for it are imported theorists
to whom the very idea of self-reliance is
abhorrent, and so last week the objective
was altered to “the socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange'.”
Defence is also anathema to the modern
Labor delegate and racial purity will be the
next to go. The maintenance of a White
Australia is incompatible with the rabbit-
brained internationalism now in fashion.
After Brennan, M.H.R., had opened the
“campaign” in Melbourne against the train-
ing of the Australian youth to defend their
country and their homes from an attack
which he confessed might be both possible
and unjustifiable, Billson, M.L.A., had his
little say:—
If the war had been lost and Germany had won,
Germany conld not have done more than conscript
the youth of the country. The people were being
robbed or the fruits of victory. He denounced the
“teachers and paid preachers” for not raising their
voices against the policy of training children to kill
men.
What Billson doesn’t explain is how youth
or men are to receive any instruction in the
business of defending their country from the
attack that is both possible and unjustifi-
able without, being- taught how to kill some-
body.
Though 6i p.c. interest was offered. London
subscribed for only a million and a half of
the joint S. Aus.-Tasmanian five-million loan,
and the underwriters had to take the rest.
This means that we have paid speculators
something for advancing against future
loans; for, of course, they will not hold—
they will feed the market as fast as it will
absorb the loan that has been left on their
hands. Which means that, though we get the
money now, there is a lion in the path of
future new loans in London. Yet monev we
must have; and local loans are n'o good for
paying foreign interest and other bills. There
is only one thing to be done —we must either
earn the money by increased production or
go broke.
From a man who has followed it: —
The riotous proceeding's of the All-Australian con-
gress of Cranks have made another Labor split in-
evitable. It will be impossible for the sane Aus-
tralian majority of the party to accept the pro-
gramme which the mostly non-Australian extremists
have, for the moment, forced upon it. Sooner or
later they will have to make a choice between the
insignificance and gradual decay involved in being
committed to a wildly impracticable policy of social-
ism and internationalism, which not 5 per cent, of
ihe Australian workers have any use for, and revolt.
The Congress has wholly surrendered itself to the
extremists, and extraordinary persons like Considine,
Baddeley, Don Cameron and Heagney let loose
cataracts of piffle. Most of the debates have centred
about Russia, Ireland, Marxian socialism and inter-
nationalism. Australia has been rarely mentioned.
Melbourne Herald reports a Vic. State
Minister as saying: “I favor the legalisa-
tion of the totalise tor, and would like to see
colleagues who differ from me overcome their
scruples and substitute it for the betting-
tax.” Now, what scruples about the total-
isator can possibly be entertained by any
Minister who consents to tax the tickets that
bookmakers are entitled to issue on a race-
course? What scruples can there be against
the substitution of a machine for a man?
Even a politician cannot pretend to scruples
"DA-A-A-ADY!"
(Apropos the trials of loan-seekers in London when their home papers blow along with
details of the latest deficit.)
which he is unable to defend in argument,
and it is certain that no argument can be
advanced in conscientious objection to the-
tote by a tacit approver of a tax on betting-
tickets. The great difficulty with outside
critics is to regard such inconsistency in poli-
ticians as being quite honest.
Larkin’s resignation as manager of the
Commonwealth shipping line was due to the
fact that he will not stand “interference” by
the politicians, which made it clear that he
did not understand the ABC of the line,
ft. is primarily a political venture. It is
the outcome of the old plank of the Labor
party which demanded State-owned steam-
ship services with the U.K. in the interests
of wheat, wool and meat shippers. Queerly
enough the final trouble struck Larkin
because he wanted to make the line highly
profitable, and had to be told that its pur-
pose was not to make big profits, but to give
the Australian public the best possible ser-
vice at the lowest rates compatible with sol-
vency.
Still more political power is to be con-
centrated in the Big City. As a result of
the census N. S. Wales will gain a seat in
the House of Reps, at Victoria’s expense,
and the bloated metropolis will get it as a
matter of course. Indeed, in the process of
redistribution, Sydney will probably wrest
another seat from the country. The way
things are going the six coastal capitals
will soon be able to run a Commonwealth
Government on their own account. Since
1911 Sydney has acquired more population
than YVestralia, S. Aus., Queensland
{niinns Brisbane) and the Speck together.
And if you want to know how it has been
managed, the simplest and surest plan is to
look up the increase in the N.S.W. debt dur-
ing the period. It has grown from 95 mil-
lions to 180 millions; and the enormous
increase of Commonwealth debt in the same
period has helped. The cities are not main-
taining themselves. And the country is not
maintaining them either. They are simply
living and loafing on their children and their
children’s children.
It transpired in the course of the libel suit
Ryan v. Hobart Mercury that when Ryan’s
colleague Fihelly made a particularly viru-
lent attack on the British Government he
did it not as a Queensland Minister who had
taken a certain awkward oath of allegiance,
but as a private citizen who hadn’t. Jf the
implied rule were sound then a Judge could
get drunk and commit assault and be run
in as a private citizen without any blame to
his judicial capacity so long as he got out
in time to resume the latter capacity when
the court opened. But, of course, the world
doesn’t look at things that way. It wrnuld
even make remarks if a celibate cleric mar-
ried a barnnrd in his private capacity.
From a Melbourne gallery man: —
No political significance attaches to Tom Living-
ston’s resignation as Vic. Assistant Minister for
Agriculture. His doctor told him to take it easy
and not have the worry of office for the sake of the
£250 or so tacked on to his Parliamentary salary,
and lie followed the med.’s directions. Pennington,
who stepped down to the wliipship in February to
make room for Livingston, will now help Lawson
with the Agricultural Department, and try to keep
a Parliamentary majority as well. The exit of Liv-
ingston must make Lawson reflect what a cheap vic-
tory he won in the Ministerial caucus last Cup night,
lie purchased peace (as it now turns out) by making
Peacock (his former political boss) Minister for Edu-
cation iu place of Will Hutchinson, for whom the
electors of Borung had no further use.
At the moment it looks as if there will
be no more pooling of Australian wheat.
Even though gross blunders have been com-
mitted, particularly in the matter of ship-
ping freights, most eockies would like to see
the present arrangement continued until
their co-operative companies are strong
enough to run the whole business themselves.
But the Vic. and S. Aus. Governments
announce that they are pulling out, and if
they st ck to their determination there will
be no 1921-22 pool. The question is whether
Vic. and S. Aus. can afford to pull out.
Without a pool there can be no guarantee,
and without a guarantee : —well, an industry
that was nearly ruined by war and drought
is not in a position to stand many hard
knocks. The guarantee is Cocky’s minimum
wage. ' *
There’s a growing impression in Queens-
land that the Labor nominee for Maranoa
will finish a good second in a field of two.
For one thing Hunter, the Cocky candidate,
has been over the course before and made
an excellent showing, whereas Dunstan has
never exhibited his pace in the electorate,
being a union secretary from Brisbane,
Again, Jim Page had troops of friends among
the pastoralists, hundreds uf whom sup-
ported him at every election, but all the
squatters’ votes Dunstan is likely to get will
be harmless. Many things have conspired to
make the sheep- and cattle-men feel sore.
Lastly the A.W.U. official has been closely
associated with the Th eodore-Fihe 11 y Govern-
ment. And the desire of the average Queens-
land elector to get home on that remarkable
administration is overwhelming.
From over towards the sunset:—
Westralia has acquired a Loyalty League, thanks
principally to Frank Moss. Moss is a rich mine-
owner and the National Federation regards him with
awe. But an incident that occurred at the League’s
initial outbreak has set many thinking—a process
inimical to flag-waving. Ex-Premier Walter James
spoke, and was heckled by a young man sport-
ing a returned warrior’s badge. The argument
was renewed after the meeting, and developed; into
a fight between the interrupter and “Punch” James,
Walter’s soldier-son, “Punch” having much the better
of it. Then it was discovered that the other chap
was no Bolshevik or disloyalist, but a Y.G. And
now Westralia is wondering whether Leagues which
set up divisions between one Digger and another
are worth it.
Treasurer Ritchie (8.A.) now announces
that the year will close with a deficit.
Broken Hill railway returns are poor, a lire
at Port Pirie has damaged wharfage re-
ceipts, the Produce Department lias not done
the business expected, and the land boom
is now less notable, so down go stamp fees.
Ritchie warns the public that it may have
“to meet an emergency” next year.
The A.L.P. hold a ballot to decide who
should be the selected Labor candidates for
the aldermanship of Belmore Ward, Sydney,
but the returning-officer declared it no ballot
on account of the monstrous corruption, per-
sonation and false swearing. It was, he said,
his worst experience (not his first experi-
ence) in 20 years of Labor politics, and he
promised to hand over (50 of the affidavits to
the police with a view to 60 possible gaol
sentences. When so paltry a prize as $ pos-
sible aldermanship can produce wholesale
perjury, either the Labor movement is rotten
or the overgrown city is rotten. Some people
may, however, hold that the prize isn’t so
paltry, after all, which would only mean
that the Council is rotten also. Whichever
it is Sydney is getting ripe for another
spell of rule by Commissioners, as happened
when the Council went rotten in 1833.
When the Speck Parliament assembles
Lee’s Government is likely to have a rocky
time. The Ministry is practically pledged
to support the Launceston Marine Board in
establishing a deep-water port at Bell Bay,
on the East Tamar, and to connect it b.v
railway with Launceston. But the West
Tamarites (Lee’s own constituents) want
the port at Beauty Point, and the railway
on the west side of the river, and assert that
they have a majority in the House. Another
source of trouble • is the Country Councils’
Wages Board. It recently gave an award
that has made the country bumble see red,
and that irate person threatens to toss the
Government out unless Lee repeals the Act.
“We have made and are making such a
mess of our 6wn country that we want to
get away to any place short of Hell, and live
even as voteless aliens under the paternal
rule of anybody short of the Devil.” That
is the wail % especially in Labor-ruled Queens-
land and N. S. Wales. One crowd appealed
earnestly to Joseph Cook, through a leading
Labor member, for free passages to Russia
and was refused. And the other day a
party from the Sydney trades unions called
on the French Consul-General to ask if
there was a chance to become alien workers
speaking a strange language in crowded,
warwrecked France, or even in the French col-
ony of Madagascar or elsewhere in Africa.
The Frenchman replied obliquely that men
with “the necessary perseverance and energy”
would do well enough in Australia, thereby
almost implying that the Mother Gummidges
of the deputation were men of the other sort.
Tom Mutch, N.S.W. Minister for Educa-
tion, complained the other day:—
Ministers have to spend most of their time attending
to trivialities —little things connected with politics--
and cannot attend properly to the affairs of their
departments.
Well, why not face the facts and inaugurate
reform in one of two ways—by scrapping
the system which keeps politics and adminis-
tration in double harness, or by appointing
as Minister for Trash an able-bodied parti-
san with a wheedling tongue, a prize-
fighter’s jaw and unlimited capacity for
booze? Meanwhile the neglect, enforced or
otherwise, of the enormous responsibilities
Ministers are paid for grappling with is a
public grievance. Some of the consequences
of a long succession of Ministers of Educa-
tion capering round the country chasing
votes and pulling the legs of “influential citi-
zens” are that Mutch’s Department has 40
schools closed because there are no teachers
to put inside; that many schools are falling
into rum; that others are overcrowded ; that
thousands of promising children are annually
defrauded of chances to continue their educa-
tion to a reasonable standard. It is not
Tom Mutch’s fault, but it will be if he
doesn’t get busy on the remedy.
THE MAX IX THE GLASS MASK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A few months ago Australian officials of the
extreme wing learned that a Russian movement was
on foot in Australia, and that an emissary was to
arrive. This emissary arrived in Melbourne unob-
trusively, wearing glasses. His identity was not
disclosed until he met members in secret conclave.
Then it was that he removed his glasses. While in
Melbourne he went to F'ederal Parliament House.
He finally left for England."—Srx.
The emissary stepped aboard,
Equipped with bombs and things.
His luggage was profusely stored
With sneers at reigning kings,
The Elag, the Empire and what not.
No passport did lie bear.
One standby only had lit l got—-
Some spectacles to wear.
"With these,” he hissed, "1 will defy
'The Commonwealth’s myopic eye.”
He hired a Melbourne taxi-cab
And drove til that retreat
Where, safe from fizz-gig, pimp or scab,
The nation’s outlaws meet,
lie listened to the yells of rage,
The oaths, the Hymns of - Hate
Which Revolution’s self presage,
Then left. He could not wait.
“Who’s that?” all cried when lie had gone.
(Of course he’d kept his glasses on.)
Behind (he shield of his disguise
He penetrated where
The Government, with starting eyes
And damp, up-standing hair.
Strove to devise a likely scheme
For keeping traitors out.
The statesmen watched, as in a dream.
The stranger move about.
Who’d take a man in goggles for
•V dangerous conspirator?
His Empire-bursting work achieved.
He took his glasses off.
Rash act! A constable perceived
That he was Ichßikoif,
The well-known Russian anarchist.
And “bagged” him on the spot.
He made no effort to resist;
He did not plan or plot— l
He simply put them on again.
Since when he has been sought in vain.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


l«Brebk/ksi chorus c/Kis Avsiralia*v-ljamyamily. {
<V How 2*r<2 Hie Australians Da,<3 f 7
2-« Or* H>«. w&y +© 4Ko. J-a-rry*
*' WoH Blc?gg}S, our Hoys
ara. maJkjrig?
sHo w ir» g 5 , eh ? "
3. oir\ &»«. farry.
" 00-00-oK ! Arevit our AuSsUs
4. AY Quay.
« Hallo wW
S~»« U it **+ ? »
—-w 5 Or> the. .
G&w blimey , vr>is+<zr, oor blok«S
is «ivir)’ pommies
Sock S /'
6• A Y the . , +r -.-i *
« 60. d mcr r .r. e Sir, The Avstr^ml.
are sc ov'lnfi vreTl arttut "fticy 6't* -
\ a G«r.ti<z man ivisida. v'lAvtVn# +te
sc«. you."
*7- "g ood worn'mg Sh* ,To /rom the subjfcC.l ©/ crickai
d moTOent iVn from the Income Ta* Offi ce.. In your - » u
V«iurnS there's a, dligjhl - discrepancy ojf £<zv«ral. thou •
THE DISADVANTAGES OP BEING AN ENGLISHMAN.
(feeing the sad experiences of John Henry Bloggs, late of Blobbshire, England, now of Australia.)


I
*k:
mm
s;UiKS*£sg
•£-yx/f£x-#a
m
WmkW&M
fmt
m
■
i
»
s
JI HI j
81
i’v'fjs&wrt'
m
isags
!<&
Mi
DRA
yvtQE
W
COSMOS
v-v
G*m3ri
r\ moc
A
Give & perfect MqjjM,
jypißOPouTjyxT
Vickers
electricaC
co.. ltq
21 Melbourne.
30*1- Kenh St Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
hamsorme
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Sydney Agrent:
R. H. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
<99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <bha|> BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES— various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand:—
,—Dividend—
-10 p.c. Pref. Written
March, Profits. 15 p.c. Ord. Off. Beserves
1011. . £315,270 £125,000 £20,000 £ 1.034,405
1012.. 356,183 125,000 25,000 1,240,588
1013.. 342,530 125,000 40,000 1,418,118
1014.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,008
Premiums on new shares, £365,536 1,967,144
“A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 15 p.c.
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premiums on new shares, £12,141 2 069 311
1916.. 335,801 236,507 50,000 2,118!6J5
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246,595
1918.. 386,607 237,500 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
"A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 174 p.c.
'' y ——— J
1920.. 469,046 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
divs. 134p.c.
1921.. 827,256 112*500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
The dividend position has become somewhat
involved. Last year the Maonland Parlia-
ment agreed to a re-arrangement of the
bank s capital account, and as a result
i 1.125,000 of reserves were extracted to pro-
vide one new share for every two previously
held. 1 his “bonus” issue, so far as portion
of new capital issues of recent years was
concerned, merely ga,ve scrip for what had
been paid by way of premiums when the
shares were subscribed ; but on other shares
the bonus is a very sweet gift. The Maori
lanrl Government is a co-partner in the
8.N.Z.: Dick Seddon went to its assistance
after it and the Shivery Isles had got into
trouble, and last year, when the ordinaries
were fully called up, the Government held
one-third of total scrip. The Government’s
interests consisted of £500,000 of “A” prefs.
carrying a fixed 10 p.c. (but not cumulative)
and £250,000 “B” prefs. which have been
sharing point for point with the ordinaries,
whose scrip totalled 11 million. When the
one-in-two issue came along the Government
holding of 10 p.c. prefs. was not increased,
but its proportion on those shares was dis-
tributed t in “B” prefs.—the lot that were
sharing in extra distributions of profits with
the ordinaries. This disturbed the dividend
arrangements, and a new basis for future
distributions had to be decided upon. Last
year’s div. declarations are to be the guide:
if profits handed out do not exceed the
amount which was required to pay 10 p.c. to
‘A’ prefs. and .171 p.c. to both “B” prefs.
and ordinaries (altogether £850,250), distri-
butions are to be made on the same plan as
if no re-adjustment had been effected. Should
the amount distributed exceed that £350,250,
the Government’s “B” shares are to get one-
third of the extra and the ordinaries two-
thirds, that being the proportion of share
interests of the parties. As the table shows,
the past year’s divs. exceeded the amount
by £56,250, so £18,750 of that went to the
Government, which got 10 p.c. on its total
shares, equal to 15 p.c. on the scrip held
prior to capitalisfttion of reserves. The ordi-
naries’ 181 p.c. represents 20 p.c. on their
capital as it stood prior to transfer of re-
serves.
The only new money put in by proprietors
since the 1920 balance was £152,547 of calls,
which made the old ordinaries fully paid.
But net profits have suddenly bounded from
£469,046 to £827,256. After allowing for
the £50,000 set aside to reduce premises ac-
count the B.N.Z.’s £777,256 of net profits
remaining was £35,000 greater than the
amount similarly disclosed by the old Bank
of N. S. Wales for the .same period, though
the Maoriland concern has 17 millions less
on deposit. And that means one of two'
things: either the B.N.Z. operations have
been very much more profitable than those
of the Commonwealth’s largest proprietary
bank; or conditions in Maoriland are so
favorable and the future - looks so secure that
its principal bank no longer thinks it neces-
sary to stow away much profit to provide for
contingencies, while the caretakers of the
Commonwealth’s spare cash are still nursing
securities with an anxious eye. Maoriland
did, of course, have a much more favorable
run than the Commonwealth during the war
years ;• it did handsomely from the exceptional
prices got for wool, meat and dairy produce.
And while the B.N.Z. increased its earnings
from trade aetivitv, as banker for the
Treasury it must have benefited considerably
from the huge Government borrowings and
spendings on account of the war. But there
may have been reasons other than the neces-
sity for providing for possible slumps that
led the B.N.Z. Board to hide profits during
the boom years. Ex-Prime Minister louseph
Ward a couple of years ago began an agita-
tion for the establishment of a >State Bank,
and under these circumstances, no doubt, the
B.N.Z. Board decided that it would be un-
wise to reveal anything like the full extent of
its earnings. Last year’s amended Act, how-
ever, removed any possibility of early acqui-
sition by the Government, and there is no
longer need for modesty on the part of the
co.
The amazing growth of the P. and L.
figures is shown next:—
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1914 .. £714,076 £264,318 £61,267
1915 .. 756,240 284,525 74,548
1916 .. 801,337 307,148 \37,096
1917 . . 964,911 330.228 198,052
1918 .. 1.106,442 352.250 346,385
1919 .. 1,217,153 371,659 386,273
1920 .. 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 . . 1.844,017 510,467 485,095
’Less provision for contingencies.
Note how Maoriland is taxing; rates and
taxes now exceed by £lOO,OOO or so the net
profits disclosed in pre-war years. During
the years 1919-1920 £40,000 more was handed
over to the Treasury than was absorbed by
all working expenses, Board fees, etc. But
note also how disclosed, profits have now
bounded ahead in relation to the taxes paid,
though' the Treasury grab is greater than
ever, a movement which strengthens the sus-
picion concerning the profits disclosed for
previous years.
The balance-sheet figures have moved in
this way since pre-war days :—■
1914. 1920. 1921.
Notes in circula-
tion .. 1 .. £989,882 £5,765,337 £4,741,492
Hills in eircula- ,
tion, etc. ... 1,403,457 3,708,305 4,116,574
Deposits.. ..18,070,613 37,661,611 34;475,655
Liquid assets . . 12,590,187 33,120,009 18,922,513
Advances . . 11,360,486 19,431,848 R 0,506,629
Premises .. 449,577 361,108 337,469
Twelve months ago no less than 70 p.c. of all
liabilities was held liquid. But Maoriland
was also flooded with imports during the year,
besides which it has had trouble with
the marketing of its produce: so 11
millions more were loaned to clients
at March 31 than at the same date in
1920, and liquid assets were cut into by
£14,200,000, deposits having meantime
shrunk £3,186,000. At the latest balance
the proportion of liquid assets to all lia-
bilities had been reduced to 43.6 p.c;—-still
a satisfactory ratio. The bank’s own
funds, including the £529,988 of 4 p.c.
stock, totalled £5,790,000-odd; all liabili-
ties amounted to 43A millions. Slightly
more than £7 10s. of outside money was
thus held for every £1 of the bank’s own
funds, compared with eight, guineas 12
months ago.
The Queensland National Pastoral
Co., Ltd.:—
Reserves.
Adjustment payment by vendors, £50,000. . £50,000
, Dividends- Writ-
Profits. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten Off.
1915. .£67,083 £17,500 6 p.c.=£36.000 £56,399 7,184
1916. .100,510 17,500 7 „ „ 42,000 21,375 32,819
1917.. 110,295 17,500 8 „ ~ 48,000 21,144 56,470
1918. .124,335 17,500 8 ~ ~ 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 ~ ~ 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ ~ 48,000 24,833 71,929
When the Queensland National Bank was
hit in the ’nineties it was left with a wide
assortment of securities. Some it unloaded
as occasion permitted, others it nursed over
many years. But, successful as had been the
rehabilitation of some of the damaged goods,
the Q.N.B. management decided that tend-
ing the affairs of various sugar estates and
pastoral properties was off its beat. Besides,
there were obvious advantages to be gained
by putting the enterprises on an independent %
footing; for instance, if it so desired, the
bank could dispose of its interests bit by bit
on the Stock Exdhange as opportunities
offered, thus enabling it to secure further
funds for more legitimate banking business.
The Millaquin Sugar Co., Ltd., was one of
the Q.N.’s off-shoots; the Queensland
National Pastoral Co., Ltd., is another. The
latter apparently took over all that was left
of the bank’s pastoral properties early in
1915, and the table above gives its record
from the beginning. But, as, in the case of
the Millaquin Sugar, the Q. N. Pastoral is
still directed by those controlling the bank ;
its Board consists of three of the bank’s
directors.
The basis on which the co. took over the
properties from the bank has not been clearly
stated : at its establishment bank shareholder's
were told that the off-shoot represented “an
exceedingly sound investment co. to develop
the valuable freehold and leasehold lands,”
and that its paid capital “was well covered
by undoubted assets, on which we shall be
able to pay and maintain a dividend giving
a fair rate of interest.” The manner in
which the properties had been acquired by
the bank, taken into consideration -with the
proved conservative poliey of the Q.N.B.’s
management, practically assured that the
float would be soundly capitalised. That such
was the case is demonstrated by the fact
that, though the Northern State lias suffered
two severe droughts (in 1915 and 191!))
since its inception the Q. N. Pastoral has
paid i p.c. regularly to the prefs., given an
average of 74 p.c. p.a. to the ordinaries,
and, after writing off drought losses, put
aside a visible £64,000. The balance-sheet
improvement over the five years since the
first balance is shown hereunder: —
, . . ... i . 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. .. £2,050 £31,930 £150.630
Leases, etc 319.969 224.999 252,848
Freeholds . . . . 68,605 68,605
Plant and stores . . 31,042 55,447 79 564
Livestock .. .. 488,808 583,239 627,445
Stocks wool .. . . 7,308 28,157 37,504
Gash, War Loan and
book debts .. 32,856 36,119 22,967
The surplus of livestock, wool, cash, War
Loan and book debts over and above liabili-
ties moved from £520,922 in 1915 to
£537,286 at the latest balance. Meantime,
after writing off £113,000 for depreciation,
the book value of leaseholds and improve-
ments declined £07,121, but though no free-
holds were held at the beginning there is now
£08,005 worth on the books, while £48,522
has been added to plant and stores accounts.
Paid capital is £850,000 in a quarter-million
7 p.c. prefs. and £600,000 of ordinaries, but
how much of the total is now held by the
Q. N. Bank is not divulged.
West’s, Ltd., which took over West’s Pic-
tures, Ltd., when that concern joined the
film combine: —
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1913.. £9,268 £9208 £9,208
1914.. 8,2f8 15 p.c. = £14,466 2,990
1915.. 24,542 171 „ „ 19,289 5253 8,243
1916.. 14,764 124 „ ~ 12,055 2709 10,952
1917.. 6,070 6J „ ~ 6,028 2423 10,994
1918.. 13,502 13} „ „ 13,260 242 11,236
1919.. 9,266 71 „ ~ 7.233 2033 13,269
1920.. 8.178 71 „ „ 7,233 945 14,214
1921.. 16,914 10 „ ~ 9,644 7270 21,484
T. J. W est was a pioneer of the movies in
Sydney, and his co., West’s Pictures, Ltd.,
was one of the early public concerns which
set out to popularise the new amusement.
Some years later ’Murkan J. D. Williams
came along with his “continuous” pictures,
and shortly afterwards the Williams concern,
A\ est’s, Spencer’s and Amalgamated Pic-
tures, the iast the pioneer of the business in
Melbourne, joined forces. In 1912 West’s
Pictures was reconstructed, and the present
co, took over. The table gives the record
of the new co. from its inception. Capital
all along has remained stationary at £96,443,
in £1 fully paids, but, as in the case of
Amalgamated Pictures, this co. did not capi-
talise the whole of the interests it acquired,
as the result of the amalgamation, in the
General Film Co, of Australasia, Ltd. In-
stead, £36,682 of the holding in that concern
is treated in West’s balance-sheet as a
“capital reserve,” which is not included with
the reserves in the table above. This has
made the payment of a good rate of div.
easier than it would have been had capital
been inflated by goodwill interests in the
quarter-million General Film Co. And the
policy has, in turn, enabled the directors to
strengthen the position of the co. consider-
ably. Profits have varied widely according
to the amounts distributed bv the General
Film ; for instance, the record earnings for
1915 were due to an accumulation of divs.
having been passed over by that concern.
But the co.’s own theatres are its chief
source of profit: five years ago it was re-
ported of them that they were “consistently
returning sufficient to provide almost 9 p.c.
on capital,” and the latest profit improve-
ment is “attributable mainly to the very
satisfactory return from the theatres.” Over
the nine years an average of 10 p.c. p.a. lias
been paid by West’s, and since the first bal-
ance its position has been improved in this
way:—
T . , 1913. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. ..£34,777 £15,814 £6,332
Freeholds, plant, etc. . . 30,034 32,350 32,475
Leaseholds. . . . .. 3.3,838 19,780 17,668
General Film Co. . . 107,397“ 102.683 100,936
Book debts and cash . . 5,797 9,426 11.862
In 1913 £5917 was owing on mortgage,
£9781 was due to sundry creditors and the
bank was owed £19,079. The first item has
now disappeared, the amount due to sundry
creditors is only £1033, and the bank over-
draft, has been got down to £s29B—total
liabilities having been reduced £28,445 in
eight years. Meantime, chiefly owing to the
shrinkage in the value of leaseholds, total
assets are £14,125 less, so the co.’s position
lias been improved by £14,320 after giving
shareholders 18s. in the £ on their capital.
Or the £100,936 interest in the General Film,
±86,536 is in fully-paid shares, £10,400 in
debentures and £4OOO is cash advanced. There
are other loans amounting to £7549 and
sundry book debts for £l3ll. The debentures
advances, War Loan (£3000) and sundry
debtors exceed liabilities by £19,930, so the
co. is very comfortable. This surplus and
the book value of properties stand for slightlv
more than £70,000 of the £96,44.3 of paid
capital. The £26,370 of capital not so re-
presented is supported by the £86.530 share
interest in General Films. So besides re-
ceiving good divs. shareholders’ capital is
well supported.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin): —
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1910.. £’2413 ' 12* p.c. = £1172 £1241 £12,535
1911.. 2188 15 „ „ 1406 782 ) , 9 . iV -
Written off, £lOOO j ‘
1912.. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 13,254
1913.. 2032 15 „ „ 1406 626 13,880
1914.. 2331 15 .. „. 1406 925 14,805
1915.. 2259 15 „ ~ 1406 853 15,658
1916.. 3013 15 „ 1406 1607 17,265
1917.. 1610 15 „ „ 1406 204 (
Written off, £lOOO j ’’
Transferred to capital, £3125 13,344
1918.. 2353 15 p.c. = 1679 674 14,01 e
1919.. 2851 15 „ „ 1875 1362 14,991
1920.. 4137 15 „ „ 1875 2262 17,256
Transferred to capital, £2500 14,756
1921.. 3670* 15 p.c. = 2250 1420 16,176
*Shown less £l5OO estimated taxes.
Dunedin has two trustee concerns established
within three years of one another, but the
younger, the Perpetual, which started in 1884,
is much the larger. Seeing that there is also
a strongly-established Public Trustee, the
two proprietary competitors have done ex-
tremely well. Here is the record of the
T. E. and A. of Maoriland over the period
covered by the Perpetual’s table above:—
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910.. £2185 15 p.c. =£lsoo £685 £12,206
1911.. 1880 15 „ „ 1500 380 12,586
1912.. 2190 15 „ „ 1500 690 13,276
1913.. 1876 15 „ „ 1500 376 13,652
1914.. 1709 15 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
1915.. 1624 15 „ „ 1500 124 13,985
1916.. 1911 * 15 „ „ 1500 411 14,396
1917.. 1856 15 „ „ 1500 356 14,752
1918.. 1936 15 „ „ 1500 436 15,18 S
1919.. 1872 15 „ „ 1500 372 15,560
1920.. 2309 15 „ „ 1500 809 16,369
1921.. 2213 15 „ „ 1500 f
Written off, £l4B ) , ( 16,934
Both cos. have been paying regular 15 p.c.
divs. over many years; but the Perpetual’s
divs. are the sweeter, because £5625 of its
present paid capital of £15,000 represents
reserves transferred within the past five years.
It has 25,000 shares of £4 ss. paid up to 12s.
each. The smaller concern has 10,000 £5
shares paid to £l. The Perpetual does not
disclose the extent of its trusts, but the T.,
E. and A. is more confiding: it disclosed the
volume of estates in its care for the first
time in 1900, and the total has grown from
£1,290,047 to £2,605,392 during the 15 years
since. That has been slow progress, and
the figures have slipped back nearly £50,000
during the past 12 months. But it is sur-
prising how these proprietary offices have
held their ground so well in face of the State
office’s competition: under the Act the
Public Trustee guarantees loss of principal
if he is given a free hand in selecting invest-
ments, and, in addition, .since 1915 the Gov-
ernment office has Deen sharing profits with
beneficiaries.
Another view of the operations of the two
Dunedin cos. is given hereunder:—
Perpetual. T., E. &A.
Income £13,829 £7290
Expenses.. ... .. 8,175 5077
The larger income of the Perpetual is not.
however, wholly due to its greater trust busi-
ness : it is more of an investment concern
than its competitor. It has larger funds;
combined capital and reserves at the balances
amounted to £34,285 and £28,082 respec-
tively. But while the T., E. and A.’s lia-
bilities are an insignificant £143, the Per-
petual is working on £60,411 of outside
money. That heavy liability is offset on
the other side by “Balances due to co.,
£60,004”; but the nature of these accounts
is not disclosed in published reports. Further
comparisons are as follows:--
Perpetual. T., E. k A.
Paul capital £15,000 £lO,OOO
Reserves* . . .. .. 19,285 18,082
Uncalled capital . . . . 91,250 40,000
Liabilities . . .. . . 60,411 143
Mortgages, debentures' and
property 34,692 25,125
Book debts 60,004 1,397
Cash, etc Nil 1,703
Both cos. thus offer substantial guarantees
that nothing untoward will happen to clients’
interests as the result of carelessness or
worse.
From the see. of the N. S. Wales State
Savings Bank: —
The Rural Bank has been established as a Depart-
ment of the Savings Bank and the 100 Rural Bank
branches already open are not, as a Bulletin poli-
tical writer said recently (16/6/’2l), independent
of the 148 Savings Bank branches. The system of
accounts constructed for the new Department is on
parallel lines to that of the Savings Bank and the
one staff attends to the business of both departments.
If it is assumed that an entirely new staff has been
appointed to carry on the work, this is quite incor-
rect. The statement that the Rural Bank will not
in itself make more money to be deposited is obvi-
ously true; nevertheless the Rural Bank will fulfil
an important function, and its appeal will lie in the
fact that the deposits will be lent entirely to benefit
the primary producers.


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing lo the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.F.. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world's best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt, [1
Before installing any other water-system it would
be to your advantage to investigate the merits of
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe, which is absolutely reliable
and far cheaper than metal pipe both to lay and
maintain. Pioneer Pipe has a carrying capacity
which remains constant. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Auvt.
ASBESTOS.—The right classy of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet;
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quail
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company:— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Finks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at ClialJis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants ; sulphuric-acid’ plants; glass-works plants ;
coal-wasliing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models “National * 6uction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Svdnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quav (Ease).
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertlin"-’«
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby A Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Svdnev : and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
"Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking- out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing ttie necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Eederal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN 3. OAK VAN.
- --- Managing Director.
&
pOORD &,SOl*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift * Company Idil.. A»s ira Indian Agent*. 26 80 Clarence St.. Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
13
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
A result of the impetus given the Austra-
lian woollen-manufacturing industry by t.ie
war and of the difficulty of securing neces-
sary additional machinery overseas was to
give a lift to local engineering cos. Anti
that, in turn, gave the inventive Australian
new opportunities. For many years tin-
world’s wool-spinners have been endeavoring
to devise a machine which would supplant
the old cumbersome and slow-working
"mule,” and though the fast cap-spinning
system was successfully adapted for worsted
yarns, it proved impracticable for woollen
yarns. Australiau-boru Wm. C. MeLoughlin
has apparently solved the problem. He com-
menced experiments four years ago, and two
years passed before he completed his first
working-model. Sargood’s, of Melbourne,
were at last prevailed upon to take a
machine on trial, and after six months’
exhaustive tests they were so satisfied with
the new invention that they ordered six
machines of 400 spindles each. The
McLonglilin cap-spinner has been proved to
produce four times more yarn per spindle
than the "mule,” its product is superior, it
is labor-saving and occupies only half as
much floor-space. A co. is about to be
formed to exploit tile world’s rights, and, in
addition, to establish works to manufacture
Australian textile-machinery requirements.
After three years’ running Metal Manufac-
tures, Ltd., at Port Kembla (N.S.W.). is
reaching for trade beyond the Commonwealth
in some of tlie many lines of copper-wire,
copper and brass tubing, cotton-wrapped
wire and various items of angle copper and
electrical points that the co. produces. There
is already a fair business with Maori land,
but it isn’t such a simple matter to do trade
with Asia. The Japs hav.e a very strong
hold on the Indian market, and there is no
doubt that the feeling stirred up by Gandhi
and his friends make it harder for Aus-
tralia to get a foot in there. In the Com-
monwealth itself all the circumstances are
not happy. The closing of the big copper-
mines one after the other, because the cos.
can’t afford to pay the miners more than tin-
copper is worth, threatens to cut off the sup-
ply of raw material. At the same time, out-
siders are making frantic efforts to win back
the Australian market. British manufac-
turers are in some cases offering stuff at a
loss to regain business; and the Americans,
with reduced wages and cheap copper to help
them, are keeping a sharp look-out. If the
Belgians and Germans, with their depreci-
ated currency, loin in, it will he Lord help
Australian manufacturers.
★ * X- *
Rumors, more or less circumstantial, have
been floating round the markets that a merg-
ing of interests at Broken Hall is to be talked
over when Bill Robinson gets his big feet
under brother Lionel’s table in London. All
this may arise from the needs of some of the
cos., which have practically exhausted the
big cash balances they held when the strike
began, and would now like to lay hands on
the cash they put into the Associated
Smelters. And the combine instinct of the
Lionel Robinson crowd and their Collins-
street cohorts gives to such a suggestion a
smack of verisimilitude. The situation with
metals is as it is with wool. Buyers are
needed, and the unholy hatred of the Hun is
being replaced bv a brotherly feeling that
Fritz must be given a chance to show that
he is a reformed character. He must not.
starve, and the way to keep him from the
morgue is to give him the means to work and
pay. So, coupled up with the merging
rumor is the yarn that if the mines should
get going the smelters may not be re-started,
but that, instead, the shipment of concen-
trates may be resumed. The outcome of
it all may be a selling co. It would
take a good deal to shift some of the present.
Broken Hill directors out of office in these
dreary mining days, when floats are hard and
divvies are out. of the question: wherefore
any possible merging of interests is likely to
be in the far distance.
vr * / * *
On the suggestion of Justice Powers, of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, Mt.
L,yell's books have been investigated with
a view to determining “whether the eo.’s •
mines can, while paying the existing rates,
make any profit at the present price of cop-
per.” Sydney accountant Frank Hambridge,
who was selected by the Queensland Court
to examine Mount Morgan’s books, was in
this ease accepted by both the unions and
the Mount Lyell Co. The period of investi-
gation was the half-year ending March 31
last, and Hambridge was directed by the
Court to decided :
(1) Whether the ore treated during the selected
period was representative of the ore reserves; (2)
whether any of the items of cost are affected or
influenced by the superphosphate or other business
carried on by the eo. ; and (3) if a loss is being made
on the present price of copper, what price must
copper reach before the loss disappears and profit
begins ?
Hambridge’s report shows that the co. can-
not make a profit on the present price of
metals. On the contrary, it would make a
loss of £lB 6s. 2d. per ton copper. During
the period under review 102,855 tons ore
Were treated, giving 2644 tons blister, con-
taining 2621 tons copper, 55,2930 z. silver and
25650 z. gold. Tt took 39.12 tons ore to give
a tqn of copper. Hambridge found costs to
be as follows :
Per ton blister.
Mining .. .. .. .. c 39 7 11
Concentrating and sintering . . 7 18
Smelting . . . . . . 30 0 10
Converting- . . . . .. 3 8 7
Development .. . . . . 18 9
Administration (including Mel-
bourne and Condon office
expenses, and directors’ fees) 3 15
Lease rents . . . . . . n 7 6
Insurance and exchange .. 081
CB5 fi 0
Refining and realisation .. Mil 1
Depreciation of machinery
and plant .. .. in .7
Gross cost per ton .. Clo 4 11 6
Deducting from this total cost the value of
the precious metals contained in the blister
(£lO Is. fid.), the net cost per ton blister
(99.15 p.c.) was £94 10s., equal to £95 (ss. 2d.
per ton electrolytic (100 p.c.). With the
market price of the latter at £77 the loss per
ton of refined copper was thus £lB 6s. 2d.
On the question as to whether the ore
treated during the selected period was repre-
sentative of the ore reserves, the report says,
“Yes, so far as it relates to grade.” In ex-
planation the following table is set out:—
, Average assav A
Copper. Silver. Gold,
p.c. oz. oz.
1918 •• -. 2.(57 1.31 0.03
990 •• .. 2.98 1.34 0.03
9(20 .. .. 2.80 1.01 0.028
Selected period 3.19 1.01 0.026
17 years ending
1920.. .. 2.52 1.04 0.038
The report adds:—
It is apparent that during the selected period the
co. treated ore the average copper cortent of which
was slightly higher than the average copper content
of the ore.treated in any one of the preceding
three years. It is also noted that the ore treated
during the period averaged 0.67 p.c. copper higher
than the average of the whole of the ore treated
during the previous 17 years, i.e., from the incep-
tion ot the present co.
Mr. Hambridge found that the items of cost
wore not in any way influenced by the super-
phosphate branch of the eo.’s business, and
that, assuming all the working conditions
were identical with those which prevailed
during the selected period, the price of elec-
trolytic would have to exceed £95 6s. 2d. for
Mount Lyell to make any profit on its mining
and smelting operations. Incidentally, the
report shows the proportion which wages
and salaries, stores and other expenditure
bear to the total cost of production as fol-
lows : Wages and salaries, 60.69 p.c.; stores,
17.17 p.c.; other expenditure, 22.14 p.c. The
relatively low percentage of “stores” con-
sumption is attributed to the hydro-electric
power-plant, which has naturally cut out coal
as an item in the stores charge.
The oil-shales in the Joadja Valley, near
Mittagong (N.S.W.), are to be given another
go. It is over 20 years .since the ouarter-
million Australian Kerosene Oil and Mineral
Co., which had been at work for nearly a
quarter of a century, gave up after a des-
perate struggle. The bad old Freetrade
party settled whatever chances it had: to-
wards the end the extensive works were
elosed and the co. shipped its shale, the manu-
facture rtf by-products ceasing “owing to the
Government taking off the duties.” During
the past two rears an enterprising 8. Aus.
crowd, headed by Thomas Leahey, has been
investigating possibilities with a new type of
retort, and everything has worked out so
satisfactorily that, after spending some tens
of thousands, this private concern, the Shale
Petrol Oil Co., has decided that everything
is ready for a big producing co. to take over.
8o it is to be swallowed bv Oil Shale By-
Products and Coal, Ltd., a three-quarter mil-
lion concern which is to be registered in Syd-
ney, and for which the Joadia shale areas
have been secured. S. Aus. thinks so well of the
scheme that it has already offered £lOO.OOO
in addition to its interests in the experimental
co. A prospectus is to be issued shortly
inviting other States to join in. With the
new retort the co. reckons on turning out
petrol of a higher standard than the imported,
a simple purifying device freeing the stuff
of the odor and discoloration which have
depreciated the value of locally-manufactured
petrol in the past. The co. has acquired all
rights to the new retort, which is said to be
practically automatic. And they ought to
know something about it, for one experi-
mental plant has been kept in continuous
operation for nearlv nine months.
* . * * *
Kalgoorlie is making the most of an
assayer’s statement that 6ft. of eore taken
from the inclined south-end bore at a depth
of about 700 ft. is worth 12dwt. per ton.
Rut at least a dozen bores along the line, are
needed to prove the continuity or otherwise
of values before the lease in which they have
been struck, or any other of the hundred-odd
staked by speculative peggers around it, can
be said to be worth anything. On the
strength of this one bore attempts are being
made to get rid of areas of no nonarent
value. Anyhow, it would require £50,000 at
least to open up any new show on the
Kalgoorlie field under present conditions:
and the public should be shy of any scheme
depending on a shilling or two on application
and the same amount on allotment.
When the outlook is gloomy, and all other
means of attracting attention to a Westra-
lian goldfield fail, the discovery of telluride
is generally announced. There have been
genuine finds, of course, but many reports
have been mere hoaxes. St. Ives is the
latest locality to be credited with the dis-
covery of the metal, but from all accounts
the find isn’t good enough to buck up the
market or help the sale of any more op-
tions.
Meekatharra (W.A. 1 is loaded up with
scrip of the local Ingliston mine, and the
town spends much of its time blowing about
that show’s prospects. It certainly has ore
and .hopes, and Ls on one of the few remain-
ing Westralian fields that should be given
attention ; but on present developments the
market seems to be far ahead of the mine.
Two adjacent shows, the Fenian and Inglis-
ton Consols, have produced over Ij million
pounds’ worth of gold between them, and
three others now down and out yielded in the
aggregate a further three-quarter million
Associated Northern (W.A.) recently
looked at a proposition near Westonia, but
although appearances gave some promise the
big co. wants to see more work done before.
talking business.
Lake View Investments, which is the old
Lake View and Oroya, has declared its
maiden div. —fid per share.
McDermott, g.-m. of the lyanhoe (W.A.),
has been at Costerfield ( Vic.) probing the
old antimony show there to see if it_ war-
rants his London Board laying out £50,000
for works at Argyle, near Heathcote. The
show has been opened down to 1000 ft., and
has yielded a big tonnage of ore, which went
to English smelters until the war stopped
export. The reef is narrow, but good gold
contents are associated with the antimony,
and it. has always been surmised that the
ore-purchaser has made more than a fair
bit out of that by-product.
* * # *
Since its second advent, Rose, Thistle and
Shamrock, Harrietville (Vic.), has treated
over 10,000 tons for 8901 oz. gold worth
£44,693, and it has given 6s. in divs. to share-
holders who stuck to it. The best of the
stone has been from the Landtax reef, where,
mining has gone down to No. 4 level. The
stopes are awkwardly placed in relation to
the shaft, so a lot of time has been lost
getting tilings safe to sink another lift.
Meanwhile the Shamrock shaft is being put
down 126 ft. If the reef there turns out
trumps it will buck up the sad crowd Har-
rietville way. The Shamrock formation is
very flat, and a 6ft. reef will give the
management fully 30,000 tons for the bat-
tery. Power is cheap, and as the country
met in sinking is much more promising for
gold than higher up, the chance of a strike
is better than in the average Vie. mountain
show.
In its declining days old South New .Moon,
Eaglehawk (Vic*.), still recalls, in its
accounts, the time when with 32,000 shares
paid up to 17s. 7d. it passed out £l6 Bs. 6d.
per share from the big spurs between (>6oft.
and 1000 ft. Those were the days when
broker Staples flashed out. He and Roderick
Murchison, of the Bank of N. S. Wales,
nowadays a very sick man, made fortunes
out of the show; so Murchison’s, departure
from the bank was made easy, and Staples
had the funds with which to start a big
gamble in Westralia. Xovv the South Moon
is to be shut down and assets realised unless
a change comes at 375 ft. The latest half-year
started badly, and every part of the claim
where a miner could look in was let on
tribute. Even that experiment meant a loss
of £35 a week. Present cost of working is
double what it was 10 years ago, and with
the new log before Justice Powers the Board
sees the end. So, in all probability, another
of the famous Bendigonian giants will soon
be laid to rest.
Muller and Nincke’s little claim at Queens-
town, seven miles from the railhead at
Hurst’s Bridge (Vic.V. continues to give
small parcels of high-grade material. The
last put through was 11 tons, which yielded
44$oz. gold. The show is down 200 ft., and
the material is being won from a lOin. reef.
So far 90 tons have given 279|0z. A State
battery made the development of the show
possible.
The Western Vic. crowd who a couple of
years ago crossed the N. S. Wales border to
dredge cold at Cropper’s Lagoon, Corowa,
found that area appropriately named. To
begin with, the Mooratunka Gold Dredging
Co. had a tough fight with the Murray Waters
Trust and other bodies before it was per-
mitted to operate, but finally, when it did sret
to work, it was splendidly equipped. No-
thing was lacking—except gold. The plant
churned 34 acres for SOOoz.; then it refused
to produce much more than colors. The
ground surrounding the dredged area was
thereupon tapped by 151 bores, but the bes
they indicated was a possible recovery or -U-
-per yd. The only payable gold in the ou
acres proved to have been in the couple
already handled, a fact which could have
been established at small cost at the begin-
ning. The plant went under the hammer last
week, and the trustful crowd from Y\ estein
Vic. are wiser now.
* * * *
Ulladulla, on the X. S. Wales South Coast,
makes another claim to fame —its old one was
that it produced the poet Henry Kendall.
Its more prosaic distinction is that it abounds
in silica boulders, which make _ excellent
material for I.re-bricks. It is claimed that
the goods mad ■ at Newcastle, and containing
about 97 p.c. silica, are better than the Her-
man article imported in pre-war days. And
the demand will arrow; for a fire-brick plant
is now being put in ‘’t Port Kembla also.
Further details are to hand concerning
Waihi’s wash-up in London. The Board
took a long view of the possible life of the
claim, and piled up cash assets till on Dec.
51 last they included gilt-edged stocks that
cost £454,(514, British Treasury bills for
£200,001), and the Hora-Hora hydro-electric
works. These last cost £159,536, but the
Maorilaud Government is to take them over
in 1931 for £212,500. A mite of £50,000
has also been hypothecated as a fund for new
enterprises. Altogether there are liquid
assets of £771,000 available to play with. It
is proposed to refund 10s. per share on the
500,000 shares of 20s. each. The mine last
year gave a profit of £146,811 and four
quarterly shilling divs. f2O p.c.) were distri-
buted. Ore raised was 161,024 tons against
116,521 tons developed; and, though reserves
were thus drawn upon, they still amount to
523,828 tons averaging 31s. per ton. In
addition 254,737 tons have been put into
suspense, because, while of a higher grade
than 31s. per ton, the mine is not opened up
so that the ore can be broken to the best
advantage. As the Waihi years ago seemed
to be on the road to the shelf through poor
developments at depth, prospecting at the
No. 13 level is being closely watched. Cross-
cutting at Nos. 11 and 12 levels also will
give an idea of what is to be expected under-
foot.


THE IMPATIENT SUBSCRIBER.
1. “Hello-o-o-o. Hello-o-o-o. Hell-o-o-o!”
2. “Shake yourself up, ole girl!”
3. “For Gorsake get a move on. I can’t wait here all day!”
4. (A bright idea strikes him) “I say, Mr. Wise, the Postmaster-General, sneaking”
5. “Thank you, Miss. I’m obliged for your promptitude. I’ll recommend you for a rise in salary.”


lo-
op Lu n cHS«§
J Dinners
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
' r :J '-tS*
w. "
IHi
f‘y
> :l,t?'7 at
r, '■ a-
for .s®
Si ?• ivsJ»FTpT la
■ " sr. '0, f = • . £
J g
TCiimfi
1
"■4 u i»
w
c (■
Jllifi
Good to toe
Lasr Drop
A
M
m
m
ABBOTS
LAGER
TApßeer w/fiou/dfim/.
from Pur<?7fa/t i flops' On/y
A
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to tho>e who cannot hear?
Mhv remain out of it whilst vour friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 vears of dailv use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
duly birthdays:—
Major-Gen. Granville Ryrie, M.H.R., GO, on
Ist ; .1. Lethbridge King, late Sydney S.M., 68, and
I’rofessor W. 1-i. Bragg (formerly S.A.), 59, on 2nd :
Theo. Kink (Melb.), 66, on 3rd ; J. VV. Israel, 71, on
4th: artist McNally (Vie.), 49, and A. W. Piper,
K.C. (S A.), 56, on sth; W. .T. Isbister, K.O. (S.A.),
55, and Lieut,-Col. K. J. Massie (N.S.W.), 31, on
Vth; pianist Percy Grainger, 39, on Bth; H. E.
Ilarff (Syd. Uni.), 04, on 9th; Brig.-Gen. L. O.
Wilson (Q.£, 50, on 11th; Dr. Geo. Syme (Melb.),
02, on 12th ; Prof. Harold Davies, Mus. Doc. (Adel.),
54, on 18th; Tetley Grant (Tas.), 65, on 19th; Vic.’
barrister Mitchell, 66, on 21st; Justice McOawley
(Q.)f 40, on 24th; astronomer VV. E. Cooke (Svd.),
58, on 26th; Justice Gordon (S.A.), 71, and Aid.
Fitzgerald (ex-Lord Mayor of Syd.), 57, on 26th;
Justice Crisp (Speck), 47, on 27th ; Mrs. Ellis
Rowan, on 30th; Alexander MacCormick, surgeon,
65, and geologist E. E. Pittman (N.S.W.), 72, on
31st.
<J. L. Sutton, the new Westralian Director
of Agriculture, is, like the new head of
the Hawkesbury
College (N.S.W.).
an old Syd-
ney High School
boy. and was one
of W. J. Farrer’s
young men. Mit-
chell, the present
Premier, engaged
him in 1911. and
though his useful-
ness was hampered
for years by being-
tied down to office
work Sutton has
done more than
any other man to
convert the Wes-
tralian cocky to
scientific methods.
HARRY HOL-
LAND, Leader of
M.L. Labor party ,
a prominent figure
at. the Trades
Union Congress
in Melbourne.
The reason why the Anglican Archbishop
of Brisbane did not angle for the Melbourne
vacancy was explained last week. Dr. Don-
aldson has been made Bishop of Salisbury,
a job which carries £5OOO a year and a seat
in the Lords. And as Bishop of Salisbury
he will be in the running for Canterbury
when Davidson steps down—that Areli-
bish., like Bishop Ridgway, whom the Bris-
bane man is succeeding, is 72. The departing
prelate's father was that Stuart Alexander
Donaldson who fought a duel with Thomas
Mitchell, the explorer, and was first Premier
of X. S. Wales, albeit his Ministry lasted
barely two months.
Death is making gaps in the 25th X. S.
Wales Parliament, J. li. Hall, who died last
week, was the fifth Leg. Councillor to go since
August. Hall was a Xewcastle merchants
and, until his health failed a year or two
ago, was associated with nearly every inter-
est and institution on the. Hunter—coal,
shipping, newspapers, the gas supply, the
carrying trade, the Chamber of Commerce,
the hospital and various branches of sport.
Marrying late in life he was left a widower
with a baby boy, who is now at college.
A i Ilia in Trimble, a Xorth of Ireland press-
man of the rural variety, who on arrival in
Sydney the other day commenced writing
long letters to the llerai.d that moved the
local Orangemen to frantic applause, de-
scribes himself as having been one of Car-
son’s "liftinints” when LTlster started raising
an army in 1914 against John Bull. lie
looks the part. He is a podgy little man, with
an egg-bald head, a diminutive twisted beard,
and addicted to spats. William’s proudest
boast is that he commanded the first troop
of Carsonite cavalry—in which every man
carried a gun license. He puts the Ulster
case well enough with a pen. As a speaker
his long suit is a yell to all hands to “’Be
Britons !” He looks about (55.
SOMERSET MAUGHAM, the English
dramatist and novelist, now visiting
Australia.
Dr. Long, who now bishes at Bathurst, and
is mentioned for the Brisbane see, started
his working iife as a clerk in the, Mary-
borough branch of the extinct City of Mel-
bourne Bank.
Justice Higgins’s retirement from the
presidency of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court, an onerous and thankless job which
carries no extra salary, was in a way a
birthday present. He was 70 last week.
J. E. Cory, of Terry-hie-hie (N.S.W.),
who closed the book at chapter 88 the other
day, was a member of the local I’.P. Board
for 48 years, and though he had to travel
over 80 miles to attend he missed only one
meeting during his long term of office.
“Tuart” : The story told on the Inky Way
is that Wren, or his money, wa# chiefly
responsible for the eleventh-hour change in
the ownership of a daily paper which is soon
to descend upon Sydney. It may be so, but
after an unfortunate experience in Brisbane
a few years ago John passionately declared
that henceforth he would stick to ponies and
let newspapers alone. Of course his head
wasn’t so large in those days as it has grown
lately. The other day Wren rushed up to
Brisbane and started a subscription to pay
the costs in Ryan v. The Mercury, plank-
ing down £5OO himself. These are great days
for the pony-racing aristocracy.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) recently had a pair
of visitors who were taking a new variation
of a ’busman’s holiday. One of them was
Lieut. T. E. Halsey, of H.M.S. Victory, a
nephew of the admiral who was here with
the Prince; the other Lieut. Anderson. They
came as seamen on the Alice A. Leigh,
spending a furlough in gaining experience
in the rough side of the seadog's life. As
the ship was to be tied up at Newcastle far
some time they arranged for a transfer to
another craft, the ‘expiration of their leave
being nearly due. It was in arranging
their transfers that their identity came out.
Christina Montgomery, M.A., has been
elected vice-president of the Vic. Council of
I üblic Education—the first time the office
has been encased in skirts. Frank Tate is
permanent president, so AI iss Montgomery is
hardly likely to get much limelight. ' But,
then, she isn't seeking any.
Many flags were half-masted in Adelaide
tor \\ . T. Stacy, dead at SS. He was an
insurance man all hss life, graduating in the
long-ago firm of llarrokl Brothers, and.
after tney crashed, becoming manager of the
Norwich l nion, China and other bodies. He
was Danish Consul, chairman of the Marine
l nderwriters’ Association, and an enthusi-
astic church organist.
•J. T. Glowrey, who was Mayor of Cool-
gardie before the boom cracked, and, after
that, a goldfields M.L.C., lias taken stock
for the last time. lie kept Perth’s best-
known pub, and it used to be derisively
alleged Pint Cabinet meetings were held iii
Glowrey'‘sT private parlor. But politics
ceased to interest the old man when Frank
m 11 sod went under and his son .Lindsay left
bis body on the Bullecourt wire.
Herbert Heaton, who moved from Hobart
to become lecturer in economics at Adelaide
l ni. and director of the Workers’ Educa-
tional Association, can now call himself
Doctor. A history of the Yorkshire woollen
industry has earned him the degree of 1).
Litt. from the ’Varsity of Leeds.
Cohen, K.C., the new member for the City,
is to move the Address-in-Reply in the Vic.
House of Plush on July (i, and Toorak’s I)r.
Stan Argyll* is to give* a similar lead in flu*
Assembly. Neither is likely to say a word
about his great expectation—Cohen to be
Attorney-General and Argvle Minister lor
Health.
Passed out at Woodburn, Richmond River
(N.S.vV.), recently, one Jimmy Harrison,
who was a cook on the Great Eastern when
that famous failure was laying the Atlantic
cable. lie was a bachelor, a pensioner and
full of good yarns, and bis best testimonial
when be got to tin* Pearly Gates would be
that In* was a great favorite with the young-
sters of the district.
In the statue of squatter-politician J. C.
Manifold, which Nelson Illingworth is
modelling to tin* order of Camperdown
O'it*.) residents, the subject will stand in
an easy attitude, with bis pipe in bis right
hand. The time may yet arrive when a
statesman may be depicted in a characteristic
attitude with a tankard firmly gripped while
the beer-froth drips over the edge.
Toowoomba (Q.) will pass the time of day
to 1* • V . Groom no more. He was a brother
of Littleton Groom, Commonwealth Minister
for Works, and of H. L. Groom, Queensland
M.L.C. ; their father was Toowoomba’s first
mayor and its M.L.A. for 39 years. All the
boys went to the Toowoomba State school
and afterwards to the Grammar School. But
politics never had any attraction for Fred
“Westerner”: I heard Jim Page make
many speeches, including his maiden effort
lor Maranoa, but I wasn’t present when “a
bush fell over the listeners as he told liow a
neighboring squatter threatened to stop Mrs.
Page’s grocery supplies’" (B. 9/6/’2l). Let
me inform “Galleryman” that Jim Page took
no part in the I*B9l strike. He was then a
ganger on the town length at Biircaldine, and
resided on the sandhill across Lagoon Creek,
on the road to Westbourne, a'bjUfit a mile or
sc out of the town. I’ll bet Jim chuckled to
himself when he told the yarn. Anyhow,
the strikers all received ration tickets and
dealt with Arthur Parnell, who stuck to them
nobly. Jim'Page’s two greatest assets were
that he was a Bamardo boy and Grand
Master of the Manchester Unity Oddfellows
He held that position in 1901, the year he
first came out for Maranoa, and it is hard to
say how many votes he caught b,v it.
‘'Super Le Quex”: A Sydney sheet said
the v other day that Paul Freeman had re-
cently paid a .secret visit to Australia, as
an emissary of Soviet Russia. Perhaps he
did : the man did not matter, anyway. He
was a cheap poseur, who might easily have
cleared himself, but enjoyed posing as a
martyr. The man the authorities were
really after when they found Freeman was
one of a different breed, who died in Sydney
Hospital towards the end of last year. An
aristocratic German adventurer, who had left
Dunland as a rebel in his youth, this man
did not Jove the Kaiser, but did love intrigue
and adventure. Although under bond to
report to the military authorities, he made
numerous trips to M.L. and back during the
war, mainly working his passage, and becom-
ing friendly with the crew and stewards; and
he arranged the flight of many men whom it
was desired to keep in Australia, and the
introduction of much German literature,
which puzzled and annoyed the authorities.
He didn t make money out of the business :
the satisfaction of successful intrigue seemed
to be all he desired. Had he been in Ger-
many he might have done the same work for
Britain for the same reason! Here the
fact that, he had fought in the British army
was an asset which he used for all it was
worth.
Y\ ill Slater, Labor member for Dundas in
the Vie. Assembly, got bis first notions of
local government when he was one of W.
M. Forster’s Try Society boys—street waifs,
many of them—at the South Yarra hall. At
a muster of old boys recently he took the
platform in the old hall, and paid a tribute
to the philanthropic saddler who devoted his
life to these lads. Like Slater, a fair
sprinkling of the old boys wore bits of brass
in the lapels of their coats.
Started practicf? recently at Morgan
( S.A.) Dr. J. B. Gillen, son of the Centra-
lian explorer and writer. He is a chip of the old
block. As a young
medico he became
a navy surgeon,
and was asked for
an opinion as to
the mentality of
a seaman accused
o f malingering.
Young Gillen spoke
plain Australian
that went against
the grain of the
brass-hat who was
moving against the
poor devil under
discussion. “A n d
wh a t experience
have you had, Sur-
geon-Lieutenant V”
asked the potentate
with a sneer. The
retort flashed hack :
"Enough, sir, to
know an insane
ro a n from on e
sane!” There was
no court-martial
for that seaman.
W. WARREN
KERR, chair man
of the Taxation
Commission.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Austin Chapman, long disqualified for active de-
bating by his unfortunate malady, is showing a
return to his old form as a speaker. The other
day lie opened out on his favorite subject of Can-
berra, and, though the argument was threadbare,
the color and composition of his language, com-
bined with the pungency of his asides to inter-
jectors, won the admiration of the gallery. Chap-
man has a sense of humor that is almost as sudden
and unnerving as Anstey’s, and it is ten to one that
the friend or foe who chips into his .speech will
be silenced by an impromptu. Old hands know
Chapman’s gift too well to interrupt his discourse,
but in the Gumleaf corner Chapman can always
find a neophyte reckless enough to disturb him.
On its technical side administration of
the N.S.W. railway service is a full-sized
man’s job. On its business side it is the
biggest thing in the Commonwealth. In its
industrial aspect it involves the handling of
over 40,000 employees. The Railway Act
requires that the Chief Commissioner shall
give personal attention to the details of all
three sides of the administrative triangle, and
that the case of every employee with a
grouch or grievance may be carried to him
on appeal, The job got Tom Johnson well
down ; John Harper went out badly shaken.
James Fraser, who took up the coolie's
burden five years ago, has aged 15 years in
the time from work and unceasing headache.
That Act should he amended—quickly.
‘Lex on a deceased controversy:—
The Kelly-Trimble-Cleary row in the S'. M. Herald
engaged three intriguing Irish personalities. Any one
of them could be inserted complete into a play on
the exposure provided in the Fairfax- organ alone.
r lhc Archbishop appears as an inarticulate mystic.
His nationalism burns like a flame: but he is honest
and mild, and so he can’t admit that his countrymen
have any right to kill members of the Army of Occu-
pation. “Why are the English there at all?” he
asks plaintively over and over again, as Swift asked,
and Dr. Arnold, of ltugby. There are no ethical
nuances about Mr. Trimble. He bounds into the
aiena trailing his coat with one hand and flourishing
his stout blackthorn in the other prepared to demon-
stiate that there is only one side to this question.
Oleary is the cold, logical type of Hibernian, un-
hampered by the hates which make Trimble ridicu-
lous and the emotions which make Kelly pathetic.
He has a younger mind, and is much better informed
about Irish affairs than either of the others, though
both would resent the idea, as many Englishmen of
last century resented the notion of a Frenchman like
I’aine claiming to be competent to write a history of
their literature. He is actually prepared to debate the
bloodstained old question on a basis of pure reason,
which in itself shows how far a man gets from tiic-
truc Irish outlook by being reared in Australia.
Mr. Trimble declined this offer on the inimitably
Irish ground that he had not come to Australia to
talk about Irish polities, but rather to see the Blue
Mountains. And then the Herald closed the dis-
pute with a leader penned by the embodied shade
of Pecksniff himself.
THE FROZEN REVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We found him frozen in a block of ice,
A stout Elizabethan gentleman
Who sought the Northern seas arid paid the price
When Polar exploration first began.
The doctor then explained that, though long dead.
Tiie tissues of his body all were sound ;
He’d dropped in water, so the doctor said,
And had been frozen long before he drowned.
Gently we thawed him ou', with gradual heat.
Restored his respiration by degrees,
Then, mildly chafing both his hands and feet,
With slow massage we bent his cracking hwes.
He rose, he stood, he staggered to and fro,
lie stared about him with a blank amaze,
While David Wright cried “Friends, at last we’ll
know:
He’ll tell the secret- -who wrote Shakspeare’s
plays?’’
He lurched a little as lie tried to walk,
Then gripped his padded pants and tried to think;
We wondered at the thickness of his talk,
But caught the sound of “Oomeanhavadrink.”
Yes, he was drunk—his spree preserved in ice
Had kept its vigor for four hundred years I
He fumbled in his pocket for the price
Of several large Elizabethan beers.
No pub was near. New risen from the dead,
He sco v ned our milk and cocoa with great scorn;
His thirst had risen with him and his head
Sang like Ben Jonson’s on a Monday morn.
lie stroked his pointed beard with lingering hand,
Ilis brows above his ruffle frowning black ;
Then drew his sword and gave a tierce command
To us who thawed him out; “Ho varlets, sack !’
N.B.W.
GEORGE S.


Kg
l'.
v 7 fSt;.
BATHURST
SYDNEY
mm.
pfipii
r"
JENOLAN
CAVES
sss
HHK
.
—cn
Hi
Hf
mini
pijliii!
ii
111
m
a
4
i
K
S'92.
£
a?
9S
iH
n
C % e TfiJoLSELEY I
Wins R A C A Reliabilihi/ Contesf
St r My - a^ ea j’ thou ? h Progress may have seemed an almost hopeless task,
SHS^-jAr - RACA - °—
The achievement was not one of astounding, hair-raising
records. It was a definite and illustrious success, gained nurelv
by steady, responsive performance in all parts of the tour; a
triumph which further emphasises the Wolseley to be what it
has proved itself time and time again—the Quality Car with
speed, reliability and economy as its fundamental qualities.
.. l >artit ‘ular success becomes even more eloquent of
the Wolseley s merits, when it is considered that the winning
Wolseiey was of absolute stock standard throughout, with no
additional fi ;ting whatever,
cars la ha i ndlSrfhi*2S» aB:aJ ? St th f cream of British and American
Cc.rs, handled bj drivers of .great experience in similar contests.
gallon. lhe ° fficial average consumption was 26.18 miles per
Combine the quality features presented by the Wolselev’s
performance in this contest with its appearance of refined beauty
meffwhiS n L^h in w^i n and lax ury, and you have the main
possess. ' 1 the Wo,seley the car s ou will be proud to
LET US SEND YOU ILL IT ST R A TED LITERATURE"
WIT II FII L L PARTICU LAR S.
The" Wolseley-Ten-Fifteen t-Twenfy
are Ready /or Immediate Delivery,
REPRESENTATIVES
VICTORIA— DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD.,
64 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA-—TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICES, LTD ,
.. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
WEST ’ rHE ARMSTRONG MOTOR &
7? A? a^i^ G^ C X’ LTD -’ Ha y Street, Perth.
Z RRn^ N ?Tn*’ w ,?. PRAGG » Auckland; INGLIS
BROS., LTD., Wellington; BETT & BAYLY
Palmerston North; TODD BROS., LTD., Christ’
church; TODD BROS., LTD., Dunedin.
NEW
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
Head Office for Australia, 125 William St., Melbourne.
Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd. Works: Adderley Park, Birmingham, England.


A “Warrigal” Jacket Sweater
For Cold Winter Days*
The warm, pure Australian wool of which this Peapes’
Jacket Sweater is knitted brings a sense of great comfort
and warmth.
Being very soft and elastic it allows the utmost freedom
of movement, and being very strong and evenly woven, it
gives excellent wear.
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Jacket Sweaters are obtainable from
Peapes only.
Grey or Heather Jacket Sweaters, V neck as illustrated
Men’s 23/6. O.S. 25/-. X.O.S. 26/6.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OGTFITTEKS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
3HgH r
'Vritir.g’Mzchina
Has taken harder punishment
than any typewriter built.
Weighs
but
6 pounds
Sole Distributors
Price
only
£l7/17/-
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
363-365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and .supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. [2
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
PRESENCE OF MIND.
HARLEQUIN: “ Artists say that five feet four
inches is the divine height for women,
sweetest.”
COLUMBINE: "Oh, but I’m five feet six
inches .”
HARLEQUIN ( quickly) : "Oh, but you're more
than divine!”
two on this occasion. Immediately he
realised that the mess didn’t intend to ren-
der “God Save,” he stood proudly .to atten-
tion, and, fixing a withering eye on the dis-
loyalists who were entertaining us, began
intoning the anthem by himself. The
0.0., a wounded “Contemptible,” after a
start of amazement, signed to the others to
join in, and so more or less saved his Sover-
eign from being brought into derision. I
was told later that the regiment’s “Old Man,”
in the fury of the moment, issued an order
that no Australian was to be allowed into the
mess again.
“5.Y.8.”: A bit of naval history. In
January, 1918, H.M.A.S. Brisbane entered
Portsmouth, the first British man-o’-war
built outside an English dockyard to visit the
historic harbor. All of the Grand
Fleet present and the old Victory manned
ship and gave us three cheers as we passed
down the long lines of war vessels.
“Kudex”: Adelaide has a love club.
Stirred, presumably, by a controversy in the
newspapers regarding the venereal possibili-
ties of match-making in the streets, an
earnest band of church people have organ-
ised a society to promote matrimony on
Christian lines, and pursuant to the scheme
love-seekers are invited to spend their even-
ings in social intercourse consistent with
the ideas of the supervisors.
“Quill”: Something slipped while the
machinery for a new Sydney morning paper
was being screwed together the other day,
and next afternoon the newsboys, were bet-
ting that the first copy will be printed on
green paper instead of the silken Union Jack
which had been acquired by a Knight of the
British Empire, with more cash than humor,
for this particular purpose.
“John W.”: Bill, about half-inked, was
taking Horace home. Horace was fully
inked, up and down and criss-cross. Bill
didn’t know where he lived, and all he could
elicit from him was that it was “all ri’.”
At last Horace lurched against a gate and
started fumbling with the latch. Bill took
him in, and, finding the front door unlocked,
entered and started to explore. He hit. a
bedroom first shot, steered his friend in,
removed his coat and boots, without troub-
ling about a light, and pushed him into bed.
It was then that he saw in the dimness a
ghostly figure sitting up rigidly in the bed.
"A nice way to bring a woman’s husband
home to her,” said an icy voice. “Madam,”
said Bill, “I don’t know that he is your hus-
band. Good-night.” # #
“Bav” : Old soldiers often tried as a joke
to get a “rookie’s” rifle from him while he
was on sentry-go. Once in Egypt the
company “dag” was on guard and an officer
strolled up to him and asked if his rifle was
loaded. On being tpld that it was he sad:
“I don’t think it is; let’s see it.” Where-
upon the dag handed it over, saying: “The
beat extends from the sentry-box on the right
to the tent on the left. Carry on —you’ll be
relieved in about an hour. I’m going to turn
in” ; and lie strolled to the guard-tent, leav-
ing a dumfounded “Pip” standing foolishly
in the middle of the beat with a rifle. An-
other time —this was in an English camp—
a lieutenant, having got the, sentry’s rifle
away from him, came to the correct “on
guard” position, with the bayonet-point about
two inches from Billjim’s throat. “This’ll
teach you never to give up your arms on
guard duty,” said Pip. “See, I’ve got you
properly; what can you do now?” “That!”
snapped the Digger, as in a flash he pushed
aside the bayonet and landed his right on
Pip’s jaw, knocking him out. He then
picked up his rifle and called for a file of
the guard,'and when Pip woke up he was
well and truly in clink.
“Tuart” ; I foresee one certain result of the
disclosure in the Ashford case, that soft-
hearted representatives of the people are
much sought after by lonely spinsters. In
future the ladies’ gallery at every Parlia-
ment House in the Commonwealth will be
packed nightly with politicians’ spouses.
The struggle for a husband is too keen these
days for those who possess the article to let
it. run loose in a world of brazen hussies,
now that the danger has been ind'caled so
plainly. When Guppy is a new member his
missus makes a point of accompanying him
to the House after dinner, and gazing on him
from the tabbies’ enclosure with pardonable
pride. But the novelty soon wears off and
the brutal embargo on feminine chatter, while
90 more or less foolish men talk, is felt as
a personal grievance. Insensibly Mrs.
Guppy gets into the habit of staying home and
knitting jumpers, or going to the pictures.
That's the time these tow-headed enchan-
tresses get in their insidious work. The
things that have come out in evidence about
motor-picnics, theatre-parties and the like
have darkened Mrs. Guppy’s mind with doubt
about Guppy. In the circumstances the reso-
lute woman has decided to sacrifice her per-
sonal comfort on the altar of her duty as a
wife and mother —that is to say, to take
'■Tlowitzer”: 1 had a rather decent little
German cobber in my school days in Aussie,
and afterwards lost sight of him. During
the battle of Pozieres I bumped into three
Fritz prisoners' in charge of a Digger. The
big Herr lieutenant and his two cobbers
were all badly knocked about, and asked for
a mouthful of “wasser.” I was giving them
a sup when the Fritz officer, with a wan
snide said in faultless English: “Hullo,
H- how does this game suit you?” He
was mV little school-cobber. ’
/ * *
“Gunner” : A cable mentions “a charac-
teristic incident at the Empire Producers’
lunS in London.” When the toast of the
King was given the company responded,
standing whereupon W. M. Hughes, their
guest “’aghas at such unresponsiveness,”
rebuked them, and the chairman was con-
strained to soothe him by calling for “God
Save the King.” I had the humiliation of
being in an English regimental mess, as a
guest with one of the most persistent Base
adiutants in the A 1.F., when a similiar ex-
hibition of bad manners was given. The
adiutant was strong in eorybantie patriot-
ism at all times, and he had had a drink or
SO SWEET OF GEOROE.
FLO: “George says Mabel's father has been an inspiration to him.”
B ELLA: “Oh, how sweet of him!”
FLO: "Yes, isn’t it! George is a comic artist, you know."
Guppy on night-shift, take him home again,
and watch him in the meantime as a cow
watches her bull calf. Which is why lam
predicting that henceforth there will be
standing-room only in the ladies’ galleries.
“Bildad” on an infallible fortune-maker: —
The man who discovers how to beat the book-
makers with the infallible “doubling” trick is always
with us, and he is quite as full of admiration at
his find as the mild Labor-Conference idiot with
his divine revelation about unlimited paper money.
A recent sample was ail ex-grocer who told a
N.S.W. Bankruptcy Judge how he had lost all the
groceries, fittings and goodwill at the fascinating
game. He still seemed dazed. There have been
variations of the scheme, but the original device,
which the 1 first mug tried on the first “book,” was
to start- with (say) a £lO bet, double the stake
with each loss, and when a win happened begin
afresh on the £5 limit. If there were eight con-
secutive losses the operator (thenlout £2560) would
put £2560 on a horse for the ninth event, Some-
AND NATURE MAS TIER WAY.
BEAUTY: "Yes, I am a bit bucked about my
hair. You see so very few blondes nowa-
days.”
THE BEAST: “Um! I suppose peroxide's
gone up like everything else.”
times the ninth was a petty race and he couldn’t
get it on because there were no leviathans about.
Sometimes he got it on and won, but failed to collect
because his leviathan “took the knock.” Sometimes
he never arrived at the ninth event,- for he hadn t
6 5110 to begin with. If the scheme was a work-
able one the bookies, who have traces of wisdom
about them, would spot the operator and suddenly
and unitedly stop business with him at a certain
point. Knowing the pitfalls'they don’t mind letting
him try so long as he doesn't ask them to lay
£25,600 to .62500 on Spavin in the Twopenny
Flutter. Starting on a shilling basis, the punter
might; last out, for he would only have to stake
.6X2 16s. on the ninth race, but there are no great
fortunes to be made in shilling bets. 1 was once
present while a genius buttonholed a Minister of
the Crown on ij, course and expounded the idea to
him. Emotions of interest, wonderment and admira-
tion chased each other over the large Ministerial
countenance like playful lambs on a mountain-side.
1 don’t know what the outcome was, but I expect the
hon. gentleman lost his month’s salary.
* * * *
“Riom”: ’‘Queer name you have given
your son,” I remarked to an old chap in our
district the other day. “Yairs,” he said, “I
called him after me dawg. I got another
son called Desmond. Called him after the
jumper, yer know.”
* * •* *
“Mirza”: Bacteriologists will agree with
Dr. Savage’s report (B. 9/(>/’2i) that the
domestic cat is not a disseminator of diph-
theria, although it harbors in its naso-
pharynx the pseudo-diphtheritic, organism
“Hoffmann’s bacillus.” But Recently a
bright little, chap succumbed to what was
evidently tubercular meningitis; and sus-
picion fell on an emaciated tabby which had
been a great favorite with the youngster.
As puss was obviously ailing the medico gave
it a whiff of chlo. and a subsequent p.m.
showed well-marked’ pulmonary t.b. with
caseation, softening and cavity formation.
The presence of the tubercle bacillus was
also proved later, on microscopic examina-
tion. Curiously enough the disease had
commenced at the right apex, as is usual in
man, and had spread thence, until it had
involved the \yhole right lung. The left
lung was only slightly involved.
An alienist’s observations: —•
The Beaconsfield (Vic.) tragedy has brought out
a few of those persons who suffer from that queer
mental kink which leads the sufferers to accuse
themselves of crime. The malady is a rare one.
Those suffering from it are morbidly susceptible to
the fascination of crime; their imaginations are
abnormally stimulated by accounts of mysterious and
sensational murders, and they picture themselves
as having committed the deeds they hear or read
about. Among the symptoms of the disease is an
excessive vanity, coupled with a thirst for notoriety
and an irresistible desire to pose as clever rogues
and even as murderers. The minds of the afflicted
create such vivid pictures of the tragedy that by
degrees they become engrossed with the idea of their
imaginary guilt, and when this stage is reached they
generally send a letter to the police accusing them-
selves of the crime. Frequently, in such epistles,
they do not mention their names, but otherwise make
their identity clear. In advanced cases they may
go personally and insist on giving themselves up,
although instances of this are rare, the last known
being that of an old man who died in Kew Asylum
some years ago. He had “confessed” to practically
every local crime of importance in 10 years.
(Continued on page IS.)
DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Crash, noisy hand ; now drop a beat.
Put magic into Youth’s light feet;
Sob, strings half-heard ; boom, noisy brass;
The hour must all too quickly pass;
Flit, little ivory gnomes—to-night
Youth dances here and throats gleam white!
So short the space they have to stay,
Time eats the dancing hours away;
Time waits to chain their lithe, smooth limbs;
Time soon enough will teach them hymns.
But that’s to-morrow—leap, you bows,
For eyes of blue and lips of rose!
Beat brass on brass and raise a din,
For surely noise is not a sin;
And why should Youth indulge in art
If clamor gladdens its hot heart?
Boom altogether if it serves!
See how that slim, silk ankle curves.
Shout, throbbing fiddles, to the coiling!
Loud trombone, set your laughter pealing!
Ho, drum, speak as a cheerful fellow;
And join with all your might, good ’cello!
Dance, little keys, your gayest measure.
Young feet are stepping at your pleasure!
Conte, then, your noises raise sublime
And drown the clicking wheels of Time!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLIN'S.


A VE R^ESSES
G RA I N G E R=
gH_O FW"ANNp
They Thought it
was Harold Bauer !
And they were right!!
' : '" ! j . : ■
The Langham girls called to see us, and know-
ing them to be musical enthusiasts my wife invited
them into the music room.
“I am sure,” said my wife, “that you will
be much interested in a new piano which
Jack has just bought for me as a birthday
present. Come and hear it.”
I switched on the lights and revealed
the new instrument, a beautiful Weber
Upright. I asked Muriel Langham
to try the piano, and she struck
a few chords and arpeggios
exclaiming when she had
finished, “I have always
loved the Weber, the tone
is so mellow and truly
musical, and the action
quick and responsive.”
“You notice nothing,
then, to indicate that this
piano is different ? ” I
inquired.
“No why no,” she
answered, wondering what
I meant.
And then came the
miracle. “I’ll show you,”
I said. With a quick move-
ment I slid back a panel in the
front of the piano. Selecting
a music roll from a cabinet
near by, I adjusted it in the aperture,
turned a small lever, and stepped away. ,
The notes began playing of themselves. Here and there over the keyboard they rippled like
dancing wavelets on a lake. Now they fell softly as thistledown. Now they crashed resounding
chords with the steel-like virility of a master man pianist.
It was Chopin’s “Grand Valse” played with marvellous feeling—with tenderness, majesty, power,
and exquisite technique.
As' the music continued, it gradually dawned upon her that that playing was familiar. She could
keep silence no longer. She rose from her chair, and grasping me by the arm —“ It is remarkable! ”
she said. “That Valse is played as Harold Bauer plays it.”
“Yes,” I said, smiling, “it IS. For Bauer himself is playing.”
ML
v.v
»•»
a
£,.-sv' r
<i«Si
\
\
WE WANT YOU TO HEAR
The Duo-Art Pianola
Incorporated in the STEINWAY, S 7 ECK, STROUD and Famous WEBER PIANOS.
You are cordially invited to call or send coupon for Art Catalog.
Your present instrument accepted in part payment, and moderate monthly payments arranged.
The Pianola Company ££
TRADE MARK “AEOLIAN"
384 GEORGE STREET :: SYDNEY
Also at 252 Collins Street MELBOURNE,
436 Queen Street, BRISBANE and 58 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
COUPON FOR ART CATALOG.
Please post me ART CATALOG
of the DUO-ART PIANOLA.
Name
Address
1059


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management 2 Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER.
Managing Director.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off", you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & GO. LTD
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONCHUnST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens.
o
STAG
LAGER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes*
“Dodo”: The railway official on a voyage
of investigation came upon a gang seated
on a pile of broken earth alongside the truck
they should have been filling. It was half-
an-hour after crib-time, but the gang was
still playing cards. “Here, here,” said the
higher official, “what is the meaning of
this? Why aren’t you at work?” “Well,
we can’t start very well,” volunteered one
navvy; “we are waiting for Bill.” “Waiting
for Bill? Who is Bill?” “Bill is the
ganger.” “Then get going without Bill.
Come along—make a start.” "Sorrv, hut it
might hurt-Bill.” “Hurt Bill?” the official
gasped. "Yes. You see, Bill’s asleep in
the truck.”
* ♦ * *
“Outsider”: To get out of the line by a
self-inflicted wound was not a very popular
game with the Digger. I knew one bloke,
however, who got to Blighty with the “next
best.” After our first cut at Pozieres ridge
the Brigadier said we “covered the brigade
With glory.” The German official com-
munique said : “On the night of July 29 an
attack by colonial troops was bloodily re-
pulsed.” A Daily Mail sub.-headed this
“German Lies”; hut I’m inclined to believe
the Hun,- I got that impression myself. We
were toiling up seven days later for a second
try, most of us pretty sick at the thought
of a repetition of the mess-up. Pte. Black-
berry’s nerve had gone altogether, and lie
was wailing till the way, “I can’t go up—
I wish T. had a Blighty.” All along the La
Boiselle-Contalmaison road he kept it up, till
at last, at the Chalk Pits, “Cherry,” the a.w.l.
and guard-tent merchant, suddenly unslung
his rifle and with a casual “All right; I’ll fix
yer!” nut a bullet through Blackberry’s
thigh. Nobody cared. The nlatoon, tired
NO OPTION.
“I hear Charlie's on his feet again."
“Yes, poor boy, his creditors took his car."
and uninterested, ’ passed on. A.M.C.
stretcher-bearers coming along took the
wounded one up, praising his pluck for walk-
ing so far from the line with such a knock,
and dumped him at the dressing-station,
whence he passed to Blighty. Of the dozen
or so who saw the incident the majority
were killed or wounded that night. Nothing
was officially done, as nothing was officially
known. Blackberry is buried near Peronne
now, and the marksman is loose in Queens-
land.
“Adrian” : When the "Civics trad Morals"
idea first dawned in Queensland, a fussy old
school inspector started to show oue out-
back teacher how to handle the subject.
“I’m going to give 'em a lesson on the
police,” he said. “Now, mark how I’ll get
the word 'police’ out of ’em before I start
on the lesson at all.” He began on a half-
caste, whose mother, a full-blooded gin, had a
penchant for belting her beer-swiping spouse.
“Now, boy, supposing you beat your little
HIS HANDSOMEST QUALITY.
MAISIE : “I think you're wonderful, Grace —you seem to bring out the best in your
husband."
GRACE: “Yes, I got ten of them this morning for a new dress."
brother, and made his nose bleed, who would
soon bring you to order V” “Me big brother,
suit,” grunted Sam. “Very good ; now, suppose
your Lug brother broke loose, who would bring
him to orderV” "Me father, suit,” came from
Sam. “Aha; now we’re coming to it! Who
keeps your father in his place?” The answer
was prompt: “Me mother, suit.” The inspec-
tor wtis knocked back, hut rose gamely.
“Well —er —and who would keep your
mother in order, supposing—just suppos-
ing—she did break out?” Sam chuckled:
“She do break out —and there ain’t
no one in the town kin do anything
with ’er.” When the inspector recovered he
gaspdd : “I—l—er —think Civics and Morals
are really a waste of time in—er —schools of
mixed color, anyway.”
* * * *
“R.A.N.”: Australian woods? When ex-
G.-G. Munro Ferguson inspected the Naval
College at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) he was
greatly interested in the skipper’s polished
chess-board, made by the College shipwright.
Each of the 64 squares was of a different
native wood found in the College grounds.
As a handsome board there is probably only
one to equal it, and that’s the one his Ex.
had given to him later by the same ship-
wright. Both boards are now in the Cold
Country.
“Friday Island”: One more “blankard”
without malice. When the Australian de-
stroyer flotilla was submarine-chasing in the
Adriatic, clean white uniforms were at a
premium, owing to laundry difficulties. As
the flotilla surgeon (a most popular man
nicknamed “Sadie”) was boarding his craft
at Brindisi, he overbalanced and slid grace-
fully into the ditch, which was covered with
a film of slimv carbonised waste oil from
the assembled ships. An excited Aussie
steward, who looked after the quack’s clothes,
rushed to the rail and yelled: “There yer
go, yer blahk blankard, in th’ only blank
clean white suit I’ve got for yer blank church
service termorrer! Oh” —turning implor-
ingly to the ship’s company—“ain’t fie a
blankard?” As the heinous offence of swear-
ing at a superior was prompted by the
steward’s zeal for his officer’s sartorial wel-
fare, a tactful deafness prevailed on the
q uarterdeck.
* * * *
By a Digger who went to Archangel:—
The Reds, against whom the North Russian Re-
lief Force fought, looked about as much like sol-
diers as Domain dossers do. They had no uniforms
and were nearly all armed differently. Dungarees
ar.d an overcoat of very poor material made their
usual dress. As the thick forests prevented the
extensive use of artillery, especially heavy guns,
both sides depended on machine-guns and rifles in
attack and defence. The Reds certainly had
plenty of these, but only about half of their cart-
ridges had straight, clean bullets. They used
chim-dums, soft-nosed and armor-piercing pellets
mostly, and these caused frightful wounds. They
were a poor and ill-disciplined type of soldier,
largely recruited from the local peasantry, with a
few real Reds and commissars to flog them into
the line. For rations they had a piece of black
bread, about a pound weight, ■ and two salted her-
rings per day. In action they made a poor show-
ing, even when they outnumbered us five and even
ten to one, and in one attack our crowd, only 500
strong, captured about a thousand of them. One
White Russian battalion that was fighting against
the Reds mutinied and was disunited and handed
over to the Poles, who had no use lor Russians
Red or White. The Polaks shot a couple of dozen,
and the rest lost heart. They were given a good
feed and sent back to fight for us. They didn't
seem to know who was who; hut, on the whole, I
think they would rather have been with us—wc
had the most tucker and smokes.
“Costs’*: You never know quite where you
tire with my old friend the Law. Four years
or so back a Sydney married woman went
exploring WeStralia with a gentleman friend.
Later on, for about eight months, she was
an inmate of an asylum for the insane. A
petition for a divorce on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards was lodged.
But, as in duty bound, 's Honor got out his
arithmetic book and started to count up.
"This cuts it pretty fine,” he said. “You'll
have to get exact dates of admission to and
discharge from the hospital; for while she
was there of course she wasn't of a deserting
mind.” So though she had resumed her old
desertion after her release, the Law had to
cut, out that period, on the ground presum-
ably that she might then, had she been sane,
have gone back on her steps and taken up the
old matrimonial mop and pail.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The other day a gentleman of
Kedfern (Sydney), incensed with his wife
and her family, had to face charges of assault
upon his wife, her mother, and her brother
and .sister. This seems wholesale enough,
but it doesn’t approach the heroic record of
a citizen of Surry Hills. Moreover, he did
not include women in the general bestowal of
black eyes and sundries. Irritated by the
usual declaration of his wife about the
superiority of her family, he made a tour of
four Sydney suburbs, commencing at Bal-
main, where he convinced the lady's uncle
and brother that it is a horribly painful thing
to have a female relative who marries and
then ■ rouses the ire of a first-class fighter.
While they were showing their injuries to the
police, the man of violence was spoiling the
good looks of another brother-in-law at Peter-
sham ; and subsequently two more of his
wife’s relations suffered at Newtown and
Camperdown. Then he returned to tell his
wife of his knightly deeds —and she did for
him with a copper-stick what he had done
for ber male relatives with his hands.
“Bill Bowyang”: About IS2B an American
press was landed in Botany Bay and used
for Government printing. In 1831 it printed
the S. M. Herald. Some years later it found
its way to Maoriland, and printed the first
issue of the Wellington Independent in
1845. Twenty years further on it was at
Ross, then it found its wav to Opunnke
(1883). and a year later in Palmerston
North it was used to print a sheet almanac.
Then it appears to have rusted as old lumber,
while the proprietors of the S. M. lleßal
unavailingly advertised for it, wita the
object of setting it up as a curiosity along-
side the Fairfaxes' fast modern machinery.
Later on the old press turned up at a
foundry, and now it stands as lamp-posts
in Palmerston's streets to shed light in dark
places—an ironical contrast to some of its
earlier uses.
"X” : The latest is that we get Japan to
tell us the time. On a recent crossing from
Fiji the ship’s chronometers were checked
nightly from Funahashi by means of wireless
time signals. The daily Melbourne time
signals are constantly interfered with because
they are radiated on the. same wave-length
that is used by all the vessels in the Pacific.
Out of the jumble of sounds it is often im-
possible to pick out the dashes which mark
the hour; whereas the Japanese signals are
radiated on such a long wave-length that
the receiving operator can “tune in” with
practically no risk of failure.
“Bill o’ Posts” makes a peepdiole: —
The other day i heard a heavily facetious Judge
offer some free advice to a litigant* who had acted
on a free (and unprofessional) supply of the same
commodity. “Remember,” said lie, amid approving
murmurs of the Bar, “that legal advice is worth
exactly what you pay for it.”
My old boss was also fond of aphorisms. One
was that above quoted ; the other was, “The laborer
is worthy of his hire.”
Episode 1. A client who had instructed us to
make his will called one day to execute it. I
handed the engrossment to tile boss, and left him
and tile client together. When I returned they were
sitting hack in their chairs discussing horses, with
the folded will before them. The client rose to go,
and raised the question of the fee. “Well.” said
the old man pleasantly, “the laborer is worthy, you
know, bet's sat Co os.’’ l«'ee paid, the• client left,
and I stowed the will away. A year or two after-
wards the client, wanted to make a. codicil. I dug
np the dusty packet and handed it to the boss.
“Codicil, eh?” said lie. “Why not a new will?
The laborer is” Just then his jaw dropped sud-
denly, for lie saw the attestation clause a complete
blank. The will had never been executed ! Then
he gjive me “instructions.” “.Inst write him a
letter explaining how desirable it: is to make a new
will instead of tinkering the old one.”
Experience i. Another client, ’way-hack, wrote
for an opinion.' The boss handed me the letter with
a casual “See what you make of that” ; which
meant that i had to look up the law and draft a
letter of advice. By the time I had my draft ready
the old man was away, sick or something, so I
SACRLLEGE.
THE LANDLADY: “And I hare the manager
of the local pictures staying with me,
and a perfect gentleman he is—always
pays his way."
THE ACTOR: “Madam, the pictures have
viouated every sacred tradition of the
profession.”
risked it, signed his name and posted the “opinion.”
. A week or so later he was looking through the
letter-hook and came across my legal deliverance.
He exploded. “This won’t d*o, you young jackass!
It’s all wrong.” And beyond doubt it was. To
rectify the error the boss tried several formulas,
like “We regret that owing to an inexcusable
blunder of onr clerk,” and “We find that we mis-
read your letter,” and so forth. He was still at it
when the post brought a letter from our client
acknowledging mine and expressing entire approval
of it, as the opinion agreed with his own, and he
had much pleasure in enclosing the fee asked. Then
the old man silently tore up his draft explanations.
Advice worth what you pay for it? Well. in the
latter case the eliei t thought it was, and that’s the
secret of much successful medicine as well as law.
CONVALESCENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sunburned hillside and noonday blaze,
Empty beaches and sleeping seas,
A dreaming world in a golden haze,
Clouds of cotton, a silken breeze;
And spectres waiting to claim their fees,
Tribute due by a scribbling ghost
To those who ruled in Little Ease. . . .
1 miss the girls’ silk' stockings most.
Other places and other days,
Settings other than such as these —*
Birds ip the hedgerows, deep, wet ways,
English skies and the drone of bees;
Flowert i' the wheat and .English trees,
All the beauty that’s England’s boast;
And Life itself was Care’s surcease. . . .
I miss the girls’ silk stockings most.
I want the street where lamp-light plays,
And passing women pause to please;
I want their tempting, taunting gaze,
Impudent, breasts and twinkling knees,
Laughter clanging like Satan’s keys—
Women by legions, host on host,
Trained to torment and trick and tease....
I miss the girls’ silk stockings most.
Lord! I make neither plaints nor pleas,
A ghost forgot on a golden coast,
My goblet drained to the reeking lees....
I miss the girls’ silk stockings most!
MAORILANI).
GODFREY TURNER.


:-:-y-w<.\s^ : :^_.
m
W-
■
i ~</ :"
' - ' - v,..~
s <«
'! -
<• ■,.
m
\
m ■
;V v» -r
«
: .;V : :
1
" V"*/•
Stfe,
':.r-i :
. -:r
' I
V ¥
H
:h;
I *
Sg&fc'si
fc
IS
■
*£s]
>\k
**&£
S&fcsj.,,. “W*.
* i , v
**... "i v
Sjsfc,- ***r *
H,:
•I
Palmolive fells the secret
of Cleopatra’s beauty
IA7HEN the modern woman luxuriates in the creaming
” foam of mild Palmolive Soap, she clasps hands, down
the centuries, with Cleopatra and other beauties of Royal
Egypt and the East.
These elegants of the old civilisations used, almost exclusively,
Palm and Olive oils great cleansers and emollients —as
their chief protection against Time and heat and scorching
winds.
The Australian can have no belter guide. Let her heed the
wisdom of the beauties of old and use Palm and Olive oils
scientifically combined in soothing Palmolive! She will be
rewarded by a clear and blooming skin and a charm height-
ened beyond belief.
t'i ?«r
G. van Werveke, Sole Agent, Eldon Cham'bers, Pitt St., Sydney.
PALMOLIVE
SOAP
sells everywhere at
per 1/3 cake
1
3
D
s 2


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
mi
m
pH
\
i\
1J K. TOWXS & CO.. Sydney. Agents.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W,
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4V> Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
KingCjeorgelV
wmsnor
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Enisee": “Spare Corp" (B. 2(1/5/ 21)
can take it from me that sulphur doesn’t keep away
chats. Before embarking for the Peninsula we were
issued a small bag of sulphur per man, to be worn
text the skin, suspended on a cord from the neck.
After a month on Gallipoli we concluded that we
had misunderstood the objects of the sulphur. Far
from driving the chat away, he seemed to thrive on
it, so that we started to use it as ground bait on
other parts of our anatomy and clothing, and the
catch was thereafter considerably increased. Re-
garding fleas, my biggest single-handed catch (night
and morning) was 57.
“\Y. Blister”: As “Aneb” (B. 12/5/’2l)
says, the monkey-strap is an excellent, aid to an
inferior rider; but a little experience in its use is
very necessary. A natural balance rider, should he
attempt to use it, finds it rather an impediment,
and a horseman inexperienced in its use is liable to
haul himself overboard by putting unnecessary strain
on the strap. It is essential that those dependent
on the monkey-strap (also known as the “Macquarie
hold”) should be ever on their guard, for as one care-
less knight of the pigskin explained, whilst brushing
the burrs from his hair, “I grabbed for the monkey,
hut got a handful of sand.” By the way, I have
noticed that, whilst a mug will come off in any old
direction, a good horseman, when thrown, almost
invariably falls over a shoulder of the horse.
“Dumpling”: When “Northumbrian” (B
2/6/’2l) says the Bedlington terrier is the gamest
underground worker, 1 would ask him if he has ever
seen one go to earth. The underground workers are
Sealyhains, Scottish terries, foxies, Skyes and a few
others; hut the Bedlington originated on the Tyne-
side and was used as a ratter, and a collector of an
occasional bunny. 11is gameness cannot be disputed,
but he is too leggy for “going to earth.” If Bed-
lingtous are ever imported it is to he hoped a barber
will be sent with them, as they want as much
trimming, plucking and preparing as any dog- tliat
goes on to the show bench.
“Melos”: Bill Marsh was telling the yarn
of a. raid, on an illicit distillery, and in the old
bushnian style had drawn on the ground a rough
sketch of the shanty wherein the poison was dis-
pensed. Then Jim, the cook, happened along and
inadvertently put his foot on the masterpiece.
“Blind ,yer!" roared William, “see what ye’ve
done!” “What?” asked the innocent offender.
“Why, ye've knocked down me flamin’ chimlee.”
‘-‘Colub”: In reply to the inquiry of
“Homo” (B. 26/5/’2l), the space between snake-
punctures is not the slightest, use in deciding
whether the bite is u poisonous one, text-books and
other authorities notwithstanding. The poison-fangs
are not the same distance
apart in all species and
varieties even of snakes.
Again, when the reptile
strikes only one fang
may enter the flesh, and
in a snake which strikes
repeatedly, such as the
tiger-snake, this may hap-
pen with each bite. 1
saw two cases of this in
Queensland within a
short while of each other.
In addition there is the
likelihood that a non-
venomous snake, in biting
i—n o t striking—m a y
puncture the flesh with
only two of its teeth,
and when these are teeth
on opposite sides of the
mouth and close to the
front of it, it is very
likely that the wound,
even after a close inspec-
tion, will look like one
inflicted by a venomous
reptile. On the whole,
the best plan is to treat
every snake-caused wound
as if it was due to a venom-secreting reptile, unless,
of course, the crawler was plainly seen and recog-
nised as harmless.
+r ■#■ * *
“Adrian”: “Sixenate” (B. 2/0/’2l)
reminds me of a bush birth in circumstances which
would be hard to beat. We lived on a pretty high
ridge, and after a week’s rain rose one morning
to find flood-waters having a yarn with the house
blocks. From our perch we noticed the roof of
the house of our nearest neighbor just showing,
with about six people crowded, on it. We rattled
off in our one boat, and w r hen we drew alongside
we found that a baby had arrived in the night and
was sound asleep in the arms of its grandmother.
“The Newest Arrival”: Can any Abo.-
vvriter give me a tip ? I started a piebald. stud—
sire black and white and dam chestnut and white.
The first foal was a pure chestnut-filly. At two years
I put her to the old dad and got a black-and-white
colt. I put the mother back to the old sire again
and got a black-and-white filly. How should I now
proceed to get black-and-white ponies? No outside
horses are available.
“Exui”: The description of the action of
colubrine venom by “Colub” (B. 5/5/’2l) misses an
important point. According to Profs. Welsh and
Chapman (Sydney Uni.), C. J. Martin, working with
the venom of the black snake, found that the effects
of the venom varied with the rapidity with which
it entered the circulation. This venom chieflv attacks
the blood, the heart and the respiratory centre of
WORKING HIS NET.
“Come on, father —you gotta let me cut your hair."
“I have not. You know damn well every time I get rue hair cut I catch a cold. You
gotta wait till I catch me cold; then you can cut me hair."
the brain. When the circulatory absorption was
rapid and the concentration of venom therefore
great, death might be almost Instantaneous from
/.-lotting of blood within the blood vessels. When
the concentration was less than in the first instance
but still relatively great, the maximum effect was
on the heart. But when small quantities of venom
were continuously absorbed the chief effect was on
the cerebral respiratory centre. Further, if these
three chief causes of death be avoided, yet a fatal
result may ensue from the action of the venom on
the lungs and kidneys. But this is rare, and survi-
val generally follows recovery from the initial ner-
vous and circulatory depression. These considera-
tions have an essential bearing on the treatment of
snakebite. They show the great importance of imme-
diate ligature to delay the rate of absorption and
of a deep incision to express the venom that has
been injected, and thus as far as possible empty the
reservoir. They also show the uselessness of inject-
ing strychnine in large quantities and the folly of
walking the patient about, as this both uses up- his
strength, and, by increasing the force of the circula-
tion, promotes the absorption of the venom. If the
attacking snake -can be .accurately identified the
antivenin for its poison may be used, but should
never be relied on alone, as its action is strictly
confined to neutralising its corresponding venom.
“Put”: Rc “Adelaide's” jumping sheep
(B. 26/5/’2l). A jumbuck in the Merriwa (N.S.W.)
district, which has not been trained, has been known
to jump sft. lOin. He is an eight-tooth, and has not
been shorn for the last three years, as no yards on
the station are high enough to bluff him.
*•**■*
“Aragun”: Last year two porpoises
appeared in the Orara River, a fresh-water tributary
of the Clarence River (N.S.W.). Four
days later they were found floating
about, dead as rhutton. As there
were no gunshot marks on them, the
only feasible supposition is that the
fresh water killed them. Yet I’ve
seen dozens of bream and flathead
taken from the stream as much as
much as four miles higher up.
“Murua”: Take another entry for the
graveyard competition? In 1914, on Woodlark
Island (Papua), adjacent to its capital, Kulamadau,
there were five small cemeteries, and the white popu-
lation there numbered less than a hundred.
* * * *
“Bull’s Eye”: “Bonragi” (B. 17/3/’2l)
slips when he says “dynamiting fish is
illegal the world over.” Since the British took
over the administration of German New Guinea the
right to do it has been granted to any planter,
trader or recruiter willing to pay a small license lee
(originally £1 annually, now' £5). It has proved
very useful in helping planters to give their boys
a weekly supply of fish. On the expiry of existing
licenses it will, however, not be again allowed.
Though a few natives have lost their hands, the
decision is to be regretted in some ways, because it
meant good supplies of fresh fish for thousands of
plantation-laborers, where now there will probably
be none. For while tinned salmon and meat keep
high-priced, planters just refuse to get in any
stocks, the law notwithstanding.
“Half-moon": Australians have drifted
even to Dutch New Guinea. I met two recently on
board a launch at Thursday Island en route fioni
Brisbane to Merauke. They got there, too. One
was formerly a motor-car proprietor in the Banana
capital: the other a cane fanner about- Bundabeisr.
They are after bird-of-paradise plumes, now worth
£2 or £3 each. The country adjacent to Merauke
is “shot out," and to get the plumes in payable
quantity means a long launch trip up one of the
rivers into the head-hunters’ country. The shooting
season opens on May 1, the Dutch authorities signal-
ling the opening by firing a gun. About 40 or 50
launches, mostly Chinese-owned, are engaged in the
business, and every launch-master stands bv his
anchor-chain ready to beat the Dutchmen's pistol.
Captain S. A. White, back home in Adel-
aide after his first “bird survey” for the Queere-
land Government —he has another pending in N. S.
Wales—gives an account of things seen up North:
The principal thing 1 went to see is the twig
borer, which is doing a tremendous amount of
damage to cedar-trees. My object was to find out
the relation of birds to this borer, and I came
ucross two which take the grub for food. 1 think
my work will show the necessity for the protection
ot native birds. A charge has been made against
the brush-turkey, supposed to be destroying young
hoop-pines. it is my strong belief that, through
the destruction of the brush-turkey, the grubs,
which they feed on and which live in decaying
tree trunks and debris on the ground, have become
so numerous that this has interfered with the pines.
....I was greatly struck with the fine stamp of
foresters in the Queensland service. Walter Petrie
is one of the best buslunen I have ever met.
*' * * *
“Goulburn”: Re “J.P.’s” miner’s right
dated 1860 (B. 9/6/’2l). The late Monte Miller,
a well-known figure in industrial circles in all the
(states, who claimed to have taken an active part
An the Eureka scrap, had! in his possession a
miner’s right, which he treasured highly, issued
at Ballarat in 1852.
DECREE ABSOLUTE.
OLDBIRD : "She and her husband have been
recently parted."
YOUGUN: "Judicial separation?"
OLDBIRD : “ No —Sunday dinner!"
“Joe”: “Darnoc’s” man-woman caLf (B.
9/6/’2l) doesn’t beat this. A South Gippsland
(Vic.) cow-cocky had a heifer calf who at six
months old gave a pint of good milk. She was
never married, but the fact that she was charitably
disposed towards a lot of poddies running in the
same paddock probably clears her character.
(Continued on page 22.)
WOOL TEAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As camel teams for Cairo
Swing in from deserts brown,
The wool teams from the Wairau
Are rolling into town.
Black sweat is on the horses,
Grey duet is on the loads
From wide, dry watercourses,
And hot, unending roads;
From Blowhard’s slopes of shingle,
Past tree-crowned Hillersden, »
The wool teams come to jingle
Through asphalt streets again.
A driver, slouched and solemn.
May crack an idle thong,
To stir the dusty column
That tramps and sways along-,
With wool from old Benopai,
Bank house and Avondale,
That crossed the wild Waihopai
With spray on every bale.
Oh! swing the leaders steady
And let the wheelers breathe.
For they have won already
The laurel leaves we wreathe.
Wool waggons from the Jordan
Beyond the Taylor Pass
Have sent a. tardy word on
That, ere the blue clouds mass
Along the Blairich ridges
To baulk the sunset’s glare,
By roads that know no bridges
They'll win to Blenheim Square;
The last team’s on the Taylor,
So steep below the Ned —■
Oh! if her hot brakes fail her
She’ll foul the team ahead.
With brake-rods locked .ami humming
To make the brake-shoes scream,
The Moles worth wool is coming
Behind a reefing team.
The Rainbow brand can barely
Be seen the dust-clouds through,
The Langridge bales show squarely,
Upcot and Gladstone too,
As, with gruff shouts and tossings
Of heads and jingling gear,
Through rocky river-crossings
The high-pitched waggons steer.
SHERLOCK HOLMES FALLS IX LOVE.
“And when I kissed her I smelted tobacco."
“You object to a woman who smokes?"
“No, but she doesn't smoke."
Thrice through a roaring river,
Ere good roads lift before,
The dripping trace-chains quiver,
And through the massed clouds pour
Red rays that, make old Burleigh
A dream of brown and gold.
The Jordan teams are early:
Before their eyes unfold,
Wide over plain-lands spreading
The bright roofs of the town.
And guardian trees are threading
Grey fields with green and brown.*
No camel-team f or Cairo
Bore ever loads like these,
Wool waggons from the Waivau
Or Jordan’s swaying trees,
From heights of Altermarlock,
Or valleys of Glenlee,
When dusky clouds and star lock
Night’s doors of mystery;
When over Fishtail’s edges
Dies slow the sunset’s glare,
And lovers haunt the hedges.
That lead to Blenheim Square.
51 AO RT LAX I).
WILL LAWSON.


SPORTING NOVELS
in the
Bookstall’’ Australian Fiction Series.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,”
by Con Drew.
“In RACING SILK,”
by Gerald R. Baldwin.
“THE MYSTERY OF THE
BOXING CONTEST,”
by Bert James.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND
NATIONAL,” by Jack North.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,”
by Ambrose Pratt.
“THE MARE WITH THE
SILVER HOOF,”
by Bob Allen.
“THE WHITE CHAMPION,”
by Don Delaney.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
by F. Agar.
Sporting Novels by Arthur Wright
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.”
“UNDER A CLOUD.”
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
“A GAME OF CHANCE.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
“OVER THE ODDS.”
“GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.
Recent Additions to “Bookstall” Series
“EODGER AND THE
BOARDERS,”
by E. F. O’Ferrall.
“THE MYSTERY OF WALL’S
HILL,”
by Sydney Partri ge and Cecil
Raworth.
“TAP-TAP ISLAND,” by J. M. Walsh.
JUST PUBLISHED —
“The Fortunes of Geoffrey Mayne,”
by Charles Rodda,
One of the greatest novels of Australian pioneering.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or from the Publishers.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
V.
X
K.
r\
A
YCyW
w
Winter
l Tbui
jcsi/my ,
Qyeemlam
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns—via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Wyandra,
Bomhala, Wodonga, Arawatta.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE LEVIATHAN 5
ii/c/cy PUffCHAS£
/J GU/N£/?
NAV/TWILL SUITINOS
MANUFACTURER OVERSTOCKED.
A Few Rolls specially kept for our Mail
Order Clients.
Materials, just purchased at 50 per cent, less than ruling
prices, direct from the Mills, include lndigo Twills,
Serges and Vicunas, manufactured from super two-ply
worsted yarns, fine and soft, which will not shine and
rub with wear, and will retain shape when made up.
Hand Tailored to Order. Tailoring is of
the Leviathan 13 Gns. Standard.
Linings and Trimmings are in keeping with the high
quality of the materials, and cut and lit are guaranteed
as perfect. You will not be asked to accept deliver //
vnless satisfied.
WITHOUT A DOUBT—THE BEST TAILORING OFFER
IN MELBOURNE.
ACT QUICKLY! THIS OFFER IS FOR A FEW DAYS
ONLY. SEND FOR PATTERNS NOW.
FILL IN PATTERN COUPON.
NAVY TWILL SUITINGS.
Name
Address
(Bulletin)
Order by Post
■We Pay Carriage.
;
■Uv
UEffIATNAN
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston
and Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS
and PYJAMAS
These features—Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands —
double seams and gus-
sets which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
9
xSTLf
V
5gS
//MV
Jl
V£r


In the Matter of THERMO ELECTRIC LTD. (in Liquidation).
•Tenders are invited by Theodore Geddes. Dewar, Liquidator in Queensland, for the purchase either
as a whole or in lots of the following Assets, viz:—
Leaseholds, Rights, Electrical and Mining Machinery and Plant, Tools, Stores, Rolling Stock
and Sundries, Goodwill, Business and Undertaking of Thermo Electric Ltd. (in Liquidation) as
existing at the date hereof excluding Book Debts, Cash and Bank Balance and Records, but
including Leaseholds and Wolfram, Molybdenite and Bismuth Mines, and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc., Offices and Cottages at Wolfram, North Queensland, and Wolfram Mines and Mine Plant,
Tools, etc., Offices and Cottages at Mount Carbine, North Queensland.
T he Vendor reserves the right to sell any Assets hy Private Treaty before Tenders close, and to elect whether
Tenders shall be accepted. *
(1) As a whole.
(2) By lots.
The lots are more fully described in the Schedule, which with Conditions of Sale and Forms of Tender will be available on
or about 30th June, and may be obtained from the undersigned, or:— . .
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Mr. W. H. Bowater, Wolfram, North Queensland.
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Liquidator must be in the hands of the Liquidator not
later than noon on the 15th day of August, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Brisbane this Ninth day of June, 1921.
T. G. DEWAR. Liquidator.
King's Buildings, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in the world that will
refract and focus waves of sound' upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound
can be heard at all.
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
They • usually last about
two years. The price for
a second pair is 165.., without instruments.
We will post you a booklet if you wish, but we
would advise you to waste no time and get the
Ear-Drums. Write to-day.
WILSON EAR-DRUM CO. (H. Wilkinson),
178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Mention this'paper.)
■jmt
“Hagai’”: I’ve never yet found anything
but a net of any real use where mosquitoes are con-
cerned. The little black mosquito generally avoids
the smell of burning joss-sticks ; and on the islands
1 used to sprinkle eitronella on smouldering saw-
dust which used to so fill the place with smoke that
something had to get out—sometimes it was the
mosquitoes, sometimes me. One hint m'ay be useful.
Mosquitoes avoid clean white walls and well-lighted
rooms. I have found that when 1 have had my
bungalow thoroughly whitewashed the place has been
free from insect pests, including mosquitoes, for
some time.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Certain, birds invariably cover
up their eggs when they leave the nest. Thus the
black-throated grebe (“diver”), when out for its
fom- o'clock, always draws some water plants over
its bluish-white eggs, while the teal hides her as-
sortment (10 or more) in the cushion of down on
which they are laid. In seasons of drought, when
the ground is almost bare, the Australian pipit
(ground-lark) carefully draws some dry grass over
its incubator built in a slight hollow in the soil.
Other birds, again, such as the plovers and dottrels
and the bustard, lay on bare soil or sand as a rule,
and rely for protection on the coloring of their
eggs, which closely matches that of their immediate
surroundings.
“Coringa” : Whether marsupials like meat
or not I can’t say; but I do know that wallabies go
dotty over honey. A cocky’s wife in Queensland
turned the knowledge to good account. Left alone
on the selection while her husband was away work-
ing she found the wallabies were eating out the
(latch of oats. For a week she fed them witli honey
placed in saucers on their pads. Then, to vary the
sweets for them a hit, one night she mixed strych-
nine in it. She counted dead hoppers in scores next
morning.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Brother Henning, taking ad-
vantage of the Sunday crowd that used to drift about
Black Hill, the historical mining centre of Ballarat,
pitched his voice there, and exhorted sinners to
repentance. A man content to make a loud noise in
public, will always, have an audience; Brother Hen-
ning always made a loud noise, and he showed great
judgment in selecting the crucial moment for taking
up the collection. Brother Abel, his only constant
disciple, went armed with
the plate, and was very-
adroit in getting after
dodgers and shirkers. One
ho t Sunday afternoon
Brother Henning had
been expounding- for half-
an-hour, beseeching the
people to turn from the
wrath to come. “There
is joy and glory there,”
cried he, pointing aloft;
“there” —he pointed
downwards —“t here be
weepinf an’ wailin’ an’
gnashin’ of teeth. Which
way will you go?” At
that moment the earth
opened beneath the ener-
getic thump of the good
man’s hefty feet, and
Brother Henning, with
the howl of a lost soul,
sank from sight. Nothing
beyond the natural had
happened. The preacher
had had the bad luck lo
take his stand above one
of a hundred ill-covered
old mining shafts, - and he
had passed through to
the nether depths, where
there was water and not
fire. After some debris
had been cleared away,
agitated Brother Abel re-
ceived a reply to his
anguished calls. “Hold
on, brother,” he pleaded,
“we are going for ropes.” “Be there a good crowd
round, Brother Abel?” responded a faint voice.
“Aye, a big crowd, for sure.” “Then don't" ’ee be
in a hurry about the rope—take up the collection,
man!”
*,* * *
“Aragun” : “Steve Hart” notwithstanding
(B. 9/6/’2l), “T. D. Eindee” is right when he
states the antidote for stinging-tree bite, is a weed
growing nearby. It is the cungevoi, a lily-like
plant with several large fan-like leaves each grow-
ing from a separate thick fleshy stem. If the sap
from this stem is applied to the afflicted part in-
stant relief follows.
ROUND AND ROUND AND ROUND.
I reckon Melbourne's the place for a bonxer time."
"Gram ! Yon ought to be up at Yip Yip. There the pub doesn't shut till everybody goes
home, and no one goes home till the pub shuts."
Amalekite : A\ hilo on the subject of
weird lights, what’s the explanation of the radiance
seen above a new-made grave on occasions? 1 used
to live near a cemetery in South Aus., and
saw tlie glow very distinctly one night after a
burial. And 1 remember how, on another occasion,
old Mick Walsh came to us hatless and terror-stricken
and told of a white spirifi fluttering over (he grave of
a man buried that day, and his story was after-
wards verified (to a lesser extent) by others. 1
believe the phenomenon is usually more distinct if
there’s been rain, during the day.
“Aragun”: It’s almost impossible to bold
a mob ot cattle on a. hillside. they make either
up or down, mostly up. This is due to a disin-
clination to have the weight of the body un-
equally distributed over their pins. In Queens-
land and most N.S.W. meatworks the peculiarity
is taken advantage of by raising the killing-pen
four or five feet above the yard-level, thus making
a sloping floor in the crush. Where it once took
half an hour’s hard swearing and the liberal use
of a fair-sized sapling, the wildest gully-raker can
now be coaxed in within five minutes.
A CHRISTIAN MARTYR.
COUSIN JACK CHOIR MEMBER (in a noarse
whisper) : “Mornin’, Cap’n."
CAP'N : "Lor’, Billy, ’ow’st ’ee come for to
lose thy voice like that?”
C OUSIN: "Practisin' God, Cap’n.”
“Gallaco”: One of our oats brought home
a death-adder 19 inches long*, and after fooling
about with it for 10 or 15 minutes left it still
alive though a bit crippled. The cat is still catch-
ing mice.
“J.T.C.” : A while ago someone asked how
cockatoos arrange their sentry roster. The sentinel
cockatoo’s call for relief is “Sooeh sooc.” The call
is inutantly acknowledged by the feeding flock.
Those not prepared to relieve answer “Efi.” Those
prepared to go answer “Achar.” If only one answers
“Aehar" he goes at once. If, however, as is usual,
several answer “Achar,” 1 note that the “Achar” is
repeated between these birds once, twice. The third
time there will probably be only one. He goes. It
is arranged within five seconds; no delay and no
disputes. The new sentry may be greeted with
applause by the majority of the flock, thus: “Haho,
haho—hooo,” accompanied by a movement of the
wings, arching of necks and raising of crests. The
greater part of the white cockatoo’s language must
be studied from a distance of 30yds. Beyond that
distance the bulk of it is ridt audible. The belief
that there is always a sentry is not correct. If no
danger is apprehended there is no sentry.
* * * *
“V.0.E.A.”: “J.P.’s” inquiry about old
miners’ rights rec alls that there are several at the
Pioneers’ Association rooms in Castlemaine (Vic.).
One reads: —
VICTORIA.
A GOLD LICENCE.
No. 20!) Nov. 3. 18SI.
The bearer, Henry Lillicrap, having paid the sum
of one pound ten shillings on account of the Terri-
torial Revenue, 1 hereby Licence him to dig, search
for and remove gold on and from any such Crown
Lards within the District of Upper Loddon as I
shall assign to him for that purpose during the
Month of December, 1851. This Licence to be pro-
duced whenever demanded by me or any other per-
son acting under the authority of the Government,
and to be returned to me befory another licence is
issued.
John Fletcher.
Commissioner.
But I won’t swear to the Fletcher: he was no pen-
man, anyway. AnotlieV one (No. 15114) in the
same form was issued to John Simpson in Septem-
ber, 1852, by Commissioner W. Fenwick.
“Monaro": A bush friend of mine has
asked me to “write an article for The Bulletin
to let them Aboriginal coves know” that he has a
horse, “only a young thing,” whose teeth are falling
out. Some have gone and all are loose. What can
lie do about it? Call him “Nnrrabie” and let him
have some information. The last line in “Narrabie’s”
letter read: “I don’t want to hear from them
funny blankers.”
“Jim Carew” : “.Tacky Hob” (B. 9/6/ 21)
reminds me of a reference that a harvester, looking
for work showed me. It read: “He’s worth a job
(Sgd.) .1. ('. Dash.” I think it’s about the shortest
one on record.
“Nor’-West”: Re “Yoyang's” par (B.
19/5/’2l) abbot quail. Ma does not leave dad to
hatch the eggs. I have caught numbers of quail oil
the nest and it has been Ma every time. Quail be-
long to the great family of “scratchers,” and I have
watched them feeding for hours in the nesting season
and always in pairs, which seems to dispel the idea
that Pa Quail is a polygamist. “Voyang” has been
wrongly informed, too, about the male bird being
less gaudily attired than the female. Dad’s togs
are, if anything, the more noticeable.
“Chumos”: In reply to “838's” inquiry
(B. 12/5/’2l) as to the effect of eating a lump of
washing soda “as big as a shilling,” which a malin-
gerer says he did. The soda is partly changed in the
stomach into caustic soda, resulting in colic, indi-
gestion, gastritis and other unpleasantnesses. To
the person of average constitution it would result
in a speedy, transference to the land of angels and
haloes.
TICKETS, PLEASE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In broken sleep and ruffled ease
I hear the cry of “Tickets, please!”
1 dimly know the train stands still
Between a hoarding and a hill.
Beyond the leagues of darkness press
The landscape like a cold cairess;
The door is wide, the travellers sneeze.
But Fate insists on “Tickets, please.”
I hear the distant engine roar
And paw the rails to start once more,
As, with a hand sedate and slow,
Through all my pockets once I go.
Then to my feet erect I spring—-
Now, where have 1 concealed that thing?
In frenzied haste 1 count the cost
If that green pasteboard should be lost.
I had it when they wakened me
To punch it with a fretful T ;
And D and S and F and K
Were carved out many miles away.
The alphabetic fretwork fine
Increased on every branching line;
And yet, though it was mostly air,
That ticket showed 1 paid my faie.
And now with fierce and fevered haste
Wild word on word 1 idly waste.
1 feci my pockets up and down,
I lift my cap, I search thy crown;
I wildly dance, lest in my boots
Should hide that ticket’s slender roots.
1 ask the passengers to stand,
And punch the cushions with my hand ;
And all the while the engine (laws
The rails, and snorts through flaming jaws.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
"Where’s Jacky nowadays?”
“ Oh , he too plurry lucky. Bin win-em big
sweep, get plurry drunk and break-em
plurry leg.”
Then, having said my last cold damn,
1 force myself to sudden calm.
I hit my pockets with my fist
And find at last the one I missed.
The punch goes click and all is well ;
The last sound spot is ' holed with L.
The engine howls in sudden pain;
The jiggle-joggle starts again.
At various angles various rugs
-Arrange themselves to various tugs.
The freezing dark goes swiftly by;
The grizzly dawn is in the sk.v.
I snooze and seem to gently float
Down summer in a painted boat,
Past isles of Greece and happy glades
Where pleasure .pipes to dimpled maids,
And pubs are 'plentiful, and kind
Upon the shores of NeVer-Mind. .. .
What’S this? The boat begins to drag;
We’ve fouled a shoal or bumped a snag!
A sudden whiff of icy breeze—
A weary voice says “Tickets, please!”
Ah, little, slender, timid thing,
Once like an Oblong leaf of spring,
Now like a mist you seem to me
Where hollow L and. sloping T
In emptiness together press
The punched-out tail of crooked S,
What more is left to take away?
Thin paper bridges F and K,
With just a thin word creeping through
To show the place I'm going to.
Yet, framed within the mOrning door.
Is one who rfieans to punch once more.
Click through the S-loop—there you are—
The fellow’s nipped away a star!
I hold the treasure on my knees
For the next call 'of “Tickets, please!”
Too frail to pocket once a,gain,
I fear; the joggle of the train
Will shake the cardboard of my trust
To one small heap of greenish dust.
I hold it faintly on my knee
And guard it very tenderly,
Lest any puff of idle air
Should snatch my treasure unaware.
And now once more the train is still
Between a hoarding and a hill.
The trembling ticket just survives
Until in haste the man arrives.
He smiles, he lifts my tortured pet,
He gazes wisely through its net;
And, by the distant hills and blue,
He guesses where I’m going to.
“Next stopping yours,” I hear him say—
He sweeps the travelled threads away—
And, as I stretch my weary knees,
His voice fades out on “Tickets, please!”
N.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


warn
m
■A-:*.
mam
m
x
•'%
B.
' ,- /
r\
* .■ ■
:
• i
p
fe
’Sap
*
ill #
> *
*6
I
iiiHi Ittfurfflfniiti fifin' '• ~'
■x
-zam
.
iiisa«aa*i
\ *'•
s •■*
—the ©wimer-driver
is for many reasons a consistent user of
“Railroads” The fine all-round quality of
DUNLOP
TYRES
and their ability to stand up to many
thousands of miles of hard service, without
giving a moment s trouble, appeals to him.
He appreciates their value, their dependability
and low running cost. From experience he
knows that no other tyre equals the “Railroad”
for satisfactory service and economy. Every
motorist can ensure this service—by using
“ Dunlops ” It pays to use them !
ALL states DUNLOP RUBBER CO. and n.z.


Gillette
Safety Razor
Two keen blades always ready. No
stropping, no honing, no waste of time.
A simple turn of the handle adjusts
it to the needs of a light or strong
beard—for a close or easy shave.
Standard Set, in neat leather case, 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors —S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide.
MADE IN
CANADA
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
_>
- X
. I tp
“VALET”
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barber’s edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the “ Valet ” Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade. Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew—no separate stropping machine —no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “ Valet ” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consists of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “ Valet ” AtitoStrop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet” blades,
and “ Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome case lined
velvet and satin
27/6
Of all hizhrclass ilealers
thr< ughout A ustrulasiu.
Managing Agents for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
ih
as • ;
SEE
THOMPSON 8 CO.
4 ' -
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWX, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines. Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest-Grade Machinery Supplied.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
SYDNEY:
L. Minks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
THE EAST:
McAlister <& Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fencburch Street.
w
The Door to Success
looms up before most people at some
time or another, but many of us can’t
find the key.
Success in Sandwich making depends upon
several things, and variety is one of them.
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
provides you with the right key.
Its piquant flavour is a joy to every palate. It
makes Sandwiches that are eaten with relish.
Make some for your Afternoon Teas and Suppers,
fill the lunch boxes with them. “Rex” Cheese is
nourishing food—you can’t have too much of it.
Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 866
'-si/
OA
m
, %
m
W^oN^
<^M?A<SAOAOAOA<?/^^l


Tke
A Drink
Purest
A Tonic,
Spirit
in tke
A Corrective.
World.
2^vb
jr-' :
SCHNAP 96
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
0
15
COLDS
COUCHS
y J
CROUP
LUNG
TAOUSU3
J
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
w
Ih ii later passage occur the words i— l
I could not see what her face-was, my heart sc*
awoke and trembled ; only that her hair was flowing
from a wreath of white violetsj Slid the' grace Of
her coming was like the appearance of the.first wind-
flower. The paie gleam over the western cliffs threw
a shadow of light behind her, as if the sun werO
lingering. . . .
The whole passage is as‘beautiful as the
one first quoted, is as poetical in thought,
yet it is not so near to poetry; it is less
metrical. In what do the two sentences
following differ ?
I could not see what her face \vfts, my heart sft
aw6ke and trembled ;
and
Vet ail alike dispelling fear and the clOven hOof
Of darkness;
Each one contains 10 syllables, and both in
part Sway td the Same rhythm; yet off a
first reading, the first is uiimettucal, the
second metrical. In Counting the natural
accents it is seen that the first- has eight.,
the second seven. In the first two accents
come together in the words “fft.ce wfts,” and
“heart so’’; in the second the accents are
separated by one syllable, and by two in
one instance. Rearrange the accents in the
first sentence so as to accord with the
arrangement of the second, removing the
aeceni from “face - ’ to “her,” and omitting
the accent on “so”:
* cbuld not ste what her face wits, my heart no
awftke and trembled ;
In both sentences the accents are now sepa-
rated by one syllable, and in one instance by
two, and both are metrical. By what means
has the metrical effect been brought about?
Has each accent been accommodated with
bn unaccented syllable? That is not the
full explanation; for in each sentence one
accent has two syllables. If the first ho
lead aktud, however, it will’be found that
the voice, in saying “so awoke” is inclined to
say “so woke,” or, at least, to say “so
awoke” in the same time that would be occu-
pied in saying “so woke” ; in the same time,
that is, that would be occupied in saying
“I could,” and “not see” and “my heart,”
etc. And so of the two syllables preceding
the accent on “cloven.” Here the clue is
picked up; the reader gives to the accents,
not an equal number qf syllables, but equal
time-spaces ; so that if time were beaten, the
accents would fall regularly on the beats.
More; once this beat has been perceived by
the sub-consciousness, sentences ordinarily
unmetrical will be accommodated to the
pulsations, and become, for the time being,
metrical; and the first sentence above be-
comes
I c&uld not sPe what her fflee wfts, my heart so
awftke and trembled,
where ttvo syllables go with the accent on
“face,” and a hover between “face” and
“was” compensates for the syllable not
there—a hover that would admit of other
syllables were they desired or desirable: —
I cftuld not s6e what the fftce of her wfts, my
heftrt....
Once this hidden metre lias been perceived
it is almost impossible to redd these lines of
“Lorna Doone” without catching the breath
of it, and this may be part of the secret
of the book’s exquisite charm.
The accents of a metrical sentence, then,
mark off certain pulsations that are regular
as the beating of the heart. Between the
accents lie periods of time, each period
comparatively equal to the periods imme-,
diately preceding and succeeding, and in
every period is contained a greater or less
number of syllables; or the period may be
altogether bare of sound or syllables. In
poetry, therefore, a second rhythm makes its
appearance; a rhythm so regular and power-
ful that it modifies the flow of our ordinary
speech, compelling regularity where there
previously was little or none. Underlying
the rhythm of audible poetical speech there
is an inaudible metrical rhythm of time, and
it is with this rhythm that the speech has
been brought into unison. The accents of
the words now coincide with the pulsations
of the underlying rhythm. The accents
come, as it were, on the wave-crests of the
temporal rhythm, two culminations coincid-
ing; and this union is so powerful that an
ordinary syntactic accent may come between
two metrical accents, or “stresses,” without
destroying the regularity created by them.
Further, the syntactic accent which ordi-
narily coincides with the crest of the metri-
cal rhythm may be absent, may even lie be-
tween two crests.
The unit lying between crest and crest
may conveniently be called a stress-unit,
and it includes the stress and the time-
neriod between it and the preceding stress.
It may be composed of silence, or of sound,
or of both combined in varying degree; and
whilst it has n 0 visible or'audible indepen-
dent existence, it is made evident by the
words, or sound with or without words,
floating upon it.
The study of the syllabic burden of the
units is most fascinating, but is not of par-
ticular import here, so long as it is clear
that the units will take a varying number
of syllables and still produce perfect metre.
It is in the entire absence of this under-
lying metre that prose differs from poetry.
A poet may write in prose or poetry, or
in both: there may be poetic prose, there
is prosaic poetry; but the most prosaic
poetry has this characteristic that the most
poetic prose has not —a temporal metrical
rhythm. Shelley did not perceive this dis-
tinction when he wrote his “Defence of
Poetry,” and cited as noets Dante, Petrarch,
Boccaccio, Chaucer. Shaksneare, Calderon.
Lord Bacon and Milton. Every lyric, every
rpic, every dramatic blank-verse scene is
borne upon this temporal metrical rhythm
that immediately springs into -being on a
few regularly recurring accents being given ;
it is as pdweffilliy perceived by the child
as by the aduit—if it is perceived at all;
for there are some who are unable to feel
its flow; some to whom blank Verse is prose
and vers lihre poetry.
JOHANNES C. ANDERSEN.
The Miracle of Popularity
Charles Garvice, at whom critics innumer-
able have poked fun for so long, has died
without taking the slightest notice of any
of them. .Reflecting over this, I wondered
whether, after all, he was, right and they
were wrong. They told him he could not
Write, showed him how to write, pointed out
his errors, smashed his schoolboy morals and
his "genteel” plots, ridiculed him endlessly
—and, ignoring them, he went his way and
succeeded. It may be objected that lus
sort of success was nothing more exciting
than the Saje of many buns. But, on the
whole, that wrong. It is quite reasonable
to suppose that his novels reflect, w.ui an
unconscious faithfulness, a state of society
which even the conscious, determined realise
has failed to reproduce. The books are hor-
ribly banal; but, then, Edwardian society was
banal. They are tiffed with .snobbery, an im-
possible view of aristocracy, cheap ideals, false
sentiment, shoddy theatrical motives and
actions; but Edwardian middle-class society
was full of these things. Nothing bears a
more detailed and damning testimony to
the spirit of those times than these carefully-
written, intelligent books, prepared by a
calm-minded, commercial gentleman, and sold
in amassing numbers to the English middle-
class.
All the greatest artists are unconscious
artists, and it is obvious that a writer best
reflects the environment aboyt him when he
does not think directly of it. When he tears
at it and dissects it he cannot help being self-
conscious enough to distort it; but through
the plots of Garvice, as through a figured
window, we see Edwardian England in its
true colors. In just the same way a large
part of the interest in Shakspeare is his un-
witting representation of Elizabethan times
and manners—we take no stock of his arti-
ficial plots and anachronistic periods, any
more than of Garvice’s puppets. It is quite
incontestable that Garvice thought with the
people his sales show that; nor is it true
that lie depended, as has been alleged, upon a
female reading-public, for he shared with Nat
first preference when the soldiers at
the Front demanded “something to read.’’
Garvice, too, had his own firm ideas about his
art—•
The fact is that 1 write upon verv simple and
very old lines which do not change in human
nature, it occurred to me, when 1 was quite a
young man, that I could get a wide " public,
including all classes of readers, if I could write fic-
tion which would appeal to the natural instincts
of men and women, whatever their rank in life....
f. try win their affections for the characters so
that they are .really interested in the fate that
befalls them. 1 try to make them laugh, and to
have a little moi.stu/re in their eves at times, and I
write carefully, in plain English, so that the man
of letters or the university man is not outraged
by slovenly sentences, while enjoying the plot and
the general interest of the storv just as much as
the typist girl or the city clerk. That is mv
trick,” if you like to call it so.
And the amazing thing is that he accom-
plished it all. I met people, women
generally, who have acknowledged themselves
completely under the spell of these rec.'pe-
built stories. There was no surer judge than
Garvice —he knew what he was after, and
he got it.
Poor art all this, you say, that has
neither subtlety or strength; and perhaps,
with your own eyes cleared by Meredith
and James, you are right. But, out of the
English-reading thousands, what a vast num-
ber find nothing in “The Egoist” but an out-
line, and nothing in “The Awkward Age”
but confusion and frustration ! The jElarms-
worth press has popularised newspaper
reading—-hasn’t W. L. George argued that
clearly .in “Caliban” l —and in the same way
Garvice and his friends have p; nnlarised the
modern novel. Their product is b. id, and not
to be compared with Hardy’s ; it :• bad art in
its very mechanics: but it gets itself read
and well read—and, for the present, that
is very good indeed.
There is the ease for Garvice—he under-
stands the middle-classes, is an accurate
indicator of their limitations, what they
thought and, if not what they did, at least
what they dreamed of doing. Secondly, he
interested a tremendous public in the novel.
All things cons'dered, his services to art have
not been utterly negligible.
ALAN B.
An Opening for Girls
Although new avenues of employment,
new careers, are triumphantly asserted to
he opening up before our girls day after day,
yet it is always good to learn of another new
way of making easy money, with or without
a husband attached. So the sex’s thanks are
due to Berta Ruck, who has discovered an
entirely new opening for her heroine, and
has set it forth in the first chapter of hi
Another Girl's Shoes. Two girls meet by
accident on the same railway journey. One
is a poor governess with better days behind
her; and quite conventional, not to say
threadbare and hackneyed, is that character.
But the other is as modern as 1915, and
could not have been conceived a dozen
months before that. She introduces herself
to her fellow-traveller by saying: “You
wouldn t think I was a war-widow, would
you?’* and then tolls that she is also a
cinema star. In the next mile or so she
has induced the twittering governess-girl to
change roles with her and go down to see
“dear George’s” unknown "people” as
bereaved daughter-in-law, leaving the film
actress free to sail to a fresh contract with
wads of salary in America. It is a spirited
scene, racily described, and, if Berta Ruck-
liad only not been in such a very great hurry
to get her book off her hands she might have
made a rattling good story of this one,
instead of letting it drop to the level of
twaddle just faintly iridescent with passion
beloved of her readers —all girls.
Girls by the thousand in schools, in busi-
ness colleges, behind, counters, living up to
their acquired “business principles” in office
and shop—these must have, their own litera-
ture to read in tram, boat, train and ’bus.
They know what they like, and blessed is
the writer who can supply that liking. Read-
ing Berta Buck and her congeners imparts a
harmless kind of mental dope, after all. The
women who produce these best sellers of the
mildly-innocuous and just-too-sweet-for-words
type love to water down the wine of life
uiltil it is thinner and weaker than honest
ginger-ale. Is their stuff worth criticising?
in this particular book there is a substitu-
tion. “But that’s not new,” observes the
rather bored cynic. "Didn’t Kate llard-
castle pretend to be somebody else?” Well,
certainly the germ is to be found in "She
Stoops to Conquer”.; but the modern setting
and the quick change effected in Berta Ruck’s
romance have thrown a pebble into the still
waters of light literature. The proof is
that this opening has been plagiarised right
and left. Since "In Another Girl’s Shoes”
has had time to fit itself into the minds of
other purveyors of pleasing fiction and to bear
fruit, the change-of-identity scene has become
quite a commonplace on the circulating-
library shelves.
If the reader opens a new novel and finds
two girls, utter strangers to each other,
Miss X and Miss Y, seated on opposite
seats of a railway carriage, he may finish
the chapter at a gulp because he may be
sure when it ends Miss X will emerge as
Miss Y and vice versa. It’s all done in a
flash. X goes to Y’s friends and is re-
ceived without demur. Y takes up X’s ill-
paid and tedious job, and does it very badly,
Y being the brilliant hustler who hypnotises
all in sight to do her bidding, and X the
meek and lowly damsel of the kind that never
helps herself. She helps herself, however, or
is helped, to Y’s young man, and, again,
vice versa. J. C. Snaith’s “Adventurous
Lady” carries on like, this, and there is a
serial running in one of the magazines en-
titled “The Rebel,” in which the author
shows daring originality by making the
two girls change roles in a motor-car instead
of a railway train. It needs some subtlety
of mind to bring ■ about this eataolysmal
change in plot. But “The Rebel” does
it. So familiar is the incident becoming that
there is a distinct likelihood of a new open-
ing for girls in this muck-change business.
The next time we ask a friend to stay
the week-end with us we must look very
hard at her to make sure she hasn’t become
somebody else on the way down.
FLORENCE BANERSTOCK.
The Inky Way
“0.K.”: The lately-deceased Athenaeum, which
fell seven years short of its centenary, was credited,
as it lay in its winding-sheet, with “an extraor-
dinary bit of work in attacking Martin Tapper,
when that insufferable busybody was at the height of
his reputation.” Wherein lay the extraordinari-
ness of the attack on Tupper? The Atuen.eum had
been established 10 years before the first publica- ■
tion of “Proverbial Philosophy,” which continued
to issue from 1838 to 1867, so if the critical maga-
zine waited for the height of Martin’s reputation
before attacking him, its critics stand condemned
as dullards. Everybody w’ith any pretensions to
literary culture was scoffing at “Proverbial Philo-
sophy” ere then. There was ample time for the
Athen.euij to have strangled the poet’s popularity in
its birth, instead of hurling- a brick at its fat and
farcical middle-age. As for Tapper being an ‘‘in-
sufferable busybody,” he was very sufferable apart
from the Muse. He invented safety horseshoes and
glass screw-tops to bottles. . And as regards the
verse the solemn Athen.euai didn’t strangle, he
tried it on the stodgy British public at the stodgiest
time of its life, found it sell like hot cakes and kept
the game going for 30 years.
“S.L,.”v> The In Memoriam verses printed by the
bereaved in our daily papers have given pleasure
to all for .50 years at least; but a man who has the
handling of this department in one big morning
paper tells me that the rejects contain a mass of
humor which is not to be lpgt to mankind —he is
compiling a volume of such poems as were submitted
for publication but failed to pass the censor.
Grudgingly he gave me a sample:—
“Poor Henry John has passed away.
His temper was divine.
Oh, cold now is his bed of clay,
And very cold is mine!
Inserted by his loving vvidow, Sarah .”
“Zanthus”: The Postal Department has just given
a nasty knock to the Historical Records of Australia,
published by the library committee of the Common-
wealth Parliament, it has been ruled that this work
is not a “book” within the meaning of the regula-
tions. One of the grounds of the ruling is that
there is no original matter in the work, which is a
little rough on the editor’s intro, and notes. The
body of the work is admittedly made up of official
documents dealing with the early history of Aus-
tralia, but even that seems hardly a reason why the
book should be classed with drapers’ catalogues.
Charlie Dumas, who has been recommitted to the
Presidential chair of the Australian Provincial Press
Association, is a shrewd man just on the verge of
white hay’s. He produces a profitable weekly news-
sheet in the southern districts of S. Aus., and has a
monopoly „0f the-River Murray country from Morgan
to the mouth. Dumas, who claims kinship with the
famous French novelist, is the father of Lloyd
Dumas, acting chief of staff of the Akgus.
“Stan E.”: M.L. has a school of journalism at
Canterbury .University College. The Robert Bell
Scholarships—three of £'so each per year—were
founded by Bobby Bell, a shrewd Scot, who is a
power a.mong M.L. newspaper proprietors, ami owns
a big interest in the Lyttelton Times, the relic of
what was once the powerful organ of Dick Seddon
and the old Liberals. The lectures are in the bauds
of Alec Henderson, himself a graduate of the Uni-
versity. For years he was leader-writer for the
Lyttelton Tunes, and then became manager. lie
still says “Come iri” impressively when you knock
at the managerial door.
K
“Copy Bov” (from London): Messages 'from all
parts of the British Isles and from all sorts and con-
ditions of men (from the Royal George downward
or upward) poured in on C. P. Scott, editor and
chief proprietor of the Manchester Guardian, when
that paper- celebrated its centenary in May. No-
body has ever questioned the honesty or sincerity of
the Guardian ; and while its habit of supporting un-
popular causes (like those of the Boers and the
Irish) has prevented it. achieving a bloated circula-
tion, it is read and respected by the leaders of all
political parties. Scott, the present' editor, has held
the job for 50 years, and has done more than any-
body to give the paper its “unconquerable soul.”
He has an unalterable habit of looking at both sides
of every question and never assuming that the crowd
that makes the most noise or owns the most cash
is necessarily right. Among former members of the
staff present at the centenary banquet given in Man-
chester were poet John Masefield and John Simon,
former Attorney-General and a likely Prime Minister
should the Liberals again get into power. T. S.
Townend, who represents Melbourne Argus in Lon-
don, used to be the Guardian’s London man.


This Trio
Sheep, Cattle, Pigs at market. /
Are you a Winehcombe-Carson sender? If
not try the firm with your • next draft.
Consign
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Results provide a profitable proof of
Winchcombe, Carson’s success as selling
agents.
[1
CYCLONE
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCLONE” and all other Chisholm-
Moore Hoisting Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible d very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “It.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & WynyardSts-, SYDNEY.
: ’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
7m*
m
W, r
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia N ght-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
a
a
□
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
¥i
View of 49in. Hardwood Continuous Wood
Stave Pipe installed in 1.920 for the Tas-
manian Government in connection with the
Hydro-Electric Scheme at < treat _ Hakes.
(Pressure on this main varies from 50/880ft.
head.)
Do you know —
that the use of W ood I'ipe ante-
dates practically every other form
pf pipe—having been used more
than two centuries ago in London
and at a much earlier period in
some other European cities/
That citizens of Fayetteville,
F.S.A., are still receiving water
through wood pipe laid in ISJS)
and the pipe is absolutely sound
and satisfactory.
That modern wood pipe, «ize for
size, will carry a greater volume
of water than any other pipe made?
That it is far cheaper to instal
than metal pipe and costs practi-
cally nothing for maintenance/
We also manufacture WOOD TANKS.
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies' - * 4/-
Soles r.nci Heels),
per set.
Men's Stout 2/6
.. Light 2-
Ladies’ • D 3
(Heels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS Ltd.,
London , Eng.
THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
j to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
‘MILITARY
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
tfTI THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M ROHAN, 862, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & w. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSPOBD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
m
r
$3
DBG
TttC PIMVO
PIPE.
The pipe for
critical smokers.
Men who choose a pipe with
care in order to ensure real
smoke-satisfaction insist on a
GBD.
They know it is supreme in all those
qualities that make a pipe worth while.
Made of selected French Briarwood,
thoroughly matured, and well finished
by experts.
There are hours of smoke-joy in store if
you’ve got a GBD. *
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Bav”: There was never any need to use
imported tallow (B. IG/G/'-l) to grease the
ways for launching ships. Joe Dent, a South
Coast (N.S.W.) shipbuilder, has been using
the local product for years. Some of the
ferries on the Lane Cove River run were
built by him, and it was Australian grease
that slithered them into the water.
South Aus. is expecting an unusually
heavy orange crop, and the-Produce Depart-
ment has arranged, in conjunction with Vic-
toria, a shipment to London in July of at
least 10,000 cases, lo com]iete there with the
S’African-grown. The cases are to hold from
80 to 120 each, a medium-size orange going
about 00 to the box being recommended : and
the price expected at the other end is from
255. to 30s. a case.
“Cauli”: There’s money in cabbages if
their hearts are good. A grower near Moss
Vale (N.S.W.), where a lot of Sydney’s cab-
bages and cauliflowers come from, takes two
crops a year from his cabbage-patch, and
reckons to average about £lOOO for them.
No doubt it ,is because cabbages are so
thick on the„ ground in those parts that
citizens who live there have to pay any-
thing up to 2s. apiece for them.
“8.0. C.” : “Skyrider’s” yarn (B. 2/G/’2l_)
of the barber’s apprentice who learnt his
trade by shaving the town drunk for nothing
recalls the hairdresser in my little old suburb.
Tie did some slick shaving while his cus-
tomers waited for trains in the morning, and
managed to keep two chairs going himself
with the assistance of a raw youth who
lathered the man in one while the boss
scraped furiously at the customer in the
other. One morning a stranger settled into
a seat and offered his chin to the boy’s soap-
brush. The boss evidently had a tough job
on. for the boy lathered and rubbed in, again
and yet again, until the victim, innocent of
the reason, demanded : “When are you going
to begin?” The harried boss looked despair-
ingly at his own half-finished job; then I
heard a stage whisper across the hack of the
chairs, “Take a razor and slip into him,
George!” George slipped in accordingly
and passed at a bound from novice to crafts-
man.
“Heat Coil” on uncalled-for picnics:—
Anent the idiocy of sending highly-paid Common-
wealth officials picnicking overseas on the pretence
of making themselves familiar with the latest tele-
phone and telegraph equipment. About five years
ago the late John Hesketh, then chief electrical
engineer, had a trip which resulted in the installa-
tion of the automatic system at Geelong (Vic.),
Ashfield, Bur.wood, Glebe, Balmain and Newtown
(N.S.W.). To make themselves familiar with the new
equipment, some smart Sydney juniors were sent to
Geelong to work on the first intallation, under
Yankee supervision, and then were returned to Syd-
ney to assist in the installation of the Glebe auto-
matic exchange. , But when the equipment arrived, it
was such an improvement on the Geelong job that
the Yank supervisors, though only a few months
from home, had to burn the midnight oil over blue
prints and diagrams for many weeks before the}' got the
hang of thing?. Moreover, the Australians who took in-
structions from the Yanks at Geelong convincingly
proved that they needed no further instruction. Since
that time all automatic jobs have been carried out
under Australian foremen. The need of sending
officers overseas to investigate new systems -doesn’t
exist: diagrams- and blue prints Should be quite
sufficient, in the hands of capable engineers, to
enable them to instal any telephone or telegraph
system yet invented. In support of this it ,is only
necessary to point out that the Sydney City North
auto exchange v‘as installed under the supervision
of a youthful Australian who has never been outside
the country. His knowledge has been gleaned from
diagrams, blue prints, etc., and he has performed
feats . in. connection with auto-telephone apparatus
which the Yanks contemplate open-eyed.
THE COSMIC RIDDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Space and time in the ordinary sense cannot be
said to exist.” —Review of modern philosophy.
If space and time are not the things
We measure up or count by ticks,
The world may have elastic wings
And learn to do amazing tricks.
If half-past two on Friday week
Is not on Friday week at all.
Then some old ode men wrote in Greek
May prove to be a Cashmere shawl,
Or William Morris Hughes may be
In Heaven instead of over-sea.
Ten acres may be four square miles
And lie upon a slice of bread,
While 1 am in the Cocos Isles
. At Bendigo and safe in bed ;
Or 1 may chance to cross a street
And find the water to my chin,
While round me in the wintry heat
Five mermaids fill a sardine tin;
And this, perhaps, when all is done,
Will tell me if the war was won.
I like to think about the charm
latest thought may give to life
Through ages walking arm in arm
Upon the handle of a knife.
If 1 .should take a ship and sail
To any port where ships may go,
I might arrive in Bathurst Gaol
Twenty-five centuries ago,
Or reach a haven fair and blue
Somewhere in Zembla or Peru.
I often hear that time is cash,
And land worth twenty pounds a foot;
The statements are a little rash
Beneath philosophy’s great boot.
For everything is everywhere,
And nine o’clock is really six ;
These are great facts and seem to bear
Some likenifs to our politics—
Ah, space and time, like yes and no,
Got mixed up several years ago.
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


“ Advance Australia ! ”
a toast from the Motherland in the truest and best Spirit*
ST
SCOTCH
By careful husbanding of stocks we hope to
inadequate) supplies. But nothing will induce
varying quality of ‘ P.D.’ Whisky
maintain regular (if
us to impair the un-
'V.
P’D. -—the Scotch Whisky
of Historic Lineage and
Worid - wide popularity.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
$2-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
N3103C IVOltff
NOSMVq
Westclox
TheTimeAnywhere-Glo-Ben
A watch that is as read-
able in a tunnel, down a
.ie, in the bush at mid-
ijght as it is at noon —
ciiat is Glo-Ben.
What is more, it is de-
pendable in its readings.
The trade mark Westclox
on the dial is assurance of
that.
GIo-Ben’s hands and
numerals are coated with
a radium compound that
in daylight shows a pale
green against the black
dial. At night the hands
and numerals are a living,
glowing green against the
darkness into which the
dial melts.
Westclox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6; America, 12/6■
Jack o Lantern Luminous , 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous , 35/-; Glo-Ben 22/6 •
Boy proof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
YOUR PRESENT PIANO CAN
BE TAKEN IN EXCHANGE AND
ITS FULL VALUE ALLOWED.
And at-r
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
THE MOONLIGHT SONATA
IS HEARD AT ITS BEST
WHEN PLAYED UPON A
BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
It is to the music of the great masters that the
musician owning a Behning Player Piano most often
turns.
This is the music which is beyond the reach of all
but exceptional performers. With a Behning Player
Piano there is no difficulty. The whole mind can
be given up to interpretation and appreciation.
The mechanism of the Behning Player Piano is
beautifully constructed. It is always under perfect
control, and the pumping is light and very responsive.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE,
PRICE LIST and EASY TERMS.
f
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
yENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
£?
bj£?*ndy
tiki K
26*
_ .OB:<s**= r
, '*- •' ’^'- , ".‘'N* ..• *'j^
te#r
iigg#
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
femM fylotvn
The Strong Arm
OF PROTECTION
in MARKING LINEN
goes with Cash’s Woven Names
because they protect your Linen
against loss—and remember
CASH’S woven NAMES
exc-*l any other niethod for mark-
ing unen-no trouble— easily sewn
on-fast color.
The Prices are moderate
12d0z.7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3doz. 3/6
Sold by all best drapers
Made in Australia by—
J. &J.CASH[S;
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
/,)
%
m :
mm
m
m
Potastrop
ENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
/I
ffls
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
(Type Blade.
Money Returned
ir Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYONEY
And COMMERCE HE USE, MELBOURNE.
The wisdom of sages—for ages—
Is, nothing untested to spurn,
Life’s secrets unfold as we mortals grow old,
But we’re never too old to learn.
“Mens sana in corpora sano”
True philosophers strive to assure,
And the lore they expound to perfection is found
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
IS?
yt
UJJ
S 7
I
/
,1
<y
1,!
r\
X
r*fo‘
rZfl
IPT*
■:>c
L
K
««h=£ys29Bl
E
rtsJ3Baacs«
A, **|
C JOHNSOrtI^X
• ft AC INI Wi>
Cin iilwl—»
n-ft
i£jOHKjofujomw
Here’s the
Polish !
TO use Johnson’s
Prepared Wax you
need only a cloth—no .
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax over any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
Liauid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect-
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W
John McCormack has just spent five thou-
sand of the pounds he gathered in Australia
on a Romney, which is to hang in his house
at Hampstead. It is the famous Clavering
group.
After wearing stuff for 41 years Charles
A. Coghlan, M.A., LL.D., has taken silk,
making 27 K.C.'s on the Inner Bar roll in
X. S. Wales. One only, Bruce Smith, is a
non-practitioner. Coghlan is a Sydney native
and belongs to the brainy family of which
Dr. Ida and Timothy are members.
“D.F.”: Seventy-odd years ago the village
of Lewisham, at the entrance to Pittwater
(Tas.), which now consists of three houses
and a mulberry-tree, had a shipyard worked
by one Thompson. Local tradition has it
that there was a hoodoo on the ships turned
out there; three of them came to grief on
their first voyage. I have seen the hones of
one of them, the Zephyr.
Vic. State members now wear a special
pass on their watch-chains to enable them
to ride free on the trams. Joe Cook re-
membered this when Robinson, Vic. Attorney-
General, alleged that State Ministers took
the tuppenny tram when Federal Ministers
rolled in Rolls-Royce cars. Said Joseph :
“We haven't got a Rolls-Royce, and you fel-
lows don’t pay any tuppence on the trams.
You ride on the nod.”
“Kulgoa” : The honor of being t-he pioneer
brewer of Australia was claimed by James
Squire. Inscribed on his gravestone in the
old Sandhills (N.S.W.) cemetery was the
following:—
In sacred Respect to the remains of Mr. .James
Squire, late of Kissing Point, who departed tills life
May 16, 1822, aged 67 years, lie arrived in this
Colony in the First Fleet, andi by integrity and industry
acquired and maintained an unsullied Reputation.
Under his Care the Hop Plant was first Cultivated
in this settlement, and the first Brewery was Erected
which progressively matured to Perfection.
A prophet docs sometimes got a lift from
his own country. Dr. Colin > Mackenzie,
whose work- on Australian fauna has
attracted attention in London, New York
and such places, has gained recognition
from the Victorian Government. A while
ago it let him have 70 acres at Ilenlesville
at a peppercorn rent as a reserve for native
animals: now it has added 50 acres. It is
likely, too, to give some financial help to-
wards the research work which Mackenzie
has done, so far entirely at his own expense,
and a very hefty expense, too. Maybe some
day the Melbourne Uni., of which Mackenzie
is a distinguished graduate—but no; that
would be too much to expect.
“D.F.” on the dawn of our shipbuilding:
The first sea-going vessel built in Australasia of
Australasian timber was knocked together at Dusky
Sound, on the west coast of the South Island of
Maprilund. In 1792 William Raven, master of the
Britannia, left there a gang of 12 men under Wil-
liam Leith to collect sealskins for the China market.
'Leith and his crowd put in 11 months before Raven
came back, and not only picked up 4500 sealskins
but started to build a craft in ease the other didn’t
turn up. When the Endeavor (Bampton’s ship', not
Cook’s as some writers have supposed) was aban-
doned at Dusky in 1795, Hatherleigh the carpenter
finished the craft which Leith had begun. She was
named the Providence, and carried 20 men to Nor-
folk Island and on to Sydney. She seems to have
come to grief very soon afterwards.
Barrister Macfarlan, in his address to the
jury on behalf of Ryan v. Hobart Mercury,
threw over Peter (Fihelly) in order to save
Paul (Ryan). “Mr. Ryan compelled Mr.
Fihelly to disavow any disloyal sentiments.
....Every public man could not choose his
colleagues. It was absurd to say”'that under
the present system of government by party
a man could choose his colleagues. _ They
were forced upon him.” At this point the
pleader curtailed his candor. He omitted
to say that the Premier’s colleagues were
forced upon him by the party-machine whose
workings he accepted. Considering that
Macfarlan was stating the case for a boss
representative of party politics against a
newspaper which snorts at them, his silence
about the machine was tactful.
From a southern laboratory:—
The Commonwealth Serum Institute at Royal Park
(Vic.) not only supplies Australia with a big selec-
tion of serums, anti-toxins and such things hut has
developed a very considerable export trade. So that
jaunting politicians and High Commissioners are
no longer the only things that the Federal Govern-
ment sends abroad. The Institute has been supply-
ing stuff to Maoriland and the Pacific Islands, and
lately it has been working up business with Asia
and South Africa. The accounts of the Institute are
not published, on the ground that they might give
away too many points to competitors, hut since the
flu’ scare gave it a boost the Institute has been one
of the few paying Federal activities, turning in
several thousands a year. Yet the Director can
hardly get a penny for research work; and though
the Institute is only a tuppenny tram-ride from Mel-
bourne, mighty few of the 111 Federal politicians
have ever troubled to look over the interesting bit of
Commonwealth property.
“Homo” on a notable citizen: —
The late Frederick Bayley Deeming was, I think,
the best all-round criminal we ever hanged, and I
doubt whether a more versatile one has ever stretched
a rope. Between 1880 and 1892 he put up these
performances and only the Recording Angel knows
how many besides: —
Deeming.—Masqueraded in Antwerp as Past Grand
Master Mason; butchered and sealed, sardine-like,
in liquid-cement, a wife and four at Rain-
hill.
Williams. —Within a month of cementing down
Mrs. D. and family he married Emily Mather, the
belle of Rainhill. herself destined for a cement casing
at Windsor later.
Harry Dunn.—A Queensland squatter; bigamist at
Hull; married, robbed and deserted Miss Mathieson
in a few weeks. Welshed on English racecourses in
spare time. . •
Lawson. —Bogus company promoter in S. America.
Dawson. —Birkenhead swindler.
Wilson. —Welsher, etc., in Scotland.
Ward. —Pickpocket, etc., at St. Helena, and
swindler and highway robber in S’Africa, where he
was suspected also of three mysterious murders.
Mollett. —Wife deserter and bigamist, Queensland.
Married, robbed and deserted widow with two chil-
dren (Rockhampton), and German settler’s daughter
(Brisbane), all within a few weeks.
Mr. George.—Builder -at Ihuoa (Vic.).
Fred Bayley.—Plumber, at 'Sydney.
Williams (again), at Windsor. The cement
cracked and lifted, and proclaimed to the world the
awful horror.
Duncan. —Immediately after, wooing fresh victims.
Barron Svvanston. —Captured on a Sydney-bound
steamer Kate Rounsefell, aged 22—the lucky last.
She narrowly escaped the hilarious cementing process,
for she was preparing, as his affianced wife, to join
him in the West when the Law placed on him a grip
it never relaxed till he dangled, at the end of a rope
in the Melbourne Gaol in May, 1892.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Since the plates and insula-
tors inside a battery cannot
be seen, the trademark on
the outside is particularly
important. The Willard
Threaded Rubber circle of
the Still Better Willard
Battery means that the bat-
tery won’t have to be re-
insulated.
m
s>2
*
V
*
¥
*
*
O
Willard


HAIR FEL
WIT!
Scalp Sore. Prevented
Sleep. Cuticura Heals.
'*l was suffering from irritation of
the scalp which was caused by dan-
druff. This caused me to scratch
my scalp and it became very sore
and small pimples appeared. It very
often prevented me from sleeping
and my hair began to fall out and
became very thin and dry.
•‘I suffered about six weeks, when
I sent for a free sample of Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment and
seeing that they were both good I
obtained more Soap and Ointment
and after using for one month my
head was healed.” (Signed) M. L.
Mahoney, Nlolesworth, Victoria.
Use Cuticura for all toilet purposes.
SoaplB..TalcumlB.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S.W.
SHK-* Cuticura Soap alfaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Glav Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
Stutes, 3d.
Clip vour nails and trim your whiskers!
“Brush-up” smart and show your breed,
Hold your own among “fine friskers,”
If you don’t you’ll run to seed I
Wear no garments antiquated,
All old-fashioned fads abjure.
For colds refuse all dopes out-dated,
Insist on Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
.—Advt.
RIDE A
O
MOTOR
BICYCLE.
The universal popularity of B.S. A.
Motor Bicycles has only been
achieved by sheer merit. Consis-
tent good reports of reliable service
under the most strenuous and
exh&ustive condit ons prove the
superior value of B.S.A. Models.
THE
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
'THREE-SPEED GEAR
is designed to ensure power and
economy on the steepest gradient,
and for sidecar work is invaluable.
Reliability, com' ort, and ease of
control are only a few of the
features which have made B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles world famous.
All B.S.A. parts are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
A guarantee of
quality for over
half a century.
Write for fall
particulars
& Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE
(R presenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents : BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Jkkri) JSniit
314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLO HELMETS
and CAPS.
Also
POLO SHIRTS
TO ORDER.
1
P 7338
Pith Polo Helmet
with 4 Rubber Veats
tt
\
f
IS
m
I
w
>T)
mi
lAWSTIC
EN who are at the forefront
of their profession, in culture,
in discrimination and ability
to choose the best, place the
STETSON in a position of
leadership in the realm of hats.
A STETSON possesses such correct
smartness, such obvious quality that it
is a distinct asset to a man’s appearance.
See yourself as others see you. Try
on a STETSON at your Outfitters
—. to-day
Sole Australasian Agents
: P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD.. Sydney, N.S.W,
*
Cl
, Ideal)
FountmilPen
This Self-Filling Type
has a most ingenious little lever which fits
flush on the barrel and enables you to nil the
World’s best Fountain Pen instantly, it s a
wonderful invention which you must see.
Everybody wants one.
Three Tvpes—“ Self-Filling,” “ Safety” and ‘ Regular." Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L.G. Sloan, Ltd., CbeljJeti Comer
Kingsway, London, England,
Sv
Australia 2 Harold D. Hixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
w
'x
Watermans
Ideal
KI
“Metropolitan Razor
99
manufactured throughout
bv CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.'
Price 10/6 of all stores,
representatives. Norman
If unable to procure send P ostal ™ te
Baker k Lomrhurst. ,n ' k ■ trpet - '■ ' • '
“Tuart”: My entry for the appropriate-
name stakes is called Odam. He is a M est-
ralian officer of cadets.
“Almost every wealthy citizen who was
worth worrying or harrying lived in per-
petual disquiet. The rich were also heavily
taxed, but in spite of everything there were
always rich men. It is wonderful how much
the richer class can bear and still be rich.
We shall find this in Australia also.” —James
Bryce, jumping from ancient Athens to
modern Melbourne.
X. S. Wales's Dooley says he and the rest
are endeavoring to reduce the cost of govern-
ment, "which is still too high.’’ The neatly-
chosen adverb is meant to imply that tin-
cost is already half-way down through his
efforts, whereas, as a matter of fact, it has
been growing daily higher and madder till
now it resembles a lunatic on the top of
Mount Kosciusko.
“Wat L. Blossom”: Gippsland, which pro-
duced the giant Snell family (B. 26/5/’2l),
■hasn’t a monopoly of leviathans. Cooktown
IN.Q.) has several. One celebrated his
10th birthday a week or two ago by tipping
the scales at 261st. His chief exercise and
amusement is swimming. Next door to him
is the local baker, who can scale only 225 t.,
and further along the street is a third who
lias been 21st. for a year or two. You can
picture what the trio would be like were
it. not for the awful northern climate, which
has pulled them down horribly.
“Friday” : The old-clo’ man is occasionally
found at sea, too. I knew one windjammer
skipper whose sister in London would col-
lect for him during his absence second-hand
slops. On his reputation for extortion his
crews invariably refrained from purchasing
his stock —until cold southerly latitudes were
reached. At 40° south the shivering crew
would waver; then, thinking of the robbery
of it, would haul off. Inexorably the ship
would still head south. At the end of a
perishing week a fo’c’s’le deputation would
be sent aft and negotiations for the purchase
of tljc entire slop chest completed in writing.
Then the old-clo’ man would alter course and
head his ship for warmer latitudes.
Judge Mailing, of M.L.’s early days,
author of “Old New Zealand,” got a bargain
when he traded with the Maori chiefs for
his big estate at llokianga Harbor. In the
original deed of purchase, covered with the
weird signatures of the chiefs, the natives
agreed to defend Maning in the possession of
his land, and the consideration given was:
2201 b. tobacco at 25., £22; 15 pairs blankets
at 205., £l5; 14 shirts at 2s. 6d., £1 155.;
10 muskets at 205., £10; 2 fowling-pieCes,
£0; 1 fowling-piece, £4 10s.; 1 501 b. keg of
powder, £3 55..; 2 51b. kegs of powder, £10;
0 spades at 55., £1 10s ; cash, £4: 1 fancy
musket, £2 10s. The lot ran his Honor into
£BO 10s.
Living in quiet retirement at Glenbrook,
on the Blue Mountains, is a dainty little lady
now 80 years of age,, Mrs. Agnes Scott,
daughter of a Waterloo soldier, William
James, who kept the Welcome Inn at Valley
Heights in the ’forties. Mrs. Scott was born
on her father’s soldier-grant outside Parra-
matta in 1841, and was taken when six
weeks old to the top of Lapstone Hill, where
the Waterloo veteran kept the Pilgrim Inn
for a few months before he moved to The
Valley. Governor Fitzroy and suite put up
at the Welcome in 1846. Colonel Mundy
was in the party, and he has left it
on record that “the inn was kept by
a Waterloo veteran with a very pretty
daughter, and there was bottled ale at 3s. per
bottle, which could not be accounted dear,
as it had come all the way from Burton-on-
Trent.”
“Red Hussar” fortissimo :
“Brekekek’s” attack on the Melbourne Uni. Con-
servatorium (B. 26/5/’2l) is more spirited than
justified. He insinuates that the course must be
inadequate because there have been no notable com-
positions by the students, and somehow makes it to
the discredit of the Conservatorium that a science
student and a med. have written more or less suc-
cessful ragtime. He accuses these gentlemen of
having composed a Commencement Fox Trot. But
they didn’t. It was proposed to have a special fox- '
trot written for the Commem. ball, but what was
played was a Commencement, Waltz, an unoriginal
medley of students’ songs set to waltz time. While
apparently condemning the ordinary diploma course
he says no one has yet attempted the 'degree of
Mus. Doc., presumably on account of its difficulty.
So he blames the Con. for its non-production of
geniuses, and at the same time for its refusal to
give its highest degree to anyone short of a genius.
He attacks the institution for admitting students
who have not the necessary qualifications for matri-
culation, in point of either education or age. But
many a sweet voice would be .unable to seeure train-
ing if its owner had to go through three years of
secondary schooling to qualify for entrance to the
Con. And many a child is far advanced in music,
and able to profit by Conservatorium tuition, before
reaching 16, the minimum age for matriculation.
“Devilfish” rakes yesterday’s ashes: —
Among those who wrote about the proposed
Botany Bay settlement before the First Fleet left
l.ngland was one who said that the plan would be
justified when Major Semple, a notorious swindler
of the day, had been transported. Sure ei ough in
1797 Semple was shipped on the Lady Shore, the
only male convict on board, the other 60 being
women. But the Lady Shore never reached Aus-
tralia. Some of the soldiers of the guard and the
sailors, instigated by the women, mutinied, killed
the captain and seized the vessel. According to a
contemporary pamphlet compiled from the letters
of -John Black, the purser, they turned those who
would not join them (about a score) adrift in the
longboat. One of the mutineers objected to putting
any tucker in the boat, saying that those in her
hadn’t Buckley’s chance of life, anyway, and that
it would be a mere waste of good food ; but he was
out-voted, and the boat did reach the coast of
Brazil. The mutineers managed to get to Monte-
video, where the Spaniards promptly confiscated
the vessel and shoved the mutineers into gaol,
while the women were given jobs as domestic ser-
vants. What became of Semple is . not recorded.
Black came to Sydney three years later as master
of the Harbinger, a small brig belonging to Cape-
town, of which the name is preserved in the Har-
binger rocks, off King Island! Governor King
bought the Harbinger, and also gave Black a; small
land grant near Sydney. The ex-purser went to
sea a-min, and in 1802 he sailed from Calcutta for
Sydnev in a vessel called the Fly. She never made
port, and Fate wrote a hazy “finis” to Black’s
career though he left a family to make its mark
ji: the new cduntry.


/
The Hupmobile gives you uncommon riding comfort with an
• noi ?y- t weighs less than 2500 pounds. Fuel mileage,
1 l ea st 25 miles to the gallon.
unusual degree
owners report,
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer. •’
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains—door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
189-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
This lathe is designed
for Screw - Cutting;
Self - acting Sliding
and Surfacing, with
Interlocking Feeds
driven by an Adjust-
able Belt.
imm
M
■
.
'
All Gears are
Machine Cut, the
Rack and Pinions
being of Steel.
fii THE SCRUTTON”
6in. CENTRE 6ft GAP BED LATHE
SPECIFICATION.
THE BED is in one piece with the tray, which makes a very rigid
THF C HFA g n^m'K eVentS distortion when bolted on to the legs.
±±lE HEADSTOCK requires no spanners for the Back Gelr or
Spindle Reverse. The small step on the cone is of large
THF d 4m^mW e u SUr^ n if- effic , ient belt contact a t all speeds. g
HE SPINDLE has clearing hole right through and runs in
mm? narallel gunmetal bearings.
THE LOOSE HEAD is of heavy design. Its spindle is of large
bearing. I'’ 1 '’ aIW&yS haS the full len?rth of the loose head to?
THE Th LIDE HEST is indexed and can be swivelled to any angle
Srbor chips are a yS CoVGred and there are no recesses to
THE SADDLE is x. slotted or planed. It can lie used for hnltinp
work on to when the slide rest is removed.
" tefSu" accuracy. ° r screwcuttl "S only, and therefore always
PRINCIPAL DIMENSIONS.
defp 6^h“lvlSpeed 3 cLl ln ,'v b f„ t^ en ar ntr S? : ls Bi "' *Me by 6in.
Diameter of front bearings 2in~ rtiam 4 >^ 1 q : dl^ mete r for l%in belt,
rough bar through sKdfi. Sw?ng“ o™r saddle"^sm A^ S Wn.
swings n gap 201 n. diameter by 4vl In wide In front ,f
Approximate weight, 9cwt. 6 m tront of face-plate.
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
OEPT. “G.”


A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Cluster Three-l>ar Brae
loot. Gold, £2O- Smaller Diamonds, £l5
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
A Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, fact.
Gold, £3/10/-
<S®3>
A. Saunders’
fine double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £26,
Larger Diamonds,
£3O, £35, £4O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A Sfumdera’ fine Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
16ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
Single Cut, £5/ 10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady's solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £2O.
Larger Diamonds, £25, £3O. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia
mond Necklet,
loot. Gold,
£BC.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O,
A. Saunders’
Diamond
and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
15ct Gold,
£3.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold patent
W ait h Wristlet, full-jewelled, lever movement, com*
pensation balance, £l2/10/-
Other?. £3/10/-. £6/10/-, £</10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set two double-
cut Diamonds,
£6/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders' loot.
Gold Ginks, set
tine double-cut
Diamond,
£4/10/-
c
A Saunders’ Single-stone Diamond Bur Brooch,
loot. Gold, j£S/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fancy Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST
CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REG.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
A. Saunders’
fancy circle
Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. (fold,
£l2/10/-
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
line Diamond
Scarf Pin,
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders' fine double-cut Diamond Sin;
Bracelet, loot. Dold, £;so.
!-stone
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders' Two-stone Diamond Bar Brooch,
loct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Kins', 18ct.
Cold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l3, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18ct.
Gold, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, loot.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamonds, £5.
A. Saunders' Lady’s solid Gold double-out Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £3O. Smaller Diamonds, £25, £l2 O,
Guaranteed.
/
■
19 Ml
f
■
M
V
a
Electric Lighting for Country Homes
PLENTY of good light is a real necessity on the farm most mornings
and every night throughout the year.
Electricity provides the safest, cleanest, most convenient and best
artificial light procurable. It gives you the same lighting facilities as
are enjoyed by your city friends.
An electric-lighting plant on your farm or homestead is not an
expense. It is a paying investment, and will permanently increase
the value of your property. It will provide a constant source of current
ready for instant use at the turn of a switch. In addition to lighting,
it will furnish power for Electric Fans, Heaters, Laundry Irons,
Washing Machines, Pumps, Grinders. Clippers, Separators, Churns, etc.
Both of the sets shown here are so simple that a child can operate
them with perfect ease and safety. Current may be used while the
generator is running, or it may be used from the storage batteries " 1
the plant is idle. An automatic signal indicates when the stoiagc
battery is nearly discharged.
Next time you are in town, call on us and ask for a demonstration.
We will gladly give you full particulars, and an estimate foi a comp e e
installation to suit your particular requirements.
Interesting literature is available for the asking. Send your name
and address NOW!
The Ball-Bearing Electric Light Plant
M.
SWITCH
lalley
LfCHT
STARTS
1000-watt
capacity.
Supplies
40 to 50
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Plant is
27in. long.
14in. wide,
21in. high.
JOHN 1
/A.
\ ,/S
£3*
PN
wsomw/ss//
i
//////
//^
jrr^
""////
/^//
////////av/
6 SON-Pty Ltd,
391-403 BourKe St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney
1250-watt
capacity.
Supplies
60 to 70
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Occupies a
floor space of
32X»n. x
12 >2 in.


MISREPRESENTATION.
IMPROPER PASSING OFF.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO.. LTD.,
OBTAIN AN INJUNCTION.
Specialisation is the spirit of the Age, and
one of the most interesting tendencies is the
.disposition of the modern manufacturer to
identify his goods by means of Trade-marks.
This system must continue to develop if
Great Britain is to maintain her pre-eminent
position in the markets of the world, because
identification tends to a higher standard of
production. Thousands of pounds are ex-
pended yearly in advertising registered
Trade-marks, and in many instances this
widespread publicity has made the public so j
familiar with these lines that the Trade-
mark actually supplants the ordinary name
of the goods in question. This sometimes
leads to merchants unintentionally passing
oft to the buying public ordinary goods under
the name of the genuine trade-marked article,
whilst, on the other hand, an unscrupulous
trader may be tempted to substitute an imi-
tation as the genuine article.
A case under notice is that of the Tootal
Broadhurst Lee Company, Limited, of Man-
chester, Cotton Spinners and Manufacturers
of high-class cotton fabrics. This is an old-
established and reputable company, and is
the proprietor of the following registered
Trade-marks, which have been extensively
advertised in Australia and throughout the
world, viz —“Tobralco,” a cotton fabric of
high quality, principally used for making
shirts; "Tarantulle,” a finer fabric for lin-
gerie and baby wear; “Lissue” handkerchiefs
for ladies; “Pyramid” and “Nova” hnndker- 1
chiefs for men; “Tootal Cloth,” a plain or
corded velvet “Tootal Pique,” "Tootal Shirt-
ings” and “Namrit,” a high-class voile in
white and colored designs.
The Company recently discovered that there
existed in Sydney a widespread practice of
passing off to the public cotton fabrics im-
properly described and represented as their
genuine trade-marked lines. Tootal Broad-
burst Lee Company, Limited, in the inter-
ests of their customers and the public, took
immediate steps to stop this method of trad-
ing. Their solicitors, Messrs. Minter, Simp-
son and Company, of Sydney, were in-
structed to engage agents to investigate the
matter. A three days’ investigation yielded
astounding results. It was ascertained that ;
no less than 25 business firms in Sydney
were selling cotton fabrics improperly de-
scribed as the genuine Tootal Broadhurst
Lee Company, Limited, products. Acting
upon the advice of their solicitors, Tootal
Broadhurst Lee Company, Limited, at once
instituted proceedings in Equity against
several of these firms. In all cases in which
proceedings were instituted, with one excep-
tion, they were withdrawn at the request of
the defendants, who entered into bonds
against any future passing off and paid all the
costs incurred by Tootal Broadhurst Lee
Company, Limited, in instituting proceed-
ings. In the one case in which the matter
was taken into court, an Injunction was
granted by Mr. Justice Harvey in the Equity
Court on February 23, until the hearing of
the Suit.
In many cases the defaulters produced
evidence showing that the goods had been
purchased by them in good faith from whole-
salers as the guaranteed “Tootal” products
In other cases it was found that ill-informed
shop assistants had misrepresented the goods
without their employer’s authority or know-
ledge. It was with a view to bringing be-
fore the public and trade generally the fact
that their registered Trade-marks are pro-
tected, that the Company sought an injunc-
tion against one defaulter. Under Australian
law the person who actually passes off and
the person who originally passes off are
equally liable apart altogether from the lia-
bility of employers, under Section 29 of the
Prices Fixing Act.
The Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company.
Limited, are not claiming damages. They
seek, as stated before, to protect the buyer
and seller of their fabrics, and to establish a
respect for their registered trade-marks.—
Advt.
J.egral Notices.
TO JAMES DENNISON, formerly of
Christchurch, widower of JOHANNA
BLACKWOOD DENNISON, and to all per-
sons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made, on the 9th
day of May, 1921, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of December, 1921, your ! i
claims to the estate of Johanna Blackwood
Dennison, who died intestate on or about the
27th day of April, 1920, at Christchurch,
failing which the said estate will be distri-
buted amongst those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day oi '
May, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO PATRICK O'KEEFE, formerly of
Drouin in Victoria, father of JOHN
O’KEEFE, and all persons claiming by, ,
through or under him. 1
Pursuant to an Order made on the 6th
day of May, 1921, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to .send in to the undersigned on or j
before the Ist day of November, 1921, your
claims to the estate of Join?. O’Keefe, de- 1
ceased, who died on or about the 9th day .
of March, 1920. failing which the said estate 1
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of '
May. 1921.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, 1
Wellington, New Zealand. 2
Amusements.
SY DN E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson,. .Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
THE ALEXANDER WATSON RECITALS.
Commencing KING’S HALL, SYDNEY
SATURDAY EVENING. JULY 2.
ALEXANDER WATSON’S
HUMOROUS & DRAMATIC RECITALS.
Box Plan at Paling's.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
yNI « N PICI L it E IIIEAT It M S
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD.. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A PIQUANT. UNUSUAL MUSICAL PLAY,
OH, LADY, LADY!
THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 2.
A Brief Revival of the Musical Play of Perennial
Popularity, K ATI S Iv.Y.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
INC.’S THEATRE. H E I, It O U it v R
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
and. GRAHAM BROWNE in ARNOLD BENNETT’S
play of Fancy,
THE GREAT ADV ENTURE,
A Tender ,and Whimsical Romantic Play in Four Acts.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
K
O W N
H A L L. M E L IJ O IT R N E.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JUNE 30.’
Also
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 2, and TUESDAY.
JULY 5.
MISCIHiV LEVITZKI,
The Wonder Piwiist of the Century.
Plan at Allan’s.
H
M ELBOU It N I
OYT’S THEATRES.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridirp).
LOUISE HUFF in
A DANGEROUS PARADISE.
Also
REEVES EASON in
TWO KINDS OF LOVE.
Prices as usual.
QLACI A I! I U M. M IS LB O U It N IS.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS . . 2/6
EVENINGS ...... 2/3
M ISLItOU UNIS
jyjA.JESTIC THEATRE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
THE BRANDED WOMAN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
I ELBA
Til EAT ItE.
MELBOUKN
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
e productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PAIIIE,
DR 1,1) and SI .I.EN ICE.
fe ItITANN IA Til EAT UK. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION Pit ”1 t’RKS.
Continuous Sessions. '•
LLAN W ILKI E SHAKSI’EAREAN
k ‘ productions.
DUNEDIN SEASON:
JUNE 15 to SATURDAY, JULY 2.
ticfval ,v ian R> nresenrative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Books and Publications.
Australia’s Popular Science Journal.
The Scientific Australian, Est. 1895. The
current number contains articles on Salt and
Gypsum in South Australia, 1 lie Ltilisation of
Prickly Pear, Wood Waste and its Possibilities,
What Pulverised Brown Coal Means to Victoria,
Reports of the Scientific Societies, New Inventions
and Current Notes. ...
The Editor invites contributions. Special prizes
for the best practical time and labor-saving hints
for the home, workshop, or factory.
Become a subscriber and thus keep in touch
with the application of Science to Industry in
Australia. Annual subscription, 7s. 6d. post free;
single copy 10d. Publisher, Peter G. Tait, Scottish
House. 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Also Publishing Office of Chemical Engineering
\nd Mining Review (monthly). Commonwealth
Engineer (monthly). Tenders (weekly), Tait’s
Electrical Directory, Tait’s Engineering Direc-
tory, etc.
If any illustration appearing in Th
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tl
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HILLIER’S Chocolates
Packed in boxes at the following prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162 Pitt St., Sydney
*
m
r,
$
/
9
m
k
m
M
cP
K
rJH
“Made to-day
Mother. ’’
n
vs
£4
IX
I »
>w/
X*
x 9
\r
A
"N
>
5:
U\l/V>
mu
Xi.K
i n ma
\ v -V
V. <s*
V-4
> vs
\Y
IT/5
Xs/-
i- ... \
./ I
rv
S'A.
!r
‘ir
.„. . v V >
I ,«'«X\; JAV/y
•dv4 \t T?/
s A\
• ' , T>^
"! < f
■ ■V
WtAW
xj/r.
xi
r?i
■ S \«
Sv' . '* A«S..^
■<r. . sj*» »»' s\v
N \N/s Y .»<#...v<,. •*...
j v> ,
. sV
y.-N
'x\X>
* cs
ygr’m/
v .s€
Y . A/y
y. •
#V # A * n I§K>» J* f
i#
m:j£ X
. 4 V
X •. f jXi
;>xK' y 4k^s
>;* v> v
*;^s : -
*<iX
jp^Nr^Vx^V
* ’A**:-
S&i&tkV&iMV**'. X&'"» >** v '
The enormous difference in
value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNFADABLE
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishinds.
Sundour is made in a
great variety of fabrics
including Casement Cloths,
Damasks. Tapestries, Reps,
Chenilles, Madras Muslins.etc
also
Sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom, Bedroom or Nursery
Of a// the best Furnishers ■
j .S ■jsSS'.-?
Morton Sum/our Jdincs
(Trade oy) Cdr/t's/c.. ■


QUICK-CUT AUTO LOGGER
Logging is hard work, therefore Loggers demand £2/2/- per day.
Logging with Auto Logger is easy work.
&
I
The Quick-
Cut, with the
wonderful
“Little Giant”
Engine, d e-
mands only
3/- worth o f
Benzine per
day.
Think it over.
Then write for full particulars to <
A. HORNEMANN, 197 King' St., Melbourne.
W. ChorleyflCo.Ltd.
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
.j*
i
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FGU COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Firefly*
Criterion “Scandal”
Palace “Past, Present and Future”
Tivoli* Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
I.nion Theatres Moving Pictures
King's Hali Alexander Watson
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Oh, Lady, Lad}'l”
Royal “Katinka”
King's “The Great Adventure”
Tivqli Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Du Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mei.ua Moving Pictures
Hkitanxia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Glaciauium Ice Skating
Town Haul Misclia Levitzki
♦
If Melbourne bad any doubts about tbe
artistry of Misc-ha Levitzki, bis treatment of
Beethoven’s “Appassionata” Sonata swept
them away. The young man is an un-
commonly fine pianist, which is to say he
lias a soul that feels the music, a memory
that brings it all to bis finger-tips, anil
remarkable skill in giving it expression.
After all has been said about genius for
music, the first essential for a pianist is a
free, fearless punch and a highly-cultured
tickle or caress on the keyboard. Levitzki
owns both. Me was not as terrific as
Carrefio in the “Marche Militaire,” played
for one of his final encores on Saturday
night, but he was immense in bis younger
and less muscular way, whilst his light
lingering in t'hopiu's “Butterfly’' study was
even more charming than a fond recollec-
tion of the lady aforesaid in that popular
piece. To compare Levitzki with Carrefio
is to pronounce him one of tbo best- -as good
as tbe best; a pianist who keeps his audi-
ence interested in bis interpretation of tbe
music be carries in his bead, rather than iii
tbe action of his bands. He has no show-
man’s tricks, no aesthetic affectations, n o air
of condescension. Mis magnetism exerts
its influence without ostentation— the mag-
netism of tin* artist who loses bis self-
consciousness in bis good work. llis series
of Town Mail concerts will run into next
week, .and will certainly tend to make Mel-
bourne blush for its glorification of Moisoi-
witsch a year ago.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the striking unim-
portance of *‘(.)h, Lady, Lady!” continues
to be most pronounced in tbe first half of
tbe first act, when tbe Farrington social
circle is making a futile attempt to attach
human interest to itself. Later on, when
Dot Brunton pops inexplicably from a big
box, with a view to burgling wedding pre-
sents, and dulness is relieved by a touch' of
“Oh , Lady, Lady!”
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Frank Dunn as
the dude detective.
the wildly grotesque
and a few snatches of
honest imbecility, and
good old stereotyped
complications and sug-
gestions that gather
around stage bedrooms
begin to raise false
hopes of sho c k i n g
breaches of propriety,
then does “Oh, Lady,
Lady!” hold the atten-
tion of the artless, and
promise to be a paying
concern. Nancy Ben-
yon, the Mollie Far-
rington of the opening-
nights. appears t o
have definitely retired
in favor of Cecil Brad-
ley, though the three-
penn y program im-
prints no hint of the
change. Plump Cecil
is quite the right per-
sonality for the job,
for she has a purely
conventional and col-
lected manner of play-
ing these familiar
stage creations. She
unconsciously reminds
one that all is vanity
in commonplace song-
andance characters.
They come dead-easy
to her, and she never
does a wrong thing or
lends an air of novelty
to the right one. Of
the fair Brunton it
can be said that, although she errs
on the side of extravagance, she is
mostly quaint and entertaining in her rest-
lessness : on the other hand, William Greene's
stares and gestures and chronic hurry are
exceedingly trying to persons of nervous
temperament. Yes, considering its wealth
of defects, the show at Her Majesty’s would
be hard to forgive were it not for eight
occasional girlfe and the costume Madge
Elliott wears for her first entrance. The
tall, slim girl is a picture in that outfit.
Nay, she is a poem, verging on a prayer.
Friday will be a great night for Gladys
Moncrieff at Melbourne Royal, for on this
last night of "Maid of the Mountains” all
stage-struck Melbourne will be there, includ-
ing the State Excellency. On Saturday a
revival of "Ivatinka” will start the last 10
nights of the season.
“The Great Adventure” continues to
tighten its hold on public attention at Mel-
bourne King’s. It is one of those infre-
quent comedies that need to get their plot
talked about iu order to push their way;
also the mistaken notion that it is a reper-
tory play with a .serious purpose in life has
to be dispelled. Marie Tempest, Graham
Browne and eo. are now widening its local
reputation as a piece of droll humor with
real characters, the soothing, common-sense
widow who takes the famous painter in
charge and enchants him by spelling art
with an aitch being the most absolutely
human character in the leading lady’s long
list of successes.
Melbourne Tivoli bill this week includes
“Jack-knife Man” as the principal picture,
and it has a couple of good vaudeville turns
in the first part. The sentiment of the film
story is Dickensesque without being mawkish,
and though Florence Vidor is starred in
the cast, she cuts no ice compared with a
small boy and two shabby citizens who dote
upon him as only tender-hearted men in
photo-plays can. The world is a good place
in "Jack-knife Man.” Articulate artists
are Jennie Hartley and Nina Gordon, who
mimics Hairy Lauder and ('onnie Ediss
quite convincingly, reveals a disposition to
sing like Gladys MoncriefF and Melba as
far as her ill-used
soprano will per-
init (for m u c h
Lauder mimicry
has roughened it),
and is a first-class
vaudeville hand on
the piano.
“Forbidden” i s
the leading feature
on the Melbourne
Maj e s t«i c pr o-
gramme this week.
It is the faithful
story of a simple
li n her ma n who
ti nd s the usual
solace in the vil-
lage angel after a
wearing flirtation
with a Portuguese
charmer. T h e
Australian Sylvia
Bremer monopo-
lises the camera in
another study o ,
quick-actioi
divorce entitled
“My Husband's
Other Wife.” At
Hoyt’s Louise I luff
discovers “T h e
J bingerous P a ra-
dise” in matrimony
with the help of a
world! y and
"The Maoris,” at Syd-
ney Playhouse.
Rotohiko, the light-
weight bass.
wealthy aunt. “Two Kinds of Love”
figure in a romance around Dead Man’s
Canyon, wherein a sack of buried treasure
gives a glitter to the final. Hoyt’s are also
running a serial, “Bride 13,” the opening
chapters whereof suggest that the lady owns
the unlucky number. At the Melba Mae
Murray is the divinity in “The Gilded Lily,”
whilst the Britannia is demonstrating the
effects of hypnotism on 11. B. Warner in a
murder story called “One Hour Before
Dawn.”
One-man shows in Melbourne: —
J. It. Eldershaw’s water-colors at the Fine Art
Society’s quarters suffer by comparison with his
previous collection at the Decoration Gallery. The
new pictures show a heavier hand in landscape ; also
his color is often muddy, and there is a curious use
of rusty, repellent browns and yellows in represent-
ing haystacks, sunburnt hills and cliffs —a use that
becomes almost a mannerism in several scenes. The
only redeeming features of these are the charming
skies, and it is odd that an artist who presents the
transient effects of the heavens so happily should
frequently paint like a potboiler when he returns
to earth. This criticism applies to almost every
picture barring “Quayside” (No. 16) and “Autumn
Silhouette” (No. 22), which are far above the aver-
age performance elsewhere. “Autumn Silhouette,!’
revealing the darkening slope of a hill crowned by
shadowy farm buildings against a late afternoon, is
underpriced at 30 guineas. As for “The Quayside,”
there is not a tone wrong. The snaky reflections of
a schooner’s masts on the dancing water are not
more effectively recorded than the sombre buildings
behind.
Septimus Power’s first big exhibition at the Vic.
Artists’ galleries impresses one in all departments.
His dog studies are as likeable as his huge war
pictures, and his landscapes have a warmth and
loveliness of color that are very appealing these
wintry times. His handling of his Australian sub-
jects is particularly refreshing, and in two or three
big-gum canvases, like “Wood Carters, Australian
Bush,” he reaches an almost Heysenish brilliancy. A
cooler but equally exuberant brush is responsible for
some notable views of Somerset and Devonshire.
“The White Cottage. Somerset.* is a fine perform-
ance, and he demonstrates a painter’s relish in the
colors of the garden. Tintern Abbey appears in two
or three canvases, and he pictures the old place
from various angles to
catch the beauty of its
broken outlines and the
vivid contrasts of its
high-lights and shad-
ows. Dog-lovers will
appreciate the vitality
of his setter snapshots,
but for the general
public his official can-
vases of the Diggers
in action are the main
attraction of his show.
He is a faithful his-
torian, “Bringing Up
the Guns” does due
justice ’to the strain
ing horses and urgent
drivers, with shell-
bursts and prying
aeroplanes to complete
the atmosphere of the
scene. “Anzaes,"” a
front view of galloping
Light Horsemen, which
was hung on the line
at the Royal Academy
in 1917, is another
example of Power’s
vigorous painting of
horseflesh. The war-
riors are not so en-
thralling ; their face:'
have a sort of parade
expression, and they
don’t appear to have
been caught on serious
business. In his pic-
ture of half-a-dozen
Australians yarning in
a /ainteen the artist
depicts the fighting
face with more success.
"Oh, Lady, Lady!" at
Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Field Fisher as
William Warty.
An outbreak of red wafers on the frames of
A. E. Newbury’s pictures at the Athenaeum is a
testimony to his growing strength as a landscape
painter. Since his lust show he has developed
immensely in sincerity and observation, and,
though he admits the influence of Meldrum, he has
none of the gloominess of some other numbers of
the cult. His largest effort, “Lengthening Shadows, ’
is characteristic of a sunnier outlook, and there are
bits of sunlit housetops, gum-trunks and roadways
wherein the strong, searching light is expressively
handled. But. lie gets his greatest effects in land-
and sea-scapes without any dramatic contrasts of
light and shade, “A Corner of the Lake” takes
the eye for the perfect appreciation of its shadowy
greens. “Still Waters,” an even more restful study
of sea-beach, is notable for its convincing painting
of the water. • In “Remains of a Pioneer’s Cottage”
the artist uses a warmer palette, but is not effusive.
Newbury is also striking in his still-life work. Ills
“Delphiniums” and “Irises” (Nos. 73 and 75) are
artistically equal to .anything in his exhibition.
Those who haven't seen “Scandal,” at
the Sydney Criterion, have only nine more
nights in which to do the deed. “Scandal” is
a warning to wilful young women about the
perils that lurk in artists’ studios after the
pubs have shut, and the furniture in the bed-
room scene is the real thing. Also, the play
enables Mrs. Brough and Emma Temple to
demonstrate, for the benefit of flapper-
actresses who gabble and make hideous errors
in pronunciation, how well the English
language can be spoken by cultivated women
who have thoroughly learned their craft.
“Wedding Bells” didn't ring long at the
Sydney Palace. Wednesday was the last
night of the show and the season. On Satur-
day Joseph Coyne will resume his struggle
with the caprices of the feminine tempera-
ment at Brisbane, and the Palace will be
tenanted by the Humphrey Bishop eo., which
gives a show of the Pelissier variety and one
that Shanghai, Delagoa Bay, Adelaide and
other centres of culture have sampled and
declared to be true to label.
There was a persistent rumor in Sydney
during the week that Weaver, M.L.A., Chief
Investigator for the Nationalist Party, had
heard a rumor that “Firefly,” at Her Majes-
ty’s, was a disloyal production staffed by
Bolsheviks, and had accordingly gone privily
to the Tait brethren and got all hands sacked
on a point of Empire principle. But, like
so many other rumors, and rumors of
rumors, this one proved to be baseless. The
show is prospering, the performers law-
abiding, and Mr. Weaver is satisfied with it.
Singing-teacher Leslie Gaze’s song recital
drew a good crowd to the King’s Hall (Syd-
ney) on Saturday night. Leslie opened the pro-
gramme with a group of Jewel Songs, new
to Sydney, singing in the bel canto, open-
throat way that is almost a lost , art with
us. Noel Bees, a pupil with a rich baritone
voice, made a first appearance, and needed
no recommendation to mercy on that account.
Violinist Hoogstoel added borders of rich
musical lacework to the evening, and Leslie’s
little wife supplied her husband’s accom-
paniments.
In “Fighting Cressy,” at Sydney Lyceum
and Lyric, Blanche Sweet is placed in an old
Kentuckian setting, whele the usual family
feud gives the only excitement. Fighting
Cressy ends it by marrying the most eligible
youth of the opposing clan. Same theatre
shows Joan Morgan as “Lady Noggs. ’ Globe
and Haymarket see Ethel Clayton passing
from the backblocks of Australia to the
baronial halls of Old England under the mis-
taken idea that she is the widow of the right-
ful heir. Of course the rightful heir turns
up, and as he is still a bachelor, space needn t
be wasted on the rest. "The Price of Pos-
session” is the title, but it’s not clear whether
Helen pays before or after the ceremony.
Crystal Palace and Strand feature Ben
Turpin as “A Small-Town Idol.”
Annette Kellerman and “my cobbers ’ are
on their final lap at the Sydney Tivoli. The
harbor city will be sorry to see the last of
the endearing and versatile little lady, and
none will be more grieved at the departure
of storyteller Stuart Barnes than henpecked
husbands whom he valiantly championed.
Blood, thunder and sob drama is still bur-
lesqued in a farcical sketch capably handled
by Bert Wiggin ; and Norma Talmadge as
"The Passion Flower” is on the silver sheet
—a Spanish coquette gladdening the heart
of flapperdom.
Alexander Watson, with a new supply of
Shakspeare, Dickens, Kipling, Barrie and
others, is billed to begin his Sydney recitals
at the King’s Ilall on Saturday evening.
The current season at Adelaide Royal is a
triumph of the elderly. O’Hara shared with
Jules Jordan all the fat parts of “Welcome
Stranger”—a well-acted poor play in which,
for example, the kindly Jew, with only two
sandwiches in the world, incredibly asks a
starving stranger what kind she would like,
simply for the laugh which is raised when
she chooses ham. “Three Wise Fools,” now
revived, seems a better play than the memo-
ries one had of it, plentiful humor leavening
the saccharine matter. O’Hara, Esmelton
and (in Sydney Stirling’s old part) Cornell
have tln> centre of the stage, but young
Robert Toms and sweet-voiced Lizette Parkes
have big chances, and Atholwood makes the
most of two short scenes. Guy Hastings
and Lesley Adrien are just starting in melo-
drama at the Prince of Wales, Laura Guerite
and a lot of others are in variety at the
King’s. Pictures have been on the strenuous
and emotional side, and at the Majestic still
are, with Nonna Talmadge as the Passion
Flower who is also a Stormy Petrel. Won-
dergrnph is pleasantly light with Bryant
Washburn in “Burglar Proof.” At West’s
Mack Bennett elaborates his fun into six
reels, which are comical enough, but too long
for the story they carry.
The music-lover in Adelaide has had to
he afoot early and late. Jascha Heifetz at
the Town Hall makes his fiddle sing through
a wide range of masterpieces, and is himself
the least-moved person in sight. The gifted
boy, with his detached air of aloofness in
the midst of ecstatic admirers', has taken a
grip on the affections of Adelaide. Maude
Pudd.v gave a piano recital at the Conserva-
tor! uni, and in the same hall the S.A. Orches-
tra, with Winsloe Hall conducting and Sylvia
Whitington as leader, cleverly contrasted
Mozart with Tschaikowskv. But this good
crowd has to perform on. Saturday afternoon
—many of its members have evening engage-
ments —and the attendance naturally suffers.
London is amused even more than usual
with the dramatic censorship. Hawtrey has
lowered himself to an American bedroom
f - ' l '* eof underwear and other intimate de-
tails, “Up in Mabel’s Room.” And the Lord
Cliarhberlnin, or whoever rules these matters,
has swallowed the whole thing with one
trivial exception: he will not have a pink
garment called by its rightful old name of
“chemise.” So various characters speak of
it as “that fluffy thing”; the legal mind
calls it “the bit of. evidence”; the comic-
man calls it “Mabel’s whereabouts.”
Moses Baritz forms an opinion:—
Olio of the best arid most interesting of “war"
compositions is that of the modery Italian genius.
Ildebrando Pizzetti. His work, a sonata for violin
and piano, is a revelation in originality. So much
has been said for it, and so much claimed, that it
was only after anxious anticipation we were privi-
leged to listen to it here in Manchester. Its novelty
is centred in the fact that it departs from the classi-
cal form, because the themes are not interchanged
by the two instruments. Each develops its own
material. There are three movements. The first,
tempestoso, where “the human soul is torn in this
furious tempest of all the elements and all the cal-
amities,” is followed by a prayer for those who
“know not wherefore they have to suffer.” The con-
cluding movement is vivo e fresco, a kind of rondo
theme. The performance here was by Elie Spivak
(violin) and Arnold Perry (piano). Mr. Spivak was
responsible a few weeks ago for the first performance «
of another sonata for violin and piano by Pierre tie
Breville. You will hear more of him soon.


■ '
K
. ijM
/
Jr//
I
m
///
''T3
»
■ ■
m
m
M-O
$ ’%>
il
> . '
'•
"•v
VS®
asm
■*#%»
%
N.
m
%. 1
sbs3
;*>
*:■
:
'
/i
If
I
mmmm
I
■ ——-—--===
'■»' XA
. Jll
«2
3;3
■■*
if
' pH
»■' -
O
i V
/
• > .
\
■
TT”W or
***»
.
■
tr '• ■
: :
mmw
\
, Y W * ■ /
&. i m m :. tHI/ >
11811
a aaa :
: :
V :
Knife in Sheraton.
Fork in Hepplewhitc.
T beautiful modelling of
<T COMMUNITY PLATE (Knives, Forks,
spoons) are a never-ending joy to the owner.
-ommunity Plate provides her with delight-
iul table appointments and inspires her with
a pride of possession.
Community Plate is guaranteed for Fifty
years of thrice-daily service. This is secured
by a Heavy plating over all and a further
reinforcement of the pieces by visible discs
of pure silver where wear is severest.
Four beautiful period designs—Adam, Patri-
cian, Sheraton and Hepplewhite.
.Makers also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY RELIANCE PLATE, guaranteed for twenty-five year.
ONLIDA COMMUNITY PAR PLATE, guaranteed for ten years
On Exhibition and Sale at Leading Jewellers and Shops
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
Established 1848.
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


ANNOUNCEMENT
OF AMALGAMATION.
The business of the Austral Nail Co. I’ty..
Ltd., and the Australian interests of Messrs.
Rylands Bros., Warrington, England, have
amalgamated and will in future be carried on
in Melbourne, Victoria, and Newcastle,
N.S.W., under the title of
RYLANDS BROS.
(Australia) Limited
as Manufacturers of Rylands Brand Wire
Netting, “Waratah” Fencing Wire and
special wires of all classes.
ADDRESSES:
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Box 845 G.P.O.
Wire Mills, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Box 245 G.P.O.
i
m
■ ssfai
m
m
w.
': ,
Looks Like
a Cuinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Fever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12 6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS.
The
Conway - Stewart
LEVER FILLER
PEN
SOLD AT ALL
JEWELLERS.
ECZEMA
GOES
And all SKIN TROUBLES,
too, when this wonderful dis-
covery is applied. Numbers of
people owe their absolute re-
covery to it. Eminent doctors
recommend it. Speedy and
sure it cures. Get a tin to-day
from your chemist, 5/6 arid 7/0,
or special generous sample
from LIGMOLLIENE GO.,
Mahons, Sturt Street, Bal-
larat. Try LIGMOLLIENE
SOAP, unsurpassable for the
skin. 1/-
LIGMOLLIENE
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“DIXIELAND,” CLIFTON GARDENS,
SYDNEY.
Clifton Clarke, Dixieland's host.
By this paper’s oldest critic: —
The late Claude Bantock had one stage virtue
which was most marked in the first part he played
in Australia, nearly 20 years ago. As the plump
C hinese mandarin in “San Toy" his enunciation of
his lines, in dialogue or song, was a lesson to his
mates. The part suited Bantock, as did the Kajah
of Bhong a while later, and he never afterwards
did anything quite so useful. Plump stolidity was
his natural line. As the paternal Quaker in “The
Quaker Girl'’ he filled the bill. Where quick, ncr
vous comedy-acting- was required he was only a
makeshift. Probably no other comedian of so limited
qualifications ever retained -ueh popularity, lie wa>
never spontaneously droll iri his life, but he had a
personality as long as liis solid flesh held to him.
Ihe last good chance he got was in “Kissing Time”
as rhe stubble-cheeked soldier ot whom Nell Payile
remarked feelingly that he wanted a shave badly.
His comparatively lean condition suggested an inter-
nal complaint, and when he recently appeared as
the mayor—a small part—in “Maid of the Moun-
tains" the change in good old Bantock was still
more noticeable. His brother beedham vi.-dced Anv
tralia years before “San Toy” was thought of. Lee-'-
hain came with the “Gaiety Girl” co. that played
“In Town." and made his principal success as a
comic curate. Since then he has done work as
a musical-comedy librettist, shining in the reflected
glory of Granville Bantock, the musical composer,
who is a cousin.
Of .he people who appeared with Bautoek
in “S ;n Toy” and “The Country Girl” 18
to 2U years ago hardly any remain with
J.C.W. The women have all passed out
<>f Sydney and Melbourne ken. Florence
Young, Grace Palotta, llose Musgrove,
Carrie Moure, Stella Esdaile, Blanche Wal-
lace, Elsie Moore, Olive l-enton, Evelyn
Muret—the Australian stage knows them
uo more.
“O. filin’*: The death of C. It. Bantock
brings to mind a humorous occasion when
his name was used to disparage the alleged
genius of Lincoln Planter, who played the
fat, domineering policeman in the Australian
production of "Within the Law.” A well-
known Melbourne critic, noted for the pun-
gency of his criticism, saluted the big fellow
as "the Bantock of melodrama.” Feeling
that there was a certain measure of contempt
in the allusion, Plumer, who was gloriously
vain, replied to the criticism in a Sydney
paper, stating, among other things, that he
bad sent his defumer a box of liver pills.
The base libeller promptly returned thanks
for the pills. “They will come in very use-
ful,” lit* added, “because 1 shall have t<- see
Mr. Plumer’s acting again, and it is sure to
make me bilious.”
“llatner": Ginger Mick, the pal of the
Sentimental Bloke, is doin’ a bunk • in
other words, Gilbert Emery is off to U.S.A.
Last week he was given a complimentary
benefit concert at the King's llall, Sydney.
Many of those who have gone ahead of Dim
have succeeded with fewer qualifications.
“Melb” : Surgeon Barrett, one of the trus-
tees of the Lady Northeote ( Victorian i
Orchestra Fund, declares that the purpose
of that fund is “impracticable.” Yet 30
y ears ago Victoria had a permanent orchestra,
infinitely stronger in personnel than Verbrug
ghen’s, and many of its members remained to
form the nucleus of the first Marshall Hall
orchestra. Why do the blatant “patrons” of
music in Melbourne cry for unreasonable sup-
port of Verbrugghen, whilst they neglect to
encourage the efforts of Alberto Zelman, an
enthusiastic conductor, and a solo violinist
of far greater charm than the boosted visitor
from Sydney?
“Fax”: Talking on behalf'of a permanent
orchestra for the Commonwealth, somebody
told a public meeting in Melbourne that
“good music is absolutely essential to the
progress of civilisation.” But what is good
music, and what, the civilisation it advances'
Only the other year we were cursing German
kultur. and the Germans had far more good
music than we.
“O. filin’’: Harrison Owen, now free-
lancing in England, has had a cable from
E. J. Carroll seeking the picture rights of
his yarn, “The Mount Marunga Mystery.”
The terms were so good that he readily put
his name to the agreement, and is now wait-
ing for the film to appear.
“Titio”: The Mermaid Play Society
(Melb.) has gone far from its original
ambition of presenting the lesser-known
elassios and the best "literary” efforts of
the modern stage. Twice now the dwindling
followers of the movement have been regaled
with plays by A. A. Milne, who has a light,
fetching style and considerable inventive
ability, but writes nothing bettor than a
bantering comedy of manners. His one-
actor, “Wurzel Flummery,” and Ins three-
act piece, “Belinda,” would be safe enough
on the commercial stage if there were less
burlesque in his characterisation. But why
his sketchy efforts are bracketed with pieces
like Masefield’s “Nan” and Yeats’s “Land
of Heart’s Desire,” which reek with sym-
bolism and farawayness, Heaven alone
knows. The few staunch followers of the
Mermaid are the last remnant of the enthusi-
asts that clung to McMahon’s Repertory
Theatre before it died, and they are entitled
to something better for their money.
“T.p.M.” : Re “Private Boxer’s” reference
to 11. R. Roberts and Cyril Mackay (B.
IG/6/’2l). The latter’s recent absence from
the theatre has been due solely to ill-health
—no one knows his box-office value better
than managers. Mackay was the joint
with Emelie Polini in “De Luxe Annie,” so
bis absence hasn’t been protracted.
“Alwyn”: “Pongo” (B. 9/6/’2l) in-
cludes “Ruddigore” among the Mosman
(N.S.W.) Musical Society’s productions.
Actually it has been done in Australia only
twice —at Petersham (N’.S.W.) by the local
Amateur Society (principals including Fred
Goldney, Frank Outred and Edie Hunt, with
\Y. H. W.hiddon as conductor), and. I think,
at Hobart.
“8.J.” (London) : Pianist Moiseiwitseh,
who married Australian Daisy Kennedy, is
back in Loudon, and has been handing words
of wisdom to the press' anent the value of
music as an antidote to crime. He tells how
in the wilds of Melbourne and the more
remote parts of Adelaide he played the piano
to aborigines “who had never heard music
before,’’ "and the effect upon their wild
natures was one of such astonishment that
it left them dumfounded.”
“Fax”: 1 listened in vain for evidence of
supreme beauty of tone in that violin of
Heifetz’s. It was a rather thin tone, nor
was this entirely due to the performer, 1
thought. The charm that lurks in the best
of the old violins cannot be concealed —for
instance, the Strad. that Leila Doubleday
played. Her perfunctory style was a great
disappointment; but the mere sound was at
times beautiful. 1 fancy an exchange of
violins between these young people would
make the Heifetz boom more fully reason-
able than it is.
“Glen II.” (London): As an outcome of
the “block booking” system —under which
blocks of Yankee films are booked on the
strength of their titles and the name of the
producer without being seen, payment being
made by instalments —English exhibitors
found themselves a t the beginning of April
with 1500 unshown films on their hands.
Pictures which 1 saw in Australia more
than a year ago are only now being adver-
tised for presentation in London. Thus "The
Sentimental Bloke”
was shown to the trade
here in September
last, but th<> public
will not .see it until
about the end of the
year.
“Chocolate ” Hillier, a popular figure with
the jossers at Dixieland carnivals.
From London: —
“Mary,” which we have been solemnly warned is
“another ‘lrene,’ ” is about to go up at the Queen's,
with Australia’s old friend Ambrose Manning in a
leading part, and with the Australians Decima and
Eddie Maclean as its star dancers. The Magleys,
who appeared under Mclntosh's management a while
back, are also to provide a dancing turn. Minnie
Love has arrived here, and is to have a part in a
new Wylie-Tate revue, “The Passing Show of 1921."
She is advertised as “the Australian Vi. Loraine.”
When the Firm introduced her to the Commonwealth
she was “the charming English soubrette.” The
other fellow’s sister is always the best,
“Old Pot”: The finest bedroom scene 1
recollect in the Inst 40 years was in ‘‘The
Thief,” produced by Margaret Anglin.
When the plump Canadian began to disrobe,
and Henry Ivolker threw off his dress-coat
and swung himself into a dressing-gown, the
house gasped and waited for more —which it
didn’t get, for the couple began an aristo-
cratic barge about money, and Margaret’s
peculations were discovered. Ivolker and
Miss Anglin never did anything quite so
good in the rest of tin* repertoire. Still her
Reekie Warder in “The Truth” was almost
as good* it was in “The Thief” that
Titheradge made his re-appearance after
many years abroad, and his son, Dion, made
a hit as the cub in love_ with Margaret.
“T.D.E.”: Dan Barry died too soon.
What an ideal Thespian knight he would
have made!
“J.T.D.”: “Dido’s” remarks about the
old bouquet-throwing habit (B. 26/t>/'2l )
sends me back 30 vears or more to the
Hibernian Hall in Swanston-street. The
prima donna, having sung “The Wearing of
the Green,” was accorded a tumultuous ova-
tion by the Celts present. A magnificent
bouquet was .brown upon the stage. The
singer fondled it to her bosom : then bury-
ing her face in it, she threw a somersault
in a paroxysm of sneezing. The floral
tribute had been treated to a liberal dose ot
cayenne. The infuriated Celts to this day
declare that it was a gift from the Z.Q.M.
of the L.O.L.
"S.T.S.”: About the quaintest thing seen
in print lately is in the long puff paragraphs
about Xazimova in "War Brides” —“sorely
against his will, but afraid to offend the
Kaiser, the King of Prussia drags his coun-
try into the war which Germany had declared
upon Britain.” Of course the stuff comes
from some American manager, and they as a
class are almost contemptuously ignorant ot
anything outside their immediate business.
But one would have thought that SQinewhere
between a Los Angeles office and actual print
in Australian papers a critic would have
been met with to remember that the King
of Prussia was the Kaiser himself.
“Norbeli” : 1 concur with “Ilang Over's"
(B. 10/G/’2l) rejection of the idea that our
fathers —and mothers —wouldn't stand a bed-
room on the stage. Although W. Shakspeare
knew nothing much about twin beds, double
beds were Ins long suit. “Othello, "Borneo
and Juliet,” and "Taming of the Shrew” all
have double beds well in the spotlight. In
"Henry VIII.,” Queen Katherine is in bed.
Lady Macbeth drifts around in her nightie,
and’.what price "Pericles”? But perhaps
Wm. didn’t write that. Still lie did write
"Cymbeline,” and caused the villain lachiiuo
to hide in a Saratoga in Imogen’s bedroom, s<>
that he might gloat over her beauty spots.
Coming to more recent, classics, we have
Camille finishing up in Armand’s arms in
bed. And there are two bedroom scenes in
good old “East Lynne.”
“Mirzn”: Contralto Dorothy Murdock,
the blonde Williumstown " (Vic.) star, now
busy in the Cold Country exchanging her
golden notes for the more negotiable Brad-
bury, blossomed into a pianist and had won
a £5O Ormond Exhibition at Melbourne I ni.
before someone discovered that she had a
voice. Consultations with Melba and Fritz
Hart followed, and the Dame was most
emphatic: “Yon simply must have your voice
trained.” Anne Williams did most of it.
“Alphonse”: The Woodrow Wilson habit
of sending Notes lias been developed in an
Australian theatre. Each evening one of the
heads sits in the stalls and looks for faults
in the get-up and deportment of the company
before him. Every shortcoming is pencilled
in a notebook, and the contents thereof pro-
vide ammunition for memos, one, say, advis-
ing the soubrette that her lip-salve must have
slipped last night, another informing the
heavy that the creases in his pants are work-
ing round. Though this system has been
heavily raked by slackers who have suffered
by it, I. am far from regarding it as un-
necessary. Many a flagging musical comedy
co. might have its first-night smartness re-
stored by the knowledge that a blue pencil
was working in front.
“Ilamfat”: An ancient theatrical poster,
still in place, was brought to light in the
dismantling of a tobacconist’s shop in King-
street, Sydney, the other day. It announced
a performance of “Struck Oil” at the
Queen’s Theatre, in March, 18711, when
Baker played John Stofel and J. T. Farron
Lizzie Stofel. The Queen’s was in York-
street, between Market and King streets. In
1850 it was the site of a circus; but from
1854 it sported a “legitimate” theatre. First
it was “Our Lyceum” (G. V. Brooke, with
Robert Heir and Fanny Catheart, played
there under the management of Stephens and
Craven), then the Theatre ‘Royal, the
Adelphi, and the Cafe Chantant. It became
the Queen’s in 1873.
“W.A.H.”: A Melbourne man submitted
several compositions to various Australian
music-publishing houses and was promptly
turned down. He thereupon forwarded
some of them to London and some to New
York, where they were immediately pub-
lished. Now these particular pieces are ex-
tensively stocked by the very same Aus-
tralian music-publishing houses that origi-
nally refused to touch them. The magic of
the Imported Thing!
“C. Ockne.v”: Since Barry Lupino left
London seven years ago (he is just back
there after a tour of S. Africa), a younger
member of the numerous family has song-
a nd-da need his way into the spotlight.
Like his elder brother, Stanley has proved
himself a brainy comedian with artistic (and
expensive) tastes. Tired of buying motor-
cars, he has lately taken a lease of a 14th-
century Warwickshire castle, with deer-park,
moat, drawbridge and haunted chamber all
complete. "I think I am the first West-
End comedian to have a castle for a resi-
dence,” said Lupino to the inevitable inter-
viewer. “I intend to have a house-warming
aud invite all the Hippodrome company.”
And they sav there are no new musical-
comedy plots!
THE SHOOTING STAB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Bancrofts have been in partial retirement
since 1593, appearing at charity matinees, and enjoy-
ing a great fortune, which has enabled them to live
in Berkeley-square.”
When in my green and salad age
Ambitiously I trod the' stage,
Yearning to soar to stellar heights
[ “dressed the stage" in cotton tights;
l yelled “Hooray!" or laughed “Ha, ha!”
As peasant, soldier or .lack Tar :
And built my castle in the air—
ln other words, in Berkeley-square.
From “Omnes” to small parts I rose,
Played “Charles, his friend,” in borrowed clothes ;
I followed• where the hero led.
Sometimes three words to him t said.
1 stanched the wound when he was slabbed,
Or said “Stand hack V when he was nabbed,
i thought we made a pretty pair.
And hoped for Fame- and Berkeley-square.
Continuing my sure ascent.
As first old man or walking gent.
I cursed my daughter, fired the mill.
Or helped the villain steal the will:
In turn as miser, spendthrift, crook,
Cubtmtn or coiner, parts I took.
• Once in “Fast Lynne" I played Dick flare,
And dreamt that night of Berkeley-square.
Then I did heavies ; villains sleek,
Who love to persecute the weak
In gloves, top-hat ami shiny boots- -
'the kind the virtuous gallery hoots.
Through five afets nightly I raised h —.ll
Till, foiled just as the curtain fell,
I made my exit with an air,
Bound, l believed, for Berkeley-square.
A hero 1 became at last,
And top-lined many a touring cast.
Suburban housemaids hailed my powers,
Sajes-ladies sent me notes and flowers.
Proud barmaids' friendship I could claim,
They called me by my Christian name.
This compliment, deserved, though rare
Built up my hopes of Berkeley-square.
Art is not really long, I know :
I left the stage some years ago.
I’m now a canvasser for Bloggs,
Whose specialty’s time-payment togs.
I'm married, too; my wife's the star,
A cast of nine proclaims me “Pa.”
My wife says Art’s the Devil's snare —
I've missed the 'bus and Berkeley-square.
x.s.w.
NOBMAN CAMPBELL.


0
IIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Q)
iiiiiiiiiii mm
liiiimiimmil
1
Cl .
iiniiiiiiniiiii
I \ B
llillllilllllllllilllllllllllllllilliinill
Five Points of Superiority
of the Columbia Grafonola
1 TONE-CHAMBER
Built like a ’Cello
The reason for the perfection of Columbia Vocal
Records. The Violoncello is, in tone and quality,
the nearest instrument to the human voice.
2.
MOTOR
A Perfect Engineering Unit
Smooth, frictionless running insures long life of
mechanism and records.
3. TONE-ARM
Smallest in Size—Greatest in Volume
This most important feature is, in the Grafonola,
strong and compact and a splendid conductor.
4. SOUND-BOX
Secret of Columbia Fidelity
Columbia accuracy of reproduction—the “ living
tones ”of the artist—is largely dependent on this.
5. Tone-Control Shutters
Complete Control of Tone
Enables the volume of sound to be graduated
entirely at the wish and will of the operator.
Columbia
J J
SilON 3I3VM|
3
2
s?
n
HI
Wholesale
Distributing Agents:
GRAFONOLA LTD.,
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney,
N.S.W.
HUGO WERTHEIM PROPRIETARY LTD.,
Agents for Tasmania and Victoria.
171-173 Street, Melbourne,
, Victoria.
KING & KING, LIMITED,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.,
BS-88 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
CORNELL LIMITED,
122-130 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
South Australia.
ARTHUR H NATHAN LIMITED,
Customs Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
BANNATYNE & HUNTER LIMITED,
Allen & Wakefield Streets, Wellington,
New Zealand.
WEBLEY, SONS & GOFTON LTD.,
Christchurch & Dunedin, New Zealand.
H. R. FIRTH, Centra! Arcade, Perth,
Western Australia.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.. Pertli and Geraidton.
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Reclfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTVI
• . - - \ k
MAKERS
s
mm
Q
4*
mmmmmm
ms
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
t a y
A
FOX RIFLES
Winchester Repeater, .32 Cal.,
Model ’92, the ideal Fox Rifle, made in
full- and half-magazine Carbines, £7 /17/6.
Rifles, £B/10/-
Same model, in 25/20, .38, .44 Cal., at same
prices.
Winchester Repeater, Model ’9O,
fires AV.R.F. Special Cartridge, £B/5/-
Ross .303 Cal. Match Rifle, £6/10/-
9 M.M. Browning Rifle, Special High
power Automatic, £l5.
su%ce
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Three* horses that ran prominently in the
Melbourne Cup of 1919 promise to have something to
say in. the <5. N. Hurdle next Saturday. They are
Two Blues (lOst. Sib.), British Arch (lOst. 51b.) and
t elecles (lOst. 31b.). To estimate their hurdle
chances on their flat-racing performances is no easy
matter. Two Blues has the pull over British Arch
•seeing that he finished third in the Melbourne Cup,
whereas both the Arch and Teleeles tired at the finish
and heat him again in the V.R.O. Handicap (lf
milc) at even weights. The one point in British
Arch’s favor is that he’s only eight years old, as
against nine debited to Two Blues. Teleeles will
meet both of his old opponents on vastly better
terms than when there were no hurdles in the way.
His pull over Two Blues will be 251 b., which is a
big consideration in a three-mile race. In age he
has no advantage, being a nine-year-old likewise.
Nor has Teleeles been as often over the sticks as the
son of True Blue. And, although he was much faster,
he was not nearly as good a stayer as the other
fellow. The question is between the extra turn of
speed that old Teleeles possesses and the superior
stamina that carried old Two Blues into Melbourne
Cup .notice two years ago.
The result of the hurdle race at Moonee
Valley last Saturday was the best advertisement
Teleeles has received since the season started. With-
out attaching all the importance in the world to
Fiscom’s defeat, an onlooker could not deny that
Teleeles put up the best performance of his young
jumping life thus far, and seemed to justify trainer
Holt’s opinion that he would win the National at
Flemington. Still, a two-mile go is not always a
reliable trial for the longer struggle. A younger
horse would have this scribe’s vote if the best of
the young ones —Fiscom, Haoma, Merry Bob and
Truepenny—looked as trusty as were Sandule, Bright
Plume and Tullilah, the three placed five-year-olds
in last year’s G. N. Hurdle. They don’t. ' Fiscom.
for that matter, is only a four-year-old. This may
be an old nag’s year for a change, and although a
horse that runs his race at the rear of the field is
more likely to strike trouble than a pacemaker who
avoids the risks of falling over something that
blunders in front of him, or of getting bumped when
lie is safely landing, the pick in this case shall be
Two Blues. By no line of argument can the aged son
of True Blue be made out a good thing. He isn’t even
proved to be a good weight-carrier over three miles.
But his third with fist. 12b. up to two brilliant
horses in a Melbourne Cup was good form, and his
recent way of corning at the business end of two-
miles over the Flemington hurdles was something to
remember.
Enrytlimic, with lOst. 51b. in the Mel-
bourne Cup, lOst. 41b. in the Caulfield, and lOst.
21b. in both Epsom and Metr-op, heads the four big
Spring handicaps. Only once before in half a
century has the handicapper given a horse more to
carry in the two miles at Flemington, and that
was when Carbine was handed lOst. 121 b. for the
Cup of ’9l. Only twice in the same period has
the handicap started at lOst. 51b. Carbine in the
year he won humped this weight, and 12 years
later San Fran arid Wakeful were bracketed with
the same impost. This time the handicapper could
do nothing else, for on Sydney Cup running Euryth-
mic stands out a long way ahead of any other horse
in. Australia. In 'relation to others one or two
queer variations in the estimation of Eurythmic are
shown by the weight-fixers, For the Melbourne
Cup he is reckoned 2filb. better than Sam Hordern’s
English importation Violoncello. For the Metrop.,
however, Violoncello is considered to be within 111 b.
of him. Fairv Bob is put within lfilb. of the top
weight for the Flemington engagement, and for
Randwick is 261 b. - lower down. The disappointing
Sardis —he has never , yet run a decent race in Aus-
tralia —is placed 211 b. from Eurythmic in the Metrop.
For Melbourne his right place is considered to be
301 b. away. One handicapper estimates Violoncello
to be as good as Richmond Main. The other says
Richmond Main is 171 b. better. Curiosities of the
distance handicaps are the burdens allotted Wish
Wynne, a Sydney sprinter. For the Melbourne Cup
she is given Sst. lib., and for the Metrop. Sst. 31b.
—and the chances of her ever even starting bevond a
mile are Buckley’s.
* ' * * *
iiie ‘‘Springboks” were generally expected
to down N.S.W.’s Kugby Cnion exponents at Sydney
Agricultural Ground on Srturday, And they did—-
by 25 points to 10. But comparing this their ini-
tial exhibition with the brilliant showing of M.L.
against a pretty similar combination last year it
is obvious that S’Africa"these days, like Australia,
is well below par. Van Heerden, who pouched five
tries when marked by Lane, ami the same plaver
up against “Slip” Carr, were very dissimilar. Can-
had too much pace for the Dutch speed-merchant,
and could always tackle him from the side or be-
hind whereas little Lane had to bring the human
battleship down by the bows —-a verv different pro-
position. Morkel, the stately full-back, did not
make a single mistake, and, unlike Nothling, his
imperturbability was icy. No other member of tlie
team showed up as a star, although Weepener was
always prominent in spoiling the opposition’s passing
rusnes. Illegal tackling by the visitors was frequent.
Carr was the pick of the home backs. He toiled
continuously in defence, and frequently used his
pace to cross over and give a hand on the other
wing. He got little chance in attack, as Mingav-
a.l ways drew the defence on to him before he got
the pass. A long pass or a well-placed kick would
have given him his opportunity, as Mever laid
little chance of footing it with him. Wogan was
\ery sound, and always brought his man down,
but Sheehan Walker and Mingay were poor. The
' llnige crack was too slow in e-etting the ball
away, and Walker showed signal inability to anti-
cipate the pass In the forwards Holdsworth was in
even way equal to any of his opponents, and Thorn
Uiougl. smallish, was always in the thick of it.
lie ball rarely came out through the forwards of
either side.
* * * *
riipre was little to choose between the
Springboks.and N. S. Walls on Monday's game- and
only sheer bad luck prevented the Welshmen from
making a draw of it. Nothling presented the visi-
tors with a try, which was converted—practically
handed them the ball when nobody was near—and
towards the end Raymond was twice brought down
on the line without a comrade in sight to pick up
the ball and fall over. De Villicrs took Merkel’s
place at full-back, where he proved much slower.
«ni Heerden ue\ci cot a brealc on, heinc too well
looked after. H. Morkel ran and fended off strong]\ in
a most pronounced “don’t-argue” style, and when he
s<,o«ed his try Raymond and Nothling failed to stop
him by tackling high. The African forwards, who
bU i . t ! le scrum anyhow, no one having any
settled position, cot the ball on practicallv every
occasion, hut in the open they were out-
classed. On the line, however, they excelled. The
local backs let the forwards down. Carr never got
a direct pass, the hall usually going to Sheehan,
who invariably cut in and was downed. When the
ball went out to Raymond, the other backs rested
with fatal effect. Wogan missed the easiest of
passes a few yards ►rom the line, and all through
fumbled the ball. Mingay was too fond of kicking,
and Walker was not nippy enough at half. Holds-
worth, of the forwards, tried all through, and, like
Thorn and Fowlos, followed up every opportunity.
It was the forward play, especially in' the flist haif,
that had the Afrikanders so rattled.
Seretary H. R. MILLER, of N.S.W. Rugby
Leage, who isn't worrging about the bailiff
these days.
Tlie League selectors, who are searching
for the Australasian 28 for the Cold Country tour,
pitted N.S.W. against a combined XIII of All
Blacks and Queenslanders last Monday at Sydney
Cricket Ground. The pace was a scorcher. In the
first Spell the locals were given plenty of the
leather from the downs by Pearce, and Thompson
set his rearguard hopping to such good purpose that
by lemon-time the Blues had totted up 23 points
to the combined team’s 14. The second spasm saw
the Red and Black vanguard tear through the Blues.
O’Donnell, the ex-South Sydney hooker, was played
in place of the M.L. specialist Somers, who retired
in order to allow O’Donnell to oppose Pearce. The
change benefited the Red and Blacks, and their
backs got much more of the ball than when Somers
raked, The visitors’ forwards outrucked the locals
and cut even with them for the ball. The backs
combined well, and threw the ball about like trades-
men. Avery, Bennett, Potter and Richards played
like demons, and never let up. The Blues, per
medium of tries by Border (2) and Craig, with 2
goals by Horder, finally ran out victors by 30 points
to 21. The best side won, but they were
extended to do it. Dick Vest was the best Blue
back, his running, tackling and general play being
quite, classy. Horder, when given room in which to
move, made hacks of the opposition. Of the Blue
'unguard Bert Gray, until injured and replaced by
Laidley Burge, was the daddy, with Shultz, also
injured, a great grafter. Fraser as custodian was
miles below his vis-a-vis Fewin. Brown, the Banana-
land centre-three, played a heady game till his
injury, when he was replaced by Gorman, who also
shone. Little Flanagan, behind'the Red and Black’s
pack, set liis backs moving great guns during the
closing session, when Thompson, suffering from a
damaged -shoulder, could do little or nothing in
defence or attack. It was a great game, with file
sympathies of the 20,000 spectators always on the
Vrii° rs sll^e ' 'H |e early match was pla veil bv two
-VIII s selected from metropolitan first-grade players
deemed to also be in the running for inclusion
among the tourists.
Glelie outplayed Balmain last Saturday in
the last round of the X.S. W. League premiership at
Sydney' Cricket Ground, and won bv 10 points (2
tries 2 goals) to 5 points (1 try 1 goal).
Norths annexed the premiership with an unbeaten
record and 17 competition points, scoring 172 points
agamst 82. Easts arc runners-up with 15 points,
in a armty are the wooden-spooners. Glebe II lifted
the 2nd-grade premiership for the fifth time and for
tne fourth successive season,
* * * *
T nder Australian Rules on Saturday New-
town defeated Sydney by 73 points to 38. The
wmners led at half-time by 54 —17 and by 65—24 at
the three-quarter mark. Sydney strove hard in the final
quaiter, but the defence of the Blues was imprex-
I- rurlang, Finch and Gloury each got two
i, Newtown’s 10 goals. Up to three-quarter time
1 addmgton led Balmain by only 34—28 ; but in the
last term they romped away and put up 21 points
against 6. Final scores 55—34.
On Monday Railway and North Sydney plaved
their postponed match. Railway won by 67—-36.
it all happened in the second quarter, When the
ultimate winners put on 26 points to 7. Railway
broke new ground by indulging in low passing shot's
instead of the orthodox high-kicking and marking.
The result puts Railway and Norths level at tin
top of the premiership table.
( ftnterbury, which heads the Sydney
.Soccer Premiership table, beat Campsie Thistle by
two Konjs to nil on Saturday. Wyber (who plaved
* Frfat game tor N.S.W. v. Queensland recently) and
A. rorbes found the net. Coley was great in goal.
In seven matches Canterbury has put up 27 goals
against. 3. Balmain Fernleigh and Pyrmont drew
on greasy Wentworth Park. Scores, 1 all. Glades-
vino (the recruits) got their second win of the
season by defeating Eastern Suburbs bv 2 o. in
the other game, Granville romped over Annandale
by 10 goals to nil.
* * * *
Fred Given, who died at Ilawera (M.L.)
the other day, was one of the Dominion’s finest for-
when Rugby Union boomed there. Between 1890-
1000 he pulled' on the jersey for Otago against
Southland (9 matches), Wellington (7), Canterbury
<"). Auckland (4), Ilawkes Bay (3), Taranaki (1)
and Manawutu (1). lie was also a fine oarsman and
breast-stroke swimmer.
In order to win the world’s championship
on Saturday next, Carpentier will have to knock
Dempsey out inside 12 rounds—-assuming the Yank
doesn t deliberately foul him. There is no reason
to think that the Frenchman capable of the feat,
and the betting-—which is about three to one on
the mun who licked Jess Willard—accurately re-
flects public opinion. Under the original contract
the men were to get half a million dollars for their
36 minutes’ exercise—Dempsey three- and Carpentier
two-fifths. It was arranged later, however; that
they should take 60 per cent, of the gate receipts—
ami the fact that both were agreeable to the change
is an indication of the probable size of the crowd.
There is to be accommodation for 50,000 —each spec-
tator being guaranteed an uninterrupted view of the
whole ot the ring—and the prices will range from
£25 a seat downwards. The fight is due to start
at 3 p.m.
’ * * *• *
Leo Patterson, the colored youth from the
1T.8.. who, immediately on his arrival in Sydney, was
given Sid Godfrey as an opponent, proved signally
unworthy of the honor. For exactly 3min. 30sec.,'
at the Rushcutters Bay Stadium on Saturday night,
he evaded the doom which he had sensed the moment
he entered the ring; and then it overtook him.
\Yith a pistol-like crack the Auburn champion’s
yight glove found the visitor’s jaw, and Joe Wallis
intimated that all was over. Why these colored
third-raters from abroad should be given the prefer-
ence in the matter of big fights with such consistency
is a mystery to 1 all but the Stadium management;
but if persisted in it isn’t going to improve the
status of the boxing game.
Boxing is a funny game. When Llew
Edwards and Dick Johnson met at Brisbane a few
weeks ago they gave so ladylike an exhibition that,
after vainly urging them to ’it and not cuddle, tilt-
referee ordered them out of the ’ouse. But in the
Melbourne Stadium ring on Saturday night the same
lightweights provided the scrap of the season—fast,
sparkling anti strenuous. It lasted 13 rounds, and
each lad had given and taken a heap of punishment,
when Edwards’s body blows —he had been landing-
right rib-benders in every round—broke the Vic-
torian up, and a left hook finished it. The beaten
man fought brilliantly and was leading on points
at the end of the twelfth. But the dour little
Welshman thought a bit quicker and punched a bit
harder, and so Johnson was carried to his corner in
the last phase.
Ray Weekes, who jolted Torn Phillips into
Dreamland in the course of a Sydney prelim, on
Saturday night, gets his pugilistic ability from his
dad, Wally. Wally Weekes. who is now a pub-
keeper, was one of the best ring-men of his day.
When not handing out stoush young Ray indulges
in church work. He was. largely instrumental
recently in getting a new Sunday-school, built at: one
of the nearby surf suburbs.
In Sydney baseball on Saturday Dulwich
Hill (leaders in the major premiership) licked Bur-
wood by six runs to two. Great pitching by C.
Hodgson kept Burwood clown to one run in both
the sixth and ninth innings"; while Dulwich Hill
scored in four out of eight innings. University s
defeat of Kiora (8 —0) was a matter of safe hitting.
Marrickville defeated Petersham in a seven-innings
tussle by 5 —4. Petes, did best with the club and
scored ;i hits agaihst 6. but Marrickville showed
up best in base-work and generalship. In the other
matches Leichhardt overwhelmed Bondi by lc 1.
Waverley outed Gordon by 17—0, chiefly through
tine pitching by N.S.W. rep. cricketer Alan Kippax ;
St. George defeated Newtown by 12—11, and Keg-
worth put Lane Cove down by 17—2.
C. FISHER,
of Carlton, one
of Victoria's
great goal
kickers.
T h e M e 1-
bourne - Carl-
ton mat c h o n
Saturday was Carl-
ton’s throughout.
They were always,
a little surer,
faster and clev-
erer ; but in the
last quarter the
Fuchsias put up
such a determined
attack that they
pul 1 e d up to
within 7 points of
the t'hl Hines, and
the latter's bar-
raekers thanked
their stars' when
the bell rang—-62
, points to Mel-
bourne s 5.5. True to tradition Geelong played a
bne (tame away from home—against South —held
them sale up to the last change, and then let it go
through slackness and lack of brains. At hall-
time they boasted 38 points to South’s 13; at
lemon-tune '£>2 to South’s 81). Then thev brought
superfluous men buck to stiffen the defence, when
<1( teiniiiHMl jitf.icks, oven if unsuccessful, must have
prevented South from Scoring. But South saw their
chance and grabbed it finishing with 74 points
to Geelong s .>3. ’Ro.v achieved their first victor\
bis season by piling up 85 to Essendon’s 40, and
tin Richmond Tigers demolished St. Kilda with 'ease
and i ertaint.y -89 points to the Saints’ 42. Next
Saturday, with halt the first, round over, Carlton,
on the" own ground, meet ’Wood, and as both teams
,uc dead level at the top of the list the uproar will
tie considerable.
* * * *
A first-innings .score of f>2l against
Northampton (Macartney 193), and to follow that
an opening knock of 075 against Notts (Macartnev
•> lu) such were Australia’s hr t two efforts against
county teams. The response in both cases was miser-
able, though there was nothing • wrong with either
ot the wickets. A Winchester or Eton XI would
probably have done better: it couldn’t have done
worse. Apparently sheer panic is the trouble with
some of the teams that meet the tourists; and the
present ruined morale of the Motherland augurs
badly for the sporting side of the Test which begins
on Saturday at Leeds. L. 11. Tennyson, in taking
over the captaincy from Douglas, is offered in con-
sequence the somewhat invidious iob which Eoeh
accepted when, owing to circumstances over which
he had had no control, things were going rottenly
lor the Allies in Flanders. The choice of Tennvson
is plainly a measure of desperation, as he has never
been regarded as even a brilliant conn tv captain,
and his experience of the ways of the Australians
is very slight.
Barney Oldfield got four catches behind
the wicket against Hampshire, three against Surrey,
and four against Nerthants. In the last-named
match there were no sundries in the first innings and
only two in the second. Carter, however, in addi-
f ion to being deadly behind the sticks, has scored
33 and 46 respectively in the Tests.
* * * *
There have been only four better efforts
than Macartney’s 345 against Notts: Archie Mae-
laren’s 424 for Lancashire r. Somerset : C. W. Gregory’s
383 for N.S.W. v. Queensland ; Clem Hill’s 365 for
S. Au.s. v. N.S.W. ; and R. Abel’s 357 for Surrey v.
Somerset. It is the best by a member of an Aus-
tralian XI on tour, the next being Armstrong’s 303
r. Somerset and Victor Trumper’s 300 v. Sussex. .
Macartney’s last three innings have been 105 r.
Hampshire, 193 v. Northamptonshire, and 345 v. Notts ;
and in 22 innings he has missed double-figures only
three times. Incidentally, he moves to the top of
the Australians’ averages with 1448 runs averaging
72.4. Macartney also holds another record for Aus-
tralians —he scored a century in each innings in two
matches —119 and 126 for N.S.W. v. South Africa. *
in 1900-1, and 142 and 121 v. Sussex in'l9l2.
Sixty-four lined up in tlie big open A.A.A.
road race for the “Yours and Mine” trophy at
Sydney on Saturday, and K. D. Norman (East Syd-
ney) won by 10yds. from .1. H. Dillon (Botany)
and W. Porter (East Sydney), 'the latter put up
fastest time (14min. 54see.) over the alleged four
miles. Novice cross-country, champion B. Swin-
bourne (Botany) finished fourth and made fastest
unplaced time (14tnin. 57sec.). It was the tenth
race for the utensil, and no athlete has yet won it
twice, and so acquired the right to stick to it.
Passed the last tape at Moree (N.S.W,).
Billy Thompson, better known as “•Combad-ello
Billy,” who lowered all' records on outback running
tracks a quarter of a century ago. The abo. might
have made a world’s champion had he kept beer
out of his training diet.
TWO BLUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, let me win, or let me lo.se,
I’ve got me pile o’ shekels
On my old ploddin’ fr'end Two Bloos,
An’ you cun ’ave Telee/es.
(If that’s the blighter’s proper name,
I’m not a skoller at the game,
But I’ve a notion, all the same,
It doesn’t rhyme wif “freckles”).
Fair on the rocks I’ll be, dead broke,
If Two Bloos fails, you rumble ;
You fink me mad to back a moke
Wot’s orfer. had a tumble?
l’er’aps I am, per’aps I’m not;
I ain’t the only fr’end ’e’s got—
Some toffs an’ touts wot knows a lot
Ain’t saner than Your ’Umble.
’E’s slow at first, 1 must admit,
’E ain’t a bright beginner
Wot’s soon fed up an’ docs a flit —
Ole Two Bloos stays to dinner.
A glutton for a distance race,
It's at the hend ’e shows ’is pace;
I fink Two Bloos will get a place,
And ’ope ‘e’ll be the winner.
I’m sportin’ the two bloos, o’ course;
My gurl (these tings amuse ’er)
Sez: “Let yer muffler spell tile ’orse
W’en you come ’ome a loser.
Eight bloo an’ dark, a pretty check
A pretty punter to bedeck,
Will show, you’ve got it in the neck,
You silly ole Two Blooser!”
VICTORIA.
G.K.


Healthy and Be Happy.
unless vou are
fit '' OW that life is reall - v worth living
t/ie'wY.r.J ,e . rves -"if ihusoles are working; properly you’ll find that
tne woild is a jolly good old place, after all!
ejdov' ' <H " "'orh. enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure and
enjoy the company of those around you !
f'°od health is Ihe most glorious asset man rail have, and—
YOU CAN HAVE IT!
Ky taking up lteg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course of
Health and Strength Culture you can build up the organs
that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from the system,
and make the whole body work in perfect harmony, as
Nature intended it to.
Then you will feel the wonderful glow of perfect pjivsical
ntness. ihe difference will surprise and delight you!
The exercises are clear and simple, and are adapted to YOUlt
particular requirements.
\ou can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course it you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet. “Health
and Strength from Self-Culture." It will be bound to inter-
im’ 011 ’ ]f you want better health just write vour name and
address across this advertisement and send ‘it with three
stamps to us. W e will forward the book.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
512 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR SHOES LAST LONGER
PLIABLE* ° f ' prolon * in * t,l(
of shoos is to koop the uppers SOFT AND
I OSTOCKS SH'IE DRESSIXG, which is produced by leather experts, REPLEN-
k THE NATL HAL OILS of the leather, and this prevents
the uppers becoming hard and cracking.
COLORS Black. Brown, Dark Brown. Ox Blood. Champagne.
Light Grey and Dark Grey. IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Nigger Brown Cream in bottles and tubes, and Nigger Brown
Paste in Tins, are now on Sale.
OI ? T AIN AB L E EVER V \Y HER E.
BOSTQCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Shock and Strain—
Even on a smooth surface a motor-ear is hikJci- terrific
strain, but where the road is broken and shocks combine
with strain, only the excellence of the material used in
the vital parts will prevent a serious accident.
All work or repairs done with the famous
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Brand Motor Gar Steel
will give entire satisfaction.
S.D. 16 Special Nickel Steel (to case-harden), specially
suitable tor Gear Wheels, Gudgeon Pins, Sliding
Shafts, Countershafts, Ball Races, Cardan Shafts,
and all small stampings.
S.D. 20 High Tensile Nickel Chrome Steel (for oil-
hardening). Suitable for Shafts, Axles, Spindles
Gears. Very tough, and will withstand great strain
and shocks.
High Tensile Chrome Vanadium Steel, for
Back-axle Tubes, Axle Swivels, Crankshafts, Trans-
mission Shafts, Swivel Arms, Stamping, etc. High
Resistance to sudden shocks and to alterations of
stress.
Ehfi stocks of all sizes on hand. For further details
write Department “A,” or telephone City 9863 or 7819.
THE EAGLE &. GLOBE STEEL CO. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
O’' 1 ► S
879-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Eatrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Paul & Gray, Etd., NEWCASTLE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE
R. E. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart,
TASMANIA
IB®
■
m
m
##*
mm
0 o*l
to * **♦ *
# *
'M : '
V
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any sizs hole up
to 3>4in. in
plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
jaques BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Males: A. Leplastrier & Co.
Co., Brisbane; West Australia: W.
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington.
, BMiney. Queensland: Australian Machinery
G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie. New Zealand
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
m
Sold Everywhere.
A dreary place would be this earth
Were there no little people in it.
The sony of life would lose its mirth
li ere there no children to begin it.
There’s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS
Do not delay a single day. Avoid serious illness
by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
"TVre.
ALL BRITISH
Tk BURBERRY Weatherproof
The ALL-WEATHER
COAT FOR ALL
MEN OF
FASHION.
So light that
.V o n ar e '
hardly con-
scious of its
weight, yet
sufficiently
warm and
snug ser-
viceable alike
in light
shower or in heavy down-
pi air. possessing unri-
valled dignity of sty I >
and absolutely unique
quality of texture —the
“Burberry” is ever the
overcoat choice of the
man who cares.
AN EXTENSIVE
RANGE of STYLES
is now available in the
new consignments we
have just received, and
comprises the finest selec-
tion of bqth men’s and
women’s
that we have had to
show for several seasons.
We hold the warrant as
duly authorised and ap-
pointed Burberry Agents
for Melbourne.
Write for informa-
tion and Price List
Free.
LINCOLN, STUART <&. CO
PTY., LTD.
(Appointed Burberry Ascents),
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


n
*
Seleded Pure Wool Rugs
at Farmer’s Bonus Sale Prices.
A Double Saving.
Rugs are the need of the hour. Farmer’s Bonus
Sale values the “opportunity” of the moment.
TRl —Travelling Rug, pure wool throughout, Australian
manufacture. Size, 72 x6O ins. Weighs 4 lbs. Colours
fawn, grey and brown shades. Usually, 3s/-. Sale, 32/6
TR2—Woollen Travelling Rug, Australian manufacture;
a strong, closely woven rug, good Winter weight; finished
with a self fringe at the ends. Size, 80 x6O inches. The
colours are chit fly brown, and green mixtures —very
serviceable colours. Usual Price, 45/-. Sale Price, 42/-
‘ To calculate your savings deduct the
10 per cent, bonus from these prices.
Farmer’s., Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. . Box 497, G.P.O.
iHvwrtOj
S“woT*'\SJs
%
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Fo.'d- r rink in concentrated
form. Instam.y available by the addi-
tion cf hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd.. 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sires of all Chemists and Storey.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C 9
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
Out-West
Watches.
Gent.’s Open-face
Oxidised Steel, 15-
jewelled Lever
Watch. 84/-
Our celebrated super “Fx and R” Watches are
the BEST for Out-West Districts.
The movements are f-plate Levers.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have 15 jewels, with jewel ruby roller.-.
They have compensated and adjusted balancesl
They have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust-and water-
proof.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING AND KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: “The
watch has kept excellent time, stood hard rid-
ing, buckjujpping horses, and all sorts of
weather. 1 don’t think a better watch can be
got.”
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain l-'iirnres.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
Next Her M[?] Theatre.
St. Paul’s was crammed by 31 o’clock the
other morning to .see Martha Beatrice Wd-
son metamorphosed into Mrs. Edward Sel-
wyn Chase. It was a most elaborate knot-
tying, with full choral trimmings. The bride,
large, fair and impressive, was clad in white
charmeuse that clung in appropriately classi-
cal lines. Over all was the wonderful veil
embroidered by the nuns of the Abbotsford
Convent, who stitched into it blessings for
the girl who has helped their work so earn-
estly. The train was a gorgeous affair lined
with acres of puckered georgette and carried
by two white-satined kiddies. The small
Cairns girl had one corner, and the Bain-
bridges lent their diminutive son for the
other part of the job. Colonel Head’s daugh-
ter was bridesmaid —all pale amber and
blue and gold. The bride entered the church
by the far door —-past the Chase memorial—
and at the finish was kissed and fussed over
by dozens of old parishioners of Canon
Chase. Hurstbridge and Panton Hills
emptied nearly the whole of their popula-
tion into the cathedral. The bride’s four
large, fair, handsome sisters were in the
front pew—the first time “Bijou” Wilson’s
live amazon daughters had all been together
for many years.' Mrs. Pelham Chase gave a
wedding breakfast, that was really lunch,
out at Toorak, and about a hundred rela-
tives joined in the eating. In the afternoon
Mrs. Poison, the bride’s sister, gave another
party at Menzies’ to hundreds of guests. The
cake was cut at Menzies’, and afterwards the
bride got into grey togs and went off a-
motoring with her clergyman. The two
will ’moon and motor for a month before
settling down at the vicarage at Panton
Hills. Bijou Wilson left daughter Beatrice
his cool stores and homestead at Hurstbridge,
and the girl has been carrying on this busi-
ness ever since. Her manager, Mr. Hill,
took the bride to the altar and handed her
over.
The Gaud Mayor repeated the Heifetz
foolishness by giving a Town Hall “recep-
tion” to Levitzki. Some of the councillors
and lots of other people had more or less
delicately hinted to the worshipful Swanson
that he let, the municipal dignity down a peg
when he officially welcomed the Russian
violinist on his money-making errand, but
the potentate persisted in repeating his in-
discretion when the pianist came along. The
Taits are greater artists than any of the
musicians they import.
A lot of thanks the Gaud Mayor got for
receiving a young violinist in the name of
Melbourne! The young stranger afterwards
spoke his mind freely to a lady interviewer.
He told her that Melbourne seemed a "pro-
vincial city.” That’s just hew it icould
strike an intelligent foreign youth who found
the Chief Magistrate waiting on the Town
Hall doormat to receive him.
Lilian Birtles, the Titian-haired charmer
who was with Oscar Asche on his second
visit to us, and was a beauteous Titania in
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” has just
secured an order which is the formal pre-
liminary to Ihr politest English method of
divorce against; her baronet-husband, Sir
Gerald Maxwell-Wiltshire. The two were
married in Melbourne during the Asche sea-
son of 1912, and the infatuation of the
young man, who sat in the d.-c. at the Royal
night after night, was a matter for cynical
comment. At the time he had not inherited
the title, and although some of th<> Best
People were prepared to treat him with the
disinterested friendliness due to an incipient
“Bart,” he revealed no fondness for the
stately homes of Toorak. He succeeded to
the baronetcy and much pelf in 1914, and
became bankrupt in 1919. The lady returned
to the stage, appearing in “The Maid of the
Mountains.” The baronet’s old ’ome had, to
be sold, and for some time he was boarding
at a Turkish bath, while his spouse, out of
a “shop,” inhabited the wilds of Putney.
To see Archgaiters Donaldson, of Bris-
bane, snatched away from them and trans-
lated to Salisbury (with a seat in the Lords)
has made some prominent Anglican church-
men very sore. They were ready to pull
every string they knew to have him trans-
ferred to Melbourne. There is a fear that
Dr. Long, of Bathurst, may also be missed,
and that some obscure provincial cleric from
the Cold Country who can be “managed” will
be selected for the Melbourne job.
Hearkening to the arguments of a deputa-
tion of Peacock has set up a Board
to regulate pay and condlt.ons of service in
board.ng-houses. The deputation inc.dentally
mentioned that board ng-schools, including
some of the big colleges, are uone too con-
siderate. A beginning has been made to
organise the employees at these places, with
the result that the head of one of them has
burst into the most indignant print aboul
the “impudence” of the invaJ.on. If there
comes a big increase in wages students’ fees
will go up further —and then won't there b*
a fuss!
There are the makings of a prettv ouarrel
at the High Church of St. John. Cyril Barclay
has got a month’s notice to quit h s curacy
to make room for Ainslie Yeates, of Sydney.
As incumbent or vicar-general, or both, Arch-
deacon Hindlev is doing the bowing-out and
welcoming-in. Barclay declares he won’t go.
and practically invites Hindley or Yeates to
come and put him out. He claims he has
fulfilled what The Bulletin set out as the
specification of the contract he took on, *'te
put life into the most somnolent Anglican
conventicle in Melbourne.’ Barclay • also
accuses the present Anglican administrat.oD
of breaking the promise of Arch gaiter -
Clarke to' make his job permanent. Barclay
has plenty of ammunition for the tight. He
is no poor curate, for his novelist-mother ha*
just left him a big share of £34,000.
Professor Gregory, of the New York
Museum of Natural History, has come a-
hunting bones of Australian animals, lie
will probably wander much around the Howe
Peninsula near Gabo, which is a treasure
ground for both geologist and biologist. Dr.
Barrett, a keen naturalist, captured a rare roe
at Mallacoota Inlet, and carried him, alive
and kicking, to his Toorak home, Heimath-
The surgeon nearly lost his life in the scrap
as the hopper took to the water -and gave
battle there. In those pre-war days Bar
rett kept a fine collection of native animals*
in a wilderness adjoining his carefully mani-
cured gardens.
Dean Hegarty, of the Sacred Heart
Church, Carlton, celebrated the golden
jubilee of his ordination on Friday. Bishop
McCarthy (Bendigo). Vicar-General Barry
and no end of clerical notables were there to
do honor to the jubilarian. The book, ring and
biretta forming the insignia of his office
as a doctor of divinity were presented to
him by Bishop McCarthy, and it. was a
great day entirely.
They still seem to cut up well. Henry
Wvagge, a minor squatter, who died at hi*
suburban home, Caulfield, last month, left
£73 600. It goes to the and three
children. Wragge squatted in N. S. Wale>
and made most of his money there.
John Gurner, K.C., is slowly moving to
wards the convalescent edge of the sick list,
on to which he was hurled by a motor-car as
he was crossing Flinders-street -a fortnight
ago.
Victorian artist Christine Asquith Baker
will open a show of her _paintings in th<
Athenaum Hall on July 5.
The Misses Montgomery are having a ball
in the St. Ivilda Town Hall on July 22 that
will be the last word in flapper events. The
proceeds are to go to the Church of England
Boys’ Home after the Protection of Animals-
Society has had a cut.
The Vacuum Oil people have a social
dub, the Gargoyle, and the Gargoyles spread
themselves in a jolly jazz at the St. Hilda
Town Hall the other night. Naturally
everything ran very smoothly. i •
Federal politician
Best’s dame, pic-
tured herewith by
Broothorn, is one of
the live wires in all
philanthropic and
patriotic undertak-
ings in the Mel-
bourne district! Her
good judgment and
willingness .to work
are the ‘infallible,
touchstones of .suc-
cess. Incidentally,
she is nearly as
great an authority
on local politics as
her husband. Yet
she has a quartette
of grown-up step-
children as well as
three young daughters of her own ; and sin
really mothers them, notwithstanding all he*
committee and organising work.
The other afternoon Mrs. Harry Prell
hostessed a glad afternoon-tea at Toorak ii*
honor of her visiting niece, Mrs, Georg»
Wentworth. Besides the crumpets and
cream-cakes there was music. Fan Dango
Mack a y (who is much taken up with arrang-
ing a half-guinea jazz at Carlyon’s on July 11.
to swell the Anglican Boys’ Home funds)
sang brightly; Mrs. Reynolds (Maggie Jer-
vis), in a d.nky little pink bonnet, a:red her
fine mezzo-soprano, and Meg MacDonald
fiddled delicately and temperamentally. The
hostess's sister-in-law, Mrs. George Fair-
bairn, was amongst the crowd. She and
her political husband have just had re-
assuring news of them daughter, Mrs. Stewart
balma.n, who collapsed on the voyage to the
Cold Country. An abscess had formed on
her lung, caused, it is said, by a fragment of
tc.oth which had strayed thither.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart has ordered the cham-
pagne and decorations for a two-step frivol
at Logan House. She had fixed Friday in
race week, but pushed the affair backwards
to make way for the Alfred Hosp.tal-City
Newsboys’ two-step at the Bob Knoxes’
house.
Tommy Ryan, State member for Essendon,
who is a sort of perpetual pres dent of the
British Empire League in Melbourne, has
bagged our Earl for a right-hand guest at
a dinner at Menzies’ on July 5. To keep
his Ex. in countenance the Lawson Cabinet
is to drop in too.
The foundation-stone of the new nurses’
home at the Alfred Hospital is to be laid on
July 8, and instead of issuing cards a general
invitation is extended to see the Pres.dent’s
wife, Mrs. George Fairbairn, do the trowel
work.
The Dental students took care that their
annual ball was a thumping success. The
Gaud Mayor and his lady, having scratched
for the event at the 59tli minute, ’Varsity
dignitary MacFarland took the debutantes’
salute and seemed to enjoy the job. Dental
President Clarke’s elegant young wife held
the Mayoress’s unclaimed roses. Dr. Spring-
tliorpe blew in with several professional
brothers. The president fed the official group
before the supper rush set in, and much
oratory was let loose under a seething mass
of colored balloons in the banqueting hall.
Although the wearing of military uniform
was authorised, only one khaki suit was
aired, but war decorations were flown in
plenty.
Things are buzzing in preparation for a
Carnival at the Glaci. on July ~. No one
will be allowed on the ice unless in fancy-
dress, so Snssiet.v has been busy thinking.
Girls with original ideas and a clever pair of
knitting needles are evolving some mysteries
in the way of abbreviated clothes. Curious
how often fancy-dress with women runs to
leg.
The Tiv. serves tea in intervals of the
movies, and the women count it a great
idea. Eve tempted Adam with an apple,
but any show can catch Priscilla with Pekoe.
Even the bargain-sale people have found that
free tea is a lodestone.
Mrs. Lewis Lett has just flown back to
her husband’s plantation on the \ ailala
River, Papua, where the oil is expected to
come from. .She brought her youngsters
down to put them to boarding-school, and
caused a sensation in Heidelberg by having
three Papuan native servants in her train.
They all put up at Mamma Honman’s home.
Dr. Honman has gone to Rabaul as P.M.O.
in New Britain, and Miss Honman has
joined him as housekeeper.
Most Australians have had very little idea
of spaces in “the Islands.” Mrs. Lett re-
ceived numerous congratulations that sister
and Dad would be. so near her. Their places
are merely a fortnight’s steam and schooner
from one another —and more than that if
the channels happen to be excited and turbu-
lent. But since the new mandates came into
force hundreds of our young men are being
drafted to spots in the wide areas Up
There, and Australians have begun to study
their new geography.
The Argus Spowers’s chick Celia has just
become engaged to Harold Parbury. The
young man’s maternal grandmother, who
died a couple of years back, was one of the
pioneering Hentys.
Justice Higgins is not notably punctilious
in matters of millinery, yet he took excep-
tion to two members of the profession appear-
ing before him wigless and gownless in the
High Court the other day. They merely
wanted to discontinue a suit. After admon-
ishing the pair and saying that “when he
was in court he was in court,” ’s’Onor
showed a way out of the difficulty by decid-
ing to treat the application as though it were
made in chambers. Having just resumed
ordinary Bench-work after so much arbitra-
tion business (none of the parties wear horse-
hair in the Industrial Court), he probably
thought it was up to him to have the stage
set properly-.
Is this a concession to our sex ? Taking the
view that a letter written by Mrs. Sophia
Schlicht to Mrs. De Beare, telling her to keep
her daughter away from the writer’s house
if she didn’t want her to figure in a divorce
suit, was more catty than slanderous, a jury
of six at Ballarat who tried the claim for
£5OO awarded a fiver to the maiden. A
Sydney dame who was raent oned inci-
dentally in the. letter also claimed damages,
but the jury didn’t award her anything.
Although the Cobram people won’t dance
at their own funerals they are getting mighty
near it in organising a jazz and euchre
party : ‘to raise funds to restore the fencing
at the cemetery.” One local wag refuses to
support the affair on the ground that those
outs'de the cemetery don’t want to get in, and
t'’o«« irside can’t eet out, so what’s the use
of the fence, anyhow?
The Old Boys of the Church of
Grammar School have made G. A • . • ner
their new pres.dent. Railway smoke
Clapp was the principal guest at
night that marked the installati » jje
made a little speech in the place
had thought the thoughts of vout .
The strong and thoughtful countenance m
the adjoining photo by Lafayette = mus
artist H. Septimus
Power, now holding
an exhibition at the
Vic. Artists’ gal-
leries. Power is a
Maorilander w “ o
spent his nonage in
Melbourne before
goins to S. Aus.,
where he lived tor
live years, and then
left for Paris to
improve his art. He
was a student at the
famous Acadeinie
Julien under Jean
Paul Laurens, and
from the start
worked hard as an
animal-painter, de-
voting himself par-
ticularly to horses aud dogs. Power was
one of our official war-artists, and the huge
canvases lm has completed from his sketches
at the front demonstrate his virility. Four
inspiring records of the Digger in action -
each about Bft. square—have been acquired
by the Australian War Museum, while a fine
picture entitled “The Red Cross Train.
France,” is owned by the Imperial TV ar
Museum. Power, who is remaining in tin*
Commonwealth for a couple of years, intends
to put some of the life and Inverness of the
country on canvas for an all-Australian
show when he returns to London.
A group of Australians in Paris felt quite
home-like recently when they saw Hugh
Ward and Melba driving in company, Hugh
was on his way to Brussels to get his decora-
tion from Albert, and Melba was on her way
to give her farewell concert. The concert,
by the way, was an artistic triumph, although
the house was no more than half full. The
King and the Queen of Belgium were pre-
sent and loaded the Australian song-bird
with congratulations. Hugh went to Brus-
sels with Joseph Ward of Maoriland and
his lady, and they had their interviews with
the King and Cardinal Mercier in company.
Everywhere you go these days you read a
libel on the Anzacs. “Late A.1.F.” Late
A.I.F. Ask the Germans.
Adelaide rings through:—
The other afternoon little Priscilla Wei gall made
her first appearance in .an official capacity when
she opened the new kindergarten at the West End
Mission. Both her parents were indulging in a
mild attack of ’flu, but the Hon. Nigel brought her
along. A couple of days later their Exes, gave »
small dance for thp younger set.
Representatives of all former battalion clubs have
handed together in a Sailors, Soldiers and Nurses
Relatives’ Association, and (he new body made its
how with a welcome to Lily Butler, the “Mother
of Blighty,” at the May Club a few mornings ago.
Adelaide lost a popular young man by the passing
of Lionel Watson Hack, fourth son of the late Chas.
Hack. He was on the staff of the Eastern Extension
Co., on whose behalf he had visited many part.-
of the world. His widow is the youngest daughter
of John Hill (Clem’s father), and a couple of years
ago was the S. Aus. ladv-champion tennis-player.
There are two children.
So popular is jazzing here that charitable com-
mittees find the easiest method of extracting coir;
from the public is to give them a trot for their
money. On July 13 a dance will he given at the
Palais Royal in aid of the Free Kindergarten. And
for August 3 everyone is asked to trip and raise
funds for the Boys’ Home at Walkerville and the
St. Mary’s Mission for Girls.
Ellis Silas, the young Australian signaller-artist,
came back to the Wattle I)3' the Commonwealth.
Two large pictures of his, “The Roll Call, QuinnC
Post,” and “The Charge at Bloody Angle,” are now
in Melbourne, and he intends to hold an exhibition
in Sydney shortly.
Professors Edgeworth David and Douglas Mawsou
and Captain and Mrs. S. A. White lunched with' their
Exes, last week. The Captain afterwards, in a lan-
tern lecture, told of his travels in Centralia.
W. If. P. McKenzie, general secretary of the Aus-
tralian Student Christian Movement, accompanied by
Miss Florence Young, arrived a few days ago, and
they have been addressing meetings in the interests of
distressed students in Central Europe. They were
recently in Switzerland, where -they represented Aus-
tralia at a World’s Student C.F. gathering.
Mrs. Anna Basedow, who died at Kent Town •
June 19, was the only daughter of the late Dr.
Carl Muecke,- and the widow of M. P. F. Basedow,
who represented Barossa in the S.A. Assembly, was
for some years a member of the Leg. Council, aud
in the ’eighties was Minister of Education in the
Morgan Cabinet. Mrs. Basedow had resided in the
State for 73 years, and left five daughters and six
sons. pr. H. Basedow, who has done notable work
in anthropology and geology, is one of tlic latter.


English
Lever,
18ct.Gold
Plain
Demi-
Hunting
Case.
High-
Grade
Fully-
Jewelled
Movement,
Special
Quality,
£5O.
GOLD WATCHES.
A Gold AVatch at times forms a very useful and
acceptable gift for a man—particularly if the
movement is one which can be thoroughly relied
upon. The firm carries a large selection at prices
to accommodate every requirement, and as their
stocks represent only the very best English, Swiss
and American makers, every watch has their
guarantee, and may be absolutely relied upon for
accuracy and service.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
Mint. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Buckley’s High-Grade Suits
AN OPPORTUNE OFFER.
By challenging every item of
expense in the making, and
through our buying organis-
ation embracing the oppor-
tunity of securing woollens
for cash at a time when mar-
kets were below replacement
values, we are able to offer.
14 8 16 Gn. Suits
for
£911916
Made to Measure
The materials are all imported
fabrics, consisting of real Scotch
Tweeds in unlimited designs and
colorings, West of England
Worsteds in check, diagonal and mix-
tures, also Indigo Blue, Saxony and
Cheviot Serges. Buckley’s Suits are
always uniform in quality and price.
No matter where you live the cost is
the same, because we pay carriage.
If unable to call, write for Patterns
and Self-measurement . Form —-posted
free.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN LTD.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
J!
0
&
' ■
n i\ v
MBS
mi
1
m
tradeFQX MARK
MOTION When buying these celebrated Serges
protect your own interests by seeing
that the material is Branded every two yards with
our Trade-mark. Without this brand you are not
buying the genuine Fox Serge.
FOX BROTH ERSeC9 LIP
WELLINGTON , SOMERSET ,


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V /
CHAMPAGNE
mmimm
%Ljy
Champaghk
'-hariesHeidsieo^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
5%
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
JVI. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
BOND’S Australian-Made
'raft
m
m
“ Ladder-
Proof”
Hose
In PURE SILK of
Luxuriously Soft
Quality, but possessed
of such remarkable capacity for service that
EVERY PAIR IS GUARANTEED
not to Ladder, Hole, or Tear.
« LADDER-PROOF ” is undoubtedly
the Hose that YOU ought to Buy
“FOR SPECIAL WEAR.”
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
loin the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
How easy it is to warm our hearts to-
wards a charity that gets its kick-off from
Government or Admiralty House ! The com-
mittee of the Women’s Hospital, knowing
this, has been clever enough to interest the
G.-G.’s lady in the Crown-street institution ;
and by royal barge and fourpenny ferry
dbzens and dozens of us made our way to
Admiralty House in the dour blast of a chilly
afternoon last week. Thick layers of women
spread themselves over the furniture and
purred approval when a ball was decided on.
I‘eople nearly fell over themselves offering
to pay for the rent of the hall, for the pro-
grammes, the orchestra ; and prizes for every-
thing were showered upon the committee,
in addition to paying for the hall Mrs.
Waley is getting up a poker evening to help
the expenses fund, while Mrs. Maclurcan is
arranging a bridge tea-party in the Went-
worth. A committee was formed, with Chief
Justice Cullen’s lady for vice-president;
Mrs. Tony Hordern and Mrs. Leslie Wal-
ford are secretaries. The tickets are only
12s. Gd„ and the Town Hall is the appointed
place.
Hard times aren’t affecting the clergy—
last week a ; teady stream of wedding fees
flowed into St. Mark’s at Darling Point and
St. James’s. One of the prettiest brides
was Margaret Tooth, daughter of the A. W.
Tooths, who married ex-soldier Hugh Mac-
neil, of Rockhampton. He is of the Marma-
dillo station branch of the family. Padre
Howard Lea heard the vows at St. Mark’s,
and a group of choristers mingled “The
Voice that Breathed” with their own. The
bride’s dress was carried out, on simple yet
graceful lines, in soft white satin, and the
usual court train was in the hands of tiny
niece Catherine Bundle, while sister Isabel
and Marjorie Rich, in tones of yellow taffeta
and brown tulle, looking like a bit of autumn
landscape, followed Margaret up the long
path to the church. Mrs. Charlie Bundle,
Margaret’s sister, received the wedding
guests at her home in Mona-road. Telford
Simpson, who faces his own nuptials with
Ursula Catterall in a few weeks, was grooms-
man.
In between the hour of Margaret Tooth’s
wedding and the early evening, Isabel Nor-
ton’s friends had added masses of white
flowers to the palms and greenery that had
been the decorat ons in the afternoon. Isabel
is the young eldest daughter of the W.
11. Nortons of Edgecliff; and her choice of
husbands fell on Thomas Maxwell Scott, also
of Edgecliff. This bride was all white and
silver, and a whole flight of bridesmaids
made up the picture. Like all the brides-
maids of the week they showed the yellowness
of autumn in their dresses and bouquets.
Isabel’s father flung open the Norton house,
Ecclesbourne, for a wedding dance. Max
Scott, who was a major in the Flying Corps,
is son of Ernest Scott, the architect, and
follows dad’s profession. The bride and him-
self played in each other’s back yard when
she wore pinnies and he knickerbockers.
Brig.-General Chauvel’s wife isn’t going
to be the only one of the Jopp family to own
a distinguished soldier: sister Dora married
Licut.-Colonel Bundock with military honors
at St. James’s last week. The bride’s dress
was of ivory mirror velvet (that's London’s
last word in bridal finery), and sported a
train from the shoulders of old Carrick-
macross lace which small train-bearer Nancy
Fprrest carried high and extended to its
farthest, stepping with as much pride as
a small page in a fairy-story illustration.
Nancy caused nearly as much comment as
the bride in her primrose frock and her
cherry-trimmed tulle cap. The wedding
feast,* which was spread at Mrs. Edward
Noyes’s Darling Point home, had quite a
Bananaland flavor, the Jopps and the Bun-
docks being among the old families of the
Northern State. Bride’s mother looked very
handsome in a black georgette frock wrapped
about with a black satin cloak, and she wore
a tight-fitting hat that flared at the sides
into saxe-blue wings. The Chauvel lady
was like a new penny in the bronze of her
dress and like a fresh-minted sovereign in
the gold-tissue of her hat.
Geoffrey Forrest Hughes, M.C., since the
war the only surviving son of the Hughes
knight and his lady, has announced his en-
gagement to Margaret Vidal, daughter of a
Gloucestershire Anglican clergyman.
The engagement of Molly Dangar, Mrs.
Dick Dangar’s pretty flapper daughter, to
Dennis Allen, has delighted the members of
both families. The young woman, like her
mother, is a keen judge of a horse; and the
Arthur Allens’ heir, though he served through
the war in the Flying Corps, is as keen about
rape-riding as his brother-in-law, Ken Aus-
tin. They were the Prince’s chosen op-
ponents when he negotiated the Randwick
fences and rode desperate finishes on the
“magpie” track.
Musical Colleen Cohen sipped her wine
under the canopy of the Great Synagogue last
week; and her father, .solicitor Keith Cohen,
handed the other beaker to the also-musical
Dr. Vivian Rich, thus adopting him as a
son. Colleen’s frock, though planned on
young lines, was built of rich brocaded
satin, with a silver tissue over-dress; and
her head was enveloped in a tulle mist that
cascaded into a train. This was kept out of
tln> dust by Nancy Joy Parker, who was cob-
webby lace with pale pink shining through,
suggesting the interior decoration of a shell.
Bride’s mother added the last soft touch to
her grey dressing with a feather toque, all
blue and lilac. Bridegroom’s mother and
sister Ruby helped to make up the party that
ate the wedding-cake at the Australia, Ruby
wearing a dress of mauve shot taffeta,
bunched and ruched —quite in the newest
Paris milkmaid effect. A wrap of ermine
and a black picture-hat were additional
fineried. The newly-erected sign, “Confetti-
throwing Strictly Prohibited,” outside the
Synagogue door, was a great set-back to a
small girl who had arrived with a tegular
Big Bertha of the missiles. Grown-ups really
are the narks in an otherwise glorious world!
On a day that was first cousin to a Syd-
ney summer Dr. Eustace Pinhey married
Freda Dove at the old church of St. Helen’s,
Bishopsgate, London, where the bride arrived
in a cloak of white mirror velvet trimmed
with ermine. The wedding breakfast was
spread in the famous Leathersellers’ Hall,
which is in St. Helen’s Place. This is said
to be the first time a Guild Hall has been
given over to a marriage feast: but Freda’s
father is a long-standing member of the
Common Council of the City of London. And,
somehow, as the song says, “Australia will
be there!”
Fair-haired Doris Shelshear, ol Green-
wich, has engaged herself to John Jamieson,
of Huntley's Point, and formerly of the
A.I.F.
This week Vanda Leefson, second daughter
of the Leefso'ns of Woollahra Point, says “I
will” to Ernest Morris, of Randwick. A
honeymoon in England, France and America
follows.
Here is Ruby Davies, of Mosman, who
left by the Ceramic for a seven-months’ visit
to England. Dur-
ing the war she
with Mr. J- Mc-
Swiney organised
the Scarlet Follies,
a company that gave
hundreds of concerts
at camps and hospi-
tals. The work of
the combination was
artistic, and as
accompanist a n d
composer of manv
of its numbers Miss
Davies was a tower
of strength. A
couple of mono-
logues of merit also
owned her as com-
poser. She was one
of the first to take
concert parties to Liverpool Camp in the
early days of the war, when the stage was
made of barrels and planks. And she was
press secretary of the fruit and vegetable
fund, which did much good work among the
soldiers’ families.
Mother Xavier, the Mother Rectress of the
hospital at Eewisliam, has been called to
Rome. She and three other notable Reverend
Mothers are to meet in council. This is the
first thing of its kind that has ever happened,
so you see the Feminist movement makes
itself felt even in the Vatican.
The Art Society is showing work by at
least eight students whom Art in Australia
will soon have to recognise Most conspicu-
ous is Percy Eagles, the youth whose life-
drawings and sketches show the freedom and
boldness of maturity. His jumper girl, with or
without her loose tweed overcoat, is a real
girl; you see her on the ferries and the
trams, and rushing down Paling’s lane to
her music or singing. She's Miss Australia.
Then there’s a fascinating group of color
sketches filled with brooding quiet by the
little gipsy-brown girl Birkenhead. Other
girl prize-winners were Miss Coghlan and
Miss Toove'y; and J. Walsh. W. G. Gates,
P. ,T. Norton and H. Neville Barker took the
other prize money.
The Arts Ball is going to be different from
every other ball ever held in Sydney. Twenty
or so panels arranged by the Royal Arts
Society, the Society of Artists, the
Women Painters and the Arts and
Crafts will fill up bare spaces between
the columns of the gallery: and after the
hall is over these will be raffled. And Fred
Searl is thinking out a floral scheme that
will tone in with the yellow ochres and
ultramarine blues.
Last week the letter-writer who went out
to Matraville found that the desert had
blossomed and become a-riotous rose-garden;
and the roses are in the best, place of all,
for they flush to pinks and reds -in the
cheeks of little girls. Everybody knows the
beginning of the soldiers’ garden-village. Dr.
Arthur found the idea; and the Voluntary
Workers’ Association helped him to carry it
out. But the voluntary workers with the
best heart in the world couldn’t build the
homes quicklj* enough for the number of
deserving totally or partially disabled men.
So a Hoard of Con-
trol was formed, and
the Board of Control
said, "We must put
paid labor on to this
job,.and hurry it up,
or we’ll be keeping
the Blessed Damozel
company hanging
over the balustrade
of Heaven before
the settlement is fin-
ished.” So the Board
of Control rolled up
its sleeves, with
Chairman Harrison
at the head (this is
his picture along-
side), and the 270
homes will be com-
pleted just as soon
as that wonderful man who Has put'all his
own business on one side in the interests of
the Soldier Settlement can get hpld of the
money to build the unbuilt, lie got £19,000
of the Homes Day Fund devoted to the Set-
tlement, and the manner in which he lias
pirated City Tatt.'s, Tattersall’s and the
grain and produce people is notorious. The
tenants pay seven shillings a week (no rates
and taxes') for a cottage of pretty design, no
two alike. Almost the entire 73 acres have
been intersected with kerbs and roadways,
and in the middle of the settlement is a
turfed recreation ground for the smaller
kiddies (already 140 young Australians are
growing in health and strength out there) ;
and for the larger boy or girl there’s the joy
of Maroubra Beach just the other side of the
magic hills. Who wants to supply another
cottage for a disabled soldier? This bit of
Australia has been built upon voluntary
contributions, and the thought and labor,
apart from the actual laying of brick to
brick, has been given free. Cheques for an-
other £BOO, please!
It might almost have been “the four
hundred’’ at the Wentworth one night last
week, the American colony was so strongly
represented, when Loreto old girls fore-
gathered for their first dance. Dr. Dan
Kelly’s wife was president and clothed her
white shoulders (the Coffee family all
have an alabaster quality of skin) between
dances in a beautiful stretch of ermine.
At Mrs. Kelly’s table sat the Neil Mac-
donalds, whose doctor-son went off the other
week to live under the star-spangled banner
with his little Yankee bride. Dorothy
Coffee, who was as surrounded by Aussie
YaC.’s as an enemy gun, looked very like a
bit of the younger set from a Robert Cham-
bers novel, with her Marcel wave and her
silver-tissue dress with its cascade of lace
from the shoulders. The Hugheses were
there and the Foy sisters —very smart, one
in emerald, the other in orange taffeta —and
a tall, slim Meagher girl caught the eye
in a lilac gown. Miss Bryant and Miss Hol-
lingdale divided the secretarial duties in blue
taffeta and soft black satin. Kirribilli,*
where the Convent started, sent a strong
party, led by Dr. Yeech’s wife; and Dr.
Dan Kelly himself came in even at the
eleventh hour. The jazz band flung itself
into a thousand contortions while it tootled
and blared, and through all the comings and
goings the witch’s cauldron above the bands-
men’s heads flung aloft a curl of red flame
as though it thought such bursts of sound
were truly the Devil’s own brew.
The new Loreto Convent at Normanhurst
sprang up, mushroom-like, when the new
Episcopal rule came out that Sisters of
Mercy were no longer to keep boarding-
schools, as the Order was founded for nursing
the sick and tending the poor. This
caused an influx of ptipils into the schools
conducted bv the teaching orders, so the
Loreto Convent in Kirribilli was soon too
small for its roll, and the place at Norman-
hurst was opened.
In the general trade-gloom Farmer’s lit
the cheerine torch of a week of Fashion Teas.
They were really a parade of evening-gowns,
very short as to skirt, but hi"!) as to bodice
—Woman is beginning to realise that only
the Annette Kellermans can wear the almost
backless and frontless frock. There was a
yellow lace evening-gown that in a candle-
lit panelled room would give the knock-out
to the greatest Theda Bara vampire act.
The new milkmaid effect was gained in a
rucked and bunched pale-blue taffeta; and
as for the lilac taffeta with the added
romance of primrose and silver, Mary For-
rest would have visioned Heaven-alone-
knows-what old Court idyll peeping out of
its folds.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly, back in Sydney, gave
the Wentworth a treat the other night- Mr..
Bertie has dropped weight, and in her - a
Mie Rosette brocade and her Juliet cap witn
a tuft of osprey (or near-osprey) she loote
it with the youngest, and was still ' ° IU H
fashioned enough to include her own busoana
in her party. Incidentally, Mrs. T. H- nas
been roped in by the Sydney Hospital Auxili-
ary to arrange the pageant at the Arts ball
in aid of the hospital.
The 3rd Battalion is going to have a re-
union dance in the Paddington Town liall
on July 11, when the first issue of the Bat-
talion magazine, "0.A.5.,” will be available.
There was a large and long rally at Bel-
haven, the Hugh Mclntosh home, the othei
night. Annette Kellerman, who was enter-
taining a party of family friends at the
Jack Toohey house at Point Piper, which
is Annette’s Sydney pigdon-hole, carried the
whole lot, including Levitzki, on with her.
The main attraction of the evening was a
film; all the guests were in the profesli, actu-
ally or by proxy. Mamma Heifetz and the
girls, Marie La Yarre and Vera Pearce were
a few of the constellations.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Tootles are
back in London again after months in the
south cf France and Paris. They are camped
in a sumptuous suite at the Cecil. Here
Mrs. Williamson gave an Australian-in-
London dinner-party, and the decorations
were like u trumpet-call of Spring. Victorian
Agent-General Peter Mcßride and lus lady
and old-friend Julius Superbus Knight
(looking even more Superbus) were of the
party. By the way, Julius’s Napoleon,
which he lias been presenting to Loudon, has
got the old favorite of the gods back into the
headlines. Other eaters were Austin Brere-
ton, dramatic critic of the Observer, black-
and-white artist George Belcher, Melbournite
Arthur Cohen, and Chryssa Crichton Imrie.
The Cecil, which was taken over during the
war for the Air Force, has been newly fur-
nished on the grandest scale. But it. is
rather cramped for banqueting halls,, having
only eleven.
George Lambert is back in town and visit-
ing at the Arthur Allen home for a fortnight.
Last night the Society of Artists gave him
a dinner and a smoke-oh. So perhaps he’ll
relent now and give an exhibition of his
work. Anyway, he’ll be here for a much
longer stay later in the year.
Mrs. Chester Wells (she was a Hixson be-
fore she married into the U.S.A. Navy) is
back in Sydney, principally to visit, mother,
who is very sick.
Mrs. Lippe, whose tragic death was re-
ported last week, had many Sydney relatives.
Her brother, Dick Horsfall, married Miss
Fosbery, aunt of the Gordon girls. An
elder sister became the wife of old Rupert
Carington, who is still to be seen pushing
his flaxen moustache through the West End
of London ; and the heir to the Lincolnshire
estates (though ot to the mnrquisate) was
accordingly her nephew.
Mrs. Isabel Beeby, mother of Judge
Beeby, is seriously ill. Mrs. Beeby, who is
now 78, was left a widow at 33, and edu-
cated a family of three sons and four daugh-
ters for lucrative professions.
On July 5 and 12 the Education Gallery
is going to be warmed with golden wine
from Greece: and Sappho will unfurl a ban-
ner of purple, and gold lyrics per medium of
Chris Brennan. The Women’s College is to
be extended a foot or two by tbe effort.
Nellie Stewart bad a birthday last week,
and there was a dinner-party at the Clifton
Gardens Hotel, where she has made her
home. Th? table was just a bank of flowers,
all greetings from admirers and old friends:
and daughter Nancy went about looking like
a continuous cheer for her famous mother.
A Brisbane postcript: —
Edward Cahill and George Brookes are to give a
■concert for the Children's Hospital on -Tuly 16. Mrs.
Theodore is lion. sec., and his Bananaland Ex. will
be in the audience. Pianist Cahill also gives a'Wecital
in his home town, Beenleigh, on July 21.
Mona Brown, only daughter of the Norwood
Browns, who was 1 to have been married a day or
two ago to Capta)n Dyson, is seriously ill, and the
wedding has been postponed. Captain Dyson is to
take his bride to India to join the growing Aus-
tralian colony there.
The annual ball in aid of the funds of the Mater
Hospital was a great success. The S. Brisbane City
Hall was decorated in pink and white, the floral
part being of watsonias and freezias. Three debu-
tantes, Gloria Dwyer, Ethel Dee and Eileen Hurley,
were “presented.”
Archbishop Donaldson, who has been given the
see of Salisbury, will leave Queensland early in
November.
Miss F. M. Fogg, who was known to most Central
Queenslanders as “Auntie,” died last week, aged
84. She had lived 60 years in the North. Two
older sisters survive her.
When you have read your Bulletin - please post
it to the Anzae Convalescent Farm, or to the Red
Crass Society. The Diggers’ supply of literature
is getting very low.
Miss Rutherford and the staff and pupils of
Craigard School have just raised over £5O for tlv
Children’s Hospital by a garden-party and sale of
work.


The G Value of <2Music
*ARLYLE has said that "music is a kind
i of inarticulate, unfathomable speech which
leads us to the edge of the Infinite, and com-
pels us for a moment to gaze into it.” It is the
universal language of the feelings which in-
creases sympathy and broadens the horizon of mankind.
HERBERT SPENCER, in his "Origin and Function of
Music,” has placed it at the head of the fine arts, declaring
that music cannot be too much applauded as a noble means
of ministering to human welfare.
Thus these two gifted Englishmen give voice to the feelings
which stir in the hearts of the masses.
The Beale Player-Piano is the one instrument for the whole
family. It is an unlimited source of pleasure to those who
cannot play by hand, and the golden mellowness of the
tone appeals to the technically proficient musician. The
children can listen to the best in pianoforte composition
and study expressipn as indicated by the world’s masters.
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Teale
Showrooms:
340 George St.,
Sydney.
BEALES'COMPANY TTP
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale.
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria*: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE 6C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
50-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


H°LEPR<PF
Ho/lERY*
'
3%.
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
BECOME AN ARTIST!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
•
c.'\
You can do
so, without
drudgery. if
you take up
the Weston Postal
Course of Drawing.
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, the noted
commercial artist,
places within your
reach the means of
making your in-
come grow, and
learning a fascin-
ating and ever-
useful subject. His
series of lessons,
based on his own
wide expei'ience,
covers the whole
field of black-and-
white work, and
takes you on from
stage to stage
rapidly and easily.
Three stamps will
bring you Mr.
Weston’s booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen.” which
tells all about the
course and gives
examples of the
lessons. Write
for it and learn
what successful
students have accomplished.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
60 Union House, SYDNEY.
j-'EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodates::
in Australia.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney
AFTER FIFTY YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
THE
LONGREACH
IN RIDING
I like your “Longreach”
Saddle very well; it is both
comfortable and safe, and I
am indeed pleased with it.
That is what Mr. Wm. McGarvie, of Pom-
borneit, Vic., writes about this saddle. It
is a high-grade saddle, built on our be.>t
“Fouright” Tree and its outstanding fea-
ture is comfort. The flap is sewn direct
on to the seat, doing away with the
regular skirt and giving a narrow non-
chafing grip. The pads are a departure
from the shape of the usual stock saddle
pad, are set well up the rider’s tlngh, and
give perfect security. Fitted with folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
£l5/151-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Railway Station in
N.S.W.
Write for our Fine Catalogue.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers & Polo Specialists, 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
JKjcuU
<£>
jAxlsJ>iaxJUjCl
The hard-wearing
qualities of COLO
TYRES testify to
the high quality of
their construction
Ask your Garays,
The Colonial Rubber Co. Ltd.
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney,
Also at '
Newcastle:
.Melbourne
Brisbane:
7 Royal Court, Scott St.
: 54 Market Street.
98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 Kins Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
3
-- v-
£
Ts
jßeffer ~fhe>.n morf&r
Brick r\ndjoo~fTy t
Is Gods house 3
* on a BCoojinf? o&y
Make life worth
cycling - .
fit your cycle with
RGDKS
SADDLE,
Write {or a copy of the Brook Book.
J. B. BROOKS &■ CO., LTD., 134 Cnte'ion Works, Birmingham, England.
Representatives in X.S.W.: Scott & Hoiladay. Ltd.. 31A Pitt Street. Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
eilected on all classes oL
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most, Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. ~ £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds •. . .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6.375.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
ANSWERS OT CORRESPONDENTS.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be
takeii of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Carey: The first writer was entitled to
his reply: and there the thing that was of too little
consequence to worry absut in the first place must
(1id.... Sir S.: A verificatory clipping is needed for
a thing like that... .L.H.L.: Far too wordy....
J.M.O’C.: Cut out pars that appear, paste on slip
and send to accountant... .J.M.M.: Ford jokes over-
done... .E.C.8.: Nothing distinctive in them....
G.F.L.: Done before... .0.T.M.: Pencil-markings un-
decipherable. .. .Mayo: We don't want the bones and
hide. Send us the beef-juice. .. .E.G. (South Yarra) :
Good of its sort ; but a very poor market here for
the sort....Doon : “Tweedie” is too wild... .M.A.S.:
Misses, but not by much... .H.R.T.H.: Doesn’t work
smoothly... .E.W. (Windsor): Like a long, incoherent
telegram. It’s quite a good thing sometimes to put
a verb in a sentence... .M. 0.: Not ■enough in “Hand-
cuff”. .. .A.E.G.: “Quiet Afternoon” doesn't make
a yarn... .Stanley D.: Thin, and it. moves heavily.
....More Pork: Very rugged... .Tom G.: Not con-
vincingly done. .. .T.P.R.: That mixing of dream and
reality to get off an unpleasant yarn with little
point won’t work here... .Thomond: The verse isn’t
good enough to carry it... .Horton B.: Y’arn begins
well, but tile shooting business doesn’t .sound true.
. ...Timo: We don't like it... .G.E.K.K.: “Elfrida”
is rather a bore... .Horace W.: Can’t find any trace
of the humor.... J.K.M.: The mirror idea is very
01d....8am Boozle: Not enough in the incident....
Riverina: “Nippy” and the bird have sporting
chances... .J.C.8.: Misses... .T.M.S.: “Bill” won’t
d 0.... A.R.N.: Not for us... .Mary T.: Bumps all
over the place. .. .Jack A. W.: Here is the epic frag-
ment :—•
An orchard-hand, guilty of killing his boss, he’d
accused him of losing a rake.
Was arrested whilst playing pitch and toss with an
unconcerned villain named Lake.
Whc’d Hist slain a foe by a hefty blow from a bright,
brand-new, imported hoe.
When candidly told of the brotherly John that his
crime would cost him his neck.
This was the testy answer of one: “Well, he beat me
for half of a cheque!”
And neither appeared to repent in the least nor
flinched when sentenced to die;
But laughed in the teeth of the prison-priest, then
hopped out and dealt him a black eye.
Their sany-froid at the scaffold quite beats my pen,
So perished two worldly and desperate men.
i.. .Bushwhacker: It deserved better telling... .L.
(B.IL-): Not much interest... .Bill O’B.: “Butler”
is a heavy walker... .Doctor 1.: It won’t do that
way... .D.W.0.F.: Sorry, this one must go back.
....Swart: Now, you wouldn’t tell the yarn to a
mate like that, would you? Don’t go round the
corner and come up by a side-lane when you can
proceed direct to your point, and don’t use three
syllables where you can use two or two where you
can use *one... .F.M.N.: Very tired of the subject.
....Emerald: If that’s poetry, then Noah Webster
was a poet and Wm. Shakspeare wasn’t.... Barb:
Thanks: but Bedford refuses to build bis ships any
Other way... -M.McM.: “Life” rather too much like
the other thing... .Bob D.: Needs much compres-
sion... A. 8.: Commissionaire yarn old.. .C. 8.: Done
before.. .N.G.P.: Too close to many already printed
. ...V.P.: A jumble of unintelligible jargon....
Can: All lack point. .. .T.P.: There’s still a
good deal to be written about a place called
Australia... .G.C.: But the Darling gets tired
sometimes and doesn’t run at a11....Max: Time
that snake was buried... .F.S.G.: Certainly n0t....
Henry P.: Not at all impossible. Only the other
day a consignment of eggs arrived in Sydney from
the U.S.A Eyes Front: Don’t, for a start, be a
slavish imitator of the American magazine story-
teller. You use the word “react” four times. A
couple of years ago it would have been “bromide.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.W.: Nothing in them.... S.H.: 'Lady with
withered arm going back. .. . W.G.V.: Appalling. .. .
A.W.8.: Nowhere near the mark. .. . J. 8.: Hopeless.
. . ..H.M.: Did you use a ppkqr or a pen?. . . .T.A.8.:
Women assume queer shapes down your way ....
D.W.: Drawing weak and treatment too light....
R.F.3.: “Stoppit”. . . .L.J.: Turned down. .. . 8.G.:
Net up T.L.W.: Feeble sketch and feeble gag.'
. ...A.D.E.: Can’t use... .F.L.H.: Learn to draw
first.
“Phthisis” in search of a home :
After suffering from T.B. for eight years I have
come to the conclusion that the chief offenders in
spreading the disease are the State Health Depart-
ments, in their failure to provide proper accommo-
dation for sufferers, particularly those who can
afford to pay. Take my own case as typical—
and there are hundreds like me. My condition is
now chronic. 1 am not likely ever to get well, hot
the doctors tell me that with care I may live another
20 years. I am not bedridden, and there are; only
a few days in the year when I require any nursing.
All I want are the comforts of a good boarding-
house in a healthy locality, with extra milk. If
the proprietress is a trained nurse so much the
better, and there should be an inexpensive apparatus
for boiling sputum flasks -and their contents. I
am able to pay £4 a week, yet after six months’
search, and after consulting half-a-dozen medical
men, 1 am still unsuccessful. I found (in N.S'.W.)
two nurses registered. One takes half-a-dozen early
cases. The other took more, but, although her
establishment was full, she closed down a week or
two ago, her lease having expired. I have met
dozens on the same quest whose experience agrees
with mine. The result is that, instead of being
in proper “homes,” nearly all are in hotels or
boarding-houses without facilities for preventing
infection.' And all the State does is to provide a
bleak, 1 dismal, • isolated poorhoitse-like institution
which everybody who , can do so avoids at all costs.
Definitions and reflections by Peter Airey:
The Referendum: Capable government “taking
the count.”
Query: Will Europe bury Hate or Hate bury
Europe ?
France's Problem: To sing the Marseillaise imperi-
ally.
Mysticism: The natural refuge of misty minds.
The Present Peace: The war which ended the war
to end war.
The Junker Problem: To re-build Kaiserism with-
out the Kaiser.
Democracy: Men writhing in abasement before
ballot-boxes.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-blass
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydne
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Vosemlte Valley—Niagara Falls,
(Jr eat Lakes—Great, Cities,
next SAILING, AUGUST 3,
VENTURA.
iO,OUO lons, 17 Knots. Twin screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, Jfcc.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLFY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES- F tr’
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K C M G •'
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ’
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 203 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve fund .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love
Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Litya, Esq.
• General Manager—*M. G. HAYMEX.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2 000 000
Capital Paid Up £l’20o!oOO
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £2OO 000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagut, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P A •
George F. Todman ; Hon, F. Jago Smith, M,L c' :
Doncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 duces in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
, Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
-ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted;
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARI)
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Street.
Paid-up-Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund . . .. . . . . 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Austrahsian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY, 11 a.in.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
MAKURA, 9th SEPTEMBER.
Royal IV9a.il Line to San Francisco
Sailing’s to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
I lie Great Cities of the United States ean be seen on the journey across Anieriea, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Fails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 28th JULY, 10 a.m.
M ARAM A, 25th AUGUST.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION
UNION STEAM 81111’ CO., DOMINION
BOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET.
CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
irips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£4,965,200
3,425,000
4,965,200
£13,355,400
Directors ;
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Bnckiand, Ksq.
Charles liimiie. fCsqv
Robert L. Filithfiill, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
H Palmer .Esq. : S E Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir Johnßussell French, KB E
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedl* pc
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji p a p,a tnd London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. J ’ pua and London
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT • o-vi
negotiated and eolier.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiablethrough™* theWorld*
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital
Reserve
Reserve
paid up
Fund
Capital
.. £2,500,000
. . £2,220,000
. . £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses. M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas, A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
GBnkhai, Man’ager :
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birch in Lane, E.C.
London Bankers Jhe Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parrs Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited and
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering first-class enter-
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House. Sydney.
Sbinnln*.
Inr
Steamship
( PasseiigP. rjog.
(Circumstances pef.n-c i
F oll MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE A\r,)
(Iranshipping at Melbourne for Geelong MANTLE
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf i^her
V ; r T antle for Polth > «»nmury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports'*
Steamer.
x KAROO], A.
tCOOMA. . .
(Melh. only)
{Aeawatta.
(Mela. only)
*ZEALAM)IA.
IBOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
IWYANDRA
(Melb. only)
*KATOOMBA
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK AY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Buuda-
berg and Oladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
; Sat., Tlloward Smith”
counts j .July 2, Ltd., 350 George
(Omits
Bowen)
tWYREKMA
BCOOMA.
(Omits
Bowen)
LICVUKA
•July 2,
2 p.m.
Tnes.,
July 5,
4 p.m.
Silt.,
July 9.
Ltd., 350 George
i St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
i 7 Bridge Street,
1 (Tel. 10684).
I Howard Smith.
' Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 0221).
I A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
j 7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Tues., |
•July 12, |
4 p.m, |
“Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers,
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
{Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
gTransliips at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns
Huddart ParkcrLis?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney arid Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. COi Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA," 6£>oo tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney. /
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 4(H) Collins Street.’
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T H * North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
. 10 p.nn, passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.rn.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERV SATURDAY at 9 p.in.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Yia BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply—
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.’’
Cable Address.'
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
I'itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern <& Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle)
Messageries Maritimts Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietcrs. Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cookto’wn
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


I±S
?n
\'J
t \
-T*
\ V
V
V
a
■A-
£e
HURLEY
MAKE
For Any Position Shirley
Make Braces Help
It is the peculiar position of the arms when one is danc-
ing that comes as the severest test to braces —as to
whether they are comfortable or not.
SHIRLEY MAKE BRACES .instantly meet the de-
mands made of them and even in this position SHIR-
LEY MAKE BRACES are the willing pliable servant
that gives an added zest and pleasure to dancing
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed
guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
Cvrnjham/
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870 6 Cable Address: President
r
This little Phonograph
is as clear
in reproduction as the large
and costly Instruments which
must always be left at
home. The Decca you
can take with you wherever
you go.
•BECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
No case required; ready to play
any make and size of Record
immediately opened.
3 Models —Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre . .. II 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music-dealers.
lilliffi
a L’aNLEY E.
GREEN, LTD..
Australian
Agents
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(Jd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
•If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who-will quote you price for it.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LID.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Do you like
real music?
If you do you’ll appreciate
the marvellous realism of
the New Edison. It actually
Re-Creates both the tone and emotion of the
music. It catches the expression of the artist and
brings its message, warm with understanding,
into your home.
The NEW EDISON
With such a remarkable instrument available you will not be satisfied with an
ordinary talking-machine, the harsh sounds and foreign noises of which will be
a source of annoyance to you.
The New Edison is the only instrument capable of playing Edison Re-Creations.
It also plays ordinary records of any make.
Write for information and free literature describing this wonderful instrument.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 361-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
w
mm
DCsaD
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 35/- post free.
—
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2, - each, post tree.
820. The Cert Co.’s
rebounding Jocks, left choice.
Dg B L Gun 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
, suap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about .lb.
Delivered, 1
£5/12/0
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with \ bolt
;£G/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
P§r3|fe3l
RIB. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring: strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7Alb. Freight paid,
£.14/14/
“Koolah” Shaving: Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted arc subject
to change without notice.
Jthnrrr pir! H
80. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top l;ver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high
grip, chambered for 2}in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b.' to 711 b.
Tested for Nito Powders l i eight pai ,
file-cut rib, pistol
£.16/16-
> i
■K' ' »
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b. Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£.151151-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 16-
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb -
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S Smoßeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge. top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end jide clips., chambered for
beautifully engraved, weight about (Jib
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
antiseptic
CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus;
the breath and
whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay;
is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
sweetens
Steven’s *
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m. or 32in.
walnut stock; weight about 6jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun.
BB— Ejector, 65/* Frei s ht p aid >
I llustrated sportsman 1
GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS..
c
1C
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SiDNEY.
BRANCHES —
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Can You Tell the Cause
of Your Trouble?
Are you sometimes discouraged, and think you’ll never get
any better?
Can you tell what is the matter with you, or what makes you
sick? Do you know that about nine-tenths of all sickness is
caused by Kidney Trouble?
Have you ever stopped to think that your kidneys may be
the cause of your poor health?
Most people do not realise how much work the kidneys are
required to do every day.
Every drop of blood in the body must pass through and be
filtered by the kidneys thousands of times a day.
How can they do their work well if they are sick?
If your kidneys need treatment, DR. SHELDON’S GIN
PILLS, the Wonderful Kidney Remedy, will prove to be just the
medicine you need.
I 1
.(qjsHELDOns),
«IHl(h* .Ml
#!•••••*•, **•• «4*
«i>|
005 E ITO a Piuy a
• ttr'tmt f#<wis J
P«(*A*CO
SHELOOnORUCC°C
<* r M.3.W
*
Gin Pills Will Help You.
It is no longer necessary for anyone to
suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary Troubles, or to contend with Rheu-
matism or Stiff Joints, for Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Bills quickly remove all such troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Bills for Backache and
the Kidneys are the most wonderful remedy
yet devised for ridding the system of uric
acid and driving out all the poisonous
impurities. They are entirely different
from all other remedies, and act on the
principle of cleaning out the poisons and
remedying the cause.
No matter how long you have suffered,
how old you are, or what you have used,
the very' principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills for Backache and Kidneys is such
that it is practically impossible to take
them into the human system without re-
sults. They start to work the minute you
take them, and they help you from the first
time that you use them.
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
for Backache 8 Kidney Troubles
“Blue-jay” will cure the worst Corn
THE moment you apply “Blue-
Jay” you forget the worst
corn. The pain ceases
immediately and does not return,
l or two days the “Blue-Jay” re-
mains in position. Then you
remove it, and the corn too. It
will be gone forever.
“Blue-Jay” is instantly applied,
and worn without discomfort. The
only thing to remind you that
“Blue-Jay” is in position is that
the corn has ceased to annoy.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific prepara-
tion. The man who produced it
had made a life study of surgical
dressings. Note the illustration
below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the
pain. The wax, marked “R,” acts
On the corn alone, and nowhere
else. “C” is a rubber-coated,
moisture-proof tape, which ad-
heres snu.gly and securely.
8
Blue = jay
The Sciervt’i'fic
Xorrv Ers.de r
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6 in Packet
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS, 4 in Packet
1/6
All Good Chemists will supply
Apples.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOUTHWARD down from Hobart, thirty
miles away,
AA’here the chanuel steamers cut the
spindrift spray,
Near the hills of Bruny, blue and grey and
low,
Gardens smile on Garden Isle, and Huon
waters flow.
Apples on a Sydney stall,
Apples of the mart,
Apples red with summer blush
On a hawker's cart,
Ripened where the southern hills
AA'atch the Huon flow —
Stunners, Peanpains, Ribstons,
And Ladies in the Snow.
Blossom iu the springtime waking on the
tree,
Laughing to the sunlight like a morning sea ;
Ripe fruit iu the summer, orchards rich in
pride,
Huon waters loitering by, down the reaches
wide.
Apples of the barrowmen,
Line.d along the street,
Where the Melbourne tides of life
Round them surge aud beat;
With a softer, slower tide,
Huon waters flow,
Past long lines of Jonathans
And Ladies in the Snow.
Bi'own leaves in the autumn falling round
* the root,
Avid winter garnering them for a mouldy
loot.;
Brown leaves in the autumn, whirling slowly
down,
Fifty million apples bound for London Town.
Twenty thousand horse-power
Threshing through the seas,
Taking fruit to London
On the western breeze;
Twenty thousand ocean miles
From the Huon go
New Yorks, Five Crowns, Pippins,
And Ladies in the Snow.
Near the bills of Bruny Huon waters play.
And the hills of Bruny are low and blue and
grey;
Orchards on a thousand slopes garbed in
loveliness
Lean with golden kisses to the sum’s caress.
Apnles for a hundred towns,
Over circling sens.
Northward borne and eastward,
Westward down the breeze :
Ripened where the southern hills
Watch the Huon flow,
Ribstons, Stunners, Jonathans, .
And Ladies in the Snow.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.
Loss of Sleep.
[[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
L U FUXG stood before tie Council of
Absolution. And Lu Fung was not
happy. Who fallen from high
estate to the felon’s dungeon could be happy?
First Chamberlain to the Emperor’s House-
hold Lu had been, with every possibility of
becoming the Emperor's Prime Minister,
until on his return from the wars the Em-
peror had turned on him the cold eye of dis-
favor, which had culminated in Lu’s dis-
missal and arrest on the charge to answer
which he now stood before the Council.
To Lu it was altogether a ridiculous
charge on which he was arraigned: that his
wife had, despite an Imperial edict-against
the practice, prayed in a Confucian temple
that a child should be born to her, and,
moreover,, when the child was born, that he,
Lu, finding it to be a female child, had thrown
it to the dogs in the gutter before his house.
True it w T as that, finding it a female child
without merit, Lu had placed it in the gutter,
but to say that his wife had prayed for it
in the Temple of Confucius was absurd. He,
Lu Fung, a great man, strong enough to
beget a score of such unmeritorious female
children, was its father; and he had begat
it without the aid of the Father of Wisdom.
The charge was altogether a ridiculous
charge.
Lest that charge should miscarry and Lu
escape, a second complaint had been made
against him. The sudden termination of the
wars was known to all men ; but few knew
the.real reason for the. Emperor’s withdrawal
from the combat. Daily for many weeks the
rebel army had pitched its camp alongside
the Emperor’s in the hope that the latter
would sooner or later engage it, and daily
for many weeks the Emperor, attired in his
finest raiment, had refused battle with such
low-bred usurpers of Imperial privileges, and
shifted his bivouac, until one morning a
servant brought to him a present of a
woman’s head-dress from the rebel leader.
It was the final straw. What self-respect-
ing Emperor could be expected to bear such
insults from unhallowed rebel swine? Deeply
aggrieved and insulted the Emperor folded
his tents and withdrew, leaving the rebels
in possession of the field. It was now made
a charge that Lu Fung, himself a great war-
rior, who had repeatedly counselled the
Emperor to engage the rebels, had sent the
woman’s head-dress to the Emperor in the
rebel leader’s name, in an effort to goad him
into -retaliation.
Serene in the belief that he had acted
as a brave man should, Lu remained silent
under the second charge.
From early morning the Council of Absolu-
tion had sat weighing the evidence carefully
lest, an injustice should be done. In his own
behalf Lu Fung had no say. His fate was
settled by the Council, whicli talked and
haggled like a meeting of old women, Lu
thought. Even those singular beings, the
professional politicians, had been called in
to advise on the case. With their quaint
paper caps like, the caps of serving maids
fastened to their hair by a lady’s hatpin
stuck through from side to side, and the
funny imitation dragons, spiders, serpents
and the like which they dangled from long
strings on sticks in order to attract atten-
tion to themselves, they cut a figure at which
but for the solemnity of the occasion Lu
could have laughed outright. As the sun,
ils day’s work nearly completed, slid down
towards the horizon, casting a soft radiance
over the sea of peach-blossoms in the gardens
of the Summer Palace, Chia Ch’ing, the
Emperor, arose in his place to deliver the
verdict of the Council. Attired in his finest
yellow robe, and standing on the purple
doth of the Imperial dais, it passed through
Lu’s• mind that the Emperor cut a more
striking figure even than on the day he had
retreated, deeply insulted, before the rebels
in the North. In a clear voice that all might
hear, he delivered the judgment.
“It has been left to you, warrior offshoot
of a warrior who journeyed into the North
to give battle to the enemies of the State;
to defile the memory of the great Father of
Wisdom, and to make calculated mockery of
your benefactor and master, the Emperor.
And the depth of your infamy is not yet.
Many times in Council has the question of a
successor to Cilia Ch'ing, who grows old
and is approaching the bottom of the day,
been discussed. The quest was for one
skilled in the arts of statecraft and war
beyond his kinsmen, and there was only one
such in all the realms of Chia Ch’ing. His
father it was who in the long ago journeyed
into the North to give battle to the enemies
of the State with me, Chia Ch'ing, Emperor
of all the Chinas, who is approaching the
bottom of the day. But it has been whis-
pered that Lu Fung cannot wait until Chia
Ch’ing reaches the bottom of his day. and
plots to raise the bottom that Chia Ch’ing
might reach it the sooner. But for Chia
Ch’ifig’s Master of the Stables, desiring to
secure immortal life, having drunk the con-
coction which Lu Fung sent to the Emperor
as an elixir of life, and thus met his death,
Chia Ch’ing’s days would now have run their
course. The Council, in its wisdom, having
decided that no man shall do those things
and live, it is decreed that Lu Fung, who
might have been an Emperor, shall die.
according to the law, by deprivation of
sleep,”
As they led Lu Fung from, the Council
chamber a sardonic smile played about his
lips. To condemn him to death by depriva-
tion of sleep was one matter. To prevent
Idm sleeping they would find to be quite a
different matter altogether.
With the room in which he was placed
Lu could find no fault. If: the ceiling was
a little low it was well ventilated, and the
several small holes in the stone wall also
admitted an abundance of fresh, invigorat-
ing air. The bed might, perhaps, have been
a little longer, but at least it was soft, and
invited sleep. -The whole room, in fact, was
conducive to the soundest and pleasantest
of slumber, and Lu smiled inwardly at the
law which would decree a man’s death by
deprivation of sleep, and at the same time
provide him with every comfort conducive
to sleep. It was a foolish law.
And then there was also the koumiss. It
was in bottles on the floor in the corner.
An abundance of koumiss. To Lu it ap-
peared altogether ridiculous to supply
koumiss to a man condemned to die by
deprivation of sleep.
But later on Lu learned the reason for
the koumiss, as he learned the reason for
many other things at first obscure.
Just when the liquor had made him com-
fortable and he was in the right mood for
sleep and had stretched out on the soft,
downy bed, two attendants entered his room
and engaged him in conversation. At all
times their conversation was courteous and
interesting, and they each had the most plea-
sant voices Lu had ever listened to. They
had voices the tones of which reminded Lu
of little birds chattering under the eaves
at sunset; and he wanted so.badly to go to
sleep, the more so because of the koumiss.
But each time he shut his eyes to doze they
shook him and forced him to listen to their
conversation. Lu saw that for the time, at
any rate, sleep was out of the question, and
he roused himself and took an animated
part in the discussion. It was evident he
would get no sleep until he first talked his
tormentors into slumber.
But fit the end of several hours the talk-
ers were as wide awake as ever, while Lu
was very sleepy. As their voices rose and
fell in musical cadence Lu wondered why, the
curse of sneech had been inflicted upon man.
Never before in his life had he had such
little use for talk. He would gaol all talk-
ers if he had his way.
To Lu, seated on the edge of the bed.
listening, the voices would gradually trail
away, far away, out over the sea and land
and past the end of the world, and his chin
would droop forward on to his chest; and
then one of the Talkers would shake him
back to the world of horrible consciousness.
When at length shaking did not bring about
the desired effect ouickly enough, one., of
them produced, a stiff wire brush, each wire
of it sharpened to a needle-point, and with
it prodded Lu in ungentlemanly fashion, so
that his hands, face and neck were' covered
with savage little red spots like a nettle-
rash. Every time he dozed the brush stabbed
him into wakefulness, until at last, tor-
mented beyond bearing by the bite of the
needle points, be fell like a tornado upon his
tormentors and drove them by the force of
his fury from the room. But there were
no means by which he could lock the door on
the inside, and he knew that his tormentors
would soon return if he once went to sleep
with the door unguarded.
Getting down on his haunches with the
intention of seating himself with his back
to the door, Lu suddenly stiffened against
the wall as something moving across
the floor caught bis eye. It came thromrh
a hole in the wall near the - floor, and its
every movement seemed to indicate an un-
canny knowledge of its business. Unfalter-
ingly he would meet the anger of his Em-
peror: with a laugh on his lips he would
rush into battle against any odds; in a
leaky junk he would face the fury of a
raving white tyoboon : but the uncanny, re-
pulsive, fearsome wriggling of a .snake
turned the blood in his veins to water, and
his heart to putty. And there was not one
snake, but several. Through the holes in
(Continued, on next page.)


Is Backache Wearing You Out?
"Every Picture
I£Msq Story"
AW
\
f
M
iii
K:
r
D
OES any little exertion leave you tired and
worn? Do you feel weak, nervous, “all un-
strung?” Do you suffer daily backache,
dizziness, and sick headache? You shouldn’t! Too
many folks drag along day in and day out, thus
handicapped. And too often they overlook the kidneys
which are likely at fault. Weak kidneys cause many
queer aches, pains and kidney irregularities. But, if
taken in time, kidney ills are usually easily corrected.
Neglected, even a slight kidney weakness may turn
into gravel, dropsy, or fatal kidney disease. Don’t
wait! You owe it to yourself to get well and to stay
well. Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills! Doan’s
have brought thousands of weak, tired, discouraged
people back to health. Sydney folks tell the story.
Ask your neighbor!
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Robert Larcombe, monumental mason, Lidcombe, Sydney, says: “Off
and on for years I suffered from backache and kidney trouble. I would go to
bed feeling fairly well, but on rising in the morning my back would ache ter-
ribly. The pains were sharp and shooting, and centred just above the kidneys.
I was advised to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some at
once. After using the first couple of bottles I felt better, and five bottles com-
pletely cured me. I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all who
suffer their kidneys, and feel sure they will derive benefit from them.”
Seven years later, Mr. Larcombe says: “It is over seven years since Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble, and I have had no return of
the complaint all that time.”
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon. 70 Marlborough Street, Surry Hills. Sydney, savs: “It
gives me great pleasure to say a few words in praise of Doan's Backache Kid-
ney Pills. For a good while I was a martyr to kidney trouble, the symptoms
being backache, urinary disorder and dizzy attacks. My back ached fearfully,
and every movement was accompanied with a twinge like the stab of a knife.
The secretions were cloudy and scalded a good deal in passing, this symptom
clearly showing my kidneys were much out of order. I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so decided to give them a trial. The first
bottle gave me relief, and by the time I had used three bottles I was cured,
and I have been well ever since—a period of over twelve months.”
Mrs. Sturgeon confirms the aboA-e four years later: “My cure still holds
good, no sign of kidney disorder having returned since I took Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills five years ago.”
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
,25 Hamilton St., Sydney.
the walls they came, crawling noiselessly
down the walls and across the floor like
emissaries of the Devil. They got into his
bed, and wound themselves around the
bottles in the corner. Not' one of them
attempted to approach him, but with black,
beady eyes they surveyed his presence until
he could feel their scrutiny, and could have
screamed from the very contact of their
gaze. Too frightened to attack them with
his bare hands, Lu whimpered deep down in
his throat from fear, and beat upon the door
for release : but the door was locked on the
outsid‘\ and none gave heed to his cries.
The unresisting retreat of the Talkers from
the room suddenly became clear to I.u. Their
attentions were unnecessary in the presence
of their -loathsome auxiliaries.
Throughout the interminable, black, hor-
rific night I.u stood stiff' and still and straight
against the bolted door, and morning found
him an old man, wringing his hands and call-
ing on his tormentors for release.
As though a complete understanding
existed between them, the snakes withdrew
the way they had come as soon as the Talkers
entered the room, bearing breakfast for the
prisoner. While he ate Lu again marvelled
why, after condemning a man to death, they
should feed and drink him in a way calculated
to keei> him alive indefinitely. The idea that
in a well-nourished body mental torment
might be prolonged did not occur to him.
Not then.
The Talkers were idle men that day. With
perfect safety they could have left Lu un-
attended. There was not the remotest pos-
sibility of his attempting sleep. .Through-
out th » day his head worked on his neck as
if it was on springs as he turned his gaze
from the hole at the foot of the wall to
the hole in the ceiling, from the hole in
the wall at the back of his bed to the hole
at the foot of the wall through which the
first snpke! of the previous night had en-
tered. Until the watching became an agony
he looked, and the entrance of the snakes
would have| come as a relief. But they did
not come. Only food came. Food and kou-
miss. The latter of which Lu, learning by
experience, scorned. With a deep loathing
he scorned it, for he had to keep awake
now. The holes in the walls demanded it.
Yet when the light slowly lifted from the
floor of his cell, crept up the wall, and
passed,out through the hole in the ceiling,
leaving only a dim suggestion of daylight be-
hind, the koumiss was still, there, in the
bottles in the corner, mocking and tempting
him to drink of the forgetfulness hidden
away in its depths. Crossing the room
quickly Lu snatched a bottle from the floor
and smashed it ii.to fragments against the
wall. Another and another he shattered in
his fury, until every one of the tempting
bottles had gone, and the floor was a litter
of glass and liquor. Then he sat down on
the bed and taunted the debris.
Between the dark and the,dawn the snakes
had done for Lu what all the Talkers of
China could not have accomplished. Where at
first he had laughed at the suggestion of
their preventing him sleeping, he now deter-
mined, with all the will power at his com-
mand, to keep awake at all hazards.
But Lu’s desire for wakefulness was only
the desire of the frightened flesh. The desire
of his mind was all for sleep, and as the
night wore on the mental desire gradually
asserted itself. With a velvet glove sleep
brushed Ins brow and caressed his brain,
stealing his senses and closing his eyes as a
mother's crooning draws the lids over the
tired eyes of her babe. Asleep on his feet
Lu swayed about the room as the walls
closed in and the roof shut down, but always
an intangible something called him back
from the abyss of complete unconsciousness.
Rapping his fingers and knocking his head
against the walls to keep himself awake, he
wandered aimlessly about his cell, conjuring
up goblin visions of loathsome snakes with
which to frighten his tired brain into wake-
fulness. But with each passing hour the
power of the goblins dwindled, and as mid-
night came Lu’s brain sank under the resist-
less sea of sleep, and, like a blind man, he
groped his way across the room to his couch,
to throw himself face downward upon it.
But Lu’s head never reached the couch.
Half-way in his fall, with his hands across
his face, his body froze, and his sagging
knees stiffened just sufficient to hold the dead
weight of his trunk.
Through a hole in the wall at the head of
his bed stretched a long, powerful, hairy
arm, the black, man-like fingers and the claws
groping about over the pillow in search of
his face. Up and down and round and about
they groped. Watching, frozen stiff with fear,
his eyes starting from their sockets, Lu could
picture the great hairy body of the baboon
crushed against the wall outside as it
strained to reach further into the room.
Bafflled in its search for his face, lie could see
the lips lift over the jagged teeth as it
lashed itself into a fury. Through the hole
the bestial smell of its noisome body assailed
his nostrils. And over ull there was no
sound within or without the cell. Like a
phantasmagoria the repulsive shaggy arm
groped its blind way about the bed, its pre-
sence unadvertised by so much as a breath.
Had sound accompanied the terrible Pre-
sence, Lu could have stood it. A snarl
even would have been a relief. But there
was no snarl. No labored breathing. No
scratching. No anything. Only the long,
gaunt, hairy arm groping about in space for
a feel of Lu’s eyes.
Semi-mesmerised, Lu recoiled before the
terrible apparition. An inch, half-an-inch
at. a time, he shrank back against the wall,
never removing his gaze from it for an in-
stant. When, suddenly, his shoulders bumped
against the wall, a scream, a fearful animal
scream, escaped him. Scream upon scream,
coming deep down from the innermost cords
of him, rent the air as he crouched back
into the farthermost corner of the room.
Like a rat he j shrieked, and with all the
futility of the fat clawed at the wall in a
vain effort to escape.
When, as suddenly as it had appeared, the
shaggy arm was withdrawn through the hole,
and the Talkers returned, bringing with them
a small, dim. rush-lamp, Lu crouched, his
eyes, narrowed to beads, shining with a fever-
ish light where the lamp-light struck them. At
every move of the Talkers the corners of
his mouth lifted like the mouth of the fear-
some beast outside, exposing his ragged yel-
low fangs. From a human being, docile and
meek with the pitiful meekness of fear, I.u
had changed, in half-an-hour, to a mad,
snarling animal, crouching before the
approach of his fellow men, ready to figiit
for his miserable existence.
Far from allowing him to sleep, the mag-
got of insanity gnawing inside Lu’s brain
drove all weariness from his pain-racked
body, and set his mind afire with thoughts of
unholy glee, so that the Talkers were again
that night able to leave him to his own de-
vices. When they returned in the morning,
bearing bowls of steaming rice and green
tea, bursts of ribald laughter and taunting
gibberish greeted them at the door. In the
centre of the floor they found Lu, stripped of
every vestige of clothing, calling down curses
and abuse upon the heads of all snakes and
monkeys, from the Father of Snakes and
the first Ancestor of Man, to the reptiles and
the beast that had invaded the privacy of
his room. Dancing to avoid the attack of an
imaginary snake, lie would taunt it for its
slowness, desisting suddenly in the middle of
his vituperation to approach the bed, where
he extended a bony hand in the direction of
the hole in the wall where the hairy arm had
been, withdrawing it quickly and screaming
mocking taunts as the imaginary grab of the
imaginary animal arm missed its objective.
At the approach of the Talkers he screamed
a shrill note of warning to them to keep off,
himself skipping nimbly aside to avoid the
attack of one of the phantom reptiles.
“Yah!” he cried, and again “Yah!” as lie
skipped about the room and leaped into the
air like a fanatical dervish. “Want me to
go to sleep, don’t you! Want me to go”
Lu stopped. In the middle of a sentence
and the middle of a spring he stopped, his
bottom jaw sagged, his eyes protruded, for
an instant his arms hung limply at. right
angles from his body like the broken wings
of a huge bird, as through the hole in the
ceiling a long, thin skeleton arm and hand
reached out to claim him as he fell to he
floor.
Of the fleeting vision of death the Talkers
saw nothing. To their understanding was
vouchsafed only the wonderful fact that with
Lu’s passing a new record had been created.
Nowhere in the Records of Public Execu-
tions was it written that death had ever
before occurred within three days in an
execution by deprivation of sleep.
G. L. THOMAS.
The Interview.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EVEN Herbert Phipps, the local parson,
admits that old George Mason, who
lives up the gully, is a “very difficult
i , aiu ,
person to handle. And Albert our e
comp, and assistant-reporter, who drove over
yesterday to interview the old boy on the
occasion of his reaching the century, said
the same thing on his return.
It appears that Albert arrived after lunch
and found the hoary centenarian seated out-
side his humpy in a semi-comatose state,
with a sodden crust in one hand and golden-
syrup drops on his whiskers. At internals
he made clumsy swipes at real and imagmai >
flies upon his bald pate. ...
“Goo’day, Mr. Mason. I see you re still
looking hale an’ hearty as ever, remarked
“our reporter.” ..
After a few moments’ silence one blear.'
eye opened slowly and coldly regarded the
speaker: „ ....
"Huh, eh? ’Oo’s that? Eh? Huh.'
"It’s me, Mr. Mason —Albert, from the
Guardian.” , . ~
The other eye then opened and the old
man appeared mildly interested.
“Huh, so it is. Wodjer want?’
"El- —well, they say it’s your birthday,
Mr. Mason; an’ I thought”
“All a lie —brrrr lie,” mumbled George.
“Born thousand years ago—thousand years
ago t’day.”
At this Albert—nothing daunted—made a
fresh start. He again referred to the old
man’s hale and hearty appearance, and pro-
ceeded to add that it was, no doubt, due
to the healthv, industrious life he d led, etc.,
etc. But old George showed no interest m
the subject; so he started on another tack.
“I believe you were a regular soldier in
your youth, Mr. Mason? No doubt it laid
the foundation for your present robust
"No time for sojers. Horror fools,
croaked old George.
“Er—jesso, jesso, Mr. Mason,’ agreed
Albert, a returned man himself. “By tie'
way, I haven’t ever seen you smokin’ since
1 arrived here, Mr. Mason. Perhaps you
don’t think it’s conducive”
“Smoke like ’ell,” wheezed George, some-
what irritably. “Hike brrrr ’ell.
“Er, they tell me it’s many years since
you were seen down at Dennys pub, Mr.
Mason,” Albert presently recommenced. “No
doubt temperate living and pure water
have greatly contributed to”
“Drink liker fish !” came the reply more
savagely, and the old eyes closed again.
“Ha, well it’s a healthy district to spend
one’s life in, and no doubt a beautiful
climate,” mused the undaunted Albert, re-
moving his hat from his perspiring Ijrow and
glancing up tin* valley. “Er —to what do
you ascribe your long life, anyhow, Mr.
Mason?” he briskly demanded.
For a few moments it seemed that nothing
would happen. Then two cold, dead eyes
opened again and fixed themselves heavily
on the hapless youth.
“Livin’ —just livin’,” came the reply in a
prolonged sinister wheeze. “I keeps on
livin.’ an’ livin’ in spite er terbaccer an’ cli-
mate an’ all the other brrrr things yeh pester
me about. Now go!”
As the weary old eyes closed again, Albert
decided that he had enough copy for a
quarter-column. So-he left the old boy to
die slowly but blissfully amongst the syrup
and flies, and drove back to the office.
TED COLLES.


V 43 } MW
tfti
■ss§ai(gPf' §ss ~_
iagupißU- ■ «# ajk ißj
■f§T
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let RM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A. FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with <all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
'rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up yrts* liver with
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Price j
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Carter’* Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “ Mattamac”
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac’' Stormproof. Refuse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac."
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 OZ.
■
'■v
V*
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21-ioz.
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The * s Mattamac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z .
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Drawings
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful representations of the Feather-
weight “ Mattamac" Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, Weight; without
Beit, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. Weight; with Belt,
21 %oz.
fees
'W
w *
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ M attamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Writetous. We will send you, post Iree, the “ Mattamac” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
"MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “ MATTAMAC ” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45,
LONDON. WR,
CONDUIT STREET,
ENGLAND. (A 504) (|)
The “ MATTAMAC " TRADE MARKS are resisteyed throughout the WORLD. {Copyright reserved,)
Nature Helps All
Who Help Themselves
and the best, help eomes from
Beecham’s Pills. Who can do full duty
in this world if hampered by ill-health?
The failures are those whose ambition
or power to work has been destroyed
by sickness. Any derangement of
stomach or liver, interferes with your
well being and happiness, and makes
your day’s work distasteful.
Take
Beecham’s
Pills
wnen you feel out-of-sorts. They make all the
difference. They cleanse the blood, tone the
system, strengthen the stomach and stimulate
the liyer. For seventy years Beecbam’s Pills
have been the favourite remedy for all
disorders of the digestive organs. They
are good not only where a specific
remedy is required, but are also an
excellent tonic for the general health-
Try them when you feel out-of-sorts
And Give Nature
a Chance
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given resvtlt, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
&
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth-; and Auckland, N.Z.
IiIUIHiHiBM"';
Demin
UM\
38 &44 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop”
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater— 3 B-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards*
. ■ for Shooting Right
Inquire of your dealer, who
can order for you. Cat-;
alogues free upon request*!
C-l
D.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Dre
each
Post Free
ItMtKT'llTifraiiWlMil
(Patented)
»«*•
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f«<) &
The simplicity, lightness and-excellence
Dreadnought is fully maintained
of tba
.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
m
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street,
The Plum Rufcor
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s xModel Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum, which is the best
evidence of its eaSy-shaving excellence.
PRICE I‘2/G—POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong .
\ !
m
<0
Ur^
/
Mitw^
J
z/
m
n:
i'- 1 -
rr
<ii'
:;
>At
r
h
H
llflfli
WlrnT fiaNf-rT , 'f f •* J
WMwmjtis;
iMsal
»
/
X Xox.w "
fcr-
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NO. 16. BRITISH COLUMBIA^
Johnnie Walker: “ I thought your rivers were generally turbulent. Why
have you chosen so placid a stream ?
B.C. Settler: "It is a world-wide axiom that ‘you must not drown
Johnnie Walker.’ ”
Guaranteed'' saute quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTIT.
Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
