

The Pride Dr The Royal.
51 111
m
CfWNDIER
s§Bo
Among the many makes of Cars exhibited at the Royal Show this year it is safe
to say that NONE attracted more interest or favorable comment than
The Chandler Six 5 The Cleveland Six
(The Car that Keeps Faith), (The Car with a Conscience).
Our exhibit included six different models of the Chandler and three of the Cleveland—a more comprehensive
display than that staged by any other agency.
We are offering, FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY,
A STANDARD MODEL SEVEN-
PASSENGER CHANDLER SIX
TOURING CAR FOR £845.
A STANDARD MODEL FIVE-
PASSENGER CLEVELAND SIX
TOURING CAR FOR £,680.
RING CITY 2567 AND ARRANGE A DEMONSTRATION.
Where CHANDLER and CLEVELAND Meet.
111 111
X
rr
<77777
| «A
5=2
3»W
a
MARCUS CLARK &. CO. LTD
GARAGE AND SHOWROOM, 147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, Agents for New South Wales.
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne, Agents for Victoria. T. KENNEDY, Launceston, Agent for Tasmania.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2147
Thursday, April 7, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, (or Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt
"The Early Brush Catches the Germ.
9 9
BRUSH EARLY
WITH
Euthymol
tooth/paste
KILLS DENTAL DECAY GERMS WITHIN 30 SECONDS.
MANGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
ALWAYS RELIABLE
Under all circumstances of lieavv work it never “goes slow.” A factory that has Mangrovite Leather
installed does not experience the irritation of belting troubles. Cut from the centres of selected
Australian Ox Hides, and tanned by the special Mangrovite process, it is strong and flexible, resists
abrasions, and gives maximum gripping power on the pulleys. We have the largest stock
leather beltings in Australasia, and immediate delivery can be had in am- size up to 12in. wide.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWiCI, Managing Director,
49 York Street fWynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Cibbs, Bright&Co. Ltd., Fremant
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
Victoria & Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.. Melbourne.
Wafemi'an'g
(Ideal T
’BtJIL
FoiisritairJ'Pen
WB
1%
\
'I
Records are important.
You may have to refer to them in
years to come. Write them in
ink with the world's best Pen—
Waterman's Ideal—the pen that
is always reliable and always
ready at a moment's notice.’?
Three Types—“ Self-Filling,’-
“Safety” and “Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd.,
Corner t
Xingsway, London, Eng
Australia : Harold D. Dixon.
*os, Clarence Street, Sydney.
VWm
3LS
ffl
wwm
Sggfl V(X
■ ■
-
i-
The Car for the Owner-Driver
The Standard Car is designed expressly for
the Owner-Driver, particularly the one
driving in all weathers over the roughest
roads —and gives faithful service.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
STANDARD MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
COVENTRY
AGENTS : I. PHIZ ACKEHLE Y.
168-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
THe Alvdliiiik\BritisH
Slcfacrard
0 LIGHT CAR c
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
non pacGNom fcmbol
mamma
Fife*,
fkBX
Bgaa
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, fj-
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekee*
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
Wanted, a Biographer
The other day I took home Edmunc
Gosse’s Life of Swinburne. There seemec
to be a treat in store. Gosse must be abp
the foremost biographer in England,
literary reputation goes; he had know
Swinburne intimately for years-—knew a
about him, in fact; and from the few things !
had been told of him I expected Swinbur
the man to be nearly as fascinating
Swinburne the poet. Could you wonder th
expectation ran high—tempered only
some misgiving that the elderly and ver;
English Gosse, with the invincible trai
tions of middle-class form behind him, wou
be afraid to tell all or nearly all he knew
Would be afraid, in other words, to pain
the picture as it was V
What sort of a'book is this of the famo
biographer, concerning the more famo
poet? Really, it is one that explains a goot
deal, but not about Swinburne. It explui
why British biographies of the most vivid
interesting men are never read, except 1
the few, while almost any kind of novel co
earning any sort of imaginary person ca
lind readers. The fact is admitted; and i
is generally put down to the frivolity ant
stupidity of readers.
1 submit that ninety per cent, of it
due to the asininity of biographers. Or, i:
you like, their “scrupulous regard for goot
taste." Now, there is such a thing as goot
taste in writing biography as in writing an
thing; but the good taste that consists
leaving out everything of vital import
the temperament of the man—of disguisin
his inner life, with its weaknesses and pa
sions, on the ground that these are “not th
concern of the public”—is responsible f<
the fact that biography is mostly dead tim
her, while even third-rate fiction throbs an
lives.
In Gosse’s book there is the usual nicel.
written stuff about Swinburne’s antecedent
and his life at school, aid his studies—
different from other boys’ studies—are car
fully set out. His literary tastes and learn
ings are discussed in erudite fashion. The
there comes his burst into literature. T 1
tremendous sensation caused by the firs
volume of the “Poems and Ballads” in 186
is described. But most of this we had heart
before. What is not explained—what is no
sought to be explained—is the extent
which the vivid, intensely warm poetry
a reflection of the inner (or outer) life
the man.
On page 163 you read this: “A brief re
turn to London violently affected his health.
Then, a sentence or two lower down: “E
seemed unable to resist succumbing to th
most debilitating irregularities.” Note tha
last phrase—“the most debilitating irregu
larities”! It wouldn’t do, of course, t
even hint what they were. If Goss
had been writing a work of fiction he woul
have known that he could not cover up hi
hero’s tracks in that fashion. The reade
would at once close up the book. But in bio
graphy (the school that Gosse, Paul, Lesli
Stephen, Morley and all the rest of then
exemplify) the things that really matter
the things that are the man, not only ca
but must be left out. It is the tradition o
the school; and Australia has copied it.
Skipping over 80 pages of Gosse, most o
them concerned with literary experience
and achievements, you find this on page 243
“Of Swinburne’s life at this time little can
be recorded, and less that is" agreeable.” Yoi
note the implied conviction that a bio
grapher’s first duty is to record what rela
tives of the great man find agreeable. Again
on this same page 243: “Mr. Donald Craw
ford was pained at his [Swinburne’s] phy
sical condition?” Why was he pained? And
what was the condition? You are left to
wonder whether it was the result of
drinking spree, or something in which the
‘raptures and roses” had a share. Mr
Gosse knows, but though he wants you to
buy his book (17s. 6d.) he wouldn’t thinl
ot telling you. Then, on page 244: “The
succeeding months of August and September
(18i9) were the most deplorable in his
whole career.” Again, why? The word
deplorable” might mean anything. It is
not justice to a man’s memory, but
injustice to hint at things in this fashion
Burns s weakness (one of them) was wine,
and Byron’s (one of them) was women. De
Quincy’s was opium, and De S tael’s the
admiration of men. Gosse would have used
the word “deplorable” about the whole lot,
rr h uri ‘i e d on to talk of something else.
He refuses to tell us whether Swinburne’s
weakness was drink or drugs, why he never
married, whether he was fond of women or
avoided them, whether the “Dolores” of his
verse was one of his light o’ loves, whether
he ever had any light of loves, whether, if
he had not, there were special reasons,
whether the supreme singer had anything in
himself and his passional (or otherwise)
nature that made him different from other
men. The real mystery of Swinburne is not
touched at all.
The school of which Gosse is the exem-
P.l ar ,i n possession. The few exceptions,
like Gribble in England and Le Notre in
P ranee, merely prove the rule. What Aus-
tralian biographies or biographers have we?
I ractically none—or none that are evei*
read. Why? Because the few people who
have written about some of our big men;
such as David Syme and Henry Parkes, have
never dreamed of putting down anything
that would bring a flutter of personal inter-
est let alone a blush to the bosom of any-
body. Y'et there are Australians whiose
lives, if fairly written—and, above all, if
written from the inside —would transcend
in vivid interest anything attributed to a
whole stream of imaginary persons, who are
discounted beforehand by the fact that they
are imaginary.
Will someone write a real life of Edmund
Barton ? An erudite Australian, Professor
Murdoch, is engaged even now on the life of
Alfred Deakin. Is there the faintest likeli-
hood that the actual man, as the world did
not know him, will emerge from the record
of dry-as-dust politics and dead speeches
that is certain to be made available? The
rule is that 99 people must not be given the
picture they are entitled to because one per-
son, a friend or relative, might not like it.
Even that person, if he or she had under-
standing, should be aware that a man lives
in the affections of posterity as much by his
weaknesses as by the qualities that helped
him on. No reader- of the lied Page will
need to be told, though others may, that to
write like this is not 1 to ask that biography
should deal in silly scandals, of the kind
that Mrs. Asquith is putting up on the
public. It is merely to insist that bio-
graphy, if it is to be read, must be a study
of the individual, and not merely of the
faces, or grimaces, he made before the world.
ALFRED BUCHANAN.
Hugh Walpole
Hugh Walpole hasn’t the Galsworthy pre-
tence of soaking his tales in inevitability. He
cannot, like Brett Young, fatten Ins failures
with whims. Bennett’s brassy exuberance :s
strange to his nature, and he would frown on
Ford Madox Hueffer striving tor the blare
and bounce of an orchestra. As for Comp-
ton Mackenzie, who is always his neignbor
under , the critical microscope, one cannot
imagine NValpole recording the progressive
euchring of Michael Fane, Maurice Avery
and their demi-semi-mondaines. And no
ono can think of him driven by the adven-
turous dispositions of Sylvia and Michael to
keep them moving by every fatuous shift
through the greasy Balkan Peninsula. He
would feel that he was turning a movie
into literature and discover in the end that
it was a turn for the worse. Yet, with, all
his freedom from the audacities of competi-
tors, he never reaches the status of a favorite
author. He commands respect as a savant
of mystery and terror who contrives a precious
tyranny over the imagination. But remove
that atmosphere of brooding portents that
crams some of his figures with oddity and
foreboding, and his foregrounds would be as
wan and wearying as the picture-postcard
scenes of a Family Herald serial.
One has only to consider the consequences
to “The Dark Forest” without the forest,
“The Secret City” without the secrecy, or
“The Duchess of Wrexe” without that dim,
exclusive phantom to realise Walpole as a
dealer in motifs charged with a mischievous
eeriness and woe. Let us take the case of
“The Duchess.” She sits there in her high
chair, attended by the faithful Dorchester,
needing neither the World nor the Flesh to
become the Devil. She is the ghost at
every feast, the spectre at every scandal,
looming bigger than the shadow that her
substance casts, turning the stomachs of
her family if she cannot turn their heads,
whilst feeding her antipathies to the end on
a million fads and despotisms whereof her
Blood is presumed to soften the affront. H.
G. Wells could have demolished this ruin in
the laughter of a couple of chapters, but Wal-
pole would be driven by his regard for the
aristocracy to make even a nightmare of the
peerage a dream of potency and awe. Yet
with all his patient workmanship the Duchess
has only the force of a caricature. Though
she diminishes the Beaminster menaae unti
they seem to move on muffled feet and talk
piano, she remains an overpainted terror in a
shaded room. Really one feels that hei
sumptuous egotism is the mask of a super-
lative inanity. She is one of those freaks
of literary hysteria probably born on April 1
mid deserving extinction on November 5
There is not the same enveloping dread of a
personality in “The Prelude to Adventure,”
hut there is a haunting reminiscence of hor-
ror and mystification brought about by a
shifty little murder and a sudden conscious-
ness of God.
But one must go back elsewhere for the
riper quality in Walpole’s writing. In “The
Dark Forest” and “The Secret City” he has
captured something of the soul of Russia
which had been previously the disputed
possession of Maurice Baring and Stephen
Graham. “The Secret City” is taking stuff,
but it hasn’t the perplexing wonder of “The
Dark Forest.” One might complain that one
cannot see the trees for the mystery, but the
forest is there, touched with Almost a sinister
significance by war. And it is a war that
the author must have seen without malice,
without sentiment, without a quivering nos-
tril for human infirmities. It is a passion-
less, almost pulseless narrative, told at times
with such an ennui and disproportion that
trivialities acquire the posture' of great
events, and the war without has to keep its
distance as a bald, bloody banality. Yet
looking at the book as a whole, one feels the
vitality of the picture and the shrewd under-
standing of character. Almost the same
sureness of vision promotes “The Green Mir-
ror” from the ruck, but one deprecates the
tendency to exalt the mirror from a property
to the heavy lead in the drama. When he
continually holds up the queer natures of a
household to the superior glass, one suspects
that he has invented an excellent family to
emphasise the importance of the title role.
“Fortitude” is his bulkiest effort, and it
has its lovers among the voracious souls
who can consume long studies of human
development, gloomed by drabness, hatreds
and dyspepsia, and still feel so empty and
cheerless that they have to tackle a "snack
like Wells’s “Joan and Peter” or the two
tomes of Mackenzie's “Sinister Street” to
save themselves from mental starvation. One
is far from saying that “Fortitude” is an
unworthy performance, but is has an atmo-
sphere of Smiles’s “Self-Help.” His last.
“The Captives.” is an endeavor to follow a
singular orphan. Maggie Cardinal, through
the labyrinths of religions, plain and colored,
until the author loses her in the mists of
an anti-climax masquerading half-heartedly
as a happy ending. There are, however,
some > vivid patches in the book, and the
description of the suicide of Maggie’s frail
and decadent Uncle Matthew, with a rain-
filled gale through an open window turning
him to a sudden pendulum, is an artistically
gruesome vignette.
Walpole has written some other novels—
“Maradick at Forty” and “Mr. Perrin and
Mr. Traill” are both worth buying—and he
has published some good short stories, but
without exhibiting any inborn faculty for
(Continued on page 27.)


Crtjjoayjtofdefasfcije
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Values Challenge Comparison.
n
Value is expressed in every offering at Anthony
Horderns’. This ideal was established nearly a
century ago, and to-day values at the House of
Economy are more prominent and
pronounced than ever. Compari-
son of Quality and Price of
Goods detailed here demonstrates
this.
To those who shop
by post complete
satisfaction is assured
through the medium
of our dependable
and efficient Mail
Order Service.
■Cx
VALUE IN TABLE LINENS.
DAMASK CLOTHS (Hemmed). Choice assortment
of new designs.
Size 2x2 yds. Price 17/6 each.
Size 2 x 21 yds. Price. 22/6 each.
Size 2x3 yds. Price, 27/6 each.
ALL LINEN DAMASK CLOTHS.
Size 2 x 2. Prices, 35/-, 58/6, 65/-, 75/- each.
Size 2 x 24. Prices, 42/6, 49/6, 55/-, 63/- to
100/- each.
Size 2x3. Prices, 55/-, 63/-, 9S/6, 105/-
DAMASK CLOTHS (Hemstitched).
Size 2x2. Price, 22/6 each.
Size 2 x 24. Price, 27/6 each.
Size 2x 3. Price, 33/6 each.
WHITE TABLE DAMASK, in serviceable quality
and neat designs.
53 inches wide. Price, 3/11 per yard.
66 inches wide. Price, 5/8 per yard.
70 inches wide. Prices, 5/11, 8/11, 11/6, 14/9
per yard.
UNBLEACHED DAMASK, Red Border, 54in,
wide. Price, 4/9 per yard.
SERVIETTES, Size 22in. x 22in. Prices, 7/9,
10/6, 11/3 per 4-dozen.
TABLE CENTRES. Venetian Lace.
Size 18in. x 18in. Prices, 4/11, 5/3 each.
Size 16in. x 24in. Price. 5/11 each.
SCALLOPED AND EMBROIDERED TABLE
CENTRES.
Size 18in. Round. Prices, 2/11, 5/9, 6/11
Size 14in. x 19in., Oval. Prices, 2/4, 2/11
each.
Size 19in. x 29in., Oval. Prices, 3/6, 3/9
each.
SILK MALTESE LACE TABLE CENTRES,
with White Silk centre.
Size lain. ISin. 23in. Round
Prices 10/6 21/- 39/6 each. '
DOYLEYS. All Maltese Lace.
6in., Round. Price, 1/9 each.
6in. x 6in., Square. Price, 1/11 each.
TOWELS and TOWELLING.
GREY TURKISH ROLLER TOWELLING,
British manufacture. Prices, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9,
2/3, 2/6 per yard.
ALL LINEN TEA TOWELLING, 29 inches wide.
Price, 2/11 per yard. 32 inches wide. Price,
3/3 per yard.
GLASS TOWELLING. Prices, 1/2, 1/4, 2/2,
2/11 per yard.
GLASS CLOTHS, Typed. Prices, 1/4, 1/9, 1/11
2/11 each. Check: Prices, 1/9, 2/6, 2/11
each.
KITCHEN TOWELS. Prices, 1/9, 2/-, 3/-, 3/4,
3/10 each.
DUSTERS, Flannelette, 22in. x 24in. Prices,
1/3, 1/6 each. Cotton Check, 21in. x 24in.
Price, 1/3 each. 23in. x 27in. Price, 1/6
each. Turkish, 18in. x 21in. Price, 1/6
each.
Manchester Offerings.
WHITE CALlCO—Horrockses’ Al, 36in. Price,
1/6 yard. 17/6 dozen. Horrockses’ 81. 36in.
Price, 1/9 yard, 19/6 dozen. Other Makes:
Prices, 14/6, 15/6, 17/6, 18/9 per dozen.
UNBLEACHED CALICO —-Wigan, 28 inches
wide. Price, 1/6 yard, 17/6 dozen. 36 inches
wide. Prices, 1/11, 2/3, 2/5 per yard, 22/6,
26/-, 28/- per dozen.
We pay carriage on Family
Drapery and Fashion Goods in
N.S.W., and to the nearest port
on Interstate and Island Orders.
Il lIP .lit-
■
■
see
UK
K
&
n
w
-m
P
: i
W^VU'.
Attractive Curtain Sets.
CURTAINS AND VALANCES, in Tissue,
Shadow Tissue, Poplin, Casement Cloth, stock
size. Valance, Oft.; Curtains, 7ft.; or made
up in any size to order.
IN TISSUE, panelled with self-colored border.
Price, S2/6 set.
IN SHADOW TISSUE, with self-colored border
or plain, heavy stitch. Price, 95/- set.
IN PLAIN CASEMENT CLOTH. Price, 52/6
IN CASEMENT CLOTH, stencilled various de-
signs. Price, 75/- set.
Artistic Curtain Fabrics.
MADRAS MUSLINS, in attractive designs.
Widths 45in. 50in. 60in.
I’l'iees 3/- 3/6 4/0
MADRAS MUSLIN (Tasselled both sides).
Widths 45in. 50in. 60in.
Prices 3/6 3/9 4/3
CURTAIN NETS. 50 inches wide. Prices, 4/3,
6/-, 8/9, 10/-, 11/9.
VALUE IN BED LINEN.
FINLAY’S LINEN-FINISHED SHEETINGS, Quality
M.
Widths — 54in. 63in 72in. SOin. 90iu. lOOin. IOSm.
5/3 5/9 6/11 7/6 8/6 9/11 10/6
RELIABLE WHITE SHEETINGS.
54 inches wide. Prices, 2/11.,. 3/6 per yard.
64 inches wide. Prices, 3/3, 3/9 per yard.
72 inches wide. Prices, 3/6, 3/11 per yard.
90 inches wide. Prices, 4/6. 5/3 per yard.
DEPENDABLE GREY SHEETINGS.
60 inches wide. Prices, 2/11, 3/6, 3/11 per
Prices, 3/6, 3/11, 4/9 per
Prices, 4/11, 5/6, 5/11 per
Prices, 5/6, 6/3, 6/9 per
yard.
72 inches wide,
yard.
SO inches wide,
yard.
90 inches wide,
yard.
HERRINGBONE SHEETING, very suitable for
Winter Sheets, and also for Curtains and
Bedspreads.
Widths .... 54in. 72in. SOin. 90in.
Prices .... 5/6 6/11 7/11 8/11 per yd.
READY-MADE SHEETS, hemmed and pressed,
for immediate use.
Size 54in. x 90in., 15/-, 18/-, 21/9 per pair.
Size 64in. x 90in., 16/9, 19/3, 23/- per pair.
Size 72in. x lOOin., 19/9, 22/-. 26/3 per pair.
Size SOin. x lOOin., 23/11, 27/6, 30/9 per pair.
Size 90in. x 108 in., 27/6, 32/-, 36/- per pair.
PILLOW CASES, 20in. x SOin., Taped. Prices,
1/6, 1/10, 2/- each. 20in. x 30in., buttoned.
Prices, 1/9, 2/4. 2/10 each.
HORROCKSES’ PILLOW CALICO, linen finish,
40 inches wide. Prices, 1/11, 2/6, 2/11 per
yard.
PILLOW SHAMS, hemstitched and embroidered,
neat designs. Size, 22in. x 32in. Prices,
19/6. 22/6. 23/6, 27/6 per pair.
BED TICKING, colored stripes.
Widths 36in. sSin. 63in.
Prices 2/11 4/9 5/6 per yd.
TURKISH TOWELS.
WHITE TURKISH. Prices, 1/9. 1/11, 2/11,
3/3, 3/11, 4/11 each.
GREY. Prices, 1/5, 1/11, 2/6, 3/3, 3/11, 4/9
each.
BROWN LINEN TURKISH TOWELS. All
British Manufacture. Prices, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
9/-, 11/6, 13/6 each.
HUCKABACK TOWELS.
HUCKABACK FACE TOWELS, 2/6, 3/-, 3/6,
4/3 each.
ALL LINEN HUCKABACK TOWELS. Prices,
6/6, 8/11. 9/11, 11/9, 13/6, 15/6 each.
HUCKABACK GUEST TOWELS. Old Bleach
Linen, da intv designs. Prices, 5/-, 5/9 each.
TURKISH BATH MATS, assorted colors.
Prices, 6/11, 9/6 each.
DUCHESSE SETS.
HEMSTITCHED AND EMBROIDERED
DUCHESSE SETS. . Prices, 5/6, 6/9, 12/11,
13/6 per set.
LACE TRIMMED DUCHESSE SETS. Prices,
3/6. 3/11, 5/9. 8/6. 10/6 per set.
VENETIAN LACE DUCHESSE SETS. Price,
17/9 per set.
CLUNY LACE DUCHESSE SETS. Prices, 30/-,
35/- per set.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons LimiiecL
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Your Kodak will
add enjoyment
to your outings.
A pleasant day, a Kodak, and a ramble anywhere makes a
happy combination.
Every little nook acquires additional interest as you look
for a picture opportunity— a picture that will win the
admiration of friends and give you endless pleasure.
Then there are pictures of your sports, pets, friends, and the
little folk that will make priceless photographs.
Make a No. 2 Folding Autographic Brownie your constant companion. It is
light, folds compactly, and has rounded ends for convenience in carrying. You’ll
find it simple to operate, and it makes splendid pictures, 2£ x 3£ inches.
Price 58/-
The Vest Pocket Kodak is another very popular camera. It is small enough to
fit in the waistcoat pocket, or a lady’s handbag, yet makes such clear pictures
that they can be readily enlarged. For pictures If x2| inches. Price 54/6.
Other Brownies from 14/6 to £5/15/-, and Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/- are
described in the Kodak Catalogue. Ask for your copy.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PT Y. LTD.,
Street Addafi 5 - I®/ C f oll i n l S 5 ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; The Valley;
as ssassffi
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. '
V
m
v ' ■
n
m
m
a
2£n
imiiiimiHnimniii
X-
A Choice of Perfect Instruments
“TASMAN."
After the severest tests, the most unbiassed
comparisons, your choice will surely be that
of the world’s greatest musical celebrities, who
select His Master’s Voice” as the only worthy
medium for the reproduction of their art.
His Master's Voice
“EXCELLO."
is available in various models, each Instrument
perfect in tonal purity. On which of these
will you decide? Illustrated here are three of
them.
THE STUDIO GRAND—
In mahogany 39 guineas
In oak 37 „
In mission 37 „
THE TASMAN—
In mahogany . . . 264 ~
In oak 25 „
THE EXCELLO—
In mahogany l 3 „
In oak 12 „
i
15
1
«
\W'
STUDIO GRAND.”
Hear those at the nearest dealer’s. If you are not sure of his name, write
us, when we will send you full particulars, instrument catalogue and record
“His Master's Voice”
Read. Trade-marl:.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE


PINKETTIS
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
CENSUS
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
4th APRIL, 1921
ALL PERSONS in the Commonwealth
on the NIGHT BETWEEN SUNDAY,
3rd April, and MONDAY, 4th April. 1021,
must furnish the required information.
A Collector will call for the Census Slips
left at every Dwelling, hut any person
who has not received the necessary Slip
is required to immediately report to the
nearest Post Office or Police Station.
PENALTY for Refusing to Supply
the Required Information - £lO
For Wilfully Untrue Statement * £5O
G. H. KXIBBS,
Commonwealth Statistician.
..
m
V"*
j
Dispense
with that
ageing GREY
HAIR. Let it
be changed
to a youth-
ful deep wal-
nut color,
harmlessly
and per-
manently.
You’ll feel
young again.
Procurable from all chemists.
Get a packet to-day.
MEXICAN
IWAIKUT STAINS
Tooth Paste
EUQEN
% '
A Delightful
Dentifrice.
So fragrant and refreshing; so effici-
ent. in its cleansing properties; so
altogether ideal as a dentifrice is
Eudenta, that you cannot imagine
what a delightful tooth paste it is
until you have tried it.
But for its Aus-
tralian origin the
present price of 1/-
a tube would not
be possible.
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there—and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin - free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores— everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
Though Summer days are loth to leave,
There are cold nights yet to be;
When in old armchair your thoughts will
weave
Smoke-castles from your GBD.
MANY POPULAR SHAPES.
ON SALE EVERYWHERE.
r
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adventure.
They sailed their ships afar to unknown
seas;
And nevermore the old home river mouth
Saw their blown sails filled with the freshen-
ing breeze
Return sun-bleached and scented with the
south.
Where should rhe oceans run beyond the
lands
Last charted in the haze of doubt and
dream?
Here Captain Abel Smith saw leagues of
sand
And palm trees and a city's distant gleam.
But did he see or was his fevered thought
At the last edge of that adventurous day
In some mirage of eager longing caught
Ere yet he turned his prow the homeward
way ?
Sea and still sea; and here the Spaniards
mine
The hills of silver and the cliffs of gold—
Sail on, bold heart; the large new stars shall
shine
On stranger glories than all dreams have
told!
And now the waves of no returning break
On iron coasts; and leaking timbers
fail....
Home seas and far seas! For adventure’s
sake
All ships and dreams fade out in the last
tale.
For I have sailed on wider, wilder seas,
Asking not plunder but to surely know
The lift of the next land, the cape, the trees,
The soundings and the current’s drift and
flow'.
Fever of thought and ache of weary days!
Have I seen this or dreamed it in the
night?
Adventure finds the storm behind the haze.
The iron coasts; and all is dark —’and
light.
N.B.W.
D. M. W.
The Wisdom.
A blare of brass and a throb of drums—
And Solomon comes ! Solomon comes 1
A thousand guards and a glint of steel,
Ivory wrought in his chariot-wheel,
A silken standard which hides the sun,
A mantle of Tyrian purple, spun
By the cunningest hands in the wise old
East,
So Solomon goes to his mighty feast.
The breath of lutes and the twanged strings
sigh—,
And the Queen goes by! The Queen goes by!
The Lady of Sheba in cloth of gold
With her hennaed nails and her dark eyes
bold.
A peacock perches behind her chair;
The sun lights diamonds in her hair:
The music glows like the heart of wine.
For Sheba goes with the King to dine.
Rattling hooves through the city’s heat.
The shepherd passes along the street!
And his nut-brown maid is at his side.
He has his pipes and the skies are wide;
His chest is bare to the breeze’s kiss;
The thought of eating is honest bliss;
He knows content and his spirit sings—
So a fig, I say, for all your Kings 1
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.
Blue Moon.
Last night the moon was blue —was blue.
The sunflowers all turned green.
You could not tell the land from sea,
There was no line between.
The forest hid a mystery
And Pan went by unseen.
Last night the moon was blue —was blue.
The poppies kept awake.
They would not lose an hour of it.
For any sleep-time’s sake.
They did not seem to care a bit
Though flower-eyes might ache!
Last night the moon was blue —was blue.
A blossom fair and cool
Sprung from the very breast of God.
The clouds were azure wool.
They left along the russet sod
A turquoise for the pool.
Oh 1 pixy girl, pin up your hair
And don your silver shoon.
And come with me across the sands
Where sleepy waters croon,
And I will fill your hungry hands
With mem’ries of that moon.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Deserted.
When evening came, God walked the Garden
through,
But no Earth-children ran to greet Him
there i
Strange silence filled the agonising air
Save for a whispering wind that sadly blew.
Lost they were lost to Him. ah, well He
knew! ,
Gone were, the man’s broad shoulders,
great arms bare;
Gone was the splendor of Eve’s lustrous
hair;
Gone were the voices, and the laughter, too.
He found their bower, and mourned its
emptiness.
Entering in. He mutely gazed around
And longed to call His order back again,
But could not, being God. Thus in distress,
He'lav a long time there upon the ground.
Telling a patient rosary of pain.
VICTORIA-
R.


m
mmmm
OF THE BRITISH CABLE MAKERS’ ASSOCIAT
fir
t
JM
n 9
if®
■*l^;
'"AERIAL WIRES
f AND CABLES-
Bare or Braided
mmm
&
TELEPHONE WIRES
CABLES^
PAPER
PINIONS
A
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cables.
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables.
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited,
PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Bare Copper Wires &, Cables.
Hard or Soft Drawn; Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
INSTRUMENT WIRES
CoHon Covered
Silk Covered
Enamelled
TROLLEY WIRES FOR
TRAMWAYS
□
FUSE BOXES
at
INSULATED WIRES
CABLES A
1' ..
Ws
A
£
mm
William Adams & Company Limited
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence Si
PHONE, CITY 912,9180.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Marxj
PHONE 160.


The Bulletin
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 42.—N0. 2147.
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 1921.
Price 9d.
LABOR AND HER FRIENDS.
LABOR (at the A.L.P. Conference): “Friends! They merely soil my garments!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin setit regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage/.
•peciai Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
vo MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin ' original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
b'ut unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Bouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, IV.C '.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
V.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary. Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street , N. Michigan Boulevards, Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., Vi West Madison Street. Chicago:
Golden Gate News Agency,7l9 Market Street, Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club, HI N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco : Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle; Liberty
Neu's Co., Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New York City;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, .’find Street and
6th Avenue, New York City. Los Angeles, Chas.
Olson, Pershing Square News Stand, Los Angeles:
George Hussey, Central News Stand, 103 East sth
Street, Los Angeles.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt,
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
ICoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.: Bioz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3\d.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
Thursday' april 7. 1921.
SELF-DETERMINATION AND
FLIM-FLAM.
One of the firstfruits of the Russian Revolu-
tion was the blessed word “self-determina-
tion.” The feckless Kerensky invented it,
or stole it from the inventor; Lloyd George
used it for military purposes— e.g., as a
means of detaching Czechs, Slovaks, Croats,
Dalmatians and so forth from the hostile
alliance —in the critical days of 1918, and
it has since become the catchword of fluent
gabblers all over the world. The doctrine
it expresses is admirably calculated to cap-
ture those who think superficially or not at
all. It affirms that where two or more
peoples inhabit a given territory the majo-
rity people has a right to set up the form
of government it prefers, as expressed at a
plebiscite, and impose it on the minority,
which w'ill thereupon lie down and die, or
emigrate in a body, or sink its opinions
and live happily in the subject state ever
after. This has a beautiful appearance on
paper, but it takes too much for granted.
One objection is that, instead of accepting
the situation and effacing itself, the minority
would very probably remain violently dis-
satisfied and try to upset the verdict (aud
the Government), more especially if it had
powerful friends or relations not far away.
Other awkward problems would arise if the
minority, though defeated in the territory
as a whole, had a big preponderance of votes
in certain rich districts. This, it seems,
is what has happened in Upper Silesia, and
whether the Huns recover the whole pro-
vince or it is formed into a buffer State with
small expectation of longevity, or carved up
between Germany and Poland, there are
manifest possibilities of present trouble and
future war.
Self-determination is the A.L.P.’s cure-
all for the maladies of Ireland. But the pro-
babilities are that it would be no more suc-
cessful in that country than it has been in
Silesia. Ireland’s great need is a recon-
ciliation of factions, and that is not to be
effected by the mere marking of voting-
papers. There are no healing properties in
a plebiscite. Whichever party prevailed at
the polls there would remain a numerous and
implacable minority, perpetually seeking an
opportunity to upset the decision, and a house
divided against itself is a poor old insurance
risk. Moreover, in the present state of inter-
national affairs, what guarantee is there
that the result of a self-determination refer-
endum, in Ireland or any other country,
would stand? -All the disputants go to the
plebiscite on win-tie-or-wrangle principles.
There is no obligation on any of them to
accept the"Verdict', nor any recognised tri-
bunal to enforce it. It might be different
if there were a real League of Nations, but
the nebulous arrangement that goes by that
name has neither army nor navy nor money
nor Judges nor police. Under these circum-
stances the verdict of a self-determination
plebiscite which neither party undertakes t >
accept beforehand is as impermanent as the
resolution of a Catts-Bailey conference.
It is as different from a legal judgment
backed by the whole force of a modern State
as chalk is from cheese.
* * # *
• But there are other and weightier argu-
ments against the self-determination fad.
Applied rigidly without regard to circum-
stances, it would be the cause of wars more
frightful than any recorded in history. Car-
ried to its logical extreme, it would plunge
civilisation into chaos. The right of a small
provincial majority to vote itself out of a
self-governing State, of which it has formed
part for centuries, can only be justified on
the ground that it is suffering from intoler-
able oppression. If no oppression is shown,
and if the province which want? to break
away is vital to the military security of the
associated territory, the right of self-deter-
mination (it used to be called secession)
cannot be conceded without destroying the
foundations on which modern States rest.
If the majority in any country of mixed
races, or in any portion of that country
(presumably it may fix its own boundaries),
is entitled by its mere ipse dixit at polling-
booths to break up ancient and useful poli-
tical partnerships, there can be no peace or
security in the world. Take the case of
Switzerland, where Germans, French and
Italians have lived for hundreds of years in
friendship, to their own great advantage
and that of all Europe. The German-Swiss
are in the majority—their language is spoken
in 15 of the 24 cantons —and on self-deter-
mination principles they would be justified in
voting the Federal Republic out of existence
and attaching themselves to Germany. But
their secession would leave the non-German-
speaking cantons powerless to maintain them-
selves, and Switzerland as a political entity
would disappear. This, for various reasons,
would be a disaster to the human race, and
the mere suggestion of it tends to weaken
enthusiasm for “the rights of small nations”
to do as they darned well like. The rights
of small nations are limited by the rights of
other nations, smaller or larger, as the case
may be. Civilisation also has rights.
# * * *
There are alleged Australians who are in
favor of self-determination for India, which
would mean anarchy indescribable and racial
wars on an enormous scale. They haven’t
got to the stage of recommending self-deter-
mination for black South Africa, but judg-
ing by the current mania for a soft-headed
internationalism which maunders intermin-
ably about “oppressed nationalities” and has
nothing to say about their capacity for self-
government, that is to come. If the Indian
coolie is entitled to self-determination, surely
the Kaffir coolie is. And if the degraded
Gyppo is worthy of the boon it cannot be
logically refused to the oppressed, and occa-
sionally roasted, niggers in Southern U.S.A.,
where the great Jack' Johnson leaped to
light. The Asiatic has no color line. If
Japan went to war with the U.S.A. it would
doubtless try to stir up risings in the South-
ern States of blacks against whites. And
if it happened to be successful, self-determina-
tion for the South would be one of the terms
imposed cn the beaten nation, and a Black
Republic, or series of Black Republics, would
spring up south of Mason and Dixon’s line.
This would be an appalling calamity for
America, but it would be the logical conse-
quence of defeat and of self-determination,
the defeatist’s creed. For self-determination
is the very essence of the degraded policy
which, in the dark days through which
Europe passed in 1917, came to be known
as defeatism. It originated in a shiftless
country which had got its tail down-, and
in which there is no such thing as pride of
race, the colored man being reckoned as good
as the white. It is the kind of thing that
appeals to intellectual babus —the indolent,
the cowai’dly, the half-educated, the unfit—
all the world over. But no white Austra-
lian or white American should hug it to his
chest.
THE PARLIAMENT OF SUICIDES.
“We, as members of the Australian Labor Party,
pledge ourselves, individually and collectively, to
refuse to participate in any war outside the Com-
monwealth of Australia.” — Resolution passed early in
the proceedings by the Australian Labor Party Con-
ference in Sydney.
“A fool uttereth all his mind, but a wise man
keepeth it in till afterwards.” — Resolution passed by
Solomon all on his own.
In days when the language of good society
w r as more frahkly picturesque than it is now,
and a spade was called something unpub-
lishable, Britain had a Mad Parliament (it
w'as as far back as 1258), a Diabolical Par-
liament, an Addled Parliament, a Long
Parliament and Barebones’ Parliament.
Also, there was a Drunken Parliament.
Labor-Party Conferences - and Conventions
are rather more than mere Legislatures, for
they make Legislatures, likewise parties and
policies. So the body which met at Sydney
the other day under Lord Mayor Lambert
and started business with the above resolu-
tion may not unfairly be described as a
Suicide Parliament. It was torn by dissen-
sions, as all such brotherhoods are, and the
hatreds of the Catts section and the Lam-
bert section were bitter almost to the point
of disembovvelment, and they thought no
good of each other while the fight for the
loaves and fishes of office was on. Yet the
factious possessed features in common.
Their members had little repute as doers or
organisers, but they were fierce and per-
sistent talkers, and felt called upon to pass
loud, violent, all-embracing resolutions
in order to keep themselves before the public.
The fool spoke all his mind, and quite pos-
sibly he spoke more than was in his mind
for the sake of advertisement. The resolu-
tion above quoted was a florid appeal to the
baser and more ignorant elements of the
Labor following—the pacifist, anti-British,
pro-Hun or merely' unlettered, anarchistic
and self-seeking elements which gained so
strong a hold on the machine in the war-
days when many thousands of better men
were away fighting the battle of civilisation.
It was calculated to catch, among others,
men of the stamp of Paul Freeman, the
disguised German who almost became a
public institution, and Tomayeff, the brood-
ing Bolshevik who killed Brookfield,
M.L.A. It contained comfort for the
cowardly, the lazy and the self-indulgent,
inasmuch as it professed to make shirking
a high virtue instead of a rather inferior
vice. And it was good business for the lime-
lighters and Bombastes Furiosos, for it
tended to make the Boss Shirker a leader
and a man of account by reason of his extra
shirkiness. But it was clumsy and pitiable
folly. Even if such things are meant they
shouldn’t be said. Time enough for a pos-
sibly useful friend to find out that he is
to be deserted when the fact reveals itself.
# # * •
Australia, like Canada and South Africa,
is certainly nearer to absolute independence
than it ever was before. It got control of
its tariff matters long ago, and of its immi-
gration matters later. Now, with represen-
tation of a sort on the League of Nations,
and control of a sort over its diplomatic
affairs, its self-dependence is increasing.
By reason of the murky reticence of its
small, mysterious Prime Minister, it is
hard to say exactly how far the self-
dependence has increased, and with it
our liability to shift for ourselves • by
arms and diplomacy in a wicked and
grasping world. So it was a bad time to
issue a needless pronouncement in the name
of a great party which governs two import-
ant States, and has furnished six out of
13 Federal Governments —a pronouncement
to the effect that no State, whether foreign
or a member of the Empire, is under any
obligation to help Australia in its worst hour
of need, since under no circumstances will
it get any help in return. Nothing could
be more definite than that, for if it means
anything it practically cuts this country
off" from the aid of the League of Nations,
from that of the Empire, and from any pos-
sible friendly understanding with the few
Powers outside the League that count for
anything. A huge Power like the United
States, with great resources and weak neigh-
bors, may strike such an attitude, though
the U.S. never has struck it so definitely.
If it mixed in foreign wars it would
almost certainly be in the position of the big
nation giving more or less charitable aid to
a much smaller one. But Australia is a
very small community scornfully repudiat-
ing in advance the help of big ones. Bar-
ring Norway, Switzerland and Denmark
there is nothing now called a nation in all
Europe that is so short of numbers. And
no community in the world has such a vast
territory to defend with so little means, or
has its cities so ill-placed for defence. Further,
there is none, bar, perhaps. Maoriland, that
is so lonely an outpost of the white race,
with, a standing quarrel with certain great
colored peoples over a matter which sorely
touches their vanity.
* * -* *
It is a curious picture which the raging
pacifists of the Labor Conference draw of
Australia’s future. While announcing the
Boycott of the World and repudiating any
and every possible offer of friendly co-
operation, they are bitterly opposed to any
preparations for local defence. In fact,
they didn’t even mention local defence. They
hate compulsory military training like
poison, and object to a show' of warlike
trophies so that young Australia may know
what arms are like. They even object to
him learning a smattering of the theory of
defence in school books. No war, though
openly directed at Australia as well as
against other countries, is to be recognised
till it comes here. If it comes here first
then allies are warned off with the assur-
ance that they will receive nothing in return
save ingratitude. If it comes here last, it
will mean that the enemy has disposed of
his other opponents and proposes to finish
the job by mopping up this isolated detach-
ment, which might have counted for some-
thing fighting with others among the ruins
of Brussels, but v'hieh will count for nothing
fighting by itself amid the ruins of Sydney
with the G.P.O. tower falling on its head.
This country has all its cities on the coast
within gunshot of the sea, and has not one
inland centre for its people to retreat upon
—some centre, like Moscow', Paris, Madrid,
Birmingham. Vienna, Sofia, Nish. Bucharest,
Florence, Milan, Warsaw, the Hague,
Utrecht, Chicago, Denver or Mexico City.
Yet the Labor Party, beyond a feeble interest
in Canberra, shows no desire to alter this
state of things, Australia’s railways are
almost useless for defence ow'ing to breaks
of gauge, and the main lines hug the shore
in many places waiting to be cut by any
small surprise party; but official Labor takes
no visible interest in this matter either.
♦ * * *
It is practically impossible to imagine
this country ultimately beating off the sur-
prise-packet enemy who, thanks to unpre-
paredness and the impossibility of shifting
troops over diverse railways, had looted
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, and (if
beaten) had then burned them and also blown
up and fired the Newcastle and South Coast
coal-mines to cover his retreat. But if such
a fantastic happening was imagined he
would, according to the Labor programme,
go away unmolested to prepare for his next
venture. To pursue his fleet and transports,
and carry the war to his own coasts, and
put the fear of death into him, and recover
the loot, and collect an indemnity would be
participating, and doing it very actively, in
a campaign “outside the Commonwealth of
Australia.” Therefore, the assailant would
make war with strictly limited liability.
He would never require to risk his forces
far inland and chance being cut off, as
Napoleon did on the road to Moscow, for
there is no. Moscow to aim at —only Bourke
and Birdsville. Zoologists have often noted
the difference between Scipio Africanus
and the oyster. The former, after Rome had
stood on the defensive for 17 years, fighting
only inside the Commonwealth, suffering
great misery and getting no “for’arder,”
broke away from the Labor policy, carried
the war into the enemy’s country, and made
a vast success right off. The oyster, on the
other hand, when attacked, retires into his
Commonwealth and runs a purely defensive
campaign until he is eaten. One disaster
of Ireland was that when it met with some
successes and reduced the English dominion
in the island to the narrowest dimensions,
it never had a leader to attack the enemy
on his own soil and drive the success home.
Bannockburn led to the freedom of Scotland
because the war was thereafter carried into
England like a hurricane; otherwise it would
have been a futile row and a mere episode.
Blackwater and Benburb did nothing for
Ireland, because the subsequent campaign
was pursued locally on strict Labor prin-
ciples.
THE LAGGING PROCESS OF
RECONSTRUCTION.
The N.S.W. Chamber of Commerce Confer-
ence met lately and passed some foolish re-
solutions about the tariff and some well-
meant ones about the centralisation policy
which is eating the soul out of the States
and out of Australia. It lacked the courage
to demand the only remedy, which is whole-
sale subdivision, but it proceeded in this
wise:—
Strong disapproval of the policy of “sending every-
thing to Sydney” was expressed by delegates.
Brigadier-General Pa ton, of Newcastle, was the
first to voice his opposition to the present policy, and
at his instance it was resolved to urge upon the Gov-
ernment as a matter of national concern that all pro-
duce be sent to and .shipped at its natural ports.
Resolved: “That this Conference urges the State
Government to give effect to its declared policy of
decentralisation by making provision for cross-country
railways to provide direct communication between the
interior of the State and the many coastal ports
awaiting development. And this Conference favors
differential rates to the nearest port.”
So the Chamber makes its appeal to the
“declared policy” of a Government which has
thrown almost every rag and semblance of its
policy overboard, and which even threatened
stoppage of supplies, though not of taxes, to
a section of the State which is trying to
decentralise. And, anyway, the real authority
doesn’t seem to rest with this Government
at all. It appears to be embodied in the
squalling, quarrelling, spitting, swearing
A.L.P., which gathers in Goulburn-street,
Sydney, and calls Ministers before it to be
admonished like defaulting office boys. That
body is burning with enthusiasm about self-
determination for Ireland, w'hieh would
diminish by a trifle the territory governed
directly from London. But self-determina-
tion for New England and Riverina, which
would diminish on a far bigger scale the
territory governed with much less courtesy
from Goulburn-street., is another affair, and
for that it plainly has no use whatever,
though it may platitudinise occasionally.
* * 4 *
The Country party lately went further and
did much better at its conference: it got
down to business with a demand for a new
Federal Convention to be chosen by 30
electorates, five in each State, each returning
three members, and it declared that one of
the chief objects of the Convention should be
to “facilitate subdivision of the States.” Had
it declared that the chief object of the Con-
vention should be to enforce subdivision the
conference w r ould have done better still. But
whether even a new Convention will be effec-
tive depends very largely upon the powers
that remain to the States. An unauthorised
alteration of the draft Constitution that had
been accepted by the people provided that no
State—even if, like Westralia, it was bigger
and more unmanageable than any other
single State on earth—should be subdivided
except by the consent of the State Legisla-
ture, just as the British Isle's can’t be sub-
divided to the benefit of Ireland except with
the consent of the Legislature at London.
This narrowed the people’s freedom, for it
deprived them of the old appeal to the British
Government, which gave Home Rule within
the Empire to Queensland, Victoria and Tas-
mania. It narrowed it still further, for the
Parliament of All Australia wasn’t granted
the right of subdivision which other Federal
authorities like those at Washington, Buenos
Aires and Rio Janeiro possess and exercise.
And the One Big City curse has been narrow-
ing the people’s right of Home Rule and local
self-determination ever since. Twenty-five
years ago, when the Constitution was in the
making, it was just possible for a big, neg-
lected, dissatisfied section of a State to break
away and set up for itself if its leaders were
sufficiently capable to secure the support of
all other sections apart from the metropolis
and the environs which are x-eally part of it.
It isn’t possible now save in the "ease of Tas-
mania. which, by the irony of things, is the
one State that hardly requires subdivision
—so monstrous has been the growth of each
State’s One Big City and so steady the de-
population and ruin of many country dis-
tricts. Such places as N. S. Wales’s
Northern Rivers and Riverina don’t ask
for much as compared with Sinn Fein Ire-
land. They only seek for self-government
under the rule of the Commonwealth and
under that of the Empire, -which is inde-
pendence at third hand, while Ireland de-
mands the whole article. But their prospect
of getting, a hearing for their modest request
is much less than Ireland’s. The only legal
appeal against C/ESAR is to O.T?sar himself
and Cesar has grown out of all knowledge


and lias also lost whatever manners he ever
possessed.
* * * *
So whether the new Convention that is
to “facilitate” subdivision will really facili-
tate it depends almost wholly upon whether
any power of veto is left with the States.
If any power is left with them, then the
Big City interests will have the old
objection to the diminution of the area on
which they batten and to the rising of rival
cities. Pharaoh will be asked with circum-
locution to let his people go, and Pharaoh
will doubtless answer just as he did when
asked without circumlocution. Old Pharaoh
only let his people go when they went with-
out asking him; and if the people of the
Riverina, of the Northern N.S.W. Rivers,
of Central and North Queensland want to
go they will have to so arrange matters that
they shall be entitled to go without getting
the sanction of the new Pharaoh.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How the Hun Won the War.
At present Germany is the richest country
ill Europe; in fact, it is probably as rich
as all the rest of Europe put together. Its
factories are wholly intact, while those of
Belgium, Northern France (the industrial
part of France), Northern Italy (the indus-
trial section of Italy) and of Poland and
Russia are a ruin. And they are freshly
equipped with machinery stolen from the
occupied countries, which machinery the
Allies are recovering by slow instalments.
The Hun coal-mines are intact, while those
of France and Belgium, which the retiring
Him wrecked with explosives, won’t be in
good order again for years. In fact, the war
left Germany far richer by comparison with
the States which won the victory than it was
iu 1914. It has no ruinously expensive fleet
aud army to keep up, and it doesn’t feel the
need of them, for the forbearance of the mem-
bers of the League of Nations protects it. It
has no longer a collection of wholly unprofit-
able colonies to finance. Its manhood is
able to devote itself to money-getting, while
other races, which have the peace of the
world to maintain, are standing about in
worn and faded uniforms and humping the
white man’s' burden. Britain, which escaped
devastation, is the only industrial rival that
Germany has left in Eurone, and Britain
(England, Scotland and Wales) is very
small compared with the German republic in
both area and resources. Ireland, where
the chronic civil war is, is no asset, but a
liability. The Hun conviction is that, the
misguided soft-heartedness of the Allies,
which he regards as sheer imbecility, won’t
allow them to collect their dues by the means
he used to employ himself and the only means
he understands. They don’t take hostages,
make the inhabitants of the occupied terri-
tories do compulsory labor in default of cash,
shoot highly-placed local officials against a
wall at daybreak when assaults are com-
mitted on foreign residents, or give notice
that, whenever an instalment of the indemnity
is overdue, a city will be burned as Louvain
was. The pride and joy of the Hun in his
own military machine was based on the fact
that it wore big jack-boots and trod with
them hard. It might respect, if not love, the
Allies if they did the same. As it is. they are
regarded as a futile lot. Taxation in Ger-
many is only a fraction of that which crushes
France and Britain and Italy and Serbia to
the dust. The Honorable Hun Treasurer pro-
fesses, with his tongue in his cheek, that the
republic (vastly larger than the British Isles,
wholly undamaged and nearly free of de-
fence expenditure) can raise only one-
twelfth of Britain’s revenue, and alleges that
the deficit would melt the heart of a stone
and reduce a cannibal to tears. None of the
war criminals whose surrender was de-
manded have been surrendered or even tried
locally, because the Allies didn’t take host-
ages for them. Indeed, some of them have
been promoted. The Allies, who are
thirty thousand millions to the bad over the
war and the senseless destruction, demanded
an indemnity equal to about 3| thousand
millions in cash, though when spread over
42 years, with moderate compound interest, it
came to eleven thousand millions. Still in
cash (and they had to pay in cash or kind)
they only asked for about one-ninth of their
losses. When the first small instalment fell
due it wasn’t paid. Instead, the Huns raised
a Bolshevik insurrection —probably a sham
insurrection—to emphasise their misery and
helplessness, and asked the Allies to suppress,
it at their own cost. Yet there was money in
abundance for local salaries. The wages of
German Foreign Office officials were multi-
plied by 12, and the cost of the Home Office
by 75 and of the Post Office by more than six.
The Allies are trying to impress on the Hun
that he isn’t the victor by occupying another
outlying strip of his territory, but as they
treat the population better than it is treated
by it own officials, and even allow the people
to organise strikes, very little is gained. A
few tons of dynamite may yet have to be
dropped on Berlin to give the Hun the first
real intimation that he didn’t win the war.
Myths and Other Products of the
Land.
“N.SAV. lias an area of 195,669,000 acres, and the
major portion of this huge territory is in the pos-
session under different tenures of land and finance
companies, the members of which are living overseas
and very seldom see the country from which their
"'ealth is produced. The compulsory subdivision
of these large estates is an imperative necessity”....
It does no special harm that a casual oaf
should perform like this, whether througn
wickedness or aboriginal ignorance, except,
of course, that it is on whirling statements
of the sort that oafs sometimes get into Par-
liament, to the shame and ruin of the State.
Still, the A.L.P. should speak to President
Lambert, for he insults its intelligence by
offering it such crude inventions, and evi-
dently takes it for a grass-seed newly from
the bush. The list of big landowners and
lessees is accessible enough to those who
can read. and the Federal land-tax officials
who chase the absentee hard in search of
revenue also supply returns. Their depart-
ment in 1918 found 5374 land owners and
lessees in N. S. Wales who were big enough
to be taxed, and 639 of them were absentees.
The unimproved taxable value of absentees’
property was £1.306.714, while that of the
presentees was £71,125,902, so the absentees
were very small men. These were the de-
partment’s own estimates. For all Aus-
tralia the figures are interesting:—
Freeholders Only.
Value of Value of
Resident Absentee Land Held Land Held
Owners. Owners, by Residents, bv Absentees.
.. 12,827 3802 £i83,884,035 £6,707,890
1913 . . 13,154 3585 189,582,942 5,273,243
1914 .. 13,273 3460 190,586,769 4,580,248
Freeholders and Leaseholders.
1915 .. 14,082 3431 £196,947,899 £4,415,946
1916 . . 14,363 3511 200,294,063 4,276,146
1918 . . 14,149 3479 195,758,078 4,283,379
In 1915 the Department took stock of lease-
holders for the first time, and roped in all
the great squatting tenants of Western N.
S. Wales and Queensland, of the Northern
Territory and Westralia. By including
them it raised the area held in estates big
enough to be taxable from 63,780,759 acres
in 1914 to 255,678,674 acres in 1916. The
increase was 191,897,915 acres, and among
the 1141 proprietors or occupiers thereof
only 51 were absentees. And the absentees
were dying out or being reduced in area so
fast that the value of their share of the new
area was less than nothing. Minister
Lougiilin has a fiction about the many
vast freehold estates that shout for confisca-
tion in N. S. Wales, where the average
estate, even reckoning in the West, where
50,000 acres is not always a living area, is
really 599 acres, while in the fertile coastal
district it is 191 acres. Lougiilin mav
get three years of office on the strength of
this, and be paid his grab-salary to kill this
dragon, which is almost wholly of his own
invention. Lambert’s dragon is the imag-
inary absentee, and he may get into office
and on to the long-suffering country’s pay-
sheet. in order that he may scotch it. Yet
the Federal Government, which hunts for the
absentee like an inquisitor chasing heretics,
because it badly wants the extra tax, could
only find him in 1916 to the extent of £50.089
of tax revenue out of a total of £2,017,319.
He stood for 21 per cent, of the lot. In
1912 he was worth £84,010 out of a land-
tax revenue of f 1,445,200, and stood for 6
per cent, of the lot. Federal and other taxa-
tion imposed by men quite different from
Lougiilin and Lambert has long been push-
ing the great landlord and the great absentee
to extinction. Ghost-hunting and the exor-
cism of evil spirits have paid many frauds
before Lougiilin and Lambert, which was
the reason' why Merlin was the most
liighly-salaried official at King Arthur’s
court, and the Zulu witch-finder was a man
of substance. And, besides, they help to
divert attention while the Treasury is being
looted by the party in general. Who could
notice that the N. S. Wales Government
shouted itself 14 new motor-cars at the
public expense when its whole attention is
concentrated on the absentee —not the money-
lending absentee, who is real and growing,
and is largely a creation of Labor Govern-
ments, but the land-holding one who is pass-
ing into oblivion?
Split Voting and Soft Soap.
A confused sort of election will take place
on Saturday in South Australia. There are
four parties in the field, besides Independents
(John Tehran, who used to be a Labor
Premier, is one of the Independents), and as
Croweaterland, alone among the States, still
clings to first-past-the-post rules, there will
be some glorious vote-splitting. In closing
Parliament without , passing an effective vot-
ing scheme, the. Barwell Government was
guilty of a serious blunder. It could have had
proportional representation for the asking, or
preferential voting with single electorates.
In place of either it dallied with an unwork-
able plan of preferential voting with mul-
tiple electorates, on the lines of the demented
system that infuriated everybody at the last
Senate elections, and when Parliament
showed itself hostile to this fancy scheme it
dropped the whole subject. Thereby it im-
perilled its own existence and that of the
other non-Labor groups—the Farmers and
Settlers and the National Labor faction,
which now calls itself the Progressive Coun-
try party—and made, it possible for the
Labor minority to elect a Gunn Govern-
ment. Barwell, the Premier, has also given
offence by bluntly declaring that “there has
got to be a reduction of wages.” He explains
that his reference was to miners thrown out
of work by the slump in base metals, and
insists that “the Government cannot agree
to keep these men, their wives and families
for an indefinite period at the expense of
the general taxpayers, if the men refuse to
accept work at a reasonable wage.” But
Australian electors don’t like party leaders
who say things like that. They prefer
amiable word-spinners like John Gunn, who
follow the good old rule, the simple plan
of assuring them that everything should be
done for them and nothing by them. There
is none of Barwell’s brutal frankness about
John Gunn. Instead of hurting people’s
feelings with harsh words John has pro-
mised them a whole catalogue of conces-
sions, from State steamers to free school-
books, if they will only put him in. True,
John is splendidly silent as to where money
is to be got for all these expensive benefac-
tions—S. Australia, although its finances are
more prudently managed than those of most
States, is hard up like the rest —nor does
he suggest any method of dealing with the
customary deficit when it arrives. He
doesn’t even refer to the possibility of a
deficit, although the Westralian and Queens-
land experiences show that deficits follow the
multiplication of muzzy State enterprises as
the night the day. Still. John won’t lose
votes on the score of being a financier of
the Micawber school. No Australian State
was ever deterred from supporting a vote-
catching party by harsh considerations of
finance. In dull, drab times like the present
soft soap and split voting are powerful
Labor auxiliaries, and John Gunn and his
crowd are making the most- of them.
♦
An Annual Blister.
“Plumtree” : The N. S. Wales Labor Confer-
ence has passed, or is about to pass,
its onety-oneth resolution against imported
Governors. It is an annual escape of
gas that signifies nothing, and the Walter
Davidsons may go on sleeping easily
in their beds. Nothing astonishes the
sojourner in the Ma State more- not even
its tragic roads and footpaths or its strange
passion for pony-racing—than its prodigious
veneration for vice-regality. He comes to
Sydney expecting to see guards drawn about
Government House to protect the trembling
inmates from a turbulent proletariat, and
learns that by a large section of the popu-
lation (including the alleged Dantons and
St Justs of Sydney) the so-called represen-
tative of royalty is treated with the reverence
accorded by the yokels of the village to
Squoire. He takes up a Herald and buds
the movements of the potentates whom the
A.L.P. annually denounces, also the comings
and goings of their gentlemen-helps, and the
names of the guests they invite for dinner,
recorded in a special column. He buys a
Telegraph and reads a paroxysm of flun-
keyism like the following: —
Ah! But who is that? Seems familial'. Yes, it
is the Governor, Sir Walter Davidson, like any
ordinary man, with his wife and children. They
are seeing the show. It is lunch-time. A press-
man sees them. Sir Walter recognises him. He
calls him by the name he is known by ; indeed, by
Lis nom <lc plume. Sir Walter cannot see a vacant
place. The pressman says a word to the lady in
charge and then sits down to lunch with the party
at the invitation of the Governor. The waitress wants
to change the tablecloth. The Governor says No.
That's our Governor. Small wonder that Sir Walter
is so popular. Sir William Irvine was astonished to
note how many people nodded to him or lifted their
hats. Sir William hasn't been at a Rugby match
and seen the crowd standing bare-headed as Sir
Walter walked to his car.
In no other part of the Commonwealth would
an inkspiller be permitted to grovel in that
nauseating manner because a Governor gave
him a feed. It would be quite impossible
for such rubbish to stain any Queensland
or Westralian paper, for in both frontier-
States there is a genuine democratic senti-
ment regarding imported Governors, and
toadying has gone out of fashion. But this
slimy, tadpole sort of journalism goes down
in Sydney, for Sydney is the most provincial-
minded of all the capitals, and N. S. Wales
the most reactionary of all the States. The
imported blot on an autonomous Australia
would have been erased long ago had N. S.
Wales helped when Westralia, Victoria and
Queensland successively tried to get it re-
moved. Before Milner left the “Colonial”
Office he said that Australia could get rid
of the State rubber-stamps as soon as it
definitely pronounced sentence on them, but
N. S. Wales is two-fifths of Australia and
it harigs back. It is always at the tail-end
of the procession when the Commonwealth
requires a lead. It was the last State to
abandon the old “colonial” system, and it
will'" be' the last, to abandon the principle
that the Australians are too poor and mean
a people to nominate their own Governors.
And some of those who pass the annual
A.L.P. resolution will be found defending the
ridiculous and degrading system in the last
ditch.
The Science Bureau.
G. H. Knibbs, who has been Commonwealth
Statistician since ever there was one, has
been put at the head of the Bureau of
Science and Industry. He has quite visible
qualifications for sustaining the post. Be-
fore he went to the Statist’s Office he was
in charge of technical education in N. S.
Wales; and as Statistician he should have
learned a good deal more about the wasted
potentialities of Australia. Though it has
not done much so far, probably because it
has been starved, the Bureau has large pos-
sibilities. Australia has turned to the wood-
and-water jobs, and science is rated low —
for which, incidentally, the Governments are
as much to blame as anybody. If Knibbs
can get us out of that bad habit, he will
earn his two thousand a year. We are a
shockingly wasteful people—wasteful of
food; wasteful of by-products; wasteful
especially of men, putting to the pick-and-
shovel thousands who are naturally quali-
fied for something better. We can’t afford
to go on like this. The old, easy times are
passed—the old, easy times when we dug
easy gold, and spent it in an inglorious
razzle. Ours has become now a heavily-
burdened land; and a larger production—
which must mean a production of new things
—is urgently necessary. And there is an-
other aspect of that matter. Labor not only
demands but commands easier working con-
ditions, and, generally speaking, employers
are struggling to provide them. Often it
does mean a struggle; for the ledger must
balance or the industry will collapse. In
making possible the tremendous improve-
ments that have already taken place, nothing
has had so much influence as the application
of new methods to industry; and to the
further aid of science in the same direction
we shall have to look for the chief means
to satisfy present and future demands of
disaffected labor.
Self-presented Testimonials.
A pamphlet which N.S.W. Ministers cir-
culated among their masters of the A.L.P.
Conference dealt most especially with the
finances and the brilliant manner in which
the 12-month-old Ministry had handled
them. For instance: —
When the Labor Government took office the finan-
cial outlook of the State was the gloomiest on record.
The Nationalist Treasurer had exceeded his esti-
mated expenditure by £4,500,000. Despite a bumper
revenue, therefore, the Nationalists left the present
Government with a record deficit of £1,559,000 in the
operations of last financial tear. This brought the
accumulated deficit of the State up to £1,800,000. At
the same time the Labor Treasurer found the loan
account overdrawn to the extent of approximately
£2,000,000... .The need for money was exception-
ally urgent. The country was in the grip of the
worst drought for half a century.... Demands were
made on the coffers of the State by a starved
Education Department.... Decentralisation, the in-
stant urgency of which had been once more demon-
strated. ... Mr. Lang's first step was to raise loan
money.... The latest local loan of £3,000,000 had
to-date been subscribed to the extent of over
£2,000,000. .. .Since the Labor Government took
office the State’s credit has substantially improved.
.... Provision to meet the discrepancy between re-
venue and expenditure was a stupendous task that
required courage, determination, sagacity and origin-
ality.
This self-greasing, in addition to being petty,
is largely devoid of truth and grammar. The
Holman Government wasn’t a beautiful in-
stitution, and Holman was himself trained
in the Dooley school of grandiloquence and
evasion. But the deficit of £1,559.000 wasn’t
its affair and wasn’t like him. Dooley and
Co. came into office 21 months before the
financial year ended, and instantly started
blewing the national substance by hundreds
of thousands a month more than the pre-
vious worst, with results that were calculated
to make the most thrilling Irish spendthrift
in fiction green with envy. This is how
recent financial years have closed i
Labop, Government.
1911 .. .. .. Deficit. £588,202
1912 . . . . • • 340,143
1913 „ 1,228.379
1914 . . . . . • Surplus. 373,039
1915 „ 430,048
1916 149,591
Average annual deficit .. . . £ 200,67 4
Nationalist Government.
1917 .. .. .. Deficit. £268,798
1918 Surplus. 23,824
1919 . . . . . . „ 214,768
Average annual deficit . . . . £10,068
Part Nationalist Part Labor Government.
1920 Deficit. £1,559,000
Labor Government.
Feb., 1921 (eight months)Deficit. £3,746,232
In the eight months quoted above the
Dooley Government had revenue at the rate
of three millions a year more than Hol-
man’s “bumper” income, yet it produced the
record wreck. Holman had the two drought
years when the wheat harvest averaged of
bushels. Then the rain fell on Dooley, and
he is wallowing in the pit of insolvency with
an unparalleled harvest of nearly, IS bushels.
No wonder that, though he alleges that under
his blessed guidance “the State’s credit has
substantially improved,” he has to admit that
of the £3,000,000 loan for which he has been
begging during four months only something
“over £2,000,000” has been forthcoming. N.
S. Wales might not so very much mind the
Dooley Government being the worst spend-
thrift the State has known : for the country is
case-hardened. But the Ministry’s pose of
being one degree higher than the angels and
its reluctant admission that it is a. sort of deity
blushing unseen, but blushing at the top of
its voice, are needless aggravations of the
offence. That bashful remark about its own
“courage, determination, sagacity and origin-
ality” is a gem of purest bray serene.
«.
A New Way to Pay Old Debts.
“Good Australian” has an idea: —
Is it too late to put in a plea for the creation by
the nations of a new standard jirice for gold? The
U.S.A. holds 75 p.c. of the world’s stock, and
although the British Empire produces 64 p.c. of the
supply its reserves are steadily decreasing. And
so is the Empire’s annual gold yield. Take West-
ralia as a typical example. In the 10 years ending
1920 her gold output fell from £6,246,848 to
£2,624,424. Australia’s yield is falling off every
month, and is about to drop still more quickly.
Gold is no longer currency, yet every day it become?
more and more vitally necessary as a basis for
credit. The Royal Mint pays £3 17s. 104 d. per
oz., and for trade purposes and for hoarding bullion
is to-day worth practically £6 an oz. It is fairly
open to question whether the Australian Gold Pro-
ducers’ Association should any longer be permitted
by the Commonwealth Government to export gold
and make a private profit out of the life-blood of our
internal commerce and external trade. Gold, after
all, is “the royal metal,” belonging absolutely to
the Crown, which is the Federal Government. It
would be no great hardship to raise the price of
gold at the branches of the Royal Mint in Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth to the net price the Gold Pro-
ducers’ Association receives abroad, and buy its gold
instead of allowing it to export. The Association
would not be any worse off for being paid in Com-
monwealth notes, and the note-issue would be strength-
ened by keeping our own gold in our own banks’
vaults instead of shipping it abroad to fill the con-
gested Yankee vaults, and the stockings and kero-
sene tins of our racial enemies. The nations of
the world ought to be asked by the Allies before they
break up to agree to a new and higher standard
for gold for, say, the next 50 years. The agree-
ment must be universal and longstanding to be effec-
tive. In pre-war days the raising of the monetary
standard in value would have put up the price of
commodities. Disordered exchanges and dumping will
effectually prevent that happening nowadays. Gold,
being merely a credit instrument, has a small volume
and value compared with the volume and value
of trade. Supposing the standard price of gold
were internationally declared to be double its
present mint price, it would be worth £7
15s. 9d. per oz., and excepting jewellery it
is questionable whether any other commodity
would be affected in price. The world is working
on paper currencies, mostly without any gold back-
ing, its proper protection. If gold were worth
£7 15s. 9d. per oz. closed gold-mines would be
re-opened and unpayable ones become profitable tlie
world over. From a selfish standpoint, an enhanced
price for gold would give Australia a great thrust
forward in prosperity. A higher price for gold would
double the value of the gold held by Australia and
the Empire (and, incidentally, the United States),
and so enable them to buy and extinguish many
millions of debased war bonds. Possibly the in-
creased value of gold might lower the purchasing
power of money, but, anyhow, that would benefit pos-
terity by enabling it to pay off our war debts more
easily. Shortage of gold is at the back of the high
cost of living and restricted trade and credit, and dis-
ordered exchange and shortage of gold can be partly
corrected by doubling its value, and by inducing
the miners and speculators of the earth to go forth
and get more and more gold.
The Scapegoat.
“Personnel” swears to all this: —
When Colonel Walker, the War Service Homes
Commissioner, left for the war in 1915 he was
what might be called a “warm” man. Besides a
lucrative contractor’s business, lie owned a cane
plantation in the North, land and a few houses and
£6OOO at fixed deposit. Years before he was a
director of a mine at Charters Towers, and with
the other members of the Board guaranteed an
overdraft to the bank. The bank took over all the
assets of the co. later on. The overdraft for which
Walker and his co.-directors were liable was £2OOO.
The bank didn’t worry, but during a period of five
years woke up occasionally and threatened Walker.
Every time it threatened Walker trailed his coat.
But not a foot would the bank put on it. His
leaving for the war brought matters to a head.
A writ was slipped into , him just before he left, to
be followed later by a bankruptcy notice served on
his attorney in Brisbane giving 42 days to settle or
be bankrupt. This was when Walker was on Galli-
poli. Then the bank made Walker a bankrupt.
Walker didn’t know it till two years later. After
Pozieres he came back. He was no longer fit for


Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in tins soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
hard service. He was 65 then, but he did not return
to his lucrative calling; he offered himself to the
Government to do what it liked with him. He
gathered together the .Tugo Slavs, the Italians, the
Servians and the friendlies of other Balkan and
Central European races, and having delivered them
to the fighting units from time to time returned
when the war was over.
Hughes, Cook and Millen went out to catch the
Digger’s votfe. The Government started the Repa-
triation scheme, making Millen the Administrator
of it. Australia was to be a Soldier’s Paradise.
Then Millen caught Walker and made him the first
Commissioner of War Service Homes. Walker
found himself up against the Kirkpatricks and
the Commonwealth Bank, the brick combine and
the timber ring, the real estate agent and the
profiteers. Had he followed the line of least resist-
ance he might have had a royal time. But he
fought them all. The Kirkpatricks died hard, and
so did the bank; but they build no more houses.
He reduced the price of timbers; he bought forests
and mills sufficient to carry him on. The brick
combine surrendered. The cost of materials came
down. The profiteers reduced their prices. But
what a crop of enemies lie developed! The powers
arrayed against him were mighty.
Towards the end of last year Cook, the Common-
wealth Treasurer, found himself short of money.
Rodgers, the new Minister of Repatriation, was in-
formed “No more for soldiers’ homes.” Some 3000
houses had already been purchased by soldiers,
mostly through the Commonwealth Bank, and in
very many cases the Diggers had paid their deposits
and part of the purchase money, and were waiting
for the Department to complete the purchase. Then
it was that the Commissioner was informed there
were no more funds. Cook began to juggle with
the two Departments, the War Service Homes and
the Advances to Soldier Settlers. The advances to
both he credited to one Department, say the Sol-
diers’ Settlement, when fighting the State Govern-
ment. As a proof of what he was doing and the
millions spent on repatriation he credited all ad-
vances to the War Service Homes when it suited
his purpose. Not one in 10,000 understood the
difference, not even the soldier who was waiting for
his home or the advance on his settlement. The
departments were blamed, and Minister Rodgers
acquiesced. “Shut your mouth,” he told James
Walker, or words to that effect.
Then he threw out smoke screens. In answer to
deputations he would have an inquiry into the de-
partment. He appointed J. Stinson, who stands
foremost in N. S. Wales for the Nationalists’ cause,
to hold an inquiry into why the Department of War-
Service Homes did not complete the purchase of
soldiers’ homes. To attempt to dignify this inquiry
Rodgers called it a “tribunal.” It isn’t finished yet.
General McCay conducts another. There is a Par-
liamentary inquiry going on at the same time. Yet
Rodgers became frantic to get still further time.
He put up another smoke screen. He sacked Walker,
his chief Commissioner for War Service Homes, on
the ground that he was ineligible to hold the
appointment, as he was a bankrupt when appointed.
He did not say that the bankruptcy had been
annulled, nor did he say that before Colonel
Walker was appointed the Government inquired
into the facts, and that all those facts were on the
file, and that the Minister was well aware of them.
Is there a colossal scheme on foot to repudiate the
contracts entered into by the War Service Homes De-
partment? Is the Commonwealth Government, now
finding itself unable to provide the money for the
huge contracts it has entered into for the purchase
of timber, mills and forests and other materials
necessary for building soldiers’ homes, about to
repudiate them—for thougli these purchases vkre
the Commonwealth’s all the contracts bore the
name of James Walker, Chief Commissioner for
War Service Homes? It may be a grand coup. If
the appointment of the Commissioner was invalid
then all the contracts entered into in his name
were bad. To make Walker a scapegoat probably
suits the Government in its present position. Even
if it doesn’t repudiate these contracts altogether
it will give an excellent opportunity to delay pay-
ment.
It was suggested at the inquest touching
the death at Pithara (W.A.) of the lion-
hearted J. C. Mclntosh that beer had some-
thing to do with the sorrowful business.
According to one witness, the birdman’s two
passengers (one of them was killed) drank
copiously of beer in the after-cockpit before
the machine ascended. Mclntosh’s
mechanic gave similar evidence, and added
that at a height of 200 feet or thereabouts
one of the blithered passengers was stand-
ing up. In the mechanic’s opinion “Mcln-
tosh flew low because he was afraid of his
passengers”; that is to say, he took the
risks incident to low-flying over unknown
country (Pithara is a hamlet hewn out of
the bush, with no recognised landing-ground)
in preference to the greater hazard of un-
shipping his more or less sozzled companions
at a higher brut ordinarily safe elevation.
The theory may be right or wrong, but the
facts are sufficiently lamentable. Mclntosh
was a brilliant and daring young man, one
of the heroes of' a magnificent exploit that
thrilled more than his fellow-countrymen.
He returned from the war equipped with
knowledge precious to the nation, and eager
that it should be used for organising aerial
defences, opening up mail routes, or helping
in the development of the lonely lands where,
for want of necessities that the aero-
plane could bring, life is too often hell. And
Australia treated him with the indifference
it always exhibits to pioneers and experi-
menters, never to party politicians and pro-
prietors of pony-racecourses. With so much
to do in the field of aeronautics and so little
done, it turned Mclntosh down. It could
find no better use for that gallant spirit than
imperilling his life, and finally sacrificing it,
in the fruitless business of taking trippers
up in a joy-'bus. The waste and the tragedy
of it!
• ♦
“Sucrose”: From a Melbourne Age leader:
The Australian Government can now obtain sugar
abroad at much below the rate guaranteed to the Aus-
tralian growers under the agreement. A few days ago
a purchase was made by the Government of 1,000,000
sacks of Cuban sugar at a price that works out at
less than threepence per lb. Were this sugar put on
the market in the ordinary way, it would force the
Australian growers to reduce their price to the same
level.
This is hardly what one might expect from a
Protectionist newspaper with strong views
against dumping. Nor is it true. Certainly
the Cuban sugar was bought at the price men-
tioned, but that was in Cuba ; also. it was SJ
per cent, sugar, which is greatly inferior to
Australian 94 per cent, sugar. To the price
of the Cuban sugar, say 3d. a pound, or x~S
a ton, must be added 50s. freight and 20 per
cent., or £5 125., exchange. So the 89 per cent,
sugar, not reckoning insurance and other
small items, costs £36 2s. a ton as against
£3O 6s. Bd., the price paid for Australian 94
THE DEAD END.
per cent, sugar. No account is taken of the
duty of £6 per ton, and even without that the
Australian price, by a parity of Age reason-
ing, should be forced up and not down. In
actual fact the consumer of Australian-grown
sugar is on a superlatively good wicket.
Thus American granulated sugar, worth
within a fraction of 3d. per lb. in American
currency, costs in French currency over one
franc landed at Havre, and the franc is
nominally worth lOd. By the time the
cheap American sugar reaches the Paris con-
sumer it is costing well over 13 pence, or
double what the Australian is paying the
retail grocers.
♦
When the wild demagogue grows tired of
’gogging or gets mad at the ingratitude of
the people to whom he promised everything
and who now want delivery of the goods, lie
is apt to have a revulsion of feeling which
makes him out-Bruce Bruce Smith. Lenin
of Russian entered on a third phase the other
day. First he handed the factories to the
workmen and told them to manage them in
any fashion they pleased, as he had complete
faith in them. When they produced next to
nothing a wild-eyed Lenin turned the
artisans into long-hour slaves without the
right to strike, to belong to unions, to take a
day off, to choose their own work, to move
from place to place, to speak against the Gov-
ernment or even to select their own food, the
rationing system being strict. It was a pretty
violent change, but the new bosses, being
chosen for their political views, were mere
doggers, so production still lagged. The num-
ber of locomotives on the railways dropped
from 20.000 to 4000, anti these were in shock-
ing disrepair. Carriages, trucks, rails and
bridges were equally ruinous. All ovei Russia
men were trving to dig with bits of iron,
ploughing with sharpened sticks and using
bushes for harrows because the agricultural
implement factories had gone the same
way as the engine shops. Industry con-
ducted by ignorant slaves and ignorant flog-
gers had* failed. So the other day Lenin
declared that the bourgeoisie, the private capi-
talist and the expert are essential, and that
peace must be made with the adjacent bour-
geois Governments. In fact, Lloyd George
urged the British Laborites to read Lenin’s
speech and learn moderation thereby. Theo-
dore isn’t the autocrat in Queensland that
Lenin is in Russia, but things are happen-
ing there also. Four Government steamers are
laid up and for sale, because steamers don’t
earn money under that kind of management,
but cost a deuce of a lot. The sack is grow-
ing frequent, and recently 200 men were
pushed out of the railway workshops in a
batch. A Commission is inquiring how many
more the railways can dispense with. The
employees of the State meat-shops have been
informed that their proposed Saturday holi-
day. if attempted, will turn into a perma-
nent holiday. Incidentally, the old camara-
derie is disappearing, and the Ministry has
developed a peremptory style, as if its
patience was wearing thin, like that of
Moses did with the Israelites.
Tomayeff, the Russian Bolshevik who slew
Brookfield, M.L.A., lived at Broken Hill
amid characteristic surroundings. > His
humble apartment was furnished with a
gaudy flag inscribed with a whoop about the
“federated, industrial, social” soviet and with
portraits of Lenin, Trotsky and the Sydney
I.W.W. incendiaries. He didn’t drink or
attend races —only brooded. Two other men
of his own class and country brooded there
with him —are probably still brooding there.
Yet Lenin and Trotsky are in power and
glory, and the “federal, industrial, social”
soviet is flourishing like a bright young pesti-
lence, so Tomayeff should have been happy.
Probably it was the wickedness of the Czar
that weighed him down and made him shoot
Brookfield. If it wasn’t the Czar’s wicked-
ness it was sure to be somebody else’s. If
there were no wickedness in the world to
brood over, the typical Russian reformer
would certainly shoot himself. Life with-
out brooding would be intolerable.
—
Through the habit of rushing at things with-
out sufficient knowledge or consideration, like
a gallant savage attacking a keg of dynamite
with an axe, the unexpected is always liable
to happen. Thus in Queensland the Govern-
ment. plunging round in search of money to
pay the thousands of supporters with whom
it had saddled the public service, decided to
raise the rents of its pastoral lessees far- be-
yond the increase of 50 per cent, which is
the biggest rise allowed at one re-appraise-
ment by the terms of the bargain. And to
curry favor with the ruck of it? supporters,
whom it had taught to regard any employer
as a public enemy, it needlessly whooped up
its contempt for bargains made with “the capi-
talist.” The contempt was emphasised when
some of the big increases not in the terms
of the lease were dated back as much as
seven years, and people wondered if a Gov-
ernment like that might not date the next
increase back 700 years and take everything
the squatters had and then imprison them ah
for debt. Also, it might make the interest
on the public debt liable to heavy income-tax,
and by charging arrears back to the time of
Captain Cook it might not only wipe out the
debt but make the lenders liable for a lot of
money. So "the capitalist” in terror refused
to lend any more when Theodore went
on his great cadge to London. It
wasn’t the fact of taxation (barring the
retrospective idea, which was a clumsy steal)
that made the trouble and the scare, for in
1915 the Commonwealth assessed the value of
the benefit which the squatting tenant was
supposed to get by the lowness of his rental
and taxed him just as if he was a freeholder,
thereby multiplying the dutiable area of Aus-
tralia fourfold. Because the Federal impost
was done quietly according to the forms of
law there was no panic. Because the Ryan-
Tiieodore trick was done in a roaring, broth-
of-a-bhoy fashion, with denunciations of the
people levied on as if they were outcasts with
whom no faith need be kept—all this as an
anneal to the demoralised section of the Gov-
ernment’s supporters—there was a panic, and
the wholesale sacking of Government sup-
porters for want of the capitalists’ loan
money to pay them is one of the results. Now
a period of gloom has set in. Queensland is the
third greatest wool State, and in proportion
to population it depends more on wool than
either N. S. Wales or Victoria. Wool is now
almost a drug in the market, and sheepskins
sell at half or less than half what they
fetched a year ago. Queensland owns nearly
as many cattle as all the other States put
together, and meat has gone down, tallow is
worth only about a third what it was, and
the bullock’s cuticle is going very cheap. A
lot of the big fines levied on the pastoralists
may never be collected, but the disastrous
results of the policy of attacking the dyna-
mite-keg with an axe are being collected sure
enough, and that at a time when the collec-
tion is most awkward.
♦
Once more the too-casual Australian is re-
proached from London by another Australian
who is trying to push business at that end:
The other day I attended a demonstration of
dried fruits. Products of all the countries that
are in this market were exhibited. Of course we
were there, and I have to confess in shame that
by comparison with others we looked as if we had
been shovelled up from a mildew heap. Splendid
fruit it had been, and there was still nothing to
touch it for flavor; but in appearance and get -up
it was tragic. One big merchant, who wishes us
very well, was almost in despair. “It seems to me,”
he said, “you’ll not do your stuff justice till you
introduce a few Spaniards to show how things can
be done in this industry.” Yet they all admitted
the superior flavor. The Spanish raisins looked as
though they had come off an oil-painting, and the
skin felt like soft velvet; but to the taste they were
insipid and watery. Their appearance, however,
would sell them every time ; and, after all, that is
what things are sent here for.
«
“0.K.”: The House of Lords Ims passed an
amendment of the criminal law whereby
the age of consent is likely to be raised to
17. Every moderately intelligent man, and
all disciplined women of fair reasoning
powers, know that justice demands some-
thing more than the mere raising of the
age of consent to 17 for maidens. Seduc-
tion is more or less an offence according to
the years of the seducer. A well-matured
expert in love-making is much more danger-
ous to unsophisticated girlhood than hot-
headed youth, nor has he the same excuse
for indulging his desire, From him maiden-
hood should have a sliding scale of protection
up to a much more advanced age than 17.
Thirty-seven would be nearer the mark.
That is to say, a confiding spinster in the
thirties, whose utter “respectability” has
kept her from becoming artful, and who gets
into trouble at the instance of a gallant of
45, may be quite as much a victim as the
17-year-old bit of muslin who tacitly consents
to be led astray by a boy of her own age.
The older the maiden the greater the offence,
in many cases. But it all depends, of course,
on the age and experience of the male party
to the transaction. Where he is only half
the age of the lady she deserves no legal
penalties on her behalf, but where she is his
junior in years and a mere child to his wili-
ness—well, the law should at least leave
itself the option of putting him into gaol in
the event of his bringing the lady to what
is socially known as “disgrace.” Seeing that
the sin against the silly flapper may be no
greater than the sin against the foolish old
maid, why put any limit to the age of con-
sent? Let all womankind up to the age of,
say. 49, be safeguarded—as far as a threat
of legal penalities against the gay deceiver
counts —from the calculated imposition of
reasonable men. But no very young man —
less, than, say, 23—can be safely regarded
as reasonable where anything in skirts is
concerned.


WE ADVANCE.
MONEY
ON EASY *
TERMS v;
:ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW-MONT de PIETE
D it I C9Y LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200.000 ‘Phone City 9325
flra/jc/tes jf- 29 King St-.. Newcastle, N-SW- 71517 Swanstoh 5t Mei^.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. !97 A Castlereagh StJS9 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph IV Mill, General manager.
r
W
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
ot the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal gallery:—
The Country party, which promises to strike a
fighting attitude if terribly provoked during the forth-
coming session, doesn’t seem to be happy over its
leader, McWilliams. Once or twice last year the little
man outraged all party precedents by voting with
Labor against his own crowd, and his behavior,
coupled with an alleged weakness for political
manoeuvring, has started some of his ancient col-
leagues yearning for a general of a safer type. No
doubt there will be a ballot on the matter and
Harry Gregory will be nominated, but owing to his
tendency to overlook the fact that the party’s main
plank is the maintenance of its salary, he may be
turned down in favor of Cocky’s young and smiling
secretary, Dr. Earle Page. Page is not without
energy and independence, but his lack of experience
is regarded as making him amenable to the discipline
of his elders. Meantime the Hayseeds are speculat-
ing on the possibility of getting hold of Watt: the
discovery that Watt’s country orchard makes him
eligible for membership has encouraged the delusion
that he is one of them.
Regardless of the cry for economy, Hughes
is still thinking of enlarging the Cabinet
to grapple with "the growing administrative
work of the Commonwealth.” Billy’s ambi-
tion is to yield up the Attorney-Generalship
to another Minister and command a new De-
partment of Foreign Affairs that would in-
clude the control of the ex-German territory
mandated to Australia at the Peace Confer-
ence. Another idea is to relieve the Cus-
toms Minister of the Department of Health
and turn it over to the Home Affairs man.
Furthermore, a proposed Minister of Marine
would have Navigation, Quarantine and Ship-
building thrust upon him, and presumably
would require fresh offices and a staff —
these Hughes would certainly demand for
his expensive Foreign Office. It looks a great
scheme for providing “plums” for disaffected
Nationalists. All the same, it would get the
support of Labor or Cocky if either team
was reasonably sure of inheriting the orch-
ard at the next elections. What the country
may think doesn’t count. It can be doped
again at next election-time.
All this price-fixing is in the interests, of
the Big City worker —the country producer
doesn’t count. Judge Beeby in Sydney last
week put an end to the price-fixing of pota-
toes, potatoes being no longer scarce and
dear; and what was in his mind was made
clear when he came to deal with milk- —he
thought the time had about arrived when
competition could be left to regulate the
price. The time hasn’t, however, come when
competition is allowed to regulate the price
to be paid to the bricklayer or the carpenter.
He has to be saved from the effects of com-
petition. Only the man on the land is to be
allowed to cut his neighbor’s throat in the
interests of the city consumer. The idea
that the community can profiteer as well as
the individual hasn’t yet got into the heads
of the city lawyers who make and admin-
ister the laws for the country toiler.
The Federal Farmers are determined on
economy—especially economy of Protection
for agricultural implements. No argument
on the folly and selfishness of this policy can
affect the "attitude of the hon. member for
the Soil. But he would be prepared to vote
Protection if there was any attempt to land
wheat or other cereals from Argentina or
elsewhere. On that subject he is a good Aus-
tralian. In fact, last year, when Japanese
onions were competing with the local vege-
table, the patriots yelled for a duty on the
Jap violet practically amounting to prohibi-
tion.
Public Enterprise has so completely ceased
to be honest enterprise for the benefit of the
State, and become so wholly a circumlocution
office to provide the largest number of the
best-paid jobs for the most Barnacles, that
anything may happen now. In fact, people
are surprised when it doesn’t. A Queensland
State orchard of 23 acres is going so strong
that it is expected, when the trees reach
maturity eight years hence, to be staggering
under a debt of £943 per acre. It absorbed
"HI, YOUNGSTER, PEL SWAP YER .”
£4084 for two years and last year’s takings
were £B5. The Queensland Government pro-
poses to close the place. Also it is trying to
sell some ships which it was running at a
loss and threatens to shut up its State fish
market, another loser. One of N. S. Wales’s
troubles is that a department built 11 houses
at Forbes to relieve the house-famine, but the
cost was so huge that only three purchasers
have come forward —on the long-instalment
plan. Even Canberra suffers from a lack of
something. Business people are invited to
apply for shop, office and warehouse blocks,
but the Minister for Home and Territories
stated the other day that no applicant had
turned up yet. to his knowledge. And at first
there was talk of a traffic constable to regu-
late the rush, lest elderly citizens should be
injured and widows pushed aside and set at
naught.
The N. S. Wales Catts-fight or Labor
Conference has had a fine week. One day the
president’s bell —it is an excessivelv loud bell
—was faintly heard above the tumult of dele-
gates who were threatening to bog in, urging
other delegates to swallow their false teeth,
and making genial remarks about liars,
snakes, pimps, tugs, cowards, assassins, slan-
derers, plug-uglies, and hirelings of Piute.
With difficulty the roar of personal recrim-
ination was silenced and the comrades who
were smashing one another’s features were
torn apart. Appropriately enough the Con-
ference was invited to elect the secretary
of the Lunatic-asylum Employees’ Union as
A.L.P. president; but it turned the gfentle-
man down, apparently on the ground that
thd Time wasn’t Ripe. It re-elected, in-
stead, Bill Lambert, who seized the oppor-
tunity to offer a few graceful observations
touching thieves, rogues, boodlers, adven-
turers and the capitalistic press. And
then the earth resumed spinning in its usual
manner.
In the distribution of fruit from the
Rabaul palm-tree, K. J. Drake-Brockman, a
youthful brother of the Senator, was not for-
gotten. On March 12 the young man was
an unsuccessful candidate (Nationalist, of
course) for the Claremont seat in Westralian
Assembly. On the 31st he was presented
with one of the Rabaul Judgeships, worth
£lOOO a year. When his nomination and
that of E. M. Wanliss were announced it
was delicately explained that “the appoint-
ments had been delayed for some time.”
Certainly the young .fudge (he is only 30)
is a returned soldier, but it seems more im-
portant in these matters to be a good Nation-
alist with friends in the right quarter.
Talk about hard taskmasters! John
Storey’s handicaps in England are that he is
sick, elderly, hitherto untravelled and unused
to high diplomacy; is a mere subordinate
Premier (all foreign relations are conducted
through the Federal Government), and has
only such local standing as is based on a year
of office without portfolio in a Cabinet
which manufactured its majority of one by
putting an opponent into the Speakership.
He represents to that extent N. S. Wales,
which has less population than Cape Colony
(S’Africa) or Quebec or Ontario (Canada),
lie lacks Deakin’s status as a writer and
orator, or Forrest’s as a hardy explorer and
10 years dictator, or Mcllwraith’s as an
annexer of islands, or Parkes’s as the
possesser of great whiskers and a turn for
verse. In London he is walking on eggs like
Agag, for he has gone to see about the
renewal of the biggest mass of debt which his
country was ever struck with. And as if
these weren’t troubles enough the A.L.I*.
Conference has decided to cable him orders
to see the King personally, as well as
"Imperial authorities” in general, and re-
quest the removal of the British armies from
Ireland—this after the Conference deciding
not to help Britain in future wars. He is to
act thus "in the name of humanity.” which
would seem to imply that the King is outside
humanity like Nebuchadnezzar in his grazing-
days, and the suggestion might make George
Windsor quite snapny. Probably John will
abstain, for the gale of ridicule might blow
down the slender fabric of N. S. Wales’s
credit; but he will be spoken to about his
neglect when he comes back.
The Federal dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney, is being investigated. The charges
are said to be so staggering that the public
mustn’t even know what they are. One
matter that the country is aware of is that,
when a sort of financial breakdown took
place, the dock was still working on the
Adelaide, a vessel of a 12-year-old design. It
has heard that the craft has already run
away with a million, which is nearly four
times more than the cost of the Sydney, built
in England in two years in time to lick the
Emden, and that £200.000 more is wanted.
Also it has been told that latterly 1000 men
have been working or trying to find standing-
room on the Adelaide, 600 extra ones having
been put on because their other iobs were
finished. So the money that should have
lasted 12 months ran out unexpectedly. There
is little luck about ships built by politicians
selected for their eloquence, who labor with
a hammer in one hand and the other eye on
next election.
Westralia is to have its first local option
poll on April 30. and the Rev. Bonedrigh is
struggling to look confident in discouraging
circumstances. On the goldfields, where
the bars are open till 11 p.m. (two hours
later than city time) to accommodate a
thirsty populace, the position is frankly hope-
less. But Stiggins sees possibilities in some
of the urban districts (notably West Perth,
where the lady legislator abides), and recalls
that Cocky passed a prohibition resolution
at one of his conferences. Bung enters upon
the argument with a substantial advantage,
inasmuch as it will take a three-fifths majo-
l'ity to wipe out licenses. However, if the
three-fifths is reached there will be no com-
pensation for the dispossessed landlord and
licensee, compensation having been provided
in advance by suspending the operation of
the Act (it was passed in 1911) for 10 years.
The reflections of “Solomon M.” :
Many kind things have been deservedly written
about Brookfield, M.L.A., and all manner of people have
said them. In fact, almost everything has been said
except that he possessed any fitness for acting in a
political capacity, and that was the only capacity in
which the public was affected by him. He got his first
nomination because he had been in gaol. He went
there because, though he believed in compulsory
service in the trades union and “conscription” in
defence of the trades union, he was savagely
opposed to anything of the sort in defence of Aus-
tralia. Having this advertisement and a flow of
words and a good carrying voice, a crowd elected
him to be a high officer steering the ship of State,
an operator for the diseases of the body politic,
a financier and political economist dealing with
more money in a year than all the banks of Aus-
tralia possess of their own, a legal authority to
make and amend statutes, and an expert conduct-
ing railways and other big industries. The same
crowd would as cheerfully have elected him to
the much less important offices of captain of a
man of war, operating surgeon at Sydney Hospital,
trained nurse, manager of a State Bank, Judge of
the Supreme Court or driver of the Melbourne ex-
press had these offices been open to public compe-
tition instead of the choice being restricted to men
who had passed some sort of examination to prove
their fitness. But when a mass of people want to
reward a man with an appealing tongue, a good
presence, a limited education, a smattering of
Karl Marx and South Sea Bubble finance, and an
overflowing' goodness of heart which inclines him
to take everything from everybody and give it to
everybody, the only thing it has to offer him is a
place among the high rulers of the land. After all,
it would be better to require Parliamentary candi-
dates to pass a qualifying examination and let the
people elect hospital surgeons and ship captains
and engine-drivers out of the. mass of electors, so
that they may have rewards to distribute. Less
harm would be done that way.
The Sydney Government Printer has
issued, presumably at the country’s expense,
a book to prove that the Dooley Ministry is
even more unparalleled and coruscating than
its admirers dreamed of. But occasionally
it lapses into truth. For instance:—
After wide research and with the assistance of the
party the Attorney-General was able to present to
Parliament an elaborate [anti-profiteering] Bill em-
bodying the best provisions culled from legislation in
every country of the world.
In this sheep-land, when a young man’s
fancy turns to thoughts of love, he may
choose a girl out of a large family, but if
he professed to take her as a cull she would
be insulted, and her big brother might even
resort to violence.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Labor party won't be able to muster all its
heavy artillery for the Tariff battle in the Reps.
Charlie McDonald, suffering from chronic neuras-
thenia, will play a very small part, and Anstey,
though still formidable, will have to spell a lot to
avoid a recurrence of the trouble that knocked him
out last year. For the same reason Tudor will have
to modify his zeal, and Matthews’s big voice will be
missing occasionally owing to his neuritis. The only
one who seems capable of standing the racket of
argument and long nights is the lofty T. J. Ryan.
But he is regarded as too reckless by a majority of
the caucus to lead, and is condemned to be a com-
parative super in the fray.
In the greasy apology which the Dooley
Government had printed (by the Government
Printer) for circulation at the A.L.P. Con-
ference Ministers referred to their great
interest in decentralisation. They called
it a matter of “instant urgency.” Indeed it
is. And the Government is so earnest
and sincere about it that Estell, one of
the Ministers, made a thinly-veiled threat
to cut off the North Coast’s share of public
works if it didn’t drop its clamor for the only
effective means so far suggested of bringing
decentralisation about.
While Arthur Robinson, Vic. Attorney-
General, was handling the dispute with the
State brown-coal mine employees, no pro-
gress was made, but yards of statements were
supplied to the dailies. Premier Lawson re-
sumed control of the business, and kept mum
till he fixed up an arrangement. Short-range
negotiations were found more effective than
long-range arguments, with Collins House as
the Government firing-base.
THE SONG OF THE SACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is this chant that I fancy I hear
Over the gurgle of frivol and beer,
Stirring things up like a wile of the Devil,
Hind’ring our rulers in frivol and revel?
Hark! How it rings on the track,
“I am the Song of the Sack!
Sack- —sack-sack —sack !
Who wants to deal with the sack ?”
Long have we dodged it, but dodged it in vain ;
There it is, rising and falling again ;
Soft-handed gentry grow pavid and pale,
Grip their good pewters and sigh in their ale.
Why is their future so black ?
Why do they shake at the sack ?
Sack—sack—sack—sack !
Why do they shake at the sack ?
Sinecures happy in offices snug
(Sending at times for a snack and a jug),
Drawing fat screws with a jubilant spasm,
Lo, how they gaze as if facing a chasm !
Someone is bidding them pack!
Lo! ’tis the Day of the Sack [
Sack —sack—sack—sack !
This is the Day of the Sack!
Mattocks and hoes will be soon in demand,
Someone must grub for the good of the land;
Down with the pencil and up with the plough,
Off with the cushion and on with the cow;
Out with the axes and hack,
We who have tasted the sack.
Sack—sack —sack —sack !
We who have tasted the sack!
Parasites warming wherever we turn,
Eating the substance that honest men earn,
Now ye have fattened so long on the spoil,
Shall ye not share in the burden and toil?
Lord, if you had but the sack,
How it would brace up your back!
Sack —sack —sack —sack !
Sweet are the uses of sack!
Sick is the land to the doorway of Death,
Choked with the creatures that crowd in her breath.
Lord, send a light from Thy lamp to illume us,
Give us a remedy lest they consume us !
Perhaps, when the skyline is black.
Health may blow in with the sack.
Sack —sack —sack—sack !
Health will return in the sack!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


Fellow Rvssej-iger:
*So you did it l Why ttae —!*. ”
Amateur Burglar
" ok ,1 wjA on the, way to me
job when. 1 rcmcmbared
X < 2xint tested
fr J-ne gelignite. f/ '
Burgjl«r(lb bis wi
lt Did y&r notice. which
way £toV<z. went ?
1 to £<zxz» whai /
+he <Jyn2*.rnfte < /il
| >2* done i"o it f/ j
"Burglar (to chivalrous Tram
Conductor): '"Ere 1 Hold on
rnate , ibis'll sbi/t *er, Besides
I want tq test it V
1. Amateur Burglar ■preparing
the cka.r Qa, fo+ attest.
Amateur Burg’ (at top c f page)
Sorry if it give, yer
turn *sir / biit X can soa> now,
1 Siat stringHi would do
fa* -a. . w _
" ‘Would yer mwcl ‘dding y«r ait 'era* &
minute sir to stop &e dust ikm about,
Irra testing Some T. N-T. w
PRELIMINARY TESTS.
“A mysterious explosion occurred in a large Moreton Bay fig-tree in Hyde Park last night. Not only was the tree splintered, but eleven windows in
the neighboring Repatriation building were shattered. The police theory is that burglars were testing some explosives with a view to subsequent safe-wreck-
ing jobs.” —Sydney SUN.


Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co./Etd.
Metropolitan-VicKers
Rateau Impulse Type Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY,
SIMPLE DESIGN,
STURDY CONSTRUCTION.
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain we ares in the P^ itiol i to
give early delivery of Steam Turbines and Turbo-Sets up to oO,u
VJJiTROFOLITJ^
Vickers
COl CTt»
CUCTRICAL
Australian Offices—
-84 William Street, Melbourne. 12 Martia Place, Sydney.
Works:—' Stafford Park, jlanelicsteg. Ecskmd.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
PIONEER
w
£Zt!!sWaM>.
LEATHER
Hade in Australia to suit Australian working- conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Fane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John Me Hell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd. ( Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5250 represent-
ing preliminary exes.: —
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1911.. £4,115 Nil £4,115 £1,135
Dec., Loss.
1912.. 436 Nil Ls'l
Adjustment Re-Insurance Co., £367 1,938
1913.. 963 Nil _ 2,901
1914.. 5,212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3735. . 11,848
Profit.
1915.. 6,256 Nil 6,256 5,592
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £231 .. 5,823
Reserves.
1916.. 20,953 10 p.c.= £9,616 11,337 5,514
1917.. 16,892 10 „„ 9,639 7,253 12,767
. Further Re-Insurance Co. exes., £33 12,734
1918. . 28,247 10 p.c.= 9,685 18,562 31,296
Premiums on new shares, £12,599 43,895
Maoriland establishment exes., £l5OO 42,395
1919. . 27,585 10 p.c.= 10,950 16,635 69,030
Premiums on new shares, £2,254 61,284
Additional establishment exes., 3,500 57,784
1920.. 24,279 Nil 24,279 82,063
The table indicates a falling-off of profits
compared with the previous term, but the
surplus visible for the past year was pro-
bably no smaller. Out of earlier profits an
unspecified amount had been set aside for
taxation, but, not being called for, was again
taken credit for with 1911) revenue. Last
year’s underwriting surplus amounted to
iIU,9G4, compared with £15,046 for the pre-
vious term. Interest and rents produced
£9972. but £3657 of that was swallowed by
exes, and a reservation for depreciation of in-
vestments ; the balance of £4315 added to the
underwriting surplus gives the £24,279 shown
by the table. But that £24.279 may not have
been profit actually earned. It was merely
the surplus on the year’s transactions visible
at Dec. 31. Many new policies which con-
tributed to that surplus had not expired on
the balancing-date, and while the premiums
had been taken credit for the management
knew not what losses might be experienced
from this unexpired business. The absence
of a div. is explained in this way : “Your
Board deems it advisable, in view of the pre-
sent financial outlook throughout the world,
and the necessity occasioned by the expan-
sion of the eo.’s operations, to conserve the
resources and add as much as possible to the
reserve funds, and thus increase the
financial stability of the co.” Though a be-
lated decision it is a wise one in view of the
fact that, as The Bulletin has pointed out
on several occasions, the management has for
years been writing large volumes of hazard-
ous business with too little regard for the
co.’s resources.
The 1.0. A. was one of the cos. which
plunged into marine business during the war,
with the result that, though it is only a 10-
year-old. an exceptionally large business has
passed through its hands: —
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911.. £25,951 £6,748 £17,537 26.0 p.c. 67.5 me.
1912.. 47,241 22,443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 „
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 „ 64.6 „
1914.. 67,510 39,292 35,222 58.2 ~, 52.1 ~
1915.. 93,516 52,002 37,019 55.6 „ 39.5 „
1916.. 115,885 59,731 38,742 51.5 „ 33.5 „
1917.. 144,917 79,419 47,161 54.8 „ 32.5 „
1918.. 229,554 110,887 63,046 48.3 „ 27.5 „
1919. . 217,910 132,366 7(1,497 60.7 „ 32,3 „
1920.. 267,882 167,094 80,824 62.4 „ 30.2 „
Last year’s policy-writing was easily a re-
cord. Altogether £555,853 of premiums was
collected, but more than half of that was laid
off. Fortunately for the 1.0. A., when the
management backed the British Navy it got
on to a winner, and it came through the
gamble well. But things have not ail gone
the marine underwriters’ way during the
past year. Note that this co.’s latest loss
rate is the heaviest yet experienced, “the
result,” say the directors, "of our London
marine business, which was conducted by
underwriting agents.” Even the old-estab-
lished English marine offices, which pick and
choose their risks, had heavy losses last year.
It is not surprising, then, that the 1.0. A.,
which certainly would not be fed with much
cream by agents, apparently got the wind up,
hastened its “foreign superintendent” to Lon-
don and set up an office on its own account.
Doubts as to the final results of this marine
business —often not definitely ascertainable
for three or four years—has probably had
more to do with the passing of the div. than
the world’s financial sickness referred to by
the directors.
Anyhow, the payment of a div. would not
have been justified from other points of view.
and it is questionable whether the £39,890
already paid to shareholders should have left
the ohice. An insurance office has a greater
obligation than that of feeding shareholders:
its first duty is to adequately protect its
policy-holders. Nobody can say precisely
what amount of funds is required to do this,
but capital and reserves 14 times the pre-
mium income is generally regarded as a fair
thing. The 1.0.A.’s paid capital is £125.000,
and its reserves at Dec. 31 totalled £52,063.
It thus showed £207,003 of funds, equal to
only 77.3 p.c. of last year’s net premium in-
come, nearly six ' points weaker than 12
months previously, but a good deal better
than (or rather, not so poor as) during the
period when it was chasing war-marine risks.
It is also the usual practice to hold in a
reserve for unexpired risks an amount equal
to at least 40 p.c. of the year's net premiums.
On that basis the 1.0. A. should have had
£107,000-odd set aside at Dec. 31 last. The
directors have, however, so far not bothered
to create any such specific reserve, but tak-
ing the whole of general reserves and the
balance of revenue account into consideration
only £52,063 had been accumulated at Dec.
31 last.
The explanation of these variations from
accepted standards is, of course, that the
1.0. A. management persists in over-trading:
it continues to carry more risks than its
funds warrant. Certainly the half-million
10s. shares are called to only 55.. and that
would give a calling power of £125.000 in the
event of trouble, but uncalled capital is not
the best security. Because the management has
had luck with it during the years it has over-
stepped the bounds of prudence, the 1.0. A.
has done remarkably well —so far, at least,
as can be judged from losses ascertained.
But having gambled handsomely, the 00.
would probably be better off in the long run
if it holds on to its winnings and proceeds
quietly for a few years until more settled
conditions prevail again. It is certainly not
yet in a position to stand many hard bumps.
Last year’s surplus represented 7.4 p.c. of net
income, and that was chiefly due to a low
expense rate. In that respect the 1.0. A. has
put up a splendid record for a young office,
though the nature of the business it has
handled has no doubt been chiefly responsible
for the low costs.
The latest balance-sheet compares with
that of five years ago in this way—
-1915. 1920.
Government securities - .. •• £9,000 £68,472
Deposits and cash .. •• •• 54,192 63,5/4
Mortgages ... .. •• •• 13,045 900
Shares in other cos. .. •• 575 l" 1 -?’"
Book debts and agency balances . . 26,280 112,402
Freeholds 15,081 65,432
Furniture and stationery . . . . 3,014 10,732
£121,192 £336,761
Liabilities 38,827 112,483
£92,365 £224,278
Deducting from that £224.278 the £5OOO set
aside for taxation and £12.215 reserved for
depreciation of investments gives the ±207,003
of net funds mentioned above. The array ot
assets is not a very strong one, particularly
in view of the magnitude of the book-debts
and agency balances, and the funds tied up
in shares in other cos. (not specified) and in
furniture and stationery. Properties are in-
cluded at cost, but alongside the £05,432 at
which they are shown is a statement to the
effect that leading valuers have recently
assessed their market value at £77.880. But
what the 1.0. A. would get if it were forced
to realise might be another matter.
London Stokes, Ltd., bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other
intangible items representing £26,368 of the
capital:— , „
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1912.. £7.293 8 p.c.= £4,200 £3,093 £23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5,600 £1596 2,506 22,435
1914.. 11,003 8 ~ „ 5,600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 ~ ~ 6,360 645 8,187 9,549
1916 . 15,134 10 ~ ~ 7,000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18.330 10 „,, 7.000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 ~ ~ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22.111 15 ~ ~ 10,500 487 11,124 31.430
1920.. 28,829 15 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 174 „ „ 15,250 491 13.401 62,636
This co. has had another remarkably good
year, and as £lB4O was dropped into a re-
serve for taxation and bad debts (though,
apparently, current taxes have been other-
wise provided for and book debts are very
small) it may have done even better than
the table shows. Big changes have taken
place since the 1920 balance-sheet. Twelve
months ago paid capital was £70,000; now
among the assets freehold and leasehold land
and buildings stand for more than. twice
that much. During the latter part of the
vear £30,000 of capital was got in, and this
new money shared in the latest handsome
dividend along with the old. On the £70,000
an interim of 74 p.c. was paid : last week a
further 10 p.c. was distributed on the full
£lOO.OOO. Even then there remained un-
distributed profit equal to almost a further
13£ p.c. on the enlarged capital. It is now
10 years since the co. was floated; it did
well from the beginning, but recent years
have been very fat. Until the latest £30,000
was got in paid capital had stood at £70,000
since 1912, but gross profits had bounded
ahead in this way :
1914 .. £47,532 | 1918 .. £67,740
1915 .. 54,127 | 1919 .. 75,983
1916 .. 56,396 | 1920 .. 95,160
1917 .. 61,809 | 1921 . . 101,332
It has been a remarkable performance, made
possible only by the very favorable trading
conditions created by an abnormal supply
of paper money. Since 1915, in addition to
the £3OOO just distributed on the latest
£30,000 of capital raised, the ho. has paid
divs. totalling £54.250 on the old £70.000
of capital, and meantime strengthened vis-
ible reserves by £72,185.
A continuance of such handsome returns
on capital would be too much to expect un-
less a wave of prosperity follows upon the
borrowing boom the Commonwealth has had
since the war began. But there is little
prospect of the position being saved in
that way: owing to the collapse of the
world’s markets, the financial stringency,
chaotic industrial conditions and the Heavy
taxation to be faced, a dull period, during
which the public’s spending capacity will be
restricted, seems almost inevitable. The
spectre of unemployment, a certain indica-
tion that a boom has cracked, is already
in evidence. In view of the adverse con-
ditions w'hich are arising it is unlikely that
retailers can continue to show such hand-
some results. But there is another reason
why London Stores cannot be expected to
show such large returns on capital in
future. Compare the latest balance-sheet
figures with those of 12 months ago:—
1912. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities ..£7,310 £28,818 £36,100 £111,504
Stock .. .. 31,237 85,604 98,819 98,950
Property, etc. . . 41,065 40,199 142,074
Book debts . . 3,257 4,030 5,054 5,060
Plant, etc. . . 5,624 4,369 4,714 4,405
Cash, etc. ..14,728 7,686 20,465 44,158
During the year an additional £101,875 was
put into properties, to secure which
has increased its mortgage debt by £84,740.
Premises now represent 45 p.c. of all assets.
On account of its large reserves the co. is,
of course, in a very snug position. Apart
from the £104,400 borrowed on mortgage,
debts amount to only £7104. The co. is the
more comfortable, too, because it is a cash
trader: book debts total only £5060. Not-
withstanding the large amount raised on
mortgage, at February 28 there was a sur-
plus of liquid assets over all liabilities of.
£36,000-odd. Unlike many other cos., stocks
are not unduly large: the book value at the
latest stock-taking showed only a few hun-
dred pounds’ worth more on hand than 12
months ago, and everything was included
“at cost or under.’’ The latest balance-sheet
discloses net tangible assets with a book
value of 345. 6d. to represent each of the
100,000 £1 ordinary shares after the final
div, of 2s. per share had been distributed.
Beatii, Sciiiess and Felstead, Ltd.,
softgoods warehousemen, Melbourne (the co
started with a deficit of £56,187, represented
by goodwill, etc.) :
( Dividends. ,
Cum. Pref. Ordi- Towards
Jan., Profits. 6£ p.c. naries. Reserves. Deficit.
1913. . £16,654 £3250 6 p.c. = £2,100 £11,304 £44,883
1914.. 12,444 6600 5 „ „ 3,500 2,444 42,43 S
1915.. 12,814 6500 5 „ „ 3,500 2,814 39,625
1916.. 14,938 6500 6 „ „ 4,200 4,238 35,387
1917.. 19,327 6500 74 „ „ 5,250 7,577 27,810
1918.. 26,569 6500 8 „ „ 5,600 14,469 13,341
Reserves.
1919.. 48,003 6500 10 „ ~12,000 29,503 16,162
1920.. 60,072 6500 124 ~ ~25,250 28,322 44,484
1921.. 80,860 6500 124,, ~36,875 37,485 81,969
Note, to begin with, that more profit was laid
aside than was required to pay the 124 p.c.
to the ordinaries: in other words, the return
to the ordinaries exceeded 25 p.c. for the
year, though £75,000 of new capital was in-
troduced during the period. It is now nine
years since the co. took over from a pro-
prietary and paid £50,000 for goodwill. At
first it looked as though the concern was
having a cold time, for disclosed profits fell
far below prospectus anticipations, and for
the first four years the ordinaries’ divs.
averaged only 6 p.c. p.a.. half a point less
than was being paid, to the prefs. But when
the War Loan paper began, to scatter things
looked up, and for the past five years
divs. have averaged slightly more than 10
p.c., and while £84,975 has been distributed
to ordinaries no less than £117,356 has been
added to reserves, an amount only a few
thousands short of the ordinary capital of
five years ago. It has been a magnificent
run, and has been in keeping with the general
experience of the rag trade, which could not
go wrong during the period of rising prices
and cui’taileJ stocks and w T ith a paper-laden
public clamoring at the retailers’ counters.
Apart from the difficulty of obtaining stocks,
the greatest trouble has been to finance pur-
chases. Two years ago there was £lOO,OOO
of cum. prefs. and £120,000 of ordinaries;
there is now the same amount of preference
capital, but £175,000 additional ordinary
capital has been got in.
But notwithstanding all this new capital
and the large reserved profits, owing to the
great flood of imports last year E elstead s
liabilities were heavier at Jan. last than
at any previous balancing date. Stocks were
more than four times the size of those held
six years previously. This comparison gives
further details : —*■
1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities (apart from D ._ „ r »««
debentures) .. .. £134,085 £213,847 £445,78
Freeholds, etc. .. . . 45,849 43,86.,
Plant etc . . - . 12,410 11,811 15,094
Stock’ •• •• 214,266 493,086 870,811
Book debis .. •• 134,297 150,083 149,014
Cash, etc 18.138 24,758 3,203
Besides the liabilities shown above the co. is
working on £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. debentures, -o
at the balance its indebtedness almost
equalled its total capital and reserves. Every-
thing depends, of course, on the manage-
ment’s success or otherwise in unloading the
very heavy stocks: at the moment they are
moving off very slowly, and there probably
isn’t a house in the trade that wouldn t be
prepared to sell most lines at well under cost.
Heaven only knows what would have already
happened to some of them if the drought had
not broken last year ! But this eo.’s position
is uncomfortable enough with stocks at
valuation” exceeding If times its own funds.
Still, owing to the handsome additions to
accumulated profits over several years, the
security for old holders is fair: reserves are
sufficient to cover a slump of almost 2s. ill
the £of the book value of stocks. Reserves
may be even larger than shown above, for
there is £39,000 set aside for taxation, though
apparently current taxes have 1 been provided
for out of revenue. Incidentally, £18,480 was
dropped into this taxation account during
the past year, so the co. may have done even
better than the disclosed profits indicate. But
Felstead’s cannot be expected to maintain the
run it has had during recent years in face oi:
(1) the collapse of the loan boom: (2) the
fall in prices since present heavy stocks
were bought; and (3) inevitable heavy taxa-
tion.
* * * *
Concerning the further trials of the Bullot,
Meat Process Co;: —
This little co., which threatens .to revolutionise
the meat trade with a process claimed to (1) assure
fresher and better meat; (2) save present losses of
weight in transport; and (3) curtail the use of
cooling chambers, has not yet been launched into
the big concern its promoters had planned. The
Bullot people are still being hampered by the N. S.
Wales health authorities, who apparently cannot be
moved either by their controlling Minister or by Act
of Parliament. Some of the obstacles encountered by
the co. last year have been detailed on this page
(8.. 2/9/’2O). The N. S. Wales Pure Foods Board,
having side-stepped expressing any opinion as to
whether Bullot-treated meat could possibly have any
injurious effect on the health of regular consumers,
in July last Health-Minister McGirr requested it to
arrange a scientific investigation. The Board was
apparently deaf to its Minister’s instructions, for
no inquiry eventuated. Shortly after The Bulle-
tin’s article, Parliament became interested in the
process; first, the Progressive party, representing
country interests, unanimously decided to support
it; later, one-third of the members of the Assembly
accompanied the co. on a deputation to the Pre-
mier, with the result that a Select Committee was
appointed to inquire; and, finally, when the report
had been received, a special enabling Act passed
both Houses. But that Act has not yet been pro
claimed, the Select Committee having recommended
that a physiological test should be conducted withir
two months of the passing of the Bill to prove thf
co.’s contention that the small quantities of sulphur-
dioxide employed in the process were not injurious
to public health.
Having reached that stage —the Bill was passed
on December 21 —it appeared as though the Bullot
co. would soon know exactly where it stood. But
over three months have elapsed and no inquiry
such as was contemplated by the Select Committee
has been instituted. The matter has become
tangled in red-tape, and no sincere desire on the
part of the Government’s officers to investigate the
process thoroughly has been apparent. The Health
Board was not “officially informed” until the middle
of January ; early in February the Board admitted
that it was making preparations for a scientific in-
vestigation, but that such an inquiry would take
longer than two months, and, further, that the
principal party concerned —the Bullot Co. —would
not bp allowed representation, on any committee. The
Minister decided otherwise, and the co. nominated
Dr. Chapman, Professor of Pharmacology and
Physiology at Sydney Uni. ; but the Board of Health
objected that, since the Prof, had been investigating
the process for two years and had repprted favor-
ably on it, he might be “prejudiced,” a poor excuse,
to say the least, for excluding one of the Common-
wealth’s foremost physiologists from an experiment
of a purely physiological nature. It further appears
that the Health Board does not propose to restrict
the investigation to the Bullot process, but, having
been pushed into action, intends to make a belated
and sweeping inquiry into the general use of sulphur-
dioxide —a matter on which, as Dr. Armstrong
admitted to the Select Committee, the local Health
authorities “know so little about.” notwithstanding
that the stuff has been widely used for many years in
mince meats and innumerable canned and bottled
foods. The Board seems, also, to be unaware that


• inec the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many horne3 in both the city
ana country have been denied its numerous uses
owing: to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy eJectrica l convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery,
it is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
aria practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney : and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. m
* * *
E\ery man wants plenty to choose from in order
that lie can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.E. trade-mark. These
malleable.? represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt fi
*
Phere are many remarkable instances of the
length of life of wood pipe as a water conduit. A
ease in point was the recent unearthing of wood
pipe that has been in use for one hundred and
thirty years, and was still sound. “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe costs only a fraction of the price of metal
pipe, and conveys from 15 to 20 per cent, more
water. Send for our interesting booklet. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove.— Advt.
.ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
m serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Wlf llaC |" l n nf! C °’i c Lttl - “Asbestos House,” corner
.V’.rk and ttynvard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company -I^VT
Griffith** m w"~ H ? Ve D y ° U Un !dea worth Patenting?
Gnffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
patents.—Okovr.’ " Con ""°“" ealt h and foreign
**' * *
Om 01 * T^ ” Patent
* . .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent?
obtained. Com.ison &Co 183 Collins u i
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv fea.s ? Svrfte
us for Inventors Guide.— Advt. * wrUe
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manehpstpr
suiting engineers and coriSorsTor
merit with by-products ; tar-distilling atd blnzolTtc
ein'i ltS ’ , I sulphuric-acid plants ; glass-works plants •’
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants - P blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc nf
Quay, Sydney Leplastriev an(J Circular
and l suiticn-glf pknKf ’“V- TfTo
46-b.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (feast)
* * —Advt.
BaHS®’ Wdgl? P ? 6S - l-^'vor^s^^Oertte
]j>a lances. Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’?
Sample Crushers, furnaces, Pure Chemical? it ,
rates. Call or write for H R Sell v *Co ‘
4 ;;to °Q G / orge St J eet (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb —Advt
UNIFLOW STEAM ENGINES
By Cole, Marchant & Morley, Ltd.
Reduce Coal Consumption on big power work.
Get Particulars.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens.’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAB VAN,
Managing Director.
w-
&
BOORD&so*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DTi
Swift
Company Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney"
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
c 3,
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
HEAD
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
thorough physiological tests have been made elsewhere
in the world, and to have forgotten the fact that for
lwo years it has permitted the Bullot concern to break
the law and feed the town of Orange (N.S.W.) with
its treated meats without any interference. The
Bullot Co. has, by the way, demonstrated that its
treated meats when cooked contain only small quan-
tities of sulphur-dioxide, and that the regular con-
sumer of its meats and other foods containing the
preservative could not absorb anything like the
daily average of 7gr. which Professor Chapman con-
siders perfectly safe.
It is time the Health Board made a sincere effort
to ascertain whether Bullot-meat is “safe.” The
process promises to be of such great national im-
portance that the co., instead of being continuously
hampered, should be given immediate assistance to
demonstrate its claims, and it should certainly be
permitted to participate with the health authorities
in any investigation to determine whether sulphur-
dioxide in small quantities is non-injurious to
health. The attitude of the Board of Health and
Pure Foods Board has been as effective in blocking
the eo. as would have been the experience if the
vested meat interests which are likely to be jolted
by the process had had the planning of the obstruc-
tions.
‘‘Nonsuch”: Tom Givens, President of the
Senate, laid himself out to chastise Mel-
bourne Gas Co. because the directors paid
1 P- c - for the underwriting of £425,000
of 8 p.c. debentures without giving the
shareholders a look in. The management
replied that it was acting on the best advice,
that it would be unfair to let shareholders
in Melbourne have a cut while those in Lon-
don were left out in the cold, and, anyhow,
that Givens could be satisfied that there
was nothing in his complaint, for no one
would have applied for the debentures. How-
ever, there was still £75,000 to complete the
™ at - and this was offered to the public,
ihe proposition was rushed by 800 appli-
cants, and as nobody expected to be so
lucky as the underwriters and get deben-
tures for £99 p.c., the offerings were as
follows: From par to £lOl, £186,000; to
£ 1() 1 ss„ £85,600; to £lOl 10s., £18.100;
to £lO2, £9600; to £lO2 10s. 6d„ £13,300;
at £lO3 10s., £5OO. So the directors could'
have got £813.100 at par or over, which
makes it very evident that they entirely
misjudged the market.
* * * •
From a place where Direct Action has been
tried to the limit:—
In May, 1919, Broken Hill had 30,000 people and
was impressively prosperous. The Savings Banks
held £500,000 of the workers’ money. Living was
cheaper than in the capital cities. Work was
plentiful on the basis of 44 hours a week with a
minimum wage of 14s. Od. per shift. Further, men
could work on contract if they chose, and then there
was no limit to their earnings; in fact, the con-
tractors made so much in five days that they never
worked on Saturday mornings.
Then the record strike was declared, and the
Silver City sagged at the knees. The strike was
mainly the result of inter-union jealousies, and, as
was admitted afterwards, the fatal decision was
reached on a catch vote. Months wore on, and yet
the end came not. The anniversary arrived and
was fittingly celebrated—there were sports and a
picnic on the Oval. Six months later the long
strike was settled by Judge Edmunds on the basis
of a 35-hour week for underground workers with a
minimum of 19s. 6d. per shift. Work was just
resuming along the line of lode when the metal
market commenced to drop. Lead got down to £2O
a ton and silver to 2s. Bd. an ounce. At these
prices the mines could not proceed. ■
The position of the unionists who struck so light-
heartedly and prolonged the agony so stupidly is
now pitiful. They are right on the bread line. The
Storey Government, which they have been urged to
despise, is distributing relief through the police.
Every day thousands of able-bodied men wait
hours to receive food coupons. Imagine about 3000
healthy Australian citizens hanging about the police-
yard, day by day and week by week, for their
tucker-ration. They receive food only—no clothes
or the little extras which provide happiness in the
home. Most of these men and their families have
lived this beggarly existence since May, 1919. it
is a life of mendicancy which must sap the moral
fibre of all but the strong.
What was once a prosperous city is now some-
thing spiritless, existing only like a man with an
incurable disease. The greatest mass of machinery
south of the line is idle, the unionists’ savings bank
accounts are all gone, and in many cases their homes
are gone too —all thrown into the capacious maw of
the strike god.
* * *
“W’gba”: Concerning the optimism of the
chairman of Low Temperature Carbonisa-
tion, Ltd., that the process was a definite
success (B. 10/3/’2l) it is only three
months since Sir Arthur Duckham, a high
British fuel authority, said: “Low tempera-
ture carbonisation should be a simple pro-
cess, but the fact is there is not one large
commercial plant in successful operation to-
day in England. The advantages are obvi-
ous, and too much has been expected of it,
while the problem in reality is an excessively
difficult one.” It is quite possible that the
Goold-Adams co. is treating coal by the pro-
cess with absolute success, but coal is as
variable in behavior as woman, and its
chemical constitution is still a problem, so
that for the eo. to assume that the whole
production of British coals may be amenable
to their particular type of plant and process
is too large an order. Duckham, for in-
stance, sees tremendous difficulties in the
low-temperature process applied to coking
coals, owing to their sticky and friable
nature, and although many sincere attempts
have been made to solve the problem he has
not yet given it up as insoluble. He, how-
ever, does not believe it possible to design
a plant for this process capable of working
greatly-varying coal over short periods. The
mechanical condition of coal, i.e., the per-
centage of fines to lump, has an effect which
is detrimental when fines are considerable
and might exclude some of the very friable
natural coals from successful treatment, or
at least a large proportion of them. It all
goes to show that although certain classes
of coal may be successfully treated now,
there are many difficulties still to face be-
fore a general success can be attained.
* * * *
Westralian shareholders of White Hope
and Celebration are dissatisfied with the
meagre information officially supplied about
developments and the redemption of past
promises. The management’s greatest worry
at present, however, is to keep cheerful in the
absence of satisfactory developments. Should
anything worth while turn up, it can be
taken for granted that the public would soon
hear of it. According to the White Hope
report issued in London in February, that
show had about 10,000 tons of ‘lodwt.
material available from the Discovery and
No. 2 shafts, about 5000 tons more of the
same value in No. 3 shaft, while developments
in the northern section indicate considerable
tonnages going between 7dwt. and Sdwt.
At the balance (Oct. 31) the co. held nearly
£54,000 cash, slightly more than Bs. per
shai-e.
* * * *
After being on strike for nearly five
months, the Morwell (Vie.) brown-coal
miners are going back at 13s. 9d. a day.
They have agreed to forego any right to
retrospective pay should the Court decide
that they are entitled to 16s. 6d. a day. These
terms could have been obtained months ago.
but they were not palatable to the direet-
aetionists then. Though the Government re-
started the mine and fixed a final date for
signing on. former 'employees held off. and
then wanted to recommence a day or two
after when it suited them. The Ministry
got its back up and took on other men. The
old hands who have drifted back on the Gov-
ernment’s terms are a poorer and wiser crowd
as a result of the adventure.
* * * *
“Geologist” in reply :
There are some duds in “.T.L.S.’s” latest salvo
(B. 17/3/’2l) on Queensland oil prospects. I
cannot for the life of me see what his lengthy quote
from Craig’s “Oil Finding” has to do with the
question of ambiguity, which arose over his own
statement that he only referred to “a certain area”
around Roma as a has-been field. “J.L.S.” considers
that my opinion that present-day oil reservoirs w.ill
be found is based on insufficient bore evidence, but
my expressed opinion was that prospects were
highly favorable for their occurrence, and I sought
to combat his original statement that Queensland
was a has-been oilfield, knowing at the time that he
was quoting Craig, and knowing further that Craig’s
opinion was based on evidence of structural geology
which needs revision in the light of recent work.
I sought to show that recent work on the Jurassic
formation (which in certain areas is petroliferous) to
the north of Roma, Darling Downs and Moreton
district, and older work between VVinton and Clon-
currv, made it abundantly clear that the folds,
terraces and flexures essential for oil and gas accumu
lation were common to the Jurassic wherever exam-
ination was possible ; therefore, the structural
conditions required probably existed at Roma, where
examination was not possible, more so on account
of a rich “wet” gas occurring there in vast quan-
tities. He now says that there is no proof that
the oil products brought up by hot artesian waters
are not inspissated products. He is perfectly cor-
rect, and the theory that they are is feasible; but
from his miscellaneous experience “J.L.S.” must
surely know that it is equally feasible that they are
particles of liquid petroleum contained in the sands
removed in boring. If they are, the rest of the
petroleum can be tapped only when the pressures
exerted by the water columns in the bores are
reduced below the oil pressure.
The Roma district appears to offer more than
an “intermittent” supply of gas, and “J.L.S.’s” use
of that term can only impress those who are not
au fait of the facts. No. 2 bore flowed gas con-
stantly for four years at the rate of 39,400 to
70,000 c. ft. per diem. Just after the latter measure-
ment the gas flow suddenly ceased, with such
rapidity as to practically discount the probability
of exhaustion. It was considered to be due to
the action of a water-column overcoming the gas
pressure. No. 3 and No. 4 bores, in an interval
of 16 years, have individually shown similar gas
pressures. Therefore, there are no more grounds
for asserting intermittency of flow here than in
some of the great gas-fields of Canada, which have
yielded more petrol in certain instances than the
underlying oil reservoirs.
After the depetrolising of the gas it is proposed
to manufacture carbon black from the residual gas.
Australia imports a fairly large tonnage, mostly
absorbed in printers’ inks and in the rubber-tyre
trade. Other possible uses of the residual gas,
as it means cheap power, are (1) the manufacture
of nitrates, and (2) liquid fuel for internal-combus-
tion engines.
We all admit with “J.L.S.” that it is preferable
to bore for oil where it can be found nearest the
surface, and so avoid water difficulties if possible;
but that is no reason why we should not utilise
the gas already found at Roma, which, incidentally,
means more bores. And since oil accumulates under
similar structural conditions to gas, but at a
lower level, one of these bores might as well be
shoved down a few hundred feet below the gas
horizon to prove or disprove the presence of
petroleum there.
Adelhide-promoted Queensland Petroleum
and Oil Syndicate has been doing some pre-
liminary prospecting work on the oil shales
on Curtis Island, off Gladstone(Q.). Several
bores have encountered shales which hurn
leadily and are reported to have given about
oOgal. oil to the ton. These shales, which
are of tertiary age, occur at a number of
places along the coast, notably at Baffle
Creek and Dowmead, but have always been
regarded as too low-grade to work. The
highest } r ield of oil from Departmental
samples was 28ga1., and this compares poorly
with yields of over lOOgal. from the shales
l n r the Wolgan Valley (N.S.W.). John
Moffat, of Irvinebank, sank some of liis cash
in the Lowmead venture without getting it
back, and since 1910 other attempts have
been made to work the area. The Adelaide
syndicate has taken up 3000 acres on the
island .and is looking for oil pools in the
formation ; a prospect which does not seem
to have much geological evidence in its favor.
Apart from that, there is not much chance
of utilising the oil-shale, as the capital out-
lay necessary for plant for treatment and
recovery of by-products is prohibitive.
* * * *
Lyell has been making strenuous efforts
to maintain operations by increasing the
copper content per ton of crude ore. The
position compared with a year ago is:—
Recovery per ton smelted.
March, 1920. March, 1921.
goPPer - - . . 2.77 p.c. 2.10 p. P .
Q°, ]d 57 dwt. .04 dwt.
Silver .. . . 1.00 oz. .09 oz.
Approximate value .63 15 9 62 9 4
Last month’s input at the smelters amounted
to 12,852 tons, of which Mt. Lvell contri-
buted 8142 tons, North Lyell 3481 and the
notation plant the balance. Assuming a
recovery of 70 p.c., Lyell has been operating
on an ore averaging about 4i p.c. copper,
indicating that there has been a heavy
drawing on the higher-grade ore in the
North Lyell mine.
* * * *
“Awaruite”: It was a sorry day for Speck
mine-owners when the Electrolytic Zinc
started. operations at Risdon, for, without con-
sideration of existing mining conditions, that
co. became a disturbing influence on labor.
Not content with altering, without justifica-
tion or necessity, the conditions of work, it
started a raid to secure all the good
labor, of the wet West-Coast, paying
additional money (in some cases 2s.
more per day), besides which it could
offer the natural attraction of being
alongside Hobart. The manner in which the
unions played up to the co. was wonderful.
W elfare work was to be the vogue, and those
cos. that did not fall into line were to go to
the wall, as far as labor supply was con-
cerned.. Mt. Lyell. with a boom copper mar-
ket assisting it, followed suit. And the result?
Electrolytic Zinc has been the first co. in the
Speck to approach its employees for a hold-up
in the wages increases, with a hint of a
reduction in the ftiture, and Lvell has in-
formed its team that it must accept 15 p.c.
less money or no work will be the alternative.
‘“Globo” on the Speck’s Mines Department:
A big controversy has been raging in the Speck
relative to a reorganisation of the Mines Depart-
ment, consequent on the death of Secretary-for-
Mines Wallace. Most Tasmanian mine-owners agree
that a change of policy and administration is essen-
tial, the existing policy of separate geological,
mines-inspection and aid-to-mines branches, all inde-
pendent of each other and often not even on speak-
ing terms, combined under the guidance of a non-
technical clerk, is not considered to be in the best
interests of a fast-declining industry. The pro-
posal is to combine the administration of all the
branches under a technical director of high stand-
ing, who will lay down and administer a uniform
policy.
That such a change is necessary those in the busi-
ness know only too well. The lack of co-ordination,
jealousy of departmental heads and the Czar-like
attributes of each branch have caused the Mines
Department to be looked on more as a hindrance to
legitimate mining than a help. Take the case of
the osmiridium diggers, who for years have re-
quested information as to markets and advice as to
how to reach them direct. Only pap has been given
them, the Department’s policy being one of evasive-
ness. The inspection branch has excelled itself in
its adoption of a policy of “There’s the Act, keep
to it,” with no regard for altering circumstances.
To overstock a magazine by a few cases (during the
war uncertainty of supply led any mine operator
worthy of the name to snap up any and all fracteur
offering), or to have so-called exudation showing,
or rises without air-positive, or dry boreholes, or
to have “scats” in a stope or level, even if micro-
scopic in size—such things call for condemnation
and a large splashing of ink in the record book.
To object or demur is to merit vindictive attention.
In the geological branch there has „ been a pro-
nounced leaning towards stratigraphical geology as
distinct from the more important study of economic
deposits, though this leaning is less pronounced now
than in the past. Compared with the U.S. geolo-
gical publications, one cannot help contrasting the
aid given the mine operator there and the wealth
of information tendered in simple language, so sadly
lacking in Tasmanian publications of the past. Only
now are the two oldest, richest and most important
Speck deposits— i.e., Mounts Lyell and Bischoff —
being considered. Such relatively unimportai'/t
places as Stanley River, Mt. Balfour, Mt. Pelion,
etc., liave so far received most of the attention, with
practically no gain whatever to the State. The aid-
to-mines branch has been more or less of a joke,
though rather an expensive one, as the State found
in its recent Coulston fiasco. It seems to have been
established mostly for the benefit of Zeehanites.
A more sympathetic and non-partisan policy is
needed, and a strong man, free of departmental
idiosyncrasy and political control, who will command
the respect of all engaged in the industry, is a
pressing necessity. But that the Lee Government,
with its unsympathetic attitude towards mining, will
select the right men is almost too much to hope for.
*
Launceston has launched a co. to handle
the hingal cement proposition. It is proposed
to establish woiks in Launceston, railing the
crude material from the Fingal deposits.
Hulk samples have yielded a first-class
cement, approaching the well-known Ameri-
can white cement so much in demand for
finishing purposes.
* j*.


THE LION’S TAIL.
“Does the Country Party imagine that, because the Government is carrying on with a narrow majority, it can twist the Government’s tail?" —Senator De Largie.
The keepers stand, with knitted brows,
Beside the lion’s cage,
Confronting folk who would arouse
The noble creature’s rage,
VICTORIA.
And, daring them, who shake with fear,
Whose rugged cheeks turn pale,
To make a move and venture near
And twist the lion’s tail.
O. K.


r w
J-rt c
L
'liighi off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
“ Dho Boer
Without a Rival ”
i|| FROM PURE MALI&HOPS ONLY
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to tho=e who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves ?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily u=e, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Meat's Ea-r-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
All 117 pi I DRILLING PLANTS,
ft HrLrL/ Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and .supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. t 2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
On a departed Governor: —
Poor old Harry Barron, who was the Speck's
Rubber Stamp from 1909 to 1912 and Westralia’s for
the five years following, has been gathered to his
fathers. Stout, testy and voluble, he was a worthy
specimen of the elderly British garrison-officer, with
the virtues and demerits of the type. Most of his
military career was spent on home stations, and his
mind was a mass of insular prejudices. He used
to address Australian citizens as if he were lecturing
a gunnery squad. Being gullible and tactless, he was
persuaded to “open” a gorgeous Perth tango-hall
when Australia was ringing with the news of the
Gallipoli landing, and rubbed salt into the wound
by making some sinfully fatuous remarks about
tickle-toeing, which he described as an admirable
war-time amusement. Westralia, which took the war
seriously, and had lost heavily on April 25, never
quite forgave him. Barron was cradled in Crimean
traditions, and served 42 years without seeing active
service. When Germany went mad he boisterously
predicted that the war would be over in a few
months, and repeated the prophecy so often that it
became a melancholy jest. The fact was that he
knew no more about modern warfare than one of the
survivors of the Light Brigade. He put his small
savings (Australia furnished a goodly part of them)
into English real estate, and not long ago word
came that owing to depreciation of property values
and inordinate municipal rates, the veteran was
having a bitter struggle to make ends meet. Those
who heard the story hoped it had been exaggerated,
for with all his faults Harry Barron was a manly
and good-hearted old boy.
The picturesque-looking H. D. Holmes is
about to retire from the general manager-
ship of the W.A. Bank, whose fortunes he
has directed since
the roaring ’nine-
ties made West-
rali a n! banking
vastly more exten-
sive and compli-
cated than in the
placid sheep-and-
sandalwood period.
Holmes will be
succeeded by R. L.
Herbert, his chief
lieutenant for over
20 years. Like
many other W.A.
banking men they
are both Soustra-
lians, and served
their apprentice-
ship in Adelaide.
JUDGE CHAP-
MAN, of Maori-
land, who left the
Bench on March I.
having reached
retiring age. He
teas 18 years a
Judge, and has been
appointed compiler
of Statutes.
In Frederick Ilolkham Dangar, who died
in England last week, the Union Club
(N.S.W.) has lost its last foundation mem-
ber, and he was the last of the sons of
Henry Hangar, of Neotsfield. For nearly haif
his life —he was S 9 when the end came —he
had resided in Britain, but his brothers and
nephews had kept the family's end up in
their native country. The Hangars are
mostly pastoralists. but Frederick was more
interested in shipping than sheet). He founded
the firm of Hangar, Gedye and Co., mer-
chants and shipping agents.
Twenty years ago and more, when just
dead Henry Weedon's interest in the “Talma”
photographic business was his chief business
concern, “Talma” photos of theatrical folk
and passing notabilities outrivalled all Mel-
bourne competitors. They were the pic-
tures one mostly saw in the papers. They
expressed busy little, self-seeking Weedon’s
art of advertising. He was always bustling
around, in frock coat and belltopper. intent
on getting-on, that he might be a somebody
in the land and have a distinguished funeral.
He was at his happiest, no doubt, when he
became Gaud Mayor, within seven years of
election to Melbourne Council. He stayed
Mayor for three years, having previously
pushed into the Leg. Assembly as member
for East Melbourne. Wherever there w r as
a juicy pie little Weedon w r anted his finger
in it, and usually he succeeded; yet he had
neither gift of tongue nor commanding
ability.
While attending Cabinet Senator E. J.
Bussell, Assistant Minister, got news of the
death of his father at a private hospital at
Elsternwick. Born in Dublin, William
Bussell came to Vic. when he was a kiddie
of seven G 6 years ago. He left two sons in
addition to the Senator. One has a iob under
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., and the other keeps
out of the limelight.
A coastal skipper of bygone days went
west when Captain Nicholas died at
Thursday Island recently. Old-timers re-
member him as captain of the steamer
Wentworth, which struck trouble in the form
of a rock in Port Denison. Later he was
appointed wharfinger at the northern pearl-
ing port. One of his sons was drowned in
Princess Charlotte Bay during the cyclone
which wiped out the pearling fleet in
1907.
Brookfield and a political friend were
standing together on a street in Broken Hill
one day when a passing Fat man, conspicu-
ous in the ranks of the enemy, dropped a par-
cel and stooped to pick it up as a speeding
motor swung from behind a van, Brookfield
saw the man’s danger, and instinctively
jumped to his assistance. He had his hands
on the portly citizen, when the motor, with
the brakes hard on, rolled the two in the
dust. Neither was hurt. While the friend
dusted Percy down, he inquired: “Why the
devil did you do that? He’s a bitter enemy
of yours !” “Yes,” Brookfield replied, laugh-
ing, “but while they’re alive there is always
a hope of converting them.”
F. J. Hayes, who stopped private secre-
taryihg to Joe Cook to become industrial
officer and a lot of other things in the Navy
Office, is to relieve the monotony of his job
on April 20 by marrying Miss Lass Good-
heim, of Sydney. Hayes is a far-sighted
young man who made a hobby of being pri-
vate secretary to Federal heads, beginning
with Alfred Deakin. In his spare time
he gained an M.A. and LL.B. of Mel-
bourne University. After a turn at the war
he was ready when the Navy wanted some-
one to handle industrial, legal and other
questions for it. Incidentally, he had a lot
to do with the preliminary work that led
to the inquiry into the alleged leakages at
Cockatoo Island (N.S.W.L
There can’t be many Australian long-dis-
tance records to beat that of the Bev. Augus-
tus Barkway, whom Death has just ousted
from St. Paul’s, Launceston. He had watched
the collection-plate go round there for 51
years.
J. B. Pearson, a South Melbourne publi-
can, will probably get the Labor nomination
for the Melbourne Province seat in the
Uppah Chambah, vacated by Weedon, over
whom the grave recently closed. Pearson
ran Weedon very close in June, 1919.
Mitchell, K.C., would like to be the represen-
tative if he could get a walkover. But it
wouldn’t be naice for the leader of the Vic,
Bar and the son of the former President of
the Chambah to be licked by a city councillor
or a pubkeeper.
Lt.-Col. D. S. Wanliss, who has been made
C.J. of the mandated New Guinea territory,
is a brother-in-law of Irvine, C.J., of Vic.
As a Victorian barrister Wanliss was not
exactly pelted with briefs. He has war ser-
vice to his credit, and it seemed certain that
he would get a fair-sized Government job
sooner or later. He was mentioned for the
Vic. Police Chiefship before Steward was
chosen, and then again on Steward’s death,
before Gellibrand got the billet.
Frederick Golding. Chief Electrical Engi-
neer and Director of Commonwealth Radio
Services, left by the Ventura last week for
America and Europe, where he will study
latest, improvements in telephonic and tele-
graphic equipment. He will also report upon
postal administration abroad with a view to
improving present Australian methods. Per-
haps he may look in at Manitoba, whose
telephones have just reported a deficit of
#390,000 for the year—a hitherto unheard-of
thing, and locally ascribed to the introduction
of the automatic system. Prior to getting his
present job. Golding was Electrical Engineer
in the N. S. Wales Postal Service, and not so
many years before that he was a telegraph
operator in a country office.
SENATOR AND SOLDIER “ POMPEY ”
ELLIOTT.
Charles Iladdon Chambers, the dramatist,
just dead in London, was born at Stanmore,
Sydney, in 1860, his father being of the Civil
Service. “Charley” joined, too, but the life
was too humdrum for him, and he went
chasing experience in the country. After-
wards he set out for London to look for
newspaper and magazine work. A brother,
Kellett. also took to the Inky Way, and is now
in N’York. There are a couple of sisters in
Sydney, and among a multitude of cousins
is Frank Chambers, Burns-Philp’s manager
in Java.
If Swinburne wins the Melbourne Pro-
vince seat in the Vic. Upper Chambah he
will not be an entire stranger to the House.
When he was Bent’s Minister for Water
Supply he, by permission given under a
section of the Constitution Act Amendment
Act, explained the Water Bill to the plush
seats. It was the only occasion on which
the provision, inserted by Irvine in the Re-
form Act of 1903, was tried, and nobody was
particularly impressed. Swinburne must
be much less active-minded than he
was to be content with the Legislative Coun-
cil. Perhaps he thinks it’s the quickest way
to reach office again, as there are not many
eligible Ministers in the House of Land-
lords. To become qualified to stand he will
have to throw up his £5OO a year part-time
job as Electricity Commissioner.
Dr. Francis Adams, who died last week at
Orange (N.S.W.). aged 45, was really a war
casualty. He went to France as an A.A.M.C.
captain in 1915, and came back with con-
sumption. He was the eldest son of the old-
time A.J.S. bank manager and Union Club,
man, and had a brilliant career at Sydney
and Cambridge universities. Dr. Adams
owned several good horses, amongst them
Montauk. He had only just moved to Orange
from Dubbo.
J. R. King, who died in a Sydney private
hospital a few days ago, was a very sound
solicitor, but it was as a card-player that
he shone. Before auction bridge came in he
was the undisputed champion at the card
game of the moment in Sydney, which then
meant in the Commonwealth. Auction did
not suit his solid, unspeculative tempera-
ment so well. He played for the game, not
the money. He remained the arbiter on
every fine point of every card game in the
Australian Club to the end.
Gone west at Carterton (M.L.), Charles
Edward O’Hara Tobin, the first padre to
join up with the Maoriland overseas forces.
At the outset he was in Egypt, and after the
assault on Gallipoli was shifted to Malta,
where he was the sole M.L. representative.
He was principal of a Maori college when he
answered the roll.
Another of the few surviving links with
the Eureka Stockade snapped the other
day. This time it was a man on the Gov-
ernment side who died—George Roussell. He
landed in Victoria, as a soldier, in 1.852.
When he got out of his uniform he crossed
the border, settled at Forbes (N.S.W.), in
ISG2, and died there at the age of 9S.
J. Kean, the new president of the 1 ic.
branch of the A.L.P., has been sec. of the
Ballarat Trades and Labor Council for 15
years. For ability he is above the average,
and if he has Parliamentary ambitions —and
winch president ot an A.n.F. hasn’t? —he
may be a little nearer getting them gratified
now.
"Plumtree”: The massive Ernest Lee
Steere, the owner of Eur.vthmic (B.
31/3/’2l), is a Westralian on both sides of
the house, but springs from an old Surrey
family. His paternal grandfather was a
county member in one of the post-R-eform
Parliaments. His father, James Lee Steere,
was Speaker of the old Leg. Council from
1880 until its dissolution, and was the
Assembly’s first and only Speaker until his
removal from this vale of tears. He was
a Federalist before Forrest saw the light,
and represented his State on the old Federal
Council and at the conventions. James’s
wife was one of the Leakes, a Middlesex
clan, distinguished in Westralian history.
“St. Albans”: The youthful Captain G.
Leslie Smith, of Sydney, holds a record that
will take some beating. In the early part of
the war he skippered the E. and A. liner
Empire under contract with the French Gov-
ernment, transporting coolies from Cochin
China to Marseilles for work behind the lines.
There was a monetary bonus on each one
landed alive, and “Ginger” Smith carried
15,000 Chinks with only six deaths. The
secret of this almost incredible performance
lay in his meticulous attention to the ventila-
tion of below-deck quarters. Smith later
joined the R.A.N.R. and for six months navi-
gated a gunboat on the Torres Strait patrol.
He’s that rare bird among sailors, a success-
ful business man while ashore.
“O. Blin”: As an opener of bazaars,
bowling greens and similar attractions, the
late Henry Weedon had no superior in Mel-
bourne, and he never spurned a show which
offered him a line or two in the papers.
Everybody knew his weakness, and*in the
course of his career he was invited to swell
with oratory at many a minor affair where
a few harmless words of blessing were re-
quired. Probably his most curious experi-
ence in this line was in connection with a
smoking competition at the Town Hall some
years back. A firm advertising a new to-
bacco invited four or five hundred smokers to
see how long they could keep a pipeful burn-
ing, and Weedon, in the usual frockcoat and
concertina pants, was the official starter,
with an auctioneer’s bell as the weapon of
his rank. The idea was that all lucifers
were to be lit
a t Weedon’s
signal, and
Henry got
every ounce of
feeling into his
directions t o
the mob be-
low. After ex-
plaining the
conditions a t
great length he
warned, the
smokers against
undue haste in
lighting up, -fin-
ally shouting in
his casual Eng-
lish: “GenT-
mcn, wait until
I ’ave rang the
bell.” With all
his practice as
a speaker, Wee-
don often be-
came in solemn
moments very
untidy in his
grammar.
The late
HENRY
WEEDON.
thrice Mayor of
Melbourne.
Ex-middies of the Royal Navy have turned
their hands to many things in Australia,
but Robert Thomas Earl probably stood alone
in throwing off his uniform to study for the
Church. He entered Moore College (N.S.W.)
in 1566, afterwards served in various charges,
and died last week at Ilazelbrook.
THE DARK DOREEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’s tall and proud, her great eyes glow
Like lion’s eyes within a cave.
As high, thick reeds her lashes grow
To mask deep pools. This did I crave —
To have in those black depths nought save
My own clear image ever seen.
Alack! It is in vain I rave—
Two lovers has the dark Doreen.
T praise her hair, her breast of snow,
And to her lips 1 do engrave
My tender lay, but well I know
She hearkens to another’s stave,
To subtler words, more sweet, 'more brave,
By one who louder hymns my queen
Than 1 may, though 1 sweat and slave—
Two lovers has the dark Doreen.
If splendid gift I had to show,
A better prize the other gave.
With subtler flattery, I know,
More dearly will that other rave.
I still must sit without the nave;
The other haunts the whole demesne.
I bare my bosom to the glaive—
Two lovers has the dark Doreen.
A second string am I, a knave
Of small concern; for nought, I ween,
Can cause her great self-love to waive—
Two lovers has the dark Doreen !
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


*< ' < M
/ ' «
m
r ' ?:7
. ,s.
sa
» Hi
U.
K
.V*
581 S
s>
f/ylt
■&-.-X
-
; V§ v
:«E ’-
1
i> JffSfi
Ur
§ #B*B
M-V'
.^.£36^
m
m mQ*' 4 **
m
mi
.AT* .... ■
mm
irfl
Kj 51 -*-^
mm
i « ; :; i s # MW^m,
& i ,>:\‘» s
...5
/ < **
BPP
«S&SS 1
■:. X
mm
%
Ch oose Community Plate—
£or its beauty, next for its astonishin;
first
wear
OMMUNITY PLATE is
made in four beautiful period
designs. Ibe two, illustrated,
are examples of the rich hut digni-
fied decoration. The remaining
two styles —Adam and Hepple-
white —are equally beautiful. You
will find it a real pleasure to inspect
the four styles at your jewellers.
The service o f COMMUNITY
PLATE is guaranteed for thrice-
daily use for Fifty Years. Made
of the finest materials, each piece
is specially re~inforced hy visible
discs of pure silver where wear is
severest.
On Exhibition and Sale at Leading Jewellers and Shops
Maker* also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY
RELIANCE PLATE
(Guaranteed for 25 year*)
Oneida Community Limited
THE BANKING HOUSE. 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Established 1848. Incorporated 1881, at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.
Makers also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY
PAR HLATE
(Guaranteed for 10 years)


Favored for Winter Wear
After being out of vogue for several years,
the Bowler Hat again makes its appearance,
in smarter and neater shapes than ever
before. It strongly appeals to the man who
favors formality in dress.
Peapes’ have just landed a shipment direct
from London. These dependable Hats are
in the newest approved shape, with l|in.
nicely rolled brim and round crown.
Peapes’ competitive price 35/-
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
A
S'*
Italian Wines.
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor.
Gold Medals,
London and
other
exhibitions.
o
*
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
* * * *
The story from the inside
In November, 1917, the Military Censor was
active in Brisbane, and, inter alia, excised from a
speech delivered by then Premier T. J. Ryan pas-
sages condemnatory of the action of the Federal
Government in suppressing reports of public utter-
ances against the anti-conscription campaign. In
the Assembly, on November 22, the Premier, in
moving a motion of protest against this, quoted
the portions of his speech which had been censored.
Later on Treasurer Theodore went one better by
quoting nearly the whole of a circular prepared
by the Anti-Conscription Campaign Committee. As
soon as possible an official of the Government got
possession of this matter, right under the nose of
the Censor, who was in the Ministers’ private gal-
lery at the time, and instructed the Government
Printing Office to have it set up at once. Next
morning Cuming, the Government Printer, was
called to the office of the Premier, who ordered
him to issue “No. 37” as soon as possible. Cuming,
who guessed that there was trouble ahead, said: “Give
it to me in writing.” The Premier: “You have my
authority ; that’s sufficient. Get it out at once.”
Cuming: “Give it to me in writing.” And he got
it in writing. Returning to his office he directed
“No. 37” to be issued forthwith; and issued it was.
A few thousand copies had been put in circulation
when the Censor rushed a body of military into
the Government Printing Office, collared the type
and everything connected with “No. 37,” and
threatened the Government Printer with everything
short of the gallows. Cuming, who fears neither
man nor devil, was quite unp'erturbed. “Mr. Cen-
sor,” he said, “if you are going to arrest anyone
arrest the Government Printer—the Govern-
ment Printer, mark you, not Anthony James Cum-
ing. But, first, you’d better search me.” Searched
he was, and the written authority aforementioned
was found. Cuming no doubt owes it to this that
he wasn’t arrested ; and Ryan was evidently too big
a proposition to tackle. Very few of “No. 37” got
into circulation, and if you can get a copy at all
to-day you have to pay a fancy price for it.
TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING.
POETICAL YOUNG MAN : “I could spend
eternity with you.”
SHE ( bored to tears ): “You are doing it
now.”
“Hamer” : Disregarding church-door part-
ings, a case recently mentioned in the Sydney
Divorce Court must be the shortest wedded
life on record. The couple cut out the honey-
moon. and when they got away from their
friends drove straight to the home they had
mutually worked to establish. To start, the
liomelife going properly Bert got the fire
alight and then, seizing a jug, said he would
go out and get some milk. The married
history finished just there: for Bert never
returned. He and the milk-jug faded right
out of the picture, and the only news of him
mat ever came to hand subsequently was
u tired letter from Newcastle in which he
announced that he had changed his mind and
didn’t think he would make a good married
man. Moral: Don’t cut out the honeymoon.
It was this man’s initial vision of unending
fire-lightings and wood-choppings that punc-
tured the bubble of romance.
“Karee”: My mate and I struck Bom-
bardier Nosebag near the Dickebusch Y.
Emma possie, in an acute
state of A.W.L.-itis.
beaucoup vonblinked and
generally woozled. As
he declined to give us
“the oil” anent the
source of his enviable
state and offered to fight
“the whole four of yer”
with both his hands tied
behind his back (pro-
vided somebody held him
up while he took his
tunic off), and as we’d
got all the stoush we
wanted to date from
Fritz, we laid hold of
him and made tracks for
ou r gunpit back of
Ncottie Wood. We safely
dodged the tram-lines
and the shell-holes, but
came a full-blown thud
by the cook-house bridge
near the lake, when
Nosebag, in the midst of
a hilarious rendering of
a hybridised version of
"Mademoiselle f r o m
Armenti&res” utterly un-
adapted for Sunday-
School use, lurched out
of our grasp and slith-
ered down the greasy em-
bankment, where he lay,
in the intermittent light
of the distant flares, so
still, white and abnor-
mally quiet that we
thought the drunk’s luck
had forsaken him. As
we leant anxiously over
to see if he’d got a
blighty or gone west his half-sobered, scared
voice whispered hoarsely: “For God’s sake,
boys, strike a blanky match ; I think I’m un-
conscious !”
* * * .
"Raggedie Wun” : I am bursting to have
my say in the controversy anent the arming
of the cavalry. “Nonstripe” advocates the
use of the automatic pistol, but the fact
that the pistol requires the use of the two
hands to cock it more than balances its one
advantage—that is, .in the reloading. For
rapidity of fire the revolver is equally as
good, and probably better. As to swords,
well, as one of the division armed with them
preparatory to the last stunt in the desert,
I say they are it. At Magdabah our brigade
galloped into action in line, but had to pull
up to get into battle formation when about
890 yards from the redoubts. From that on it
was the usual rushes under covering fire.
Had we been equipped with swords we would
have gone straight through. The way Jacko
chucked it at Jenin satisfied me that the
sight of an unshaven, wild-eyed, blasphem-
ing infidel with a lengthy bodkin galloping
down on one will promote an acute attack
of the windy spasms. But so far the most
important argument in its favor has been
missed —its use in building a bivvy. The
bayonet fixed on the rifle and then stuck into
the ground at one corner, and the sword
driven in at another corner, made the swing-
ing of a bivvy-sheet like simple arithmetic in
a university.
* * * #
“O.Iv.”: The alienation of a three-cornered
piece of country at the junction of St. Kilda
and Domain roads, S’Yarra, began to be re-
cognised as an ancient scandal w T hen the
story got into print that Premier Tom Bent
had bought this property, known as the
Grange, from its private owner on behalf of
a building syndicate, and had cancelled the
transaction on discovering that the title was
not good. But the owner with whom Bent
had negotiated was doubtless a bona fide pur-
chaser, and the hanky panky in the far dis-
tant past was not his affair. So Watt, when
he became Premier, closed the chapter of
mystery by paying £30,000 for the Grange
property in order that it might at once be
restored to the Domain, skirting the Botani-
cal Gardens, from which it was somehow
abstracted long ago. That was 15 or 20
years back. Watt passed out of State poli-
tics, and nothing was done with that railed-in
property, nominally added to the public park,
but actually guarded against public intrusion.
At intervals The Bulletin has mentioned
this unaccountable neglect of duty on the
part of the Vic. Lands Department. It
always looked as though a plan to reserve
at least part of the land from public use was
being camouflaged until the alienation could
be effected without attracting public atten-
tion. Now the truth is out that a five-acre
paddock, containing some of the old Grange
outbuildings, has been granted to the Church
of England Grammar School for an addi-
tional cricket ground, the school being situ-
ated directly opposite. Myself, who had
watched with growing curiosity this dilatory
dealing with the Domain “extension.” ex-
pected a more glaring scandal than a grant
to a public school. But the invasion of
THE SOFT ANSWER THAT SHE CALL-
ETH GUFF.
"I tell you I haven't got a rag to cover my
back.”
"My dear, a, back like yours shouldn't be
covered.”
public rights is the same whether the C.E.G.S.
or anybody else be granted by the Lands
Department possession of five acres of Do-
main, purchased with public money lor the
people to have free access to.
“S.T.S.”: “Fax,” arguing (B. 3/3/’2l)
against the Baldwin Spencer proposal to
interchange paintings for a period between
the Melbourne and Sydney galleries, does not
seem to be aware that the experiment has
already been tried with com-
plete success. In 1894 and on-
wards Adelaide joined the other
two in just such a loan. Each
gallery sent 12 works on visit,
and received first two half-
dozens, then another two, to
look at for some months. No
damage in transit is remem-
bered, and so far as I know
the good work lapsed, after
about four years, only because
Adelaide’s works of art were
at that time housed in the Ex-
hibition Building, and the other
galleries did not like the fire-
risk. The suggestion of “Fax.”
that some possible bequest
might be discouraged, cannot
be meant to be taken seriously.
Sydney and Adelaide have had
their benefactors, differing only from Felton
in not being quite so wealthy. And surely
the very best way to encourage benefactions
is to show what other people have done for
other places.
“Santo”: “Friday Island’s” notions (B.
4' * Av -1) about the absence of tuberculosis
from Thursday Island may be all right, but
what he says certainly does not apply to
most other parts of the Pacific. The climate
of Rabaul is probably one of the worst in
the world as regards t.b., and the number
of men who contracted the disease while serv-
ing there and in other parts of New Britain,
New Ireland and New Guinea with the
Tropical Forces would, I fear, astonish “Fri-
day Island.” In January-February, 1919, no
less than five actually-developed cases of t.b.
were sent from Ilabaul to Sydney for sana-
torium treatment, and three are now dead.
In the Marquesas group, which is on the
same parallel as Thursday Island, pulmonary
consumption is fast wiping out the native
population. The scourge was first introduced
by wealthy American consumptives who had
retired there to die amid beautiful surround-
ings. The Solomons are just as bad, as any-
body who has even a cursory acquaintance
with the native hospitals there or anywhere
else in the islands is fully aware. “F. 1.”
overlooks the main point of the whole thing
—that tuberculosis is caused or rather brought
out. to be more accurate, by a damp climate.
In the islands the atmosphere is highly humid
and so a cause of consumption. When the
first signs of t.b. in my lungs are heard
through the stethoscope, I am making for
about the centre of Australia, where the
climate is dry and “hard,” and I shall have
a chance of breathing air which is not laden
with moisture, as it is in the Islands.
* * * *
“Croson”: Albert McCormack, of Tarra-
wonga (Vic.), put in a good part of Holy
Week in fasting and meditation. Having dis-
posed of his fish he rowed downstream from
Wodonga till he reached the Devil’s Corner,
just below Howlong. Here his boat bumped
a snag and sank. Mac couldn’t swim, but he
managed to scramble on to the stump; then
he lashed himself to it with his braces, and
sat pondering on the advantages of being
Fanny Duraek and the chances of somebody
happening along. He had pondered two-and-
half days before a casual boundary-rider
noticed the lone figure in mid-stream and
rescued it. After a feed and a rest McCor-
mack walked to Corowa, where the hospital
took him in and braced him up for whatever
is waiting for him round the next corner.
* * * *
“The Wowser”: In the Jordan Valley on
one of the worst days in the worst climate in
the world we had unsaddled for a short spell
and stretched ourselves out in each other’s
shadow —all the shade there was—for a
much-needed forty winks. Then a quavering
voice rose in song :
Canaan, bright Canaan, that glorious land of Canaan ;
When shall I meet thee face to face in that fair
land of Canaan?
I think the singer is running yet.
* * * ' *
“Bardoc”: The oldest of Hobart’s ten
disused graveyards—somebody wants to
turn ’em into public gardens—are St. David’s
and Trinity. Collins was buried in St.
David’s. Franklin raised the existing ceno-
taph to his memory, but the bones of Hobart’s
founder have been long since removed.
There is a monument to Bedford, the chap-
lain who got the blithe Bobby Ivnopwood’s
job when the “right-thinking” people had
stood as much as they could of that happy-
go-lucky cleric’s ways. Ivnopwood’s monu-
ment is at Rokeby. In Trinity graveyard
there are few headstones. This is where
the convicts were buried, and not far away
stands the old pub, recently delicensed,
where the hangman who tipped some of
them off used to go regularly for his pint.
* * * *
“O. Blin”: The enormous increase in
the number of motor-cars is leading to an
enlargement of the aggregate waistband.
The other day I encountered Sludge, a
former neighbor, who used to keep slim
and active because comparative penury
made him walk to his work. But the
object I saw flat on the sands at the sea-
JUST AS YOU PLEASE, SIR!
BOSS: “ What’s the dispute about? Remem-
ber in this shop the customer is always
right.”
SALESMAN : “Very well, sir. He says you’re
a old shark!”
side had a bulge in the middle that was
plainly the grand climax of his gamut of
chins. I looked at the wretched being and
inquired sympathetically: “Sludge, what-
ever’*; up? Surely it isn’t elephantiasis!”
A grin oozed over his obese countenance and
he said jauntily : “Don’t have to walk now.
Cotter a car.” “Poor old chap!” I sighed,
whereat he waved a tremendous hand at a
nearby and vaster replica of himself and
said: “Don’t be funny. Lemme introduce
my brother Bill. He’s got two.”
(Continued on page 18.)
APRIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
April is a little girl
With her brown hair out of curl,
Skipping down the gullies nigh
On her bare, pink feet and shy.
Autumn, at her slender side,
Swings in full-grown woman-stride,
All her ripened pockets tilled
Wit'n the harvests Time has spilled.
Hut, in fruit-stained pinafore,
Blowing cosmos round my door,
April is a little girl
With her brown hair out of curl.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.


mmmm
mmmm
W^VSSSS^^SimSm
““ >r_ _-
*s-r:
£&b~^~-=
r* . -T* :rr.— j •_.
S ;2
I=l
«i»i
-- •?&&&
PlilllSBl
£&&£•£&
w*T-*:a
Bum fdm
a 3*!
cam
I men II WITH „ i muni iuuu iiuui 'i!|
iiMiiijjgii J
'
9
SSeeS
. <■ I'•Irlr |r |r iTHr lr r r
orr p r
m
m
«3S
Mm **£'&
tt
::i*
?<C:
iii ir a
syntt
*• tC Kc p
I TTY nr» §IM 05 »T» 1 111 r W • rn 11
rrwTw'LiwtMtmUWimumMUlimUtmnX
(C « (t
&Ui
iiiiJL* (
:•>!
7 1
« f 5 « c t
>•• te c
S s££C C
SM! f( c c
SCaassii
S \"
Jh
m
£lrr
tfftf
YM
m
JTsr
F ,t
E ; 1
Hi
~S^/
r; nj '•
B>ilS V,'
m
In'! a?
r p
gs
fj I
ttf®
Ei?
I II
•.111
iiCH- 1
\>'m
m
5M'«
tt 1 --;.
-si'
;,-i( r -‘
fU l
*?!
m 1
ri1 l ;!ifu'
H-?-
M
W>,.
Cc >~(
ij.i;>';
alii
n ;i
1
m
cHi
1
K
'/s.y.
H
a l >.
IffTro
SR
i
as
mm
:^3fev
USB
S 3
1
m
;.>:3O
aifcS:
ISE
SUxT
«VBS»
i
te
«T
\i
u
~M
r 8
JEO£MITJM££
1
r
a?
s®n
*3WB
rVKi
H.„L ■— rt
timnioimna.
T’PJ'
frnrnmn
ninmuwmifl
‘"Wll
'"•ml
'%IS
,-n.vSll
AEOLIAN HALL,
NEW YORK
HEADQUARTERS AND FACTORY ORGANISATION OF THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.
CONFIDENCE
is the corner-stone of the
entire commercial edifice !
PARTICULARLY in the piano business is confidence an essential to successful business.
Ninety-nine persons out of a hundred do not possess sufficient knowledge to appraise
correctly the comparative value of different player-pianos.
Therefore, when purchasing a player-piano, the great majority of people are compelled to trust
somebody. The conspicuous success of the Pianola Company (in selling pianos containing the Pianola
as well as pianos without it) has been attained by the confidence inspired in the music-loving public.
This is due not only to the high character of the instruments produced by the ‘Pianola Company, but also
by the sound principles under which these instruments are sold. Our platform from the beginning has
been equal treatment to all.
There are no concessions obtainable by one purchaser that are not open to all. Every
price-tag on a Piano or a Pianola at Pianola Hall means exactly what it says.
In stores which have a secret, sliding scale of prices, you can never be sure of any-
thing. It is not a sound business principle to price a piano so high that there is room for
an elastic system of special discounts and rebates. If you are offered a secret discount,
how can you know that some more favored purchaser is not receiving a much larger
discount ?
It is by strict observance of methods which retain public confidence that
a chain of Pianola Branches, extending around the world, has been made
possible, and the largest business in the entire music industry has been created.
The Pianola Company
Pty.
Ltd.
(Trade Mark “AEOLIAN")
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Following is a
facture and sale
list of the various musical instruments, the manu-
of which are controlled by The Pianola Company.
The Weher Piano
The Steck Piano
The Stroud Piano
The Farrand Piano
The Pianola Piano
Steinway Pianola Piano
The Duo-Art Pianola
The Aeolian Vocalion (“Greatest of Phonographs”)
The Aeolian Pipe Organ for Private Residences.
Each of these instruments is standard in its class and represents
the maximum value anywhere obtainable for its price.
1037


“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.*
BOSTOCK’S—The Ideal Liquid
Dressing for White Shoeware
A perfect white—and does not rub off. It is quickly
applied, dries almost instantly, and makes the shoes
like new.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
STAG
r
!
f:
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes*
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Riom” : lix Carrington’s term as Governor
of the Ma State he paid a visit to Yass, and
a call at the abo. camp was included in the
programme. The Mayor of Yass was also the
member for the district, and beforehand he
went to the camp to prime up the binghis for
the visit. Among other things he instructed
Queen Lucy, when asked who was responsible
for all the improvements in housing, etc., to
reply “Ask our member.” Carrington duly
arrived, and was welcomed by Queen Lucy
nursing a piccaninny with violent red hair.
Everything went swimmingly until the Gov.,
with a twinkle in his eye, asked “Who be-
longs piccaninny?” Lucy’s reply quite spoilt
the day for the Mayor, and the lads of the
village made his life a misery for weeks.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: Like Tommy soldiers,
R.N. sailors have a brand of “discipline” un-
known to the Australian. One sunset three
It.A.N. officers landed in a cutter on the
beach of a tropic isle and set out through the
bush for a place four miles inland, leaving a
petty officer (R.N.) in charge of the boat’s
crew (R.A.N.), with the order: “Stay by
the boat here till we return!” At 9 p.m.
they returned to the cutter, which now stood
high and dry, with half a mile of coral reef
between it and deep water. (Tropical tides
go out a long way in a short time.) In an-
swer to the senior lieutenant’s wrathful in-
quiry as to why he hadn’t kept the boat afloat
with the receding tide, Petty-officer Ilairy-
chest, R.N., blew out his purple cheeks and
with the air of duty nobly done replied: “My
borders was to stay ’ere until you returned,
sir ! ’Ere I stayed, sir! There weren’t no
borders as to keepin’ the cutter afloatin’ on
the liebb tide, sir, and ’ ere the cutter stayed,
sir!” The senior lieutenant’s instructive
lecturette on the value of blankety blank
initiative seemed to lighten the task of all
R.A.N. hands as we staggered under the
weight of a cutter over half-a-mile of jagged,
shin-scraping coral.
IN MOTHER’S HANDS.
LITTLE ABIE : “Vot time does the tide come
in, fader?”
MR. IkENSTEIN : “Rachel, vot time do you
go into the vater, my tear?”
“Hari’ison O.” from London:—
An agitation for the abolition of tipping has been
begun by the French Waiters’ Union. A tract pub-
lished by the union condemns the system as “immoral,
unjust and uncertain.” Doubtless it is the “uncer-
tainty” which distresses Alphonse, for I decline
to believe that justice and morality are included
in his repertoire. Whatever the motive that
prompts it, anything that mitigates the tipping
nuisance should receive three hearty cheers from
the tripper in France. Nowhere is the system
more rampant or more impudently exploited. The
girl from whom you buy your programme in a
London theatre receives an extra tuppence with
polite thanks, and shows no outward sign of
surprise or annoyance if she gets nothing; but
the Parisian programme damsel waits for her 20
or 30 centimes and makes a fuss if it is not
forthcoming. One evening at the Marigny I was
approaching the ticket-box when I was intercepted
by a courteous gentleman in evening dress, who
appeared to hold a job similar to that of Jimmy
Hazlitt at the Sydney Criterion or Phil Finkelstein
at Melbourne Majesty’s. Having immediately
diagnosed me as a foreign devil, he politely offered
to secure my tickets. In three seconds he had help-
ed himself to the money in my palm, bought the
tickets and handed them to me. Thanking him
with old-world courtesy, I was about to pass inside,
when he laid a diainond-beringed hand on my coat
sleeve and announced that monsieur had forgotten
ALARMS AND CURSINGS.
FATHER (at doorway) : “Young man, you can spend half the night talking to my daughter
if you wish, or you can stand on the doorstep for two or three hours saying good-
night; but out of consideration for the rest of the family, who wish to sleep, will
you kindly take your elbow off the electric push-button?”
his tip. In a dazed way I handed hirn 20 centimes,
and he appeared satisfied. The latest suggestion
of the Paris hotel employees is that 10 or 15 per
cent, should be added to all bills and the proceeds
pooled. Although one may object to this as organised
brigandage, there are points about it for the inex-
perienced tripper, harassed by doubts as to whom
he should tip and to what extent, if it is strictly
adhered to. But it probably won’t be. Thus,
although at many Italian pubs notices are displayed
announcing that gratuities are forbidden and a
charge for service is added to the bill, a motley
collection of chambermaids, waiters, bathroom atten-
dants, porters and sundries lines up under the eyes of
the management, wearing the unmistakable expres-
sion of persons avid for loot.
* * # *
“Pink Tape”: Among the most amazing of
the stories told in the Sydney Divorce Court
recently was that of the Man Who Married
the Wrong Girl. On the morning of the
wedding he celebrated the event in advance
in sundry hostelries, and'arrived to claim his
bride late and sozzled. The bride, indignant
at his lapse, refused to marry him; but one
of the bridesmaids was a sport, who hated to
see a wedding go to waste, and she took him
on. Then the girl who should have been the
bride relented and returned, and bore off the
’groom upon the honeymoon previously
arranged. The queerest part of the whole
tangled proceedings was that, until the
woman he had actually married turned up
later, the man, whose mind was a blank about
the day’s happenings, imagined that he had
really linked-up with the woman who was
travelling as his wife. The other woman
made some furious efforts to regain the hus-
band she had caught, but finally set about
divorcing him.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket”: The police-court records
reflect the history of a score of years ago.
Among the Christian names of persons
charged in Sydney with various offences dur-
ing last month were Redvers Buller,
Baden Powell, Baden Mafeking, Cham-
berlain Roberts, Kitchener, Pretoria, and
Maud Modder, representing a crop of
Boer-war-time babies heartlessly misnamed
by their parents. It is a solemn fact
that people misnamed like this seldom
come to any other sort of prominence,
a possible explanation being that persons
who bestow such names are shallow and pre-
tentious. and do not make good parents, and
the children inherit the flashy tendencies
which so often accompany petty crime. The
recent war has brought its new crop of mis-
labelled infants, from the Marnes and Gal-
lipolis down to the Peacedays and Keith Ross
Smiths. Taking the average result of this
misnaming it should be worth the State’s
while to make a note of the unhappily
labelled kids, and carefully supervise their
upbringing. It might prevent the fining, 20
years hence, of Anzac Smith for petty pil-
fei’ing, or the punishment of Victory Peace-
day Jones for assault and robbery.
“8.C.” tells a tragedy of the night:—-
Mr. and Mrs. Bloggs arrived at the metropolitan
junction in time to miss the train which was to
have taken them to their holiday resort. Bloggs,
leaving Mrs. Bloggs to superintend the stowage of
their luggage, seized his handbag and hurried into
the city to find accommodation for the night. It
seemed to Bloggs that the whole of the State’s popu-
lation had concentrated in the city. He tried the
hotels according to their grading, inquiring at all
the high-priced establishments before commencing
on the second-class places. There was no vacancy in
either of these classes; so, resignedly, he tried the
third grade. After that he could—but, dammit,
there’d be no after; Martha would never consent to
spend a night in a doss-house. It was the third-
grade or a camp on a station seat. The taximeter had
recorded a stiff bill against Bloggs when the car
stopped outside one of the few third-graders which
remained tt> be tfied. He made inquiries, and soon
returned and gleefully ordered the driver to go
to the station and collect Martha. When Bloggs re-
entered to complete the booking, the clerk eyed the
handbag with suspicion. “Excuse me, sir, is your
wife here?” he asked. Bloggs, though puzzled by
the question, replied that she would be there
within a few minutes. “Sorry, sir,” said the clerk,
“but I can’t let you have the room until I see your
wife.” “But, confound it all, she is my wife, if
that’s what you mean!” “I know, sir. I know, sir,”
said the clerk confidentially. “It’ll be all right when
I’ve seen her, sir. You see, sir, we have to be very
careful. There’s a few of ’em get in and kick
up a disturbance, but I know most of ’em, sir. It’ll
be all right when I” The clerk ducked just
in time to avoid a terrific right swing. The Bloggses
made themselves as comfortable as they could on
the station seat.
* * * *
“Friday Island” on a ease of fever:—
In the Navy, when a man suddenly displays a
zeal that is quite excessive, his sobriety is sus-
pected. The aberration is known as “duty fever.”
Our ward-room having grown discontented with its
feeding by the messman, Lieut. Algernon Staircase
decided to go ashore—it was in Borneo —and super-
vise the purchase of table delicacies. The mess-
man came aboard with a fowl under each arm, and
before him went the vigilant Staircase, who found
fault with the sideboy, the bos’n’s mate, the dis-
orderly state of the quarter-deck, the weather and
the solar system.
As it chanced, the messman tripped on a coil of
lope and one of the fowls got adrift. It fluttered
down the starboard gangway, but the sideboy effected
a smart capture. Lieut. Staircase gazed stupefied
at the commotion. Then, as the breach of dis-
cipline impressed itself on his blithtfred mind,
he recovered himself and roared: “Master-at-arms!
Arrest that fowl. Take him before the officer of
the watch and charg-e him with attempting to
break out of ship!”
A hush fell on the quarter-deck. “Duty fever!”
muttered an elderly warrant-officer, as Algernon
punctiliously saluted the quarter-deck and disap-
peared down the ward-room companion-way.
Five minutes later, when the perplexed officer of
the watch came below to inquire about the strange
arrest on deck, he knocked at the cabin door, whence
strange sounds issued. Receiving no answer, he
looked in. On the deck, an inverted tin cabin bath
on his back, crawled Lieut. Staircase. He had
persuaded himself that he was a turtle.
The elderly warrant-officer had diagnosed it right in
one guess.
“Taipo” : We Maorilanders are frank, at
any rate. Instance this recent advt. in the
Wellington Evening Post: —
Drastic reduction on No. 791 La Diva Seducing
Corsets; usually 295. 6d„ sale price 17s. 6d.; sizes,
22, 23 only. Blank and Co., Drapers, Cuba-street.
The same issue, by the way, contains the
nominations for the Longburn Handicap of
1000 miles. That’s something like an event
for an afternoon.
“Dido”: Symptoms of a wedding had
drawn the usual curious crowd about the
door of a church in South Melbourne just
before Easter. After a long wait a flushed,
hatless and angry man of about 40, semi-
bald, appeared at the church door, looked
furiously up and down the street and then
ejaculated : “See here, do any of you women
want to be married? I’ll marry any one of
you !” The women backed away as from a
person who might be expected to follow so
preposterous a proposition with a murderous
attack. Then one small, shrunken woman,
with a perambulator full of chips, ventured
forward, gaped at the man, and, “You mean
it, mister?” said she. “I’ll take yeh !” The
friends of the disappointed bachelor inter-
vened here, and dragged him into the church.
Eventually the belated bride put in an
appearance, and the ceremony took place.
Sailing from the church into their taxi the
couple were waylaid by a little, shrunken
woman with a pram full of chips, who
shrilled: "I’ll have yeh fer breach iv pi’o-
mise, I will, 1 will! I’ll have yeh fer breach
iv promise !” She clung for a moment to the
base deceiver, but was promptly bought off
with a pound.
“Carto” introduces Papua’s godfather:—
One of the little-known voyageurs in Australasian
waters, whose name is not even mentioned in the
average history, was Ortiz de Iletes, who, it would
appear from recent historical researches in Eng-
land, was the man who gave Papua the name it now
bears. On Father Ricci’s “Chinese World Map,” a
translation of which has recently been completed by
Lionel Giles, of Oxford, New Guinea is marked as
“Pa-pu-ya-ssu,” that being the rendering, in Chinese
syllables, of the name “Papua.” A note to the map
states, on the authority of both Herrera and Gal-
vano, geograpliists of the period, that De Retes
gave it this name “because the people had frizzled
hair.” Other navigators called it New Guinea,
because they thought it was similar in shape to
the Guinea in Africa. Another marginal note to the
map states that “Europeans have only recently
arrived in this country, hence it is not known yet
for certain whether it id a piece of the continent or
an island”—the continent being, presumably, Aus-
tralia. It was early in 1545 that De Rotes named
Papua, and in the latter half of that year he sailed
round to the north coast of New Guinea, where, at
the mouth of the “River of St. Augustine” (now
known as the Sepik, its native title), he took
possession of the island in the name of the King of
THE RIVALS.
DINKY DI : “I think I’ll chuck up art and
go in for black-and-white .”
CARTOONIST: “Nonsense, old chap, you’d
have to learn to draw.”
Spain. He is mentioned only once or twice in a
sketchy fashion by later chroniclers, and his end
was probably that of most navigators of those days,
i.e., to set out on a voyage from which he didn’t
return.
PICKING POPPIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Picking poppies on the hillside,
Blood-red in the setting sun,
Picking poppies on the hillside,
Then I picked her heart for one.
Plucked a kiss I on the hillside,
From her red lips in the sun;
Plucked her kisses on the hillside,
Red as poppies every one.
Bent she to the winds of fancy,
Red the heart of her 1 won,
Red the lips I plucked at sunset
On the hillside in the sun.
Picking poppies on the hillside,
Blood-red poppies in the sun,
Plucked I kisses on the hillside—
Then she picked my heart for one.
-..VICTORIA.
HAL GYE.
THE MIDNIGHT SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No need have I abroad to roam,
Remote from friends and far from home,
To view, low set in Arctic dome,
The midnight sun.
For every night from twelve to six,
The while he bawls and screams and kicks,
I nurse, and wish him in the Styx,
My midnight son.
N.S.W.
W. R. B.


gl
m
Oui oni uhe olar
With these facts in vie'w,. Emetalke has been
developed. Emeralife. is a portable table or
desk lamp designed to protect the eyes from
all glare and strain, by means of a rich Err
erald green glass shade, plated inside with
white opal glass, and shaped to. give the
efficient distribution of light on the
This shade is mounted on a metal
heavily weighted and felted to protecf||l
surfaces.
For reading, writing or sewing, then
better protection for the eyes than
Come in and see them and the other mo
illustrated » on 'view in our
with, ask trair. &
mat ch box holder
\p
■rv
it-
&
*>s
5.7 . ‘ “
tm
..
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY .
116 QUEEISt STREET,
MELBOURNE.
agents
ADELAIDE, S.A.--Charles Atkins Si Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH, W.A.-—Charles Atkins SC Co, (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
TASMANIA- —Oliver and Oliver, HOBARTand LAUNCESTON
National Eternal Sc Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON.
NEW ZEALAND-.-The


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
R, TOWNS & CO., Sydney. Agents.
£4 tß£<vet feft
SCIIMA
Sufferers need no longer worry,
for this wonderful discovery
now offers a sure and perma-
nent remedy, not only for
Eczema, but for all skin
troubles, too. Generous sample
(as below)*
LIGMOLLIENE CO.,
Malyons, Sturt St., Ballarat,
w
ku
ACL CHEMISTS
CUT OUT THIS APT
&SEND WITHlfe.
TOR SPECIAL SAMPLE
A Signal Success
- 4a II
King George IV
wmsaar
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGINALITES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
HE GOT WIND OF WHAT HE WAS UP
AGAINST.
ONE BLOKE: “What kind of job did yer
have down in Sydney?”
THE OTHER BLOKE: “I was drivin ’ a rub-
bitch cart. It’s good pay, but"
BLOKE No. 1: “Well, why didn't you stick
to it?"
BLOKE No. 2 : “It use to cost me half me pay
in tobacco."
“Bad Australian”: Re the notion (“H.Q.,”
I>. 3/3/ 21) that rodents don’t like cold, barren
wastes. In 1908 I spent the winter at 16l000ft. in the
Bolivian Andes, and when the spring thaw set in my
camp was over-run by small dun-colored mice which
devoured everything they could get their teeth into.
I didn’t bring them with me, and they didn’t seem
to worry when I left; so I take it they were there
because they just wanted to be. What they lived
on before they found me is a puzzle, as the only
\ egetation at that altitude was a small, thornv,
almost sapless creeping plant resembling a cran-
berry, and what looked like a dwarf tulip-flower.
The chinchilla, which is also a rodent, lives away
up among the Higher Criticism, and he cannot be
persuaded to live with any degree of success at a
lower altitude than 10,000 ft.
“Eric Armstrong”: writing (R.
10/3/’2l) on the subject ot “looking for a public,”
makes a comparison between poetry and water. “But
there is a force of gravity in literature as in
nature; and poetry, like water,” he says, “finds its
own level.” The comparison involves a misinterpreta-
tion of nature. The water which ascends in the
form of steam or vapor does not find its own
level. Neither does the water which is taken up
in the capillary tubes of the vegetable kingdom.
The water of every river of ours that flows towards
the South Pole, or, in the Northern Hemisphere,
that flows towards the North Pole, runs down hill ;
while the water of every river on the face of the
earth that flows towards the equator runs up hill.
The Mississippi, ffcr example, carries its waters up
an inclined plane a perpendicular height of nearly
four miles. The equator is a mountain that is
13 miles higher than the surface at the poles, yet
the multitudinous waters of the ocean remain for
ever on that vast slope.
* * » *
“Scuffler”: Let “Ewa,” who has never
seen more than two butcher-birds together, come
to the cane-paddocks in the Mackay district (N.Q.)
at smoko, and he will* see them in eights and tens
and sometimes more. For the outlay of a few tit-
bits flicked into the air he will get an exhibition
of the best “stunting” imaginable, including nose
dives, side-slipping and looping the loop—and the
titbit rarely hits the ground. When they are full
up they still cadge, but plant the morsel in a
cracked post or tree, or sometimes wedge it in
the cane leaves for some future occasion. Encouraged
round the house, I will back them against any
profiteer for roguery.
* * * *
“E.F.”: Color is given to the evil reputa-
tion of the tiger and his wife, as compared with
other savage carnivora, by the cub-eating disposi-
tion of the prolific tigress at Melbourne Zoo. This
unnatural parent has been in the habit of fattening
up her children until they were about four months
old, and then killing them for food purposes. Two
litters of cubs lived to curse the day- when they had
such a mother, but the caretakers adroitly stole the
third family when it was three months old. Art-
fully enough, the tigress gammoned not to miss the
youngsters when they were gone.
* * * *
“Wart” : Re the Victorian School Paper
on the wombat (B. 3/3/’2l). The extinct Tas-
manian abo. believed that when a wombat crossed
a stream he walked along on the bottom ; and Binghi
is usually pretty accurate in his observations of
bush creatures —he has to be, or he would go
short of a dinner. It would be interesting to know
where the school paper got the yarn.
“Jimsey”: “Fanuela” (B. 10/3/’2l) is
quite right when he says a ’possum will come down
out of a tree if you tap on the trunk with a stone.
He forgets to state, though, that you have to keep
on -tapping until either you knock the tree down
or the ’possum dies of old age.
* * * #
“Sardonyx”: Slightly snake-bitten per-
sons certainly do sometimes die from nerve-shock,
but, as “Boondah” (B. 3/3/’2l) points out, bitten
horses and cattle don’t;
and in any case the 95 per
cent, estimate is merely
silly. “Colub,” however,
blunders in good company,
for I find even such a
reputed authority as Gun-
ther says of the Austra-
lian poisonous snakes:
“The majority are of
small size, and their bites
are not followed by worse
effects than those of a
hornet’s sting.” This he
discounts, later on, by
the admission that “some
of them may be danger-
ous to man and larger
animals.” Then —revers-
ing the order of lethality
—he cites the brown, the
black and the tiger; but
the deaf-adder, a good
second to the tiger,, he doesn't mention at all.
* * * *
Don Mac”: Re bushmen’s sufferings
through accident (B. 17/2/’2l), I submit the case
of a Maoriland rabbit-trapper. He was setting his
snares when he slipped down a sharp-faced precipice,
and lay at the bottom with a fractured thigh and
an abdominal wound 14 inches long. He had no
needle and thread, and yet the need for immediate
surgery made it a matter of life and death. Un-
fastening his belt, he punctured holes in his flesfi
with the tongue of the buckle and sewed up the
gash with one of his bootlaces. Then outraged
nature collapsed. But though he was not found till
many hours later, he recovered.
* * * *
“Montalex”: The prevailing term, “death-
adder,” has doubtless been adopted by the work
cited against me by “Six-and-F.ight” (B. 17/2/’2l),
but I was present years ago at a meeting of the
Linnean Society to which “deaf-adder” was sug-
gested as a substitute for the Early-Victorian “claw-
tail” and “back-stinger,” and also as noting at the
same time the creature’s deafness and its viperine
relationship. The suggestion was adopted, though
I pointed out that from similarity of sound the
name would probably in time be corrupted into
“death-adder.” The fact that my prediction has
been verified, however, does not disentitle me to
vouch for the name as originally conferred.
“John Sing”: At the Star and Garter,
New Norfolk (Tas.), a few days ago the publican
directed my attention to some small, dark-green
ants, known, I believe, as jack-jumpers. Beer had
been split on the step, and some houseflies were
making the most of it when the ants appeared,
VERDICT FOR THE GENTLEMAN.
HOTEL MANAGER: “This — er—is a very respectable hotel, sir. I — er — ahem —trust the
lady is your — er — wife."
GENTLEMAN : “Ease your mind, old man. If you look up your book you'll see I've
engaged the cheapest room in the hotel."
They seemed to be interested in anything but flies
as they wandered round, but when one happened to
get within an inch of a fly he made a side-spring
and grabbed him. After the first round the fly skied
the rag and was dragged off. After we had watched
some time a “jack” with the brains of Billy arrived.
He singled out a big, fat female, and didn’t
miss. We wondered how he was going to get away
with her, a 3 she was twice his weight, but imagine
our astonishment when, instead of trying to drag
her, he climbed on to her back. The fly wasn’t for
moving at first, but when Jack had got to work
with his toenail in the rear she moved forward.
And so the journey commenced. If the fly steered
to the right when Jack wanted to go left he belted
her on the ear with his right foot. If she flagged
in her efforts he touched her up with his toenail in
the rear. Things went well until they came to the
kerbstone—a sheer drop of lOin. No effort On Jack’s
part could induce her to negotiate this, and he was
compelled to dismount—which he did, backwards,
as a boy does from a bike. Then, grabbing the lady
by her rear garments, he pulled her overboard. After
the mix-up he remounted, and reached home without
further mishap. By this time 27 inhabitants of New
Norfolk besides the publican and myself were watch-
ing the performance, and the last we saw was the
fly disappearing down a hole with the whites of her
eyes turned up and her hands clasped in prayer.
* * * *
“Anatomist”: Re “Bullah Delah’s” denial
of the post-mortem growth of hair and nails (B.
3/3/’2l). I cannot vouch for hair growth, but, while
a medical student, I measured the nails of 12 “sub-
jects” in the dissecting-room and found that
they overlapped the fingers by 5-16 to f of an inch.
The ante-mortem “occupations” of the “subjects”
varied from asylum patients to sailors. The longer
growths were found in the aged. No sailor could
carry on his job with such nails, so if the growth
didn’t occur post-mortem I should like “Bulla Delah”
to tell me when it did.
* * * *
“Silas” : Thompson, of the hardware, took
the new man about a bit. The new man, name of
Jaikes, was straight from Devon, and carried with
him an air of simplicity that made him dangerous
to himself and a lure to every spieler in Melbourne,
the boss said ; and as he was a distant relation of the
firm he had to be guarded. On the second Sunday
Thompson took him to the Zoo. He had to do some-
thing with the poor boob. They came to the croco-
dile and Thompson explained, “This is really the only
beast of prey we have, the only dangerous animal in
all Australia.” Jaikes pricked his long ears. “Go
om,” he said. “He’ll be one of they bulldog-ants I
heered about on the boat.”
“Doctor lodine”: “Bright’s” young chap
(B. 10/3/’2l), who acquired °a twisted face after
sleeping outdoors in the moonlight, had in reality
contracted Bell’s palsy, i.e., paralysis of the seventh
nerve of one side of the face, due to a chill from
the damp night air. As the seventh nerve supplies
the muscles of the face, one can understand the dis-
tortion produced. Moonstroke is piffle. I’ve seen my
ship’s company sleep night after night for months
on deck in the dazzling tropical moonlight, with nary
one complaint.
“T.R.” : “Dean” (B. 3/3/’2l) asks why a
dog takes a delight in rolling on dead and smelly
things. Pure conceit. He wants to let his dog
friends know he has that much tucker on hand it is
going bad on him.
* * * *
“Jimmy Cubby”: It is a rare thing to see
even two butcher-birds together, except in the nest-
ing season ; from which I assume that “Hannibal” (B.
27/l/’2l) does not know the black-and-white and the
brown butcher from the “twelve apostles” and the
“hopping tommies.” I have seen kids on the Mung-
horn Range wing one
ol the latter with a
pea-rifle, and then
skin out the rest as
they danced around
their wounded mate,
as none will leave
while there /is a
squawk left in one of
the victims.
SHE COULD BE SWIFT, TOO.
THE MODEL : “Old Danis makes a lot of
money now, doesn't he?”
THE ARTIST: “Yes; but not more than his
wife can spend."
“Jim Carew”: “Gagi” (B. 10/3/’2l) asks
what a rabbit does with the dirt he digs out when
burrowing. The explanation is quite simple. Brer
Rabbit digs holes all along the floor of the burrow
and buries the dirt in them.
(Continued on page 22.)
WARNED OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dan steals to Pratten’s windmill, where he lies
among the scrub,
And he watches Nellie washing, lie is counting every
rub.
He is thinking of her dimpled arms, the whiteness
of her skin,
And he’s breathing little curses since he dare not
venture in.
Nellie comes to hang the clothes out, and she finds
the timid lad,
And her anger’s something awful. “Look here, isn’t
it too bad
The way a girl is pestered by these wretched prowl-
ing men?
\ou be off now, Dannie Glasson, and you don’t
come back again!
“A pretty thing to see big fellows creeping in the
grass!
You just clear out with you, Daniel —will you kindly
let me pass?
And don’t you dare to come into the wash-house! If
you do
1 11 tell the boss, and pretty soon he’ll make a mess
of you.
‘Such impudence! As if a girl wants fellows hang-
ing round,
'\ho, if they had their due, would serve a fortnight
in the pound.
Now, come in if you dare!” she says. “Not on
your life,” .says Dan,
"‘And have that dog of Pratten’s bite the leg cltan
off a man.”
Nell goes in, still indignant, with her r.ose well in
the air!
“The nuisance that that Glasson is—l hate him, I
declare!”
She finds some arsenic on the shelf, some liver on
the log.
Before she knows what she’s' about she’s poisoned
Pratten’s dog!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


STEELE RUDD’S
SELECTION STORIES.
Fifteen Splendid Novels by the Author of
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Our New Selection
Dad in Politics
Stocking Our Selection
From Selection to City
Back at Our Selection
Sandy’s Selection
Book of Dan
Grandpa’s Selection
Duncan McClure
Memoirs of Corporal
Keeley
The Old Homestead
On an Australian Farm
The Dashwoods
The Poor Parson
ARTHUR WRIGHT'S Great New Novel:
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
All Sookstalls and Booksellers.
1/3 (1/4* posted).
The Famous Dean Case.
Hon. R. D. MEAGHER tells the story of his
“TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ BATTLE”
to secure re-admission to the Courts.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
MADE IN
CANADA.
KNQWH TH€
WORLD OVER
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE..
1
/
\
VI
a
For a quick clean shave!
Gillette
Many minutes late, you jump out of bed—
your Gillette is handy, ready for your shave!
No stropping - —No honing!
A few quick, clean strokes and
your skin is smooth —you have
realised Gillette superiority 1
Use a Gillette once and it’s your
razor for life. No other will do!
Standard Set, complete
in neat leather case -
28/6
GILLETTE
Wholesale
RAZOR COMPANY OF CANADA,
Montreal, Canada.
Distributors: S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Sydney, Brisbane. Adelaide.
LTD.,
LTD.
Winter is Here in Earnest!
LEVIATHAN
Tailored Overcoats
At Saving Prices.
Order Yours To-day!
SINGLE-BREASTED CHEVIOTS,
fleecy finish, English Manufacture, in
dark greys, with strapped cuffs, vent,
flap pockets, half-belt or belt all round,
as preferred.
SPECIAL PRICE, 95/.
SINGLE-B REAS TED TWEED
COATS, fashioned with fly front, half-
belt, vent, flap pockets, in dark and
medium grey, all sizes.
SPECIAL PRICE, 100/-
DARIv-GREY SINGLE-BREASTED
OVERCOAT, tailored in soft-finished
Cheviots, full skirt, inverted pleats,
finished with wide lapels. Smart and
serviceable.
SPECIAL PRICE, 105/-
GARBICORD RAINCOATS, smartly
cut, lined with check cloaking, step or
storm-proof collars, coat cut full with
vent, and flap pockets, belt all round, all
sizes.
SPECIAL PRICE, 84/-
THE “TRENCH” OVERCOAT, Lon-
don’s most fashionable style, tailored
from most serviceable Garbinette. stone
shade, belted all round: stylish Raglan
sleeve, deep vent, check-lined. A splendid
cold-weather coat.
SPECIAL PRICE, 130/-
5 I f
i
XT'
Order by Post,
We Pay Carriage
rx
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
■y
whirls
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns —whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy. »
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
/,
m
V.
1
f
//
VY>>^
NK3
See this br * nd
on eacK
u
&
%
m
vBT
SL
SC


Brewed at Home
It’s Better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. OR POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in.a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT 'LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask for Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens.
o
THE
WILSON’S EAR-DRUMS
MAKE THE DEAF HEAR.
A wonderful little de-
vice that fits into the
ears without the
slightest discomfort.
Invisible when in-
serted —so tiny, so per-
fect, that you forget
you are wearing them.
This marvellous in-
vention was perfected
by Mr. Geo. Wilson,
after years of suffering
from hopeless deaf-
ness. They enabled
him to hear perfectly. And this miracle has
been repeated for thousands of other sufferers.
Mr. R. WATT, Wallacedale, writes: “I have
been using Wilson’s Ear-Drums for many years,
and I have derived great benefit from them. I
would not be without them for twice the price,
as without them I can hear nothing, so you
can understand how I value them.”
We get hundreds of letters like these. We
will post a booklet if you wish, but we advise
you to waste no time in getting and using the
Ear-Drums. The price is £1 Is. complete.
WILSON EAR DRUM CO.,
H. WILKINSON, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this paper.
"v;
K-So
w
g^v
“Tix”: “Griffith Moses” (B. 3/2/’2l) has
my support when he says wild-dogs and eagles are
causing the transformation of Western Queensland
and the N.-W. corner of N. S. AVales from sheep to
cattle. To these two great scourges has to be added
the fox, who has adapted himself to the country, uses
rabbit-burrows for home, and has cultivated a taste
for the jumbuck. The replacement of sheep by cattle
is steadily, taking place, and unless the “big three”
can be effectively dealt with there’ll soon be an end
of the merino on the salt-bush plains.
“Mulga” : Re deaths from the bites of Aus-
tralian reptiles. For years I have lived in the
heart of the adder country in Bananaland, and have
seen only two human beings bitten. Both recovered,
yet only first-aid treatment was given in the first
case, and in the second 60 miles had to be driven
to the nearest medico. But I saw a dog bitten by a
death-adder go out to it in about 20 minutes, and
a large Orpington rooster threw the seven five
minutes after being bitten. This suggests that
the poison hasn’t the deadly effect upon human
beings it has upon birds and animals.
* * * *
“Metoo” : Let me into this eagle business.
I was out the other day near Stanthorpe (Q.) with
a bull-terrier pup three months old. Pup evidently
got tired and lay down ; anyway, I heard yelps, and
saw him about 30yds. off being taken for a bird’s-
eye view of the district. The last I saw of eagle
and pup was a speck disappearing over a distant
ridge.
**, # , *
“Pick”: Many parts of the Southern Table-
lands (N.S.W.), have this summer been invaded by
a plague, hitherto unknown on the upland regions,
of extremely diminutive flies, about an eighth of an
inch long, greyish black in color, with iridescent
lace-like wings. They settle in myriads on blossom-
ing vegetables or fruit-trees, where their color,
immobility and smallness render them difficult to
locate without close inspection, and the first indica-
tion of their presence is a scorched appearance of
the plants, which thereafter rapidly wilt until the
ruination of the entire crop is complete. Dunno
the name of these narks, but even with both ears
plugged I’ve heard what the Tablelands hayseeds call
’em.
“J.8.H.”: A Red Page professor who
talked about slang found an American flavor in
many words and phrases appearing in pre-digger Aus-
tralian prints—“bender,” “bum,” “patter,” “leary”
and “fake,” for instance. They are really all old
English thieves’ slang, “bum,” “patter” and “leary”
being gipsy, like so many more of our slang words —
“chiv,” “chum,” “conk,” “cove” and “gammon,” to
quote a few still in common use. Where the gipsies
got ’em from I don’t know, but knowing gipsies I
suspect they stole ’em.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: The belief that a bullock will
lose condition if yoked with a bull (B. 3/3/’2l) is
well founded. The bull is stronger than the bullock,
so that the latter is working under a
handicap all the time, and simply ex-
hausts himself in trying to level up the
draught. The same thing occurs where two
bullocks ill matched as to strength are
yoked and worked together ; but in this
case the result is not so marked, simply
because the average bull is so much
stronger than the strongest bullock.
Something similar may be observed in
the case of two men picking up heavy
beams. If one man raises his end before
the other an undue weight is thrown
upon the latter. This question was be-
fore the Abo. Council some years ago,
the discussion threatening to become a
permanent theme. One strongly supported
theory was that it was the strong breath
of the bull which caused the decline and
death of his working partner. At last
a wild wag broke in with the theory
which ended the discussion. He said
that it was neither the strength of the
neck nor of the breath of the bull which
caused the damage. The bull, he said,
used to tell his mate of his experiences and adven-
tures, with the result that the bullock simply died
of vexation.
“Central West”: “Mulga” (B. 3/3/’2l)
is right in saying Tom Lawton was good at throw-
ing a beast. All the Lawtons were good with rough
cattle. But he talks bosh when he says the Gulf and
far-western Queensland men excel at cattle-throwing.
In the Dawson River scrubs before the 1902 drought
the cattle were very wild, and if a beast broke it
generally got away so far that it could not be driven
back to the mob ; so it had to be thrown and tied
there until some quieter cattle were brought around.
On the other hand the Gulf and far-western cattle
country is practically all open, and a large number
of cattle water at wells and bores; consequently
they are quiet, and if one .does break away it can
be brought back while it can still see the mob.
In the scrub country, too, a lot of throwing used
to be done at the yards. All cattle there are yarded
to be branded. But outside, in the Gulf and Terri-
tory country, most stations use that cattle-mur-
dering process of branding called bronchoing. Out-
side—except in a drovers’ camp, to put a bell on
a cow that had calved and would persist in making
back—l never saw a beast thrown, and never saw
occasion to throw one either. The Gulf and far-
western men (and for that matter most of the
younger men in the scrub-country) cannot compete
in the art of cattle-throwing with the men who
were working in the scrubs before 1902, simply be-
cause, on account of the cattle being quieter, they
have not had opportunities to learn.
THE TEST OF PARENTAGE.
COUSIN JOHN MINER: “Some queer thing
thee art makin’ there, maate. Whose
idea es ’e?"
DITTO CARPENTER: “Well, et’s like this 'ere.
If 'e do work all right, 'e's manager's
idea; and if 'e don’t, then 'e's mine."
“J.M .M.”: Don’t think many bushmen
know what animal is guilty of the booming noise
that is frequently heard sounding from hill to hill,
day and night in mid-summer. I'll admit it had me
guessing until last year, when a search at last d:s-
closed an old-man porcupine at the end of a log
IN GERMLAND.
MIKE ROBE: “You any relation to Rudolf
Pneumococcus?"
F. LOO PNEUMOCOCCUS: “Well, yes, very dis-
tantly; he was mother's 300th child, and
I am her 17,000th!”
sending out his call for all he was worth. Don’t
remember hearing them except in their mating season
in Dec. and Jan. ; but 1 should think their call would
carry farther than any other animal’s in the bush,
cow and dog given in.
“Ivanhoe”: “Spook” (B. 3/3/’2l) talks
of record trench digging. A man I am working
with dug a trench along a fence 12 inches deep,
spade width, for 35 chains, and removed a similar
length of wire-netting and six chains of five wires,
and carted them II mile back home. Total time
from leaving home till return—sl hours. No bet
either.
* # * *
“Budge” : Is bread ever used in Australia
to locate a sunken corpse? A letter from a
brother in England tells me that the body of one
of his employees was discovered in a canal by means
of a loaf of bread containing mercury. “Although
the spot had been carefully and unsuccessfully
dragged before (they dragged the canal for six
days) the floating loaf stopped and whirled directly
over the body.” The same idea is mentioned in one
of Mark Twain’s books. Is there a scientific ex-
planation ?
* * # *
“X.Y”: Several Abo. writers have given
instances of kangaroos swimming when driven to
it. I remember a
tame hopper, reared
from joeyhood at a
big homestead on a
N.S.W. North Coast
river. There were
several boys there,
and many others used
to come from the
township to swim at
the homestead bathing-
place. A small jetty
ran out to the deep
water and along this
the boys used to run
and dive from its end.
Paddy, the ’roo, was
a great friend of the
boys, and accompanied
them in their swims.
Entirely on his own
initiative, he learned
to hop along the jetty
and take a header
from its end. This
went on for several
years, and the ’roo
would actually go in
on his own when no
boys appeared, i n
winter as well as in
summer. Many people
visited the place
specially to see the
antics of Paddy. The
poor old chap took too
long a stroll along the North Coast-road one day, and
a fellow with more ammunition than sense shot him.
“Scuffler”: If “Cudgewa” (B. 17/2/’2l)
still has doubts about the effect of dynamite, let
him stand in water up to his knees and throw a
plug about a chain out. It will strain more than
his credibility.
MUSTERING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The best of life is with the past,
The best of days have gone —
They’ve built a road where once a track
Kan out by Oberon.
They felled the trees, and spanned the creeks
With culvert and with bridge,
And broke the rocks, and carved their way
O’er gully and o’er ridge.
And now, all times by night or day,
A man may ride at ease,
Where once he rode with tightened rein,
And saddle-gripping knees.
But still, when lights are out at night,
1 see again that track —
The olden days, the golden days,
The roving days come back.
Once more with Youth at Parry’s Farm
I mount my horse, and then
Start out to ride the mountain tracks
With sunbrowned cattle-men.
We turned and tossed, and woke from sleep
With dull, unwilling eyes,
And rose and dressed, ere yet the dawn
Made pale the eastern skies.
With creak of leather, clink of steel,
We tightened bit and girth,
While still the big, white stars of night
Shone down upon the earth.
TELEPATHY.
TRAINER: “Don't let him see you’re licked!"
BOXER (all in) : “ 'Struth, don't you, think he’s got any suspicion?”
On ridge and flat dead gum-trees stretched
Their pallid limbs, and stark,
As, spur on heel and whip in hand,
We clattered through the dark.
And two and two we took the track,
And cantered side by side;
A wind, let loose before the dawn,
Blew in from spaces wide.
And then, as on and on we rode
Beneath the paling sky,
We heard a wakened plover call,
A startled curlew cry.
On either side the tall trees stood,
A patient, watching host;
Five miles from home the dawn came up—
A pale and silent ghost.
Then, light on light on limb and leaf,
The morning glow' grew strong,
And suddenly, rich, flute-like, full,
Out burst a magpie’s song.
Night fled from ridge and hollow-land,
His shadow-lpst withdrawn,
And thrushes i>. the tree-tops hailed
The triumph of the dawn.
A silver rain, a rain of gems,
We watched the dewdrops fall,
And near, though seeming far, we heard
The hidden lyre-bird’s call.
When youth is free woe scares him not,
Care sits not on his back ;
And so, with pleasant talk and song,
We rode along the tract.
And here w r e cantered four abreast,
And there in single file,
Through sapling lines, close-grown and thick,
We ambled mile on mile.
At noon, beside a singing creek,
A creek of waters blue,
We lit a fire, and ate and drank,
And smoked a pipe or two.
Then, on and on, through hour and hour,
The shadows stretching out
Upon our track, we silent rode
With silence all about.
Then fell the dusk on tree and rock,
And creek, and flat and height.
And mopokes in the distance hailed
The triumph of the night.
Now this I say, when round his head
The long, lithe whiplash wheels,
There is no joy on all the earth
Like that the musterer feels.
•That joy we felt with all its fire,
With all its peril-thrills,
As, fleet of hoof, with cracking whips,
We mustered in the hills.
Where tall gums towered and logs lay thick,
And rock on rock stood piled,
Up-hill, down-hill, we drove and turned
The cattle shy and wild.
From gullies deep, where ancient cliffs
Stood firm, like steadfast guards,
With heaving flanks and frothing mouths,
We brought them to the yards.
’Twas thus, ’twas thus, in days agone,
When life with freedom strode—
Ere yet the youth became a man,
The track became a road.
N.S.W.
FIRESHINE.


Of Historic Lineage
and World-wide
popularity.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch everywhere.
TW
A,
i
m
s***&«>
In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
“P. D.” Whisky is just as
familiar and as popular as
it is in its native Scotland.
5
SCOTCH
In these da vs of scarcity it is only by the
most careful husbanding of stocks we can
hope to maintain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will induce us to
impair the unvarying quality of ‘ P.D.’
Whisky.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84 Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW.
T"'SS'
i£§
Olb
ftTER
Dawson
SPECIAL SCOTCH
Blended Whisky
A MUSICAL EVENING
with a
BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
It is quite an easy matter to have a Musical
Evening with a BEHNING PLAYER
PIANO. There is no need to worry about
a pianist to play the songs or dance music.
Every singer can be accompanied in the
key best suited to their voices, and the
latest ballads, the favorite Operas and the
old melodies are there to please all tastes.
The possession of a BEHNING PLAYER
PIANO gives to every host a delightful
source of genuine entertainment for his
guests, and the sure knowledge that he
can please the most critical one of the
company.
-
The easiest way to secure a
BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
is to exchange your piano (we
will allow you its full value),
and the balance can be spread
over a period of years.
WRITE TO-DAY for Cata-
logue, Price Lists and details of
our Easy Payment System.
SVD/lEy.
AMD AT
It.ntWCflJT'Lt.
TOOWOOnBR 11/MOUt.
ROCKHAMPTON.
m


\\\
vs;
</
mtr
■ . '.»■ v
& * *
1
AV? *
View of
Dunlop
Conveyor,
which deliver*
from bin to
ship.
~
V
:fm ;
'
1 Dunlop
m Elevator
■ Belt,
I with
V Buckets
attached.
m
'■
■v* J?** ;
SwWijtlwp » f rfs ,«j
OpS b / S •• St jjR
{f * J&
tk
Near Wagga, N.S.W.
Capacity, 300,000 bushels
St • I
wk»£Sy
if ®J4
Im|
teii
. | r
iTT** 7 ft? *IT —r—7
I# « >8 II HH
' ’ ft ' fff. '
US ss*JS
TERMINAL INSTALLATION
Glebe Island, Sydney.
A Dunlop Conveyor Belt, 1,100 feet
in length, runs through the Gallery
extending across Illustration.
:v
One of 6
Dunlop
Conveyors
on top of
storage plant
whieb carry
wheat to bins
*3
mmm
■
.
! Pulleys covered with
rubber belting to
_ ensure.grip.
.


mmfMm
•0-:
V-
wm
■
V;
'AfVi
.
'
■
: -“.v
a»?3£
lilfeis
:3-
s
S«
,
m
V . ' ."' '■'
:
4*&
'•
*4
*n '.. .
I*
m m
tye-
-SKT^TTiSSSP^SaHfraHMKSWSSKSHSHiMa^!
■kw
Bsa«
«BBM!awFj|j|-rTyin , iißi , iT'~'T~"»i<iil 11 I I "■» * mm in
f y§S, ; ;!
jsw**
H
*- . ' : .
...• '■ • -• ■;' ■
.»r>*
,3
Mg
fB&i
w:
■<&M%
. -,*, ■ '.•
SlB
n
S*
:■ ■■ . v
as:
• ->
pf|
mmMsm
•'• X,
■ :
;
v«'\
KN
'JXtsVZ.
m
i ■
sas
ftibi;
K^rs**
c ; :
•■\. ;:JSk
.A
V
i«8
iWis
£
■
. /.. ™ . , * : a
t&ZZf
m
n
■- ••■ y'.vS
&w
MS*
-■ .
Si
?SS
.
*
• >
BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT
INTERESTING DETAILS.
The cheaper wheat can be handled
in this country the belter for every-
one, for it has a direct bearing on the
price of bread in Australia. The
installation by the New South Wales
Government of a modern wheat storage
system, incorporating silo stations in
various parts of that State, with a
huge storage and handling terminal
plant at Glebe Island, Sydney, is there-
fore a matter of considerable import-
ance and interest to all Australian
citizens, as the advantages of this up-
to-date method of handling wheat will,
sooner or later, compel its adoption
throughout the Commonwealth.
After consultation with Messrs.
Metcalfe & Co., the Canadian wheat
silo constructional experts, the N.S.W.
Government decided to adopt the
general principles set out by that
firm, which comprise the erection
of over 236 circular reinforced
cement storages at 65 stations in
wheat growing districts, the holding
capacity of each bin or silo being
50,000 bushels. Dunlop elevator
and conveyor belting is used to
facilitate economical and speedy
handling. These silos, having a total
holding capacity of 11,800,000 bushels
of wheat, are on railway sidings
for the purpose of expeditiously
receiving wheat from farmers’ wagons,
for weighing, elevating and storing
in the bin, and subsequently for
loading into railway trucks for
despatch to the huge storage terminal
in Sydney for shipment oversea. It is
anticipated that each country silo will,
under normal conditions, be filled and
emptied three times during the
harvest season. The hub and most
interesting section of the whole
systeiq, however, is at Glebe Island,
where a huge plant is built right on
the harbour frontage, lined by wharves
and set in a maze of railway lines.
This enormous structure comprises
72 big circular concrete storage
bins, the dimensions of each being
108 feet high, 31ft. 2in. in diameter,
with concrete walls Bin. thick. There
are also 71 interspace bins between
the circular store bins which are also
utilised for holding further grain, the
storage capacity of the building total-
ling 5,597,000 bushels. In addition,
there is adjoining a working house
containing 139 concrete bins equipped
with truck unloading machinery,
Dunlop conveyor and elevator belts,
weighing hoppers, and cleaning
machinery for handling a further
785,000 bushels of grain. Here wet
wheat is dried and cleaned before
being placed in the bins.
The storage installation (see illus-
tration No. 4) extends over an area of
257 feet in width, 303 feet in length,
by 140 feet high, whilst the work-
house covers a further 75 feet wide,
240 feet in length, with a height of
200 feet, the whole being erected of
reinforced concrete in an incredibly
short time by the late Mr. H. Teesdale
Smith and Mr. A. W. Menkins, general
superintendent, under the supervision
of Mr. R. Kendall, Engineer-in-Chief
for existing lines of N.S.W. Railways,
and to detail plans prepared by
Messrs. Gray & Askew, Consulting
Engineers, and purchasing agents for
the late Mr. H. Teesdale Smith. In
front of this vast white honey-comb
like structure are wharf galleries,
through which run miles of conveyor
belts, carrying a stream of wheat
from the hoppers at base of bins to
the holds of ships at the maximum rate
of 60,000 bushels an hour When it
is stated that this means loading
steamers at the rate of 1,600 tons an
hour, or 12,800 tons in a working
day of 8 hours, it will be realised what
a saving in time and labor this system
represents, and what an important
part the various Dunlop conveyor
belts will play in the efficient operation
of transferring loose grain from the
bins to steamers, etc.
As regards the handling of grain
upon arrival aboard trains at the
Terminal station, some 80,000 bushels
or 2140 tons will be able to be un-
loaded from the railway trucks an
hour, and can be diverted to the bins
direct, or passed over the Australian
made cleaning machines, which have
a capacity of 36,000 bushels an hour,
whilst 500 to 750 bushels of wet
grain can be dried per hour.
The wheat will be brought to
Glebe Island in 40-ton capacity rail-
road trucks, which will be run over
receiving hoppers, the wheat being
emptied by means of electrically
operated shovels into the hoppers.
These receptacles are fitted with
operating valves, which, when opened,
permit the wheat to flow on to 5
Dunlop conveyor belts, which glide
along (850 feet per minute) with their
load until they reach another conveyor
running at right angles. The grain is
tipped on to this and carried to a
Dunlop elevator belt (see illustration
No. 3), which travels upwards through
steel casing to a height of 200 feet,
numerous buckets attached to the
belt lifting the grain to the top of the
working house plant, where it is
weighed, and again flows on to a
conveyor belt, and directed and poured
into the particular bin in which
it is to be stored. There are
six lines of conveyors running in
cement roofed galleries, on top
of the storage plant, for filling the
72 storage bins and 71 interspaces,
whilst eleven lines of conveyors run
underneath the cone-shaped bottoms
of these huge bins. Here, again
adjustable valves operate, so that
any required quantity of grain can
flow through a chute on to the
rubber belt directly underneath, when
it is borne away to automatic weighing
scales, and thence to the shipping
galleries—extending sonjie 1,500 feet
along the wharf frontage—and carried
along by conveyors, until a golden
stream of wheat pours into the hold of
steamer or sailing vessel. Working
in conjunction with the wharf galleries
are 4 large Travelling Gantries, each
weighing about 100 tons, and it is
from these Gantries, which travel
along the wharf to whqre the ship is
anchored, that the wheat is poured
into the holds of the ships. The
system provides for loading 4 ships
simultaneously. Efficiency, economy,
and elimination of waste, will be the
chief factors in this huge undertaking.
From the above it will be realised
that Dunlop conveyors and elevators
are going to play a very important
part in this great installation. All
told, 1% miles (about 121 tons) of
Dunlop belting (mostly 4 ply, 36"
wide), is being used, and it will do its
work silently and efficiently for many
years without trouble. The selection
of Australian made Dunlop belting for
this great undertaking, which cost
,£1,250,000, was solely on account
of the fine reputation won by Dunlop
belts in Australia’s leading Industrial
Centres, where the name, “ Dunlop,” is
synonymous with highest quality, best
value, and satisfactory service.
It may surprise the reader to learn
that hundreds of miles of huge Dunlop
conveyors are installed at Broken
Hill, Iron Knob, W.A. Goldfields,
Mount Morgan, Mount Lyell, etc., all
doing giant work at a running cost
that represents enormous annual
savings in time and labor.
Our Mills, the largest and most up-
to-date in the Southern Hemisphere,
contain some of the largest and finest
presses in the world, and are capable
of supplying all Australia’s require-
ments for high-class long service
belts for conveying, elevating, or
driving, and also every description of
Rubber Goods essential for industrial
purposes. No order is too large for
us to handle, none too small, and all
are executed with the set purpose of
giving value and permanently retain-
ing the patronage of our customers.
Tenders submitted. Correspondence
invited.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO,


<35 REES ROTURBO
ROTARYJET CONDENSER
HE Rees Roturbo Rotary Jet
Condenser is a UNIT OUT-
FIT, and not an assembly
of units. It has ONLY ONE
IMPELLER, which PERFORMS
THREE SEPARATE FUNC-
TIONS.
(1) Acts as an INJECTION WATER-
PUMP, spraying the water positively
into the Condenser.
(2) CONDENSES the STEAM and
positively REMOVES the AIR contained
in same.
(3) Positively EJECTS the MIXTURE
of HOT WATER and AIR to atmo-
sphere.
THE IMPELLER,
the one and only
running part in
the Rees Roturbo
Condenser. It has
no rubbing con-
tacts. Thus maxi-
mum life is
assured.
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
o
Cross-cut, showing the construction of the Rees Roturbo.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney ~
The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
ry
(Ip
\ \
“'VAJLET”
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barber’s edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the “ Valet ” Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade. Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew no separate stropping machine—no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “Valet” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consists of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “Valet” Auto Strop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet” blades,
and “ Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome case lined
velvet and satin
27/6
Of all high-class dealers
throughout A ustralasia.
Managing; Agents for Australasia—
RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
Li
I
0
an
e
'T'HIS capacious 3 ton Lorry is designed specially
* for Dairying and other concerns where the safe
and smooth carrying of such articles as milk cans is
required. It embodies all the essential Leyland
features, and suitable covering to protect food stuffs
in accordance with regulations can be provided.
The steel plate wheels at the rear are optional.
LEYLAND LOGIC
The trip from the Dairy
Form to the Factory can in
most instances be perform-
ed more economically and
satisfactorily by means of
a Motor Lorry. Then again
the Creamery itself finds a
Lorry indispensable for
transporting bulk goods to
rail■ Bad roads or bad
weather make little or no
difference to the powerful
Leyland Lorries, whereas
. reliance on a horse-drawn
- vehicle may result in delay
and loss under adverse
conditions.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
"Leyland Lorries, the
cream of their Class,”
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pty.j Ltd.,, High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
POLDI STEEL
Better than ever.
Just landed large shipment of
High-Speed Steels
Special Alloyed Steels
Carbon 8 Other Tool Steels
Motor Car Steels
Greatest range of sizes ever landed
in one shipment in Australia.
All enquiries promptly attended to.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The poldi steel works
343 SUSSEX STREET,
SYDNEY.


i in
5V
r
r'
C**~' ( K
X ..
( j /
Tke
Purest
Spirit
tke
Vibrio.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
w. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
XU
§
irssr-i
.
, COUCHS
Hi
coios
CROUP
LUNG
TP.OUBU3
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
0
this kind of literature. In criticism he has
given us “Joseph Conrad, a Study,” and as
Joseph and he are literary pals one can
only say that he is a divinity that shapes his
friends into the likeness of Superior Beings.
Nevertheless it is a very readable estimate
of Conrad.
Walpole is the son of the Bishop of Edin-
burgh and was born in 1884. llis religious
training is demonstrated in the keen inner
knowledge displayed in “The Captives,” and
his familiarity with Red Cross work in “The
Dark Forest,” which is stuffed with episodes
in his career in the Russian R.C. Service at
the outbreak of war in 1914. Similarly his
memories of Cambridge—he was at Em-
manuel —supplied some of the color for “The
Prelude to Adventure.” He is an earnest,
good-looking young man who has lately been
holidaying his pen with some slim and easy
close-ups of his contemporaries in American
magazines. Some of his pretty short stories
have also been elbowing the depilatory and
corset advts. in several Yankee feminine
journals.
C. R. BRADISH.
Angora and the Celt
Angora, the last ditch into which the rags
and bones of the OLtoman Empire might easily
have been cast, has seen bigger things than
the large white-bearded goat that has made
the name more familiar to-day than any his-
torical event. Angora is the old Ancyra, one
of the most important towns in that curious
Celtic corner of Asia to which St. Raul once
wrote an abusive letter. Galatia was peopled
by the Gael or Gauls who, in the third cen-
tury b.c., Ibroke over the boundaries of
Macedonia, tossed Greek resistance lightly
aside, plundered the temple at Delphi, and
sweeping on into Asia established themselves
from Phrygia to Armenia. x\ll the Greek
princes within a wide area paid them tribute
for the privilege of keeping their skins intact;
but Antigonus 11. defeated the rear of the
Gallic army in Thrace in 277 b.c., and
nearly half a century later Attalus I. broke
the front of it in Asia Minor. After that the
Gauls settled down in a wide inland territory
composed of portions of Phrygia, Cappa-
docia and other States and corresponding
roughly with the modern Angora.
The Gallic invasion of the East has a more
permanent interest than most of the so-called
race movements. It touched later Greek
art; and some of the strongest things which
have come down to us in ancient sculpture
show these fighting Celts in action. But
the larger interest lies in the fact that the
Gauls settled down as a distinct people and
maintained their place far on through the
days of the Roman Emipre. The Greeks
freely mixed with them, Greek customs were
largely adopted, and Greek deities were
identified with their own; but the Gallic
language was still spoken. Language is
usually the first thing to yield when peoples
of higher and lower culture begin to blend
or meet on an equal footing. Even Jerusalem
in Roman times spoke more Greek than
Hebrew; the ancient language of Egypt
gave back before the same tongue; and far
out into Asia wherever the feet of Alexander
had trod, Greek speech became a second
language to those who caught some distant
glimmer of a sweeter European civilisation.
But it was not so with the Gauls. The
mixed race of Gaul and Greece surrounded
on all sides by Greek speakers continued to
use the Gaulish language. There was, in
fact, a lingual struggle similar to that wit-
nessed for centuries in Ireland. Until forced
out by penalties and pains, the language of
the Irish Gael always defeated the English
tongue. English settlers invariably adopted
Irish on Irish soil and forgot their native
mode of speech until Irish was proscribed
and its use made a crime. Similarly, in Asia
Minor, the language of the Central European
Gael beat' back the classic speech of Greece
for an age. But the deluge of blood came
over all western Asia at last and reduced to
a barbarism it had not known in three thou-
sand years every plain and valley of a land
which had been the desire of so many races.
The Baghdad railway runs through the
country where Greek and Gael blended ; but
it is the stronghold of the Turk. When,
after his next murderous outbreak, he is
finally hunted out into the wilderness, it
will probably be to the wilderness of Angora
—of Galatia. And the place will remain a
wilderness as long as Abdul has a word to
say about its government.
D. M. W.
A Singer in Crinolines
When Mrs. Hemans died in Dublin at
the age of 42, leaving behind her seven large
volumes of verse, Miss Landon —“L.E.L.”
—had these things to say :
Genius places a woman in an unnatural position ;
notoriety frightens away affection; and superiority
has for its attendant fear, not 10ve.... What is
poetry, and what is a poetical career? The first is
to have an organisation of extreme sensibility,
which the second exposes bareheaded to the rudest
weather.... Ah, fame for a woman is indeed but a
royal mourning in purple for happiness!
That was written seven years after Queen
Victoria came to the throne, when the simper
of feminine domesticity was at its height.
Mrs. Browning was then 29, Charlotte
Bronte 19, Emily Bronte 17, “George
Eliot” 16. and Christina Rossetti 5.
“L.E.L.” felt the despondency of such a
period, but fought against it by pouring out
torrents of forgotten verse. Both she and
Mrs. Hemans were restrained and hedged
about by the spirit and traditions of their
time. Neither was strong enough to break
away into a new field or risk saying the
thing that really mattered. To make up for
that they kept on saying a great multitude
of very little things in the exact manner of
their own drawing-rooms.
There is a perpetual suggestion in Mrs.
Hernans of something bigger and better. Her
sympathies were wide even if they were
always ladylike. Tasso coming back ragged
to the arms of his stately sister moves her,
but her attitude is quite correct. What her
sonorous verse says in effect is, “Just think
of it, my dears —in rags, positively in rags
arid yet he really was the great man, after
all.” She is very fond of italics, very fond
of “Oh” and “Hark,” always eager to point
the gentle and altogether trite moral; and
yet there is something over and above it all
-—a faith in sweetness, a longing to make
wrongs right, a touch of color, a hint of
melody. A few things she wrote may stay a
long time in anthologies and school-books
they deserve to.
C. O. M.
Peter Wilkins
Captain George Wilkins, Australian avia-
tor and explorer, who has started out to look
at the Antarctic regions south of Cape Horn,
is not the first of the name to be associated
with flying in those parts. That distinction
belongs" to Peter Wilkins, nearly as famous
in his day as Robinson Crusoe, but now
fallen into undeserved oblivion. The adven-
tures of Peter, as told by Robert Paltock, of
Clements’ Inn, in a book published in I<sl,
form one of the best of that long series of
imaginary voyages which made popular read-
ing in the 17 th and 18th centuries.
The “flying people” whom Peter found
down in Antarctica are a flight of imagina-
tion beyond the reach of Defoe. Probably the
idea, as weft as the hero’s name, came from
Bishop Wilkins of Chester, who had, amongst
other curious speculations, discussed the
possibility of men learning to fly if they be-
gan to practise young. He said he had
heard on credible testimony of one who was
able to skip 10 yards at a time with the aid
of wings. But the flying people that Peter
Wilkins met owed nothing to mechanical
devices; they grew their wings, which were
folded round like a sheath when they were
not wanted for flying. The worst punish-
ment amongst them was to slit the wings
so that the offender could not fly again. The
story of the flying maiden Youwarkee, who
had‘an accident near Peter’s hut and whom
he married, is as pretty a bit of romance as
was ever written. Indeed, Southey went so
far as to say that the “winged people are
the most beautiful creatures of the imagina-
tion ever devised.”
The story was put on the stage at Covent
Garden in 1827 and furnished material for
pantomimes much later than that. „
Apart from the tale of Peter’s Crusoe-like
existence in Antarctica, and his later rela-
tions, first with Youwarkee and then with
the rest of the flying people, there is some
good adventure stuff about shipwrecks and
starvation on the high seas and captivity in
Africa. Long before Waterton had his
famous ride on the alligator, Paltock made
Glanlepze, a negi’o with whom Peter Wilkins
foregathered somewhere near the Congo, hop
on the back of a crocodile and work his way
up until he could put a gag in the beast’s
mouth. His description of what happened
when 21 men were turned adrift in a boat
by a French privateer has not often been ex-
celled for the terse, simple and natural way
in which it paints the horrors of starvation
and what followed.
Of Paltock himself about the only thing
known is that he received for writing “Peter
Wilkins” the sum of £2O and 12 copies of the
book. He was no profiteer.
G. D. V.
A Critic without Performance
Randolph Bedford in reply:—
In “A Daniel without Judgment” Mr. G. C. Dixon
perverts facts to suit his alleged criticism. I said
“the English novel is mostly dull and heavy, and
the English short-story doesn’t exist.” I leave the
average English novel to prove my case. I have
heard of Hardy and Kipling, but I was speaking of
men still producing, and Hardy and Kipling are not.
If I wanted to cite English writers dead or non-
productive I couldn’t miss Charles Reade, author of
the finest novel in the language. Masefield and
Galsworthy are fiddlers of one string; and surely Mr.
Dixon does not claim Barrie or Bennett as big men.
Compton Mackenzie is merely not the worst of
the tribe of English writers who have nothing to
say, and say it more or less attractively. And,
later, Mr. Dixon labels his “critical fatuity” by
talking of Jacobs as a great short-story writer —Jacobs
the machine-made humorist, author of a great num-
ber of short stories each like the other!
Mr. Dixon’s idea that crudity in literature is part
of the general youthfulness of our country is contra-
dicted by the fact that the most crude of magazine
fiction is the English. A man doesn’t learn technique
by “study” (if that means imitation, and what else
it means Mr. Dixon doesn’t say) ; a man learns
technique by work and by making mistakes —by
doing something. I did not “imply that the Aus-
tralian writer had nothing to learn,” but I do
say that the average critic has all to learn. Years
ago a “critic” advised me to learn style by studying
“Addison and Steele —the old writers, my lad”
(meaning by “study,” imitation) ; and yet another
ass remarked that before an Australian writer can
get “inspiration” (whatever that may be) “he must
see Westminster Abbaye, sir—Westminster Abbaye.”
The only way out of crudity is practice; work;
error and its discovery and correction; and more
work—always work.
But these critics! They toil not, neither do they
spin yarns —they paint not, write not, model not,
build not, but they know how to paint a picture
and write a play; they correct the sculptor and put
the architect in the way he should go. The critic
has his" uses, maybe, but it is not use but mischief
to hold false lights up to the youth who is learning
his job. Mr. Dixon has so many false gods of
English writers that maybe he has had no time
to write the novel which would be the mentor of the
crude Australian novelist. What has Mr. Dixon
done, anyhow ?
A Satchel of Books
When Labor Rules, by J. 11. Thomas, M.P. (Col-
lin) is a vision of what Britain may yet become,
set down by one of the solidest men in the House
of Commons. Much of it looks fantastic at a
glance. For example: •
“There will be no profiteers, no unemployment, no
slums, no hungry children. .No mar, will be ex-
pected to work an excessive number of hours, and no
man who is fit for work will be permitted to shirk
it • the right to live upon the accumulated wealth of
another will no longer exist; the only qualifications
for the higher civil service will be character and
ability.”
Utopian dreams ? Yet let the reader, after a glance
at England as it is now, recall what it was a cen-
tury, or even half a century, ago. At about the
time Queen Victoria ascended the throne children of
10 years of age and upwards donned harness at
7 a.m. in the coal-mines of Durham and Yorkshire
and dragged coal-trucks for 16 hours. Ninety per
cent, of the working-classes were illiterate. In the
industrial areas thousands in full employment never
enjoyed what the modern British toiler would call a
square meal, and the opportunities for relaxation
were practically nil. The fact is, the revolution
which the brethren of upheaval waste such quantities
of oratory in anticipating is already upon England,
and it has had Australia in its grip for years.
Results favorable to the under-dog are being got
more quickly than ever before. Certainly at an
immeasurably quicker rate than that following upon
any past revolution uy bloodshed —a wild gesture
of "protest which inevitably slows up reform for a
generation or more. Mr. Thomas tackles every
big British problem, from alcohol to Ireland. The
style convevs an odd impression of one declaiming
to a political audience. But it serves to express
his strong and earnest personality.
JRever Let the Old Flap Fall, by F. W. Kilsby,
is a 359-pase volume of prose and verse, which
recalls the Sydney Watchman in its heyday. The
objective is to save the British Empire by destroying
the Church of Rome —or that failing, to give ltqman-
ism a few good knocks to go on with. Writers of the
Kilsby school can do this kind of thing in then-
sleep :
, WHAT IF ENGLAND DIED TO-NIGHT?
The priests would gather round her bier,
To-morrow they would slaver here,
The Pope of Rome send up a cheer,
If England died to-night.
The Jesuit’s sword would hack its way
From England to Australia
And steal our freedom right away,
If England died to-night.
What of the little peoples then?
They would be trodden down like when
There was no England to save these men—•
If England died to-night.
The writer would provide Rome with a smashing
argument against the State-school system, which the
Vatican is understood to abhor, were it not that
his education, like his views, was apparently acquired
abroad.
Two Sisters, by Ralph Harold Bretherton (George
Allen and Unwin). The sisters are a divergent pair,
one staid, the other giddy. There is not much story,
but rather ordinary folk are made lifelike.
The Flack , Blanket, by Maxwell Laurie (T. Werner
Laurie). Helen thinks she is born under the “black
blanket,” but discovers in the end that she is clean
white. The scene is in the West Indies and the flavor
of nigger blows rather unpleasantly through. The
plot is conventional and the people mostly machine-
made.
Pengard Awake, by Ralph Straus (Methuen). The
author states that he finds the story hard to tell, and
he certainly tells it rather clumsily. There is a
great waste of words in getting to business and much
over-elaboration of details which are not vital to
the tale; but the style is rather pleasant and there is
a good plot when you get to it. The characters are
carefully drawn.
Inky Way
“R.S.E.”: Germanv has lost a great lyric-poet by
the death of Richard Dehmel, whose life-
long friendship with Detlev von Liliencron
rivalled the literary partnership between
Goethe and Schiller. Born in 1863, he de-
veloped late as a poet. His first volume of verses,
“But Love,” grappled with the problems of passion
and sex. At the 'age of 40 he threw his earlier
attempts into the melting-pot and produced “The
Transformations of Venus,” a p*an of physical love
in an essentially Teutonic idiom; and a collection
of love-songs having the spiritual grace of passion
and the disregard of shame. Dehmel was naturally
subject to the erotic influences of his time, from the
psycho-analysis of Kraft-Ebing to the voluptuousness
of Pierre Louys. But the sombre thinker was ever
behind his fiercest voluptuousness.
“Jar”: Died in Westralia, Julian Mitchell, one of
the few Groperland poets whose metrical output
flowed over the borders or across the big seas.
Found his way twice into London Times, each a
profitable venture. Mitchell never took kindly to
one critic’s assertion that he basked in the limelight
of Kipling and reflected some of the Rudyard light.
Stilt he had that free and easy jingling way and
picturesque adjectival gift that the cognoscenti like
to term “Kiplingesque.”
THE DRUNKARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The size of his grief made me wonder;
He shook like an earthquake of pain,
Like a forest that sways to the thunder,
Like the household commotion of Jane.
He cried to the moon that was waning,
To the bitter stars blinded and red,
His brows to his trouser-legs straining,
“I’ve got such a head.”
At the sound of that voice I grew bolder,
My sympathy swelled like a wave;
I laid a soft hand on his shoulder,
1 bade him be stalwart and brave.
I said, though the high stars were blinking
To blood at the challenge of fate,
“Man of sorrow, what have you been drinking
To get in this state?”
He lifted his eyes to the blister
Of cloud that sat low on the moon ;
lie murmured “Ah, leave me, kind sister,
Till I get my stray wits into tune.”
1 said: “Was it brandy or whisky ?
Was it absinthe in rum or plain beer?
Was it wine still too young to be frisky?”
l!e shed a vast tear.
“Nav, you wrong me,” he cried with emotion,
“No sparks from dead timber I strike;
My palate has never a notion
What brandy or whisky is like.
To me beer is stranger than, fiction,
All wine more remote than a Star;
My soul in subjective restriction
1 keep from the bar.”
He groaned. “Nay, far deeper my sorrow,”
He said with a tumult of sighs
Like the sound that is made by to-morrow
When importers of rags advertise.
“I was reading—-Heaven send in its season
The peace that the angels rehearse —
Yes, I read, and it staggered my reason,
American verse.
“Vers libre cut hot from Chicago
With a saw dollar-edged with desire
Is a drink that might poison lago,
A flagon full-frothed with barbed wire.
It is in me,” he shrieked. “Oh, to blazes!
Get hence ! I am mad ! Let me pass !
I must burst into song and wild phrases
Made of sawdust and grass.”
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


■=#
Fats for the Yards!
Cattle, Sheep and Pigs for Homebush
Market, Sydney, or Enoggera Market, Bris-
bane, truck to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Wide-awake Salesmen. Attentive,
capable and successful.
DICK’S
trade
(KggaßEagg&a
MARK
For Abnormal
Drives.
If you have a drive in your plant that demands
a belt which must withstand abnormal condi-
tions of dust, dirt, heat, steam, excessive cold,
fumes or splashing water, Dick’s Balata Belting
will transmit all the power at the lowest possible
cost. It will do its work easily, without racking
vibration and without strain.
Write for Free Catalogue "B”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
681-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
RIDE A
O
MOTOR
BICYCLE.
The universal popularity of B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles has only been
achieved by sheer merit. Consis-
tent good reports of reliable service
under the most strenuous and
exhaustive conditions prove the
superior value of B.S.A. Models.
THE
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
is designed to ensure power and
economy on the steepest gradient,
and for sidecar work is invaluable.
Reliability, comfort, and ease of
control are only a few of the
features which have made B.S.A.
Motor Bicycles world famous.
All B.S.A. parts are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
A guarantee of
quality for over
half a century.
Write for fall
particulars
& Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings. MELBOURNE.
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
mmmvm
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 05.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade ZinC Dust-Containing about 00% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —-Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK) 25 O'Connell Street
Adelaide Agent l
0. 8. STOKES, 62 Brookman Ridge.
Zinc Producers’ Association
‘•CULT
•AJtd
Contractors icith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE* 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
a
a
a
i
P*
a
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
I t
i-mn
<S2
m
m
SiXmSXSSiSSS
Illustration of 2 Wood
Stave Pipe Lines 48in.
dia. and 60in. dia.
installed in 1912 and
1916 respect ively.
These pipes were laid
for the Tasmanian
Government, and are
used in connection
with the Hydro-Elec-
tric Scheme at Great
Lakes, Waddamanna.
(Pressure varies from
20/200ft. head.)
Do You
Know—
that the Use of Wood Pipe ante-dates that of practically every other form
of pipe—having been used more than two centuries ago in London, and at
a much earlier period in some other European cities?
That citizens of Fayetteville, U.S.A., ate still receiving water through wood
pipe laid in iS29—and the pipe is absolutely sound and satisfactory?
That modern wood pipe size for size will carry a greater volume of water
than any other pipe made?
It is far cheaper to instal than metal pipe, and costs practically nothing for
hiaintenance.
We also Manufacture Wood Tan Ks.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
Johnson & Co., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For Quick and shav-
ihg use this famous
Razor, whieh is Of the
finest quality and hds a
world-wide reputatioii.
Q °
Of
'
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Long-hurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
“The Scrutton” Lathe.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR MOTOR GARAGES.
CALL AND INSPECT THIS TRIUMPH OF ENGINEERING SKILL.
6in. Centres, 6ft. Gap Bed, Self-acting, Sliding and Screw-cutting;
Takes 1 % in. Black Bar through Hollow Spindle;
Has Back Gearing and Independent Feed Shaft;
Admits 3ft. 9in. between Centres, Gap swings 20in. dia. x 4 in. wide
in front of Face Plate;
Apron Gears run in Oil Baths.
Complete with Face Plate, Driver Plate, Change Wheels and Countershaft.
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“P.X.”: Occasionally a woman wonders
where the money is in the imported frills and
flounces that she buys. The fact that Lloyd,
of the old and lately dissolved Sydney fluff
rum ot Lloyd and Collins, is making his 28th
trip to Europe—he is on the Mantua—may
suggest part ot the answer. These frills and
flounces don t buy themselves, and a one-way
to" £18() passage t 0 England these days runs
* * * #
( , I | be true that inventor R. G. Booth,
or Melbourne, claims for his new process of
dehydrating vegetables and fruit, a lot of
good food that now goes to waste will be
saved for either local or foreign consumption.
•Booth s demonstrations have, anyhow, per-
suaded capital to go into the business, and
a factory is about to be built in the market-
gardening country between Moorabbin and
Dandenong (Vic.).
* * * *
“Smike”: “Croson” (B. 17/3/’2l) seems
pessimistic about Portland (Vic.). With
all the alleged lack of shunting aecommoda-
tion, the Australford whs londed in record
?, n *he resu lt has been so good
that another Commonwealth steamer is call-
ing in for a cargo of grain. The lack of a
breakwater may add to a mariner’s difficul-
ties in an occasional south-easterly gale, but
it doesn t prevent a vessel loading at any
ume.* As for the lighting and sheds, these
win come as business develops. For the pre-
sent the sheds are not absolutely necessary
as wheat never has a long wait before it is
tumbled into the ship’s hold.
* * * *
“F. 8.”: The Queensland State butchery
at Gympie had a robbery a few days ago,
the safe being removed and money stolen.
Bundaberg reported a similar occurrence a
tew months past. The manager went out
rnu a t l e^> ll ?* nu^es and the cash disappeared,
ihe S. Brisbane shop some time ago had
losses running into hundreds. Nobody was
arrested or tried. Nobody ever is. But the
real robbery is much more subtle. An ounce
or two overweight doesn’t seem much, but it
mounts to something at the month end ; and
kindness to one’s friends is very human. Re-
lief doles to the unemployed also mean some-
thing, as the Auditor-General pointed out a
couple of years ago. Yes, the State meat-
shops are a great blessing—to some people.
A man who knew, if possible, a little less
finance than a Cornstalk Treasurer has dis-
tinguished himself in Melbourne, In the first
place Smith was mooning along the street
in manly meditation fancy free when Brown
arrived in haste and offered him a watch for
10. Smith declined—declined earnestly. Then
Jones, a complete stranger, came on the scene
like a man who had been running hard to
avoid missing a bargain, made acquaintance
with Smith and Brown on the instant, bought
the watch from Brown for £O. borrowed £6
from Smith to pay for the watch and left it
as security. This left Smith in the curious
position of having advanced £6 on an article
the fee simple of which he had rejected at £5.
When he found that the value of the col-
lateral was 13s. 6d. his rage knew no bounds.
In fact, a boundary-rider couldn’t have ridden
round it in a month.
“Sixenate : X. S. Wales Government pro-
poses to cheapen law by amalgamating the
two branches of the legal profession. This will
probably have some effect; but a great deal
more might be done by the codification of the
laws, including in the codification an outline
oj. the precedents and principles which are to
be considered in making decisions ; and still
more by wiping out paid advocates in minor
cases. It is in these minor cases that the
costs of litigation are most severely felt by
the greatest number of people; and most of
them could be quite easily settled by any
reasonable man on the bench without the
interference of legal sharks who collect a few
guineas from each case. Such a prohibition
would wipe out a class of legal advocate who
are less useful to the community than jockeys,
not as decorative as bookmakers, and con-
siderably more shifty than spielers.
* * * *
“Dan de Non’’: My brother’s lease of a
provincial hotel recently expired. The
place is owned by the local brewery, which
is conducted by two partners, say, Graball
and Keepit. They made the renewal of the
lease for five years conditional on the licen-
see (1) paying a bonus of £250; (2) paying
more than double the old rent; (3) painting
and repairing the place inside and out; (4)
installing electric-light; (5) agreeing to use
only the brewery’s drinks in the bar. Brother
felt narked, but as the town and pub were
good, decided to give it a fly. He got one, in the
ointment, when Graball informed him ver-
bally that Keepit and himself would decide
the contractors for 3 and 4. Brother
thereupon pulled out. Graball’s brothers are
contractors, Keepit’s son is an electrical
engineer, and Mrs. Graball and Mrs. Keepit.
sisters, are daughters of a painter and
decorator.
DAY LABOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This simple heathen in delightful ease
Lies spread beneath a tree;
The blossoms in the morning nod to please
The inattentive bee.
The river passes with a slumberous song;
The cows move slowly by;
White clouds in gentle masses creep along
The blue and ailent sky.
The trains s.top at the siding long and well;
The cat rests in the sun;
The lazy sea has scarce the heart to swell,
One sleepy wave to run
Up the low slope of the hot, drowsy sand
Beneath the dreamy sedge,
Where a dead gum-tree lifts a pallid hand
And points to the world’s edge.
All things around me feeling just like this,
What wonder that I gaze
With a slow eye that feels the sun’s hot kiss
Across the fiery haze
At. him who with a spade may hit the land
Twice in an hour or so ?
1 pay him by the day and understand
That days like this are slow.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


STORAGE
BATTERY
: H
We believe that prompt-
ness, courtesy, fair-deeding
and intelligent service are
the most substantial corner-
stones for this, as for any
other business—that our
promises ought to be as
good as our checks—that
our responsibility to you as
a car owner is a definite
obligation to see that your
battery serves you long
and well.
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard


he largest selling
quality pencil in
thewovld
ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Staiularcl O£? Hospital
RK&NDY
W.
sm
A rich, pure
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker &Co., Ltd., Sydney
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
Legal Notice.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An }’ Address
b3’ the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
BOX 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
! 1 * ■}
i*
f r, s
.A
ml
!%L<o
r-’4’.
s l*
\>A‘
Hm
1 A\*&yv^£
tm
' j&wi' 1
SMS
/ V
\m* :;
|! ‘'/f .
2y
T 1
mm V
*-X«J
KIPwLI
*
I !,.
LA^i
'UKR II
1 rmr. .v^. ~r -
I roam *
[Mllll 111
n
f
i-— 493bfc n!
•*“«i <»lPt«irw^
lUKcd Su>f*c««
C johnsohmo*
• RACIMI Wik „
i^JOHHSOfUSO*
• I
Here’s the
Polish !
O use Johnson’s
Prepared Wax you
need only a cloth —no
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax over any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
Liquid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect-
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, NS W.
THE GARDEN CATALOGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know not from what store of ripened seed
God planted Eden in that first brown Spring,
Nor what tall angels standing wing to wing
Made note of sweetness that the world might need.
Without, the serpent sowed the thorn and weed;
But these turned pages of bright lore to bring
Gold stars and suns and nodding bells to ring
The flowery lesson Adam’s soul must read.
Here is a garden set within a book;
A fragrance blows from crowded leaf to leaf;
All Eden’s colors riot in black ink.
Come Eve, tome, happy Eve, and softly look!
Peace binds again her newer harvest sheaf
With poppies of the oldest dreams, I think.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Dicker, the new governor of Pentridge
(Vic.), is a son-in-law of Mrs. Henderson,
who governed the Women’s Penitentiary
adjoining the big Coburg prison for many
years.
Round about Colac (Vic.) close on 300
Billjims have been settled on good land, and
it looks as if 90 per cent, of them will make
good. The Colac butter factory, which dis-
tributes £350,000 a year, and is rising to-
wards the half-million mark, will be their
great stand-by. But it is rough on Bill to
saddle him with a £540 liability on a four-
or five-roomed house. The cabins may be
substantially built, but in design they belong
to the packing-case style of architecture;
there are no verandahs. With interest, rates
and sinking fund to be met, the home must
be equal to a blister of 15 bob a week on
the ex-warrior-settler.
“Country Ped”: The fly is one of the
greatest disseminators of disease, yet how
many State Education Departments attempt
to check it by fixing fly-proof wire doors and
windows to schools? I cannot recall any
Vic. city schools, and I know of only two
country schools where this has been done—
and then not by the Education Department,
but by the teachers and parents. One
teacher wasted the time of his pupils and
overworked himself to raise the necessary
funds by means of a concert; but he had the
satisfaction of seeing ouhthalmia (sandy
blight), in some cases chronic and epidemic
every summer, cleared from his school, and
in time practically from the whole district.
“H.H.”: The description of Broken Hill
in a recent Bulletin is a whole essay on
the absurdity of the system under which
the Federal Parliament has no power to cut
up States or alter State boundaries. The
place belongs to N. S. Wales, but is 725
miles from Sydney, and the railway from
Sydney doesn’t connect. By the route that
the Law travels when the authorities at Syd-
ney want to look into things and arrest
a drunk, the distance is 1394 miles, and it
is hardly worth while to go so far. So,
when a strike begins at Broken Hill, pay-
ment of rent stops and free lodging con-
stitutes a strike fund in itself. Later in
the proceedings houses are pulled to pieces
for use as firing, and free fuel keeps the
strike alive. Lately the Sydney Labor
Government dispensed about £2OOO a week
in relief, and that also kept a strike alive.
If the border was shifted a few miles east
Broken Hill would be in S. Aus., only about
300 miles from the capital, and with direct
railway communication. Then there would
be some chance for the place. Rents might
be paid, the town wouldn’t be torn apart
piecemeal to keep the stop-work fires burn-
ing, and N. S. Wales wouldn’t have the
relief bill to pay. And the Hill itself might
stick a little closer to business and not read
so much Karl Marx and be the disgruntled
outlaw town it is.
Confessions of an old sinner:—
G. R. Sims lately uttered a word in season in
reproof of newspapers which gibe at the singu’ar
sinfulness of modern society. Like every other
veteran moralist of broad intelligence and good
memory, Sims has outlived early fears that the gay
world of luxury was going further downhill. lie
finds society “infinitely better, both in its morals
and its manners, than the society of the middle
and late Victorian eras. Within the memory
of the older generation dukes were not ashamed to
be drunk and disorderly in public ; marquises joined
in the midnight revels of the Haymarket; and sprigs
of nobility and bibulous baronets thought nothing
of sharing a tarnished title with a Traviata.”
G.R.S. might have said more than that about the
morals of Queen Victoria’s early days, which had
hardly begun to purge themselves of the customs
of the Court of George IV. Earl Rivers, for in-
stance, married Nellie T lolmes, a notorious courte-
san. The Earl of Sta ford and Warrington, whose
lineage was very p . >(-nt, was the widower of a
presumably respect dna servant wench when he com-
mitted his second matrimony with a mighty fine
woman of the town. The escapades of the reckless
Marquis of Hastings and his “set” —wherein the
Dukes of Hamilton, Newcastle and Beaufort figured
prominently—were turf talk 60 years ago. Lord
Randolph Churchill’s elder brother, the Marquis of
Blandford, celebrated the eve of his wedding by a
mad supper party, which didn’t break up until the
noble roysterers had flung or pushed all the furnish-
ings of the supper-room, including a piano, out of
the windows on to the pavement of a London square.
The same Blandford, when Duke of Marlborough,
was a savage brute to more than one wife who
divorced him, and a Judge commented on the sworn
fact that, when his Grace heard of his new-born
child being disfigured as the result of his violence
to the mother, he said it might he recorded as “an
interesting historical incident.” About that time
came the Aylesford divorce case. Said the Ju lge in
his summing-up: “The evidence shows that Lord
Aylesford was at a picnic where the companv was
mostly titled and wholly fashionable. After
luncheon his Lordship sang an indecent song con-
cerning Brigham Young and his wives, whereupon
all the ladies got up and beat Lord Aylesford with
their parasols, doubtless for the purpose of in-
ducing him to sing another song equally' lewd.”
To remember these scandals of other days is to
think that the idle rich are nowadays behaving
rather better than when Frank Burnand wrote a
comedy entitled “The Turn of the Tide, or the
Morals of Mayfair.” The improvement is not sc
great as between the ages of Nero and Charles 11.,
but the period has not been so long. Social im-
provement needs considerable space of time to
move in before it becomes very marked. Still, the
wicked man and the wowser are alike more reason-
able than in the not-so-very-distant age when
John Wesley preached and his wife sat in a back
seat sticking out her tongue at him.


A- Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, daintily engraved, in
Silk-lined Case, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Spoon and Pusher,
pure Slher-plated, A 1 quality, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, dainty design in Silk-lined Case,
45/-
Silver-plated Cased Goods
SMi
lid &
« 54=
A. Saunders' 3-piece Carving Set, selected Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated
Mounts and Ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield Steel, 45/-
•" " :
4a t
A. Saunders’ Fruit Knives >nd Forks, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
in Silk-lined Case, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs,
pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, A 1 quality,
30/-
JcV
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon, in
Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 32/0.
n
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, 50/,
uliuuljljl.il.
r innnnnnr
HOT WATER AT THE TAPS—ANY NUMBER OF THEM—WHEN MOST WANTED—
FOR THE MORNING RUSH ON THE BATHS—FOR THE KITCHEN AND SCULLERY-
IN THE LAUNDRY, OR WHEREVER REQUIRED.
“IDEAL” Slow Combustion Boilers
“IDEAL” BOILER
Burns Coke, Coal or Wood.
will supply from 50 to 2000 gallons per hour, according to size, at anv
temperature from 100° to boiling point. They require no skilled
attendant. The adjustable draught maintains the correct temperature;
and the slow-combustion principle reduces fuel bills to the lowest limit.
The “Ideal” system is used in most of the metropolitan hospitals and
clubs, in many city and country homes, and by manufacturers requir-
ing certain and cheap hot water.
Heat Without Fireplaces.
The “Ideal” Radiator, used in connection with the “Ideal” Boiler, will
thoroughly warm the average-sized room, at a cost of from one half-
penny to one penny for 24 hours. It saves, too, the constant cleaning of
fireplaces, and the destruction of decorations, furniture and fittings by
soot, smoke and grit. The “Ideal” system is universally used through-
out Britain, Europe and America, and by many establishments in Aus-
tralia, public and private, where heat, economy and low cleaning charges
are necessary.
Expert information gratis—write or call.
' IDEAL ” RADIATOR.
324-330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY,
JOHN
>s>
391-403 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.


TCHING PIMPLES
AIL OVER READ
Face, Arms. Child Suffered
Agony. Cuticura Heals,
“When my little girl was three
months old, itching pimples came out
yw
all over her head, face and
arms. The pimples ap-
peared scattered and the
skin was very red. They
were very sore and she
suffered terrible agony.
She could not sleep.
“A friend advised me to
use Cuticura Soap and Ointment and
I sent for free sample. She was relieved
so I bought more Soap and Ointment
which healed her.” (Signed) Mrs
Emma Curtis, Mangana, Tasmania.
These fragrant emollients are all you
need for all toilet purposes.
The Soap to cleanse. The Ointment
to heal.
For sample each address : “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Soap. 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & '£/■•
m
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true—Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom—
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured, only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
, & Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA i'ORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
tTsed since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England,
insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Thiiik of
Schute, Bell $ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
In the Matter of
GREAT COBAR LIMITED.
Sir Arthur F. Whinney, K.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William Horner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager in
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for the
purchase of the following assets, namely :
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tools,
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill,
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing at
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Bank
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and Leaseholds
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak, County
Robinson, and at Litligow, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak and Litligow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Lithgow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. (2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and forms of
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to: —
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building. 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. H. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow.
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver in
the case of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Local Receiver for tenders
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be in the hands of the Receiver or
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day of June, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First day of February, 1921.
Building, W. 11. Fletcher,
350 George Street. Sydney. Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
r*
ua
\
k s
m
J
<E
&
M
ZZ
|W]EN who are at the forefront
of their profession, in culture,
I—J in discrimination and ability
to choose the best, place the
STETSON in a position of
leadership in the realm of hats.
A STETSON possesses such correct
smartness, such obvious quality that it
is.a distinct asset to a man’s appearance.
See yourself as others see you. Try
on a STETSON at your Outfitters
iN to-day xrrrrr
'*<////t:
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WITH CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
IT WILL GAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
GREY, with light binding,
From
m
A
\
\kf w
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
Shave w “ h “Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Ilargo”: At the Orange (N.S.W.) State
fish depot the other day a short-trousered
nipper bowled in and demanded “a couple
of pounds of Jim Dooley.” It was a while
before the attendant guessed that the young-
ster had been sent for John Dory!
“Australia Jane” : Recently I spent a few
'weeks in a Queensland country township, and,
poking round the local School of Arts, was
cheered to find, in the “Travel” section, a
volume called “With Christ at Sea.” Cuddled
up beside it were “The Man-eaters of Tsavo”
and “Three Men in a Boat.”
Viscount Novar, ex-G.G., has taken up fils
old hobby of forestry to keep him from getting
rusty in the Cold Country. lie is president
of a new association which is aiming at
the cultivation of a conscience on timber
conservation. One idea discussed at a recent
conference was that aeroplanes should oe
used for forest ranging, as is done in U.S.A.
Owen Jones, the Vie. Chief Commissioner
of Forestry, naturally favors this proposal,
as he was a flier himself while serving for
two years in France.
“Country Fed” : The Ovens, mentioned by
“Vic. R.” (B. 10/3/’2l), is not the only
Southern river infested with drum nets.
Nearly every inhabitant along the Murray
banks owns one or more. A professional
fisherman boasts of using SO in a stretch of
40 miles. I have seen them also in the Cam-
paspe and Goulbum; and not long ago,
when the Waranga-Mallee channel was emp-
tied for repairs, hundreds were found in it.
No wonder the streams are fast being de-
pleted ! The police take little notice, as con-
victions are .hard to secure, and the only
way to stop the illegality is to make the
manufacture of the nets an offence.
“Bardoc” : It occurred to me when I was
buying a military map of Melbourne in an
ordinary way in a shop the other
day that the thing had its risky side,
as for all the shopman knew I might
have been a bland foreigner who
would have some other use for the map
than to guide him on an occasional ramble.
The next time I went there the sale of
maps was off. The Defence Dept, had
awakened to what it was doing and had
rushed to stop sales. Too many foreigners
had been buying, the shopman explained—
a gentleman from Asia had bought a com-
plete set only recently. I stumbled out
thinking hard.
“Serabim” : Here’s a case that should make
a man very careful as to where he dies.
Recently a young fellow was drowned
in the Far West (N.S.W.), and an under-
taker who has a monopoly in the near-
est town, 58 miles away, was asked to
fix up the funeral. His quotation was £1
per mile (i.e., £5B for the job), and for less
than that he would not budge. The actual cost
of material for the coffin was £l3 (I know,
because I had an interest in the sale) ; car
hire cost him Is. (id. a mile each wav. i.e.,
£8 145., and wages to an offsider were paid
at a rate of 15s. a day. Horse feed, grave-
digging and sundries might perhaps have cost
him a fiver. Therefore the actual costs
amounted to £2B 195., and the cheque re-
ceived was for £5B, showing a profit of
£29 Is. for a three days’ job—including, of
course, remuneration for personal services,
which would be too highly assessed at 30s. a
day.
“Centurion” : The War Office decision to
wipe out three of the regular cavalry regi-
ments—the 18th Hussars and the sth and 21st
Lancers —will remove one of the “Irish”
regiments from the army list, viz., the sth
Royal Paddies. The remaining Irish cavalry
regiments are the 4th Dragoon Guards, the
6th Dragoons (Inniskillens) and the Bth
Hussars. The excuse that the doomed trio
are modern regiments with no traditions is
nonsense except as to the 21st, which was
raised in the days of the Indian Mutiny as
a Hussar regiment and carries only “Khar-
toum” on its kettle-drum drapes. The 18th
was a light dragoon regiment in the Penin-
sular War, was at Waterloo and in the siege
of Ladysmith. The sth R. I. Lancers has a
fine record, including Marlborough’s cam-
paigns. A few years ago three senior officers
of the st'h brought the regiment into the
limelight by their public battle against the
accursed confidential-report system. Their
colonel sent in a “confidential” which re-
sulted in their being asked for their papers.
They took the matter to the Courts and to
Parliament, but got little beyond the satis-
faction of throwing some light on the system,
which was and is a favorite axe wherewith
a commanding officer can smite his unsuspect-
ing enemy in the neck from behind.
“Plumtree” discovers an anti-climax :
Painful to me is the announcement that the body
of an unknown Portuguese soldier from Nyassaland
is to be buried in the Pantheon at Lisbon to immor-
talise the heroism of his nation during the war.
Sadly I await the news that the unidentified rem-
nants of a member of the intrepid Chinese Labor
Battalion are to be planted under the Great Wall
for the edification of future ages, and that the
recklessly gallant British West India Regiment (our
admiring troopers used to call it Britain’s Worst
Investment) is to be similarly commemorated on
some date-and-banana islet in the Caribbean Sea.
France originated the unknown-soldier idea, and
invested it with a simple grandeur. Britain borrowed
it without noticeable loss of dignity and pathos. But
Portugal! Shades of the poets Blackmore and Mont-
gomery. With a population of 6J millions (Euro-
pean only; the colonial population is nine millions)
Portugal contributed less to the final victory and
had fewer casualties than Maoriland. The two
divisions she sent to Flanders arrived late and left
early. When the Ilun drove at Armentieres in April,
1918, they broke all known battle records from
Armentieres to the coast. And Von Lettow found
the Portuguese equally precipitate on the retreat
in East Africa. When he was driven out of German
East he crossed into Portuguese territory and there
maintained himself until the end of the war. Trained
by Wellington and fighting alongside his grim
veterans, the Portuguese made tolerably good sol-
diers, but in the recent disturbance they never won
a battle of any description, and, securely guarded by
the Allied fleet, their country was in no more danger
than Spitzbergen. Yet this decayed and propped-up
Republic has the effrontery to apotlieosise an un-
fortunate frontier policeman, knocked on the head,
maybe, by some gloating savage in an obscure and
inglorious African scrap, in bombastic imitation of
France with its million and a quarter dead. It is
the greatest anti-climax in modern history.


Amusements.
C YD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER 1
HER MAJESTY’S.
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
CRITERION.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
PALACE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 9.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. MatinOes Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to Tim Manager.
Used the
World Over
MG
MOTOR
...CARS
ABBEY
SHOES.
A selection of footwear, combining quality
and value —the main features keen buyers
look for.
An Abbey Shoe is the shoe for you,
because of its careful finish and comfort-
able fit.
Amongst a wide range we feature a
GLACE KID DERBY BAL.,
also made in Box Calf and Tan Willow
Calf. A really high-grade article, leather-
lined.
In full sizes, narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Prices:—Gla.cc Kid Derby .. 52 6
Box Calf 47/6
Tan Calf ... .. 57/6
Postage Extra.
Write for our free, illustrated catalog of
Abbey Shoes.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
WRIGLEYS
d
a package
before the war
a package
during the war
and
a package
NOW
The Flavor Lasts
So Does the Price!
send3?fortrial PackettoWrigleys
Box 2376.G.R0.5ydney.
■V s
&
m
:
R
m
c
A-151
2
IGLEYS
CHEWING GUM
YjJzJ-
JWfW* AVEagfr-
Amusement*.
WIRTH BROS. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS., LIMITED.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
'Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N I O N ' PIC 'l' U K E Tll EA T K K »
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
| C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 9.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
H
OYT’S TIIEATRBS, MEI.HOU RN R.
Also SYDMSY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
A SELZNICK STAR PICTURE,
MAROONED HEARTS,
and
KATE HOWARDE’S AUSTRALIAN PLAY
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Prices as usual.
KING’S Til RAT It 15. 'I KIIS«D It N E.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
|y|A.IRSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
A PERFECT WOMAN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y| ULIIA THEATRE. M EI.HOUUN E.
Showing the nick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
P»KITANMA THEATRE. M R I.ltO I, RN K.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
« ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 25. Post
Free, direct from —
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
VISCOUNT BRYCE.
Modem Democracies. Bv the Right
Hon. VISCOUNT BRYCE, 031..
P.C., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S. 2
Vols. 50s. net.
* * In these volumes Lord Bryce examines a
few popular Governments in their actual work-
ing, comparing them with one another, and
setting forth the various merits and defects
which belong to each.
Australian Campaigns in the Great
War, being a Concise History of
the Australian Naval and Mili-
tary Forces. 1914 to 1918. By
LIEUT. THE HON. STANIFORTII
SMITH, M.8.E., F.R.G.S., F.Z.S.
(44th Battalion, A.1.F.), WITH A
PREFACE by ERNEST SCOTT,
Professor of History, University of
Melbourne. With Maps and Illus-
trations. Ss. 6d.
Australia Economic and Political
Studies. By VARIOUS WRITERS.
Edited by MEREDITH ATKINSON.
12s. Od.
The New Social Order: A Study of
Post-War Reconstruction. By
MEREDITH ATKINSON, M.A.,
(Oxon.), Director of Tutorial Classes
and head of the Department of Soci-
ology in the University of Melbourne.
Second Edition, completely revised.
[lmmediately.
Men and Thought in Modern His-
tory. By ERNEST SCOTT, Pro-
fessor of History in the University
of Melbourne. With Portraits. 12s.
(id.
Thomas Hardy’s Works.
Uniform Edition. 23 Vols. Cloth
gilt, 6s. net each.
Pocket Edition. 22 Vols. Cloth, 4s.
6d. net; limp leather, 6s. net each.
The Wessex Edition. 22 Vols. Cloth
extra. 10s. 6d. net each.
The Other Side of Death: A Study in
Christian Eschatology. By RONALD
G. MACINTYRE, M.A., D.D. (Edin.),
Professor of Systematic Theology, St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney. Bs. 6d.
net.
The Times: “Dr. Macintyre’s general attitude
is to be abreast of modern developments of
thought, but to keep as strictly as possible to
the guidance of Scripture; and he carries the
reader instructively through the eschatology of
the Old Testament (two chapters) and of the
Apocalyptics, and so proceeds to the Second
Advent and the Resurrection in the books of
the New Testament.”
The School-Book of Farming. By
L. H. BAILEY. Illustrated. 7s. net.
Rural Text-Book Series.
Helping Men Own Farms. A Prac-
tical Discussion of Government Aid
Land Settlement. By Professor
EL WOOD MEAD. Illustrated.
12s. 6d. net.
** A thoroughly up-to-date discussion of
Government aid in land settlement, dealing
chiefly with methods and results in Australia
and California.
The Sugar-Beet ih America. By
Prof. F. S. HARRIS, Ph. D. Illus-
trated. 12s. net.
[Rural Science Series.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Revietc of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
Leading Contents for December:—
THE BRITISH COMMONWEALTH OF
NATIONS IN 1921.
THE PASSING OF WOODROW WILSON.
EGYPT A NATION.
THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CON-
FERENCE AT BRUSSELS AND ITS
LESSON.
THE ANGLO-JAPANESE ALLIANCE.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE:
THE POLISIL-LITHUANIAN DISPUTE—
THE LITTLE ENTENTE—GERMAN
SOCIALISTS AND THE THIRD INTER-
NATIONAL.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zea-
land,” “United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada,”
“South Africa,”
W. and A. K. JOHNSTON’S
Multum in Parvo Atlas of the
World. New Edition, with Peace
Treaty boundaries. Containing more
than 100 Maps and Plans and full
Geographical Index. 3s. 9d. net.
The BOOK THAT EXPLAINS THE
NEW MAP OF EUROPE.
Aftermath: A Geographical Study
of the Peace Terms. By M. I.
NEWBIGIN. D.Sc. Illustrated with
15 Maps. ss. net. Cheap Edition,
3s. Gd. net. W. & A. K. JOHNSTON,
LTD.
“The quick spring like needs out of the dead.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN £CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


Vi
r
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
COA
MILLS
9
7,
V s -
m
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
g*f*
A. VICTOR IEGGO & CO
7 Hamilton Street, Sydney
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
. __ Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
Family
Fork
and
Spoon
Cabinets
We are showing an enormous range of thpse
useful adjuncts of a home. S these
Cabinets of all sizes, and with varied num-
bers of contents. Cabinets of i-doz. each inH
of dozens of each Many with our famous
Rustless Knives and Carvers.
All are in our famous “Fx & R” A 1 oualitv
of electroplate. A quality that will wear for
forty years. We do not stock lower qualities -
but our prices for the BEST goods will be
found on comparison to be the lowest
Our display is the largest that has ever been
made in Sydney, and prices are 25 per cent
lower than those of seven months ago
Inspections of comparison are invited
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
cash oniy. rea ‘ 25 8 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
. Her Majesty’s “Humpty Dumpty”
Criterion “The Lilac Domino”
Palace “Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Cm on Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Irene”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
King’s “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic , Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
■ ♦
“Chu Chin Chow” continues to be as
great an education in geography as a travel-
ling bursary, the cobbler goes on stitching
together the four-quarters of the murdered
merchant, and the shadow show of the beau-
teous slaves adds a drop or two to the cash-
box at Sydney Opera House nightly.
The number of Sydney youngsters who
haven't taken their parents and maiden
aunts to see “Humpty Dumpty” at Her
Majesty’s grows small by degrees and beauti-
fully less. Even bachelor uncles contrive to
find something interesting at the panto., for
the supply of silk stockings has not given
out, neither is there a famine in Dink desh-
ings nor the limbs that therein abide.
At Sydney Criterion, where “The Lilac
Domino” rages, a gipsy fiddler is still compli-
cating the romance of a buxom soprano and
a small baritone of preternatural gravity.
But things are satisfactorily sorted out at
six nightly performances and. two matinees.
At Sydney Palace to-morrow (Friday)
night J. Coyne will say ta-ta to “His Lady
Friends” and others. “Nightie Night.”
which deals with a subject of interest to
the Methodist Conference, arrives on Satur-
day.
At Sydney Tivoli “The Eternal Triangle,”
evidently a tale of the dog days, concerns
an amorous Airedale and a Collie husband
whose mistrust drives a faithful wife into
the very paws of the luxurious Airedale.
Then all Dogtown turns out to hunt the
betrayer, and their adventures by the way
form most of the picture. Having found
the disturber of his hearth and home, the
infuriated husband administers a dose of
Queensberry rules, while the sporting press
wags its tail in excitement and makes notes
in dog-eared books. Same address sees a
pianola play an important part in the cap-
ture of a crook. Other incidents to the
arrest are Charles Ray as Kid Burns, light-
weight, and the girl of his heart, who is
housemaid at the establishment where crooks ’
go in and out and crack safes as easily as
you might crack your breakfast egg.
Clara Kimball Young is caught in “Mid
Channel” at Sydney Lyceum and Crystal
Palace. As the young wife she becomes
limp through the meagre allowance of hot-
“The Welcome
Stranger,” at
Melbourne King's.
Jules Jordan as
the Jew.
air provided * b y
he r h u sban d.
The she snuggles
to the other man
while her husband
strokes the other
cat. After which
they chassee t o
each other; but
when she advances
to swing to part-
-11 er s he retires.
An open window
and a hard pave-
ment provide the
wa y o f escape.
“Scratch My
Back” is the story
of a flea-hunt at
the same address.
Tom Meighan is a
whimsical figure
a s “Conrad i n
Quest of His
Youth,” at the
Globe and Hay-
market. Journey-
ing back after a
Id n g absence h e
finds that his loves
of long ago have
developed families
and adipose tissue
at the expense of
sentiment. Then
when he is about to give up the hunt the
journey ends, as all true journeys do, in a
lovers’ meeting.
These be prosperous times at the Sydney
Hippodrome, where all the ushers can recite
Randolph Bedford’s circus verses. But a
furious controversy is proceeding between
the baboon and the jazzing fox-terrier as to
whether you can rhyme “real” with “peel.”
At Melbourne King’s the first three acts
of “The Welcome Stranger” soften the pub-
lic heart towards Act 4, which resembles
the last chapter of “Wallingford” and other
comedies of the same family in being squeezed
dry of humor. The interview between Icha-
bod Y\ liitson and Isidore Solomon, wherein
the fat benefactor offers the magnanimous
hand of Israel to his busted brother, is an
awful strain on the imagination of even a
friendly audience. John Waller, ais the
alleged Jew in disguise, is like nothing that
any real Yiddisher ever resembled. He’s the
gloomy Gentile villain of old-time melo-
drama, suffering from a fit of unwonted
depression. When plump and prosperous
Isidore delivers his little homily to Ichabod
rc the besetting sins of the Chosen, the ex-
treme solemnity of that unexpected penitent
suggests that the pair of them really ought
to burst into tears.
A brief revival of “So Long, Letty” is
filling in the gap between the withdrawal of
“Baby Bunting” and the arrival of “Irene”
at Melbourne Majesty’s next Saturday.
Dorothy Brunton again reveals her glad hair
and hopeless cooking in the original part of
Letty, but she has acquired a new husband,
George Willoughby, who isn’t sufficiently
mercurial to maintain a festive manner
throughout the evening. Field Fisher, whose
regard for Letty is once more dimmed by a
lunch of faded herring and unbreakable
scones, gets an echo of Connie Ediss’s petu-
lance from a comparatively lightweight
missus, Hettie Hartley. Frith seems to have
doubled the grinning capacity of his surfer,
but in other respects the show is not. materi-
ally altered, though a dance by Madge Elliott
and Cyril Ititehard appears new, or, at any
“THE LILAC
DOM INO ”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
A goldfish movement
by dancer George Gee.
rate, conveys an impression of novelty in
the lady’s ravishing costume of grey-and-
white.
# * *
Owing to the unabated flow of audience to
Melbourne Royal anyone who wants to back
"Maid of the Mountains” to prove a record-
breaker is now required to lay odds-on.
At Melbourne Tivoli, where straight-out
vaudeville used to be. a bill composed of pic-
tures and variations is at present capable of
improvement all round. The entertainment
wants time to develop. One of the variations
consists of an orchestral “turn.” 22 musicians
being arrayed on the stage so that the audi-
ence can count ’em to see they are all there.
The musical performance, truth to tell, is
not yet worthy the attention it invites, nor is
the accompaniment to subsequent songs and
pictures anything to write home about. The
first hour of the Tivoli programme this week
includes a doleful oasis-in-the-desert ditty,
sung by Fred Collier, wearing flowing
draperies, like Omar in “Chu Chin.” There
are duets by Stewart and Moore, whose tune-
fulness excuses their imperfect enunciation.
Also a flying panorama, bordered by some-
thing that looks like a horse-box with a hand-
kerchief waving therefrom, is supposed to illus-
trate a sickly sentimental song of farewell;
but the notion of the singer keeping his hanky
and his ballad going for 10 miles or so seems
a bit over the fence. As for the pictures
pure and simple, the “First National attrac-
tions.” the best of them is “45 minutes from
Broadway,” which gives good play to the
pleasant light comedy of Charles Ray in the
part of a pug who chases a Mary. Mary is
discovered to be heiress to a million dollars,
but she tears up the long lost will and takes
the pug without a red cent, in preference to
proving the will and giving her bloke half the
money. A picture constructed entirely of dog
life is rather tiresome, yet not so tiresome in
the illustrations as in the texts sandwiched
between them—texts that might have derived
their sly wit from a rollicking curate under
the influence of sparkling cider.
* * *
Hoyt’s latest in Melbourne is “Marooned
Hearts,” with Conway Tearle as a disestab-
lished doctor trying to forget a face and
fortune in a torrid South Sea isle. “Folly’s
Trail.” also on the same screen, shows the
usual specialists in movie emotion pushing
through bathos and
disillusionment to
a tumultuous hug
in the final reel.
Hoyt’s film of the
Australian O u t-
baek yarn. “ ’Pos-
sum Paddock,” is
c o m p a r a-
tively crude in
production, but re-
gularly wins an
approving roa r.
The late E. W.
Hornung gets an
adv t. from the
Majestic feature,
“Dead Men Tell
No Tales,” freely
adapted from his
novel by an
American film firm.
T h e follow-on,
“Oh, Boy,” is like
a cream-puff after
a gulp of rum. but
the flappers o f
both sexes enjoy it
immensely. A t
the Melba “Silks
ar d Sadd 1 e s”
“The Welcome
Stranger,” at
Melbourne King's.
John O'Hara as Clem.
pays a superfluous tribute to the great
horse-race industry, whilst the Britan-
nia has Sessue llayakawa smiling with
hatred and scowling with joy in "Li Ting
Lang.”
“Irene,” after summering in Maoriland,
is going well at Adelaide Royal. It is an
unusual musical comedy. There is no hotel
or restaurant, no comic waiter or servant,
no low comedian, no giddy husband ; in fact,
no husband at all. It is the story—going
very near at times to “straight” drama —of
an American shopgirl who claims that, given
a fair chance (which means clothes), she
could shine with the best. From her horriWe
tenement dwelling, where the only fresh air
or recreation is got by sitting out on the fire-
escape, she butts into the abode of the
wealthy, and, the wardrobe being forthcom-
ing, she "gets away” with the bluff. Dorothy
feouth is nearly the whole show, and proves
triumphantly that with grace and cleverness
good looks don’t matter, even for a heroine
of musical comedy. Chester Clute is the
man-milliner, and Paunceforte does well as
an Englishman, though probably not the
youthful Wodehouse type of idiot the author
intended. Beaumont Collins is easily the
strongest of the support on the feminine
side. The Prince of Wales is turning away
money in its new venture of pantomime
twice a day, under the Fullers. Stiffy and
Mo provide most of the fun, and “spectacle”
is not forgotten. Villiers Arnold puts in
some fine, intense acting here. Autumn
has shut down on the Vogues and Vanities,
and their jolly open-air show is at an end ;
on the other hand, it allows Eslick to get
going again with dancing at the Palais
Royal. In pictures the Majestic is a new-
comer to be reckoned with, and Annette
Kellerman repeats most of her old swimming
stunts, but as a modern girl this time, in
“What M omen Love.” West’s have a
spirited attempt to realise the old Red
thrill, “The Last of the Mohicans” :
and Wondergraph combines the bloodstained
“Virgin of Stamboul” with the farcical
Jones whom things Happened to. Peggv
May is at the Pav., modestly billed as “the
baby Bernhardt.”
From an Adelaide critic:—
Preece’s Gallery, which has given the Adelaide
public its first sight of much new Australian work,
has a small, well-selected show. Elliot Gruner’s
“Blue Pool,” a river-bed with cattle, rather domi-
nates the room, and opposite are J. R. Jackson’s
Sydney Harbor studies in varied morning aspects.
He somewhat resembles Will Ashton in his method
of getting effects by generous blobs of paint, which
only at a distance resolve themselves into the true
semblance of what the eye would see in that land-
scape. Ashton himself, now in Sydney, has studies
quite similar, but he seems to have brought home
the dull and greyer skies which he found in Paris.
Hans Heysen, whose work is little seen in his own
State nowadays, is represented mostly by black-
and-white. So are the Lindsays, though each of
them is seen in color, too. Lionel’s recent visit to
Adelaide, and to Heysen in particular, has resulted
in some brilliant etchings of Hills scenery. Blamire
young and Hardy Wilson are there in paint, and
Van Raalte in etchings. Altogether an inspiriting
little show.
** * *
From an Adelaide critic:—
Veteran James Ashton, painter of thousands of
pictures in his time and teacher of hundreds of
pupils many of them now teachers themselves—has
held the umpteenth show of his own work in his
Adelaide studio. Its main feature was a startling
change of subject. In the past he has made a
corner in seashore and rocks. This time he struck
inland, turning to the Murray, or quiet gum-tree
studies in morning mist; and Adelaide, after the
first gasp of astonishment, fell upon them and bought
up the lot.
“Peter”: Lorna and Toots Pounds, the
Australian pair who have been cleverly
mimicking their betters in London, have now
included Oscar Asche, Lily Bray ton and Mrs.
Pat Campbell among their victims. Their
delicate caricatures of Oscar Asche and Lily
Brayton in “Chu Chin Chow” have won
great applause, and Lorna’s mockery of Mrs.
Campbell’s voice in “Bella Donna” is de-
scribed as “gramophonic in its realism.”
The girls also now include in their turn "a
jazz-duet” of their own invention.
These days, even the little grey cat has
developed the limousine hunger. When the
latest shipment of Cadillacs was being
shipped from America there was one puss
that decided on a motor-car elopement, so
she popped into the case with her choice,
and duly landed in Australia, alive, though
somewhat thinned down—she had lived, so
they think, on her own fat and the grease
off the bearings. The worst blow came with
her disembarkation—she had struck Sydney
during the milk famine. But she survived
even that. And now the agents are sending
her back to the land of her birth with an
insurance of £lOOO on her head.
“0.K.”: Of three money-making farcical
comedies which the late Frank Thornton in-
troduced to Australia —“The Private Secre-
tary,” “Charley’s Aunt” and “When Knights
Were Bold”—the first-named is the most
virile, though ail three are going strong in
revival to-day. This notwithstanding the
handicap of some rather out-of-date spiritual-
istic fooling in “The Private Secretary.”
The type of flabby curate whom Thornton
copied from Penley, and who had been pre-
sented as a tall man by young Beerbohm
Tree before Penley came with his Bath bun
40 years ago, was much more generally true
to curate character then than it is to-day.
But time has merely accentuated the cari-
cature, while the masterful irascibility of
Uncle Cattermole has been perpetuated by
scores of stage uncles in later comedies, musi-
cal and otherwise, whose job is to set a ball
of mistaken identity rolling. Uncles origi-
nally arrived from abroad for the purpose
of recognising the right nephew when they
saw him, as in “School for Scandal.” But
from the time of “The Private Secretary,”
or earlier, they have usually jumped to false
conclusions re a wrong nephew who behaved
“CHU GRIN GROWN," AT SYDNEY
OPERA ROUSE.
Ali Baba (Ghas H. Workman).
like half _an idiot, or a right nephew who
behaved like a whole idiot, because wifey was
hugging another fellow in the interests of
uncle s delusion. Classic farcical comedy
turns mostly on the inopportune arrival or
threatened approach of an uncle or an aunt.
The false impersonation which ensues is car-
ried to the limit of imposition by Charley,
whose relative came from Brazil. But the
utter fraudulency of Charley’s wrong aunt,
born, a decade later than “The Private Secre-
tary.” is hardly so humorous these times
as the truthful caricature of Cattermole’s
wrong nephew, who never knows himself
to be a case of mistaken identity.


“I fear no foe
ff
Murdoch’s “Armourite”
Boot.
Desig'ned to Resist Wear.
ADDED to the natural tough quality- of the leather
a special treatment into the sole during the
tanning process provides wonderful wear-resisting
properties without affecting in the slightest the
natural softness and resiliency of the leather.
MEN’S BLACK BOX CALF BALMORAL BOOTS. Fashioned
in specially-selected Box Calf of enduring quality. Fitted with
“Armourite” welted soles and leather-lined. Made on easy-
fitting natural-form last, roomy and comfortable. A shapely
model that will render excellent service.
Murdoch’s
Good Value
340
When ordering be sure and state size and
address your letter to DESK R.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY.
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
0
<§>
1
Mailed to
any address
in Australia
on the day
they are
made.
Always in
red boxes.
3/-, 5/6,
7/6, 12/6,
20/- and
30/-
Post Free.
CHOCOLATES
(SSiuks
«s£W
"m.
k
/ -
TTY
y
o’
\ ■ -'>
P^TEKOor*
SltlM t Uilfc&l
The wise man wins
hIS GIRL WITH „
162 Pitt St., Sydney
BUCKLEY’S
The Shrine of Fashion.
Beautiful and Inexpensive Blouses.
The present vogue in these delightful garments finds expression at Buckley’s in
a wondrous range of fascinating styles. Materials of faultless quality, style
that bespeaks the hand of a master designer—these and the exceptionally attrac-
tive prices make the appeal of such garments irresistible.
We Pay Carriage on all Drapery Goods.
liClll —Useful Blouse,
In Ivory Jap Silk,
pointed coat, rever
collar, fastens with
pearl button, turn-back
cuffs. Price, 22/6
LCUI
LC 112
LCII
*!■<*
J*
\A/
-*• m
■</
\
M
V
LCIIQ.
ecus
/'
LCII2 —Smart Shirt Blouse, in heavy-
weight Jap Silk, fastening high to the
neck, with row of pearl buttons, sleeves
anti front spokestitched, turn-hack
cuffs. Price, 35/-
LCII3 —Blouse. in Ivory Jap. Silk,
embroidered silk design on collar and
fronts finished with spokestitehing and
fastened with pearl button, turn-back
cuffs. Price, 25/11
LCII4 —Dainty Semi-Evening Blouse,
in Ivory Georgette, new round neck,
and short sleeves, fastening to back,
design of silk stitching in shades of
Mauve, Lemon, Rose and Saxe.
Price, 25/11
LCII5 —A becoming and useful Tailored
Shirt Blouse, in heavy Jap Silk, with
long roll rever collar, fastening with
pearl button, smart link cuffs.
Frice, 35/.
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY (Si. NUNN LTD.,
BOURSE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Inlaid Tortoiseshell Brush Sets comprise Ladies’ Hair
Brushes, Clothes Brushes, Mirrors, Combs, with
usual Toilet Requisites, Trays, etc., and may be had
individually or in silk-lined leather cases,
Inlaid Tortoisehell
OTHING could possibly be more exquisite or
more artistic than the very chaste selection
of Silver-Inlaid Tortoiseshell Ware which has
just reached the Firm from London. The
articles include Brush ware and Toilet Requisites, Clocks
of various choice designs, Writing-desk Accessories,
Manicure Sets, etc. The Tortoiseshell is of that rare,
semi-blonde variety, and is wonderfully enhanced by
the beautiful workmanship displayed in the inlaying.
The whole selection possesses a rich individuality which
may be appreciated only on inspection.
©Hm. Brummonti & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


WINCHESTER
RIFLES.
MODEL THUMB TRIGGER, 47/6.
MODEL 1902, fires 22 short, long and extra
long, 52/6.
MODEL 1904, fires 22 short, long and long
rifle, 62/6. 6
MODEL 1906 REPEATER, £6/17/6.
AUTOMATIC MODEL 1903, for quick and
accurate shooting £lO/10/-
MODEL ’92, 25/20. 32. 38 or 44 cal. Re-
peater, £B/10/-. Carbines, £6/17/6.
REMMINGTON REPEATER, HAMMERLESS
£6/10/-
B.S.A. 22 SPORTING' RIFLE, 95/-
Ca).
E 235033
SPORTS CENTRE,
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
BARE FLOORS ARE SANITARY
MAKE THEM BEAUTIFUL.
USE
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throug-houi the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
W. ChorleytfCo.Ltd.
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
**
LADIES' 8
GENT.'S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
•j*
315 GsorgeSt.
SYDNEY.
Thiet & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL.
CHAMPAGNE
Squisite
“0.K.” gives lii.s old friend a send-off:—
Haddon Chambers, who in his 60th year com-
mitted the indiscretion of marriage with a young
Spanish American actress and died in less than
six months, was the most fortunate of playwrights
in his young days. Going to London as a jour-
nalist, after sowing early wild oats as a civil
servant and then a station-hand in N. S. Wales, he
was under 30 and looked still a mere boy when he
got his “Captain Swift” produced by Beerbohm
Tree. It had no outstanding merits, but the writer’s
healthy Australian optimism and quiet “cheek” had
an appeal in it; also the name part was the sort
that actor-managers love, and the conventional melo-
dramatic plot presented new surface effects. The
ex-bushranger was from Australia, and another char-
acter talked about cow-punching, whereas previous
gallant impostors who had made a social success in
English stage drawing-rooms were supposed to be
from South America or the Levant. The artless melo-
drama, distinguished in comedy garb, was a London
success. In 1890 we got it here, in the author’s
native land, with Charles Warner as Captain Swift,
young Herbert Flemming as the Queensland squatter,’
Oily Deering as the Queensland detective, and Ada
Ward as the most important lady in the play. Dick
Stewart and Constance Deorwyn, the parents of
Mione Stewart, were also well placed. The author’s
talent had been profusely praised by his old journal-
istic friends; but the Firm never revived the piece
after the one short season. Even in those days of thin,
stagey dramas, when the plots were usually constructed
on Family Herald story lines, it looked unfurnished
and amateurish. A year later came “The Idler” and that
was more quickly forgotten than “Captain Swift.”
In this play one of the men, either parting from a
sworn enemy or encountering him' .after long years,
folded his arms across his chest, stared sternly at the
ERNEST J. ROBERTS, musical director
“Baby Bunting."
other fellow, and said: “I have often noticed that
when a man hates a man, sooner or later he is sure
to meet him”—which pretentious, sententious piffle
struck my sense of absurdity 30 years ago, and the
scar remains on my memory. But the audacity of
Haddon Chambers’s crude dialogue blinded some of
the critics. In one or other of his youthful plays he
made a character .say that “Poetry is the gymnastics
of prose,” and the critics quoted the false epigram
almost as freely as they amused themselves with the
playwright’s immortal phrase, “The long arm of co-
incidence.” After "The Idler” there was a lengthy
interval when Haddon Chambers's reputation was
fading away. Then, in 1899, or thereabouts, came
“The Tyranny of Tears,” a charming littje comedy,
brilliant as compared either with its own elder bro-
thers or with any ordinary bright modern comedy.
There was a whisper, probably a malicious lie, that
Chambers didn’t really write “The Tyranny,” but
had a “ghost” or a mysterious foreign original to
draw upon. The Broughs scored their most artistic
all-round success with this economical comedy, con-
taining only seven characters, including two servants
in the background. “The Tyranny” brought the
name of the author right back to the mind of the
theatrical world. Only one Other play by Chambers
was seen in Australia, viz., “Passers-by,” produced
here with Hilda Spong as the heroine. Except that
the long arm of coincidence stretched out of its
socket to drag Hilda Spong into Harcourt Beatty’s
rooms and the tendons of improbability got strained
by the explanation that she was the mother of his
child, “Passers-by” was a clever plaj - .
“Old Pot”: Some weird tales are told of
Haddon Chambers’s efforts to get his early
plays read. With the script of “Captain
Swift” in his pocket, he followed Beerbolun
Tree into a London Turkish bath and read
to him while he was taking off weight in the
hot room. Tree took refuge in the sulphur
bath because he thought Chambers a madman
at large; but the dramatist squatted on the
mat and waited until Tree could stand no
more, then he continued reading until it
dawned on the actor-manager that Chambers
was a literary find and not a peripatetic
dope-fiend.
“THE LILAC DOMINO," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Jamieson Dodds as Andre, who has a
troubled love affair.
S.S. ’: Napoleon Bollard had a few
stories that he didn't mind telling against
himself but not many. He had gone to
Horsham with a popular concert company.
He was a great success. He sang encore
alter encore, and then when the programme
was exhausted the audience called for
“Boffard! Boffard!” The almost-alto
obliged again. Later at the hotel he was
given to understand. A big resident clapped
him on the back. “By Jove, you’re a great
success, ’ the West Country man said. “We’re
all agreed you’re the cleverest child-imper-
sonator we’ve ever had up here.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: “0.K.” (B. 24/3/’2l),
writing from the outskirts of the show world,
makes some random statements regarding the
alleged purchase of the Tivoli Theatres, and
hurls charges of perjury at the heads of vari-
ous people who sought to protect themselves
from certain indiscreet and inspired utter-
ances.. As a matter of fact, the Mclntosh
and First National interosts denied only that
the latter had purchased the Tivoli theatres.
The denial still stands good, so the daily
press had nothing to kick about. If the
press wished to confine itself to one ouestion.
there was no obligation on either party to
divulge anything further. “0.K.” mentions
’ George Musgrove, jun.,” as active in the in-
terests of the “Picture Syndicate.” “George
Musgrove, jun.,” like the untruths alleged,
doesn t exist. If “O.K ” will read the Tivoli
advertisements as carefully as he reads The
Bulletin he will see that “Harry Mus-
grove” presents “First National Attractions.”
which are not necessarily entirely the pro-
duct of the moving-picture world.
Kxtra Turn ’: Where are the “screws”
of yesteryear ! I doubt if any manager in
Australia would dream of paying people the
money that Harry Rickards used cheerfully
to disburse for his overseas stars. Little
Tich drew £2OO a week from the time he
left England till he Kelly, “the
Virginian Judge,” got £150; Ilackenschmidt,
£125; Chung Ling Soo, £4OO. And ’Arry
made money out of every one of them.
“C. Ockney”: Jennie Lee, the world-
famous Jo, who was in Australia
never-mind-how-many years ago, is still on
deck. Her husband, J. P. Burnet, who was
responsible for the “Bleak House” adapta-
tion; her clever sister Katie; her niece Joan,
a most promising actress —all are gone, She
herself appeared at the London Lyric in
February afit a performance in aid of the
Children’s Library movement. Once more
Jennie was Jo, but this time in a tableau
only. She had a tremendous reception, and
at her “call,” when she spoke the old tag,
“You was werry good to me, you was,” the
house, in Garrick’s phrase, “rose at her;’’
“Topo”; William CfesWick, last of the Ola
English School of tragedians, playing Riche-
lieu in Melbourne Bijou in the ’eighties, was
fortunate to have the brilliant G. R. Ireland
as De Mauprat. One night, however, the
play was smashed in its finest scene, De
Mauprat in full armor was defying the wily
diplomat, and the time came for him to fling
back his metal top-piece and disclose his
identity. Btit the darned thing wouldn’t
move. Ireland tugged and pulled frantically*
but it was no go. Oreswick glared in speech-
less wrath. The audience sat in stolid silence
until a god squeaked, “Git a tin-hopenor,
Hireland !” The drama had no hope of being
taken seriously after that.
“E.T,” 1 The latest male Broadway star is
Lionel Atwill, who did good as “juvenile
lead” ih Australia with the Drury Lane
drama “The Whip.” A few years on Ameri-
can stages did the trick, and Atwill is now
being head-lined and electric-signed by
manager David Belasco, who has given him
the title-part in Sacha Guitry’s “Debureau”
(adapted by the übiquitous Granville Bar-
ker) at the Belasco Theatre, N.Y.
“Packer”: Evens vaudeville, 0-4 picture-
show, 3-1 Shakspeare, 4-1 musical-comedy,
6-1 comic-opera, 7-1 grand-opera. This isn’t
my card of prices for starters in the Amuse-
ment Cup, but the proportion of “goddesses”,
to “gods” that nightly climb the stairs to the
hard seats up above. The prices could be
stretched a little for matitmes.
“Fax”; Last month poor old Rutland Bar-
rington, a sick man for many months, was
given a benefit at the London Savoy, lent by
Courtneidge so that friends of the beneficiare
might see him on the stage with which his
name and work are identified. It is to be
hoped the heirs of Gilbert and Sullivan did
the handsome thing, for the chief baritone of
G. and S. productions at the Savoy had been
the “creator” of Gilbertian characters, at the
London Opera Comique, before the Savoy
Theatre was built. Barrington was the
Bishop in “The Sorcerer” when the famous
series of collaborations got a send-off, in 1877
or thereabouts. From then until the time
of “Utopia” (.1893) he was in the original
cast of every new G. and S. opera except
“Yeomen of the Guard”—there was no
humorous part suited to him there. He was
essentially a Gilbertian product. The librettist
identified him with certain pai-tb, and he sfet
the type for, among others. Captain Corcoran
in “Pinafore* * Archibald Grosvenor in
“Patiehce,” the sergeant of police in “The
Pirates,” Strephon in “lolanthe” and Pooh
Bah in “Mikado.” His manner of rendering
the Bishop’s song in “The Sorcerer”—“Ah
me! I was a pale-faced curate then”—was
adopted by the late Andrew Black, who sang
it of old on the Australian concert platform.
The benign blandness of Rutland Barrington’s
style harmonised with Gilbert’s gentlest
satire, and made him an important factor in
the firm’s earliest successes. He deserved a
big benefit.
“E.F.”: News that King George recently
gave Genevieve Ward the order of Dame
Commander on her 84th birthday is a re-
.minder of how old Genevieve looked at the
time of her Australian tour, when, according
to present figures, she was under SU. i\o
actress ever carried her years more conspicu-
ously. The marks of parenthesis (as Wendell
Holmes called them) were scored heavily on
her countenance, and the one drawback to the
success of her performance of the adventuress
in “Forget-me-not” was that she looked in-
sufficiently young and attractive for the part.
Ethel Irving would have been more con-
vincing. It had been the drawback from the
time Genevieve first appeared in the play a
few years earlier. She was a distinguished-
looking lady, but hers was one of those faces
which in middle age seem to have been born
elderly, so her range of possible triumphs for
touring purposes was always limited. “For-
get-me-not” and “The Queen’s Favorite” came
within the range. As a tragedienne in
classic parts impressive Miss Ward scored
only by her force and magnetism, certainly
not by subtle art or originality of conception.
Her Lady Macbeth was of the old school
even 40 to 50 years ago. In fact, het first
acquaintance with the stage was in ItfflVi
in gi-and opera, and a little of the staginess
of her early training had got into her bones.
But with her somewhat tragedy-queen
method there was the air of genuine royalty.
“C.R.B.’’; Herbert Grimwood. who did
I ago to O. Asche’s “Othello” in a pictfirfesque
revival of the old tragedy a few years, back
in Melbourne, is now a partially-dressed afad
decorative Arab in Asche’s latest spectacle.
“CHU CHIN CHOW," AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Bostan, a heavyweight servant (Bertha
Miller).
“Mecca,” which is touring America. Appearing
in the same show is Audrey Anderson, a
young Australian who after some trial runs
in Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Co. joined
Guy Bates Post in the U.S. and took the
part of the siren in “The Masquerader,”
which Mrs. Post had played out here. Audrey
is a promising young actress with a natural
aptitude fol' the stage that was strikingly
disclosed in Gregan McMahon’s shdws. By
the way. Orville R. Caldwell, whom the dam-
sel married a while back, is a Oft. 3in. Sultan
in “Mecca” and lately received a widely
advertised testimony to his loveliness from
Passion’s great historian, Elinor Glyn. The
somewhat elderly Elinor, who is apparently
travelling in America, described the blushing
potentate as her “ideal man.”
"C.K.8.”: “75” (B. 24/3/’2l) is wrong
in saying that Grimaldi the Clown was at
the height of his fame 70 years ago. He
retired from the stage a broken-down man
on June 7, 1828, and died May 31, 1837.
“Jeune Premier”: What we mummers
have to put up with ! I was touring Maori-
land with a “monster attraction” {vide
posters), and we were splendidly received all
along the line—till we struck Wanganui.
‘‘They’re good critics here,” the hotel boss
assured me. “If you can pass Wanganui
you can go anywhere.” Although there was
ft big crowd present on our opening night
the show seemed to go a bit slow. We put
it down to the fact that the locals didn't
approve of paying our raised prices. At
breakfast next day a man who 'sat at my
table started to talk about the performance.
“Good enough piece,” was his verdict, “if the
actors could only play it!” There was a
pause; then lie looked at me and asked:
‘Were you there?” “Yes, I was there,” I
said ; “I’m one of the actors.” “Well,” he
went on serenely, “don’t you agree with
me?”
“Stargazer”: The plump tenor was sing-
ing at a social affair, and in the course of
the evening was introduced to the hostess's
father, who. is. quite deaf. Later he was
discovered sitting absorbed, gazing at the
afflicted parent and wearing an expression
of profoundest sorrow. When shaken up
by the lady at his elbow, a fat tear leaked
out and rolled into his left dimple. “Do you
know, Mrs. I)—i —said lie, “I could almost
weep when I think that that poor man will
never hear me sing.”
C. Ockney” : Robert Courtneidge’s newest
find in comic-opera was to be staged at LOll-
- Empire the second week in March. ‘‘The
Rebel Maid ’ has for its heroine Clara Butter-
woith, who, at the same house, was the
original lead in “The Lilac Domino.” Court-
neidge s strong east includes William Crom-
well, who with Edwin Brett was responsible
tor a lot of laughter here in the old Clarke
and Meynell days.
THE OLD ACTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘The ex-actress! ’ Nonsense; no actress is ever
at.”
The actress is no longer young,
No longer in the limelight’s glow
She struts the stage. Her song is sung,
But ordinary men among
She’s acting still where’er she go;
Whate’er she does, whate’er she says,
Her acting calls for warmest praise.
If she come down the hushliouse stairs,
It is as though a thronging pit
Hangs on each graceful step, and shares
With crowded stalls in breathless pairs
The pleasure and the love of it.
She takes her seat at table, too,
As no mere, untrained mortals do.
She eats at meals as though it were
A vain and frivolous pretence.
She drinks from empty cups, I swear,
As though this emptiness to her
Were satisfying to the sense.
To see her enter and depart
A lesson is in Thespian art.
She rises by the rule and sits
By method line, and if she stride
Across a big apartment it’s
A splendid movement that omits
No vestige of a Bernhardt’s pride.
Of this dear, quaint, old personage
’Tis true that “All the world’s a stage!”
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
„ “E-T.”: As “0.1 v.” remarks (B. 31/3/’2l),
nothing in panto succeeds like ‘Cinderella,’ ”
in whatever stage-guise the story appears. Its
latest variant is “Irene,” and that is a world-
wide hit. “Irene” has just been taken off
after a 4o weeks’ rUn at London Empire,
where, according to John Sandes,- it was
not nearly so well played as in Australia,”


i
'
m
m
«• -
i m
. .
m
mim?
«4k '•^♦•jSggSVl
■m;,\
*>«
fern. fkSr vWs'
.T§«S
3B?ft .7
Z*.-
•jRk. :
■• *B£2
SHB ■
■: r
k.\ / < . ''Jf , * ■ * 4 -^j££L v suir*
«y //* V W - WmM '’• • ■ ‘ .ykuußKW
Mi
v /f? wl wm i*st£ :
sJ/ , #/JHf v •' *;♦.:* |
9H&- .. i
&LJL
V
-•',£< jMteyg^f , '// ••
lifer Y ‘- m>s * AL ' 7
r
&&K.
.
■■■.
Y &
11/
H-lF* ' t
n
gr jt ■ «vmmw
U 4 - llfffe
1 7
WmMM
*%
V'M
, j# : :
i
f i ii
; \ * 'tJ , • ■ *fe
\ t7* *— '¥jf H||
i 1 ‘ r « *** • "r**™
7<
* s • Bf
Electric Light inside and outside
just by pressing a switch
Th* Western Electric Portable Sew-
ing Machine makes sewing a joy
Ironing it cooler and far easier with
a Western Electric No. l Iron
Adapt electric light to every possible
need for your comfort and convenience
Hot crisp toast made right at the
table with a Western Electric Toaster
A Happy Country Home with
Electric Light Everywhere
OVER 100,000 Western Electric
Power and Light plants are in
use throughout the world a
great many of them in Australia.
Every one means that some country
home has done with kersosene lamps,
lanterns and other makesht lighting
systems, for ever.
Just as city homes have electric lights
in every room, on the verandah, gate-
ways, in barn, stables, or dairy, so can
you. Just as they have electrical hands
to wash the dishes, sweep the floors,
wash and iron the clothes, do the sewing,
and many other household duties, so can
you.
Western Electric Power and Light gives
all these wonderful comforts because it’3
big and strong, with a battery of 288
Ampere Hours (S.A.E. Rating). Plenty
of electric current for lights and house-
hold work —enough to drive the separa-
tor, churn and grindstone.
The Battery is charged by a 3i H.P.
Kerosene Engine which is a self starter,
and stops itself when battery charging
is complete. You can use this engine
also for driving saw-bench, pump, chaff-
cutter, feed grinder, etc.
For comfort’s sake—for profit’s sake—
get 20-page Book, post free—it tells
the whole story. Western Electric Power
and Light is easy to buy, too. Ask youi
nearest of the agents below.
Western -Electric Company
(Austra/ia)Ltd.
192 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. AGENTS: C. R. Foster, 262 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. T. Tonks, Elizabeth St., Brisbane. Newton McLaren, Ltd., Leigh
St., Adelaide. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 33 King St., Perth. Medhurst Electric
Co., 11 Argyle St., Hobart. A. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington,
N.Z. Also a't Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
Western Electric
Power and Ll o Kx


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WMITTY:
• . ♦- .'a £ r
makers!
m
ttfliil
„.. «,»■■■;.-¥S-3$R3
z**mm
[jU
mm.
- Vs?/-
is*K.
IK
WRITE. FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion BooK
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
Or
r >SH
'Mpt
m
m
sC
"World/Best
r MoTORQ>iwr
S Z'nne*c/e> ed
ir\ Cdus t tr&jG<3..
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COT. LTD. AUJTATCJ V n l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
All the excitement went out of the A.J.C.
Autumn Meeting after the Sydney Cup. On the
third day Speciality showed that his Doncaster
Handicap win was no fluke by downing Richmond
Main, Greenstead, Beauford and five others in the
All-aged Stakes. Also, Eurytlimic comfortably added
the two-mile Cumberland Stakes to his list of vic-
tories and £1430 to his owner’s banking-account,
David being the only one of his three opponents to
show any fight at the finish. But the bonny chest-
nut was withdrawn from the three-mile A.J.C. Plate
—he had begun to limp a trifle and to show other
signs of needing a spell after his exceptionally-
trying season—and in his absence David easily
accounted for the uncertain Salitros and the over-
worked Kennaquhair. David is not brilliant, but
stays well and looks like carrying weight, where-
fore he is sure to be one of the early fancies for the
Melbourne Cup. Mulgawillah, a burly ancient with
bad feet, demonstrated the inferiority of the Rand-
wick jumpers by winning both steeplechases. It
rained heavily on the last day, and the attendance
suffered considerably, as also did the totes. But,
all things considered, it was a memorable meeting,
saddened though it was by I. Mo’s gloomy protesta-
tions that he lost, as usual.
* * , * *
What kind of a distance horse is Salitros,
anyhow ? The washy chestnut wins Derbies as though
he wished they were half a mile longer, and then
in a Melbourne Cup he shuts up like the proverbial
knife. At the A.J.C. meeting he stays well enough
to beat his old opponent Nautical in the Leger, but
again he shuts up when tested in a two-mile
Cup race and finishes last. A caution to punters is
Salitros.
* * * *
Rarely of late years has it happened that
the best two-year-old form at Flemington in early
November has reasserted itself at Easter on the
Randwick course. For the Maribyrnong Plate, at
Melbourne Cup meeting, odds were laid on Salatis
because he had scored two victories in what looked
unbeatable style, whilst Furious started at 20 to 1
because the filly had already earned a 101 b. penalty.
Salatis failed badly in the Maribyrnong, whereas
Furious with her penalty was only beaten a neck
by Antarian. For a while it seemed that Salatis
had gone to pieces, and, although he did show good
form again before going across to Sydney, both
Woodville and Isa were backed in preference to
him and Furious for the Champagne Stakes. Isa
meanwhile had beaten Antarian at Flemington a
fortnight earlier, and Furious had beaten Isa on the
first day at Randwick. The Champagne Stakes re-
established the October flowers in their former place
in the catalogue. Furious may have been lucky to
beat Salatis, but the filly was at a disadvantage in
being penalised. She is the best girlie, as Salatis
is the best boy, of the season, and though neither of
them may prove a stayer they are quite likely to
be the slickest milers of their age six months hence.
Not that Furious is more promising in appearance
than Isa in the same ownership. Isa is as impres-
sive in her ladylike way as Salatis, the tall son of
Traquette.
“0.K.”: Eurythmic is “another Carbine”
in the ore respect where Poitrel was lacking and
even Wakeful fell short. The brilliant champion
keeps on winning. He has had a longer run of
successes, with but one interruption, than ever Car-
bine had, though it must be said for the old cham-
pion that he ran in more handicaps than Eurythmic
has faced thus far, and was never further back
than third —in a Newmarket. These horses that per-
sist in scoring a win or place (Eurythmic was placed
fourth in last Melbourne Cup) are a cruel satire on
the excuses made for the in-and-out running of so
many others. They never “want a gallop or two in
public to string them up.” You don’t hear of it
being one of Eurythmic’s “good days” when he wins.
There is no talk about the “pace not suiting,” no
occasion for horse-reporters to plead that he
“didn’t do as well as was expected.” Eurythmie
shows the consistency that marked the excellence of
Carbine. He has not yet attempted such feats as
Carbine accomplished when, as a three-year-old,
he gave Melos, a brilliant A.J.C. Derby-winner,
121 b., and beat the great Abercorn, his elder, into
third place at a difference of 41b. This was in his
first Sydney Cup. Next year he won it again,
giving 461 b. to the second and 401 b. to the
third. Eurythmic’s win was a comparatively
soft thing, perhaps. Certainly it didn’t com-
pare with Carbine’s Melbourne' Cup (lOst. 51b.)
feat, where he gave 4st. less 31b. to the second
horse, Highborn, who won the following Sydney Cup
with 9st. 31b., and the Australian Cup next year
with 9st. 41b. Hut what Eurythmie had to do at
Randwick on Easter Monday he did, and did it with
a brilliant run at the finish. Even among first-class
horses he is wonderful, as Carbine was. Indeed,
he has a wonderful characteristic for such a top-
notcher. Get a front view of him as he eases down
from a canter to a walk, and the way in which he
flings out his off fore-leg looks like an early symp-
tom of nervous complaint. If he did it when fully
extended the stewards would have him up for foul
running.
Sasanof tackled Gloaming in the Chal-
lenge Stakes (7f.) at Canterbury (M.L.) last week,
but Pluto, to whom he was conceding 361 b., was
nearest Greenwood’s flier at the end. Gloaming
carried 461 b. more than the runner-up. The two-
year-old Palestrina (Clarenceux —Judith), who ran
second in the Autumn Handicap with 9st. 21b.,
could not finish strongly enough. Nothing can stop
Foo Chow now that he has been broken of his habit
of running second, and the Great Easter Handicap
was added to the Tea Cup gelding’s successes.
* * * »
Last year Cambridge made a procession
of the University bontrnoe. but this year thev had a
much sterner struggle. They got home a length to
the good in 19min. 44sec., but were all out at the
finish. In the winning boat was J. A. Campbell,
on old Melbourne Grammar boy, who is described
by British judges as an exceptionally good man.
“Adelaide” : Figures, they say, will prove
anything; and those of this season’s batting are
curiously deceptive. The outstanding features of
the summer have been the great strength in bowling
of N.S.W. and the weakness of S.A. in the same
department. Yet figures all count alike, whomsoever
they were made
against. Bards!ey, for
instance, though a
great batsman, gets
his high place mainly
by reason of his two
enormous scores
against South Aus.
So, among the Eng-
lishmen, does Russell.
It is easy to forget
that the Sydney men
never had to face
Gregory and Mai ley.
On the other hand,
what might not Pel-
lew, Richardson, Run-
dell and other S.
Australians have done
if they could have
had three or four inn-
ings against the kind
of bowling their own
State serves up? In
chess tournaments
there used to be a
plan of assessing the
value of a won game
according to the
calibre of the player
defeated. It is a
complicated idea, but
plain justice.
DICK BANKS, a
well-known
Victorian golfing
professional.
Maonland played two three-day Tests v.
Australian XI last week. The first match, at Well-
ington, ended in a draw, Australia scoring 273 and
147 for four wickets, and M.L. 204 and 106 for
four wickets. The best efforts were Liddicutt’s
double of 83 and 49 not out, and Lampard’s 53, for
Australia; while J. Shepherd (Otago) outshone the
other M.L. batsmen with a brilliant 81. In the
second match, at Auckland, the Australians accumu-
lated 663 runs, Lainpard (132), Ransford (128),
V. Richardson (112) and Alan Kippax (84 not out)
being the chief spoilers of the bowlers’ figures.
Rowntree’s wicket-keeping was excellent; there were
only 11 sundries. M.L.’s reply was 259 and 177
a defeat by an innings and 227 runs. Smith (89)
and Hiddleston (67) made the only serious resist-
ance to the heavy battery of Lampard (7 for 110)
and Ironmonger (9 for 127).
S. G. Smith is an ex-Northamptonshire (Eng.)
and West Indies all-rounder. It will probably be
his last season in M.L., as he has received a call to
England to captain Northants the coming season.
A. W. Lampard’s fine form for the Australians indi-
cates that with reasonable luck he would have gone
to Britain instead of M.L. In Australian cricket
this season his only big innings was 111 for Victoria
r. England. With the A.I.F. in England, S. Africa
and Australia he made 1500 runs, averaging 28.84,
and took 111 wickets at 22.48 each.
St. Ivilda had their first licking in Mel*
bourne district cricket on Saturday. P’ran getting
home by 3 wickets and 121. In P’ran’s score of
7 for 319 were 71 from Willis and 70 from Healv.
Northcote, who began the season rather badly, again
showed their quality by beating Essendon by an
innings and 58. Woodbury, who made a Capital
97 for ’Cote, also got the bowling average with
6 for 64. Melbourne v. University resulted in a
draw. Melbourne, closing with 7 for 428, appeared
to have a winning position, but the students reached
the bell with 6 for 349, Bailey smacking up 133
whilst Jorgensen was 62 n.o. Fitzroy’s win over
North, who scored only 167, was due to the good
batting of Cody (129), Atkinson (65) and McKen-
zie (51). Carlton, closing with 8 for 334 (Stranks
89. and Syd Hastings 87), knocked up 225 too many
for ’Wood, whose top-scorer was Brown with 35.
East, playing their last match on their old ground,
which is now required for railway sidings, left South
120 to the bad, East’s best scorers being Braid
(70) and Ray (55). This closed the first round,
which now leaves St. Kilda, P’ran, Northcote and
Melbourne to battle for supremacy. The junior pre-
miership was won by Havelock, who beat Yarra-
ville by 52 runs.
* * * *
Waverley damned the rain that fell on
Saturday and caused the tenth round of Sydney
grade cricket to be confined to play next week-end.
They had a sporting chance of downing Sydney, who
lead them by one point in the competition. A draw,
which is almost inevitable owing to the short days,
leaves them as they were —in second place.
* * * *
Nineteen of the 24 nominees for the Raw-
son Cup, Sydney’s most important 16ft.-skiff fixture,
turned out last Saturday in a snorting southerly
blow. The winner was Furore, oft the honor mark,
and she was faultlessly handled by Dick Fennell.
Before the first mark was reached Peggy (W. Tutt)
turned turtle, Dart and Ibis carried away, and Ata-
lanta’s jib had her in Queer-street. Nesowa
(6imin.) got a substantial lead, but Crescent (4min.)
and Furore gradually overhauled her, and the trio
provided an inspiriting spectacle at the Taylor Bay
mark, rounding in a bunch. Thenceforward, how-
ever, Furore commenced to go away, and she brought
down the flag 2min. ahead of Crescent, with Nesowa
third and Valete fourth. Rose, last year’s winner,
was never in the hunt.
Before she left for home and father
Ethelda Bleibtrey made another attempt to obliterate
Fanny Durack’s record of 2inin. 52sec. for 220yds,.
but failed by 7 3-ssec. Despite the booming of
the blonde Yankee damsel, she is not nearly as fine
an all-round swimmer as Fanny was at her best.
As a sprinter she is undoubtedly superior, but be-
yond 220yds. Miss Durack would have beaten her
unless time tests are all wrong. The retired Austra-
lian champion still holds world’s best figures from
220yds. to a mile.
» * * *
W. Herald (Manly) annexed the 100yds.
championship of the Northern Suburbs (N.S.W.) last
Saturday in the fine time of 57 4-ssec. He defeated
veteran Harry Hay and Keith Kirkland. Other fine
performances were those of J. Brooks (Spit Club),
who carried off the 50yds. junior championship of
the Northern Suburbs in 26 l-Ssec., and H. Dego-
tardi, a mere lad, who landed East Sydney Club’s
440yds. championship by a touch in 6min. 20sec.
• * * *
Three more battalions of inter-State
bowlers stormed N. S. Wales at Sydney last week.
Queensland, labelled the strongest team, were con-
fronted by the best 16 players in the Ma State, but
the Northerners repaid hospitality by winning two
games (101—90 and 108—73) against one (91 —82)
—291 points to 254. Skippers T. Bouchard and F.
Gould (Q.), and M. Love and Harry Thorpe
(N.S.W.) each had two wins. The N.S.W.-Victoria
match was a triumphal march for the Sydneysiders,
who won the three matches by 106—82, 105—88 and
193—95: 314 points to 265. N.S.)V. were “up”, in
nine out of 12 rinks. And Tasmania were donkey-
licked by the Cornstalks, 129 to 75.
Pettinger, the cricketer of long ago, has
won the championship of Adelaide Oval Bowling
Club for the fourth time, though he is now a trifle
over 60. The club premiership was won by Marry-
atville, which local success should do the game
a lot of good. With the multiplication of greens,
suburban residents tend more and more to play for
the spot in which they live, and the individual
championship of Adelaide this year w'ent to Staple-
ton, of Toorak—quite a new club.
* * * *
Geelong had 639 entries for its Easter ten-
nis tournament which finished last week. Jack
Hawkes won the Singles Championship in fairly good
company, but - the absence of the Davis Cup ' cracks
made his victory comparatively easy. The event,
which was captured last year by Patterson, is one of
the prizes in Victorian tennis. Norman Brookes,
Alf Dunlop, It. W. Heath and R. Wertheim have all
held the trophy at various times, Brookes taking
it in 1903-4-6, whilst Dunlop annexed it in 1907-8-10.
Heath was twice runner-up before he beat Dunlop
for the gaud in 1909.
* * * *
At Orange (N.S.W.) last week Clarence
V. Todd (Trangie) brilliantly defeated H. Utz
(Sydney) in the final of the Western District tennis
singles by 6—o, 6—l. Todd’s fine form has caught
the selectors’ eye, and he is included in the N.S.W.
team to practise for the matches v. Victoria, the
others being Jim Anderson (who has recovered from
his illness), Horace Rice, Bob Neil, Norman Peach
M. Plomley, J. Clemenger. S. H. Henderson and
A. D. Storey.
* * * #
The Adelaide Club premiership in tennis
this season was a triumph of experience over youth.
University led to the end, and were then beaten
twice on consecutive Saturdays by Parkside. The
’Varsity four, Rowe, Gurner and two Hones, are
supposed to be among the State’s best, but tbev went
down badly before Roy Taylor, Geoff Thomas', Mills
and “King” Roberts, all old stagers except the last-
named. It has been a good year for S.A. tennis.
In the inter-State week. Vic, and Westralia. were
taken on and beaten simultaneously; the Melbourne
team was not representative, but it included Patter-
son. Also R. V. Thomas has shown that he is
Patterson’s equal in skill, though he cannot last out
a five-set match.
* * * *
Melbourne undergrads had a triumphal
march in the triangular tennis contest for the Niall
Cup at Sydney. Adelaide they beat by 18 rubbers
to 3; but Sydney offered a stouter resistance, the
scores being 13 to 8. The meeting of the rival cap-
tains, Alan Watt (Sydney) and Mackay (Melb.),
wps the titbit of the singles matches; the Corn-
stalk won by 6—o. 3—6, 6—2. Melbourne ’Var-
sity’s victories entitle them to hold the utensil for
the third successive year.
* * * *
Japan is now finding it difficult to collect
a team for the Davis Cup. Nippon’s best man,
Kumagae, who has long lived in the U.S., is avail-
able, but his proposed partner, Shimidzu, cannot get
leave from the firm which employs him in India.
Kumagae has cabled the Tokio Lawn Tennis Assoc,
to exert ail its intiuence to get Shimidzu released,
and no doubt pressure will be used, as the Japs re-
guard the contest with something stronger tnan a
mere sporting interest.
* * * *
The high jumping at Sydney Show didn't
knock anytning off the Australian figures. For the
lure of a £lOO special prize, three animals tackled
7ft. 10in., but failed. The high jumping under
night conditions, however, put up a record for the
ground; Vice-regal, Lone Star and Musician dead-
neated at 7ft. 3in.
* * * *
Stawell Easter Gift, the biggest profes-
sional footrace in Australia, added £lOO to the
floating wealth of L. Jennings (Parkville), who from
the limit (101yds.) defeated three otner finalists
by jyd. in 12 2-osec. for the 130yds. T. McKenna
(Coburg), an odds-on favorite, was second. from
the scratch mark in the mile Federation Hanuicap, c.
Bergemier finished third, in 4min. 22 2-ssec. —the
fastest mile put up by a pro. in Australia since
Joe O’Brien aid it in 4min. 18|sec. at Ballarat in
December, 1881.
Two Australasian records went on the
book at Wellington (M.L.) recently. Peter Munro,
who won the Australasian title at Sydney last year,
hurled the 101 b. shot 45ft. lin. —an improvement
of jin. on E. R. Caughey’s (America) record at
Wellington in 1913; and H. E. Wilson left the
120yds. hurdles behind in 14 3-ssec. —7-10 see.
better than the previous best.
* * * #
Llew Edwards commands respectful atten-
tion once more by his treatment of Sid Godfrey
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. There used
to be an impression that no lightweight or fedder
could remain upright after feeling tne weight of
Godfrey’s right fist, but his later contests have
proved that there are human jawbones which can
withstand the impact of that member. In other
words, Godfrey’s punch is not what it was. In
Saturday night's exhibition Edwards devoted most of
his time to the other man’s body, and seemed likely
to break Godfrey up on many occasions, especially
in the fifth. He was cautioned for hitting low in
his eagerness to empty the house before the 20th
round, but although he knocked Sid down several
times, the latter was on his feet at the gong.
Edwards was the winner on points, lie was soundly
beaten in America by Ritchie Mitchell, but Austra-
lian boxing form is not up to that of the Yanks.
Two fights one foul is Melbourne Sta-
dium’s record to date. The poultry was provided on
Saturday night by Francois Charles, the French
middleweight. Having been whole-heartedly thumped
for two rounds by Tommy Uren, of Sydney, he closed
the proceedings at the beginning of the third by
flooring the bronzed Thomas with a polthogue below
the belt, and the referee awarded the honors and
emoluments (or the winner’s share thereof) to the
prostrate and grunting pug. Charles departed amidst
a tempest of hooting to draw tiis share of the
boodle, and the fouling business will go on until the
bungler or ruffian who breaks the rule forfeits his
filthy lucre as well as the fight.
“Snell” : It was during Harry liickards’s
rule at the old Opera House, Melbourne. A young
fellow hurrying round the side of the circle, after
the interval, knocked down a man’s hat, and in re-
sponse to a sharp “Hi!” turned and picked it up.
Finding that the owner was a growling nigger, he
promptly dropped the hat again and passed on. In-
stantly the coon was out of his seat, and made a
dive after the offender, tripped in a tear in the
carpet, shot down two steps, and striking his chin
on the iron arm of a seat, knocked out two teeth,
displaced his jaw, and fell asleep. The discolored
brother was carried into the vestibule, the aid of
a doctor was requisitioned, and rules for the restora-
tion of the apparently dead were applied. The un-
conscious man was Biffo, a lightweight who had had
a few wins recently, and was blowing out his pout
rather conspicuously round town. The doctor pushed
Bifio’s jaw into its niche, stripped off his coat,
undid tie and collar, made liberal cold-water appli-
cations and then, watch in hand, tried the sufferer’s
pulse. He was counting audibly, “One, two, three,”
when Biffo opened his eye and raised his head. His
unemployed hand went tenderly to his jaw, and
down went his head again. He took the count. But
the doctor went on—“eleven, twelve, thirteen.”
Then Biffo tugged the arm of the M.D. and faltered:
“Believe me, mistah, ten’ll do!”
Tommy Burns has fallen back on the
usual refuge of the ex-sport. He has acquired a
pub at Newcastle (Eng.).
By way of winding up the track-cycling
season, there was a special mile match between C.
Hannemann and Gerald Halpin, the ex-amateur
champion, at Sydney Sports Ground. The race was
run according to Donnybrook rules, and being tl\e
better man at that sort of thing, Hannemann won
the first spasm, instead of ordering both riders off
the track, the officials decided to have it over again,
and this time Halpin got home first. But it was
a depressing exhibition. The five-mile scratch race,
however, produced a great finish; R. H. Lewis W’on
by a foot from Jack Atkins, with the others almost
in line. The usual autumn migration has set in.
Alf Grenda, C. L. Papworth and W. Erskine have
packed up for America; Ken Ross, C. Hannemann,
Gerald Halpin and H. Horder go to Europe. None
of them should starve in those continents.
In the 200-miles’ motor-cycle spin at Sale
(Vic.) Harold Parsons was asked to give away up
to llSmin. start, and then he finished third to
K. Allard (86min.) and R. Findlay (46inin.). Par-
sons’s time was 3hr. 20min. 30sec., which knocked
14min. 29sec. off the previous best for the race ; by
doing a lap (23 miles) in 19min. 31sec. he clipped
29sec. off the standing figures. In the Vic. motor-
cycling championships, the dashing Harold won the
seven-lap (Bjm.) title (over 600 c.c.) in 7min.
59 9-10 sec., and the five-lap (under 600 c.c.) in
6min. 21 4-ssec., bestriding an Indian machine in
each case.
*• * * *
J. H. Kirkwood, the Australian champion
golfer, hasn’t been long enough in the U.S.A. to
have struck form, but he would have had to play
wonderful golf to win the North-South Champion-
ship, in which he tied with two others for ninth
place. The winner was Jock Hutchinson, a Scotch-
Yank from Chicago, who went round in 69. His
total was 281, 21 better than Kirkwood’s. It is
an inauspicious start for the Aussie.
IN TRAINING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A delegate replied with a hard blow, but received
a weightier punch in return.... There was much ex-
citement during and after the election of the return-
ing-officer. Several delegates in the back of the hall
expressed their opinions by resorting to blows.—
Monotonous items from the N.S.W. Labor Conference
report.
He came last month to the Speckled Horse,
lie and his handlers two,
And his was the solidest training-course
That ever a man went through.
He was up when the earliest rooster crowed,
And, before the breakfast-bell,
He’d footed his fifteen miles by road
On a tuckerless Darby Kel.
He worked three hours in the public-house gym.
Before it was time for lunch,
And then he went for a two-mile swim,
And the rest was mostly punch:
Ten rounds with Bill, who was tliirteen-six
And carried a fearful clout,
And ten with Ted, who had fists like bricks,
And frequently knocked him out.
As he lay on the floor or the nearest bench,
From their towelling he would shrink,
But he shrank still more from his daily drench,
For he’d bullock’s blood to drink.
“It’s a wonderful prep.” said I to Ted
As we sat in the bar one night.
“Bonzer,” that honest retainer said,
“But ’e’s gotter be fit ter fight.
’E’s one of them blokes in the A.H.P.,
A crowd that’s terrible thick,
They’s a Conference due in a month, yer see,
An’ we’re gettin’ ’im inter nick.”
N.S.W.
TUART.


Be Healthy and Be Happy.
You don’t know that life is really worth living unless you are
physically fit!
If your nerves and muscles are working properly you’ll find that
the world is a jolly good old place, after all!
You’ll enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure and
enjoy the company of those around you!
Good health is the most glorious asset man can have, and —
YOU CAN HAVE IT!
By taking up Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course of
Health and Strength Culture you can build up the organs
that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from the system,
and make the whole body work in perfect harmony, as
Nature intended it to.
Then you will feel the wonderful glow of perfect physical
fitness. The difference will surprise and delight you!
The exercises are clear and simple, and are adapted to
YOUR particular requirements.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course if you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture.” It will be bound
to interest you. If you want better health just write your
name and address across this advertisement and send it
with three stamps to us. We will forward the book.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
458 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Douglas
EASTER, 1921.—The “DOUGLAS” again proves its excellence, winning the Senior and
Junior Tourist Trophv of Australia Races. %
The latest post-war models of the famous British “Douglas” Motor-cycle can now be
delivered immediately.
4-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear, clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
2J-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear (as illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards.
2f-H.P. SPECIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
The “patented” horizontally opposed “Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to all
“Douglas” Motor-cycles, is so well and favorably know that it needs little explanation. The
horizontal twin engine is the most suitable for motor-cycle practice. It certainly gives less
vibration than any engine with less than four cylinders. Douglas Motors Ltd. have so perfected
this type of engine that it has become universally popular.
The “DOUGLAS” is exceptionally easy to learn to control in congested city traffic, or over
rough, hilly, muddy, sandy or bush roads, or across paddocks. It is very economical, giving
90 to 100 miles to the gallon, exceptionally light on transmission, chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result of the even, steady pull of the engine.
Frame, wheels, etc., are exceptionally strong and reliable.
The new designed front forks are “the last word” in comfort and strength, and being adjust-
able to wear, are almost everlasting.
The “DOUGLAS” has ample power to take you where any motor-cycle will. It will stand
any amount of hard work, and depreciates less in value from hard riding than any other make.
More “DOUGLASES” were used in the Great War than any other make. They have won
more reliability and speed contests than any other British motor-cycles, and hold many world’s
records. ” '
In justice to yourself you should get full particulars of the “DOUGLAS” before you decide
which motor-cycle to buy.
MANUFACTURED BY
DOUGLAS MOTORS LTD., Kingswood, Bristol, England.
Sole Agents—
New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., LTD., 213, 215, 217 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria and Tasmania: ACME CYCLE CO., 355-357 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia: GUARD BROS., 21-23 Gouger Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland: WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO., Temporary address: 245 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TOXS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog Xo. 20. MACH3XES IX STOCK.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street. Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney; Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co.j Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Searfe & Co, Ltd.,
Adelaide: West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New Zealand:
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
Kruses
1 Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
NOBEL’S
SPORTING
BALLISTITE
Field S Match
CARTRIDGES
m
m
m
m
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The Overcoat You
Need—NOW
The Dexter
Raglan.
A good shower-proof coat of this type
is a necessity at this season of change-
able weather.
The “DEXTER,” as here shown, will
meet your requirements to the letter.
Light, yet sufficiently warm for pre-
sent needs—smart and distinctive In
style (featuring the correct Raglan,
with “step” collar or lapel), with
workmanship so flawlessly perfect as
to pay a high tribute to “LINCOLN-
STUART” TAILORING —this is the
coat that claims the preference of all
gentlemen.
It is obtainable in GABARDINE of
the first quality, in tasteful shades of
GREY, FAWN and BROWN—
material guaranteed to give years of
service without losing its smartness
or protective value.
Our price for this perfect garment is
£7171-
Freight
Paid.
At this figure, considering it is an
absolutely high-grade coat, the value
is really remarkable.
If you want to know what overcoat
satisfaction is—buy a “Dexter” Rag-
lan to-day.
CALL—OR
POST YOUR ORDER.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
SPECIALISTS IN MEN’S WEAR,
244-54 Flinders Street. Melbourne.


m
"Style is the T)ress of Thoughts.”
In other words, it is a candid confession of your estimate of
the value of appearance, and the extent of your apprecia-
tion will be gu >ged by your discrimination in choice of dress.
MADE-TO-MEASURE SUITS
of exclusive patterns, cut and finish.
PRl —Australian Tweeds, in vatiety of grey and brown
patterns. Made-to-measure. Prices, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-
PR2 —Pure Wool Worsteds, the finest suiting material
manufactured. Sac Suits made-to-order from a wide
range of colourings and patterns, including Pinhead, Birds-
eye check, Herringbone, Hopsac, and Stripes. Price, £9/9/-
PR3-Scotch Tweeds, high-grade materials, exclusive designs,
greys and fawns; one suit length each pattern. Price, £l2/12/-
PR4 —Dinner Suits, made according to latest cut, from
black Pinhead Coating, and faced with best quality silk;
lined Verona Twill. Prices, £l2/12/-, £l3/13/-, £l5/15/-
FARMER’S, Sydney.
“ The Store for Men. ”
Box 497, G.P.O.
We Pay Carriage.
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that is borne on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bonnington’s
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
'loknington's;
, carrageen i.
IRISH " MpSSi
iiowIiNCTaH
fr—
IRISH MOSS
m
Ui
Get a bottle to-day—
insist on Bonnington’a,
and take no proffered
substitute.
—is the standard
nuenza, Bronchitis
complaints.
remedy for Coughs,
, Whooping Cough, and
Colds, In-
all Chest
8.A.22.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAY-BLOCK
NOW
OPEN
’Phones are buzzing congratulations to
Lesley Madden and her young man—they
were engaged during Easter week. Lesley
is the only unmarried daughter among the
late Chief Justice’s quiverful. She is a lass
of independent spirit; long ago she started
out as an artist in hand-made lingerie, and
Sassiety was rounded up and made to pay
big prices for delicate little hits of undies.
The man? Louis L. Nelken, son of Mrs. E.
Nelken, of Fawkner Mansions.
In his third year of office as Gaud Mayor
of Melbourne Henry Weedon went to London
mainly to seek a knighthood. He dropped
in frequently to gossip with Taverner, who
was then Agent-General, and other folk
had to wait in the ante-room. One of the
callers during these gossips was Thomas
Gibson Carmichael, who had just been selec-
ted as Governor. His Ex. had been told
by the messenger that Taverner was busy
and could not be seen. “But I saw a gentle-
man just go in,” protested Carmichael in
his soft Scottish voice. “But that’s the
Right Honorable the Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne,” explained the attendant in a tone
as if lie were referring to George V. at least.
“Oh, indeed !” gasped Carmichael, “but per-
haps you will take my name in so that I
may come next after his Lordship.” The
speed with which Jack Taverner got rid
of Weedon the moment his eye spotted the
name on the card was magical.
Geelong almost allowed itself to get excited
during Easter week. The Corio Bay Tennis
and the Barwon Heads Golf clubs have their
tournaments there at Easter, and people
tumbled in from Melbourne and Sydney and
all parts of the Western District. Every
house within miles was chock-a-block, and all
motors were working overtime. The tourna-
ments mean dances, dinners and lunch
parties. Local hostesses swap dates and
wrangle over them for months before. The
week is a scramble of “going on” to one party
after another, and jazzes finish with liam-and-
egg breakfasts in the early hours. Mrs.
Frank Austin gave a dance at Avalon for
unmarried people. The only matron besides
the hostess was Mrs. George Russell, who
shared duty as chaperon. Mrs. Andrew
Cunningham gave a dance the same evening
and drew oft' the married folk. The Leslie
Spragues put on a wonderful dance. Their
home is at Bream Creek, a nine-miles motor
spin round the coast from Geelong, and those
nine miles were for a while a stream of
motors crammed with hilarious guests. Mrs.
Burton Dibbs took the Geelong Palais for
her jazz affair and Mrs. J. C. Brown and
Mrs. Marcus Collins motored their party to
Anglesea. with a supper at Moorak, the
Collins home. Besides, there were lunch-
parties and tea-parties each day at the courts
and links.
The Stradbrokes are sampling the Macedon
vice-regal shack and find it good. Ilis Ex.
came down to open the State-school teachers’
annual corroboree, and amidst a few plati-
tudes ventured to endorse so much of the
policy of the Lawson Government ns provides
for raising the age for compulsory attendance
at school from 14 to 15. But as most people
favor the change, he isn’t likely to get into
hot water for that.
The picnic of the National Federation at
Aspendale racecourse in Easter week was as
dreary a show as ever has been arranged for a
holiday. Hughes, according to the Melbourne
branch officials, had promised to be there, but
he didn’t turn up. There had been another
misunderstanding! Will anybody ever really
understand Hughes?
Calma Boyd, a daughter of the late
greatly-esteemed Dr. Hugh, of Bendigo, has
been married to Dr. D. Murray Ross, of
Moonee Ponds. The “I wills” were said in
her mother’s home at Bayswater, the Rev.
J. Crookston having the help of Padre Ross,
an uncle of the ’gi'oom. The bride was a
picture in deep sapphire-blue drapings, with
a saucy little turban of gold tissue and
bouquet of autumn-tinted foliage from the
hill country round about. The two have
gone off ’mooning to The Lakes. Calma
is the third of the late Dr. Hugh Boyd’s
daughters to be married within five months.
Sister Pauline said “I will” to Lieut. Wil-
son. a returned Digger, and sister Edna
carried off Dr. Bob Strong.
Melbourne was terribly excited to dis-
cover that Dr. Bob Strong had been quietly
married to Edna Boyd, daughter of the late
Doctor Hugh, of Bendigo. Dr. Bob was
away on a war-job until very late, and when
he returned it was to find his girl seriously
ill. The bride is the daintiest little bit of
a Dresden china girl. With a doctor for a
bridegroom and two cousin-doctors —Tom
and Will Boyd—to help lay down the law,
the little lady is strictly forbidden at pre-
sent to live near city smoke and dust. She
is tucked away in a house in the hills near
Melbourne, and her busy husband is work-
ing his automobile overtime between the
city and Bayswater.
The Leslie Spragues, of Charlemont,
Bream Creek, are flurrying things up at
the country house for the visit of General
Angelo and his wife. Mrs. Angelo is Mr.
Snrague’s sister, and when she visited here
on her honeymoon a dozen years ago she
was one of the frockiest women in sight.
Since then she has lived mostly in India.
The last two years have been spent in
France, and she comes straight from the
zone of Paris-frocks. Her war-worn
General has retired from military life, and
they are just mooching about on holiday.
The Governor and his Countess went to
Melba Hall last week to listen to Edward
Goll, who dreamed his way through a deli-
cious programme. The new Governor-folk
are musical enthusiasts.
Tom Woollard, Assistant Clerk of the
Reps., was fa rewelled over a bit of food at
Federal Parliament House last week. The
ancient and popular official, who was pre-
sented with a smoking chair, heard a brief
oration on his qualities from Chief Clerk
Gale, and Lumsden of llansakd and Parlia-
mentary Librarian Wadsworth also signified
their approval in the usual manner. The
retirement of Woollard and Chief-Engineer
Jeffrey leaves Robert Mitchell the House’s
oldest inhabitant, with an unblemished record
of 41 years.
A week or two before Irma Caron
got away from Maoriland, with her
sky-scraper husband and equally high
hopes, she received a certificate of
merit from an operatic light of other days.
Hearing that Irma was off to London to siug
in comic opera, Marguerita Venosta went to
hear her—the ancient Marguerita who was
chief contralto of the Italian Opera Co. that
opened in Melbourne once upon a time under
the management of W. S. Lyster. She dates
back to the days when most of the great
warblers were pupils of Garcia, and com-
posers wrote for the voice. Her compliments
to Irma came in spasms: “You have a
magnificent voice, a real beauty. You sing
with ease both light and heavy. You have
been well taught. The quality is very rich,
and you have a range unusual.” The old
dame couldn’t say more, except that she
“never flattered.”
Irma is now on her way to the Cold
Country. She found her daddy’s name a
valuable asset in the cities and larger smalls
of M.L., and many a good bob came to the
pay-box for old times’ sake. Irma takes her
talents to Robert Courtneidge for his forth-
coming production of “The Arcadians.” The
London producer heard the little singer in
Melbourne as Mrs. M. P. Adams, and didn’t
know she was a daughter of his old friend
Caron till he had fixed the engagement.
Another Melbourne song-bird, Reba Ran-
gan, flew away to London last week.
Highly regarded by the veteran songstress,
Mrs. Palmer. Reba
rose by hard work
to a leading posi-
tion in oratorio.
She sang for the
Philharmonic and
other choral socie-
ties in “The Mes-
s i a h,” “Elijah,”
“The Creation,” and
“Moses in Egypt,”
and when the critics
started showering
the bouquets the
largest posy always
fell at her feet.
There is, however,
not enough ora-
torio to keep a
robust soprano in
moderate training,
so lteba appeared frequently at con-
certs and undertook solos in two or three
church choirs. During the war she was
an industrious Red Crosser, often organising
shows in which her golden warble did a
lot of overtime. This photo of her comes
from Monteath.
It was a big shock to Sassiety to hear of
the death of Isabel, daughter of J. A. Elder,
of Toorak. while visiting the country house of
T. 11. Payne, M.L.C., at Kilmore. One of a
large Eastertide party, she was playing in
the grounds, when an overhanging wire,
catching her under the chin, threw her to the
ground. The base of her skull was fractured
and she lived only a few hours. She was just
21 years old. The Elder family was on the
point of departure for England on a trip. but.
of course, this arrangement has been upset.
Another well-known Toorak family was
suddenly plunged into mourning in Easter
week. On the Friday Charles Welsh, a 19-
year-old son of the manager of the Atlas
Assurance Co., was killed through his motor-
bicycle colliding witn a taxi. ins com-
panion, Kenneth Austin, one of the Bertie
Austins’ sons, escaped with a fractured head.
Young Welsh, who had been one of the most
popular boys at Melbourne Grammar, was
just preparing to steam off to England on
a trip with his parents.
Showers of good wishes fell upon L. A.
Adamson, head of Wesley College, before his
departure on April 2 for a tour in Europe
and America. Adamson has been a force in
his State’s education for 20 years or there-
abouts, and his personality as much as tra-
dition has meant the success of Wesley in re-
cent years. He will represent Melbourne at
a ’Varsity conference at Oxford, and will
later look in at an educational congress at
Toronto, Canada.
The owner of this intellectual face is Mrs.
James Cowan, M.L.A. for West Perth
( W.A.), the first of her sex to reach an Aus-
tralian Parliament.
Born on a Westralian
station, she has been
married for 42 years
to a retired stipen-
diary magistrate, and
they have four daugh-
ters and a son. The
lady herself is a
Children’s 0 ourt
magistrate, and being
an uneoinin o n 1 v
gifted plat f o r m
speaker, with strong
but well-b a 1 a n c e d
views on social sub-
jects. she has been a
force in the Western
State for years. She
regards her election
as a rebuttal of the
accusation that .women ure catty: “It is the
men.” she says, “who are jealous and catty.
West Perth is a constituency in which women
predominate, and where should I have been
if they hadn’t been loyal to a woman?” Mrs.
Cowan considers that every girl should re-
ceive domestic training in the schools and
that every boy should be taught one of the
manual trades. Even if he doesn’t rely upon
it to get a living it will be useful when he
marries and sets up housekeeping. “It makes
life so much easier.” says Mrs. Cowan, “and
the home so much happier if a man can
potter about the house.”
Will Slater and Jack Cain, two of the
best-liked of the Labor members in the State
Assembly, have gone to Maoriland on a rapid
trip. Slater is a law student and should soon
be fully fledged. His studies were interrupted
by war service. Cain is kept going as member
for Jika Jika, a. constituency which his pre-
decessor, J. G. Membrey, found to t be no
sinecure.
The Australian girl doesn’t sit round wait-
ing for the figs to drop. Here is Sylvia
Little, the smart, small St. Kilda clipper,
who was sitting in a chair in the court scene
in “Lightnin’ ” at the Royal, an absolute
tyro only the other day, now playing an im-
portant rOle like Maria in a big benefit per-
formance of “The Twelfth Night” at the
Garrick. New York, in company with a con-
gregation of Broadway stars, and getting
warm newspaper praise for her work. She
has been playing in Galsworthy’s “The Mob.”
and on the conclusion of that run joins Mon-
tague Love —known here as a picture-star—
in legitimate stuff.
The silver and vellum invitations are out
for the wedding of Lucy Violet, daughter of
Hr. and Mrs. Stanley Argyle, with Herbert
Esmond Lillies on April 13. Ceremony at
St. John’s; party at Halstead, Toorak.
Walter Kirby ran a concert at Daly’s
Hotel. Ilealesville, on Easter Saturday ’to
help the Mayor of Melbourne’s Appeal for
the. Blind, and raised £3O. Miss Sheehan,
besides lending all the reception-rooms of
the hotel, donated a substantial supper, and
the staff did its bit for the cause.
Rita Le Souef, daughter of the Zoological
Le Souef, is engaged to Frank Wadeson, son
of the late General F. Wadeson, who trailed
a C.B. after his name in the Indian Army.
Widower Charles Cunningham and the
attractive widow of G. R. Jackson agreed
to love, honor, etc., one another at St.
John’s, Toorak, last week. The Bishop of
Riverina took the prayer on this occa-
sion. The bride, who spread grey silk and
silver lace draperies with a grey-feathered
hat, was handed over by Norman Clapper-
ton. the trustee of her late husband’s estate,
which seemed very right and business-like.
A large gathering drank the health of the
newly-weds at Toorak’s expensive hash-
house. Illawarra, the frivol being presided
over by the Marcus Synnots. The affair
had been fixed for Ivyaiite House, but was
transferred to Illawarrla, ais the Walter
Manifold dame lies seriously ill in her flat
at Kyalite. The Cunninghams will unpack
in a flat at Myoora (Toorak) when they get
back from their honeymoon trip.
Murray Clapham and his attractive wife
have left Melbourne on a six months’ tour
which will include England, the Continent
and America.
For a small woman May Butler George
gets through much work. Just now she is
going top speed on the monument to be
erected to tile Aussies later on. East week
General Glasgow and his wife paid a visit to
her studio, and he was so impressed with the
artist’s work that he too is to be sculped at
an early date. Mrs. Wisdom goes oft" to .ioin
her husband in Rabaul with a new ivory
miniature of her charming self. Mav Butler
George is responsible for it also.
For more than 24 hours last week Dot Bruu-
ton bemoaned the loss of her richest possession
in portable property. The diamond brace-
let she wears in “Baby Bunting”—a pliable
half-hoop of brilliants —was missing when
she got home after the performance one
night. She looked everywhere and found
not a clue. Her friend Cecil Bradley spent
hours of next day in exploring the theatre
dustbin, which is so wide and deep that
the devoted creature had to bathe in its
contents and come up to the surface for
air, looking almost as black as her hat and
not nearly so pretty. Then in the evening
detectives came and instituted a search, but
they found nothing that looked like Dot’s
bauble till, after the performance, they
started to rip up the stage carpet. There,
under one of the corners, was the errant
handcuff. The leading young lady unaffec-
tedly fell against the ’tective who found the
goods, and wept copiously on his shoulder,
which was terribly embarrassing to Sher-
lock Holmes, it seems. Looking up info
his face to thank him once again, Dorothy
was struck, she says, by the idea that her
preserver didn’t know whether to regard
her as a minx or a lunatic. “You won’t
catch him finding any more bracelets, I'm
sure,” says joyous Dot.
Few would have suspected that a dainty
amber necklace reposed on the bare and burly
chest of Bigjohn Forrest. Only his inti-
mates shared liis secret of the beads worn
next his skin, not as a touching token of
romance, but as a specific against the very
unromantic hay fever to which the Knight
of Bunbury had been a martyr. They were
hung round his neck in the first place by
liis devoted wife, and finding that thereafter
he had none of the fever, he was content to
think it a cure, and let the medical aspect
of the business go hang. Lots of people
dangle amber on their bare chests to ward
off that common evil catarrh. Among them
is a recently-returned 'Varsity professor
■who, saddled with a touch of chronic catarrh,
one day. half-cynical, half-desperate, resolved
to test the “absurdity” for himself. The result
was startlingly successful. “But,” he said
to the friend to whom he confided his guilty
secret, “don’t ask the how or the why of
it, for I can’t tell you.”
One innovation of Railways Commissioner
Clapp is a gilt-edged encylopsedia of a chap
at Spencer-street, called the “Station Direc-
tor.” He can tell you anything—what time
the express starts for Bungledoo, and what the
engine-driver had for breakfast. There is an
inquiry office concealed somewhere on the
station, but nobody bothers to find it, and
the Director is bombarded with questions all
day. If for a moment there’s a lull, he yells
out useful information and items of interest
to the world at large, “Sydney express second
turning on your left!” and things like that.
He’s a great success.
Adelaide passes on some gossip:—
The Polo Ball, at the Palais Royal, was a Sassiety
whirl featuring a jazz band, sumptuous supper,
trophies and silver cups on the tables filled with
mauve asters and crimson phlox. The evening proved
that these days pa and ma fox-trot with as much
vim as the flapper.
The polo gymkhana was a cheery entertainment.
In the race where the men were required to fill the
role of “perfect ladies” it was a close thing be-
tween Pat Colley and Houstoun-Boswell for the
prize for the best impersonation. Both were cor-
rect to the smallest visible detail, but the latter’s
military mou. put him out of the running. The
Mayoress did the judging.
There was a record crowd at Oakbank races this
Easter —25,000, it was estimated. Those who tra-
velled by road arrived looking like Red Indians.
Country Councils had been at variance as to who
should repair the roads, and in the end no one did,
with the result that the dust was like unto an
old man booroomuggah in drought time.
The delegates of 28 women’s societies to the South
Aus. branch of the National Council of Women
were invited by the Mayoress last week to meet
Lady Weigall (patroness), Mrs. Edward Lucas and
Mrs. Crawford Vaughan in the reception-room at
the Town Hall. Mrs. Vaughan pleaded for closer
communion between Australia and America. Lady
Weigall talked informatively of how many food
difficulties were overcome during the war, and Mrs.
Lucas told how the English women looked after the
soldiers in the same stressful period.


CORSETS
AND .
CLOTHES
m
m
i ><
y
••
As more and more women have come to a
knowledge pf those things that are the fundamentals
of all good dressing, the demand for Gossard Front
Lacing Corsets has grown amazingly. There is
not a type of figure, however unusual or difficult
to fit, but can be successfully corseted in these
original front lacing corsets, and in them women
of every type have found complete expression of
their ideas of becomingness and good taste.
Responsibility
Year after year the tendency has grown to look to the House of
Gossard for authoritative corset styles. Ours is the responsibility to
KNOW; to know which of the many style influences that each season
clamour for attention are worthy of consideration; to know those un-
changing principles of good taste that must always form the foundation
of correct corsetry.
The responsibility of our leadership is emphasized at this time
when the ever-vital topic of fair price is uppermost in the minds of the
public. The high principles of merchandising upon which we estab-
lished and have maintained our reputation of responsibility is your best
assurance that the Gossard Corsets you buy today represent a fair value
and that your every penny has a full purchasing power. During these
months of increasing costs, and in the face of unequalled difficulties of
present-day manufacture, Gossard quality has been consistently main-
tained without permitting these unprecedented conditions to unduly
affect the cost of Gossard Corsets to you. They are still nominally
priced within the reach of every Woman and you may buy every Gossard
with the assurance that it will be worth every penny you pay for it
worth it in style t worth it in comfort, and worth it in wearing service.
Gossard Corsets are sold conditionally upon
your complete satisfaction. You will find the
Gossard best suited to the peculiar needs of your
particular figure.
The H. W. Gossard Co.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Chicago Nenu York London Toronto Sydney Buenos Aires
Front Lacing
ZStclQx'
m
6
The Four Best Known
Westclox
Here they are: the
four top-notchers in the
Westclox line. Big Ben
heads the family. He’s a
good, substantial time-
keeper and a loyal cail-
clock.
At his right, America:
trim, alert, competent.
Then Sleep-Meter, # a close
second to Big Ben: re-
fined, neighbourly, watch-
ful. *
Last but least only in
size comes little brother,
Baby Ben, who tucks
cosily into places where
Big Ben might feel out of
place.
They’re all faithful
timekeepers and punctual
alarms. They all have
that same good Westclox
construction. They all
wear our quality-pledge,
Westclox.
JVestclox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6; America, 12/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 26/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-; Glo-Ben, 22/6;
Boy proof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/•
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
The Door to Success
looms up before most people at some
time or another, but many of us can’t
find the key.
Success in Sandwich making depends upon
several things, and variety is one of them.
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
provides you with the right key.
Its piquant flavour is a joy to every palate. It
makes Sandwiches that are eaten with relish.
Make some for your Afternoon Teas and Suppers,
fill the lunch boxes with them. “Rex” Cheese is
nourishing food—you can’t have too much of it.
Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 866
VVJNC^
''•7
•< -<5


Under
Royal
Warrant
To KM.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
mjy
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
{Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
BOND’S
Australian • made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
r
Made in
Artifi c i a 1
Silk Smart,
Comfortable and
/ Guarantecd to give
/ satisfactory Service ;
Diamond* which
/sells at a very low price
stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
magmmmmm
Grifcn
Make a habit of entertaining your friends
Wentworth Cafe
and all your parties will be remembered
with joy. ’Phone City 9931.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeprof
Hoslery
The Easter race-meeting has run its course,
finishing in rain that swept across the stands,
leaving nothing but the back seats high and
dry, and driving vice-royalty from its front-
row enclosure. Woman who depends on
the tram for transit mostly left Saturday
alone, but the limousine feline emerged in
sleek fur and snuggled as closely as she could
in the official stand, though even for her it
couldn’t have been much fun. The most
striking wrap on the stand was a cloak of
Paisley, which looked as though it was made
“Om a weave at least two centuries pld.
\\ ith it was worn a black satin hat, the up-
turned brim lined with a bit of the cloak.
cbarm of Paisley, by the way, is that,
while it combines the rich coloring and sug-
gests the sunshine of the Orient, it possesses
the durability of a Nonconformist conscience.
Put in spite of Saturday’s rain nobody
grumbled very much, remembering the per-
fect Wednesday and Monday that had gone
before. Among the hardy ones who braved
the storm was little Mrs. Holdsliip, in navy
tailorings with a tiny black feather hat, and
her flapper daughter, in fawn, with a nigger-
brown crown.
Lady Forster, who lias been out playing
racehorses every day of the meeting, has
shown that her favorite color is blue. Oue
afternoon she wore soft Italian blue, lnu-
black hat carrying a feather of the same tone ;
another time she came in smoke grey that
blue tones in it. With her came Mrs.
i ltt-Kivers, one day in black taffeta with
cream lace drapings, and on AVednesday in
CGrn , yellow. Out from the week’s group
stand Mrs. lony Hordern, who changed her
dress every day; Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, in
black panne velvet; striking-looking Kitty
Barlow, who favored jersey silk; the Knox
ady a study in nigger-brown ; the McMahon
knight and Ins lady, who are staying at 52
, i acleay-stree t; the courtly Dumaresq, with
ins tall wife, who wears her hair cut in a
fringe across her forehead .in the English
way; the tiny-waisted Mrs. Alec Hay the
ever-smart Mrs. Sep Levy, in black-and-white
satin; the good-looking Major Wheatley, with
his monocle ; and last, but not least/ Seppy
itowling, whose dinner-dance was an event of
the week. So was Colonel Weinbolt’s party at
the W entworth. This one had quite a Banana-
navor the Arthur Streets, the Ricardo
g Is, Joan Taylor, the Wliittinghams and the
f misters osbornes bein S some of illG bean-
TZl e inn in ' S l oor of the Paddington
Toy n Hall reflected the greatest dress glories
of the week on Thursday night, when the
committee of girls, secretaried by Marjorie
MRson, invited its guests to come and join
the dance. The hall itself deserves an lionor-
able mention; never has it looked better
tnan m its pale-yellow decorations-—a shade,
by the way, that is kindest of all to Every-
woman s complexion. Mrs. Colin Venn, who
Helped the evening’s success, was gowned in
velvet as sable as Hamlet’s cloak, and Mar-
in 11 /,, Mll i sou wrapped her organising powers
in lavender taffeta and silver. One of the
pretty Woolf girls from Perth (Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar was one of them) was like
w P J? k r^ e , ln . tnl ] e and satin • Mrs. Ernest
Matt walked in cloth of gold; Helen Laid-
!n' V ’r,of ain ° ne °£, tb j belb>K ’ suggested a pastel
in pale grey; Haidee Carson, sparkled in a
sapphire-blue setting, dark Bugenie Moreau
wore a sophisticated little model in green
Sll T\ Mrs - Clayton wore black. Rita
Auckland chose white satin, and Muffle Lav-
ton was in floral taffetas. Rolins, Riches,
a »fl a host Of Sydney’s smartest
helped to swell a positively glittering throng.
It was for just-fluffing Society that St.
*? all Pnnked itself on Thursday
night. This was another girl-committee
dance, and to it came all the young things
who hadn t found their way out to the Pad-
dington lown Hall. At it Surgeon Mac-
Cormick s daughter Alison was one of the
most graceful. Betty Macarthur Onslow
wore a wreath of red roses in her hair, and
was otherwise clad in whitd’ satin and her
red feather fan (if the little girl carried it
j poster ball they’d think she represented
Red Feather cheese). Joan McCall Mc-
Vow-an and Margaret Tooth were others pre-
sent among the dancers, who almost all were
as young as Spring herself. Besides being
one of the prettiest, the dance w-as one of
the happiest of the week.
The old weary Town Hall floor provided
the jazz-ground for St. Vincent’s Ball last
week, secretaries Mrs. Kenna and Mrs.
Herbert Kendall smiled over the attendance,
their smile all the deeper because the one-
steppers represented less than half the guinea
tickets sold ; Mrs. T. J. Ryan owned up to
nawking a modest 50 herself. Mrs. Tom, b.v
the way, finished off her pretty gold outfit
with a sapphire like a raj’ of sunshine on a
thin platinum necklet, and Big Tom noblj’
spent the night on duty with his wife and her
partj' of women, in which was gold-locked
, V„ To . m Re ynoWs, Sydney’s first “Girl in
rhe Taxi.” At the ball she was the girl in
the harem skirt. Two other good-lookers ;n
the group were film-man E. J. Carroll’s wife,
in black and gold, and Mrs. O’Brien, whose
husband is medicine-man at Rockhampton.
Mrs. Toohey, in diamonds and black taffeta,
was impressive; and Miss Egan looked busi-
ness-like in a blue brocade that, like a ner-
vous speaker, couldn’t decide where to leave
off, so meandered into a tail that swished
the floor.
Mrs. Mark Foy hit all eyes with a Worth
gown that mingled the pale pink of the dawn-
ing and powder blue, layers of the two tones
outlining the waist and falling to the floor as
an artfully careless afterthought. In addition
it carried some wonderful embroidery in
moonlight blue sequins across its front;
and a dog collar of diamonds and a tiara as
high as a bishop’s mitre completed the outfit.
The Herrick Knowles couple came, she look-
ing like a blue-eyed, golden-haired cherub in
a London frock of fine Spanish point, with
which went a cloak of the same lace, built in
three flounces, each flounce edged with rich
mole, while a collar of the same, soft as a
caress, cuddled up to her chin. Their special
interest was in a little debutante nurse from
►>t. V incent’s, Kitty Evans, who, if she had
changed her white taffeta and silver flowers
for a red cloak, would have been a typical
colleen from Sligo. Little Betty Crook, in
crushed strawberry, held her reputation as
one of Sydney’s best jazzers. Commander
and Mrs. Feakes and Commander and Mrs.
Edwards chaperoned parties of young people
where naval mess kit was prominent. Crown
I rosecutor Coyle’s little Margot did havoc
with a roguish eye, accessories before and
after the fact being a green dress and a pink
leather fan. Mayoress Lambert, slim and
blackcMl. sat on the dais with the mighty
and essaj’ed her new jazz-steps under Deputy
J own Clerk Layton’s careful guidance.
?■'£* and his lady, in powder blue,
Hud the State Davidsons, she in her grey
brocade, came to the party to take the debs'’
curtsey.
This is how May Moore’s camera sees Syd-
nejr Lre Smith, a sturdy pillar in our Temple
ot Art. His inter-
ests ranee comnre-
hensively over the
whole artistic pad-
dock, but he has car-
ved out a distinctive
place as one of the
small yet increasingly
important band of
Australian etchers.
Smith, who doesn’t
rumple his hair, and
whose aesthetic out-
look is refreshingly
free from pose, lias
found the secret of
a n admixture o f
Commercialism and
Art which he and
Harry Julius are
applying with highly
satisfactory results at their studios. He is
one of the founders of Abt in Australia,
for which this continent should be truly
thankful. _A book of his etchings, just
published, is a charming thing, and should
be one more surprise to people oversea who
regard Australians as thinking in terms of
woolly sheep and hairy strike-agitators.
Moral pointed by the poor attendance at
the dance in aid of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital: Net all the Society
hostesses for your pet charity committee.
This is the only way to nip their own en-
tertainments for the same night in the bud.
The dance at Merioola, the Knox soiree,
the Country Girls’ night at Sargent’s and
innumerable dinner dances at the Went-
worth all helped to subtract from the crowd
that made its way to the Miss Bishop’s
that was the Concordia Hall. Mrs. Hotham
and Mrs. Eustace Holroyde were respon-
sible for the charming arrangements. This
supper-dance idea is much more intimate
and cosy than the old-fashioned ball. You
fling down your napkin and lightly whirl
your partner into the “glittering vortex”
—it is something Ouida-like, something as
near Viennese as near-silk hose is to its
pure-bred sister. Dame Margaret with Sir
Walter looked in for an hour, she with a
ribbon in her hair as bright as her own
cheeks. With them came graceful Mrs.
V alters and the D’Apice aide. Among
the dancers Mrs. Sep Levy, in silver lace,
held her own, and the Henry Hill Osbornes
(who sandwiched in this party between the
W entworth and “going on*’ to two othei'
flutters) bore away a red, red rose handed to
her for being the best-dressed woman. Sculp-
tress Dora Ohlfoen arrested the eye in purple,
veiled in pale pink.
The Arthur Allen dance was mainly won-
derful decorations—there was a wilderness of
palms—and young things, of whom the Mac-
arthur Onslow deb. was one of the most strik-
ing. She was in white satin with a cardinal
red fan. Binns Rabett, in orchid satin, was
another of the belles.
Other landmarks in the week’s gaieties were
the Kirribilli Dan Kellys’ dance in honor of
Mrs. Dan’s baby sister, Dorothy Coffee; a
dinner-party at the Australia hostessed by
Ola Humphrey Broadwood on the eve of her
departure; and a luncheon by lawyer O’Shea,
of Brisbane, at the Australia, where the food
was so wonderful that only a devout R.C.
with a good Lenten record behind him could
have thought it oiit.
Major Egerton, now on the staff of Sir
r rancis Newdegate, Governor of Westralia,
will succeed Frank Lamb as private secre-
tary on Sir Walter Davidson’s staff. He
will arrive in Sydney this month.
Mrs. Scott, whose husband is the Mayor
of Suva (Fiji), and Mrs. Garrick, of Tavi-
una. are in Sydney. Their address is Labra-
dor, in Macquarie-street.
The matinee at King’s Cross in aid of
furlough House, Narrabeen, drew its share
of charitably-minded on Thursday afternoon,
and the film of Furlough House proved an
interesting part of the afternoon’s pro-
gramme. Dame Margai'et, who keeps a
special eye on the holiday home for soldiers’
wives, was present with Captain and Mrs.
'' alters, and the Frank Lamb who is so
soon to be withdrawn from Government
House bill of fare.
The American Consular Nortons are off
to Peru, and if anything can help the dis-
tressful country of South America it should
be the suavity and general good-fellowship
of this understanding couple. Their know-
ledge and love of Spanish ways and cus-
toms—Mr. Norton was Consul in Spain
before corning to Sydney—should make
them popular at once with their new neigh-
bors. But Mr. Norton was a failure in one
thing—lie couldn’t teach his own wife to
swim, although lie had tried for years. Yet
Mrs. Eustace, the wife of the South African
jungle man, taught her the trick in one lesson
in our own Rose Bay Baths. So lie’ll be no
good at teaching the Peruvians to float a loan.
Former Agent-General for Queensland
Thomas Robinson is in Maoriland with his
wife and daughters, on their way to Aus-
tralia. They are staying with the Jellicoes.
r l'he new war honors knight, who is the
British Government’s expert in beef and
mutton, comes with a special mission with
regard to meat contracts.
The Seamen’s Institute harbored all the
high lights of the Orient Company one even-
ing last week when the concert party from
the Omar put on a ripping programme ffv
the sailor-men. Director Irving Gcddes and
Ins wife came, and general-manager Dowdell
and Mrs. Dowdell, N.S.W. manager Andrew
and Mrs. Andrew, the blushingly-shy cap-
tain of the Omar, chief-engineer \V. John-
ston and purser 11. Hannan, not to speak ci
the entire ship’s crew and other sailor lads
numbering nearly 000. Chaplain Leplastrier
and liis fair-haired wife beamed with pride,
and the only fly in the ointment was the
absence of Kenneth Anderson, the baroneL
chairman of directors, who is at present visit-
ing Australia.
Toto Beitli, the fair-haired daughter of
the William Reiths. is not to marry Cap-
tain Hugo Pierson, of the Indian Army, after
all. Toto and her parents decided that she
couldn’t live in India, so a lonely young
man makes his way back to his bungalow.
Toto, who belongs to Toowoomba, pos-
sesses a pair of the most expert jazz feet
seen in Sydney during the Peace celebrations.
Lily Lang, one of the pretty daughters of
old Hansard chief Lang, is off oil a tour of
“the East” with the Kennedy concert
party. They start in Brisbane next week.
At Anthony Horderns’ gallery perhaps the
best exhibition of Lister Lister’s work ever
shown is on view. There is great warmth
of color in his landscapes, and his cloud
effects are very charming. The smaller
canvases are just the thing to choose for
an intimate room. His State Ex. opened
the show last week.
The musical flutter of the week was the
Philharmonic Society’s presentation of “Sam-
son and Delilah,” and Joe Bradlev can again
afford to be proud of his orchestra. Adel-
®ld.e > an Staveren was cast as Delilah, and
X liilip Newbury, who has a greater mop of
hair than any other male singer in Sydney
was the shorn Samson. Leslie McCallum
was the High Priest, and Richard McClel-
land the ancient Hebrew moralist who
sounded as though he might have come from
Melbourne. The Town Hall was crowded, and
it looks as if the Philharmonic’s head is
still unbowed, for secretary Herbert Fry
announced the lengthening by several inches
of the list of subscribers.
The Philip Mortons are giving up their
home and going to live at Belvidere, the
old Darlinghurst home now run as a guest-
house by Mrs. Pickburn.
Ex-Rhodes scholar Thomas Dunbabin, for-
merly of the Argus, has followed up his
transference to the Sun by a determined
effort to. seek a brighter sphere through
pneumonia. He almost reached the pearly
gates (or otherwise), but has been dragged
back after a great deal of trouble.
The Infants’ Home, Ashfield. will benefit
b.v 1500 as the result of the fete at Rancliffe.
Miss Edith Hill’s picturesque old home at
Vi oollahra; and £5OO for one afternoon
means a lot of hard work beforehand. Lady
Forster gave her blessing to the venture.
May Bryden, of the well-known Goulburn
family, has engaged herself to Frank Osborne
Dowling, of Gilgandra. voungest son of Vin-
cent Dowling, of Lue, Mudgee.
When the Tahiti sails in Mav Svdnev
music will lose Frank W. Reid. Born in
New York, at 18 lie
commenced to roam,
and never stayed
longer than si x
months in any town
until he came to
Sydney, where he
married and has
spent just on 25
years. During most
of the time he has
been connected with
the Amateur Orches-
tral Society, the Phil-
harmonic and Mos-
man Musical Society,
lie fiddfed for the
Phil, as far back as
1900. when SlaDoft’ski
sang in Berlioz’s
“Faust,” and on two
occasions lie has organised a complete
orchestra for the Boy Scouts. For the Mos-
man Society he has worked unceasingly since
1916, and is its hon. orchestral leader. After
a sojourn in Colorado he will probably return
here. Musical Sydney hopes so, anyway.
Will Verbrugghen give a Beethoven night
while the G.-G.’s party is in town? Mrs.
Pitt-Rivers is a Beethoven enthusiast. Her
husband, who is a student, is interested in
the fashionable fad of the moment —the
psychology of sex.
The Sydney Hospital Auxiliary collected
£l4OO at its refreshment-tent at the Show.
The pretty decorations were the work of
Laura Jay, and all the waitressing was done
by voluntary help.
Still another solution of what to do with
our girls. Make the lass a commissionaire.
Smartly clad in Italian blue or khaki, she
can then disentangle the bemused shopper
from the intricacies of the chiffons and the
veilings and point out the path to the buttons
or suspenders. Jones’s and Farmer’s have
already started the lady guides. Next thing
will be a company of boy scouts to track
down the absent-minded shopper with for-
gotten parcels and umbrellas.
The Vagabonds are out after the re
mainder of the endowment money for their
cot in the Ken wick hospital for babies. To
this end they play Oscar Wilde’s “Ideal Hus-
band” on April 14 and 16. The Surrey Hills
kindergarten bags the takings of the first
night, and the cot gets the second gate-
money.
Mrs. Gordon Bray, who came back to
Sydney, is hurrying the settlement of some
business affairs, and then rejoins her sister
in London.
Brisbane cuts in :
Big crowds patronised the Q.T.C. Easter meeting,
and even heavy rain couldn’t keep ’em away. Sum-
mer had her innings on Saturday, when light and
airy draperies floated over the lawn; but on Mon-
day velvet gowns, serge and tweed tailor-mades and
silk jersey-cloth garments swished above the muddy
boots and shoes of the women.
The first-night audience at the Allan Wilkie show
was a weird and wonderful mixture of Bush and
Intellect. Blokes from Outback became very restive
during the first scenes, but grew applausive when
Shylock Wilkie held the stage. Miss Hunter-Watts
had a bad cold, and though the quality of mercy
wasn’t strained, her voice was.
The other night the D. C. K. Camerons, of Ken-
sington Downs, and Caledonia stations, gave a dinner-
party at Lennon’s Hotel in honor of daughter Mar-
jorie, who was married the next day in a full naval
setting, at All Saints’, to Lt. Pitcairn Jones, second
son of the late Admiral Pitcairn .Tones, C. 8., and
of Mrs. Jones, of Southampton. He saw service in
the North Sea, also in Russia, and owns a Russian
as well as a string of British decorations. He is
now attached to the Australian Navy. The honey-
moon is shining in Sydney.
An engagement just announced is that of Cliff
Abell, younger son of the E. H. Abells, to the
youngest daughter of the A. Wilsons, of Sandgate.
Died this week, Robert Carlyle Hunter, youngest
son of the late Herbert Hunter, of Victoria Downs
station, and grandson of the late W. Miles, M.L.C.
He was just 40. Mrs. Hunter was a Miss Earl,
daughter of the Arthur Earls, well known in the
North.


«
A
*2
glfllgl
t' > ! 5_ I \fj2i
- '
i
■ -. «
H
v ss ;sg®OS
■v-f,i4i
I
afiSJI
'smk
»r*~< . %
■ dTUPiOS
Every aid to Perfect Playing is present
46 Beale Player-Piano
No. i The demountable valve
unit which can be demounted
from the wind-chest in a few
seconds.
No. 2 Motor Transmission —
illustrating method of keeping
gears constantly in mesh.
No. j —Spool Box. The t'wo
upper circles show the mustc-roll
adjusters. Lower circle shows
tempo pointer and lexer of trans-
posing device
VERY important device developed in recent years for
perfecting the technique of the Player-Piano has been
incorporated in the*!A^bW !> Beale. But in addition there
are features unique to this instrument only. The greatest
advantage, of course, is in having an instrument that
will stand the continuous use to which every player is put, without
quickly going out of tune. This is positively assured because of the
Beale Perfected Tuning System. By this method the tuning pins
are held absolutely rigid against the tortional pull of the strings.
The instrument will need tuning only when the strings have actually
stretched—-which takes a long time.
The pneumatic action of the 6 !?V£W s Beale is built on the unit system
—each part being interchangeable with another of the same kind.
The action” is made so that every part of it is instantly accessible
without ripping the whole mechanism to pieces. We know of no
other action to which the term"accessible”can so truthfully be applied.
All adjustments can be made with a pair of pliers and a screwdriver
and many of the small adjustments for which a mechanic is usually
considered necessary can be made by the owner.
We have prepared a booklet on Beale Player which
goes fully into its many points of superiority. From the photographs
it contains, an idea of the simplicity of the pneumatic and some of
the great tone control can be gained. Posted free to any address.
No. 4 Demountable ■valve unit
in playing position, showing how
gravity must assist the actual
valve -when playing.
No. s—Six-point motor so sim-
ple that it seldom needs attention
other than occasional oiling.
No. 6V
%)iew of a portion of the wind-
' chest and valve action unit, show-
ing the relation of the latter to
the wind-chest.
Head Office and
Showrooms:
333 Gec rge Streec
SYDNEY
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
ANNANDALE
No. 7 - Shows how pedals auto-
matically fall for'ward 'when
lever is moved.
1 *
BRANCHES —N.S.W.: B-thurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goul-
burn, and Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros.,Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.AUS 1
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. W. AUST.: J.A. Thompson Co. Ltd. Perth.
BEALE 6C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
00-02 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
fr
23k


H°LEPRcPF
Ho/lERY-
v 1
n.
i
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
JN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
BECOME AN ARTIST!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
m'j)
M
■m
You can do
so, without
d r u dgery,
if you take up
the Weston
Postal Coure
Drawing.
of'
Mr. Harry J.
Weston, the noted
commercial artist,
places within your
reach the means of
making your in-
come grow, and
learning a fascin-
ating and ever-
useful subject.
His series of les-
sons, based on his
own wide experi-
ence, covers the
whole field of
black - and - white
work, and takes
you on from stage
to stage rapidly
and easily.
Three stamps will
bring you Mr.
Weston’s interest-
in g booklet,
“There’s Money in
The Pen,” which
ells all about the
ourse and
t ives examples
i f the lessons.
Write for it
and learn what
successful students have accomplished.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
42 UNION HOUSE, SYDNEY.
fomeA ffilown
0!
1.
m
mm
Msg
S 3
m
The Strong Arm
OF PROTECTION
in MARKING LINEN
goes with Cash’s Woven Names
because they protect your Linen
against loss—and remember
CASH’S woven NAMES
excel any other method for mark-
ing linen—no trouble—easily sewn
on - fast color. i
The Prices are moderate
12 doz.7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3doz. 3/8
Sold by all best drapers
[ Made in Australia by—
J. & J. CASH
Ply.
Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Vic.
wmre for
STYLE BOOK
POLO
THE
KING OF SPORTS.
AN ANCIENT GAME, TOO—IT
WAS PLAYED IN PERSIA IN
600 B.C.
WE HAVE THE MOST EXTEN-
SIVE STOCK OP POLO GOODS
IN AUSTRALIA.
£2
J
RIDING OFF.
WRITE fOR OUR FREE POLO BOOKLET, containing Latest Playing Rules,
Illustrations of all Gear used, and much interesting information about the game.
PRACTICE STICKS from 7/6; MATCH STICKS from 8/6; WILLOW BALLS, 11/6
dozen; BAMBOO BALLS, 17/6 dozen.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE AND
NEW SEASON HORSE AND CATTLE RUG LIST.
K’burra Kangaroo Plaited Stockwhips
A l”f* V THEY ARE KANGAROO RIGHT THROUGH,
/\re uur special iy. with no sheepskin filling.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
395 George St., Sydney.
EDv
Mobiloil
A
(Medium body)
M OIL COMIVLW
“They always come back to Your Oil
How marketers of Motor Cars, Tractors
anti Trucks seek to protect their Engines
H
A well known Motor Agent writes :
“ We have always carried on a consider-
able amount of experimental work in
connection with lubrication and have
held our specification regarding oil very
closely to Gargoyle Mobiloils.’'
“ We have found that a sample can of
Gargoyle Mobiloils going with the
machine is important, inasmuch as our
customers get excellent service as long
Engine results depend upon scientific
lubrication.
Engine results account for the fact that
you seldom find a motorist who “ used
to use Gargoyle Mobiloils.”
Gargoyle Mobiloils are refined from
crude oils specially chosen for lubrica-
ting qualities—for engine results.
Get Engine results. The present cost
as they use the oil supplied
and are very prompt to
return to your oil as soon
as they have tried some-
thing else, as they usually
do, and find that they do
not get the results.”
\=! «y
Vacuum Oil Co
Pty. Ltd.
of motor cars, spare parts
and repair service warrants
the use of scientific lubrica-
tion as never before.
Write our nearest branch
for free booklet " The
Care of Your Car."
Throughout Australasia.
M I A
Mobiloils
A grade for each type of motor
Missir.gr Friends.
■ > OBERT LOUIS VEITCH.—If this
advertisement should be seen by the
above, or by anyone who can give informa-
tion as to him, whether living or dead, he or
his family (if any) will hear 0 f something
to his or their advantage. Robert Louis
Veiteh is believed to have left England for
Australia in 1891 or 1892. Communicate
with PERCY UMNEY and SCORER. Soli-
citors, 18 The Green, Richmond, Surrey,
England.
Missing: Friends.
Nathan heller, or keller, of
Dalston, London, last heard of in
Sydney, N.S.W., in 19ir>, to communicate
with his brother Lewis, now staying at
Carlton Hotel, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CA«iAt mr.« 4»ks& w
rrnmmmmmW
Reamers that are Accurate.
“That’s exact.”
If that is not the verdict after every inspection of work done,
you are losing money, but, worse still, if defects are overlooked
by the official responsible, the reputation of the firm suffers.
“CAPITAL” BRAND REAMERS
—High Speed, for Machines, Boilermakers and General Hand-
work —are famous for their accuracy and general efficiency.
In this way users turn out better and quicker work, and the
Reamers have longer life.
Particulars regarding prices, etc., supplied on application to
Department "A.”
THE EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of “ Ultra-Capitol ” Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE.
Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
jVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Kame and address must appear on the iISS. fio
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.G.M.: Well, the Australian isn’t wholly
responsible for the Hunnising of “snapper.” Webster
spells it the German way. Incidentally The B.
doesn't... .R.S.M.: The humor won’t carry it that
distance Athol: “Terry” still fails on the post.
J.S.N.: Not badly done; but that track is worn
into ruts Top: There’s feeling in “The Pup,” and
we send him back with a twinge of regret.... Vida
II.: On the contrary, we like it. Tiie Bulletin
would hate to think readers didn’t care what it
printed.... Lena W.: It doesn't get near.... A.F.R.:
Parboiled, badly seasoned and indifferently served.
....Eleven: Far too crude.... W.L. (Toongabbie or
something): The “Dapple Grey” limps badly....
H.G.C.: “Ambition” is sorrowful stuff, moderate'y
correct in shape and appearance, but as dull as the mum-
my of the oldest Pharaoh... .Roma B.: Bad verse. .. .
Frank Y.: It’s a long way to Tipperary... .E.P.L.:
Shocking J.L. (Eastwood): Doesn’t make much
of a yarn. .. .R.T.S.: The Brennan monorail was in-
vented in Australia and tried with success in Europe.
Don’t know whether there is a monorail service
actually running anywhere 5.0.5.: You ramble
round the subject, but don’t say anything. .. .T.M.S.:
Replied to long ago. The other initials evidently
did not refer to you E.N.: The “Loop” doesn’t
score F.G.J.: Not enough in it Iv.Y.R.:
“Revenge” doesn’t work L.S.C.: “Pitt Street”
should have reached you; “Watson’s Bay” is unin-
teresting. .. .F.C.IC.: The education of a writer con-
sists mainly of accurate reading and careful observa-
tion. The game is in your own hands; nobody can
teach you to be a writer... .Wilfred L.: “Blind” too
thin. In any case, the subject has been written to
death... .Bellerive: “Sounds in the Night” wakes
long echoes: —•
When the mystic stars shine, and I’m snug at home,
I love to hear music when writing a poem.
A piano’s sweet strains, or a twanging banjo,
A cornet’s loud peals by a man who can blow;
A fluttering flute giving vent to a jig,
Or an organ’s sad groans—l don’t care a fig.
But horror to me is the hideous din
Of boys a-banging a kerosene-tin.
....Oliver B.: The epic fragment is beyond praise:—-
“Hold ’ard, Gus, what’s that dirty old book?
Looks like one that’s been in the sink,
Or got it from an hard-up or a crook,
.lust let me, let me think.”
“Yes, it does look a bit, a bit off,
But what can a bloke do?
I used to be a bit, a bit of a toff;
Then I used to, used to, buy ’em new.”
“But what’s gone wrong with the works?”
“Well, I’ve come down a bit, a bit, vou know;
You know I used to work at old Toni Burk's ;
Now ’e’s ’e’s dead, and ’e, ’e left me no dough.”
“Well, I don’t see why you should look so sorry,
If your old master is dead.
Cheer up and don’t worry,
You’ll strike plenty more with lead.”
“Yes, yes, but ’e, ’e promised me, me
He ’e, ’e’d leave me, me some ;
And that’s how he’s died, you see ;
I feel like throwing myself amongst the slums.”
A.R.S.: No use G.M.: A thin little idea
which might have been saved but for the second
line. .. .E.F.8.: Don’t like the verses... .A.P.W.:
Too rugged Theo G.: No use Delcam M.: They
don’t amount to anything Jim B.: Not a hint of
song in it. . . .Tantalus : No interest in the miser-
able thing E.G.B. : Not for us J.A.M. :
Commonplace in poor verse.... Phil G. : It's
a soul-desolating sort of whine, but it gets to no-
thing. .. .Pap: “Fairy Hours” is thin and much too
like too many other things George S.: Nothing
there. .. .F.A.N. : It falls over its feet too often....
Calyx: Skimmed-milk sort of verse. Feed it to the
calves. . .11. G.: Not up. .. J.L.M.: “Crimson Patches”
won't do. .. .S.W.K.: Verses don’t strike us. The
translation may be good but the yarn it contains
isn’t much. .. .Kid M.: There's a lot more than a
grain of promise. Revise it again, and wipe out
phrases like “giant glee” E.M.F. : Held for a
further reading R.A.H. : Don’t see the force of
calling the “Hand” all-wise that has guided you all
wrong A Sibyline Poet: You’re not L.W.G.:
up. .. .N.V.P.: There isn’t quite enough there. .. .
F.R.G.: A sonnet must be a lot better than that.
. ...Kay-ort: It bumps along saying things vou don’t
quite mean A.S. (Sydney): That old dream-idea
has been worked to skin and bone. . . .G.E.8.: Don’t
believe that even in the most remote parts of Maori-
land it is spring in Hay and winter in December. .. .
Wilfred L.: “Evening” is pretty thin and lumpy
gruel. .. .J.S.: The “Toast” is a bad specimen of a
bad sort ; “Have You Heard” is not much better. . . .
T.S. (Bundamba) : Not up... .Uglvface: Can’t find any
mirth in that. . . .E. McM.: Just misses... .Sherry :
Bucket of beer yarn old Toiler: Lack point
Inter Alia: Subject done to death some time ago.
. . ..Tock Emma: Too much length for too little
point.... Pom-dig: Both 01d....D.1v.: Air can’t be
compressed for nothing C.W.H. : That yarn was
deported from U.S.A. as an undesirable years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.D.: Useless... .S.J.H.: Drawing faulty....
A.G.: Ditto.. .G.H.: Weak from all angles.. .G.C. :
Misses.... T.C.: Art limping; humor staggering.
.... Blackheath: Study composition; all your figures
Bcem to be pasted on in a row.
An Australian woman in London:—
Tile one department in Australia House that really
deserves a cheer is the Graves Section, under the
management of Major Phillips. The way they look
after the mourners, especially the very poor, is fine.
The other day I happened to call there with a
message, and a broken woman was waiting to see
IHi Hips. Her case was a particularly sad one, and
it was good to see how she was handled. In the
end, out of a little fund, she was given the means
to do what she had never dared even to hope for —
to go to Belgium to see her son’s grave. Phillips
keeps in touch with the ministers of all religions
on the spot, who meet their own people and assist,
them in every way. Now and then the section also
makes a discovery which it knows will bring com-
fort to a family in the far-away homeland. Lately,
for instance, the grave of Clarence Jeffrey was found.
Clarence, the only son of the manager of the Aber-
main collieries, was reported missing in October,
3 917, ano not a trace of him could be discovered.
His father came to London and went to France to
carry on the search—and incidentally, received his
son s V.C. from the King. And then, when all hope
was given up, the body was found in a grave near
Ypres.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Caimes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4247, SJvHnov
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. APRIL 27,
SONOMA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Unliking. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager; R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner CiEORQE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 600.000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1.850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
-with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Aeencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc*
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
R.M.S. NIAGARA, MONDAY, 11th APRIL, 11 a.m.
R.M.S. MAIvURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Grent Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara t ails, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. MANAMA, 26th April.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 21st April.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
R.M.S. TAHITI, 26th May.
R.M.S. MARAMA, 23rd June.
Eor illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors'.
- £4,958,260
- 3,350,000
- 4,958,260
£13,266.520
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
diaries Binnie. Esq.
Avditors : W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; S. E. Laidle}’, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle’Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DTTCECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and colletied. Letters of Credit and C irenlar notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834,
Capital paid up
Reserve Fum
Reserve Capital
.. £2,500,000
.. £2,220,000
.. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon.. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General Manager:
11. H. Ma'ssie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about • • • •
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income nearly
£1,207,933
£2,070,000
£41,000,000
£6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia,
Shipping-.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S/A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
ICarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUIvA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is filled with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars' apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 400 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Hums, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANll MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY ANI) THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONCBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars applv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO TIIE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“lioquoi3.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited,
l-'itzroy Estates Limited,
lilackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamsliix) Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Iluddart, Parker Ltd. fat Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen' and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane,


THE BURMAN
POWER HORSE-CUPPING MACHINES
BRITISH MADE,
Will Clip Your Horse in 30 Minutes.
POINTS:
Featherweight Flex-
ible Shaft, 6ft. long.
All Gears Machine
Cut from Solid.
Total weigh t
packed, 351 b. Si*e
of case, 14 x 18 x
8 inches.
The Burman Clip-
per Head will take
a thicker coat and
leave a better finish
than any other
make.
Easy Running.
These machines
have, by perfection
of <1 esig n ami
scrupulous care in
manufacture, o b-
tained an unrivalled
reputation through-
out the world.
There is the weight
of 50 years’ practi-
cal experience be-
hind every JRUR-
MAN CLirPKR.
Rapid Clipping.
The Biirriian No. 17 Power Clipper at Work.
GEARS Enclosed in Dust-prool' Box.
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING STORES.
BL'KMAX & SONS. LTD., BIRM.. ENGLAND.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quant!
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, ETD .
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and oilier
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, ETD.
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
IF the wife or any descendant or relation
of THOMAS FREDERICK HENRY
TATE, alias HENRY MARTIN, of Bristol,
England, who went to Queensland about the
year IS9O and died in Queensland as the
result of an accident, will communicate with
the undersigned they will hear something to
their advantage.
SYMON, BROWNE & SYMON, Solicitors,
Gladstone Chambers,
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
ROY PHILLIPS (“Ishmael”) write to
Frank Reid, Bowen, N.Q. Important.
ELCAR-SIX.
A BEAUTIFUL CAR AT A MODERATE PRICE.
It is a strictly high-class production, embodying such famous components as Continental
Engine, Borg & Beck Clutch, Muncie Gear Box and Salisbury Axles. Inspection will at once
indicate to you the wonderful value we are offering.
THE NEW BRISCOE.
'this is the Lightweight Economy Car, and its design and construction will be a revelation to
you—we have fitted the chasses with most attractive bodies.
You will like the New Briscoe. Price £595.
BROWN & HELLICAR, LTD.,
74 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
ELCAR-SIX, BRISCOE, WAVERLEY, A.C., METZ.
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2 6 and 4/6.
[3
The pleasure
of good music
Can you afford to invite the world’s
greatest musical artists to perform for
you in your home? Not if you had to
ask them to come personally, but you
can afford *
The NEW EDISON
and secure their performances just as perfectly as if they came themselves.
The New Edison does not reproduce music—it Re-Creates it. Every
shade of tone and depth of feeling is perfectly rendered with the human
touch of the.master.
Write for details of this wonderful instrument to-day.
ritt 1 >ew Edison is manufactured in beautiful, authentic Period Pieces
of lumiture.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/ - post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters,
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in.
steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
B21. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers*
The Fisherman’s
Mecuin.
“SURE
Guide.
Y T ade
818. Altendorf and Wright’s Highr-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7tlb. Freight paid,
£lB/18/
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. lOd. each, post free.
Owing; to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to changre without notice.
rtfegggjEte&L
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top liver,
dense Trogan nitroi 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high tile cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2$in. cartridges, walnut stoclc, weight 71b. to 7ilb.
Tested for N'ito Powders Freight paid, i
*l6/16/-
*
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight _ slt I
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun ric/ifiL
Freight paid, 3L.l£/ID/"
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
ssa
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2jin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7|lb Freight paid,
*l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage Sd. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32m.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
88 Ejector, 65/'
Postage— H 6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. Mic£ Simmon.s fid
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


All Australia Uses
REXONA.
m
mm
m
MASTER RHODES (from a photo,
Never a day passes but that Rexona
scores another triumph over those serious
troubles of life—Scalds, Burns, Sores,
Bad Legs, Piles, Pimples, Blotches, Nasal
Catarrh and Rheumatism. The dainty
little triangular pot of Rexona the Rapid
Healer contains a combination of the
most curative, antiseptic, soothing and
healing properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age,
because it destroys the harmful germs
that may be present in a sore, pimple or
any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing
any contagion of the blood, and at the
same time causes a new, healthy skin to
grow. Rexona immediately reduces the
inflammation and pain. It acts as a dis-
tinct .stimulant to the pores of the skin,
and sets up a healing action immediately
that increases day by day. Bad leg sores
that have resisted every other treatment
succumb almost immediately to its won-
derful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal.
Badly Scalded
Arm Healed by
REXONA.
“Some time ago my little son Victor was badly scalded. The right arm was the
worst; it had the skin taken off, right from the hand to above the elbow. Friends
advised me to take Victor to a doctor, as his arm looked awful. But* thanks to
Rexona, which was used almost from the first dressing, his arm healed in a wonderful
way. We had used Rexona in the home for years and knew its worth, but the rapid
way it healed Victor’s arm surprised us, and since then we are continually recom-
mending it to others. I am enclosing a snapshot of Victor, age 21 years, which was
taken just before he was scalded. You may use this snap, also my letter.
“I am, yours truly,
“(Sgd.) A. M. RHODES,
“Cbapplevale, via Enver’s Hill, Victoria.”
Rexona—the Rapid Healer, a first-aid cabinet in itself.
Price 1/6 and \3/-
Rexona—the Aristocrat of Soaps, 1/- per Tablet.
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castkmaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON'S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemainc, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWJf, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
:!
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
MELBOURNE:
Gibeon, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
The Pixy Path.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T'fclXY-LED! Pixy-led!”
Y-* (That is what the neighbors said),
-L But I sometimes doubt if they
Quite believe the things they say
Of the green, alluring by-way,
Branching from the broad, white highv aj,
Twisting, turning, gently down
To the little, mist-veiled town
In the hidden hollow.
It was in a green October,
When the earth had lost its sober
Winter traces, and the world
Was a glowing flag unfurled—
Gold with gorse and red with clover,
Blue with butterflies that hover
In the soft and still Spring weather
Over leagues of fern and heather;
As we roamed, a raptured two,
In a country strange and new,
Wandering in soft elation,
On long roads of expectation.
Suddenly from off the highway
Branched a little shaded by-way.
Hung with blossoms wild and bright,
And we sought it in delight;
Trees all mossy-boughed and olden,
Dripping fern leaves red and golden,
Strange and sweetly-scented flowers,
Waterfalls and ferny bowers,
Till at last below the edge
Of a steep and dizzy ledge.
In a hollow far, far down.
We beheld a little town.
Softly wrapped in silver mist,
By a gentle sunlight kist,
It seemed from street to slender spire
A little city of desire,
And we only longed to follow
Downward to the misty hollow :
But the path, fern-sweet and bloomy.
Plunged into a forest'gloomy,
Through the dim trees overhead
Not a ray of sunlight sped,
And from out the darkness came
Sudden rain and lightning flame;
Thunder crashed, and followed after
Sounds of tiny, impish laughter,
As we ran with faces blenching,
Through the darkness chill and drenching,
Seeming, as w r e blindly raced,
By a host of furies chased,
Till upon a dismal plain
We had reached the light again.
Vanished was the evil w r ood.
On a treeless waste we stood,
Vanished, too, the little town
With its silver spires far down
In the purple hollow.
In the twilight dim with rain
We sought out the road again,
Far beyond the fields of gorse
We had held our vagrant course,
And when lonely lights were burning
We were slowly homeward turning.
“Pixy-led! Pixy-led!”
(That is what the neighbors said!
And averred that it w r as told
Sometime in the days of old
In that mellow, sunlit land
Once there roamed a pixy band:
And although on many a morn
We have sought a hope forlorn- —
.Just a little, shaded byway
Branching from the sunny highway—
We have never glimpsed again
The path we trod in sun and rain,
Twisting, turning, luripg down
To the little silver town
In the hidden hollow.
MAORILAND.
LILA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Unrecorded,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AMONGST the Macquarie papers pre-
served in the Manuscript Room at the
Mitchell Library in Sydney there are
several admirable records of his Excellency’s
excursions through the territory over which
he ruled during VZ pregnant years, ihey are
neatly written personal journals in his own
rather feminine hand, each one having to do
with some separate expedition to a different
part of the colony. The journey over the
Blue Mountains to Bathurst Plains by
Captain Cox’s new road, in 1816, is there,
and so is a diary of a trip to Van Diemens
Land and one to Port Macquarie, made to-
wards the end of his reign. Written gener-
ally in unruled exercise-books, and lasting
evidence of the meticulous care which Mac-
quarie bestowed upon the discharge of his
duties, they are, of course, mainly personal
notes —probably made as much for the
edification of Mrs. Macquarie as to assist
in the compilation of the voluminous des-
patches that used to go home to the Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies.
But one document that might have been
expected to be in its place at the eastern end
of the room is missing. We know that it was
very carefully compiled, and it is a thousand
pities that it is not to-day available to the
student of Australian history. It was pro-
bably one of the best of them—one of the
most human documents which that _ un-
conscious master of the art of writing
human documents ever composed. It
must have been full of incident and interest.
None of his more fugitive journals could ever
have given us such an insight into Mac-
quarie’s character and mentality as this
“Voyage to Port Stephens in 1817” would
have done. We can only lament that it no
longer exists —‘that the Governor saw good
reason for not even bringing it ashore with
him on his return to Port .Jackson.
A most valuable historical document it
would have been —but there is no use in cry-
ing over spilt milk or torn-up papers, and the
only consolation that mankind may take to
itself is that the writer is happily in a
position to account for its absence from the
archives of the Mitchell.
The story of that somewhat remarkable
voyage to the northward is the result of two
confabulations which were held on the after-
noon and in the evening of February the
22nd, 1817.
About 3 o’clock. Mr. Gregory Wicks, the
first-lieutenant of 11.M.5. Emu, came
ashore in Sydney Cove at the King’s Wharf,
and immediately repaired to the residence
of Mr. Acting-Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-
General Pilkington. This luxuriously fur-
nished establishment was on the crown of
“The Rocks,” not very far from the eminence
that overlooks Dawes’ Battery. Mr. Wicks,
finding the front door open, walked into the
drawing-room and yelled:
“Brummell! Where the devil are ye?”
Out of a bedroom at the back, Mr. Pilking-
ton, magnificently arrayed in a dressing-gown
of flowered silk, almost immediately ap-
peared.
“Panthy, my dc-ah fellow! And pway
what ecthithe you now? Delighted to thee
you, my boy. But whatli the matter —are
the bailiffth on your twack again?”
“Bailiffs he d —d! No, thank God. I’m
on your track. Brum, my blood, you’ve got
to come to Port Stephens with me. To-
morrow morning—first thing—we sail.”
“Port Thtephenth ! And where may that
be, Panthy? Anyw'here near Port Dal-
wymple, in Van Diemen’th Land, where the
ecthellent Pat Calder ith at pwethent
wuthticating?”
“You silly lubber, ’course it’s not. It's
just next door here, up the coast —six or
seven leagues beyond the mouth of the Coal
River. Eighty miles away—a day’s run,
with a favorable breeze.”
“Well, my dear fellow, you thurely don’t
ecthpect me to know all the holeth and
cornerth of thith benighted continent! And
pway why thould I go to Port Thtephenth?”
“It seems that the Governor is very anx-
ious for a survey of the bay. Has some idea
of establishing a branch settlement of the
Coal River there, I believe. For the worst
of ’em at Newcastle. So the Lady Bathurst
has been told off to do the job. Her skipper.
Phil Meredith, got drunk the other night, and
had a fall, by which he broke his arm. The
mate, a chap named Hartshorn, knows no-
thing of surveying and chart-making, so Mac-
quarie applied to our Old Man for an officer
to take temporary command of the Lady 8.,
and carry out the work. Captain Fletcher asked
me would I care for the job. .Tumped at it.
There’s nothing to do. Flinders’ charts are
as good as anything I can make of it, so be-
yond copying ’em —I’ve got ’em all —and
writing a bit of a report on ’em, it’ll be just
the sort of restful work that appeals to me.
It’ll simply be a yachting cruise. There’s
good shooting and fishing to be had—and
it’ll be a comfort to be away from head-
quarters for a week or two. You’re having
your annual leave just now. So why not
come with me?”
“ ’Tith a vewy thudden pwopothition, my
dear Panthy. Have you any other induthe-
menth? You know —I don’t quite fanthy
thyootin’ an’ fishin’ for fourteen dayth. A
little borethome, perhapth—what?”
Mr. Wicks leaned forward in his arm-
chair, and laid his dexter forefinger against
his nose. He also closed his left optic. Mr.
Pilkington showed his appreciation of these
mysterious signs by sitting up, and paying
great attention.
“Well?”
“Brummell, old sportsman, you know Mrs.
Polwarne?”
“Oh, wather! The lady that uthed to be
houthekeeper for Macdonald of the 46th? I
thould thay tho! Who doethn’t know the
lovely little Fanny? What about her, Panthy
you old wip?”
“Well, she’s coming, too.”
“The devil the ith ! But —er —why d’ye
want me to come altho? Two’th company,
you know 7 —what?”
“Well, I was thinking that perhaps you
could find a companion, too. Why not? The
mate’s a good fellow —’twill go no further.
And he assures me the crew -won’t gossip.
Meredith had a—<a housekeeper the last time
thev -were surveying in Bass’s Straits. Not
a word leaked out where it might do any
harm. How about it?'’'’
Without replying, Mr. Pilkington rose to
his feet and stalked into his bedroom. For
some ten minutes, through the closed door,
Mr. Wicks heard a conversation between two
people being Carried on in a low and indis-
tinguishable tone. The only word of it he
caught was Mr. Pilkington’s single exclama-
tion of “Immenthe!” But, once or twice, he
thought he heard a giggle. Mr. Pilkington
never giggled.
Presently the exquisite returned, walked up
to his friend, and, grasping his hand, shook
it fervently.
“A bargain, my boy. We’ll be aboard--
when ?”
“You d—d old sportsman ! This is how
you spend your leave, is it? Before midnight
—as quietly as possible. But not much
before —there may be someone aboard that’d
matter. We’ll drop down the harbor at day-
light—on the ebb. Now I’ll get aboard the
Lady 8.. and see to the accommodation for
the lovely ones. Bring something to drink —
and you might as well fetch your man Sim-
mons. Au revoir. Between eleven-thirty and
twelve.”
# # * «
The other confabulation had been one
that took place at Government House about
0 o’clock on the same evening. Present: His
Excellency, Mrs. Macquarie and Mr. Secre-
tary Campbell.
“I think, my dear,” that gentle lady was
saying. “ ’twould be the very thing for you.
The Lady Bathurst will be away for a fort-
night, and you will be able to become abso-
lutely free of all your worries for that time.
He has not slept for three nights now, Mr.
Campbell—l pray you to add your persuasions
to mine. Don’t you think ’twould be a nice
holiday for Mr. Macquarie to take —when he
has the chance?”
“Indeed, sir. I’m inclined to agree wi’ Mis-
tress Macquarie. All your despatches home
are finished. They go by the Collingwood
to-morrow 7 , and there’ll be no more to attend
to for a month, at least. We’re verra for-r-
- in everything of a routine nature, and
there’s naething the Lieutenant-Governor and
I cannot attend to. I think, your Excellency,
’tis a Heaven-sent oppor-r-tunitv. If I may
be per-r-mitted to say so. your Excellency is
in need of a rest —sairly in need of it.”
Macquarie looked haggard and worried, in-
deed, as he sat drinking tea in the drawing-
room with his wife and the secretary. The
lines were deeper in his rugged face, and his
shoulders drooped with weariness.' He thought
deeply for a little while, staring at the car-
pet with a knitted brow, before he replied
to their entreaties that he should give him-
self a holiday. He sighed deeply before he
spoke.
(Continued on newt page.)


w.
• oW
V
’EveryPicture " +
Tells a Story"
£So' .
J
jr >$ ’/' s 5 ~j
N§7>
'€V
YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE
No! Age does not explain the kidney weakness,
backache, muscular stiffness, rheumatic pains and
urinary discomfort of elderly people; for whilst some
are young at eighty, others are old when only sixty.
But age does bring health-wisdom. Let the young folk
listen when old people say: Keep cheerful, but never
keep late hours. Avoid heavy meals. Shun all excesses.
Take exercise. Get sufficient sleep.”
Young and old alike will find Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a ready help. This specially
strengthening kidney and bladder medicine does not disturb the stomach or bowels.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TELL OF THEIR CURES
BY DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
FROM ROZELLE.
Mr. M. Dowling, 25 Roseberry Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says: “For about
three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and during that time was
treated by doctors and tried different remedies, but nothing did me any good. My
back used to ache fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up straight
after bending over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but the relief was
only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being highly colored and scanty. My general health was
far from good, and I often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work.
One day I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and the thought
occurred to me to try this remedy. I bought a bottle, and in a few days I began to
feel better. “As I went on with the treatment the improvement was maintained,
and by the time I had used four bottles 1 was cured, all signs of backache and
kidney trouble having entirely gone. lam in splendid health now, and have only
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for my recovery.”
FROM CAMPERDOWN.
Mrs. T. Smith, 25 Bridge Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “A member
of my family suffered agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and was
completely with the ailment for months. The pains were particularly
severe across the small of the back, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his medicine did not do any good, and
at last he said he was afraid nothing more could be done. We then tried hospital
treatment, but that also failed. It was right on top of this that we were advised
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and although we had very little hope that
they would do any good, we got some to try them. After taking two or three
bottles there was a little improvement, so w r e persevered, until a perfect cure was
effected, using in all 12 bottles. We cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pill§, and consider the cure a marvellous one.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says: “The cure referred to still holds good. I
am sure if Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were better known there would be less
suffering in the world.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
“Well, then, my dear, I will go. I'll not
deny that I feel in need of some little rest
and recreation. This business with the
chaplain—with Mr. Marsden —has upset me,
perhaps. A contumacious fellow ! You say
the Lady Bathurst sails at daylight, Camp-
bell? That does not leave much time. But
if I go aboard by midnight ’twill suffice. You
will see to my things, my dear Elizabeth.
Tell my servant, Hardy, that he must come
with me, and to be sure to pack my guns
and fishing-tackle. Very good—l will go.
All official matters I leave to you, Camp-
bell —they are in good hands. You will let
the people on the Lady Bathurst know? By
the way, who commands her? I wrote to
Captain Fletcher for an officer qualified to
make the surveys. Whom has he sent?”
“His first lieutenant, your Excellency—
voung Wicks. A verra competent pairson,
I’m told.”
“Oh, that nice sailor-man,” smiled Mrs.
Macquarie. “Such a cheerful young fellow,
my dear Macquarie!”
“H’m,” grunted the Governor. “I have
had some experience of the young gentle-
man and his cheerfulness. Well, well, I
daresay my presence aboard his ship may
have a restraining' influence. Have you for-
gotten the outrageous affair at Parsley Bay,
my dear?”
Mrs. Macquarie blushed.
“My dear, no. But we must not remem-
ber the indiscretions of the young too severely.
I am sure that both Mr. Calder and Mr.
Wicks have been very sorry for their con-
duct since. Let us forgive and forget.”
On his private jetty below Government
House, at half-past eleven, the Governor
found Mi-. Campbell but just returned from
the Lady Bathurst, where he had been stow-
ing the vice-regal baggage and acquainting
the commander of the schooner with the
sudden honor that had been conferred upon
him. Mr. Wicks had restrained any ex-
pression of his consternation, but had acted
promptly. He had sent the boatswain ashore
with a note to Mr. Pilkington.
“It seems, sir,” said the Secretary—“it
seems that Mr. Wicks had invited young
Pilkington, of the Commissariat, to accom-
pany him on the expedition. lie asked me
whether I thought your Excellency would
object to his coming, and I took the liberty
of saying that I did not think so. He has
not yet gone aboard, but word could be left
at the King’s Wharf, if your Excellency
thinks” —\ —
“Ha, not at all, my dear Campbell—not at
all. A genteel young fellow. Glad of his
company. ’Tis a redeeming feature in those
two youthful reprobates that they appear to
regard Pilkington as an intimate friend. I
feel certain that his influence with them is
an wholesome one. Quite wholesome. An
exemplary young man.”
“Exemplary!” muttered Mr. Campbell, as
he walked back up the hill, after taking
leave of Macquarie. “Ah hae ma doots!”
At six o’clock on a summer morning Port
Stephens is very beautiful —quite as beauti-
ful, maybe, as Port Jackson, or the harbor
at Hobart. The sweep of shining blue waters
extends widely to wooded foreshores, behind
which purple ranges slumber in the sunlight.
Here and there gleaming stretches of beach
lie between forest-clad points, reflecting them-
selves in the mirror-like surface of the bay :
and. looking seaward, there is a narrow wash
of ultramarine at the extreme level of the
horizon, where it lies between the foam-
tufted rocks on either side of the entrance.
The Lady Bathurst lay at anchor in Sala-
mander Bay, five miles in from the sea on
the southern side, and on her bow poop
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, R.N., and Mr.
Acting-Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-General
Pilkington promenaded the deck in deep and
earnest and somewhat disconsolate conversa-
tion. Two empty coffee-cups stood upon the
cabin skylight.
"You thee, my good Panthy,” Mr. Pilkiug-
ton was observing in a pained though sympa-
thetic tone, “Macquawie ith quite juthtitied in
wegarding your conduct in a —er —thomewhat
both tile light. He ith not uthed to
ing oflitherth of Kiug’th thipth who take
ladieth of no weputation with them upon hith
Majethty’th thervithe. That sort of thing
ith not done. It weally ith not done, my
dear fellow. In the opinion of hith Ecthel-
lenthy and mythelf, you have behaved vewy
thcandalouthly.”
Mr. Wicks faced round upon his friend
angrily.
"Oh, hell and damnation, Brummcll, this
comes well from you ! Split my tops’ls, but
you have a front of brass! Man—who but
myself saved you from the very situation in
which my ill luck has placed me? Had I
not succeeded in warning you the other night
in Sydney Cove your woman would have
been here with Mrs. Polwarne. Or, rather,
she’d have been sent away in the longboat
with poor little Fanny yesterday—and you’d
have been eating humble pie with me. Your
impudence is colossal!”
Mr. Pilkington regarded his indignant com-
panion with real pain. The latter continued :
“Look here! He left his infernal journal
open on the cabin table when he turned in
last night—it’s down there now—and forgot
it when he went ashore this morning with
that grinning servant of his. I know ’twasn’t
quite the thing to do, but I caught sight of
my name as I passed by just now, and —
damme —well, I read what he’d been writing
about me.”
“Ah, not a vewy gentlemanly action, my
dear Panthy! Now, wath it? Weally, now
—you thurpwithe me !”
“Oh, shut up! Gentlemanly be d—d !My
career in the service is trembling beneath the
sword of who’s-this. You’d have done the
same as I.”
“My deah Tanthy!” Mr. Pilkington mur-
mured a horrified negation.
“Same as I did. ’Course you would. Lord
—what hasn’t the old dog written about me?”
“There, there, my good fwiend—do not
ecthite yourthelf, I betlieech you.” Mr. Pil-
kington had become more interested. “Well,
now—though of courthe you had no ecthcuthe
for reading it—what hath he written? Ah”—
moving towards the cabin companion—“I
mutht thee into thit'h mythelf.”
“Huh ! So you’re a-going to act the cad
too !”
With much dignity, as he slowly dis-
appeared down the companion-way, Mr. Pil-
kington refuted this unpleasant suggestion.
“My good fellow, 'tith not vulgar
cmviothity that pwompth me to take thith
dithtathteful courthe. ’Tith tholitliitude for
the verv painful pwedieament of a fwiend
Mr. Wicks, through the cabin skylight,
saw his companion approach the place at
the table where the Governor had been writ-
ing, and take up the open book. The mur-
mur of his guest’s voice came to him as lie
read aloud an extract that went like this
(Mr. Pilkington took a copy for the edifaca-
tion of their mutual friend Ensign Calder,
of the 46th) :
To niv Horror and distress I discovered this
Morning when we were opposite to the Mouth of
Hunter’s River, that Lieutenant Wicks, the Officer
temporarily commanding the Lady Bathurst, had
brought to Sea with him an Abandoned Creature, in,
I can only conclude, the capacity of a Mistress.
Upon making this Painful discovery, I immediately
insisted upon the schooner being hove-to, whilst the
woman was taken ashore in a boat to the Sett la-
ment at Newcastle, with a Note from myself to
the Commandant, Captain Wa11i5....1 have signified
my Disapprobation of his ill-conduct very Severely
to Mr. Wicks:...a most depraved young Man....
quite unfitted to hold his Majesty s commission.... 1
shall make it my Business, upon my return to
Headquarters, to forward a Full Account of this dis-
graceful Transaction to the Lords of the Admiralty
....I have requested Mr. Wicks to take his meals
elsewhere than in the Cabin during the remainder
of the Expedition He has proved himself quite
unfitted for the Society of Gentlemen His friend
and Guest, Mr. Pilkington, who is a most Exemplary
and Genteel Person, is in full agreement with My
point of View.
When Mr. Pilkington returned on dock he
was shaking with hardly-to-be-represscd
laughter, and his face was very red. He
found the acting-commander of the Lady
Bathurst despondently contemplating the
clear depths below the counter of the vessel,
as though in them lay the only solution of
his sorrows.
“Panthy, my dear old thporthman, ’tith
vewy tliewiouth. Now, do leave it to me.
Get out on your thurveying work at onthe
1 thee the Governor ith Leaving the beach.
For God’th thake, don’t let him meet you.
He mutht be vewy mad—but I am twuly
pleathed that he can appwethiate mewit
when he theeth it. Away with you, in-
thantly. I will do what I can. Oh, dear
me. ‘a motht depwaved young man’!”
There is no need to give more than the bare
conclusion of Mr. Pilkington’s breakfast-
table oration to his astonished Excellency.
That it had its effect as a telling piece of
advocacy, both the absence of Macquarie’s
journal from the MSS. Room of the Mitchell
and the undoubted fact that Mr. Wicks
perished, many years afterwards, with Sir
John Franklin, as a post-captain in the
Royal Navy, are very conclusive evidence.
“...,Tho I beg you to athk yourthelf,
thir, ith it worth while? Without a doubt,
my erwing young fwiend hath vewy juthtly
incurred ecthemplawy punithment. Hith—
ah —infamouth conduct thtinkth to Heaven,
and thyould be pillorwied. Undoubtedly.
But dithewetion, my deah Governor —the
vewy utmotht dithcivetion —ith nethethawy.
It cannot but be thuppothed that your Ec-
thellenthy’th enemieth in Thvdney would
theek to turn the inthident motht malignantly
againtht yourthelf. We know the length to
which their devilith malithiouthneth will
lead them. They would not hethitate one
moment to plit it about that you had made
a thcapegoat of thith young offither ax
had jone a-gattianiias ymrlheli jo Port
Thtephmth with f hith abandoned
fetnalc.
“My God." gasped Macquarie,
not thought of that!”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Bush-Phantom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOW you call from tbe by-ways, the
shy-ways
Among the great trees!
You have I sought for, and guessed you
Faintly by these:
The arms of wreathed scents that caressed
you,
Eucalypt, sassafras, musk,
Sword-grass whose root is a spice
Provocative, fancy-compelling,
Coolness of maidenhair smelling
Like clear running water at dusk
All the sigliings of Paradise,
All your sweetness adrift on the breeze.
You to my senses surrendered.
Answer by these:
The magic of music bird-rendered,
Noon trances of sparkling content.
Tranquillity showered from the skies
Drowning down through the hot leaves
gleaming,
And swift, as I slip into dreaming,
One glimpse ’neath their flickering tent
Of the sleepy blue fire of your eyes—
One kiss, as the ecstasy flees!
You are Monarch or Maiden
Among the great trees?
A dread god or laughing girl laden
With wildflowers of delicate pride?
Only I know you, Unknown,
By the thrill of your garment-hem trailing,
By a flash, from your fairness unfailing
As the parted ferns hasten to hide
Where the Joy of the Bush builds your
throne
In a fastness that nobody sees.
From shadowed recesses the lyre-birds dis-
cover,
From loftiest sun-foam of blossom above,
Have you not spoken, my Love, my Lover,
And have I not heard, O my Lover, my
Love,
Your words on the breeze?
Still you call me from green ways, unseeD
ways ...
Among the great trees.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


; 9 1
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure-minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.___
WEST, N. S. WALES
»WVV-'° S
S??AKtITRAVU^
TCD ***
r
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppi.t—
J| AR11AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
08} PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts ol the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news,
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at tne
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
This is the compact little phonograph that you
can take with you anywhere and that will
stand the stress of travel and weather.
Went through the war with distinction.
Plays all makes of records; clear re-
production and rich natural tone.
No loose parts —no case —ready
to play immediately opened.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth £9 10 0
Fibre ... ... U 50 0
Cowhide ... 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All
Music-dealers.
f
STANLEY E. GREEN
LTD.,
Australian Agents
K
fIL
Satisfied users to the extent of millions distributed over the world
have signified their satisfaction with Shirley President Braces y
using no other kind. Years of Brace-making, with a responsibi lty
to please the purchaser, has built up this army of friends tor bnir ey
President Braces.
Guaranteed by the makers.
Look for the name “Shirley President” on the buckles this is
your guarantee.
For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
'7SeMdenl\su66endei' Ccm&OML
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHKO I>TY., LTD.,
30 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Only Those Who Are Well
can be said to know the joy of living. Nothing can compensate fop
the loss of health. Dyspeptic millionaires are by no means to be
envied. On the other hand, no man is really poor who is rich in health.
People who possess abundant energy and vitality, although in
indifferent circumstances,
Are Really Well Off.
In our pursuit of prosperity our first aim should be to secure health
and fitness and to this end we should be particularly careful to
maintain the efficiency of the digestive organs. For this purpose we
shall find nothing better than the systematic use of Beeeham s Pills.
They keep the stomach strong, the liver active, the bowels regular
and the blood pure and thus make it easy for one to be well.
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens. England.
Sold in boxes, labelled lOJjd., ls-lisd and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PAIENI Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably undei all
conditions. To prove what "e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
vou to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach ot
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, IVlelbourne,_yic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
liver-isms
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to-
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness y
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember/
Carter’s Little’
Liver Pille touch
the liver and cure , .
all liver ills. Try them to-day and sec how
much better you will be to-morrow. they
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must *2
bear signature
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal foi' their
popularity. Even under 'Qie most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish * given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ail
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
‘ axT 'HivnoNis aoaiH<niA\ *r
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z-
Safe—Accurate—Compact
The Remington Model 51 Automatic
Pistol protects YOU against acci-
dental discharge.
It is impossible to fire
a cartridge without
simultaneously grasp-
ing the
_ stock and'
pressing the trigger. T w ojf
other safety devices!insurer
against accident./
■
SPECIFICATIONSiWC a 1 ib e r .380?
length, 6 5/8 in.;*thickness, 9/10 in.;
weight 21 ounces unloaded; finish, dull
black; magazine holds seven cartridges,
one extra cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless automatic
standard metal cased or soft pointed.
the same cartridge as is used in other
Americans Automatic a Pistols .of this
calibeiyr
>
wQoP
WA
C-Hi
ill I*
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. I). Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne*
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
each
Post Free
(Patented)
** *
each
Post Free
in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
fig &
simplicity, lightness and excellence of tba
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


From George the Third
To Georoe the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong.
<s^
H
$
*5
in
fro)
■\a
CP£e
V
J
c
>
SSi
u
ZJ^
m.
V.
%
w-
$
K
'&>
Jr.
m
Si
%
2*
2/
,r
<3?
N
i 3
\
h
/
«2
U«
/
y
>4
/
sr
V
«
~S
%«
m
>m
|EoC«£«£>^
W js
i
C
/<
W
%.
i
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No. lI.—JAPAN.
Johnnie Walker: “It is a wonderful country this land of the Mikadof 3
Perspiring Tourist: “Idl bet your name is not upon the list of the
things that never will be ‘missed*’”
Guaranteed sante quality all over tlie world,
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND*
