

;r
mm*.
\
cr
: mmm®
.
v.
£&
::a
JSWHS&IS&SSSff
ysg^^a-pK
VA
&
»
jr
"
S- M
i
ft. i
& a
, sa.;
;
' ..n
i - • viftii
K 5
BREWED FROM
ffIrtSTMALT^
SB
» AAO6
NWtS
; S
brewed
jf®
as
&C? LT- v
'' ,„ H% t.,i »»%»*»*» Sj|
A
mj/i
I iDunn . _.
Two Favorites ~
and Firsts— for thirsts!
Rn
.D.
LAGER
The preference of connoisseurs!
T.B.
LIGHT
ALE
jh “The drinK of good taste.” A
Brewed and Bottled by
OOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2177
Thursday, November 3, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalog-tie for 1021? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney.* Tele. 6431.— Advt„
• :
MAMGBOVITE.
Mangrovite Belting Effective
under the hardest conditions of manufacture. A 9in.
wide Mangrovite Raw-hide Belt operating in a
temperature of 130 degrees F. at a large manufac-
turing plant has already lasted four times longer
than any other belt used on this drive. The belt
is crossed and transmits approximately 30
and is driving a forced draft fan for the boilers,
operating direct from steam-engine to fan.
Instal Mangrovite Leather or Raw-hide Belting on
every drive in your factory.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., 397 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co., Ltd., Collins-street, Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
à
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
Price 10/6' of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longlmrst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Coloups fhafcappy an
absolufe duapanfee
SUNDOUR
UNFADABLE
FABRICS
The Dyesfuffr fo pming
fhese pepmanenf colour
ape made byfheSundoup
fipm, fhe onjyfipm in fhe
wop\6 ppodueind doods
from Dyesf ufirh fo finished
Fabnics.
Sundoup Fabpiea ape
made in Casement Cloths,
Reps, Damasks,Chennilles,
Madpas Muslins,Tapesfpies
Rugs, ere.
s Of *// the best furnishers
Morton Sundour &6ncs .
(Trade Only) Qr/t'sJc,. '
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
non raisoNous rjwder.
THE CREST INSECT DESTROYER.
I Flies.
Fleas.
Bags.
Mosquitoes
-9?
á
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid 1 ly.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocer ,
1 /- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.O.
Qir/lnov
The Red Page
The American Editor
He has one great virtue. However lofty
his position, a very mountain-peak, he is
still accessible. At least he is accessible,
sometimes, and to certain people. The
London editor is not accessible, except at
social functions, unless the would-be con-
tributor has a letter of introduction from
the cousin of a lord or the nephew of a
Mustard king. Otherwise he has gone to
Paris or-the moors.
The first stage is easy. After a few simple
formalities, the adventurer is ushered into
the outer office. The furniture and deco-
rations are usually in good taste; it seems
surprising how ali that could be made out
of literature. All round this room, on chairs
and divans, are seated the coming literary
men and wqmen, many of whom will be de-
layed. They run to all weights and ages ;
and there are so many of them that any out-
sider seems to stand a poor chance of ever
getting through at all. There are young
girls and fat women carrying bundles. The
girls are often pretty, but the fat ones have
more soul. Somebody ought to write a
psychological treatise on fatness in litera-
ture. The wild adventure-story of strong-
men and blood and thunder is usually writ-
ten by thin women; but the true domestic
story, the ideal tale qf love and passion, the
best-seller, can only be written by women
of sentiment who all belong to the heavy-
weight class. The women predominate in
this outer chamber; for in the States women,
produce the “creative art” while the men
write the ads. There are plenty of men all
the same, ad. w r riters who have failed and
are now only poets and storytellers. The
older men have hard faces and look cynical.
But the young men still retain their ideals;
they have elaborate bow-ties, wear their hair
long and try to look intense. They may be
writing ads.’ in Wanamaker’s yet.
Prom time to time a beautiful girl, the
office-girl, will approach somebody, who will
then arise triumphantly and pass into the
editor’s room. The rest regard him with
jealous eyes. But half the waiting crowd
never reach the editor. Another beautiful
girl,* who is called the secretary, has a little
talk with some of them; she will be glad
to read their MS., hter paper would simply
love a good dog-story, but it must have
human interest, and —the editor is busy
to-day.
However, he is accessible, and unlike the
editors of any other country he has en-
thusiasm. In Australia, even more so than
in England, the editors have no enthusiasm.
I have been told that a Chicago editor, when
he had read a certain story, jumped high
into the air waving the MS. over his head
and. shouting: “It’s the goods !” I have met
a few Australian editors, not very many,
but I cannot ifhagine any of them in
Bacchic ecstasy waving a MS. like a thyrsus’
they would be more likely to deposit it in
the’ basket with a languid mechanical ges-
ture. They lack temperament.
The American editor knows his job. That
is, he knows exactly what he wants, and if
he gets it he will pay well for it. In any
good office every story is carefully read, and
nothing is, rejected simply because the writer
is unknown. And he doesn’t try to deceive.
He will fell the writer what he wants and
what -he doesn’t want. In the newspaper
and magazine world the business side is
almost perfectly arranged. Work is paid
for on acceptance (in London payment is
sometimes held back for over a year), the
fate of a 10,000-word story being decided in
a Week or a fortnight.
But what does he want? That is the
main point as far as the Australian story-
writer is concerned. Speaking broadly, he
whnts American work, which is natural and
right; and even when he doesn’t insist on
an American setting, he likes the characters
and sentiment and humor to be American.
The best policy for an Australian, who has
no first-hand knowledge of the country, is
to choose a kind o„f neutral territory, the
Pacific Coast, China or the South Seas, and
get in plenty of adventure and local color.
Australia, tlie true Australia, has little in-
terest for Americans. One New York news-
paper-editor said that if Australia were
sunk under the sea it would be a less im-
portant item of news than an accident on
the elevated railway.
Humorous stories are always in demand,
but they seem difficult to get. The editor
of The American said that “one rattling
funny story would make a magazine and
an author,” and ,let it go at_ that. The
mystery story is- extraordinarily popular,
and the Australian writer has a chance here.
Charles Mac Lean, of the Street and Smith
publications, will always accept a first-class
mystery story.
Other editors say they want any kmd of
good story, of love, mystery, romance or
anything else, and will publish it on its
merits. But with few exceptions the end-
ing must always be happy. In theory De
Maupassant is held up as the model short-
story writer, but in practice a Maupassant
story would have no chance in the States —
it hasn’t sufficient “uplift” for American
taste. A Tchekov story or a Lawson story,
with its truth to life and unconventional
form, is not wanted. It hasn’t enough plot.
And the American editor insists on plenty of
plot. The Frank A. Munsey Co., which con-
trols a group of popular low-brow magazines.
\V-ants strength ~of plot arid quickness of
action. “We do not care for character
studies, and cannot use dialect stories.”
Adventure bars, amongst other things, the
supernatural, the psychological, sex ques-
tions and tragic endings.
On the whole, the payment for stories
is exceptionally good: but it needs to be,
for the cost of living in a financial centre
like New York is also elevated. Rates vary
enormously, and a well-known name is an
asset in itself independent of the merit of
the work. In an average magazine, the
rates for an unknown writer would be about
one and a half to two cents a word. Cou-
uiers’s would pav five eents or more. Jack
London and O. Henry, in their later period,
were both worth 20 cents a word. A few
years ago Fannv Hurst, the leading ex-
ponent of the sob-sister story, received from
a Hoarst publication a year’s engagement at
a still higher figure, the record up to date.
Magazines like Harper’s or The Century
, pay less than more popular magazines, but
their prestige is still supposed to be high. *
The high-water mark is the Saturday 5
Evening Post, the end of eVery story-
writer’s desire. The rates are “entirely
in accordance with the editor’s estimate of
value.”
Writing is more of a business in the
States than in any other part of the world.
The writers have a trade journal of their
,qwn called The Editor, a queer little paper
that gives rates of pay, the kind of stuff
in demand at various seasons, hints to young !
writers and'sage advice from seasoned and
successful authors, letters of complaint, ex-
posures of slow- or low-paying journals and
all the tricks of the trade. The young writer
is discouraged from attempting any high
flights, and is kept well to solid earth. This .
little journal would soon put any young I
Australian in touch with American condi- |
tions; and if he worked hard, on scientific
and commercial principles, he might some
day reach the summit of literary fame, and,
wlio knows! even find himself in the Satur-
day Evening Post.
GANESHA.
D. H. Lawrence
It would seem that the best samples of
humanity are the triers. Wrenching this
idea arbitrarily into letters, a few things
stick out with some prominence. The
writers who can't write, the critics who are
technique-experts and can't quite get the
life into it themselves, the thousands of use-
ful men who know the thing well in their
vision and can't get it right on paper—these
are the just and admirable men, the triers.
The men whose equipment is a slight, dainty
flush of charm or whimsy worn haggard by
hack-work, the boys who come in too early
and those soured, dreary men who come in
too late, even the bad men who trick out
their yarns with the best-seller’s flippery—
these have a chance, a will-o’-the-wisp of
mental content flickering ahead of their
efforts. The thin flush may come back,
the boys may learn life as they go on writ-
ing ; old age may mellow the soured, false
view; even the best-seller may put some
magnificent plot into history for the bad
man whose birthright was strumpeted away.
Over them all there is the triers’ happy
whip, however lightly and seldom it flicks
them towards the near or far hope in front.
As prominent but not so vigorous, an-
other thing sticks out of this battered theory
of the Necessary Effort. A small and (with-
out prejudice) damnable class —the men who
have shed the original N.E. This trick —
and fortunately it is a rare be
attempted in half-a-dozen ways which will
be clearer by example than- by any more
talk. Compton Mackenzie nearly did it with
his long serial of unhealthy boys, terribly
distinguished men, and potential Scarlet
Women; but just in time he changed his
theatrical mind to '‘Poor Relations” and
“Rich Relatives.” J. D. Beresford nearly
did it when he was first deciding between
psycho-analysis and humanity as subjects;
that he hasn’t yet quite made his decision
keeps the triers’ life in the things Chambers
quite did it when “The . King in Yellow”
bloated to “The Fighting' Chance.” Stephen
McKenna seems to be giving it a run with
his lay-figures of neurotic girls and well-
bred, womanish -ydung .men. For a time all
these authors haven’t tried ? they have stood
still, doing sufficiently well the type of matter
they can write best without effort.
More admirable are the men who try too
much; and of these David Herbert Law-
rence will do for an example. When “The
White Peacock” appeared in 1911 the height
of Lawrence’s possible effort was evident.
A poet’s vision of rare, romantic characters
and scenes, dangerously narrow and ecstatic,
the story was so keen and glowing that it
“put itself over,” so to speak, by the force
of its vivid strangeness rather than as a
novelist’s picture of life. These were events
and colorful emotions which could perhaps
happen to a group of exceptional people.
“The Trespasser” of 1912 disarmed criticism
in the same gripping, atmospheric manner.
The writer was so clearly and passionately
in earnest and had furthermore so astonish-
ing a gift for forcing his vision on his reader
against the reader’s judgment of its truth
that a passive applause seemed the only
way out. The following year “Sons and
Lovers” did in a measure a similar thing.
But with three books to hand one had a
better chance of sitting down and looking
at it; and the general applause was quali-
fied a little. A fitfully-appearing erotic
obsession was present, together with sudden
crudities of realism occasionally erotic and
occasionally only physical. _ These/ harsh,
sometimes nauseating, details pulled the
rapt picture to pieces for a moment if
the man’s quick genius did rapidly put
it together again. However, no autho-
ritative person said anything adverse in
print. Some short stories were published
'in the English Review and other high-class
places, and were finally collected — The
Prussian Officer.” The erotic note had
become much more physical and some _ot
the realism had descended to the sanitation
expert’s level. The view of life was more
obviouslv strained and naturally less grip-
ping. Still nobody said anything but pleasant
things until the publication in 1915 of The
Rainbow.” Then the authorities spoke
sharply and to the point. Not being artistic
souls with any lech for seeing life in all its
distressing details in print, they suppressed
it. And Lawrence turned his back on fic-
tion, and went away to write good-and-bad
verse and a couple of plays.
He came back to novels last year with
“The Lost Girl.” a good book written in
a firm, sane style, a bit thin in plot but
full of atmospheric exactness and power.
In a wav the book was a falling-off : in a
way an improvement; and in a way it pro-
mised vaguely some direction at last to the
hints which had srone before. All over it,
as all over the other books, there are the
signs of a writer striving hard to express
where other men have failed. .
Now Women in Lore (Martin Seeker 1
comes to fulfil his half-promise to show his
hand to show the deep thought his strivings
have at last led him to. The thought is
(Continued on page 27.)


CatjfaayjtofdecusJlije
Reliable Guns and Sporting Rifles at Anthony Horderns
There’s a great deal of satisfaction in the
thought that the excellence of your aim is
backed up by the reliability of your gun.
You can depend on the Rifle or Gun that is
purchased at The House of Economy.
In Rifles, Shot Guns, Pistols and Ammunition,
Anthony Horderns’ offer their unvarying
inducements to your custom —variety, value
and excellence of quality.
Write for Illustrated Shooters’ Guide, con-
taining a Price List of Guns, Rifles, Ammuni-
tion and Shooters’ Sundries. A copy will be
posted free on request.
YTI43.
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model, designed to take
.22 Short, Long or Long Rifle Cartridges. “Take Down,’
extra light weight, 20in. Round Barrel, Magazine holds
1 5 short, 1 2 long or 1 1 long rifle cartridges, weight about
51b. (YTI43) £6/6/-
YTI44
Winchester Rifle, 1890 Model, made for .22 Short, .22 Long
or .22 W.R.F. 24in. Octagon Barrel, “Take Down,”
Plain Trigger, Straight Grip Stock of Plain Wood, weight
about sfib. (YTI44) £7/10/-
Ditto, ditto, Long Rifle £B/10/-
GUN LICENSE ACT.
To avoid delay when
ordering any firearms
kindly remember that
the new Act is now in
force. Any person
who desires to pur-
chase a firearm must
produce a Gun License.
A separate license shall
be taken out in respect
of each firearm. Ap-
plications for gun
licenses shall be made
to the Clerk of the
Court of Petty Sessions
in or nearest to the
place where the appli-
cant resides.
YTI29.
W W Greener’s 12g. D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon Gun, 30in. special Steel
’ Barrels, Treble Wedge Fast Action, Independent Side Safety, Full Choke
in both Barrels, chambered for 2 fin. Cartridges, Engine-turned Kxb,
Walnut Stock (YTI29) £35
REPAIRS.
We undertake repairs
of all kinds to any
make of Gun, Rifle or
Revolver. New bar-
rels and other parts
fitted to Rifles: sights
fitted and adjusted.
As we have expert
Gunsmiths constantly
employed on repairs,
and every appliance
most suitable for the
work, customers send-
ing us repairs may be
quite certain they will
be done in a perfectly
satisfactory manner.
YTIOI.
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12 G. Anson & Deeley Pattern Hammerless
D.B. Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt, Steel Barrels (both choke),
Automatic Safety Bolt, proved for Nitro Powder, cham-
bered for 2 fin. Cartridges, high flat dead-level File-cut
Rib, Walnut Heart Stock £27
As above, with 32in. Barrels (YT101) £27/15/-
YT39I.
LEG-OF-MUTTON GUN CASES.
Blocked Solid Leather, for 30in. barrels (YT39I) . . 50/-
Blocked Solid Leather, Padlock Buckle, Fast Handle. . 52,- 6
Blocked Solid Leather, Padlock Buckle, Fast Handle,
for 32in. barrels ■ '
Brown Mail Waterproof Canvas, Superior Quality, Leather
Sling and Nozzle, 30in. or 32in. barrels 14/-
W. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, made on W. W.
Greener’s Facile Princeps system of breech mechanism.
Side Safe, 30in. Steel Barrels, both Choke, Engine-turned
Rib, with Greener’s Patent Treble Wedge Fast Cross
Bolt, chambered for 2 fin. cases, proved for all nitro
powders, Walnut Heart Stock, neatly engraved. A good
pigeon gun; weight 71b. to 81b. (YTI 30) £49
■
■Pi
YT3BS.
Brown Canvas Gun Cases, Leather bound ends. For 30in.
barrels, unless otherwise stated—
Plain Lock, Long Straps (YT3BS) 37/6
Short Front Straps 357-
Plain Lock, Long Straps, with Heavy Brass
Corners 42/6
Lined with Cloth, Plain Lock 40/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Cs{
A
«r
T
m
'-z
o c>
r
\
c o
No one
ever packs a
KODAK
HE risk is too great; you
* never know when you are
likely to need it most.
All around you are opportunities for
making pictures —little snapshots that
are happy moments snatched from time
by the wizardry of your Kodak.
Take one frith you this year; then you'll understand how a, Kodak
saves happiness.
Ask to see the No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior at 87/- It is a com-
pact, reliable camera of high efficiency; takes fine pictures 2i x3{ ins.
Other Kodaks from h7/6 ; Brownies from 12/6.
Of all KODAK dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PT Y. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Supplies Co.,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Chosen by the g'reatest artists
THE great singers and great
musicians cherish their art
better, perhaps, than any-
thing else in the world. Their keen-
est desire is that under all circum-
stances they shall be heard at their
best.
Realise how significant it is that
the greatest artists of this genera-
tion make records exclusively for
“His Master’s Voice.” Their
action proves clearly that they
regard “His Master’s Voice” both
satisfying and unsurpassed in the
reproduction of their art.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments
range in price from 1 1 guineas to
85 guineas.
Write for instrument catalogue,
lists of records and name of nearest
dealer.
All these Great Artists make Records for “ His Master’s Voice.”
Alda
Bori
Calve
Caruso
De Gogorza
De Luca
Destinn
Farrar
Galli-Curci
Gigli
Gluck
Journet
Martinelli
McCormack
Melba
Ruffo
Scotti
Tetrazzini
Elman
Heifetz
Kreisler
Kubelik
Zimbalist
Paderewski.
M*
L
His Master’s voice
ill 1
•(
m
'by I
wlii!
Rl
II
V-/
I
m i !(((
*&/
m
m
m
/y ft. *5
4VI »>
3
The Gramophone Co. Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney
"His Master’s Voice,”
Read. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.


pinkette:
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
s’eepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and Weariness.
They are effective without being
dras ic and I hey have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere,
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
ntnuctn from 87/6 to I
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD. I
FUII Directions with Every Machine. I
send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Malcolm lane, Sydney,
Sole Australasian Agents.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
BH
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
â
Exquisite
Walnut Hair
which gives such an alluring charm,
may be obtained harmlessly and quite
simply by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Permanent and waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
ã
Like a Cool Breeze
in the Mouth
Eudenta Tooth Paste is as refreshing
as it is effective, as delightful as it is
economical. It cleanses every nook and cranny
of the teeth and imparts to them the
dazzling whiteness of driven snow.
Your Chemist
sells it
at 1/.
a
Tube.
ä
Makes letter-writing easy.
Waterman’s Ideal is a positive boon
to letter writers. It is ready at a
moment’s notice and never gives
the slightest trouble for it is the
most perfect Fountain Pen made.
As a GIFT it is ideal.
Three Types—“ Self - Filling,” “Safety” and
“Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G, Sloan, Ltd., OjelJeii (Tenter
Kingsway, London, Eng.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
s t ttxzi
/
m
\J
CP
/
“BUY A BUNDLE”
PLYWOOD.
Genuine “NATIONAL” Plywood, made
from Queensland Hoop-Pine, Maple and
Silky Oak, is the HIGHEST-GRADE
PLYWOOD YOU CAN BUY. Buy the
best. Insist on “NATIONAL” Three-Ply,
and see the brand is on every sheet. It
is our guarantee. Sold by all leading
Houses.
ALL Sizes—Sanded and
Unsanded.
THE NATIONAL
PLYWOOD CO. Ltd.,
Ipswich Road,
South Brisbane, Q’land.
Missing Friends.
jOHN THOMAS (known as JOHN MORGAN), son
J of John and Mary Thomas, of Glanmorgan, South
Wales, England, brother of William Henry Thomas,
David Meyrick Thomas and Mary Thomas, last heard
of in Brisbane, Queensland, or any person knowing
his whereabouts or particulars of his death (if de-
ceased), kindly communicate with —-
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Cd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Hack Saws
a i reduced
prices
m
!£<■<?
■/
\\t -i
3 ft
Hi
v
il
*
■v;
y*o.
S&i
»s
&u#ZiX»'
feSswSl
3togs^
3*5
Anticipate your
future requirements of
hack-saw blades hand
and power—hy buying NOW.
“An Eagle on a Globe’’ Brand
Extraordinary reductions have been made and some won-
derful economies can be effected by ordering immediately.
Full details supplied by telephone City 9863 or 7819, or, if you
are writing, address Department “A.” All information promptly
supplied.
As large stocks are on hand, orders for any quantity can be
filled for sizes Bin. to 20in.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
V 379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
48 Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Paul & Cray, Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,Adelaide.
R. L. Milligan, Hobart, Tasmania.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T he Comforter.
One came to me with pity in her eyes
And leaned towards me with long, pas-
sionate,
Sweet breath, and spake of love that
laughs at hate
And jests at death. She clasped me lover-
wise,
The perfume of her hair sang low, her sighs
Caressed my dreams. Night lay inviolate
Till shimmering dawn robed all the east
in State
And lit the sky \vith gold of paradise.
Then she, my leman exquisite, murmured
low
Of joy that mates with peace and is con*
tent,
Of peace joy-weary as at dusk the dove.
“Shame is not,” soft she whispered. “There
are no
Fierce beasts that slay where I am!” So
she went,
Her eyes new promises, Kulalie, Love*
of-Love.
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.
the Apple-shed.
til the good days long dead, before the War
was made,
There was ah apple-shed where all the chib
dreii played,
And you were just thirteen, and I thought
tales were trti(* —
Through these ten years between have you
remembered too?
Do you recall the vows that met such faint
reproof,
The noise of apple-boughs that scraped the
iron roof,
The silver leaves of musk that shadowed
both Our faces,
And one kiss, in the dusk, among the apple*
eases?
So you, through fields of France and wild
Gallipoli,
And I through change and chance, kept this
old memory,
And at our childish dreams of love forever
true
We laugh, although it seems—does it seem
sad to you?
VICTORIA.
MCENSAY.
Nceding.
I am needing the fairies to-day.
Do you think if I should sprinkle
(Where the thready waters tinkle
On the glossy dropping pebbles at the bottom
of the dell)
Fernseed of a moonlight gleaning, where the
bracken stipes are leaning,
That the fairy folk would help me, for they
know I love them well?
I am needing the fairies to-day.
But there is nothing moving
Where the sarsaparilla’s roving
Links the gum-shoots and wild cherry in a
love-chain made of flowers;
Have the pixies quite forgotten
There’s a world with barter rotten?
Have they shut themselves securely into blue,
uncaring hours?
I am needing the fairies to-day.
But the goat-track is untrodden
Where the green moss, smooth and sodden,
Used to show the mark of tiny heels the
Leprechaun had clouted.
Have the darlings become haughty at a
’* sceptic world and naughty,
And cast us off forever who their laughing
whimsies flouted?
I am needing the fairies to-day.
I want them to spin story
From the sunshine, make a glory
Of the rainbow in the valley and the cloud
that lightly passes
When grave folk are all a-sleeping, and a
bar the door is keeping.
If I stay outside and listen, I may find them
in the grasses!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
My Land —Tasmania!
M.y land is set in silver seas,
And girt about with shining sands;
Her fossil cliff's are white with age,
And rich with dust of other lands.
Old land ! Bold land !
My land —Tasmania !
My land is spaced by bounding leas,
Where quiet streams their full course run ;
And rising plains lift high the grain
To ripen in the glowing sun.
Blue land ! True land !
My land —Tasmania !
My land is lined by fertile vales,
Where orchards spread their patterned
shape,
And full their glowing fruitage bear,
While tender hops the long poles drape.
Deep land ! Steep land !
My land —Tasmania !
My land is flanked by shouldered hills,
Whose sides are packed with treasure
store:
The silver lode, the rich tin drift,
The eolden quartz and copper ore.
Stone land ! Lone land !
My land —Tasmania !
My land is crowned with tablelands,
Where full-brimmed lakes their banks o’er-
flow;
And falling waters find the glades,
Where sassafras and myrtle grow.
Stark land ! Park land !
My land —Tasmania!'
My land is waking with the dawn,
And stirs to meet the coming day
When golden deeds shall chant her name
And all our works are misty grey.
Bright land ! White land !
Mv land—Tasmania !
Tasmania.
ETHEL WYLIE.


å
ā
ă
The
Right Way
to Add
The right way to add, and the easiest
way to handle all your figure work, is with
a Burroughs Adding Machine, for its work
is unfailingly legible and accurate and it saves
both time and money.
1.14. 6
ia 8
3.11. 3
2.14. 0
16. 6
9.14,11 s
1.12. A
3.16. 0
a a 7
15. 0
a 17. o
21 3.10 S
3. 3. 0
a 14. 5
111 0
a 3. 6
16.10
31 ia 7 s
14. 5
a 13. 2
3.15. O
17.10
4.15. 0
44. a Os
111 4
2,10. 1
2,14. 4
3. a 1
17, 5
55. 13 •:*
All the fundamental processes of
calculating are essentially mechanical
and can be performed on a Burroughs
Machine by merely depressing the
proper keys and pulling- the handle.
The machine instantly performs the
calculation and prints the correct result
Sub-totals can be automatically re-
tained, to be included in a grand total
Mechanical calculating is as flexible
as that of the human brain and far
surpasses it in both speed and accuracy.
Burroughs figure work is automati-
cally correct and need not be checked
for errors. In any office this means
saving valuable time.
Moreover, entire calculations can
be done on the machine in the time
needed merely to write the figures
with pen and ink. The bookkeeper’s
time is thus made doubly productive;
relieved of the burden of routine fig-
uring, he can use his trained mind to
the better advantage of business.
Burroughs Machines are made by a Company with a
capital of £6,000,000, with factories at Nottingham,
England; Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, U. S. A., and
sales and service offices in the principal cities of the world
SOLE IMPORTERS:
IRA L. (&. A. C. BERK,
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland. Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Adding —Bookkeeping —Calculating
4310
Machines
ǻ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —2s o. 2177.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE WINNER.
“During the War and since the Peace the late European Allies have got into debt to the U.S.A. to the extent of more than £2,000.000,000: and the question has now arisen
whether they can support the burden.” HUN: “Yes, mein friendts, der Yankee vos quite right—he von der var.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, S.vdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 16s; 6 months, 18s. 6d. ; 3 months,
9s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £2; 6
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction— i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid lot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, li.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
B.C .
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn dfr Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., lid. ; Bloz. to Woz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, J/oz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
ffie'SßxzZlefzai.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP.
The Murrumbidgee settlement, the biggest
venture of its kind in Australia, has cast a
new light on an old subject. It is known
that irrigation made the fortune of Egypt,
of old Mesopotamia, and of some parts of
India and California. It might make the
fortune of parts of Australia also, and,
indeed, has made small parts of it prosper-
ous ; but when political jobbery, the pro-
vision of billets, the upholding of the lngh-
wage and go-slow and short-hour day-labor
policy and the maintenance of the big loan
and One Big City habits come first and the
production of vegetables is merely the horse
that “also ran,” even irrigation is likely to
ruin everybody concerned. The Murrum-
bidgee scheme is already in financial distress
twice over or in two different ways. First,
the Government, as owner of the water
supply, the bacon factory, abattoirs, fruit*
cannery, power house, hash house, etc., and
as ground landlord, which is most important
of all, is assuredly broke so far as this
venture is concerned; if it belonged to
Private Enterprise, which has to cut its losses
and bury its dead (the Insolvency Court
attends to little things like that), most of
the shareholders’ capital would be written
off —>really written off; not muffled and the
liability hidden away in another account.
Public Enterprise could also write off its
losses and face the world with an honest
balance-sheet if the settlement was really the
people’s property, established out of tax
and land revenue. But every penny of the
capital put into it is borrowed capital, and
no one has the courage or honesty to pay
off out of revenue the £3,000,000 that is
already lost; wherefore this amount will be
written off and yet not written off, and
interest will pile up indefinitely on it and
on a thousand other dead things for the
children’s misery. The last year’s figures are
not available yet, but up to June, 1920, this
was the way the mishandled business —busi-
ness of the kind which has enriched Egypt
and India and Mesopotamia—has tended
merely to beggar N. S. Wales: —-
Cost of
Revenue. Working. Interest. Loss.
1916.. £30,202 £37,986 £129,616 £137,400
1917.. 248,170 272,080 170,428 194,338
1918.. 225,297 240,442 194,153 209,298
1919.. 310,045 313,428 210,485 213,868
1920.. 354,851 403,502 235,916 284,567
Out of the loan capital it is proposed not
to write off and pay off half as lost, but to
sneak it into some other account and pretend
that it doesn’t exist, while well knowing
that it does exist. But as the whole six
millions or so yield less than nothing, the
honest course is to repay the whole amount
out of taxation—assuming that nobody in
office knows enough to make land settlement
and irrigation pay for their board and lodg-
ing. The present position is that the busi-
ness was fully 11 times as big in 1920 as
in 1916, and the loss on working alone
was nearly £41,000 more. The inevitable
Commission ascribes the trouble in great
measure to five strapping adults (four of
them men) doing two girls’ work, and girls,
when they do work, getting 30s. per day and
60s. for toil on holidays. This sort of thing
enables some sobbing person like Dooley or
McGirk to lay his hand over his last meal
and call on all the world to witness his care
of the starving, the shoeless, the bald-headed
and the oppressed. But it doesn’t help the
country in the long run. It not only in-
volves paying three needless people out of
five, but it takes them away from really pro-
ductive work and demoralises them as well.
Then, in addition to the landlord’s loss,
the tenants are to a great extend very hard-
up also; and that is equally through the
landlord’s management. They are mere
leaseholders with none of the pride of pos-
session, whatever that may be worth. They
live under a sort of fatherly tutelage. They
hold from an absentee landlord; at any rate,
a landlord 400 miles away is fairly absent.
The Irish landlord who lived in London was
often nearer to his tenants than that. Pos-
sibly the Government would do better if it
allowed cultivators to buy the freehold and
be their own landlords on the spot, and if
it called its exactions land-tax instead of
rent. But that is a side issue. The more
serious trouble is that the land values on
which rent has to be paid are largely the
cost of clearing, and the cost of clearing as
done by the Government under its day-
labor gospel added as much as £lO of super-
fluous and bogus value to an acre. Start-
ing with this remote land at £3O an acre
and a leaky house w r hich cost far more than
the official estimate, the settler seems to find
the burden often hopeless; and when it isn’t
hopeless it still involves a struggle to which
it is unfair to set any man. The Govern-
ment’s answer to all such complaints is that
the day-labor idea (payment not for good
work done but for the largest amount of
time that can be spent in doing any sort
of work) is sacred, ranking with the divine
right of kings, the Temporal Power, Papal
infallibility, the unbreakable marriage-tie.
and other things that are not to be judged
by results. But that is no answer at all.
The charge is that Governments have prosti-
tuted even this thing that they call sacred.
A mere defence of the principle does not,
therefore, help them at all. On the contrary,
the higher the value they set upon it, the
worse their offence in bringing it into dis-
credit. Even if they did not misuse the
day-labor system it would have little chance
nowadays in Government activities. The
Cabinet in N. S. Wales is everything, from
a banker to a retail vendor of fish entrails.
At the same time it has become its boast
that it is more than ever without training.
One of the most capable of tjae crowd struck
a keynote the other day when he repudiated
the charge of having “sprung from the
ranks.” He was in the ranks, he said, and
hadn’t sprung at all. Nevertheless he went
at one step from private to field-marshal;
and that he did it was due chiefly to the
fact that abler men (the kind who had
sprung out of the ranks in their own line,
whatever that might be) are, as he con-
fessed, viewed with suspicion and generally
disqualified from high rank in the party.
When nobody is eligible for the management
of the universal providery except the porter,
there is always a risk that he may be the
wrong kind of porter. This aspect of the
case should be considered before Australia
borrows any more huge sums of money to
spend under Government control in so-called
land settlement.
* * » *
The scandal of the Murrumbidgee scheme
adds to the accumulating proof that there is
no merit in ownership of lands, railways,
ships or any other old thing by the people
unless they are so managed that it pays the
people to own them. If the people lose hor-
ribly and continuously by the ownership they
are better without the properties. This is
particularly the case where, as in Australia,
and especially in the Labor-ruled States,
the people are losers in at least five separate
ways
(1) In money, for the deficit is large.
(2) In diseased government, for Tammany bosses
in power use the public activities to provide lucra-
tive and unproductive jobs for myriads of friends,
and the friends return the kindness by doing their
best to keep the Tammany bosses in power so that
they may do more jobbing.
(3) In the restraint and retardation of settlement,
progress and wealth. Private railway enterprise,
wherever it has a chance, aims at connecting any
and every promising harbor with its hinterland, and
thus making money for the people and for itself;
public enterprise in Australia is nearly always
directed towards the engorgement of one big centre.
(4) In the demoralisation of the people through
their wholesale employment, for the worst Tammany
motives, on highly paid jobs which hardly even pre-
tend to be public utilities.
(5) In the loss of production through masses of
population being diverted from honest work which
needs to be done to useless and dishonest pretences
which are better left undone, since they are a burden
afterwards.
In short, results count and not labels.
Ownership by the people is worse than owner-
ship by Private Enterprise if the results are
worse and are likely to remain so. It is
also worse on the same conditions than owner-
ship by the King, the Church or the Devil.
And the Labor party isn’t a whit better than
the Lumber party or the Leper party if those
who run it have neither industry, honesty,
civility nor intelligence. But public
ownership oecomes a specially hideous jest
when the people have the name of the thing,
have all the evils usually suspected of
attaching to it (few institutions are wholly
free of them) and some evils never before
suspected, such as the use of public owner-
ship to keep ports closed and estates desolate,
and yet never really possessed the blessing.
Everything in N. S. Wales and Queensland
which even pretends to be a reproductive
and publicly-owned utility belongs to private
capitalists or preference shareholders abroad
(preference shareholders with the unusual
and extraordinary nower of increasing their
dividend periodically), and private capital-
ists here have a second mortgage. The
nation has the loss, the worry of manage-
ment, the Tammany and the cesspool of
political corruption.
THE PARABLE OF THE PROPHET
NORTHCLIFFE.
“Lord Nokthcliffe frankly asked the various Fili-
pino statesmen how the Philippines would, or could,
exist if America should drop its sovereignty, and
without exception the question was not answered,
except by a puzzled silence. He reminded them that
they already had all the essentials of independence,
with the priceless blessings of immunity from inter-
national entanglements, secured by American power
and prestige.”—Sun.
Many people now living can remember the
salad days of the Trusts. The British first
grew aware of them in America, and for years
the system was spoken of with somewhat
Pharisaical disapproval. There was an idea
that the people of the United Kingdom, not
being as others were fiscally, stood in no
danger of these immoral institutions. As
late as the beginning of this century the
great combines and cartels of the U.S. and
Germany were among the most powerful
arguments in the hands of the Freetraders;
they were represented as evils that flourished
in the hothouse of Protectionism, but fell
dead before a gust of the pure air of Free-
trade. Salmon and Gluckstein started
operations in London. Their method was
to open a tobacconist’s shop in a likely street
and undersell the neighboring retailers till
the latter cleared out. The great general
stores such as Harrod’s —which quarter of a
century ago was an insignificant shop in
the Brompton-road—began to arise. The
Daily Mail appeared—-the forerunner of the
biggest newspaper trust in the world. Port
Sunlight and the Soap Trust were born, and
the English Cotton Trust, which counts its
yearly profits in millions, and the English
Shipping Trust, which does likewise; and the
same with banking, armament-making, oil
and many other things. . Meantime the
Dominions were not idle, quite irrespective
of the tariffs they favored. Shortly before
the Great War W, M. Hughes, already the
virtual leader of his party, identified trusts
in .Australia, anti announced his intention
not merely of policing them, so to speak—•
which most people thought adequate if it
could be done under our Constitution —but of
abolishing them altogether. To-day the
trust system is more firmly established than
ever here as elsewhere, and it is so much
taken for granted that when, a week or so
ago, a cable mentioned that Herr Stinnes
had conceived the monstrous idea of uniting
every industry of Germany into one combine,
no paper exclaimed and no politician pro-
tested.
* * * *
What is it that makes a trust such good
material for the demagogue’s art? Partly a
moral repugnance to its usually unsavory
beginnings, partly a vague fear of its
vast inhuman efficiency. There can be no
logical objection to a trust per se under a
unified Government such as that of Britain,
for the reason that Parliament —the institu-
tion that “can do anything but make a man
a woman or a woman a man” —has it under
continual observation. More sweating,
swindling and profiteering went on, no doubt,
in the dingy scuffling tobacconists’ shops
which Salmon and Gluckstein drove off
the London streets than is possible under the
present arrangement. Modern department
stores are becoming more luxurious than
many social clubs: in addition to providing
the employees with multitudinous comforts
while they are working, many of these con-
cerns also give them tennis-courts, golf-links
and cricket-grounds to use during their time
off. Lord Leverhulme was able to intro-
duce the six-hour day into some of the ramifi-
cations of the Lever business and make it
show a profit—his colored employees slaved, in
a manner of speaking, that his white ones
might have ease —before Australian Labor
politicians thought of making this amenity
into a party issue. Some of his manual
workers live in houses built by the trust,
and under conditions, settled by the trust,
that are the envy of thousands of clergy-
men, schoolteachers and other highly-edu-
cated persons. In effect these concerns are
so many instalments of Communism. They
disclose the features that make free men
dislike Communism —the martial discipline
imposed in the interests of the unit and of
the majority in it; the to some unpleasant
sensation of being part of a machine. In
return they offer steady, well-paid jobs, short
hours, healthful and even luxurious work-
rooms, and various pensions and profit-shar-
ing schemes designed to keep the toiler easy
in his mind as to the future. In different
circumstances many of the employees at
Port Sunlight, or any of the other great
capitalistic variants on the Communist
State, might be the proprietors of little in-
dustries of their own. But always, where
such industries proved lucrative, at the risk
of being attacked commercially by one of
the great business powers, whose existence
and rights are accepted by the vast majo-
rity in every country (and hence by their
Parliaments), just as national Powers are
recognised in the international sphere. _ A
man is less free as a departmental head in a
big haberdashery (with, perhaps, a small
share in the business and other encourage-
ments of the kind) than he would be as a
sole trader in opposition to the leviathan:
but he is safe, and that is much, as the world
is constituted to-day. And he can always
soothe his lacerated self-importance with the
reflection that he is no more in bonds, any-
how, than the brasshats, naval and military,
whose arrogance affronts him; the Judges
and Governors whose salaries he envies ; or
the huge civil service army into which he
probably aspires to push his son.
It is quite likely that Lord Northcliffe
chose the Filipinos—wno are leather-colored,
flat-faced savages, for the most part, incap-
able of effectively exercising liberties —to
present a gospel which might equally well,
as regards basic principles, have been
preached here. This is an age not only of
great commercial trusts, but of great
national trusts. The world is full of Sal-
mon and Glucksteins waiting to deal with
any small nation sets up in business on
its own account. Israel, relieved of British
protection in Palestine, would last no longer
as an independent State than it took the
Arabs to hear of its new standing. No one
would be better pleased to see the Egyptians
free of the British garrison than the Sou-
danese, of whom the Gyppos are terrified
with such good cause. Ireland is the mari-
time equivalent of Belgium. Outside the
British Empire, defended only by such a fleet
as a nation of five million people, lacking
colonies, can afford, it would be invaded by
someone every time a naval Power went to
war. Even the Channel Islands would have
been grabbed long ago by a hungry Euro-
pean Power for their potatoes and tomatoes
had they not been incorporated already in
the British Empire Trust. But of all the
scores of cases in point that of Australia is
just now the most striking. We have oj
million people, some of them scratching the
fertile coastal regions, but the majority in-
habiting a few bloated cities, while warlike
Asiatic races are short of foot-room, and
hungry into the bargain. We have let our
navy sink to the inefficiency level of the
most antiquated lot of R.N. ships this
country ever hired. The A.I.F. reserve,
which was one of the Hughes Government’s
justifications for allowing the R.A.N. to
deteriorate when the Armistice arrived, has
been dead for a couple of years. And in
any event, according to an uncontradicted
statement made recently by Senator Elliott,
there is not sufficient ammunition in the
Commonwealth for three hours’ fighting on
the modern scale. Between them the Com-
monwealth and the States owe about 800
millions sterling, and Queensland has just
created a precedent by borrowing, at a high
rate, from America. Such are the con-
ditions under which Australia faces a Japan-
ese fleet in being which is at least twice as
formidable as the one Japan brought into the
late war, and a future Japanese fleet which
may be anything, as regards strength in the
near future, up to an “eight-eight” standard.
If Comrade Brown, the Australian separa-
tist, or Sean Breathnach, the irreconcil-
able Sinn Feiner, intimated that he was
prepared to wager his liberty and that of
his family as well as his savings that
he could grapple unaided in a business
struggle with the Meat Trust in Chicago
or the Steel Combine in Pittsburg, even his
most enthusiastic admirers would be able
to see the folly of ’ the venture. Yet the
methods of the modern big nation are no
different from those of the modern big
business; and the fate of the weak and the
lonely no less surely calamitous in the one
case than in the other.
THE NOMINEE CHAMBER IN
QUEENSLAND.
In 1917 the Queensland Labor Government
appealed to the electors for authority to
abolish the nominee Legislative Council
which cumbers the ground in that State, and
was unexpectedly, and most emphatically,
rebuffed. The voting w r as: For abolition,
116,196; against 179,105. Regardless of
that appeal and that answer, the same Gov-
ernment, slightly altered, has had a bill
shoved through both Houses to put the
Council out of its misery—an impudent pro-
ceeding considering (1) that it Hasn’t con-
sulted the people, (2) that its once-great
majority in the Assembly has been reduced
to two and (3) that at the general election
a year ago it was in a minority of 23,000
votes. Another circumstance wiiich doesn’t
make the measure smell any sweeter is that it
was introduced without warning in the clos-
ing hours of an unusually brief session,
and was forced through the popular Cham-
ber—the Ministry -being undisguisedly
anxious to get into recess —-by the applica-
tion of the gag. That is not the way in
which important constitutional changes
should be brought about. A Government
which does the business in so extraordinary
a fashion has no right to complain if its
motives, as well as its conduct, are assailed.
There was nothing to prevent the crowd in
office from introducing the bill early enough
to admit of reasonable discussion, nor from
giving the public an assurance that before it
became operative it would have to be ratified
by a referendum. But having the numbers
at their disposal they decided that they
could do without argument. They also re-
jected the idea of submitting the bill to a
referendum. The old pre-war Labor party
used to be keen on the referendum. But
the new party has found it irreconcilable
with the concentration of political power in
the hands of a few ambitious and overbear-
ing men, so the referendum, though still re-
tained on the platform, has disappeared
from the practice of Labor Governments,
like so many other things.
There was an impression at first that the
real object of the Council Abolition Bill
was to score a point for the Government
over the two wings of the Opposition—to
exploit the difference of opinion known to
exist on this subject between Cockies and
Nationalists, whose unanimity in other mat-
ters was becoming dangerous. This, it now
seems, was only part of Tiieodoke’s plan,
but it was certainly a successful part. The
Opposition was utterly out-manoeuvred. In-
stead of voting in a body and fighting the
bill at every point —a course justified
by the Government’s contemptuous tactics
—it allowed itself to be divided and
beaten in detail. Vowles, the Agrarian
chief and leader of the Opposition, moved
an amendment to provide for “a Council
elected by the people on a limited franchise,”
and some of the Nationalists, including Tay-
lor, their captain, joined with the Minis-
terialists to defeat it. Kerr, a Nationalist,


proposed that there should be a second Cham-
ber of 30 members chosen by adult suffrage.
When this fatuous proposition was put to
the vote some of the Country members sup-
ported the Government; others walked out
of the Chamber. Taylor then divided the
House three times on the abolition principle,
and on each occasion the Cockies sided with
Theodore, let, later on, Vowles and most
of his followers voted against the second
reading. It was an appalling exhibition of
confused leadership and unsound thinking,
and it made the Government’s task easy.
The Nationalist plan of a Council based
on adult suffrage is, of course, ridiculous.
Such a Chamber would be merely a tedious
and useless copy of the Assembly, and ex-
pensive withal. For, naturally, the members
would expect to he paid for their fruitless
functions. There is really more justification
for the Country party’s idea of an elective
council or Senate with a limited franchise —
it would be a checking and revising Cham-
ber, at all events. The one objection to this
proposal, and it is fatal, is that it is 50
years behind the times. In the evolution of
representative institutions, Australia, for
good or ill, has travelled beyond property
franchise. It is not going to retrace its
steps.
* * * *
Apart from the fact that the deed has
been shabbily done, no sane man will regret
the passing of the Queensland Leg. Council.
Like the other nominee House in N. S.
Wales, it is simply an excrescence on the
Constitution, serving no purpose that
couldn’t be served equally well, and less
expensively, by a gramophone. Moreover,
it puts into the hands of the Direct Action-
ists a strong argument for use against the
Constitutionalists when the latter plead that
everywhere in Australia the people govern
themselves through their own elected repre-
sentatives. And the Labor Governments, by
flooding both Councils with nonentities, have
made the pomp of these Chambers ridicu-
lous. It is necessary to have some brake
on the party in power, but a nominee second
Chamber, which can be swamped at any
time by the creatures of Government, is in
that respect useless. The function can and
should be discharged by the people them-
selves in the shape of the referendum. In-
deed, a unicameral Parliament, checked by
the referendum, is the form of government
best suited to the Australian States. The
argument that a second Chamber can be
abolished by Act of Parliament rests on the
judgment of the Lord Chancellor in the
McCawley case, and on that of the High
Court in Taylor v. the Attorney-General
of Queensland. Whether the contention is
sound or not, Theodore is morally bound to
ask the people to reverse the verdict they
gave in 1917 before he goes to extremes. He
may be doing a good stroke of business for
Queensland, but ke is doing it in a very
bad way.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Few Less Hours and a Lot Less
Production.
To a certain type of mind, strongly de-
veloped in the African negro and our own
Bingiii, the least amount of labor and the
greatest amount of leaning or basking imply
the most progress. The present N. S. Wales
Cabinet, like the Sydney Municipal Council,
desires to make itself solid by handing out
the basking boon liberally to its friends, and
though the 30-hours or'36-hours week has
so far been a vain attempt, except in iso-
lated cases, it concentrates strongly on 44
hours. It assures all and sundry that the
abolition of one-twelfth of the working power
of the community will not reduce efficiency,
though the abolition of one-twelfth of the
bulk of the over-manned, over-paid Ministry
would doubtless be regai’ded as a calamity.
Solicitor-General Sproule is one of three
who extract big salaries out of the legal de-
partment of the Ministry, whereas one man
with little more than half Sproule’s salary
covered all three jobs in 1906, and wasn’t
overworked. And Sproule gave this assur-
ance x’ecently at Lismore, where he had
gone to fill in time: —-
Although there was considerable disquietude in the
early days after the eight-hour-day principle was
put into force, due to fears that they would be un-
able to compete with other nations, it had been
found that they need not fear the nation that worked
long hours. What they need fear was the nation
that was virile, efficient and not played out by long
hours of labor.
Now, though it is fairly certain that McTier-
nan, McTvell and Sproule, with about
£6OOO a year among them for doing the law
work of the Ministry, are not “played out
by long hours of labor,” it does not by any
means follow that they are tremendously
efficient. And the position, so far as ail
N. S. Wales is concerned, may be stated as
follows:—-
(1) The eight-hour policy had no definite begin-
ning. Its origins spread over the period from 1855,
when the stonemasons secured the eight-hour day,
to 1871, when the first Eight-hour Day procession
was held. Even then only stonemasons, brickmakers,
carpenters and general laborers were in it.
(2) In 1912, 48 hours per week was made the
maximum for “women and juveniles” in the towns.
(3) In 1916, which was quite recently, a sort of
general eight-hours law was passed. Since then,
according to Statistician Smith, whom the Dooley-
Sproule Ministry pays to report on these things, the
falling-off in production has been alarming. The
selling value or cost of living went up, yet the price
of the things our people made didn’t rise anything
like the price of things our people had to bu>
abroad because they failed to make things for them-
selves. As regards the quantity turned out in all
industries where quantities could be measured in
yards, bushels, gallons, tons, pairs, thousands or
separate objects—in units, really—this was the
result:—•
Output of all N.S.W. Industries.
1911 .. .. 1000 units per worker.
(Eight-hours Act of 1912 passed).
1915 .. .. 803 units per worker.
1916 . . . . 886
(Eight-hours Act of 1916 passed).
1917 .. .. 822 units per worker.
1918 • • ■ • 797 „ „ ..
19f9 .. .. 727 „ „
1920 •• 685 „
(4) These figures appear on page 605 of Part XV
of the “Official Year Book of N.S.W.” for 1920. They
don’t prove that reduction of hours caused reduc-
tion of output. But the hours were reduced
and the fall in production (far more than
even the reduction of hours justified) came.
And even if there were 13 lawyers instead of
three in the legal branch of the N.S.W. Ministry,
and they drew £12,000 a year each instead of
£2OOO for being six times as superfluous as they
are, and denied 10 times harder than they do that
less hours and less work go together, the two have
gone together.
(5) The 48-hours week has never applied to the
man on the land and everybody is urged to go on
the land. Nor has it ever applied to the unionist’s
own wife, nurse and domestic drudge. So the
application was partial as well as recent.
(6) In the 10 years before the first Eight-hour
Day procession (1861-1871) Australia produced so
much for itself that the whole six States borrowed
only £1,883,894 per year ( £18,838,940 in the
decade). In the four years after the N.S.W. Eight-hour
Act of 1916 was passed the purely State borrowings,
largely from virile long-hour races with money to
lend, were at the rate of over £15,000,000 a year.
The 1921 figures will make the showing a lot worse.
Yet in 1871 the country had its railways to build,
while now they are to a great extent built. Either
local production has gone to the dogs to make all
this loan-mongering necessary, or something dread-
ful has taken place.
It can’t be proved that there is no room for
a reduction of working hours. But it can
be proved that there is no such room unless
there is an immense increase in the amount
done per hour. At the pi’esent pace there
is need for four extra hours (making 52 per
week) in order that the appalling rate of
borrowing may be reduced, and for another
four (making 56 per week) to produce the
interest on the wonderful foreign debt —the
debt which hardly existed in the year of
the first Eight-hour Day procession.
The Gentle Art of Portfolio
Scrambling.
The Hughes Government last week saved
itself by one vote because Curfew Bell, of
Tasmania, didn’t ring that night. It might,
however, have been saved by the chairman’s
casting vote even if Bell had tintinnabu-
lated. The whole affair shows what a mad
thing Party Government is. Earle Page,
leader of the Gumtree party, had desired
that the Ministry should be humbly re-
quested by the House—which, after all, is
supposed to govern—to make ends meet in-
stead of having a deficit of more than two
millions. With neither war, plague, revolu-
tion nor financial crisis on its hands, the
meeting of ends should always be a matter
of course. But instead of being friendly
over the matter, the Ministry took up the
usual huffy attitude that it must be infal-
lible or nothing. It said, in effect: “Give
us our deficit or else find another Govern-
ment.. When you have found it, no matter
how good it may be, we will do our utmost,
out of sheer office-hunger, to prevent it
governing. The interests of the country
may go to Sheol, loyalty to the party coming
first and loyalty to Australia a poor second.”
The only alternative Ministry would have
been made by a combination between Earle
Page’s party, which wanted to spend two
millions less, and the Tudor party, which
always wants to blew 10 millions more,
though it is willing to save a trifle by dis-
arming Australia. Just because the loaves
and fishes and small change of office were
involved, and no one would break away
from the orthodox rut, the Economy crowd
nearly left Australia without a Government,
and it was able to do this because the Ex-
travagance crowd insisted on standing by
it and being a friend and brother. In the
same way a Vegetarian party might upset
the Ministry with the unexpected aid of the
Cannibal party, the two being then left to
devise a joint programme and botch the
affairs of the nation thereon. Evei'y time
the wretched portfolio-scramble comes on in
an Australian Parliament, the attention of
people who are patriots and not scramblers
drifts towards the United States system.
There the Prime Minister (called the Presi-
dent) is elected by the people for four years.
He appoints his Ministers, not from the
531 citizens inside Parliament, but from the
26,000.000 or so outside it. Members are
barred. The U.S. politician has the same
right and opportunity to vote against his
honor and his conscience as the Australian
politician, except in one most important
respect—he can’t do it for the sake of Min-
isterial office, because all the scheming, time-
serving and villainy that could be crowded
into a lifetime of membership would bring
him no nearer to a seat in the Cabinet than
it would to a job as Archbishop of Canter-
bury. Congress can do almost anything to
the Ministers in the way of regulating their
financial and other doings, which isn’t the
case here, because it is unsafe to speak
harshly to Cook for fear of getting Dr.
Maloney as Treasurer, and Holman had
to be allowed to run riot for years, other-
wise he might, have taken umbrage and
handed over the State to Storey. Further,
possibly because Congress can’t manufacture
portfolios for its own profit, the U.S. Fed-
eral Government finds 10 Ministers suffi-
cient for 105,000.000 people, while N. S.
Wales now pays 13 to look after the purely
local concerns of 2,000,000, and there is
talk of having 16 or 17. In fact, now that
Carlo Lazzarini has been made Minister
for Mullets, in charge of the State fish-shop,
there seems no end to the possibilities.
Prejudice or Policy?
Australia has no great respect for present-
day American hustle, chewing-gum, prohibi-
tion and dollar-worship, but that’s no reason
why it should allow prejudices to extend to
all things American, including U.S. foreign
policy. We have nothing to do with Ameri-
can internal affairs, or those of any other
country; but in regard to external affairs a
country must base its policy on a sounder
foundation than prejudice or even sentiment.
Few countries could be more unlike than
Britain and France; but in face of a com-
mon danger they sink their antipathies and
form some kind of a working alliance. It
is the same with the United States and Aus-
tralia, though Americans and Australians
have much more in common than English-
men and Frenchmen. Regarding the prob-
lems of the Pacific, which are the problems
of the future, their interests are absolutely
identical. This is widely recognised in the
United States, and it ought to be recognised
in Australia, too. A few years ago Henry
A. Wise Wood wrote in the New York
Tribune, on the Japanese and Pacific ques-
tions :
The interests of British Columbia, Australia and
Maoriland are included and dealt with herein as if
they were our own, because it is apparent that the
time has now come for all Anglo-Saxon peoples re-
siding thereon to act in concert to make of the
basin of the Pacific a safe and salubrious nursery
for the peaceful development of our race. As the
United States is the most powerful Pacific nation,
and the three great British Pacific Commonwealths
share with us a common stock, a common lan-
guage, a common form of government, common litera-
ture and traditions, we are bound in duty as well
as in interest to assure the safety and enhance the
well-being of all alike. No one of us longer can
afford to stand alone.
Our foreign policy must be directed solely to
one end, the preservation of a White Austra-
lia. The L.B.A. is with us on this vital
point. Britain, if not hostile, is at least
indifferent: as for putting on his armor and
actually fighting for it if needs be, such a
contingency the Englishman would regard as
too remote for consideration. The British
Empire is such a vague and vast organisa-
tion that all its parts cannot be expected to
work in harmony like a little ideal Platonic
Commonwealth. Downing-street can’t attend
to everything, and sometimes it has lapses of
memory, and sometimes of intelligence. Each
part of the Empire has different problems to
solve. The Japanese question doesn’t affect
South Africa, for example, not to mention
Wales or Ulster, as it affects us. Unaffected
parts of the Emnire are not going to tax
themselves excessively for our defence. Even
Britain wouldn’t do that. So Australia
must think and act for itself. It cannot de-
pend forever on the British Navy, which —
the facts must be faced —in a few short years
will be only the third navy in the world, and
as far as the Pacific is concerned a poor
third at that. Why, then, should Australia
allow prejudice, which has no relationship to
history or geography or character, to stultify
its national policy? The United States, de-
spite its candy-stores and picture-shows, is
our natural and willing ally, and the most
powerful ally we could have. Each, of
course, has its own life to work out; dgmes-
tically we shall pursue different gods. But
we cannot too soon come to an under-
standing as to the large mattei’ —to us the
overwhelming matter —in which our interests
are identical.
The Divine Right of Politicians.
The N. S. Wales Goulburn Vacancy Bill
which went through the Assembly last week
marks another stage in the steady under-
mining of representative government.
From the time when all the parties adopted
the caucus system and the daily press de-
cided to aid and abet the thing it had so
often denounced, the repository of power
automatically passed from the people to
certain irresponsible organisations. The
electors no longer chose their representa-
tives ; they were periodically offered certain
lay-figures (skilled usually in wire-pulling
and in little else) and told through the
newspapers, in effect, that they could either
vote for them or be disfranchised. Propor-
tional representation made no difference.
The Party executive’s choice was still pre-
sented, with the warning that a vote given
to anyone else was still a vote given to the
enemy, and the elective system was yet
further .prostituted by the issue of orders
that the* best of the Opposition candidates
must always be marked last. Under
this arrangement the future Parliamen-
tarians were, at any rate, endorsed if not
selected by fairly large bodies of citizens. But
if the Goulburn Vacancy Bill is swallowed
by the Leg. Council, George Fuller will
“nominate a person whose name is enrolled
on an electoral roll, and the person nomi-
nated shall be entitled to be elected in place
of the late member.” The Goulburn branch
of the Nationalist Assoc, may or may not
submit a dummy to Fuller. In any event
he is not likely to choose his own dummy,
and once in Parliament his selection is safe
so long as Goulburn remains preponderat-
ingly anti-Labor. The only requirement is
that he shall for the rest of his Parliamen-
tary career subordinate his principles to
those of the man who made him—in short, be
the member for Fuller. The difference be-
tween this and even the old caucus method
is the difference between something that at
least looked like popular government and the
negation of it; between a frustrated form of
democracy and masked Czarism.
Concerning 52 Hours per Week.
The question of 44 reluctant hours’ work
per week and more time for watching games
and backing the wrong horse was raised
by a deputation of N. S. Wales manufac-
turers which waited recently on Mr. Dooley.
The deputation asked him to hang fire with
the compulsory 44-hours-per-week idea, for
the simple reason that it means paying at
least as much for 11 months’ work per
annum as the employer across the border
pays for 12 months. Border tariffs being
extinct, it asked Mr. Dooley how the thing
could be done. It also asked how the N. S.
Wales manufacturer, receiving 22 per cent,
less on an average for his goods than he did
12 months ago, can go on without more hours
or less wages, instead of being asked to
pay 81 per cent, more in the shape of less
work. Matters like this are not easy to
debate with a Ministry which has no ex-
perience of big industrial problems. Still,
the proposition is simple enough : it is that
unless a manufacturer is making 84 per
cent, net profit on his whole output—
which may easily mean 80 per cent, on his
capital—it is impossible to cut 84 per cent, off
the output, wages, etc., remaining the same,
without making an end of the business. This
was explained with monumental patience to
Mr. Dooley, who seemed at one time to
almost see the drift of the argument; but
the fog closed down again. He said that
44 hours per week was the Government’s
policy, which the deputation knew —in fact,
that was exactly what it complained of. Less
work being a self-evident virtue, Mr. Dooley
was reluctant to let go. His general atti-
tude was that the great Less Work experi-
ment should be tried, as one might try sui-
cide to see how it answered, and if it
wrecked all industries, threw everybody out
of work and made the State bankrupt, so
that even Parliamentary salaries stopped,
then it might be reconsidered. A point
that might have been stressed is that even
the present 48 hours per week is insufficient
—possibly the Slow Pace Gospel has ‘made
it insufficient. That it is insufficient is
proved by the fact that N. S. Wales, during
the nine months to September 30 ran into
debt one way and another, and quite apart
from official borrowings here, to the extent
of about £7.000,000, first by sending away
44 millions’ worth too little goods to pay
for its imports, and secondly by not sending
away the three or four millions’ worth of
surplus exports required to pay interest on
its iniquitous foreign debt. And it does
this sort of thing year after year. Because
of its foreign debt exports should have been
fully three millions ahead of imports instead
of 4:1 millions behind. If this rate keeps
up till the end of the year, the Ma State
will be about 100,000,000 hours’ work at
2s. per hour short in payment of its liabili-
ties ; and it doesn’t seem any the happier for
all this shirking. In fact, it seems more
miserably unemployed—loo,ooo,ooo hours
more unemployed. All the tricky, vote-
catching, sham philanthropy embodied in
child pensions and doles to strikers and
grants of less work and more pony-race
won’t save from perdition the souls of poli-
ticians whose existence is one continuous
callous pawning of the children’s lives for a
little present ease. Even the great Federal
idea of giving the new baby’s father £5
while floating a new £5,000.000 loan in
London to be a millstone round the baby’s
neck is a doubtful aid to salvation.
The Queensland Railways.
The new report of the Queensland Railway
Commissioner shows that the lines actually
working represent 424 millions of loan
money, and for the year to June, 1921,
nearly 22 millions earned less than nothing.
In other words, lines of that paper value
paid nothing towards interest and were
£392,510 short of working expenses. About
a tenth of the trains have apparently been
cut out since the present Government took
office in 1915; at least, the mileage has de-
creased to that extent. But it cost 4s. to
drag a train one mile in 1915, and 9s. 4fd.
in 1921, and a lot of trains have to be cut
out to balance that. The cost per mile last
year was Is. 14d. more than it was even in the
previous year. Total earnings were 10s. 7|d.
per cent., which was a x-ecord for badness,
especially as new loan money is costing the
Government somewhere between £7 and £8
10s. per cent. Out of £1,970,389 due for
interest, and mostly payable abroad in gold,
£1,739,475 had to be made up out of taxes,
which are collected in paper. The system
which Theodore and c-o. inherited in 1915
paid all expenses and interest and some-
thing over. Then the mistake was made
of electing nine ignorant but eloquent and
possibly sincere bulls to take charge of the
national china shop. They have been raking
down the stock-in-trade with their clumsy
horns ever since, and replacing nothing—
bulls never do. When a Government tries,
as Theodore’s did in London, to borrow
huge sums at 64 per cent., so that it may in-
vest the money at the odd 4 per cent, and
lose the six, lenders naturally wonder how
interest is to be paid. So they shy off, though
Yankee lenders, who have a way of collect-
ing overdue interest with battleships, and
who reckon they have now enough battleships
to collect interest with from anybody, may
take a long shot at the security.
A Labor Financial Reformer.
A Labor leader for whom the clouds are
rolling by is Philip Collier, of Westralia.
There is always hope for a politician whose
head neither swells in prosperity nor gets
sore in adversity, and Collier belongs to
that class. For five years he was a member
of, and to some extent a brake on, the
luckless Scaddan Government. For a simi-
lar period, in discouraging circumstances, he
has led the opposition to a succession of
Ministries which have gaily continued the
Scaddan tradition in matters of finance.
In a sense, he has studied the boom-and-
bust policy from north and south. And last
month, when the reckless Mitchell bud-
geted for his customary gorgeous deficit, this
very unusual Labor leader spoke out in the
following terms: —
For years we have been going behind to the extent
of £600,000 per annum. Last year the State had
to pay £240,000 in interest on the accumulated
deficit; this year there will be another £40,000 to
pay on the 1921 shortage—£6Bs,ooo. Yet the
revenue has increased. That from taxation has gone
A Question of Fashion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Few of the Barnardo boys who were welcomed
to Australia on the lawn at Government House will
forget the event. Praises, welcomes and gifts were
showered on them in embarrassing profusion. Flags
and chocolates were thrust upon them, speeches made
at them and round them. Photographers snapped
them ; reporters interviewed them, and finally they
were crammed full of fruit and cake, and sent on
their way rejoicing.”
You see me, laddie! Don’t look much, you’ll
say,
What with my missing eye, sunk chest and
busted boots;
And yet the morning that I went away,
With cheers for England—not to mention
hoots
For those at war with her —I was as fit
As you are now; and I thanked God for it.
Don’t laugh—-but 1 felt qlad I was so well.
I had no fears. The crowd you met to-day
Had sworn that, if I faced the Flanders hell
And helped the march of tyranny to stay,
A grateful home-land would stand fast by me
And mine, however great the cost might be.
Flags, fruit and photos—lad, I got ’em all,
And cakes and cheers and chocolates
galore;
Speeches came down upon me like a pall,
And, grieving that they couldn’t give me
more.
These kind new friends of yours waved fond
good-byes
With tears of admiration in their eyes.
And now! Why, sonnie, now I’m as you
see—
A dead-beat, out of work and stony-broke.
So take this bit of good advice from me.:
Treat all their guff as what it is—a joke.
Go while the going’s good! Go hard and
fast!
Ours is the soi't of boom that doesn’t last.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


T h « Farmers'& Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A 1
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
up from £407,956 in 1914-15 to £955,358 in
1920-21. Income-tax produced £91,620 in 1915-16,
and £334,000 in 1921. Land is the only form of
taxation which has not increased most materially.
The State has spent money in building railways for
a few hundred settlers, while there are large areas
of unused, or little used, land along existing railways.
In the city lands are held vacant for the unearned
increment. The land-tax should be readjusted on a
scientific basis. Stern and severe economy is called
for. 1 hope the Premier will revise his Estimates
and cut down the deficit by £200,000 or £300,000
this year.
It is a change from all the loan dementia
and the roaring cataracts of bosh about revo-
lution. In numbers Collier’s is the weak-
est of the State Labor parties, but in courage
and honesty of purpose it is the strongest
of the lot. And the next time it goes to
the country, if it doesn’t fall away in the
meantime from, the standard set by its
leader, it will win a lot more than the 17
seats it now holds. Scientific taxation,
stern and severe economy —this is the right
financial policy, not only for Westralia but
for the Commonwealth. It is nasty medi-
cine, but there is no other cure for the danger-
ously dropsical condition into which Aus-
tralian finance has degenerated, or for the
general corruption and slackness engendered
by it. The mere process of taking the
remedy would be a fine moral tonic and a
valuable lesson in regular habits. And no
party stands in greater need of that sort
of discipline than the Labor party.
When the People Fled from Ma State.
Dear Bulletin, — I have a few simple rules
of health —just the fewest it is possible to
get on with. There are really only four
of them that count: (1) To sleep at night
instead of in the daytime, and to wake
afterwards unless dead; (2) not to drink
between drinks; (3) to wear-clothes next
the skin; (4) to assume that everything the
present N.S.W. Government says is wrong,
unless there is absolute proof to the con-
trary, and not to be too sure then. As
instances in point: One matter about which
the Dooley people are always most positive
—which they treat as obvious, self-evident
and a matter of course —is that the unem-
ployed have decreased under their blessed
regime. Another is that any small disloca-
tion there may be arises through the in-
rush of people from other States to share in
the blessings of their beneficent administra-
tion. As for the decline of unemployment,
they have never managed to smother Federal
Statistician Ivnibbs, who declares that they
inherited an incubus ot' 55 workless union-
ists per 1000 and raised the number (appa-
rently by hard bellowing and blundering) to
137 per 1000 in March, 1921, where the
present figures leave off. As for the in-
creased and excessive influx of population
to account for any small trouble there may
be, they have quite forgotten to strangle
their own State Statistician Smith, and
some new figures from his facile pen almost
suggest that people were coming to the Ma
State freely enough until they heard that
Dooley, McTiernan, Lougiilin and co. had
attained office. Thereupon, it would seem,
they were struck with horror, and said that
all was lost, and stood not on the order of
their going, but went. Smith lists the arri-
vals and departures as regards other States
(by land and sea), Maoriland, U.K. and
other parts abroad. But it is Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland which count, other
places being too remote to have fully assimi-
lated Dooley as yet. The migration figures
since 1910 follow :—-
N.S.W.’s Gain or Loss of People by Trade with
Other Australian States and Maoriland.
Australian
To States. Maoriland. Total.
December, Loss. Gain. Gain.
1910 . . 1,394 5163 3,769
Gain.
- 1911 .. 5,710 8415 14,125
1912 . . 13,034 7005 20,039
1913 . . 2,094 2517 4,611
1914 . . 1,528 2077 3,605
1915 . . 13,133 110 13,243
Loss.
1916 . . 13,093 837 12,256
Gain.
1917 , . 14,152 478 14,630
1918 . . 11,003 1493 12,496
Loss.
1919 .. 4,976 2213 2,763
To March,
1920 . . 5,732 784 4,948
(Storey Government took office in Anvil.')
Rest of Total Loss.
1920 . . 2,564 5425 2,861
To March, Loss.
1921 . . 403 2681 3,084
It is impossible to draw definite inferences
from the whole world returns, as the depar-
tures and arrivals of troops upset the
routine of things for a while. But in the
last year of peace (1913) N. S. Wales
gained 21,092 extra inhabitants by traffic
with the outside world in general, because
it was considered a better place than the
average. For the first quarter of 1920,
when the Nationalist Government was still
in power, it gained 10.752, being still apna-
rentlv a better place than the average. For
the next nine months (.8$ months under
Dooley and co.) it gained only 3205, be-
cause people began to have doubts. And
in the first three months of 1921 N.S.W.
lost 1050 in its total dealings with the outer
world, because they had doubts no longer,
but knew that the Ma State was a good
place to avoid until the oresent crowd in
office is politically dead. Certainly the State
gained a few people (2025) from remote
places like the United Kingdom, where the
horrid news hadn’t penetrated, but the loss
of 3054 to adjacent places which it had
penetrated produced the net loss above men-
tioned. Always think the worst of this sort of
Government and you will seldom be wrong.
Yours, etc., James Edmond.
♦
The Speck’s Treasurer, in his financial
statement the other day, mentioned that the
landowners of the State had done less to-
wards meeting the increase in the interest
bill than any other class of taxpayer. Dur-
ing the past five years—l9ls-16 to 1920-21
—the public debt increased by nearly five
millions (35.04 p.c.), unimproved land values
by nearly two and a half millions (14.14
p.c.) and interest and sinking funds by
£160,000 (27.52 p.c.), yet land-tax contribu-
tions increased by only £6650, or 8.7 p.c.
And after supplying these arguments for an
increased tax on land values, Lewis, who
has been six years in office and never once
asked the landowners for any portion of the
boom profits they made out of land sold for
soldier settlement, etc., went on. to remark
that, although the land-tax has remained at
the same rate since 1912, and is the only
form of taxation that has not been in-
AFTER THE TAKE-OVER.
NERVOUS PASSENGER: “Do you — er —think we'll be able to run it all by ourselves?”
THE NEW SKIPPER: “Easy, comrade. It’s all plain sailing. And, besides, I’ve got a
book of instructions here.”
creased, “it does not seeih practicable that
owners can this year be called upon to pay
higher rates than those now in force, and
resort to this form of additional taxation
must be abandoned.” This sort of “states-
manship” is as bad as the worst that the
other class-conscious politicians are guilty
of; and as long as we have the curse of
the one class we shall have the curse of
the other. While we are bundling out the
Walshes and the Gardens, we should
bundle out the Lewises from politics too.
They all belong to the same school.
At present there are two main bodies in
opposition to decentralisation apart from
the inevitable “city interests”; and until
they are eliminated the movement for the
creation of new States will be seriously
handicapped in either a representative Con-
vention or a representative Parliament. One
is the huge privileged class, consisting of
Governors, their staffs and their friends and
Ministers, their appointees and those in ex-
pectation of State favors to come, the total
representing a very large aggregate of votes.
The other is a section composed of people who
believe that expensive luxuries like imported
Governors and highly-paid Parliamentarians,
with their perquisites, are inseparable from
State administration. To' these latter people
the sovereign State within a sovereign State,
with its duplicated sham Court, its duplicated
Parliaments, its duplicated taxing instru-
ments and all the rest, is not worth the
money; and merely on a point of altruism
they are not likely to vote either in Parlia-
ment or by referendum for the multiplica-
tion of such extravagances. The road to
the new State will be hard until the pomp
and costliness of State Government is ended;
and to that spadework decentralisers would
do well to give some of their attention.
“Gooo Australian” : The immigration
agents, State and Commonwealth, are very
angry with the man who brought the Bar-
NARdo boys along for saying that undesir-
able immigrants were being touted for in
London. I can well believe it. Last time
I came home via the Cape an accountant and
his wife escorted three feeble-minded child-
ren to Sydney. On a previous voyage there
was an indescribably filthy Syrian, in gabar-
dine and fez. who brought a deaf-and-dumb
idiot boy. In the next cabin to us were
two consumptives, man and wife, and they
landed without difficulty. The “nomi-
nated” method of immigration lends it-
self to that sort of thing. It can be,
and probably is, dreadfully misused by
people in Britain who want to get
rid of relatives unfit in health, mind and
morals. Bodies like the Millions Club are
keen on bringing in orphan boys from abroad,
but little or nothing is done for our own
lads. In all the Australian capitals, and
in inland towns like Kalgoorlie and Broken
Hill, there are battalions of boys, many of
them the children of war-widows, who would
jump at the chance of being trained for a
country life, but no self-advertising society
or department or league looks after them.
They are mere Australians, of course. But
why should Australian youngsters be left
to follow blind-alley occupations in the city,
while strange boys from overseas are speci-
ally taught and trained ?
“Currone” : Some interesting information on
the causes leading to prostitution has been
collected by a couple of Melbourne doctors,
whose work brings them much into profes-
sional contact with the ladies of the southern
city, and as they will by-and-bye publish the
results of their investigations, the inquiry
should prove of great value to sociologists and
others. One of the most striking things about
the figures they have thus far compiled is
the almost. entire absence of industrial in-
fluences from, the causes which lead to
Women seeking admittance to the ranks. Less
than 5 per cent, “go wrong” because of
poverty and inability to find work. Something
like 23 per cent, were unmarried mothers of
infants born before they set out along the
path which leads to disease and an early
grave. Another interesting discovery was
that the country districts provide far more
than the city, most of the recruits having
left their homes in search of “life.” But
the two most striking circumstances revealed
were (1) the existence of disease other than
venereal, nearly every subject of the inquiries
being afflicted with some complaint, ranging
from tubercular conditions of the lungs to
stomach and kidney troubles, and (2) the
extraordinarily low intelligence met with. As
to the latter, simple tests showed that the
mean rate was as low as four when the stan-
dard taken was 20. But while industrial
distress may drive comparatively few to the
“profession” as a regular thing, other statis-
tics produced in Melbourne on another
branch of the subject are far less comforting.
The figures of one city clinic, which probably
deals with more patients than any other two,
have revealed that four-fifths of the women
who were being treated for gonorrhoea or
syphilis were not prostitutes; that over two-
thirds of the men patients had been infected
by females who by no means came under
such a definition, no matter what their moral
position might have been; that for the
most part such girls belong to the irregular
wage-earning class; and that venereal infec-
tion among men increases with periods of
industrial depression and consequent loss of
employment among female employees.
— : —.—
From Thoroi.d Waters :
Post-war apathy should have infected Australia
less than any other belligerent country, but it must
be badly in the bones of business men when they
say so little about the failure to restore anything
better than a fortnightly mail service between their
country and Europe, and a painfully slow one at
that. In the old days, if the mail companies chis-
elled them out of half a day, there was a howl of
anguish on the score of inconvenience and lost trade;
but things have changed. Cables told us the other
day that R. J. Turner, head of the Arm of brokers
which brokes for the Commonwealth Line in London,
had put forth proposals for State-owned 50,000-
tonners which would cut down the time between
London and Australia or M.L. by about one-third.
But nobody in Australia seems to care a dump. The
Commonwealth Government was apprised of Turner’s
plan many months ago, and Hughes has been dis-
cussing it with Manager Larkin. Owing to the
drop in shipping costs Turner now considers that
his leviathans could be built and run much more
cheaply than in his original estimate. For instance,
construction is set down at £18,000,000 instead of
£27,000,000. Wages and fuel costs have also come
down. Pending the construction of his big oil-
driven fleet, Turner suggests that the Orient and
P. and O. should be politely requested to do their
steaming from London to Fremantle in 2l£ days,
port stoppages included. Of this their boats are
alleged by Lloyd’s Register to be capable. But
instead of proudly steaming the 18 knots ascribed
to them, vessels like the Orsova and Orvieto are
content to plod along at slightly more than 13
knots, while the P. and O. craft, in Turner’s words,
“attain an uncertain 141 knots, descending upon
occasion to 10 knots for steamers of the 15-knot
class.” And the Commonwealth Government recently
agreed to pay the Orient Co. £220,000 for a fort-
nightly service, instead of £170,000 for a weekly
one!
♦
“Morob” : I don’t agree with “Peiucoma”
(B. (j/10/’2l) that the climate of Sydney
does not lend itself to malaria in an en-
demic form. The history of the disease
shows conclusively that climate has little
to do with the propagation of the disease.
It is not exclusively a tropical one any
more than, say, pneumonia or diabetes is,
and there are few parts of the globe, even
the most temperate, where it has not existed
at some time or other. In England during
the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries it flour-
ished in Warwickshire, where it was known
as fen-fever, because medical opinion in those
days ascribed its origin to the emanations
from the fens, and it was not until these
and all marshy country which might offer
a breeding-place for the anopheles mosquito
had been drained that it was wiped out.
During the same period cases were reported
from Devon, and there have even been some
from so far north as the Tweed. It is pre-
talent in countries that lie on exactly the
same latitude as Sydney, which should be
sufficient to indicate that that city is not
immune. Practically speaking, the anopheles
can live and thrive wherever there is stag-
nant water and no extreme cold. Sydney
has plenty—l’ve caught dozens of them at
Strathfield, Five Dock and Cook’s River —
and all that is needed to convert it into a
malarious district is the introduction on a
large scale of infected hosts.
Thinking it time to nail a halt to the
multiplication of jobs, Premier Lawson, of
Victoria,, instigated by Pursekeeper McPher-
son, has ordered that all applications for
new and temporary billets, vacancies, pro-
motions from class to class and sub-divisiopal
increments must go to the Cabinet sub-com-
mittee (four Ministers), before being sent on
to Public Service Commissioner Morrison.
Cases will have to be O.K. to run that
gauntlet.


Australian Gas-7s % Debentures
£450,000
APPLICATIONS WILL BE DEALT WITH IN THE ORDER IN
WHICH THEY ARE RECEIVED,
and the Debentures can be converted from BEARER Debentures into
REGISTERED Debentures.
FIVE (5) PER CENT, .nterest WILL BE PAID ON ANY
AMOUNTS RECEIVED PRIOR TO THE CLOSING DATE,
DECEMBER Ist,
from which date the full Debenture interest will accrue.
Australian Gas Light Company,
Head Office, Haymarket, Sydney.
October 26, 1921.
c. U. B. GURNETT,
Secretary.
The Standardised
Model Four.
£415
THE REASON WHY
Since resumption of normal business and
settlement of labor troubles in America,
the Overland Company has
Increased Production.
The production of the Overland Factory
to-day, with 7000 employees, is coming
through at the same rate per day as when
13,000 employees were engaged formerly.
Thus enabling Factory cost to be re-
duced. Upon this increased efficiency
and the new conditions obtaining, com-
bined with reduced Ocean Freight and
other charges, the new price is based.
TERMS ARRANGED.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-5 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
Hughes did better than the dailies promised on
Earle Page’s motion in the Reps. For some days
three or four Nationalists were expected to back
the Cocky leader in his demand for economy. But
the Government’s decision to regard Page’s amend-
ment as a want of confidence frightened the prospec-
tive deserters with thoughts of a dissolution, and
on Wednesday night 'Hughes had Whipped into line
every Nationalist bar Bell, who, through a pardon-
able mishap, saved Billy from the ignominy of win-
ning on the Chairman’s casting vote. Presumably
Bell will now be cast out of the Nationalist camp
for conduct unbecoming a good party man, and Hay,
the gaitered person from New England, will also be
ostracised for voting against his cobbers in the
Corner. Party discipline was never more severely
exercised. Though Earle Page declared that his
motion should be considered on its merits in a non-
party spirit, no effort was spared to keep Hay under
the Gumleaf banner. Likewise Atkinson, the Nation-
alist, who was suspected of a yearning to lodge a
protest against Government extravagance, was stead-
fastly canvassed and urged to contemplate the peril
to the Empire should he record a hostile vote, and
he had the ecstasy of being listened to as a person
of sudden importance.
Lobbyists are speculating on the changes
Hughes Avill make when Joe Cook leaves the
Ministry for the High Commissioner’s job in
London. It is reckoned that Massy Greene
is the most likely man for the Treasury-—a
promotion earned by his work at the Cus-
toms. For the rest, it is not. unlikely
that there will be a reshuffle, in which
Rodgers will get a move up to a more com-
fortable berth. Incidentally, one of the rank
and file will probably be offered a place in the
Cabinet. Bruce will have a chance, though
Hughes may pursue the absurd system of
State representation in the Cabinet and
choose Marks, Marr or some other N.S.W,
supporter.
Through the dense cloud of doubt which
has long enveloped Sydney’s esteemed City
Council a definite charge has broken. Two
mysterious persons calling themselves Gill
and Read recently obtained a £9500 muni-
cipal contract for the supply of wood blocks.
Nobody seems to have asked Gill and
Read -were, what jobs they had done, or
where they proposed to get their material,
but the gentlemen themselves explain that
they are not wood-block contractors at all,
but Melbourne detectives. And they allege
(or one of them does) that Alderman Bram-
ston received a bribe for getting them the
contract, and was to have been handed a lot
more for himself and “others.” The Gov-
ernment talks of appointing a Royal Com-
mission to get at the truth of things. What
is really needed is a Commission to govern
the city, as in 1854, until the odor of sus-
picion which has hovered about Sydney’s
beautiful institution, not for a few months
only, but for many years, has ceased to be
even an unpleasant memorv.
After the matter had been “in the.
air” for years the Queensland Upper ELuse
passed the Bill for the ending of its superflu-
ous existence as quietly as if it had been a
motion for adjournment. Like the intended
suicide who has grown bored with contem-
plating the rash act, it just blew out its
brains in a spare moment and went home
without them.
Wheat sold in London at 3s. llld. per
bushel in 1913 —the last peace year. In
the 30 years from 1884 to 1913 it varied
between "2s. and 4s. and only in
seven years of the 30 did it climb above 4s.
There is talk of freight getting down to 555.
per ton (Is. 6d. per bushel), and with 3d.
for insurance, commission and sundries, and
Bd. for costs from the paddock to the ship
the exporting business will eat up 2s. sd. per
bushel. Of this Is. 9d. is owing to our
manufacturing population being in England
instead of here. And this cuts both ways,
for the manufactured goods cost money to
carry, too. The farmer is a piece-worker
and a cheap worker and a long-hour worker;
if he wasn’t how many acres of wheat would
be grown on this continent under present
conditions of marketing?
Treasurer Lewis, of the tiny Speck, winds
up the financial year with a deficit of nearly
£84,000, bringing the total floating deficiency
up to nearly £230,000. The public debt is
now within a tick of £19,000,000, and the
interest bill to be met. this year will total
ABANDONED —A FUTURIST STUDY.
over £720,000, which is £78.000 more than
ever. For various alleged reasons (not to
mention the fact that an election is due m
a few months) no serious effort is to be
made to reduce the quarter-million deficit.
The onlv new revenue budgeted for next
financial' year is £19,000 by 10 per cent,
increase in the existing super-tax on in-
comes, and £17,500 by a twopenny rise on
the present fourpenny stamp-duty on latt. s
tickets—a total of only £30,500, as against
an estimated increased expenditure or over
£200,000 on last year’s spendings. As the
interest bill is now one-third of the total
revenue, and will be considerably more than
one-third when the present years borrow-
ings are added to the State’s debt, the don t-
care-a-damn-ness of Treasurer Lewis is as-
tonishing.
The magnanimity of Queensland’s. Labor
Leg. Councillors in voting for their, oivn
abolition is to be suitably recognised. In
fact, it was recognised beforehand. lne
new martyrs are to have the run of the
Parliamentary restaurant and billiard-room
as hitherto, and retain their railway passes
for life. Considering that a lot of them
were only Councillors for 10 months or
thereabouts, and that a railway pass over
all lines is worth at least £6O per annum,
this is about the most barefaced transaction
of the kind since the Irish Parliament was
bought out in 1803. And it was all done
in of pure democracy.
■ A new offer has been made to the Mount
Morgan strikers: (1) the complete output,
i.e., the full product of their labor: (2) the
use of the valuable machinery free; (3) a
subsidy out of the company’s reserves while
they last; (4) a subsidy of £lOOO a week
from the taxpayers. What they have done
to deserve big alms from the community no
one knows. But with copper at about half
the abnormal price which it fetched when
the old wages tvere fixed, even this involves
a reduction of pay by 20 per cent. That
would still leave it higher than it was when
copper stood at the present price before the
war; and in countries where there is no fool
Government to be held up for subsidies the
drop in wages has been 50 per cent, or more.
But it isn’t anticipated that any burst of
gratitude will greet the amazingly liberal
offer. The crowd Avhich has largely wrested
control from the Government in Queensland
doesn’t want work ; it wants revolution.
Dunn. N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture,
blames his predecessors (they are always
blamed) for going out of office 18 months
ago and leaving him short of cement to finish
the wheat silos; but, then, they didn’t knoAV
till the last moment that they were going
out of office, and also they didn’t know how
helpless the next crowd would be about
cement. Bags are a more serious matter
than most people suppose. The ever-useful
State Statistician Smith records that for the
year to June, 1921, N.S.W. paid £1,457,115
for imported bags and sacks (woolpacks not
counted). By the time thev reached the
man on the land they cost an immense
amount more. He was hoping to cut out
the item this year, but he has been Dunn
brown once more. One way and another he
is a child of misfortune, and born to trouble
as the sparks and the Ministerial salaries ny
upward.
A send-off to a king:—
Not one of the many kings whom the Great War
dragged down proved himself a diehard or a last
ditcher, and not one threw himself and his lost
cause on his own bayonet like Saul at Gilboa.
Peter of Serbia and Albert of Belgium <Kd the old-
fashioned king act in the danger zone, but the others
were a reticent lot. Charles Hapsburg, last heard of
as weeping bitterly on board a British gunboat on
the Danube, and packing his bag for St. Helena or
Goat Island or some such lonesome place, was evi-
dently not of the stuff that coups d’etat are made of.
When he set out to recapture one of his lost thrones
(he lost about 18 of them) his army was small and
not very enthusiastic. But, then, the army of the
Hungarian Republic was small and gloomy also.
When the land force of a purely inland country is
commanded by an admiral it can’t help feeling like
a horse-marine or a fish out of water. But though
the beginnings were small the following of Mr. O.
Hapsburg might have grown like a snowball and
become a blaze of devotion if the leader had been
a Garibaldi or a Bolivar, and if in the last battle
he had been a yard in front with a rifle instead of
1000yds. to the rear with a telescope. Wonders
have been done by the sort of leader who is a yard
in front, and 34 is a good age for leadership. Charles’s
relative, the great archduke of the same name and
the one genius of a dull race, proved that a forward
policy pays when, in his 38th year, he spoiled
Napoleon’s name for invincibility at Aspern. But
one such man used up practically all the brain
that Providence handed out to the Hapsburg-Lor-
raines. Apparently only 800 of the ex-emperor s
4000 men went into action, if it was action, and
the republicans viewed them from a distance, and
there was no vulgar clash, and the campaign sort of
perished a natural death. Charles, having lost his
aeroplane, couldn’t get back to Switzerland, where
he wasn’t wanted, anyhow, except by his creditors,
to whom he owes £lOO,OOO, the Government being
enraged at the use of its Republic as a war base.
This left five possible frontiers to retreat over, with
very angry men sitting on each. So the British
vessel on the Danube was probably a lucky find.
The S. Aus. Parliament seems determined
to spoil its State’s reputation. Just at pre-
sent it is pressing a full-time private sec. on
Premier Barwell; and it is counted to it
for righteousness that the Labor Opposition
joins in the pressing. Of course, a Labor
Opposition would do anything it could to
swell the importance of a political job. It
is a politician itself. But it is just this
sort of thing—this creation of a vast bureau-
cracy—which is going to presently threaten
the very existence of State Parliaments and
Governments as we now know them.
By 13 votes to nine the Vic. Uppah Cliam-
bah was aereeable to skirted electors sitting
in the State Parliament, but as 18 affirma-
tive votes are needed to carry constitutional
amendments, Laborite McNamara’s little bill
was shelved. Ministers Robinson and
McWhae voted with the minority, but Clarke
was one of the unlucky 13.
They are soon forgotten. At a Ryan
memorial fund meeting in Townsville
(N.Q.) there were only two present—the
chairman of the Shire Council and a re-
porter. Asked why he hadn’t turned up, a
local business man said he thought there
were sufficient monuments to Ryan already.
“I have seen thousands myself,” he added.
“All walking about looking for work.”
It is now 00 years since the Riverina New
State movement began, and it hasn’t moved
two inches yet. It is now proposed that, if
separation isn’t granted by November 17,
1924, which is the Murrumbidgee’s centenary
dav, the place shall just secede, set up for
itself, and be done with it. And when a man
is so enraged with another that he promises
to hit him a hard smite on the nose three
years and 30 days hence lie is dangerous.
Copper and cow were Queensland’s out-
standing features in the good days that
are now dead and decomposed. It used to
make as much out of copper as all the other
States put together, and copper was worth
more to it than all other minerals put to-
gether ; and it owned and still owns almost
as much cow and cow’s husband as the
other States combined. But copper has left
off unanimously, pending a decision whether
the industry can pay the same wages with
the metal selling at £67 as when it fetched
£130; and now cow, after being struck with
increased taxation and increased rents, has
slumped in London to 2|d. per lb. And still
Queensland wrnn’t realise that anything un-
pleasant has happened and goes on striking
as gaily as ever.
The Federal Statistician reports that the
price of food in N.S.W. went down 224 p.c.
between September, 1920, and September,
1921. As the people who made these things
were getting 224 p.c. less they could hardly
pay the same old wages, so Judge Beeby
granted a reduction of 34 p.c. It seemed
moderate, but McGirr, Minister for Baby-
hood and Labor, who isn’t affected by wage
problems as manufacturers are, being a
great collector of rents, promptly suppressed
the decision. A cheery attitude of being
above the law characterises the Dooley Gov-
ernment. It hasn’t yet ordered a Judge to
re-try an acquitted prisoner, or ordered that
the prisoner shall do five years despite his
acquittal; but it should get there in time.
The Westralian Government is on the
market with a large assortment of State
enterprises started during the dreadful Scad-
dan regime. The trouble is that most of
them are more or less bankrupt and buyers
are elusive birds. Nobody but an imbecile
would purchase the Wyndham meatworks
for 50 per cent, of the million and a quarter
they have cost. It is the same with the
Government implement factory. The State
steamers earned profits during the war, but
were heavy losers before that period, and
have earned little since. There would be
competitors for the sawmills if they were
put up, for they carry valuable forest rights.
A French company wanted to buy them m
1919, and went so far as to plank down a
deposit. But being afraid of what Parlia-
ment would say, the Government cried off,
and has regretted it ever since.
THE DISADVANTAGE OF BEING JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The King of Thingummy to-day laid the highest
decoration at the disposal of Ins country on the
grave of the Unknown Warrior.
“James Jones, who had a wonderful fighting record
during the late war, was to-day sentenced to two
vears’ imprisonment for theft. He pleaded desti-
tution, the result of unemployment.”
He mav have been a hero or lie may have been a cur.
We only know he’s dead who owned these bones
To which the great ones of the earth so piously defer.
But Number 00 What’s-tliis Private Jones,
Although he lost a lot of things—his job, his health,
his wife
(A shirker took the last)—yet somehow didn’t lose
his life.
Now-, whether the Unknown fought well, and if so
when and where,
There is no record on this earth to show.
But Jones indubitably did. His deeds are written
there
In stiff official phrases that yet glow
With all the eager, selfless fire that spurred him on to
fight
Through all the wide-eyed anguish of the age-long
Flanders night.
But Jones, as has been said' before, came through
this hell alive,
To find his 'country’s views on soldiers changed.
The folk who for his favor used so eagerly to strive
Now gently hint that he must be deranged
To ask for jobs that men like Smith had learned to
handle well
While he was wasting years beneath the Army’s use-
less spell.
Now see him, health and money gone, convicted of a
theft—
His very valor used to shame him more.
What wonder if he muses, as he sits, of hope bereft,
Behind his barred and bolted prison door,
How t far more fortunate the honored heap of name-
less bones
Is, after all, than he, the outcast living hero Jones !
N.S.W,
J. B. D.


\i
*OJ
|i
IS
THE DANGEROUS WEAPON.
JOSEPH COOK: “Take it away, boy; Mr. Hushes might cut himself with it.”


m
ur
COSMOS
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 ElijciboH') Sh
Melbourne l
\\W
\ \
\v X \
/ /
lCKers
W/
/ I
I <
r \ \
304 Kent- 5h
sijclnpy
ELECTRICAL
CO LTD
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS, 1905
£5,758,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1915:
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1921
£18,400,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1921, £1,940,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Farmer and Co., Ltd., who run a soft-
goods shop in Sydney :
. Dividends. \
July, Profits. Prof. G p.c. Ordinary.
1909.. £32.706 £12,000 8 p.c.= £12,498 £12,638
1910.. 3.1,206 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 23,34 b
1911.. 38,945 12,000 10 „ ~15,623 34,668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 12* „ ~19,529 16,166
1913 . 47.223 12,000 124 „ „ 19,529 61,860
Premiums on new shares, £17,508. . 79,368
1914. . 48,453 12,000 12J p.c,- 20,134 95,68 i
1915.. 41,814 12,000 10 „ „ 20,000 105,501
1916.. 40,161 12,000 124 „ „ 20,000 108,662
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1917.. 43,940 12,000 602 30,000 110,000
1918.. 49,590 12,000 7,590 30,000 110,000
1919.. 54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,000
Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 10,000
12* p.c.
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32,500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570 33,816 61,393
Reserve for war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 . . . . 111,935
Latest disclosed profits were £20,000-odd less
than for the previous year of abnormally
favorable trading: still they were ample to
pay the usual pref. divs. (including 7 p.c. on
£70,809 more 2nd prefs. raised during the
year), and then give a return of IB| p.c. on
ordinary capital which has increased from
£300,000 to £338,159. To have paid 10 p.c.
to ordinary shareholders with such ease has
been a remarkably good performance in face
of the adverse conditions which have ruled
and the experiences of other retailers. And
the still-handsome results have not been made
possible by calling upon visible reserves to
make good any losses in stock values result-
ing from the collapse of prices. In the four
war years 1916-19 £50,542 was laid aside
for contingencies and war taxation. That
reserve is still intact, and in view of the
directors’ assurances as to the latest stock-
taking it can now be regarded as a genuine
reserve (provided there are no further bad
slumps), and so has been included with re-
serves in the introductory table. “The
stock,” say the directors, “has had careful
consideration, ana its value has been made on
a strictly conservative basis, commensurate
with present-day values.” They also remark
that “the year’s turnover shows a greater
volume of trade than in any previous year,
although the rate of profit earned has been
lower, consequent upon the decline in the sell-
ing prices of stocks held.” These statements
taken in conjunction with the published
figures indicate either that high-cost replace-
ments were regarded with suspicion in previ-
ous years and were protected by war-time
earnings not disclosed, or that the co. was
particularly fortunate with its purchases. An
outstanding feature of the business is that
it is now feeding more than double the capi-
tal employed only five years ago :
Profits
(including additions
Paid to war taxation and
Capital. contingencies fund).
1914 .. £400,000 £48,453
1915 . . 400,000 41,814
1916 . . 400,000 50,161
1917 . . 501,355 68.910
1918 . . 562,0§2 73,599
1919 .. 602,710 79 047
1920 . . 719,266* 98,049
1921 . . 817,738* 77,561
♦lncluding £lOO,OOO of capitalised reserves.
Most of the new capital has been required for
stocks, the demands of a widened selling con-
nection having necessitated holding more
goods, while prices were for awhile very high
—and are still not low. But £145,000 or so
more has gone into property, which has been
earning very little, unless the temporary dis-
play windows on the site have
materially assisted turnover. The directors
had hoped to make a start on a new building
a year or more ago) but owing to adverse con-
ditions construction has been delayed. The
directors do not disclose their intentions m
their latest report. Considerable new capi-
tal will be required when the _ work does
begin, and no doubt they will await an oppor-
tune time for appealing to the public.
Further comparisons over seven years are
given hereunder* final divs. declared being
deducted from cash-holdings: —
1914. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. £400,000 £602,710 £719,266 £817,738
Liabilities .. 204,740 177,225 390,436 363,980
Freeholds and „„„ r „„ „„„
plant .. 431,778 518.524 573,762 ,>77,283
Leaseholds .. 14,356 10,911 2,349 2,000
Stock.. .. 174,659 369,222 545,096 587,255
Book debts .. 37,470 78,354 72,338 82,02 1
Cash and invest- „„
ments . . 56,048 7,254 38,416 61,996
Capital is made up of £200,000 of 0 p.c. prefs,
£210,579 of 7 p.c. prefs. and £338,159 of ordi-
naries. The surplus of stocks, cash, etc.,
over all liabilities is £367,298. Property,
etc., is given a book value of £579,282. So
the accounts show net tangible assets of
£946,580, or nearly £2 to protect every £1
put in by the prefs. Allowing cover for the
£479,579 of pref. capital there are assets de-
clared to be worth £467,000 to support the
£338,159 of ordinary capital. The ordinaries’
position, therefore, looks strong. Div. pros-
pects depend upon how counter-prices com-
pare with stock values, and also on continued
active buying by the public—and that factor
is not altogether clear at the moment on
account of the doubt as to the prices which
will be forthcoming in future for the Com-
monwealth’s primary products.
Arthur Cocks & Co., Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, jewellery, etc.: —
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, ficit.
1912. . £10,861 £lO9O 10 p.c. = £5,404 £4367 £8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „ ~ 4,327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 ~ „ 2,164 3765 2,788
1915.. 6,648 1503 74 „ „ 4,057 1088 1,700
Reserves.
1916.. 10,532 1503 10 „ „ 5,409 3620 1,920
1917.. 11,945 1503 10 ~ „ 5,409 5033 6,953
Transferred from contingency reserves 1700 8,653
1918.. 13,077 1503 124 p.c.= 6,762 4812 13,465
1919.. 10,110 1503 124 „ „ 6,996 1611 15,076
1920.. 21,074 1503 15 „ „ 11,779 7792 22,868
Reserves capitalised, £9,816 .. 13,052
1921.. 17,157 1503 10 p.c. = 10,841 4813 17,865
Paid capital was increased from £78,563 to
£lOO,OOO in 1920 and to £129,884 at the
latest balance. Of the last increase £9816
was a transfer of reserves —bait to attract
subscriptions to the new share issue. The
earlier lot of new capital had been got in to
ease the strain on the co.’s finances caused
by the high stock-prices, and generally to
extend business. But the co. found other
uses for the funds: having received notice to
quit the premises it had long tenanted in
Sydney, the management decided to secure
a permanent home for the business. A pro-
perty was bought for £40,000-odd, and
though £25,000 of the price was raised by
mortgage, the purchase lias helped to expand
the co.’s liabilities. Nor has the new capital
got in during the past year been sufficient
to ease the position. This shows the move-
ments of balance-sheet figures since 1919: —
1919. 1920. 1921.
Deposits .. £16,847 £10,035 £16,296
Other liabilities. . 23,486 53,006 55,236
Premises 40,328 40,708
Stocks . . . . 102,798 105,788 130,329
Book debts . . 34,435 46,67.) 40,136
Plant, etc. . . • 2,922 3,883 3,309
Cash, investments,
e t c 5,923 9,390 23,203
The actual position of the co. is now hidden
to some extent by the recent floating off of a
pup co. to handle the Queensland business.
The directors explain that the reason for
the separation is “largely associated with
the complications connected with succession
duties under the Queensland Act. ihe
Maoriland business is to be similarly treated.
For the Queensland interests the parent co.
took £6500 in shares and £lO,OOO in deben-
tures.
The co. is in the wholesale trade only.
Last year business was not nearly so profit-
able as in the flush war-period, when almost
everybody had an extra few shillings with
which to patronise the trader in luxuries.
Generally, last year’s turnover was good, but
several factors affected the profit : chaotic
exchanges and higher duties resulted in
erratic and increased costs which could not
be passed on. The Maoriland end of the busi-
ness showed no profit at all. However, the
£17,157 of net earnings shown by the
accounts was a handsome return (14.4 p.c.
on ordinary capital after providing the pref.
divs.), so 10 p.c. was paid with ease. The
profit shown is the more satisfactory, ( too,
because the management states that “the
estimate put upon assets of the co. may be
confidently accepted by shareholders, and
has been arrived at on the basis of equity
and caution.”
* > # *
Equity Trustees, Executors' &' Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1911. . £4,111 10 p.c. = £2500 £l6ll £29,4£
1912.. 4,515 10 „ „ 2500 2015 31,51,
1913.. 9,283 25 „ ~ 6250 3033
1914 . 10 408 20 „ ~ 5000 5408 39,953
1915.. 7 315 20 „ „ 5000 2315 42,268
1916. . 9’,503 20 ~ ~ 5000 4503 46,771
Transferred to capital, £25,000 21,7/1
1917.. 8,746 14 p.c. = 7000 1746 23,017
1918.. 8,730 14 „ „ 7000 1/30 25,24/
1919.. 9,260 14 „ „ 7000 2260 2 / ,50/
1920.. 11,898 16 „ „ 8000 3898 3M05
1921.. 9,117 14 „ „ 7000 211/ 33,022
Thirteen vears ago the Equity was paying
8 p.c. on £25,000 of paid capital, £2OOO p.a.
thus flowing out to shareholders. Nowa-
days £7OOO is distributed with ease each
year, though proprietors have not been
called on to put up a penny. But as their
scrip was doubled five years ago, by extract-
ing £25,000 of reserves, the div. rate does
not look so fat as it actually is for old
holders. How the co. has managed to do so
well is not explained even to the extent of
disclosing the value of the estates adminis-
tered. Some idea of how rapidly the
Equity’s connections have expanded can,
however, be got from this comparison of
commission and investment earnings and
exes.:—
Earnings. Expenses.
1900 .. .. £7,376 £3,022
1910 .. .. 17,131 8,673
1920 . . . . 26,673 14,580
1921 . . . . 24,961 15,794
The feature of that comparison is that most
of the extra earnings go in additional office
exes, and taxes, for while charges have not
been increased the administration of estates
is more complicated than formerly, and
larger staffs at increased salaries are nowa-
days necessary to handle business. Still,
things are not so bad as they might be ; the
very large amounts invested in War Loans
on behalf of beneficiaries have put huge par-
cels of easily-controlled gilt-edged securities
into the trustee cos.’ vaults, and in view of
that fact, and the all-round improved .earn-
ings of estates, it is Surprising that net pro-
fits have not improved more than is shown
in the introductory table. Perhaps the co.
has done better than it has publicly admitted :
it may be that, in anticipation of a dull period
following upon the abnormal war years, a bit
extra has been laid aside for future refer-
ence. Income is always shown “after pro-
viding for contingencies”—such a contin-
gency, possibly, as the fairly general falling-
off of profits and curtailment of divs. re-
cently disclosed by the accounts of trading
cos., and which means reduced commissions
for trustee managements. Hut the trustee
shareholder is generally in a very snug
position. The Equity’s paid capital is
£50,000. The whole of that and a bit more
is in public securities. Also there are pre-
mises with a book value of £15.962 winch
earn something. Debtors for £15,409, £491
of furniture (written down from £2176) and
£1548 of cash (after paying the final div.)
were also in the list. The co. did not owe
a penny. So there were assets set down as
worth £83,522 to represent the £50,000 of
capital. The only risk shareholders run is that
one of their employees may one day bungle
instructions or finance a Melbourne Cup out-
ing on trust funds. Continual and search-
ing audit is the protection in the latter re-
spect, while a strong legal connection has
always been the long-suit of the Equity. In
fact, when a Judge is wanted from the Cab-
bage Garden, Cabinets have a habit of
anpointing an Equity director: half-a-dozen
old directors have gone to the Bench.
Edward Mitchell, K.C., Donald Mackinnon
and J. G. Latham are the present legal lumi-
naries on the Board. The 100,000 £2 10s.
shares are paid to 10s. each, so besides the
£83,522 more or less immediately available
there is also £200,000 callable to protect
beneficiaries.
The Bukit Kurd llubher Estates, Ltd.
(office in Melbourne, estate in Malay Penin-
sula) :
Charged to Develop- De-
June, Loss. Dividends, meat Account, ficit.
1910.. —• £2272 £365
1911.. £266 3785 631
Profit.
1912.. 236 3332 395
Reserves.
1913.. 821 3738 426
1914.. 695 2984 1,121
Premiums on new shares, £2lO. . 1,331
1915.. 1145 1996 2,476
1916.. 7775 10 p.c. = £3OOO 1388 7,251
1917.. 8945 10 „ „ 3000 1017 13,196
1918.. 6727 15 „ „ 4500 667 15,423
1919.. 4890 2o „„ 7500 1152 12,813
1920.. 8274 25 ~ „ 7500 917 13,587
Loss.
1921.. 3047 Nil 812 10,540
Twelve months ago everything looked right
for Bukit Ivubu, a Melbourne-run concern (P.
J. Glass, of Barnet-Glass, is chairman)
which has 653 acres under rubber at Serem-
ban (F.M.S.). But the market for the
product crashed horribly : prices slithered so
low and prospects of an early improvement
are so slight that the planting industry _ is in
a desperate position. A variety of artificial
restoratives are being considered by the
planters, whose first scheme —a temporary
curtailment of outputs —failed utterly.
There has been talk of a pool to control
prices, of mergings of plantations and amal-
gamations of managements to reduce over-
head charges; but these and other proposals
have so far come to nothing. Meantime the
old law of supply and demand is operat-
ing in a way which threatens extinction ‘for
some cos. whose costs are high. One
of the troubles is that the plantings by the
numerous floats in the boom days of rubber
have during recent years given rapidlv
increasing outputs: but the world is so sick
now that it cannot absorb the supplies, nor
can manufacturers finance even normal
stocks. It is not so many years since
rubber was fetching 10s. and over; Bukit
Ivubu last year averaged only as many pence.
And that compared with recent years as
follows
Average price
Production. Costs per lb. realised per lb.
1913 . . 17,4501 b. 3s. B.ld.
•1914 .. 30,9101 b. Is. 3.40 d. 2s. 3.35 d.
1915 . . 50,1301 b. Is. 1.78 d. 2s. 2.300.
1916 .. 103,0001 b. 10.66 d. 3s. 0.75 d.
1917 . . 143,6001 b. Is. 0.89 d. 2s. Bd.
1918 . . 186,0001 b. Is. 0.55 d. 2s. 3d.
1919 . . 200,1451 b. 11.35 d. Is. 7.55 d.
1920 . . 226,7001 b. 11.91 d. Is. 11.09 d.
1921 . . 188,0001 b. 10.940. 10.50.
For the past year the co. anticipated an
output of 240,0001 b.; the adoption of alter-
nate-day tapping along with other planters
was responsible for the harvesting of only
188,0001 b. Fortunately the management was
also able to cut exes., and for the current
year an output of 200,0001 b. is contemplated
at an f.ob. cost (including 85 p.c. of general
charges and providing for depreciation) of
about 7fd. Manager M. L. Phillips explains
how the reduction is possible: —
The last few years labor has been enjoying
repeated increases of pay, until John Chinaman was
receiving up to 4s. Bd. per day; the Tamil risen
from lid. to Is. 2d. and Is. sd. per day, with rice
supplied at reduced costs, which equalled an extra
2d. to 3d. per day, and the Javanese had risen pro-
portionately. The. sudden fall in the price of ruboer
brought labor down to earth with a very realistic
thud; there was no trouble, rates of pay were simply
halved, and then again reduced. One of the bright
spots in life to a worried plantation manager is the
sensible and quiet manner in which labor (especially
Chinese) have taken their lower wages.
Btill the curtailing of labor teams is going
to lead to trouble later on, should the mar-
ket improve and larger outputs again be the
programme.
If manager Phillips’s anticipations prove
correct, Bukit Kuhn should come through
all right. Its position is fairly comfort-
able : at June 80 there was a bank overdraft
of £2520 and £lBO9 due to sundry creditors.
On the other side there were liquid assets
totalling £3OBl. No doubt, if the bank did want
its money shareholders would readily provide
the necessary cash. In the five years 1910-
20 they got back in diva. £25,500 of their
£30,000 paid' capital, and they are assured
by the management that the plantation is in
good condition for future production.
The Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.: —
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1909.. £53,879 15 p.c. = £36,250 £17,629 £96,916
1910 57,345 124 „ ~ 31,250 26,095 123,011
1911 73,961 174 „ „ 43,750 30,211 153,222
1912.. 61,028 17l „ „ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to capital. . 20,50 u
1913.. 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29,270
1914.. 53,180 10 „ „ 40,000 13,180 42,450
1915.. 37,268 5 ~ „ 20,000 17,268 59,718
1916.. 33,910 5 „ ~ 20,000 13,910 73,628
1917 . 54,724 71 „ „ 30,000 24,724 98,352
1918.. 42.637 74 „ „ 30,000 12,637 110,989
1919.. 43.351 121 ~ „ 50,000 104,340
1920.. 50,679 124 ~ ~ 50,000 679 105,019
1921.. 83,897 15 ~ ~ 60,000 23,897 128,916
Despite the higher cost of labor, stores and
freights, and all the other troubles which
have beset the poor colliery-owner, Bellambi
has had the time of its life; for, though the
price of the fuel from the N. 8. Wales South
Coast has gone from an average of 7s. Id.
to 13s. 4d. in live years, good markets have
been available, and obviously the increased
price has fully covered all additional costs.
The co. began on the Bellambi colliery in
’B9, and then 20 years ago took over the
South Bulli from Ebenezer Vickery (prior
to the ’nineties the show was owned by
Tom Say well). The introductory table goes
back to the time when the Bellambi Co. had
completed the equipment of this South Bulli
colliery, purchased a new 1600-ton collier,
reconstructed its jetty and added to _ its
rolling stock. Considerable funds have since
been outlayed to make the concern one of
the best-equipped in the Commonwealth’, but
shareholders have not been called upon to
find a penny for the improvements. Paid
capital a dozen years ago was a quarter mil-
lion (£25,000 being reserves capitalised a
year previously) ; since then £458,750 has
been distributed in divs., while visible sur-
plus profits of £182,000 have been stored.
Eight years ago £150,000 of the accumulated
profits were extracted to provide bonus scrip.
Another view of how well the co. has done
since 1909 is given by this comparison:—
1909. 1915. 1920. 1921.,
Liabilities. . . . £lO,lOO £30,947 £38,407 £57,656
Assets —■
Mines, plant, steam-
ers, etc. . . 264,673 289,177 259,094 264,332
Stores and stocks 7,339 12,809 19,386 15,554
Book debts . . 10,799 18,649 33,809 26,788
Investments a n d
cash .. . . 92,955 180,030 266,136 319,898
After paying handsome divs. the surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities had improved
between the 1900 and 1921 balances by
£203,000-odd. When the latest div. had
been distributed there remained £264,000 of
surplus liquid assets, the greater proportion
in public securities and other almost equally
soluble lines. The surplus may be even
larger, for on this occas'on among the liabili-
ties is included “provision for taxation,”
which possibly includes a substantial sum not
required for current taxes. And that may
mean also that the vear’s profits were more
handsome than the published accounts
i-epresent. Not all the profits shown


The Speck Geological Department is to
run the rule over the Mt. Jasper ore deposits
at an early date, and that will help to settle
whether the application to it of Mark
Twain’s definition of a mine is justified.
* * * *
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many home 3 in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been develoued. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [1
* » * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * »
The desert and waterless regions can be changed
tef prosperous country by irrigation, such as can be
supplied cheaply and efficiently through Pioneer
Wood Pipe. It is lighter in first cost, entails prac-
tically no maintenance charges and has a larger capa-
city than metal pipe of the same dimensions. Write
for our 68-page book on the subject. The Austra-
lian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove. — Advt.
ASBESTOS. —The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* # » *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writ®
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * «
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
Canada .. 2/4
~9 j 7d. (minimum
' "j 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A... ..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained 'at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MTT.WMtD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
&
L
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
in recent years, however, have come from
coal: the sale of the s.s. Bellambi and Mala-
chite gave a surplus over book values of
£18,850, and, coincidentally, expanded liquid
assets. The present large volume of these
readily negotiable belongings may presently
be tapped to finance necessary improvements
to the colliery, as work gets further from the
pit-mouth, and, perhaps, to replace colliers.
But at present the co. has 10s. 3d. per £1
share represented by securities of undoubted
value, besides which there is an excellently-
equipped mine with many years of life
assured, probably the finest bunkering connec-
tion in the Commonwealth, and a fleet of
steam colliers which are in “thorough repair”
and altered during the past year to conform
with the requirements of the new Navigation
Act.
* * * *
About Steel Products (Australasia), Ltd.:
This float is in no way related to Commonwealth
Steel Products Co., Ltd., the big Newcastle enter-
prise started by Goninan and Henderson a few years
ago. The new co., which is offering 42,000 £1 pre-
ferreds, is an off-shoot of Steel Products, Ltd., of
Calcutta (India), which began in 1917 and is
declared to have made good profits, and paid divs.
of 15 and 20 p.c. for the past two years, from manu-
facturing steel shelving, racks, bins, etc. The
founder of that co., R. J. Coombes, is now floating
an Australian co. to take over all patent rights, for
which the Calcutta concern is to be paid £5500 cash.
The promoter is to get 8000 fully-paid £1 deferreds,
and offers his services as manager “for a minimum
period of three years at a salary of £l5OO p.a.”
Apparently neither promoter nor parent co. are
putting cash into the good thing. The preferreds
are to carry a fixed cumulative div. of 10 p.c. p.a.
and will participate, if profits warrant, with the
deferreds up to 15 p.c. They also come in ahead
of the deferreds for a return of capital, though as
the latter are merely goodwill shares and £5500
of the subscribed cash goes to Calcutta to begin with,
and brokerage and preliminary exes, have also to
be met, the protection for the “preference” shares
won’t be 20s. in the £ until substantial re. erves
are accumulated.
The prospect of writing contracts for the
patent steel shelving and other lines looks good—
prices, declares the promoter, compare favorably
with wooden fixtures in this market. On the basis
of a £60,000 turnover, Mr. Coombes declares that a
conservative estimate of net profits will be slightly
under £21,000. The promoter has interested two
practical men in the float: S. A. Josephson, of
Waugh & Josephson, engineers, and Richard Manning,
of Chapman & Co., shipbuilders and engineers; both
are provisional directors.
It is proposed to instal plant capable of manufac-
turing 100 tons monthly; the estimated cost of
factory and works is £12,000, and about £24,000
will be required for plant. This outlay arid the
£5500 for Calcutta will take £41,500, lea\ing
only £5OO of the £42,000 (if the issue offered is
fully subscribed) available for working capital,
brokerage and preliminary exes. So additional
shares will have to be placed if the programme con-
templated is adhered to, a fact which is apparently
not considered sufficiently important to be men-
tioned in the prospectus. The “Wild Cat” put this
aspect of the float before the promoter and was told
that, since the prefs.’ rights to 10 p.c. divs. will
begin to operate immediately on allotment, the
first issue had been restricted, but that the directors
would issue the 50,000 preferreds in re erve as
required. Until the co. begins manufacturing it Will
act as agent for products of the Calcutta concern.
A point that has to be kept in mind is that,
while the preferreds take all the risks, so far as
the putting up of capital is concerned, the deferreds
take all the profit that may be made in excess of
15 p.c.
* * * *
John Fell, who, in partnership with the
receivers of the Commonwealth Oil Corpora-
tion, has been struggling to make a do of the
Wolgan Valley (N.S.W.) shales, has lately
been experimenting on the deposits along
new lines. The very heavy costs of mining
and retorting have allowed practically no
profit-margin even with the Commonwealth
Government subsidy. Recently John Fell '
decided to ascertain what would happen if
the shale deposit was itself fired and old
Mother Earth coaxed to act as a natural re-
tort. Portion of the old workings were
sealed off, the shale fired and the draught
regulated to control the burning. This
natural retort was kept going 10 days, and
when opened the flow of oil exceeded Mr.
Fell’s most optimistic anticipations, and
sufficient containers could not be mobilised
to harvest it. He now proposes to extend
the experiments, and talks of having “the
whole process in full operation in three
months’ time.”
Though Professor Read, of Sydney Uni.,
declares the idea “sound theoretically,” and
the Mines Department agrees that there is
no danger, there are other aspects requiring
consideration. Though the shale-oil indus-
try is under a cloud throughout the world
because of the difficulties and high costs of
mining and treatment compared with other
sources of supply, the shale deposits, par-
ticularly such high-grade deposits as those
in the Wolgan Valley, are nevertheless a
huge national asset whose possible value in
the day* when the world’s gushers fail is
incalculable. In the recent experiment no
particulars have been given as to what re-
eoveries of oil contents are likely. Before
the promiscuous burning of shale deposits
should be permitted the public is entitled to
know whether the process is economically
justifiable. If only a small proportion of
the oil contents is won and the rest lost, it
would seem to be bad business for the Com-
monwealth eventually.
Another storm is raging at Mt. Morgan on
the question of reducing wages. Last week
the Arbitration Court varied the award to
enable the big co. to reduce wages by one-
fifth, provided the men are paid lid. per day
from the £lOOO subsidy which the State Gov-
ernment has undertaken to provide to get the
show working again. This would mean a mini-
mum daily wage of 11s. 9d., and even on
that basis there is no profit for Morgan with
Conner at present prices. The A.W.U. re-
fuses to accept the amended award, and latest
talk is of the Rockhampton unions declaring
everything belonging to Mt. Morgan Co.
“black.” However, while the unions persist
in refusing to accept something more than
“the full fruits of labor,” nothing at Mt.
Morgan can be so black as the bread-and-
butter outlook.
* * * *■
Laloki, now the New Guinea Copper
Mines, sends out a first report by Erie
iluntley, wLo can take on the job of general-
manager now Hampden-Cloncurry is on the
sick list. His outlook is quite cheerful. He
estimates ore reserves of 235,000 tons—
-210,000 tons of 4i p.c. copper and 2Jdwt.
ore in Laloki mine, and 25,000 tons of a shade
better grade in the Dubuna. Already 165,000
tons are waiting to be shot down when wanted.
Huntley’s measuring-up beats the tally of
others who went round with the tape since
he did his preliminary sprint. The surprise
let out by the Board is that the scheme to
put up smelters at Booties Inlet goes by the
board. The idea is to sublime the pyrites
into such a physical state that they will not
fire up while being transported to the main-
land to flux with either Mount Chalmers
or some other silicious ore-show that wants
a sweetener. Being in close touch with
Morgan and other big copper guns in Queens-
land, the way ought to be clear for the
Board to dump Laloki basic ore into the
mainland on good terms. The co. wants
the Federal Government to take over its
jetty and railway; but Joe Cook’s till is
pretty empty, and, anyway, substantial
guarantees of an assured traffic should be
forthcoming, because 250,000 tons of cheaply
carried ore is not much to go on. Mine-
railway finance at Chillagoe and Cloncurry
should make the Treasury think before sign-
ing any bargain. The co. has stores and
liquid assets totalling £33,360. Against
these are debts of £106,362 as follows: In-
come bonds, £39,600; sundry creditors,
£13,040; and overdraft, £53,722. Fixed assets
tot up £250,000; but, as Mount Cuthbert
and others learnt, cash alone tells. So on
the advice of E. Hogan Taylor 70,000 new
shares have been issued to vet the ore-
shipment scheme under way. The talk is
of dragging Peter Charley’s old Mount
Chalmers show into the project, as it can
furnish silicious ore.
* * * »
One K. R. Moure (prefixed with “Dr.”
and with half the alphabet at heel) has been
in the N.T. spying out oil ground for the
Victoria River syndicate. He says he has
found an area “so dear to the heart of
those who seek for petroleum with interven-
ing flats” —“an exposure of conglomeritic
sandstone covering a bed of shale and sand
rock of a coarse and gritty nature, such as
is seen in other parts of the world where oil
is found.” He has gone further and chosen
the site where he wants the drill to penetrate
“this distinctly petroliferous area.”
* » * •
“M.”: As showing how excitable the pub-
lic can become over oil, the shares of a little
co. in the same district as the Moutajup bore-
hole, floated at 6d., were pushed un to 3s.
on the strength of alleged favorable indi-
cations got by S. Aus. Oilwells. No boring
has been done, and on the capital subscribed
(£7500). mighty little drilling of any value
can be undertaken. Plenty of money will
be lost and many market gamblers will be
hurt before the public learns that petroleum
mining is the most expensive and the most
hazardous of all forms of mining.
* * # *
There were not enough shares to go round
in the Freney oil float (W.A.). A rush
by profit-takers to get out soon chipped
most of the gilt off the premium at which
the shares were quoted, and when the fact
becomes generally known that no real work
can be started on the concession until April
or May next, the weight of selling may
knock the shares back to par or below.
Oake’s Find, where asphaltum has been dis-
covered in two localities five miles apart,
is considered by Government experts to be
important. There has, they say, been a
leakage of thin oil containing a large pro-
portion of light hydro-carbons, but that it
has not occurred in recent years is proved
by the hardness and advanced chemical
alteration of the asphaltum.
In view of a possible boom in oil, and a
desire to fix a higher code of financial
morality than that which prevailed in the
Hampton and previous fiascoes, the registra-
tion of directors is once more suggested in
the West.
* * * *
Old Ivanhoe’s position is steadily improv-
ing at depth. Southward at the 2870 ft. level
ore of about 15dwt. value has been driven
on for nearly 300 ft., and bores put in at
various points en route show that there is
a foot or two of good values in the walls,
and that the full width of the lode is appa-
rently about 7ft. Provided enough ore of
the grade mentioned can be opened up the
Ivanhoe should do extremely well. It has
a fine plant and a developed mine paid for
out of. earlier profits.
* * * »
Golden Hope South (W.A.) has secured
a reduction in the price put upon its latest
option at Yilgarn, and is urging shareholders
to hang on a little longer. Everybody con-
nected with the co. would, however, be in
pocket if the liquidator was called in right
away. The show- is on a field where most
ore deposits either are not big enough or
do not go down far enough to warrant min-
ing by a co. Many have tried, but few
have been successful. The results obtained
by the Golden Hope South to date do not
justify the expectation that it will be an
exception.
Hampton Daisy (W.A.) held its first
annual roll-up in Perth the other day, when
the prospects of the mine were praised and
the possibility of shareholders being soon on
velvet was mentioned. The manager esti-
mates ore reserves at 23,000 tons of a gross
value of £60,000. Provided the figures are
right, the property at the present rate of
output is well ahead of the mill. Resolu-
tions creating 40,000 additional 10s. shares
and changing the name of the co. to Daisy
Queen were adopted.
* * * *
Edna May Battler (W.A.) struggles on.
In July last it was obliged to cease milling
because of poor battery returns and want of
a plant to treat the slimes, which comprise
nearly half of the residues. it is pro-
posed to raise money to instal a sliming
plant, but before doing so an independent
expert is to be called in to report on the
property.
* * * *
Just £172,000 has been dropped down the
shaft and into the Langi gutter (Vic.) by
Eangi Logan South. Yet it looks as sick
as a doped Chinee. Of the cash provided
£116,656 has been good money forked out in
calls or placed at credit when Peacock’s
office put the show on the market; £52,200
has been from gold won (£BOOO of it pre-
mium). So after a decade of work roughly
ll,ooooz. is all there has been to show for
£172,000 spent. Various alluvial geniuses
from Jimmie McCrorie on have tried making
the show go, but the gutter is so patchy that
even Bryant downed tools at last. John
Cock, junior, now comes along with another
chirrup, for his control is yielding oz. dirt.
That would have paid in bygone days; but
with a short staff at Ararat it brings only
vexation and calls. Cock’s idea is to get
north, so as to open up and work the mile of
gutter ahead of No. 12 rise to the New Langi
Logan boundary. This means plugging, such
as the old alluvial miner would have put his
back into. About 800 ft. of driving has to be
done to get 300 ft. ahead of the No. 12 panel-
ling line, and Cock has set himself four
months in which to do the job. All this
energy is being developed because, li mile
away, New Langi has a patch at the junction
of the big lead with the Cathcart tributary.
Whether the values extend down the lead is
pure surmise, and for that reason there will
not be undue haste to bustle up the gutter
towards the boundary by Langi South.
* * * *
Bourke’s Hill tin, which sluiced at Emma-
ville (N.S.W.) for many years, is nowadays
without a mine. Portion of the old lease
contains values up to a pound, but all efforts
to extract profitably have failed because of
high costs and a low tin market. During
the 18 months to October 31 tin gave only
£1307, and £lO4 came from interest, etc.
But working costs totted up £4403, so the
co. went £2992 to leeward, and put the
working account £5053 in debit. Prospect-
ing and boring of several px-operties offered
under option helped the drift, but proved no
ground suitable for the co. An examination
of an extensive area near the old mine is
now proceeding, and if that does not offer
sufficient inducement liquidation will follow.
In February, 1920, Boui'ke’s Hill owed £1129
and showed liquid assets of £1956. Debts
at August 31 had been reduced to £4B, and
there was £2518 of cash and £5l of stores.
The sale of the old No. 2 plant effected this
improvement: the two plants had a book
value of £4586, but one alone fetched £3750.
There were at August 31 surplus liquid
assets of £2521,. equal to 13|d. per share.
But to what extent that surplus will be cut
into by prospecting operations cannot, of
course, be gauged. So, though there is a
“good saleable asset” in the form of the old
No. 1 plant, buyers at latest were offering
only ; sellers wanted 17d.
* * * *
The new gold discovery at the Six Mile,
outside Cooktown (N.Q. ), is only a small
thing yet, but promises to develop into some-
thing better. About a dozen claims hftve
been pegged out, and two are already on
payable ore. The material has to be bagged
and shipped to Cairns, there being no bat-
tery available. The deepest workings are
only at 35ft. so far, but the country is much
fissured with a network of leaders and veins
carrying good values, It looks as if they
are not yet on to the main fissure, where a
good lump of a reef might be expected.
* * * *
Mount Cobalt, Cloncurry (Q.), is still
shipping rich cobalt ore, and developments
continue favorable. At the 50ft. level good
ore is showing for the greater part of 2Goft.,
varying from 2ft. to sft. In thickness. Steadv
progress is being made with the erection of
the concentrating plant, and the pipe line
for water supply has been laid.
* * * *
The exemption on the Ajax copper-mine,
near Bajool (Q.), is shortly expiring, and
the syndicate has got together enough capi-
tal to proceed with further prospecting and
development. There is a fine body of rich
copper-bearing gossan exposed to a depth
of 30ft. and the lode is 14ft. wide. The
latest 25 tons raised averaged nearly 30 pc
copper. The restarting of the Mount Mor-
gan mine would enable the ore to be treated
locally, but failing that it will have to be
sent to southern smelters.
Following on the Badak’s entrance to Tas-
mania, the Bux Syndicate has taken over the
old Star of Peace mine in the Ringarooma
district.


THE CHEAP JACK.


for
anQ Dinn@ifa
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA j
Management
& T Cheeseman
Sa : -V 1 A
- if
rmir'ir
-'a
n
-«fv.
jt^sftrac
sS»stiS)?2r.
The Best Gift for Your Boy
“PALS” ANNUAL
ILLUSTRATED.
A Magazine for Australian Boys.
Bright, Entertaining, Instructive.
Great Features are the Sections devoted to
New Indoor Games, Puzzles and Problems,
Stamp and Coin Collecting, Boy Scouts,
Wireless and other Electrical Hobbies, the
making of Models, including aeroplanes,
canoes, yachts, kites, motors, telephones.
ALL LEADING NEWSAGENTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
12/6
per
copy.
13/9
by post in any
one State.
14,8
Interstate
and N.Z.
Publishers: The HERALD and WEEKLY TIMES, LTD., MELBOURNE.
t
Scienti&c Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER,
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
In quiet retirement in a dell in the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) is a venerable lady
whose husband
was present on
the Queen’s Bench
of the Four
Courts, Dublin,
when the late
John Hubert Plun-
kett made the an-
nouncement that
he had been ap-
pointed Solicitor-
General in N. S.
Wales. And how 7
long ago that is
can be judged
from the fact that
Plunkett arrived in
Sydney in the
Southward (3 5 0
tons) on June 14,
1832.
KELL, Deputy-
Governor of the
Commonwealth
Bank.
Australia acquires a new peer:—
Through the death of the third Earl of Dueie,
doyen of the House of Lords, a peerage has come to
Queensland. The new Earl is that Berkeley Basil
Moreton who was Postmaster-General and Colonial
Sec. in Samuel Griffith’s first Administration. Edu-
cated at Rugby and at Magdalen College, Oxford, he
arrived at Sydney in 1855, went to Queensland next
year, and in 1870 became M.L.A. for Burnett. De-
feated in 1888, he was nominated to the Leg. Council
and is still a member of that moribund body, but
for many years the courteous and charitable old man
(he is 87 and his brother, the old peer, was 94) has
lived in retirement at Maryborough. He married in
Queensland 59 years ago, and his wife (a Miss Kent)
brought him two sons and seven daughters. One of
the sons becomes Lord Moreton. The Ducie estates
are wealthy, or used to be before the war. The old
Earl, who was Lord-Lieutenant of Gloucestershire
for 54 years, owned 14,000 acres in that county.
D. D. Braham, editor of Sydney Tele-
graph for the past seven years—he had
previously done highly important work first
as_ foreign correspondent and then as foreign
editor of the Times —has resigned, and will
probably return to England. His successor
is expected to come from Brisbane, as both
editor and associate-editor of the S. M.
Herald did.
The Gallery’s first impressions:—
Hunter and Lambert, the new members for Mara-
noa and West Sydney, won’t add greatly to the
mental stature of the House of Reps. Hunter,
elected as a Farmer, is a smallish pincenezed person
with his bump of aggressiveness in his nose. Other-
wise he looks as though he might have a passion for
mittens and carpet-slippers. Lambert, whose career
as Gaud Mayor of Sydney set the Gallery visioning
a terrifying personality, is even less impressive. Of
moderate, not so say meagre, physique, he owns a
round, unsettled countenance and a habit of shamb-
ling about in seedy clothes. So far he has hardly
opened his mouth, but the little he has said con-
vinces one that silence suits him best. His insigni-
ficance is intensified in the inevitable comparisons
with his predecessor, Tomjo Ryan; but, apart from
that, he doesn’t appear to have a single qualification
for the Labor leadership which was confidently pro-
mised him a few weeks back. Alongside young col-
leagues of the calibre of Blakeley and Makin, he
seems almost derisively commonplace.
Tom Sale, who has run down from his
N.T. station, about half-way between the
Katherine and the Roper River, to see the
Melbourne Cup, is a living example of what
the tropical climate can do to a white man.
Tom has been up north for 33 years, having
overlanded to the Territory through Burke-
town in 1888. He has lived rough, knocked
about all over the place and worked hard,
but he is as sound as a bell. Anyway, he
expects to see the North-East-South-West
railway built, and reckons that means an-
other 30 years at least.
Hughes, who completed six consecutive
years as Prime Minister the other day, has
put up a record that will take a lot of beat-
ing. He followed Andrew Fisher on October
27, 1915, and kept the job until the Con-
scription split in November, 1910. Immedi-
ately afterwards he led a reconstructed
Ministry without Tudor, Mahon, O’Malley
and Senator Gardiner, and held on until
February, 1917. A third term of office fol-
lowed, and he has continued to grab the
biggest salary ever since. His nearest com-
petitor for the long-distance Premiership of
the Commonwealth is the late Alfred Deakin,
whose three broken periods aggregate four
years and nine months.
Margolin, the distinguished Westralian
Jew who fought in Gallipoli with the 10th
Battalion, commanded a Yiddish regiment
in Palestine and was for a time Governor of
Jerusalem, is back in the West on furlough.
As modest as ever, he dodged the Perth re-
porters and hurried down to Collie to meet
his cobbers and to see if his old aerated-
water factory stood in the same old place.
"J.K.”: I for one believe Archie Meston’s
story of Tyson’s will (B.‘ 6/10/’2l). I
myself heard Tyson in the late ’seventies tell
my father, upon whom he invariably called
when in Brisbane, that he would make a cer-
tainty that some of his relations who gambled
and were interested in horse-racing would
get none of his money to squander. If any-
one was ever decisive about leaving a will
it was Tyson. The old chap had a lot of
good traits. One was strict honesty in any
business dealings and another kindness to
those deserving it.
Charles Childers, son of Hugh Culling
Eardley Childers, who was Auditor-General,
Collector of Customs and Minister of the
same department in Victoria before he be-
ca,me a British politician—he was in several
Liberal Cabinets—was present at the laying
of the foundation-stone of the new arts school
at Melbourne Uni. the other day. He
listened to Knisrht MacFarland, the Chan-
cellor, relating how Childers pere, who was
vice-chancellor in 1554, drafted the bill es-
tablishing the temple of learning. The
original draft in Childers’s handwriting is
preserved in the archives. It is not given
to more than an odd one here and there to
have a dad famous in two continents 12,0€0
miles apart.
Jim Case, the Labor cartoonist, has
finished his last drawing—at 37. He besran
to try his hand at black-and-white while
doing laborer’s work in a Brisbane pro-
duce store. H. E. Boote encouraged him,
and the youth turned out a lot of good
stuff for Brisbane Worker and Truth.
Entirely self-taught, he was urged years
ago to study art in the South, but family
ties kept him in Brisbane. Later, he mar-
ried and came to Sydney, under contract to
Truth. Early in the year Case consulted
Herbert Maitland about a painful swelling
on the jaw, and was told that, though an
operation would help a little, he had barely
six months to live. He spent that terrible
time in his home at Boudi, bravely waiting
for the inevitable hour.
Captain E. R. G. Evans, R.N., who got a
silver medal for gallantry from the King last
week, has had a career seldom found out-
side an adventure-story for boys. When
Sydney first saw him, a dozen years ago, he
was a slim, anemic-looking youth who didn’t
appear capable of damaging a mouse. Since
then he has performed at least two notable
life-saving feats, in addition to the one for
which he has just been decorated; success-
fully commanded an Antarctic expedition;
engaged and beaten a German destroyer fleet
in the English Channel, and won a C. 8.,
E.S.O. and other things. His father, who
died the other day, was a London Times law
reporter.
W. H. Tink, though he died in Adelaide,
aged 60, was best known at Warracknabeal
(Vic.), where till 1910 he held pretty nearly
every local office. Crossing the border
then to Murray Bridge, he gave a help-
ing hand to every local institution there.
Latterly he had lived in Adelaide as chair-
man of the River Murray Milling Co.
Two S. Australians have just made a
queer exchange of billets. R. J. Champion
has reached Adelaide after 20 years of exile
as accountant in the Agent-General’s office
in London. He comes back as secretary
of the Adelaide Hospital, and the man in
that job, E. H. Peake, son of the late Pre-
mier, has gone to London to fill Champion’s
place there.
Westralia is losing the services of Lane-
Poole, its brilliant Director of Forestry.
One of the world’s recognised authorities
on the subject, he had great plans for the
restoration of the magnificent forests which
a careless generation has light-heartedly sac-
rificed. But his schemes would mostly have
benefited posterity, which stands for nothing
in the estimation of the Mitchell Government,
and they antagonised the big hardwood com-
pany, which stands for a great deal. Exit
Lane-Poole. He is likely to be succeeded
bv Gibson, a forester from India—that is, if
the big hardwood company is agreeable.
A. G. Ralston, senior Sydney K.C. in
practice, who will be 61 on the 10th, does
not smile at the claims of long descent,
ilis forebears were the Macduff Thanes of
Fife. Gavin Ralston, his grandfather, went
sheep-farming in the Speck, but on the dis-
covery of gold sold
out and crossed
tlie strait to Vic-
toria. Gavin was
the first to build
a stone house at
South Yarra. His
second son, A. J.
Ralston, who was
born in 1833, mar-
ried in 1860 a
daughter of John
Thompson, I) e-
puty - Surveyor-
General of N. S.
Wales, whose wife
was a sister of
Richard Windeyer
and aunt of the
late Judge. A. G.
Ralston is the
eldest son of the
union. He was
associate to his
uncle the Judge,
whose second
daughter he mar-
ried. Called to
the Bar in 1894,
he took silk in
1906.
SAM P.
MACKAY, the
owner of Lionel
Attwill and other
racehorses.
Australia has lost a good banker in A. H.
Fearon. He gave his life to the service of
“the Wales.” Manager at Dubbo for about
20 years before 1909, he was at Adelaide
for 10 years after that. But he always
had country tastes, and on retiring two or
three years ago he took an interest in a
Kidman station beyond Broken Hill, struck
an awful drought to start with, and the
worry of it probably hastened the end.
Died recently, Emily C. Baxter, who,
when the world wasn't quite as old, began
teaching in a Sydney denominational school,
and in 1874 founded the well-known Argyle
School for Girls. She started with five
pupils in Crown-street, Surry Hills, and
later transferred to bigger premises in
Albion-street. When girls were admitted
to the Uni., a pupil of the Argyle School
was among the first women students to get
the B.A. degree. It was in keeping with
Miss Baxter’s character that she refused
any tribute from her girls when she finally
wiped the chalk off the blackboard. But it
was with her full approval that they en-
dowed the Emily C. Baxter cot in the Alex-
andra Hospital for Children.
A retreat helped Irvine, now C.J., to poli-
tical greatness. He became leader of the
Conservative-Liberals and Liberal-Conserva-
tives when Allan McLean went to the Fed-
eral Parliament 4n 1901. The aloofness of
his party was such that he sent a letter to
Ewen Cameron, the Whip, resigning his
job. He was persuaded to withdraw, and
in the following year led the successful at-
tack on the Peacock Government and be-
came Premier. Bent, who was Irvine’s sue-
cessor, retreated
less gloriously but
in good order at
the end of 190 S.
He gained strength
again and had the
numbers to over-
turn the Murray-
Watt Ministry
when the accident
occurred that
wrecked his
health. Outtrim.
then a member of
the Labor party,
was helping him
on the quiet, and
it was while call-
ing on his coad-
jutor in Carlton
that Tommy
slipped on the
steps. But for
that slip the poli-
tic a 1 history o f
Vic. would have
been written very
differently in the
last 12 years.
Governor
WEIGALL, of
South Aus.
From Nueva Australia :
The other day we dug a grave for William Cul-
verwell, alias “Texas Jack.” He was a shearer’s
cook and shed rep. when the A.W.U. was young,
but fell under the spell of Billy Lane. Tiring of
Lane’s autocratic bearing, “Texas” rolled up bluey
and went back to Australia. He made tracks for the
Northern Territory, but returned to Paraguay years
later with £4OO, and took up a 100-acre selection.
But he never prospered in Nueva Australia, and died
in the direst poverty.
Crossed over, late last month, Charley
McGregor, one of the N. S. Wales South
Coast’s pioneers, after passing the 91 mile-
stone. He was the last of the McGregor
clan who trekked to the cow-country from
Braidwood and Nerrigundah over 70 years
ago. They pitched camp and built a house
on a flat a mile and a half from the present
town of Bega—part of it was sold by auction
at £46 an acre a few weeks ago. Soon after
their arrival they started to grow wheat.
They had no stock for the job. but Charley
and his brothers were commanded to go out
and run in some wild horses, while the old
man manufactured the harness, which con-
sisted mostly of silky tussock grass bound
around with strips of stringy-bark for col-
lars, the traces, etc., being made of green-hide.
Charley McGregor was the delight of the
boys of 50 or 60 years back, when, with red
coat and topboots and a huge stockwhip, he
kept the track clear for the races. It was
no small job, came mounted,
and there were usually about 150 or 200
blacks present, with their full equipment of
dogs.
An old officer sees an asset go:—
There has been trouble at the head-office of the
Bank of N. S. Wales—an unsecured creditor has
eaten a large hole in the inner reserves —and William
Mcßae, the manager, has retired. I knew him best
as inspector of the Northern division. Inspectors’
visits are not always hailed with pleasure, but his
were—if you were playing the game or trying to.
He had a rare ability to sense the other feUow's
point of view, and many a sore-tried man on the
land has to thank him that he is still there instead
of under it. But the handling of his staff was his
long suit. Ruthless with a waster, he was in loco
parentis to all others, from manager to office-cat;
and whether on branch inspection or in his chair at
H.O. he was always accessible to any member of his
staff on either official or personal business. One fine
test of the confidence felt in him was the unaltered
esteem and affection of those to whom he handed
out an adverse .judgment—they knew they had had
every consideration and a square deal. I know what
I am talking about, as I was one of them. A style
all his own shone out in an appeal to his staff, then
sadly depleted by members busy opening new
branches in the Hun’s trenches: “We cannot main-
tain the staff at normal, so, whilst fellow-officers are
at the Front risking their lives night and day under
severe hardship, we must work earlier and later, and
so play the game. This of a certainty applies to my
oun office.” He made it his personal concern to
keep both the letter and the spirit of the Bank’s pro-
mise to those who answered the “Enlist Now !” sign.
Any complaints in this direction can’t be laid at his
door. Good old Billy Mcßae! I have made ump-
teen attempts to rule his name out of the list of
“Signing Officers,” but I can’t see to do it for the
mist.
ON THE RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She has a way of pushing back her hair,
Of toying with the trinket on her throat ;
A trick of stretching out her brown arms bare,
As though to take the measure of the boat;
And when she clasps her hands behind her head
And laughs, not merrily but soft and slow,
She is as Laura, risen from the dead,
This daughter of my dream of long ago.
In such a boat as this her mother cast
Her spell upon the man she chose to fool;
Dazed by that girlish syren with a past,
I might have been a youngster fresh from school.
I was her tutor when she took an oar ;
Her whisper maddened me with hopes or fears ;
That summer day, upon the river shore,
Began her gentle tyranny of tears.
I was her willing slave, her useful friend,
Until the old man died and left her free ;
And then, a charming actress to the end,
She married Compton, having wept for me
As women weep for fools they have beguiled.
I wonder whether tears so freely spring
In those grey eyes of Compton’s orphan child,
Eager and joyous in their glistening!
She has the dimples and the ripe red lips,
The supple figure that her mother had ;
The graceful bosom and the rounded hips,
The air of smiling, though her thoughts be sad ;
The witchery of mystery whic h gives
> A charm surpassing all that art can show.
Laura is dead; in this fair creature lives
The woman whom I worshipped long ago.
So like and yet so different, I’m told,
In all charms else than where the likeness lies.
This bonnie fairy has the heart of gold,
And not in worldly cunning is she wise.
By her no sudden hopes are raised or crushed ;
Love not as yet has set her cheek aflame;
And even Scandal’s busy tongue is hushed
When idle Rumor mentions Ida’s name.
0 child of haunting memories, did chance
Attract me here, a stranger to the place,
To find the soul of candor in your glance,
A glimpse of Heaven in your maiden grace?
Or was it kindly Fate that touched my brow
And brought nepenthe for the old heartache?
The past has lost its bitterness ; I now
Forgive dead Laura for her daughter’s sake.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


v>^
*r'
■
i
|
W
M i
I;
SEND FOR FULL PROSPECTUS
to
STEEL PRODUCTS (Australasia), LIMITED,
56 Pitt Street (or G.P.O. Box 38),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
a" tV
SHELVING
for Railway Stores.
ď
Australia’s Assets are Her Industries.
(Abridged) PROSPECTUS
OF
STEEL PRODUCTS (Australasia) LIMITED
(To be incorporated under the Companies Act 1899, of New South IS ales.)
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO, divided into 92,000 PREFERRED SHARES and 8000 DEFERRED SHARES.
The Deferred Shares, fully paid up, will be issued to the Vendor.
NOW OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC
42 000 PREFERRED SHARES are now offered to the Public for subscription. These Shares will
confer the right to a FIXED CUMULATIVE DIVIDEND of 10* PER ANNUM, and will participate
equally with the Deferred Shares (after the latter have received a dividend of 10 ' per annum) in any
further distribution of profits up to a TOTAL DIVIDEND of If PER ANNUM, and to rank as regards
return of capital in priority to the Deferred Shares.
THE COMPANY is being formed to, amongst other things, carry on the business of manufacturers and dealers of, and in steel and metal
goods and products and in particular steel shelving, racks and bins, and to acquire from Reginald John Coombes the benefit of an
Agreement for the rightf to sell and manufacture in Australasia, Tasmania and New Zealand, certam patent nghts for steel shelvmg
racks and. bins.
Directors:
SYDNEY ARTHUR JOSEPHSON, of Sydney, Governing Director Messrs. Waugh
RICH AluT'm ANN IN ’Managing Director of Chapman & Co., Ltd,,
REGINALD* 1, Founder of Steel Products, Limited, India, Manufac-
THOMAS SIDNEY DOUGLAS, 7 Bond Street, Sydney, Insurance Manager.
WILLIAM ARNOTT, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
Bankers:
Tlxe Union Bank of Australia, Limited, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Solicitor:
WILLIAM ARNOTT, 115 Pitt Street. Sydney.
> Auditors and Secretaries pro tern.:
ROBERTSON, RUDDER & CO., A.M.P. Chambers, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Registered Office
Will be at Royal Exchange Buildings, 56 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DESCRIPTION OF GOODS TO BE MANUFACTURED.
/i \ The particular goods which it is proposed the Company shall manufacture are
oven enamelled, patented and standardised, adjustable steel shelving, racks anc
bins suitable either for Banks, Offices, Strong Rooms Record Rooms, factory or Work-
shop Stores, Mills, Warehouses, Shops, Financial Institutions, lost and Telegraph
Offices, and other Government Departments; also Library Installations, and Office,
nted steei giving and racks are constructed of only six standardised
and interchangeable parts, which are built in units to meet actual requnements, and
mav be erected, extended or altered by any unskilled person without difficulty.
Doors may be instantly fitted on any portion of the .shelving, racks or bins dividers may
be inserted to convert shelves into pigeon-holes, shelves may be converted into bins,
or vice versa, and the spacing or depth of shelves may be altered.
ADVANTAGES OVER WOOD.
121 The fact that such steel shelving, racks and bins is the only known
patented type in the world is indicative of particular merit. Briefly stated, its
advantages, as compared with wooden construction, lie in its (1) maximum storage in
minimum space, (2) strength, (3) protection against fire, (4) standardisation, •>)
adjustability, (6) .suitability for all loads, (7) vermin proof, (8) damp pioof, (9)
packing flat for transit, whilst in cost it compares favorably with wooden fixtures and
is consequently much cheaper than any other known type of steel shelving, racks oi
bins on this, or any other, market. . , , .
Owing to the patented re-inforcement this shelving is lighter and will carry a
heavier load than wood, and occupies less space. The special features enumerated
are impossible in wooden construction.
SCOPE FOR THE SALE OF THE GOODS.
(3) The mileage of shelving, racks, bins and other storage facilities in
daily use in Australia is enormous. For the preservation of records alone in Banks.
Insurance Offices, Trustee. Companies, Government. Municipal and other I üblic Depart-
ments, Factories, Mills and Railway Depots, the necessary equipment is great and
always growing. Smaller markets than that offered by Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide alone are absorbing to-day twice the output anticipated in this 1 rospectus,
whereas it would be reasonable to conclude that the Australasian market should conse-
quently absorb considerably more than the smaller markets referred to. steel
shelving and kindred equipment has been in increasing demand m Australasia
during tV past five years, but their use has been restricted much owing to such equip-
ment as i\ay have been offered being (1) unsuitable for all kinds of loads, (-) non-
standardised (3) possessing construction features absorbing heaviest materials, (4)
expensive to’manufacture—all elements that inevitably prevent profitable development
of the industry, particularly in view of increasing labor costs. # . . . ~
The actual scope for the sale of steel equipment is determined by the
selling price, the denmnd heing obvious. Mr. C-oombes has spent considerable time
in investigating both demand and labor costs, and has firmly concluded that the piospects
in this market are as good, if not better, than elsewhere.
FACTORY.
(6) It is proposed to erect a factory and instal therein machinery and plant
capable of manufacturing at least 100 tons monthly. The approximate cost of such
machinery will be £24,000. It is not intended to import the whole of the machinery
and plant, certain types of same being obtainable locally. A complete specification of
essential plant, machinery and dies has been already prepared. A suitable factory
site has been obtained, and the necessary factory buildings are estimated by an eminent
firm of Sydney architects to cost £12,000.
PROFIT.
(7) Based on statistics of other markets and investigations made in the leading
cities of Australia, Mr. Coombes estimates that a gross annual turnover of £120,000
may be reasonably expected, when manufacturing. On a turnover of £60,000 only he
estimates a net profit of £20,000. This profit is sufficient to pay anticipated dividends,
after providing for depreciation and necessary reserve funds.
EXTRACT FROM AN UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM A HIGH
OFFICIAL IN THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT.
“I believe I have one of the largest single installations of your patent shelving, and
what I think of it will be gauged when I say that, under no circumstances, will 1
ever, of my own free will, instal shelving made of wood. The advantages are
all on the side of the steel. It has the maximum of strength with the minimum
of bulk, considerations of utmost importance where the storage of large quantities of
material is concerned. It is clean, neat, and has an excellent appearance, and, lastly,
its most important feature is its adaptability— this is where wood shelving fails
hopelessly. In one .single case I was able, by rearranging a rack, and inserting another
row of shelves, to increase its storage area by 15 per cent., and find there is practically
no reasonable limit to the variation in arrangement possible.”
THE ORIGINAL may be seen at the office of this Company.
The steel equipment referred to has been most favorably reported on by the
leading Architects, Insuranee Companies, and the Metropolitan Fire Brigades of
Melbourne and Sydney.
ssrQNE of xhE SAFEST INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS EVER OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC.
MANUFACTURERS OF THE ONLY KNOWN PATENTED TYPE OF ADJUSTABLE STEEL SHELVING IN THE WORLDS
APPLICATION FORM. To ROBERTSON, RUDDER & CO. (Secretaries pro tem.), A.M.P. Chambers, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
/ hereby apply for Preference Shares of £1 each in Steel Products (Australasia) Limited (to he incorporated under the Companies Act 1599 of New
South Wales) in terms of the Company's Prospectus dated the 27th day of October, 1921, and enclose herewith my cheque for £ being deposit of
5/- per share thereon and I request the Directors of the said Company to allot me that number of shares. And I undertake to accept the same or any smaller number
that may be allotted’to me. and to pay the further instalment of 5/- per share on allotment, and the balance due in respect of such shares as and when called- upon by
the said Company in accordance with the terms of the said Prospectus; I also agree to be bound by the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association.
NAME IN FULL
DITE ADDRESS
NOTE. Add exchange in case of Interstate or Country Cheques.. Application money for Shares applied for but not allotted will be refunded in full.


A Smart Boot
of Special Value.
d
Illustrated is a Dark Tan Willow Calf
Boot, offering much better value than
prices have allowed for a very long
time.
It has a medium welt, neatly perfor-
ated cap, and elongated toe. Made to
Peapes’ own specifications.
Canvas-lined, very distinctive appear-
ance 307-
In Black Box Calf 27/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
Send for Peapes’ New Catalogue; just issued.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice price*.
CoroNA
Weighs
but
6 Pounds.
d
PRICE
ONLY
£l7/17/-
THE WORLD’S BEST PORTABLE TYPEWRITER.
For the past 14 years the Corona has stood
the test, and to-day no less than 400,000
satisfied users testify to its remarkable dura-
bility.
Buy only a machine past the experimental
stage. CORONA users are our best advertise-
ment.
Sole Distributors :
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Society
"Friday Island” : He is a bull-voiced coastal
skipper, and his patience was exhausted
by the incorrigible inefficiency of the new
helmsman. “Look here, my lad,” he roared,
pointing aft to the serpentine wake, “I don’t
mind you writing your name on the ruddy
ocean, but I object to your trying to juggle
my ship around to rub it out.”
* * * *
“D. Tired”: Ex-sister Liguori, the young
woman who fled from a N. S. Wales convent
in her nightie and has since been living
under the sheltering eye of Orangeism, got
into the limelight some more last week. Her
brother, with nine (or 19 or 90) confed-
erates (the Telegraph, which specialises in
ex-nuns, was uncertain), kidnapped her
(“screaming and struggling” in one part of
the paper, “silent as though drugged” in
THE MAN FOR WHOM SURE
WINNERS MADE A FORTUNE.
JACOB: “ How did you make YOUR money?"
ISAAC : “Oh, mothtly out of rathing."
JACOB: “Why, I never knew you betted."
ISAAC : “I didn't. I thtarted a pawnthop
outthide the courthe for thothe who
wanted a ticket home after backing
thure winnerth.”
another) and drove her in a motor-car
(with two different numbers) to Ashfield (or
Annandale —or, again, it may have been
Albury). Here they sat up all night with
her talking about Ireland (or Congregation-
alism or the Cup). She declined refresh-
ments, having been told she might be pois-
oned. There is a hiatus in the story here.
But it may be assumed that a ceremony
equivalent to throwing in the towel was
gone through at some stage of the argu-
ment. Anyhow, next morning, after a
great search, she was found in Macquarie-
street handy to police H.Q. (The Tele-
graph mentioned that she had come there
“on a shopping expedition.”) After a
round-table conference between Ulster and
the pail Eirann, with an inspector in the
pacific role of Lloyd George, the apple was
formally passed to Sydney’s latter-day
Helen, and she at once handed it to the
Itev. Paris Touchell. At latest advices the
N.S.W. Nationalists were talking of run-
ning her as one of their candidates for the
Assembly. In the meantime the most re-
markable feature of the entire insanity is
that the police haven’t arrested anybody.
Apparently, in this country, any illegal act
can be safely committed in the name of reli-
gion.
■» * * *
“Jane Eyre”: It isn’t only the gadabout
missus who has been brought to heel by a
pram with a squalling infant in it. An ex-
A.I.F. man in Queensland had to trundle
a pair of squallers home, and can sympathise
with the Maoriland lady whose husband
tracked her to a jazz-palace and pushed
the pram to her across the floor. The
Queenslander’s bride was a little English
girl who cooked, scrubbed and washed while
hubby splashed his clerk’s pay in high liv-
ing. One evening, as she pushed the twins
home, she saw the boss turn into a pub with
two swaggah friends. The swing doors
flew open, a pram bounced up to the bar,
and an imperious voice said “Wheel the chil-
dren home, Percy.” There’s more money to
pay bills in that home now.
* * * *
“Darda”: When Colonel Jim Arnott
(“Biscuits,” the Diggers called him) was
camp commandant at Moascar, in Egypt, he
had a habit of rising at daylight, regardless
of weather, and riding round the various
camps to see that the officers were at their
posts—he never troubled the Diggers much.
One cold morning the orderly officer of my
squadron slept in, but fortunately just
sighted “Biscuits” making a bee-line for his
tent. He was out of his blankets like a
shot,' slipped on his breeches, jambed an
old hat on his head and, grabbing a broom
lying handy, started to sweep about the
tent. Biscuits, who had a slight limp in his
speech, rode up and asked, “Is t-this M-Mr.
Blank’s t-tent?” “Yes, sir,” said the man
with the broom. “Wh-where is he?” “On
parade, sir.” “Wh-who are y’you?” “Mr.
Blank’s batman, sir.” “Oh, all r-right.”
The batman-officer saluted and was on the
parade-ground five minutes later.
* * * *
“Azrim”: As “M.D.” remarks (B.
22/9/’2l), all the woes of the flesh are now
being attributed to pyorrhoea alveolaris.
It is the fourth com-
plaint that fashion-
ably medicoes have
adopted in the last
decade. First came
appendicitis, and I
well remember a
learned professor ex-
claiming, “O, Appen-
dicitis, what opera-
tions are committed in
thy name!” Next
there was Arbuthnot
Lane with the colon
excision: but, as the
fee was up to 200
guineas, this was very
exclusive, the prole-
tar i a t contenting
themselves with the
sour-milk treatment.
Next tonsils were
blamed for mankind’s
troubles, and bushels
of these were immo-
lated on the sangui-
nary altars of surgery.
Now millions of per-
fectly good teeth are
to be sacrificed, since
pyorrhoea is the
fashion. The special-
ist seems wholly in-
capable of estimating
the true value of anything.
* * * *
“Bill O’Costs” on the ways of the whirled:
The frequently recurring case of the defaulting
cashier, trustee or bankrupt, who ends his career of
crime by bolting with another man’s wife, makes
one wonder why he takes on this encumbrance at a
critical time. Surely nothing could be more likely
to hamper his freedom of movement than the com-
pany of a lady of (probably) conspicuous appear-
ance and expensive tastes. Yet it so often happens.
In some cases it is, of course, propter hoc— he has
been brought to the levanting stage because he has
been squandering his illicit funds on the lady.
Oftener, I believe, it is post hoc: because matters
have become desperate he has decided to do the
thing handsomely. Then the devil-may-care villain
seems to adopt the motto cherchez la femme —and
takes his neighbors wife for choice. A few years
ago a southern merchant of seemingly impeccable
domestic and commercial morals disappeared from
home, leaving a surprised and noisy set of creditors
and a silently eloquent suit of clothes on the sea
“WHILE YET THE SANDS OF LIFE SHALL RUN."
“Gee, you ancient birds are swift.”
“Got to be, Maisie.”
“I suppose so—old pots like you are liable to drop dead any minute."
beach. From the clothes one was invited to sup-
pose suicide or drowning. While those concerned were
pondering this evidence the felo-de-se had the atro-
cious luck to meet in Sydney a casual acquaintance.
Result: Warrants and arrest at Auckland, on a
Pacific-bound steamer, and the termination of the
pleasure trip of a lady, not the absconder’s wife,
soon after it began. For an instance of a man
who did the thing thoroughly one must go back to
a defaulting public trustee of many years ago. When
the hole in his trust funds got too large to be com-
fortable he applied, officially, to the Crown Solicitor
for information as to the forc'gn countries between
which and Britain no extradition treaties were in
force —this with an ostensible view to pursuing
some absconding bankrupt. The C.S. advised that
Argentina was one such place. The public trustee,
being a cautious man, then applied for leave to take
the opinion of a private firm of lawyers on the
same point. This opinion being obtained and
agreeing with that of the C.S., the advised man
applied for leave of absence, persuaded a friend’s
wife to join him in a sea voyage, took what cash
was available for travelling expenses, and before the
Auditor-General could get the strength of his books
was safe in the South American republic.
* * * *
“Fax”: Prendergast, leader of the Vic.
Labor party, was lately the uneasy guest of
honor at a Feed that Failed. The little ban-
quet had been provided in the sure and cer-
tain hope of a Labor triumph at the State
elections. The Kara-Kara and East Mel-
bourne seats were to be captured from the
foe, and hosannas were to be sung to
Prendy’s time. There was no escaping the
melancholy festivity. It had to be. The
food was there, and the dominant patronage
of John Wren had to be consumed, as it
were. Also the menu cards had been printed.
Five toasts were listed, ranging from “Our
Guest” to “Our American Comrades” —what-
ever might be the significance of that. And
on the back page was a four-line poem from
the pen of R. A. Crouch: —
To you, our greetings, deep, sincere,
For without favor, without fear,
Boldly for power you selfless seek,
To serve with it, the poor and weak.
Alas, selfless Prendergast is still seeking for
the power the poet was thinking of when
he slipped in those uncalled-for commas.
“Gaza”: To the Saturday-night Sydney
drunk the police patrol-waggon is known as
“the trawler.” In the catch one night was
an infinitesimal fisherman who, on being
helped out by the conductor, had an inspira-
tion. “You can’t keep me,” he protested.
“I’m under weight!”
* * * *
“E.D.”: Too often we find that the man
who is holy within is wholly without.
“Clifford Snook”: The Perrott separation
su i t , j u which a “well-preserved” N. S.
Wales petitioner of about 64 accused her re-
spondent of upending her and making a strap
rebound frequently off her generous propor-
tions, had many curious features. One which
interested me was the allegation that, when
respondent drove into the adjacent town of
Cobar, he habitually came home tight. I
have seen Cobar. Possibly there are people
who could fill in time there studying the re-
mains of a lost civilisation, the monuments
of past grandeur, the footprints of bwone
dynasties, and the gems of art and literature,
but most arrivals don’t. Even hardened
graziers on their first visit have been known
to get drunk within an hour of entry, simply
in order to blur the clear-cut outlines of
Cobar. What Cobar wants is a soft haze, a
drizzle of rain, some fleeting lights and
shades on the surrounding hills, a beetling
crag or two, and perhaps a lake, a waterfall
and a water-sprite or pixie, or even a mer-
maid ; failing her, a flounder would be
better than nothing. If it was provided with
these the temptation to instantly drink a
coifinful of lukewarm beer with flies in it
AFTER THE CIRCUS.
“Are you the trained nurse?"
“Yes, little boy."
“Well, let me see some of your tricks!”
might not seize the stranger by the throat as
it does. A beer demon sits on every road
leading into Cobar—and into many' other
places out on the great plains.
(Continued on page 18.)
UNFAIR ADVANTAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My father used to warn me of temptations that
entice
The foolish from the narrow path to avenues of vice;
He told me of his misspent youth, of how he drank
and swore,
And gambled every cent away, and fought and
smoked. And, more,
He spoke of his flirtations wild —by Ciesar, he was
bad!
And secretly I nursed an admiration for the Dad.
I’m losing my respect for him and all his precious
bosh ;
I doubt if he had ever swilled a stronger drink
than squash.
I don’t believe he gambled more than pennies in
his life,
Or ever kicked a constable, or kissed another's wife.
I thought he was a Don Juan, but tumbled to his
game,
For now my son is growing up I’m telling him the
same!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
MACAM.


:
W .V ' - *
' Wa '
mmmliL? I™ 1 ' m 1*1®? -I ¥*s,~'\V * ' '*■ 11
l:B:--x.VxX. . -X*' " ;r " '
HwwHMr
: /:
::X,-:'::: : :::>:-:;:: : : : -, : ';:.;:;;X
'•XX;--
I ■ lllil ajjsft : . w
&■ x ... V'■/ .
' m llMlillrf Biiiißli
■
■r
*ll|
llillipi 11
■
H
w
.
H
•\fcj©'' . '*
mMk^
■!
: I
t
H
m
m i
.
■
:
..
x 3?
■
1
11
; :
m
ms ■
I :
m>'%] w
j.SJis. XjJi-
'
wmmm
■ '
'sx
■X
■K\^BI
f
- : %
>w& W
X;||||||ii X?: '
' 11
jjgpMSM»i
'
WaBSSSSSSSKSM
■HHnP
m
p
mmm
1
fcaM— m
sln
■he
gig
=fiiH|
,v.
■
:
■
1H
:x ; ■
i
mmi
(, >
IST
"LINES OF WHITE IN
A SULLEN SEA”
ONLY in such songs as
Tosti’s " Good-bye” is the
wonderful tone-control of the Beale
Player-Piano Fully appreciated.
Here is a composition whose sub-
tleties tax many pianists’ technique.
Not because of its complexities of fingering
-rather the reverse. Its simplicities are its
pitfalls. To know how a composition should
be interpreted is not equivalent to actually
securing that interpretation.
In a Beale are combined a technique and tone
which render you master of the most difficult
songs. Your control of every shade of ex-
pression is absolute.
You play exactly as you wish to play
The better musician you are the more you 'Will
appreciate the Teale.
BEALE § COMPANYUP |
Showrooms:
340 George Street,
SYDNEY
Office and
Factories:
11 -47 Trafalgar St.,
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES
N.S.W . Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn,
Wacsa. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania:
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia t
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. West Australia : J. A. Thompson
Co., Ltd. Perth.
BEALE 6 i CO. (Queensland) LTD.
00-02 Queen Street, Brisbane , Maryborough ; Townsville ;
Rockhampton ; Mackay; Cairns.
5 mi
Studios,


"For Ever Best/'
STA(a
LACIER
TOOHEY'S.
y.
<
P
N/^t
d
The whole thing in a nufishe/i
The Coconuh Oil blend
is fhe secref of
Cleansing
MOX
dad
BEST LAUNDRY SOAP
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Euxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“9/430”: I was broke, and the expected
cable that was to brighten my five remain-
ing days of leave simply would not arrive.
As I turned into the Strand I heard : “Hul-
loa Kiwi!” A side-long glance revealed one
ot the worst of a deplorable type—uniform
anyhow, slouch hat too slouchy, face un-
shaven, eyes slightly bleary and wholly
speculative. My ''Good day, Aussie,” was
curt, but he fell into step beside me I
knew what was coming. “llow are you
hoJdin , Digger ? ’ h e said. “Scumped,” I
told him as unsociably as I could. He wasn’t
dejected. ‘Then there’s a pair of us,” he
said cheerfully. A great limousine swung
to the kerb just ahead, and when a liveried
attendant opened the door an old gentleman
descended, an orchid in the buttonhole of
the immaculate frock-coat. My companion
stopped, so I quickened my pace. When I
looked back he was shaking hands effusively
\\ith tlie old gentleman. A few seconds and
I heard : Hey Enzed !” He overhauled me
with long strides. I dunno who the old
pot is, but I bit deep and hung, and lie
came across decent. Look!” He held un
two pieces of paper, then jabbed one of them
at me Here y are. So long.” And he
vanished in the crowd while I gaped at the
Bradbury he had pushed into my hand. A
most deplorable type certainly—but as I
blew the froth and pocketed my 19s. Gd.
change I sent a soft kia-ora to‘ the good-
hearted scamp. sooa
“Ex-Dig.’s” bloomin’ earl:—
tFn e T« ° f Di " gerS near Larkhill
(Eng.) saw a carnage, decorated with a crest, tip
Smith"* 0 a i!l tCh ’ ‘? ,ld they r,an t 0 lend a hand. Bill
> m.th caught sight of the crest and was edging
PROVING HIS LOVE.
“Lore yer, Clematis? I wonder when Gawd
made yer ’ow ’E ’ad anythin’ left fer
the other angels!”
away, when the coachman called out in amazement
“Master Howard!” Bill grinned, and said “How-do,
"Withers?” Then a grey-headed old gent., who
had sorted himself out from the wreck, came
over. There was recognition, but no cordiality;
and the first two questions the oldster asked were:
“What are you doing here?” and “Haven’t you got
your commission ?” The tone of the last question
implied a sort of last straw. The Digger explained
very quietly (1) that he wasn't in England to trouble
his relations, and (2) that he was in no hurry to
get a commission. The coachman evidently held
the man we knew as Bill Smith in some esteem, for
he came after us, subsequently, to have a word with
him. Later, an inquiring Digger discovered that
the owner of the damaged carriage owned an exalted
title; but Bill Smith, who had to endure thereafter
the nickname of “The Bloomin’ Earl,” gave no confi-
dences, and a snobbish officer who, hearing the yarn,
tried to cultivate his acquaintance only got snubbed
for his pains. Remembering the look of disgust of
the haughty old bean at seeing Bill Smith as an
BARE TO THE WORLD.
“I'm sure that girl in black has some nasty secret about her!”
“Well, anyhow, you can't say she keeps anything up her sleeve.”
ordinary private, I often wished, later, to introduce
him to that same Digger in France, where, cheerful
and greasy, he acted as offsider to a company cook,
maintaining that the job was a good one, “because you
get first cut at the tucker.” Bill took the count from
a stray shell splinter towards the end of things, and,
as far as I know, nobody in England was notified
about it. His papers described his pre-war occu-
pation as shearer; and his next-of-kin was his
friend, a spinster in a small Australian country
town. Personally I think, whatever his birth, he
was a dinkum Aussie.
* * * •
“Percy Pawnticket”: A defendant in a
breach-of-promise action in Sydney the
other day explained that he had hung up
liis hat for the girl,
but had not yet
reached the stage
of keeping- com-
pany, when, an-
noyed by the ten-
dency of the lady’s
family to rush
things, he “went
cold on it.” The
Court was puzzled,
which showed that
it hasn’t made it-
se 1 f acquainted
with social usages.
The mere fact that
a youth has “hung
his hat up” in-
volves no obliga-
tions upon anyone:
the girl herself is
entitled to flirt
with others, and
any gent, is en-
titled to “trail”
he r. Once the
“keeping company”
stage is reached,
however, the
strange bloke who
cuts in is guilty of
bad taste and is
askin’ for stoush ;
and no muslin with
a proper pride
would encourage
such a bounder.
In this particular
case there was evi-
dence of canood-
lings which showed
that if he expected
to include them
among the privi-
leges usually granted in the" hat-hanging
period, the young man wanted a lot for his
money.
* * » •
Albatross” : One of the old-time iron ships
was the barque Otago (345 tons), built at
Glasgow by Stephen in November, 1569. She
ai lived at Adelaide in 3570 on her first
voyage, and was afterwards owned by James
Simpson and Sons, of the old Black Diamond
Line. My father, who was master of her
for a good while, died on board and was buried
in the Gulf of Siam in 1887. Novelist
Joseph Conrad, known then as Captain Ivar-
zeniawski, took over the command at Bang-
kok after the death of my father, and on
May 7 the following year he brought her
into Sydney. Conrad gave up his com-
mand in Port Adelaide in March, 1889. The
Otago was a very “tender” ship, and on
December, 1877, capsized in the Yarra while
shifting berths. I made my first voyage to
sea in her at the mature age of five.
“M.D.” on new therapeutic preparations:
The administration of animal substances as cures
for human ills is almost as old as Time itself; but
the ancient preparations were nauseous, when they
weren't positively disgusting, so that patients who
submitted to this treatment must have been blessed
vvith stomachs of brass. To-day there is a different
story to tell, and as there is nothing new under the
sun in therapeutics, as in other things—this method
of tieatment is being boomed by doctors and manu-
facturing chemists alike; and under the name of
organo-therapy is well on the way to revolutionise
modern prescribing. Australia being a great sheep
country, thyroid glands can be easily obtained, and
they are brought from all parts of the country in
the frozen condition to be treated by special
machinery erected at Waterloo (Sydney). Hr
they are converted into powder, dried, and put up
into neat and attractive pellets—very different
tilings from the villainous boluses our unfortunate
ancestors had to swallow'. There is no valid reason
why we should have to import “tabloids” of the other
glands used, such as pituitary, suprarenal, thymus,
ovarian, etc. But of all the gland substances thyroid
has been the most sucessful in results, its action in
cretinism and myxoedema being little short of
miraculous, and it is giving satisfaction in certain
forms of mental disease. Until Yestey’s closed down
at_ Darwin the pituitary glands of cattle were ob-
tained and sent, frozen, to Sydney for treatment.
* * * *
“M.L.R.8.”: The peaked hat and red-
corded puggaree of the Yankee military police
caused him to be mistaken for a dinkum Maori-
lander, and vice versa, and now and then
the consequences were unpleasant. While on
leave in Paris my cobber and I dived into a
cafe we d heard of. As we entered the dimly-
lighted room four sons of Samuel our
uncle rose from a table and one presented
me with a well-placed right fair on the
chm. Rising after a few seconds, and real-
ising that I was once more in Paris and not
in the Milky Way, I saw my mate land one
on my aggressor that sent' him down and
out. We backed against a wall, realising
gloomily that the odds were against us,
when, providentially for us, the foremost of
the advancing Yanks spotted his party’s
mistake. That ended the fight and started
the frivolity. We dined and wined royally
at America’s expense.
, T t‘ D< ? t ”. : The Pushes’ fend at Fitzroy
(V ic. ) is getting on some people’s nerves
I was standing near the judge’s box at Hen-
ley-on-the-Yarra towards the finish of a
race. It was a thrilling struggle, and inches
separated the two boats as they swept past
the winning-post. A hen the pistol was fired
the bow” of the nearest eight fell back
exhausted. A sweet young thing in my
neighborhood screamed and tugged at her
cavalier s arm. “Oh, Gerald,” she whim-
pered, take me away. Those horrible men
trom Fitzroy have shot that poor bov in
the boat!”
* < * *
From a table in a Divorce Court:
To realise how deep-rooted are those virtues upon
which the success of the British people has been
built, you’ve only to go to the Divorce Court, when
the respondent and co-re. are rebutting charges. The
ringing tones of horrified indignation in which
Binks says: “Never!” when asked if he has ever
kissed the wife of the petitioner, makes me, who
wouldn’t mind kissing the lady at all, feel like a
shameless, libertine; but the feeling is tem-
pered by the knowledge that I have been bored and
bored by the stories told by Binks at pub-bars about
his. amatory adventures, his usual conversation im-
plying that he makes all Australia his harem. In
the same way the haughty outburst of Muriel, who
positively can't refrain from exclaiming “How dare
vou suggest !” is discounted by the fact that
slie is generally known as “a good thing”—which
lb ’ , 0t course > what moralists would call a bad one—
and seems, in ordinary life, unashamed of her repu-
tation. Then there’s Gentwon, the attorney. H!s
manner of questioning implies a belief that no ordi-
nary man would be so depraved as to squeeze the
hand of another man’s wife, and't&rtheliiSKand who
imagines adultery may have been committed nierelv
because lie has discovered his wife in* a strange
house with another man is suffering from dirtv-
nundedness. Yet this conflicts with my sure know-
ledge of the character and mind of Gentwon. St.
Anthony was a reckless debauchee beside some of the
noble men whom misfortune and the evilmindedness
of others place in defending parts in the Matri-
monial Causes tribunal. As a corrective to the
baleful influence of churches, where one is told that
all men are sinful, I recommend a course of the
Divorce Court when evidence is .being called to
show the unsullied purity even of those at whom
suspicion has pointed its thumb.
* * n
“Copabella”: Eager to miss no oppor-
tunity of turning' an honest penny, the pro-
perty salesman accosted one of two fellow-
passengers in a Vic. country train, and laid
before him his list of desirable homes and
the gilt-edged system of financing which went
with them. “Leave me your address,” he
begged. A smile* flitted wryly across the
face of the prospective buyer. “For the
next three years,” he said, “Pentridge! I’m
Gunner. And this is Detective Ferret, mv
escort.”
“Roia” rolls a doubting eye:—
Archie Meston telling the story of “Tyson’s will”
21) says that it was signed a month
before the millionaire’s death, and when the latter
event happened the document “had mysteriously
vanished”; also that Paterson gave his opinions to
Meston in a very positive manner as to the cause
and the motive of the disappearance. Why, then,
did Macdonald Paterson not disclose the making of
tlm vanished will in one of his affidavits in connec-
tion with the administration proceedings? Not only
did he make no mention of the will, but he played
an important part in proving that his client died
intestate. Evidently Meston does not realise that
the draft .of the alleged will was capable of being
proved almost as readily as the original will. Yet
Paterson, having the draft in his office, concealed it
and the execution of the original from the Court!
Meston pays his “lifelong personal friend” a poor
compliment. The probability is that Tyson died
intestate deliberately. There is on record an affi-
davit by Macdonald Paterson which relates conver-
sations with the old man about the whereabouts of
some relatives, and which appears to suggest that he
was leaving the distribution of his estate to he
carried out according to the law in cases of intes-
tacy.
* * •* #
“Williad”: “Haku” (B. 8/9/’2l) and the
rest haven’t got it all their own way. I
know a woman of 2< who was a bride four
years ago and
is now a widow
with seven
children—twins
the end of the
first year, one
next, then trip-
lets, and one
born four
months after
the death o f
the father. And
I remember the
hat being sent
round in our
office a fe w
years ago for a
Banana-
land bush
mother who had
presented hubby
with five child-
ren within the
year—twins in
January, trip-
lets in Decem-
ber.
THE RIDDLE
SOLVED.
MISS INNO-
CENT: “It’s
awfully easy
to pick win-
ners. They
always look
so happy .
don’t you
think?”
“Murua”: Re “Dido’s” citizen (B.
0/10/’2l) who keeps his own grave in order.
I know another who has made final arrange-
ments to his own taste. A vault is ready
at Waverley (Sydney), with the marble
inscribed with all particulars bar the final
date; the funeral invitation list is made
out; and regularly the owner goes out to
inspect his little grey home by the sea.
NOVEMBER—BACK ’O BOURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Sol these mornings, as he mounts on high,
Just lets us taste the sting he has in store.
The keen west blizzards trouble us no more ;
On hill and plain the grass-tops now are dry.
Across the plains the dreamy bustards fly
Upon the trail of gossamer wings galore ;
The emus with their broods fresh fields explore,
k or \\ inter’s done a bunk—Miss Spring is nigh 1
Red cylinders of dust twirl o’er the plain
Skying the roly-polys in great glee,
And tossing things about as if to scoff
At glum old Winter’s dull and dismal reign.
Miss Spring’s a girl who’ll always do for me,
And when she slings her marble in—l’m off!
N.S.W.
E.A.C.


■ a ia
V'-'
II
1 ■ I
SIS
:>2
■<■■■■■■■ ■■■■■■:■
* •
..
- ,
-\v *>•••
- :
V- :
*'v : “V,
-s*
AT-
)*Z.-c
BH&
syscs?s»i
- '
«»
\ :
■ ■
.■ '*S
mo&ml
ms
.. :v-
-•-
H
V: A
>"•
■
H
. "si
1
■
asaßßSass mmßmmmm.
B»!P*v\'€L£S;» * <« «t.
» ■ >»: , ~ <*V k
• ' -' : '
11
■
>*r
m
-
rrrrrrrrTrTrrrnrv r >
(r'crrrrrrrrrrrrmra
e*_6o
r/yr
Swan Street, Melbourne.
Wood Blocks on Concrete Foundation Reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric.
City Engineer: H. E. Morton, Esq., C.E.
m
Road
B.R.C. Roads have been tested under the most severe conditions, and have
given the best and most economical results.
B.R.C. Roads will carry the heaviest loads over the worst ground.
Suppliers to:
Melbourne Harbor Trust.
Queensland Public Works Department.
Melbourne City Council.
Footscray City Council.
Richmond City Council.
Newcastle City Council.
Victorian Country Roads Board.
Mosman City Council.
Woollahra City Council.
S.A. Public Works Department.
Perth City Council.
Commonwealth Railways.
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board
of Works.
St. Kilda City Council.
Malvern City Council.
Sydney City Council.
Vic. Public Works Department.
W.A. Public Works Department.
North Sydney City Council.
Adelaide Tramway Trust.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
South Melbourne City Council.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Telephone: Central 8861.
Sole Distributing' Agents s
VICTORIA . GOLLIN & CO PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
N. S. WALES J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
S. AUSTRALIA ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND . . ... . . .J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane.
N Z# JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland.
TASMANIA ......... T. TABART, Jun., Hobart.
WA. ...ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
J: EXTRA HICHGRADKi
fiEADYRUBBED
3] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
Banish Blotchy Skins.
Whether your skin trouble is merely a slight
superficial one, or a chronic disease of long-
standing,
LICMOLLIENE
CREAM
will cure it. The soothing and healing-
properties get right down to the root of the
trouble and eradicate everything foreign to
a clear, healthy skin.
Send 1/6 to-day for Sample
or get a tin from your chemist to-dav —5/6
and 7/6.
W. H. MALYON & SON,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
A Signal Success
e
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“H. Murray”: A heifer up this way
(N.Q.), after she hud calved a week, suddenly went
dry. She was turned out, and five weeks later gave
birth to another normal calf. She milked splendidly
for 12 months after the second event; but it was
two years before she again became a mother.
* ■ * *
“Alex.”: Blushing is usually associated
with human beings only, but horses are also guilty
of this pretty affection. I owned an old grey
whose left ear always turned scarlet inside, and
swelled up twice its natural size, whenever I caught
him burgling the corn-sack. A dog blushes by jamb-
ing his rudder hard down.
**. * *
“Bouragi”: Writing of Torres Strait in
a recent Bulletin someone ascribes
the peculiar-shaped fish-traps of the
K,astern passages to Spanish influence.
Presumably the writer refers to the
concentric ring traps with walls of
cane grass or split bamboo, which re-
semble the “mazes” sometimes seen
in old English gardens. But these
traps are found right through the
Strait and far beyond it on the
Papuan shores, where Spanish pene-
tration is unlikely. Hawes, a pioneer
New Guinea missionary-ethnologist
and others with authority to speak
think that the trap pattern ms taker,
from the inward-winding whorls of
the sea-shells. As to the many wrecks
which are supposed to be Spanish, it
is as well to remember that Torres
Strait was a great highway for sea-
traffic in the days of the Yankee
trade with China and the East Indies,
as well as being on the main route
for the once-flourishing Chinese coolie
trade with Chili. The Jardines’ find,
referred to by the writer of the par,
was probably from a ship in this
trade, for the returning coolies carried
all their pay in silver dollars. These
were Mexican, Chilian or the old
Spanish dollar, which was good cur-
rency in Sydney itself right into the
’sixties.
‘Goodie”: The other day I found my
Kelpie pup engaging a black snake. After sparring
for a few seconds, she hopped in to administer the
usual shake; but he was too big for her to handle,
so I helped with a sapling. His skin, which now
hangs on my wall, measures 84in. Has any Abo. seen
a bigger one ? This fellow was a South Queenslander.
“Jim Oarew”: “1.G.8.” (B. 6/10/’2l) is
astray when he says the minah, or soldier-bird,
pulls its nest to pieces after the hatching. I have
known dozens of instances, principally in the Bath-
urst (N.S.W.) district, where the soldier-bird has
used the same nest several seasons running. He is
one of our most casual architects, building an untidy
grass nest at times within easy reach of the ground.
The thing is often so loosely made that the young
birds practically destroy it before they are able to fly.
Perhaps this has given “1.G.8."’ a wrong impression.
* * *
“Soldier-Settler”: Not having enough
money for weatherboard, I intend building of mud —
chiefly. After erecting an ordinary house-frame of
bush timber, I propose to make the walls of pug
slapped into moulds—after the poured-concrete
idea. The pug walls will be reinforced with fencing-
wire stretched between the top and bottom wall-
plates. A word of advice or criticism might help
solve the housing problem on our selection. I saw
just enough Bulletins three or four years ago to
know that a discussion on this subject was then
in progress; but, like a lot of others, I happened
to be in a place where the mails were mighty irre-
gular.
Cartot”: Of late* years medical science
l;as used therapeutic agents prepared from the
secretions of animals, a method of treating disease
practised by the alchemists of the Middle Ages and
ia all probability, by the early Greek and Egyptian
THE WHOLE THING EXPLAINED.
ELDERLY GENT: “Ray, boy. how is it that I have a valuable dog at home and I can’t
get it to do any tricks, and yet you make that mongrel do all kinds of tricks?”
YOUNG AUSTRALLA: “Well, you see, boss, all you goiter do is ter ’arc more brains than
the dog’s got.”
physicians and healers before them. One of the
newest of these agents is erotalin, prepared from
the poison glands of the American rattlesnake. It
has been reported on favorably for the treatment of
certain disorder’s of the heart. Provided its value
is definitely proved we may yet see included in the
Pharmacopoeia substances prepared from the poi-
sons of our own venomous snakes; for the idea —
which is that the thing causing death iir a certain
dose may give a beneficial result in an infinitely
smaller quantity—is not necessarily limited to any
particular species.
“Eurythmic” : A late entry for the spud-
digging record. On Billjim’s own ground, his
Pommy brother-in-law, aged 16 (former occupation,
butcher’s assistant), dug and bagged 32 sacks of
murphies in one day of 8i hours. This was in a
five-ton crop, and the digger had been in Aussie only-
three months.
FATAL PERFECTION.
ENTHUSIASTIC SALESMAN: “The mechan-
ism of our separator is so delicately
balanced that it will discriminate be-
tween the milk of different cows. It
will divide rain water from creek water.
If”
COCKY : “ Ahm theenkin', me mon, that your
machine’s a bit too conscientious for a
law-abidin’ pairson tae hae aboot the
place. Tak' it awa’.”
“Veronal”: The sea hath her snails as
well as the land, but whether they nibble marine
cabbages and cauliflowers as their accursed terrestrial
congeners do I cannot say. One marine variety,
tile violet snail (lanthina fragilis ), is often cast
ashore on N.S.M. South Coast beaches after heavy
weather, a peculiar collection of air bubbles of a
deep violet color often protruding; from the orifices
of the shells. This appanage is in fact a delicate
white membrane puckered into the form of bubbles,
and serves to keep the snail afloat on its eternal
wanderings. The eggs by which this snail repro-
duces its kind are also attached to this membrane.
I. have also unearthed occasionally in tidal lakes
a species of sea-slug about 3in. in length which
exuded a deep violet substance. Possibly, as in
the case of the purple murex of the Mediterranean,
once used in dyeing the togas of Roman emperors,
these shells may secrete dye stuff of commercial
value.
* * * *
“Ferguson”: Ted Patts, of Wingham
(N.S.W.), 6ft. lin. in his socks, has a reach of
6ft. Clin., and held the record for years till Jack
Schmitzer, of Jones Island, dropped in and bet
drinks that he could give any man two inches and
beat him. Schmitzer won; his reach was 6ft. 9in.
“Itsa Fae”: Last summer a cobber and
myself let off a couple of plugs of dynamite in a
N.S.W. river, and up came a partly decomposed snake
(I took it to be a black) with a perch firmly en-
sconced in its throat. I hauled them to the bank
to investigate, but the most important of my five
senses bade me give it up. A fish-catching snake was
a new one on me.
“A.W.M.”; Re towyangs and bowyangs
(B. 29/9/’2l). The tow (loosely combed flax
or similar fibre) was put around the leg; and then
it was tied in the form of a bow to permit of
quick removal. So it wasn’t a long jump from
“tow.” to “bow.” But I can't explain the “yang. -
* * * *
“Sarg.” ; Though the use of invective by
superiors in the army is frowned on, still the
aggravation of active service may account for a lot.
F’rinstance, a couple of Light Horsemen prowling’ in
the Jordan Valley came across an elaborate shower-
bath, and promptly sampled it. One, after a glorious
ten minutes, was drying himself with a fleecy-white
towel conveniently hung over a wooden bar, when a
thin white form, girded with a similar towel, slid
up from a screening hollow and glared. “What are
you meddling with Headquarters bath for?” angrily
demanded the newcomer. The drying Digger apolo-
getically remarked that “he didn’t blanky-well know
it was on’y for off’cers.” That finished the thin
white apparition. “Don’t tell lies!” he shrilled
double-forte ; “and go away from heah, y-you—-you
chap !”
(Continued on page 22.)
THE OLD DAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For as long as I remember my old dad’s been on the
go,
And at eighty years of age he’s running strong;
He is working still from daylight till the sun is out
of sight,
And I’ve never heard him say the days are long.
I remember, as a youngster, how I watched him at
his work
In the days when stations used to wash the sheep ;
He would work a good twelve hours in flic wet and
slushy yards,
And at night he’d sing the children off to sleep.
I used to watch him shearing when they did it with
the blades—•
He had rung the shed for many years before—
When the limit was a hundred, and the cut was
close and fine.
And they often paid the shearers by the score.
Then on a Sunday morning he would sharpen up his
shears,
And fix the drivers and the knockers up with care,
And he’d carry tubs of water from the dam down
in the creek,
And (not before ’twas needed) cut our hair.
I have seen him build a humpy out of poles and
stringy bark,
Which he carried jn his back for half a mile;
His tools were few and simple, for he only had'an
axe,
And a shovel and a brace-and-bit and file.
THE REALIST.
“So poor old Mister Griffiss is dead, an ’ gone .”
“ Well, I 'ope 'e's gone if 'e's dead. We
don't want no corpses about the place."
But the humpy kept us sheltered in the winter from
the rain,
And the hottest day in summer it was cool:
It was lined with bags and papered with the journals
of the day
And was furnished with a table and a stool.
He’d take us trapping ’possums, and he'd cui’e and
tan the skins,
And the rugs he’d make were worthy of a king;
He could sing a sailor’s chantey and could do the
Irish jig,
And his eyes shone when he danced the Highland
fling!
He has washed and scrubbed and mended at a time
when mum was ill,
And I often wondered where he learned to cook;
Then he’d give us simple lessons, for we never went
to school,
And he’d sometimes read, a chapter of the Book.
He has always been a rover and was mostly on the
move,
And we thought that he would never settle down,
1 or he loved the open country where the gates were
few and far,
And he seldom stayed a fortnight in a town.
And though now lie’s nearly eighty he’s still craving
for the bush,
For the free, unshackled life he used to know 7
Ere the settlers ringed the timber and the hills
were green and gold
M here the gum-trees and the wattles used to grow.
He’ll be watching for the swagmen when the shear-
ing has been done,
To hear gossip from the stations where the.v shore:
And he’ll fill their bags a-brimming from the kitchen
at the back,
Or (if muni’s not looking) buy 7 them rations
from the store.
There are times when he will argue as he listens to
their tales
Of their tallies and the prices they demand ;
Then I know he’s thinking backwards of the two-
and-six a score,
(n the days before the union took a hand.
I have never heard him grumble or complain that
times were bad
It hen he had to make himself a Sunday hat
M ith the tough and hardy fibre that we children use
to get
From the cabbage-trees that grow along the fat.
IV hen I’m going to the city he .will sometimes come
with me,
And I take him to the pictures and the play;
But mum’s anxious and uneasy till I land him home
again,
For she fancies I am leading him astray.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


SPORTING NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Australian Fiction Scries.
1/3 each.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,”
by Con Drew
“IN RACING SILK,”
by Gerald R. Baldwin
“THE MYSTERY OF THE
BOXING CONTEST,”
by Bert Janies
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND
NATIONAL,” by Jack North
1/44 posted.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,”
by Ambrose Pratt
“THE MARE WITH THE
SILVER HOOF,”
by Bob Allen
“THE WHITE CHAMPION,”
by Don Delaney
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
by F. Agar
Sporting Novels by Arthur Wright
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.”
“UNDER A CLOUD.”
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
“A GAME OF CHANCE.”
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
“OVER THE ODDS.”
“GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
MR. WRIGHT’S LATEST NOVELS:
“Fettered by Fate.”
“The Outlaw’s Daughter.”
Recent Additions to the “Bookstall” Series:
“PRINCESS N AIDI’S FETISH,” by Claude Wynn.
“THE OIL-SEEKERS,” by Jack McLaren.
“BODGER AND THE BOARDERS,” by Ernest O Ferrall.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or from the Publishers.
Published by _
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
J
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
dad
for your
XMAS SUIT
The
Super
Quality
£BlB6
Tailored to Order.
THE CUT AND FINISH
SET IT APART FROM
COMPETITION.
Super-Quality Suitings for men of discriminating
taste, embracing navy twills of line texture,
imported and Australian Tweeds, in newest grey
and brown effects.
500 SUIT LENGTHS KEPT FOR
MAIL-ORDER CLIENTS.
Money will be refunded if you are not perfectly
satisfied— provided the suit is returned in good
order.
HOME-MEASUREMENT
CHART AND
TAPE ON
m APPLICATION.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
sd Ta*
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
S' v\
Vp
v v t
\ ■'s
0 s w
? a
,cv
A
f \°
t . o
& s
&'
A\v
/A
*1\ N
The Great Grain Getter
The Sunshine Header Harvester
or Reaper
Thrasher.
In Harvest 1920 these machines PAID FOR THEMSELVES out of grain saved
from storm-laid crops after other machines ac? ailed.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-1 OS NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
ST/ HEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.


fj<yl<zpr«&yf
Nothing so good
as
Holeproof Hosiery
PERFECTION IN STYLE, BEAUTY AND WEARING QUALITIES.
Wholesale and Indents: Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd., 50 York Street, Sydney.
“Jimsey”: Lend a hand, please! A
youngster of mine is a genius at picking up fleas,
and whenever one bites him it raises a white lump
about the size of a shilling. When this goes down,
after a few hours, it leaves a big red spot, but at
any time up till a fortnight the lump is likely to
rise again. The lotions and medicine Sawbones has
prescribed are useless, and the Abo. column is the
nipper’s last chance.
* * * *
“Lofty”: Ever tried the Burketown net
for mosquitoes? It’s infallible. Procure a bottle
of o.p. rum at the nearest pub, and get outside it.
You needn’t swallow the bottle. Once I saw a bloke
•who tried it get stung by a ’gator, and he never
whimpered.
“D.F.”: A while ago Professor Keith put
forward the now-extinct Tasmanian abos. as the
nearest modern representatives of the ancestors of
the human race. Now Father AVilhelm Schmidt, of
Vienna, who has been delving into another side of
it, threatens to publish a book to prove that the
Tas. language was pretty close to primitive human
speech. There is plenty of room for the imagina-
tion, at any rate, in the investigation of the Tas.
language, for facts are scanty. The yabber died
with the race, for the half- or quarter r castes of Cape
NO INCRIMINATING EVIDENCE FOR
HIM, THANKS.
COSTOMER: “Hey, don’t slop any whisky on
me quid. You’ll have the old woman
smelling the change.”
Barren Island have preserved only one or two words.
And the few vocabularies collected while the race
still existed are imperfect and in many cases cer-
tainly inaccurate.
“McNorth”; Stillbirths are so rare among
our primitive sisters that special explanations are
sought when one occurs. In some parts of the interior of
Papua it is held that an unfriendly sorcerer has
been at work. In other villages the lady runs
a big chance of being clubbed by her husband, who
is inclined to regard the event as an indication
THE HEARTLESS CITY.
“Hullo, Peter: sorry to hear ’bout that city cove clearin’ out with your missus.”
“Yes, just as the young heifers was cornin’ in milk, too. Got no consideration for a
man, these town blokes haven’t.”
that she has been thinking unduly of some other
man. An old chief of Bougainville, in the Solomons,
told me that there were only a limited number of
lives in the world, and that a child born without
life was a case of a body too many. Idiocy (very-
rare) was caused, he said, by a single life being
split up between two or more bodies. In Fiji before
the days of the missionary still-births were attri-
buted to sorcery, and the spirit-bodies of such child-
ren were said to hang by their feet from the
branches of certain trees, like flying-foxes. One of
these trees —a large banyan—still stands in Suva,
and though Fuzzy-top these days professes scorn
of old-time superstition, he never passes that par-
ticular vegetable without lowering his voice and
dropping some of the swagger from his walk.
“Dido”: There was a waterhole in the
rock by the creek at Bowlins, the quarry from which
the stone had been taken to build the new liome-
stead. This was used as a swimming
hole, and it was understood that the
flying of a small red flag implied
that ladies were using the bath and
must not be molested, a contingency
of which there was small dread, as
nobody lived within five miles. The
pool was planted with peppermint
gums, and a neat lawn was sustained
at one end under the trees, sheltered
by high rocks. One afternoon when
the girls and three visitors from Syd-
ney were having a bath, a small
daughter of 'one of the station hands
arrived with a message. “Please,
Miss ,” she said casually,
“there’s a man up there waiting to
drown hisself in the pool.” Later,
up at the house, the girls told of
this as a joke. That evening the
men, on going down for a duck, found the stranger
who was in a hurry to use the pool. It was no joke.
He had used it for the purpose all right.
* * # *
“Delhi” : Can any Abo. tell me why ticks
never tackle pigs? I have pigs and calves together
in a paddock, and the calves always have a fair
supply on, but I have never yet found the tick
that would eat pork. The same applies to leeches.
Yes, I’ve thought of the Hebraic explanation, but
I want something more than that.
Steve Hart”: Anyone wanting to poison
rabbits, dingoes or foxes should bear in mind to
always use washing-soda to dissolve arsenic and
carbonate of soda to dissolve strychnine. I find
common eucalyptus oil the best decoy to attract bush
game. Oil of rhodium will bring the sewer-rat every
time.
“W. Casey” : I don’t like raising departed
arguments, but a number of abos. may not forgive
me if I fail to record the measurements of an
eagle that recently met his fate at Wandellon (S.
Coast, N.S.AV.). The tips of his outstretched wings
were lift, apart.
* * * *
“A.E.F.A.”: Up at Ten Mile (Vic.) the
other day, they told me the yarn of the big rift in
the hillside known as Dynamite Gap. The dyna-
mite for blasting at the gold-mines
was all hauled up in waggons from
Mansfield as far as AVoodspoint and
Matlock. One day Bill, in charge
of the first waggon-load, found him-
self going faster than he wished down
the first steep hill, 10 miles out. He
jambed on his brakes, a spark flew
up, caught in a loose stave on a
barrel, and —good-bye Bill, horses,
waggon and, incidentally, the dyna-
mite. The bang was heard 20 miles
away, and a horseshoe was after-
wards found in Alexandra, 28 miles
as the crow flies.- Jim —130yds. be-
hind —seeing a spark from No. 1 land
on to his own waggon, grabbed an axe,
broached a barrel of beer beside him, drowned the
spark and. saved the goods. Ten Mile still bewails
the loss of that beer.
* * * *
“Zantlius”: Away out in the Everavd
Ranges, about 500 miles north of the east-west line,
there is an apparently indigenous tobacco, a close
relative of the weed of commerce, upon which the
name Nicotiana mavolens excelsior has been fastened.
The local abos., who had never been in close touch
with white men till Captain S. A. White went up
there, know nothing about smoking, but they chew
the native tobacco like veterans. The plant
grows 6ft. or 7ft. high and is a good drought resis-
ter, so there may be possibilities in it.
“Wessel” : The cedar-tree borer threatens
to spoil what fire and axes have left in Queensland.
It bores into the pith of the cedar and in time
brings it down. Captain AVhite, the Adelaide orni-
thologist who has been asked to cast his eye over
the situation, reckons that the cats introduced into
the forests are the main cause of the trouble. They
have thinned out the native birds which used to
keep down the borers.
■ Jim Carew”: There is a comical but
rather pathetic bush sight when a native-bear turns
her youngster loose to shift for himself. Seizing an
opportunity when young Norman is not on her back,
she climbs down the tree as quickly as she can,
and when he discovers her absence the play begins.
He fairly dances with rage and snarls for a while,
then makes after mum as if he intends to murder
her. Next, as if he realises he couldn’t catch her,
he sits down and cries, in the vain hope that the
old lady will come back. At last, when he finds
that she isn’t returning, he decides to make the
best of a bad job, and, still sobbing as if his heart
would break, he commences to forage for himself.
For several days after turning the youngster loose,
ilum stays in neighboring trees, apparently to see
that he won’t starve, and when she is satisfied that
he is all right she seeks fresh fields and gumtrees
new.
* * * f.
“Eurythmic”: “Sassafras’s” horse (B.
29/9/’2l) couldn’t pull the fat off a gridiron. I
saw' a prad haul a 10-ton load of sleepers away
from a stack to allow the next man to load up.
This was done in the south-eastern part of S. Aus.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: We had a mare on the run
that could slip us all off, so we issued a challenge.
A drover rode up with a nig. in tow and took us
up. The mare with Binghi aboard promptly got to
work and soon we couldn’t see ’em for dust. Then
something hit the boss and knocked him off the rail.
It was the saddle. When the dust settled we saw
the mare standing dead-beat and the nig with his
big toes through the rings of the bit. We paid up.
“Solomon Isles”: I have frequently read
that alligators bark like a dog. After many years’
residence in a place swarming with ’gatofs, I dis-
believed the yarn—until the other day. I found a
’gator lying on the beach, apparently much upset
about something, so I got the old Snider and upset
him some more. I was walking away when I heard
muffled barks coming from the ’gator. I opened
him up and found a dog in his principal compart-
ment. The mong. w'as either hungry or disliked his
lodging, because he had been trying to eat his way
out. I have frequently known ’gators to swallow
pigs, but never heard any grunts afterwards —except
from the owners.
* * * *
“Yacko”: “Kentia” (B. 29/9/’2l) in
speaking of extinct Australian birds could have
mentioned the Kangaroo Island emu. The only
authentic record of its existence is due to the
French expedition under Baudin in 1803 ; that
crowd captured five and presented them to the Paris
Museum. As the island had never any wild dogs
or abos., the flightless birds’ wholesale disappear-
ance is a mystery.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Is it a fact that ginger cats
are only to be found among the gentlemen? I read
an assertion to this effect the other day, and now that
I come to think of it I can’t recall a lady cat of
my acquaintance who wears a jacket of auburn
shade.
“McNorth”: A hatter with a curious
twdst used to live on Wandi goldfield, 28 miles from
Pine Creek (N.T.). His name w'as Russell, but
because of an allegedly aristocratic bearing and a
rumor that he w'as a peer who had fled his ancestral
halls as a protest against being compelled to wear
special clothes to eat in, he was known as Lord
George. He had a fixed belief in dreams, in one of
THINGS WERE DIFFERENT IN OUR
DAY.
THE ORACLE: “These young pups arc too
flash nowadays- they'd rather have a
tin of insect powder than a good bone."
which, he said, the whereabouts of a rich mullocky
leader had been revealed to him. The spot indicated
was barren and, to all appearances, auriferously im-
possible ; but Lord George prospected it for years,
sinking innumerable holes, shifting paddocks of
earth, and living on a starvation diet. But for the
kindliness of other miners he would surely have
starved to death. Sometimes his belief in the relia-
bility of his dream would flag; then the vision
would come again and he would bog in harder than
ever. But he never struck it, and one day he was
found dead in his camp. AA r hen the tent was being
dismantled after the burial, the look of the hole after
one of the poles had been pulled out led one of the
hands to sink a foot or two. He proved that for all
those years Lord George had camped on top of a
rich mullocky leader.
THE POETS WHO CAN’T WRITE IT DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Theie are blokes drivin’ bullocks, or carryin* swag's,
Or stuck up on high stools in the town,
On the poverty line, or with boodle in bags,
Diessed to kill in flash clobber, or tattered to rags,
Wealin’ monikers plain, or with titles for tags,
Who are poets but can’t write it down.
They hear music that’s lost on the most of the mob,
Notes that other men’s voices can’t drown;
They see beauty around them, whatever their job,
An - can feel the great heart of humanity throb
As the earth shakes with laughter or swallows a sob,
But they can’t write the bloomin’ thing down.
They see clearly through ladders when other men
grope
With dull brows puckered up in a frown;
They can tell by their instinct straight dinkum from
dbpe;
When the future seems dark they see flashes of hope
An drag - truth from the well by a windlass and rope
In their minds—but they can’t write it down.
One lives mostly on books, an’ he wraps up his soul
In a fine university gown;
He can see all creation as one complete whole,
An’ he puts his mind's stop-watch on stars as they
roll
Round immensity’s track to infinity’s goal,
While eternity’s deeps an’ mortality’s shoal
Fill his brain —but he can’t dot it down.
There s another, as rough as the bluchers he wears,
An’ he don’t know a verb from a noun;
But in heart an in head an’ in pleasures an’ cares
AY ith the cultured professor he often compares ;
When his thoughts burn within him, words fail, an’
he swears
In blank verse —but he can’t write it down.
An’ so on through all kinds an’ conditions of men,
Sellin’ rabbits or wearin’ a crown,
AVho are itchin’ to scratch down their thoughts with
a pen,
As they thrill with the life that comes under their
- ken,
But can only join in with a mumbled “Amen”
A\ r hen some other bloke writes their song down.
Dip your lids to the men who deserve your applause
Though they never win fame or renown,
For they act their own epics with axes and saws,
Or express their dumb lyrics by framin’ new laws,
Makin’ harmony sweet for their mates an’ their
cause—-
Dinkum poets, who can’t write it down.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


p
5 B
! I
:
ill
4
mm m
m I
ii j
.3M--» 1
,•: • :
*P
M
m
i
:
Hi ■
1 ii :
■
13091
m
ill
«
-
sf|oyg| <
I
Standing up to hard work!
Everyone appreciates the strength and
fitness essential to standing up to
Continuous hard work. Motorists
appreciate it in a car that runs many
thousands of miles without showing
any signs of the work accomplished.
They recognise it in their tyres, that
have to withstand the brunt of carry-
ing the load, transmitting the power,
and overcoming road inequalities.
In this direction “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYRES
have won the appreciation of tens of
thousands of motorists on account of
their quality, staunchness and depend-
ability; which are so pronounced that
“Railroads” are easily the most popular
and most sought after tyres on the road.
They are undoubtedly the best wear-
ing tyres on the market. For economy,
value and long service they have
no equal. Use them—it pays !
All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
J.ALL STATES AND N.Z.


p
:
'
■mmi ■- i
- f
mm
~
mwmfm
jJz' 1 11 i
1 I
m
mm u
mm
1 l«
n
m
T
■
%
mms
Hi
#
B
SM
=2*
mm
m
& a
gM
.-•f4a
r
■
l
m
\
mm
4JU
a*
ul<
F 5
%"i
h
fe
■
m
*m
iS?
m
ssi
«2
*
?*||||*
**
-: : :v
■
■
■
~ i
: ■ - :
Mr. F. J. Doherty, managing director
of the Cumberland Mills, who
evolved the process of pulping
Australian wood for the manufac-
ture of boards. Master Patents are
pending for registration throughout
the world. Some thousands of tons
of boards have been made by this
process.


.
"jasgjp
f..' '
a
•**ss^
K-.. -*• #
/
' :#
.•
M
■:, -•
, ?
:
m
A* .-
■k -
PANORAMIC VIEW CUMBERLAND MILLS, LANE COVE RIVER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Introducing “ADAMO”
the Wonderful Australian Wall-board.
WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., have pleasure in announcing *hat they are sole agents
for the wonderful new Australian Wall-board, “Adamo.” This remarkably efficient
and economical wall-lining, ceiling and partition board is the product of the Cumber-
land Mills, whose gigantic works at Lane Cove River, Sydney, N.S.W., are capable of an immense
output. The recent installation of splendid machinery—one machine alone costing £9o,ooo—marks
an epoch in Australian industrial life.
The illustrations give some idea of the fine mechanical equipment, but they can convey no information
of the high organisation of the works. Mr. F. J. Doherty, the Managing Director of the Cumberland
Mills, travelled the world over to secure the finest machines and the best men for the vast undertaking.
Two years ago Mr. Doherty returned from his world-tour and commenced operations. To-day, the
product, in future to be known as “Adamo—the Australian Wall-board,” is ready for the market.
The new board is the equal of any produced outside Australia. But, further, it possesses special
attributes and advantages which make it eminently attractive to Australians.
The manufacture and use of wall-board have increased enormously during recent years. Australian
conditions call for a product of local manufacture to suit local conditions. “Adamo” supplies that
need. The Cumberland Mills have patented the process and the machinery, and “Adamo—the
Australian Wall-board” possesses many qualities superior to and some quite distinct from any other
Wall-board.
Some Special Features of “ADAMO”:
“Adamo” is very tough and of great rigidity.
The rigidity is secured by hundreds of pounds pres-
sure to the square inch during manufacture. It
is excellent for inner walls, partitions and ceilings.
“Adamo” is very light. The consumer receives
more sheets per ton than other types of material,
and saves on railage and freightage, the board being
under 71b. to the square yard, about half the weight
of plaster or asbestos sheets.
“Adamo” will neither crack nor chip, and is
not brittle. It resists the attacks of white-ants
and other pests. Rats do not destroy it.
“Adamo” is practically non-combustible. It
reduces risks from fire to a minimum. Demonstra-
tions of this line feature are gladly given'.
“Adamo” can be sawn easily and nailed without
cracking. It does not break in transit. It is a
non-conductor of heat or cold, will not bulge nor
warp from the effects or sea air or mountain mists.
Unlike almost all other boards the surface of
“Adamo” Board, without the necessity of sizing,
is suitable for oil paint, cold-water paint, kalsomine
and wall paper.
In addition to all these advantages, there is the
all-important factor of economy in first-cost and in
durability. It is much cheaper than imported
boards, and compares favorably with any other
building material in price.
SIZES:
Adamo Wall Board is made in widths: Ift. 6in., 2ft. 6in., 3ft., 3ft. Sin. and 4ft.; and in lengths
from 4ft. up to 12ft.
Pronounce it : AD-A-MO.
Architects, Builders and all interested people should
write for samples and fuller particulars, or inspect at
o
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
Sydney. Brisbane. Melbourne. Adelaide. Perth! Launceston.B Newcastle.


Faced with the cost of a new casting the
owner of this fractured flywheel called
in the OXY-ACETYLENE WELDER.
CONSIDER the great saving to the owner
when the Oxy-Acetylene welder had
returned this flywheel to its original
strength in a few hours. The perfect fusion
of the metal made the half wheel one whole
piece again. The speed of working reduced
the hold up of tne plant to hours that would
have been days under ordinary circumstances.
Such fine money-saving victories are being
achieved every day by COMOX Welders. In
the shipyard, engineering works, machine or
repair shop, a COMOX plant pays handsome
dividends in time and money saved. On
productive work in metal-goods factories, it is
the factor for greater output, better quality,
lower costs. In the foundry it saves hours in
cleaning up castings, filling blowholes, etc.
If you are interested in metal-repair work, or
can use a plant continuously, ask us particu-
lars of COMOX outfits. If not, we will gladly
forward the address of your nearest COMOX
welding station on request.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd
Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S.W.
AGENTS:
Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Col-
lins Street, Melbourne.
Harrison Bros. & Co., Btd.,
20 Patterson Street, Laun-
ceston.
Geo. Wills & Co., litd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
ad
AGENTS:
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Murray Street, Perth.
Evans, Deakin & Co., 121
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Browne & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
;
sfeys StstS
HR
H
■
-:y.
»
H
H
HI
I
«
B
H
flB
¥
mm
I
Hi
H i
■■■
Hi
Illustrating a “ GARRETT ” Engine, 118 8.H.P., driving electric plant
in a cheese factory.
The “GARRETT” Superheated
Steam Semi-Stationary Engine
A complete steam plant which
burns any class of fuel.
HE “GARRETT” Engine is a complete steam
plant, embracing boiler, superheater, engine
and all accessories in one unit. Because of
compact arrangement of correctly proportioned
various organs it gives far lower steam and fuel
consumption than any other type of engine.
A “GARRETT” gives fuel costs lower in most
cases than any form of internal combustion
engine.
A “GARRETT” gives far lower fuel costs than
any separate engine and boiler ' steam plant of
equal power.
A “GARRETT” is more reliable and has a greater
life than eith.i of the aforementioned types.
A “GARRETT” is low in first cost, requires small
space, and needs no expensive foundations, build-
ings or chimneys.
A “GARRETT” uses any fuel with greatest!
economy.
We will be pleased to quote you for “GARRETT”
installations for any fuel, any purpose. Write
nearest address.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney, and 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Darling
Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth, VV.A.
N.G. 414
The Rose in the Wilderness
“IV/T RS de SPARD,” announced the
]y | maid. For the minute the name
was unfamiliar; then, as a ver\
perfectly-tailored girl came into the room, I
laughed.
“Why, Ruth, I was just wondering who
the stranger was. I always forget my
friends’ married names. Tea, Marie, and
hot, buttered toast. Well, how goes it,
Ruth?”
The firelight flickered on a pretty face
that was momentarily hardened in rather a
worried look.
“Fairly well,” she said, as she loosened
her furs. “Fact is, I’ve come to say good-
bye. I’ve had a cable from David, and lie
wants me to go over to Canada to him on
the next boat. Of course, I’ll love to see
him again, but it’s all rather uprooting isn’t
it? I have never lived on a ranch in my
life, and I think I shall be rather homesick
at first.”
I sympathised, and we talked for some
time. Then she said : “You know I’m rather
worried about the frivolous problem of keep-
ing my looks. David told me that what first
attracted him was the fact that I looked so
different from most Canadian women. But
under Canadian conditions, shall I be able
to keep it up? For example, I have my hair
washed and waved at a hairdresser’s every
fortnight; that will be impossible in my
new life. And I look hideous with straight
hair.”-
“Why, that’s easily solved: take over a
supply of silmerine with you. You only
want to damp your hair with it slightly and
put in slides or a curler or two, which can
easily be concealed under a boudoir-cap. Get
your hair accustomed to silmerine treatment
on the voyage over; then by the time you
land it will probably have developed a dis-
tinct natural tendency to curl, and -will only
occasionally need damping. Of course, it
is much better for the hair than to sap all
its gloss and vitality with hot irons. For a
home shampoo I think you cannot beat stal-
lax. A teaspoonful of stallax granules to a
cup of hot water will make the most deli-
cious foaming lather, which cleanses the
hair splendidly. You’ll be able to dry it in
the sun in no time in that gorgeous climate.
If I were you, I should always keep some
reliable tonic in the house, for you never
know when your hair may require a little
stimulating. Yes, boranium and bay rum
is excellent: I always use it. Also, I think
it would be a very wise plan to keep some
tammalite by you ; dark hair like yours has
a very disconcerting habit of turning grey
in patches. If your hair does show a ten-
dency to fade, you have only to dissolve two
ounces of tammalite in three ounces of bay
rum, and you have a wonderful hair-restorer
ready for use.”
“Why, that seems too good to be true !*’
exclaimed Ruth. “I must write that down.
Now, Estelle, I’m going to worry you some
more. What kind of complexion-cream
should I take? I want something that lasts,
that doesn’t take up much room, and, above
all, that really does keep one’s skin in con-
dition,”
“The answer to the riddle is mercolised
wax,” I replied. A tin such as chemists
usually sell lasts for three or four months; it
is solid, compact and not wasteful to use,
add it’s the finest complexion-beautifier there
is. Its great merit is that instead of making
the skin dull by clogging the pores with
grease, as too many face-creams do, it gently
absorbs the dull, outer tissue which gets
coarsened by hard water, dirt and so on, and
reveals the dazzling freshness of the new
skin below. Of course, in a hot climate,
where the sun and dust tend to ruin even
the prettiest skins, it will be simply invalu-
able. I’ll give you another useful tip: be
sure to provide yourself with some tablets
of stymol; then, if you happen to have a
blackhead, you have only to melt one tablet
in a little warm water, bathe the blackhead,
and you will be able to remove it without
the slightest difficulty, with a clean towel.”
“Thanks so much. I’m sure I shall be as
grateful to you when I’m so far away. Of
course, I shan’t need powder, because since
1 discovered cleminite I haven’t needed it.”
“No, you couldn’t do better than carry
on with cleminite,” I assured her. “I can't
think why more women don’t give up the
old-fashioned messy powder and use that
nice lotion instead. Well, Ruth, I think
you’ll blossom in the desert all right, if you
are wise and take care of your looks.”
“I hope I’ll be able to,” she said, “be-
cause however much one loves adventures
and roughing it, I don't want to become a
masculine-looking woman. After all, David
liked me as lie found me, and it’s up to me
to try and stay the same.”
“I must go,” she said, rising. “I don't in
the least want to, but there are so many
people to see. Will you come and see me
off? I sail on Friday fortnight. Good-bye.”
“Good-bye, Ruth, and the very best of
luck to you both. Write to me, won’t you ?
Good-bye.”— Advt.


TKe
Purest
Spirit
in the
UorUi
sflflWE
Pr
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
aMOIV SQMYiIs
d vMH3S 5.3J7 04t
rind PYJAMAS
These feature Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands—
double seams and gus-
sets— which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
m
i
9
A
STLf
la<s»
om
4
// Wb
fV
e *c_4
m
_ a
deep; but, alas, man being finite, it is too
deep for his expression.
Sex is the thought, infinite, all-powerful
sex. Not glanced at with a snigger; not
treated ponderously as a great human activ-
ity in trust; not handled in any of the
cheap or inflated methods to hand. But
infinite sex, the power behind the flowers
and the fruit, behind all humanity, behind
all humanity's conception of God. This
splendid trier does his vivid best to get this
omnipotence on his paper in terms of two
modern men and two modern women. Some
samples, again to save time and talk:—
,He was listening to the faint near sounds, the
dropping of water-drops from the oar-blades, the
slight drumming of the lanterns behind him as they
rubbed against one another, the occasional rustling
of Gudrun’s full skirt, an alien land noise. His mind
was almost submerged, he was almost transfused,
lapsed out for the first time in his life into the
things about him. For he always kept such a keen
attentiveness concentrated and unyielding in him-
self. Now he had let go, imperceptibly he was
melting into oneness with the whole. It was like
pure, perfect sleep, his first great sleep of life. He
had been so insistent, so guarded, all his life. But
here was sleep, and peace, and perfect lapsing out.
That to me is excellent vision of a self-
centred man sex-merged at last into the uni-
versal family of instinct. Again :
Then he clambered into the boat. Oh, and the
beauty of the subjection of his lpins, white and dimly
luminous as he climbed over the side of the boat,
made her want to die, to die. The beauty of his
dim and luminous loins as he climbed into the boat,
his back rounded and soft—ah, this was too much
for her, too final a vision. She knew it, and it was
fatal. The terrible hopelessness of fate, and of
beauty, such beauty!
One sees how hopeless is the attempted task.
The man who wrote my first quotation (and
who wrote “The White Peacock” and the
others) is as keenly aware of the poison-
ously bad workmanship of the second’s
stressed reiteration and clumsy, half-express-
ing words as you and I. But the trier’s
whip has blinded him. Somehow this sub-
lime theme must be reduced to words, the
words of you and me; if it dislocates all
English letters, no matter—-it is worth it
to Lawrence, deep in his inspired thought.
But ice only get the finite words which are
all he has to express it in. And 90 per
c ei >t. of us laugh while the other 10 think
hard. But in a book or two more the whole
100 will take off their hats to the bravest
trier writing in English to-day.
HALARY LOFTING.
Heine
While Goethe loved, as it were, on system,
believing that a succession of light o’ loves
'\as necessary to liis poetical development,
Heine, the other brightest star in Germany’s
poetical firmament, loved because it was
impossible not to do so in a world where a
Liebchen blossomed afresh at every wayside
inn. To be sure, the elder man once
doubted the depth of the younger one’s
genius on the grounds that “he had every
gift but love,” and that without love the rest
was but sounding brass and tinkling cymbal;
but the judgment was quite wrong. No one
who has ever read Heine’s glorious sonnets
to his mother—some of the noblest outpour-
ings in any language—or who has pondered
on the melancholy story of his latter days,
can doubt his capacity for love. There" is
no scene in Goethe’s life half so filled with
pathos and true passion. No one scoffed at
love_ more frequently than Heine; no one
in his soul ever worshipped love more truly.
But leaving apart the matter of sexual pas-
smn, he was capable of the pure sentiment of
exalted affection. In his “Memoirs” he says
that his father was of all human beings the
one he most loved, and that after 25 years he
could scarcely realise that he had lost him.
The poet in himself he attributed to his
father, whereas Goethe attributed his genius
to his mother, a rather notable woman in her
day. Yet Heine had no poor opinion of his
mother: “She played the chief part in the
history of my development; she made the
programme of my studies; and even before
m y birth began the plan for my education.”
Both Goethe and Heine disliked the Prus-
sian influence that was already casting a dark
shadow on Germany’s ethical development.
Goethe records that when the French were
about to occupy Frankfurt his mother re-
marked it was far better to have the
French than the Prussians, and the household
appears to have cordially agreed with her.
To Heine the Prussian was not even half a
German, and many of his later troubles arose
from his strenuous antipathy to the sombre
Northern influence that was already depress-
es the South German in his soft Gemiith-
hchkeit. Goethe, for his part, viewed the
french occupation with calm detachment.
He refused to write patriotic poetry, alleg-
ing he had not Korner’s fierce enthusiasm
and could not simulate it. He did not wish
to see French civilisation crushed, believing
it embodied much that was finest in Euro-
pean culture. _ The Goethes, Lessings,
Hemes and Schillers of Germany would have
viewed the modern developments of Kultur
with horror. To them it would have been
the very essence of barbarism.
Byron once said that an early suscepti-
bility to the grande passion was one of the
characteristics of genius. If this be so,
Heine was a conspicuous example. Does he
not describe how in his early days he went
to visit an old sorceress for a charm,
and was then and there fascinated
by the wondrous beauty of the witch’s niece,
Bed Sefchen. ’ a lovely Jewess, tall and
slender, small-waisted, and in her tightly-
ri reS «n L 1 statue in a wet gar-
. •. T'h* 5 Bed Sefchen” episode was fiery
and initiatory, and invested with a certain
n'rfrW ch^ m ’ through the girl herself being
under a kind of social taboo, all her relations
“TniL™” 1 * Sldp T havin g been executioners.
! ays P eme - “there is a prelimi-
nary purgatory in which one may become
accustomed to being roasted ere one enters
into the real everlasting hell.” Many of his
finest “Traumlieder” written shortly after-
wards derive their inspiration from lied
Sefc-hen’s Marchen.
No one can understand Heine’s life and
much of his poetry without knowing that he
was a Jew. During his brief residence in
Frankfurt he had to live in the Ghetto and to
realise that, if any Jew ventured out of the
dirty precincts on Sunday, he could be hur-
ried from the thoroughfare like a rabid dog.
Fie left the town gladly, hating its very
name, and full of resentful pride in the great
race from which he sprang.’ True, he apos-
tatised for a mess of pottage, but the racial
pride remained as it did in Britain’s Dis-
raeli.
The god of the Heine family was Salomon
Heine, the rich Hamburg banker, in Avhose
establishment the young poet served as a
somewhat undiligent clerk. At this period
he met his lovely cousin Amalie, for whom
he conceived an overwhelming and hopeless
passion. How could this black goat of a
Radical poet ever hope to be accepted among
the snowy flock of the rich Hamburger? Not'
even the singer’s desperate plunge into busi-
ness and the hoisting of a sign, “H. Heine
and C 0.,” could pave the way for his accept-
ance. Of course the business failed and the
sign came down, and so did Heinrich’s hopes
for Amalie. Then Uncle Salomon got weary
of his clerk, whom he described as the fool
of the family, and shipped him off to Bonn
to study for the degree of Doctor Juris—
a necessary preliminary to which was the
announcement of his conversion to Chris-
tianity. The Heine family did not worry
much over this trifle. Neither did the gay
Henri. Sufferance had long been the badge
of all their tribe.
At Bonn Heine matriculated, then left for
Berlin, where he published sections of his
“Bucli der Lieder,” with its immortal songs,
full of passion, longing and unspeakable
pathos. No one unacquainted with German
can ever realise the true charm of Heine’s
Lieder, instinct often with the highest poetry,
and yet charged with a divine and match-
less simplicity. There have been many Eng-
lish translations, but in nearly all cases the
aroma has departed. It is well worth while
to master a crabbed and difficult yet majestic
language to be able to appreciate these pearls.
Of course the revolution of July, 1830,
carried Heine off his feet. Exultantly he
wrote: “Gone is my yearning for repose. I
know what I shall, I must do. I am the son
of the Revolution. I will crown my head
for the fight of Death. I am all joy and
song, all sword and flame !” Then he went
to Hamburg, a town aflame with revolu-
tionary enthusiasm, and saw the harrying of
innocent Jews by the newly-enlightened Ham-
burgers. He fled the city for good, and
hated it ever after. The shattering of idols
came to be no new experience to him. He
lived to see that most of them have feet of
clay. All his youthful convictions went —
even his faith that France was wholly de-
voted to the cause of free humanity. In
May, 1831, he entered a Paris just recovered
from the throes of Revolution. One of the
first things he noticed was that “Liberte,
Egality, Fraternity” had been erased from
the street corners. “Honeymoons,” he slyly
commented, “fly so quickly.”
His last love of the old sort was Mathilde
Crescence Mirat, a charming loyal Parisienne,
intelligent but unintellectual, with whom he
lived during his later years, and whom he
finally married. Like Amalie, she would not
even read his verses, but she loved the poor,
perverse, lovable poet tenderly and truly.
Yet even on his couch of ceaseless pain he
found time for a new passion, though this
time it was not of the body but of the soul.
Camille Selden (La Mouehe) will live in
story as his closing comforter, “the last
flowmr of his mournful autumn.”
And it was of this poet, who bound soul
after soul to his bosom by the golden cords
of the deepest attachment, that Goethe could
say: “He had every gift but love”! The
Jupiter Tonans of Weimar probably never
felt such a love as that of Mathilde, and
certainly never inspired it.
r. AIREY.
Cat’s Cradle
Professors and other guns of heavy calibre
have spent much time and grey matter over
such trifles as Greek and Sanscrit- roots, the
differential calculus and the theory of rela-
tivity. But a subject of such universal
appeal as cat’s cradle has been shockingly
neglected. A little, it is true, we know ; but
as Kathleen Iladdon, daughter of a famous
Cambridge anthropologist, points out in a
recent monograph, there is still plenty to
learn.
Cat’s cradle is played in every part of the
world, from Baffin Bay to Maoriland, from
Kamschatka to Torres Strait. Its age has
yet to be determined, but it is probably as
old almost as the human race. That some
of the simpler forms of the game should have
an almost world-wide distribution is not
surprising, for, given 10 fingers and a bit
of string, they almost play themselves. But
comparatively complicated figures crop up
in all sorts of places. One such, called
“the moon” in Central Africa, occurs also
in Torres Strait, North Queensland, the
Caroline Islands and the Andamans. The
figure from which the whole genus takes the
name of cat’s cradle is found in China,
Japan, Korea, Borneo, the Philippines, India,
Scotland, and amongst the North American
Indians. The two-handed game called “saw-
ing wood” is played in China, England and
on the Pacific coast of North America.
(Maybe it gave rise to the American phrase.)
An ingenious string trick called “the mouse”
has been noted from Murray Island (Torres
Strait), Central Africa, the Philippines and
the Sulu Archipelago, Alaska, Japan and
various parts of North America.
Cat’s cradle, though it. has long been left
to savages and children, has many points as
a game. Even in these days of high prices
the equipment costs next to nothing. Two
yards of string will see you through. Some
of the games are nearly as complicated as
chess, and quite as exciting. The islands of
Torres Strait, particularly Murray Island,
produce some champions at it. Australian
abos. may have had champions, too, but with
the exception of H. Ling Roth, who gives
some Queensland figures, no one seems to
have made the art in Australia a subject of
research. There’s an opening for inquiry
in Papua and the mandate territories, too.
In Torres Strait certain chants and words
are associated with certain figures, which
seems to give them a religions or magic
meaning; and that opens up quite a new
field.
Certainly when the Sydney or the Mel-
bourne Uni. starts the overdue school of
anthropology no one who has not a good
working knowledge of cat’s cradle can be
allowed to take the chair. ,
DONALBAIN.
Tragedy and the Child-mind
When I was a youngster my first readings
of the newspaper consisted almost solely , of
the reports of fatalities and accidents. ' No
one pointed them out to me as desirable
items. But I found them and read them,
and liked them, and continued to read them
first of all, and this was the rule for years.
I have no desire for them nowadays, and
very seldom read them; but as a boy I
simply gloried in these details of murders,
suicides and accidents.
I remembei’ed this childish inclination the
other day when I set some country children
of 12 to 14 writing a letter. describing an
imaginary trip to the city. When I cor-
rected this “composition” I found that seven
out of the 10 had imagined something tragic.
I summarise three of their achievements :
A (girl) imagined seeing a boy with his skull
smashed in by a tram (full details supplied).
B (girl) saw in imagination two men run over
by a motor-car.
C (boy) wrote of two men, hurrying out of a tram,
who, jumping off before the tram stopped, fell across
the line (how such was possible he did not explain—
a way children have), and “the tram ran over him
and killed him instantaneously.”
Is this fondness for tragedy among children
a reminder of our savage forefathers and
the life they once led? The child is much
more akin to the savage than the adult is
and more elemental in his desires and tastes;
the adult has become sophisticated.
But, then, you will find most —well, many
women, after they have skimmed the births,
deaths and marriage columns, turn to the
casualties. How explain that trait of femi-
nine character? Has it any connection with
the child’s apparently instinctive hankering
after the tragic ? Evidently there is no con-
nection, unless one likes to say that the
female mind is as elemental as a child’s. I
don’t say it. But there is the fact.
Now I think I understand and can
account for not only the fascination that
Deadwood Dicks and such-like books, as well
as. Western-American cowboy and Indian
“pictures,” have for boys, but also the popu-
larity of fairy stories like “Jack the Giant-
killer” which feature a grand “kill.” As-
suredly both are survivals of the joy our
savage ancestors found in slaughter.
COUNTRY FED.
A Satchel of Books
The Petrol Engine on the Farm, by Xeno W.
Putman (Page). The author deals minutely vvitli
the parts of the internal-combustion engine, giving
special attention to the carburetter and ignition sys-
tem. Several chapters are devoted to the discussion
of the various forms of power transmission and the
care of belts and gears; and the dozens of uses to
which a practical man can put a petrol or kerosene
engine are described. Also the farm housewife is told
how she can make life easier by power application
to clothes- and dish-washing, separating, churning,
etc. An ideal publication for the farm-engine owi er.
The Orchard of Dreams, by Pan (Odhams). F.A.Q.
novel about “a dunderhead artist fellow” who be-
comes guardian to an adorable French maiden who
knows nothing of life beyond the paternal farm, and
what came of it. Plenty of romance and melodrama
before things work out to a rather unsuspected end.
The Dark Geraldine, by John Ferguson (John
Lane). A mystery-story which doesn’t fulfil its early
promise. There is too much mist about the mystery,
and the characters are dim and ineffectual. But the
yarn is embodied in an unusually handsome volume ;
in fact, the publishers have treated the author bet-
ter than he deserved.
Jealous Gods, by Rachel Swcte Macnamara (Hiirst
and Blackett). A widow’s estate must go to her
son if she re-marries; so when the inevitable lover
comes along she tries to eat her damper and have
it too. He, noble soul, finding she won’t marry
him, erects a safety fence between them by formally
marrying a governess who happens to be about the
premises; and stay's on as manager of the widow’s
estate. The writer honestly sets herself to dissect
the psychology of this triangle, but is hopelessly-
handicapped by the basis of improbabilities upon
which she works.
Under the Brigalows, by G. A. Bell (Alex. McCub-
bm, Melb.). A story, set on a Bananaland cattle-
station in the ’seventies, by a young Australian living
there to-day. The plot is of the slightest, pivoting
on a girl who thought she was married in England
but wasn’t, and the arm of coincidence is stretched
to bring the main characters together in Australia.
What value the immature book has lies in the
series of impressions it gives of station life. Herein,
though her craftsmanship is crude, the author carries
conviction because she writes of what she knows.
Incidentally, there is an appalling crop of typo-
graphical errors to set the reader’s nerves on edge.
Temptations, by David Pinski (Grant Allen and
Unwin). Light short stories by a Yiddish author
who has attracted some attention as a playwright.
The selection indicates Pinski’s wide range—from
the reconstruction and elaboration of a Talmudic
legend to a drab tale of the modern Jewish prole-
tariat —and as the translation has been well done
the reader senses his atmosphere and realises some-
thing of bis craftsmanship. The volume can be
read with interest even if you doubt Dr. Isaac Gold-
stem’s opinion, set out in the preface, that “Beru-
riah” is “one of the greatest short stories ever
written.”
Farm and Garden Tractors, bv Frederick Collins
(Page). Collins has added a practical text-book to
his considerable list of similar publications. Everv
make of farm and garden gas-tractor is pulled to
pieces, its mechanism and frame explained and criti-
cised with the aid of illustrations and diagrams, and
then reassembled. Tractors for big farms, small
farms and the kitchen garden are all dealt with.
Poyver applications, tractor troubles and repairs are
given their part; and the explanations and diagrams
are so lucid that an average reader will (eel sure
that he is a competent tractioneer by the time the
appendix is reached.
The Rabbit Pest, in Australia, by Jas. Matthams
(Specialty Press, Melb.). The author, who was for
15 years connected with the administrative staff of
the Vermin Destruction Branch of the Vic. Lands
Dept., tells how Bunny got here, how conscientiously
he fulfilled the command to increase and mu It inly,
and what has been done to check his enthusiasm.
Matthams plumps for the destruction of undergrowth
and poisoning in the warm season, followed in the
winter by digging out, fumigation and more poison.
Trappers, lie says, will never make a complete clear-
ance. The book also lias chapters on foxes, dingoes,
wombats and noxious weeds, as well as the Fences
Act of Vic., and the young man on the land will
find many useful tips in it.


Weigh
Your
Stock
Results
in the balance.
Do you feel
quite satisfied
you are secur-
ing fullest mar-
ket values? If
TO
ivM
m
not make your next draft a trial lot.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Sheep and Cattle Salesmen,
Sydney or Brisbane. You will find Winck-
combe-Carson results on top levels.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARRY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY' is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of join-
ing metals, presenting many advantages over
the old style riveting. There are no rivets
in a BARRY" Pulley to work loose or shear
under strain. The BARRY is made of special
steel and formed in accurately constructed
dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
CHATEAU
TANIJNEA
Hospital
BRANDY
zn
VS-iisa^ 5
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 1 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Da vs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4 if. Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
alderdice:
Brassfoimdry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., 2 in., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., gin., fin., lin.
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[2
PLUM
MOTOR
SPIRIT
*' I’ll be there on
time "
The feeling of certainty of “ getting
there on time ” is common to users of
Plume Motor Spirit. There are good
reasons for this assurance ; Plume is
made from the world’s choicest crudes ;
each process of its manufacture is under
the care of highly-skilled experts who
prove by laboratory tests and actual
service conditions that the high standard
adopted for Plume Motor Spirit
is rigidly maintained.
Therefore Plume is uniform
always, and can be depended
upon to deliver full power and
full mileage, day in and day out,
without a hitch.
This dependability has made
Plume popular with most motor-
ists, who a-so praise its easy
starting, sweet running, and
economy.
Order your Motor Spirit by
name —say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
<?V' U/ V < cv
fk
%tw\iy
- r
rr
v/////////////////^^^
§ wm
% WM
1
'4 / //////y.
Reduce
Fuel
Consumption
—and at the same time increase
production by substituting the
power-wasting plain bearirgs in
your shafting and machines with
mi
Self-
Aligning
Ball-Bearings
They will save 60% of the power usually lost in friction, and 60%
to 80% in lnbrication costs. No binding chains, no hot boxes,
perfect alignment, and no sticky, dirty, greasy belts. Many other
advantages also.
GARDNER, WAERN
& Co. Pty. Ltd.
Showrooms —369 Flinders St., Melbourne
Distributing Centres at Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
V
wmm.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Meataxe” : The Launceston ancient engi-
neering business of W. 11. Knight, Ltd., has
changed hands. A. J. McKenzie, who saw
naval war service as an engineer lieut.,
It. Evans, with mining experience, and S,
Locking, a master-builder with engineering
training, have taken it over.
* * * *
“Anap”: Talk about monopolies! On a
recent “account sales” rendered him by a
local firm, a planter in these parts was
charged £49-odd for freight and insurance
from Rabaul to Sydney, and only £33-odd
for freight and insurance on the same parcel
from Sydney to Marseilles!
“Russ” : “X.” (B. 13/10/’2I) is correct.
There seems to be a rotten, unpatriotic pre-
judice against Australian oils in country
shops. Recently I tried in vain in a large
provincial town to get a bottle of Stonyfell
or Mildura oil. In every case a foreign
concoction, not a patch on our own, was re-
commended.
* * * *
“Addled”: How easily sheer dishonesty
may become just a matter of custom was
shown when a S. Aus. confectionery firm
lately searched all its woman-employees as
they left on pay-day. Out of 40-odd 31
were carrying stolen goods from stock —not
just a fragment, but £lO worth among them.
Several of them protested that they had
been doing it for years; and when they
appeared in court, their counsel put up
something like that as a defence.
“Sixenate”: “Union business” is nowa-
days a good thing for those Sydney legal,
firms, very few in number, which specialise
in that work. The cost of arbitration to
unions for the past 12 months is estimated-
at £170,000 : and the thick end of the purse
goes to the lawyers. A secretary like O’Brien,
of the N.S.W. Musicians, who receives £6OO a
year but does all the industrial work for
his union, must save his organisation his
salary a few times over; but as the average
unionist will object jealously to any sus-
pected overpayment of a competent secre-
tary, while cheerfully paying heavy bills of
costs, it is scarcely wonderful that the sec-
retaries encourage dependence upon lawyers
—especially as there seem to be some quiet
pickings in it.
“Snooks”: Senator Crawford’s strictures
on the Queensland lemon and his panegyric
on the Lisbon product shocked northern cit-
rus growers. The local, thick-skinned lemon,
if carefully handled and packed, feeds on its
skin and becomes a juicy, soft, smooth-
skinned fruit in three weeks. The allega-
tion that it won’t keep is rubbish. Who
wants to keep it longer than three months?
It’s good for that time, and the northern
trees are in full bearing for nine months.
While on the subject, the only chance for a
revival of the Northern banana and other
fruit trade lies in careful shipping. As an
ex-grower said recently: “They dump the
stuff in anyhow, and jump on it. Then it
gets more dumping and jumping on at re-
shipment. Who expects fruit to keep under
such conditions?”
* *■ * #
“Bilbav”: What must be the world’s
record timber stack was on the banks of
the River Dvina at Archangel when a bunch
of Diggers were there in 1919. The town is
about 15 miles up from the mouth, and the
banks of the main stream and creeks were
piled high with pine and spruce logs, the stacks
half a. mile back deep in places, and ranging
from 20ft. to about 50ft. high, according to
the size of the logs. The Russkis raft a
lot of their timber down from the forests, but
it is slow work, as the river is frozen about
seven months of the year. Before the Bolsh
took the wheel the stream was full of timber-
ships in the open season, and Muscovy had
his work cut out in the busy months. When
the war came and things slowed up he went
on cutting in the old way and rafting to
Arehan gel, eonseouently during the war-
years millions of logs piled up; and appa-
rently much the same thing had happened
on the Kola inlet, on the Murmansk coast,
where we saw stacks extending as far as the
eye could carry.
* •* * • *
“Lex” : The W.A. Full Court lately con-
sidered a lady usurer, and in the same case
made a legal pronouncement that “shent per
silent” might he a fair rate of interest in
certain circumstances. The matter was an
appeal by Alexander Ballantyne against a
decision of Justice Burnside’s that he was
liable to Rachel Evans for interest running
up to 500 per cent. Such interest might be
“harsh and unconscionable” in the case of
an indigent widow-woman or anyone of that
class. But Ballantyne is a borrower
who knows all about the Moneylenders
Act: and that Act was not put on
the Statute Book in order that alert
people might use it to escape obli-
gations undertaken with their eyes wide open.
Justice Burnside’s view that Rachel was en-
titled to her full pound of flesh amounted, in
the opinion of the Full Court, to pandering
to greed, and it cut her ration down by a
fifth. Yet there certainly are men in
Westralia to whom no Judge of the Full
Court would lend money at 600 per cent.
In a case of that sort the professional money-
lender who does lend is more of a bookmaker
than a usurer.
THE AUTOMATIC .REGISTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Came from the distant northern scrub
To see the Melbourne Cup
Ned AVebfoot, and at Miller’s pub,
Where he is putting up,
lie saw some things mysterious—
How town girls show their legs,
The tearing trains, the city’s fuss,
“But most of all," he said to us,
“1 wonder at the eggs!”
lie took an egg up from the plate,
And pointed to the stamp,
Which gave the place, likewise the date
Of birth. Bob cocked his lamp.
“That gives the date of laying, Ned;
It also says where at.”
“No doubt, old man, but (strike me dead!)
What worries me,” the bushie said,
"Is how the hen knew that!’’
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


sms
KLM
Every battery has to stand
more or less pounding every
dayof its life, for even the
best springs in the world
can’t absorb all the jolts.
The effect of big and little
bumps will be greatly les-
sened if you see to it that
* f
the battery is clamped
tightly in place.
«§g
J»
STORAGE
BATTERY


SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
d
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRIT .Si - .
It will save trouble.
The comfort and elegant design of
bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
make them essentially machines
suitable for lady cyclists. Ease of
control and the absence of trouble
give a feeling of absolute security,
while the economy of a bicycle built
of genuine B.S.A. Fittings is ap-
parent from the first week of pos-
session. For reliability, comfort and
long service they are world famous.
A
fa
B.S.A.
X
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. V. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.).
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
E 7
(
y
i
m.
he decided preference of
hat-conscious men for a
STETSON Hat is but
n a t u r a I—its1 —its lustrous,
elegant appearance and
smartness of style is proof of
good taste, whilst STETSON
famous wearing quality is
evidence of sound judgment.
Wear a STETSON-it will add
to your personality.
Sole Australasian Agents
P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD-
Sydney. N.S.W.
fin Gnglsh Garden lives again
A fragrance of England’s best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old-fashioned English village garden
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
sweet and fragrant.
ď
Zenobia Perfnines
are obtainable at
most high - class
Chemists, Per-
fumers & Stores
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand (Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only),
KENNETH BUCIvMASTER, #
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ENOB
|W»!
•‘■jii lll
hl^y
1
the
_U»'
Valley
ISM*
PRINCE’S PLATE
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
“TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
-A
£td
158-162 OXFORD ST Wl. 172. REGENT ST W. 1
2.QUEEN VICTORIA ST E.C.4..
LONDON, ENGLAND.:
đ
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12perrons with Prince's Plate
Socons and Forks, plain patterns, and
"Trustworthy" Cutlery. Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company's own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
“Yrrab”: A Walhalla (Vic.) woman put
up a record of her own —she was born and
married and died on the same day of the
same month ; and as she died soon after mid-
night arrangements were hurried up and she
was buried on the same day, too.
From Melbourne Age (10/10/’21.) :
Blank. —On the Bth October, at the Carters’ Arms
Hotel, High-street, , Joseph Blank, beloved hus-
band of Bertha, and father of the late Nelson
Joseph Blank, aged 70 years.
At the great judgment bar.
Business as usual!
“Ex-Dig.” : I attended a “welcome home”
to a belated Digger the oJther day, and heard
Aid. Splaveyfoot compare the guest of the
evening to the “Useless of the Odious.” It
was only after prolonged thought that I
guessed he was referring to Ulysses and the
Odyssey.
“Centurion” : A coo-ee from Zululand (B.
20/10/’2l) mentions Ted Clerk, the one-
time famous Queensland roughrider. "He was
more than a consummate hand with horses;
a small volume of his bush verses was pub-
lished in Brisbane in the ’nineties. He went
to S’Africa with the stli Q. 1.8. and quickly
won a commission. Then a pretty S’African
daughter of A. B. Buchanan, of ’Maritz-
burg, persuaded him that Natal was better
than Bananaland, and he settled down as a
stock-inspector at Newcastle.
The other Saturday night a tram full of
homing picture-goers picked up a gentleman
who had made a rather wobbly passage across
the street from a wineshop. The only
vacant seat happened to be next to a little
girl and her mother. Trailing an aroma of
strong drink behind him, the newcomer cau-
tiously navigated his way towards them an'd
settled beside the child. For a minute the
kiddy looked puzzled, and she sniffed specu-
latively. Then a smile burst over her face,
and she electrified the tram with: “Oh,
mummy (sniff), what a de-licious smell of
trifle !”
“Centurion”: “Ex-Soldier” throws dis-
credit on treatment with anti-typhoid serum
by saying (B. G/10/’2l) that 400,000 doses
of the serum were sent to S’Africa during
the Boer War, and yet there was a high
death-rate. Anti-typhoid inoculation was
then voluntary in the British Army, and
was rarely accepted, though it had already
proved its worth in the Khartoum cam-
paign. It was not until Pretoria was taken
that treatment by inoculation was an organ-
ised thing, and from that time the death-
rate fell rapidly.
The Congress of the Society of St. Vincent
de Paul in Sydney recalls the existence in
Melbourne of a much older organisation—the
long-defunct Friendly Brothers, a society of
men established at St. Francis’s in ’45, by
Father Geogliegan, Melbourne’s pioneer
priest. It was formed to relieve distress,
and was financed chiefly by a systematic can-
vass of the four original wards of the city,
but also got a share of the police-court
fines. A balance-sheet for 1848 shows that,
in that year, an average of 15 families re-
ceived weekly relief averaging 6s. 4d. each,
and that £2B 18s. 6d. was spent on 21
funerals.
“Crabtree”: A special train running from
Henty to Lockhart (N.S.W.) recently killed
13 sheep and two hares, and a bullock’s, leg
found on the cow-catcher hinted at further
success. There was another good bag in
the days when the Tarr. worth-? lanilla line
was unfenced. A train charged into a herd
of cattle, and had thrown aside and muti-
'afed half-a-score before it brought up with
a shock after bumping squarely into two
beasts standing right across the line. The
casualties were added to by an infuriated
bull, who, regarding the engine as a per-
sonal enemy, charged ferociously and bashed
out his b'rains against solid steel.
“Sixenate”: “T.R.H.” (B. 20/10/’2l) is
correct in saying that Australia does not
know the slum as it exists in Britain; but
for all that we have slum conditions. A
Sydney man, recently retired, who interests
himself in the relief of the under-dog, found
in one place in Surry Hills, not three miles
from the sea, a family of seven children not
one of whom had seen the big water. Trips
which he took them to Coogee and National
Park were voyages of discovery. The father
was an unskilled laborer, who was not strong,
and was therefore often out of work. The
mother’s was a drab life of child-bearing and
struggling with petty debts, and the poor
kids had to help her work. They lived in
the stable at the back of a tumbledown house
in which every room was occupied, five of
them by families of from three to six per-
sons ; and even the bathroom was fixed up
as a “single room.”
“Ivopp” tells what Fate did to a man who
went looking for tucker: —
On December 10, 1870, the storeship from “the
colonies” being long overdue, Chafe, the boss of
the guano camp on Starbuck Island, set out for
Malden Island in a whaleboat with six Kanakas.
A gale capsized them, and though they righted the
craft all their provender found a shelf in D. Jones’s
pantry. They made the Penrhyn speck on the 19th,
and after loading some more tucker the white man
pushed off again with a local nig. as crew, the
Kanakas having downed tools. On the 30th the
tiny craft was stonkered on a reef off Savarra Island,
and the black and white mariners spent two days
on the rocks before they managed to get over to
the land. Nice green grass was the only article on
the menu here, so the heathen swam to another
island three miles off, where fronded palms, etc.,
were on view. Then Chafe, after a 10-day think,
tackled the swim. The only troubles he struck were
an O.S. family of sharks and a current which slipped
him two miles out of his course, but he made his
objective after a matinee on another reef. He wan-
dered about for 24 hours, and had become too
groggy to climb for coeoanuts, when he luckily
stumbled across his nig. Thenceforth, until February
16, 1873, the pair banqueted on coeoanuts, varied
only by other coeoanuts. Their two-years-and-odd
picnic ended when an Auckland schooner spotted
their SOS and collected them, stark naked, and took
them to the mission station on Atu, 80 miles away.
The irony of the thing was that the overdue pro-
vender ketch arrived a day after "the unlucky boat’s
crew kicked off on their record trip.


SOAP for HEALTH
"Rexona is a wonderful Healer, and I always keep
a tin of it handy.”
MISS IVY SHILLING.
m
“Rexona and Rexona Soap are worth their weight
in gold.
MISS MADGE ELLIOTT.
m
s.
m
“Rexona is a marvellous Healer, and I will never
be without it.”
MISS JEAN ROBERTSON.
“I love Rexona and use it only.”
MISS MABEL BATCHELOR.
“Rexona Soap is unsurpassed. I often wonder
now 1 got along without it before.”
MISS DOLLY NEPEAN.
and BEAUTY.
Some Beautiful Members of the
Rexona Girls’ Club. *
Are You a Rexona Girl ?
The Rexona Girls’ Club is now many
thousands strong. All Rexona girls are
beautiful girls, for beauty and Rexona go
together. Why not be a Rexona girl, too?
To be a Rexona girl is to use Rexona and
Rexona Soap, which ensure that clear, fresh
skin and beautiful hair which go so far to
give any girl that natural charm and beauty
which is her rightful heritage.
GIRLS! BEAUTIFY
YOUR HAIR.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can
double the beauty of your hair? It becomes light, wavy,
fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and charming
as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap.
A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been
neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin. Rexona Soap
cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona
Soap dissolves every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies
and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling
hair. If you care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a
tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
HAVE YOU a GOOD
COMPLEXION?
Rexona Soap makes you proud of your complexion.
There can be no luxury to a woman equal to the consciousness
that her complexion is clear, fresh and delicately radiant.
To keep it so, no amount of cosmetics can equal the regular
use of such a soap as Rexona Soap, which thoroughly cleanses,
and at the same time has just the right soothing, healing
action to maintain the natural health and beauty of the skin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the pores, rejtnoves excess oils, cools
and clarifies an angry skin.
w
wm
V
mi
m
%
W:
%
7/
m.
7
a
C'A
7.
27
7a
7/7
77
y/s
7,77
7/A
YA,
%
Wa
y A
77
7/
Fop
Cleanses
THE
I
TOILET. BATI
& Nursery
HEALS AND
Purifies
i
SKI
FACIAL
m.
7a
f
%
1
Vs
7a
Vs.
7a
7a
7s
y//
Rexona Soap/ll- per tablet.
“My motto is Rexona
MISS DOROTHY BRUNTON.
m
“Rexona Soap is miles ahead of anything J have
ever tried before.’’
MISS GRACIE LAVERS.
' 'v..
m
" V:
wmM.
m
WMw
m
m
‘I think Rexona Soap truly delightful.”
MISS CECIL BRADLEY.
m.
■i lYitfVf
mm
“Rexona Soap stands alone as a skin and hair
beautifier.”
MISS MONA FERGUSON.
“I find Rexona Soap delightful for my skin and
hair.”
MISS EILEEN COTTEY.


VENUS
V PENCILS
he largest selling
quality pencil in
iheyvorlci
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
▼
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER)
OIL
EMULSION
and Washing
Disorders
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Potastrop
;ns safety razor blades
da
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
I Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
_ 76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE. MELBOURNE
A Great British Product
iy 2 , 5 and 8
Horse-power
lien?
better
"iiiiifi
JUNIOR
OIL
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY OSED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative: —
LEE It. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents:—
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Ridd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd., 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
Pipes of Quality
Made from Century-old Briar
in all popular shapes.
The upper pipe shows the famous
MARCEE-DE-LUXE —made from French
Selected Briar Root. Beautifully marked
and fitted with Silver Mount and superior
Vulcanite Mouthpiece. A pipe to ue proud
of. Unique value at the price quoted.
All Tobacconists 8 Stores, 10/- each.
The lower pipe features the famous
NEW ERA —the GBD Xtra. The
briar used for these pipes is over 100
years old. Subjected to special
hardening and seasoning processes,
which emphasise the beauty and
blackness of the matured briar. .A
joy to the pipe smoker. f£i_
All Tobacconists 8 Stores, 15/ - each.
If you find it difficult to obtain
these pipes—send remittance to
Box HO2 G.1'.0., SYDNEY, and
your order will receive prompt
attention.
::Ef
m
Hvrmu
fim
HS
$
res
JkjaMl
<Sb
The hard-wearing
qualities of COLO
TYRES testify to
the high quality of
their construction
Aslc yoiir Garagt
The Colonial Rubber Co. Ltd.
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney*
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St. Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street. Perth: 47 King Street.
Brisbane; 98-100 Edward Street. Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
THE
L
K
■ tass
C-&9af,
<sr
.. -ic= ,
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
. t » t AmoivnlnQin T.i'm.'lft
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 18S».
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up. ..
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
.. £5,000,000
£2,000.000
1,320,000
£3,320,000
• 828.000
£4,148,000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARIvE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACTIAN. Esq.
Chief -Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Denutn Chief Manaaer: JAMES WILSON
SydneyOfflce,6o[Pit* .St. "XiiKSi
Georse St. City *?• Australis, New South Wales.
wS- WraS OFF,CE; 7 t-otSßur,. n.C.,.
“Lantana”: In a funeral notice in the
S. M. Herald (20/10/’2l) the friends of
Mr. Heifer were invited to attend the inter-
ment of Mrs. Bull, his niece.
“Clikker”: Families, is it (B. 13/10/’2l) ?
A Bolarra (Vic.) cocky and his wife in
1918 owned 18 strapping young Aussies.
The three eldest were sons, but not one was
eligible for active service without dad’s con-
sent.
While going strong in her 102nd year,
Mrs. Dumesny, of Quantong, in the Wim-
mera (Vic.), got the summons. She had
long been the district’s oldest inhabitant, and
her descendants would form a fair-sized
colony.
“K. Lee Semay” : A Gyppo guide was show-
ing us the Cheops pyramid when one of the
party asked: “Anybody ever killed off this
pyramid, Abdul?” “Oh, yes, mister,” said
the Gyp, “two Australy soldiers and one
gen’leman.”
“Streb” : This was one amazing result of
a call for essays on Eight-Hour Day in a
Vie. school:—
Eight-Hours Day is the clay on which Jesus was
born. On Eight-Hours Day nobody does any work,
but all the shops are shut, and all the people go to
church.
“Chris”: Trying to repel an earthquake
with powder and shot is about as futile as
trying to shatter ti rainbow with peanuts.
Yet it was how the early settlers at Wel-
lington (iVI.L.) greeted their first ’quake.
They were on guard against an expected
Maori attack, and in the dead of night the
ground ominously quivered. The newchums
put-this down to the tramp of many advanc-
ing natives, and punctured the night with a
volley.
“Te Pana”: Once more Maoriland leads
the way. For the first time, it is believed,
in the British Empire the death sentence has
been carried out after the disagreement of
two juries, and for the first time in the his-
tory of hanging a patent belt contrivance has
been used to support a man so as to assure
a successful send-off from the gallows. Both
apply to the recent Auckland execution of a
Maori murderer.
“Jacaranda”: An Australian doctor tells
me that when travelling in the U.S.A. by
train he found his sleeping berth occupied
by so many others that he felt constrained
to send a protest to the railway company.
In due course he received a very polite reply
thanking him for drawing attention to the
matter, and informing him that such a cause
for complaint had never existed before, and
would never be allowed to exist again, etc.,
etc. The doctor felt a virtuous glow as he
realised what a service he had done to
future travellers; but the glow lasted just
as long as it took him to discover that there
■was a sheet pinned to the letter. This
proved to be his own missive which a care-
less typist had neglected to detach, and on
a corner of it the head-serang had noted:
“Send this Boob bug-letter No. 2.”
“Ali Selim”: Re the ridiculous penalties
for cruelty to animals (B. 13/10/’2l). Here
are two cases that have shown up within
the last few days in Vic. At Warragul a
farmer consigned a calf by rail enclosed in
a box 25in. by 13in. The poor poddy’s legs
were doubled under it, and it had been found
necessary to force its head down so that the
lid might be nailed on. Fined 20s. in a,
district sacred to Cow. At Melbourne City
Court a Dago exhibitor of performing dogs
was convicted of seizing one of his wretched
tykes by the muzzle and stoushing it vio-
lently and frequently in the ribs. Dear old
Notley Moore, P.M., fined him remark-
ing that the case was “not one of gross
cruelty.” Had Spaghetti chewed the mong’s
tail off, as in the case of the tom-cat quoted
in The Bulletin, I dare say it would have
been worth easily 40 bob.
From a man who was born there:—
The Central News reports that Caruso’s mother
was Jessie Donoghue, from Strabane, County Tyrone,
Ireland. Curious how’ the little town keeps cropping
up. It boasts an equal number of Protestants and Catho-
lics, and is just on the border of Donegal, therefore
on the fringe of the new Ulster, which includes
Tyrone, but not Donegal. Woodrow Wilson’s an-
cestors lived in Strabane, and he acknowledged it in a
Note to the local rural council after his election.
Mrs. Green, the historian, -writes that Charles
Thompson, the actual draftsman of the Declaration
of American Independence, came from Strabane, as
did several of the leaders of the American War of
Independence, including some who signed the Declara-
tion. Writer Patrick McGill was connected with
the town, and, notwithstanding some contention
among old Bulletin writers, the parents of John
F. Sheridan (“Widow O’Brien”) were Strabane folk,
and some of the relatives are living there now.
A long queue of well-known people in Australia —
Marshall Lyle, the Melbourne lawyer, is one of them —•
came from the little town of 5000 inhabitants which
seems determined to paste its name round the globe.
“Cleveland” on another sort of jag:—
It is bad enough now to poke round about the
Great Barrier Reef —the only prclsenti available
Toute, by the way, between the populous south of
Australia and the empty and beckoning north and
north-east —but it was far worse in the days before
steam was general and when the charts didn’t help
much. What follows is a sample of what happened
up here less than a hundred years ago.
The Mermaid left Sydney for Raffles Bay (Port
Darwin), and smote a piece of the Barrier Reef
in October, 1829. Her company reached land and
three days afterwards the Swiftsure happened along
and gathered the crowd in. But she collided with an-
other submerged piece of continent, and had both crews
pondering deeply on the uncertainty of travel. Their
ponder lasted two days, when the Governor Ready
blew in. She took off the two crews, and then tried
to walk ashore on May 18, 1830. The three crews
flew to the long-boats and continued the ponder
where it had been left off. They were about fed
up with the monotony when the Comet appeared
and rescued the wrecked, twice-wrecked and thrice-
wrecked mariners ; but she, too, blew out a tyre or
something on a reef somewhere north of Raine
Island. By the time the accumulated reef-smiters
had eaten all the clams and other things within
reach and were regarding the more useless and
plump members of the party speculatively, the
Jupiter breezed along and asked what the crowd
was about. She took them all off, but spilled the
lot out at the entrance to Port Raffles. No one
was lost during the whole Gilbertian business, which
lasted, in the case of the Mermaid people, for 14
months. One of the well-wrecked crew of the
Swiftsure broke his neck two days after arriving,
and the foolishness stopped an far as he was con-
cerned.


Amusements.
g IDNE VS
nV F Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT It E S.
D T N C E VILUAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
CRITERION.
PADDY, THE NEXT BEST THING.
theatre royal.
THEODORE AND CO.
BHAKBPEABEAN
A L productions.
Australian Tour, Short Season only. _ ToJSbvember 19,
inn Tour snort season umj.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, PER m
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILS ,
17 The Banking House, Pitt street, k.yane>. _
yNI O N TIcT U It E lIIEAI It K *
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
■ C. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELISOCIiNE
fm ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
FIREFLY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
KING’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 0,
MAUDE HANNAFORD and FRANK HARVEY in
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MISLBOURNIC
Also SYDNEY.
LYCEUM.
The official picture of the DEMPSEY v. CARPEN-
TIER fight for World’s Championship.
DE LUXE.
VERA GORDON in
THE GREATEST LOVE.
M
A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS
present
MOTHER O’ MINE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Q L I M P I A,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
t Complete New Company of English, American,
Continental and Oriental Artists,
‘rices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- (plus tax).
Reserved Seats 6/- (plus tax).
Plan at Glen’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
MELBOURNE’S BIGGEST MUSICAL FESTIVAL.
HENRI H. VERBRUGGHEN
and the
N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5; THURSDAY, NOVEM-
BER 10; FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11 ; MATINEE
and NIGHT on SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, and
MATINEE THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17.
ON TOUR.
DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
'resented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring South Australia.
m
M
•vSy
m
m
vV/v
SS2
m
m.
m
m
mi
S%K
S 3
§§B
S^VX
S 3
MX
m
<-%k
ysc
ass
0//y\
■£Si
Y//K
m
y//2
y/&
y//,x
y//<
safe
53$
*£■»*
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which main'ains
health aid strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. it
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mik, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ENG.
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
GREATLY.
We are selling Dia-
monds in all forms of
jewellery at 25 per
da
cent, less prices than Fine Diamonds set
we were able to do in Platinum, £24
last year.
The great controlling Diamond Syndicate
have NOT reduced prices; indeed, they have
increased them, but still our prices are 25 per
cent, lower.
HOW?
Great numbers of diamonds —far the greatest
number of Diamonds—are beyond the control
of the Syndicate.
Many parcels are held by those short of
cash. We always have large cash balances, and
so we have bought quantities of diamonds at
from 25 per cent, to 33 per cent, lower than
the figure of a year ago.
Our no profiteering principles cause us to
hand on to Customers the great Savings made
by our good buying—hence our 25 per cent,
reduction in the selling prices of our diamonds.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Amusements.
gKITANNIA THEATRE. MKEISOLRNE
TUB LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELISA THEATRE. MEEISOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SET.ZNICK.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street., Sydney.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Missing Friends.
WANTED, PHIPPS.
IF WILLIAM PHIPPS, nephew of late
William Phipps, of Reading, will com-
municate with BRAIN, Solicitor, Reading,
England, money awaits him.
SPENCER. —Any person knowing the whereabouts
of B. E. SPENCER, Civil Engineer, please coin-
muicate with
SNOWDEN NEAVE & DEMAINE, Solicitors,
433 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
OYDNEY 8-HOUR ART UNION.
OFFICIAL RESULT. Drawn October 29, 1921.
0,
1— -361,080
2
3 345,631
4
5
6
7
8—
9
10—
11—
12—
13—
14—
121,569
238,635
17—
18—
19—
20—
21—
22
23 — 330,763
24
25
26
27
28—
29
30—
31—
32
33
34
35
36
37
38—
39
40—
41—
42
43
44
45
46 — 292,855
47
48—
49
51— |lOl
52
53
54
55
336,270
330,046
149,338
38,571
299,037
146,461
224.775
255,786
-117,2 001151 —296,567|201-
64
65
66
67
68 — 302,438
69
70—
71—
72
73
74
75
76
77
78—
79
80—
81—
82—
83—
84—
85—
86—
87— 207,961
88—
89—
90—
91—
92
93
94
95 — 355,780
96
97
98—
99
50—318,1411100—293,454
102—
103—
104 — 200,661
105—
106—
107—
108—
109— 271,248
110—
111—
112—
113—
114—
115—
116—
117—
118—
119—
120—
121—
122
123
124
125
126
127
128—
129
130—
131—
132
133
134
135
136
137
138—
139 287,822
140—
141—
142
143
144
145
146
147
148—
149
150 — 329,320
152 |202-
153
154
155 — 292,7241205-
156 — 8,606 12 06-
207-
157
158—
159
160—
161— 157,508j211
162 152,095|212
-312,822
-61,772
-344,449
-67,717
-178,293
-281,982|256
-308,647|257-
•5J5
3 S
c s
251-
Ph
-80,901 |3Ol-
-
252 280,628|302—350,212
253 — 202,29L|303—224,686
254-
255-
208—
209 219,258|259—362,862
210— 267,048 j 260 —-252,353
248,642|261—278,908
-293,355 304—70,402
-203,9921305—227,557
-338,1821306 —110,733 |3SC-
-28,253 1307—158,2101357
308-
309-
310-
311-
-108,025
-144,241
-304,473
£ ESK
351
352 83,235
353
354
355
-99,310
214,821
163-
164-
165-
166-
167-
168-
169-
-64,501
-200,128
-317,920
-15,288
-127,511
-181,002
-303,112
213-
214-
215-
216-
217-
218-
219-
220-
221-
222-
223-
224-
225-
-293,447|262—300,376|312-
170—
171—
172
173
174
175
176
177
178—
179
180—
181—
182—
183—
184—
185—
186—
187—
188—
189— 239
190—
-235,657
-336,201
-342,362
-162,863
-359,396
-153,472
-316,553
-23,383
-138,954
-308,439
-259,610
-64,932
-297,985
226 84,704
227
228 199,747
229 309,101
230
231 — 3,882
232
233 302,880
234
235
236
237 — 71,350
238
333,468
263 347,0331313—312,948
264 247,020|314—214,112
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280—
281—
282
283 283,139
284 334—202,271
285 335—308,579
286
287 — 337,3061337 —140,282
288—
289
240 —259,0341290—243,893|340 —211,211
191—352,5061241—77,857 |291—60,290 1341—311,958
192 _262,1021242—198,569|292—338,870|342—54,455
193 92,607 1243 —167,877|293 —186,867|343 —37,046
194 249,9351244 —288,780|294—98,755 |344—205,289
195 —20,588 |295 —324,8871345—331,395
196 —340,482|296—^173,151|346 —192,109
197 1247 —338.1411297—76,839 |347 —122,347
198— 110,648'248 —364,8031298 —267,6901348 —89,260
199 —248,3391299—14,685 (349—244,459
200— 10,391 1250 —341,4061300—146,097(350
358 — 359,902
359
360 — 121.544
279,623|361—158,083
347,885|362 —261,554
‘ 363—94,603
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371 — 152,828
372
373
374 — 60,048
375
376
377
378
379 — 32,543
380 — 223,237
381—
382 — 242,753
383
384
385
386 — 269,970
387 265,738
388 — 355,730
389 — 274,771
390
391 — 66,517
392 — 351,851
393
394
395
396 — 198,748
397 120,356
398
399 200,950
182,0131400 —344,487
315
316
317
318—
319
320
321
322
323
324
325 162,484
326
327
328
329
330 — 86,558
331 344,779
332
333 88,228
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Ait
Union, and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner and with absolute fairness,
* t #• .sHWß.’ssr
R. MAHONY, M.L.C.
C. SANDERSON, Sunday News.
0. CHUROHLAND, The Sun.
F. W. CLARKE, J.P., Australian Worker. aiu. vv ' ' ’a t it r it F? 1 at
The Prizes will he paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, at
10 a.m., at the Trades Hall, Goulbum Street, Sydney. Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney, October 29, 1921. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secietary.
FOR
A CHOICE CIGAR
CALL FOR A—
Club Reil
Sold by all first-
class Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing 1 0
cigars, 6/-
25 cigars, 12/6
50 „ 23/9
100 „ 46/-
dada
Post Paid to Any Address in the Commonwealth.
CRAIG &AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
No needle-changing with
an Edison Amberola.
These fine instruments are fitted with the famous Diamond
Stylus Reproducer, which always remains in place and
produces a clear, perfect tone.
And the Amberol Records they
play are unwearable and practically
unbreakable; they may be played
over thousands of times without any
loss of tone. This is a big economy,
for ordinary talking-machine records
are soon worn out and useless.
There are many models to choose from, but
all provide the same fund of joyous amuse-
ment.
Your nearest Edison dealer will gladly give you a
practical demonstration. Illustrated Booklet, post
free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
0
English Hats,
Just arrived the latest Shapes
and Colors, at a Price which
will save us the embarrassment
of trying to get along with last
season's hat.
We are glad to be able to pass
along to the well-dressed man
this opportunity of selecting a
Hat of Traditional Hunt quality
at a price which means getting
very close to pre-war.
30/-
Our revised prices give new
life to the action of well
dressing.
Richard Hunt 8 Co
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
If neglected may bring
about serious disturb-
ances to heaUh. Head-
ache and Indigestion
are often traceable to
this cause. Get relief by
taking the ever reliable
Kruse's
fluid
Majjnesw
'mitations are being
of sred. The genuine
i ruse’s is made by
I elton, Grim wade &
Co. Prop. Ltd., Melb.
Legal Notices.
t N THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
1 MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
To JAMES ORLAN VINEY the husband of
Marjorie Jessie Viney.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued out Of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of the said Marjorie Jessie
Viney wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that within
thirty days after the Fifth day of November one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one the date of
the last publication of this notice you are to appear
in our said Court then and there to make answer to
the said Petition which may be inspected and a
copy thereof obtained by you upon application at
the office of the Registrar at the Supreme Court at
Hobart aforesaid AND ALSO TAKE NOTICE that
in default of your appearing to answer the said
Petition as aforesaid a. Judge of our said Court
will proceed to hear the said charge proved in due
course of law and to pronounce sentence therein
your absence notwithstanding AND TAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
davs from the said fifth day of November one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one to attend in
person or by your Proctor at the Registry of the
Supreme Court and enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.
DATED at Hobart in Tasmania this nineteenth day
of October one thousand nine hundred and twenty-
° ne ’ W. 0. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Douglas & Collins,
Launceston,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
If anv illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9cL
20 for 1/6
Count the points —
of “ Prince Charming ’ cigar-
ettes their delightful mild
fragrance due to the heautifu lly
mellowed and ripened Virginia
leaf, the perfection of their
paper and packing. The ' Prince
Charming is thoroughly
worthy of its name. It is
the Prince of cigarettes and a
favourite with all.
CT>
*
31
5
TP-~-
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London , England.
A 24
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Maid of the Mountains"
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
Criterion “Paddy, the Next Best Thing”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Firefly”
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera
King’s “The Sign on the Door”
Princess’s N.S.W. State Orchestra
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
-
Not everything that the Mermaid Society
produces at; Melbourne Playhouse can be
entertaining in the teeth of amateur per-
formance. Bernard Shaw’s “Augustus
Does His Bit” (coupled with “The Title”
for three nights last week) had an unso-
phisticated appearance in the hands of the
two men and a lady who tried to interpret
its crudely obvious satire on the British
War Office and its somewhat shamefaced
Shavian sneers at British patriotism and
people. The playlet was written under the
author’s war-time sense of unpopularity,
and he laid the satire on with a trowel in
the hope, perhaps, of placating the Govern-
ment’s critics. All the same, the skit was
not really so raw’ as it seemed at the Play-
house, from which one came away doubt-
ing whether the unique humorist could ever
have been devilish funny in other plays.
Things were different with “The Title,” by
Arnold Bennett. This story lends itself
to amateur handling. The father of a bright
young son and daughter, in the advanced
democratic stage of education, has a
baronetcy offered to him. Though he doesn’t
want it himself any more than his offspring
do, his wife means to have it: and liis typiste
threatens to leave him if the indignity is
refused. The managing matron finally routs
the enemy, and her ladyship conducts her
prisoners to luncheon, where her ladyship’s
health will have to be proposed by a fond
and complacent hubby. Miss Irene Webb
played the wife with considerable force and
feeling, Dulcie Bland was bright and self-
possessed in the easier part of an inspired
young journalist, and Mary Curtain did
very well as the typiste w T ho simply doted on
any sort of a lord, or apology for one. W.
Holman was. oddly unlike a possible brother
of Miss Bland, otherwise he shaped satisfac-
torily as a green and early radical, w’hilst
Helton Daniel 1 repeated his practised virtues
of a pleasant manner and a calm repose up
to a point. Unfortunately his gestures are,
jerky, and he betrayed so much polite inter-
est in the conversation of his intend'd
narents-in-law that they might almost have
been giving secret tips for the Cup. Lind-
say Ryde, in the all-important character of
the betitled parent, w’as handicapped by an
air of youthfulness under a sort of barber-
block disguise. he made a
favorable impression, speaking*his lines with
a confidence wanting in D. T. Hoare, who
played an incidental adventurer with hearty
emphasis—and frequent loss of memory on
the first night. Bennett’s humorous comedy
“THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND,”
AT THE OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Frank Neil disguised in the super-ziff of
Granger.
created its own atmosphere of realism,
whereas Shaw’s labored gibe had brought out
all the weakness of the co.
Melbourne paid the memories of old
friends Gilbert and Sullivan the compliment
of rushing “The Gondoliers” with a rush
denied to entertainments of later date. Out-
standing facts in connection with this re-
vival of Gilbert’s gentle satire on republican
spirit were the rugged vivacity of the per-
formance in most respects, a new contralto
(Molly Tyrell) in place of Ethel Morri-
son’s more refined Duchess, and the exceed-
ing griminess of a backcloth. The combined
effect of Luiz and Oasilda had been matured
by the presence of Ralston as the alleg;d
young fellow, and the plump importance of
Miss Strella Wilson, whose gain in stage
exnerience since her first appearance in the
part is as valuable as her line, honest sing-
ing. Hobbs, though not as alertly artistic
as-Hay, showed improvement in his act ng;
Walenn, as the Duke of Plaza Toro, was a
little disposed to presume on his popularity ;
Ivavanagh’s Grand Inquisitor had a fruitier
tone than ever; Patti Russell sang charm-
ingly ; and Thelma Carter, whose warble
has many touches of mere talk in it, still
persisted in an excess of facial expression
and a superabundance of make-up. All the
people in minor parts, notably Charles Met-
tam and Peggy Thyer, helped to make the
opera go. The bill at Her Majesty’s is “The
Mikado” for the moment. “Yeomen of the
Guard” begins on Saturday, and “Princess
Ida,” “Patience” and “Pinafore” will be
crammed into next week.
Gibson Young’s bright idea of a Music
Week has been eagerly adopted, and the
Festival will break out at the Melbourne
Town Hall next Monday with Community
Singing by 500 voices. Mass attacks on
various popular tunes will occur in town
halls, parks, factories, schools, theatres and
hospitals; even gaol residents are invited to
contribute their bit to the uproar. In the
State schools Director Tate has ordered a
half-day to be devoted to concerts and musi-
cal discourses illustrated by gramophone
selections. A couple
of amateur opera-
ti c performances
ar e programmed
for more culchawed
listeners at Her
Majesty’s (mat-
inee) and the
Melba Hall, the
latter being also
commandeered for a
series of chamber-
music concerts, lec-
tures and lecture-
recitals. But that
is not half the din
that is promised.
There will be
brass-band p e r-
formances, church
music, private con-
certs by music
teachers and a
grand climax of
clamor by an or-
chestra of 250 and
a choir of 1000 in
t h e Exhibition.
Melbourne will be
heard in Tasmania
next week.
“On Out Selection,”
at Melbourne
Princess’s.
W. Driscoll as uncle.
Shifted to the King’s for its expiring
efforts, “Wedding Bells” will fall no more
on Melbourne’s ear after to-night (Thurs-
day). The advt. states that England is
waiting for Joseph Coyne, and Melbourne,
having learned his impersonation of harassed
domestic indiscretion by heart, is bravely
resolved to let Joseph go. On Saturday this
week Maude Hannaford and Frank Harvey
will have most to say in “The Sign on the
Door.”
* * *
“Firefly,” since its removal to Melbourne
Royal, has lost the autumnal-tinted leaves
that formerly grew against the happy home
where so many people conspire to mistake
Rene Maxwell for a boy. In other respects
the show looks the same as it did at Her
Majesty’s. The conspiracy aforesaid puts
a severe strain on public (credulity, but it
had to be. If Miss M. were not presented
part of the time in pants the piece would
possess no plot.
* * ❖ *
After “Our Selection” had been ejected
from Melbourne King’s by force of circum-
stances, Bailey and Grant carried the inde-
structible popularity of their play to the
Princess’s, and until to-morrow night Dad
will chase Billy Bearup off those premises.
On Saturday, also on Thursday, Friday and
Saturday next week, and one Thursday
afterwards, the N.S.W. Orchestra that grew’
up under Verbruggheh’s care will make
music at the Princess’s.
Cup week is no time for a change of
vaudeville bill at Melbourne Tivoli, and last
week’s items are. prospering under the
patronage of new audiences. Dampier, Lot-
tie Collins, jun., Stuart Barnes, the Trees,
and one or two later arrivals are doing two
turns per diem at the Tiv. till further orders.
A Melbourne picture-show
Penlcigh Boyd’s lot in the main hall of the Mel-,
bourne Athenneum includes one or two old friends,
but there is much new work in his decorative manner.
A couple of fresh wattle studies display his ten-
deucy to dabble in clotted yellows, but both can-
vases are marked by more delicacy and restraint
than some previous visions of our national blossom.
Portsea is once more the topic of his brush, and
his undeviating regard for the little jetty is re-
vealed by still another study in a pearl-grey setting.
The coast-line at Lome is brilliantly reproduced in
oil and water-color, but his seaside painting is less
appealing than his dexterous pictures of the bush
Though he is rather demonstrative in the frequent
use of high lights on trees his achievement in this
section is always charming, “Morning,” “Spring
Morning,” “The Copse” and several more all seent
the expression of a poetic personality.
v ❖ 'l*
This week Hoyt’s are hoping for swollen
coffers from “The Greatest Love,” which
depicts Vera Gordon, the charmer of the
popular “Humoresque,” swayed by further
spasms of maternal affection. In the pre-
sent item Vera is faced with the problem of
surrendering her son or daughter for murder,
and the tremendous strain of the situation is
shown in yards of agitated film. At the
Lyceum the Cup week attraction is the
swooning of Carpentier after colliding with
Dempsey’s fist at Jersey City. The camera
registers every blow of the battle, and has
also turned its eye on various aspects of the
warriors’ preparations. At the Majestic
“Hush” discourses on the necessity of a
woman concealing a previous affaire from
her husband. Conscience makes a confs sor
of Clara Ivimball Young, the heroine of the
picture, and she soaks many a hanky in
futile regrets for her foolish candor. On
the same bill 11. B. Warner tosses “The Dice
of Destiny” with results that are reported
with melodramatic trimmings. The Britan-
nia is concerned with “A Broken Doll” and
the crippled che-ild who is the owner thereof,
whilst the Melba’s screen is occupied by
“The Wise Fool,” a yarn that was inspired
by Gilbert Parker’s “Money Master.”
H= * =!< *
In the performance of Shaw’s “Dark Lady
of the Sonnets” and Galsworthy’s "Founda-
tions,” the Sydney Repertory Society
touched its high-water mark, and, inciden-
tally, refuted an old gibe that it left its
women without even their natural capacity
to act a part. In each play on Saturday
night the artistic honors fell to a woman,
and the Playhouse audience warmed to
the brilliance of the portrayals. The two
to score the triumph were Eleanor Ross, the
roaming Queen Bess in the Bernard Shaw
packet of tricks, and Erna Living, who was
Mrs. Lemmy in the other —Mrs. Lemmy,
mother of the revolutionary plumber, and
one of the sweated workers that are the
backbone of an Empire’s trade. The Shaw
interlude is woven around a tryst between
Will Sbakspeare (Gregan McMahon) and
his dark-rose Mary Fitton (Doris Fitton).
Queen Bess comes on walking in her sleep
and living again the murder of Mary of
Scots; and the play ends on the divine
Will’s appeal for a National Theatre —which
the virgin forgets to grant before retiring.
Eleanor Ross was the perfect Elizabeth of
Shaw’s nimble brain, and Gregan McMahon
made Shakspeare feasible as a breaker of
hearts. Doris Fitton and the Beefeater de-
serve an honorable mention. The Gals-
worthy “Foundations” gives a glimpse of
England after the war —when all the news-
paper and political prophecies about the
new era of the Brotherhood of Man have
fallen through. The dialogue is as ironic
as life itself, with much discussion of the
state of things, and a wonderful character-
isation in the second act of Mrs. Lemmy and
her revolutionary gas-and-water son (-Harold
Watch). Two clever little girls, Molly
Peters . (Aida, the slum child) and Eileen
Gordon (Anne Dromondy), xvere respon-
sible for a great deal of the evening’s some-
what biting amusement. Mrs. Langloh
Want made brief appearances as the sump-
tuous Lady William Dromondy, whose stage
husband (Gerald Carr) was one of the best
in a fine cast, which included also Vincent
Doyle, Albert Collins, Ruth Bedford and
F. H. Day.
A Sydney Town Hall audience weltered
in Tschaikowsky on Saturday afternoon,
when the Cherniavsky brothers unleashed
their instruments in competition with the
State Orchestra. Mischel, Jan and Leo had
a warm welcome after long absence, and
showed that, like the goodly Biblical char-
acter, they have been using the years to mul-
tiply their talent. In the Rococo theme and
Variations for the ’cello and orchestra, Mis-
chel showed a mellowed art; Jan followed
with the first movement of the B flat Minor
piano concerto,* in which he was alternately
brilliant, powerful and occasionally exquis-
itely tender. The violinist’s choice was an-
other slice of Tschaikowsky served with the
sound artistic quality that truly-musical
audiences have learned to expect from the
trio.
First impressions of “Theodore and C 0.,”
at the Royal, Sydney, did not justify the
press-agent’s hyperbole, but judicious car-
pentry has made a rather better job of it.
The absence that sometimes makes the heart
grow fonder and the head larger has done
no visible harm to Willie Percy, and in Cecil
Ivelleway he has found an adequate partner.
Nor has Maude Fane lost the capacity to
inspire romantic interest of the mind that
spells heavy booking.
Two fillies from the J.C.W. stable —“The
Maid of the 'Mountains” at Her Majesty’s
and “Paddy, the Next Best Thing,” at the
Criterion —are doing their best to dispel the
gloom of the large section of Sydney that
lost its money oh the Melbourne Cup.
“THE DARK LADY OF THE SON-
NETS,” AT SYDNEY PLAYHOUSE.
Gregan McMahon as William Shakspeare.
Harry Musgroye, in charge of the Syd-
ney Tivoli nowadays, is an indefatigable
fossicker for new material. Current new-
comers are Davis and Lea (acrobats),
Edna and Paul (Pommy patterists), Mau-
rice Sterndale (jazz violinist) and Lance
Fairfax (baritone).. The old brigade are
still in good demand, notably songbird Rosa
Alba and the Chinese conjurers.
The old, old query “Should a wife spill
the beans about her lurid past?” gets
thrashed out once more at Sydney Lyceum
with Clara Kimball Young as the beauteous
wife who chooses her husband 'as Father
Confessor. The same house shelters another
tragedy of the rich —“Closed Doors,” which
deals with the bright new idea of a husband
older than his wife who devotes his time to
business instead of to the lady of the house.
“Wings of Love” stretch themselves at the
Strand, where a young man who thinks he
is Napoleon also finds harborage. At the
Globe and Haymarket Arnold Bennett’s
“Book of Carlotta” becomes transmuted to
“Sacred and Profane Love,” with Elsie Fer-
guson as Carlotta, whose early life is
moulded in one of the clay towns which Ben-
nett knows so intimately. Carlotta has a
night out on her 21st birthday with a wizard
of Chopin, and after that the worst happens.
So that’s the fate in store for One-and-
twenty if she goes gay with Chopin! The
Empress and Majestic indulge in secrlet
matrimony, and are disentangled only after
many reels of good film; and Hoyt’s, the
Piccadilly and Australian tremble to “Re-
morseless Love.”
Adelaide is of opinion either that “Scan-
dal,” now having crowded houses at the Royal,
has been modified to meet local taste/ or
that other cities were shocked with undue
ease. What the unusual story might be
like in other hands is arguable, but the act-
ing of Frank Harvey and Maude Hanna-
ford, sincere as well as brilliant, gets over
the thin places without falling in. The
Town Hall proved not big enough for Clara
Butt, and she had to give the Exhibition
a turn. Levitzki and his prc are just
coming in. The Majestic pictures [ which
announce that they will shortly move into
the new York theatre) are mainly concerned
with assault and battery in an American
factory—“ The Blue Pearl,” with some new
players. Wondergraph is half Douglas Mc-
Lean and half a drama in a lovely Devon-
shire setting, “The Call of Youth”; while
at West’s one Wakefield (played by Her-
bert Rawlinson) essays to show what Sher-
lock Holmes might be like if he lived in
these up-to-date times.
A note from C. 0. Hickling:—
There was no justification for tRe statement in a
par. about the Queensland vice-regal visit to Cunna-
mulla (B. 20/10’/21), that the position of shire
clerk was given to a selector without a badge. I
am the eldest of three boys. My brothers went to
the war, and 1 (a married man with two children)
wag rejected by Dr. Murray, of Cunnamulla, on
account of my eyesight. Further, I wasn’t a selector
when appointed shire clerk, and hadn’t held land
for 12 months.


m
mrj
WADE
ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
The only Drag Saw fitted with a Transport
Wheel and Barrow . Handles.
WILL CUT 11 TONS OF Bin. WOOD PER DAY
WILL CROSSCUT A LOG 2ft. DIAMETER
ONE FOOT PER MINUTE.
Can supply Tree-felling and Buzz Saw Attachment if required.
Full particulars:
W. G. Watson 8 Co. Limited
E-ledlrical Suppliers,
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
Tel. City 9967-8-9.
V-
&
J
l\ »
Every Man'
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping.
This is where the “Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
t\ 4
v\Vx
Tf/vf/w'
))'}
u&
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
LTD.,
Broughton House,
Clarence and King Streets,
SYDNEY.
The word “ Valet" on Razors,
Strops, and Blades indicates the
genuine Product of the Auto Strop
Satety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207,
City Road, London, England.
/
3*s
SSS
A
mwi
'Brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax —the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax —
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


%
H
■
m
m
m
m
i
¥
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONTde PJ ETE
754 St. Sydney\
Phone City 9325.
CaitJ & 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagrh Street, Sydney.
159 Georgre Street West, Sydney.
Thole & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Hamfat”: When the McMahons were
running blood and thunder at the Lyceum
they struck a fine property in the shape of
a lion tame enough for introduction to the
boards. It belonged to a showman in diffi-
culties. Charlie McMahon, who always re-
minded me of Dickens’s Crummies, promntlv
dug up a play in which a live lion could
be introduced ; and the spectacle of the fero-
cious beast moving about on the stage drew
awestricken crowds for a week. One night,
however, something went wrong; and next
day Charlie told one of the stage-hands what
he thought of him. “I am informed,” he
said with cutting severity, “that the blasted
fox-terrier belongs to you. You will have
to keep it away from this theatre in future
or keep away yourself. I won’t have it
frightening that poor lion.”
“T. 0.1.”: The sale of the Royal Hotel
premises in George-street, Sydney, recalls
that in 1837-8-9 Joe Wyatt leased the old
“The Silence of Dean
Maitland,” at Sydney
Opera House.
Rev. Frank Gorman,
the actor-parson, as
Dean Maitland.
theatre stood on
the site. In 1838
he built the Vic-
toria Theatre in
Pitt-street (now
McCathie’s drap-
ery store), which
he opened with a
strong company in
“Othello.” The
Vic. eventually
passed out of his
hands, and in
1855 he built the
Prince of Wales in
Castlereagh - street.
He also gave this
up, and the place
•was sold at a
quarter of its
value. Financial
troubles were
pressing heavily
on the little
pioneer when he
went west. He
lies under a
stunted bush in
the Camperdown
Cemetery. If in-
stead of speculat-
ing in playhouses
he had held on to
the “Golden Cor-
ner’’’ (Waters’),
which he bought
in 1834 at £55 a
foot, he would have driven a smoother track.
“C. Ockney” : A mummer friend recently
returned from the “dry” U.S.A. went to a
New York tailor to get measured for a suit.
The man with the tape asked: “About the
pockets—what size?” “Oh,” said the new-
chum, “about the usual.” “Wal,” was the
rejoinder, “you’d better decide right away.
W e make ’em half-pint, pint or quart size—
what’s yours?”
b.T.”: The American widow lately
Duchess of Marlborough has made a small
sensation in London by getting remarried
(to a French colonel) at 8.30 in the morning
' really 7.30, as “summer time” was prevail-
ing in England. It recalls the bride in “The
Belle of New York,” to whom the officiating
clergyman puts the official question : “Have
you been married before to-day?” To which
the much-divorced lady replies indignantly:
“Married before to-day? Why, my good
man, it’s barely 12 o’clock!”
Under a new immigration law only 287
Australians—three per cent, of the number
already in the country—may enter the U.S.A.
in a twelvemonth as settlers. Australia
will have to retaliate, and that promptly.
If it doesn’t —well, this is from the ’Frisco
Bulletin :—•
Fabulous salaries paid American stage stars in
Australia brought the tour of the musical comedy
“Irene” in the Antipodes to grief, according to
Thelma Maloney, one of the principals, who, with
others of the cast, returned here on the Ocea lie
liner Sonoma. Australian producers are paying enor-
mous wages for American dramatic lights. The
principals of “Irene” were imported from the United
States, and the chorus was recruited in Australia.
“The star made so much money that it turned her
head,” Miss Maloney declared. “After a tour of a
few months she broke her contract to come back to
this country in grand style. No one was a a liable
as a substitute, and there was nothing for the com-
pany to do but disband.”
Nothing but a retaliatory three per cent,
enactment will save Poverty Point from
being engulfed by a horde of gum-cliewing
strangers in search of those “fabulous
salaries.”
“K. Anaka”: Gladys Moncrieff got her
first Gilbert and
Sullivan experi-
ence through Mal-
colm Fardon,
school teacher at
Townsville West
(Q.) State school.
He was an enthu-
siastic G. and S.
man, and put “Pina-
fore,” Gondoliers”
and “The Pirates”
into the tonic
sol fa, teaching his
classes something,
as he said, worth
while. When he
produced these
operas in place of
the ordinary school
concert the kiddies
did big business,
and were after-
wards taken t o
Charters Towers,
them booming,
where the suc-
cesses were re-
peated. Gladys
Moncrieff was the
star, closely fo 1-
lowed by Agnes
Rawes, contralto,
who afterwards
■went into vaude-
vi 11 e. Muriel
George Gee in “Fire-
fly,” at Melbourne
Royal.
Willis and Alice Caddow, who were in
the same cast, also became professionals.
The Pirate King became a butcher.
“O.Iv.”: In a recent collection of repre-
sentative American productions, the first
play, included only because a classic American
litterateur created the name character which
Dion Boucicault and Joseph Jefferson eventu-
ally altered “out of knowledge” for stage pur-
poses, is “Rip Van Winkle.” The play has
no literary merit, but the account of how it
came to be evolved from previous dramatisa-
tions of Washington Irving’s story, Rip being
changed into a young man to suit the actor’s
personality, and his accent being made Ger-
man because Jefferson was not an accom-
plished Dutch dialectician like his prede-
cessor Plackett—these facts have some
theatrical historical interest. One is thus
reminded that the late J. C. Williamson’s
clever performance of Rip was more true to
the Dutch original than lnc-
identally, an astonishing feature of the edi-
tor’s introduction to these “representative
plays” is his reference to Dion Boucicault the
elder as “this Irish-American playwright,
whose jovial prolixity enriched the
American stage of the ’sixties and
’seventies.” America’s claim to “the
father of Irish drama” must be based
on the circumstance that he first produced
“The Colleen Bawn” in New York, and fol-
lowed it with “The Octoroon.” He was an
Irishman, who got some education at a pri-
vate school near London (my father acted in
schoolboy theatricals with him) before pro-
ceeding to London University. His first
play was “London Assurance,” produced at
Covent Garden when Dion was 19, and not
till 12 years later did he go to America to
produce his little lot of English plays at Wal-
laces Theatre, New York. Subsequently
be lived for longer stretches of months in
America than in England, but his most sensa-
ti°nal dramas, dealing with exaggerations of
English life, were staged in Loudon for the
tinie—'-l ormosa,” “Flying Scud” and
Alter Dark, to mention some of them.
“Morob” i There is an actor in Australia
who could supply a wealth of information
in answer to a recent Bulletin query as
to whether hanging is painless. His know-
ledge was gained at the old Adelphi in Syd-
ney, where he was one of the cast of “Queen
of the Bedskins,” with Ethel Buckley as the
heroine. The mummer in question was a
cowboy. The only thing of any importance
he had to do was to be hanged from the back
a hor . se b y a P air o f desperadoes so that
the heroine might bring dowm the house by
dashing in and cutting the rope with a well-
aimed bullet. The scene was worked by
means of a slip-knot on a rope operated
from the flies, a quick jerk being sufficient
to part it. But on the opening night some-
thing went wrong, with the result that the
trick refused to work, and the unfortunate
actor was dragged off his horse and left to
dangle. Just as his eyes were protruding
the situation and his life were saved by a
brawny stage-hand grabbing him by the legs
and lifting him up while somebody used a
knife. I don’t know whether hanging is
attended by any pain 0 r not, but I do know
that that experimenter required no urging
to substitute some business that was a little
less risky.
“Snell”; A Melbourne ’cellist claims to
have received the most incisive tip for Caul-
held Cup. On the Friday night he had
been playing at a concert, and dumped his
instrument in a corner of his bedroom. He
dreamed horses, but only in a confused way.
Once, however, he awakened with a clear
idea that his ’cello had called to him. He
w ®“t to sleep again, and again his ’cello
called. He sat up this time, and next day
put £7 on Violoncello at 17 to 1. The
bookie returned him £l2O. That evening,
overhauling his instrument before starting
out, he found that two of the strings had
snapped. And that was why the ’cello had
spoken.
“L.E.”: If “The Beggars’ Opera” makes
its ie-appearance in Australia (it was pro-
duced here in the digging days, which seem
to be our Golden Age of acting), pur musi-
eal-larce trained audiences will be surprised,
probably disappointed, *n find how charming
how lively, a masterpiece may sometimes be.
Ihe music, a medley of fine old English
songs, delighted London for over a year;
and Gay s satire, very slightly expurgated
by Arnold Bennett, despite its handicap of
age (Gay was a friend of Swift and I’ope),
seemed keener, wittier and even fresher than
the suet-pudding of the Victorian idol, Gil-
bert.
Mel.”: That capital old actor Joe Gra-
■ am ,Vr, 0 realised the lawyer and guardian
.he _ Man from Toronto,” was lately
playing in Birmingham at a theatre he
managed long ago. His Sir Peter Teazle
was praised by local critics as an interesting-
evidence of Josephs evergreen ability.
O. Blin” : “Ancient Prompter’s” reference
.?Lf U ( m 01 '" )ait) T ag , (B ‘ 27 /iO/ recalls the
late Charles I rohman’s reply to a gallery
critic on the first night of one of hit New
.rk plays. Irohman had produced the
piece to oblige an old friend, and was quite
prepared for the uproarious appreciation of
the heavily-papered house when he appeared
to voice his thanks at the end of the show.
Ihe gale of applause arrived all right, but
above the hollow thunder of the numerous
deadheads I rohman caught the jeer of a
galleryite. Looking up at the dissentient
with a heavenly smile he said: “I’m glad to
notice one person has paid to come in.” G
B Shaw was equally sardonic when called
before the curtain after an unsuccessful
premiere at a Dondon theatre. Assailed by
a solitary hiss when the rest of the audience
pretended to be mad with enthusiasm, Shaw
turned to the interrupter with : “I quite agree
with you, my friend: but what can one do
when these fools ivill clap?”
. “Middle Blue” : Ailsa Grahame, now play-
ing in “Skittles” at the Apollo Theatre,
London, is a Sydney girl who made her first
appearance in her birth-town with the Syd-
ney Stage Society. Gerald Kay Souper
polished the rough diamond.
Black Out”: Jennie Pollock, just dead,
took her last Sydney curtain at the Grand
Opera House, then the Adelphi. Violet
Paget and Hugh Buckler helped to litter the
stage with rice for Jennie and her brand-
new husband, Ross-Simpson. Of the hun-
dreds of plays in which Miss Pollock had
appeared, her husband had collected every
programme except her very last. He pre-
deceased her by a year or so.
. “E.T.”: Died recently, while on a yacht-
ing trip—a guest of Solly Joel, the S’African
millionaire and ever a good friend to mum-
mers—Lauri de Freece, the well-known Lon-
don comedian, who was the original Tonio
(Phil Smith’s character) in “The Maid of
the Mountains” at Daly’s. De Freece was
married to Fay Compton, one of the most
accomplished leading leadies on the West
End boards, just now appearing in the re-
vival of Barrie’s “Quality Street,” at the
Haymarket. He was her second husband.
Her first was Harry Pelissier, the inventor
of the famed Follies entertainment.
“Te Pana”: For many years Fred Foley
was the best one-man-show working Maori-
land. lie did magic, juggling, ventrilo-
quism, bell-ringing and shadowgraphy in
country schoolhouses and small halls, his
“THE FOUNDATIONS.” At SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Gerald Carr as Lord William; F. H. Day
as the Press: and Harold Watch as
Lcmmy.
only ad. being a simple canvas streamer
hung over the gatepost. Fred took the
tickets at the door, and, when 8 o’clock
sounded, would look up and down the road-
way for intending clients. If a late-comer
arrived during the progress of a sleight-of-
hand trick the artist courteously stopped,
marched down the aisle, collected the bob
and apologised for the interruption. Fred’s
show was mostly interruptions, but so pro-
fitable that he now runs a thriving pub in
Wellington.
“Vandorian” (London) : Does any other
old country worship Success quite so fever-
ishly as England V Last year a London
crowd nearly walked over Mary Pickford
and Doug Fairbanks. Excited mobs dogged
their taxi-tours, surrounded their hotel and
clamored for a Pickford smile to go on with.
Now Charlie Chaplin is in danger of being
smothered by Cockneys. One crowded work-
ing-class suburb, Acton, certainly shows
signs of cooling off. The hero had promised
to attend the old Globe Theatre in that con-
gested hub on Saturday afternoon for a
kiddies’ treat. Thousands of poor young-
sters travelled miles to be there, mostly on
their own bare feet. Over 20,000
made the pathetic pilgrimage. But Charlie
Chaplin did not grace the scene. Nor did
he send an apology. Queen Mary seems to
keep her head on these occasions. The
awful news leaked out a while ago that
H.M. had asked a Gold-Stick-in-Waiting
“Who is Charlie Chaplin?”
“Cootee”: Melbourne’s second theatre, the
Queen’s, built in 1845 by J. T. Smith, six
times Mayor, still stands in Queen-street,
between Bourke and Little Bourke. It is
occupied by Fallshaw Brothers as a billiard-
table factory. George Coppin and G. V.
Brooke made their first Melbourne appear-
ances in the Queen’s —Coppin in “The Lady
of Lyons,” and Brooke in “Othello.” It
also housed the city’s first pantomime, “The
Goblin of the Gold Coast; or Harlequina
and the Melbournites in California,” a
locally-written production and a financial
success withal.
“Yarra Ben”: I sampled “Firefly” the
other evening from the gallery, and found
little in the show to enthuse over till Hugh
D. Mclntosh appeared on the stage. Then
I couldn’t help giving a hearty cheer. The
man beside me woke up and inquired what
I was making “all that row about.” When
I told him he growled an imprecation and
said : “Mclntosh ! Why, that’s George Gee,”
and went to sleep again. But hasn’t any-
body else noticed the resemblance?
THE FATTENING PROCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vocal exercise is indubitably fattening. A pro-
fessional singer who is still thin at 30 is a rara avis.
It has now been demonstrated that the singing-bird,
too, is invariably plump.” —London musical publica-
tion.
Tom Coleman’s flock was musical—^
Pa, ma and Pat and Marguerite:
You’ve seen their names on every wall
That takes a bill in any street.
They were “The Musical Malones.”
But fortune, grown unkind of late,
Had killed their game. They were not drones,
They did not wait:
Their special charm
They loosed upon a chicken farm.
Tom’s run was stocked with hens in scores,
And Pat delivered daily throngs
Of fattened chickens to the stores,
And to the pubs and restyrongs ;
And soon throughout the neighb’ring town
The reputation of their chicks
Brought showers of money raining down ;
Now three-and-six
Tom gets, I hear,
For every chicken he can rear.
The fatness of the Coleman birds
A wonder is to all around.
The neighbors’ chickens but two-thirds
The weight of Tom’s are always found.
Since men and women singing gaily
Grow ever fatter, why not chicks?
Tom gives them singing lessons daily
From eight to six.
So all along
His birds he’s fattened for a song.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
non-magnetic Levers, £2/15/-
J-plate, £3.
With Elgin movement, £4,
Solid Silver Hunting, £5.
Extra-jewelled, £5/10/-, £6/10,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. solid Gold, Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Octagon Wristlet Strap
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet open face, lever move-
ment, 30/-, 40/-; Silver Case, £3, £3/10/-,
£4; Gold-filled, £5, £5/10/-; Set. Gold,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-
Guaranteed Watches.
ALL
WATCHES
ARE
PERSONALLY
GUARANTEED.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade open-face Lever
Watch, chronometer balance, £2, £2/10/-
Extra-quality works, £3, £3/10/-, £4.
WATCH
REPAIRS
A
SPECIALTY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l5.
WRITE FOR WATCH BOOKLET. WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
f’s ''
m :.! &&•: ;;i
mWism
mmmsm
mrnmm
«w
ill
Wamm,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunting, 10-
year-guarantee, American Lever Watches,
£5; 20-year Case, £6/10/ 25-year Case,
£B/10/-
9pt. solid Gold, £l5; 14ct Gold,
18et. Gold, £25, £3O.
£2O
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, jewelled, 25/-,
30/-; Silver Case, £2, £2/10/-, £3; Oct. Gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-
d
“BILLABONG” WINDMILLS.
■
&
y.
ryt
5S
CL*
3*
IVEN an adequate source to draw
from—river, creek, dam, or bore-
-11 ulu 11 v ci, uaiii) ui uuic-
hole—a “BILLABONG” Wind-
mill Plant will put an end to all worries
connected with your water supply for
stock or household use. It will give out-
and-out satisfaction to every owner,
everywhere, and all the time.
If you are contemplating the purchase
of a Windmill, investigate the merits of
the “BILLABONG. “BILLABONG”
Troughing and Fluming are other
bers of the same family, that are
reliable in their service-giving qualities.
The “BILLABONG” Windmill is built to ensure
the utmost reliability under all conditions. Its effici-
ency is due to a number of patented features not found
in any other windmill, while its simplicity of construc-
tion permits of it being sold at the price of an ordinary
mill.
The “BILLABONG” is fitted with a patent governor
and regulator, which automatically controls the wheel
in heavy gales, but leaves it free to work with the
lightest breeze. It is a usual sight to see the “BILLA-
BONG” at work when other mills are idle.
It would need a book to tell you all we would like
you to know about the “BILLABONG” Mill. That
book is available for the asking—write to-day for
Booklet “W 65.”
“BILLABONG” Troughircg is ,made with a patent
interlocking, leak-proof joint that cannot pull apart. It
is set into a heavy Angle and T steel frame which forms
a rigid bed for the trough, and it to withstand
rough usage and hard bumps.
We can supply “BILLABONG” Troug'hing, in any
length, for sheep or cattle. Write for descriptive leaflet
“W 27.”
“BILLABONG” Pluming is designed to prevent the
waste of water by soakage and washaways in irrigation
channels. It is much cheaper than tubing, afU.l may
be used above or on the surface, or E<et into the ground.
We manufacture “BILLABONG” Fliaming in a number
of styles, with fittings to suit various ordinary require-
ments. Write for descriptive leaflet “W 28.”
391-403 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
*JOITN
324-330 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIUP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WhITTY , /)JP,
' u r m E & SY b n ey
-£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices ox a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £llOO
£sooSecond Prize valued £5OO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May. 19i2.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N.S-W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon Secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W-
B.S. A.ißifles
The Ideal Small Calibre Rifle. 95/-
B.S.A. Rifles are the best and most reliable
.22 cal. rifles produced. 24-ineh barrel, bolt
action, self-cocking. Take-down model. Fire
22 short, long and long rifle cartridges.
Price 95/-
WINCHESTER .22 cal. THUMB-TRIGGER
Rifle. Take-down model. Bolt action. 18-
inch barrel. Fires short, long and long rifle
cartridges. Price 457-
MARLIN, 38, ii cal. REPEATERS Under
lever action. Rifles and Carbines. Full and
half magazine. From £5/10/-.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Granting that Furious is an exceptionally
smart mare, the three-year-old form looked poor
in the bulk when the daughter of The Welkin donkey-
ljcked her opposition in the Vic. Derby, while the
apparently brilliant performance suggested that Cupi-
don had been lucky in winning at Randwick.
Next to the heroine nothing made a brave show bar
the unexpected Bassi,
who outpaced Lionel
Attwill in the first
mile, and outstayed
him at the finish,
where Harvest King
shaped respectably in
running third. On
Saturday, as at Rand-
wic k, Harvest King-
seemed unable to take
good care of himself
in a jostle; therefore
his chance of doing
well in the Cup with
a 6st. 71b. .boy up was
reckoned at 20 to 1
in the betting after
the race. And the
“openness” was indi-
cated by offers of 7
to 1 on the field,
while Ikey’s doubts re
the Derby winner’s
ability to stay the
extra half-mile were
expressed in offers of
10 to 1. Had Honey
Bee done the trick as
easily as Furious did,
the colt might have
been a firm first favo-
rite at, say, 5. to 1.
Melbourne 'ockey
R. LEWLS.
Eurythmic had to be shaken up very considerably
to beat Violoncello in the Melbourne Stakes. It was
a fair beating, but the English horse was not pushed
very hard when his defeat seemed certain. In
better condition he might have dead-heated with
the champion, who is now, perhaps, lighter than
ever before. Yet not too light. On returning to
the birdcage Eurythmic was soon dry, whereas
Violoncello had his bellows at work. The question
was, how much good would the gallop do him, and
could he be thoroughly fit for a two-miles’ struggle
three days later?
Previous to the Melbourne Stakes anyone could
see that hot weather on Cup Day would probably
put Violoncello out of it. The imported stallion
is “above himself.” His temperament indisposes
him for the serious business of a racer’s life. He
will never again be trained to the minute in the
muscular meaning of the term, because he is too
highly strung in the other way of speaking. All
the same, there was no denying his Cup-Week
possibilities. Given English conditions of turf and
temperature, the burly, handsome fellow was bound
to stretch Eurythmic s neck whenever they met.
Local faith in Purser and Amazonia waned consider-
ably in view of the running of Furious and Violon-
cello from Sydney, and when Wirraway had confirmed
his Moonee Cup victory by beating The Rover in
the Hotham Handicap a fear gained ground that
all the old Victorian fancies, bar Eurythmic, were
a stodgy lot.
As it happened, Victorian form proved
better on Tuesday than the Derby Day running had
indicated. The places in the great two-mile race
were filled by the three-vear-old Sister Olive, 6st. 91b.
(Red Dennis —Jubilee Queen), Wren’s horse. The
Rover, Bst. 41b., and the consistent Amazonia, 7st.
91b., w'hose record of thirds in big events is remark-
able. The victorious filly, who has been quietly
fancied for some time, did not start in the Derby,
but ran a close fourth in the Caulfield Cup. Owned
by F. W. Norman, she was ridden by E. O’Sullivan,
and, backing her early and late at a long price, the
stable landed a decent stake.
Interest in the Maribyrnong Plate is not as keenly
sporting as it used to be. No winner of the event
has done much in after years since Traquette, who
was immediately preceded by Beragoon, ran away
from her opponents in 1913. Bellambi won the
sprint very decisively on Saturday. Said to be
a good thing, the colt proved worthy of the
rumor. But will he be any sort of a Derby horse
next year?
The books look to the Cantala Stakes to make
them happy, and this year’s experience was about
the happiest the race has given them in its three
or four years of life. Demetrius, the second favo-
rite promised another runaway victory, but the
Guineas winner had 7st. 71b. on his young back,
anyhow. Beeline, a slippery four-year-old with the
minimum (6st. 71b.), made light of Demetrius in
the last furlong, and the books in most cases had
a skinner, or very nearly.
Epitaph won the other two-year-old race
at Trentham on the postponed second day of the
Wellington (M.L.) J.C.’s Spring Meeting. She
easily beat another Absurd filly, Viyella, with the
Martian-Hebrew Maid filly Deborah third. Amythas
comfortably won the Champion Place (Ijm.). He
was followed home by the Bezonian gelding Rouen,
a M.L. Cup fancy, and the three-year-old Grotesque,
a son of Bronze by Absurd.
The Australian XI, minus Armstrong and
McDonald, who are casualties, lost the toss to
Nourse at Natal on Saturday and the veteran put
them in. It turned out to be an error on his part.
The wicket was too wet to be tricky, and Collins
(101) and Gregory (55) treated the attack with
scorn. Nourse got Taylor and Mayne, though he is,
of course, essentially a bat, being still one of the
two or three best in S'Africa; and young H. W.
Chapman, who also bats better than he bowls, took
three wickets with his googlies. Macartney went for
a single to the left-hander, Carter, and the total
score was only 213. Natal, with Nourse, Taylor and
Chapman, has about the strongest batting side in
African club cricket.
* * ■* *
Resuming their argument with Uni. in
Melbourne on Saturday, North won easily on the first
innings by 7 wickets and 84 runs. Bracher (101) and
Jchnston (65) were North’s most formidable smiters.
The Essendon-’Wood disturbance, which was the only
other one to commence on the previous Saturday,
ended in favor of the former by 131. Essendon tried
hard for a straight-out victory by closing with 8
for 192, but, though ’Wood’s aggregate was 58 below
the ’Don total, they still had five wickets in hand
at the finish. Being one-dav affairs, the remaining
four engagements were drawn. Melbourne, getting-
first use of the wicket against the new Hawthorn-
East Melbourne combination, rattled up 408 for 4
wickets, Onyons making 156, Tolhurst 105 and the
artistic Sandford 67. Barring Dean’s careful 59,
Richmond shaped poorly against Northcote for 131,
to which ’Cote responded with 5 for 89. South,
sent in to bat by Saints for some unknown reason,
scored 8 ,for 280, St. John getting a lucky 106 and
Park, late of University, 52. P’ran’s moderate tally
of 165 for 6 against Carlton was largely due to
the brilliant fielding of O’Keefe, the ex-Ma Stater,
who saved many runs at cover.
In Sydney grade-cricket on Saturday, only
three matches were drawn, including Gordon’s against
Randwick. Achurch, of Randwick, profited twice by
dropped catches, and made one of the two centuries
of the afternoon. Wheatley, who opened with Love
for Balmain, got the other. He scored so fast
against the St. George bowling that his partner,
with 89, appeared a plodder. Both were not out.
Ironmonger (6 for 13) had previously created a
panic against the St. Georgians. Forssberg, for
Waverley against Manly, clean bowled six for 14.
The Boneyarders tried for an “outright,” but Manly,
chiefly owing to Gleeson (69), foiled them. Asher,
% Sydney against Paddington, got the bowling aver-
age—6 for 77 —and was not out 43 when time pre-
vented Sydney winning. Noble, for Paddington,
made a characteristic 43, and his protracted effort
ate up most of the afternoon. Punch appeared for
Norths, who licked Mosman, thanks to a superb
53 by Pratten, with timely assistance from Penny-
cuick. Chapman, of Mosman, missed Rupe Minnett’s
support, but ran up 72. His side got 147. Shore
have a find in Prott (5 for 29). The weak Marrick-
ville side could amass only 47 to West’s 119. Eelle-
way, of Glebe, declared against ’Varsity at 200 with
only one hour to play. Petersham’s first-wicket men.
Smith (48) and Emery (42), did well again:,! tie
C. Cumberland bowling; but when they went,
Coogan and Whitting skittled jhe remainder, and
the orchardists won with four wickets down. Brown
(83) and Best (60) found Emery easy.
Governor Weigall (S.A.) started his
cricket season with a match against Adelaide G.P.0.,
but lumbago kept him from getting nearer to the
field than the pavilion. Clem Hill, on the Govern-
ment House side, departed from his lifelong rule of
going in first-wicket-down, started the batting, and
was bowled first ball. The best scorer was Walter
Duncan, M.L.C., who retired after, making 54 in less
than half an hour. The postal officials never had a
hope.
* * * *
Frank Iredale’s many friends are expected
to rally round at Sydney Town ju..’’' next Monday,
when a meeting will occur in connect’.'a with his
testimonial. A certain featme of rhe laurr will be
a match between the Test side now abroad and the
Rest on February 3,4, 6 and 7.
Roger Hartigan, playing for Western
Suburbs v. Valley in Brisbane the other day, knocked
up 121 (out of 228) —the best innings in Northern
State cricket this season. Hartigan, who is 41, got
a trip to England with Noble’s 1909 team on the
strength of a fine 116 in the Test at Adelaide against
A. O. Jones’s team in 1908.
Tommy O’Brien, of America, who met
Syd Godfrey at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
revealed himself ere ever he went into action by
means of a pair of blinding green pants. He is
temperamental, an incorrigible mummer. Nothing
more futile has been seen than his effort to deceive
the cold-eyed and inscrutable Godfrey into the belief
that he (O’Brien) was in a fainting condition. For
one thing Godfrey had hardly touched him at the
time. The crowd hooted loudly as O’Brien
reeled watchfully about, and Godfrey uncovered
nothing except a couple of stinging lefts.
So O’Brien came back to earth and placed reliance
once again in his strong right hand. It certainly
is a formidable weapon, as he showed some weeks
ago on the person of Jimmy Hill. Where it lands
sleep follows. But Godfrey knew all about it, and
had no intention of letting it descend legitimately
on him. In the 17th round, just as the contest
had reached an interesting stage, with both lads
satisfied they had a show, O’Brien fouled so vigor-
ously that the Sydneyite had to be carried to his
corner. It was an accident, but the big crowd was
thoroughly sick of O’Brien by this time; and he
was treated vocally like a deliberate malefactor.
The visitor will be a tough nut for the best of our
lightweights to crack as soon as he gets lid of the
delusion that he has gifts as an illusionist.
Archie Bradley, Queensland’s wonder-pug,
outed Ned Fitzgerald at Brisbane on Saturday after
the latter had hit him on the jaw eight times. This
occurred in the third round, Gympie’s pride being
knocked clean through the ropes. In the sixth
Bradley hit Fitzgerald once, and it sufficed. Appa-
rently this frail, tropical flower will be a welter if
not a middle before he is given a show at the
headquarters of the game. He had difficulty in
getting down to 9st. 131 b. last week.
Frank Burns, middleweight champion of
the continent, retained his title at the Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night by stopping Tommy Uren
in 10 rounds. A solid right under the heart did
the trick. Burns’s body-punching was fine, and
always had Uren looking worried, but Tommy is not
the man he was when he beat Clabby and McGoorty.
A N. York cable mentioned on Saturday
that Sailor Friedman, of Chicago, had stopped Ernie
Rice, lightweight champion of England, in seven
rounds. This does not look as though the English-
man would get a match with Benny Leonard, much
less beat him ; and he is in America with the object
of downing the Hebrew maneater. There are many
better than Friedman waiting to be subdued before
Leonard is reached, notably Richie Mitchell and
Charley White. Rice, who began life as a golf
caddy and now holds the Lonsdale belt in his
division, has beaten every lightweight of note in
Europe, but the form over there is notoriously low
at the moment. Good judges consider that Sid
Godfrey could go through the lot on consecutive
nights, and that few there are capable of beating
Jamito.
* # * «
W. Iveyte (Brunswick) won the King’s
Prize of the Vic. Rifle Assoc, at Williamstown last
Friday. Keyte had a good lead at the end of the
third stage, and with seven bulls out of ten tries in
the final (900yds.) romped home seven points ahead
of S. J. Jackson (Mosman), whose consistent accu-
racy gave him the aggregate of 331. K. W. McKen-
zie (Fremantle) was third with 328, and S. N.
Watson (Bendigo) next with 326. Keyte, whose
score of 338 is a record, is a veteran marksman who
won the Sydney King’s 15 years back. He has
appeared four times for Vic. in Commonwealth
matches, and in 1907 also shot against the British
rifle team.
* * * *
Melbourne Grammar scored the highest
aggregate of points in the combined Public School
sports in Melbourne last Friday. The dark blues
won ten events outright, Carter breaking the record
for the high jump under 16 with a great leap of
sft. sin. Brookbank, of the same school, also
chipped a tenth of a second off the previous best for
100yds. under 15. Newman was Grammar’s best
performer, leading the field in the half-mile and mile ;
but the best individual effort came from C. B. Mel-
ville, of Scotch, who captured the open 100, 220 and
440 yds. in excellent time. Melville helped Scotch
to second place in the day’s achievements, Geelong
Grammar just beating Wesley for third place, whilst
Xavier and Geelong College finished in that order.
S. H. Henderson’s defeat of H. W. Kirk-
patrick in the Metropolitan singles championship at
Strathfield (Sydney), on Saturday, further justified
his claim to be labelled among the “hopefuls” of
N. S. Wales tennis. It was a straight-set victory of
7—5, 6—4. Henderson was recently runner-up to
H. S. Utz for Sydney club captaincy. In the doubles
Bob Neil (who won last year with Eric Pockley)
partnered with Frank Peach, and they beat E. Jordan
and J. O’Ryan easily (6 —4, 6 —4). The winners
volleyed splendidly. Kirkpatrick’s ill-luck pursued
him in the mixed doubles, and with Miss Halley as
partner, he went down before 11. S. Utz and Miss
St. George (6 —2, 7—5). In the ladies’ doubles
Miss Lance and Miss St. George were too agile for
Mrs. It. *uy and Miss Hayes. The finals were a
remark al l° sequence of straight-set victories.
s’l * * *
Three crews entered for Sydney inter-
college eights an the Parramatta River on Saturday,
and over most of the two miles there was less than
two lengths between them. Paul’s hung out long
enough to win by o length from Andrew’s and John’s
in 13min. SJjsec. In the other events, ’Varsity won
the junior fours and maiden eights, and Sydney,
Crarbrook and ’Varsity filled the places in the maiden
fours.
* * * *
Les Mimmo, of the Derwent Club (Tas.),
lifted the Yarra Challenge Cup sand Silver Sculls
at Henley-on-Yarra like a champion in embryo. He
was coached by his clubmate Cecil McVilly (twice
champion of Australia and winner of the Diamond
Sculls at Henley-on-Thames) and Gordon Westbrook
(present holder of the Australian title), for the
double maiden and handicap sculls at last Hobart
Regatta, which events he duly won. He graduated
to the seulling-boat from the heavy naval gig. As
a naval cadet he made his first acquaintance with
a scull at Hobart Regatta in 1920. He stands
nearly 6ft., is 24 and weighs over 12st.
■m * * »
Nearly 300 oarsmen appeared in the Vic.
Rowing Association’s regatta on the Yarra on Satur-
day. The star item was the eight-oared run for the
Morell Cup, which was won easily by Mercantile,
who, having captured the vessel on two previous
occasions, have now' made it their property. Rich-
mond led by a canvas in the Maiden Eights, and the
same club earned further recognition through J.
Barton’s fine victory in the Senior Sculls. Albert
Park, who usually capture one event at least, this
time took the Senior and Lightweight Maiden Fours,
whilst Ballarat headed the procession in another
Maiden struggle among the heavier men. Footscray,
who scored seconds in the Maiden Eights and Senior
Fours, had all their own way in the Maiden Pairs,
beating Essendon by three or four lengths.
* * * ~
Despite strong- Labor opposition and some
candid remarks from his own supporters (they
wanted the tote instead) McPherson persuaded the
Vic. Parliament to accept his bill raising the tax
oil betting tickets. There was an all-night sitting
in each House, and members got a bit ruffled before
the finish. It was desired to rake in £20,000 extra
from the Derby, Cup,
Oaks and Steeplechase
meetings. The new
rates, which provide
for 6d. on each bet in
the stand enclosure,
3d. on the hill, and
Id. on the flat at
Flemington, and
double the old toll on
other courses, are to
be in force till De-
cember 31. Meantime
the question of sub-
stituting a percentage
tax, according to the
size of the wager, or
a squeeze on racing ad-
mittance tickets, is
to be considered by
the canny Cabinet.
Sydney owner and
trainer WILLIAM
BOOTH.
Sydney’s R. P. A. Yacht Club opened its
55th season at Hermit Bay with a programme of sail-
ing- and rowing-events on Saturday. Whitiora (R. Bart-
ley), Shadow (L. Sargent), Peggy (W. Tutt) and Vision
(J. Paton) lifted the prize-money in the 16ft.-skiff
race, finishing in that order. The 14ft.-skiff race
was fought out by the scratch craft, Warrigal (E. Be
Wall) winning from Rona (F. Deadv), with Arthur
(E. Ellis) third. In the lOft.-dinghy race Corn-
stalk (R. Graham) walloped Kangaroo (R. Patter-
son) and Thelma (H. ,T. Reynolds) by over 11 min.
The event for yachts’ dinghies went to Kestrel,'with
Stan Stevens on the bridge, the second and third
boats being Dawn (Oscar Backhouse) and Hermione
(H. Walters).
* * * *
Paddy Hannan had an easy victory over
“Jumbo” Wells for the Marlborough (M.L.) sculling
championship on Saturday. The burly cyclist showed
poor form. Hannan, who is now back' to his best,
will probably challenge the winner of the Arnst-
Hadfield world’s championship in December.
* * ¥■ . *
J. G. Atkins (Rockley) is again N.S.W.
one-mile professional cycling champion. At Sydney
on Saturday he defeated R. Supple and Les Ham-
mond in 2min. Bsec. Later he won the five-mile
scratch by a wheel from 19 others in llmin. 32see.
In the half-mile and one-mile handicaps, old Dick
and young Dick Mutton both started. The son won
the half-mile with a brilliant finish off 90yds. in
5 8 sec.
# * * *
The touring Leaguers routed Batley last
week by 33 points to 7. About the most exciting
incident of the afternoon was the breaking down of
the gates by sport-loving unemployed. On Satur-
day the Australians lost by 8 to 5 to Warrington.
In the Lancastrian XIII. were those sturdy ruckers
Skelhorne and Cartwright, of Wagstaffe’s 1920 team.
Cartwright, who is considered the finest centre
forward in the English Northern Union, has now
opposed Sandy Pearce four times as rake, and on
each occasion his side has won. Warrington worked
into the semi-final of last year’s competition.
* * * *
The Football League in Adelaide has tried
an unusual experiment in central umpiring. It
thinks it has found a born umpire in A. A. Raven.
He is only 21, and his experience as a player was
three years in a junior team. Last year he started
umpiring in small matches ; this year the League got
hold of him, and his display was so satisfying that
for the closely-contested series of finals just com-
pleted he was given preference over the old and
experienced crowd available. Naturally, he makes
the game very fast, and he isn’t easily bluffed.
The old rivals at football, Carlton (Vic.)
and Norwood (S.A.), who were plaving against
each other long before any other inter-State fixtures
were thought of, have wound up the Adelaide season
with a friendly match. Carlton, on a visit to Adel-
aide, were without one or two prominent men. There
was nothing to choose in the general play, except in
the detail that counts —straight shooting. Norwood
won by 12 goals 9 behinds to 10 goals 14 behinds.
S.A. Lawn Tennis Assoc, has at last got
a ground of its own. After much negotiation it
secured an L-shaped patch of the Adelaide parklands
just outside the Oval, and this is worked at present
in a kind of loose partnership with the Cricket
Assoc. On a recent Saturday the 22 courts of the
new ground were being used, with eight inside the
Oval fence for simultaneous matches. The opening
ceremony was enlivened by a match between Gov-
ernor Weigall (with Roy Taylor) and president
Alfred Roberts (with Justin O’Dea).
The cabled news that Frank Bullock, the
Victorian, is the best jockey in England, with an-
other Australian in Brownie Carslake his only rival,
recalls the odd fact that for a quarter of a century
a foreigner has been at the top of the tree or there-
abouts ip this profitable department. It began
with Tod Sloan—or, to be more accurate, with a
nigger who demonstrated some of the merits of the
crouch a year or so before Tod satisfied the British
of its value. Up to then Morny Cannon and the
Loates brothers had been the undisputed cracks. The
Reiffs, of America, followed, and then came the
Woottons, of Sydney. But in one line England and
Ireland stand where they did. No import can teach
the men of these countries anything about riding over
a big steeplechase course.
BALLADE OF CUP-DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN
To-night the sky is colored pink,
The little clouds with silver lined ;
1 want to buy the longest drink
The girl behind the bar can find ;
I want to shout, I feel inclined
For moonlight picnics down the bay,
Revels and. girls with garlands twined—
I backed the winning horse to-day.
W hat’s yours ? Come, give the thing a name ?
My turn has come! I never whined
When out of luck, though life was tame
And landladies were never kind;
To-morrow brings the daily grind,
The morning train, the warehouse grey,
But Gloomy visions, get behind—
I backed the winning horse to-day!
The country’s going to the deuce,
• As prophets long ago divined ;
Money is tight and morals loose,
And Billy Hughes has not resigned; *
The nation’s credit has declined,
We’re borrowing from the U.S.A.,
But —out of sight is out of mind — ’
I backed the winning horse to-day.
L’Envoy.
Prince! Has your Royal Highness dined?
Then what about some lively play?
To-night shall see us stony-blind !
I backed the winning horse to-day.
VICTORIA.
RANN DALY.


an
Health
is the Greatest of
all Possessions.
eax^es t ages man has taken pride in his bodily welfare
and development. It can be acquired by regular and efficient
1 hysieal Culture Exercises. Learn now to improve your body.
A Postal Course of Health and
Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
Ihe surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the
system nourishing' the whole system with oxygen, expell-
ing waste tissue, building up new muscle, benefiting every
part of your body.
the BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let us send you a copy of the booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self-Culture.’’ It tells about the health-giving exer-
cises and methods, terms, etc. Send three stamps for
postage. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement. We’ll know what you mean.
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
617 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
K.YNOCH
AMMUNITION
ď
■22 RIM FIRE.
d
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
THE.
ALL BRITISH
r
■v
ws'.''SS2^i''
/Wl L l > ' • -
/T/f
V/
/if
=S3
—■—ij/ll
. . u/ !(n*',A
/(u/j
MOST Horseman experience difficulty in
obtaining breeches that are absolutely
faultless as to fit. There is so often some minor incor-
rectness in the cutting that renders the garments uncom-
fortable in wear and possibly shortens the period of
their serviceability. For instance, have not YOU had
breeches that were just a little too tight, at the knee with
the consequence that difficulty was experienced when
,mounting or the stitching gave way just as the strain was
put on the left knee?
“L.S.’* Breeches are cut by men experienced in the production
of Riding Garments—men who know exactly how Breeches
must be cut to be completely satisfactory. We quote our special
MILITARY DRILLS
(Tailor-made to Order)
37/6
for the man who wants something serviceable at a low
price. Other textures up to £4. PATTERNS ARE
POST FREE. We will gladly make you a trial pair, A
and if they prove unsatisfactory you need not keep
them. Why not drop us a line to-day ?
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
244-254 Flinders St. — ——Melbourne
Playotone Player Piano
The PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO repre-
sents an opportunity for people of musical
taste to purchase a Player Piano of superior
excellence at a moderate price.
There is nothing mechanical about the music
which is produced by the aid of the
“PLAYOTONE , ’ as the musical expression
is wholly within the personal control of
the performer and reproduces the delightfully
sympathetic and responsive “human touch”
of the artist.
A VISIT OF INSPECTION WILL PROVIDE
A DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL TREAT.
f
L . V<C>-
s-.
PLAYOTONE
Vf-r
■:
m
WRITE for CATALOGUES,
PRICE LIST AND FULL
PARTICULARS OF OU R
EASY TERMS.
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.


ď
Smoker’s Cabinet
of €nglish Oak.
Handsomely Fitted
Smoker’s Cabinet.
ILLUSTRATION shows one of
many new and pradical smokers’
accessories received by Farmer’s.
This cabinet is made of fine-grained
English Oak, and is fitted with two
compartments, pipe rack and tobacco
jar; finished with secure Af*l
lock and key. Price .. .. ""
FARMER’S SYDNEY,
“ Store for v%Cen.”
Box 497, G.P.O.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
If it isn’t..
It’s Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s (all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, Mark Foy’s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and country. Or postage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
On Derby Day the weather gave its pro-
mise in the morning and kept it. A still,
brilliant heat brought out the sunflowers
and the parasols. Pretty sunshades were
a feature. A Queen of Sheba thing made
of gold lace mounted on emerald-green chif-
fon had a jade handle. Another was a
spread of white silk covered with painted
ladies in crinolines. The tiny motor-parasol
was an innovation. It takes up less room
on the crowded lawn, much to the satisfac-
tion of extraordinary folk who want to see
a race.
The Governor’s box was brilliant with
color. Lady Forster’s soft blue feathers
drooped round a shady hat, and her race-
coat was a gorgeous' blue. Lady Strad-
broke, in smart white cloth, topped her
classic head with a round bat of baby blue
covered with fine copper tulle. Lady Helena’s
simple hat had a blue band, and there was
a blue band at the waist of her summer
frock.- Dame Clara Butt and Kennerley
Rumford were in the vice-regal box. Lady
Allardyce wore tawny roses in her hat, and
an Allardyce girl showed a duck of a laven-
der hat. Governor Davidson was in black-
and-white checks and white spats. Our
Earl was neatly turned out in dark duds. •
Black-and-white' and lace effects were
conspicuous; and inedible fruits in unnatural
colors were stacked on hats that had ap-
parently acquired their shapes by gambolling
in a cyclone or getting sat on by an alderman.
Clara Butt wore an amazing head-piece, with
a bunch of orange grapes ready to leap off
the edge into eternity, and her dress of black
satin was aflame with large rosettes of the
hue of the setting sun. Mrs. Geoff Syme
was one of the pictures—she was in pearl-
grey georgette. Handsome Mrs. Fred Thiel
emphasised her brunette coloring with a
piquant arrangement in navy-blue satin, set
off by a dinkyi black lace hat. Her pretty
daughter, Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, doubled her
physical brilliance with pink aud white trim-
mings and a bright cobalt hat. Mrs. Willie
Watt indulged her fancy for navy-blue, while
Mrs. Charlie Atkins dissembled her passion
for the same tint with bands of gold em-
broidery. Mrs. Jim McEvoy took the prize
for a magpie creation : the adroit use of jet
with her fetching hat and wrap seemed to
dowdify the smartest frockers in her vicinity.
Pianist Fred Dennett’s wife suffered from a
rush of coral pink to all her appointments,
whilst George Armstrong’s lady soothed the
eye with white jersey cloth and a heliotrope
hat. Dame Nellie remained at Coombe.
The frocking was mostly the perfection of
simplicity; the old-time Cup-time shrieks
are out of favor.
The Combined Public School Sports
crowded the Cricket Ground to suffocation.
One could almost hear the palpitation of
thousands of children’s hearts dur ng each
struggle; but after it was over Red, B.ue
and Purple chatted fraternally. The Sta.'e
Governor was there to hand over the silver
cup. With him came a fawn-clad Countess,
daughter Helena, and two Scotch College
sons. Gov.-Gen. Forster, who has a soft
spot in his heart for schoolboy-, came un-
officially, under the wing of headmaster
“Lofty” Franklin. When Melbourne Gram-
mar’s captain had returned thanks for the
cup, a vast blue-capped army stormed across
the arena and staggered back carrying the
victors, amid tremendous cheers. The vice-
regals were delighted with the after-spectacle
of hundreds of boys celebrating the great
win with their special brand of war dance.
The night of the sports Mrs. Leslie
Stewart conspired with her sister, Mrs.
Harold Newbigin, to turn Logan House up-
side-down for a flapper fox-trot. It was a
riotously joyful dissipation. Hours of it!
The Commercial Travellers’ Club had a
crowded hour or two on the second instal-
ment of Lady Stradbroke’s Day—the first
had been a wash-out. The Earl and Coun-
tess spent most of the afternoon at the
Drummers’ cafe cliantant. In an odd
moment his Ex. made a speech. It wasn’t
his day, he said, but he was simply bathing
to the chin in reflected glory. Then he con-
fessed he had never seen a British city
so obviously enjoy itself. It was quite
Continental. The C.T.A. supplied some fine
music, and the members lumped round in
fancy dress—and that takes nerve when the
sun still shines. One member frolicked as
a Polar bear, and another was a bride who
made a fine collection for the funds. Lady
Stradbroke, decked out in her favorite red-
brown feathers topping a slim coat-frock,
stayed on at the party after her lord had
left for more carnival at the cricket ground.
The Chinese stall in Collins-street was
an absorbing attraction. By 5 o’clock on
Friday it had sold £6OO worth of Oriental
stuff. Chinese men and dainty little silk-
garbed Chinese women were the vendors in
a gorgeously-draped kiosk.
Lady Stradbroke’s half-formed intention to
hold a young people’s two-step at Stoning-
ton was frozen over by the discovery that
the life of the local flapper is just one long
jazz. And not nice small-and-earlys suitable
for early teenage, either. Melbourne flap-
pers whirl on until 2 o’clock in the morning,
and are jaded and faded in the dawn of
their twenties. So the State vice-regals felt
it would be kinder to blue-pencil the pro-
posed frivol; and if it is a sort of protest—
well, thousands of good patriots will thank
them for their courage.
Music week in Melbourne —it runs from
November 6 to 13—is to have some interest-
ing developments. The organisers are
threatening to make even the Women’s
National League sing. It has proved it
can talk; now it is to have a song day.
Also, two concerts are mooted for the House
—one on the Federal and the other on the
State premises. Who knows —wonderful
effects may be got from the politicians ! The
State schools are to have a pupils’ concert,
and a whole half-day is to ■be devoted to
music. Melody-makers will visit the gaols
and invite the birds to join them in song.
No mention has been made yet of the asy-
lums for the insane; but practically every
other institution is being invited to do some-
thing to soothe its savage breast.
Suburbia shows a disposition to fill the
social gap that used to yawn during the
week following Cup festivities. From the
Town Clerk of umbrageous Hawthorn comes
word that the Mayoress will hold a recep-
tion in the local Town Hall on November 8.
The Mermaid Repertory people, having at
last attracted public interest, get fair-sized
audiences at their performances. On Friday
night the vice-regal Forsters filled the front
upstairs pen. The dresses of the ladies in
“Augustus” and “The Title” were mostly
in black. Isabel Handley’s otherwise effec-
tive trappings were handicapped by an over-
display of fiercely-new white gloves stiffly
gartered above the elbow and by a red bag
which suggested a huge dab. of ceiling-wax.
Miss Webb, in short-sleeved upholsterings
of loud-patterned vivid blue satin, suggested
an animated long chair with white arms.
Dulce Bland featured two tricky little frock-
lets —one a white effect piped with black and
a pink scarf.
Lorna Stirling, pictured here by Shier, is
a musician who makes pets of no less than
three instruments —
the violin, viola and
piano. Her head is
crammed with musi-
cal knowledge. And
enthusiasm! Just
now she is acting
as chief honorary
aide to Gibson
Young in organising
the Music Week,
which is to envelop
Melbourne during
November —6 to 13.
She has been get-
ting out a special
school paper for the
month—or, rather,
three papers, one for
each grade—filled
with musical
themes. There are poems, fairy tales,
articles and biographies, all to do with
music and musicians, and all well illus-
trated. Incidentally, the busy young per-
son is inaugurating a children’s musical
supplement to the Australian Musical
News. Miss Stirling is one of our ’Var-
sity Con. girls. But Verbrugghen has an
eye on her, and Melbourne is afraid she may
be spirited over to Sydney.
Geelong burst into a Gala Day on Friday,
and the Western District rolled up to the
various frivols. During the war the annual
event helped the Red Cross. This year it
was altogether for the advancement of Gee-
long. A practical people, these. For in-
stance, neighboring pastoralists have been
prevailed upon to present various pine-bred
calves to the town. These are to be boarded
out to anplicants who have paddock accom-
modation in the shire; and it is hoped that
the stock of the district will show a gradual
improvement as a consequence.
On Saturday afternoon, with a splendid
disregard for the Derby frenzy, Mrs.
Michaelis’s parlors overflowed with friends
who had been asked to farewell Dorothea
Spinney. The recitress had draped herself
in classic folds of blue velvet. The draw-
ing-room was wreathed in pink roses, the
dining-room in prize stocks. Before the tea-
cups rattled singer Anne Williams, who has
just secured a return-ticket to the Cold
Country, warbled a trio of Louis Esson’s
Australian bird ballads set to charming music
by S ritz Hart. Fritz, having a soul above
horseracing, was on the piano stool. The
Allen dame was there, with artist-daughter
Mary ; the Barrett dame and her elder chick ;
artist Thea Proctor, just back from across
seas; and Mrs. Harry Emmerton —her one
ewe lamb, Mrs. Norman Brookes, was tem-
porarily out of the whirl with refractory ton-
sils.
The Past Gallery Art Students’ small-and-
early last Saturday evening was a most
respectable revel. The artistic temperament
was chastened by recent complaints of an
indecorous want of *male clothing last time
the Temperament had a night out in fancy
undress. Half the male daubers were tais time
disguised as brigands or Chinamen ; there was
one (outsize) in the trappings of an Indian
rajah; a feminine dozen had gut into
Pierrots’ pants with varied success; a lean
red Gum Nut jazzed sedately behind a
yellow-paper bonbon ; and at 10 o’clock the
company sat down to lemonade, and cream
puffs. The only bohemian oases in the desert
of respectability was supplied by a black
belltopper which a black-clad pierrot had
giddily wedged on her little head.
Streeton is showing his recent paintings of
Sydney at the Athenaeum Hall. Boyd is
under the same roof, so everybody who has
a moment to spare for Art while Horse re-
mains the leading subject of discussion is
bound to journey up the cavernous passage
and forbidding steps that lead to where the
pictures are.
Most of the “best” people remained away
from the uncalled-for. Victorian Red Cross
meeting at vice-regal Stonington on Thurs-
day afternoon, perhaps because they are
already plying busy needles with suburban
hospital auxiliaries or on behalf of incapa-
citated Billjims. Lady Stradbroke, in fawn
draperies, with a feathered hat, was rather
overshadowed by the splendor of the Miller
dame, who sat alongside her and hoarsely
ejaculated “Splendid !” after each recountal
of suburban charitable effort; after which
she invited the vice-regal lady to drag the
workers off the auxiliaries and under the
banner of the Red Cross. Lady Strad., how-
ever, showed understanding of the situation
and a disposition to think for herself.
Many people are raising the eyebrow of dis-
approval at vice-regal Stonington being given
over for a fete to help the city newsboy in
stiff times when places like the' Melbourne
Hospital are crying aloud for financial sup-
port. The question is, do the ’Erald boys
really-call for assistance? The city streets
swarm with them, and many make as much
as £3 a week, while the legless or armless
soldiers find their news-kiosks a not over-
profitable venture. Some of the boys openly
confess to discarding boots and shoes for
business, purposes; for where a well-clad
youth will get two coppers, the ragged, boot-
less boy rakes in silver.
General Grimwade’s elder son Thornton
was hurled off his motor-bike a week ago
at Dandenong, and at the moment of writ-
ing still hovers between life and death.
Young Thornton, a cheery bachelor of 24,
left school to serve as an A.I.F. gunner.
For a childless husband, Alec Peacock,
our Minister of Education, is quick at sizing-
up a domestic emergency. During an all-
night sitting last week, Lemmon, of the
Labor party, told the House that he had
paired with Dr. Fetherston, P’ran’s new
member, who had got an urgent call. “They
ought to make you the godfather,” inter-
jected Alec, and then in a lower tone, “that’s
as far as I’ve ever got myself.”
J. M. Worthington, Sergeant-at-Arms of
the Assembly, who is to be retried on the
war-bonds charge, has drawn his pay all
the time he has been relieved of duty as
a Parliamentary officer. There was no iegal
power to stop it. When the jury said
“guilty” the money was held back, but on
the advice of the Crown Law Department,
it was presently delivered up.
The list of life governors of a Melbourne
charitable institution was getting too long
to be convenient. So, wishing to cut out
“deadheads” and economise space, the secre-
tary sat down and dashed off the following,
which appears in the current annual report:
“Information of the decease of any of the
undermentioned life governors will be grate-
fully received.”
Horace Picking, who studied at the Mel-
bourne Gallery and collected an M.M. at the
war, has developed into a successful poster-
artist in London. He began in a third-
floor-back, and has now a specious studio
overlooking ’Ampstead ’Eath. He is doing-
poster work for the Kodak people, among
others.
From “Vandorian” in London :
Went to the christening this week of Artist
Dave Low’s wee daughter. The priceless infant re-
ceived the name of Prudence, without a protest, in
the church where Dad and Mum had been married.
David at the font was immaculate in tall silk hat
and the clothes that fashion says must attend such
millinery. At the party were Pedro Vargas and his
golden-haired young wife, formerly Dorothy Low. The
latter was seriously ill, but is now quite well again.
She and her nice Spanish-American “Peterkin” have
been staying at Torquay to stabilise Dorothy’s health.
They remained there for some time, which in itself
proves a good recovery ; for Torquay expects its lady
friends to change their frocks quite six times a day.
If you don’t happen to run across an Australian in
some out of the way place in Europe, you will cer-
tainly find a Maorilander. Some friends who went to
Holland this year stayed at the Hotel Clarence, in
Scheveningen, and found that Meinvrau Vermaat
came from MX. Her sister, Miss Rodgers (Inver-
cargill), assisted to run a charming establishment
set in a flower-garden.
Pianist Norah Delaney has booked to
leave on New Year’s Eve for a trip to Eng-
land. The clever scholarship-girl studied
abroad and returned to Australia just at
the beginning of the war. She is going
back for some more study and a fresh eye-
ful of color.
Marion Hunt, pictured here by Spencer
Shier, is the good-looking elocutionist who
entertained the Butt-
Rumfords at an
Austral Salon re-
ception . the other
day. She promises
to try her voice on
the general public in
a recital shortly, and
on the same evening
will confirm the
bright rumors re-
garding her talent as
a pianist. Every-
body who has heard
her at the keyboard
promises her warm
recognition as a con-
cert soloist, but she
is at present concen-
trating on teaching.
Marion, who had a
part in “Lightnin’ ” during portion of its
Australian career, had her musical education
at the Guildhall School of Music, London,
where she captured scholarships for the
piano five years in succession.
While Rupert Atkinson is minding the
family and dashing off poetical dramas, his
restless wife will flit away to Egypt to
sample the dates and dahabiyehs.
Vance Palmer and Louis Esson. who are
now buried in t ; he wilds of Emerald, are con-
templating a ouarterly in which deep thinkers
can express their thoughts. The maga. is
threatened with the title of The Horoscope,
but it may be christened with something
darker and more striking if the editors can
think of it before the publishing date.
Sister Adelaide’s confidences :
Adelaide has refused to blush at “Scandal.” And,
goodness knows, it was invited to enough.
When the scenery arrived at Port Adelaide there
was an enormous package, labelled “Scandal Bed,”
which filled quite half the gallery with folk anxious
to be shocked. But the whole thing was so well
handled by Frank Harvey and Maude Hannaford that
no one experienced a heat wave.
Dame Clara has had an unprecedented season in
this city; even the Exhibition Building, where
an impromptu concert was given on Wednesday
night, saw an audience that overflowed at an early
hour. And if anything would reconcile us to the
revival of long skirts, the appearance of Mrs. Rum-
ford ought to do it.
Another young Adelaide musician, Ray Fox, a
violinist, is leaving to study abroad. She has been
in Maoriland lately, but returned to her home State
to give a recital. His Ex. and Lady W. were there.
Maida Wright’s exhibition of china painting and
leather-tooled bags at Hammer’s is attracting
crowds. But we’ve got to admit it —this city offers
poor grazing ground for the artist. Too many of
our wealthy folk rush east when they want to
spend money.
A cable has reported the death of Lord Raglan,
father of one of his Ex.’s A.D.C.’s —Major the Hon.
Nigel Somerset. Lord Raglan was at one time him-
self an A.D.C. to a former S. Aus. Governor—Sir
James Fergusson. But his Ex. had by then shifted to
Bombay. Nigel’s eldest brother, Fitzroy Richard
Somerset, a major in the Grenadier Guards, suc-
ceeds to the title.
Augustine Heard Fearon, who came up to town
from Yancannia station a month ago for an opera-
tion, died after it. His three young daughters all
married recently. He also leaves a widow and one
son, Hugh.
Fifty years ago a fair was held in the Adelaide
Town Hall to raise funds to build Prince Alfred
College. To celebrate the jubilee the committee pro-
poses to erect a block of class-rooms to cost £25,000.
A band of 400 women and a lot of enthusiastic “old
boys” have taken the matter in hand, and the
campaign starts on Friday with a fete in the college
grounds.
The Municipal Association has accepted a resolu-
tion, brought forward by St. Peters, a river-bank
suburb just above Adelaide, which would amend the
Corporations Act and allow compulsory repurchase
of all frontages to the Torrens. A big joint scheme
for improving the river above and below the city is
talked of. Inside the city boundaries it has already
been made a thing of beauty.
An “ugly-inan” competition, an idea borrowed
from Perth, has brought in a useful cheque for the
Adelaide Children’s Hospital. A day or so before
the close of the “poll” (which was a matter of penny
votes) the Licensed Victuallers, Meat Trade, Hard-
ware and Tattersall’s were in the lead. On the
final day Sid Kidman shot in £250 for Meat, but
the poll closed with the L.V.A. man, P. J. Flan-
nagan, scoring most. Total, nearly £3OOO.


Chocolate?
Packed always in
red boxes.
PRICES:—
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
I
IV
/1
il *1
«
I
B
\
u
/
m.
■llll
111
»>S
m
i
. j
Fashionable Sapphire 8 Diamond Jewellery
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS—FINEST WORKMANSHIP.
3-arif)
YOl
EXTRA-QUALITY
DIAMOND 8t SAPPHIRE WATCH
I
SET IN PLATINUM
jf2so
e!
DIAMOND, SAPPHIRE & FROSTED
CRYSTAL BROOCH-SeT IN PLATINUM
£4-0
DIAMOND 81 SAPPHIRE
IRINO-SET IN PLATINUM
d
PEARL, DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE
BROOCH- SET IN PLATINUM
€ 45
DIAMOND Si SAPPHIRE
RING-SET IN PLATINUM
£ 75
PI AM ON D & SAPPHIRE PENDANT
SET IN PLATINUM
£ 150
£ 90
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue sent post free to any address in
the Commonwealth
Jewels of every description taken in exchange.
Mm. Brummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
It isn’t too early to
Order Your Xmas Suit
Towes
ABOUT IT NOW!
Even if you don’t want the Suit
right away, it is a good thing to
PEACE THE ORDER NOW, and
so give us time to make it
properly.
Remember, Lowe’s recently wrote
off £20,000 from the cost price of
the Tailoring Stock, and therefore
LOWE’S TAILORING PRICES
ARE BACK TO PRE-AVAR
LEVELS.
And please understand that in
making this reduction nothing is
taken from the quality of the
tailoring. The reduction is made
in the cost of the materials only!
Furthermore, Lowe's GUARAN-
TEE SATISFACTION right up to
the I hilt! YOU MUST BE
PLEASED, OR YOU DON’T PAY.
WE TAKE THAT RISK!
Note These 4 Examples of Our Big Reductions.
No. I—AUSTRALIAN WOOLLEN
TWEED SUIT-TO-ORDER, Light
and Dark Designs.
Price was £5/5/-. NOW
No. 2—B RIT I S H ALL- WOOL
GUARANTEED INDIGO SERGE
SUIT-TO-ORDER.
Price was £B/8/-. NOW
No. 3—A GOOD QUALITY ENG-
LISH WORSTED SUIT-TO-ORDER
in all Newest Designs and Colorings.
Price was £B/8/-. NOW
84-
£6161-
£ 6161 ■
// €
m
&
No. 4—AN ALL-WOOL
SOLID ENGLISH
WORSTED, something
extra special for the
smart dresser, in all
leading designs, and
HAND-MADE, to order.
Price was £l2/12/-
NOW
£9191-
Here is a General List of
Reductions throughout our
4 Tailoring Departments—
V PRICES PRICES
; ; WERE NOW
£6/6/- £5/-/-
£7/15/- £5 15 -
£B/15/- £6/15/-
£9/9/- £7/7/-
£9 15 - £7/15/-
£lO/10/- £B/8/-
i£l 1/11/-£B/17/6
#l3/-/- £9/17/6
t£l3/13/-£lO/10/-
| City Men —See
our Windows.
i Country Men
I -Write for
Patterns.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and CATALOG
To LOWE'S LTD., "Dept. B,” Box 1622, G.P.O.
limited
SYDNEY.
Diggers’ Gratuity Bonds to the
face value of £3O accepted by
Lowe’s in payment for Men’s
and Boys' Clothing. For par-
ticulars call or write Secretary.
Please send me patterns of
your Hummer Suits to Order, at,
Pre-War Prices, as advertised
in The Bulletin (3/11/'2l ).
'Name
Address


Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
<
k$
champagne
'iarleslleidsiecK
Reims
ai *M|
Wt? 1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
On mountain trip or seaside dip,
Or picnic with the campers,
K.B Lager you will find
Included in the hampers!
K. B.
LAGER
The preference of connoisseurs!
Crewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment and Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
Join the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
The Cup should be full and brimming over,
judging by the steady exodus from Sydney
for the past two weeks. Sport and Society
have gone southwards as swiftly as a change
of gauge will allow; and the little milliner
up Liverpool way has been kept hard at
it considering the relative merits of the
Lolls Boyce and the Sunbeam. Sydney is
empty except for the mere thousands who
are still trying. to wrest a loaf from the
dough-bin of life. Even the world of let-
ters has been touched, for all the books have
gone to the Cup. Until the Great National
Event is settled, who cares a bean whether
ex-sister Liguori becomes Grand Master of
the L.O.L. or Thomas ’Enley the Pope of
Lome?
-The Bachelors’ Dance at the Wentworth
gave the hallmark of last week. Not to have
received a card for it amounted among the
younger dancing set almost to a crime. All
the girls whose jazz-steps during the winter
would, if placed end on end, encircle the
earth, like Puck’s girdle, all the girls whose
parents have had to build an annexe to the
drawing-room to accommodate daughter’s
jazz-prizes, greeted the spots on the floor
as old friends. And mostly they did it in
entirely new outfits, from hair-bands to shoe-
tips.
Talking of the Wentworth reminds that
there may not be an ankle exhibit at the
Jurlough House dance on the 11th. Mrs.
Maclurcan doesn’t consider the idea decor-
ous, _ though, generally speaking, mere man
considers it highly decorative.
The first Baby Welfare Centre of the
State stands midway down Dowling-street,
which is one of the poorer avenues to Wil-
liam-street, and that is handy to the ’Loo.
Before it, after school, small children dis-
port themselves on the dreary pavements,
and tired-looking mothers come to door or
corner to throw a protecting or admonitory
eye on their hopefuls. These are the kiddies
just too old for the day nursery to gather
into its fold. In that safe harborage little
three- and four-year-olds play happily all
day long, individual in spite of the uniform
red-twill envelopes that fail to hide the
human differences. Babies smaller still lie
in their cots and get nourishment and bath-
ing and general attention from seven in the
morning, when mother leaves them at the
nursery-door, till six in the evening, when,
the day’s laundry-work or charring or wait-
ressing over, mother calls for her little ones.
The whole cost of the day’s attention is six-
pence each, with a reduction to fivepence
for tw T o or more of one family. One mother
leaves and collects three every day at this
little world whefe all the furniture is baby-
size. In addition to the nursery there are
rooms set apart for a kindergarten and a
clinic; and Minister McGirr and child-
enthusiast Innes-Noad have set the ’Loo
on the high road to the baby prizes and
beauty contests of the State.
The children at the Welfare Centre are
the former tenants of the Sydney Day Nur-
sery, and the energetic committee of that
successful venture are organising a matinee
for November 17 at Her Majesty s ; for even
baby-size furniture costs quite a lot either
to buy or to shift.
The Book Tea at the Seamen’s Institute
w r as one of the happiest ideas the Harbor
Lights workers have had, for the men who
go down to the sea in ships have usually
found very little literary nourishment await-
ing them ashore. One night a v.sitor at
the Institute noticed a stockily-built man,
whose clothes had obviously been carpen-
tered by the ship’s tailor, sitting with his
bowler-hatted head bent close over an illus-
trated paper. Wondering what had aroused
such attention, the visitor drew close, and
saw that the paper was an old copy of an
English print featuring Lady Diana Man-
ners in one of her Old Testament sort of
dances. Bowler-hat looked up, caught the
visitor’s eye and remarked : “She may be a
lord’s daughter, but it takes a nigger girl
to dance the hula!” Anyway, the Harbor
Lights Guild garnered over a thousand vol-
umes the other day, and there is talk of
making the Book Tea an annual affair.
Vice-royalty was represented by Dame Mar-
garet with Mrs. Egerton, and a tiny daugh-
ter of Chaplain Leplastrier, looking like a
blonde doll, handed up an armful of pink
roses to her Ex. Organising-secretary Jean
Austin, Mrs. Arthur Scrivener and Mrs.
Leplastrier were among the enthusiasts
present.
Ihe grey-suited Barnardo Boys came up
from their new Home at (Scarborough House
one nne morning last week to receive the
“.and ot greeting from Dame Margaret and
Governor Davidson. The lawns displayed
their emeralds, and Port Jackson made a
great show of diamonds to dazzle the new
Australians; but it was mere mortals like
fcturkey’s and Peters, with their gifts of ice-
cream and ginger-pop, who really reached the
soul of them. It seemed that the half of
Sydney had' rushed along donations for the
boys first party; and guardian angels, who
Ai ok t T ke forms of people like Garde Trouton,
Mrs. 1 red Aronson and Mrs. Beatrice Mac-
donald, brooded over the boys as protectingly
as the Silver Sallies hovered over the con-
voys as they neared their English ports in
the days of the Great Storm.
Mr. Justice Wade married off Doris
Gregory, the second half of his twin-girls,
one night last week, when the attractive
young person was taken possession of by
Boy Kerr (his dad is Robert, of Darling
l.omt), with the episcopal blessing of Arch-
bishop Wright at St. i'hilip’s. It was up
an aisle heavily banked with arum lilies and
palms that the bride trailed her burthen of
finery, replacing the usual satin with draped
ivory crepe that swung a girdle of gold and
silver Howerets, a cobwebby lace train the
superstructure over pale-pink ninon. A tulle
veil, a gold and silver wreath, a bouquet of
pink roses, and two pretty bridesmaids,
Jocelyn Joseland and Daisy Carter, in floral
taffeta, helped t© make up a picture into
which the bride’s father, and brother Frank,
and bridegroom’s brother Kenneth intruded.
A guest list 300 long drank champagne at
the expense of the knight and his lady at
the Wentworth, where the floral decorations
culminated in a wedding-bell of pink roses
that swayed above the bridegroom and his
bride and the cake that she had made.
Justices and Judges rattled against one
another; and Darling Point and Potts Point
aired their best evening coats. The briae’s
mother wore soft satin that trembled be-
tween mauve and pink ; Doris’s twin sister,
Mrs. Young, was radiant in pink and silver;
and one of the belles of the party was Roy’s
handsome grandmother Kerr.
Dot, second daughter of the West Queens-
land Brabazons, is to marry Basil Beaufort
Brett, at Elderslie, near Win ton. Basil is
manager of Walgra station, on the N.T.
border. The eldest Brabazon girl married
one of the Rockhampton Rudds and lives at
Austral Downs, and that’s right in the Ter-
ritory. Their children are exceptionally
healthy and robust, and have cream-and-
roses complexions; which proves once more
that the Territory is no place for the de-
cadent white race.
Last month, when a tiny baby girl cooed
to the Stork, “Home, James!” that knowing
bird forthwith dropped her at the home of
the Herbert Bretts. Mrs. Brett is the only
child of Major Adams, of the 14th King’s
Hussars, and married Engineer-Lieutenant
Brett, 8.E., R.A.N. (cousin of the late Lord
Mowbray), in 1918._ The young couple
with the heavy-weight ancestry intend
anchoring at Mosman.
Basso Malcolm McEachern, who with his
wife, Hazel Doyle, went to London four or
five years ago and made good there, sends
news of a visit from the Stork. There was
a bonnie boy in the packet.
This is the latest photograph of Myrtle
Thorne, who is going to win European lustre
for her contralto
notes. She raised
her voice in farewell
last week to a
crowded Town Hall,
and scored quite a
triumph in the “Hin-
doo Love Song” and
other things. An
energetic committee
had collected a pretty
bokay of girleens to
sell sweets and pro-
grammes!, and the
flowers that found
their way into the
arms of the primrose-
frocked Myrtle repre-
s e nt e d about six
months’ board even
at current rates.
The slim girl, who sounds like an immature
Butt, seems predestined to success.
Rosamund Lumsdaine, who has become
engaged to young Spowers (of the Argus
Spowers family), will * start off with six
sisters-in-law.
The wedding of Marjorie Elder, second
daughter of the John Elders, of Banksia,
with Captain C. K. C. (Bob) Lundy, M.C.
and bar, only son of Mrs. M. A. Lundy, of
George’s River, shortly to take place in
Bombay, is the. culmination of a war
romance. Captain Lundy left Australia in
1914, was all through the Dardanelles cam-
paign, and later went to France, where he
won his M.C. The bride-to-be is an old
Sydney High School girl, whose hobby has
been kindergarten work and the Girls’
Jiealm Guild. She sailed for Bombay by
the Narkunda.
At heart it is a sad procession that nowa-
C r ii thrusts a smiling face over the side
ot the ships that set out for Europe. The
announcement if there is an announcement
—generally runs: “Mr. and Mrs. So-and-
&uch will leave next week on a six-months’
trip to England and France”; and you can
guess what that means—a mound and a
wooden cross somewhere over there. And
when they return there’s generally a heart-
tul of praise and gratitude to be poured on
Major Allen, who has charge of the Graves
Section. If the Commonwealth had been
combed it isn’t possible that a better man
tor the soul-racking job could have been
tound. Old Sydney will remember his father
™ jf it doesn’t know this son. He was
Aitred, whom 30 years and more ago The
Bulletin loved to present with a harp. For
besides beinv a protege of Parkes, was he
not the poet of Parliament and the pet of
Paddington? In this wandering off into
byways sight was almost lost of the fact
which this paragraph set out to mention:
tr.® ~ tnc William Wrights—he is secretary of
1 itt Son and Badgery—leave this week “for
Fngland and France.”
There was a time when lovers and their
lasses knew the music of “Dorothy” better
than their cate-
chism ; and it is to
those days and their
memories that
Johnnie Wallace be-
longs.. It was he
who introduced
“Dorothy” to Syd-
ney, and his proud-
est possession is the
silver match-box
that Cellier gave
him in 1888 after a
production which the
composer himself said
was better than
either the London
or the New York
presentment. John
belongs to the days
when Nell Stewart
twinkled the prettiest legs in Sydney as
drummer-boy in a “Tambour Major” cast
that included John as Bambini, and when
he first raised his lid to Maggie Moore she
was ‘a slip of a girl, as slender and vola-
tile as a shaft of light,” and busy laying
mi? oun dations of the Williamson firm,
lhe young things who came to him in the
chorus or the ballet, or as walkers-on, have
rounded out and nourished, and for the most
part died ; but John is left with his memo-
ries and a dwindling bank balance, and
Sydney is trying to cheer him up by a
benefit booked for to-night at the Palace.
Sid Long, who painted those “Flamin-
goes” in Sydney National Gallery, is soon
to emerge from his retirement and give a
one-man show, in which etchings and water-
colors will figure. Says the unostentatious
Sid; I don’t want a man to beat a drum
and tell the public I am here. My work
ought to do that, and if it doesn’t, well”
The G.F.S. gets a lift on Saturday by a
fete to be held at Bishopscourt. Clara Butt
has promised to open it.
Mrs W. Adams, who, as Hypatia Monk,
was the first woman to drive her car to
Melbourne, met with a bad accident on Fri-
day. She was driving her husband and
family of three little ones, her mother and
Miss Alice Phillips to Melbourne, when the
car overturned and pinned them under-
neath. Wonderfully, they all escaped with
their lives ; but the car was wrecked.
Marguerite Dale, who has had her first play
accepted by the Sydney Repertory Society,
is a grand-niece of Hume, the explorer.
Her husband pursues costs for a living.
On Saturday and Tuesday next Dorothea
Spinney unwinds the cerements from two
more Greek tragedies at the Conserva-
torium.
The motor-car is a most ingenuous devil
—it is always finding out new ways of get-
ting you into trouble. Herbert Bowden, the
Bridge-street shipping-man, was shown one
a few days ago. He and his wife were “do-
ing” the Northern Rivers. They came to
a punt on the Manning, and the chauffeur
steadied down to run out on to it as usual.
But no sooner had the front wheels struck
the ark than it darted out into the stream ;
the car’s nose dipped gently into the Man-
ning, and it became a water-picnic instead
of a road tour. It would surely have been
something worse if the bank hadn’t had a
gentle slope on that side. Moral for motor-
ists: See that the punt is tethered before
you bump it.
Secretary Mrs. Watson Holdship is rallying
her Auxiliary around her in the interests of
the sick kiddies who will be in the Sydney
Hospital at Christmas time. She is planning
a children’s ball at the Wentworth, with
Christmas trees and everything, so that
babies who choose the social upper stratum
of storks for their aerial flight may help
pay for the Christmas party and tree that
are going to help sick children forget pain
for an hour or two on Dec. 25. Under the
very special care of the Auxiliary come also
the eight small children from Moorecliffe
who are in residence at the new ophthalmic
hospital at the Pacific Mansions—that once
rather rorty address is now a model eye-
hospital under the big Macquarie-street in-
stitution's wing.
The Boat Club’s dance that was supposed
to put the last curl in the tail of the ’Var-
sity regatta took place at the Wentworth ;
and secretary Tom Barnett still wears a
pleased smile. liaidee Carson and Mary Hughes
were outstanding good-lookers of a mgiu
when every girl was a belle. Audrey Schute
in a confection of black satin and lace is
deserving of a word, and the Herbert Ken-
dalls and the presidential Keith Williams
couple helped to cheer things along.
Some heavy thinkers like Bacon, Spinoza,
Socrates and Aristotle appear in two
spacious panels which Norman Carter is
completing for the Sydney Uni. They are the
largest decorative groups ever painted in
Sydney. Something more diaphanous appears
in friezes Norman has completed for a New-
castle theatre and a Sydney cafe, nymphs
and satyrs being the motives of both designs.
Although he has never gone abroad, Carter’s
portrait of Florence Rodway won the double
event —the medal at the Salon and “on the
line” at the Academy.
Dame Margaret gave a blessing to the C. of
E. Children’s Homes at Burwood last Thurs-
day. This well-kept institution has grown
out of its swaddling clothes since the late
Bishop Stone-Wigg took such a big interest in
it; and nowadays 2$ girls and 20 boys find a
cheerful nest there. When the Homes get
the space, they hope to accommodate as many
more; but just now the sign “House Full” is
up.
“Vandorian” drops in from London:—
Sydney’s old friend, Miss L. E. Armstrong, has
established herself at the Southern Cross Bureau,
in High Holborn, in pursuit of her plan to map out
your earthly pilgrimage—pack you off to Mount
Olympus with a list of the gratuities necessary to
propitiate the gods, and book your passage—by air,
land or sea —to any known destination. She can find
you a corner in Paris where you won’t be rooked ; a
castle in Spain where things that bite in the silent
night-watches will be missing. More stupendous
task, she will even preserve young and tender Aus-
tralasians from the depredations of the Cockney
landlady—a being in whose presence even those who
are no longer young feel mere worms.
Ethel Heddle (Mrs. Marshall) is a pleasant little
lady who is a consistent and successful writer of
serial stories in which the hero and heroine invari-
ably rout the villain or the vampire. She is a
cousin of Mrs. Foster Heddle —formerly Millie Traill,
daughter of Tjie Bum.etin's one-time chief—and
the pair have gone off to St. Andrew’s, Scotland, for
a month’s holiday. Two upstanding Heddle mariners
are in Australian waters.
Talking of former Australians settled in Britain,
Mrs. Angus, widow of the founder of the Angus
and Robertson book firm, lives nowadays in Edin-
burgh ; but she’s changed her name to Campbell.
Mrs. Rosita Forbes, the handsome young woman
who used to be the wife of one of Strickland’s
A.D.C.’s, is to be married again. The man is a
Colonel McGrath.
A Brisbane postscript:—
On November 12, in Davies Park, a number of the
weaker sex will endeavor to rake in funds for the
Children’s Hospital by risking their front teeth and
their noses iiy a soccer football match, foot races,
hockey and basket-ball matches. Still, the cause is
excellent.
This year the “hanging” positions in the Art
Society’s exhibition were fixed by ballot, which may
be quite fair in one way, but has had horrible re-
sults in another. Mrs. Muntz Adams, who is a
clever portrait-painter, must have drawn a blank,
for her portraits are hung in a bad light, and look
like it. Dora Wilson shows some delightful pastels,
and B. Dellit has six fairylike water-colors. P.
Stanhope Hobday, one of our home-grown artists,
paints skies with real wind in them. “Clouds Which
Shadow All the Earth” is his best.
Jean Trotter, only daughter of the W. J. Trotters,
has said her “I will” to Edward Hunter Bowman,
of Muswellbrook (N.S.W.). Papa gave away the
little bride, whose frock of white brocade satin had
a train of Limerick lace. Betty Woolnough, Alice
Hawthorn and Heather Bowman, in pink brocaded
satin and pink tulle, were bridesmaids.
The committee of St. Martin’s War Memorial Hos-
pital got in early and bagged Armistice (Day for
its next bushranging.
Dear old Padre Penfold Brown, who has devoted
the last seven years of his life to soldiers in camp
and in hospital, got the surprise of his life the
other day, when some of the boys lured him to Rose-
mount Hospital, and after endeavoring to say “Thank
you” thrust a purse of sovereigns into a reluctant
hand. Penfold Brown often forgot about his own Mon-
day’s breakfast until late on Tuesday night. But he
never forgot to distribute hospital mails regularly,
or to provide little comforts for sick soldiers out of
a limited purse.
Bertha Ryan, of Lucknow Downs, one of the first
aeroplane joy-riders of this State, has become en-
gaged to Ernest Nelson-Turner (late Captain A.1.F.),
who now shoulders a major’s crown and administrates
for the Colonial Office.


■
■
1
*
m
m
m
m
m
R
I
m
m
Hi
I
■ . is* ? :?: '
The merchant bring's the welcome oils
THE arrival of the trader’s caravan was eagerly
awaited by the elegant women of Ancient Egypt.
The precious Palm and Olive oils were of inesti-
mable value to those women of old—not only for their
cleansing and beautifying effects, but as a sheer safeguard
and protection in the hot and dry climate.
In PALMOLIVE SOAP—containing those same oils, but
perfectly blended by modern science—the Australian woman
has the same means of luxury, comfort and protection.
If you have not yet known the delights of the creamy, mild
PALMOLIVE lather, there is a great pleasure awaiting you.
Palmolive cleanliness is different —you will appreciate it.
PALMOLIVE
SOAP
The guest-room size cake of Palmolive Soap ivill be sent post free
on request by The Palmolive Company ( Australasia ), Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
PALMOLIVE SOAP
sells everywhere
at 1/3 per caße.
m.
■m.
W
,>
tm
/"
m
■ 4&&agK
m
m:
W
s*\
m


LEARN DRAWING!
ada
da
<(
There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Simple les-
sons in the
principles of
black-and-white
work and design
have been prepared
by Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist, enabl-
ing you to study
art in your own
home.
This
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING
teaches you with-
out drudgery how
to apply your tal-
ent, and how to
make big money
besides learning a
fascinating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s Money
in the Pen,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.,
gives examples of
the lessons and
samples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent-you on
receipt of your
name and ad-
dress and three
stamps to cover postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
86 Union House, SYDNEY.
This is the BEST
Way to Mark
all Linen
w
K
I
•mm
CASH'S <®> NAMES'
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz. 7/6 —6 doz. 5/- —3 doz. 3/6
So’d by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND,
PTY.
LTD.
VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
/yC £&-<2&b& t'S
/ dtzsre: /&zSr~
V f^y‘*z^-ot£
/<b
-
<2-^r
7rz-&e
/ t /n £o
7 =3 /Arfl3/?‘’T//£/?s£‘ )
BAJ/S/3/9A//T'
*?-y/s'
Co*?*f*t o >*. m?
SeVo /%,fj /^p^^a/s
RIDING BREECHES
Sports Coats
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
&
W. CHORLEY
8 CO. LTD.,
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
■••1 / 3
sr
-koo-koo-k’burrX^'
00
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS
ARE FULL OF LIFE
Plaited belly, Kangaroo Leather right through with White Hide fall
and cracker. Expert Hand Plaited. There are no belter whips.
Inferior whips have no plaited belly, being usually filled with sheep skin
to form the shape. “K’Burra’’whips are, as it were, two whips in one.
Write
for
Saddlery
Catalog
b tt. to on. tnongs. 10 pi. 10/0. 4.*pi. 10/0. pi. 4.1/ u
9 ft. and 10 ft. thongs .. 18/-, 20/- and 23/- each
Post
Free
for
Cash
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS AND POLO SPECIALISTS, 395 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
Men’s Stou* 7/3
, Ligh' 6/-
Ladies’ • • 4/*
Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2'*
Ladies’ 1/3
(Heels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd.,
London , Eng,
flj] THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
j to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
' MILITARY
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
tf]T THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
ol give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands _ of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
N. S
S.A.,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
WALES, QUEENSLAND and VICTORIA: —J.
262 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
W.A. and TASMANIA:—C. M. HANSFORD,
Street, Adelaide, S.A
M. ROHAN.
22 Waymouth
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who neve*
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not only POLISH,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes; Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
Ask to see
the new
Streamline
Model.
Missing: Friends.
Florence lyons, daughter
of Edwina Croswell, who died
at Adelaide in January,
1914, is requested to communicate
with
MILLER & MILLER,
Solicitors,
Launceston, Tasmania.
mHE NEXT OB' KIN of the late HENRY HENDER-
-1 SON STEWARTSON, of Laverton, Victoria, are
requested to communicate with The Trustee Execu-
tors and Agency Company, Limited, 412 ’.Hr*
Street, Melbourne.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - - - Accepted from 1/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - - - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at 3\ per cent, on any
excess up to £ 1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will bi
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F. J.G.: Much obliged for your informa-
tion that “ ‘politics’ is a singular noun and should
take a singular verb and pronoun.” Now turn up
your Webster and read that “forms in -ics denoting
matters of practice, as gymnastics, tactics, etc., are
oftener construed as plurals.” And even if Webster
didn’t grant permission Thu Bulletin would take it
for the sake of euphony... .M. Russell: Hardly
strong enough to . carry so familiar a theme....
F.K.K.: Off our beat. .. .E.M.E 1 .: We’ve printed
worse.... L.P.F.: In good shape; but so unreal —
the commonest fault of otherwise good verse these
days Alys: “Red Posts” have the color, but very
little to put it on.. .1.R.M.: “Faith’s” weak rhymes
turned the scales against it.... Rita B.: Dear lady,
you are wrong. There, is nobody better qualified to
write about the subject. .. .E.C. II.: No use....En
Zed: No hints could improve them ; they are beyond
hope and prayer... .Wilfred L.: No skill, no charm
and little to say.... Colin W.: Feeble little flutter.
... .Joan G.: None of them... .E.G. (South Yarra) :
No use pretending to write verse without taking the
trouble to do 50....01d Mack: Crude and common-
place. .. .Kenneth H.: No good at all. .. .C.L.G.:
“Victim” r.ot for this market... .D.8.R.8.: “Digger”
is only a mildly interesting dog. .. .Lionel O.: Very
ordinary sort of beer-mopping... .A.T.C.: Nothing
there.... Paula: “Carrum” is easy verse with one
very small not very fresh thought spread out thin.
.... Allan D.: Moves heavily and misses the Omar
spirit... .R.D.F.: Not enough in “The Trip” to
carry the difficult scansion. .. .Y. 0.8.: Both very
p00r... .C.11.J.R.: Don’t know which is more won-
derful—your sense of humor or your variety ‘....
Alice S.: Unattractive... .C.R.R.: Very lame....
J.N.C.: Have no recollection of the book; and, on
the description, it doesn’t seem wortn remembering.
. ...C.H.W.: “Natty” and the “Witch” are not for
u 5.... Helen S.: Far too little in it... . Streb: Might
have made a yarn, but you didn’t handle your
materials like a tradesman... .T.H.W.: The story
amounts to nothing much. . . iB.M.N.Z.: Misses....
John W.: All rubbish.... J.H.S.: Also ran.... Blot
and S.: “Guilty” too crude. .. .8.P.J.: Terrifying
arrangement of words, without even a resemblance
to verse... .J.C. (Darlinghurst) : Poor attempt....
Phono: They may be nice girls, but you celebrate
them in shocking verse... .Pen Rodd : You say all
there is to say in the first line... .D.S.C.: The
bright originality of the theme is equalled by the
lyric ecstasy which breathes in the lines: —-
True friendship is like a priceless gem,
Unbought by the coin of moneyed men,
And like the pearl ’tis pure and white,
’Tis retained only by the worthy and right.
It is the one thing that helps us through the battle
of life,
And is what we rely on when trouble is rife.
So place to my credit in the great bank of truth
The bond of true friendship which shall stand as
the proof.
... .Burgh d’E.: Ungrammatical fragment... .Opal:
Hasn’t enough in it. . . .M.W. (Bundaberg) : Your
sense of humor needs a tonic.... Ten Corner: Very
crude... .A.H.D.: The horseplay spoils it.... Slim
Tim: Not up. . . .A. 0.5.: Has a hint of tune, but
too slight.... Golden Cut: Misses.... Cive: No use.
... .W.C.H.: Dog yarn doesn’t work out well
enough.... Delos: Stiff verse with no new thought.
....Louise T.: Ancient matter in bad verse....
P.8.T.: Better grow up. . . .R.E.8.: Doesn’t strike
us E.H.G.: Not for us....Tribs: Not enough
there. .. .Bent Stem: None of them get near....
N.P.11.: “Bill Biles” won’t d 0.... Anchorite: Too
little in it... .L.A.S.: The finish nearly saved it...
R.McC.: Sorry, but the verses don’t get near....
Davey H.: The parable doesn’t thrill.... Jeen:
Rather too obvious... .S.R.T.C.: Not ours. .. .N.M.:
(Paddington): None of them strike us... .E.J.K.:
Thanks ; but it was probably not far out, after all.
... .P.N.0.: Some of the lines nearly shook the teeth
out of our head. .. .S.X.T.: That Bonser surname is
common enough. There are nearly a dozen of them
in the Sydney directory.... Oliver B.: “Jock” is a
fine agricultural lyric:—
You talk about cockying, Jock,
You and your one-horse farm.
Did ’ee ever see a scrub block ?
You’ve only been using one arm.
You won’t have to buy any water or wood,
And the water is good, good ;
All you want is a little tin
To make a little doss to sleep in.
No need for want of brains out there,
Just roll your sleeves and buck in;
You can talk and whistle to the air.
If your luck’s in you may win.
. ...L.0.J.: “Discord” is pretty much 50.... E.C.:
“Circumstance” misses only by inches.... Hesperus:
You'll get better; it is the spring. .. .Y.P.: Thank
you. Very interesting. .. .H.V.H.: If you told a
mate a yarn in language like that he would tell you
to get your head read. Why, then, use it in telling
a yarn to a hundred thousand?. .. .J.A.H.: No com-
ments, except that it is a rattling good little story.
. ...1.T.11.: No neW thought in it.... S. and S.: As
dull as the dullest sermon ever snored t 0... .C.A.C.:
Not in our department. Try a publisher. .. .0.L.8.
(Northern Rhodesia): Glad to learn that yours is
“a land of almost unlimited potentiality.” It sounds
so homelike.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.H.8.: Silhouetting hides a multitude of sins...
1.8. (Bankstown) : You can’t palm off that deformity
as an artists’ model... .A.S.P.: Not quite good
enough. .. .Waldred: Will do as a suggestion....
Woodicus: Still crude W.R.H.: Promising....
1.8. (Tas.) : Hopeless.... J.B. (Lidcombe) : Feeble
pencil copies W.T.H.: Valueless... .J.B. (Hurst-
ville) : A bright idea and a promising drawing; but
they are not in partnership... .W.H.: Too scratchy;
try a bolder line and a nerve-tonic.... A,E.: The
humor is there in one, but not the drawing. Others
are of the boys’-comic class G.H.: Mere student
sketchings so far.
“Mirza”: Honor to “F.C.L.’s” Rhodesian
lady (B. 20/10/’2l) who had quintuplets,
but she doesn’t own the record. That be-
longs (or did in 1918) to an Italian matron
in the Lake Como district. She went one
better than Rhodesia.
The Sydney suburb Mortdale, owing to
frequent confusions with Mortlake, is to
have its name changed to Morelia, which
means hilly. When the business people on
Old South Head-road decided to change
the name of that thoroughfare “Mort” was
suggested in honor of T. S. Mort, but some-
one recollected that “Mort” meant dead, so
the egregious “Oxford-street” was substi-
tuted.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Ca&tnes-de*
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First.-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street.
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 7,
VENTURA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Dunking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H.
MACARTNEY; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNIi, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . .. .. 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —-James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G- W.
Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.; AY. H. Hart,
Esql ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney : E. PRESCOTT AVELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. • • £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagut, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South AA'ales.
RJtISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2)
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock *529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,120,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,270
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
620,000
£1,245,000
. 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
with 89 Branches and Agencies m that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. . , . _
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking busi
transacted.
Shlpptn*. etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQTJIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONIINLNI.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 15th DECEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
11.M.5. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
' Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara l alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, Ist DECEMBER, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 29th DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
unio U n NlO s?eaT^ip S To.. CO SSZSJg wS K SSSSbm
A
w
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
dada
£5,000,000
3,425,000
5,000,000
£13,435,000
Directors
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles IC. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Charles Uinnie. Esq.
Hubert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and C< respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTKKCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collecied. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
da
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kajter, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
W AI
~~ Nature's Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
r n-nirious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
Luxurious travel yv TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering
first-class
rail motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
(GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Huddart ParkerLiei
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. „ „ , . TT . .
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Lite!.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE v{a BYRON BAY AND 1HE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED ltlVElt.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAlt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.tn.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at i p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, aiid First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail. £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfoit
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
JYLOntniy oaiiniga iuuciuu.1.
Through Passenger ‘Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
money, B NI ’ pp0N yUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping; Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
managing agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOE
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


The Briton Overseas "
remains British—through and through—never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
1 6 tastes predilictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
imiwjik lia
>a«i|
wst?
SLUM
at! Ml
Dll
m
/
Dawson
Bi.fNOCD W«ISKY
CWII
¥^M«svi
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
Stocks wc hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.”
Whisky.
Everyone*s favourite
Scotch — Everywhere!
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
—v. GLASGOW.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
Q
0
fTTfI «fl 8!
m
m
m
•Royal Cord' • Nobby * ’Chain' •Usco t ,
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
r//:
POR
m
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
a
“A marvel at the price.' 7
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2ilb
(Postage—N.S.W., ?./3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26 =
da
“Simple and extra strong in construv.lion."
1110. Winchester Single-shot ltille, 1904 Moilc], f»r -2
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round eel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; ha gili >.f rllle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent ad".,< d tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b .
Freight i _;.l. [jJ Q
JL
m.
SS£
mm
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rif'*, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridgeV, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and i 3
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, -ltd guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/C; other Stabs, 2/S.)
••vs.:s
3c f
lie-marl;ably accurate arid hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, (5
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 641 b., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l4 14/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
da
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
HI3. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridge;.; weight, about s|lb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/6/.
m*
jj-TTlt-Mm,
827. New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv'-shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target __ , t ,
work. Weight about 7]lb. Freight paid 3L.7/10/"
da
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
142. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
da
One of the liardest-liitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlet.
_Remington Automatic Hammerless
Iviii6, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 2*>
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 511 b. „ _
Freight paid, &9/10/-
MYRROHL America. TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 large tube (
the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
or 2/- post free).
dada
PM* Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 20/20-, 02-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24iu. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £,B/Is/..
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
big. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1802 Model, ' '
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central tire, full or half magazine. ,im ; _
20in. round barrel, weight about Freight paid, 3t»7/l / / O
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Make Weak Backs Strong.
The pain I suffered with my
back and kidneys for over four
years was almost unbearable. I
was advised to try Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, and I am very grate-
ful to say that, after taking two
boxes, I got absolute relief, and
they seemed to suit my system
perfectly. My health has im-
proved out of sight, and if you
only knew how glad I am that
my health has reaped such
great benefit, you would under-
stand my writing stating how
grateful I am to Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for how they have
cured me.
You may use this testimonial
if you wish.
(Sgd.) Mrs NELL GLENN,
12 Ruthven St., Waverley.
MRS. NELL GLENN (from a photo).
YOUR OWN VALUE
Every woman ought to know her own value, and how much her healthy happiness
and general fitness tor work or enjoyment matter to those about her. Mothers are
the frame upon which the work of the world is built up, yet how can a woman prove
a cheery, helpful wife, a wise, kind mother or a sympathetic companion if she is out
of health, over-weary or dispirited? Headaches, backaches, depressed nerves,
sleeplessness and kindred troubles invade and break up more homes than any human
foe. You drag through your work too tired to enjoy life and even too tired to sleep
when night comes.
It is not the outside things, such as money or success, that make life happy, but
good health and abundant spirits. You may have drifted so far down that you lliink
you will -never be strong again. Hut good, sound health is for all. With healthy
kidneys once more acting freely, these distressing symptoms you have endured so
long will vanish. Hr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are now doing for others what they can
as easily do for you—make life worth while. Turn over a new leaf for health and
start with Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
D* S ttELDONS
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER.
AND UR I NARY TROUBLES.
I'
10
ar
.
'iSSZhJEB
Ste---
LSi
' FOOD*:*
fIU
Supper to be
Served in a
Hurry, Eh?
Let REX CAMP PIE, the
daintiest concoction of the
Rex Chefs, help you out of
your difficulty.
Never tried it? Why
Rex Camp Pie
is the most tempting all-meat dish you have
ever tasted. You serve it straight from the
tin. A tasty salad will give it an added
charm. Spring it as a surprise on your
family any night. It’s sure to be in prime
request after that.
A tin makes a good meal for five. Order
from your Grocer.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.'
The Lily of Touraine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tOne of the sad romances of history was the first
marriage of James V. of Scotland, who chose the
French Princess Magdalen, although she was already
in a decline. A five-months’ bride, she went to her
grave.)
HE king’s daughter, Magdalen, that
' I ' was so fair o’ face,
-L Her heart was like a lily-bell, a cup
of Heaven’s grace ;
And Love and Death that wonn beyond the
winter and the sea,
They sat and tossed the die for her, and
would not let her be.
•1 lia’e won,” said drumlie Death, “the
Queen of all the Dead
I crown the sweet lass Magdalen.” “But no,
she shall be wed.
We’ll toss again,” said laughing Love, clear-
eyed and masterful;
“For such a lass was never laid below the
mounded mool.”
There sailed a king a-wooing, out ower the
misty Forth ;
He had no will to any maid o’ the star-cold
North;
But he has spied May Magdalen upon the
rainbow mead;
One look in one another’s eyes, and vain
were let or rede.
“‘Sir King,” he said, the bonnie Prince, “no
rose'of France for me!
This three-day maiden-moon o’ yours or none
my bride shall be.
A hand in Heaven plaits and twines, full
fatefully and fain,
Dun-Edin’s royal Thistle and the Lily of
Touraine.”
The bonnie Prince ’twas not in man nor
maid to say him nay ;
And he and sweet May Magdalen were wed
upon a day.
It was not earth nor water-deck nor Tyrian
weft they trod,
But • angel-meadows of the Prince, flowered
ankle-deep by God.
France; the goodly garden-land, was all a
fairy flame
That ran before them marish-wise, and ever
went and came.
And the grey rocks o’ Scotland be sure they
blushed and bowed
For grace to her —but, ah, the mist, it
happed so like a shroud!
A wind blew out of Heaven for Magdalen
the Queen,
And sweet it left with odored airs, but
landed briny-keen.
0 sworded wind, O shearing will’d, that cut
their love in twain—
Dun-Edin’s royal Thistle and the Lily of
Touraine!
“I ha’e won,” said drumlie Death. But
Love welled into song:
“Five enchanted moons I gave her, each an
Eden long!
Mine the toss for time and tide, ye grisly
thief o’ night!
What had you to cut but ether, what corrode
but light?”
MAOBILAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.
The Covenanters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PASTOR MULLER, Lutheran mission-
ary in charge of the Mallila district
in German New Guinea, after read-
ing the story of Abraham’s sacrifice of the
ram, exnatiated at length on the necessity
for sacrifice to God. His congregation, with
the exception of one man was not particularly
attentive. Most of those who should have
been listening were furtively watching their
irreverent brethren fishing out on the reef
and wondering what luck they were having.
This is one of the disadvantages of having-
no walls to a church.
Unfortunately for Pastor Muller, the one
particularly attentive native was seated
beside the lululai (chief). Fie was a rela-
tive of the lululai’s and had come back to
the “place belong him” from across the bor-
der —Papua.
The translation of “ram” into the native
dialect had been a difficulty to Pastor
Muller, as the natives had never seen a
sheep; and he overcame the difficulty by
using the dialect for a species of wallaby—
the only animal they knew of.
If the young man from Papua had not
been there, all would have been well, but his
presence almost wrecked Muller’s life’s work
at the station.
After several hymns had been sung the
service ended, and Muller had a talk to the
lululai, who introduced him to the young
man from Papua. Motopo, he explained,
“worked along Guvment along English,” and
was by way of being a big pot over the bor-
der. He was very learned in English ways
and had been to Po’t Mo’sby, where the
English Government was. Muller said a
few kind words apd left the church.
He had had no news of the war for over
12 months and no letter from Germany. The
strain had aged him, and as he wearily
climbed the precipitous half-mile from the
beach to his house he began to doubt
whether it was all worth while. He had
no illusions about the depth of the natives’
religion. The war had isolated him com-
pletely, and he had thought much on these
things. Yet, within 24 hours, for the pre-
servation of what little faith there was in
the native, and to justify his own good faith
towards them, it was ordained that he was
to fight hard. That the controversy was, on
the surface, broad farce, did not affect him,
for he possessed no sense of humor. He had
been there since the war began without a
change to the south, and the absurd contre-
temps to his hectic brain became a deadlv
war waged wfith the evil forces of Satan.
It was the smart Motopo who started the
row. On his way to the lululai’s hut he
told the chief that Muller had grossly de-
ceived them about the sacrifice. He, Motopo,
had been to. Port Moresby and knew “plenty
too much” about missions and the Bible. It
was not a wallaby that Abraham had sacri-
ficed —it was a sheep, an animal well known
to the English. Now, the native mind under-
stands and accepts literally a concrete thing
like a sacrifice, even if it is vague on ques-
tions of doctrine. The lululai pondered on
the information he had received. Wallabies
were scarce enough and were rarely seen.
As to sacrificing one when caught—especially
when, as it appeared, an animal called a
sheep was really demanded —this was a seri-
ous matter.
That afternoon, unaccompanied, he went
up to the missionary’s house. He gravely
explained to Muller the object of his visit.
If they caught a wallaby, he asked, would
they be expected to sacrifice it to the Big
God on Top? He understood from Motopo
that the English sacrificed a sheep. He did
not know what a sheep was, but he, person-
ally, was quite prepared to sacrifice it, what-
ever it was. On the other hand, wallaby
was very good kaikai.
Muller, had he been a layman, would have
cursed himself for having indulged in meta-
phor before a native congregation, and cursed
Motopo heartily for interfering; but having
carelessly committed himself there was no-
thing left but to stick to the wallaby. To
explain the reason for the substitution, he
knew, would arouse suspicion. Motopo, he
said, did not understand these things.
“Does Motopo lie, then?” asked the lululai.
A less pious man would have said “Yes,”
but Muller would not lie.
“Motopo is foolish. He does not under-
stand,” he repeated.
The lululai left. Motopo had been right,
then. The missionary had lied to them.
Muller was on the point of calling the
lululai back to explain that his sermon merely
indicated metaphorical sacrifice, but the ab-
surdity of trying to make a native understand
the uses of metaphor checked him. Maski!
Let it be !
The lululai, urged by the combative Mo-
topo, addressed his men and eloquently stated
the position. His audience enthusiastically
agreed with him that the sacrifice of a sheep
was the correct thing, and they determined to
stick to the Bible undefiled, and oppose the
missionary’s modernist leanings. It mat-
tered not to them that the story of Abra-
ham’s sacrifice was finished with for at least
12 months. There was a suspicion that,
should they catch a wallaby, the question of
sacrifice would arise, for had not the mis-
sionary distinctly stated that they should all
work for the greater glory of God?
Muller forgot all about the incident till
the following Sunday, when he faced a
diminished congregation, sullen and sus-
picious. The hymns were sung by the
Marys, while the boys resolutely kept their
mouths shut. The missionary realised that
the wallaby and his fatuous metaphor had
caused a schism. It was no use explain-
ing : to maintain Christianity in that
region it was necessary to maintain as the
first essential the doctrine of the White
Man’s infallibility. So he preached a ser-
mon on Motopo; or, at least, he referred in
stinging terms to those boys who, leaving
their families, go to foreign parts to live
where white men lived, and who come back
with their heads full of foolish notions, pre-
tending to be wiser than the lululais them-
selves.
It was all no good; so Muller decided
that next Sunday he would use force.
The result of his muscular Christianity
was a packed church. The hymns were
given out, but only Muller’s house-boys and
the Marys sang. The rest sat nervously
looking one at the other, afraid of the white
man, but more afraid of public opinion.
Muller lashed them with his tongue, and they
squirmed. But their obstinate silence was
not overcome. Things were serious!
All through the week a fever-stricken
Muller prayed for a way out of the farcical
situation. He sent for the lululai and tried
threats. It was no use, for the lululai,
dazzled by the brilliant Motopo, had begun
to think that, after all, he was as good as
a white man; and in any case the wallaby
problem was still unsettled. But on that
point Muller had to be firm, for if he ad-
mitted a substituted word now there would
undoubtedly follow questions as to how many
other things he had altered. For example,
did the Bible say “Six days shalt thou labor,”
or had the missionary substituted six for,
say, one?
The following Sunday the congregation
consisted of the missionary’s household.
Muller, weary and ill and sick at heart,
offered up a prayer for their misguided
brethren, but decided that God had not an-
swered his prayers.
He was mistaken. As he finished, an
“Englishman,” dressed in nondescript gar-
ments and followed by some Papuan police,
bade him good-day.
“I’ve really no business on this side of
the border,” he explained ; “but I’m looking
for one of m.y police-boys, Motopo, who ran
away a few weeks ago. A smart scoundrel,”
he added.
The missionary agreed with the District
Magistrate. Motopo certainly was a scoun-
drel. He then gravely and urgently explained
the religious situation created by Motopo.
The District Magistrate realised the old
man’s distress, and checked his desire to
roll on the ground in hysterics. He gave
some orders to his police-boys and went up
to lunch with Muller.
After dinner and siesta, the District Mag-
istrate and Muller sat on the verandah. The
police-boys had collected the lululai and his
people. A dejected, handcuffed Motopo was
there also.
“Come on top,” the D.M. commanded the
lululai, who advanced slowly up the steps
carrying his stick of office. He offered the
Magistrate his hand, but the latter refused
it. saving that his “belly was cross too
much.” Then he commanded the lululai,
in the name of the English Government, to
believe that Abraham sacrificed a wallaby.
It was not the province of a blackfellow to
argue about the Bible with a white man.
If the white man said wallaby, wallabv it
was. As to Motopo, he was a liar, a thief
(Continued on next page.)


Picture
'iCrtrj
s,«r^
r
4rr
m
wz
&
Too Young to Fool
So Old!
Don’t let that bad back made you old! Get back your
health and keep it. You can detect kidney weakness
in its early stages, from the morning lameness, dull
backache, dizzy spells, nervousness and kidney irregu-
larities. Taken early, a short treatment with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will usually correct it. Kidney
weakness is too often brought on by irregular habits.
Practise moderation. Keep regular hours. Take regular exercise. Cut out useless worrying.
Avoid over-eating, over-drinking, over-working and all other excesses. A perfect balance of brain,
muscles and nerves makes work as sweet as play. You enjoy life, radiate good cheer, and feel
young at any age. Doan’s have helped thousands. Here are some local cases: —
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Ben Spooner, c/o Mrs. Mitchell, “Alecstane,”
Alexander Street, Arnc-liffe, Sydney, says: "I suffered a
lot from backache and was often s» bad that I was com-
pelled to lie up. Every movement increased my suffering,
and the constant nagging ache just above my kidneys
seemed to be taking all the life and energy out of me.
The backache was bad enough, but that was not all; I
was subject to dizzy attacks and the secretions were thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I was really far from
well, but nothing f took did me any good and I was
fast losing hope of a cure. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were at last brought under my notice, and I bought
some at once. I am pleased to tell you four bottles abso-
lutely cured, me. It’s grand to be free of the torture of
backache, and I am very grateful to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for my perfect cure.”
Six years later. Mr. Spooner confirms his previous
statement: “I have had no return of my old complaint
since Doan’s Baeka'che Kidney Pills cured me over six
jtear.s ago.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. W. I‘. Ritzau, 64 Margaret Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says: “For years 1 have been a great sufferer
from kidney disease. I have been treated by doctors
and in hospitals, and have been tortured with operations.
After fifteen months in one hospital I came out a thorough
cripple; I was so ill 1 was advised to go back into the
hospital, but my husband would not let me go. I was
recommended by a friend to take Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills and commenced using them, carefully follow-
ing the directions. These Pills have cured me. I can
now get about and do my work, and the pain has com-
pletely left me. My cure is wonderful for mine was
really a very bad case. Since my cure my uncle has
used the remedy and they, have effected a complete cure in
his case also. Our experiences prove that Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are a positive cure for kidney troubles.”
Six years later Mrs. Ritzau says: “I have still the
same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
When I feel a slight return of my old complaint I take
them and they never fail to put me right.”
da
Backache
Kidney
da
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
and a fool. He would go to gaol. He, the
District Magistrate, had never heard of a
sheep. Motopo had deceived them. Next
Sunday they would go to church, every man
and Mary, and they would sing their damned-
est. If there were any more complaints he
would hear of them, return and taken them
all to work along Government. The Big
Governor was already very angry with them’
and he was a terrible man when he was
angry. “Speak all same,” he ordered the
lululai.
The lululai, very much ashamed of him-
self and feeling murderous towards Motopo,
repeated in the dialect all the D.M. had
said, and its accuracy was certified to by
Muller. When he had finished he began an
apology to the D.M.
“Finish talk !” said the Magistrate briefly,
and the lululai went down the steps.
"I don’t think you’ll have any more
trouble,” said the D.M. “I must be off.”
Ihank you, sir,” said Muller. “You have
lifted a weight off my mind.”
That night the missionary thanked God for
answering his prayers. The following Sun-
day a chastened congregation sang the
hymns lustily, and Muller temporarily for-
got the war and his people, from whom he
never heard now.
O. II. LORD.
The Plains of Mekeo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL night he lay in the deep, crooked
trench that is a path through the
plains of Mekeo. The walls on
either side of him were of impenetrable
cane-like grass, so high that only the stars
immediately above him were visible. Great
gusts of wind found their way in, and as
they swept along the strong grasses shud-
dered convulsively.
Listening to the wind and the rustling
around him, Paru Kwai nursed his wrath
and his unrequited love for yet another
hour. As lolopia, or Chief of the Spears,
he had much authority over the people;
but that authority was as naught when com-
pared with the power that fell to him
through the skilful practice of a subtle form
of sorcery. Often he had planned and
arranged for the removal of his patrons’
enemies; but not of his own adversaries,
for the simple reason that no man except
Avia Naime had ever dared oppose him.
Therefore he had conceived a swift way of
dealing with this man who had the tem-
erity to interfere with his love affairs. Ter-
rible as it was, it scarcely satisfied the crav-
ings of Paru Kwai’s heart. Had time
allowed he would have added to the torture
awaiting Avia Naime; that he could not
d so was not his fault.
For some months these two men had paid
their addresses to Ruta Loga, and, to ti.
amazement of the whole tribe of Piova, the
suit ot Avia Naime had prospered, and to
such an extent that he was marrying her
on the morrow. At least, so all Mekeo
thought. But all Mekeo was reckoning with-
out Paru Kwai. A few hours previously
he had followed Avia Naime through the
trench-like track to the little house on the
edge ot the plain where Ruta lived with
her uncle. Now Paru waited for Avia to re-
turn. Lying there he considered and then
abandoned the idea of springing upon his
victim unexpectedly. He was no coward,
but Avia Naime was a strong man, and he
could take no risks. A match would serve
where his tomahawk might fail.
Towards dawn his vigil ended. Avia Naime
glided by him with the wind towards Arure,
like a big black shadow. But he made no sign.
Avia Naime went on and on through that
ever-turning track. Then Paru Kwai made
Ins first move. Lighting a torch coated with
resin, lie rushed hither and thither, igniting
the brittle grass in a dozen places, always
keeping to windward of the flames. As the
moments passed he became appalled by tbe
inferno he created: it seemed to him for
a while that he had set the whole earth on
fire, and that the great leaping tongues of
flame might turn on him and destroy him
also. But gradually his fear changed to
exultation, and then a grim smile lit up
his handsome face. He calmly watched
the wall of flame rushing towards Arure
until he was satisfied that there was no
escape for the man who had crossed his
path. Then he turned his face to the wind
and entered his village and his house, un-
observed by the crowd of excited people who
had been awakened by the roar of the fire
on the plain.
The next day he was amongst those who
carried the charred remains of Avia Naime
to their resting place amid the rocks of
Eboa. And what could tbe people say?
No man uttered a word against Paru Kwai,
but many of them shook their heads and
wondered.
Paru Kwai did not wait for the grass to
grow again on the plain before he approached
Ruta Logn. She had fled with her sorrow
to a big hunting-house on the Inafera River,
and thither he followed her. At first she
would have none of him ; but when the grass
had grown again on the plain, she was seen
with him in the market-place of Veipa, and
soon afterwards she admitted that Paru Kwai
was her man. She was a handsome woman,
this Ruta Loga, and the beauty of her body
was enhanced in the eyes of the people by
a singular tattoo, strange in colors and won-
drous of design. llow she came to be so
marked the people did not know. Many of
them had tried to buy from her the secret
of the dyes—for a well-tattoofed body is the
ambition of all Mekeo folk—but Ruta Loga
kept her secrets well. She had never dis-
closed the nature of the ingredients given to
her bv her mother, and she had no inten-
tion of doing so now.
“What is it to you that I learn this secret
now that I am to be your man?” he asked.
“Your mother has long been dead. Tell me,
Ruta, where I may find the plants that give
these dyes, so that my body may be as your
body on the day of our feast.”
He w-as a vain man, and he pleaded with
her until it seemed that she must yield. But
then she only compromised.
“Paru Kwai;” she said, “1 cannot forget
my mother's words: I wil 1 not give you the
secret I promised to keep; but 1 will tattoo
your body because I am to be your wife.”
This satisfied the vanity of Paru Kwai:
he cared little about the composition of the
dyes, so long as his body was adorned with
them. The girl had often told him of the
pain and great irritation she had endured
when being tattooed, and she warned him
again of this, telling him that he w-ould have
to endure it also. Paru Kwai' laughed softly
at these words, and showed her the scars of
many fights.
"Look at these, Ruta, and tell me if your
needle and paint will make me flinch.”
"The dye thickens the blood,” she said.
“My hands were bound, for only thus may
one keep them from the needle.”
So they went to the hunting-camp on the
Inafera River. Ruta demanding secrecy,
they waited until dark and left the village
by a track that was seldom used. But once
in the big wooden house she produced beau-
tiful designs cut in tortoise-shell, a needle
and tbe dyes. By the light of a lire she com-
menced her work, bidding him often to be
quiet or lie would spoil the design. Y T et
as the needle did its work it left an irrita-
tion and a pain that became intense. Try
as he would he could not keep from flinching,
and once his hands even interrupted the
work.
“Paru Kwai, I shall tie your hands to that
post if you move again,” she laughed to her
lover.
“It is better you tie them now than that I
should spoil your work,” lie said. “The pain
grows; use the rope—it is better so.”
Laughing at his weakness, the girl did as
she was bid, and then kneeling at his feet
she commenced tattooing another design on
his legs, lie could not keep still, however,
so she had to scold him again. Presently
he,kicked the needle out of her hand, and
thereupon became much ashamed. Playfully
she seized the offending limb and tied it to
the post before turning to her work again.
Blood trickled down his leg, and he groaned
with the pain; sometimes lie flinched, too,
and stamped his free foot, diverting the
needle from its course; so murmuring her
love and her compassion she tied it also to
the post. Telling him to be strong, she
worked on swiftly, pricking in the design
with a steady hand, until he complained
that she had tied his hands too tightly.
When he said this the girl rose to her feet.
The _ fire flickered between them, scarcely
lighting up the dark corners of the room ; yet
Paru Kwai saw something in her eyes that
filled him with fear.
“What: ails you, Ruta? What is it you
see?”
“I see the spirit of my lover, Avia Naime.
I see a mountain of flame consuming his body.
And in the background I see your figure, as
I saw it on the night of the fire.”
Then swift as thought she seized a strand
of salted rope hanging over a rafter and
bound it round and round Paru Kwai and the
post which held him, until it bit deeper and
deeper into the muscles of his body. She
paused only when the strands came about
liis neck ; then, heedless of his shouts and
cries, she drew away from him, trembling
with the violence of her exertions.
At the door she paused, gasping for
breath. “Paru Kwai,” she called, “you
burned my lover. I am going now to tell
the people what I have done.”
Stepping outside, she descended to the
ground, and set on fire the bundles of dry-
grass and bamboo she had placed under the
house. As she fled from the place terrible
cries rang in her ears.
The next morning, because it is their
custom, the people carried the body of Paru
Kwai across the plains of Mekeo, and placed
it with the bones of Avia Naime and
hundreds of other men amid the rocks of
Eboa.
RICHARD HUMPHRIES.
The Dreamers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Not for us is content or quiet or peace of mind,
For we go seeking a city that we shall never find!”
"VT OT for us is content. So be it, then—
I Xj Fate is strong !
i- We have taken us staff and scrip;
10, hearken the journey-song.
By right of the dreams that have dowered
us passing the common ken,
We are Ishmaels, wanderers ever, forth of
the world of men.
High over the roar of cities, far out on the
ways we go,
Hear we the chant of unborn centuries
singing slow ;
Only to us, none other, they cry from the
future’s womb,
Now low with the glamor of love, now loud
with the sorrows of doom.
Not for us is content. Yet haply a nobler
thing,
Some shadow of Grecian splendor, shall
sweeten our wandering;
Some golden glimpse like the glory when,
swift as a leaping fawn,
The far, cold peaks of the desert take fire
with the desert dawn.
Ah, well it may be at last that we find not
the thing we seek,
That still is a sea beyond us or a misted
mountain peak !
Well it may be that we come not to that
city where spring is born
With a purpler fire in the lilacs and a wdiiter
snow on the thorn!
For the temple bells of the distance are call-
ing on and on,
And our hearts are afire to follow the road
where our dreams have gone.
Not for us is content. So be it, the gods
are strong!
Ours shall be staff and sandals, and the lilt
of a journey-song.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


4PP
-
- «U&;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offloe—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offloe—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable' for men, women and
children, and the price is within the* reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Pvleo
ad
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
health; but
remember
Carter’s Lit-
tle Liver Pills
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ilis. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
CvrO\\ V i\ v v
. \\ \\\ Y V
V
SHIRLEY
ii
y
Shirley Make' Braces /! ■ ;
An article of good quality is not necessarily one
of high price.
SHIRLEY MAKE BRACES are produced by a
house whose creed is to make as good as they
can and sell as cheaply as they can.
When one wears SHIRLEY MAKE, one fully
understands and appreciates their quality and
worth.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
labei ‘ “SHIRLEY MAKE”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
',//
7
A
V'
y /
i.i
C-t*,
da
Remington “Wetproof”
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over. ...
“NEW CLUB” —with black powder loads.
“REMINGTON”—a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB” —known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
■ of superior quality and dependability.
“ARROW” —the cartridge de luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other features making
it the highest type. ' .
There are four types or kinds but only one grade—
the HIGHEST.
loaded at our iactory are now
Jrvil juautu at w. j . t
being treated with the Remington special ex-j
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Bos 686, C.P.0., Melbourne
i.MMVrJt
The Learned Scribes of Bygone Days
Did write our Books witb Quills,
But nowadays we rigM ourselves
by using
R. G. WATKINS <a CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY - .
Iron and Machinery Merchants-
. . .V' ; sU:tr -- ;
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE. | ;
1
While th& Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied: ufoif to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-dav, giving the same service as when first installed,
rWe study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant* not ohiv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an ifiitial expenditure and maintenance host. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
> < , ■ <;i
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR. LTD.,
Atli»nce Building. 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, Slagr’
. , (i if . I Established
Australian Mutual ms
8 7™sSn«y Provident Society
The Liargest and Mo&t Successful
Mutual Bife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,336,402
£2,273,000
£44,000,000
£6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all haye
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell & Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attenl
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
da
* X,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OYER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
The Plum Razor
CRAIG &
The “Plum 1
in Craig &
AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
Razor is the only Razor used
Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
da
12/6
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
12/6
each
Post
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of thu
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


Drttmts
The Sp irit of
HARMONY
Harmony is the soul of all
things good—the perfect
blending of colour in art;
of sound in music, and
of sympathy in friendship.
And the soul of Harmony
is found to-day, as it was
in generations gone by,
in the grand purity and
perfect maturity of
BetoarY
