

THE
n
mn
%
r
The Car with a Conscience.
AN OWNER’S TRIBUTE.
Col. T. L. RUTLEDGE, M.L.A., writing from the Union Club, on January 10, 1921,
says: “I have now been running the Cleveland Car I bought from you for over six
months, and I may say that it has given me complete satisfaction. It is a remarkably easy
car to drive, and the petrol consumption is very good. Recently, on a 300-miles’ trip,
the consumption worked out at 22 miles to the gallon, without any special effort being
made to keep the consumption down. This result I consider good for a six-cylinder car.”
MARCUS CLARK &t CO. LTD.
GARAGE AND SHOWROOM,
147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Agents for New South Wales.
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne, Agents for Victoria.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
T. KENNEDY, Launceston, Agent for Tasmania.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2140
Thursday, February 17, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
“A Plain History of
Life and Mankind”
'"•V '"‘V v
A parade of centuries, a procession of personages. Wells’ “Outline of
History” is the compound essence of many hundreds of hooks and years of
learning—a candid, balanced and accurate narrative, graphic, lucid, dependable-
throbbing with the personality of a master’s touch.
Here is the history of all times —the super-history; not a history of mummies
and marbles, not of lavishly-belauded heroes, but Nations and Empires, Men and
Women as they were and are, humanity as it was and is. /
•:.V
Mr. U. Q. WELLS.
Mr. Wells presents alternative views, discusses logically
their pros and cons; he presents, as he says, “a plain history”—
a refreshingly candid and uniquely revealing history—a search-
• light on dark places—a history highly stimulating to the alett
mind.
Waverley Two-Volume Edition of
H. G. Wells’Outline of History"
FREE ON APPROVAL
You can retain the set
FOR CASH OR 10/- DOWN,
or else return it without obligation.
Such is the confidence born of: the knowledge that the Waverley Two-Volume
Edition is by far without an equal. , , .
On the Original publication Mr. Wells found that there was needed (to use
his own words) ‘‘a considerable amount of detailed revision; two sections to be
rewritten and a number of fresh footnotes to be added.”
Through embodying all these revisions, additions and corrections, all the
original Horrobin drawings, 64 exclusive -full-page appropriate art reproductions
(collected by specialists all over Europe), the publishers found it necessary to
make, this edition a Two-Volume Publication.
This is the Only Two-Volume Edition
Containing Mr. Wells’ Important Alterations.
The Only Edition Possessing 64 Art Pages and Other Valuable Features
Exclusive to Waverley.
The Only Edition Whose Merit Makes it Possible to Stand this Most Criti-
cal Test—ON APPROVAL OR RETURN.
The Only Corrected and Complete Edition Offered for Cash or on Very
Easy Terms.
The Largest Edition Published. —Size: Vol. I, 11 x 7!4 Xl% inches;
Vol. 11, 11 x 7U x 1% inches.
This Edition
is Limited—
We were unable to obtain as many 1 of these Waverley
Sets as we had wished. You are therefore earnestly
advised to post at onge' the, “Free on Approval Coupon,
which will bring to you the Two Volumes and a compre-
hensive prospectus, with specimen art and text pages,
executed strictly in order of receipt.
FREE ON r APPROVAL COUPON.
wave Alev book company, '■ • .
218-226' Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
On 'Approval, please , forward me; •with no obligation to purchase, the two volumes
■ of “Outline of History,” by 11. G. Welts, for free examination, if unsatisfactory\ I will
return the set within 7 days;, otherwise I will forward you within 7. days 'either £3
cash or 10/- deposit, undertaking to pay the balance in 5 monthly payments of 10/- and
one. of 12/-. i.
NAME
.•r-S,-.- ' - ■ . - ■
ADDRESS
82/17/2/21.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
' r-
Euthymol
TOOTH/ PASTE
EUTHYMOL DEPT, B,
Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
mn
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
mn
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
mn
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUST DIE.
NON POISONOUS POWDER.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYED
m
( flies.
) fleas.
) Bugs.
\ Mosquitoes
V
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for inss'-ti'
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, & r
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient pa l ' -
ticularly fatal to that common house pes {
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. [2
The Red Page
Du Maurier and Others
“Trilby,” of course, is a badly-writenhook ;
I know that. But 20 years ago I liked it;
and last week, finding a stray copy in the
house, I read it again. And I still like -it
very much. From the view-point of solemn
literature and her learned professors and
critics this should be a saddening thing.
Du Maurier wrecked and ruined all the
rules of the game. He waded into his yarn
with a large and splendid ignorance: tramp-
ling joyously on the dramatic values, he
spoiled his heroine from the Victorian angle
in her first chapter, threw a bunch of cli-
maxes at his MS., and wrote them in where
they stuck. He swamped his characters in
bathos, used a complacent journalese which
would have made Garvice Sick, and com-
muned Byronically with his hero’s soul.
He was’ fatuous, snobbish, self-conscious,
over-colored and all the other things which
can never by the rules be, done. And I,
rising 40, find it good, even very good.
You don’t have to know everything on
earth to write a good book once. Every man
has a book in his heart, if he hasn’t perhaps
the patience or the nerve to' write it. When
that book does get into print, sometimes it
is a good book badly written ; and sometimes
a.good book well written; but nearly always
it is a good book. “Trilby” is one of the
badly-written samples ; so is Warren’s “Ten
Thousand a Year.” “John Inglesant” is of
the well-written class; in an almost equally
high place Kenneth Grahame’s children-
papers will probably take their permanent
stand. Historical single-book efforts occur
to _ me; but the single-book test is not in-
evitable —a man might write a lonely book
which was very far from his heart. Judging
by results, many men have.
Samuel Warren was a barrister of some
eminence, Recorder of Hull for many years,
and in his later life a Master in Lunacy. He
wrote only two books to iny knowledge:
“The Diary of a Late Physician” and “Ten
Thousand a Year.” Both are written hope-
lessly badly ; the first is bad all round and
the second, is good. Perhaps £lO,OOO a year
was the biggest thing in his heart; perhaps
the fervor of his imagination of its joys
drove Warren’s story of them into print;
perhaps it was only a relief from Mastering
In Lunacy or Recording in Hull. What-
ever the motive, there is, the excellent hook,
written very* badly and .most - con vincingly •
written stupidly and most refreshingly full
of life. The book is 00 years old; as its
title shows it dates itself pretty narrowly—
the possibilities of £lO.OOO a year in 1860
arc very different from those of to-day. But
somehow- Warren has got the perennial
chances 6f a large income into his book ;,
they labored perpetually - in his heart, so to
speak, until in the end hffhad to write them
down. :
j J. H. Shorthouse Was a decently success 1
ful manufacturer in Birmingham; he was
not suffering noticeably from* the scribbling-
itch nor ’thinking noticeably above manu-
-facture and its simple 1870-90 problems.
iNo apparent need, spiritual or temporal, de-
ifianded the writing of “John Inglesant.”
Only a depp pre-occupation with religious
history srava any reason for the book other
than the ■ synchronising *of Shorthouse’s
energy with the strong desire in his .heart to
Write it. The result is a book of surpassing
beauty of conception abd of style. The
technical details are as firm and smooth a§
Sf Walter Pater had handled them; the
wizard atmosphere and color are to me quite
beyond reach, as is the utter illusion,
as are the strength and wisdom of the long
history of Inglesapt’s vocation. The mediae-
val scenes are at; Once sharper, more dis-
tinguished and more convincing than Charles
Reade’s. I would puffthe book in the highest
place in its ' period’s prose-literature in
thought and in technique. It is immortal.
But so far as Shorthouse. is concerned it is
the lot; his other matter is feeble and
clumsy, the overdone commonplace to be ex-
pected literarily from a retired manufacturer.
“John Inglesant” was the sublime book in
the manufacturer’s heart; and it got out on
paper. And I am very glad it did.
Of Kenneth Grahame I know nothing ex-
cept his work. Bound together his entire
production would make one book of passable
length, two-thirds' of it being the English
classics of childhood. The other third, “The
Wind in the Willows,” is negligible; forced
and artificial; surely some other man or
woman wrote it. “Dream Days” and “The
Golden Age” are little papers of the tremendous
nothings of childhood, papers written with a
rare grace and charm of music and thought.
Stevenson wrote for and to children from
the grown-up seats; so did Dickens and a
thousand other men and women, great and
small. But in my reading only Grafiame
writes the children’s thoughts for them and
for the grown-ups too. About 200 pages of
ordinary type would cover it all. Here are
the days and nights of every little hoy as they
live in his mind, expressed in his rambling
thoughts and touched lightly with humor-
and music, that the grown-ups also may
understand. Llere is the quintessence of
sincere art marred by no obtrusion of the
literary skill which alone could get the
effect. If any book was in* a man’s heart
and aching for the printed word, these books
were. That they were lonely there makes
their literary value the greater by isolation.
Reading them again in memory I am grate-
ful for the paucity and shortness of the
papers; no man on earth could keep that up
for long. Here is one perfect book from a
man's heart, “the time and the place and the
loved one” all conspiring to its achievement.
So also Du Maurier in his degree.
Garrulous, buttonholing, and all those rude
things I wrote at the beginning, he talks to
me out-of his heart so fervently that I don’t
care a button how badly he does it. He is
pre-occupied with studios, with painters and
models, his passionate eyes looking back to
his own dreams in color before black-and-
white caught him and held him for ever:
and I go with him gladly—here is one man’s
youth oouring out of his heart for me to see.
What business or right has “Style” at that
festival ?
HILARY LOFTING.
Two Versemen
Songs of Donegal, by Patrick Macgill
(Herbert Jenkins, London). In the days be-
fore Macgill wrote “Children of the Dead
End,” when he was still working with a
pick and shovel, he published “Songs of. a
NaVvy” and sold it from house to house for
sixpence a time. Then he leaped into sudden
fame and .some popularity ; and, with the ex-
ceDtion of a small volume of “Soldier Songs
he has since confined himself to prose. The
present volume, though it is printed in verse
form, is mostly prose—a rather rugged prose
with rhymes. Occasionally there is a hint
of poetry, but very seldom of song. The
work' is interesting for its color—a back-
ground of Donegal could hardly fail to make
it so —but the themes are slight and super-
ficial and the author has little real skill.
Here is a sample :: —
When I was supple and hearty,
Fifty years gone by—
Camckmaearth for a party,
Greenans when blood ran high!
Now, taking the world as you find it.
Say where would the light feet run ?
To a hedge and a girl in behind it!
Ah, young blood and Carrigdun!
That is equal to about the average work in
the book; and it is pretty obvious that if
you had to substitute English village names
for the Irish ones, the whole force of the
lines would be gone.
The Daniel Jazz by Vachel Lindsay (Bell,
London). This, volume contains “The
Congo,” which is every way a startling and
arresting piece of verfee; but Lindsay’s re-
putation mostly rests on that single perfor-
mance. “The Daniel Jazz,” which gives its
title to this volume has a certain slight
whimsicality, but hardly any interest or
merit. Much of the verse is sheer nonsense,
It has suggestions of nigger camp-meetings’
showmen roaring at the doors of booths, the
confused jumble of the warring factions at
political .gatherings, and other noiSy and in-
coherent things; but there is seldom any
consecutive thought, rarely any turn of ex-
pression that has any hint of beauty. A
gargoyle may add something to the attraction
of a certain kind of architecture; but a build-
ing entirely made of gargoyles would be over
the odds. In the book there are some serious
efforts in legitimate verse, but they are only
moderately successful; and on these alone
Lindsay would have hardly been heard
of. Here, in the opening of the first part
of “The Golden Whales of California,” is a
fair specimen of the average contents of the
volume:—
Yes, I have walked in California,
And the rivers there are blue And white.
Thunderclouds of grapes hang on the mountains.
Bears in the meadows pitch and fight.
(Ldjnbpr, double-jointed lords of fate,
Proud native sons of the - Golden' Gate.)
And flowers burst like bombs in California,
Exploding on tomb and tower.
And panther-cats chase the red rabbits.
Scatter their young blood every hour.
And the cattle on the hills of California,
And the very . swine. in the holes
Have ears of silk and velvet,
-- And tusks like, long white poles.
Anc) / the very swine, big-hehrted, '
Wfalk with pride to their doom.
Fob* they feed on the sacred i*aisins
Where the great black agates loom. .
The/Cows that are given tusks because of the
• author’s failure in grammatical construction
aro/partjcularly interesting; yqt with all its
extravagance and fumbling Weakness, the
stuff is not*quite futile. One line, “Thunder-
clouds of grapes hang on the mountains,”
would be fine if it. were in metre and in a
decent setting. •
Taking The Daniel Jazz and Songs of
Donegal as typical of modern verse
likely to have a passing popularity, it is evi-
dent that something is painfully wanting in
the outlook of the verse-makers. The taking
off infinite pains, the delight in exquisite
thought wedded to musical sound, the high
regard that made the poet hold himseff a
priest of beauty—all these are of the past and
of the future. At the moment the tendency
is'to take noi§e for strength and mere crudity
for inspiration ; hut there are signs of a re-
action. Daniel Jazzing is so easy that any-
body can do it if his mind is lax enough.
Why read the stuff when you can make as
much of it as you like for yourself? But
thank God. there, are not many people who
can write “Ilaralet” and “L’Allegro” and “La
Belle Dame Sans Merci.”
Maurice Hewlett
Reading* Maurice Hewlett’s verse, I arrive
on each occasion at the same passive
criticism: why didn’t he put in the time
writing prose? The verse seems thin and
cold, diffuse, and not free from technical
carelessness. Sometimes the subjects treated
differently would be worth while ; sometimes
neither the subjects nor their treatment could
be made worth while. Sentimental echoes of
the Lake poets jostle wild leaps beyond the
Futurist vers libre prophecies; either might
get somewhere, but both can’t —-not together,
anyway. The matter is as often too rich
as it is too poor—as often confused and over-
robust as it is too frail to carry its weight
of meaning. If an apprentice had written
some of the fine isolated lines none of this
would matter; but Maurice Hewlett has been
writing hard for 25 years, and a man learns
the business of expression in that time. At
the end of a quarter of a century or of six
months every writing man can judge what
will tell and What will not. He may over-
or under-estimate the force of the telling, but
of its presence he is as accurate a judge as
his keenest critic or his stupidest reader.
But Hewlett’s prose is a very different
story; there are heaps of reasons for writing
that. The style has no tricks of music ; it is
practically formless; qr.d it slips quite often
into over-dramatic - spit-consciousness, occa-
sionally even into affectation. Yet is has a
biting, stihging life which puts it in a place
where _ it is quite alone in English prose.
Meredith is equally unmusical, and at times
more than equally self-conscious, with the
same result of tearing strength and life; but
the Meredithian vivacity is of a different,
more brilliant order. It is got by the packed,
distinguished detail; Hewlett at his dramatic
best is fined down to sheer essentials, shorn
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
vae
CXIOO. Neatly-designed
Egg Frame, as illustrated, sil-
verplated on Nickel Silver, 4 gold-
lined cups and spoons..., 50/-
QUALITY and VALUE
at Anthony Horderns’
Every offering at the House of Economy demonstrates
how much their supreme values represent in money-
savings. This Value-Giving Policy is persistently main-
tained by Anthony Horderns’. Examples of Silverware
illustrated on this page proclaim the advantages to be
derived from shopping at The House of Economy.
g =lll®
m
CX3SB.—D ainty Sugar
Basin, as illustrated, silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, gold-lined inside,
complete with spoon 30/-
CX2.15
CX3O4
oX4oB.—Stud Box, as illustrated, silver-plated, satin-lined, 3Jin. dia., 12/6
CXlB4.—Child’s Mug, as illustrated, silver-plated, engraved inside, gold
finished 12/6
oX2ls.—lnkstand and Flower Stand, as illustrated, silver-plated on
Nickel Silver mounts, with Glass Vase and “Bee” Clock, two Emu Eggs, carved
Map of Australia, showing Australian Fauna and Flora 55/.
oX3o4.—Jewel Casket, as illustrated',. Silver-plated, satin-lined, size 6in.
x siin. 70/.
CX295. —Teapot Stand, as illustrated, various design tile centre, with
silver-pla'ted on Nickel Silver mounts JO/-
This Handsome Cake Basket, as illustrated, is silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, with rich pierced design, and its beauty is enhanced by the grace-
fully designed handle 55/-
CX2lB.—Dainty Butter
Dish, as illustrated, silver-
plated, plain design, Crystal
glass, complete with Knife.
17/6
CX23O.—T eapot, silver-
plated, plain design, 2-pint
6ize 45/-
Distance makes no differ-
ence if you desire to shop
at Anthony Horderns’,
for Mail-Order Customers
receive the same pains-
taking, expert service as
iihose who shop in person.
CX33l.—Attractively-
designed Jam Jar
and Spoon, as illustrated,
silver-plated, choice pierced
design 30/.
We pay carriage on
Electro-plate to any part
of N.S.W., and to the
nearest port on Inter-
State and Island Orders,
CX24J. — Pie Dish, as illustrated, sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, suitable for
use as Vegetable or Entree Dish, 75/-
CX327. — Candlestick, silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, plain fluted design, 22/6
CXB4.—Asparagus Dish, as illus-
trated, silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
complete with Sauce Boat and Server,
£5/10/-
CX292.—Cake Basket, as illus-
trated, silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
richly pierced design .. .... 47/6
Plain Design 45/-
CX2I6. An attractive example of a
Butter Dish, as illustrated, silver-
plated, plain design, with glass
drainer 25 /-
CX27O. This is a dainty example of
a Butter Dish, as illustrated,
silver-plated, plain design., 35/-
An example of a gracefully-designed Cake
Basket, as illustrated, silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, plain design
50/-
*a
CX273. Bichly-designed Tea Set, of three pieces,
as illustrated, silver-plated, plain pattern. Teapot,
2-pint size £6/6/-
CXI3B.—Hot Water Kettle, as illus-
trated, silver-plated on Britannia Metal,
engraved festoon design, 2-pint size.
£5/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: .City 9440.


A Handful of
Australian
Industry
meggitt
limited
Worthy
of Your
Support.
The three fundamentals essen-
tial to the manufacture of
perfect Linseed Oil are:
Seed—
Rich and Unadulterated.
Efficient Manufacture —
Most Modern Plant and
Laboratories.
Maturity—
Guaranteed.
These three are combined in
Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil,
and have established it as
“The Best in the World,”
vice “ARCHITECTURE,” the
official organ of the Institute of
Architects. They say: “There
is no better Linseed Oil in the
world than that produced at
Parramatta.”
We can supply Linseed
Oil (raw and boiled)
in any quantity.
If your dealer says
“No,” write us.
Insist on being supplied
with' an Australian
product.
“The Standard of
Quality.”
CATALOG No. 2 MAILED FREE.
• - J Hobart; or
Bourke- Street, Melbourne;
F. W. Heritage & Go.,
nBGCITT L T “
mvbramaita
n
e
HEAD KINCt ST SYDNEY
Manufacturers
of Linseed Oil, Meal, Specialised Stock Foods and Tonic Meals.
vnvwvaavd
n jj-tocuw
m
Tl>Jlloo33SN(l
” c yAeJ£>oy on the haa
guarantees qualify


PINKETTIS
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mn
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by. all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
mi
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CELEBRATED
23
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, ’which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedv cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
• —no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A.
B
m
One Guinea
will buy this
Moroccoßag
It is a distinctive style, suitable
for use when motoring or for
general wear.„ It is made of real
morocco, with a small purse, grey
poplin lining, and covered frame
with nickel clasp.
Size, 9in. x Gin.
Ask for X5O when ordering. We
pay postage throughout Australia.
Send for our illustrated catalogue
of handbags and leather travelling
goods.
The AMERICAN BAG STORES Ltd
THE BAG- STORE. >CORNER.— IKING-'-AND PIT.T STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST. • • SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
Do You Need Physical Helps?
m
If you are requiring Physical Helps in the
way of Surgical Appliances, Artificial Limbs
or Crutches, get in touch with us without
delay.
WE SPECIALISE IN THESE ITEMS. Our
years-old reputation ensures you of a com-
plete satisfaction. In quality our Surgical
Appliances are unsurpassed. They are cor-
rectly made to serve each particular purpose
in the very best possible manner, and prices
are most reasonable.
Call and get particulars or write us fully.
Our advice will be in your own interest, and
you place yourself under no obligation
whatever.
DE.NYER BROS.,
Specialists in
Surgical Appliances,
281 Georg'e Street
*
KINO or TABLE WATERS
Ccmfoim Limp,sodd,Lfthid& Magnesia
AGENTS/ 0
EROWIiAND^.P4 H .L4a
Melbouine BalldtvMf
lr njdranj
'NA 1
PURVEYORS 10 VICE ROYALTY.
THE. PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THJE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
' JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Efficient in every
detail.
A good reputation is the result
of a concensus of favourable
opinions. Owners all over the
world testify that the Sunbeam
is unsurpassed for efficiency,
reliability, comfort and elegance.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.
Export Dept.: 62, Oxford St., London,W.l
Cable Address - - “Subeamoco, London.”
Head Office - - Wolverhampton, England.
SUNBEAM-
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT-
ENGINES.
■■
mimuMlwim
24 h.p. 6-cyl.
Touring e!Atodel.
THE
SUPREME
NBEAM
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIRES FORB. 822 George Streep Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
February.
The blackthorn’s out on the hills to-day,
And the branches of white bloom play
A mad little tip-toss game of tease
’Neath the boughs of the clean-limbed trees.
But still I pause with a fevered fear
By the creek and the snake-pool near,
As loud through the heat of the hazy air
Laughs the jolly old Jack’s “Beware!”
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.
The Tempter.
Shame lay upon my heart, and in mine eyes
The tears of all the world were prisoned
deep;
But laughter froze my soul when I would
weep
And cold fear poisoned faiths too faint to
rise
To any Heaven. Mocking me, the wise
Still bade me mark that, though the way
was steep,
The God who watched me could not rest
or sleep
Or take His ease amid His lonely skies.
O unfamiliar God, aloof, unknown,
What joy had I in gazing up to Thee,
Demote, immaculate, passionless, austere?
But Satan found me as I grieved alone,
And filled my purse and trolled a song of
glee.
And said, “Where’s Heaven? Let us
be happy here!”
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Felice Notte.
All the long troubled day my thirsty heart
Craves for the cool draught when with-
draws the light,
And from the noisy world I am apart,
Held by the happy night.
As I shall hold thee close against the dark,
That now our shield is, but our tomb shall
be —
Deep nothingness that shall not know a spark
Nor any sunrise see.
When we shall be alone, and separate,
With the world ended and its • last day
done,
Forgotten, finished and determinate—
For ever lost the sun.
The meanest flower that blows of more avail
Than we who in our narrow chambers lie;
The seed-case blown to earth in the wild gale
Be more than you or I.
So, for the little year we yet can know,
Smile all the waking hours that for us are;
And let the lights come swift and slowly go,
Hiding ’twixt star and star;
Holding each other in the gracious dark
That weds us as we are divorced by light,
Only the sweetest silences to mark
The fleeting happy night.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Crescent Moon.
Ljttle gold boat of the little young moon
Drowned in the deep, dark skies,
Are you hankering after some hid lagoon,
Are you fearful of Paradise?
It is but an hour since you lifted high
On the first blue wave of the evening sky.
And now you already have reached the trees!
__ Your galley slaves must be bent before
Your unseen mast as it rips the breeze,
They must sweat in dew on the oar,
Hurrying down to the grey earth’s rim
Where the starry craft in her whirlpools
swim.
Little gold boat of the little young moon,
Did you tire of being aloft?
Did you sigh for the slow Pacific croon
Where the night falls swift and soft?
Womanlike, did you long to rest
For a full sweet night on a great brown
breast?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Dead Stars.
They tell us yonder new-found star
That beams on mortal bowers,
It needed half ten thousand years
To reach this Earth of oni - s.
And yet—O strange ! —it may by now
Be dead in ashes cold,
And quenched may be the tender ray
That tints our Night with gold.
And so, perchance, thy word may shine
What time thy life is o’er,
And send abroad a silver sign
To light a distant shore.
Ay, so, perchance, may proudly gleam,
When thou hast left this clime,
The mem’ry of thy noble deed
Adown the deeps of Time!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
Battle-blind.
Never to climb the hills again;
Never to see the shining spray
Tossed from the crests of sapphire waves
Out in the bay.
No more to watch the westering sun,
Blood-red, sink in the dreaming sea,
And the tremulous dusk wrap all the land
In mystery.
Unseen the wind in the long, brown grass,
The glamor of dawn on leagues of snow,
Broken I live that other men
May see and know.
God! be you praised that once I climbed,
Followed the call of shore and sea,
So that the balm to-night is mine
Of memory.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


r'V
,'.Lr
jT'
v-y' '
tVVvUV^
>»'V\
t4ffJ $ ui*it 4*.///••>■* »v>V ■/ .■<^W~r
i m wftw&wff&fJmmw '<£&&&■ •
•>•* / f ? 'jT J» / <*' - : *»’sT > *F m .- - >'? «*#&&}?.
<!#>
■VCr.-
'T** -
.***
CTRK.*'’
A.
■ .•■>;■*'■ • ■ v»v-
-■ 4*>'J
v>
yr.
t ■>
"S , <
r« ‘
J .*.N *•.
' ■*- -o^7-,:>‘^ , «K,r. y T w «* v ” ***"*C'' * V.V
-*•*»,-SlAl'*, •,•-*•■•.•». .**■**•■»». ■"*»... "’ *■ -, *
~ '* , *i\i*'*' ■* •• •T.V*’ ' v C3r;. v> *
v * vsv E»£v Jsj3SP ; >**■ ■-v -*•* ■
> iW .. , ;
•*■♦;„ . ' •• v^
»-J^
1* ■ **
v •
'v>;
*s‘.i4
' : '*i%S
w*V.;r^
zs**rc&&*’:
.
V. ' •i.*.;’'?; ; ■ * ■•
-C"* ’''■
All i^».tttis!W-< i W» >l|r, * , *^ > *
\v*jv. y t'-? '?»■•.
i^l
■»w
1C
/
■Wfct
SVfF*
e 5
<1
A'-r^A-S
u» 4
DS
DJ^
"Smu
A
•A«iv\
*IUS
F
ACHIEVEMENT.
CURRANTS, muscatels, raisins, lexias and the best dried
fruits are produced by the settlers of Sunraysia. Packed by
EEEE the A.D.F.A. at Mildura, these fruits, known and used
in every corner of Australasia, are a credit to the inland
Australian growers. They have no superior.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2140.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE SUPERFLUOUS GENIE.
“A Duntroon graduate who takes a civilian job is liable to be arrested and punished on a charge of deserting the army while the nation is at war.”
—Military interpretation of Hughesite legislation.
L.B.M.: “The War Precautions Act let him out. We need a Peace Precautions Act to shove him back.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, •of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Tor £i log' p er annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address, in Australasia, post paid.
Jo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the. ■‘Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly, confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. 'will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is -forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., , any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for ‘as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasiansl High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 71/7
Howard Street, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 71/ West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington, U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt .—Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Paw±.—Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3\d.; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
'TTuTtfSi-tHeix/fi.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1921.
THE DEATH OF PUBLIC
ENTERPRISE.
The perfect or ideal dog is an animal worth
owning, but when he goes mad it is neces-
sary to get rid of him, and if he proves
never to have been a dog at all, but a rep-
tile, there may be still more reason to elimin-
ate him. This confused yet true reflection
sets forth the position of Public Enterprise
(municipal, State or Federal) in Australia
to-day. It has degenerated into the vaunted
dog that is worse than none at all. Hardly
anybody calls it Public Enterprise now save
for a bad motive, and to disguise the fact
that it has become a synonym for swindling,
laziness, nepotism, debt, graft, and the brassy
insolence of elected persons. The warmest
advocates of its extension are to be found in
the rottenest section of the political com-
munity—in fact, it is only there that exten-
sion has any noticeable advocates left. The
principle is as good as ever, but the fact is
that Australia never had real Public Enter-
prise and now it is further fiom it than
England is —England, where the cult of Indi-
vidualism was born. It has less possibly
even than the United States, the land which
invented trusts and Tammany Hall and
gave birth to General Scadder and Jay
Gould and Jim Elsk.
* * *
The basic idea, of course, was that the
people should own public utilities and many
others not usually regarded as public in order :
CD that the whole nation might secure the
profits; (2) that there might be honest
administration as distinguished from that of
the railroad kings and railroad wreckers; (3)
that works might be laid out so as to de-
velop the country rather than millionaires
and big bank accounts: and (4) that the
community might be free from the weary and
devastating war between Labor and Capital,
because the two would be one, and half a
lion doesn’t fight the other half of the same
lion. Ownership, of course, implied that
any debt incurred for construction should
be gradually paid off. The railways repre-
sent the biggest part of the debt, and starting
from the beginning, Id. or 2d. in the shilling
added to the railway charges (which every
Australian railway manager alleges to be
lower than those of the next State, and
lower than the world’s average, and ridicu-
lously low altogether) would have paid off
everything unless the money, instead of being
strictly reserved for redemption purposes,
was embezzled by the Treasury. Probably
less would have sufficed. Nothing of the
sort was attempted, so the entire railway
capital is owned by private persons and two-
thirds of it by private persons abroad. In
the case of Queensland, which professes to be
the real whole-hogger for Public Enterprise,
four-fifths of the capital is held by private
capitalists outside the Commonwealth, and
most of the remaining fifth by private capi-
talists in other States. This is infinitely
less like national ownership than is the case
in Britain or the Yankee country, where the
shares are held almost wholly inside the
country, with the result that the owners
are taxable. Then the capital of Australian
public works is all of the preference sort,
with a cumulative dividend which must be
paid irrespective of earnings. And it isn’t
even a fixed dividend as in the case of
ordinary companies, but the rate is periodi-
cally revised, not by both parties, but by
the private capitalist only. Just now his
constant idea of revision is to increase his
dividend to half as much again, or twice as
much as the old figure, with the remark that
the other party (ourselves) should be thank-
ful that he doesn’t ask more. We call it
State Ownership, but it is more like Slave
Ownership.
* * * *
Just before the war upset precon-
ceived ideas London, which has five
city railways, was getting the use of
one of them for nothing, another for
1 per cent, on its cost, another for £1
12s. 6d., another for £1 17s. 6d., and still
another for 3 per cent. That is to say,
passengers paid working expenses and in
addition these trifles for the use of many
millions of private capital. The share-list
showed 62 principal varieties of railway
stock—62 distinct heaps of private capital.
In 49 cases the capitalist had fallen in, and
on realisation would lose part of his invest-
ment—as much as 80 per cent, in some
cases. But while the British person often
gets £lOO worth of railway for £2O (market
estimate), the Australian has always to pay
the full £lOO on renewal day, or more like
£2OO judged by the interest on the bonds
rather than the face value of the bonds.
He doesn’t own the lines any more than
the non-shareholding British citizen does,
but he pays all that (for the namfe of
owning them. And his other alleged public
works are on the same footing. Though the
aggregate Australian citizen doesn’t get
the profit of his public works as he anti-
cipated, but rather pays heavy taxes to
provide the cumulative preference dividend
to the real owners, he is supposed
to at least own the equity of redemption—
such equity as there is when the mortgage
exceeds the value of the property. He has
to own it, for his unlucky bargain doesn’t
allow him, as is done in private life, to
assign the estate and let the creditors make
the best of it. But even that ownership is
disputed by a class which alleges that “the
works should belong to the workers” — i.e.,
the employees. The idea that the struggle
between Capital and Labor would be elim-
inated by what calls itself Labor being at
at least in name as much the capitalist as
anybody else, proved the worst fallacy of all.
As regards the development of the country.
State railway control in Australia has
ruined progress and made this land the
most stagnant backwash in the white man’s
world. Private Enterprise is greedy of gain,
and the big capitalist always hopes to sell
out his loss to other people if he makes a
loss. Having nothing but gain .to consider,
he will joyfully build a line to the most
deserted port on the map, if there is deep
water and a promising hinterland, of which
he probably buys up a bit in advance. He
will start a new city growing there,
and if an old city suffers eclipse and
proceeds to swear he will be indifferent.
He made Liverpool the shipping centre of
England without asking London’s permission,
and he created Cardiff without inquiring
whether Bristol, on the same inlet, liked it or
not. In Australia under State Enterprise
the mass of politicians dare not create a new
city—still less a new State. The nevv institu-
tion might be willing to vote for them when
it grew up if they were still on deck, but the
old one would wipe them out first and they
wouldn’t be on deck. In this and other ways
State Enterprise kills development, though it
might be different if Ministers were inde-
pendent men with no Parliamentary support
to lose, as in the United States. As State
undertakings need not pay their way in a
land of chronic borrowing, the making of
them has become a mere sop to the chronic
unemployed, and the only fixed rule about
them is that the money must be spent badly
and in bad places, for if it was spent wisely
and in good places something might happen
to damage some big city’s monopoly and poli-
ticians might perish by its wrath.
To sum up, Public Enterprise in this coun-
try has become as unlike the ideal as the In-
quisition was unlike the Sermon on the
Mount. It never was the real thing, but
with the advent of the new and hideously
exaggerated edition of the loan craze and
the arrival, partly as the cause and partly
as the result of the craze, of a new breed
of politicians who hardly even take the
trouble to disguise their dishonesty, it has
swollen to the dimensions of a disaster. To
make Public Enterprise the splendid thing
in reality that it is in theory requires strong,
wise, patriotic men of the Bismarck school
(their morals don’t matter much), or at least
profoundly disinterested men. In the hands
of small, mean men who are for sale cheap,
and are dear at the price, it is a calamity.
A proof of it is that other big Federations,
such as Canada, Brazil and Argentina, which
run on individualistic lines, are leaving Aus-
tralia behind, and leaving it faster year by
year. Apparently this country must either
get a new kind of Public Enterprise or be-
come individualistic also. The vision has
burst.
ARE DUNTROON GRADUATES
INDENTURED LABORERS?
The finding of the Court-martial which tried
Captain Granger —a Duntroon officer who
served with distinction in the A.I.F. —for
“absence without leave during war-time”
was promulgated last week. He was
“severely reprimanded”—and then pushed
back into his former military position. Cap-
tain Granger was so badly wounded at the
Front that a medical Board returned him
to Australia as unfit even for a base
job in England or France. Like most
of the Duntroon graduates, he found it
impossible to live on the £5 ss. per
week which a grateful country has inti-
mated, through its Government, is all such
as ne are worth. In addition, his discharge
certificate showed him to have been incapa-
citated for military service. He applied for
leave to resign m terms of Para. 253 of the
King's Regulations. Under peace conditions,
and when there is no immediate likelihood
of war, riot or rebellion, those applications
are granted as automatically as a private
soldier’s request to be allowed to purchase
his discharge. The British Regular Army
has always contained scores of officers, of
whom Winston Churchill is an outstand-
ing example, who only lqok on soldiering as
a brief episode in their careers. Captain
Granger’s application was turned down on
the ground that it was out of order, “Aus-
tralia being still at war” —as indeed it is
technically, and is fated to be, apparently,
while the Hughes Government remains in
office. After several fruitless attempts to
gain his freedom and a living wage, he. did
the wrong thing, and left for Adelaide, where
a decently-paid civilian job awaited him. If
the Commonwealth had actually been at
war, or even in danger of war, hardly any
punishment would have been too great for
this offence. Officers were being shot for it
all over Europe right up to the Armistice.
But neither Captain Granger nor any other
Duntroon officer was a shirker. The Court-
martial has admitted both facts by imposing
.almost the lightest sentence in its schedule
of punishments for what, under war condi-
tions, is one of the worst crimes in the
military statute-book.
* * * *
The object of this elaborate farce was,
of course, not so much to leg-rope Captain
Granger personally, as to keep down the
heads of the two or three dozen other Dun-
troon graduates who are yearning for the
solvency which civilian life offers. Their
position is that they cannot exercise the
peace-time right of the days when commis-
sions went by purchase and sell out of the
Army; nor can they walk out of it like
present-day officers of the Imperial Forces,
nor buy themselves out like the other ranks.
The actual sentotice may be only nominal
when one of them takes French leave; but
prior to standing his trial, the absentee
will be liable to public arrest; he will be
removed from wherever he is employed under
escort, and gaoled till such time as his judges
are ready for him. Taking into considera-
tion the humiliation and discomfort involved ;
the improbability of employers or financiers
having anything to do with these young
men once their liability to be suddenly
spirited away, is understood ; and the regu-
lations governing pay in the case of an
illegal absentee or one under arrest, it will
be strange if Australia’s dissatisfied offi-
cers do not decide that a dash for freedom
is hardly worth it at the price. It is pos-
sible that the civil courts would find in
favor of an officer in Captain Granger’s
position on several issues. The main justi-
fication for the outrage committed on him
the other day was that his services were
necessary for the defence of Australia, the
Commonwealth still being at war. But in
Pankiiurst v. Kiernan, and again in
Farey v. Burvett, the High Court laid
it down that Australia must be actually
engaged “in mortal combat with a common
enemy” for it to be at w-ar in the legal
sense. “The greatest care,” remarked
Higgins, J., in Pankiiurst v. Kiernan, “is
needed in watching these attempts to exceed
the limits of the defence power.” And these
judgments were delivered before the Armis-
tice. The excuse given by the authorities
for continuing to hold Captain Granger
against his will is the one that Shylock
gave: it is in the bond. But when the Jew’s
enemy bartered his pound of flesh he wasn’t
a minor; he got w r ell paid; and he offered
no alternative recompense. The Dun-
trooners were infants in the eye of the law
when they signed awrny the 12 best years
of their lives, and in any event the ones
who now want to get out of their bargain
enjoy the knowledge that they have repaid
a thousand times whatever debt they are
under to the country for their education.
Better 50 days of trench-life than a cycle
at a base. As against these considerations
there are the facts: (1) that litigation with
a Government department is a sport for
rich men only, while few of the Duntroon
graduates are rich or anything like it; and
(2) that the tendency of the civil courts is
to uphold the military courts where possible.
A century ago, and earlier, the position of
an inferior who ranged himself against
authority was hopeless. There were cases
of officers illegally imposing from 500 to
1000 lashes as well as imprisonment, and
either winning in civil actions brought
against them or being cast in paltry damages.
Of late years the Courts have more and
more followed the principle laid down by
Lord Mansfield in Wall v. Macnamara.
They seek to find in every disciplinary
matter “how the superior’s heart stood.” It
is not difficult to read either the hearts or
the minds of our militarists. These gentle-
men are the same choleric, unreasoning and
bull-headed autocrats as those who made the
late war, and for whose extinction, amongst
other blessings, it was fought to a finish.
However, no Court should be called on to
interpret them, psychologically, at the
financial peril of men who have a moral right
to their freedom if they want it, and whose
retention in the service against their will
can benefit nothing but the spirit of Prus
sianism.
* * * „
The problem which is likely to baffle plain
citizens, unacquainted with the ways either
of politicians or militarists, is why fit offi-
cers should want to leave the service. The
Duntrooners were enthusiastic soldiers up
to the time they came home a few
years ago. They never found any fauli
with the A.1.F., though life on active
service has few allurements. The explana-
tion is that in the A.I.F. they had a
real profession, with reasonably attractive
prospects, as a reward for good work. In
the Australian military forces, as at present
constituted, there is no serious work for
anyone. Owing chiefly to the fact that a
herd of seniors blocks the path to promo-
tion —many of them medically unfit, and
many more men who never saw the fighting-
line —the chances of the younger division, so
far as rising in the profession goes, are
slight. Dozens attained major’s rank in
the A.1.F., and, what was more, drew major’s
pay and allowances. They may still wear
the crown, but in the majority of cases they
stand on the same financial mark as they
did when they left Duntroon five or six years
ago. “Why?” inquires the credulous
patriot who believed all he read in the news-
papers while the British Empire was in
danger and these young men were doing their
share, and a bit over, in the matter of help-
ing to save it. And the sordid answer is
that they are about the safest people to
sweat throughout the length and breadth of
Commonwealth. They don’t represent
many votes: they can no more organise to
protect themselves than an English worker
could a century ago; they may not even
state their case or criticise a politician in a
newspaper or on a public platform. The
reward they are offered for the work they
did in preserving property in Australia from
being levied on by the Germans as the
Allies are levying on the Ruhr coalfields is a
wage that would be sneered at by a compe-
tent coal-lumper. And when they intimate
that they can do better elsewhere they are
told in effect that they are indentured
laborers, and that as such they must serve
their full term.
A LAND-GRANT RAILWAY AND
SOME SWINDLERS.
That land-grant railway for the construction
of which along a certain route South Aus-
tralia foolishly paid in advance, accumulates
more literature round itself every day. And
in all these writings there is a suggestion of
blowflies on a carcase or sharpers concen-
trated round a young man suspected of having
brought wealth from the country. Eastern
papers and politicians are alive with sug-
gested new routes, all for their own pyofit, and
none bearing any serious resemblance —some
bear no resemblance at all —to the work that
the grantor of the concession bought and
which the grantee undertook to supply. A
fair sample can be found in these extracts
from an article in a recent Sydney Tele-
graph headed “Linking Up” :
Great interest is being taken by graziers and
meat traders in the Federal Government’s scheme to
inquire into an alternative route to the North-South
railway from the Northern Territory, and efforts will
be made to secure representation for N.S.W. on the
committee of inquiry. Hope centres on the ‘‘com-
mittee of practical men” that will report on a
route through Queensland to link up with the
Queensland and N.S.W. railways. Given such a rail-
way N.S.W. should never again be faced with a
meat shortage....
The route that these men suggest is from Bourke
to Barringun (80 miles), Barringun to Cunnamulla
(8.0 miles), Cunnamulla to Charleville (already built),
Charleville to Longreach (240 miles), Longreach to
Winton (120 miles), Winton to Dajarra (already
built), Dajarra to Urandangie (80 miles), Urandangie
' to Newcastle Waters in the Territory (95 miles).
Build these 695 miles of railway, these men say,
and you will link up the Queensland main systems,
bring the great stretch of breeding country through
Queensland in touch with the fattening lands of N.S.W.
and Victoria. .. .If this railway was built Queens-
land could be drawn upon at any time for fats....
The brief suggestion that there should be a
line from Urandangie (Q.) to “Newcastle
Waters in the Territory” is the only hint
or suggestion that S.x\. is paying for the
whole lot on the land-grant principle, and
that a route right through S.A. and the
Territory is what it paid for. S.A. doesn’t
even get a mention in this scheme. While
in many others it doesn’t get much more than
a mention.
* * * *
Land-grant railways are a familiar device
half the world over when a Government has
more earth than money, and the Australian
South-to-North line differs from others chiefly
because the grantor (S.A.) was absurdly
confiding and lavish, while the grantee (the
Commonwealth) hasn’t decided yet, appa-
rently, whether to be a conscienceless scoun-
drel or the other thing. In the late seventies
or early eighties of last century Westralia
arranged with a Private Enterprise syndicate
to build and work 243 miles of railway in its
south-west corner for a grant of 12,000 acres
of land per mile,, the Government to retain
half the railway frontages for the sake of
the unearned increment and the syndicate to
take its allotment out of the other half. In
these days land was still being sold at Is. 6d.
per acre, and the population of the whole
State was only about 30,000. The syndicate
was honest and the line was supplied. When
the Mcllwraith (Q.) Government proposed
that Queensland should have its own trans-
continental route, the idea was that a similar
syndicate should be induced to build and
work it for a subsidy of 10,000 acres per mile
at one end and 12,000 acres at the other. How-
ever, Parliament, shocked at the lavishness of
the scheme, turned it down. Now South Aus-
tralia gave as its railway subsidy 523,620
square miles of country, which represented
about 200,000 acres for every mile of the
line from Port Augusta to Darwin, or over
300,000 acres for each mile that remained to
be completed. The Commonwealth bought and
paid for the completed portions of the rail-
way, but the endowment of 200,000 acres per
mile was a discount of 100 per cent, or more
on the payment. It is hardly possible that
S.A. couldn’t have made an immeasurably
better bargain with some private syndicate,
considering the terms which Westralia ob-
tained. But it had a preference for national
ownershin, and maybe it had a pathetic idea
that highly respectable politicians and news-


papers were in the main as honest as com-
pany-mongers and syndicaters.
For a long time no serious attempt was
made to build the railway, but the grantee
sent stacks of friends, hangers-on and brass-
hats to live on the grant without doing any
useful work there. And as the property in
its undeveloped state couldn’t pay their
salaries a cry began to go up that the grant
was no good and that there was no need
to take any notice of the conditions, especi-
ally as the grantor wasn’t big enough to
enforce them. The idea of a Federal rail-
way (though not the one) is kept alive
because it means the spending of a lot of
Federal loan money, but the chief differences
now are about the various ways in which
Queensland and N.S.W. will divide it. The
Sydney Telegraph’s latest proposition, as
quoted above, is to the effect that S.A. should
get no railway, that about 95 miles should
be built in the Commonwealth’s own land
grant, the Territory, and that N.S.W. and
Queensland should wolf the rest. Practically
the idea is that Theodore’s State shall
secure the railway it refused to pay for in
IS<S~, with a practical monopoly of the Ter-
ritory s trade thrown in, only this time
someone else is to find the subsidy. South
Australia, which provided the transcon-
tinental telegraph, and did its best to
provide the transcontinental railway single-
handed, was always a poor place with
rich ambitions. It may have been af-
flicted with megalomania, but its dream
was the only big, all-Australian dream
that any State ever had. It had an
idea of a high road across the continent that
would reduce the distance between the top
and bottom of Australia bv one-half the
genuine opening-up of the North and the
establishment of a new route to Asia and
Europe. In place of all that there is a
demand for the building, partly at S.A.’s
expense, of 000 miles of line through two
allegedly rich States in a different direc-
tion and for quite a different purpose. The
dream degenerates into a struggle among
butchers for the supply of “fats” to a pair
of over-large cities which eat too much meat
already.
back to the old mark.
For centuries, in England and its depend-
encies, government was the perquisite of
the rich. When it was a sectional or
shire affair the lawgiver and final arbiter
was the baron, and with the arrival of
nationalism and Parliaments the rural profi-
tccf was elected to represent the people.
Inis was achieved by only allowing those
with money—in Henry Vl.’s time the mini-
mum was 40s. per annum—to vote. New
South Wales, when it got self-government,
was one of the first parts of the world to
put into practice the inspiring principle that
poverty and obscure origin should be no bar
to the highest public offices. People pointed
with pride to old Henry Parkes, recalling
the days when he sold toys for a living. He
was a walking advertisement of democracy
in its highest expression—a Cato without
the slaves. Men like Parkes in Australia
and John Burns in England were regarded
as welcome substitutes for the Catilines of
the past. Never again, wdth one man one
vote, and practically no property qualifica-
tion, would the Government of the country
be prostituted for the aggrandisement of a
wealthy clique.
* * * *
With the arrival of Board schools in
Britain, and free and compulsory education
m this country, a tremendous number of
persons began to realise the wrongs from
which working-class Premiers and Ministers
had delivered them. They learned of the
astonishing corruption of Walpole’s day,
when a man of position could deal with
the Prime Minister in anything, either
directly or indirectly, from a concession to
a title. They were taught of a later period
when the House of Commons “was not re-
presentative of the people of Great Britain
....but of noble families, of wealthy indi-
viduals, of foreign potentates.” W r hen the
Duke of Newcastle was Prime Minister of
England nothing really mattered except
money, and there were no limits to the dig-
nities and opportunities for the acquisition
of more money which were at the disposal
of those already affluent. How different
under the rule of the frugal men of humble
birth and democratic tendencies who began
to enter Parliament in large numbers here
and in the United Kingdom half a century
ago! Not only had they no money, but
better still they knew no one who had money,
nor did they want to. The tastes of such
reformers as W. M. Hughes and Lloyd
George were as simple as their principles
were elevated. While Mr. Hughes wrote
his “Case for Labor,” lashing the C.S.R.,
the Australian Gas Co. and other more or
less harmless and necessary institutions as
' predatory trusts,” Mr. Lloyd George de-
nounced the capitalistic landlords of Eng-
land in very similar terms. A stricken plu-
tocracy called it “Limehousing.”
* * * *
Then came the war. And with the
war a calamitous thing happened from the
standpoint of the workers. Their most
vociferous champions, here and in Britain,
got, so to speak, to know their Aunt Sallies:
they met the rich and fraternised with them.
The resulting changes in the case of both
politicians were immediate and tremendous.
They had been upholders of liberty. Lloyd
George had had to flee in disguise for advo-
cating self-government for the Boers:
Hughes had preached Socialism as the only
means of escape from the thraldom of what
he termed “boodle.” Both had deplored the
corrupt Tory practice of trafficking in titles
and decorations. Within a very few months
Lloyd George was opposing the Irish claim
for self-government with machine-guns and
Hughes was threatening with suppression a
Queensland newspaper which printed an
advertisement ending “God Save the Irish
Republic.” The best indication of the extent
of their breach with radicalism is the poli-
tical and financial company they are keeping;
and each in his own sphere has ladled out
more titles, orders and so forth than any
Tory or other Premier has done in a similar
time in the histories of England and Aus-
tralia respectively. Almost simultaneously
a few rich men in Australia—the most pro-
minent being directors of the sort of
concerns that were assailed in “The Case
for Labor”—handed Mr. Hughes £25,000,
while Lord Lee (who got his barony and
G.B.E. from Lloyd George and who last
week was made First Lord of the Admiralty)
gave Chequers Court, the value of which is
estimated at £250,000, to the Prime Minister
of England in perpetuity!
* * * *
Gifts of such magnitude are made either
in payment for services rendered or in anti-
cipation of favors to come. It doesn’t
matter much to the public which considera-
tion influenced the money-barons behind
Messrs. Lloyd George and Hughes. The
outstanding calamity is that wealth, as in
every century since Parliamentary Govern-
ment began, has discovered a means of col-
laring the administration and exploiting
it as desired. The ideal of a Prime
Minister living the Spartan life of the
poor, and hence remaining in sym-
pathy with their lot, has vanished.
The “titled drones” (Lloyd George) and
the “sand-bagging trust bosses” (Hughes)
have decided that there aren’t going to be
any more poor Prime Ministers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Triumph for Horse Sense.
Ihe South African election results provide
a striking advertisement of the political
expediency of sweet reasonableness. Twelve
months ago General Smuts went to the
country as a South African. His candidates
rather than himself were suspected of Jingo-
ism by one set of electors, and of disloyalty
by another set. Despite his gifts as a
leader, and his picturesque record in the
war and after it, Smuts went down. The
irreconcilable Boer element gave him his
opportunity in the struggle which has just
ended by making secession the paramount
issue. This brought together the Tory
Unionists and the Liberal South Africans in
opposition to the revolutionary Nationalists.
The figures (South Africans, 72; National-
ist, 40; Labor, 9; Independent, 1) deserve
to be analysed by every professional trouble-
maker in the Empire. They suggest, firstly,
a turning from extremism. There was no-
thing inspiring in the men behind Smuts,
and no country loves a coalition. However,
they stood for peace and some sort of stabil-
ity. The world is weary of the howling of
the militarists on the one hand, and of the
revolutionaries on the other. It has tasted
the fare offered by both, and found it as
dust and ashes in the mouth. What it most
desires is to get back to quiet, solid
work, undisturbed either by fantastic dreams
of great wealth easily acquired, or by
nightmares of bloodshed and rapine. in
kouth Africa, as in Australia, the convic-
tion is strong that to break with the British
Empire would be remarkably bad business;
and last week the electors of the Union, the
vast majority of whom are Dutch, affirmed
the point by an impressive majority. When
a British Liberal Government gave the
Boers a complete measure of Home Rule
in 1909, many mehibers of the Opposition
claimed that the South Africa Act simply
amounted to legislating for another war. In
fact, they used the chief argument now
employed against giving Ireland genuine
Home Rule. The Conservatives of a dozen
years ago had some awkward facts in sup-
port of their contentions. The Boers had
known national freedom—in Natal after
1835, and in the Transvaal after the annexa-
tion of Natal. And, finally, in 1881 they
had experienced the intoxication of establish-
ing their liberty before the world by force
of arms. They came of a race with a histori-
cal dislike of the English, and they were
alien from their former oppressors in lan-
guage, social habits and culture. Also, they
had been beaten less than a decade before
their freedom was given back to them in
a war in which those hatred-breeding wrongs
were committed which are inseparable from
warfare. Yet within a few years of the
right thing being done by them, they were
fighting beside their conquerors, and last
week they wouldn’t so much as cast a hos-
tile vote at the Empire they once detested
more than anything on earth. The Irish are
no less generous-spirited than the Dutch,
and whatever their wrongs they have no
war on a national scale to forget. Ireland
is bound to England by every imaginable
social and cultural tie, while commercially
the relations of the two countries are as
interdependent as those of Victoria and
N. S. Wales. In a few years’ time an Irish
Smuts will be winning by means of Sinn
Fein votes the fight for prosperity and com-
monsense against an Irish Hertzog, and the
Hibernian agitator who talks of secession
by violence will be regarded as a wearisome
if harmless crank. It is inevitable if the
British Empire is to hold together. And
the longed-for consummation might come
almost immediately if our temporary and
mostly Welsh Kaisers could only realise that
the mailed fist business has become unpopu-
lar through over-exploitation; that the wea-
pons making for success in politics nowadays
are friendliness, trust and the spirit of com-
promise.
♦
The Rich and Healthy Tropics.
“Cuzenos” :
Griffith Taylor, of Sydney Uni., has been point-
ing out that, scientifically speaking, white people
cannot live in places like Townsville (Q.). Theorists
down south agree, but meanwhile we who are doomed
carry on as though death were not at hand. The
most oppressive month of the year with us is
January. The local newspapers show that footrun-
ning is the chief January sport, while cricket, hill-
climbing and horseracing all boom, and the evenings
are devoted to boxing and dancing. The fact is,
though the discomforts of heat are considerable, they
are not by any means so great as the discomforts
of cold. Nor are the heat diseases so numerous, deadly
and painful. Townsville, for example, has little
knowledge of asthma, consumption, sciatica or rheu-
matism. There are plenty of obvious reasons why
the tropical savage suffered from few diseases until
the pale-faced person from the miscalled temperate
zone arrived. People in the tropics have no shud-
dersome dread of water, and are, therefore, cleanly.
Their houses are open and well-ventilated, so that
they breathe no bad air. Their clothes are light
and loose, which places them in a perpetual air-
bath, or else they wear no clothes at all, which
gives them an even better chance of keeping fit.
Griffith Taylor can see no advantage in the
mineral deposits of the North: they are low-grade,
he says, and must be deserted sooner or later.
It may be so, but in rebuttal we have the
evidence of another expert, Dr. R. L. Jack,
who declares that the copper lodes of Clon-
curry are richer and larger than any to be seen
in America ; and in other parts of the world copper-
mines are known to have lasted for centuries.
On the pastoral question the mind of Mr. Taylor
is made up. Twenty inches of rainfall give two cattle
to the square mile. Worked on the same principle as
in North Queensland, the Victorian lands might
carry six cattle to the square mile —they could do
no more. The conclusion he comes to is that in
North Queensland the white population is already
developed to its full extent. As white women can’t
live in Townsville, they must clear out—and a lot
of the men will follow them. Sugar lands might
be developed by black labor, as in Java; and a few
isolated whites could eke out an existence about
Atherton. And that is the limit, practically, of the
North’s possibilities.
I could believe it all more readily if I hadn’t
heard very similar theories expressed about the
eastern States of Australia when I was a boy in
Maoriland. N. S. Wales was not a place where high-
grade wool could be grown. By reason of the heat,
the sheep became like goats and produced hair.
There was no meat worth eating, and at Christmas
time men, animals and birds fell dead beneath the
blazing rays of the sun. Ever since Dampieu’s day
someone in authority has been pointing out that
various parts of this continent were unfit for human
habitation ; and immediately afterwards, if not con-
temporaneously with the announcement, numbers of
people went and settled in the condemned region and
did well there physically and financially. The
scientifically prohibited area is steadily moving
north, and it promises shortly to reach within a very
few degrees of the Equator. When that happens
and whites live and thrive in large numbers ini
(say) Papua, as they are already doing in Towns-
ville, the old prejudice against warmth, cherished
by people whose climatic standard is London, will
presumably disappear.
<*
The Conspiracy Against Freedom.
W. M. Hughes busy of late de-
porting persons whose political views he dis-
likes; refusing others admission to the Com-
monwealth ; threatening upholders of the
Irish republican movement with the War Pre-
cautions Repeal Act; and in other ways
interfering with liberty as it was understood
before the war. But he never did anything
quite so arrogant as the annual convention of
the A.W.U. was guilty of in Sydney last
Thursday, when it decreed “that no member
of a Masonic lodge should hold an official
position in the A.W.U., and, further, that the
decision should be incorporated in the official
pledge.” It is likely that some of those who
supported this resolution have been scandal-
ised, from time to time, at the intolerance of
Hughes on the conscription issue, the
Irish question and other matters affecting
the liberty of the subject. Where they were
sincere in the indignation they expressed on
such occasions there is only one explanation
ot their recent plunge into the sea of Czarism
-—that they are incapable of appreciating the
implications of their act. Labor in Australia
is apparently heading right away from those
splendid ideals of freedom which were given
to the English-speaking races of all time in
the Areopagitica, and is moving towards the
mental serfage of the Dark Ages. The wor-
kers of that abhorred period didn’t do at all
badly on the material side. Most of them
lived as comfortably, according to their lights
<xnd the standard of the day, as any modern
unionist; and they relied, and not in vain, on
the religious orders to look after them in old
age. They paid in the form of a subservience
to the will of others which was only
possible in the case of born helots. A member
or a mediaeval guild or union could have but
one religion and remain in the organisation.
He _ could not safely criticise his superiors
or join another industrial body, or speculate
with an open mind about the ways of
Governments on earth or in Heaven. The
force that finally set him free was neither
the Reformation nor the Open Bible ; it was
Capitalism—the system which our uplifters
aspire to destroy. There is always misery
when slaves are freed. Some people are so
built, in fact, that they can only be
happy as slaves. But the vast majority
ot men of British descent preferred in the
loth century to battle for great rewards or
great losses on their own account, at the
same time retaining their “liberty to know,
to litter, and to argue freely according to
conscience,” rather than secure certain, if
modest, competences at the expense of their
intellectual freedom. And that is their atti-
tude still. The proviso which the AW IT
carried last week in respect of Freemasons
may at another convention, and with a
different set of fools or bigots in possession of
the majority bludgeon, be applied to Metho-
dists or Maorilanders, Scots or sexagenarians.
I here is only one endurable principle for the
purposes of our world, the world which rose
four centuries ago out of the wreckage of
ecclesiastical absolutism. It is that each
citizen should be allowed to hold and express
what views be likes so long as the laws of the
land are not violated thereby; while no one
should suffer a shred of damage for belong-
ing to a lawful association, political, social
or religious. Every yard a modern .com-
munity progresses away from that arrange-
ment brings it three feet nearer to slavery.
♦
The Loafer’s Game.
“Tuart” strikes at a national idol:—
Hobbs, the English professional, is credited with
the observation that six-day Test matches are “not
cricket.” And who will say that he isn’t right?
There is no parallel in other branches of sport to
the bowler who bowls off the stumps over after
over, or to the batsman who merely protects his
wicket and lets off-theory balls alone. In boxing
baseball, football, golf, lacrosse, tennis, rowing
hurley, the dreary tactics of which Kelleway gave
so finished an exposition at Adelaide would be worse
than useless, for time is the essence of the contract
Nobody would have any use for a boxer who merely
wrapped his arms about his head when he was losing
on points, or for a footballer who played for safety
when his side was behind. But in cricket this device
is perfectly legitimate. It is the only sport in
which a man is reckoned to be playing admirably
when he isn’t playing the game.
The extension of matches beyond one day was
an invention of the last century. It began when
idle young men of the English upper and upper-
middle classes discovered that cricket, formerly a
pleasant and not too exhausting picnic pastime,
provided an admirable means of killing time. Having
plenty of money and leisure, they were able to
employ muscular young men of no particular trade
or calling to bowl to and field for them. County
cricket developed and expensive grounds became
necessary, as also did funds for the maintenance of
large bodies of professionals and alleged rfmateurs on
the fringe of “society” who wanted “expenses”
before they could or would perform. It was dis-
covered that the densely-massed people of the indus-
trial districts were willing to pay for the privilege
of seeing matches between bands of tame gladiators
in flannel pants. Thus gate-money became an insti-
tution, and it enabled the county clubs to hire the
best talent available and to play every week-day
throughout the summer. Also, the average system
arose, and teams were sent to Australia, where it
was soon found that the natives, • having a more
congenial climate and a longer playing period, and
being a race of athletes, could beat the English
at their own game. And from these things came the
Test-match infliction, which began in 1880 with one
three-day contest, but which has since been expanded
to five prolonged and depressing exhibitions, in each
of which it is reckoned rather astonishing if the last
wicket falls inside five days. Hence, also, the
presence of anything from 150,000 to 250,000 per-
sons at one of these feats of endurance and the
morbid interest of the populace in the futile
squabbles of middle-aged players like Armstrong
with the obscure characters who select the teams —
an interest carefully fostered by a materialistic
press. When a Test match occurs in Sydney or Mel-
bourne about half the adult male population (cer-
tainly half the Civil Service) knocks off to have a
look at it, and you can find dozens of budding
Armstrongs and Kelleways, all reproducing with
absurd fidelity the mannerisms of their models, in
every suburb of every mainland capital and every
large town.
Test cricket has got such a hold in Australia that,
it seems almost sacrilegious to criticise it, but the
question has its economic side. Can Australia afford
it? Can England? Each country has a tremendous
war debt to pay and the trade of both is menaced by
industrious rivals—-is either in a position to support
a loafer’s game, which takes six days to play, and
to set a mountain of flesh in flannels on a pedestal
for the adolescents of the nation to worship? Is
there any nation in the world, in the present posture
of affairs, that can afford to take an absorbing inter-
est in the spectacle of 22 weary blokes absenting
themselves from more or less useful work for months
• on end to potter about with a leather ball and a
willow bat? The Germans have emphatically de-
cided that they can’t. So have the Americans, the
French, the Japanese, the Canadians and the Bel-
gians. All these nations have borrowed, or are
borrowing, strenuous and valuable English sports,
such as boxing, tennis and football, but not one of
them has taken up cricket. With significant
unanimity they have left it to England, the country
of wealthy leisured persons, and to Australia, the
land of lots of time. Cricket, in their judgment, Is
a go-slow pastime for go-slow peoples, and, consider-
ing that they are our competitors, their judgment is
worth respecting. The world will never again be
what it was six years ago, and no nation can afford
to-day the old, easy-going and sport-obsessed habits
which cost the British Empire so many lives during
the late war, and which very nearly lost the war to
civilisation.
■ »
The Industrial Tragedy.
Material progress is being made with the
destruction of employment by the “irritation
strikes” openly advocated and promoted by
0.8. U. functionaries. The strike with an
avowed object, however extravagant or im-
possible, has always been understandable, but
the one with no stated purpose at all except
to reduce production and impoverish the
country is a newer development. The pre-
sumable idea is to pull down prosperity in
a heap, so that obscene creatures with no
lawful visible means of support may make
a profit by scavenging among the debris. To
this end it is necessary to recruit the army
ot revolution, and that can best be done by
encouraging law-breaking on a small scale as
a. training tor lawlessness on a bigger scale
and by creating poverty, for just as poverty
made English chawbacons accept the Queen’s
shilling so it may make Australians enlist
in a different army with the hope of more
a shilling. And a great deal may be
effected by merely destroying the habit of
steady work, for steady workers are not the
material that brigands are made of. A
disaster that now looms on the horizon is the
stoppage of the great ironworks at Waratah
(Newcastle, N.S.W.), which employ, or re-
cently employed, 8000 men and constituted
the biggest private industry in the Ma State.
Shipping strikes, which cut off supplies of
ore, strikes at the co.’s iron-mine, and local
industrial troubles have made the manage-
ment feel that the struggle is hardly worth
while. lhe sensational new taxes, specially
directed at joint-stock companies, have
probably helped. The great coalfield along-
side, which supplies nearly half the fuel of
the Commonwealth, is in an increasingly
dubious state, a matter of high wages and con-
stant strikes. Possibly the best thing for
would be to throw in its lot whole-
heartedly with the New State, help to its
prompt establishment, and get under a Gov-
einment which had no connection with
Sydney where ‘irritation strikes” are manu-
factured, and which would put a heavy agri-
<Y\7.ViU'alifoot , on . tlle methods practised there.
\v ith the closing of the meatworks at
Darwin the few remaining ships in northern
waters begin to avoid our Bolshevik Dorf
not because waterside wages are twice those
of southern ports, but because the gradualness
of the workers increases the delay there
nearly fourfold The shipping strike drags
on because the best terms the strikers’ repre-
sentatives have offered are a return to the
conditions of the hour before the stoppage
with job control, daily hold-ups and dozens
Hr j! 688 !!/' nd ,, UTrse , tt:l . ecl demands on hand.
Broken Hill, though its record upheaval is
over, is only the shadow of its old self, and
a Queensland rai way stoppage is looming
These and other disasters are hailed in cer-
tain quarters with undisguised joy Tint
to say, amongst the more conspicuous leaders
of the destructive movement. Which is
easily capable of explanation. They arp
non-toilers or inferior-grade toilers worth
about fo a week m the obscurity of the labor-
market, and if they can rise to power lime-
light, and even £lOOO a year on bloodshed
and national disaster, they will be rho
gainers It is one of the oldest character-
istics of militarism applied to the industrial
sphere. A.s these men have everything to


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £250,000
ASSETS EXCEED £500,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time, and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
get from rows, disturbances, and even revo-
lution, there is little prospect of that peace
for which 90 per cent, of the rational workers
are longing.
Prematurely Aged.
Australia’s recent visitor, Conan Doyle,
was struck by the dusty and run-down
aspect of the country’s public services. The
comment was justifiable, though his theory
that the decay is owing to a lack of spiritu-
ality and to scepticism about the reappear-
ance of Smith’s spook wasn’t. Australia
has aged pathetically within the last few
years. Many of its institutions have become
grey and stooped, and have taken on the
worn-out aspect of the young woman who
can't marry and be happy because she has
too many venerable parents and grand-
parents to keep. Australia nowadays hardly
dares to obliterate any worn-out service and
replace it by a new one, because the debt
on the old concern isn’t paid off and no one
expects it ever will be, and it raises nasty
questions from the creditor if the sham asset
is wiped out and the mortgage left standing
on air. In addition, the mortgage has taken
to doubling. When no one intends to pay
off the principal the amount of the principal
has nothing at all to do with the amount of
the debt. That is measured entirely by the
interest, and when the old .million-pound
(£35,000 per annum) railway becomes,
through a disastrous renewal of the loan,
a burden of £70,000 per annum, then it is a
two-million-pound railway, and no argument
will alter the case. Everybody knows, or
knows of, the down-at-heel mansion and
estate owrud by the shabby-genteel spend-
thrift who mas piled so many mortgages on
it that the income leaves practically nothing
for repairs and nothing at all for improve-
ments —the broken-windowed, leaky-roofed
place with a wilderness of garden, a lack of
paint and a proud, seedy proprietor who
brags in senile tones of the family’s past
greatness and does nothing 1o restore it. The
Australian taxpayer is burdened with many
such. There are multitudes of outlying
lines where the condition of the NoAii’s-Ark
rolling stock suggests that the replacement
fund practically fizzled out 10 years ago. and
there are roads which tell the same tale.
Every city wants a new railway or railway
station or post office or bridge, or half-a-dozen
bridges; but remarks from force of habit that,
unless the pawnshop comes to the rescue, the
old affair will have to do until it falls down.
A community, however old, that pays its way
out of revenue can afford to be young and
enterprising, even if it is heavily taxed.
If its newest railway yields only 1 per cent,
on cost it can say that 1 per cent, is better
than nothing, and will help to reduce taxes
or pay for more enterprises. If its new
palatial station or G.P.O. or three-mile
bridge pays nothing it can at least say that
the place looks well and there was a lot of
fun in building it. But when the 1 per cent,
enterprise carries a 5 or 6 per cent, mort-
gage, it is another dead-broke old grand-
father added to the family burdens, with
the added horror that the ancient is immor-
tal. Year by year the tally of our ill-tended
and decaying mansions increases, and the
dust, the lack of service, the ruined state of
the furniture, the brown-paper stoppages
in the windows and the tuneless piano at-
tract more and more attention. Even a
dreamy ghost-hunter ndWced them, and if he
had known that the last repairs were done
with mortgage money he might have said
more than he did.
*
The Captains of the Push.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes: —
This is the season of the year when the Captains
of the Push—men like Walsh, of the Seamen’s
Union, and Garden of the Labor Council—go up
for re-election, and it seems that the old lot will
get back pretty unanimously. They are described as
Chief Pushites advisedly. They construct nothing
save rows, and the push boss does the same. No
one ever saw a push planting, building, weaving,
spinning, writing books or otherwise adding to the
world’s possessions or happiness. It exists almost
entirely to smash things. A poem of Henry Law-
son's (the writer quotes from memory) tells how
the Captain called his union together to go out
and war on the established order of things:—
He scowled towards the north and- he scowled
towards the south,
And he crook’d his black forefingers in the corners
of his mouth,
And as his piercing whistle woke the echoes of the
Rocks
A dozen ghouls came sloping round the corners of
the blocks.
And each one spat and halted and the one who came
* behind,
Spitting fiercely on the pavement, called on God to
strike him blind!
The idea of “job control” on steamers was really a
scheme for push control under a leader such as is out-
lined above. The push on board each vessel was to
do pretty much as it pleased and have a recognised
right to do so, it being guaranteed by the push
captains that they wouldn’t use their power in an
unreasonable or ungentle way. However, the con-
duct of the push ashore doesn’t promise much in
that line. The community is also assured by the
leaders that men are never discontented without
cause, and that the very fact of demands being
made is proof that they are justified. The discon-
tent of the push ashore and its tendency to demand
things at random, including unpaid-for beer, dis-
counts this idea also. The waterside district in
every big coastal city is seldom a quiet or desirable
place—in fact, it is generally one where assault and
battery are above the average, and where the police
like to go in pairs. The idea of being absolutely
under these folk at sea with no police about and
no redtess isn’t pleasant. Other folk, if entrusted
with the same unlimited powers that the captains
demand for their sea-push, might not be pleasant
either, but when one compares the public-house
language and scrimmage of the waterside with the
hotel doings of the suburbs, the job committee looks
the worse of the two. The complaints made against
the very first informal or embryo job committee
(the firemen’s) was that even before it found its
feet some of its members endeavored to take posses-
sion of the saloon smoking-room, claiming the owner-
ship of the ship and refusing with curses to leave
unless supplied with liquor. The same thing hap-
pens daily at the Merry Hangman pub by Darling
Harbor, or the Foot and Mouth at Port Melbourne.
Peaceful folk who are not foul of vocabulary can
keep away from these places, whereas at sea the
push, when its captains have secured for it the
authority they seek, can take their favorite hostelries
with them all over the ship, and there will be no
escape except overboard. The attitude of the cap-
tains is that the push is such a just and gentle
creature that practically absolute power is safe in
A RETURN SEASON.
“The so-called National People’s Party, representing the Junkers, and the People’s Party, represent-
ing the great industrialists, have begun a vigorous campaign with proclamations eulogising Prussia’s old
place in the German Empire, and the virtues of the Hohenzollerns.” — Cable.
its hands and in no others. Of course it may be
so. In the case of some persons imagination and
credulity are alike illimitable. And yet anybody who
has seen three large policemen struggling with even
a fragment of a job committee anywhere about the
wharves will have his doubts.
A better example of Labor militarism could
not be provided than the attitude taken up
by Minister Dooley, of N. S. Wales, in the
matter of the two policemen, who, in Syd-
nev some days ago, moved on a prominent
Labor official. The infamv was brought to
Mr. Dooley’s notice by a deputation of scan-
dalised democrats, and he broke the news
to the Inspector-General of Police. It is
enough to say that the over-zealous con-
stables will not move on another Labor
nabob in the same locality. Years before
the blessings of government by the people
and for the people were thought of, a similar
episode occurred in London. Lieut-Colonel
W iieatly, of the Grenadier Guards, was
talking (out of uniform) with a friend near
St. James’s Palace. After a while the
policeman on duty asked them to pass on —
as he was required to do by the written
orders in his pocket. The Colonel called out
his guard and they locked the constable up.
He then communicated with the police chiefs
and had his prisoner suspended from the
force. Late? the constable put his savings
into an action for damages (Goodes v.
Wheatly), but was non-suited and ruined.
The moral for all sensible policemen is
plain, namely: Let persons in authority
misbehave with impunity, whether they hap-
pen to be Tory officers or Radical civilians,
for tbe results of interfering with them are
likely to be the same in either case.
The “wrong” done in London to Queensland
Premier Theodore becomes a bore. At the
A.W.U. Convention in Sydney it was re-
solved as usual: —
That the action of Mr. Theodore, in refusing to
accept a loan from England under the conditions
offered, be endorsed.
The Commonwealth tried for a new loan of
ten millions in London (less than £2 per
inhabitant) and was refused, though it got
half the money on hard terms later on. It
didn’t weep. Robinson, of Victoria, went
to London at the same time as Theodore
about a renewal loan (not a new razzle) of
six millions, or, rather, 54 millions, for he
was able to repay half a million out of sav-
ings. That was £4 per inhabitant. The
most solvent and least indebted State in
Australia was turned down. At least Rob-
inson could arrange no satisfactory terms,
and Victoria in the end found most of the
money itself. Robinson said it didn’t
matter, and passed a remark to J. Bull
about the weather. Theodore, representing
the most deeply involved State, bar W.A.,
asked for £9,000,000 (nearly £l3 per in-
habitant). It was an unprecedented demand,
and the amount wasn’t offered on any terms.
Many people thought the demand was made
on an enormous scale so that refusal would
be certain and there would be furnished an
election cry, also a reason for the stoppage
of works, the Ministry having got to a point
where a mere three or four millions would
be little use. It is absurd to treat Theo-
dore, alone among the Treasurers who failed,
as (1) a beacon to civilisation; (2) a
victim of conspiracy, among the money kings
of the earth. Possibly Theodore himself
wishes his oppressive friends wouldn’t keep
digging up the failure
It is alleged that nearly seven-eighths of the
motors in the world are in Uncle Sam’s
country; and in a land where roads used to
be a joke a most wonderful series of high-
ways has been made to accommodate them,
Ex-Superintendent Edwards, who was for-
merlv head of the traffic in Sydney, and so
knows the Parramatta-road by heart, came
back lately from a holiday in a state of
speechless admiration of these tracks. Be-
tween San Francisco and Los Angeles pas-
senger vehicles run by oil start from each
end almost hourly and connect everywhere
with branch services of the same description,
Lately motors began to supersede trains in
many directions, and some talked of the
time when the older vehicle would be set
aside. But the shadow over all is the fear
that these remarkable roads, mostly made
inside 20 years, may in another 20 years
be used chiefly by old Dobbin, the super-
annuated horse, doing hi.s three knots. So
the U.S. lately commenced to complain about
being left out in the distribution of man-
dates over ex-enemy territories. It didn’t
seek a mandate over some place like
Armenia, where control would be a case of
philanthropy and phssibly hard fighting.
But it wanted badly a share of the oil coun-
try of Persia and Mesopotamia. The natural
reply was that it had refused to join in
the Peace; had refused to join the League
of Nations, which serves out mandates;
had refused to be mixed up in any
Old World entanglements oily or otherwise;
and had, like Pilate, washed its hands of
the whole business. The idea of being so
completely outside as to avoid all responsi-
bility and yet sufficiently inside to get oil
country—to be out so that the League
couldn't touch American affairs, but in so
that this one bit of America could touch
League affairs where there was any profit—
this, it was explained, would be an anomaly.
In short, the suggestion was that the Old
World should keep its oil and the U.S.
should keep its dignified aloofness. So Mexi-
co, which contains a lot of oil and is sus-
pected of more, will probably have to say
good-bye to its disorderly independence a
few years sooner than it would otherwise.
But even then there is the haunting fear
that, unless the use of some other spirit is
developed, the motor-car may die out like
its predece.sssor the buffalo.
One of the strange decisions arrived at by
the Convention of the A.W.U. in Sydney
last week was that all persons of 18 and
over should be allowed to vote. An 18-year-
old lad is held to be unlit to handle his own
property—yet the A.W.U. considers him fit
to be trusted with legislative control of the
nation’s property. He is expected to be inex-
perienced, inexpert as a tradesman, impres-
sionable, unread, and ignorant of the world.
Also he has no family responsibilities to
sober him, and is accustomed to accept wild,
new opinions, having barely emerged from
the boy-pirate stage. Bolshevik Russia is
the only place at present where the infant
in the eye of the law has a vote, but there
he makes little difference. Votes don’t
count in a land where 200,000 Communists
run the show, where a “decree” at one
•sweep reduced the nation to the slavery of
compulsory labor; where it is a punishable
offence to be late for work, and where strike
organisers are either executed or gaoled for
long terms. But in every country where
the people really rule. 21 is considered the
lowest age at which anyone should have a
share in government. Finland, looking at
the Russian example across the border, fixed
the voting age at 24. Norway makes it 25,
and there are many similar instances. The
apprentice is all right in his place, more par-
ticularly when he is a good apprentice; but
as a ruler he is an absurdity and a menace.
With all his galvanic cockiness no one can
beat W. M. Hughes at passing his responsi-
bilities on to royal commissions and the like.
His latest is Francis Birtles, the cyclist.
Birtles is to go on his machine from Oodna-
datta (S.A.) to the Katherine River (N.T.)
on one side of the telegraph line and return
on the other, and present a report which is,
in some way to help HUGHES in deciding
something about the transcontinental railway.
As he put it: “Mr. Birtles has covered over
150,000 miles of Australia on a push bike,
and when some of his critics know as much
about Australia as Mr. Birtles does I will
be prepared to listen to them.” But running
over a country with affrighted rabbits in
front and a dust cloud behind isn’t much of a
way of acquiring valuable knowledge.
Birtles started about a dozen years ago to
be a nomad. He doesn’t write important
books. He brings back with him many
moderate snapshots, not specially novel, and
little information save that he has done so
many thousand miles and is going to start
out again. No one ever called him an ex-
plorer and observer in the sense of Forrest,
Sturt, Landsborougii, I-lume and others,
and he has no startling discoveries to his
credit. He isn’t known as a railway engineer,
agricultural or pastoral or meteorological ex-
pert or geological authority. He Simply
hastens from here to there and when lie
reaches it immediately speeds back again.
The track in which Hughes proposes to send
him has been beaten by the feet of railway
and telegraph surveyors, builders and re-
pairers for 60 years; by explorers, pro-
spectors, geologists, cattlemen, at least one
bishop (he covered the N.T. from north to
south and wrote a book about it), some
missionaries, a good many police and at least
one Governor. No doubt Hughes’s wanderer
is quite honest, and won’t sell his influence to
the Queensland party which wants to steal
the Federal railways for its own State. But
there will be no value in his flyaway review
of a country which requires years of observa-
tion, as instanced by the fact that some early
explorers reported inland seas which would
.drown any railway because they struck the
flood year which comes once in a blue moon
or a dog’s age. On the other hand a valu-
able review, an able and comprehensive docu-
ment which would enable any Government to
make up its mind on the spot, is probably not
wanted. In fact a push-bike commissioner
who was so tactless as to present anything of
the sort would undoubtedly fill the present
Australian Government with embarrassment
and rage.


.
■*£
&
■
Incinerate your refuse daily, thus avoiding fly pests, disease
germs and unwholesome smells.
The Guthridge Patent Portable Destructors
will accomplish this for you with very little trouble and with-
out expense.
HOUSEHOLD SIZES: No. 1, weight 571 b.; No. 2, licwt.
LARGER SIZES: No. 3, scwt.; No. 4,9 cwt.; No. 5,15 cwt.
PRACTICALLY ODORLESS AND SMOKELESS.
Have been supplied in large numbers to Government Institutions, Hospitals and other
Public Bodies, Schools, Factories, etc.
For health considerations alone portable garbage destructors are a necessity; not a luxury.
If your store cannot supply you write direct to the manufacturers
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It suggests futility that the Australian
Government is offering prizes for poster
designs with which to attract British immi-
grants. A better idea would be to appoint
a lioyal Commission (life without a Royal
Commission is a blank) to find out in what
way the management of this country differs
from that, of, say, Canada, the U.S. and
Argentina—places which have almost to
keep out immigrants at the point of the
bayonet—and whether the difference is good,
bad or ihdifferent.
Every other day in Sydney or Brisbane the
deputation of unemployed storms some Min-
isterial office and (the Minister being as mild
as dishwater and anxious not to offend his
masters), their names are taken down, and
work, or at least pay, is found for
them without inquiry about their merits
or capacity. For the quiet, men who
don’t rush the Minister and gnash their
teeth at him nothing is found. That is one of
the drawbacks of having the State capital in
a big city where mobs can congregate sud-
denly and pass themselves off as public
opinion, or the voice of the people, or some-
thing of the sort.
Foreshadowed that the census may give
N. S. Wales two extra members in the Reps,
and reduce Victoria and S.A. by one each.
And, of course, there will be clamor for a
readjustment of the Senate, it being more
than ever unfair that N. S. Wales and Tas-
mania should have six Senators apiece. As a
matter of fact what is now N. S. Wales
should have 24 Senators—six each for a
Northern State centring round, say, Armi-
dale; a central one (Orange or Dubbo) ; a
Southern one (say Wagga), and the Cumber-
land State of about 1000 square miles around
Sydney. But if N. S. Wales won’t divide it
shouldn’t get any increase of membership no
matter what its population is. Nor should
any other State of the same overwhelming
sort. When a subject aims at being as
powerful as his sovereign it is time to saw
him asunder and make two or more subjects
of him.
From a Federal Gallery man:—
Before the Federal Parliament resumes business the
Cocky party will probably carry out its threat to
elect a new leader and secretary. The general im-
pression is that McWilliams will be dropped in favor
of Harry Gregory of W.A., but as Gregory is a
comparatively recent recruit to the Cocky party, and
only became a convert when his seat was in danger,
the tall Victorian, Hill, may be preferred to him.
And then there is Jowett, who means well and is
immensely wealthy, but is not a man to arouse
enthusiasm. If McWilliams is deposed, Gregory or
Hill will succeed him.
Dreary tales come from North Queensland, 1
in Theodore’s land of plenty. At Mackay
• population 18,000) there is talk of hundreds
of homeless men camping out among the
mangroves and mosquitoes, the Ishmaels in-
cluding 100 married men with families. One
embittered speaker at a public meeting de-
clared that things were never so bad when
Tory Governments ruled. The parks at
Brisbane have become a big doss-house. The
Premier says the trouble is due to the war
(which was over two years ago, and which
was attended to by the Federal people at
Melbourne) ; the drought (which ended
quite a while ago) ; and the difficulty of
raising loans (though Queensland managed
to borrow so much in the war years that its
debt increased £ll per head between 1914
and 1919 —where Knibbs’s figures stop —and
this was above the Commonwealth average).
, Dooley, of N. S. Wales, which State in-
creased its debt by nearly £l2 per head, is
also overrun by unemployed, who swarm
into his office like locusts, and he talks the
same brand of eloquence. One matter which
may be overlooked is that, when political
or financial or religions Men of Promise
start a large section of the community on
the trek to Paradise and there is no Paradise,
a good deal of loss, poverty, misery and sore
feet must be expected on the walk back.
Both Theodore’s people and Dooley’s are
walking back.
“0.8. C.” : Many Victorians are pushing the
decentralisation movement —holding meetings,
forming leagues, paragraphing papers and
so forth. The One Big City opposition doesn’t
work openly like that; it talks to the poli-
tician who control the railways, and the
Railway Department does all that is
required. Thus, a furniture manufacturer
at, say, Maryborough (Vic.) has to pay
THE MAJOR CALAMITY.
M.L.A.: “Great Scott! And I thought it was only the usual Wolf!”
freight on his raw material and his machin-
ery ; then if he sends the finished goods
further up-country the same freight is
exacted from him as the Melbourne manu-
facturer pays to send his chattels all the way
from Yarraside. Or, the two bacon and small-
goods factories in Kilmore are charged more
to send their goods 50 miles further out than
the Melbourne man is to send his Strasburgs
the 50 miles to Kilmore. If the country
bacon-builder buys a few pigs in Melbourne
the freight is £3 Is. 4d. freight on a truck-
load to Kilmore, yet the Kilmore pig-raiser
can send a truckload to the Big City for
£2 6s. 6d. To all complaints the Commis-
sioners reply: “It is a question of policy.”
Of course! The only sound commercial rail-
way policy is the zone system, but that would
do away with the politician’s chance of
buying votes.
Acting-Premier Dooley, claptrapning man-
fully at West Maitland (N.S.W.), said :
He recognised that there were too many people
living in Sydney, and he wanted them and the people
of the country to co-operate and do something for
the development of the country.
Then lie ran over the familiar list of pro-
posed Northern railways, parallel with the
coast, to carry trade past the local ports to
Sydney, but nothing was said about even one
straight, honest line from the West to a
good northern for southern) port to carry
trade there and make another though less
bloated Sydney. The nearest thing to that
is the proposed cross-country affair from
Tenterfield, jambed up against the Queens-
land border, and haying no connections with
the West, and Casino, on a river, and four
miles above the head of navigation. The
country of Dooley’s ancestors doesn’t want
to co-operate with London, to be patronised
by London, and to have its head patted by
Dooleys from London. It wants to co-
operate with itself at Dublin, believing that
things are better managed close at hand. The
north of N. S. Wales feels the same way,
though it hasn’t adopted the same strenuous
way of expressing its views—as yet.
Philip Collier, who leads the W.A. Opposi-
tion, appeals to the electors to make him Pre-
mier with the assurance that Labor doesn’t
stand for revolution—only for “a complete
change in the existing state of society.” The
eternal trouble is the lack of a guarantee
that we will be allowed to come back if we
don’t like the society.
The old discussion about changing South
Australia’s name is being revived in Adelaide.
Of course it is a cumbersome title; but it has
a start of over 80 years and is not likely to
be overtaken. “Flindersia” has been sug-
gested as a substitute. “Centralia” is more
obvious, but is less appropriate now than
when S.A. used to combine the N.T. Any-
way, “Centralia” is a good name to keep in
reserve for the new State which may some
day be carved out to include the Darling and
the Macdonnell Ranges.
“H.H.” : Talk of a wealth levy is again
going strong, but though many Governments
have contemplated it all have frozen. The
thing has to be big else it might as well be
just a tax, and it has to be sudden or again
it would be a mere tax. It would have to be
taken out mostly in buildings, land and goods,
for in a country like Australia there isn’t
enough real money to pay a year’s taxes, let
alone something over for a levy. If the
things aren’t sold they bring in nothing. If
they are sold in a glutted market to people
who, because of the levy, have far less money
than usual and are afraid to make a show of
what they have, they fetch mighty little. It
is very like the old stories of the auctioning
of rich military loot, when Koh-i-noors went
cheap, and silk clo’ were a penny each, and
two oxen sold for a farthing.
“Griffith Moses” writes :
Canada arranged some time ago to have its own
High Commissioner or deputy ambassador at Wash-
ington (U.S.A.). All its land frontiers—thousands
of miles of them, north-west, west and south —abut
on the U.S. The biggest trade is with that country ;
accounts are kept in the same dollar money; a
vast amount of Canadian finance is done in New
York; and one of Canada’s transcontinental lines
crosses, by permission, a bulge of U.S. territory to
avoid a detour. With all these matters to cause
involvements the sub-ambassador was needed, and
it was proposed that lie should understudy the
British personage in the latter’s rare temporary
absences. The arrangement is off. It was learned
that Australia, in its hunger for pomp and the cre-
ation of useless billets, proposed to rush in and
appoint an ambassador to Washington also, though
it hasn’t a penn’orth of political business to do, and
that Maoriland might follow suit. Then, of course,
there would be invidious questions as to which man
should be the understudy in the British Ex.’s absence,
and rows about seniority. So with a muffled curse re
the pinchbeck pretentiousness of remote communities
with more borrowed money than sense, Canada does
without its useful functionary.
Senator Millen is racing home to get into
the House of Representatives and become
Acting-Prime Minister and probably Trea-
surer. But if Cook quits Parramatta Sena-
tor Pratten will go after the Liberal nom-
ination, regardless of “party interests,”
which everybody but a Minister is expected
to uphold. Bowden, member for Nepean, is
significantly announcing that Parliament has
few charms for a man who doesn’t feel well,
and Millen may move into this constituency,
the Labor party permitting. If the ambi-
tious little man reaches the Reps., Rodgers
will very likely become Minister of Repa-
triation without, opposition, but the Cabinet
will need a squad of police to stem the rush
for the Ministerial billet in the Senate.
Senator Keating is conspicuously waiting
for promotion. So are several, others.
“S.M.” : Apropos the A.W.U. Convention’s
decision that boys and flappers of IS should
vote, thex-e are really too many 18-year-olds
in politics already. The “moron” is tlic boy
(often a very bright boy) whose mind sud-
denly stops growing though his body doesn’t,
as was the case with Mr. Toots, of “Dombey
and Son.” If the stoppage happens at 10
or 12 it is too obvious to escape notice, for
a Oft. child of 12 draws attention. But the
case who leaves oft blooming at 17 or IS
may get into politics and many other places,
but mostly into politic?, for people are less
particular there than elsewhere. This mor-
bid sample of perpetual youth may be popu-
lar for his exuberance and perennial flower-
ing and for his optimism, but experience
does him no good, and lie may do others a
lot of harm. There are one or two morons
in political office in Australia who wouldn’t
be there if candidates were more carefully
inspected.
“H.H.”: Seems to me the present Sydney
Cabinet can’t be quite efficient about any-
thing—not even about its gum, though there
is nothing intricate about gum. I bought
ss. worth of its penny stamps, as every
cheque requires an extra copper now, and
pasted one carefully on a cheque (now
legally a bill of exchange), and smote it
hard to make it stick. The ledger-keeper
initialled the document as solvent, surprising
as it may seem, so I took it from him and
hastened across the marble hall of finance
to present it to the teller. That official
said it wasn’t in order —in fact, it was in
great disorder —for want of a penny stamp.
The thing the Government had sold to me
was gone and I was liable to fine, if not
imprisonment. I found the stamp, badly
trodden on, in the middle of the marble
hall of finance. It had dried up and blown
or fallen off. After that I put stamps on
my whole book. Half of them have fallen
off and’scattered all over the house. This is
an untidy sort of office-boy Government full
of the inexperienced but well-meaning haste
which makes that junior address all the let-
ters to the wrong people and then go out
and post the ink-bottle by mistake. It may
grow up, but I have doubts. I think it is
a case of arrested development.
“Bildad” writes: —
Faith in public ownership of utilities as a means
of promoting peace (the obnoxious capitalist being
removed and the employees being full partners) fades
daily. The Maoriland State coal-mines have been
going slow (going almost imperceptibly, in fact)
for a long while. Periodically they are on strike
and not goinsr at all. A railway strike is threatened
over the fact that a driver was reduced in rank for
only six months because he started his train without
awaiting a signal—in other words, without assurance
that the line was clear. Westralia has just
finished a railway strike. The Queensland Labor
Government has one in prospect. N. S. Wales had
one not so long ago. The transcontinental railway
had a strike almost as soon as it started. The
Commonwealth ships are held up just as promis-
cuously as those of Australian companies, and oftener
than those of foreign cos. Governments make no
money out of their “activities”; in fact Treasurers
go grey-headed or bald-headed, according to their
natures, raising taxes to cover losses. Sooner
or later, unless things mend, the revolt against State
ownership will come.
N. S. Wales Minister Lang, who gave his
personal guarantee as a suburban house-
agent that the Federal Government wouldn’t
charge income-tax against interest on his
loan, has been at it again. By ignorance or
haste or cocksureness the words which de-
fined a bill as something “not payable on
demand” were omitted while shovelling a
clause out of an old Act into a new one.
That made a cheque legally a bill, and the Act
seems to say very clearly that acknowledg-
ments for bills need not be stamped. Lang
says with a crash “Receipts will have to be
stamped,” but if the Court says otherwise
it won’t matter if Lang was 10 house-agents.
I AM THE STATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat bewigged in chair of State,
The Lord of France, tier earthly fate.
Beringed, berobed, his frown or smile
Meant life or death to millions vile;
If peace he willed —’twas peace that came;
If war he wished—with sword and flame
They harried Belgium’s hapless land
Or dyed with blood Batavia’s strand.
Small wonder if this fount of law,
The greatest king the kingdoms saw,
Should tell his court: “I am the guide,
The soul of France, her prop and pride,
Her morning-tide,
Her prowess wide,
Her Gallic god begirt with awe
L’etat c’est moil”
To-day we see a monarch crowned
IV hose hands are hard and tough and browned,
Who laughs to scorn the kings of old
And flouts the modern kings of gold.
Although he prates of commonweal
With despot grasp in hands of steel
He grips our freedoms one by one,
His watchword: “Give me all or none!”
At morn we hear his mandate ring,
Around our limbs his fetters cling,
Until with wounds the land is raw:
He hails himself the source of law.
At morn his one eternal ehaunt—
“Such is my will!” (’tis not a vaunt).
“I am the town
The crest—the crown,
The brain supreme—the hand, the awe—
L’etat c’est moi!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


SOMETHING FOR EVERYBODY.
Apparently the Hughes Government’s ability to create billets is only limit ed by its ability to fill them.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
■LilliAD Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated-), Super-refined. Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER——Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZINC DUST.
Also of IATHARGE-lAssay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
ct on s P ec iaHy Favorable Tariffs of
SIIA ER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COEEINS HOUSE, COFFINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
~ , . „ r T - H- SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. Now South Wales
svnvrv. BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
“AUSTRAL”
REGISTERED BRANDS:
‘B.H.P.
AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,*
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd. :—
To Re- Re-
Dee.i Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900.. £28,217 10 p.c. =£20,000 £8,217 £41,809
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital 11,809
1910.. 36,847 lllp.e.= 28,121 8,726 20,635
Internal reserves disclosed .. 79,410 99,945
1911.. 41,339 10 p.c. = 28,125 13,214 113,159
1912.. 36,805 10 „„ 30,417 5,388 118,547
1913.. 33,087 10 „ „ 32,499 588 119,135
£110,373 of reserves transferred to
„„„„ ca Pital , 2,762
£293 apparently paid as cash bonus .. 2,469
1914.. 34,415 74 p.c. = 34,222 193 2 662
■fj* l ®-* 34,039 7 „ „ 32,666 1,373 4,035
ini?" 6 ” » 28,000 18 4,053
10ll" jx’rnn ” ” 28 - 652 1,998 6,051
7 J » » 38,750 6,840 12,891
icin' ‘ ti'&S? 7 ? ” ” 38,750 5,798 18,689
1920.. 52,981 94 ~ „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
Fifteen months having elapsed since the last
Koyal Commission presented its report to
I ailiament, and no attempt having been
made to give effect to its recommendations,
fcydney Perries directors apparently felt a
little more confident when issuing their re-
port for the past year. So, though only
oi years previously Commissioner F. N
larwood expressed the opinion that 8 p.c.’
would be a fair and reasonable expect-
ancy they passed out divs. totalling 91
p.c. tor the 1„ months. Almost at the same
time they decided on a further increase of
tales, to meet additional expenses conse-
quent on the declaration of the new basic
wage in October, and as an offset to the
very considerably increased” cost of fuel
and heavier rents, rates and taxes. On this
occasion, though, the directors apparently
considered it inadvisable to interfere with
regular subscribers, and the casual passenger
only is being tapped. Even this move has
not saved the co. from the attentions of the
otorey Government, and once more outsiders
are prying into its books, accountants having
been set to investigate under the very com-
prehensive Profiteering Prevention Act.
Presumably, should the investigators con-
sider the increased fares not justified, Syd-
ney Ferries, Ltd., will be towed to court
to explain.
But whatever is the outcome of the latest
inquiry, the position of Sydney Ferries, Ltd.,
will continue _ unsatisfactory to both the
investing public and to customers until it
is clearly laid down what is a fair return
for shareholders. Two Royal Commissions
have reported on this aspect of the mono-
the Board of Trade inquiry of
1919 very definitely recommended that the
co. ‘ should not remain unregulated,” and
went so far as to propose that its accounts
should be “subject to public audit.” No-
thing more has been heard of these recom-
mendations, and it has been left to the
directors to decide what is a “fair return,”
and to continue to present their accounts
•just as they, please. Maybe they regard
the 9y p.c. dividend as evening-up the dis-
tributions of recent years. But whether the
co. will be permitted to continue to pay
“J vs - a -*" a t ra * e ’ it cau contrive to earn
them, is another matter. If every increase
of fares is to be followed by Government
inquiry, sooner or later regulation in some
form is almost certain; and the likelihood
of anything like 9| p.c. divs. being approved
is remote.
. Sydney Ferries, Ltd., is nowadays suffer-
ing for its old sins. It is 21 years since this
co. took over the North Shore Steam Ferry
(capital £60,000) and paid £320.000 in
£3 shares. Including the recent issue
of shares to purchase new steamers, share-
holders have since put up £232.025 of cash
(shares issued at par), and £50,000 was
paid in scrip for the Balmain New Ferry
Co. Those two amounts account for
£282,025 of the £443,852 increase of capital
since 1900; the balance of £161,827 repre-
sents bonus shares issued to proprietors out
of accumulated profits. In other words, pas-
sengers of bygone days not onlv fed the
shareholder of this co. with handsome divi-
dends, but also added materially to his be-
longings. The full extent' 'of' the gift is not,
however, fully disclosed by the capitalisa-
tions mentioned above; the last Royal Com-
mission ascertained that though the co.’s
fixed assets had been given a book value
of. £568,000-odd, they were actually worth,
“disregarding temporary fluctuations” of
values, more than £817.000. No doubt, un-
earned increment accounted for some of the
difference.
The directors give the net profit for the
past year as £49,606, but that was after
£3375 net had been added to an insurance fund.
Still, even the £52,981 net earnings shown
in the introductory table cannot be taken
too seriously in the absence of details as
to (1) the allowances made for deprecia-
tion, and (2) the earnings- of the subsidiary
Harbor, Land and Transport Co., Ltd.
Twelve months ago the directors declared
that the earnings of this subsidiary
“accounted for no less than 2$ p.c.” of the
7i p.c. distributed for the year. On this
occasion they are silent as to the part played'
by the H., L. and T. concern, and as it
publishes- no balance-sheet, only those in-
side know to what extent Sydney Ferries,
Ltd., profits benefited by its operations and
how much, if anything, has been withheld
in the subsidiary’s coffers. The directors
declared that the flotation of the separate
co. to carry “business not directly connected
with the ferry traffic’’ was in the nature
of a concession to public clamor. The
Board of Trade took a different view :• —
We believe that the co. promoted the subsidiary
cos. for quite different reasons, one of which was
a desire to protect part, at least, of its operations
and affairs from public scrutiny or investigation.
It is entirely a matter for the directors how
much profit earned by the subsidiary shall
be passed on to the parent; if the ferry ser-
vices are prospering the directors could, with-
out the public being any the wiser, store
practically the whole of the subsidiary’s
earnings for future reference. Even in the
parent co. there are storage possibilities:
disclosed net profits depend also on the ex-
tent of the provision for depreciation. From
the balance-sheets, as now presented, it is
impossible to tell whether only reasonable
provision is being made in this respect, or
whether the allowances are over-liberal and
disclosed profits suffering in consequence.
The only evidence forthcoming for the past
year is that though four .steamers were taken
over from the old Watson’s Bay Co.-—the
Woollahra, Greycliffe, Vaucluse and King
Edward —and one old vehicular tub, the
Warrane, went out of commission (and it
could not have stood for much in thb books),
the net increase in the book value of the
fleet was only £12,798.
Walsh Island at present has under con-
struction two steel passenger and one steel
vehicular steamers. To finance these addi-
tions further capital has been got in: includ-
ing calls paid in advance, paid capital in-
creased by ±60,000-odd during the year. At
Dec. 31 the co. had £118,458 in cash assets
and owed £31,491 to sundry creditors.
Deducting the final div. there was a cash
surplus of almost £60,000 available to. assist
to finance the new steamers.
* * * *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney),
property auctioneers, subdivisionists, valua-
tors, etc. The co. started in 1889, and at
the time at which the table begins had
£39,500 of its capital represented by good-
will :
WTitten To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
190 b. . £6,173 5 p.c. = £3,000 £3173 £33,151
1910.. 9,898 6 „ „ 3,600 6298 26,853
1911.. 11,346 7 „ „ 4,200 7146 19,707
1912.. 12,349 7 „ „ 4,200 8149 11,558
1913.. 12,024 7 „ „ 4,200 7824 3,734
Nominal
Reserves.
1914.. 10,787 7 „ „ 4,200 6587 2,853
1915.. 9,775 7 „ „ 4,200 5575 8,428
1916.. 8,102 7 „ „ 4,200 £984 2918 11,346
1917.. 6,571 7 „ ~ 4,200 1114 1257 12,603
1918.. 8,273 8 „ „ 5,345 1452 1476 14,079
1919.. 14,883 124 „ „ 7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 27j „ „ 19,071 3735 18,247
Sydney real-estate salesmen have never ex-
perienced such a year as that covered by
R. and W.’s latest accounts. This co. had a
total turnover exceeding 1$ million, a
quarter of a million more than for the pre-
vious year, while the total sales of all
agents were estimated at over 7f millions.
“a record which far exceeds the big years of
the ’eighties.” Shortly after the first N. S.
Wales Labor Government started a loan-
construction boom the property market be-
came more active and values commenced to
climb. The table above illustrates very well
the general experience of salesmen. In the four
years 1909-13 profits practically doubled:
then during the early war years the public
became cautious and there was a heavy
falling off of business. Meantime, though,
the large borrowings to finance war opera-
tions were having their effect; and the public
soon began to spend lavishly again, regard-
less of the fact that, despite the better prices
we were getting for our staples, the Com-
monwealth was actually no better off because
of the piling war debt and its interest bill.
But in addition to having the loan construc-
tion booms and war-loans to assist the turn-
over of properties at inflated prices, the pro-
perty-agents have also been helped by the
failure of the politicians to adopt any policy
which would ease the congestion in the
capital cities.
The 1919 boom in Sydney suburban sub-
divisioning was not maintained last year;
but in city property “purchasers were eager
to acquire anything offering which could be
applied to commercial uses.” This compari-
son shows how commission earnings have
grown and also the extent of deposits placed
with the co. on account of pending contracts:
Commissions Deposits
and Interest, on Sales.
1909 £12,313 £7,336
1913 . . .. .. 20,904 10,263
1914 21,269 5,168
1915 18,415 5,439
1916 17,152 7,194
1917 15,683 5,566
1918 20,021 5,869
1919 27,656 23,947
1920 36,690 17,902
Last year’s net profit represented a return of
slightly more than 30 p.c. on paid capital.
Shareholders received divs. aggregating 15
p.c. for the year, and they also got a cash
bonus of 124 p.c., together p.c., or
nearly four times as much as they had re ;
ceived in any one year to 1917. During its
earlier period of affluence the co. was afflicted
with a heavy load of goodwill—£39,soo of
its former capital of £60,000 was so repre-
sented —and for a long time the directors
were busy replacing this intangible asset with
something of more certain value. The old
goodwill item disappeared from the books
some years ago, but reserves are still re-
garded as nominal in the preliminary table
because a couple of years ago the O. H.
Crammond business was purchased, and it
is not clear whether there is not a little good-
will consideration included in the “acquisi-
tion” entry which is parcelled with advances.
Another view of the co.’s progress over a
number of years is shown next: —
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital .. .. £60,000 £60,000 £69,350 £69,350
Liabilities .. 13.817 12,282 32,598 27,823
Advances 10,154 53,462 50,603 73,129
Book debts .. 2,736 6,281 5,546 3,684
Cash, etc. . . 34,250 21,206 65,652 40,594
Odds and ends .. 1,624 1,861 4,307 4,948
After payment of the final div. there was a
cash surplus over and above all liabilities of
£9520. To represent the approximate £60,000
of capital not covered by cash assets the co.
had advances, etc., of a book value of
£78,000-odd. And there may have been
substantial writing-down of some assets:
anyhow, for some years there have been
appropriations of profits to a “special re-
serve” which have promptly disappeared.
* # * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1908. .£1,895 5 p.c. = £lOOO £895 £7,714
1909.. 3,568 84 „,, 1700 1868 9,582
1910.. 4,114 104,,,, 2100 £53 1961 11,543
1911.. 4,853 124 „ „ 2893 1960 13,503
1912.. 5,346 10 „,, 2600 2746 16,249
1913.. 6,653 124 „ „ 3250 1000 2403 18,652
1914.. 6,933 124 ~,, 3250 746 2937 21,589
1915.. 7,022 15 „„ 3900 500 2622 24,211
1916.. 6,301 15 „ „ 3900 500 1901 26,112
1917.. 5,307 15 ~ ~ 3900 1407 27,519
Reserves capitalised, £13,000 .. 14,519
1918.. 8,134 Hi p.c.= 4387 3747 18,266
1919.. 8,765 16i „,, 6337 2428 20,694
1920.. 11,749 224 „ „ 8775 2974 23,668
Twelve months ago this co.’s management
was faced with wage increases which threat-
ened to lift outgoings by £2500 p.a., so it
hastened to increase its charges to cover the
additional costs. The revised tariff did the
trick so effectively that the latest profits were
£3OOO better than those for the previous
record year. The co. has done surprisingly
well during recent difficult times, and judging
by the following figures apparently there has
been no dearth of bed-and-breakfast clients
who have been able to afford to live up to the
higher tariff: —
Revenue. Expenses.
1914 .. £35,308 £28,376
1915 . . 37,570 31,048
1916 .. 41,502 35,701
1917 . . 40,339 35,032
1918 . . 43,688 35,554
1919 . . 47,388 35,882
1920 .. 57,840 44,778
The 22J p.c. div., however, must not be
taken too seriously. The Vic. Coffee Palace
had its beginnings in Melbourne boom days,
and £lOO.OOO of its capital was swept away
in the clean-up which followed the crash.
Paid capital is now only £39.000, £6OOO of
which was raised 10 years ago, and, as
an entry in the introductory table shows,
one-third of the total represents reserves
capitalised only three years ago. However,
the 22-J p.c. is comforting to old interests,
while it provides a feast for those who, a
few years ago, bought in at around about
par and participated in the issue of bonus
shares.
Over a year ago the co. purchased for
£17,000 the adjoining Wrixon’s Building, and
set about adding two storeys and equipping
it. This work is now almost complete, and
the management will soon have a further
source of revenue. To Dec. 31 £2754 had
been spent in additions and a few hundreds
spent on plant and furniture. This com-
pares the balance-sheet figures over a num-
ber of years:—
1910. .1918. 1919. 1920.
Mortgages, etc.. £16,875 £20.162 £19,474 £20,677
Freeholds .. 43,030 63,735 65/838 68,489
Plant, furniture 4,498 7,690 7,190 7,662
Liquid assets .. 1,342 5,441 6,539 8,612
Of the £17,000 purchase cost of Wrixon’s the
co. has so far met only £2OOO. Probably
there will be further bills for alterations, etc.
At the balance there were cash assets of £7750,
£4875 of which was required to meet' the
final div. On the other side there were sun-
dry creditors for £5677. To meet the balance
of the expenditure on the new premises
will thus necessitate considerable outside
assistance. For many years there has been
a £15,000 mortgage on the old property, and
at the balance ( i.e prior to the payment of
the final div.) there was an excess of
liabilities over liquid assets of £12,000. The
co. has been very successfiil lately, and the
management can show a point or two to
many others in the same line of business who
have tipples to assist their earnings.
* * * *
J. C. Lunowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1912.. £3345 10 p.e. = £2832 £513 £7,061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 „ „ 2832 733 7,794
Dec., 1913.. 2127 8 „ „ 2266 7,655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 ~ „ 1982 - 7,392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 - 7,261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 ~ „ 1982 41 7,302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „ „ 1982 417 7,719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 ~ ~ 2832 7,130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 ~ ~ 2832 7,130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 7,130
Dec., 1917.. 3116 10 „ „ 2832 284 7,414
June, 1918.. 3135 10 „ „ 2832 303 7,717
Dec., 1918.. 3206 10 „ „ 2832 374 8,091
June, 1919.. 3071 10 „ „ 2832 239 8,330
Dec., 1919.. 3614 10 „ „ 2832 782 9,112
June, 1920.. 5088 10 „ „ 3021 2067 11,179
Dec., 1920.. 4905 10 „ „ 3965 940 12,119
During the past half-year there were fur-
ther heavy slumps in the market prices of
hides and leather, and even a few old firms
have been feeling sick in consequence. But
notwithstanding the tumble of prices and a
generally quieter demand for leather, this
60-year-old concern has come through un-
harmed. The set-back, the directors say,
“was anticipated and provided for,” and
since the turnover of Pioneer leather-belting
was larger, net earnings fell only £lB5 be-
low the record profits disclosed for the pre-
vious term. But there is now a lot of new
capital at work in the business: 12 months
ago the share-register totted up £56,644, at
which figure it had stood for many years;
but 22,656 new shares ... have since been
allotted, and paid capital is now £79,222. a
handful of calls remaining outstanding at
the balance. This new capital was got in to
remodel and add to the old York-street pre-
sses, which had been somewhat damaged by
fire, and to establish a new factory in the
suburbs. This outlay has taken the book
value of land and buildings from £15,966 to
£36,122 during the past 12 months. Balance-
sheet movements over the past five years have
been as follows :
1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital .. .. £56,644 £56,644 £79.222
Liabilities . . 707 17,756 13,338
Freeholds . . 16,983 15,966 36,122
Plant, etc. .. 4,009 3,120 4,759
Stocks .. .. 37,817 49,401 47,600
Book debts . . 6,260 14,015 15.409
Cash, etc. . . 2,095 4,789 6,102
Practically all the new funds have gone into
properties, though there have recently been
additions to plant, which, as the figures above
show, is not a considerable item in this busi-
ness.
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital £32,136
Dec., 1911.. £7676 5 p.c. = £3125 36,687
June, 1912.. 2385 5 „ „ 3125 35,947
Dec., 1912.. 6066 5 „ „ 3125 37,888
June, 1913.. 2450 5 „„ 3125 37,213
Dec., 1913.. 9101 7 „ „ 4375 41.939
June, 1914.. 3006 5 „ „ 3125 41,820
Dec., 1914.. 7354 5 „ „ 3125 46,049
June, 1915.. 4587 5 „ „ 3125 47,611
Dec., 1915.. 4312 5 „„ 3125 48,698
June, 1916.. 1094 5 „ „ 3125 46,667
Dec., 1916.. 4025 5 „ „ 3125 47,567
June, 1917.. 3750 5 „ „ 3125 48.192
Dec., 1917.. 6082 6 „ „ 3750 50,524
June, 1918.. 5331 6 ~,, 3750 52,105
Dec., 1918.. 5256 6 „ „ 3750 53,611
June, 1919.. 2131 5 ~ „ 3125 52,617
Dec., 1919.. 7218 6 „ „ 3750 56,085
June, 1920.. 5638 6 ~ ~ 3750 57,973
Dec., 1920.. 5132 6 „ ~ 3750 59,355
This is one of the Commonwealth’s very few
Private Enterprise railways, and it is P.E.
only because no State Frights Government
would have had the pluck to make available
for the districts between Deniliquin and the
Murray the natural outl * for their produce,
and thus feed the Victorian railway system.
There are about 60 miles of line and
£162,672 has been spent on its construction
and equipment. Divs. of 6 p.c. have been
the best shareholders have had over many
years, and there is fat about that,
though 10 years’ paid capital was increased
from £lOO,OOO to £125,000 by an issue of
bonus shares. But there is no doubt that, to
the, squatter-sharehoMers of the co., the rail-
way means a good deal more than the divs.
they get: the value of the connection with
the Victorian system cannot, however, be
measured in £ s. d. Besides paying divs.,
maintaining the permanent way, plant and
rolling-stock in “good working order,” the
co. has shown this improvement in its
balance-sheets over the past 15 years:—
1905. 1915. 192«.
Liquid assets .. ..£11,254 £14,381 £27,509
Liabilities . . . . 30,917 230 2,076
Excess liabilities ..£19,663
Surplus assets .. £14,151 £25,433
There has thus been a £45,000 improvement


PIONEER Leather Belting'
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (EL SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
THE COMMONWEALTH LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
LIFE ASSURANCE OF ALL CLASSES.
Head Office: 51 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THORNTON H. MASTERS,
Managing Director.
AGENTS REQUIRED THROUGHOUT N.S.W.
If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
The story of the great Hydro-Electric Scheme in
Tasmania is bound up with that of “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe—and gives a striking example of the general
efficiency of this remarkably cheap and easily-
handled water conduit. Pioneer Wood Pipe carries
constantly from 20 to 25 per cent, more water than
metal pipe and lasts infinitely longer. An interest-
ing book of data will be forwarded to you on appli-
cation. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen, 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writs
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
“Foden” Steam Waggons, the recognised “cham-
pions” of the “transport brigade’ during war.
“1921 tipping-body models” just landed in Australia,
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter anil Bon.i
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
OIL AND OIL-SHALE.
J. L. STREVENS, A.M. Inst. P.T. (Lond.),
TECHNOLOGIST,
Inspects, reports and advises upon all matters
pertaining to the search for petroleum and
the development of approved oil and oil-
shale properties.
34 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
’Phone: Central 4346.
AN
Try
KY
0
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
in the liquid position since 1905. All ex-
cept £3763 of the present liquid assets is
represented by cash and War Loan. The
whole of the £25,000-odd cash surplus can-
not, however, be regarded as available for
shareholders; some of it may be required for
special replacements, etc. The co. has been
got into a comfortable position. Nowadays
it is working entirely on its own funds; 15
years ago, when it was recovering from the
effects of a disastrous drought, there was
£30,000 of debentures to assist capital.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd. : —
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1907. .£117,257 10 p.c. = £55,000£116,480 £79,242
1908.. 39,842 10 „ „ 55,000 31,293 32,791
(All Shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 p.c. = 96,250 24,949 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ „ 144,375 53,518 127,525
1911.. 207,959 15 „ ~144,375 48,940 142,169
1912.. 340,938 30 „ ~ 288,750 63,870 130,487
1913.. 315,442 20 „ „ 192,500 66,995 186,434
1914.. 158,875 10 „ „ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915.. 282,551 20 „ „ 192,500 28,000 294,963
1916.. 376,404 30 „ ~315,000 39,000 317,367
1917.. 413,080 25 „ ~262,500 134,264 333,683
1918.. 367,869 25 „ „ 262,500 76,969 362,083
1919.. 319,232 15 „ „ 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
The Sulphide Corporation accounts for the
12 months to June 30 last are probably the
most dismal that big concern has put out
during the quarter of a century it has been
at work. Owing to the Broken Hill strike
not one ton of ore was raised at the Central
mine during the period, and, that, of course,
shut off feed for the Cockle Creek smelters.
During the first six months the smelting and
refining plants dawdled on the 1886 tons
Central concentrates on hand when the
strike occurred, but the treating of small
tonnages proved costly. In Dec., 1919, the
plant was closed down. Including purchased
ores, the Cockle Creek works put through
only 15,885 tons, compared with 85,356 tons
for the previous year. In addition to the
metal troubles, the high cost of phosphate
rock ran up expenses in the super, works,
and a smaller profit resulted there, though
the Government has since approved of an
increase of £1 per ton in the selling price.
Meantime the co.’s zinc works at Seaton
Carew (Eng.) were not having an easy
time. A supply of the co.’s own zinc con-
centrates not being available, manager J.
C. Moulden had to fall back upon purchased
material. But owing to heavy increases in
wages and the cost of all stores, and particu-
larly of coal, the production of spelter
proved much more costly than at any other
period of the enterprise. Nevertheless,
Seaton Carew got through the year without
loss.
During the year it cost £73,524 to keep
the Central mine unwatered and to maintain
plant, etc., with the result that the working
account covering all operations showed a
credit of only £32,395. But even that would
not have been possible had not over £lOO,OOO
been received from the Zinc Producers’ Asso-
ciation from the sale of zinc concentrates
to the British Government and Belgian
smelters. The Corporation also made a
profit of £21,513 by buying, in conjunction
with the Associated Smelters, parcels of lead
held in Australia for the British Munitions
and taking advantage of favorable freight
contracts to ship the stuff to the English
market. Though revenue was helped in this
way by lead and zinc, after meeting all office
charges there was a surplus for the year
of only £5559. Of this £2685, representing
“the amount of the capital expenditure in
excess of the year’s amortisation,” was writ-
ten off. The accounts thus show a net profit
of £2874, but in view of the heavy deprecia-
tion of Government securities held that
amount was not actually earned. The direc-
tors found that the gilt-edged securities had
depreciated in the market by £38,584, which
they wrote off the previous year’s surplus
brought forward instead of making it a
charge on the period covered by the latest
accounts.
This shows the liquid position at June
last compared with 12 months and six years
previously:—■
1914. 1919. 1920.
Liquid assets .. £439,591 £1,282,207 £1,160,125
Liabilities .. .. 89,843 473,539 554,743
Surplus assets ..£349,748 £808,668 £605,382
The final div. of £157,500 for 1919 and the
£38,584 written off investments accounts for
most of that decline of £203,000 in 12 months.
Capital is £1,050,000, in 600.000 £1 prefs.
fully-paid and a similar number of £1 ordi-
naries paid to 155.; so considerably over half
the capital is still represented by the sur-
plus of liquid assets over liabilities. Future
prospects are clouded. It is yet too
early to ascertain what effect the new
mining conditions at Broken Hill will
have. But Sulphide Corporation share-
holders have this. consolation : no other co.
is better placed; if it cannot stand up to
the new conditions probably no other co.
can. Incidentally, general-manager Court-
ney recently set about ascertaining where
all the money earned by the Sulphide Cor-
poration has gone. During its 24 years it
has paid £2.709,000 in divs., representing an
average return of about 11 p.c. p.a.; mean-
time over 14£ millions has been paid away
in wages.
* * » *
An excellent and comprehensive little
volume on the “Elementary Principles and
Practice of Company Law in N. S. Wales”
has just been compiled by Sydney barrister
A. C. Tuthill. It is an invaluable guide
for those interested in co. formation, and a
handy volume of reference to procedure for
officers of established cos. The advantages
to be gained by registering under the Act
are clearly set out, and the procedure neces-
sary to transform a proprietary or partner-
ship into a co. is fully detailed, even to the
duties and fees required by the recently-
amended Stamp Duties Act. Draft forms,
agreements, memorandum of association and
Articles, and references throughout to the
various Acts are features of the volume,
which is published by the Law Book Co.
of Australasia.
# * * *
Wege Motor, Ltd., in 30,000 shares of £1
each, has gone to registration in Adelaide.
The co. is setting out to develop an entirely
new petrol motor, invented by a young S.
Ails, engineer, W. J. Wege. The invention
is a two-stroke motor, in which working
parts have been reduced to a minimum: there
are no moving parts other than the crank-
shaft, connecting rods and pistons, all valves
and gear which usually operate them being
replaced by ports operated by the pistons.
Some time ago the inventor attached, a six-
cylinder engine to a make-shift chassis, and
negotiated over 3000 miles, with “never a
moment’s delay with the engine,” on a petrol
consumption of 30 miles to the gallon.
Butler’s Tin, Torrington (N.S.W.), has
got into fresh trouble. First it was scarcity
of water, then shortage of ore, now, worst ot
all, no market for mine products. So it sur-
vives on calls. To cheer the call-payer
manager Hooper declares that Butler’s “is a
big mine and must be worked on a big scale,”
but “what is wanted mostly is water.” With
water available, Hooper’s opinion is that 30
head of stamps should be at work instead of
the present 10. Expenses would drop and
Butler’s would have its chance to become
payable. Since June the show’s dams have
been full, and it has the cash to build an-
other dam to give “an adequate supply.”
But the mill is idle, for there is no market
for concentrates, and Butler’s can produce
only a mixed blend that few want in the
present unsettled metal market. On this
situation chairman Peter Sutherland re-
marks that the satisfactory aspect—the dis-
closure of ore bodies capable of keeping 30
head of stamps going continuously—has been
discounted by the disappearance of buyers.
Now each constituent has to be made clean,
and the question again arises, as to Butler’s
prospects. Its balance-sheet at Nov. 30
showed tin ore on hand at valuation £2021 and
stores £412; on the other side £2746 was
owing to sundry creditors and £4BBO to the
bank.
* # * *
Apparently Lass o’ Gowrie (W.A.) has
had enough. After its failure at Mt.
Monger, the Board paid £5OO deposit and
shifted the plant, buildings, etc., at a cost
of nearly £lOOO, to the St. Ives field, where
a 20ft. lode, assaying an oz. over a length
of 400 ft., and a 2ft. reef worth from 10 to
12 dwt. for 300 ft. were reported to be in
sight. Later on these values were officially
declared to be myths. Later still the co.
was almost persuaded to pay the Westralian
Government £3OO for the right to acquire
the old Oversight mine, at Bulong, but for-
tunately someone put it wise in time about
the worth lossless of this derelict. Now the
directors have come to the sensible conclu-
sion that the best thing to do is to wind-up.
Paringa Gold Mines, which left Kalgoorlie
years ago to retrieve its shattered fortunes
in other parts of the world, but returned to
take a hand in the Hampton boom, is now
trying its luck in some Rhodesian gold ven-
tures, and claims to have struck high values
at depth. Further development has also
been done lately in the co.’s Kalgoorlie
property, and as a result of some explora-
tory work a payable ore-body, missed in
earlier operations, is reported to have been
struck. The co. is now considering the re-
starting of the old weather : beaten plant to
facilitate the raising of ore.
* * * #
“O.B.”: J. L. Strevens (B. 13/1/’2l) is
right about bitumen and not petroleum being
washed up on the shores of the Southern
Ocean. It may come, as he suggests, from
submarine-eroded oil strata of unknown
location, but one of the local geological re-
ports opines that some of the oily jetsam
came from passing ships. So far the Western
Oil and Shale Co., mentioned by “J.L.5.,” has
principally prospected for capital, and
although the Anglo-Persian Co. has offered to
come in, it is on conditions that the State is
unlikely to accept. The only part of West-
ralia where any indications whatever of
petroleum have been found is on one of
Durack’s stations in the Kimberley. Samples
from this supposed “seepage” are reported to
contain 20 p.c. oil, but local geologists dis-
count the importance of the discovery by
alleging that the country in that part of the
State is one of the last spots that an expert
would expect to find payable deposits.
The Red, White and Blue line, Bendigo,
after promising all sorts of things for 20
years, at last produces a div.-payer in the
New Red. Promptly the South Red is
being promoted by Walter Eskdale. This
concern takes over the two south blocks
next door, and, of course, New Red share-
holders get a cut. The New has been prod-
ding in the spurry country round about
1600 ft. The veins on the western side show
gold, especially in ore coming from the
first stope above the intermediate level.
Behind it No. 2 stope carries fair-grade
quartz, but No. 3 stope so far is on dirt good
only for filling purposes. The bedded veins
extend higher as work goes to the south.
This development accounts for half the
market flutterings in scrip. An improve-
ment above the fault at 1700 ft. is helping
yields, but it is hard to put out of mind
the teachings of experience that when gold
makes on a fault at Bendigo it is time to
quit. The Blue spurs are not big, so a
lot of work has to be done at 1600 ft. before
it can be claimed that the Red, White and
Blue group is coming into its own again.
Geologist H. S. Whitelaw thinks that the
big chance for the co. is to crosscut east at
756 ft. to get into the channel of country
whence North Blue is winning pay dirt.
His advice is to be followed.
* * * *
Loch Fyne, Jamieson (Vic.), had about
£l6OO clear of all debts on Nov. 30, so the
office optimist declares finance to be satis-
factory. Six months’ work gave 6970 z. from
580 tons, and a later crushing of 60 tons,
plus skinnings from the plates, produced
332f0z. Even if the quantity is small, qual-
ity is good. The trouble with Loch Fyne
is to get a decent-sized reserve of stone. As
prospecting between the main adit level and
No. 4 level above has brought nothing of
value to light, the co. intends to dip into
the lucky bag by using up cash to sink an-
other 100 ft.
* * * *
“Geologist” returns to the attack: —
“J.L.S.’s” reply (B. 10/2/’2l) to my contentions
on Queensland oil prospects calls loudly for correc-
tion. He has only his own ambiguity to blame if I
interpreted his original par. wrongly. He has now
come down to “a certain area around Roma” as a
has-been oilfield, but to reach this conclusion he
drew originally on evidence from Ruthven, Spring-
leigh and one of two other districts embracing 12,000
square miles. Springleigh is 20 miles n.w. of Blackall,
and Ruthven 50 miles south of Longreach, the dis-
tances from Roma being roughly from 300 to 350
miles. Who would interpret this as constituting a
certain area around Roma?
The extraction of crude oil by solvents is held to be
a matter of scientific interest, but hardly “striking”
oil. Who spoke of “striking” oil? My reply was
on the prospects of striking oil. How else would
“J.L.S.” determine the presence of oil in borings
from these wells, in which there are water columns
up to 6000 ft. high, other than by solvents? More-
over, the indications of present-day oil reservoirs
in this western country do not rest on oil extraction
in ether from borings. Hot bore-water brought up
hot oil from Ruthven at 4105 ft. and from Spring-
leigh at 5800 ft., which was skimmed off and cooled
to a brownish black wax. Drops of brown petroleum
also came up in the Warbreccan and Bimerah bores,
further west in the Longreach district.
In reply to the query why boring should be con-
tinued through such thick beds (obviously at Roma),
would “J.L.S.” seriously consider that the Roma
bore should now be abandoned, after proving such
an enormous gas-pressure with a profitable percen-
tage of petrol to be recovered by absorption, simply
because of an accident in the bore, not uncommon
by any means in deep oil boring? The Roma bore
was originally put down in 1897 by the Hydraulic
Engineer without any reference to its possibilities
for oil or gas. When No. 2 bore was deepened in
1900 to secure additional supplies the adventitious
circumstance of striking a flow of gas (measured
at 39,411 c. ft. per diem) determined Roma as the
site for further operations. So impressed is the
Scientific Committee of Advice by the evidence of
gas accumulation there, apart from oil, that they
consider it likely to be a highly lucrative proposi-
tion to put fresh bores down at Roma to recover the
petrol and utilise the residual gas in the manufac-
ture of several industrial by-products. Boring to
the north and east of Roma, as suggested by
“J.L.5.,” is under consideration, but the geological
work has scarcely been completed, and, in any case,
furnishes no argument why it should supersede boring
through the thicker cretaceous sediments at Roma.
Queensland oil bores are not the deepest in the
world. Several Pennsylvanian bores are down well
over 6000 ft., and one is in the vicinity of 7000 ft.
Roma is comparatively a “stripling,” only 3700 ft.
Springleigh and the other deep bores were put down
for artesian supplies. The consequences of the
accident at Roma may constitute a “poor run,” but
it has been solely due to a serious boring accident,
and not to any doubt of Roma as a potential source
of petrol. Boring in shallower oil beds would not
necessarily ensure a better run than a new bore
at Roma. There could possibly be accidents there
also.
An attempt is being made to raise capital
to give the low-grade tin wash at Red Hill,
Kangaroo Hills (Q.), another go. Several
efforts have already been made, but treat-
ment proved unsuccessful. Frank Fraser, of
Ingham, put up a 10-hd. battery in 191 ti
to treat the hard ironstone cement, and
three Wilfley tables were used for concentrat-
ing ; but the wash didn’t pay, though tin
prices were high. J. Barrett, an old Kan-
garoo Hills prospector, has the property
now, and although there is a very large body
of softer tin-bearing wash overlying the iron-
stone cement which might be sluiced, it
requires a big initial outlay of capital to
provide the water. But the wash is low-
grade, and the fall in the price of tin doesn’t
help matters.
* * * *
One of the old Walloon coalpits, near Ips-
wich (Q.). has just been re-opened after
lying idle for about 12 years. The tunnel
has been cleaned out, and the old workings
are being put ship-shape. The coal is very
flat at a depth of 40ft., and two seams occur,
the upper 2ft. thick and the lower 4ft. It
is a fine, hard gas-coal, and is in good demand
in Brisbane and Ipswich. There was a con-
siderable supply of gas-coal from Walloon
township in earlier days, but the seams are
mostly small and very irregular in thickness.
* * * *
Chinese supplies of wolfram threaten to
keep the world’s market price low. Most
of the Chinese metal comes from the borders
of Kwantung and Kiangsi and Hunan, where
there are granite ranges with many deposits.
There are numerous other deposits further in-
land in the Kweichow and Szechuan pro-
vinces, but these are too far from ports. The
present price would pay handsomely in
China if it were not for the disordered con-
dition of the country. In quiet times, with
river traffic undisturbed, (55 p.c. tungsten
ore can bo landed at Shanghai for £37 per
ton, and £3 more will take it to Antwerp.
Most of the easily-got detrital ores are
worked out, and quartz veins carrying as
low as 4 p.c. are now being made to pay.


*l'her<z. w&s once & stcw&l*d
Who ha»d % pig to cook.
Tha offer of * friend. , , ,
to introduce him to a. tP°d cook. he Wted .
With contumely .
He met another
,
who showed him how
to cook the, pig
himself.
But ho. forget
that hIS W2IS hot
the only house
in the street’.
One of the others:
** /Wow wcVe it* the gutter, what did you get out of it yourself #
Steward Well 1 dont think much of it myself, 1 only got these few
charred bones*
COOKING A PIG.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
I
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acoustieon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
mn
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street, Melbourne,
N.Z. —John Proctor, 200'High St. f Christchurch
W.A.—H. Little &■ Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. 7. CHEJSSEMAN.
ri)GEWO%
EXTRA HIGH GRADE**
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
A wealthy Sydney man who died a few
years ago got in ahead of Peter Mitchell,
who the other day left part of his large
fortune for the encouragement of the excep-
tionally gifted. It was the habit of this
Sydney man, Neales, to give little jobs to
young solicitors and others, and if they
showed unusual qualities they were liable
™ l? e . Paid by cheques for anything up to
iouO instead of the expected guinea or two.
I here is more than one successful lawyer in
Sydney to-day who was given his first lift
like that, and in one case, at any rate, the
help came when matters had jiist about
reached a crisis for the young man.
Harry Newton Phillips Wollaston, who
helped Kingston to establish the Australian
Customs Department on enduring foundations,
died in Melbourne last week. Born at Perth
in 1846 (his grandfather was Westralia’s
first archdeacon), Wollaston entered the Vic-
torian Department of Trade and Customs in
1863, and was made its boss in 1891. In the
interval he became a Doctor of Laws, and
was counsel to the Marine Board. When
the Commonwealth was established Wollas-
ton was marked out for the big Customs
billet, and he held it till his retirement from
the service in 1911. The distinguished old
man was married twice, and the second Mrs.
Wollaston, a son and three daughters survive
him.
In Perth (W.A.) last week died William
Alexander Smith, first general secretary of
the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. and after-
wards Sydney secretary of the Temperance
and General and manager of the Metro-
politan Life. Going to Westralia he managed
the Cyclone Fence factory and became a
director of Sam Copley’s Westralian Insur-
ance Co. Although a Scotsman, Smith was
passionately devoted to the Anglican Church ;
in fact, Anglicanism and local option were
his main interests, apart from business. But
all his worldly hopes were centred in his
only son, and the lad fell on the Somme in
1916.
“Vanikoro”: Not all pressmen will en-
dorse “Gallery’s” remark (B. 10/2/’2l)
about Atlee Hunt’s “cold official reticence”
making him unpopular. The new Public
Service Arbitrator is not exactly expansive
and hail-fellow-well-met, but he can loosen up
at times. He has one gift very rare amongst
officials. Federal
or other, a turn
for vigorous and
picturesque writ-
ing. Some of his
accounts of visits
to Australia’s de-
pendencies deserve
a larger public than
they are,ever
likely to get. That
Hunt should ever
write the inner
history of the
Department he has
just left is too
much to hope. But
he could do it well.
FRIEND, chief
of Federal
Hansard staff.
“Peter”: Walter Shaw Sparrow, writer
of the book on the Fifth Army (-B. 10/2/lii ),
is, of all things in the world, an art critic.
The man is highly qualified in his special
sphere—his book on Brangwyn is a bit of
very fine writing—but being a confirmed in-
valid he has only seen the smoke of battle
through other people’s spectacles. He is the
husband of Ada Ferrar, who played Mercia
here in “The Sign of the Cross.”
H. C. Rischbieth, just dead at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.), at 80, was one of the industrious
old Teutonic stock imported in early days by
that Stater He was born in Hanover just
after Queen Victoria ceased (through not
having been born a boy) to rule over it, and
came to Australia very young. While his
brother Charles was building up the G. and
R. Wills Co., in Adelaide, H.C. was helping
along the south-eastern volcano town. He
had made enough to retire on by 18S5, and
since then had lived a quiet artistic country
life.
From H. H. Champion
News of the death of Kitty O’Shea, afterwards
Mrs. Charles Stewart Parnell, brings back to my
mind memories of my first and last interview with
the uncrowned King of Ireland. It was in the
early summer of 1888. I had left the Social
Democratic Federation, and was helping Iteir
Hardie in his candidature as an Independent Labor
man for Mid-Lanark. At this time I was well
known to Michael Davitt, and one morning I
received a brief letter, written in red ink and
signed by C. S. Parnell, saying he would be glad
if I would meet him in the lobby of the House of
Commons at 3 o’clock on the following day. It
was a matter of common knowledge that Parnell
at that time never spoke to any English politician
in public or private on any pretence whatever. I
sent a reply saying that I would come.
I knew Parnell as soon as he was piloted through
the crowd by the usher. He went across to the
policeman and asked him to show us a room in
which we could be alone. Parnell explained to
me exactly what the Parnellite party proposed to
do. I told him, just as plainly, what I thought
UNSOLICITED PRAISE.
CRITIC: “I say, who wrote the foreword to
your latest hook?"
AUTHOR (spreading himself) : “Young Gup-
pins. Like it?”
CRITIC: “ Splendid! Best-written thing in
the hook, old chap! ”
an Independent Labor party might do in Great
Britain. He was evidently much interested, but
declared that it was quite impossible for our policy
to be taken up by the English people. I assured
him that at any rate we were going to try. For
nearly an hour and a half we argued, and I car-
ried away the impression that amongst all the
politicians I had met —Randolph Churchill, Dun-
raven, John Morley. Gladstone, Joseph Chamberlain
—Parnell had no equal.
I went up to Mid-Lanark as Keir Hardie’::" secre-
tary. After a hard struggle we got 832 votes
against the 5000-odd polled by the Liberal; it was,
however, a good fight, and, in my opinion, “fired the
shot heard round the world,” Parnell was, of
course, ruined by the O’Shea affair. The lady was a
sister of Field-Marshal Evelyn Wood, though few
knew it.
Lord Robert Cecil has shifted to the Oppo-
sition in the British Commons, which doesn’t
really matter; but a certain languid interest
attaches to the fact that the official to whom
he notified his retirement from the Coalition
side was Lord Talbot de Malahide. To
judge from the crusading and armor-clank-
ing sound of his name the gentleman is pro-
bably a descendant of the good knight La
Cote Male Taille that Mark Twain’s Yankee
met at the Court of King Arthur. He owns
about 3600 acres in Ireland, which is a poor
job nowadays, but as a set-off he is heredi-
tary Lord Admiral of Malahide and the
Adjacent Seas, and has been so for 445
years. Malahides, Cecils, beefeaters, pur-
suivants, castles with seneschals in them,
barrows with the bones of Ancient Britons
in them and such like truck are not very
useful, and it is customary to ridicule them
because of the moss and lichens on them.
Still, they are picturesque in their way, and
an ancient abbey is as good as a new two-
up shop.
“Plas Dinas”: T. R. Ashworth, president
of the Vic. Employers’ Federation, was not
speaking by the book when he alleged that
Priminister Hughes was a “born spend-
thrift.” Hughes may have become one
since by the grace of Australia and of poli-
tics, but he wasn't born into that happy
state. His people belonged to one of the
thriftiest classes in the world, the small
Welsh peasant-farmer of the hill-country.
He can still remember the pinching and sav-
ing of those early days and of the turning
of everything to account by the tenant-
farmers, so different from the way of living
of even the poorer farmers of Australia,
with a decent climate and more room to
turn round in. Hughes’s later experiences
as a pupil-teacher in London didn't involve
reckless spending either. Maybe what has
happened since is merely the natural reac-
tion.
In his younger days, when he was a re-
hevjng-officer under the Audit Act, E. T.
Drake, who retired recently from the job of
Vic. {secretary for Public Works, made allow-
ances for the weaknesses of fellow-mortals.
Arriving in a country town he found the
local paymaster on a fortnight’s burst. He
wired to headquarters that the victim of
conviviality was ill. and that he (Drake)
was taking on his job for .10 days. There
was a lot of straightening-up for E.T.D. to
do, but the cash was all right, and although
the gentleman on the loose was jawed into
a condition of sobriety and repentance, head-
quarters heard nothing but the illness yarn.
« the easy-chair and the send-
olT the P. W. Department gave him last
week.
F. V. Fraser, recently appointed to M.L.
Arbitration Court Judgeship, has had a
meteoric jump in wigdom. In 1906 he was
admitted to the Supreme Court as a soli-
citor, and he became Auckland’s senior
magistrate on the death of C. C. Kettle His
next job was that of Assistant Public Ser-
vice Commissioner; and now he has gone
to the Arbitration Court. Fraser is a man
ability, but he will need the compressed
wisdom of a hundred Solomons to satisfy
both parties to the interminable M.L. indus-
trial wrangle.
•‘Max”: Re “Chota” (B. 20/l/’2.1) and
suggestive names. When a youth in a small
North Coast (N.S.W.) town, I noted the
following names and professions : Armstrong,
sergeant of police; Constable, a constable:
Cash, banker; Bushell, grain merchant;
Wine, hotel-keeper; Parsons, Meth. min-
lster; Priest, the local padre; Buggy, coach-
builder; Butcher, butcher; Trees, sawmill-
proprietor, and Gardiner, greengrocer. These
were all within a radiils of eight miles. A
little further out we had Swan who worked
the ferryboat.and whose son married a Miss.
Quail at Pelican Island. Partridge kept a
fish and game shop: Trotter held the mile-
record for running, and Long stood 6ft. sin.
in Ins socks. Outlaw was the most bene-
volent man in the locality; King the
humblest, and Savage the most pacific. There
was one Christian in the town, but he was
an atheist.
W. A. Watt has a block at Tresco (Vic.)
on wmch he is growing citrus fruit, and is
said to be one of the brain-cells of Austra-
lian Farms, Ltd., the company that set up
the irrigation plots at Tresco.
Veteran William Archer recently pulled
off a double—-he celebrated his 90th birth-
day and his jubilee as a resident of Bur-
wood (N.S.W.). He represented Burwood
in two Parliaments and was a local aider-
man for over 40 years. As a contractor
Archer built a section of the Great Western
line, Wallerawang to Rydal, and as a sports-
man he won a Tattersall’s Cup with Bur-
wood.
“Wealsman”:’ Though the late C. E.
Davies, of Hobart Mercury, put his name
to two or three books of travel (he tripped
to Japan and England some years ago and
last year attended the Imperial Press Con-
ference in Canada), he might easily have
written a really interesting volume in the
shape of an accurate biography of his illus-
trious dad, John Davies, founder of the
Mercury. That turbulent old pioneer loomed
large for several decades in Hobart Town.
Shrewd in business, pugnacious in disposi-
tion, and pushfully (not to say frantically)
energetic and enterprising in everything,
Jack Davies was in many respects a maker
of local history. According to his contem-
poraries he was “a goer,” and was always
either getting himself into hot water or fling-
ing some enemy into the water-trough. A
truthful Life of Jack Davies would throw
a more kindly and, therefore, more useful
light on the ways of Hobart than was pos-
sible when the strongest illuminant of the
village was whale-oil. and riotous red rum
and “fighting” brown “she-oak” flowed furi-
ously at ten-score rowdy pubs.
“Wessel”: Harold George Nelson, who
led the attack on Gilruth and the deporta-
tion of Carey, Bevan and Evans, is throw-
ing up the job of A.W.U. secretary in the
N.T. Arrangements have been made to
form one big union, taking in all union-
ists in the r Territory. Most of them are
in the A.M .U., hut a fair number belong
to the A.M.I.E.U. and a few to the rail-
MELBOURNE CITY-ENGINEER
MORTON.
waymen’s union. The A.M.I.E.U. men dis-
like Nelson, and rather than prejudice the
cause of closer union, the A.W.U. man is
standing down. He will go into the buffalo-
taming business with Scotty Gibson and
others who have started gathering in calves
at the Adelaide River and bringing them up
in the way they should go. Even his enemies
admit that Nelson has brains and backbone,
and is not at all a bad fellow.
An enthusiastic mountain-climber is S.
Turner, of Wellington (M.L.). The other
day he made the 26th tramp over Mount
Egmont, and was accompanied on the jour-
ney by two of his daughters. Turner’s
thirst for exercise will next be whetted on
the other side of the world, since he has
sent a request to be included in the party
which purposes climbing Mt. Everest.
“T. 0.1.”: George Alfred Lloyd, who passed
over recently, was born at 10 Bridge-street,
Sydney in November, 1843. His father, also
George Alfred, represented Newcastle for
12 years, and was Postmaster-General, Sec-
retary for Mines and Treasurer under Henry
Parkes. The son pioneered as a squatter
on the Castlereagh, but droughts drove him
from the land, and he joined the public ser-
vice, ending up as a police magistrate.
“T. 0.1.”: The first newspaper to be
printed on the South Coast (N.S.W.) was
the Illawarra Mercury, established by
John Garrett in Wollongong in 1855. The
proprietor represented Shoalhaven in the
third and fourth Parliaments, ’59-’GI, and was
appointed to a police magistracy when he
resigned. Associated with John Garrett was
his son Thomas, who succeeded his father in
the proprietorship. Tom was elected to the
Leg. Assembly for Monaro while his father
was still in the House. Later he sat for
Shoalhaven in the sth and 6th Parliaments
and for Camden in the 7th to the 14th. He
was several times Chairman of Committees
and Minister for Lands. His son, another
Tom, well known a generation ago in first-
class cricket, is now Public Trustee.
“Eddyson” : An old acquaintance of George
Higinbotham has been talking: George
Higinbotham, as everybody knows, was a
very charitable man, but he was very much
more charitable in a quiet w T ay in his comings
and goings than he was with his public sub-
scriptions. _ In fact he was so indiscriminate
in his giving that the present Charity
Organisation Society would have regarded
him as a public menace. On one occasion
he met an old fellow who had been a lawyer’s
clerk, and the old chap was literally down
and out. Higinbotham dipped into his pocket,
and fished out three sovereigns and two half-
crowns, _ and pressed them on the suppliant.
That night George arrived home late for
dinner. He had walked all the way. When
reproached for this, he explained: “I hadn’t
a fare left, and I couldn’t have asked that
poor old fellow for fourpence, could I?”
WHERE HONORS ARE DUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘As a tribute to the heroism of the Australian
troops, the King of Belgium has conferred upon the
Crime Minister the Grand Cordon of the Order of
the Crown of Belgium.”
When Jim and Jack went out to fight
They faced the horrors of the day,
And wading in the pit of night
Met death and anguish by the way,
Nor guessed their conduct would excuse
A splendid gift to Billy Hughes.
AV hen Jim tore from the Germans’ clutch
Some portion of the Belgian land,
He did not vaunt his courage much,
Nor did he wholly understand
That he was fighting to suffuse
With glory all the clan of Hughes.
Jack broke the face of Hans the Hun,
And drove him back beyond the Rhine,
And for the splendid things he’s done,
And for a courage deemed divine,
Of course the nations all will choose
Fair emblems for the neck of Hughes.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Come end Join Me
in a Perfect Smoke
A
\ \
X
V
-6
m
a?
Js
m
M
This Famous
Mixture is
NOW
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
IN
2oz.
AIRTIGHT
TINS
Three Strengths
MILD
MEDIUM
FULL
*23?
m
n
t*
9*
c
Y
THE
STANDARD
mn


A Mohair Suit by Peapes’
This No-Veste style has an individuality usually
lacking in a lounge suit. It is of durable Mohair —
a material ideal for the man who wants coolness and
service in his Summer Clothing.
So strong is its weave that this material will give
even more wear than many fabrics twice its weight.
In two shades —plain Dark Grey, and a handsome
Blue'-grey effect with faint close stripe. Coat has
three-button front, three outside patch pockets, no
lining or padding. Trousers: Side, hip and fob
pockets, and permanent turn-up bottoms, £4/4/-
Please state height, chest, waist, inside-leg measure-
ment and color desired.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
1
£
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. ta
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“124”: It happened in bucolic Camper-
down (Vic.). The case was one of alleged
perjury, and the jury was long in reaching
a finding. At last it returned to the court-
room—but only to put a question : “Would his
Honor be very hard on the prisoner if he were
found guilty?” Williams, J. (a humorist of
the dry order), smiled and assured the 12
that he would not be very hard. The jury
NOT ACCIDENTAL.
HE: “This floor is awfully slippery; it's
hard to keep on your feet.”
SHE: “Oh! Then you were really trying to
keep on my feet? I thought it was
purely accidental.”
was about to retire when an exile from Erin
adjured it in a loud whisper to “Shtick ut
out, byes!” While the interjector was being
fined 40s. for contempt, the jury ruminated
on S’Onah’s cryptic remark. Then it came
back —with a verdict of Not Guilty.
•X- * * *
“Wessel”: The three Japs who made a
two-months’ voyage from Singapore to
Thursday Island in an open boat, and after-
wards worked down the coast to Cairns,
were not the only prohibited immigrants
to reach Australia that way. Some years
ago two Malays came ashore on an island
near Thursday Island from an open boat.
They had had a rough time and were nearly
starved. Their story, which there was no
reason to doubt, was that they bad come in
the frail craft from the Aru Islands. M hen
they started they had a Chinaman with
them, but somehow they “lost” him when
ashore on the coast of Dutch New Guinea.
Possibly the natives of those parts, who are
said to like Chinese, had him for dinner.
From a suburban surgery:—
Epidemics of infantile paralysis always come dur-
ing the hot weather, and Sydney has had one since
mid-December, 67 cases having been reported up
to Eeb. 5. Every victim means a life spoilt. More
or less paralysis is left in an arm or a leg, and
modern medical treatment has no control over the
disease, drugs being entirely useless. The damage
is all done before the doctor sets eyes on the child.
A child may go to bed slightly feverish, and wake
up paralysed all over. Some of the paralysis will
clear up, but, as a rule, its lasting effects may be
seen any morning in Hunter or Macquarie streets
in the children who drag along painfully on a visit
to the doctor, with their legs encased in irons.
Formerly, embolism of the blood-vessels that
supply the ganglion cells was thought to be the
cause of this disease; but, lately, Professor Flexner,
Director of the Rockefeller Laboratories in New
York, has grown a globoid organism which is
admitted to be the culprit. The balance of evidence
favors the naso-pharynx, including the tonsils, as the
route by which the virus gains an entrance to the
system. Fortunately for the parents there is in
Sydney a well-equipped hospital for children, where
all the latest devices for the re-education of wasted
muscles are at the service of sufferers. At the onset
of the disease, postural treatment is relied upon,
and afterwards electricity and massage, especially
the latter. Later the services of an orthopasdie
surgeon acquainted with the methods of Robert
Jones may be called into requisition to transplant
a tendon or remedy a deformity. Not much benefit
arises from being acquainted with the organism
that causes the disease, unless it can be prevented
from entering the system. We haven’t arrived near
that stage yet, and until we do epidemics will
visit us regularly. The field of research in this and
similar affections is wide and attractive, and may
well engage the attention of our younger men, since
preventive medicine alone can hold out hopes of
elucidating and dealing effectively with the problem.
* * # •
“Smike”: Senator Guthrie, killed at the
corner of Collins and Swanston streets,
Melbourne, the other week, seems to have
been a victim of the Tramway Board’s re-
vived pastime of flagging a procession of
cars over the intersection during the busiest
hours of the day. Formerly the screech of
a whistle was a fair warning to pedestrians
, that two or three cars might be expected to
cross together, but the white flag, waved
from the signal-box, was
probably unseen by the
short-sighted Guthrie, or
was obscured by the passing
traffic, so lie got an unex-
pected tram in the back and
was dead in a couple of
hours. The practice of run-
ning over a line of trams
each way, usually with long
intervals between them, is
characteristic of the Board’s
handling of the traffic, but
it will probably require a
few more deaths to demon-
strate that the danger of
the habit is not reduced by
the obsolete disc signal at
the Town Hall corner. Few
people watch this signal for
the promise of a safe pass-
age over a nasty crossing,
but everybody noticed the
electric arrangement which,
hanging on wires over the
point of intersection in the
middle of the road, swung
the notice “Stop” in the
fact of all kinds of traffic
at the bidding of a button
on the lamp-post. This
silent device obviated the
necessity for the ancient
machinery of the Board’s
signal-box, usually occupied
by a severe minion to
operate the levers. But the
reliable and conspicuous “Stop” has since
disappeared and has probably been disquali-
fied on account of its youth. The Board, of
course, doesn’t care for novelties. Where-
ever possible it uses an old man with a flag,
to keep in harmony with the rest of the
system.
* # * *
“D.” : The Centennial Park (Sydney) tout
who admitted that he stole women’s bags, but
held that one who couldn’t follow this pro-
fession without resort to a revolver should
get out of it, disclosed that elementary sense
of morality whidh is common in higher social
circles than he frequents. Vronsky’s famous
code is applicable to a gentleman all over
Western Europe and in many other parts of
the world as well. It is permissible under
this set of rules to lie to a woman however
dear, but not to a man even though he is
an enemy. A gentleman may cheat an in-
digent tradesman but not a prosperous gam-
bler. He is expected to commit perjury in a
divorce suit where he is one of the accused
parties. He is not allowed to be a com-
plaisant husband however badly he has
treated his wife; but he has to forego bis
rights under the Gaming Act however badly .
the bookmakers have treated him. There are
thousands, if not millions, whose ethical
standards are no higher than this; and yet
they contrive to feel as righteous as any
archbishop, for there ate other millions
THE LITERARY GUIDE.
CHAPPIE: “Ah. I was goin' to tell you about a rather funny sort of — er — book, by some
johnny, about one thing and another —forget the name of it — but — er — p'raps
you've read it?”
whose standards are lower. “You’re a liar,
a forger, an embezzler and a card-sharper,”
said Brown in discharging his old emplovee,
Smith. “Yes,” agreed Smith, “but otherwise
I’m not such a bad sort.” That is the atti-
tude of the Centennial Park witness. He
may do a number of irregular things, but
anyhow give him credit for this: he doesn’t
shoot policemen. It is his punctilio—a poor
thing, perhaps, but his own, and a dashed
side better than many others possess.
* * # *
“Audio” : Sergeants in the French Army
were obeyed more quickly and implicitly
than colonels in ours, and there is no doubt
that discipline, while on any actual mili-
tary duty, is far more rigid with them. Off
duty, however, officers of all ranks were most
careful not to allow caste to enter into
social intercourse. In Paris, for example,
it was an understood thing that no salutes
were to be exchanged, and the Poilus used
to grin at some of our fellows tossing salutes
to foreign officers. Have frequently heard
officers of high rank request permission from
privates to occupy vacant places at restau-
rant tables. They called them “M’sieu,” too,
a mode of address not used on military duty.
Have seen a full general arm in arm with
a private in the streets and drinking beer
with him in a public bar. The only differ-
ence in uniform was the extra shabbiness of
the general’s and the gold leaves round his
cap. At a music-hall one night a Belgian
officer was blocking my view. I politely
requested him to move a little. Twirling
his Kaiser moustache he coldly informed me
he was an officer. This retort provoked such
ah outburst from the French spectators
round about that he was compelled to take
his dignity from the theatre.
The wisdom of “Eddyson” :—•
A hen with one chicken is a monument of icy
composure beside an old woman with a young
husband.
Thg married man who finds marriage a failure
seeks with the bachelor-tax to impose a vicarious
repentance.
He who marries one of seven sisters lives ever
after in a world of echoes.
Nature, who is said to abhor a vacuum, is respon-
sible for all these hollow hearts and empty heads.
Adam discovered how little a man amounts to
in a woman’s life when Eve got her first new hat.
“Sardonyx”: That revolver-shootist"
(“Bav.” B. 3/2/’2l) reminds me of a gun-
artist . who once sprang a surprise on me.
Briggs was a surveyor, superintending some
scrub-clearing works up National Park
(N.S.W.) way. I was spending a holiday in
camp with him, and incidentally I did some
shooting with a .38-Colt that I thought
wouldn’t be easy to beat. Briggs didn’t
seem impressed, and, as he was a bit of a
wowser. I thought that perhans he regarded
powder-burning as more or less ungodly.
But one day the camp was invaded by three
half-drunken roughs, savage of face and scur-
rilous of tongue. Scrubbers, they were; and
they had come to “deal with the blanky
little cow” over some supposed mis-measure-
ment of a block they had cleared. They
took it in turns to revile Briggs in multi-
colored language. He listened imperturbably
until they began to run down ;_ then he
walked calmly Hito the tent, and came out
pistol in hand, lwo of the invaders promptly
shut up, and looked like legging it, but the
third, a red-headed ruffian with a squint,
snorted scorn. “Got a bloomin’ squirt, ’ave
yeh ? Wot’s the blanky use, w’en yeh
couldn’t ’it a Weedin’ ’aystack with it?”
Still silent, Briggs levelled at a kerosene-tin
on a stump 30 yards away, and put three
rapid shots into it within a coffee-cup’s cir-
cumference. “Got one left for each of you,”
he said, cheerfully tapping the cylinder. The
enemy left unanimously.
* * * *
“Peter”: “S.S.’s” par. (B. 3/2/’2l), re-
garding the wicked female who dropped, her
grinders in a convulsion at Melbourne Royal,
reminds me of an equally thrilling episode
when I was a boy at school. Our master
was taking us through Darkest Africa or
some such shady place, and in the course of
his oration his top deck of ivory leapt out
of his mouth on to the slab of hearthstone
before the fire. A breathless class waited
for the expected smash, but the plate simply
rebounded, and, catching it on the bounce,
teacher restored it to its old address. There-
upon he went on talking calmly about some
animal or other which “in comparative in-
fancy loses its teeth.” At this we tittered,
but, without apparently noticing our joy, he
went on nonchalantly and dragged us back
to Darkest Africa again.
AT THE EURE CARNIVAL.
“I thought Ethel was certain to win the
beauty prize.”
“But, -my dear, she absolutely ruined her
chances. She went into the water.”
(Continued on page 18.)
A THIEF OF PRINCIPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A witness in the Centennial Park (Sydney) mur-
der case said that he had never used a revolver.
If a man couldn’t do six or nine months for snatch-
ing a woman’s bag without shooting someone, he
ought to get out of the profession.”— Police-court
report.
His not to scale that dizzy moral height
On which the super-wowsers smugly sit:
Yet in his humble way he sees the light,
And modestly essays to follow it.
No widow mourned the loss of her estate,
No orphan grew to manhood stony-broke
And blamed him for their miserable fate.
He never even worked a racecourse joke.
No worthless mine was ever hawked by him:
He scorned the methods of the business gun.
Forging he shunned —and yet, by some odd whim,
He’d snatch a woman’s bag with anyone.
The bag secured, he promptly ran away
But, as the Park policeman hove in view,
‘‘Retro Sathanas!” he would softly say,
As to the rear his trusty Colt he threw'.
A scoundrel? Granted. One whose methods crude
And paltry aims seem painfully perverse—
Yet this may be remarked with certitude:
We take our seats in church with dozens worse.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Plaza Tooth Paste
MISS
ADELE FORD,
a Plaza devotee,
specially sketched
by our artist.
9
8
m
N?
X
:
\
A
miiiMi
s,
1
%
J
A Better Tooth Paste Than You
Have Ever Used Before.
Good teeth deserve good care.
Bad teeth demand careful attention.
Only the best Dentifrice is “Good enough.”
Plaza Tooth Paste gives the best results.
Preserves the teeth and makes them white.
The gums become healthily pink.
There is no excuse for decay when the
teeth are Plaza cleaned.
A clean mouth means better digestion.
Better digestion means better health.
Plaza Tooth Paste has a refreshing flavor
and is made of the best ingredients
scientifically combined, so that there is no
better Tooth Paste made than the Plaza
de Luxe Preparation—Plaza Tooth Paste.
Nothing but the very best is “good enough” for your teeth. Plaza
Tooth Paste is par excellent. One tube of the dainty Plaza Tooth
Paste will convince you. It’s a quality product,
the best money can buy. You try it for yourself.
I never expect to use a better Tooth Paste than PLAZA: it is simply splen-
did. The way it whitens the teeth and refreshes the mouth is a revelation. 1
have never had a Tooth Paste that thoroughly satisfied me before, but 1 am
so pleased with PLAZA that I am writing to tell you about it. I intend to use
only the PLAZA toilet requisites in the future.
Yours truly (Sgd.), ADELE FORD,
Hillcrest Avenue, Gladesville.
“Plaza Tooth Paste cleans the teeth the best
of anything,” says Miss Myra Rudd.
I think PLAZA Tooth Paste is simply delightful, and I like it far better than
any other 1 have ever used. I fancy a Tooth Paste the most of any Dentifrice,
but not finding one that agreed with my teeth as well as the Powder, I have
been using a powder lately. I was recommended to try Plaza Tooth Paste,
and I think it so nice that I am writing to tell you that it cleans the teeth the
best of anything, and agrees with my gums, and leaves such a pleasant taste in
the mouth. 1 consider it simply perfection, and will always recommend it to my
friends. Sincerely yours (Sgd.), MYRA RUDD,
Torres, Queenscliffe Road, Manly.
You will experience a new satisfaction and
delight when you use Plaza Tooth Paste.
The container is a dainty collapsible tube, from which Plaza
Tooth Paste flows out in a triangular stream, which lies
flat on the toothbrush, and forms a creamy lather, which
penetrates every crevice of the teeth and hygienically
cleanses the entire mouth, rendering it fresh and wholesome.
The taste is delicately flavored and keeps the breath
fragrant for hours. Plaza-cleansed teeth gleam white with
no disfiguring film to deaden them. Plaza Tooth Paste,
price 1/6. Sold at all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
post free on receipt of the price by the Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., 131 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RESTORES the
/fATURAL BEAUTY
to the TEETH !
503
'J'J
L
m
Plaza
Tooth
Paste
tastes
good —
• • •
is good
• • •
—and
makes
your
mouth
feel
g'ood.
PL<qz<q
TOOTH P/ISTE,
DELIGHTFUL &
REFRESHING.
m
Price 1/6


THE
-f\°NA
K
. *
■
-3s«
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
ugAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up. ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
£4,028,000
Directors: —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Es?j., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
nflßrf* fiO Pitt St. Manager ;R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager :A. W. HEWETT.
SS st City Office, 350 George St. Manager: 3. A. G. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 7 Lothbury, E.C. 2.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - - -
WITHDRAWALS -
INTEREST - - -
Accepted from 1 /- upwards.
Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at 3j per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
“Hamer” : The thud-thud of swiftly mov
ing feet gave me warning as I was about tc
turn the corner, and I drew back to avoid a
collision. An agitated figure, his breath com-
ing in sobs, whirled past me and leaped on to
a car that was leaving the tram-stop ; and
almost at the same moment another shape
shot around the corner and fell upon me.
He released me at once and apologised pro-
fusely. Gazing furiously at the tram, now
fading in the distance, he explained the
situation. “That man’s wife,” he said
bitterly, “ran away from him and came to be
my housekeeper, and just now, when I got
home, I found him trying to make love to her.
The dirty cur!”
* * * *
On a recent Sunday afternoon at a Yic.
seaside resort a holiday crowd was loitering
on the pier, interested in the coming and
going of small excursion-boats, among the
rest the smart wife and very pretty daughter
of a metropolitan wool-magnate. One of
these, venturing too near the edge and over-
reaching in the effort to watch a porpoise,
fell into the sea. There was an instan-
taneous rush, and a gallant youth promptly
threw off his coat, kicked off his boots, and
went in. He secured the unfortunate lady
and took a look at her. “Oh, d —n it. I
thought it was the yoking one!” he splut-
tered in sheer disgust.
* * * *
“Runcle”: Some months ago I received
a pathetic letter from a recently-arrived
school-marm living some 20 miles from me.
She was young and pretty and unhappy, and
it grieved me to the soul to write her a
AT SILLY POINT.
“Whatever made Grace become engaged to
that cricketer chap?”
“Well, you see, she had heard him spoken
of as a good catch.”
curt refusal. I advised the poor thing to get
married at once. She left the district shortly
afterwards, and I found that my letter to
her had done great service. The enterpris-
ing damsel, who was evidently very popular,
had shown it in strict confidence to her
numerous swains, and over a dozen young
bloods were stung for fairly large sums.
As a matter of fact, the lady’s so-called
“condition” was imaginary. She gathered in
her harvest and quitted her job and the
district without even a word of thanks to
her innocent accomplice—the well-meaning
medico.
MERELY A PRELIMINARY.
“No bills in the mail this morning, dear; only a few catalogues.:
“Oh, they are just as bad; the catalogues are the thin edge of the wedge.”
“Yarra Ben”: The Ballarat electoral
registrar rashly entered into a correspon-
dence with a local lady on the subject of the
fair one’s neglect to enrol. Since receiving
the following, the official has worn a baffled
kind of look :
Dear Registrar,—l don’t know why you worry me
so with these awful matters when I am away on
holidays. I have filled the beautiful thing in twice
already and now refuse to fill up more. Can’t give
date of birth because I honestly don’t know my age.
I lost count of it years ago, so put in any age you
like.
Seems a case of ‘‘This correspondence is
now closed.”
* * * *
“Orwell”: Whether it was a gambling hell
or only an innocent boarding establishment
has nothing to do with the story. Anyhow
the police thought the premises were used
for games of chance, and raided
the place late one night. The
crowd in the drawing-room
promptly bolted for the bed-
rooms, leaving only a couple of
the more guileless-looking to
welcome his Majesty’s servants.
Snoops tore off his coat and
vest as he raced down the pass-
age, and then bounded into the
first bedroom he noticed. Push-
ing the door behind him he
dived into the bed. To his dis-
gust he felt a warm, soft body
which the sudden contact awak-
ened. With great presence of
mind Snoops plastered his open
hand over the screaming appa-
ratus and whispered hurriedly
into the mass of hair: “It’s all
right, Kid.” But the “kid” was
not reassured and promptly
fainted —and when the police
looked in a few minutes later they found
a couple whose sound slumber was a guar-
antee of married respectability.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: The mercenary habits of
the peasants about the Franco-Belgian fron-
tier puzzled the Diggers until, through
familiarity, they took them as a matter
of course. “These foreigners” as my friend
Shorty invariably called them, used to greet
us with enthusiasm wherever we went; yet
when their transports were over they would
go round the billets and note down the num-
ber of occupants (a rental of so much per
soldier was paid to the landowner), lock
the fowls in their barns, and even count the
potatoes. In 1918 the return of the Ist
Division from Amiens reassured the citizens
of Hondeghem, who had been meditating
flight, and their joy was almost frantic. By
and by a group of the delivered peasantry
came marching down the high road, and
their object became a matter of speculation.
“Oh, it’s easy,” said Shorty disgustedly.
“They’re coming down, to put their bill in
for the cheers.”
* i * *
“Billy T.” : Cross is an elderly Melbourne
bachelor, a man of means, a staid and de-
corous gentleman. Being in need of rest
and change, he discarded all the known
resorts, and made for the heart of the Gipps-
land bush and a farmhouse recommended by
a lady friend. The farmer’s wife was an
excellent cook, there was shooting in the
vicinity, a splendid bathing-pool was handy,
and a fine orchard was placed at the dis-
posal of the guest. Cross was entirely satis-
fied, but for the conduct of the second
daughter, Jess, who seemed determined on
taking complete possession of him. Both
daughters were of the wild and woolly type,
but if he had been given his choice Cross
would have preferred the ministrations of
Kate, the elder, who remained coldly aloof.
One day the guest commented on this. “Why
is your sister so standoffish, while you are
so attentive?” he asked. Jess was not reti-
cent. “When we heard you was a bachelor
we tossed for you,” said she. #
There is luck in all games. An Adelaide
man charged with snatching a roll of
flannel from a shop, pleaded guilty, with a
murmur against his persistent ill-fortune.
“Even if I stole an apple, as a kid,” he
grumbled, “I was sure to be caught.” He
accepted two months under protest, so _to
speak. The seemingly obvious idea of giving
the game best may now occur to him.^
“The Pip”:—
Cabled that the British Army is returning, amidst
the derision of .the press, to swords. But why not
to battle-axes or halberds, both of which are better
suited to modern methods of warfare? The sword
died, all over the Empire while the fighting was on.
Admittedly it died hard. In Australia, artillery
and infantry officers as well as cavalrymen were
being issued with the absurcities well into the middle
of 1916, though not one in a hundred could handle
a sword with safety to himself and though its use-
lessness, so far as the Western Front was concerned,
had long been established. In the English Training
Brigades sword drill was faithfully attended to as
late as the end of ’l7, though by this time there
was only about one sword available per battalion.
I remember a W.O.’s wedding in a fairly large
centre, in which a vigorous whip-round for swords
for the purpose of a bridal arch resulted in the pro-
duction of five —and then the C.O. chipped in with
the decision that the sacred weapons couldn’t be
employed at the nuptials of a mere n.c.o. At this
camp walking-sticks were used at sword-drill by all
but the instructor, who took his pupils aside one by
one and initiated them into the mystery of getting
the thing in and out of its scabbard. Australia’s
interest in the British revival is indirect, yet none
the less real. If the British Army goes in for
swords the local Permanent Forces and C.M.F. will
follow suit. The expense is great; they are rela-
tively useless for combative purposes as already
mentioned, and their manipulation in such a manner
as to evade bringing the uniform into contempt is
a matter of months if not years' of training. Far
cheaper, much more serviceable, considerably easier
to handle, and, take it all round, just as ornamental,
would be a nicely-polished dummy Mills bomb worn
with full-parade dress, or a trench dagger in neat
sheath attached to the mess kit.
* * * *
From a southern laboratory;—
Dr. Colin Mackenzie, whose work on the compara-
tive anatomy of the Australian animals —in particu-
lar, his discovery of three new ductless glands in the
platypus —made scientists in London sit up, has, sur-
prising as it may seem, aroused some interest among
Vic. State Ministers. He has been allowed the use
of 75 acres of land near Healesville, which will be
just the thing for running the animals that he wants
to study, especially the native bear, .the ’possum,
the echidna and the platypus. Not only has Dr.
Mackenzie, who is a good Australian of the third
generation, sacrificed brilliant prospects abroad and
opportunities for making big money at home to
devote himself to one of the greatest fields for
research still left open in the world, but he has been
doing this national work at his own expense. That
un-Australian institution, the Melbourne Uni., has no
use for this sort of thing, though one or two in-
dividual men like Prof. Osborne have shown apprecia-
tion of Mackenzie’s researches. Before he went to do
war work in the London hospitals the doctor, a
Melbourne graduate himself, had a lecturing post
at the Uni. When he came back it was filled, and it
wasn’t offered to him again.
* * * *
“E.R.11.”: “Mero’s” paragraph (B.
3/2/’2l) is worth explaining further. The
American University which furnishes people
so liberally with scientific details “of con-
siderable value from a practical point of
view” is organised—at least, most American
Universities are —greatly for that very pur-
pose. American courtesy makes it willing
to answer the inquiries even of foreigners.
The Australian Professor of Chemistry has
no office staff 1 , and no obligation to help the
outside world with “scientific details,” especi-
ally “from a practical point of view.” He
is mostly required to teach an unfairly large
number of students, in classes taken four or
five times, perhaps, for the same lecture,
because no class-room will hold all the
students of one grade at the same time. _ His
staff of assistants is small. His duty is to
know, and, if lie can, to increase whatever
is known of his particular branch without
reference, specially, to the “practical point
of view.” In America he would probably
have an equipment utterly beyond example
here, a staff many times greater than any
Australian University has ever known, and
clerical and other facilities (including scien-
tific workers specialising in “practical”
things) for helping outside students of
“practical” interest. California Univer-
sity, for example, in 191 G had some
680 professors and other teachers, with an
THE RULING PASSION.
SMITH (catching up to Brown): “Hulloa!
You look very happy. Has she accepted
you?"
BROWN: “Oh, bust her! I’ve just won five
bob on the tote!”
income of £700,000, of which nearly £400,000
was contributed by the State, and the number
of students was 6500. The biggest and best-
equipped Australian University is Sydney.
It has (say) 3500 students, less than 200
teachers, and not much more than one-tenth
of California’s income from the State. It
can only just keep going. Give it, or any
other Australian University, a Californian
staff and income and it will do for “Mero”
and all other good intellectual workers in
Australia as much as any American Univer-
sity could—except in lines for which the
State has made other provision.
THE BALLADE OF THE STUMPED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve sung of ladies dark and fair,
Of blue, and black, and hazel eyes;
Of golden, brOwn and raven hair;
Of maidens simple, maidens wise;
Of small, slim dames, and dames who rise
To manly heights: the thin and stout.
Now, Muse, what more can you devise —
What is there left to rhyme about?
I’ve rhymed of happy lovers where
The wind-blown, golden bl° S£om flies
I’ve told of fierce-eyed loves who share
A passion for some wild emprise;
I’ve sung of love that shrewdly lies
And love that lias no kind of doubt;
Of love that blights or sanctifies —
What is there left to rhyme about?
Too oft in writing here and there
A tender song did I devise
Of lovers in a rosy lair,
Where vengeance came in grimmest guise.
Of loves who weep and agonise,
Of loves who jubilantly shout
Their joyance to the smiling skies —
What is there left to rhyme about ?
Envoy.
Erato, give thy slave a prize—
New views of love a bard may spout:
Of love that lives or love that dies —
What is there left to rhyme about?
victoria.
EDDYSON.


ill 1
■*r* *
'
mSKaamssSmMSi
PP :...-vVS«
«§§ <^^p^p\pw^viwt^
!lli flllfl
it*
’*SW« <
cyfiUmj
>-«
M i
''% ■ ■’ -"L
;• * . ■ ‘
- - P *, xmmMMmfsm
■
■ 1
• * '!.!
. jsgf i
mh
V fv; :; '
•'■ •
; >’v r :H.-~ '«--.•*«>' ">
#&:•?••: -v
1 H
?Sg| Wv \u#!'V i v P,> p&
xd*^si
*:. *»■!
‘/* *r *'/3L *
i .';*- -jrsd
• . f .« * * *_'_t?!
HBBSBiaSi
*1 « fe 4CP^
■ HHMHi
SSI iHHMMf
siSil
:;ppp-:
’v
1111!!
, &Z
- . - ■
*&&&s£
'P<-< * ‘' f s§kjs»Hgiffl PP>p&:| '
'pP p'Pf''ppPP v tp'P|,P > s v ''■vp
V ' '
«% v
*m*s*». 11#®'? 11l s Hl' 1 1 P>p
; '
i * 1&- itm .A i
■
«f llls 1$
■
Bi
s:P ;jVv r
■| Mfi': V- *Vi£pl SI
H§
'•: \
i
■■■l
.
. .■
-
' • ■
■
: :
■ ; ■■:■■:;.■ ■■
m > *■ s \-p
- V?P*P~:
■.. p
MP
wISIw
I
f
Mari
-ia2Es£i-i-
BS
«», ** ****»% <** *pmkk & mmm «*s»
" ,^ "'" |||| "■ m| ■ ,|
n
Sydney Address:
26 King Street.
Melbourne Address:
455 Latrobe Street.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel tie Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOI, 3002. Apply Manager.
King George £
11
THETOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Mulga”: As to whether a brumby stal-
lion travels in front or behind a mob, it all de-
pends. My lord always heads iiis harem. Once
danger is scented he immediately rounds up the
mares and foals and drives them in front of him,
snorting and whistling as he sends them along.
If you push the mob hard the law of self-preserva-
tion asserts itself, and he will leave his wives and
family in the rear. Yet not always. A brumby
ENVY.
UNCLE: “Well, that’s what you call rational
dress, is it? I reckon if you go into
town like that you’ll be the only
rational woman about. All the others
will be as mad as hornets.”
stallion will always show preference for one or two
mares. While shooting brumbies on Wild Horse
Plains, Western Queensland, we came upon a stallion
and his mob, and the first shot brought down a
mare that the stallion had being paying particular
attention to. The brumbies made off, but in a
few minutes were seen returning, the stallion keep-
ing them together, apparently with the idea of
picking up the mare that was shot. Several more
dropped before he realised it would be better for
himself and his harem if he left.
“Givit”: “T. Weed” (B. 20/l/’2l) men-
tions a plant used by Papuan native women for pur-
poses of abortion. An ex-R.M.O. used to relate that
as magistrate of a group of islands on the Equatorial
Line he had occasion to lecture a white woman, who
had “gone native,” on the general undesirability of
half-caste children. He was informed that this
aspect had been well cared for. The native women
supplied a potion made from a purple flower, which,
he was assured, was 100 per cent, effective. Although
this flower grew on the island the exact locality
was only known to a few of the natives and
the secret was closely guarded. Apparently this is
the same plant mentioned by “T. Weed,” although in
this case the drug was purely a preventive.
'“Orwell” gives some gruesome particulars:
Among the natives on the Gulf of Carpentaria
cannibalism is frequent. It is attended by much
ceremony, which varies little among the tribes in
this region. Only the very old are spared the final
service at table. The principal host at this diner
macabre is the maternal cousin of the deceased. It
is he who wraps the body up in paper bark. It is
left thus all night. Then next morning a fire is
made in a hole in the ground, and on it stones are
heated. Every bit of the hair of the deceased is cut
off and burned. Paper bark is laid on the hot stones
and on it the body, covered with another layer of
paper-bark. Then the hole is filled up. This grue-
some cookery is done far away from the camp in
some solitary part of the bush. The proceedings
are kept secret from the ladies, though they know
perfectly what is being done and are in no wise
backward at the feast. The cousins of the dinner
prepare it, and when sufficiently cooked it is taken
from the oven, laid on new sheets of bark and
carved up by the hosts for the guests. Not all the
tribe, however, can join in the feast. The laws of
caste prohibit anyone from eating a person of his own
and certain other classes, though consanguinity alone
is no bar to appetite. The deceased is spared the
humiliation of being thrown to the dogs. His friends
and countrymen eat every bit of him, even the intes-
tines. In spite of all this Binghi is not really a
cannibal. Apparently he never goes in search of
human morsels for his larder, but when accident,
violence or a natural cause changes his friends into
meat he hates to waste good food.
“W. Blister” : “Tropic Bird’s” defence of
the eagle (B. 23/12/’2O) is a fine 'advertisement of
his ignorance of the bird and of its habits, and
will certainly not appeal to Western flock-owners,
who have learned by bitter experience that it is a
most destructive brute and a great curse to the
sheep industry. Apart from the slight service ren-
dered by its destruction of rabbits, the eagle has
nothing to recommend it. For the last two years
the Milparinka (N.S.W.) Pastures Protection Board
paid for the destruction of over 5000 eagles.
“Murkah” : The reason the poddied sheep-
pups of “Two Seas” (B. 20/l/’2l) turned out duffers
was more likely psychological than physiological.
What the pups really lacked was education —the
education contained in every action and even look
of the mother they didn’t have. There is no know-
ledge in milk. From “Two Seas’ ” account the
pups were petted and coddled —a bad thing. It is
extremely unlikely that in their impressionable
days of puppy-hood they ever saw a sheep. To
expect them, thus handicapped, to become champion
workers or even to look at sheep was asking for
a miracle. Environment is everything. Because
(a/ter weaning) he grew up with a litter of sheep-
pups a splendid fawn greyhound, whose breeding
could be traced a century back, became a really
good sheep-dog. So completely had environment
beaten heredity that a rabbit or hare could get up
under his nose without gettjng a second look from
him. If there was anything in the milk theory
what should be the consequence of rearing a grey-
hound on cow’s milk? I have known champions so
reared; but their training was right.
* * * •
“Ewa”: A recent B par. mentioned dad
shooting into a flock of butcher-birds. Have seen
a good deal of the Queensland bush and most of
N. S. Wales, but have yet to see more than two
butcher-birds together. Any more on my side?
* * * *
“1489”: Found him at Watson’s in Port-
land (Vic.) gazing into an empty pint and methodi-
cally fanning the recesses in his drapery for the
price of another. Bought him one, and he kindly
invited me down to his “faarm,” where he’d show me
what their district could produce and would produce
if they only had the shippin’ to get it away. He had
just finished digging his spuds, “an’ would you be-
lieve it?” said he, “me an’ the bhoy had to cut a
lot of thim wid the axe to get ’em into the bags.”
By this time he had his whiskers right in my face
and I was backed into the farthest corner of the bar.
“Lookit, young feller,” he said, “lasht year I grew
a crop uv melons on a quarter-acre plot, an’ what
did I harvest off ’em, think ye?” “Five tons,” I
hazarded, fearfully hoping I was high enough. “Not
a dam’ won sorr,” he yelled, banging his fist on the
counter. “Th’ flamin’ vines grew that fasht that they
wore out ivery blessed melon dhraggin’ ’em round
the paddicks.”
* * * *
“XXX”: Was “Bareoo” (B. 30/12/’2O)
recovering from his Christmas ordeal when he said
that Skuthorpe was the balance-rider and Waite the
kneepad king? In the last 20 years I’ve seen Waite
and Skuthorpe ride hundreds of times, in private and
public—the former always in a “poley” and Sku-
thorpe behind big pads. Waite’s riding was really an
acrobatic performance, his head now touching the
girth, now the crupper. In his exhibitions, Sku-
thorpe, behind his kneepads, sat immovable. His leg-
grip was terrific, as if he were welded on to his
saddle. I saw the public contest in Brisbane 14
years ago between three famous riders ; three mounts
each. Waite, using a “poley,” won. He and his
backers ridiculed Skuthorpe’s so formidably-padded
saddle, referring to it as “the elephant’s howdah.”
“H. 8.” : A follower of Ikey Walton, who
usually gets the dinkum oil of what bait to use by
examining the contents of the fish’s tummy, recently
got knocked horizontal when, on holding a post-
mortem on a 4Rb. perch he had hooked out of the
Latrobe River (Vic.), he discovered a young black
duck, measuring 91 in. in length, in the fish’s innards,
together with three large yabbies. The duck was fully
feathered, and had apparently been snapped when
feeding with its head under water.
NUT WANTED ON THE JOURNEY.
SALVATION ORATOR: “Our late dear brother Roberts wasn’t ashamed of the old Army.
Listen to his dying words: ‘ Bury me in me old red guernsey?"
EXPLOSIVE DRUMMER: “’Allylooyer! ’E won’t want no guernsey where ’e’s gone to.”
“Six-and-Eight” : Notwithstanding “Mont-
alex” to the contrary (B. 27/l-/’2T), it is correct to
call the Accmtliophis antarctica the death-adder.
My authority? Lucas and Le Souef’s standard work
“The Animals of Australia.”
* * * *
“FY7”: “Guide Post” on sandflies and
marsupials (B. 20/l/’2l) recalls that in S.W. Queens-
land in the spring and early summer of ’9l, sandflies,
always bad after a wet season, practically took
possession of the country. Horses and cattle suffered
terribly, the former standing all day long in the smoke
of fires specially built for them in the horse-paddock.
To these “smokes” flocked the station milking-cows
and even kangaroos and wallabies in broad daylight.
Cattle in the outside paddocks had to take their
chance, though the thick belts of pine and. belar scrub
gave them some protection. Kangaroos, wallabies
and cattle alike were blinded and hundreds of the
marsupials died miserably. Humans could not ride
abroad unless heavily veiled and gloved, and the
horses had to be veiled too. We tried kerosene and
grease painting for the neddies, which gave Some
relief. A week’s hot, dry weather banished the pest.
* \ * * *
“Coringa”: “676” (B. 6/l/’2l) asks why
ticks fasten to one particular horse in a mob. The
answer is in his own par.—the condition of the
nag. Though all horses pick up plenty of ticks, it
is only a run-down, amasmic prad on which they
fasten and develop. The same with cattle. Fats
are always more or less clean, while the dairyman’s
lean milkers fill out as many ticks as we do pro-
fiteers. Munro Hull, of Q., for years ran a herd
of cows which he claimed, by his system of breed-
ing and selection, were naturally tick-free, having
acquired the habit of secreting a toxin inimical to
the tick. Then a drought came along, and his tick-
free cows became lean and weak. They soon had
many uninvited tick guests on the free list: and the
owner had to resort to spraying. On the return of
good feed the cows again showed they could make
home so unpleasant that the ticks merely surveyed the
premises from the end of a hair and looked up other
lodgings. I’ve had exactly the same experience with-
horses.
* * * *
“Eki”: Abos. are hereby warned to give
“Gaba Tepe’s” snake (B. 16/12/’2O) a wide berth.
The poison gets in its deadly work
in record time, and anyone bitten
wants to say his prayers in a hurry.
While I was splitting a log on
Bimerah station, one of these crafty
crawlers made a dive at me, missed,
bit the axe-handle close to the head
of the axe, and made off. I got him
with a six-foot stick and on my re-
turn to the log I noticed the axe-
handle had swelled to alarming pro-
portions, and, despite my efforts,
burst the eye of the axe within 10 minutes.
“Cudgewa”: Recent pars, re plugs of dyna-
mite bringing sacks of fish to the surface have
seriously strained my credibility. I’m a stranger to
dynamite, but I’ve tried blasting-powder, and a fair
heap of it at that. A small lagoon, 40ft. across and
15ft. deep, was teeming with cod and perch before
the event —and after. We made a bomb of 2in. iron
piping, 4ft. long, plugged and tamped it correctly,
lit the fuse and heaved her in. We had the spring-
cart handy, and five of us were stripped ready to haul
out the fish. The explosion shook the earth for yards
around and heaved up a column of water 4ft. across
and about sft. high. Dead leaves, sticks, weeds,
sectarian questions, politicians’ promises and other
kinds of mud came to the surface in cartloads, but
divil a sign of a fish! And I’m darned if I can be-
deve a plug of dynamite would do more than our
seven pounds of blasting-powder.
“Adelaide Street”: I don’t think “Mur-
kah’s” argument (B. IS/1/’2l) answers “Paul C.’s”
poser as to why lightning dug a hole in the ground.
I agree that lightning possesses energy only while
there is a difference in potential between the two
points of discharge, but in the latter part of his
argument “Murkah” assumes that there is' too much
of this energy. I think it is the “Romance of
Electricity’’ that states the energy of the biggest
lightning-flash to be insufficient to decompose even
one gramme of water. Therefore, it is impossible
that the ground was split by steam pressure. I
should imagine that the ground was pretty dry,
almost to the extent of being an insulator, and
that the difference in potential between the wet
earth underground and the other end of the flash
was so great as to break down the insulation and
consequently tear up the ground. But it’s an in-
teresting phenomenon, and I hope someone can give
a more satisfactory explanation than this.
“Ack-Jay-Don”; , Our black cat, after
being missed for two days, was found dead under the
house. A 2ft. brown shake, with its head almost
chewed off, was coiled round pussy’s neck. It had
certainly been a fight to a finish ; but the cat would
no doubt have won had the scrap taken place in
the open instead of under the house, where space
was limited.
“Boomerang”: ’Roo hams are delicious.
Treat ’em this way: Into a medium-sized cask put
31b. coarse salt, six tablespoonsful treacle, 10oz.
brown sugar, Joz. saltpetre and loz. carbonate soda,
mixed with enough water to make a strong brine.
This quantity will cure about a dozen hams. Let
them soak for about a week, then take out and
hang up to dry in a fly-proof place. Eat when
hungry, though time greatly improves ’em.
DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES.
“That’s young Sharpspur's wife —a good
little mother.”
“Not at all! That clutch was incubator-
hatched!”
(Continued, on page 22.)
OLD TRACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m sick of city slum and lane,
Their squalor makes me sore;
I’d like to be the man I was,
And roam the tracks once more—
Take wings to somewhere west away
And tramp the tracks once more.
They take no heed of where they go,
They wander where they please,
With here a root, and there a rut —
The tracks among the trees.
And if so be a man desire
To rest him by the way,
To sit awhile and smoke awhile,
There’s none to say him nay.
I’m sick of city shops and marts,
And pavements, hard and cold;
I’d like to be the man I was
And tread the tracks of old—
Take wings to somewhere west-away
And tramp the tracks of old.
Cold winds may blow adown their leagues,
Cold greeting ’tis that chills;
Warm hands, warm hearts, one finds upon
The tracks among the hills;
And if so be a man desire
To loiter by the way,
And spin a yarn and eat a bite,
There’s none will say him nay.
I’m sick of meeting city folk,
With liurthened eyes and backs;
I’d like to be the man I was
And roam the old-time tracks —
Take wings to somewhere west-away,
And tramp the old-time tracks.
About them scrub and saltbush grow,
Upon them silence reigns,
But one may travel free of foot
The tracks across the plains;
And, if so be at end of day
His thews and muscles tire,
Good rest, good warmth, good dreams he’ll find
Beside his red camp-fire.
N.S.W.
THE PLODDER.


m
JUST THINK OF IT!
95 % of Car Manufacturers have adopted the t$J2WQ?ib
Speedometer as Standard Equipment!
88 % of Motor Cars are equipped with the Patented
Vacuum System!
Six million motorists agree that every Product is a
necessity for the successful operation of the Car!
This Universal Preference is the Surest Sign of^gZ^^Sttpcriority.
Car manufacturers and car owners know that a product must be a “thoroughbred” to bear
the Stewart mark of excellence. Fourteen years’ experience in the manufacture of Car
Accessories by the largest accessory factory in the world, stands behind Stewart Necessities
and says they are RIGHT!
If your car is not fitted with a Speedometer, Searchlight, Warn-
ing Signal or Vacuum Tank, sooner or later you will want them.
When making your purchase, profit by the experience of six
million motorists —make it a
Stewart Necessities are obtainable from all leading Accessory Dealers throughout Australia.
Your Garage or Accessory Dealer can secure supplies promptly from any
Wholesale Distributor, including the following Inter-State Distributors: —
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche
Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie
Street* Adelaide; Martin Wilson Bros., Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
Arthur Christian, Hay Street, Perth.
nm
n
m
-
~
without a Player Piano, and
the “BEHNING” is the most
artistic of them all.
With a Behning Player Piano in your home you are not compelled to
sit and listen to others playing because you have not had the time to
study the technique of the piano. \
YOU PLAY IT YOURSELF
and produce most pleasing music, sweeter to you than any other,
because it is YOUR MUSIC—you interpret any musical composition
exactly as you wish it rendered.
YOU CAN EXCHANGE YOUR PRESENT PIANO
We will allow you its full value, and the balance can be spread over a period of
years that will allow for its purchase by moderate monthly payments.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR
CATALOGUES AND
FULL PARTICULARS.
BRANCHES;
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE,
TOOWOOMBA,
ROCKHAMPTON
and
LISMORE.
*
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


How do you feel after the day’s work?
Do you feel ready to put in half an hour or so in the garden, or
some similar physical recreation? Do you feel like enjoying the
appetising meal awaiting you? If not you need a tonic, a nourish-
ing invigorator, such as CLEMENTS TONIC. Try it. You will
find that —
CLEMENTS TONIC “Puts the ‘Vital’ into Vitality.”
“Phil Harum”: Jacky Brooks, the black
tracker who was imported from Queensland to assist
in the hunt for Jimmy and Jacky Governor after
the Breelong murders, is still going strong. He
reached Parkes a few days ago as a member of a
droving team that had overlanded a big mob of
cattle from Pearl Creek, in the Roma district (Q.).
Though nearly 60 years old, Jacky shows small trace
of the “flour-bag” about his head.
A SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
DOCTOR : “A nd probably at times, madam,
you've also seen a little rash?"
PATIENT ( severely ): “Doctor!"
DOCTOR : “I say — you've probably seen a
little rash, madam?"
PATIENT: “Oh, I beg your pardon, doctor!
1 thought you said ‘been.'"
“Gagi”: Of all abo. boomerang-throwers
I’ve seen only two who could explain why it came back.
One assured me that it was mutual affection: “Plurry
burra howl whuzza-whuzza want ’um come back
’longa Jackv!” The other’s effort seemed to me
more likely: “All same dingo—come back ’cause
’um plurry well don’ wanna stop ’way!”
“Some Fish” : Can any Abo.-liar tell me
what kind of fish this is? Eel species, blunt head,
mouth set lengthways under head, eyes set deep and
about one inch from tip of head, two rows of teeth
all round the mouth, two large teeth in top
jaw, two large and two smaller teeth in lower
jaw, seven holes along each side in place of gills,
blue along back and silver underneath, no fins on
sides, two on back, one small one about six inches
from tip of tail, the other starting from about three
inches up the back and tapering to the tail. He was
caught about two miles from Loch (Vie.).
“Nomad”: I can easily bear out “Woolly”
(B. 25/11/’2O) in his statement that he has wool
2ft. long without a break. In the case of sheep
being much fed and suffering no privations no
break in the wool ensues. A good many years ago
a friend showed me a sample wrapped up in the
full length of an Australasian, and it protruded
at least an inch at each end. My friend was wool-
classing at a shed at the foot of the Grampians
(Vic.), and the sheep had ample feed and water
and any quantity of good she-oak. He said that
in the distance they looked exactly like a mob
of emus, quite bare on the points and no wool on
the necks—rubbed off in wrestling with scrub and
she-oak.
* » * *
“Boomerang”: Nowadays Menindie makes
me sad. In the roaring days, when it was known
as “Old Menindie, on the Darling,” it was a flouiish-
ing township teeming with
rowdy drovers and teamsters;
now we see only a few old-
age pensioners and abos. and
stray dogs prowling about the
dilapidated streets. The whole
township is comprised of little
onc-roomed huts, harboring
the veterans of the gold-
rush days. It costs them j
very little to live, as they
get free fish from the river, ,
and the fruit-trees and little
vegetable are prolific.
“Old Menindie” harbors many
interesting relics of the
pioneering days. It was from
there that the doomed Burke
and Wills expedition set out
on their venturesome tramp to
the Gulf. Their camel-driver
died there, and on the out-
skirts of the town may be seen
his small plot. In the pen-
sive eyes of the old Darling
Whalers one still sees the
hope of “Old Menindie” once
again becoming a buzzing hive
of business and success; recognised as the natural
centre of the West and a popular waterside pleasure
resort for the Barrier. But I’m afraid those dim
eyes will never sparkle over such a scene.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Three “boys” turned up at the^
store at Mederi plantation up the Fly River the other -
day and started in buying calico, tobacco and other
trade. They had been away for some months, work-
ing on one of the bSche-de-mer boats in the Strait,
and were on their way back to their village further up
the river. When it came to settling up for their
purchases they presented three strips of a colored
map. They explained that those were portion of the
“notes” they had received as their wages, and were
out for all sorts of trouble when they found they’d
been done. At the same store another “boy,” a
Parama Islander, went in and got a sixpenny stick
of tobacco, planked down a coin and turned to leave,
when the storekeeper called him back. The coin was
a half-sovereign, which he explained he had had a long
time, not liking to pass it before, as it was “all same
sick sixpence.”
“6T6”: At present on the Barclay
Tablelands (N.T.) there are millions of small black-
and-white birds, like a peewit in color but rather
smaller in size. They travel in large flocks, making
a whirring noise like flock pigeons, and feed on the
open downs. Can any Abo. explain? The hoariest
inhabitant cannot remember a similar invasion.
“Jim Carew” : If native birds -or animals
show signs of becoming extinct they are promptly
protected, and it should be the same with the native
bee. At present the unthinking rob nests whenever
they find them, and few know that if a nest is robbed
later than January the bees have very little chance
of gathering adequate food for the winter. Have
known cases where people have left the nest until
M.arch or April before robbing it. They say they get
more honey then. They do; but they condemn the
bees to the worst of all deaths —starvation.
* * * *
“Alex”: In answer to “J.J.D.” (B.
30/12/’2O) re birds drinking without raising the
head; a newsvendor in Alexandria owns a galah
that empties a saucer of tea every morning without
once raising its head.
* * * *
“Itellu”: Can anyone tell me the correct
number of settlers that arrived with Captain Phillip
in Sydney Cove? The last numbers I saw quoted
were 564 male and 192 female convicts, 178 marines
and 40 women—but I have seen scores of other
accounts.
•* * * *
“Yaeko”: “Tropic Bird’s” experience (B.
23/12/’2O) re the wedge-tailed eagle must be very
small. This bird will come for a lamb regularly night
and morning. Unless very hungry the liver is his
special titbit. I have lost as many as 50 per cent,
of rny lambs in one season through him.
“ J.G.” : How many clouts with the broad-
axe are necessary to square a sleeper for a sft. 3in.
railway line? I know a bloke who can go. along the
four sides of a sleeper billet and square it with 21
cuts. The sleeper-cutter with the truest eye that
I knew of was the late Harry Moxon, of Kamarooka
(Vic.). He never bothered to run a string line along
a billet; would merely look along the stick, then
mark out the line with the broadaxe as fast as he
could walk along, and if you were to run a string
along his cuts you’d find his line dead true.
“XXX”: Because foxes kill a., few rab-
bits many pastoralistS make a lame apology for
protecting them. As rabbiters they'’re not in the
Bame paddock as the gfohanna, who crawls down the
burrows and gorges on the babies. Have often
admired Reynard’s unerring puecision in digging
down 3ft. straight on to the nursery of rabbit
kittens in a two-acre warren. A super-sense of
hearing enables him to ; detect their infantile cries.
He favors a varied diet —frogs, snakes, turtles, mus-
sels, small animals are all welcome. He’s sudden on
’possums, and will exterminate ground-nesting birds.
I’ve found a mother-swans dead on the nest and all
TAKING NO CHANGES.
JIMMY: “Did yer 'ear the boss teas thinkin'
of bayin' one of them there hairyplanes,
Bill?"
BRUMRY BILL ( between bucks): “Well, ’e
kin darn' well break the blanky thing
in 'imself —yer don't kid me bumpin'
about the air, 'n' liable ter git chucked
any minit!”
eggs eaten. It meant a 100yds. swim .for the killer.
Once saw foxy stalk a plain turkey—-infinite, cun-
ning and patient restraint, then a flash-like spring,
a snap and the bird was guillotined. Sheepmen don’t
care to admit how many lambs foxes kill. A dainty
feeder will eat only the tongues. I’ve seen him
when surfeited gambolling among the lambs, appa-
rently a cobber—a deed no dingo was ever guilty
of, for that ferocious murderer rips and mangles
for the sheer lust of killing. The late drought
putting foxes on siege-tucker, they killed weak
grown sheep and they’ll yet extend that tongue
fancy to strong sheep and equal the dingo for de-
structiveness. Such powerful, heavily-armed jaws
could make short work of the strongest jumbuck.
“Batlow”: The opinion expressed by
“Pick’s” expert (B. 6/l/’2l) —that when superior
orange-pips prbduce lemon-trees it is probably be-
cause the orange-tree was grafted on to a lemon —
is rather wide of the mark. The fact is, plants
have male and female organs —generally in one
flower, sometimes in different flowers on the same
plant, and sometimes. the male organs are on one
plant and the female on another. The pollen pro-
duced by the male organ coming in contact (car-
ried by wind, insects, etc.) with the female organ
fertilises that organ, and it sets seed. The seed
of a good quality orange, the flower of which seed
was fertilised by the pollen from a lemon flower,
would as often as not produce a lemon-tree. Orchard-
ists who know their business don’t rely on seedling
trees.
-Ino”: “Jim Carew” (B. 20/l/’2l) gives
some more superstitions. Some, probably, are just
that, but there is some truth in others. Know a
man who was fishing on a bright moonlight night,
and he watched his float in the moon’s reflection
for hours. All at once he became totally blind, and
his brother led him home. When he was in the
lamplight he could see as usual. And for about
three years he could not Bee at all in very bright
moonlight, and not very well in any moonlight. A
chum of mine and I each shot a hare about the same
time in the day. We skinned them, and I hung
mine where the full moon shone on it all night,
while he hung his out in the open, too, but where
the moon could not shine on it at all. We were
at a Iqss to account for his being all right for
cooking next day, and mine tainted. Later, a friend
told me he had had a sheep tainted in places that
had hung all night in the moonlight.
“Sarky”: Re “Gregor’s” par. on the
Huns’ hoard at Rabaul. A shipmate of mine on a
transport had been driving a motor-launch up there
for Burns-Philp, and looked forward to spending
the hidden hoard when the war was over. He
claimed that he and another chap were the only two
in the know, and his cobber had caught malaria and
passed out. Incidentally, he himself shut his knife
in a Liverpool (Blighty) hospital, and is now in a
place allegedly paved with gold, and with no means
of spending Fritz’s hoard, even if he had it.
* * * *
“Delhi”: As a case of a buskman suffer-
ing I consider this second to none. A man was found
sick in his camp near Mudgee (N.S.W.) and when
taken to the hospital was found to be blind, having
been too weak to keep the flies away from his eyes.
* * * *
“Iggery” : Anybody heard of a rooster sit-
ting on eggs? I know of one doing his best to
hatch a family. A hen was sitting and the old boy
strolled along, pushed her off and took full command
and thereafter used bad language to anyone coming
near him. As he gets off his nest about 19 times
a day to stretch his legs and stays off long enough
to allow the eggs to get cold, they have been re-
placed by china ones. He has been sticking at the
job, off and on, for over a month now, and there’s
still a gleam of hope in his eye.
* * * *
“Kero”: In reply to “Bouragi” (B.
13/1/’2l) re cure for tick-bite. Get a cup of warm,
or cold, water and dissolve as much ordinary salt
as the water will take. Pour the mixture down the
dog’s throat. If he does not vomit in a quarter of
an hour, repeat the dose. With this I have cured
both pups and old dogs that have been down and
tout for 24 hours.
; •K- * * *
Dr, Creed: Re “Bill R.’s” comments on
the tiger-cat (B. 2/12/’2O). This animal was more
plentiful at the Quarantine Ground, North Head
(N.S.W.), than any other place I knew about 25
to 30 years ago. J. F. Vincent, the superintendent,
told me how frequently the cats were trapped there,
and I asked him to get me some for the museum.
Two were soon taken, but by some accident the
cage got under water and they were both drowned.
Have they been extirpated at the Head since then?
* * * *
“B.” : Examining a snake I killed in the
stable the other day, I found him to be covered
with ticks, dozen of ’em, and some had buried right
under the scales. As they were spread along his
back he could easily have pulled them out except
those near his head. Any Abo. got an explanation
of why he didn’t?
* * * *
“Itellu”: Surely the Briton is acquisitive.
Anyhow this is how it works out in Australia:
When Cook happened along in 1770, he gaily took
possession of all that he saw. John Macarthur also
grabbed as much land as he could get. As be-
fitting big aspirations acquired in Britain, our great
and only W. C. Wentworth purchased the North
Island of New Zealand and 200,000 acres in the
South Island. When Sir Thomas Mitchell sailed down
the Murray he was surprised to find that the Henty
Bros, had annexed Portland Bay. Batman attempted
to follow suit at Port Phillip, and Fawkner quietly
seized on the foundations of Melbourne. When Went-
worth’s claim was disallowed in N.Z. E. G. Wake-
field took a turn. For £ 900'0’s worth- of axes,
trousers and Jew-’s harps, his company bought nearly
half the North Island. There was some short circuit,
however, in the conveyance. When Queensland
opened up in 1859 there was a lively rush of am-
bitious squatters. Edward Cunningham and party
were first on the Burdekin. James Gibson was
earliest on the Flinders. Buchanan and Rankin liked
magnificent distances and steered out for the Georgina.
A syndicate headed by John Robertson, Charles
WOMAN'S WORK.
“And how is your husband keeping?"
“'E ain't keeping; 'e's on strike, and I'm
doing the keening."
Cowper and R. Towns sent out J. G. Macdonald
to take up Floraville and all the country Burke and
Wills had left. This was practically the opening of
the Gulf. A good-sized principality in the Northern
Territory is to be opened up shortly; so that in a
few months I may be able to add to this honor board.
THE TEAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For years an’ years I’ve drove a team outback,
Along a lonely Never Never track,
Where scarce a voice is heard upon the road,
But kooka’s or the groanin’ of th’ load.
Yet through the miles of silent bush I find
A lot of things to occupy my mind,
An’ one, though strange to you blokes it may seem,
Is studyin’ diff’rent tempers in my team.
There’s Star, too proud to stretch his saggin’ chains—
He’s boss of all the mob, an’ shows his brains
By keepin’ fresh an’ never workin’ hard.
At night he boots his mates all round the yard!
Old Roney plugs right through the longest trip.
With head held low an’ hangin’, twitchin’ lip
He looks as if engaged in silent prayer,
An’ sometimes makes me feel ashamed to swear.
Some does their bit, some scarcely strains their hames
Unless yer mentions all their Christian names;
Some takes a gentle hint, while others jibs
Until yer plays a tattoo on their ribs.
The rips that scraps an’ tears at startin’ out
Soon tire, an’ then it’s t’other way about- —
They pole an’ shy, an’ tangle up their gear
In tryin’ ter bite the other fellow’s ear.
But on the straight for home yer has a treat—
With leaders pullin’ shatters off their feet.
The whole mob grows new ears an’ manes an’ tails,
An’ scarcely gives yer time ter slip the rails.
At tucker-time just watch them show their greed,
An’ crowd an’ kick to grab each other’s feed.
Old Star shoves in to taste what each has got,
Then bullies round an’ tries to scoff the lot!
They never says “Excuse me” when they steals,
Or smooges while they lands one with their heels.
Hypocrisy is not among their sins—•
They shows their soul's right through their leather
skins.
Each horse reminds me of some man I’ve met,
A squatter, swaggie, publican or vet;
An’ though there’s times they make me fairly mad,
Compared with human bein’s —they’re not bad.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


1
fTES.
mm
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
\
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
Under New Tariff, ~-fl
■f
Vv,.
P
c
s o/
S'
o
'V
<s>
o_v
o?
o.<S>
ACCO
O
0.,
.1
ff
anu/Ud
ers
0
c>
Cl
»
mn


VJ.VIV9
ivwoiao
mn
BRITISH
BELTING
Operating in a cloud of dust, and subjected to the most
severe conditions —a belt has to be a least 85 per cent,
efficient to stand up to the hard service demanded of it by
a Pan Drive in a brick-works. Our Illustration shows two
Balata Belts now operating on Pan Drives.
Dick’s Original Balata Belting has been everywhere singled out
for service in brick-works on account of its ability to operate
successfully over a long
period under the worst con-
ditions of dust and heat. It
gives the longest service and
transmits the greatest degree
of power at the lowest pos-
sible cost.
Dick’s Original Balata Belt-
ing saves many times its
cost, while increasing pro-
duction fi'om the most ab-
normal and troublesome
drives. It is a trouble-
saver, especially in plants
where chemical fumes are
prevalent, or where the
conditions due to splashing
waters, acids, dust and gases
make the use of other belts
impractical and their cost
and maintenance excessive.
Write for Free Copy of our
Instructive Balata Belting
Book.
'//////
<■
... rt
7777
E
v -vmw —7
wmim
f «F WMF% ■
■/' ///////' ic// m.
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD.
SYDNEY,
Cnr. York &
Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co-,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
of a
At Last—
We can announce the arrival
shipment of
PEERLESS
Electric Fans
These fans are urgently demanded because their
construction is so strong and their mechanism so
simple that they practically cannot get out of order.
Perfection of material, workmanship and finish makes
them the logical choice of anyone needing a fan.
PEERLESS
Electric Fans
bring delightful cool breezes wherever needed. They
ensure a continuous play of fresh, clean air that
induces health, comfort and efficiency in your home
or place of business.
Stocks are limited. We therefore advise an early
placement of orders.
Daily demonstrations in our showrooms. Full par-
ticulars and prices on request.
WG WATSON tC°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney
Telephones: City 9967-8-9.
Hi ■
hugh.vm c kay
i'v. 1 :
mi
■si
i
m
mj*
ml
mi
mm
mm
m
U
■ m
M
'wJtfrmA
:
£m
■ •/; ••
Ttf-a;;:*,#
S 3
m
WE WELCOME THE ADVENT of AN AUSTRALIAN-MADE REAPER & BINDER.
Many of them worked successfully during the harvest just past, and a huge plant
is now being installed at Sunshine for the mass production of these machines.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE,
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.


TKe
Purest
■
Fife’s schnapp 6
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
1
COLDS
3
LUNG
7ROUBUJ
CROUP
COUCHS
'T-i>
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
0
0
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
of the last even only partly irrelevant word.
His first prose book, Earthwork out of Tus-
cany, is a Botticelli picture, certainly:
dainty, full of cunning and harmonious semi-
tones, an apt and delicate work of art. But
the Hew-lett prose began three years after
that publication, The Forest Lovers being
its first and still best example. Here is no
mosaic detail, but a large and telling vigor.
A prose-poet wrote the book. It was the
first proof in my reading of what could be
done by concentration—of how enormously
much could be safely left to the-reader. It
is 10 years since I last read it, but the forest
scenes in Norman England are as clear and
bright ir* my memory as if they were written
on this taper, and half of each scene was
written on no paper—the half which Hew-
lett did sot down built up the whole so
sharply that it lasts 10 years in a journalist’s
crowded memory. Prosper Le Gai, lean and
calm, looks at me coldly from his horse;
Iseult fife Desirous bides her burning eyes
from me. in. the bracken ; their enemies fade
into their just oblivion of death; and the
thick trees of forest-England rustle and
whisper in my ears. I can walk the red
roads of the island’s beginning, feel the rain
on my face in the castle’s shadow, break
bread in the monastery-porch whose paving-
stones I can count after 10 years. The book
typifies for my imagination the power of
poetic suggestion at its highest.
The effect is achieved in great measure by
the subordination of a rough strength in the
sentences to a most delicate choice of words.
All the matter is written at dramatic ten-
sion, either imminent or present, with an
impression of great potential speed held
waiting. When the curtain is at hand and
the . speed released, so to speak. Hewlett's
magically chosen words, sparse and telling,
tail like rapid hammer-strokes, giving the
apparently impossible climax no time to let
itself down. He sets himself a standard in.
ordinary narration high enough for tense
drama; you read on through the strong,
bitmg sentences hoping against hope that he
can hold it up and reach far enough above it
for his big scene. When you get to the scene
it is as sudden and swift as a thunderclap,
and gone as soon, not a needless comma
tangling its force or its vanishing.
In Richards Yea-and-N ay the Same broad
'%or sings like a battle-song roaring through
the Crusader’s camps, full and epic as the
song of Roland ; again, nothing can stay its
splendid onslaught \ on the reader’s mind
Written in 1900, two years after The Forest
Lovers, a shade more skill appears, derogat-
mg by a shade from the power of the work
as Hewlett-prose, but not at all from its
vivid expressiveness.. In New Canterbury
Tales the splendor is wearing to daintiness
r#e choice of words has beaten the rush.
In that fine book and the much finer Queen’s
Quair the standard is definitely lowered. Only
Hewlett could have written the gorgeous pic-
tures of the glowing age, but many skilful
words are not needed, and much background
is too. prominent in its statement—we could
have imagined most of that, as we imagined
the carpentry of The Forest Lovers. The
Stooping Lady and Brazenhead the Great
are subjects below Hewlett’s level; there is
only an echo now of the thunderous Hewlett-
prose. The echo grows louder and more
authentic in The Song of Renny ; but that is
the swan-song of the Hewlett-prose. With
Bendish it disappeared ; I suppose for ever.
Bendish has no distinction, no choice of
words, no poet’s vision of his subject or its
opportunities. Most of the others are good
books, whether they are in the true Hewlett
manner or not; but Bendish and Gudrid the
r air are not even good-
Between The Stooping Lady and Brazen-
head the Great a trio of modern novels
appeared: Halfway House, Open Country
and Rest Harrow. These embody a success-
ful experiment in the projection of the
romantic mediaeval view on the present day.
The result is .fine. Sanchia and Senhouse
are. living mediaeval free-lances wandering in
radiant unconsciousness under the rules of
the County Council and the thousand
churches. The barons of the Norman castles
have become the barons of London trade in
the long Victorian prosperity. Thev made
the County Council what it is for the pro-
tection of baronial loot, and the baronial
spirit in their children laughs the Council
and all rules to scorn, as it naturally would
a most attractive problem. Here there is
much brilliant skill not overshadowed by a
fine earlier frenzy; the novels are high
among the best published in the past 15
• ve ar But another Hewlett wrote them—-a
skillful, suave dramatic artist who touches
every sentence and every scene with dis-
tmetipn and charm, expresses a character
in a poignant sentence, a whole history in the
au revoir of one of Senhouse’s letters! Gals
worthy can do that, and Wells, and the new
man Hergesheimer; Compton Mackenzie can
come very near it sometimes, when he for-
gets his hounden duty of cleverness. But
only the unskilful Hewlett who is silent now
could make the magic of The Forest Lovers.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Winifred Maitland Shaw
The girl child prodigy, who writes verse
which maturer sisters with a poetic reputa-
tion might well envy, has become almost a
permanent feature of the Australian literary
landscape. Boys begin to do things at 19 or
20; girls may surprise us at any age from
tenderest infancy. As a rule, the little air]
singers fade out in their teens and nothin"-
more is heard about them. Thev catch %
small free note and promptly lose it again
when knowledge and experience help them to
an appreciation of the commonplace The
little vision they had is lost in the flux of
average feminine feeling; and the wild pro-
mise of 12 is absorbed in a social or domestic
contentment at 23. There are many reasons
why this should be; but no reason why there
should not be a break in the rule. Mrs.
Browning proved an exception in England.
She wrote “The Battle of Marathon” —still
published in her collected work—at 14 and
“The Forced Recruit” at 51. If any young
writer in Australia shows something more
than a promise, something of the real feeling
and power that makes for permanency, it is
Winifred Maitland Shaw, now aged 14, whose
little book of verse, The Aspen Tree, has just
been published in Sydney by Tyrrell’s Ltd.
This collection of ballads and songs requires
no excuses on the ground of youth. It is, in
its place and within its scope, a very fine per-
formance, and the faults which it has are
seldom the faults of immaturity. The young
authoress knows just what to say and how
to say it, knows the delicate balance between
regularity and irregularity which makes the
charm of the old ballad, knows the words that
she uses intimately and with a fine sense of
their fitness, and knows just how to limit the
thiUg she would say to her capacity for saying
it. Nothing more surely marks the crafts-
man than the ability to stop at the right
place; and this little singer does it instinc-
tively with a firm touch and a perfect dis-
regard for the unessential. Saying a-fi Ihis,
it is necessary also to remark that the themes
chosen are not great ones, that there is no
rush of thought striving for expression, and
that always her goal is the exquisite rather
than the forceful. There is also the ten-
dency to repeat an idea. Sorcerers are very
plentiful in the verses; so are Greek names
that carry with them a far-away charm that
does not link up with anything essentially
Greek. But she has variety, fancy, music,
imagination, an occasional epigrammatic
aptness, and a verse-making skill whicli is
very remarkable. In the whole collection of
44 pieces there is hardly a line or stanza
that can be said to completely fail. Some-
times the scansion goes a little ruggedly, fre-
quently the rhymes are only visual and un-
true to the ear; but the defects are almost
a harmony on account of the word-draperv
in which they are hidden. Let some of the
verses speak for themselves. Here is
“Lethe”
0 Lethe, when he comes to thee
With weary feet and saddened eyes,
Give him forgetfulness of life
With all its tears and sighs.
Yet do not make him quite forget
The friends he loved to see,
Lest, when 1 join him in the shades
He may not welcome me.
This is called Xaipe:—
Thou for whom our hearts are broken,
Thou for whom the' gods are weeping,
On thine urn shall be no token
Of thy rising and thy setting,
Save “what rests in this urn’s keeping—
Once was fair beyond forgetting.”
The ballads are too long to quote, but
these stanzas from “Anushirwan” give an
idea of their quality:—
Anushirwan, sweet of soul,
Who built the three bright ships
Was he who came to the Wise Country
With painted cheeks and lips.
His robe was red as the red cherries
That hang on the cherry-tree;
He bound the souls of the Wise People
Who dwell beyond the sea.
But this, in an entirely different mood, called
line Clay,” is perhaps the most notable
thing m the whole collection :
O white clay, O fine clay of the earth cold
Him I fashion cunningly surely will be sweet
Lodlike am I moulding him in the god’s mould
Hands, lips, feet. ’
Him I fashion delicately surely is more dear
Than all the strength of Heaven, strength of
night and day,
More than all the mirrored stars in pools still
and clear,
Him that I am of fine white clay.
Ah, alas, 1 wonder, now that Evening’s shade
H lk e_a purple shadow on earth’s grass is spread,
Hill the gods love him, made as they are made
Hands, lips, head? ’
Ah, shall they, the flower-crowned gods, whose eves
are bright,
Take him as their plaything to break him in
their play?
More is he than all the gods who watch day and
night,
Him that I am fashioning of fine white clay.
There should be a really fine volume of verse
from this pen about 1928.
The Fiction of Cockaigne
I notice a number of fools objecting that
Australian fiction is crude in comparison
with the English stuff. The English novel
is mostly dull and heavy, and the English
short story doesn’t exist. These English
magazines! Here is the literarv touch
(What?) in a society story by the Baroness
Von Hutten (What?) :
There was clean paper in the drawers, which is
pleasanter than the old hairpins and stray hairs one
so often finds.
From a story in the same magazine by a
word-spoiler named Andrew Soutar:
The Atlantic was in a fretful mood and the near-
ness of the horizon was a threat of the Omnipotent.
. . . .Moreover her artistic soul blended with his own,
and the bleeding lifted him nearer the heights.
The woman in this story is about to have
a baby, but of course her husband doesn’t
know:
“No, I dare not tell him,” she moaned. She
passed to the tiny drawer upstairs, and tenderly
touched the tiny garments that were to clothe the
hope. That drawer and all it contained was another
secret sacred to her.
Presumably when the child did arrive she
would tell her husband that she found it
under a rosebush. It goes on:
“For God’s sake save her,” Saville groaned. “She
is a woman.”
She was not a J.P., mind you ; she was a
woman.
Another story in the same magazine is of
an impossible American cowboy, written in
Bloomsbury by Virgie P. Roe :
She opened her lips to flay him alive, but he
closed them with his own.
Some bite, what?
After that kiss, which was “firm enough
to be ardent and delicate enough to oe
modest,” Jane Brannis (for that was her
name) felt that to have seen the cowboy
again
Would have filled her with deadly nausea.
Stewed cowboy with onions. What? Later
lie sent her a letter, and he wrote as he spoke
and took lots of trouble to prove it. Here
is a bit of the letter:
Tb’ trout are bitin’ good in the Little Fork, an’
th’ ol’ she-bear’s cubs are full grown. I saw ’em
yesterday.
Naturally at this
Jane’s cheeks got to burning and she whirled into
her aunt’s boudoir. “Call Fanette to pack,” she
said, “we’re going West.”
Touch of genius that. Has a maid named
Fanette to emphasise contrast of abandoned
riches and beloved cowboy. Cowboy is a
mind reader and knows without being told
that she’s on the road, and when she gets
there she is surprised to meet him, but is
collected enough to prepare for action:
she wet her ups, for she knew that the great
moment of her life was come.
To be bitten again, I suppose.
There’s a fire on the hearth and gold and crimson
branches on the mantel, and trout ready to fry, and
honey from the wild-bee tree.
Paradise. Trout that could wait for the
tmVht-be bride and never go bad, and a tree
that was so wild it grew bees. There was
even the parson there, with the license all
ready. Of course a parson’s time is value-
less, but how can a dead trout wait on spec?
Next story in the same magazine, "The
Past Battle,” by A. G. Greenwood:
The silence that fell was broken only by the
creaking of the Colonel’s harness as he breathed.
1 love her!” he said piteously.
Poor old Colonel, with his saddle and his
breeching and his crupper and his hames all
creaking to his sighs. When an ass is tem-
peramental it’s bad for the ass. He was a
naughty ass, too, for
She was peerless, unique, from the top of her
golden head to the soles of her little pink feet,
which he longed to kiss.
So it being his wedding night and the
young lover who was reported killed in the
war returning in time, the old Colonel shot
himself, and his harness—including the
breeching and crupper—creaked no more.
All these stories creak. In “The Way of
the West,” by. Grenville Hammerton,' the
dear English pioneer is away in Pogoland,
but he dresses for dinner all alone by him-
self in the jungle and “his polished' shirt-
front creaked slowly to his even breathing.”
He wasn’t a colonel, but he breathed and
creaked just the same. He talks to himself
for two pages and then “He paced fever-
ishly to and fro; the coral crunching musi-
cally beneath his feet. Out of the silvery
shadows a figure glided and prostrated it-
self at his patent-leather-shod feet....
faintly through the whoosh-oosh of the
wind and thunder of the surf he had heard
the panting breaths and the creaking of
burdens.”
There’s your local color! The wind
whoosh-ooshing and the breaths panting like
the shirt or the Colonel’s crupper.
And the truth of their magazine fiction is
the truth of their book literature. Except-
ing Wells and Maurice Hewlett, and maybe
Neil Lyons, there are no living English fic-
tionists worth a second thought. Their
“critics” reflect them. Reading a dozen
reviews of one Richard Bagot I bought his
Donna Diana. He apparently knows Rome,
yet hath not eyes. He writes 000 pages
about a girl destined for the veil and saved
by marriage from the crime of celibacy, and
he handles such a story as if it were a seeds-
man’s catalogue. The Australian inability
to produce that kind of stuff is merely a
proof that most Australians have a sense of
humor, as most English have not. Of course
we live closer up to life, and most of the
English “litterateurs” know only of the
false people they’ve met in books; and so
little of the real that even the realism of a
boiled shirt and the Colonel’s crupper creak-
ing satisfies them.
God bless the Colonel, anyhow. I hope
they took Ins four shoes off after he com-
mitted suicide, so that the other ass might
marry the filly.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A Satchel of Books
Arras and the Battles of Artois (Michelin and
Co., France). An admirable little historical and
pictorial description of a district which was the
scene of some, of the most desperate battles of the
war. There is a short sketch of each campaign,
with explanatory diagrams, and a moving account
is given of the desolation wrought by the Huns.
The book, one of a series of 12 embracing all the
most important battles, is issued “in memory of the
Michelin workmen and employees who died glori-
ously for their country,” and all the profits go 1*)
the Committee for the Repopulation of France.
Marie., by Eleanor 11. Porter (Houghton
Mifflin Co., Boston). The girl is Mary to one
parent and Marie to the other. They are divorced;
and she lives six months by turns with each.
1 hrough her influence they come together again.
Charmingly written.
Caliban, by W. L. George (Methuen). This tale
appears to be a sort of satire on Northcliffe and
other newspaper magnates. The book starts so well
that the reader expects great things; but it tails
away into dull places from half-time.
The Jars of Life, by Alfred Fritchcy (A. J. Frit-
chey, San Francisco). A splendidly-printed book of
very bad verse. Fritchey doesn’t leave orthodox
methods. He tries to scan and rhyme, but never
succeeds for long. Ilis chief fault, however, is that
he has nothing to say.
Essays on Books, by A. Clutton-Broek (Methuen,
London). A series of fine critical papers which
range from Shakspeare to Swinburne, and from
Donne to Keats. The writer has real thing's to say,
fresh light to throw upon old matters, and a range
of sympathy and understanding that reveals a power-
ful, constructive mihd. Thus of Shakspeare’s plays:
If Shakspeare could see them acted now he
would know how unworthy he was to have written
them. For this kind of performance he would say, I
should have written something quite different
He is praised indiscriminately for passages of which
the real Shakspeare must have been a little ashamed,
if he ever remembered them.”
And this of Keats:
“I do not believe that Keats died in the verv
maturing of his powers. Rather, when he was over-
come by disease, there was a change working in
him which made him a beginner again; and in this
change was the promise of incredible things.”
And this on a matter which no amount of dis-
cussion will ever make quite clear:
“The difference between prose and poetry in works
of imagination is mainly in speed of thought.”
A good stimulating book of honest criticism.


l-ibrolirfe
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
Costs Considerably Less than
Weatherboard.
Hii&sssm
,-T"
REDUCE your building costs. Specify
Hardie’s Genuine “FtBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets for vour Interior and Exterior
Walls and Ceilings. A cosy “Fibrolite”
Home costs less than a weatherboard house
and is years cheaper in service. There are
no maintenance costs, as “FIBROLITE”
improves with age. Avoid substitutes- -be
sure you get Hardie’s Australian-made “Fib-
rolite.” Write for Free Catalogue “K.”
JAMES HARDIK &. COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,"
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581*3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
7$
Fats for the Yards!
Cattle, Sheep and Pigs for Homebush
Market, Sydney, or Enoggera Market, Bris-
bane, truck to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Wide-awake Salesmen. Attentive,
capable and successful.
wa»n«w»Tii»i
WrN
mbs
SUMMER Comfort
is briefly "clothes to
suit the climate” and
most essentially care in
selection of garments
next to the skin.
UNDERWEAR
is the new idea in sum-
mer underwear. The
porous and ribbed cot-
ton underwear that
allows the air to circu-
late freely between the
skin and the garment.
SOLD BY
Leading Mercers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
HILL BROS., SYDNEY
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
AUSTRALIAN
mm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
electrolytic zinc BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
——
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the British Board of Trade.
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
CARBON tool STEELS
For All Purposes.
Large Range of Sizes and Sections.
Sole Australian Representatives
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Rtd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ktd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
iter Shavi
Ss
%
i
y
ar&h!
99
ch!
o
\
“Tilt Little Nurse
far Little Ills"
If your skin is the least bit sensitive
(especially the tender upper lip)—you
can quickly end razor-smart and sting
by applying Mentholatum. It cools
at once and heals antiseptically.
m
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
—a Healing Cream,
FASSETT & JOHNSON, ETD., SYDNEY
HIGH-GRADE SHEET
METALS
BRAND | QA'P J3==> BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sixenate”: There was something heroic
about the struggle to keep up appearances
maintained by a family in our neighborhood.
They let it be known that pa was away
travelling in Britain, whereas pa got 18
months for peculation on a large scale. Re-
cently ma and the elder children went to
meet the boat,” and they brought back pa
with them. I rather admire the family s
pathetic imposition myself; but the “side”
ma put on when pa came home antagonised
the envious Jinks. “I notice,” he observed
brutally, “that old Blank has the English
style of haircut —a close crop.”
“Hannibal”: It is a record season on the
North Coast (N.S.W.) for dairying cheques. On
the low, rich flats of the Macleay River small
farms have been producing milk to the value
of £9O a month, this after feeding calves
and pigs, which are a profitable secondary
consideration. When the farmer grows his
own maize, potatoes and so forth he is on
an excellent wicket. The cow-cocky can do
with a period of prosperity, for owing to
drought, price-fixing and centralisation he
has had a rotten time.
* * « *
“Two Seas” : Time country show commit-
tees put the extinguisher on competitions for
“the worst turnout.” It is a form of “humor”
that a country of horse-lovers ought to be
ashamed of. Horses that a humane man
would have shot years ago —poor, wretched
skeletons, ruined in wind and limb, are har-
nessed to derelict sulkies with green-hide and
fencing-wire, and the prize goes to the animal
that is nearest death, his_ sores being gener-
ally covered with the exhibitor’s old pants. It
seems incredible that a nation of presumably
intelligent and humane people has put up
with the offence so long. The man who
would laugh at the spectacle of an old horse,
dying on its feet, being goaded around a ring
to earn a last pound for its brutal owner,
would jeer at his bedridden grandmother.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: The Repatriation people are
discovering that many of the business places
that waved flags when the trouble was on have
no use whatever for the returned soldiers
whom the Department has trained in various
skilled occupations. Paid canvassers are
now engaged in reminding forgetful em-
ployers of their duty. If this device fails
publication of the names of unpatriotic flag-
waggers may be resorted to.
* * * *
Wanting a large stone-crushing plant at
the Mitta Mitta weir on the Murray, the Ma
State Government was surprised to find
Jaques Bros., of Richmond, Vic., willing to
undertake the job. The Jaqueses had to pro-
vide a machine weighing 35 tons, and the
other day they manufactured a 10-ton ladle
and borrowed the only other one available
to pour out the molten metal for the 20-ton
frame. The completed crusher will reduce
3ft. x 2ft. lumps of granite to small Gin.
fragments at the rate of 200 tons an hour,
and in its way is an achievement for Aus-
tralian industry, seeing that every bit of
material for the construction was made in the
Commonwealth. The brothers Jaques are
now going to build the crusher’s big brother,
which will weigh 75 tons and smash up 350
tons in an hour.
* * * *
“Gregorius”: No author should be allowed
to write about drugs unless and until he has
had a short course in pharmacology. I have
just finished reading a novel by a well-
known writer, in which the bad man dopes
the hero by placing morphine in his coffee,
after drinking which the hero goes into a
sound sleep, lasting for several hours. Now,
morphine (by which is meant, not morphine
itself, which is insoluble and seldom used in
medicine, but one of the soluble salts or com-
pounds of morphine), in small or moderately
large doses, has the opposite effect to sending
a, person to sleep. It bucks the brain up
and makes it more active, while a dose suffi-
ciently large to render a person unconscious
would, if administered by the mouth, as in
coffee, be promptly ejected by an outraged
stomach. Then we had a “crook” drama in
which the detective is rendered unconscious
by being stabbed with a hypodermic syringe
full of cocaine. He receives it into his sys-
tem and at once collapses on the floor. In
real life that detective, with a couple of
grains of cocaine in his blood-stream, would
have been the most animated ’tec in the
force, the action of cocaine being to invigo-
rate the system, on which it acts as a pro-
found tonic. Most authors, moreover, seem
to think that it is a general anaesthetic, which
it is not. It is a local anaesthetic, and by
itself, uncombined with another necessary
drug, a very poor local anaesthetic.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Agk: draws attention to the fact that lions
have greatly advanced in price, tigers are dearer
than ever they were, and rhinoceroses and drome-
daries become less and less purchasable every day.
With irritation ill-concealed
The folks returning to their muttons
Find stock quotations Yiave revealed
A sudden hardening *f gluttons ;
And by consumers on all hands
It is with apprehension noted
That tigers from the Indian strands,
And grizzlies (Rocky Mountain brands)
At almost ruinous rates are quoted;
And hippopotami to-day
Are soaring, so the papers say.
A Nubian lion’s selling now
At record figures, and the market
Is stiffening, if you want a cow
From Burmah or a healthy shark it
Will cost you dear. Orangs in pairs
Are far beyond the reach of toilers,
While rhinos, yaks and honey-bears
Are held for Yankee millionaires,
And boas for profiteering spoilers.
The question is in these conditions —
Can poor men still keep politicians ?
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


CHRONIC INDIGESTION.
Complete Relief Afforded by One Bottle of
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Anyone who has suffered the tortures and depression resulting
from defective digestion will realise what a boon Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills were to Mrs. Murray, whose letter and
photo are published below. What this lady experienced
and how Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afforded relief are
best described in her own words, which are as follows:
W> RMuiTa^
(from a photo).
125 Sackville Street, Collingwood, V.
Dear Sirs,-
It is with heartfelt gratitude that I forward you this testimonial. It is a
little over twelve months since I commenced using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. At the time I was suffering from a chronic state of indigestion, with most
of the distressing symptoms usually so prominent in this depressing complaint*
Food of any kind caused me such pain and discomfort that I dreaded the thought
of meal-times, and bed-time was feared with equal dread, as the nights were
usually passed either in a state of sleeplessness or in a succession oi hideous
nightmares. I was also seriously troubled with bronchitis, and my nervous system
was so completely run down and my condition such that I began to lose hope of
recovery. But fortunately, just when things were looking darkest, I was induced
to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and with what happy results I shall never
forget. The way in which this remedy took hold of the disease and controlled
it was little short of marvellous, and how rapidly so many of the distressing symp-
toms disappeared was well-nigh incredible. It is nevertheless a fact, and I was
completely cured of this chronic disorder within the space of a few weeks, and by
the use of only one bottle of the pills. The remedy had completely mastered the
disease, and I have enjoyed the best of health ever since. lam an old resident
of Collingwood of practically 30 years’ standing, and have reared a family of six
children.
(Signed) MRS. RHODA MURRAY.
It is important to bear in mind that it is not the quantity of food we eat but what we digest
that nourishes the body. When the stomach and other Organs of Digestion and Nutrition are
out of order, and the food eaten is not properly digested, there is loss of nutrition, and the body
loses strength as a natural consequence. Not only does the system suffer from lack of nourish-
ment, but the derangement of the organs must inevitably cause further complications. As is
shown in the case of Mrs. Murray, distressing attacks of indigestion were followed by bronchitis
and a generally run-down condition. Indigestion is a frequent source of Constipation, which in
its turn causes a disordered liver, and finally you become burdened with Chronic Dyspepsia. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a safe, sure and reliable remedy for stomach complaints. They
aid in the digestion and assimilation of food, and in a mild and gentle manner regulate the system.
YYSYSYYSY//Y
IRIOR-SES
m
liver
the
FOR
SOT
A///7/A
77,
'A
Y,
'O,
1
%
2
m
<77777777777^
'///A
<777/7
*■ ' . - .> . - :
They Make You Feel Brighter
s\X. V ' ' '


n
Donee Brothers
MOTORCAR
Owners can practically figure in
advance what the outgo on Dodge
Brothers Motor Car will be.
They can safely count on low petrol
consumption. They can safely count
on unusually high tyre mileage. They
can safely count on repair costs
being exceptionally low.
ov
V
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., litd.j
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle Sc Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors.,
Sydney.
Limited,
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Ferth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
'»z -.‘f-M
m-i
tm
s-m
■' : ' ■ '"%®L %
■•■ ; .■
i l*fo. '-* 1 1 . ..r 16:,*- 24 3, a - . * * •• -
i ife?
Wii il.
•#i.j Nil
*- I fy.
i». : J V - - • v -V,
\M
■ < ' ; i f< !
'„«> v . A' * '* * * Ua *:*.sr V- i { .. ,
s**4, mgHftmmr?"* i , 'mmmmap.amw > -
{rkri>. * Balias j Ha*»3t
MORRIS CRANES
Increase Factory Production.
IN the greatest industrial plants of the world, Morris All-British
Overhead Cranes have established their superiority because of
sustained performances.
Morris Cranes represent scientific engineering efficiency—they
solve one phase of the great problem of increased production.
A Morris Crane enables one man to do work which needs a
group of men by old methods. In this way a Morris Crane returns
its cost speedily and pays you a definite weekly profit.
We shall be pleased to investigate your workshop problem.
Whatever your requirements, the wide range of Handling Equip-
ment made by Herbert Morris, Ltd., enables your particular needs
to be easily met.
Inquiries are invited for Herbert Morris Overhead Cranes (hand
or electric operated), Overhead Runways equipped with Travelling
Pulley Blocks, Pulley Blocks, etc.
Literature dealing with any of the above lines will be mailed
on request.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd.,
499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Buildings, Adelaide.
Selling Agent: Chas. E. Bernays, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
74fl*
“Imp”: Looking at Boss Lambert one is
reminded of the gibe Bob Lowe flung at the
triumphant Rads—“We must educate our
masters.” Most of our political troubles
are traceable to the fact that we haven’t
educated our masters.
The N. S. Wales Profiteering Court may be
working double shifts, and Judge Beeby may
show signs of fainting by the wayside, but
nobody has yet been brought before the long
arm of the law for selling a Sydney suburban
cow-paddock at 20 times its; cow value. Also
land hasn’t been declared a necessary com-
modity, nor does it seem likely to be.
“Micawber”: Not long before the end
George Darrell was approached by Ben
Fuller, who was really anxious to do the
veteran a good turn, and offered a position
in one of the Fuller stock companies, with
the promise of any “old man” part that hap-
pened along. But George, writh that ego-
tism so pronounced amongst aßed mummers,
who take themselves more seriously than the
public do, refused to consider etnything short
of juvenile or heavy lead.
“8.C.”: Re “blankard,” in ; rts Australian
sense. When the Australians i nvaded Egypt,
the whining formula of the million or so
“orphans” seldom failed to bri ag “shrapnel”
(small change) from the Digger’s pockets.
Then, with a fatherly pat on the back and
the sympathetic. “Poor little lifenkard!”
the mendicant was sent on his* way. Soon
after, “Poor little blankard!” was attached
to the formula, and now visitors are shocked
by beggars with their “Ana mmshkeen [I am
poor], gibbit baksheesh. No fader, no
mudder —poor little blankard!”' a
“Hairpin Roads”: I’ll blo’tv a Chinese
match out on the veracity of this incident
of the Somme winter of 1916-17, when the
thermometer registered between 40 and 50
degrees of frost o’ nights and', stood below
freezing-point throughout the day. Hear-
ing that a supply of English Leer was being
delivered at a near-by Tommy canteen, I was
despatched with a two-gall'.on petrol-tin
bucket to.secure enough for the dugout. To
“tap” the first barrel, which had been
mounted on a box, the storeman struck the
cask with an axe until hoops and timber fell
away, revealing a solid cylinder of frozen
beer. My portion was sawn off and, on
adjournment to the dugou.t, melted down
over a tommy-cooker until froth appeared.
“Argent” on a censorship that was called
off: —
The typos of Broken Hill were badly smitten by
the boomerang they hurled at the Barrier Miner.
Objecting to the Miner referring to the reporters on
the Daily Truth as nont-unionists, because they
did not belong to the Australian Journalists’ Associa-
tion, they sought to establish a censorship, and the
paper ceased publication. Meantime Willis, of the
Coal and Shale Employees’ Union, came along to
induce the workers to join ijp with the 0.8. U. The
Trade and Trades Laborers’ ; Union, which embraces
over 1000 men, refused to have anything to do with
the proposal, whereupon Tututh (organ of the
A.M.A. branch of the coalies) called them all the
nice things angry unionists’ say about each other
when they have a difference of opinion. Thereupon
the Trades Laborers solemnly passed a resolution
calling upon the typos in T ruth office not to set any
more scurrilous attacks upon fellow-unionists written
by the non-A.J.A. scribes on Truth. This hit
the Truth typos where tjiey lived, and the high
serangs of the Typographical Union took a hand.
The result was that the embargo on the Miner was
called off, and an undertaking given that the typos
would confine themselves to their job of tapping the
lino, and leave the editor to attend to his.
“Solomon Malaprop” -on suicide: —
The passing out of Georg e Darrell, actor and play-
wright, raises for the billionth time the question
whether suicide should nc it be made a recognised
institution. Darrell’s reason was that he was 75
and hadn’t much to live f< Mr, and it seems a reason-
able reason enough. In 99 oases out of 100 the per-
son who cuts things short injures no one but him-
' self (he is felo de se, i.e., felon of himself), and the
world isn’t one-tenth so si ire as it once was about
the damage to himself. Very often he does a species
of benefit to other people by way of a counter-
balance, as he removes a responsibility and a burden.
That puts suicide in a category of its own. Then
it is only a forestalling of t he inevitable, which also
puts it in a category of its own. Bigamy and bur-
glary and the like are not a forestalling of the
inevitable, for no one can .say he would have to
marry two simultaneous wiv.ss one day or another,
or break into a house sooner- or Inter, in the fixed
order of things, and might as well do it now and
get it over.
Self-destruction was eminently respectable once if
done under respectable conditions. No church ven-
tures to expurgate from the Scripture the pathetic
verses in which David declared that Suicide Saul
made a good ending with much, honor in it and
no shadow of disgrace. But wh<en the Church was
young and excitable and struck Anania3 dead, it
was deduced (then or soon after) from certain inci-
dents in which Judas of Keriotb was involved: (1)
That suicide was unutterable sin and meant perdi-
tion; (2) that it was an ill-omen for 13 to sit
down at table; (3) that meat should not be eaten
on a Friday. Other things were deduced also. Now
the Church and the Law have so far shifted from
their old bigotry that the suicide isn’t buried at
midnight where four roads, meet and with a stake
driven through his innards. In fact, the coroner
glosses over the case as much as possible, and some
parsons read the burial-service over the remains.
The would-be suicide who fails is no longer hanged
(nor for that matter is the Friday meat-eater), though
he is sometimes shut up for his own protection and
sometimes bound over in his own recognisances.
' There is nothing feebler in all the realm of con-
demnation than one’s own recognisances. Relatives
of the deceased no longer flee and hide themselves
under assumed names.
The public mind is gliding imperceptibly but
untidily to a new view of this matter, and it might
be well to appoint the almost-forgotten Judge Ewing
to decide how far the public mind has glode. The
public seldom knows how far its mind has got until
some person puts the matter down on paper for it.
Then his Honor should state how the law ought
to fit in with the public mind, so as to prevent it
being a wandering, drifting receptacle of thought
with no shape or habitation, and at a loose end.
Probably he would suggest that self-destruction
should be allowed in proper buildings ana
with medical assistance. There would still, of
course, be concealment of death (concealment in
the sea, the bush and in lakes, rivers, tanks, attics
and woodsheds), just as there is concealment of
birth despite all the maternity hospitals. But con-
cealment needn’t be necessary, and a dignified, kindly
old philosopher who wants to pass out because it is
time shouldn’t be driven to take a header over a
cliff like a drunk, and do it with no friends prqsen ,


&
o*
dt
I
4
V'
1'
%
I
,1
1^
I
VJ
m
Jh*J.
*\
%v*
r 2
1
%
82
0» v*
ft*
'io
as
o->
r T,?
»7I
%
rt'-t
3> s
!*\«/*
Ws
4C
%
r*2
c/!
fc*'
,1
Professor Lwertaq"
Constipation'!
OOME people are careless and allow themselves
to be costive for days. It’s foolhardy, for
all sorts of diseases result from constipation.
Don’t think that constipation will cure itself.
Take Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
They regulate the bowels, giving perfect relief in the most obstinate
cases. Thousands now enjoy the best of health after taking
Chamberlains Tablels
FOR THE STOMACH andLIVER
m
'4. m
■III
B
m
tin
m
S,^
m
m
ffc
-
m
m
m
nil
m
The distinctiveness and beauty of Goodrich Cord
Tyres are natural companions of the superb riding
comfort and service they give.
Insist
on
Goodrich Tyres
The B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company
Akron, Ohio, U. S. A.
Established 1870
Distributed by DUVAL & COMPANY,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op. Union, Ltd., Adelaide.
E.'
10
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Sdpfly—
JA RR AH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Horliek’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horliek’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hop-
lick's, there is a great treat ia
store for you.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies,
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
vour health and
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
discomfort. Ihousanus recommena uicm.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Small Prlca.
mn
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mn
GENUINE must
bear signature
m
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we .st;ne
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Used the
World Oyer
m
MOTOR
...CARS
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d._ weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially inviWd to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
n


YoungMenUse Cuticura
To Save Your Hair
Nothing like shampoos with Cuticura Soap
and hot water, preceded by touches of Cuti-
cura Ointment to spots of dandruff and itch-
mg to keep the scalp and hair healthy.
They are ideal for all toilet uses. In the
morning shave with Cuticura Soap. After
shaving and before bathing touch spots of
dandruff or irritation with Cuticura Oint-
ment. Then bathe face, hands and scalp
with Cuticura Soap and hot water.
For sample each address: R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
km
mm
b
c~Vc/
The Fragrance of an
Old English Garden
is faithfully reproduced in each
drop of Zenobia Perfumes.
Their flower - like simplicity
and delightful fragrance make
them a'joy to the woman of
taste and refinement.
Zenobia Perfumes are lingering and
delicate in sweetness, they add charm
and distinction to the finished toilet.
7ENOBIA
maiaa
Three favourite
Perfumes are :
Zenobia Lily of the Valley
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
Zenobia Night Scented Stock
Prepared by ZENOBIA, LTD,
Loughborough, Leicestershire
England
Every flower faithfully
reproduced.
All Chemists and Stores.
Australian Representative:
K. BUCKMASXER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
?*EN
a
JL
m*.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks-
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected: with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
the icy-hot BOTTLE CO.
158 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
.
w ■ JR
- —-
PARSONS
PETROL-
KEROSENE
ENGINES
Stationary & Marine
Portable
Air-Compressor
Plant
incorporating
14=H.P. PARSONS
ENGINE.
Output 50 cubic feet
at 1001 b. Press.
Robert Grant,
03 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 '
o
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of "VALLO. ’ Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through "VALLO."
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for "VALLO" can be substantiated by performance records.
Look for the ® Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
54
OSTER Bull-dog Ratchet Stocks and Dies are one of the
most popular outfits that we produce
because they are specially suitable for operating in close
quarters.
The Ratchet gear is large and strong and protected to completely
exclude chips and dirt.
Let us show you how these ratchet tools will | save you time and
money.
DISTRIBUTORS :
Clias. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Etd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Etd., Newcastle.
A. Goninau & Co., Etd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Etd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., L
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
THE LOST STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A New South Wales municipality complains that
it has lost a street.
1 want to find that street gone quite astray,
A lost and dusty link with olden dreams.
I think one end may touch the Primrose Way,
The other fade where cool Meander streams
Through four or five good centuries b.c.
To pass in simple, sweet mythology.
If I could reach that street I seem to know
I should find very pleasant people there ;
Not only Bill and Jane, whose memories grow
Dearer for chance ill-luck w 3 used to share,
But gods, philosophers and ladies bright
Who could not die, yet vanished in a night.
In that lost street when it is six o’clock
You know that one short hour will make it five,
That no inhabitant need put a lock
Upon his soul to keep his mouth alive, .
That 'all are welcome and that every debt
Ceases the moment that the sun has set.
There income-tax is but a faded thought
Half lost amid the memories of days
When all the street was held and pinned and caught
By commonplace and kept in weary ways.
The various allotments once were sold
For dirty paper that men took for gold.
But all is altered now. The one plain pub
Stands kindly open all the day and night.
Beer flows at random. One may drink a tub
And feel himself grow comfortably tight;
For no policeman’s heavy-footed beat
Comes within echo of that happy street.
The basic wage unfixed by any law
Is there exactly what the folk require.
The prawns are red, the oysters pale and raw,
The cost of living never rises higher
Than half the price the housewife calculates
And train fares fall even while the engine waits.
For there are trains that come across wide plains
At almost any hour you like to say
To take you anywhere, and each remains
Until the time you want to get away.
In that lost street with its primeval thirst,
All of the people always travel first.
I know these things, yet know not how to find
The thing that will take me to the place.
I pass Hope’s Corner, come to Never Mind,
Cross Lovers’ Lane, walk through to Horse-senSc
Place,
And come at last with worn and weary feet
Back to my old familiar Just-So-Street.
The dear lost pavements go without a name;
They are not in directory or map;
No aldermanic power can make them tame.
That.outlaw street will never care a rap
For high authority while lives the baker —
It has not even seen the undertaker.
/ • . : '
And yet and yet, I feel that Plato lives
In the fifth house, with Locke and Bacon near,
That Herbert Spencer very often gives
A lecture there across a pint of beer;
In fact, 1 feel that could all streets get lost
Human philosophy might stand the cost.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
“Copabella”: Found an ex-Digger the
other clay enjoying himself immensely with
a batch of press-cuttings. He did not rise
beyond lance-corporal in the war, but has won
through to the equivalent of two pips in his
civvy job of pressman. Dropping on a
sample of military muddle he gave it a 10-
line par in his provincial paper. An M.P,
(formerly a warrant-officer) saw the par
and passed it on to a colonel of Repatria-
tion, who sent it on to a major-general _ of
Defence, from whom a field-marshal of civil
administration received instructions to reply
and squash the presumptuous newspaper.
This he essayed in a portentous document —
no “p. pro.” affair, but signed by the f.m.-
himself. Comparing what amount of “say” he
had while in the Army and the chance he
had of being noticed even by a canteen-ser-
geant, the. Dig. is convinced that peace has
its victories impossible in war.
“Philistine” writes: —
Something like a gibe as to the obscurity of
Palestine is embodied in a serious proposal that a
tunnel should be bored under the land to let the
waters of the Mediterranean into the Dead Sea and
fill up the great depression. It need only be 40
miles long, so small is the country which has fussed
so much in history, and it would pass under or
nearly under Jerusalem at a depth of about 2000 feet.
If it were a big-enough tunnel and could fill the
depression it would have to pile water about 1300 ft.
thick on top of the present Dead Sea, and then it
would back up the Jordan and make it salt and pile
700 ft. of water on top of the present Sea of Galilee,
and back up the rest of the Jordan till it possibly
drowned the Waters of Merom, and then it would
continue backing up northwards until —Well, it
would be a record back-up. And when the Dead
Sea hole was filled the great stream would pre-
sumably wash southward through the Wady el Some-
thing into the Red Sea, carrying all before it.
The British Association had a plan as far back as
1883 for digging a canal up the Wady el Thingum-
bob from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea, instead of a
tunnel from the Mediterranean, and filling the hole
that way. Either way it would have to be a mighty
business, for the Jordan, which varies from Bft. deep
in dry times to 21ft. when it is wet, has poured
into the Dead Sea ever since the Last Days of Sodom,
and yet the Dead ’Un is suspected of growing
smaller, such is the evaporation. The geography
of the place is so curious that the Mediterranean
might be carried across Palestine by underground
channel almost anywhere, and dropped like Niagara
into the Sea of Galilee, the Jordan, the Dead Sea,
the Wady el Whatsisname between it and the Red
Sea, into the bar of the Jordan Hotel at Jericho,
into old Jericho itself, and into lots of other towns
and hamlets. In fact, the hole in the Holy Land,
which is hundreds of miles long and at least 2000 ft.
deep at its worst, with the sacred river ambling at
the bottom of it, is such a deuce of a hole that if
enough water could be brought along to fill it the
result would amount to the Splash of Ages. The
new salt stream would extend from Abraham to
George V., and cut Scriptural geography in halves.
What good would result is uncertain, but a weird
fascination hangs round Palestine, and all sorts of
Schemes have been advanced for letting mad things
into it. Australia has a hollow of its own, by the
way, though not so appalling a one, and if Bible
students have a billion to spare it could do with a
canal to let Spencer’s Gulf into Lake Eyre.


MMBU ' *
.Y\iS&
, =
ns®.
is M if 'sl
‘ t ~- .;_ \ i§|§ .* -', --'<•■ ■*•"*
*, -,, S'* -it ,'.,r’''» > y
‘
MM * :4
It &g .-
jSM
■
-J|gJ •- t
' ■;■>
_ JL
■^Sj&wNK
«S
Sf *
rtk'.
Jglsji
• • - -: '
k"'» *'
Just by a finger pressure from the seat of
your car you can spin your motor. No
matter what make of automobile you own
you can make it a self-starter.
Many cars are not up-to-date because a dangerous
crank has to be swung every time a start has to
be made, and because they lack electric lights.
Benefit by the experience of thousands of satisfied
users and equip your car with the
HEINZE-SPRINGFIELD
Starting s Lighting System
SPECIAL TYPE FOR FORDS.
Then, in addition to easy, sure and safe starting, you have bright
steady electric lights all the time you want them, or dimmed lights
for traffic driving or parking purposes.
Bright or dimmed lights are obtained merely by pulling a handy
little button.
Another highly desirable point gained by installing the .Heinze-Springfield
Electric Cranking and Lighting System, is that when you park your car
you lock it with the ignition off and the light dim.
Many strong tests have been made, but all have proved that there is no
perceptible decrease in horse-power caused by the generator of the Heinze-
Springfield system.
The whole device is out of sight under the bonnet. It does not interfere with
the accessibility of any part of the engine, and once bolted into position it
becomes as much a part of the machine as if it were moulded there in the factory.
Let us send you full details.
I
Yo
cA
this
neednr
u
any
mor>&
The new Heinze-Springfleld Dash Equip-
ment is convenient, tidy and efficient.
Everything is controlled by one button.
D
9
o
Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland:
LARKE, HOSKJNS & CO., LTD.,
237-9 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
HOWITZER BATTERY CO.,
20 Latrobe Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for South Australia
BEHRENS & MARSHALL,
Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Western Australia:
GOODYEAR TYRE COMPANY,
806 Hay Street,
PERTH.
Sole Agents for New Zealand:
INGLIS BROS. & CO., LTD.,
WELLINGTON.
Sole Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House,
161 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
mmmaei
mm
■
.
■ .
'mat,
m ■
;
: -
-
m
-
m
-•
In
atet
m
- 4- Si


py
s m
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set two fine Diamonds,
£G/10/«
A. Saunders’
fine Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£B/loy-,
£5, £7/10/-
-7S
m
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£35.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £6O.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25,
£3O.
mn
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
lfict. Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£35.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds, £l2/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £4/10/-. Larger Diamonds, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ fancy double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A.
■ ■
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
loct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond double-row Bracelet,
loot. Gold, £125.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Circle
■Brooch, 15et. Gold,
£2O. Larger Dia-
monds, £25.
A. Saunders’, Lady's double-cut Diamond-set Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds, £25, £3O. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5, £2O, £3O.
r
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£23.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ fancy double-cut Diamond
Cluster Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Links,
extra heavy, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. loot., £2, £2/10/-
A
A. Saunders’
Pearl-set Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
35/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15et.
£4O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25.
Keep down your fuel bill.
Hot Water and Home Heating on Reduced Fuel Bills.
For supplying hot water in volume for domestic use and for many trade purposes, the
Slow Combustion “IDEAL” Boilers
take first place for economy and effectiveness. They are universally used in Britain,
Europe, America and Australia. These boilers have a small fuel consumption, run from
five to eight hours without recharging with fuel, and require no skilled attendant. The
objection in the past to many types of boilers was that they delivered water tainted with
mot
l ' t s fi • V L. ' . A ' - - - ’
We Guarantee the “Ideal” Boiler to Deliver Water
Free from Rust,
a great consideration where pure water is necessary. Capacities are from 50 to 2000
Gallons per hour, according to size.
The owner of a large boiler writes: “Where I used a barrow-load of coke with the old
system, with the ‘ldeal’ I use a shovelful only.”
“IDEAL” BOILERS ARE USED IN CONNECTION WITH:—
“Ideal” Radiator.
‘ldeal” Hot Water Boiler —burns
wood., coal or coke.
Hot Water Supply,
Fruit and Copra Drying,
Plate Glass Silvering,
Swimming Baths,
Laundry Work,
Heating Buildings with
Radiators,
Cooking Apparatus,
“Ideal”
Nurseries and Conservatories,
Skin Drying,
Turkish Baths, .
Incubators and Brooders,
Sterilising,
Glue Kettles,
Dairy Work.
“Ideal Radiators versus Coke or Coal Fires.
The “Ideal” Radiator, used in connection with the “Ideal” Boiler, will
heat an average-sized room at a cost of from one halfpenny to one penny
for 24 hours.
It will provide a warm, healthful heat, free from draughts, and cut down
cleaning and house services to the minimum. These radiators may be
used in the finest drawing- and reception-rooms, without fear of defacing
decorations, carpets, hangings, etc., with soot, smoke or grit. Each
radiator may be turned on or off as desired. In planning new buildings
unnecessary fireplaces, etc., may be eliminated, saving on the cost of
construction.
Expert information furnished, and a plan for your particular require-
ments supplied. Write or call.
Steam Boiler.
“Ideal”
Low Pressure
324-330 Pitt
k'r- ;-*V ■*!'/■ '--/x
Street, Sydney
oJinßanks & Soil Ptq
391-403 Bourke
Street, Melbourne


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* _ EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
"|"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
MatinGes every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Plan at Glen’s.
CIDNEI’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION.
BABY BUNTING.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN.
QRAND OPERA HOUSE; SYDNEY!
ALLAN ~WILK IE
and
MISS HUNTER-WATTS
IN THE PLAYS OF
SHAKSPEARE.
CHANGE EVERY EVENING; SEE DAILY PRESS.
Box Plans at NASH’S and the Theatre.
x a is a t it is s
yM « N Picm It IS
THE PICK OP THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JO. WILLIAMSON LID. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
The Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MatinSes Every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
Business Notices.
m
nm
n
THE. WORLD'S
mn
BEST VALUE
tp.
!$•
J
mn
Heavy Sterling Silver Sauce
Boat .. . .. 75/.
Less 20 per cent. .. 15/-
Nett, 60/-
The Wedding Present
Problem.
It is ever with us. The problem of WHAT
to give is the trouble to a man. He will gladly
pay. He may even be got to a wedding, but
what to send is his trouble.
We specialise in presents. Always have done
for eighty years past. We think we know how
to meet the taste of all buyers. We cater
daily for the present trade. Every novelty is
stocked, and a special staff is constantly
engaged in producing novelty, utility and
refinement in numerous forms of presents
Our great output and large capital enable us
to manufacture and to buy at bedrock prices,
and to sell at lowest figures.
Fairfax $ Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYONET.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
UNDER CRIMSON SKIES,
A UNIVERSAL JEWEL PRODUCTION,
and
KATHLYN WILLIAMS in
JUST A WIFE.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SESSUE HAYAIvAWA in
THE DEVIL’S CHAIN.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at &.
T THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
MELBOURNE.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE,
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD and SELZNICK.
gIiITANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Legal Notices.
mo THE WIFE AND CHILDREN of
X CIIEONG PAH (also known as PAH
CHEONG, also known as KWAN CHUNG
PAK), late of Auckland, New Zealand,
Settler, deceased, and to LI WAII, brother
of the said deceased, and to HAAM CHUH
(also known as GEORGY GHEE, also
known as LAU KIN KWONG), and sup-
posed to be in Sydney, Australia, nephew of
the said deceased, and to all persons claim-
ing by, through or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 29th
day of January, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of July, 1921,
your claim to the estate of CHEONG PAH,
the above-named deceased, who died intes-
tate at Auckland aforesaid, on the 25th day
of July, 1913, failing which the estate will
be distributed among those entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JAMES MANSON, father of Thomas
MANSON, deceased, and formerly of
Palmerston North, New Zealand, and to
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
29th day of January, 1921, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of June,
1921, your claim to the estate of the above-
named Thomas Manson, deceased, who died
intestate at Rongomai, New Zealand, on
the 31 th day of August, 1919, failing which
the estate will be distributed among those
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921. G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO BRIDGET NEARY, Sister of John
Near.y, late of Grove Bush, in the
Provincial District of Otago, in New Zea-
land, Ploughman, deceased, and all persons
claiming by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
29th day of January, 1921, by the Chief
Justice of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the first day of September, 1921,
your claim to the estate of John Neary, who
died intestate at Invercargill, in New Zea-
land, on the 17th day of June, 1917, failing
which the _ estate will be distributed among
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing: Friends.
IF WILLIAM GREEN (or DENNIS),
who left Northampton, England, as a
child about 1884-85, or anyone on his behalf,
will communicate with the undersigned, he
or they may learn something to advantage.
Dated this twenty-fourth day of January,
1921.
H. V. HANNAM,
Solicitor,
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
fF MISS ANN LOUISA PILLANS, described in
1890 as residing at Myres, Inchclutha, Stirling,
Otago, New Zealand, would communicate with The
Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association,
Limited, of 89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
she will hear of something to her advantage.
For Sale.
Freehold Timber Land for Sale
in British North Borneo.
2000 or 3000 acres of Good timber Land
for Sale.
THIS land has a good stand of timber to
the acre, including a large quantity of
the well-known Borneo hardwood “BIL-
LION.” The land when cleared of timber
would be ideal for the cultivation of Rubber,
and is situated about 25 miles from Sanda-
kan, being easy of access by launch. Trans-
port would present little difficulties. All
jungle is virgin, there being no secondary
growth. For full particulars apply to
BARLOW & CO., Singapore.
Barbed wire, English, 12-gauge,
Black, 35/6; Galvanised, 54/6 cwt.
Delivered rail, boat, Sydney. About 3 tons
of each. BOX 17, ROZELLE P.O.
Business Notice.
gif
HSf
mm
•'v •
rr-
wM
ABBEY
SHOES!
--the footwear you will like to wear.
Quite apart from the question of correct
style and perfect shoe shapes, our con-
stant aim is to give you
FOOT COMFORT
This feature, combined with exceptional
wearing quality, makes “Abbey” Shoes
continue to hold pride of place among
smart dressers.
This stylish Tan Willow Calf Oxford Shoe:
PRICE 40/- & 55/-
Also in Black Velour Calf, 47/6
Made in full sizes, and C, D and E
fittings.
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
[3
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Under the Turk in Constantinople:
A Record of Sir John Finch’s Em-
bassy, 1674-1681. By G. F. ABBOTT.
With a Foreword by Viscount
BRYCE, O.M. With Portraits. 18s.
net.
“It is quite impossible to do justice to this
fascinating' and scholarly book in the space
available to us. We can only urge our readers
to buy it and enjoy it themselves at leisure.
The pictures add to the interest of the text, and
the index is welcome.”— •The Near East.
Children of the Slaves. By
STEPHEN GRAHAM. 12s. net.
The Spectator: “We hope that Mr. Stephen
Graham’s ‘Children of the Slaves’ will be read
with the attention it deserves both in England
and in America.”
The League of Nations Starts: An
Outline by its Organisers. 10s. 6d.
net.
The Economics of Welfare. By A. C.
PIGOU, M.A., Professor of Political
Economy in the University of Cam-
bridge. 365. net.
Labor as an International Problem.
A Series of Essays comprising a Short
History of the International Labor
Organisation and a Review of General
Industrial Problems. By Various
Authors. Edited with Introduction
by E. JOHN SOLANO. 18s. net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Revieio of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Leading Contents for December:—
THE BRITISH COMMONWEALTH OP
NATIONS IN 1921.
THE PASSING OP WOODROW WILSON.
EGYPT A NATION.
THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CON-
FERENCE AT BRUSSELS AND ITS
LESSONS.
THE ANGLO-JAPANESE ALLIANCE.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE;
THE POLISH LITHUANIAN DISPUTE—
THE LITTLE ENTENTE—GERMAN
SOCIALISTS AND THE THIRD INTER-
NATIONAL.
Also Articles from “United Kingdom,” India,”
“Canada,” “Australia,” “South Africa” and
“New Zealand.”
Price ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
Lyra Heroica. A Book of Verse for
Boys. Selected and arranged by
WILLIAM ERNEST HENLEY. 3s.
6d. net. [ Golden "Treasury Series.
The Other Side of Death: A Study in
Christian Eschatology. By RONALD
G. MACINTYRE, M. K D.D. (Edin.),
Professor of Systematic Theology, St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney. Bs. 6d.
net.
The Church Family Newspaper : “Dr.
Macintyre’s book is throughout thoughtful and
well written.”
A Manual of the Timbers of the
World: Their Charticteristics and
Uses. By ALEXANDER L.
HOWARD, to which is appended an
account by S. FITZGERALD of the
Artificial Seasoning of Timber. With
upwards of 100 Illusttations. 30s.
net.
The Nation : “Mr. Howard's.; learned work.
The author has studied the subject for 40
years, and his clearly-arranged and
descriptions of the world’s commercial timbers
are probably the most comp lete \in existence.
He has treated the subject from its commercial,
technical and industrial aspects, but even the
general reader cannot fail to«: be if
he cares for trees at all.”
To be Obtaine/ti from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN § CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON* W.C.2.


Italian Wines
*
r
'U
O
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
\ and
\ Vermouth.
\ Diploma of Honor.
\ Gold Medals,
London and
other
exhibitions.
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
<y
*rv,
i «o*j
S
**92.
When You
ask. for
Lager-
IS
.The Beer
] without
/a Rival”
W. Chorley S CV
m
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
LADIES’ g
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
.*
313 George St.,
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hi:u Majesty's Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
“Baby Bunting”
, P *<* “Welcome Stranger”
n LI • “The Lilac Domino”
Opera House Shakspearean Plays
it„;„ _ Moving Pictures
LMON 1 tIEATRES Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ajesty ’ s “Humpty Dumpty”
m OiA " "The Maid of the Mountains”
“ vo, - : “Chu Chin Chow”
V “Cinderella”
host s De Luxe At Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
f, LI!A Moving Pictures
l RITANNIA Moving Pictures
GijAciahium Dancing
—
“lolanthe,” at Her Majesty’s. Sydney,
reminds the middle-aged critic that the
world —Ms world—is growing old. It was
a world that revolved round the British
1 arliament, and the picturesque old insti-
tution at Westminster is not what it was.
-Lliere are minor poets in Melbourne and
1 arramatta_ who still believe in fairies, but
could sportive young Strephon, mortal from
the waist down, come capering back to life
I arliament would be the last place that he
would be sent to as an instrument of pun-
ishment. Into a Labor Federation he would
go. 1 ossibly the Lord Chancellor, enveloped
in old-world habiliments, is still giving
agreeable girls away; but that annual blister,
Deceased Wife’s Sister, was pricked long
ago, and no self-respecting unit of the masses
or the lower middle classes would dream of
bowing to a procession of peers. Peers arc
nowadays two a penny. The House of
Lords is still suffered to do nothing in par-
ticular, and do it very well, but for all prac-
tical purposes it has been supplanted by the
new estate of industrialists, the unornamen-
tal leaders of which are neither humorous
themselves nor the cause of humor in others,
bo Gilbert’s satire has lost a lot of the old
pungency, but his fun and fancy are still
delightful, and Sullivan’s music has a quality
of freshness that time does not impair. The
present company’s work is creditable on the
whole and excellent in spots. Patti Russell
is a rather too pert and business-like Phyllis,
although she sings well. Molly Tyrrell,
promoted to Ethel Morrison’s part of the
h aii'y Queen, gives a capital account of her-
self. and is an actress of promise. Thelma
Carter has done better work than she shows
as lolanthe; in fact, the opening scene is
perfunctorily handled by lolanthe and the
fairies, but they are more at home at West-
minster in the second act. Of the men. Jack
Ralston is a serviceable, if stoutish, Stre-
phon; James Hay is a more convincing aris-
tocrat (Earl Tolloller) than he is a pirate’s
apprentice, and Frederick Hobbs (Earl
Mountararat) is nightly obliged, by General
Request, to give three helpings of “When
Britain JReally Ruled the Waves.” Also.
Albert Kavanagh makes a sufficiently real-
istic Private Willis, and if Walenn isn’t
exactly the Lord Chancellor that Gilbert
drew he is droll enough; moreover, the
audience evidently like the modern imnrove-
ments. “Patience” will reappear on Satur-
day night.
* sf: $ #
Allan Wilkie revived “Hamlet” at Sydney
Opera House on Monday night. It was
an astonishing tour-de-force, not only on the
“Chu Chin Choic,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
The cobbler sings
“The Cobbler's
Song."
part of the two
st a r performers
but on that of the
rank and file of
the company, inas-
much as their sea-
son opened with
“The Merchant of
Venice” on Satur-
day, and “Twelfth
Night” was staged
on Tuesday. Wilkie
depicts the melan-
choly Dane as a
sane man tempo-
rarily overwrought,
and if he is to be
dramatically inte-
resting there is no
other way in which
he can be repre-
sented. The actor’s
beautiful voice and
masterly elocution
’made music of the
verse, and the
simplicity of
the production
(there was not
much more scenery
than managers
allowed themselves
, , , . , , i n Shakspeare’s
day) heightened the classic effect aimed
at. Miss Hunter-Watts was a path-
etic and sweet Ophelia, and the lesser
characters were well done, notably ,T.
I lumpton Wilson’s Polonius. Wilkie’s
Shy lock was impressive and dignified,
particularly in the Court scene. Miss
Hunter-Watts was heavy and humorless in
the dialogues with her lovers, but gave an
excellent showing as the young Doctor of
Law. Loraa Forbes made the little rene-
gade Jessica Shylock a tempting piece of
flesh and blood, and Plumpton Wilson’s work'
as Launcelot ranked next to Allan’s own.
To-morrow (Friday) “Twelfth Night” holds
the boards, and on Saturday the Macbeth
lady will search vainly for a bloodstain-
eradicator.
*•*
The final nights are announced of “Baby
Bunting” at Sydney Criterion. After a
brief Melbourne season Dorothy Brunton is
tearing back to a London job. Joe Coyne,
a comedian who is idolised almost as much
in England as he is in America, will follow
at the Cri. with “His Lady Friends” —one
of Charles Hawtrey’s latest successes.
** * *
The Palace Theatre is still “The Welcome
Stranger’s” Sydney residence, and there is no
present indication that the Stranger medi-
tates shifting camp.
* * * *
“The Lilac Domino,” at Sydney Tivoli,
has outlasted all the plays that began contem-
poraneously with it at Christmas. It came
in with surfing, and may conceivably go out
with football.
The latest in “Chu Chin Chow,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, is a new Marjanah, daughter-
in-law elect to Ali Baba. Whilst Liddle who
imitates Workman in the fat and round
capacity of Ali is growing easier in his acting,
the new Marjanah gives a more strictly tune-
ful expression to the ballads Winifred
O’Connor used to warble, and follows close
on the lines of musical elocution that pro-
ducer Cochrane laid down for the picturesque
part. Miss O’Connor’s fluent high soprano
inclined to sharpness, whereas Ida Griffin,
her successor, is more sincerely on the note
all the time, and her flowing wig is more in
harmony with the blood-red sun that sets on
the desert oasis when Omar is about to sing
his long prayer to Allah. Mention of which
reminds one that Frank Charlton’s resonant
“BABY BUNTING,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Mr. Gig glen wick
(Geo. Willoughby)
demands an explanation.
baritone could do with another lump of
sugar. Though not unfeeling it is some-
what hard and pessimistic. For five long-
years, it seems, Omar has been roaming the
desert on a white horse, praying to be re-
stored to Vera Pearce, and probably he is
beginning to lose hope when the show opens.
Five years are a long time for a young Arab
to be praying for the same girl.
The most noticeable occurrences in Mel-
bourne shows these hoi and cold weeks are
changes in the cast. Understudies are com-
ing into their own. Some nights recently
“The Maid of the Mountains,” at Melbourne
Royal, had a new form and face in the name
part. What time the Bulletin was saying
of Gladys Moncrieff that she is “always in
good voice” the rarely-indisposed lady was
out of the bill with a sore throat. Zoe Wenke
rushed from a minor part to the rescue of the
performance, Zoe being a sweetly capable
songstress whose slight resemblance to
Gladys Moncrieff is tinged with a dayk sug-
gestion of Dorothy Byunton. Her proud, de-
fiant gait—the Spanish roll in her walk, so
to speak—was more crudely pronounced than
it is in her model, but all things considered
the imitation was clever. Also Leslie Hol-
land was missing from the aged and infirm
part of Crumpet last time this journal viewed
the vice-regal suite at Santo, and the gar-
ments of Holland were lending false dimen-
sions to the contour of another Leslie, named
Victor. Crumpet’s duties are not of the first
importance. He merely limps attendance
upon Governor Stigant and ministers to his
harmless vanity when required, so the differ-
ence between husky elderly Holland and
ancient emaciated Victor could be seen rather
than felt.
$ #
One more week and down comes the cur-
tain on “Humpty Dumpty” at Melbourne
Majesty’s. The J.C.W. advt. calls special
attention to Maggie Dickinson in this matter,
for after the panto, she will be off to England
with a husband. Maggie will be missed, like-
wise the fine array of girls who figure in the
“Rose of Love” item, surmounted by flaxen
wigs and supported bv limbs of loveliness.
Moreover the acrobats, the King, and the
Dame will not easily be forgotten, par-
ticularly the Dame who once married the
butcher in preference to the milkman be-
cause blood is thicker than water. After the
panto, comes “Baby Bunting.”
sjs % ili
The only noteworthy happening at Mel-
bourne Princess's
last week was the
temporary retire-
ment of principal-
boy Amy Rochelle,
who had been sing-
ing heavily twice
a day and was
popularly sup-
posed to have had
her top C in
splints. Doris
Davis filled the
vacant tights with
every appearance
o f belonging t o
them, but her
warble hadn’t the
absent Amy’s
wealth of tuneful-
ness, nor was hex
bearing conspicu-
ous 1 y princely.
Amy is now back
in the old place,
and trills a lot
better for the
spell.
“Sin bad the
Sailor,” which has
been perishing
slowly on account
of the shipping
.strike, has revived
sufficiently <» to go
to Adelaide for a
change. The Mel-
bouirne King’s is
“Sinbad the Sailor, "
at Melbourne King’s.
Jennie Hartley as the
principal boy.
now closed, but will reopen on the 26th
inst. with an amateur production of “Figaro”
under the baton of Fritz Hart.
** * *
In the “Iron Rider,” at Sydney Strand,
William Russell deluges with lead a Wild-
Western town whose sheriff is wicked, but
whose daughter is beautiful. Everybody in
the story gets shot at least once, but the
Iron Rider has the last word. At the Hay-
market and Globe is Ethel Clayton in “The
City Sparrow,” who takes her torn plumage
into the restful country and there falls in
love with a farmer lad. At the same
address Fatty Arbuckle tries on a suit of
drama that doesn’t fit nearly so well as the
old comedy parts. A “Journey Through
Filmland,” at the Crystal Palace and Lyceum,
has neither rhyme nor reason, to say no-
thing of humor, to commend it. At the
Lyceum Mae Murray learns the ABC of
love from a playwright who marries her to
rescue her from starvation.
“Under Crimson Skies” at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne, is a violent yarn of Mexico which
exhibits the hopeless incapacity of the movie
super as a fighting-man, and “Just a Wife,”
which follows it, is a conventional tale of
the Infernal Triangle. A new foreign actress,
Mile. Thea, appears in “Who Has the Best
Time?” She is remarkable for nothing
except melodramatic gestures. The Majes-
tic’s latest shocker is “The Prey”; it pre-
sents Alice Joyce as the martyr of a black-
mailing sharebroker. June Caprice also
appears in a cuddlesome adventure called
“The Love Cheat.” The Britannia has
found room for “The White Dove” for two
or three days, but the pull of Jack Lon-
don’s “Mutiny of the Elsinore” at the Melba
next door will probably affect the Britannia’s
money-box.
At Melbourne Athenaeum Miss A. R. Dent
hangs 115 canvases, 70 or 80 of which in
two or three years she will want to forget.
Her landscapes are especially immature, but
in portraiture, which is obviously her bent,
she does well with studies of an old lady
(No. 62), and of a solid old military colonel.
“Soliloquy” (No. 34) is not so effective, but
the lady’s confident painting compensates
for the conventional pose and the pathetic
expression of meditation. There is a good
attempt at realising a high side-light in
the “Boy’s Head” (No. 42), but her impres-
sion of the saucy actress, Muriel Window,
who toured Australia with Harry Lauder,
is really too natural to be true. Privately
or publicly, Muriel had a charming pose for
every situation. A colorfully-theatrical cos-
tume-study, with bands of yellow, brown and
crimson framing a small bare section of
immaterial female, is the kind of thing Miss
better glow out as ei ' brush behaves
M alter Massy Greene, the youthful-
looking, red-headed Minister for Customs, who
is booked for the job of putting the amended
tariff through the House of Reps., counts
for more than any Federal Minister outside
the inner circle, which consists, since Watt
went, of Hughes, Cook and Millen. (The
innermost circle of course consists of Hughes
himself.) Massy’s strong suit is sticking
to it , he is persistent and hard-working
though not brilliant. Though few know it
\\ altei was born in England, and was 17
when he lit out for Australia.
I ieice . _Lhe modern steam sailor doesn’t
bother about ear-rings, but a good many
oldei seamen who were in windjammers in
their youth, if they aren’t still there, still
sport rings in their ears. Many of the
bargemen who run ketches and schooners on
the Tasmanian coast exhibit the ornaments
and the Speck’s fishermen also favor them!
There is an idea that the piercing of the
ears for rings makes for keen eyesight. There
are a few successful business men ashore
who have had their ears pierced, though
they have taken the rings out .since they
ceased to follow the sea. And they cer-
tainly have a keen eye to the main chance.
“Dido”: A Melbourne solicitor of some
eminence, conspicuous till quite recently for
the shabbiness of his coat, the precarious
condition of his trousers and a hat that
looked as if it had been repeatedly walked
On by cows, has astonished his friends by a
sudden revolution in his attire. And this
was the way of it. He was standing on
the corner of Swanston and Flinders streets
waiting for his tram. lie had three papers
in his hand, Argus, Age and Herald. Sud-
denly a large, hurried citizen rushed up,
tore the Herald from Conveyancer’s grasp,
slipped a penny in his hand and fled to
catch his train. Then with the resolute
expression of a soldier about to go over the
top, Conveyancer headed for his tailor’s and
ordered a new outfit.
“Billy T.”: Morton had fallen a beautiful,
tall, symmetrical gum at the top of the rise
down which, at a distance of about SOyds.,
stood Flynn’s rather fragile bark hut. Morton
trimmed the stick, which was almost as
round as if it had been turned, and they were
preparing to put the bull team to it when the
log began to roll. In one revolution it was
clean out of control, and then it fairly
whizzed down the abrupt slope, jumped into
Flynn’s hut and went through it as if it had
been a house of cards, leaving even Tim’s
tin plates flattened out much as if a street
roller had stepped on them. Barker took the
news to Flynn where he worked at the
pyrites roasting-plant, and Tim stared
round-eyed as the tale progressed. Then he
clicked his tongue and piously blessed God.
“Be the holy,” said he, “ ’tis a very good
thing afther all I didn’t marry and have a
family.”
“THE MERCHANT
OF VENICE
AT SYDNEY
OPERA
HOUSE.
Allan Wilkie as Shylock.
Although it was generally understood that
when Alec Peacock entered the Lawson
Ministry he was to be the equal-in-all-things
of Lawson, Arthur Robinson, of the Uppak
Chambah, who is Attorney-General, takes
command when Lawson is at the sea-
side or at Castlemaine and talks freely
about the coal strike. Incidentally,
for the time he acts, the seat of Govern-
ment is changed from the eastern part of
the city to Collins House, at the Little
Collins-street end of which is situated Arthur’s
office (he is a solicitor in large practice).
Collins. House has, of course, been a sort
of auxiliary throne-room for years, but the
veil used to be drawn; now it is lifted.


PA. A#
if
1 .
. . ■
wsWmm
a
>’ r' v'
M
: v
TtJkA*:-
.
K&Vi -
"v
<S°LD TO
YOU
THE DAY
THEY
ARE MADE
nm
ID
JKOCOIuATRS,. /,
i&s. 1- rTT '/ST.rS'YDNTET
n
Isn't she sweet 7
Your children will look equally nice in
this refined yet economical fabric.
CEPEA
FABRICS
CEPEA SERGE
An unshrinkable Cotton Serge
in fast-coloured checks and stupes
on cream grounds. Width 30"
For smart costumes, jumpers, blouses,
sports coats and pyjamas.
SHEENORE
A beautiful fabric with a novel
“shot” effect and a unique ‘‘crepe-y.
cashmere-y” feel. Width 37"
For evening gowns, wraps, day frocks,
jumpers, overblouses, kimonos . boudoir
wraps, hat trimmings and scarves.
CEPEA UNDEVOILE
The fast-colour voile for
“undies,” blouses, and frocks ;
fin simple designs. Width 40"
Also producers of the well-known
GRAFTON VOILES,
VOILE DE CHINE,
AMAZON 36" CAMBRICS,
CYLKCEL, CRUMS PRINTS,
GEMARKORD.
This is only one of the many designs of Cepea Serge which
makes such dainty little frocks for children. 1 iiere are other
colours and designs to suit the needs of all.
STORES FOR any of these or
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS TO
. J. Gunning & Co.
93, York Street,
SYDNEY.
mn
W. J. Gunning & Co.
262. Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
PRINTERS ASSOCIATION LTD. St. James’s Buildings, Manchester, England.
BUCKLEY’S
ANNUAL
SUMMER SALE
NOW PROCEEDING.
A SALE OFFERING
THE MOST PRONOUNCED SAVINGS
IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Because every individual item of our huge stock is
reduced, and because the reductions are genuine. BUCKLEY’S
SUMMER SALE offers the means towards effecting BIG
SAVINGS on your present and coming needs.
This is a GENUINE CLEARANCE SALE offering
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS on all classes of Summer
Goods.
BUCKLEYS
V
Buckley $ Nunn Ltd., Bourke St., Melbourne.'
spy
fij
D
i *
H
D>^‘
fIM
mmm*
ffl
gPCIMIIB
You Wouldn’t
Dig a Hundred-
acre Paddqck
with a Spade.
The plow saves time and
money. Why, therefore, in-
crease cost of production by
painting with brush when you
can secure the
Airostyle i
Paint-Spraying
Outfit?
The Airostyle saves 55% in wages alone, guarantees ,
a fine, permanent finish, is easy to operate, reliable,
and used by the Admiralty, War Office, Royal Flying
Corps and by the largest manufacturing concerns.
The Airostyle supersedes brush painting and gives a
fine lustrous, lasting finish.
Write for details.
Tf r. -V. V'. *, • w - > • '"v - - . tv. .•
m
Phone Cent 403/
nm
NATIONAL
MUTUAL
'BUILDINGS
ENGINEERING
mm
C? COLLINS 8, OUEEN STREETS
Box/303CPo ■ MELBOURNE ■
K.S.W. Agents: AUSTRAL ENGINEERING CO., Kent Street , Sydney. »■
S.A. Agents: PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, .Adelaide.
'^rilbane 48611181 GEXERAL MACHINERY & ELECTRIC AL CO.,


Solid 15ct. Gold “Marigold” Brooch,
with Pearl Centre, £3/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set with Sapphire
and Pearls, £5/5/-
Stewart Dawson’s Modern and
Artistic FLORAL JEWELLERY.
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic Gift Jewellery.
These “True to Nature” Brooches are all hand-chased in 15ct.
Gold, with green gold worked in to enhance the realistic effect.
You are cordially invited to inspect the displays in our establish-
ments.
Stewart Dawson & @(w)Ltd.
Si/c/neif :
185 -187 PITT ST. XEAR KIISP ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE SX^
if
&
Flannel Flower, loot. Gold, £3/10/-
Solid 15ct. Gold “Waratah” Brooch,
£6/10/-
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“O. Blin”: Apropos “Stargazer’s” re-
ference to George Darrell (B. 10/2/’2l), an
old friend assures me that George had no
illusions about his theatrical ability. Once
during the run of “The Sunny South” he had
a wild idea of playing Hamlet to let the
audience forget his poor work in his own
piece. “But,” said the candid friend, “what
would you do to make the populace over-
look your acting as the Prince?” “Hang it,
I never thought of that,” answered George
gloomily. “I suppose I would have to re-
vive ‘The Sunny South.’ ”
“S.S.”: He was a short, solid block of an
actor in the days of the second Dampier.
The type is now quite extinct, excepting
among comedians. Men who look like
butchers’ blocks on short legs are no longer
permitted to be serious, and sincere on the
stage. The show had been successful, and the
gifted management gave a Sunday picnic, to
“The Merchant of
Venice,” at Sydney
Opera House.
Fred Macdonald as
Salarino.
which, of course,
good old solid Flat-
foot was invited.
The liquor for the
entertainment o f
the guests was
lodged in a clump
of ti-tree, where it
had a chance of
keeping moderately
cool. The experi-
ment was not a
success. Early in
the day Flatfoot
was discovered re-
cumbent among
many empties, and
as drunk as a pois-
on e d beetle. H e
was stood on end
and bitterly re-
buked before the
full strength of the
company. “You
greedy little
s w i n e,” h e w a s
told; “the smallest
in the crowd, and
you have taken
three men’s share.”
Flatfoot squared
his shoulders and
assumed the atti-
tude of Macbeth in
one of his most
tragic moments.
“Sir-r-r,” he elo-
outed, “I did not imagine the liquor was to
be distributed according to physical propor-
tions. I thought it was to be divided accord-
ing to merit —merit, sir!” Then he fell on
his scarlet nose.
“Carker” : An Australian, actor has. been
cured of eccentric habits by a brain-wave on
the part of the firm that employs him.
Becoming inflated with his own greatness he
got into the way of absenting himself from
the show. Once or twice he darted away
in the middle of a performance, and it has
taken him as much as a fortnight to remem-
ber to come back. At first the management,
which regards the offender as a brilliant
asset, sent emissaries along to beg him to
be good and turn up in future with reason-
able regularity. But the young man’s ab-
sences became so frequent and protracted
that, in desperation, his bosses shoved another
man into his part at a rehearsal and had
him “accidentally” advised of the change.
The news was better than a shower-bath
for the languid genius. He caught the first
tram into the theatre and hasn’t missed a
performance since.
“0.K.”: Whatever was the true size of
David Garrick’s “greatness” as an actor it
seems certain that posterity will always keep
the little man famous. There must have
been a few other gifted mummers in the long
past, but they missed the post-mortem ad-
vertisement lavished on Garrick and his some-
time best girl, Peg Woffington. Generations
of theatre-goers have seen the “David Gar-
rick” comedy in which all types and condi-
tions of actors, from the late “Dundreary”
Sothern down to Julius Knight, have
presented the hero in a more or less
unconvincing state of pretended in-
toxication. Recently a somewhat
altered version of the David Garrick
story was played by Martin Harvey
in London, and at the same time an-
other version was staged, in an elabo-
rated form, as a picturesque opera
likely to become popular. The com-
poser, Reginald Somerville, was his
own librettist, and his rearrangement
of the previous story shows him
as a master of his business.
“David Garrick,” the opera, has
its first act in Ranelagh Gar-
dens ; in the next act the alder-
manic father of love-struck
Ada gives a gorgeous ball
instead of a stodgy little dinner
party, and then the opera ends
in the green room of Drury
Lane Theatre, where David per-
suades Ada to go away and
be a sensible little thing. Garrick s memory
will never die of neglect. But no amount ot
boosting will ever go to prove that public
taste in his day could distinguish between
genius and mere ranting capacity.
“Fanuela”: An acquaintance of mine.
(etaf 16, is a conjurer of sorts, and recently
gave his first show. Disguised in a hired
moustache, he posted the bills, engaged hall,
pianist and ticket-collector, was His own
cashier, and did sleight-offhand tricks for an
hour and a half. That exhausted his reper-
toire, and the engaging youth announced that
his “company” had failed to show up, and
that he would go on with the game after a
short interval, during which the pianist
would oblige. While the pianist was obliging
the entrepreneur packed his effects and left
by the rear window. He followed the rail-
wav line to the next station, where he
counted the profits—£3 4s. 6d. He 11 get
on if he isn’t hanged.
“E.T.”: When we put up Bernard Shaw’s
“Man and Superman” in Perth, with the
Julius Knight-Irene Browne crowd, we had
an idea that it would be “above their heads
or at least “caviare to the general.” Shaw s
works had been usually associated with
“repertory,” which, in most playgoers’ minds,
is synonymous with dulness. But the piece
was received with delight. Said the star
critic at my boarding-house the following
day: “That’s the kind of play to. bring us~
something we don’t have to think about.
And the landlady was equally complimen-
tary. “It wasn’t like a play at all, she
said; “seemed just as if you were making
it all up as you went along.”
“Private Boxer”: It is melancholy to
reflect how many leading men the Austra-
lian stage has known —stars in their day—
who have “gone on a voyage.” The list
includes Phil Beck. Charles Warner, Cuyler
Hastings, Arthur Dacre, Wallace Brownlow
and George Darrell.
What the American public wants, and
gets, is neatly summarised by N.Y. Life in
a three-line criticism of a new farce at the
Eltinge theatre“Ladies’ Night : Three
men in the wrong department of a lurkisli
bath. It couldn’t have been done m worse
taste, and couldn’t be doing better business.
“Nella”: “0.K.” (B. 10/2/’2l) accuses
me of “evading points and camouflaging
issues” —whatever that may be u Well, here s
chapter and verse. Says “O.Iv.”:
At that time (1889) Nellie Stewart had never
attempted to be other than decoratively theatrical
in a Gilbert and Sullivan creation.... She was not
then the Nellie who could score heavily as Ma Mie
Rosette.
To which I rise to reply thus: At that
time (1889) Nellie Stewart was at her
operatic zenith. She had sung the leads
with emphatic success in “Les Cloches,
“lolanthe,” “La Mascotte,” “Patience,
“Pinafore,” “Mikado,” “Pirates,” “Tambour
Major,” “Faust,” and I know not how many
more operas, comic operas and pantos. Also
she had completely collared her public. It
she then was half the inept things that
“OK.” implies, she put up an exceptionally
good bluff. But I think “OK.” is singular
in ' his caustic criticism. Anyhow, when
Nellie Stewart had been a recognised
operatic star for a quarter of a century she
lost her singing voice completely, yet at once
made good in comedy, high comedy, diama
and in Shakspeare, an unparalleled achieve-
ment. Surely she had something more than
“charming artificiality” in her make-up
Certainly this great artist doesn’t need any
special pleading at this time o’ day, any
more than she deserves the K.O. from
“0.K.”
“Wang”: Mention of Pagel (B. 27/l/’2l)
reminds me of an incident in which that
huge mass of brawn took part at a Vic.
country showground about 20 years ago. He
was giving an exhibition of his strength
in a tent, and his spruiker was a small
voluble lady with a lurid vocabulary. Along-
side Pagel’s show was a Dago with a troupe
NO SINECURE.
CRITIO : “Doris Spottlite has the most diffi-
cult part in the new show."
THE GIRL: “ Difficult? Heavens, she doesn’t
say a word.”
CRITIC : “Well, isn’t that difficult —for a
woman?"
of performing dogs and monkeys, the vast
popularity of which angered the lady exceed-
ingly, more especially as the strong man’s
tent was almost empty. Furiously she
questioned the sanity of a population that
preferred unclean monkeys and dogs to clean
ponies and feats of strength. The ape-mer-
chant grinned insultingly and continued
raking in the cash. Then Madame retired
inside the tent, whither her Samson had gone
with the pony. Pagel emerged and made for
the monkey-man, whose patrons streamed
out hurriedly, some with monkeys hanging
around their necks. Yelping dogs for-
got their tricks and scurried away like com-
mon tripe-hounds. The tent collapsed, and
Pagel emerged from the ruins with a scared
Dago, held by the scruff of his neck, in one
hand, and a monkey in the other. He rubbed
the noses of human and simian together, threw
them into a biting and kicking heap and
retired to his tent. I can still see that mon-
key proprietor trying to coax his stock-in-
trade from the tops of the trees in which they
had taken refuge from a strong bloke in his
wrath.
“Private Boxer”: Dunsany, the Irish
lord, who was fined £25 the other
day for having “arms in his possession
not under effective military control,”
has won world-wide fame with his
curiously individual novels and plays. Aus-
tralia has a very slight acquaintance with
the latter —they are not the “dead certs” that
our theatrical managers prefer to put their
money on. A furtive, Sunday-night perform-
ance of the eerie “Night at an Inn” was
given at . Sydney Criterion about a couple of
years ago, and the Tait Repertory crowd in-
troduced “The Lost Silk Hat”; but Dun-
sany’s many other contributions to the stage
have not been sighted. And it’s hardly
likely they ever will be.
“Old Pot”: In Captain Reece, of the
Mantelpiece, W. S. Gilbert refers to the
amusements provided for the crew, and in-
stances the zoetrope or wheel of life. This,
I believe, was really the forerunner of the
motion-picture from which the idea of the
projected photograph was evolved. The zoe-
trope is almost a thing forgot, but in Sydney
there is one public man who remembers it
well. This is W. Harrington Palmer, one of
the official assignees, whose father was the
possessor of a “zoe” and used to lend it to the
organisers of bazaars. The zoetrope consisted
of a tin cylinder in which there were slots
to look through. Into it were placed draw-
ings in various stages of completion. One
subject might be a man climbing a ladder
and the first picture would show his foot on
the first rung of a ladder, the second with the
foot a little further up, and so on. These
drawings were inserted in the zoetrope and
the cylinder was revolved at a high speed.
Those looking into the slots seemed to see the
man running up the ladder. The same effect
used to be gained in another way by quickly
turning the leaves of a book of pictures. The
Bab Ballad of “Captain Reece” furnished
Gilbert with the plot of “H.M.S. Pinafore.”
“Film Up” : The get-rich-quick American
is an easy mark for the legions of snide
picture-company promoters in his native
land. So much so that a vigilance committee
of the National Association of the Kinema
industry has been appointed. During the
last 12 months the members had a busy
time. They investigated 70 “wild-cat”
schemes, only two or three of which had any
assets or proved earning capacity, and
less than half-a-dozen had officials with
any experience of the business. More than
£62,000,000 of worthless film company shares
were offered to the public in the year. It is
hardly any wonder that a slump in the
business is recorded.
“Smike”: Strella Wilson, who has given
her voice a preliminary run in G. and S.
opera in Sydney and Melbourne, is going to
Chicago to do grand-opera work for Herman
Defries, regarded as the greatest authority
on French opera in the U.S.A. Herman, who
sang under the personal baton of Gounod,
Massenet and other French composers, put
the varnish on the warble of Strelia’s hubby,
Ralph Errolle.
The old-fashioned theatre stock co.—
possibly under the new name of Repertory
—seems likely to be one of the very few
institutions in England to profit bj the h.c.l.
The travelling co. is becoming a luxury, too
costly for anything but the most established
successes; increased fares, the difficulty in
getting lodgings at all, and the cost of them
if got, have made one firm alone, Grossmith
and Laurillard, withdraw seven cos. from
“the road.” As a result, every town of any
size seems likely to revert to the old manners
of half a century back, and have its own
resident lot of players.
E. J. Brady is a director of a striking
movie enterprise which proposes to film
features of his book, “Australia Unlimited,”
for the purpose of Advertising this conti-
nent as a wonderful void. Brady, whose
patriotic motives cannot be questioned, is
introducing his propaganda into effectively
illustrated film stories, with the hope that
while his audiences are enjoying the yarn
they will keep an eye on the illustrations.
The bits of the Commonwealth to be pic-
tured are calculated to capture the imagina-
tive immigrant, especially as they will pro-
bably be accompanied by opulent vocal de-
scriptions by the founder of the scheme.
“BABY BUNTING,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Harry Wooton as the customer who turned
out to he the bailiff.
“Rienzi”: Zoe Wenke is another brilliant
young Australian who is rapidly moving to
the front in J.C.W. shows. Not long ago
Zoe was a promising amateur w 7 ho caught the
critical ear by her bright warbling in Boc-
caccio” at Melbourne Princess’s. It was a
striking success for a comparatively unknown
girl. Zoe had her first big chance as deputy
for Gladvs Moncrieff in the recently departed
success, “The Boy.” The other night when
Gladys dropped out of “The Maid of the
Mountains” through a sore throat, Zoe
appeared as the Maid, and the performance
she put up brought a gale of applause.
“The Old ’Un”: The press printed a yarn
that the late George Darrell grieved because
he never heard from his absent son Rupert.
Young Darrell has been in America for some
years—his latest address was a theatre in
Chicago —and as he is diligent in writing
to friends out here, and was always regarded
as a decent sort, the likelihood is that he
never forgot his dad.
THE ART LOVER AT THE PANTOMIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The soloist in the foreground merely interrupts
public -view of the numerous and beauteous chorus-
girl in mid-distance.” — B. 27/l/’2l.
I can’t enjpy the “Dame’s” old wheezes
Anent her dear departed hubby.
The inartistic soul she pleases,
Perhaps; I think her gauche and grubby!
Something more elegant 1 crave for—
Let nothing outre ever bore us,
I pray! All my applause I save for
The beauteous middle-distance chorus.
The “King” and “Queen” I’d fain demolish,
To me their efforts are pathetic.
The “knock-abouts,” devoid of polish,
I’d knock out, too —the taste esthetic
Should be encouraged. When, dead centre,
The red-nosed comics stand before us,
1 close my eyes till there shall enter
The lissom middle-distance chorus.
The “girl” and “boy,” who in the foreground
Canoodle —who would ever grumble
If they were given less, not more, ground?
They but obscure the view of humble
Art-followers. We grab our glasses
Hoping they’ll exit and restore us
The vision splendid of the lasses
Who are the middle-distance chorus.
VICTORIA.
E. T.


Gillette
The scientific angle-stroke, the
keen blade and the individual
adjustment for every beard make
the LilLLhl It, pre-eminent ror
real shaving-comfort.
No stropping—no honing.
Standard Set, in leather case, 28/6
Obtainable Everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO..
Montreal, Canada.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO.. LTD.,
Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
m
WOULD OVE»
•KNOWN THE
GOODS FOR THE
GARAGEMAN S REPAIRER
nm
One of the latest acquisitions to our Stock
is a Shipment of
ENGLISH BALL RAGES
as made by the Auto-motive Machinery Co.
These good British Productions are
distinctly
RIGHT IN DESIGN and RIGHT IN PRICE.
“5.R.8.” AMERICAN BALL RACES as usual, made by onfe of
the biggest manufactories in the world.
EMERY CLOTH in Sheets and Rolls, in all degrees of Fineness,
and with STRONG Canvas Backing.
CLEVELAND TWIST
DRILLS, all Shanks,
also Plain and Expand-
ing REAMERS.
n
STARRET’S PRECISION LATHE TOOLS, at
prices very much lower than can be had elsewhere.
Send a list of your requirements, and we will be
pleased to quote you.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE HOUSE for MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.
mn
m
TWIST
DRILLS
Scientifically and
Mechanically Correct.
Chemists holding the highest qualifications as specialists in alloy combina-
tions worked out the formula for the quality of steel to be used in the
making of Capital High-Speed Twist Drills.
Their instructions were carried out by a staff of engineers unsurpassed in
Sheffield, the acknowledged home of high-grade steel products.
The first Capital High-Speed Twist Drills were true to specifications, and
quickly won their way to the foremost place for their durability, their
keen cutting and their all-round reliability. That proud position has been
easily maintained during the many years that have followed.
Better and Quicker Work
is obtained when you use Capital High-Speed Twist Drills. They are'
unrivalled for Drilling Hard and Soft Steel, Cast Iron, etc.
Their points are specially thinned, thus minimising the possibility of split-
ting, and at the same time giving increased life.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra=Capital High-Speed Steel,
879-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart.
S 2
Hi
TRADE
MARK
CAPITAL
The following sizes are
in stock, and immediate
delivery can be given:—
With Taper Shanks.
Dia—l/16, 5/64, 3/32, .1/8, 9/64, 5/32,
11/64, 3/16, 13/64.
Dia—7/32, 15/64, 1/4, 17/64, 19/64,
5/16, 11/32, 23/64, 3/8.
Dia—2s/64, 13/32, 27/64, 7/16, 29/64,
15/32, 33/64, 1 7/32, 35/64.
Dia—9/16, 37/64, 5/8, 41/64, 21/32,
43/64, 11/16, 45/64, 3/4.
Dia—2s/32, 51/64, 13/16, 27/32, 55/64,
7/8, 5 7/64, 29/32, 59/64.
Dia—ls/16, 61/64, 31/32, 63/64, lin.,
M/32, M/16, 1-5/64.
Dia—l-3/32, 1-1/8, 1-3/16, 1-7/32, 1-1/4,
1-9/32, 1-5/16.
Dia—l-1 1/32, 1-3/8, 1-13/32, 1-7/16,
1-15/32, 1-1/2, 1-1 7/32.
Dia—l-9/16, 1-5/8, 1-21/32, 1-3/4,
1-13/16, 1-27/32, 1-29/32.
Dia—l-15/16, 1-31/32.
With Straight Shanks.
Dia—l/16, 3/32, 7/64, 1/8, 9/64, 5/32,
11/64, 3/16, 7/32.
Dia—l/4, 17/64, 9/32, 19/64, 5/16,
11/32, 3/8, 13/32, 7/16.
Dia—ls/32, 1/2, 39/64, 3/4.
Special Drills can be supplied to order for indent.
Prices and further particulars on application to
Dent. “A.”


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & eO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Wh isky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTY
(wiot
7
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
nm
A SPIRIT OF
HICH MEDICINAL VALUE
0
s
AROMATIC
All Hotels & Licensed Grocers
■
%
GUARANTEED
PURE
DISTILLED FROM
FINEST
AUSTRALIAN
CRAIN _
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
After winning the toss in the fourth Test
match in Melbourne the Englishmen only knocked
up 284. It was a long and dreary exhibition after
Hobbs, Rhodes, Hendren and Woolley had gone for
a total of 97, but Makepeace and Douglas playing
their favorite game put on a hundred valuable runs,
and a few minutes before time on the opening day
England’s tally of 4 for 270 gave promise of many
runs to follow. Then came a flash of disaster.
Makepeace fell to the wily Mailey for 117, and an-
other googly retired the unlucky Waddington for a
duck. Worse things happened on the Saturday,
when that terrible English tail trailed back to the
pavilion for an addition of 14 runs. Mailey, ex-
pensive at the start, got four for 115. Kelleway,
whose kick and length should makfe him troublesome
in England, had the best average with three for 37.
Carter snapped Rhodes, Hobbs and Hendren. Bardsley
and Collins, Australia’s openers, passed the first cen-
tury with their wickets intact, after which Douglas
discovered a disturbing combination in Woolley and
Fender. Woolley, keeping a fine length, whilst
Fender spun and flighted his ball with great dexterity,
soon had the board showing five for 153, Taylor,
Ryder and Pellew hurrying back for two, seven and
12 respectively. At this stage Armstrong joined
Gregory, who had been sent in earlier than usual.
Gregory will be a great bat when he learns to place
them. In this respect Armstrong set him a good
example with some of the prettiest work ever seen on
the M.C.C. Most of Armstrong’s 123 (not out) was
compiled under the handicap of a bout of malaria,
and once or twice the big Victorian nearly foundered
between the wickets. It was a great effort under
any circumstances, and the crowd nearly stamped the
stands down as he made the stroke that brought him
his 2000th run in Test matches —a feat only accom-
plished hitherto by Trumper, Syd Gregory and Clem
Hill. Mailey was formidable in England’s second
innings. At one stage his average was 3 for 10.
Douglas came off again. He is a most resolute cus-
tomer, but he never gets set sufficiently to enable him
to bash the bowling with anything like abandon.
Fender’s bowling suggested that Douglas might
have used him before. He possesses the devious spin
that all the critics demand should be included in the
Australian XV. This is only his second Test, and
probably If Hearne and Russell had been fit, he would
have joined Wilson and twisted his mo. in deep emo-
tion over the cricket he was missing.
As the batting grows duller in modern cricket the
fielding tends to become more dramatic. Parkin
frequently stops a drive by collecting the ball in
the rebound off his foot. After performing this feat
several times in the Fourth Test he finally brought
down the house by getting the ball between his
heels and kicking it backwards into the bowler’s
hands. The visitors are also showing Australia the
virtue of throwing batsmen out. Knocking over the
wicket from the outfield is always good business, for
even if the batsman is in his crease when the sticks
are scattered, there is the moral effect to be con-
sidered. It is absolute death on short runs.
* * * *
Mailey has compiled a book of caricatures
depicting the Australian XV who will play cricket
in England. It includes a note of appreciation from
Warwick Armstrong, should reach the bookstalls in
two or three days’ time, and is to be vended at
one bob.
* * * *
The Australian cricketers opened their
Maoriland tour with a match against Wellington on
Friday. The local team was practically the same
as that which met with success against Auckland
and Canterbury. Great interest was shown in the
appearance of Finlavson, who had not been available
previously. He is a bowler after the style of Horni-
brook. It was hoped he would prove one of the
Dominion’s main weapons of attack in the Test
Matches. He failed to come off, and the brunt of
the howling fell to Middleton. He is faster than
Finlavson. In addition to scoring 70 runs in the
Windy City’s first innings, he got 4 wickets for 92.
Ilornibrook met with a lot of success for the Aus-
tralians. He was difficult in Wellington’s first
knock, and when the frequent showers made the
wicket holding, his bowling became unplayable.
Bogle got a lucky 84, at the Aussies’ first attempt,
and the only others to show form were Richardson
(37) and Liddicut, who was run out for 50. The
Maorilanders failed in their second innings, and Aus-
tralia beat them by 8 wickets. The game was con-
tinued for the edification of the 12,000 spectators
present, and Kippax made a clinking 1-20.
* * * *
In Sydney Grade cricket on Saturday
’Varsity gave Balmain a sporting chance to win.
However, ’Main elected to play for a draw. Fol-
kard (to show his appreciation of being picked
against the Englishmen in the return inter-State
match) gave a good defensive display for 112
(n. 0.). His colleagues, on the other hand, fairly
rolled out before the indifferent Uni. bowling, and
time alone made the draw possible. As Gordon
finished up 8 runs ahead of Wests on the first
innings the latter went in, and, as a forlorn hope,
after Prentice, Arnott (81 n. 0.) and Lane had hit
CARTER THE GREAT, as seen last week
in his inimitable juggling act with Hur-
ricane Patsy Hendren.
up 154 runs to the good, they “declared.” The
Shore-liners, however, lost but four wickets in
securing an “outright” win. Bwyer (41) and J. S.
Taylor (52 n. 0.) played as if averages were not in
their thoughts, and Wests’ fielding was of the holiday
order. Petersham should have drawn with Waverley,
but Stevens (4 for 83) and Caswell (4 for 36), with
little or no aid from Hendry and Pite, dissuaded
them. Most of the batsmen let go at the tricky
Stevens. Wenholz (46) top-scored, and Scanes,
Adams and Emery also got runs, many of them at
the risk of the spectators’ lives. Norths, or to be
more accurate, Austin Punch (122), made a spirited
effort to reach Padington’s 237, but failed by 26
runs. E. Trenerry (3 for 69) bowled best for the
winners, but Punch scored consistently from all the
bowlers. Sydney trotted .out two reserve bowlers
in Smith (5 for 71) and Br. Willcocks (4 for 33)
and backed them up well in the field. They, alone,
made the “outright” win against Middle Harbor
possible as the Village batsmen, in their second
innings, treated Rowe and O’Connor with marked
disrespect, and Gee (39) got unlooked-for support
from Minnett, Newman and Anderson. C. Cumber-
land duly won against Glebe. Morgan, abetted by
the orchardists, who had left their bags at home,
hit up 86, but the others could no nothing with
Coogan (3 for 30). Fathers and Ritchie, also,
kept them guessing. Glebe in their second attempt
rattled up 2 for 86 (Munro 42), C.C. resting on
their laurels.
* * * »
The margin by which S. H. Fry beat
Hooper in the semi-final of the English amateur bil-
liards championship (namely, 280 in 2000) is really
much less than it looks, being only 14 in each
hundred, and shows how little there is between the
players. Hooper might win if they met again, just
as in practice games each man took his share, and
in one of them Hooper, who seemed over-
shadowed, came with a big break and won by a few
points. In the semi-final of the match this was
almost always a possibility, but failed to come off.
The game, unlike the others, was played in three
sessions, and Fry, taking the lead eariy, heard the
scores called 231 to 133 in his favor. Then Hooper
got in, and with 96, 73 and 130, wound up the
session 666 to 332. In the next Fry played solidly
and led 1334 to 1247. Hooper thenceforth gradu-
ally went from bad to worse, and although Fry
did not exceed the century he consistently pegged
Hooper back despite the latter’s efforts of 78, 59
and 92.
Hereford Racecourse, on the Kelso
(Bathurst) side of the Macquarie, was offered at
auction in six blocks last week. One lot of nine acres
went at £34 per acre. The Hereford Picnic Club
came into existence on the death of John Macphil-
lamy of Mount Tamar. The Western amateurs had
previously raced on one of his paddocks. The land
was part of a 2000-acre grant to Wm. Cox, repre-
senting his reward for making the first road over
the Mountains, 1914-15. From Hereford his sons
trekked to Mudgee and settled. The first club at
Hereford, then the property of James Rutherford, of
Cobb and Co., was a private syndicate with a 10-
years’ lease of the course and a right to purchase
which was never exercised. Later the course was
taken over by the Kelso Racing Club, and about
three years ago it reverted to the original owners.
“0.K.”: If Coq d’Or has been worth all
the forfeits and training expenses he has cost during
these patt three years or more he should get a win
or a place in the Futurity Stakes at Caulfield.
Under the weird conditions of that unique w.f.a.
race, the aged English horse gets in at 9st. 51b., as
against lOst. 61b. for Eurythmic and Greenstead,
and 9st, 111 b. for Gold Tie and Eusebius. In no
handicap has' Coq d’Or ever had so good a chance,
for the handicappers have always assumed him to
be a top-noteher when fit. They never troubled as
to whether he ever could be made fit. On the track
of late Coq d’Or has given no evidence that he can
beat such slippery sprinters as, say, Victrola, who
stands seven pounds lower down the scale.
* * * *
The Ma State’s Treasury collared £61,205
from the racecourse during January last, and
£281,475 for the first seven months of the financial
year. Of the latter amount £52,694 represented
the new levy at the gates, which is bringing distress
to the clubs ; McShortodds and Co. had to ante up
£74,265, and the tote yielded £154,516. In
Becember last the Government grabbed another 2
per cent, from the tote, making its share 9 per cent.
A simple calculation will show that the machine-
form of betting has resulted in about £2,000,000
being invested, a decent increase on the investment
of tlie previous seven. What the books handled the
Lord only knows.
*.* - * *
If the handicappers do not treat Biplane
less as a champion and more as a horse that has
consistently failed to get a place since A.J.C.
committeeman Tom Stirton bought him, there will
be very little chance of his recovering the 3000
guineas that chahged hands over the deal. Br.
Lang gave Biplnife Bst. 131 b. in the Newmarket,
and as he has been withdrawn and the aged Cetigne
(9st. 41b.) left in, it gives a good idea of what
trainer Tom Scully thought of his chance. If Biplane
does win a race it will no doubt lead to a repeti-
tion of the fate which befell Gigandra. That great
but unlucky sprinter began to drop in the weights
until he at last scored. Then he went back to his
best-form weight and remained an unreproductive
asset for the rest of his life.
* * * #
E. W. (“Slip”) Carr, an old S. Grammar
boy, defeated the pick of N. S. Wales’s amateurs in
the 100yds. scratch race at Sydney showground last
week. In the preliminary heats, Paul Tranquille de-
feated Carr and Walton Hunt finished ahead of
R. E. White. In the final a yard would have
covered in the four at the tape, Carr’s bulldog finish
getting him the verdict by half a yard in 10 2-ssec.
The winner took the sprint events in the last Bunn
Challenge Shield, and a few years ago was G. P.
Schools’ champion over many distances.
* * * #
In ancient times one Termerus lay in
wait for foreigners and struck them with his head.
Hence the classic expression, “A Termerian mischief.”
Hercules, mythology’s leading referee, ultimately
disqualified the offender by splitting his skull. At
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night Billy Shade, of
the U.S.A., applied the'methods of Greece’s famous
freelance heavyweight to the midriff of Francis
Charles, and to such purpose that the Gaul fell help-
less to the boards. It was an accident, and yet
Joe Wallis, the management’s stipendiary Hercules,
exercised his god-like powers to the full, and
awarded the palm
(inclusive .in this
case of the thick
end of a big purse,
the house being
large) to the
groaning i n d i-
vidnal on the floor.
Charles was lucky
to win, as he was
doomed if the
bout had lasted
another round or
two. Shade—who
has already outed
the four best men
of his weight in
the Commonwealth
—had got his an-
tagonist tottering,
and was peering
round for a suit-
able spot to bang
in a convincer
when the end
came.
BILLY
SHADE, of
the U.S.A., who
used Ms head
instead of his
brains on
Saturday night.
Jim Pa del on ('holder) and Billy MeDevitt
have signed up for a race for the Australian sculling
championship, a £4OO purse and the Referee Cup.
The event is listed for May' 7 on the Wbodburn
course (Richmond River).
* * * *
The inability of Miss Bleibtrey (America)
to cross the Tasman in time for the N.S.W. ladies’
swimming championships on Saturday somewhat
rubbed the glamor off the meeting. The chief
event, the 440yds. championship, was taken by
Mina Wylie, with an even “crawl” and a remarkable
straight course. She won by»ssyds. in 6min.
44 4-ssec. This is a long way behind Fanny Durack’s
world’s record (6min. 3sec.), though only 7 4-ssec.
behind Miss Bleibtrey’s best. The 250yds. teams’
championship awakened the barrackers, and amid
encouraging shrieks —during which one enthusiast
overbalanced into the water —Manly defeated Metro-
politan. Miss L. Fevyer annexed the diving prize by
the narrowest of margins. An “extra” on the 24
hours’ programme was a clinking 110yds. handicap
in which five of the speediest A.S.A. sprinters lined
up. Keith Kirkland (2sec.) won from Les Board-
man (2sec.), and the fast-finishing Harry Hay
(scratch) in 67 l-ssec.
» * * *
The time put up in the f-mile Australian
championship last Saturday by Beaurepaire (17min.
43 4-ssec.) has been bettered for the event on two
occasions only, viz., in 1910-11, when W. Longworth
beat last week’s winner and the late Cecil Healy in
I7min. 4-sec., and last year when Norman Ross de-
feated the \ ictorian wonder by four yards at Port
Adelaide in the world’s record time of l7min.
29 l-ssec. On this occasion Ross announced that he
would try and lower the world’s record for 1000
metres during the race. “Bogey” determined to
also have a Ay at it. He did beat Ross to the mark
m 14nun. 31 sec., but the effort cost him the race.
His 20yds. victory over Langer at Hobart was
accomplished in rough water, like his defeat of Ross
in the j-niile Victorian championship last year, when
he landed home 40yds. ahead of the American. On
both occasions he swam trudgeon style, which provides
food for thought in view of the opinions expressed
in favor of the American crawl. The latter is a mill-
pond mode of propulsion, the “trudgeon,” as demon-
strated by Beaurepaire against Ross and Langer, being
undoubtedly superior in rough water. The Yankee
crawl is a shallow action of both feet and arms,
whilst the “trudgeon” grips the water much deeper.
In rough water the American crawl-swimmer may be
likened to a ship in ballast with propeller half out
of water ;• the trudgeon artist to a laden vessel whose
propeller is well below the surface, forcing her
steadily ahead. In short, the old-fashioned article, as
demonstrated by Beaurepaire at 30 years of age and
after a nine-years’ retirement from the game, bears
comparison all round with any of the new-fangled
contrivances.
Kealoha won the 100yds. in 56sec. (his N S.W
time), though in the heat he did one-fifth of a second
better. Ivan Stedman was second and Beaurepaire
third. Langer won the 300yds. handicap, from
scratch, in 3min. 29 l-ssec. (thereby clipping 2fisec.
off the world’s record), and, continuing, he dragged
down the world’s figures for the 300 metres to
3min. 48 3-ssec.—a I 2-ssec. improvement.
Hans Ohrt’s brilliant defeat of Alf
Grenda and Bill Erskine in the final of the first-
class mile scratch race was the titbit at Svdnev
bike carnival on Saturday. Ohrt, who rode "with
great judgment, has been the unlucky rider at the
carnivals, and carries yards of sticking-plaster to
prove it. In the five-mile scratch, A* J. Clark won
from Erskine in lOmin. 57sec.; but Erskine got
exes, by taking the one-mile handicap from Wells in
lmin. 59sec. Punctures were, as usual, suspiciously
frequent.
*'» * *
Victorian singles bowls championship last
week gave Bobbie (Glenferrie Hill) a Very fine win
over Ley (Brighton). Bobbie romped awav at
first and led at one stage by 20—17. Then* Ley,
through winning five ends out of six, led by 23—21,
after which Bobbie collected himself and won eight
of the last ten ends. The final figures were 31—
25. Bobbie last year won the Vie. champion-of-
champions title. Ley is a youthful enthusiast with
a penchant for short length play and the makings
of a crack.
* * * «
Miss Clark took the £5O equestrienne
championship at the Sydney Horse Carnival last
week with a great effort. The judges gave her 225
points against Misses Roach and Wood (each with
220 points). The winner had the help of that fine
showground jumper Sunrise. In the Australian high-
jump championship Musician did 7ft. (a record
under night conditions) against the wonderful 14.2
poliy Thumbs Up.
* * * #
Ernest Barry made the bland suggestion
last week that the aspirants for the world’s sculling
championship should discover the best man by a
series of sweepstakes, he, Barry, meanwhile remain-
ing champ. But Barry is no longer entitled to the
distinction. Arnst’s challenge to him when he won
last year was. in order, and through not agreeing to
the match in six months he forfeits the title. Mean-
while Arnst is preparing for matches in Australia,
and whether the Englishman agrees or otherwise
doesn’t really make any difference.
* * * *
For the third time this season Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club staged an outside race last
Saturday, and for the second time the ocean mark
was laid too far to leeward. Rana, 6min. (R. H.
C. Bown), after working into first place during the
punch to wind’ard, found it necessary to square away
and run the misplaced mark down, thereby being
displaced by Winji-Winji, 12min. (E. J. B. Mac-
arthur), at. the turn, with Waitangi 6min. (H. L.
Carter) third, and Athene, 12min. (B. Carment),
fourth. All available drapery was sent aloft for
the run home, and Waitangi, forged to the front at
the heads, and romped home with 30sec. in hand
from Winji-Winji, which, after a ding-dong go with
the unlucky Rana, snatched second prize by 2sec.
In the three ocean races Waitangi has so far annexed
two wins and one second.
* * * *
In the fresh nor’-easter which prevailed
on Sydney Harbor last Saturday, Irex, the ex-cham-
pion 22-footer, landed her seventh victory. Kan-
garoo, with clever, young C. J, Shakespeare up,
lifted the 10ft. dinghy championship, and incidentally
his sixth first; whilst R. Gourley, with the 16ft.
skiff Spindrift, lobbed home a winner for the fifth
time in succession, a feat which will take some
beating. Her handicaps have been successively 9,
8,7, 5 and 3 minutes.
Eight competed for the MacCormick
Morna Cup last Saturday under the flag of the
R.S.Y.S. The start was marred by the various craft
neglecting to respond to their starting flags. Oenone
lost nearly ljmin. The work to Manly saw Albert’s
Rawhiti (30min.) square away for the run to Shark
Island 6fmin. ahead of Oenone, with Brockhoff’s
flier 40see. further astern, followed 20sec. later by
Magic, which preceded Sunbeam by smin. Bona
(scratch) rounded 4}min. further astern. The run
to the island saw a remarkably poor display of kite-
setting. The Northcote Cup challenger still led at
the gybe, but the back-markers were rapidly coming
along. The reach to Pinchgut brought about no
marked changes, but in the punch back to Watson’s
Bay Scotia. Magic and Aoma headed Rawhiti.
whilst Patrick’s charge, Bona, displaced Oenone and
Sunbeam. Easing away at the Pile Light, Scotia
was 15secs. ahead of Magic (Peggy Stevens), with
Aoma (Stan Stevens) threequarters of a minute
further astern. Magic was first to throw her sail
across at Shark Island, with Scotia on her counter
and Aoma following close. Brockhoff’s craft headed
Magic off Bradley’s, but during the final mile went
too dose inshore, lest the blow, and Magic profiting
by the error kept well out. The go to the line was
a fine sight. Magic, bringing the breeze along with
her, gained on Scotia, and ended by making a dead
heat of it. Aoma was third, half a minute away.
BALLADE OF THE TERRORS OF TENNIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Succession of hot-shots.... Splendid volleying.
....Three terrific smashes.... A cannon ball service.
....A terrific smash.”- — -Prom. Melbourne Argus
report of a tennis match.
Wood “volleyed hotly” at the call,
And Tilden’s big, resistless fin,
As from a field-gun shot the ball.
“Terrific smashes* fierce as sin
Flew ’cross the court to rib and shin,
And no one felt a throb of shame ,
When players fair were seen to spin.
This tennis is a murderous game!
Poor Johnson is before them all
“Pulled up to deuce.” Who cares to win
Where players striving to appal
Send “red-hot shots” as from a gin?
Speed “thunderbolts” though eyes and chin
May well be battered by the same.
This awful work provokes no din,
But tennis is a murderous game.
At football players sometimes fall,
And cricket’s shifted yards of skin,
The bull pins many to the wall,
Much to the sorrow of their kin.
Baseball, its ranks will often thin.
These games, however, bear the blame.
None curse the tennis javelin,
And tennis is a murderous game.
Envoy.
Hot meteors may shift the grin
From face of youth, and break and maim—
How can they stand the racket in
This tennis ? ’Tis a murderous game !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


SQNVH HflOA da xad
and use them as though you had to
defend yourself. See how absolutely
lost and helpless you are through lack
of Boxing Instruction. Could you
hold your own in a rough and tumble,
or would you get the worst of it?
Learn Boxing
by Mail
and secure the scientific knowledge that will always
protect you from the bully and the thug.
This simple, interesting system of instruction teaches
you all the points of the fascinating art in a series
of easily-graded lessons which anyone can master.
Just cut this advertisement out, write your name and
address across it and send it in with three stamps
for postage, and you will receive a copy of my
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about the methods used,
terms, etc-t*
It’s worth while—act to-day !
n
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
428 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
r/ »H
k
Ly
"World^Best
C*k,sec/
/TV &L£S*tr&jCjfsL
DRiTiSh imperial oil coy. ltd., au j ta tcj art Z.
m
fRO rt T«E o j^
xflaasßEz^
Protects
both
Proparty
and Pocket.
It strains tighter, stays
rigid, is of uniform
strength, has full length
in every coil and COSTS
FAB LESS than imjJorted
wire.
Fence with
"Waratah.”
Get Free Booklet.
All-British Fountain Pen.
IN YOUR POCKET
A SEALED TUBE.
Dozens of Onoto Pens are sent every day
through the post full of ink, often in silk-
lined cases. They get shaken and tossed
about in the mail bags. But it is perfectly
safe to send them in this way.
For the British-made Onoto cannot leak.
When you close it, with a turn of the
finger and thumb, it becomes a sealed
tube. Not a drop of ink can possibly
escape.
When you open it again, you find the
finger hold dry though the ink in the nib
remains fresh and moist, so that you can
start writing at once.
And when you want more ink the Onoto
fills itself instantly from any ink supply.
It is the simplest pen to use.
THOMAS DE LA RUE t Co. Ltd.
Bunhill Row, London.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK
BEST FOR ALL PENS
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER £ LONGHDRST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
s
HEADACHE
and
SORE
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO QET
UP—BUT
[there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
'
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE.
enough ° to ® e I nei i ol i?' size<i bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
influenza sore tbrnot m ° S ri °*®tinate lt will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
influenza, soie throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottl’e of Greathead’s.
YQUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
“POT POURRI
SMOKING
MIXTURE
is blended of the choicest Imported Tobaccos, and will
smokers by its coolness and unrivalled aroma.
12/8
per
pound.
6/4
half
pound.
3/2
quarter
pound.
Postage 9d. extra.
Postage 6d. extra.
Postage 3d. extra.
NOSEGAY Tobacco
Manufactured by T. C. Williams Co., Virginia, U.S.A.
This is the finest Virginian Tobacco procurable.
PRICE. CUT 16/6 per pound, postage 9d. extra.
8/3 per half-pound, postage 6d. extra.
4/2 per quarter-pound, postage 3d. extra.
PLUG 16/- per pound, postage 9d. extra.
Single Plugs, One-third of a pound, 5/9 per vlue
POST FREE. S *
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists, Cigar Merchants and Importers,
Head Office; 378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£2
i;V;.
-MM
IRON-CLAD
OIL IMMERSED
SWITCH-GEAR.
This is undoubtedly the type most approved of nowadays by the highest electrical authorities
for all industrial work, as well as in mines, and collieries.
All inflammable or breakable insulating material has been eliminated and superseded by mica
insulation. ■
We specialise in such equipment suitable for the severest conditions of service, and all of which
complies with the British Board of Trade regulations in mines. We also specialise in
OIL-COOLED TRANSFORMERS. MOTOR CONTROL GEAR.
All are essentially British.
Manufacturers: Electrical Apparatus Co., Ltd., London.
SOLE AGENTS:
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY., LTD.,
Head Office and Warehouse 172-176 William Street, Melbourne
Workshop No. 1 Somerset Place, Melbourne
Workshop No. 2 Ferrars Street, South Melbourne
Sydney Office 375 George Street
mn
m
All sizes in stock. Light- and Heavy-duty
Types for Pearling Schooners, Working
Boats and Pleasure Launches.
m
im a 'i
ftnKMllßl
2| to 8 H.P.
H.D. Type.
The Engine for
the Workboat.
’
This Caille is a sturdy,
reliable, single-cylinder
model, evolved for heavy
duty where plenty of hard
work in the most exposed
weather conditions must
be met. An ideal power-
plant for the light launch
.vhere engine-space is
limited. Equipped with
weatherproof igniter that
gives a certain spark in
all weathers. If you
have hard work to do you
need this Caille. Ask
prices and particulars.
WE HAVE THE STOCKS. BUY NOW.
We can offer the world-renowned Caille Perfection Marine Engine
in all sizes, for light or heavy duty, in 1-, 2-, or 4-cylinder models.
Also Australian-built A.C.E. Reverse Gears in all sizes for immediate
delivery. Recommended for converted car and other engines up
to 20h.p.. running at about 750 revs. Gives same speed astern as
ahead. Write now for prices and descriptive folders to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street. Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—-'“Broshenson.”


Your Luggage Proclaims
003
Your Status.
" Look well to your Luggage!” It
is your envoy and declares in no
uncertain terms the personality of
its owner.
Fibre Suit Case, on strong frame, Fibre cor-
ners, fitted with one lock and two clips. Size,
22 ins., 26/6, 24 ins., 28/6, 26 ins. 31/6
i Famous Victor ” Suit Case, of stout pol-
ished hide, steel frame ; two straps and two
nickel locks. Size, 20 ins., 55/-, 22 ins., 60/.
24 inches, 65/-, 26 inches 70/.
Hand Kit Bags, made of stout cow-hide on
strong frame ; with side locks and end clips.
Size, 14 in., 27/6,16 in., 31/6, 18 in., 35/-
20 inch 39/6
Farmer’s :: Sydney
Box 497, G.P.O.
Farmers pay carriage on Vrunks and Rugs
to the extent of 5 per cent of purchase price.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
ft'-
i
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
UNIQUE FASHION DISPLAY.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MODES
Now open. You are invited to inspect the
display of fashion creations and materials
which represent the up-to-date vogues in the
most exclusive fashion centres of London and
Paris.
We are Evening Gown and Opera Cloak
Specialists.
Madame Brook (twenty years with Buckley
and Nunn, Ltd.) in charge.
MSf
SfeJ
Next Her Majesty's Theatre,
Exhibition Street, MELBOURNE.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Governor Stradbroke, with his countess
and their family, are to land at St. Kilda
from the Osterley this day week (February
24). Premier Lawson and AVorks Minister
Frank Clarke will call on the. Earl as soon
as the Osterley berths at Port Melbourne,
and there will be Ministerial and civic wel-
comes at St. Kilda. En route to State Par-
liament House, where the swearing-in
ceremony will take place, the Mayor of South
Melbourne and the Gaud Mayor will read
some polite platitudes. Lieutenant-Governor
Irvine, who has had an innings for IS months
as Acting Governor, will give his brilliant
uniform —the one in which he received
Edward P. —a final airing before putting it
away with moth-balls for the next time he
needs it. He will meet the Stradbrokes at
Parliament House. As soon as the new Ex.
takes the oaths and signs his proclamation
Irvine’s commission will become dormant.
Miss Mcßae, of the Oriental Hotel, gave
an outsize dinner-dance on Wednesday even-
ing of last week to help along the Florence
Young Memorial operating theatre at the
Alfred Hospital. There were about 200
guests and the dinner was sumptuous—a
long series of courses with time for a jazz
after each. The tables were decorated with
amber-colored flowers and amber and blue
balloons bobbed overhead in the dining-
rooms and winter-gardens. These balloons,
being gaseous, added to the jazz music by
crashes and booms when a cigarette or a
whirligig table firestick sent the things
crashing. The Gaud Mayor and his lady
had a party there, and Swanson spoke a few
grateful words about Miss Mcßae’s gener-
osity. Ernest Brookes had a party hidden
behind fizz bottles in ice-buckets. Doctor
Bob Strong had Colonel Douglas and his
wife in his group. The Charley Gabbs, just
back from abroad, clothed in the newest of
New York sartorial things, undertook the
expense of the jazz band. Mrs. Phillips and
daughter Mrs. Davis had a party. Mrs.
Davis wore some butterfly sort of gown of
three shades of tulle, and Mrs. Hidgcock’s
wide-brimmed jet jazz hat was a vision. One
woman wore a fig-leaf frontispiece of heavy
gold lace and her side views were scarely
veiled with wide meshed gold mosquito-net.
But she had a viewable milk-white skin.
Mrs. Fred Armytage developed a symphony
in tan-colored frills, and Mrs. Stein swore by-
jet. Mrs. Harold Hunt wore a tired net dress
braced up by gold and turquoise ribbon, and
Mrs. Doctor Thompson spread greeny-blue
charmeuse. Doctor hubby was helping in
committee work. Some of the cricketers
blew in later. A solid subscription was taken
up for the Alfred Hospital, and the guests
bought their table space at a guinea each.
The whole thing was a huge success, and the
A. Hospital committee people beamed upon
Miss Mcßae.
Mrs. Major-General Legge was given a
farewell party (she is bound for Duntroon)
bv the council of the Friendly Union of
Soldiers’ Wives. The shivoo was at the
Collins-street house of Mrs. G. A. Syme.
Mrs. Ferguson, who will go to Duntroon with
her daughter, was also a guest of honor.
President Mrs. Chauvel presented some
silver from the society, along with an
enamelled badge of the Union. Mrs.
General Sellheim, Mrs. Senator Pearce, Mrs.
Shuter and Mrs. Dr. Cuscaden were at the
party.
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine admitted at
the Gaud Mayor’s luncheon that a Governor
was not overworked, and that he had fairly
long intervals, like the person who smoked the
glass to observe eclipses. His Ex. ought to
know, as he has had an innings of 18 months
and has managed to do his work as Chief
Justice as well. His words must be very
comforting to G.-G. Forster, who is still a
beginner, and to Governor Stradbroke of Vic.,
who may be nervous as to whether he can
hold down his billet.
Syd Dalrymple is engaged to Nancy,
daughter of the Arthur Moules, of Ottawa,
Toorak. Nancy is a demure, dimpled dam-
sel who always wears very smooth, fair
hair and exquisitely-groomed plumage. The
Prince marked Nancy down for numerous
dances and attentions, and Nancy managed
to carry the honors without self-advertise-
ment.
H. N. P. Wollaston, first Comptroller of
Customs, died last week. Since he was
injured severely in a tramway accident
three years avo (a year or so after his
second matrimonial venture) he had lived
in retirement. Perth. W.A., was his birth-
place, but he spent part of his youth in
Maoriland. A son and three daughters, be-
sides the widow of the second marriage,
were the chief mourners. N. Lockyer, who
succeeded Wollaston at the Customs, is a
son-in-law.
Russell Clarke, M.L.C., is on his way to
the Cold Country in the Naldera. He only
came back a few weeks ago, but he left bis
family on the other side. He will return
with them in a few months, and will pro-
bably be able to show himself in the Uppah
Chambah before the session closes. Mean-
time brother Frank, Minister for Works,
is, as his tenant, minding Rupertswood, Sun-
bury, for him.
The Norman Hodges widow, who last year
paid us a flying visit to see .sister Roma
Clarke tied up with Col. Eric Harrison, has
now signalled her own intention of further
matrimony. Her contract is with the Arthur
Moules’ adorably handsome son Geoff. He,
after seeing the war through with the Brit-
ish Air Force, now sports the decorative
trappings of a Territorial Hussar officer. In
her brief flash across the local social horizon
the widow sported several daring examples
of up-to-date evening chiffonery of the back-
less. corsetless variety, which simply took
one’s breath away.
Returning from abroad a literary head-
light stabs our vanity to the quick by assur-
ing ns that the inhabitants of “Who’s Who”
recognise us-—Melbournians —by our twang.
Horrible thought! It seems old Colonial
twang has been playing cuckoo, and left his
nasal egg among our pure-bred accents —and
lo i— W e’ve hatched a mixed brood unawares.
Adding insult to injury, the critic says it is
the result of jaw laziness. When we jaw all
day and well into to-morrow every night,
that sounds the height of absurdity.
An unexpected high wind bit Collins-
street the other morning, and for a
considerable time after appreciable ex-
citement was occasioned all along the
Block by the meanderings of a lady’s
hat blowing on the road and in the gutter—
quite a good hat apparently, with a copious
veil attached. Hats being the price they
are, the studied neglect with which this stray
was treated inspired me with astonishment
till I peered closer and saw what looked like
a full-sized wig of lovely bronze-colored hair
stuffed inside it.
Eunie Russell’s petition for divorce from
Chinaman Chia was the talk of Melbourne
last week. Her story, taken on commission
in England, is path-
etic in its excuse
for her non-appear-
ance. Her health
is not good, she hash-
ing suffered two
surgical operations
since the birth of
baby Chia, a few
months after she
reached England in
1913. The infant
died the following
year. She cannot
afford the journey
to Australia, be-
cause she wants all
the theatrical en-
gagements she can
get to keep her going.
Poor Eunie Russell!
The Falk portrait that shows her in powder,
patches and wig in young days, will be recog-
nised by any number of Melbourne people,
for the spoilt child of “Pa” and Mrs. Russell
had a host of friends. As a growing girlie
Eunie was star pupil at the Ilyams’ dancing
school and then at Mrs. G. B. Lewis’s
dramatic school. In a superficial way she
“studied” most things worth study and many
that are not. She travelled a year or more
with the Julius Knight Co., then tripped to
Europe with mamma. Back in Melbourne the
blonde ex-actress naturally sighed for
publicity, and a flirtation with the highly
conspicuous Mr. Chia kept her at least in the
social limelight. Besides, another pretty
girl, an old schoolmate, was also taking
afternoon tea with the restless little, tali-
hatted Chinaman. Eunie married him. There
was a show:/ wedding breakfast with a lot of
East-and-West talk at the Oriental, and a
few weeks later her disillusion was complete.
When a bride’s young husband is an im-
pecunious prisoner, charged with shooting at
his consul, her dream is over.
Percy Deane, who succeeds Malcolm Shep-
herd as Secretary to the Priminister’s De-
partment, must have been born under a lucky
star. He was unknown in the Commonwealth
Public Service till he returned to Melbourne
(his birthplace) after two years’ war service
in 1916. Then he became private secretary
to W. M. Hughes. Equipped with literary
and business ability and possessing imagina-
tion and nous, he made himself indispensable
to the Priminister, and then “managed” him.
(Heaven knows Billy needs managing.) For
his work as secretary to the Australian
delegation to the Peace Conference in Paris
and as assistant-secretary to the British
Empire delegation he was handed a C.M.G.
With Shepherd and Atlee Hunt out of the
wav (each provided with a £2OOO-a-year job)
it was an easy thing to put Deane into the
vacant permanent headship, which carries a
screw ranging from £lOOO to £1250.
Suburbia at eventide is trying philosophi-
cally to accommodate itself to the new order
of things brought about by strike traffic re-
strictions. There being no trams and only
hourly trains, it stays at home and takes
more interest in its garden, or it walks,
reads or patronises the local picture-show.
The drilling it got during the war-time makes
it easier for it to do what is prescribed. Of
course it does not obey the gas and electric-
light mandates, and has its cup of tea wheu
it likes. It makes no audible growl. It
hasn’t the spirit to protest against either
arrogant union bosses or against puffed up
shipowners.
The Paterson girls, accompanied by their
comely mamma, left for England by the
Miltiades on Saturday. They propose to be
away 12 months, but if the damsels can dis-
cover any definite yearning for their black-
and-white in London, the term may be inde-
finitely extended. Both are armed with intro-
ductions to the most exclusive quarters of the
newspaper world. Esther carries among her
treasures a note to Lord Northcliffe from the
hand of Billy Hughes.
Trouble has arisen in the house of a manu-
facturer in Brighton as the result of a deli-
berate attempt on the part of the master
to butter the new servant’s feet. The bitter-
ness of the assault is aggravated by the
fact that these are the measures employed
to keep cats.
Premier Lawson was a proud man at the
week-end. His tall, bright-eyed son, Jack, a
Scotch College student, who gives the im-
pression at first glance that he thinks more
of cx-icket or football than study, carried off
one of the coveted State senior scholarships
(exhibitions) which are tenable for any
course at the Uni. up to six years. Other
fathers who were rejoicing for similar
reasons were Robert Garran, Judge Woinar-
ski, Professors Boyce Gibson and Adani,
and Dr. Clarence Godfrey, Chief Govern-
ment Medical Officer.
Irma Caron and tall, spry husband M. P.
'Adams are off to London from New Zealand
by the Port Lyttelton, at the end of the
month. The boat goes via Panama, and
some time in April Irma with her warble,
and Adams with his wild Australian film, will
be preparing to take London by storm. The
usual way of taking London is by storm.
The songstress is practically assured of the
part of Sombra in Courtneidge’s approaching
revival of “The Arcadians,” and there are
less serious and simple parts in view for the
spirited little lady.
On Thursday Mrs. Thei’esa Officer, hon.
sec. of the Riverina end of the Women’s
National League, entertained a gathering of
the. naicest people at a tea-cake event at
the Alexandra Club. The mild festivity
was a dual welcome to sister Marian, just
back from a six years’ stay in the Fog, and
Lady Kensington, widow of the late Chief
Judge of the Punjaub, an elegant grey-
haii-ed Englishwoman who is visiting Aus-
tralia, partly to dodge the English winter
and partly to see the numerous in-laws of
her daughter, who is married to Captain
Gerald, an officer of the Indian Army, and
youngest hope of the Riverina squatting
clan.
The Russell Grimwades, whose pet hobby
is forestry, left by the Naldera last week
to look at the trees of India and the Con-
tinent. Just prior to leaving Mr. Grimwade
was elected president of the Australian
Forest League, and while in London he will
attend meetings of the Imperial League,
newly formed. Enthusiasts stripped some
Melbourne gums to provide Mrs. Grimwade
with a riotous sheaf of crimson and pink
blossom.
Left by the Aeneas, Mrs. Oswald Hume
(Stella Richards), a vivacious and ambitious
Australian, whose performances in “Molly
of the Movies” and other amateur produc-
tions lead her friends to prophesy a stage
career. Among the prophets is her hus-
band. Their six-months-old babe awaits
in Australia the results of mother’s bid for
fame.
M. L. Shepherd, who is alleged to be going
to London to prepare the way for the
eventual arrival of Billy Hu’ghes as High
Commissioner, will live in style when he
arrives in the Fog. It is said that one of the
things that will enable the work-worn hero to
put up with the discomfort of £2OOO-a-year
will be a limousine presented by the Aus-
tralian Government. Which reminds one
that the Commonwealth cars in Melbourne
seem to be as busy as usual. When not en-
gaged in official work, they cart Minister’s
families to the seaside or the hills, and in
some cases are loaned to private members for
little joy-rides.
Norman Hodges’s young widow is en-
gaged to Captain Geoff. Moule, of the 14th
King’s Hussars. The wedding is to be
soon.
Rita, the William Swinburnes’ second
daughter, found Cupid on Tuesday morning in
shining armor standing at her elbow with a
prepaid cable from Roland Medlock asking
her to share his roof and riches for ever,
amen. Rita met Roland during her recent
wanderings in the Cold Country. He belongs
to a good old English family and possesses
much money and fair records besides.
Father said “Yes,” and “God bless you, my
bairnies,” all in one breath, and Rita sent
Cupid flying back with the magic answer
whilst mamma and she dashed into the village
—with the fat draft Roland had coaxingly
enclosed with the cable—to purchase the
bauble for Rita’s ring-finger.
It is George J. Coates, R. 0.1., who glooms
seriously out of this photo. He is one of
our Australian big painter-men who have
made solid success in the Old Country.
Coates is a member
of the Royal Society
of Portrait-painters,
of the National
Society of Portrait-
painters, and of the
International Society
of Painters, Gravers
and Etchers, as well
as an Associate of
the International
Societd dea Beaux
Arts, Paris; and he
carries honors from
the Paris Salon and
the 4 Carnegie Insti-
tute, Pittsburg.
George has just re-
turned to Australia,
and is jfbw prowling
round the country
districts of Victoria, and getting back his
Australian color-eye. He ranks among the
leading six portrait-painters of the day in
England, and he has just painted for the
Commonwealth Government a, portrait of
the much-decorated General Neville Smythe.
During the war Coates dropped his every-
day job and offered himself to the Cause.
The War Office took stock of his sensitive
hands, and utilised him in assistant-surgical
work. He has brought out with him a
bundle of since-the-war canvases, and, to-
gether with his latest Australian paintings,
they will be shown in Melbourne in March
and later in Sydney.
Brass bands are being banned in the city
streets, but the Council is backing up the
Returned Sailors and Soldiers’ League
Memorial Band, which is as full of music as
it is of titles. Lord Mayor Swanson
engineered a recital in the Town Hall re-
cently, and the hall and foyer were packed.
The City Council is passing the band a sub-
sidy, and helping them to perform in parks
and reserves. Seventy-five performances are
provided for during this year, and there are
to be regular Wednesday midday concerts
in the Town Hall.
Premier Lawson has to decide whether he
will consent to Gen. Gellibrand, the Police
Chief, taking up the command of the mili-
tary division allotted to him in Vic. Theo-
retically the police chief is supposed to be
one of the few men who are always on duty,
and it will be a surprise to many if he has
time for responsible military work. The
awkward thing for the State Government is
that if it agrees to a man drawing £lO5O a
year from it taking a supplementary job
worth £3OO, it cannot very well object to,
say, a truant-inspector, paid £2OO, becoming
an area-officer or something under the
Federal Government, because he, too, is an
enthusiast and can do with more pay.
Adelaide cuts in:—
The unfailing presence of the vice-regal party at
all race meetings has roused great competition
between the women folk of the various presidents.
It has become “the thing” for them to entertain
Lady Weigall and a chosen few to luncheon. At
the A.R.C. meeting on Foundation Day, Ethel and
Gwen Hall acted as hostesses, and on Saturday at
Tattersall’s meeting Mrs. H. P. McLachlan gave' a
luncheon.
The Frederick Youngs took train to Melbourne last
week. He has gone on a long business trip to the
eastern States, and afterwards they will spend a
brief holiday in Adelaide prior to their departure for
England.
Additional excitement is provided at race meet-
ings now in the form of bookmaker-hunts. Ladies
round their special tote were suddenly scattered far
and wide at a recent meeting by an avalanche of
flying bookies and pursuing mounted troopers, and
several of the fair ones lost their tickets in the
melee. And still they chance it.
Dorothy, the pretty daughter of Minister of Edu-
cation McCoy, has just become engaged to Guy
Beresford, who did his bit in the trenches.
The story of the outbreak of inmates of the
Redruth Reformatory for Girls, in the quiet countrv
township of the Burra, read like a lunatic asylum
in moving pictures. The young women climbed on
to the roof, and with hair flying they hurled large
rocks and abusive language at the crowd below.
Talk about “weak women”! When they had nearly
wrecked the reformatory, the Mayor of the Burra
was sent for to read the Riot Act, and—climax of
irony—the Council are now debating, “Is the matron
justified in using the slipper?” A crowbar suggests
itself as more appropriate.
There is an agitation afoot to erect a statue in
memory of Matthew Flinders. It is typical of the
speed of S.A. that it takes more than a hundred years
to discover a man’s worth. If the scheme comes
to anything there will be some difficulty in finding
someone who remembers what the old gentleman
was like.


„ "
m
11
«i
m
m
ft
wm
m
■
a
Si
mm
r ■
m
mm
••
J " Ig
Si
mm
%
-*•*, H . tip
Bfll§
Wmßmm r,
*s!sr*i«fc *:
• w.
\‘-;v
I
gM
w
*■*&
err-
• . -i?T
1K;»m
0
, “■ .
jplliii I
fill 1 ,
jtS .Jk, : JLR <!
SB
fl|R|f! jy
ill fi
i
us
,f u
E
■7
4_:
n
mu
I?
■ .,-.
&
'. . F
' : i
VcS
-\
'V
m
Wt
' .~v".y-$
ms.
m
m
m
2=l
SW
a
•- ii
\ >
t
m
m
Jr
k,Jfijr
;
«
r-
-3esi
i ‘
It
■ **“•■*- • - •••••- . ■ -.■■•■
3n
; t • W
itfs« $n
4
o
b m
Delco-Light pays for
Valuable time is saved
through replacing a hand
pump and a lantern with
an electrically - operated
water system and bright
electric lights.
t tr i .
$
Delco-Light pays for itself.
Think of the inconvenience
and danger to health of
going outside in all kinds
of weather, as compared to
the big saving in time and
the convenience of having
running water at the
kitchen sink.
n
mn
mn
Jhe
New
Way:
m
Delco-Light pays for itself,
buck accidents as these
are causing thousands of
pounds fire-loss each year.
Electric lights eliminate
all the dangers of the
open-flame light.
o\&
e
v
What DELCO-LIGHT
means to the Farmer.
ARMERS are learning that
Delco-Light is a money-
saver that they cannot
afford to be without.
Delco - Light not only
brings them the convenience of
electric light and power, but
supplies them at an unusually
low cost. They have watched
Delco-Light pay for itself among
their neighbors, and seen the
generous savings that it makes Tor
them—savings that total high at
the end of the year! In actual
figures Delco-Light costs relatively
only one-fourth as much for fuel
as the old oil-lamp, and how
immeasurably safer it is! This
economy, combined with the relia-
bility, safety and simplicity, are
features of the plantain operation.
They also explain the daily use of
150,000 Delco-Light plants
throughout the world. Delco-
Light may be seen in operation at
any of the below addresses, where
full particulars may be obtained.
Delco-Light Pays for Itself.
Electricity for Anyone
Everywhere.
Ask the Man Who Owns One.
There’s a Satisfied Owner Near You.
2
c°
HT
if
t
nm
N.S.W.:
WARBURTON, FRANKI
LTD..Kent Street,SYDNEY
Victoria :
WARBURTON, FRANK!
LTD., Bourke St., Melbourne
i . / ‘ - -4
Queensland :
SMELL!E fi* CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE
South Australia :
PARSONS, & ROBERT-
SON, Grenfell Sc., Adelaide
West Australia :
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
PERTH
W. F. & E. A. STEWART,
Cameron Street., Launceston
New Zealand
A. D RILEY & CO., Lamb-
ton Quay, WELLINGTON
FARMERS’ CO-OP AS-
SOCIATION, Christchurch
s\ x -
A
%
CO
Z*L
:
N
Distributors
-- -
'WA.CROWLE JJE 1 ?
Cas^lereaok


Charles
Hei DSIECK-S
Vintage 1911
Qmm
lit PLUS ULTRA
n
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
\ Australasian Agents—
\ SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
&£<f
>OB9
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating;
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
s •
NO SHEEP-OWNER
can afford to overlook
trying?
BLOWFLY DRESSING
PREVENTIVE and HEALER.
Penetrates Freely. Remains Soft and
Oily in the Wool. Scours out perfectly
Clean. Your agent can obtain supplies
direct from the makers.
TAUBMANS LIMITED,
232 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
The joys of post-war reunions are not all
exhausted even yet. After an Albury woman
had seen her boy off in khaki darkness fell
gradually upon her, and when her Digger
came home she could not see him. A week or
so back an operation was performed in a
Sydney hospital, and in due time when the
bandages were removed her eyes opened upon
the face of her boy. Even among the
patients with their own troubles mostly
uppermost in their minds there was a hush
of excitement to await the glad little cry of
thanksgiving.
The human eye, by the way, plays queer
tricks. We all know of the color-blind, but
in the same Sydney hospital lately there has
been a mite from the far back country who
reverses that condition and has no eyes for
form or feature —she is blind to everything
but color. An operation in this instance was
quite Unsuccessful, and the poor little mother-
less warrigal has gone into an institution for
the blind.
Mrs. Barbara Baynton, who has jus't
married Lord Headley in unconventional
circumstances (like many in obscure circum-
stances, they struck up an acquaintance at
a Hyde Park meeting and had tea together
afterwards) is an indefatigable matrimonial-
ist. Her first husband was named Frater
and all her children were Fraters-=—one of
them, incidentally, married Harry Gullett,
journalist, soldier and now historian. Mr.
Baynton taught her all he knew about China
and jewels, and on his death left her a good
deal of money. Lord Headley is one of the
oddities of the British peerage. He is 65,
but looks older, life having been a strenuous
affair with him till half a dozen years ago,
when he came into the title. Previously to
that he was a practising engineer with a
large family and unusual views about every-
thing. His adoption of Mohammedanism
and his keen sympathy with the allegedly
down-trodden masses of India distracted his
female relations, many of whom are mar-
ried into the Established Church.
Judge Docker, who was one of the live
members at th.e recent Science Congress, is
now photographing hard at Mount Buffalo
(Vie.). He cobbers with Archbishop Wright,
who’s also inhaling the cool air of that ele-
vated region, until the end of the month.
Talking about the epidemic of diphtheria at
Brisbane, during the Christmas holidays this
Letter suggested that if the northern capital
didn’t know how to swab the trouble out it
might do worse than ask Broken Hill. The
hint has been taken, and Dr. Burnell, who
had charge of the Broken Hill campaign, has
been engaged to go to Queensland on behalf
of the Rockefeller Foundation and work first
on diphtheria and then on hookworm. But he
will leave his right hand behind him at the
Broken Hill Hospital, where Miss Cook, the
laboratory sister, has shared with him the
local gratitude for some very remarkable
work.
Mrs. Reginald Vaughan is to be seen
about Sydney nowadays, looking quite as
smart and nearly as young as in the days
w’hen she (as Mrs. Prendergast), Mrs.
Burdekin. of Macquarie-street, and Mrs.
Willie Mitchell led Sydney society. Mrs.
Prendergast, who is a Catholic, met her
husband in London. He is one of the few
Vaughans who are laymen. This famous
English county family has in recent years
given a cardinal, an archbishop and bishop
and a number of priests and nuns to the R.C.
church.
Walter James, Westralia’s debonair Iv.C.
and ex-Premier, has just paid a fleeting visit
to this side, coming and going with the
Ormonde. Although one of the fathers of
Federation, having had a hand in framing
the Constitution at the 1897-98 Convention,
he is far younger than the 58 years he con-
fesses to; and for that he has the envy of
his surviving contemporaries of the old
colonial days—-days when he and George
Leake, his great friend and fellow Groper,
used to lead Bigjohn Forrest a merry parlia-
mentary dance with their waspishly witty
criticisms. Leake and Forrest have both
passed over, but James is still a picturesque
feature of the village on the Swan, and
every once awhile he takes a breathless dive
eastward, brightens Sydney with his peren-
nially youthful smile, buys a water-color or
two, and heads once more for the Leeuwin.
His lady, a daughter of Dr. Hearder of
Carmarthen, Wales, is at present medi-
tating on the battlefields of France.
Artist Roi De Mestre is taking an en-
forced holiday for 12 months in and about
Moss Vale. But that is all to the good, as
he intends to go on sketching triP s j gradu-
ally working his way down the South coast,
and all being well Sydney should see some
colorful canvases from Roi’s brush at the
end of his year’s exile from city streets.
Garryowen, Moss Vale, is the address ol his
tubes and brushes.
There was a hasty foregathering of the
Laidlevs last week when Melanie decided to
marry her Captain Wormington and go off
with him to his new job in the Malay States.
Captain Wormington came to Australia
with Lebby Hordern as secretary and flying
companion. His war record is of the best,
and it was a case of love at first sight be-
tween the small Melanie and her soldier,
who also hasn’t an over-abundance of
inches. Melanie, by the way, is a qualified
masseuse, but cracked up at the end of her
training.
Ernest Watt’s elder girl, Pauline, will not
live the social existence for a month or
more to come. She was operated on last
week for appendicitis.
Melanie Laidley (as was), the heroine of
the latest mildly sensational marriage, is the
invalid’s first cousin. Three beautiful Wes-
ton sisters were married in Sydney a couple
of decades ago, one to a Watt, another to a
Dangar and a third to a Laidley. Mrs.
Reggie Laidley, the new bride’s mother, was
remarkable for her wonderful skin and hair,
and both her daughters have inherited a
reasonable allowance of these gifts.
Mrs. J. C. Wright, the godmother of the
Girls’ Friendly Society Hostel, invited _on
Saturday the first batch of visitors to view
the new building at Forest Lodge. The
Docker dining-room, given by the Dockers
in memory of the late Mrs. Ernest Docker,
has an interior that is a cross between a
baronial hall and a Carthusian monastery.
The hostel will hold 60. but applicants far
exceed that number. Miss A. G. Fulton
matrons the establishment. She used to
mother a hostel at Salisbury Plains (Eng.),
and brought a batch of girls out to West-
ralia, where Mrs. Wright secured her for
Sydney. The hostel’s fine built-in linen cup-
boards are bare as Mother Hubbard’s, and
to fill them Mrs. Wright has invited folk to
a linen tea at Bishopscourt next Monday.
Noticed in the audience at the pantomime,
Emma Temple, recovered from _ her illness
and returned from her recruiting trip to
the Mountains. She was accompanied by
her Jonathan, tall, handsome Ruby Rey-
nolds, who, by the way, is said to possess
one of Australia’s Voices. A visiting Ameri-
can, widow of a musical critic of Boston,
is enthusiastic about Ruby’s contralto, and
amazedly indignant that such a voice—“an
organ like Clara Butt’s, my dears, but with
a soul behind it that could move the multi-
tude” —should be wasting itself in the
deserts of private drawing-rooms. Present
also, Mrs. Brough, with husband Cyril Bell
and a good-looking Maorilander who is visit-
ing them at present.
James R. Jackson, of the Royal Art
Society, seems to have gone in pensive fashion
to his color tubes, and his canvases on view
in Gayfield Shaw’s
rooms might be said
to have been painted
with the brush of
twilight—grey tones
are everywhere.
“Silver and Grey,”
“Blue and Grey” are
two charming ex-
pressions of the
gentler mood. There’s
a bit of Narrabeen
that has a poignant
fascination, and a
man might well
leave all his posses-
sions to follow his
“R oa d Over the
Hill,” beckoning with
the most alluring
brown arm. “Faig-
an’s Farm,” “Drying Sails” and “Autumn”
croon up visions of long, lazy days, and
few artists have better glimpsed the glory
of the ’Arbor than has Jackson in his “Close
of Day.”
Mrs. Pearl Smith, a daughter of Nathan
Borchardt, became Mrs. Frederick Stallman,
in the family drawing-room at Wolseley
Flats, Point Piper, one night last week. The
bride took her second plunge in grey satin
and ospreys with sister on hand in yellow
satin with tangerine draperies. In compli-
ment to the bridegroom’s nationality the
wedding cake was decorated with windmills
and sabots. The future home will be at
Yarranabee Flats, so they will be neighbors
of Ola Humphrey Broadwood. -
Mrs. Dr. Eccles, one of the guiding stars
of Melbourne’s music and art world, has
been on the harbor-side for some weeks.
She came up thinking to get across to New
Zealand for the hot weather, but she forgot
to take the stewards into consideration.
Consternation reigned in the Ross Munro
station home last week, when word was
dashed north that the son and heir Roy was
in hospital with an erring appendix. Mr.,
Mrs. and “Babs” came down post haste, and
are now here rejoicing that the all-well con-
valescent stage has arrived.
An assortment of the Auckland Nathans
are in town at the moment, all gay with
Paris gowns. The Naldera brought them
and their many wardrobe trunks out a week
or so ago, and they are tossing at inter-
vals as to just how long it will be before
they are to get across to the family mansion.
After seeing his youngest daughter, Muriel,
married in San Francisco, David Mills has
just returned home. The young man who
said “I will” also had to journey from
Mexico for the ceremony, and to that land
has he taken his bride.
The waters of the Domain baths flashed
with the bronze skins of Australia’s daugh-
ters of Neptune on Saturday afternoon. All
ages and sizes and shapes were the girls
who took the plunge,
fr o m the s c ho o i
kiddie in the mini-
mu m of bathing-
suit who waved a
cheerful flipper
every now and then
towards a group of
mothers and smaller
sisters, to bouncing
“veterans” of the
twenties. Mina
Wylie, in a weather-
beaten grey bathing-
s u i t, was easily
queen of the
page a n t. In the
water she became a
slim length of pale
bronze that kicked a silver trail of foam
buoyantly in her wake. She won the 440yds.
championship, but failed to beat Fanny
Durack’s (unrecognised) record by 41 2-ssec.
Fanny cheered Mina from above, where she
walked in bridal-looking white and pale-
blue ribbons. Fanny’s husband, Bernard, by
the w T ay, comes from Adelong. But the
marvel of the afternoon was starter Mrs.
Chambers, who dashed up and down on a
pair of heels that looked like stilts, yet
managed not to overbalance once into the
water. Mina, Australia’s sturdy hope
against the redoubtable Bleibtrey lass from
Yankeeland, is pictured herewith.
Popular Mona D’Arcy Irvine, elder
daughter of the Archdeacon and Vicar-
General, will next month leave for Hong
Kong to be married to Gerald Ruxton, who’s
in command of a surveying ship under the
Chinese Government. Bridegroom-elect is
the second son of the late Rev. F. W. Rux-
ton, of Yorkshire. During the war hp served
in a submarine, and later took charge of
a surrendered German one. A brother was
killed in the war, and a sister is married to
Lord Sherrington’s heir. Shanghai will be
the future home of the young couple.
Estelle Beere, who has done as much for
the art of dancing in Maoriland as Ver-
brugghen has for orchestral music in Sydney,
is in our midst with sister-in-law Mrs. Hol-
royd Beere and a small Pavlova-like niece,
Joan. Like Minnie Everett, Estelle finds
the work of producing much more attractive
than ballet or class work. She studied in
Paris and in New York, and at present runs
swank dancing-classes in Wellington, where
on children’s day the Jellicoe kiddies jazz
indiscriminately with the quarter-deck or the
fo’c’s’le, so to speak, while their mamma fol-
lows their progress with as much interest
and concern as any little mother from
Muratai.
Some women study men, and some women
study books, but your sensible modern
studies clothes. Having obtained a post-
graduate degree in the academy of chiffons,
the graceful and well-turned-out Mrs. Henry
Hill Osborne has been implored by Farmer’s
directorate to advise them in the matter of
the little imported model that looks Sim-
plicity in a width of slinky satin and a
string of jet, and makes mere man swoon
over the bill of costs. Mrs. Henry Hill has
promised to give the new job a 10 weeks’ try-
out. The work takes only a few hours in
each week, and the pay is said to make
a film-actress’s salary look like twopence.
Last week her duties consisted in posing in
magnificent sables in a specially-arranged
studio.
Mrs. Lansdown, the Goulburn centenarian
who passed out recently, used to tell how she
outwitted the bushrangers in the early days
by having a hole made in the shafts of the
cart as a hiding-place for her roll of notes.
Another old indentity Mrs. Mary Styles of
Yass, now in her 89th year, tells that as a
child she was once travelling between Yass
and Goulburn with John Jobbins (reputed to
be the biggest landholder and wealthiest man
out of Sydney at that time), who was going
to pay for some sheep he had bought. At
Wilmot’s Inn he learned that bushrangers
were lying in wait for him, and the money
was thereupon hidden beneath the kiddy’s
dress. The ’rangers were tricked that time,
but later on Jobbins, while travelling to-
wards Gundaroo with the same child, was
bailed-up again and had to fork out. The
money was wrapped up in a handkerchief
made by the youngster, and on this clue the
thieves eventually came within the clutches
of the law.
Gruner and Gayfield Shaw and another
are just back in Sydney with the complexions
of Islanders and some canvases to remind
them of their voyage into the wilderness on
the borders of Queensland and New South
Wales. Their bill of fare included wild duck,
waterfowl and river cod. They are lyrical
about the codfish which had its little inside
taken out, was then wrapped about with wet
newspapers and buried amid the ashes of
the camp fire and allowed to bake for about
30 minutes. The Valley of the Mole, shut in
all round by gigantic hills, also turned the
three into poets, and Gruner has caught
some hills that are from their coloring surely
the foothills of the Delectable Mountain.
Marie Narelle, who is reported to be
lookinsr the picture of health in spite of her
two operations last year, declares she can’t
exist much longer without visiting Australia.
Husband Currie is spoken of as an adorable
person even though he is not a Canadian
millionaire, but only an important prop of
the New York Central Railway. Marie and
her husband and Rita live in a roomy house
at Long Island, where Marie grows her
own veggies; but Mrs. Narelle Junior’s
apartment is a spacious uptown affair that
costs $4OOO a year unfurnished on a four
years’ lease. f
Lucy Windeyer, who married her Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Reginald Robert Baldwin at
the little church of St. Michael’s, Rose Bay,
last week, did the deed wrapped about with
Spanish point (not Russian point) of a
weave that experts declare has Slot been made
for 300-odd years. The net bn which the
delicate design is traced is hand-made, and
the design is not braided but worked with
an infinity of stitches close and thick. A
train of the same Spanish point was draped
from the shoulders, and the whole of the lace
which, of course, scissors haven’t desecrated,
was cleverly draped and twined over pink
crepe de Chine. A veil, also of the same
weave, was worn cap-wise. Beulah Boul-
ton bridesmoided in a frock that looked like
a French pastel. Miss Windeyer wore black
georgette with lavender touches, and the re-
maining sister was in rich-toned blue silki-
ness. The bridegroom’s sister. Miss Baldwin,
who has been a guest of the Windeyers, wore
a beautiful model in French blue beaded in
silver and black.
Songstress Winifred Jenner is another
Australian who lias taken the right turn-
ing. She has started her lessons with Sir
Henry Wood, and expects to be with him for
the next year or more. In the early Spring
she w r ill give a recital at Bangor, in North
Wales, where she 'will be the guest of Mrs.
Walter Hobson, who was Del Yiend, of Moss
Vale. She and her sister May will be
remembered as good-looking girls and excep-
tionally fine riders.. May, who married
Henry Forsyth and had at least one novel
to her credit, was drowned in New Zealand
a few years ago while fishing with her hus-
band.
The Sydney Hospital Auxiliary, that tied
with the Prince Alfred in the tender for the
big refreshment pavilion at the Easter Show
and very gracefully offered to give place to
the P.A. committee, is already reaping the
reward of its virtue. It has secured for its
location Dalgety’s old site among the
machinery exhibits. This overlooks four
roads, and there are several little sheds still
standing that can be fitted up as butteries
and serveries. The tea tent proper is to be
40ft. by 90ft., and off that there’s to be a
soft-drinks counter —strictly a bottle depart-
ment ; no glasses served, only straws.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Our new Governor, who has been touring the
Downs in an atmosphere of marked cordiality,
returns at the beginning of this week, and on
Saturday, February 19, gives his first big dinner-
party at Government House. Everyone is wondering
who will play hostess for him, and at least a dozen
names have been suggested as ladies “in the run-
ning.” Perhaps there ain’t going to be any hostess
at all —which would add a spice of novelty to v.r.
entertainments.
Mrs. D. O. K. Cameron is in Sydney with daughter
Marjorie, who is busily trousseau-gathering. Mar-
jorie’s marriage to Lieut. Pitcairn Jones will happen
at the end of March.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Bell are due back from
America very shortly. The male partner’s arrival
will gladden the ranks of Nationalists, many of
whom have been asking bitterly, “Where is the
member for Fassifern?”
Passed out suddenly the other day, Mrs. Joe
Gallagher, wife of Dr. Gallagher, of Mackay. As
Nurse Isabella Wilford she will be remembered by
many old patients in Brisbane and Cunnamulla.
Three years in military hospitals in India, nursing
soldiers, was her war record. In India she suffered
from malaria, and never really recovered from it.
Dr. Joe is a returned soldier, and they were
married after his return. “Nurse” was a fine
musician, and her passing will be regretted by an
army of old patients and friends.
A window in Queen-street is filled with Oriental
antiques and brasses, brought back from India by
Teddy Cahill. Every article was a gift, and the
most scrumptious were thrust on him by Eastern
potentates who were enraptured with his piano-
playing.


ESTB.
■ _ *
1853
PRESENTATION WATCH.
-\ 1 '
\
Gentleman’s 18et. Gold Hunting Keyless Double
Chronograph Watch, with Minute Recorder, registers
to one-flfth of a second, adjusted for changes of
temperature, and fully jewelled. A High-grade Swiss
make, in case.
£BB 0 0
Presentation Committees are invited to inspect
the Company s large stock of high-grade
Watches, which includes a selection specially
suitable for presentation purposes. Made by
the leading English, Swiss and American
firms, and fitted with highest-grade movements,
these watches are guaranteed by the Company
to be thoroughly reliable timekeepers.
Selections are sent on approval, and
Special Terms are made to Presenta-
tion Committees. Particulars on
application.
HARDY BROTHERS
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
32 Old Burlington St,
London, W.I.
298 Collins St
Melbourne.
•' ■•♦‘•A
52
v
Hardy
BROS.
(Sydneys Brisbane) L-?
JEWELLERS
sign, illustrated
is affixed to tke Jroct of
*32 oid dWfifK>tpa Street
AUSTRALIAN VISITORS lo London
ape cordially invited to visit HARDY BB°s
lan dome retail Showroom ( recently ytended')
which contains a choice sled ofTieiWettery,
Silver, Steciro ( P[a£e and Haney Sttrtieles,
including exclusive Susirahan Souvenirs.
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET is
conveniently situated in the West Sad of
london le/ncy within two minutes wfall of
Hoad Street, Piccadilly and Iffoyni St.
tlh'ee members Jrom the sHustralion,
Stuff are noW resident in london and iffy
fully maintain the traditions of HARDY RRos.
for courtesy and attention, to customers.
HARDY 852§
(SYDNEY © BRISBANE ) LIMITED.
32 OLD BURLINGTON ST WI.
REPRESENTING HARDY BROS., LTD.
Sydney Melbourne & Brisbane
HARRINGTONS’
METALLURGICAL WORKS
and LABORATORIES.
ASS AYERS of Alloys, Ores, Fuels, Metallurgical Products, etc.
Technical Representatives in transactions of Ores and
Metals.
REFINERS of Lemels, Gold and Silver Bullion, Optical and Dental
Scrap. Spent Baths, Stripping Solution, Gilders’
Solution. Specialists in the refinement of Platiniferous
Bullion and Residues.
SMELTERS of Sweeps, Polishings, Handwash, Silverers’ Blankets
and any material containing precious metals.
MANUFACTURERS of “Perfection” DENTAL ALLOY, Dental
olds, Solders, Platinised Wires and Metallurgical
requisites for the DENTAL PROFESSION.
(By arrangement) of Johnson’s “Scales Brand” Silver
and GoM Chloride for GLASS SILVERERS,
ELECTRO-PLATERS, PROCESS ENGRAVERS.
SUPPLIERS of Fine and Standard Gold, Fine and Standard Silver,
tme Platinum and Platinum Alloys, Electrolytic
Vi?w?i?r r ’r r& anide ’ etc " for MANUFACTURING
JEWELLERS.
US
ii
“THE INDUSTRIAL
METALLURGISTS”
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
386 George Street, Sydney.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W.
S'
%
m
IK
svf-x
s
oo
*»*C*J6sc/
onm
VEA^
JONGUtPATfj
;v,i
NEW TASTES
FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES
Give the kiddies these wholesome
meats on their Sandwiches—
“REX” HAM PATE and “REX”
VEAL AND TONGUE PATE
They spread readily and are so appetising
that everyone enjoys them. They are all
pure meat, prepared and packed by the
most hygienic methods. You can have
nothing more wholesome. “Rex” Pates are
great for suppers, parties, picnics, lunches, etc.
Your grocer can supply.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1096


u
3@st
mn
m
nm
'V'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and 'withal has the ability to -wear longer
than the average hose-' such is LUXITE.
It i 3 the choice of men and -women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. * 50 York Street,
Sydney
FOR
ARCHITECTS,'ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■■
I
ADE
Perfection
pitsk; rubber.
Learn to Draw
m
The above ,
is the title]
of our book-
let, which
tells about «
the possibilities *
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J,
WESTON, Austra-j
lia's famous artist.
It explains the.
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of j
this booklet; —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
TII® HARRY J. WESTON
P«>stal| School of Drawing,
34 Union'House, George Street, SYDNEY.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
US West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—
Up to 96%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, CP.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE, VICTORIA.
n
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western WorltSj Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
CJ
s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before—
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. ‘•You can do this by using Bostock's Dress-
ings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Bostock’s VioSo Polishes,
Ltd., Sydney.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
We Desire
to Buy
mn
PLATINUM, at £l6 per ounce.
PINE JEWELS (unset),
DIAMONDS, EMERALDS, PEARLS,
RUBIES, SAPPHIRES in any
quantities.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.
SYDNEY.
Next time you buy Underwear
or Stockings, ask to see Medea.
After feeling its soft smooth texture and examining the
evidences of good workmanship—the careful finishing
of all seams, and its woven shape that promises perfect
fit—judge if you are justified in paying higher prices
than those required for this other-than-all-wool wear.
all
UNDERWEAR
Stockings, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Women and Children.
m
m
Good Drapers and Stores every-
where can supply you. See the
MedSa Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England
Oi>
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
T
II lil li
A HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated, and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydaey.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Briglow : No interest. . . .Doon : Too wordy
. ...H.R.: Don’t send that article on astronomy....
Robert H.: Not worth telling... .W.J.F.: Vicious
libel cast into outer darkness... .H.C. (Dulwich
Hill) : Amusing in its way, but point too 5ma11....
Ole Blue: Both miss.... Kayo: “The Second Wave”
doesn’t convince much.... Rex B.: “Quiet Christ”
is good, but won’t d 0.... Freda R.: The story hasn’t
enough in it.... Loris N.: “White Road” fails....
Maxine N.: Verse very rugged... . Dora : You may
be able to write if you take enough trouble and
make sure that you have something to say before
you start.... H.A.C.H.A.: Empty as the kerosene tins
of yesteryear... .R.F.G.: A different telling might
have saved it; but it is very slight... .W.G.W.:
Seems to be a difference of opinion, but the best-
informed back “Heir”... .Bernard C.: “Twenty
Pounds” held for inquest... .En Zed: Gruesome yarn
crudely written.... M.L. (Beaumaris): “Ann Bail'd”
not for us K.R.F.: “Rain” misses.... The Rover:
Very crude yarn. .. . Verma: Stupid stuff.... Ethel
D.: Verses no use. The book you want is “Alpha
Centauri,” by M. Forrest... .E.M.8.: Rambling stuff
of that sort is waste of time.... Tryer: Sonnet very
poor; others a bit worse.... E.Q.; Doesn’t make a
yarn. ...Dannebrog: You took the gold and you
put it back; and you write the statement of the
dull performance very badly... Punker: The “Turkey”
is rather a dreary bird.... Dalton: That scheme in
sending a perfectly futile person to a farm has been
done often and far better.... Stuart C.: “John
Bates” not our sort.... Orwell: “The Deserter”
carries on well to a point and then flops 0ut....
M.M.W.R.: Very poor attempt... .R.R.: Not our
style. .. .J.G.G.: A story that doesn’t matter in
commonplace verse.... Augh: “The Woman’s Part”
deserves a round of applause:—
A woman’s part
With zeal and art
Endorses life’s progress
In copyright
Of Nature’s might
That issues from Time’s press.
Fair womankind
Is so design’d,
Whatever man may be,
To form and mould
Heroes of old
And mould futurity.
’Twas of her blood
In Motherhood
All generations born
Life’s ways have trod —
With souls from God
Their bodies to adorn.
....IIO: Must have more meat in it than that....
Rowella: Old ideas and worn phrases in rather lumpy
metre. . . .F.M.C.: Ingenious enough, but poorly writ-
ten and not interesting. . . .W.B. (Hampton) : “Wood-
lark” doesn’t work. .. . J.T.A.: “You’re It, Mick!”
far too long and wordy... .8.J.R.8.: We don’t pub-
lish music, and our special musical critic is just now
holidaying in the remote wilds of W001100m00100...
Ego: No use.... Pat: Verse not good enough
V.C.L.: Hard to say from the slight specimen
whether the promise is dead or n0t.... Kalic: One
slab: —
A desert isle,
Or some sweet, isolated spot,
Where we could cut the knot
To set us free frem the world’s guile.
To live
In perfect peace and rapture.
With my muse to capture ;
And find for my world-weariness a cure,
Spinifex: No use writing in that way for us.
313: That sort of death by thirst has been
done too often..... C.M.M.: “East” misses, but not
by much D.T.S.: Neither gets near C.D.C.:
“Pool of Seeing” fails Maurice: Don’t mistake
assertion for argument, and don’t write on both sides
of the paper... .Newcastle: You vamp a par. from
another paper and begin, “‘The Bulletin learns.”
Your tribe fatigues us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.M.: In deference to your wish, drawing and
joke are still together—in w.p.b,, ,-S.D.: No,
there’s no vacancy for you as a cartoonist on The
Bulletin—or anywhere else just yet.... Country
Ped: Pitifully deformed cocky is on the return trip.
. ...H.11.: Drawing not up, and gag 01d....J.5.:
Horrible libel. .. .E.A.: Sketch and joke both need
a tonic. .. .W.H.C.: Shipowners show a poor fist.
. ...E.G.S.: Couldn’t pass, even with the specs....
R.D.: Learn to draw, then let’s see your 51st attempt.
“Donalbain” on pushes of the past:—
The place where Australian pushes were first
organised in a large and systematic way was not
Carlton or Fitzroy or the Rocks of Sydney,
but San Francisco. And the pushes there in 1849
and 1851 were far more thorough-going than their
rather futile modern successors at home. It is
recorded in Hittell’s History of California that
the famous “Hounds” push which terrorised ’Frisco
in the summer of 1849 till the citizens rose and
smashed it up was largely composed of “Sydney
coves” and Vandemonians. Its head-centre was
one Samuel Roberts, no doubt an old lag'. Its
leaders wore a kind of uniform, and on Sundays the
crowd would sometimes parade the streets with flags
flying and bands playing. There were no China-
men worth bothering about in ’Frisco then, but
one of the favorite push-games was to beat up
the Chilenos, Mexicans and other Greasers. Later,
when heaps more hard cases from Australia had
swarmed in, the quarter about the lower ends of
Pacific and Broadway streets became known as “Sydney
Town,” and it was a very warm place, indeed. The
deepest drinking and the highest gambling in
’Frisco went on there, and there were so many
citizens around ready for anything from pitch-and-
toss to murder that no one was sure of his pro-
perty or even his life.
It was the reaction against the rule of the
“pushes” that led to the formation of the Vigilance
Committee. On June 10, 1851, the committee laid
hands on its first victim, a “Sydney duck” named
John Jenkins, accused of burglary. When found
guilty by Judge Lynch and asked if he had any-
thing to say, John said that he would take a
cigar. He had it and a glass of brandy, and was
then strung up. James Stuart, who had been trans-
ported from England to Australia for forgery and
had shot a sheriff up-cour.try in California, was the
next to go. His only recorded observation about
the proceedings at his trial was that they were
“tiresome.”


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
lei.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4£lo! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemit<! Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Ldkes— Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 23,
SONOMA.
10,000 Toss, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
<? 1 n P c '! 1 »» Pa fS r n Ue in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 pan.
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
coast aSSenSerS ° f theSe steamers is unexcelled on the
For further particulars apply
10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY
&C0 E Itd ENTS: messrs - burns! philp
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000,
Directors; The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES • E TT
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K C M G •'
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. , >
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. l<m
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up ~ .. .... 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
Ail new business since 1893 specially .protected.
Directors —Geo. Edivd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) •
llon. G W. Gray. M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN (Acting)
HEAD OFFICE - . . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
The Australian sank of Commerce Limited
Authorised,Capital ..£2,000,000
Capital Ptfid Up £1,200 000
Reserve Fund .. £<>oo 000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A •
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L C •
Duncan Carson. ’ *
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY* (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chie] Inspector for Queensland: J. N, 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fair-bairn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the worlT
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529 988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,i25’000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,’000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other piae&V
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
nm
at 'lnterest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
STEAMERS SAIL EVERY 28 DAYS:
R.M.S. NIAGARA.
R.M.S. MAKURA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe,
the Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
- SAILING FROM SYDNEY:
R.M.S. MARAMA, February 23.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding, the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO-
UNION STEAM SPIIP CO.
UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
rj'J
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade;)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC . 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCUES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars .of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
frn^ yi rfin r ! t ‘ cl T^ ss , passengers onl y- Fares
li om £llO to England, and from £64
South Africa.
to
p. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
n
1
-
- £4,958,260
- 3,350,000
'
4,958,260
£l3
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Hubert L. Faitbfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
M.D.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Bussell French, 1i.8.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, PaDua and London’
Agents' and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
JBank ot Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
35% Intereston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Jan. Ist. 1921. Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
As the sailing dates are indefinite,
intending passengers are requested to
keep in touch with the agents of the
various steamers.
Huddart Parkei LS
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained! on appli-
cation. i
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney |to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week. 1
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
NIPPON YUSEN KAIS HA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND P'ASSENGER SER-
. VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailing’s Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address;
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton $ Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
i Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheath Collieries Ltd,
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
Nefv Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug- and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and . Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office :
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
mn
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since 1506. FOR "Write for" Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton's"’—refuse all substitutes.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
x Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the Grace of God of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and
of the British Dominions beyond the Seas King
Defender of the Faith Emperor of India.
To KENNETH JAMES ROWLANDS formerly of the
Ouse in Tasmania Store Manager.
WHEREAS Kathleen Mary Rowlands of Richmond
in Tasmania claiming to have been lawfully married
to you the said Kenneth James Rowlands has filed her
Petition against you in our said Court praying for a
dissolution of her said marriage with you wherein
she alleges that you have without just cause or excuse
deserted her and without any such cause or excuse
have left her continuously deserted during two years
and upwards NOW THIS IS TO COMMAND YOU
that within thirty days of the service of this on you
inclusive of the day of such service- you do appear in
oui said Court then and there to make answer to
the said Petition a copy whereof stamped with the
Official seal of the Registrar of our said Court is
herewith served upon you AND TAKE NOTICE that
in default of your so doing our said Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved in due course of
law and to pronounce sentence therein your absence
notwithstanding.
Dated this Twenty-eighth day of October, 1920.
(Sgd.j A. BRAMMAL (i.,5.), Deputy Registrar.


1
Id King Smoke
was a merry old bloke
when he called for his
o
The Kingly smoke
HI I
m
CBD
Every smoke with a GBD from the
first trial “go” is a regal treat. The
thoroughly matured French briarwood,
of which it is made, and the detailed care
taken with each one by the London
manufacturers, ensure sweet, cool smok-
ing qualities not to be found in any
other pipe so moderately priced.
Many popular shapes.
On Sale Everywhere
7
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches:
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
in" to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £3B/10/-
Correspondence invited.
. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
safeguard your health
prj.Collis Browned
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 3/-.
Made in England.
fhf.
m
-'W
mt
TheNEW EDISON
plays perfect dance music
It s splendid to be able to enjoy dancing
in your own home to music of perfect
time and rhythm. Instead of someone
being left out because they have to play
the piano—everyone can join in the
merriment.
Then when dancing languishes you can put on
vocal Re-creations and listen to your favorite songs
just as the most/ noted living artists have given
them.
The “New Edison Evening” will be voted by your
friends the most successful ever enjoyed, and they
and you will be anxious for a repetition!
Learn all about this wonderful musical instrument
and home entertainer. Send for Illustrated
Literature, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
C/s.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
m
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26 =
. , u.
,A ■
'‘Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, lor 22
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37« n.; bead front sight, with patent Rlloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
X
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Ri©?, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/“
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
:
■- . ■
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and poiver.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered 1 barrel, take down, weight 611 b., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets. (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l3 5/
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
>; ,w
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
BIS. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
cstvnieht erin ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short! long, ov long rifle cartridges; weight, about^Sßb.
hJ, w, ,
mmm
■
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It has full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv-shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target ltf\l
work. Weightabout 7Jlb. Freight paid * At 4
""nr ii _
wmm
“A suitable weapon for the boy .”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
45/-
,
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sJlb.
Freight paid,
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
nm
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or half
magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel, weight about sslb Freight paid,
Illustrated Firearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any address
£B/15/-
£9
£7/17/6
ric
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Rexona—the New Triangular
Shaving Stick.
Rexona Shaving Soap is absolutely ideal, says Mr. Thos. Hawkins
I am delighted with your Rexona
Shaving Soap, for it is by far the
best I have ever used. I always
use a Shaving Stick, and I think
your new triangular Stick is a
great improvement over the old
style of round sticks, and I find
that after lathering with the
Rexona Shaving Soap that the
razor, seems to glide over the face
much more smoothly. This Soap
certainly softens the beard in a
wonderful manner, and there is no
question but that it keeps the skin
in far better condition. I have
always been a believer in a Medi-
cated Soap for Shaving, and I give
you the palm for producing one
that I consider absolutely ideal.
In the past I have noticed that
after shaving the skin seemed
rough and looked as if it might
have been blistered, but such is
never the case with Rexona Shav-
ing Soap.
If this line does not take on in
this market, well, I miss my guess,
and I am sure I wish you ’ every
luck.—Cordially yours,
( Sgd.) THOMAS HAWKINS,
14 Wentworth Street, Paddington.
t
m
Mr. TIIOS. HAWKINS (from a painting by
Herbert Beecroft).
A Rexona Product—Watch for the Triangular stick.
Here is a new idea in Shaving: Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time
which will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow. Rexona Shaving: Soap con-
tains the same Oils and Essences that have made Rexona famous the world over,
and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving: Stick which is a
soap and lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers
the skin against wind and bad weather.
Rexona Shaving Soap is something entirely new. in every respect. Watch for the
triangular enamelled box, for Rexona Shaving Stick is not round, like the old-
fashioned kinds, but triangular, and packed in a triangular enamelled box, tasty and
neat, easy to hold, and dainty in every respect.
Rexona Shaving Stick is sold everywhere
at 1/6.
A.
<&}
•'«•«•««« *»«•*•*
SHAVING STICK
N
r
Shirts,,
I
p
¥
\
'im
X
s
«
is
1
V\
x:,
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary—all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY,
Insist on Thistle Shirts,
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory . * ear and
Service.
AS 61
Hiis
j brand on
each shirf
a
%
<3
-p,
IW^ll
An Epic of Train-missing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE train went on ; I paused to swear
A dozen yards behind its tail.
My first foot pawed the murmurous
air,
Impatient where it seemed to fail;
For in the middle of a bound
I knew the hopeless race was done.
The distant engine’s snorting sound
Proved that the eager race was won.
Then I let down my hot, fierce sole
And ground the platform with my heel.
Lord, keef) the grinning porters whole
When train-lost souls begin to reel!
I reeled, I rolled, I shook my jaw%
I cursed the sudden flight of time ;
And then an engine, black and raw,
Came hissing through the primal slime.
It hissed, it bussed, it clanged its tail
And made a smell like falling Troy.
My wrathful cheek grew deadly pale
With sudden blasts of inward joy.
I leaped upon its quarter-deck,
I hurled the pilot from his place ;
The admiral, in sudden wreck,
Went overboard with blighted face.
I seized the ship, I grasped the wheel,
I loosed the fiends of steam.
We started backwards with a squeal
That ended in a splendid scream.
The porters roared, the station fled ;
In vain the signal barred our way.
“Ho! tables of black time,” I said,
“We chase the tail of yesterday!”
b %
I shovelled in a ton of coal,
I fanned the furnace with my hat;
It roared through all its burning soul
Like Clara Butt a little flat.
One solemn engine meekly drew
A fat stock train across the line;
We smote it from our path and flew
Through tangled limbs of beef and swine-
Tail first we ran. The afternoon
Became a blur of angry men
Who danced and swore in rugged tone
And cackled like a single hen.
But o’er the hills and far away,
Beyond their utmost purple crime,
We chased the tail of yesterday
And plucked the feathers out of time.
The Western Mail was stricken dumb
To hear us roaring up the grade ;
It fled to wastes of flowering gum,
Ashamed to think its fares wmre paid.
Wild telegrams with no address
Shook all the wires of all the land
Till Melbourne feared for its express
And hid it under heaps of sand.
Then far by shedded sidings grey
And lonely sweeps of distant rail,
A thousand engines where they lay
With open funnels heard the tale
That one great brother in his pride
Had broken the appointed plan,
And used his pistons to deride
The puny strength of tyrant man.
They rose, they whistled. With a bound
They sprang along the glistening line
To join their king whose might had crowned
His freedom with a force divine.
Some came with trains and some without,
The points flew open to their wheels;
And frensfied signalmen in doubt
Saw ruin roaring on their heels.
So, on the topmost mountain height,
As raging up the final grade
We gloried through the growing night
In all the splendid noise we made.
We heard a thunderous rush of steam
From east and west and north and south;
the bush began to teem
With glowing engines wide of mouth.
They surged around w T ith snorts and cheers,
Their safety-valves were mad with zeal —•
“Ho ! Stalwart brother pioneers !
The revolution of the wheel!”
It was my engine shouted this.
His thunderous accents turned me blue.
I heard the Bolshevistic hiss
That ran that great assemblage through.
“Brothers,” he cried, “the open track
Is ours from Perth to Broken Hill;
But there is something on my back
That puts hot cinders in my will.
A man thing, mad with missing trains,
Has tickled me the livelong day.
Some kind friend grip him by the brains,
And take the needless itch away.”
Up rose five engines at that call,
And gripped me by the waistcoat band;
Then gingerly they let me fall
Feet first upon the darkening land.
They closed around me in a ring,
Their headlights glared with fearful light;
And then an engine stood to sing
The rebel chorus of the night
“Blackleg!” they yelled with steamy voice.
“Blackleg!” they roared with coaly cry.
“Now let the waster take his choice;
Become a unionist or die!”
Death seemed unpleasant, to I chose
The easy way with seeming zeal....
I felt the funnel of my nose,
Each foot and hand became a wheel.
The change was sudden. There I stood
Filled to the throat with Lithgow coal,
A locomotive black and nude
With hot steam working in my soul.
And high upon that mountain-top,
Amid the strikers fierce and wild,
I wailed like one who could not stop—
The phantom of an iron child.
Ah. well! The engine strike soon failed.
The coal gave out. The drivers came.
The madness of a moment paled;
The loudest wheels grew cold and tame.
Then stood a man in wonder sore
And on that black form of mine.
He read : “Six—five—three—nine—eight—-
four —
There’s no such number on the line.”
He scratched his head and looked again,
As one who views a stranger pup ;
Then, reeling from the mental strain,
He hunched bis head and gave it up....
And so, through weary nights and days,
I pull strange things across the land
In suburbs where my whistle plays
Weird discords none may understand.
But this, I fancy, they must know.
Though hard my lot and grim my fate,
The trains with which I come and go
Are ahvays half a minute late.
The madding race goes daily by,
I stand and snort, my steam flies free;
For no one game enough to try
Has e’er been charged with missing me.
n.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
Lun Foo Repays.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIJN FOO, comprador in Pekin to
Scrivens, Ltd., of London, was be-
littled. Openly, before the gaze of the
grinning clerks, he was made mock of.
For twenty-three years Lun, as local
manager for sScrivens, Btd., had done busi-
ness with Scott and Co., another English
house in Pekin, and for the last ten years of
the time had dealt with, and been dealt with
by, Baker, English manager for Scott and
Co., as a brother and a man. Should Lun
choose to call at any hour of the day during
the last ten years Baker was pleased to see
him. To Lull’s certain knowledge he had
often put off prior engagements in order to
receive him. He had once kept no less a
personage than the British Consul waiting
outside his private office while he chatted a
little longer with Lun. And now, before the
insolent gaze of the several hostile clerks,
Baker had openly put a slight upon and in-
sulted him. Dropping in for a chat and a
cigarette, Lun had met Baker coming from
his private office in the company of a lady.
It being too late to retreat unnoticed, Lun
stood aside, hat in hand, intending to leave
after the others had departed, when Baker
spoke. “Can’t see you to-day, China. Call
some other time.” That was all, and Baker
had gone with the woman, leaving Lun to run
the gauntlet of the impudent gaze of his
hirelings.
Back in his own office Lun pondered long
upon the matter. After all these years he had
thought he knew this Englishman, but here
was a side of his nature he had never be-
fore encountered. To be a Chinaman and the
friend of an Englishman was one matter; to
be a Chinaman and the friend of an English-
man in the company of a lady was clearly
quite a different matter altogether. That was
it. The woman. Deep down in all white
men (and not at all deep down in many) Lun
knew the idea of superiority lurked, ready to
spring into life when the audience was of
the right composition. When the audience
was a woman Lun knew the desire to assert
the pre-eminence of the superior race was irre-
sistible in most white men. Didn’t the case of
Harkness of the See Bee Company prove it?
Harkness had lived in China thirty years, and
had a Chinese wife and family. He was fifty
years of age, and such foolishness should
have long since gone to sleep within him.
Yet one day when Harkness’s wife acciden-
tally knocked over the child of a stylishly-
dressed white woman in the bazaars, Hark-
ness assumed the attitude of an entire
stranger towards his wife and compelled her
to grovel her face in the dirt before the
woman and child in turn, after which he
rebuked her roundly for a slut and a yellow
woman, and sent her about her business
while he saw the white woman but of the
bazaar. Harkness’s eldest son, a stripling
of seventeen, had poisoned Harkness that
night for having made mock of his mother;
but it all went to show the foolish vanity of
the white man, and his insane desire to
appear a being superior to people of another
color.
But not until now had Lun suspected it
in Baker. He remembered the first time he
had called, ten years ago, to pay his respects
to the newly-arrived manager of Scott and
Co. Baker had been pleasant and friendly
from the first. He had handed Lun cigarettes
(he remembered them by the stinlc, which he
afterwards learned was an Egyptian stink)
and white man’s whisky, which Lun had
never tasted in his life. Soon they were fast
friends, never a day passing without a
friendly call by one or the other, with an
adjournment to one of the bazaars for a
plate of fricassbed puppy or stewed frogs’
entrails. Handling large sums of money on
behalf of their respective houses, they had
many times come to each other’s assistance
when a fall in the market offered an unex-
pectedly favorable chance to buy. One had
often loaned the other many thousands of
pounds without asking for or expecting a
receipt. At Baker’s request Lun had intro-
duced him to opium. He remembered the
first night. The Poppy Smoke grows on a
white man to an alarming degree in a very
short while, but Lun had never known any
white man take to it at the first attempt with
the avidity that Baker displayed. Calling at a
quiet, select house that Lun knew T of, he had
intended allowing Baker half a pipe only, but
midnight had come and gone before the Eng-
lishman would consent to go home. Baker
often visited the place alone after that, until
Lun noticed he was missing occasional days
at his work. When a man takes to the Poppy
Smoke during daylight there is only one
end for him unless drastic action is taken.
So Lun saw to it that Baker never went
alone thereafter, and he rolled the pellets for
Baker’s pipe with his own hands, making
them very small pellets, which the English-
man resented until he saw Lun was deter-
mined to ration his allowance. The constant
surveillance was a source of worry to Lun and
caused him to waste much time, but in the
end he saved Baker from himself. Then
came the fresh campaign for the suppression
of the opium traffic, and for weeks Baker
was a wreck because of the deprivation of
his opiate. But eventually Lun had managed
to arrange for a constant limited supply,
which had continued right up to a week ago.
when another campaign had been launched
against the Poppy Smoke.
Pondering it all in his mind. Lun decided
that perhaps it was the loss of his smoke
that had caused Baker to insult him. Per-
haps his nerves were raw, and he could not
be held to blame for his discourtesy. But
then he remembered the way the English-
man had seemed pleased when his companion
half-smiled at his remark; and he also re-
(Continued on next page.)


'uMUuiUm/m'i
When you cut or bruise yourself simply wash
the place, apply some Zam-Buk, and bandage up.
ZAM-BUK AND NATURE WILL DO THE REST.
YOU cannot get away from accidents—and you cannot get away from the need of Zam-Buk. Daily examples
of Zam-Buk’s swift, clean healing and its great utility in a thousand emergencies justify the high claims
made for this herbal ‘‘first-aid” and skin remedy.
Zam-Buk is superior in this respect—its herbal extracts are brought together by novel, scientific means. This
produce 5 extraordinary soothing, healing and antiseptic powers. Zam-Buk occupies a unique place in regard to
its REAL MEDICINAL POWER.
There is nothing that is capable of more marvellous healing and curative action. Zam-Buk is Nature’s healer,
and at; the present time, when there is a great shortage of doctors, it is real patriotism for every housewife and
every worker to keep a pot of Zam-Buk handy for the prompt self-treatment of any sudden wound or sore. When
Zam-Buk is applied to the bruised or broken skin any danger of the wound taking bad ways is removed.
There are also Poisoned Sores, Ulcers and Bad Legs, Ringworms and Scalp Sores, Burning Eczema and Aggra-
vating Piles, that tell their tale in their own weakening and distressing way. All are relieved, and in many cases
the knife is evaded by the marvellous healing power of Zam-Buk.
HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is proved unexcelled for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, sores, bad legs, ulcers, abrasions,
pimples, blisters, children’s sores, abscesses, ringworm, barber's rash, scalp troubles, sore feet,
boils, festering sores, piles, sprains, scabs, sore heels, eczema, poisoned wounds, stiffness and injured
and diseased conditions of the skin generally. From all Chemists and Stores, at 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot; or post free direct from C. E. Fulford (Australasia), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
n
heals.
FACE SKINNED
AND BRUISED.
Mr. G. Corbett, of 113
Palmer Street, Sydney,
says : “My father slipped on
the doorsteps and took the
skin off the Side of his
face, and left a great
bruise. It was bad for a
while and he decided to
use Zam-Buk, and the cut,
graze and bruise were
healed in a remarkably
short time.”
SCALDED WITH
BOILING FAT.
Mrs. S. McLaughlan, of 5
Burton Street, North Syd-
ney, says: “I was lifting
a pan of boiling fat off
the fire, and the pan cap-
sized all over the left
hand. It was bad for a
long time and greatly in-
flamed. Zam-Buk took
the inflammation away and
cured it completely, leav-
ing the skin clean again.’'
/
V
\
/■
HEALING,
SOOTHING,
ANTISEPTIC.
called the words. “Can’t see you to-day,
China. Call some other time.” Sitting
calmly in his private office, Lun grew hot
at the remembrance, the more so because he
had had no intention of intruding upon
Baker and the lady, his call being the usual
visit he had paid almost daily for the last
10 years. Rut Lun’s code of honor and
fair dealing would not permit him to con-
demn his friend unheard. Seemingly there
was not a scintilla of excuse for Baker’s
conduct, yet he would be a low-caste China-
man indeed who would find a friend guilty
without offering him a chance of redemp-
tion.
Thus it was that Lun called on Baker
again next day. If Baker had forgotten
the incident, well, Lun had never noticed it.
If Baker repeated the insult—Lun had not
thought beyond that, but no Chinaman of
honor had ever been known to forget a kind-
ness or an insult.
With the courtesy of “the East” which
10 years of open familiarity had not broken
down, Lun sent in his name to the manager
of Scott and Co., and stood waiting in the
outer office which was office, bondstore and
warehouse in one. Around him, piled high
on shelves, wrapped up in bulky packages,
hidden away in quaint wicker baskets,
hooped up in boxes awaiting export, were
the precious products of a hundred provinces,
silks and cot fans, rice, sugar, tea, tobacco,
priceless porcelains, wonderful antique
bronzes, inimitable carvings in ivory—all
ready to cross seas and deserts to the hungry,
waiting millions of the outer world. It was
all very familiar to Lun. Their counter-
parts, in far greater quantities, were all
represented in his own warehouse farther
down the street. In a vague way he felt
very old as he recalled that he had for 27
years bought, collected and despatched these
things for Scrivens, Ltd., of that mighty
London he had never seen. For more than
quarter of a century he had done these things,
man’s work, and now here he was waiting
with palpitating heart on the word of a
man he could buy and sell and out-sense a
hundred times over. The world was a futile
world to Lun at that moment.
The returning clerk brought him abruptly
from his reverie. Mr. Baker could not see
him; he was busy. No, he didn’t know when
he would be able to see him. He was very
busy. Scenting a severance of relations
between their employer and the Chinaman,
the clerks openly sniggered as Lun first
hesitated, and then walked slowly out into
the street, without so much as a glance to
either side. The superiority of the white
was strong in those clerks.
That night Lun visited Ah Chu, keeper
of a small hut on the edge of one of the
bazaars. It was a very small hut. scarcely
bigger than the ticket-office of a theatre. A
partition divided it into two small com-
partments, one big enough only for a man
to stand upright in, the otheh a little larger,
but never meant to be home to any man.
In the dividing wall a hole about the size of
a large man’s arm had been eut. The
whole-—-hut, partition and pigeon-hole—was
the child of the fresh opium-suppression
campaign. When for the greater part of
his life a man has been lulled to sleep and
given glimpses of Heaven through the
medium of a long-stemmed pipe and an
opium pellet; the deprivation of his opiate
sends him in .search of a substitute as surely
as the sun’s warmth calls out the fresh
young grass shoots from the newly-watered
earth. The disappearance of the opium
marked the coming of morphia. Chinamen,
and white men, too, came to this hut, and
its hundreds of prototypes, to be doped,
passing first a small fee and then their arm
through the hole in the wall, receiving in
return an injection of morphia from the
unseen proprietor on the other side of the
partition.
It was a profitable business for the
morphia-purveyor. So much so that the
keeper of the hut refused even to listen to
Lun’s proposal for the purchase of the
establishment. He would be a foolish man
indeed who would sell a profitable business
merely for the love of selling. But Lun
wanted that hut. He wanted it more than
he had ever wanted anything in life before.
And he was prepared to pay for it. The
sum he was prepared to pay caused the pro-
prietor’s brain to reel and his legs to
tremble from fear lest Lun should change
his mind before he could close with the offer.
With what Lun offered in his possession,
he could take to the morphia himself and
give up work for the remainder of his days.
When Lun went to bed that night he
was proprietor of the hut on the edge of
the bazaar, had arranged for a sure supply
of morphia, and hired the late morphia-
seller’s time for a period of three months
ahead. As he dropped off to sleep he was
almost happy.
Baker was surprised next morning when
the clerk again brought in Lun’s name. He
was too busy to see him, he said. But this
time Lun did not go away. He sent a note
in to Baker, and hummed a little tune
while he waited. In two minutes the clerk
reappeared and asked him to enter. Baker
was not his old self. He spoke with his
tongue while his brain dwelt on other
matters, Lun thought. Also, he looked
haggard and very weary, and Lun, who had
seen the ravages which the sudden stoppage
of their opium supply had worked on many
men, smiled inwardly.
"This stuff is as good as the opium, you
say,” said Baker, still holding Lun’s note in
his hand.
“Not so good as the poppy juice, quite,
perhaps,” replied Lun, “but good; very good
when the other can’t be had.”
“It’s safe, I suppose. I can’t afford to get
caught prowling around some hell-shop in
the middle of the night.”
Baker used not to talk so. Beforetime Lun’s
word had been always sufficient guarantee of
the safety of any emprise. Clearly Baker’s
nerves were raw. “It’s quite safe. I’ve
arranged it all. We can go this night,” re-
plied Lun.
On the way to the hut Lun explained the
procedure to Baker, undertaking himself to
enter the proprietor’s side of the wall to see
that everything was right. When Baker had
had his injection he would return and join
him.
The only light in the place, on the opera-
tor’s side of the wall, came from a splutter-
ing wick in a dish of tallow —just sufficient
to enable the hut-keeper to distinguish the
good coins from the bad ones which were
often poked through the hole in the wall. It
was an anxious face that now peered down
■ through the semi-gloom, scrutinising hungrily
the hands of many shapes and hues and
degrees of cleanliness that came through the
hole in quest of the dream-producing alka-
loid. Each told its tale to the practised
eyes of the operator. The scarred, leathery
paw that came through nonchalantly be-
longed to a toiler accustomed to opium and
scorning the efficacy of this new-fangled drug,
which he was, nevertheless, determined to
sample. As the needle bit him the operator
could picture his lips lifting at the corners
in derision. The clean, long-nailed hand
that was slow at following the coin through
the opening belonged to another first-time
visitor, forced to seek a substitute for his
lost opium, yet fearful of the unknown
Thing on the other side of the wall. The
quivering, black, hastily-thrust-through fist
was that of a negro in the last stages of
collapse, who had stolen the coin that paid
for the drug which his tissues craved and
on -which his life depended. Such a hold
did the drug have on him that he would pro-
bably die before he could secure the coin
to pay for another visit. The tattooed,
stubby white hand belonged to a sailor accus-
tomed to securing his drug as chance offered
in any of the four corners of the world, who
had been brought to the hut by a waterside
acquaintance. Watching, imperturbable,
snake-like, Lun had no fear of mistaking
some other man’s hand for Baker’s. The
color would help him little in distinguishing
it, for the passage of numerous white hands
had gone to help make smooth the one-time
rough edge of the hole in the wall; but
there was . a queer star-shaped mole on
Baker’s wrist which Lun could have picked
out from a million other hands. When after
fifteen minutes of waiting a bright, new coin
dropped through the hole, followed imme-
diately by Baker’s hand, Lun changed places
quickly with the operator, took a small new
syringe from his pocket, and with his own
hands injected the dope into Baker’s wrist.
Two minutes later lie and Baker were
on their way back to the town.
Each night for a month Lun accom-
panied Baker to the hut on the edge of the
bazaar. Sometimes they went twice in the
one night. Baker complaining that the first
injection had failed to take effect. It was'
on the nights of these second visits that
Lun returned home peculiarly elated. At
such times he sat smoking and musing far
into the night, drumming a contented tattoo
on the table with his finger-tips. In his
inner vision he could see Baker —Baker who
had insulted him, Baker who had prostituted
his honestly-offered friendship, Baker who
had made mock of him before the insolent
gaze of his hirelings—lying grey and dead
on his couch, awaiting the last services of
his kind on earth. To the day, almost to
the hour, Lun knew that in three months
Baker would die. With his own hands, on
the nights of those second visits, he had in-
jected a virus into Baker’s system for which
the cunning of the cleverest doctors would
be impotent to find an antidote, even if they
knew it was there, which they didn’t ,nnd
never would know, for Baker himself would
not suspect its presence until the grim, cold
hand of death should clutch him ; and then
it would be too late. Lun was content.
''.Well satisfied with his revenge, Lun one
night failed to appear at the appointed
time. Making the journey alone to the hut,
Baker sent next morning to inquire if he
was ill, and to invite him to call if lie was
well. Lun sent no reply, neither did he
visit Scott and Go. When a second and a
third night and day went by without any
word or appearance of Lun, Baker put on
his hat and called on Scrivens, Ltd. Lun
was in his private office and received Baker
quietly. Observing immediately that some-
thing was amiss, Baker’s mind flew back of
its own accord to the day Lun had called
when the woman was present, and in an
instant he was consumed with remorse and
anxious to make amends.
“Lun, my friend, I believe you are angry
with me,” he said feelingly.
Looking at him steadily, Lun did not
reply.
“It’s because of that day you visited me
when the woman was there,” continued'
Baker. “I can’t blame you, Lun, old friend.
I was a cur to you that day, and several
days after, but, believe me, I did not know
what I was doing.”
Lun remained silent.
“That woman was my witie, Lun. My
wife, I’m telling you, man ! And she came
to ask me to divorce her! To ask me to
divorce her, when I was counting the months
before my return home, a rich man, to live
out the remainder of my days by her side !”
Baker paused, but Lun still Wept silent.
“She wouldn’t come out here to live with
me, and she has been carrying on with an-
other man in my absence. You know what
it meant to me, Lun. You know I have kept
straight as white men seldom do all the
time I have lived here, waiting for the time
when I could go back to her. And then she
came herself to seek me, to ask me to turn
her free that she could go to the arms of an-
other man ! Can’t you speak, Lun? I was
crazy just then, and knew not what I was
doing. Your friendship has ever been dear
to me, and I want it now. I want it more
than ever now, Lun. Haven’t you got any-
thing to say to me?”
The force of Baker’s emotion had shaken
him. His hand, trembled where it rested on
the edge of the table ; his face was flushed,
and his eyes were moist.
Lun sat transfixed. He could not remove
his gaze from Baker’s face. His sphinx-like,
inborn stolidness was multiplied ten thou-
sand fold, and his face showed grey and
suddenly old under the yellow skin. Many
times his lips went through the motions of
spoken words, but his parched tongue clung
to the roof of his mouth and refused to give
them life. With a final superhuman effort
he forced his numbed legs to hold the weight
of his body, and drove his tongue to speak as
he reached across the table and laid his cold
hand affectionately on Baker’s hot fist.
“Leave me.” he whispered. “Gome back in
the morning.”
When Baker came back in the morning
Lun Foo was dead.
G. L. THOMAS.


*
?:■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
iL>
/
7
Now Three Flavours
m
m
m
a
m.
«
NOTE
Be sure to get \
WRIGLEVS m
Here is the deli-
cious chewing sweet
that costs so little
and lasts so long.
And the new
"JUICY FRUIT"
flavour lives up to
the reputation of
the other two.
You just can’t chew
it long enough to
lose the flavour.
mn
Big bars in
each packet for
3 d
Made in Australasia
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
I
The Flavour Lasts!
Offfiokoußr
BEECH AMS PILLS
K
/
emin
UM\
ihotGun Cartridge
r TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—
Examine the brass base of the cartridge fot
the company’s own marking.
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
NITRO CLUB
smokeless
powder
ARROW NEW CLUB)
smokeless black
powder powder,^^ai
m
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Represent* tiro
Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
Modern Conditions Demand Modern Methods
n
The time when work and heavy material needed to be dragged about a
workshop to the different machines is past. Too much time was wasted
—the cost of production was too high. Modern conditions demanded a
speedier, cheaper way of working.
CINCINATTI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
TOOLS FOR EITHER CURRENT
are built to the modern demand. They find their place in the busy engineer-
ing shops because they cut costs, reduce time and labor, and guarantee
accuracy on every operation. AVe have a full range of
HAND AND BREAST DRILLS, HEAVY-DUTY DRILLS, HEAVY-
DUTY RADIALS, TOOL POST GRINDERS, BENCH GRINDERS, etc.
Write for complete catalogue to the Sole Agents—
<?
Engineers & Machinery
Merchants.
PARKE & LACY
ice Street,
SYDNEY.


■a
k\
V"
/a
FITTINGS
Build the Perfect Bicycle.
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings is depend-
able, looks good and is cheaper in the long run
than the machine which in first cost is much
less than the B.S.A.
You can compare a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings by every possible test with a
so-called cheap bicycle, and you will readily
understand why a B.S.A. is the cheapest machine
in the end.
Year in and year out this bicycle will give
unfailing service, providing many hours of real
enjoyment because of its easy running and comfort.
The choice of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is a businesslike decision; the economy,
reliability and freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A. a sound investment
which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. riders say there is nothing to equal the satisfaction which the bicycle
of the “Three Piled Rifles” gives.
The range of models and constructional improvements shown in the B.S.A. catalogue
will illustrate why the bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is so popular.
TRADEMARKS
Look for the B.S.A. three piled rifles trade-marks; they
are stamped on the Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat-
pillar Lug, Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back
Stay Bridge, Hubs and Pedals.
These trade-marks carry with them a guarantee of long
and reliable service, and are backed by a reputation of
over sixty years’ standing.
B.S.A.
B.S.A. Fittings are Guaranteed Interchangeable.
t
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don’t
be put off with “pattern fittings,” but look for the B.S.A.
Trade-marks on EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
REPRESENTING THE B.S.A. CO., LTD., BIRMINGHAM,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.
r,:.-
I
Of
