

'~v—
X*
r
\l/
V
V
J2i
M I accent Just a note
here, a phrase there,
subduing the voice if I
choose in this one part
to bring out the wist-
ful beauty of the violin
obligato. The second
verse I play softly,
shading i t gradually
to a faint, caressing
whisper."
r vVhy 7 bougfit an
Aeoiian%gmion
What the Najme “Aeolian” Meant to Me.
I have had my Vocalion two months. Yet I spend more
time playing it to-day than I did when it first came.
A friend of mine who is thinking of purchasing a phono-
graph said to me recently, “What made you decide to buy
the Aeolian-Vocalion?”
“The Aeolian name,” I replied, after a moment’s
thought, “always comes to me when I think of music or
musical instruments. Of the score or more of my friends who
have bought from The Pianola Company not one has been
disappointed; not one but believes his instrument the finest
in tone, the most dependable and durable that he could have
found anywhere. So I have grown up to look upon The
Pianola Company as one of the broadest, fairest, business
houses I know of—the home, it seems to me, of things
musically artistic.”
“But did you buy a phonograph just because you
approved of the house that sold it?” laughed my friend.
“No,” I replied, “but 1 would not have dreamed of
buying any phonograph without at least first seeing the one
The Pianola Company made.”
A Feature that Makes My Phonograph More
Interesting To-day Than When It Arrived.
After I had had my Vocalion for a few days, the fact
dawned on me that it was becoming more and more fascinat-
ing as time went on. With this Graduola you can really play
the music—express it in your own way. By pulling it out
slowly you get the effect of increasing distance—of a gradual
decrescendo, until you have the softest pianissimo; while by
a movement you- can accent any notes you wish. The
Graduola adds so much to the pleasure of owning a
phonograph!
Let me show you with this little southern lullaby, “Ma
Little Sunflower, Goodnight,” sung by James Stanley.
I accent just a note here, a phrase there, subduing the
voice if I choose in this one part to bring out the wistful beauty
of the violin obligato. The second verse 1 play softly,
shading it gradually to a faint, caressing whisper. The singer
could never have recorded it so, yet how charming the effect,
and just the way James Stanley would doubtless handle his
fine baritone if he were here.
PLAYS ALL MAKES OF DISC RECORDS.
Do not purchase a phonograph without seeing, hearing and PLAYING the Vocalion.
Vocalion Prices are from £9 upward. Models with Graduola, from £30.
Convenient monthly terms if desired.
SOLE MAKERS:
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, SYDNEY.
ALSO 252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin
yol. 42.—N0. 2156
Thursday, June 9, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 102.1? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.;—Apvt.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
ol
PASTE
OOTH
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
*
Free sample will be posted to you.
p
m
V
IT IS IN THE MANUFACTURER’S
OWN INTERESTS
ia these days of increasing costs to conserve power, to cut
down overhead charges to a minimum, and to increase the
production of his plant.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTINC
has all the essential qualities demanded of a perfect power
transmitter. Made of flawless leather, specially tanned, it
grips the pulleys tenaciously and transfers every ounce of
generated power to the machines.
Stocks are always on hand for immediate delivery.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Oireotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Soutti Australia: Wm. Crosby & Sons, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle.
Victoria : Corbett, Durham & Co., Little Collins St., Melbourne,
Tasmania: Henry Clark & Co. Ltd,, Collins St., Hobart.
JUNE 9.
Pass it on! to friends and neighbors,
All who 'ail with cough or cold,
Truth owes .nought to fears or favors,
Tell its worth to young and old.
Other remedies may please them,
But there’s none so good and sure,
If you mean Jto mend and ease them.
Mention Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kildft, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
mi
O
i * f **T3
■Shs"
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCI& MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
li'4,
i
vs Tin ingfoant piok up "
Corner Collins &
Swanston Sis.,
Melbourne
When the traffic policeman signals “Come on" —
when the moment comes for the sudden speeding up of
your car, will she fail you, or respond to the call?
It depends largely upon the quality of the Spirit in your
tank.
If you are using Plume Motor Spirit, you can be sure of
an instant pick-up, because it vaporises fast, and is the livest
spirit you can ulfe. Plume is always uniform and dependable,
and puts the full horse-power of your engine at your command.
For easy starting, sweet running, and more miles, use Plume.
When next you go to fill up, ask for Plume.
You’ll know then why it is so popular with motorists.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
PLUME
MOTOR
SPIRIT
P 3 K
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
W
m
&
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
•f the Lungs.
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumentho!
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name oi
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson's
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Style and the Typewriter
The dictum that'a man’s literary style is
the man himself applied very well in the
days when writers scrawled their sentences
with their own digits. It would have applied
even more fittingly when the bards of old
chanted their epic ballads in a world that
had seen no print. But to-day, when every
scribe —including even the impecunious poet
• —ticks off his copy on his own portable type-
writer and filters his personality through a
machine, the element of personal mannerism
in style is attenuated to such a degree as to
be practically negligible.
In the spacious days of hand-script the
perspiring editor peeled off his coat and
loosened the top button of his waistcoat so
that the strain of deciphering the average
contributor’s reams of casual scrawl might
be rendered a little less intolerable. Editors
must have been touchy folk in those days.
As for the compositors (poor devils!) their
qualms, conjectures and responsibilities were
unthinkable r for the literary person, whose
staggering “hand” was the cause of all the
trouble, scanned his printed work to detect
and denounce so much as one misprint in a
column. Typescript has changed all that, of
course. But wasn’t there perhaps a closer,
subtler relationship between a man and his
work when the thought trickled from his pen-
point and formed the very character of his
handwriting than there is to-day when an
elaborate mechanical device squats insidiously
between the author and his MS?
Without going so far as to announce a
positive divorce between hand and soul, I do
suggest that the work of the man who thinks
straight on to the machine must lose in color,
charm and human individuality, whatever it
may gain in neatness and precision of style.
And that it does gain in neatness and pre-
cision almost any representative page of any
representative contemporary journal will
show. To-day sloppy work is almost conspicu-
ously rare. There has been a general leavening
up in technical efficiency. We are accustomed
to a neater, cleaner prose style-—a style with
a more efficient snap in its rhythm—than
you will find in the journals of 30 years ago.
Journalese is still journalese, I know; but
its faults are less flagrant; and if the blunted,
cast-iron clicM is still employed to skewer
pretentious phrases together, let us at any
rate be duly thankful that the employment
of that species of padding known as the
cheville is no longer countenanced even by
space-rate subordinates.
My idea is that this uniform leavening up
is directly traceable to the millionfold influ-
ence of the typewriter. Every writer is to
some degree a faddist; and a fad becomes a
law to the man who indulges it. The
slightest maladjustment in his milieu, and
the game is up. If he imagines that he can
write better when he is in bed (Mark
Twain) ; if he finds that he can churn out
more words per hour when his stomach is
empty (Scott) ; or if he feels more happily
himself when hiding behind a pseudonym
(Lamb), depend upon it he is right. One of
the bigger novelists —I forget which —de-
clared that he was unable to do justice to his
style unless he wrote with a pencil-stump.
Ridiculous, of course. But no more so than
the bullet that missed the mark because it
had encountered a 10-mile breeze on the way.
And if so trivial a maladjustment as a pen
instead of a pencil (or vice versa) is suffici-
ent to impair the normal quality of a creative
artist’s literary style, who doubts that the
Collective style of contemporary journalism
must, in a marked degree, be affected by the
habitual use of the typewriter? The intimate
caressing pressure of the finger on the peii,
in itself a sort of graphic finger obligingly
tracing and treasuring one’s thought; the
pen’s immediate flexible response to every
physiological flirt of the writer’s recording
hand; the triumphant little caligraphie
flourish when the creative word leapt like a
flame into the sentence; the consequent
subtle gratification of one’s sense of power—
these were some of the accumulated slight
amenities of the act of writing ; as distinct a
thing from the disjointed, prodding pro-
gression of the typist as the gradual suavity
of a violinist’s curving note is from the per-
cussive note of the pianist. So that if the
man drove the pen, the pen in its turn cajoled
the man. Hence Buffon’s dictum.
Now, a typewriter cajoles nobody. It does
not invite one to spin out one’s thought-
whims and airy speculations into a web of
word-iridescence, either of prose or of verse.
It is cold, still and sullen. Dull thing of
iron, one must punch it before it will do one’s
slightest bidding. Impulse quails before it.;
its iron may be said to enter the soul. Its
singular merit, though, is that in showing a
man the shape of his work it enforces tidi-
ness. For typescript performs the imper-
sonal, clarifying office of print; and “print
settles it,” as Charles Lamb once observed.
The day-may come when handwriting will
be discontinued and when, instead of his
ABC, every precocious three-year-old will be
heard repeating the letter-sequence of the
Universal Keyboard. “Let the lady ’ear yer
say yer keyboard, ’Erbert.” And straight
the faultless Herbert streaks through the
familiar sequence; QWERTYUIOP
.... But what, in that event, will be the fate
of the lyric poet? For surely immortal verse
will never spring from a tete-a-tete with a
machine, however well oiled? Shelley held
that inspiration is already on the wane before
even the nimblest poet can get his notebook
unclasped. Suppose, for illustration’s sake,
the typewriter had been invented and uni-
versally adopted before the year 1800. How
much of Shelley’s own rainbow-verse would
have been. composed with its aid? Burns,
we know, composed in the open air, trying
over his vigorous rhythms as he trudged in
the track of his plough. I’ll wager he did no
scribbling when he reached the headland.
Having snatched one fiery stanza from the
gods he left memory to guard it while he
went adventurously after another. A 10-
minutes’ bout with a typewriter would have
drained him dry. Keats would have written
to his brother in America: “The nothing of
the moment is a type-machine, with Roman
characters, and very like print. ’Tis said
Hazlitt has bought one, and Hunt would, had
he the cash. But lay me an honest pen in
my fingers: I am past competing with com-
positors,” etc. Byron would have ignored the
tool as ardently as the plodding ink-stained
Southey would have welcomed it; while Lan-
dor would have found it very serviceable to
chuck at the head of his cook. But picture
Coleridge—the great, abstracted, immethodi-
cal, dream-smitten Coleridge—humping his
typewriter into the outback parts of Elfland !
The imagination boggles at that.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Reading Verse Aloud
The tendency of a good many of to-day’s
critics to show irritation whenever verse is
fully furnished and enriched with the music
of perfect expression is a fact that requires
explanation. By the very phrases in which
judgment is frequently pronounced on
modern work almost every one of the great
treasures of older poetry would stand utterly
condemned. To say that this is due to mere
literary fashion is not quite true. The same
critics write pages of elaborate praise of the
works of dead poets who, according to these
critics’ own express standards, would most
bitterly fail if it were their task to review
them to-day. The older works are estab-
lished by their general acceptance in earlier
years; and where the reader has grown
accustomed to expect much he is apt to
discover new beauties with every fresh read-
ing. So the critic is not intentionally false
when he goes into ecstatic rhetoric over Keats
and freely condemns the thing that is most
like Keats in his youngest literary brother.
Keats is shown to be distinctly in fashion;
and, consequently, the taste of the hour has
nothing at all to do with the critic’s judg-
ment. Nor can it be said that the critic
regards it as his business to hedge about the
thrones of the immortals and to chase away
all aspirants to new poetic honors. Most
of the people who review verse profess to
be eager to discover genius; and their occa-
sional loud advertisement of some alleged
discovery seems to show the genuineness of
their intention. Unfortunately very few of
the discoveries amount to anything. Most
poets discover themselves, and have to fairly
beat the critics to their knees by genuine
achievement before they are recognised.
But the constant demands for' the pip of
the orange and the core of the apple remain,
in spite of the reviewer’s apparent sincerity.
Music of words he has no use for; the exquis-
itely turned line leaves him cold; the baldest
and crudest effort will often win his praise.
On the other hand, he is not much troubled
lately with music or delicate craftsmanship.
To find a line of full-blooded language in a
magazine is a rarity. Milton would have
been rejected with great regularity by many-
modern editors; and the anthologies reflect
the same decay in sonorous language. No
one seems to have taken the trouble to trace
this decay to its source; but the explanation
is simple. Half the appeal of verse is to
the ear; and most people cannot read aloud.
The thing goes even deeper than this;
for, in the truest sense, the great majority
of people cannot speak. The tendency of
modern conversation is to be ashamed of
anything like a well-turned and properly-
modulated sentence. The half-formed ex-
pression eked out with two or three set
phrases is tossed from lip to lip. People
half-understand one another’s thought; and
it is allowed to go at that. Americans —if
their newspapers and picture-shows are to
be taken as a guide—have almost given up
language. A few hints at words and a bit
of oft-repeated slang pass current as the
genuine article; and where there is hardly
any attempt to frame a real sentence the
exact value of words, much less the delicate
balance of vowels and consonants, is rapidly
being lost. There is thus a complete divorce
between’ oral expression;- such as it is, and
reading; and when it comes to verse, which
depends first and foremost upon oral expres-
sion, that divorce makes one of the chief
essentials of verse a thing utterly incompre-
hensible to a big section of the public. The
reader who does not hear a lino with his
ear cannot hear it in any other way; and
the person who tells you he does not in any
mood like to read poetry aloud is one to
whom the finer nature of-verse is a sealed
book. There never can be a written poetry
of the eye ; the poetry of sight is the busi-
nsss of the painter, the sculptor and the
silent dreamer. Poetry is song; and the
verse that does not ’sing can never reach the
height of true poetry. A singing thought
only gathefs its music when it becomes vocal.
All this is a heresy to many alleged critics
of verse; yet if if be applied to their criti-
cism it explains instantly why they fail and
where they fail. But some of those who
read aloud fail also. I have known one
writer of many reviews who could read
Keats’s “Nightingale” in a schoolboy sing-
song with a nodding of the head to mark
the feet; and I knew well that there were
no “magic casements” opening for him. I
have known another who would read the
same poem with much distortion of the natu-
ral music of the lines, much rolling of It's
and breathy lispings as of one struggling
for a cheap stage-effect; and I knew that
to him also the dew of the “coming musk-
rose” was an insipid liquid. Yet many who
do not read well can read intensely. You
know it by the gentle stressing of the fami-
liar syllable, the sweetening of the vowel
tones, the curious eagerness of delight that
marks even she stumbling where one line
breaks anart from another at the hinges.
The professional eloentionist is generally a
particularly bad reader of verse; and his
inane mouthings have a lot to do with the
prejudice against reading it at all. There
are many, of course, who seldom read aloud
but who, nevertheless, preserve in all their
leading of poetry the sense of song. They
imagine the' verse as spoken or sung; but
to do that they must once have read aloud —
their feeling for the lines is the echo of an
old practice.
The modern critic in making demand for
an essential poetry without an appeal to the
(Continued on page 25.)


A
XMS
Anthony Horderns’ Values.
ilium iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiSiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
The dependability of the merchandise we offer is the outcome of
experience acquired in nearly a century of trading. The wide and
varied range of goods submitted, in conjunction with the excep-
tional values they represent, assuredly impresses the most
discriminating purchaser.
s<~
The efficiency of our Mail
Order Service proves a boon
to country shoppers, for their
requirements are attended to
as completely and as satisfac-
torily through this branch as
though they shopped in person.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s
Wear to any part of N.S.W.
and to the nearest port on
Interstate orders. Carriage on
Sports Goods is extra. Write
for Catalogues concerning
goods in which you are inter-
ested. Conies are posted free.
, IG
[(#;
!i its
if
7
>
m
%
Value in MOTORISTS’ NEEDS
The completeness and variety of our selections
demonstrate how thoroughly the needs of the
motorist! are met at Anthony Horderns*. Prices
are attractively economical, representing unequalled
values which compel your earnest consideration.
Motor Dust Coats
Motor Dust Coats, single-breasted style, designed with through
pockets, half-belted back, straps on cuffs. Sizes 4 to i.
In Holland. CHICK
in Crash. PRICK
In Mercerised Crash. PRICK 'i-,
In Grey Bengal. PRICK : -e/-
In Light Grey Bengal. PRICK 40/-
In light Khaki Brill. O.S. Sizes 8J to llj. PRICK 3</6
Motor-Cycle Coats
In Mercerised Crash, sizes 3to 7. PRICK
In Grey Bengal. PRICK
Warm Coats for Motorists
Serviceable and warm Motor Coats, in double-
breasted style, designed with half-belted back, con-
vertible collars, storm cuffs.
In Heavy-weight Tweeds, dark mixture —
PRICKS 136/-, 147/-, 168 -. 199/-
Men’s Motoring Caps
In Donegal Tweeds. PRICKS 8/6, 96. 10/6
In Black and White Small Check. PRICK 9/6
In Mixed Tweeds. Colors. Light and Dark Grey. Brown. Fawn —
PRICKS 5/». 6/11, 7/11
Blaek Leather Rainproof Motor Caps. PRICK 16/6
Aviator’s Caps
In Leather, fur lined, fitted ear flaps and goggle straps—
PRICK 30/-
Cosy Motoring Scarves
Scarves in Brushed Wool, tubular make, fringed ends. Size llin.
x 56in. Colors: Various heather mixtures. PRICK 13/6
“Peseo" Searves in Brushed Wool. Scottish manufacture, tubular
make, fringed, in self colors with contrasting stripes at ends.
Colors: French Grey. Jade, Amethyst, Saxe, Nigger. Yieux Rose.
Size 30in. x 73in. PRICK 16/«
Superior Quality in “Pesco” Searves in Bruslied Wool, tubular
make, self colors. Saxe. French Grey. Dark Reseda. Navy.
Amethyst, White. Size 18in. x 70in. PRICK 33/6
Serviceable Motoring Gloves
Tail Leather Motor Gloves, unlined. PRICKS.. 33/6, 33/6
Tan Leather Motor Gloves, Celona lined. PRICKS .... 19/-, 357-
Tan Leather Motor Gloves, fur and Celona lined. PRICK .. 30/-
Blaek and Tan Cape Motor Gauntlets, unlined. PRICK .... 45/-
Siniilar Make, Wool-lined, 49/6. Pur-lined, 63/-.
Value in Billiard Tables at Anthony Horderns’
Instal a Billiard Table in your home;
then you will materially add to its
attractiveness, especially from the
young people's point of view. In
addition to Billiard Tables, Anthony
Horderns’ produce a combined Bil-
liard and Dining Table, convertible in
a few moments to a Billiard or Dining
Table, on which Pyramids, Pools,
Snooker and other games can be
played.
Home Billiard Tables
(sft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. (QXI4O) .... £29/15/-
7ft. 4in. x sft. lOin £36/7/6
Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with four 6in. logs? £45/5/-
9ft. Sin. x oft., with six (sin. legs. . £56/10/-
Spec-ial Oft. Sin. x oft. Tables, Deep
Panels, Nickel Pockets and
Patent Built-up Cushions ... £7l
Combined Billiard and
Dining Tables
These combined Billiard and Dining
Tables are fitted with leaves, semi-
automatic lift and adjusters.
Size —
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in £37
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin £45/10/-
Sft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with four
Gin. legs £55/15/-
9ft. Sin. x oft £65/15/-
The tables are manufactured at our Red-
fern works, of high-grade materials and well-
seasoned timber, selected for its beauty and
soundness of quality. The beds are of slate,
covered with genuine billiard cloth.
Fitted with fast, low built-up cushions and
brass-mounted pockets, three balls, two cues
and rest, marking board and chalk. Rules,
etc., are supplied with each table.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City


EXCUSABLE
©
MFGGITT’S
CALF FOOD
is Palatable
and Dig'estible.
o
£
‘H
Jr*
*3?
D
£5
O
c?
N*s
lIP-
s,
<*£!&<
*r
<£
fcy
til
/«
1
w
#L
m
/
fc 5
*
€
t
•%
*
sj
m
5>
a
/
/*
\
Calves must have right care when young.
Breed is important, but years of development are nullified by faulty feeding.
Meggitt s Calf Food will raise thrifty calves at less cost and provide all the
food elements for rapid and healthy growth.
It is easy to feed with or without milk, or with whey.
Calves raised on Meggitt’s Calf Food grow properly and develop sound constitutions.
It will raise better calves quicker and save you money.
Test it for yourself. Spend £1 on Meggitt’s Calf Food and compare the results and cost
with whole milk, skim milk or any other food.
results © Foods- for Cattle, Calves, Horses, Pigs, Poultry, Chicks—are cheaper.
Write for instructions how to feed to Department A.
AGENT) S' — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourkc Street, Melbourne: Messrs. R. S. Eaton c(- Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane: Messrs.
William Adams tC- Co., Ltd., King Street, Berth; Messrs. F. IT\ Heritage c£- Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; : Messrs. Johnston <t- Co., Featlierston
Street, Wellington, N.Z.
|JNSEEDOIIf^
mi
nBGGITT L rt>
PARRAMATTA
anchor/ on. the bag
guarantees quality ’
HEAD OFFICE fIG KING ST SYJ>TEY(W>rks: Paramatta)
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED OIL, CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
GGrrffc
UNSEED oil t£U
f)
/AEGG ITT U
PARRAMATTA
'yAe hoy on the >
qu&r&ntees cfiuilit


PINKETTIS
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Full Directions with
Every Maohlue.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Tradmg Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
m
&
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a r-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure —you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure—no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY PTYLTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
'A ''
yf. > jt
sfeiagsfefci
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
FOR ALL PURPOSES
Kor whatever purpose Veterinary Instruments and Appliances
are required it would pay you to get the Denver Quality. A
»reat reliabititv is alwav* assured, for Veterinary Items bearing
the name of DENVER represent the most efficient and advanced
ideas. Our Catalogue should be in the hands of even stock-
owner —-send for your cop}' to-day.
DENYER BROS.
The Veterinary House of Australia —281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
DENVER’S AUSTRALIAN
LAMB CLAM.
An indispensable Instrument on
the Sheep Station, especially
where large flocks have to be
efficiently treated in the short-
est possible time. The DENYER
U STRALIAN LAMB CLAM is
a particularly efficient pattern
and strongly made tor extensive
serviceability.
Price 17/6. Postage Od.
Keep clear of the feuds of your neighbors,
Leave their quarrels and squabbles alone,
Have nothing 1 to say, ’tis the wisest way,
You’ve troubles enough of your own.
When their language grows lurid and frantic,
Interference and comment abjure:
Hut for coughs, chills and colds this rule never holt
Mention Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
A DVT.
Public Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
/-aORRESPONDENCE invited from MELBOURNE
v-- and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. liIMBER & CO., LTD.,
Royal Exchange, King William Street, Adelaide.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD,,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
tine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
i The Monarch
i The Clvib Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price fid each
Box of 25, 12/6: Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 16
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN , 654 George St., Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Ml
I
m m
&
Birnn
M
m
” They are so beauti/u:
you would never guess
they cost so little. ”
Sanitary and Low-Priced
Here are the rugs that
have taken the “weep” out
of “sweep,” the rugs that
make cleaning-day a joy.
They’re new, they’re
d’flFerent, and even though
they’re low-priced they’re
unusually durable and good-
looking.
Their firm non-absorbent
surface renders them germ-
proof. They carry therefore
no possible menace to the
health of the household.
They afford the most econ-
omical means of covering
your floors attractively.
Look for the Gold-Seal
when you buy.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft. 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in 9 ft. x 9 ft.
9 ft. x 7 ft 6in 9ft x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
Sole Australian Representatives :
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION OCAKAKTT.S.T)
OB YOUR MONEY WILL
u axruNDJo> J
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Scarlet Squad.
Time the reaper, time the sower,
Many crops has reaped and sowed,
Since, when life and change moved slower
Than is now, alas! their mode,
Macquarie and his officers
Rode down this Western road.
As thev viewed the distant ranges
With their far peaks glimmering,
Did they glimpse the fertile changes
That the moulding years would bring?
Did Fancy, lifting veiling mists,
Fill them with visioning?
Though he muse, the fond romancer,
Saying, ‘‘Thus they dreamt and said,”
Vain his words; for who shall answer
Seeing they are dust and dead,
And that their gold and scarlet cloaks
Have perished, braid and thread?
Doubtless, bonded slaves to duty,
Deaf and blind they rode along
Blind to alien gleams of beauty,
Deaf to unfamiliar song—
Their hearts where English meadow-flowers
And English linnets throng.
Riding four and four together,
While the roadside gum-trees slept
In the tranquil, breathless weather.
Down the perfumed leagues they swept,
Cocked hat and gleaming pistol-butt,
Bright hilt and epaulette 1
Plumed and silent, thoughtful ever,
Rode Macquarie in the lead,
While the thrushes, pausing never,
Heedless all of who should heed.
From trembling thoats and bursting breasts
Their golden joyance freed.
Through the drowsy sunlight wending.
Scarlet squad and Governor,
Golden wattles nigh them bending
’Neath the burthens that they bore,
With all their braided bravery
Passed on for ever more!
But the vision still abiding
Keeps me steadfast in its hold.
And to-day I see them riding
As they rode that day of old,
Macquarie and hi a officers
In scarlet and in gold.
N.S.W.
RODEBIC QUINN.
The Silent Woman.
In a dim gallery I used to know
There hung a picture of a slender maid
Half-turniig from a naked, dimpled Love
Who held his bow-string taut. She ever kept
One finger on her lip as though to sign
That, should she speak and show the arrow
struck
Home to the guarded sanctuary of her heart.
She knew that Love would swing upon his
heel
And leave her where the autumn houghs set
free
The myriad rustlings of a lonely wood.
So women learn —and sometimes learn too
late —•
That, though they yield their bodies and their
lips
To lovers’ kisses, yet it is unwise
To speak the word that proves the captured
heart;
And', though they ache to tell him he is king,
The caution that their earliest mother learned
With tears and tortures keeps them silent
still,
And would they hold him never let him know
How much their fluttering bosoms are his
slave!
Astute that painter who had painted Love
Still wondering if an arrow found its mark;
For when there is no mystery to probe
And daylight rips the curtain from the door
And shows the shrine is but a dwelling-room,
And uttered passion bares the foolish heart.
Then will Love tire, and will unstring his
bow.
And turn his rosy back and leave her there
With the long shadows in a darkening wood.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Dying Tree.
To-night a dying monarch grieves.
And holds aloft his naked spars
That wove me once a roof of leaves
Which seemed to brush the kindly stars.
The slope, that once with ample shade
Delayed the weary pilgrim’s tread.
Is ravaged by the axe and spade,
And all its loveliness is dead.
One day—it seems but: yesterday—
I first beheld his leafy limbs
Helping the wayward breezes play
Rude, melancholy forest hymns.
Then I was young, and hale was he,
Far taller than his satellites,
Whose songs were also dear to me
In after days and after nights.
I lingered long; then, far afield,
’Neath stranger-stars I toiled and strode.
And watched the staunch and stubborn yield,
And fall beside the broken road.
And often, after battles fought,
When hidden was the hostile blade.
Ah, many a strange old tree I sought
To slumber in its goodly shade.
So here to-night I lift my eyes,
Green leaves against the stars to see—-
Alas, my fostered pleasure dies.
For life sings not to welcome me I
No dancing leaves their blossoms spill
From branches all but leafless now.
The virgin soil below the hill
Anon must break beneath the plough.
N.S.W.
GERARDT.


• J •
• /#
SENTINEL
STEAM 'WAGGONS
For Heavy, flau/ade
aSess
11®';
■
.
■ : 'A
%
&
tv
m
fiBBNq
m
'J$."
luij
<v,’
HiaSv/rH "
V •■:
Mai
v;
llmilsl
,fi }}6Ki3ifSl»^J „C-V w ', r ' r
Mi . SNMMp&^^SE!
>J|
HM
•
mmmm
&
~Vi
:■■& , ,<A '
««
ft
I
; f \ KjV
vr v\\ W 4-«!
Yjw\ r v'*tl llfifc\\ IV * ‘ ' «v
Y'ZX :. \Ywk4Mv %
mm
»\m
sm>
&&■
ill
0
l/l AW
•ivSf
: V.®T
/
CAo
*2
Jj J
233 3 r
*i 3
m
uni
u
J 3
SENTINEL STEAM WAGGONS
ARE RECOGNISED IN GREAT
BRITAIN AS THE CHEAPEST,
MOST EFFICIENT AND MOST
RELIABLE MEANS FOR TRANS-
PORTING HEAVY LOADS
QUICKLY.
The popularity of Sentinels is partially
due to the fact that their running costs
are only about half the running costs
of petrol lorries of the same capacity.
Sentinels are as easy to steer and
manoeuvre as petrol vehicles, and
their transmission system is more
simple.
If your business necessitates the speedy
transportation of heavy loads it will
pay you to ask us for full particulars
of Sentinels.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St.
PERTH:
33-35 King St
BRISBANE:
Edward & Mary Sts.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie St.
NEWCASTLE
Watt St.
TASMANIA:
33a Cameron St., Launceston


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.YY., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2156.
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 1921.
Pkice 9i>.
THE PACIFICATOR.
“The policy of the Empire at the coming London Conference will be to avoid Pacific entanglements and maintain the world's peace.”
THE TROUBLE-SEEKERS (simultaneously): “Come on my side, John."
THE CASUALTY: “No, thanks, lads. Take my word for it, there’s nothing in it. I’ve just had some, and I know.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
I’inteil and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
0.. »14 George Street, Sydnov. V.S.W., Australia.
Stveet UNE omcls: Enl P ire Buildings, 268 Flinders
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance. Only.)
J Ms. per annum you can have The
, L ‘ E,IN * ent regularly to you every week for a
yea.’, to ant address in Australasia, post paid,
in any address overseas, £2 per annum.
drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
alt Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped tetters are liable to be
re; used.
Ihe contents of this paper ure copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce, nr translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
Ihe Editor inti carefully rend and. where practic-
acknowledge in the “Correspondence ” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I ohtical Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tates
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
onno not exceeding two columns in length, or. say.
, , words are special!// acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or A ewspaper Clippings. All communications
mil. be regarded as strictly confidential
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will, he returned or preserved unless these
coiu/i t lons arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without dumps lor return it will he understood that
the copy is to lie destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. further. The Bulletin desires those
sending' MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Ulaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, nr any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will, be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
autistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch. Ludgate Circus ; amt II . Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.l t ;
/■.. T. Hole. Ilolerth Satire Service, Fleet Street,
London, T..C.: ••The British-Australasian,” .it High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central Sews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and San,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
'PC.; G. S. Forsyth and Co.. J/.'/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, lI.C. ; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets. Vancouver, 8.C.: the
Boston Hat Works and Sews Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. IVest Calgary. Alberta.
U.B.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Fay Co, 161 East
Erie Street. S. Michigan Boulerardv, Chicago: Uni-
versal Sews Co, 7’/ West Madison Street. Chicago:
Holden date Sews Agency,7l9 Market Street , Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club. V/l S. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco: Wheatley Sews Co, Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle: Liberty
Sews Co, Seattle, Washington, jffew York: Bren-
tuno's, 7th Avenue and 27th Street, Sew York City:
Schultz Setts Agency. Bryant Park; Schultz Sews
Agency, 10.2 West J/2nd Street, Sew York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square Seus Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central Sews Stand,
W 3 East 7th Street, Los Angeles. Quaker Sews Co,
912 North Franklin Street. Philadelphia. Penn.
Eciypt.— Jacques. Horn <£• Co, The Colonial Book
and Sews Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co, Redder Street,
Bonn Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co, Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. 0. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street.
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co, S Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros, Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (.registered as a
V ewspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maori-
land, Fiji. British Papua, Sorfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, lOos, Id,; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
ll’ios, lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz, lid.: Sloz. to lOoz,
lid.; lOoz. to 12os, Sid.; elsewhere, Jjoz, lid, and
Id. each additional 2oz.
SS'aZIe&M,
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 1921.
TOO BIG TO FIGHT.
America, like Australia, has a type of poli-
tician who makes mischief for a living. Such
a one, evidently, is ex-Senator Lewis, of
Chicago, who at a military memorial ser-
vice last week said :
The younger generation will see in the Pacific a
struggle to decide whether America shall be the first
nation in the world, or go down under an Asiatic
stroke, backed by the Allies.
Forecasts of the sort may stimulate the citi-
zen of “Germany’s greatest overseas asset,”
as one of its aldermen called Chicago during
the late war, and to that extent Mr. Lewis’s
chances of becoming a Senator once more
may be improved; but they are senseless fore-
casts, notwithstanding. Nations, after all,
do not plunge into war for the fun of it.
Either, as in Germany’s case in 1914. they
look on attack as a legitimate gamble, or, as
in the case of France, they decide that it is
business to resist. The late war did not
purge the world of its lust for the property
of others: it did little for the cause of free-
dom ; and it did not give self-determination
to the subject peoples of the earth to any
marked extent. But it did teach certain use-
ful lessons which have already caused at
least one proposed war to be abandoned,
have probably prevented others of which,
the world has not yet heard, and are
iikely to do more to avert future wars on the
world scale than any legal machinery which
may be devised by the League of Nations.
They are (.1) that some Lowers are too
big to be beaten, and (2) that others, when
they have been beaten, at terrific cost in men
and material, must immediately be recon-
structed to save their conquerors from
anarchy and ruin. Before 11)14 many Ger-
man writers, amongst them Tueitschke
and Professor DELBKUCK, argued that by
means of motors and aircraft Russia could
be invaded and effectively held. No one
believes it now, which was the real reason
why Winston Churchill's policy of
attempting in 1919 what the Germans had
so signally failed to do in 1914-15 was
dropped. During the Great War. and even
after it, the patriot who swore that he would
never again trade with a German was com-
mon. The notion was that Germany could
profitably be exterminated in the commercial
sens*. No one believes that now except a
handful of Chauvinistic Frenchmen and per-
haps \\. M. Hughes.
* * * *
It is conceivable, since there arc no limits
I°, human lolly, that Japan may go tu war
with the l .B.A. The Asiatic empire was
on the verge <>l bankruptcy for many years
alter its successes against Russia in 1905.
Nevertheless there may be Japanese states-
men capable of believing that, after their
lleet has sent the American navy to the
bottom ot the sea, their Government may lx*
able to do better financially against the
Yankee business men of to-day than it did
against the Russian grand dukes of 15 years
ago. But what object would the Allies have
in participating in such an adventure? To
Europe the C.S.A. is another Russia, with
the differences that it: must be reached by
sea if at all; that it is intensely national;
and that its inhabitants are educated and
organised on up-to-date lines, while many of
them have had intensive military training.
Any fool can understand why Mr. Lewis,
of Chicago, should talk about his country
being menaced by the British in alliance
with the Japanese. But Mr. Lewis must
be a po<sr representative of Chicago if he
does not really know that tin* U.B.A. is safe
in the same way as the British Umpire is
safe. No outside stroke can kill it. In the
year before the Great War the C.S.A. was
the greatest exporter of raw materials; the
fourth biggest exporter of manufactured
goods; and it was self-contained in the sense
that it was either making or in a position
to make everything necessary for its economic
life. On the* other hand, Germany, despite
desperate efforts in the agricultural districts,
could not lx* made self-supporting. And so
the Fatherland was at a nopeless disadvan-
tage* when matched against an organisation
like the British Fmpire, which was in a
position to pour in on its fighting men meat,
wheat and flour from Australasia and
Canada, coffee and rice from British India,
tea from ('eylon, cocoa from the West Indies
and British West Africa, fish from New-
foundland, and a million other commodities,
as well as every munitions requirement. It
suffered under the same handicap as Ireland
would if, instead of talking about boycotting
all British trade, it made a serious effort to
do it; and the further the .struggle went the
worse the position became. For the pur-
poses of modern warfare on the imperial
scale, Germany, which lacks wool, cotton
and many essential minerals, such as copper,
is not much more favorably situated than
Switzerland, which has no coal and practi-
cally no raw materials, or a Balkan State
like Serbia, which, while constantly fighting,
is unable to make any of its weapons. France
will never be able to face a world in arms
again, as it did a century ago. The .Scan-
dinavian peoples, scenting the danger to
the Power that is not self-contained,
seem to be striving to come together in order
to minimise it. The Finns may join Sweden,
Denmark and Norway; and Baltic States,
such as Fsthonia and Latvia, may likewise
come together. Some form of Pan-German-
ism may arrive and lx* regarded with indul-
gence by all save the French.
* * * *
Though these combinations will not be
wholly free from liability to attack, there
nevertheless do appear to be certain Powers
which are demonstrably unbeatable. In the
first place, the U.S.A. If an enemy sank
every L.S. ship in two oceans and treated
the Republic's vast seaboard as the Germans
did the Flanders coast, he would be no nearer
a victory of the slightest value. Next, Russia
may be successfully entered by Siberia, as it
was by Koltchak, and from the south, as it
was by Denikin ; its assailants may be well
armed and the resistance muddled and in-
effective: it is the vastness of tin* job that
breaks the heart of the attacking force in the
long run, and always will. The civilised world
has every reason to want Bolshevism
scotched, but the attempt to do it by force of
arms is not likely to be made again. And,
lastly, there is the British Empire. While
it remains the Empire it was during the late
war—that is to say, an absolutely self-
sufficient economic unit, holding command of
the waterways along which its national re-
quisites are borne —no Power is likely to pick
a quarrel with it. In proportion as mankind
to-day is attracted by the idea of peace
there should be a tendency amongst the
smaller nations to stand together under
the wing of one of the master groups, in-
stead of aspiring to break away, as many did
before the war. Thus Australia has a much
clearer conception of the value of the British
connection than it had six years ago. To be
a Russian, an American or a Britisher, in
the coming years, ought to represent a fairly
good insurance against being involved in
another death-struggle—an infinitely better
one, for example, than is likely to be enjoyed
by a Greek, a Turk, a Bulgar or a German.
Certainly the Japanese may contrive to make
their dream of a yellow confederation come
true. But in that event there will be the
same material objection to a world-war as
already exists —namely, that the partial or
total ruin of the parties to it must ensue.
But even if the insanity does come to pass,
the British are not going tojbe found on the
side of Asia. The white working man of to-
day has a big say in the objects for which he
fights, and not even an Anglophobe Yankee
is going to persuade Britishers that it is in
their interests to go to war for an Asiatic
wage-standard.
KING LOG AT MELBOURNE.
If the Commonwealth chanced to have a
real statesman at the head of affairs, and
preferably one who loved battle for its own
sake, he would find a wide field of usefulness
waiting to be ploughed. But Australia
hasn't possessed such a person since Alfred
Deakix passed out; and even Deakix,
though big, intensely patriotic, brilliant,
honest and far-seeing, was too amiable to
be consistently forceful. Since his time
there has been so much futility, truckling,
apology and half-heartedness that few realise
how much of the Federal authority is lying
dormant and what a power for good the
Parliament at Melbourne might be if it only
tried. .Just now more than half the popula-
tion of the Commonwealth suffers under
two vulgarly self-seeking State Ministries
of a type the exact like 'of which Australia
never possessed before. Each of them rather
makes a parade of the fact that, though
it governs and is paid by the whole people,
its mission is to loot the other half of the
people in the supposed interests of its own
half. The attitude is more that of proud
ami offensive conquest than of citizenship,
and combined with this is the destroying
instinct of the Vandal and a lack of the
creative quality which is wholly marvellous,
let the weird things these people have done
and the worse ones they propose to do are
to a great extent mere encroachments on
tin* Federal domain—encroachments which
would bo impossible if Commonwealth poli-
ticians had more respect for their duties
and for the Commonwealth's dignity.
The N.S.W. Government has strewn its
recent measures with penalties and forfeit-
ures against which it is declared there shall
be no appeal. The Large Holdings Bill in
particular, which provided for the confis-
cation or partial confiscation by a mere local
junta of the lands of two-fifths of the Com-
monwealth’s population, was dotted all over
with the intimation that the said local autho-
rity would not allow an Australian citizen
to carry his case to his own Australian
court in any circumstances whatsoever.
There certainly are ways by which a live
authority could have called this effrontery in
question ; but the National Government makes
no fight against the dictation of its big, arro-
gant, unruly children. The measure in-
volved indirectly a great looting of banks
and financial companies, which would see
their securities diminished, payment of the
money due to them made in long-dated and
depreciated securities, and often their pro-
perties locked up indefinitely and made un-
realisable for an unspecified time. Quite a
number of the institutions necessarily in-
volved in this scheme don’t belong to
N. 8. Wales or even to Australia. It was,
therefore, up to the Commonwealth rulers
to make it clear to this Government that
any question of looting outside institutions,
cancelling or varying their legal agreements,
levying forced loans on them by taking
money or land in exchange for insufficient
paper, or otherwise making trouble outside,
belongs exclusively to the Government which
attends to External Affairs. Apart from
this, “Banking and Insurance" are matters
for Federal legislation, though 20 years have
passed without any serious effort to legis-
late about either. In fact, through this som-
nolence the position is so little understood
that a Queensland Labor Convention lately
advocated quite seriously that Theodore’s
State should break in on the Federal
monopoly of the issue of paper money and
should take liberties with the coinage, re-
placing hard mo-ey with “-ags.”
ig-
When the Commonwealth has time to
attend to this important branch of its busi-
ness it should be made clear that no special
State action or law which purports to lay
hands on the funds of institutions in which
all Australia is interested, whether by com-
pulsory loan or otherwise, is valid under any
conditions at all. The Act dealing with the
matter should be enough to meet not only
confiscation schemes but any renewal of the
pronosition that such institutions as the
A.M.P. Society, Mutual Life and Citizens’,
Bank of N. S. Wales, Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney. Australian Bank of Com-
merce and many more, because their head
offices are in McTiernan’s territory, must
run their affairs all the world over accord-
ing to McTiernan’s law and the whim of his
irresponsible little courts, or be answerable
to McTierxan with the funds of their
clients all the world over. The spectacle
of one State thus proposing to make rules
for all the States and for outside countries
as well should have been sufficiently inso-
lent on general grounds. But the Consti-
tution, in addition to powers conferred on
it; by its control of External Affairs, as
already mentioned, and by reason and com-
monsense, is authorised to make laws con-
cerning “Trading or financial corporations
formed within the Commonwealth.” In
other words, it can regulate them in every
way, even to the extent of seeing that no
crotchety local person pursues them with
double income-tax because they are corpora-
tions, or makes the penalty for profiteering
or some other real or imaginary sin vastly
higher when done by a company official than
by a private millionaire, or otherwise vents
his purely local spite upon co-operative in-
stitutions because he feels that way. But
King Log at Melbourne might as well be
dead for all the consciousness he shows of
his powers and duties, and even under
accumulated insult he makes no more sign
than a carved Buddha.
The Federal, right to take fcharge of
“Bounties on the production or export of
goods but so that such bounties shall be
uniform throughout the Commonwealth” is
another big matter. The clause would be
sufficient in the hands of a Government
which wasn’t unite so long dead or so far
advanced in ifocomposition to make the
granting of bounties a Federal monopoly.
With an Act to that effect in force, no
gang _of State poh'tical adventurers could
buy its way to office by the nromise of
wheat bounties that are not uniform: and
demand that the Commonwealth should find
the monev; and stick to office even after
it n ami so man-
ipulate things that the price of the loaf was
raised all over Australia and Tasmania be-
cause or tile artificial value its incursion
into high finance had put on grain. One
transaction of the kind should have been
more than enough to move the meekest
worm of a Commonwealth to action. The
torpid federal institution is also entrusted
with the making of laws re “marriage,
divorce and matrimonial causes and in rela-
tion thereto; parental rights and the cus-
tody and guardianship of infants.” But it
•lias so neglected the lot that the divorce laws
are of all sorts and sizes. Thus Justice goes
astray and costs accumulate because the
defendant in one State is a stranger in an-
other, and there are six different theories of
"domicile,” whereas every inch of Federal
territory should be one and the same domi-
cile. Whether the proposed N. S. Wales
bounty of Os. per week to children is an
encroachment on the Commonwealth’s con-
trol of bounties “so that such bounties shall
be uniform throughout the Commonwealth,"
or an intrusion on its right to attend to
“parental rights and the custody and guar-
dianship of infants,” it is hard to say; but
Prime Minister who was jealous of the
Federal authority and active in pursuit of
his duty would certainly have the matter
investigated. "Bankruptcy and Insolvency”
are matters which are supposed to be under
Federal law and managed by Federal courts,
but are not. And the sleeping monster at
Melbourne is instructed by the Constitution
to regulate "Bills ol exchange and promis-
sory notes” and collect uniform stamp duties
thereon, but no one would notice the fact to
any extent.
In short, the charge lias lain against the
Australian Government for years past that
it has been a defaulting steward, an ineffi-
cient shepherd, a shirker of the duty of pro-
tecting its people, and a shameful truckler to
petty State functionaries. It hasn’t de-
veloped the courage or the industry to
attend to quite a number of the duties that
the Constitution imposes on it, but has let
its powers be usurped and misused by all
sorts of ravenous and subordinate adven-
turers. It has certainly established the
crazy baby bonus, and built a vulgar loan-
money palace in London, and lent many mil-
lions to thriftless State Governments, and
appointed all manner of expensive Commis-
sions, Commissioners, wandering embassies,
barnacles and brass-liats; but, meanwhile, it
has shamefully neglected its big Territory
in the North —in fact, it apparently took it
away from the S.A. State Government to
give it no Government at all, and turn it
into a joke and a long holiday. It hasn’t
made a serious attempt to take over the
State railway systems and find a uniform
gauge, thought it has certainly appointed
< 'ommissions —it wouldn't bo itself if it
didn’t. And much as it may recognise the
need for new States, new cities and new
ports, no single Federal Ministry, and no
Prime Minister, however autocratic, has nut
any soul or weight into the movement. Yet
to the multitude of questions which it has
submitted with very little luck to the people
by referendum there might as well have been
added one more—the repeal of Clause 124
which George Reid devised to keen the big
States intact for all time. This might have
led to nothing at first, hut it would at least
have made the question a live one in Fed-
eral polities. The complaint against the
Commonwealth authority is that it has
truckled so long to small folk that they
begin to forget its existence, and no one
new! wonder that they do.
THE BURDENED FARMER.
Axy voluble person with a portfolio in one
hand and a loan in the other can inaugurate
a new railway. That is to say, he can
order other people to build it, and can turn
the first bit of grass, and at the subsequent
banquet he can state that he and his col-
leagues are the most enterprising, far-sighted
and patriotic people on earth, and that they
wear their h/tloes and wings even in bed, and
that any criticism of them amounts to the
blackest ingratitude, and that it is a marvel
how the world got on before they came, and
a mystery how it will get on when they leave.
Also, he can add that the future is golden,
and every prospect pleases, and only the
Opposition is vile. The making of loan lines
for which there is no adequate demand, and
of loan roads that aren’t lined with suffi-
cient taxpayers to keep them in repair, reflects
glory of a sort on the foundation-stone-layers
and sod-turners and openers. Under ' the
loan system these activities have the blessed
merit .that, unlike a publicly-owned pub or
fleet, it is years before they can be proved
ruinously non-paying investments, and even
then anyone with sufficient “front*’ can de-
clare that they pay indirectly, and that the
moral effect is wonderful. So it was quite
in keeping that a drove of rich and fat and
high-salaried X. S. Wales Ministers and mem-
bers should foregather the other day at
Oberon, on the road to Jenolan Caves, to di?
up a shovelful of dirt as a sign that a
branch line 10 miles long was about to be
borrowed for at £12,000 a mile and the rest.
They said that the country wants developing
in the same old wav, and that they would
develop it with as much money as they could
borrow, by clamping down strips of steel on
its surface everywhere. It was the only
kind of advancement thev knew of, and it is
so simple and so stereotyped that the man
who comes round collecting the debris front
the back door could do it as well as anybody
else, if given the opportunity.
In 1900 the officials who keep count of
things said there were 67,136 people actively
engaged in X. S. Wales agriculture. In 1907
there were 69,163, which was wretchedly
poor progress, but still progress. That was
shortly before the heroic loan and settle-
ment boom began. In 1919 (when the latest
estimate was published) it was possible to
trace 50,881 agriculturists surviving. In
1952, if the rate is that of the last 12 years,
there will be no agriculturists left at all.
Between 1900 and 1919 the X.S.W. public
debt (peace debt), always represented as evi-
dence of a mighty effort to put agricultural
settlers on the land, increased by £82,000,000:
so, comparing the number of bucolic workers
in the two years, it cost over £5OOO to remove


each single settler. The mileage of railway
increased from 2811 to 4824, and this was
supposed to help settlement wonderfully, as
every Minister said and says while (1 > rais-
ing the wind, (2) turning the first sod and
(3) opening the finished work. Yet there
were 24 farmers and farmeresses per railway
mile in 1900 and only 11 in 1919. The
other 13 had gone into sheep or sold out as
soon as the line was finished, saying that
someone else might struggle with the interest
bill for this insane overburden of railway.
The mileage of road almost trebled in 19
years, but there was no corresponding growth
of busy, prosperous, little industrial towns
to pay for the upkeep of the roads, any more
than there was any such growth to provide
custom for the railways. So the agricul-
turist, with three miles of road and two of
railway to maintain where there used to be
one, packed up the faded carpet-bag of his
ancestors and left. The area sold in small
lots by the Government amounted in 19
years to about 15,000,000 acres —that is to
say, a procession of agriculturists passed
over that area and vanished again.
Yet everything has been done to keep the
farmer on the land except shooting him when
he was found outside his own gate. He is a
precious asset, for if the Dooleys a.ud
Storeys didn’t build railways with loan
money to his alleged haunts they would have
to take to honest work. Dabbling in loans for
which there must be some excuse is the only
other thing they know. But the farmer is the
victim all the time and in many ways. The
gushing politicians who go in droves with a
fleet of State motor-cars to turn the first sod
of the railway have a wonderful swarm of
parasites to keep at the public expense, with
the result that the tax on a £5OO income in
Dooley’s State is* now five times as high as
the corresponding tax in Victoria, which knows
not Dooley, and between twice and three
times as high as the income-tax of Westralia,
S. Aus. and Tasmania, which have also
managed to avoid Dooley, and one-third
higher than even that of Queensland. The
total direct taxation in N. S. Wales is 17s.
per head per annum more than that of Maori-
land, yet Maoriland finished the year with a
record surplus of nearly £G per inhabitant
(£6,000,000 and a trifle over), so it proposes
to reduce some taxes and pay off a little debt.
N. S. Wales, on the other hand, expects a
deficit of about £1 per inhabitant. Where-
fore more heavy taxes are foreshadowed to
cover this and the new child pension expendi-
ture and some sundries, and then more
farmers will disappear, no matter how many
money-losing railways are inaugurated by
Ministers at over £2OOO a year apiece and
private members at £875, and no matter in
how big a fleet of State motor-ears they
arrive at the subsequent banquet.
ANTI-BRITISH PROPAGANDA.
Much is said these days about anti-British
propaganda, and it is always implied by the
flag-waving brotherhood that Brannigan is
at the bottom of it. But the most mischiev-
ous sort of anti-British propaganda current
at the moment is the work of good Imperial-
ists. Articles like that of the regrettable
ass who sneered at Armstrong’s men as
"trade-union cricketers,’’ and declared that
they wouldn’t be invited to visit England
again if they didn’t mend their manners, are
more damaging to the good relations of Aus-
tralians and Englishmen than the efforts of
a dozen Brannigans. The same is true of
C. F. G. Masterman’s attack on the Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth, who, with ail
his faults, is Prime Minister of the Com-
monwealth, and is visiting Britain on the
Commonwealth’s business: the polished in-
solence of the statement that Aus-
tralia is expected, by Englishmen of the
Masterman variety, “to accept all white
settlers, to whatever European nation
they belong,” including, of course, Bolsheviks
and the riff-raff of the Balkans, is offensive
to all Australians. And if England has its
provocative Mastermans and Observer
writers Australia has its “Pompey” Elliott.
From his place in the Senate that honor-
able and gallant Nationalist is directing a
stream of invective against the British officer.
“Pompey's” loyalty to the British connection
is undoubted, and his military services in two
wars have been eminent. But the fact re-
mains that bv his present course of action
the former C.O. of the 15th Brigade is
powerfully helping those whose business it is
to stir up anti-British feeling.
Elliott believes that before Monash
took command of (he A.I.F. our men were
badly led. He holds that lives were uselessly
sacrificed in hopeless attacks on impregnable
positions, such as Fleurbaix, Bulleeourt (the
first engagement) and the German; officers
trench at The Neck. He prophesies that
Australian soldiers will never be Content to
fight under other than Australian officers if
it comes to another war. Thus far he has
onlv said what he has a right to say ; and
he would have found many Australians in
agreement with him if he had stopped at
that point. Unfortunately, in his impetuosity,
the Brigadier went on to make wounding
comparisons and descended to personal
attacks. The language employed in this
part of his polemic is lamentable, and the
impression produced is injurious, and not in
the main just. His animus against Bird-
woou peeps out in every paragraph. That
Yomrasander is assailed for many alleged sins
■of commission and omission, among them the
issue of a circular asking the A.I.F. officers
to discourage the very comparisons that
Elliott has indulged in so freely. “The
Dominion soldier,” the G.O.C. wrote, “has so
established his merits that depreciation of his
kith and kin is not necessary for the full
acknowledgment of the great work Dominion
troops are doing. We are of the same blood,
and the creation of friction by criticism is
only playing the German game.” In “every
word” of this harmless communication the
Senator detects “a covert sneer” : in “every
phrase....a brazen, shameless insult to our
men.” The fact is that wherever his personal
prejudices come into play his judgments are
of small value. This is illustrated, not only
by the obsession which causes him to see red
when Birdwood’s name is mentioned, but by
the unprovoked attack on Margolin, an
indiscretion for which he was very properly
rebuked bv Mon ash and his fellow-Senator
and Brigadier Drake-Brockman.
Xor is the impulsive Victorian a trust-
worthy recorder of facts not gathered by
personal observation. \\ itness his curious
attempt to reconstruct history in the Age :
About July of 1910 a great French attack was
ordered on tire Oherain des Dames. A huge mass ot
the French, some 200,000 in. number, were ordered
to advance at a given signal and attempt to surprise
tile enemy as at Bulleeourt without artillery prepara-
tion. To* the men in the line the order was regarded
as madness... .Nevertheless the then Commandei-in-.
Chief of the French from his chateau far to the
rear ordered the attack to be made “at all costs
with the result that some 40,000 of the best and
bravest of the French army in a few terrible moments
met their death along the wire. The immediate
result was a mutiny of the survivors, and part ot
them seized railway trains and endeavored to return
to Paris to overturn the Government. The Govern-
ment replaced its Commander-in-Chief by General
FocH, who took drastic steps with the mutineers,
whom he suppressed effectually.
This .statement is incorrect in important
particulars. The facts are (1) that the
attack on the < ’hemin des Dames was made
in April 1917; (2) that there was a formid-
able artillery preparation ; (3) that’ Niveli.e,
who directed the operation, was not Com-
mander-in-Ohief but Commander of the North
and North-eastern Armies; (4) that he was
succeeded, not by Focii, but by Detain. Nor
is it true that 40,000 Frenchmen were
killed in a few moments. The losses were
certainly heavy, as was always the case
when a break-through was attempted, but
the battle was by no means a useless
butchery due to bad generalship. It was
said at the time, and is now widely recog-
nised, that Ntvei.ee was made a scapegoat
by cold-footed Paris politicians—that his
attack had nearly succeeded when it was
called off. In any case Mr. Elliott’s ver-
sion of the battle is hopelessly wide of the
mark. And a man who makes such a hash of
facts known and recorded is not to be re-
garded with blind faith in a case in which
the facts are disputable and into which he
has imported so much ill-feeling. There is
still a great deal that Australia can usefully
learn about the war, but the effect of these
“revelations” is more harmful than helpful.
An honest man in a temper who has some-
how persuaded himself that in airing his
private grudges he is doing his country a
service is always a painful spectacle.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fight with the Arithmetic Book.
An attempt was made to bring the Federal
Government into the fight to a finish that
the miners of Mount Morgan are waging
against the rules of addition, subtraction,
multiplication and division, but Acting
1 rime Minister Cook shied away like a horse
when it meets an unexpected umbrella. The
demand is that, though wages may rise, they
must never fall; that the wages which went
up as copper rose,from £O4 a ton to £I2G
should stay up now that copper has fallen
to £72; that the value of the good.s pro-
duced should have no connection with the
money paid for producing them ; and that if
the employees can’t get the highest war wage
in peace time out of the entire product of
the mine, with the use of the plant thrown
in free, some person of incalculable genius
must find out how they can get it, or take the
consequences. The Queensland Government
offered to subscribe £lOOO a week by robbing
someone else, and thus dodge the question,
and the Federal Government was blandly
invited to rob somebody also and put in
another £lOOO a week. This was the point
at which Cook did the surprised-horse act.
But the co. refused, as the amount was wholly
inadequate, £3OOO a week being nearer the
limit; and in any case it didn’t want to be
blamed as a concern that was bleeding the
Treasury, seeing that it would gain nothing
for itself but the Obloquy. It reckoned
that the money should be paid to the men
direct. If the copper-miners in Australia
and the coal-miners in Britain have made it
a religion that all war wages must go on
even after war has stopped, there is nothing
tc be done by argument, for no wise man
discusses another's religion. In England
the cost of getting out a ton of coal rose dur-
ing the war from 7s. to 275. 9d., and the
275. 9d. is being fought for, though it makes
fuel so dear that manv manufacturers can’t
use it and see their trade drifting to Ger-
many ; and as coal is indispensable there is
urgent need to do something. It is lucky
for Australia that the matter of the aboli-
tion of addition, subtraction, multiplication
and division is being fought out over copper
instead. That article is neither food nor
clothes nor fuel, nor are large quantities of
it: required in any Australian manufacture.
It is dug out and refined almost wholly for
export, and if the digging out is suspended
for 10 years it won't mean that 10 years'
crops have bepn lost. The metal will still
be there, and there may be a better market
10 years hence, and wages may be even less
than the co. offers now. So, at Mount Mor-
gan as at Mount Lyell and Broken Hill, sus-
pension of work at present amounts only to
suspension of wages. It is Labor that is
hit by the stoppage, not Capital. The Queens-
land Government is not a whale for facing
big problems, and if its offer of a subsidy
had been accepted it would have sidestepped
or postponed for future discussion the one
really serious question —whether an industry
can pay more than the value of the output,
simply because wages and costs were fixed
under different conditions at more than the
present value of the output, and still be
self-supporting. Government works mostly
pay more, but then so long as there are
loans and taxes they are not self-supporting.
It is the irony of fate that Queensland, where
the Government has been more loftily disre-
gardful of addition, subtraction, multiplica-
tion and division than any other, should have
the argument fought out so violently on its
own premises.
The Eleventh Man: The Wage Fixer.
With Mt. Morgan shutters up, Broken Hill
in the doldrums, Mt. Lyell getting out its
anchors, Australian Zinc obviously indiffer-
ent whether it makes zinc or saves its
ores, and a few dozen, other Australian enter-
prises in similar case,' the Eleventh Man
is now pushing his forbiouing presence into
the industrial picture. For 10 years or more,
in Australia, there has been no Eleventh
Man, waiting, unemployed and hungry, at
the gate of the factory where 10 men are
employed. For 10 years or more 10 men
and no more have applied for 10 men’s .mbs.
The Eleventh Man, who inevitably and in-
exorably fixes the wages of the employed 10,
and whose ruling over-rides the strongest
Arbitration Court or Wages Hoard award,
has been so long absent that the younger
wage-earners have never heard of him and
the elder men have 1 forgotten that he ever
existed. Even the employer class, whose
necessities compel the habit of looking ahead,
more or less, seem to have accepted the
notion that their old ally had disappeared
for ever, and that they must henceforward
depend solely on industrial tribunals as
wage-fixers. To many of them the reappear-
ance of the Eleventh Man comes as *i sur-
prise that looks too good to ‘be true. 1 ,, ‘ I '-
liaps it is, but that the (so-called) organised
workers, whose pathetically purblind leaders
have persistently pooh-poohed the warnings
of those students of industrial and political
economy who have propounded the inevita-
bility of the Eleventh Man’s return that
this dull-witted lot can now think out a
workable scheme for depriving the capitalist
of the Eleventh Man’s assistance in reducing
wages is in the last degree unlikely. The
enemy is here, on the job, in every Australian
capital, fully armed with his redoubtable
weapons, hunger and cold; and no High
Court injunction can dislodge him nor any
industrial award stand against him. The
workers’ only hope of keeping the Eleventh
Man completely and permanently out of the
way lay iu the opening up of new opportuni-
ties for employment. Labor was in political
power in the Commonwealth and most of the
States for several years. For more years
it was a factor big enough to influence legis-
lation effectually in the direction of creating
fresh fields and new sources of employment.
Yet a few small State enterprises (most of
them mere vote-catchers and almost all of
them hopelessly mismanaged) and an in-
different land-values tax are about all the
representatives of the deluded workers have
to show as their contribution towards the
annihilation of the workers’ great economic
enemy, the enemy who must be annihilated
before there can be industrial, social or poli-
tical peace. It is a disappointing record.
The anti-Labor forces in the Commonwealth
have a no less disreputable record, of course,
but there is, in their case, the extenuating
circumstance that the Eleventh Man is a
friend of the family.
. ■*.
The Economists.
Times are as hard as the nether millstone,
and the maddest Ministries in Australia, in-
cluding Theodore’s and Dooley’s and
Hughes’s, declare that they are going to
turn over a new leaf aud practise economy.
Now, economy is a good thing, and so is
dancing, but when done by people who have
no gift that way either may be au offence.
There are two kinds of little dwellings run
on (say) £8 a week. One is that of the
born housewife —tidy, clean, proud of her
home and happy. She is the one who lias
worked up to her present position and finds
it. an eternal joy. Generally she is a smallish
woman with a tendency to plumpness and
sober clothes. The other £8 domicile is that
of the aggrieved female who has worked
down to it. She is slatternly, dressed
in the faded finery that was rich before the
fall, and her frock gapes at the back, and
her hair is anyhow, and the furniture is no-
how, and the meals are all over the place.
There have been instances of the wildly
lavish Minister swearing off by necessity,
but, as a rule, he has made a squalid job of
it. Instead of doing the same work with
less money he has abandoned half the neces-
sary work and done the other half as badly
as ever, or worse because of his miserable
condition of mind. Instead of being hopeful
he has been a Mrs. Gummioge, a hash-house
female who has seen better days, and a pessi-
mist or Book of Lamentations. The differ-
ence between the real economist and him is
the difference between the young man in a
neat new £6 outfit which was never anything
else and the faded buck in an autumnal
froek-coat-and-boll topper outfit wlych may
still be worth £6 but is the remainsjof some-
thing that was once worth a lot more. All
the financial reformation in the world
wouldn’t turn a Theodore (the ideal book-
maker) or Sc addan (meant for a company
promoter) or Hughes (who was intended
to be a sort of deity creating Commissioners
just like beasts and birds and creeping
things) into a George Turner or even a
McPherson any more than an ass, by re-
penting of his ears, can become a horse.
- «*—■
Daniel Colored and Daniel Plain.
Further light has been thrown on Arch-
bishop Man nix of Melbourne, and the
thrower thereof was his less glittering col-
eague, Archbishop Kelly of Sydney. He says
that Archbishop Mannix and every other
ecclesiastic of his church is a dual personality
(1) the priest, who rigidly abstains from
polities; and (2) the private citizen, who if
lie feels that way may raise the political
deuce. Mannix himself apparently agrees
with his brother prelate; at any rate he said
this:—
You never hear politics from me in the pulpit or
in the church, but as a citizen 1 hold that I may
well discuss on a public platform public topics, especi-
ally “conscription.”
So there are two Mannixes, with a line
drawn clearly between them. But the
annoyance is that when Mannix speaks it
is never Daniel, the plain ratepayer in a
check suit and bowler hat, who roars at us
about things we didn't do and can’t help,
and about peoole and places we never saw
and aren’t likely to unless fares go down. It is
always the Archbishop who is quoted. Further,
the Archbishop doesn’t seem to have passed
the word to the reporters to treat him as a
mere citizen when he talks politics; and if he
has told them that he doesn’t want to drag his
pastoral staff into the business there is no
record of it. The new light is therefore
worth mentioning. There are two Mannixes,
one taking his instructions primarily from
Rome, and the other apparently a subject by
liis own free choice of the Irish republic. To
the former there is, of course, no objection.
But the second is hopelessly out of piece- a
nuisance and a walking irrelevance. Aus-
tralia has no more reason to object to an
Irish’ republic than to a Polish or Chinan
republic, but it doesn’t want to have all suits
of people climbing into its politics because
they desire Ireland to have a republic. Lheie-
fore it should hasten to discriminate between
the Mannixes. The ecclesiastical Man nix
should be treated with the deference due to
one in his station. The political Man nix
who threatened to make all the trouble lie
could in Australia in the interests ot a
smallish island at the other end of the
earth should be informed that he will be
dealt with as any other citizen would be,
regardless of liis job. Hitherto respect for
the supposed clerical character of the Man-
nix who talks anti-Australian politics has
made Australia put up with a lot, but the
assurance that the political Man nix is just
an ordinary inhabitant like Brown or
Smith or Judd or Garden shows that
special consideration is quite unnecessary.
The Uprising of the Ledgerkeeper.
It is unlikely that the last word has been
said about Henry Rawson, the Maonlander
whom Judge Rolin, of the Arbitration
Court, has ordered the Bank of X. S. Wales
to reinstate in his former position as an
accountant in the bank’s service in Sydney.
Rawson had been dismissed b.v the bank,
allegedly for disobedience in refusing to
transfer from Sydney to Dubbo. Rawson
held that, the incidental circumstances were
clear proof that the bank was making a
burnt sacrifice of him for having called a
meeting of clerks in connection with registra-
tion of the Bank Officers’ Association as an
industrial union. To Rolin came the task
of deciding whether there had been “vic-
timisation.” The facts were simple enough ;
and in the most acidulated judgment vet
given in industrial jurisdiction in Sydney his
Honor held that Rawson had been the vic-
tim of an unscrupulous conspiracy by some
of the “sub-heads” to damage him at G.H.Q.
But though the facts were scarcely disputable
the law bristles with difficulties, and it has
yet to be discovered whether the Court has
jurisdiction to put Rawson back in his job.
It is not improbable that the case will go to
the last possible tribunal to which it can be
dragged. But however the law may finally
be interpreted there is no doubt about two
things—the first that the facts of the effort
to suppress this man for exercising a legal
l ight reflect no credit upon the bank; the
other that the evidence more than proved the
justice of the assertion by counsel _ for the
clerks, when the registration of their union
was challenged upon the ground that the
executive committee was composed of men
outside the service of the banks, that they
dare not come into the open so early in the
proceedings. The legal squabble about the
union’s right of formation and its recogni-
tion as an applicant by the Arbitration
Court seemed as if it would be interminable.
The banks fought the union at every point—
from the Registrar to a trial Judge, then to
the Full Court and then back to the Regis-
trar again. Thus whatever the views of indivi-
dual bank directors may be about the revolu-
tionary attitude of the miners in refusing to
accept arbitration and the unreasonableness
of coal shovellers who go on strike, they have
certainly shown a hostility to arbitration in
respect, to their own employees which has
played into the hands of the anarchists—
and that is where the matter becomes im-
portant from the general community’s point
of view. The probable explanation is that
they are nearly all old men. Yet the Rolin
judgment must, have made even the most
ancient and conservative among them realise
that the world has changed, and that even a
man who handles thousands of pounds a day
may now opeiilv dare to aspire to the emolu-
ments of one who handles hundreds of bricks.
♦
The Irish Elections.
In the latest experiment in government with-
out the consent of the governed Ireland has
been divided into two parts—one an impos-
sibly small part—and for each has been pre-
scribed a British-made Constitution. The
operation of ramming the bolus down the
patient’s throat is now in progress. So far
there is no indication that the treatment will
be successful. The South Ireland elections
resulted in a walkover for Sinn Fein, the
Unionists and Nationalists abstaining from
nominating. In the Northern Parliament,
on the flther hand, there will be nobody but
Unionists, as the Nationalists and Sinn
Feiners pledged themselves neither to
“recognise the Constitution conceived by
a foreign Legislature for British politi-
cal purposes and regarded with the
deepest hostility by the people of Ulster and
all Ireland,” nor to take their seats if
elected. And embryo Parliaments in which
only one side is represented, and which have
hosts of enemies and no friends, are not
likely to last long. The moral is that the
Irish question cannot be settled by British
politicians. It can only be settled by the
Irish themselves on the basis of a peace by
consent. This is further indicated by the
results of the Ulster elections, in which,
after a strenuous campaign, the supporters
of the British connection won 40 seats, the
Devlin party, which is not anti-British, six
and the Sinn Feiners six. Lord North-
cliffe, writing in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, affirms that the normal demand of the
Irish people for complete autonomy within
the four seas of Ireland is justified and must
be satisfied: —
Thinking men, Ulster Unionists and Sinn Feiners
alike, must now realise that Ireland cannot remain
permanently divided. The question is susceptible of
solution, though it may be delayed, by Irishmen and
in Ireland. Nay, a solution is inevitable once
Ulstermen have realised and are prepared to confess
their own dependence upon the rest of Ireland, and
once the rest of Ireland has realised, as it has not
yet, the strength of Ulster and its value as •an
integral part of the Irish nation.
In these words, written three months ago,
Nortiicliffe lias expressed the views of all
impartial Britons, Australians, Maorilanders
and South Africans. And the, events of the
past month —the meetings between Craig
and De Valera, no less than the result of
the Ulster elections- —can only deepen the
impression that the one hope for Ireland is
peace by consent.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS - - - £250,000
ASSETS EXCEED £500,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY F. WOOD, Managing Director
Full Time, Part Time, and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
The Political Touch in the R.S.L.
The Soldier, in a recent issue, published
an article "officially supplied by the Pub-
licity Department of the New South Wales
branch ot the Returned Sailors and Soldiers'
Imperial League of Australia” controvert-
ing this paper s view that the R.S.L. had
been collared by anti-Labor. The Publicity
Department claimed that members in the
Senate shot out the drastic Army Act and
earned the thanks of the public—except the
S. M. Herald —and, that the "League forced
the .Nationalist (lovernment to open its eyes
and look into War Service Homes affairs,”and
so forth, and so on. But such results would
have accrue.'.! without any League, even as
the sun rises whether the cocks crow or
omit to do so. If the R.S.L. publicist will
turn up the II.vWSARD in which the latest
debate on the pensions situation is reported,
he will find a number of statements which
indicate where the League has failed on an
issue less sensational than that of the Array
Act, but more urgent . from the standpoint
of the returned men. All that was needed
to defeat the proposal to apply the Army
Act to trainees was that someone should
explain the measure to the public. For
the trainees and their parents represent
votes —many thousands of votes. The
maimed Digger, the gassed Digger and the
dependants of the dead represent but a
paltry force in the political sense, and it is
continually decreasing in numbers. Few
want to be bothered with war's casualties
once a war is over. It is so much more
prolitable, from the publicity standpoint, to
take up the anti-Labor cry that the political
party to which most of these necessitous
cases belong is “disloyal.” And that is just
what the R.S.L. has let itself be trapped
into doing. But how could it evade the lure?
Take the executive of the branch of which
The Soldier is the official organ—the N. S.
Wales branch. Of its four members one is
General Herring, who is reputedly eager
for a Nationalist seat in either the
Federal or a State House, and who
tried to identify the R.S.L. with a
Nationalist Soldiers' League; and an-
other is General Rosenthal, who stood
as a Progressive for the N.S.W. Assembly-
last year, and who tried to affiliate the
R.S.L. with the King and Empire Alliance.
The president, Mr. McDonald, may be un-
biassed, politically, but if so his communi-
cations to the press belie him. The voice
of these gentlemen during fheir term of
office is the voice of the soldiers so far
as the ear of authority is concerned—the
voice not merely of the Nationalist and Pro-
gressive soldiers and the fit and financially
independent soldiers, but also of the Labor
soldiers and the disabled and stone-broke
soldiers. Had that voice been raised in
the Domain recently, and had the full-page
R. S. League advts. in the dailies been in-
serted. not to demonstrate the superfluous
fact that those who fought in the A.I.F. are
loyal, but to acquaint the public with the
tragic situation in which many ex-soldiers
are finding themselves as an outcome of the
Government's efforts to economise at their
expense—why. then the League would need
no Publicity Department to justify its exist-
ence. As things are, these remarks made
last week to a gathering of ex-soldiers by
the Dean of Newcastle (N.S.W.), apropos
the present tendency “to cheapen that fine
and splendid thing loyalty.” are to the point:
A man’s religion or politics had nothing to do
with the Digger movement; the only thing they cared
for was that lie was true in his Australian loyalty
to the dead. If they got it into their hearts they
would make short shrift of those jugglers, political,
social or any other kind, who were playing on the
weakness of human nature to promote their own
ends. One of the greatest needs of Australia to-day
was that they must stick together, and not allow
those sectarian or sectional jobbers to come into their
minds and draw false lines of cleavage among them.
“The League wouldn’t have a politician
on any of its platforms in the Domain when
the recent rally was called,” concludes the
League’s mouthpiece in The Soldier trium-
phantly. And The Bulletin’s comment is:
“Having seen the light to that extent, go the
complete logical hog, and, in the interests
of the Diggers that matter most, get them
out of your executives.”
♦
A Little Copper and a Lot of Brass.
Quite a number of miracle-workers have
come to the fore with schemes whereby the
copper diggers’ wages, which went up as the
price of the metal rose from £6O to £126, may-
be made to stay up with copper down at
£72. A recent specially brilliant idea was to
borrow the Commonwealth Bank and put it
beneath the industry as a prop. The mines
were to go on as usual paying £9O or more
for a ton of output worth, at time of writing,
£72 or so, and the stuff was to be stored till
prices rose high enough to cover the cost and
interest. The Commonwealth Bank was to
advance 90 per cent, of the average price from
day to day. One difficulty is that, if the
companies can't pay £9O or £9l of wages and
general expenses out of the £72 which tlw
market is willing to give them, they would
be still less able to pay it out of the £65 or
less which the Bank would lend them. True,
the price might rise to £BO, aud iu that case
the Bank would lend £72 ; but that wouldn’t
make things better than they are. On the
other baud the price might fall to £OO and the
Bank lend £54; and that would certainly
make things worse than they are. If the out-
put stood at about the quantity of 1918
(44,018 tons), then with present prices the
Commonwealth Bank would be tying up
about £2,800,000 a year. On p;qst records it
may be 20 years before £9O is touched again,
and by that time the Bank would have
£50,000,000 looked up and interest. It might
thus be that copper would require to reach
£l5O a ton to save the situation. Then the
throwing of 880,000 or 900,000 tons of metal
on the market would lose the situation again.
Queensland owns about half the copper busi-
ness qf tht‘ Commonwealth, though it owns
only one-seventh of the Commonwealth Bauk.
So the proposal that the funds of the
Bank should be thrown bodily into the
bottomless pit of copper again shows
the bashful and retiring nature.of Queens-
land politicians. The last time that
State blushed unseen, so to speak, was
when it proposed -that the Common-
wealth, instead of building a straight line
from south to north, as per the agreement
under which it received the Territory, and
thus developing its own vast property, should
make a line through Queensland and develop
that State’s property instead. Tin, which
has dropped from £B3O to £lB2 per ton, is
also an industry that could do with the loan
of the Commonwealth Bank. But it is an
industry that belongs mainly to Tasmania
HOME TO ROOST.
“Queensland’s Workless. Atrocities Promised. Brisbane, Wednesday.—The leader of the unem-
ployed, at a deputation, said that if the distress was not relieved workless men would go half mad.
Then there would take place the greatest atrocities in the annals of Australian crime.”
SPECTRE OF UNEMPLOYMENT (to Premier Theodore): "You helped to make me what I
am. Notv, what are you going to do with me?”
and N. S. Wales. Possibly these States lack
a trifle of the Northern Government’s assur-
ance.
«.
Major Bunks has been awarded the General Ser-
vice Medal. The Major served in a clerical position
at Victoria Barracks during part of the war. doing
invaluable work until he was transferred to Wangle-
Wangle as 0.0. the military cheese-depot there. His
work as O.C. the cheese dep6t earned him a “men-
tion” from Lieut.-Colonel Bangs. V.D., who from
September, 1915, until the signing of the Peace
Treaty held the position of Inspector Military Cheeses
for the Commonwealth. The Colonel has also been
awarded the General Service Medal. The Defence
Department is now considering the question of
awarding these two veteran soldiers the 1915 star.
Items more or less similar to the above are
appearing almost daily in the press, and the
meaning of them is that the war-medals have
been reduced to absurdity. The same
decoration is handed to the man who fought
in Flanders and to the man who took par-
ticular care to stay at home. Or. rather,
the fighting-man usually gets his after the
non-starter has been served. It would bi
hard to throw a brick in an average city
gathering without hitting a fighting Digger
who has nothing in the medal line to show
for his efforts, while the Department’s friend,
Major Blinks, has long since been
“awarded” the distinction he never earned.
Meanwhile, the Department continues to
spend the country’s money in periodical ad-
vertisements calling on ex-soldiers to come
forward and claim the medals which aren’t
available.
Some particulars of the almighty slump in
the U.S.A., from the New York correspondent
of London Daily News :
Exports generally are falling, and for an inevitable
reason. Europe cannot and does not pay for what
she buys, and American credit is being exhausted.
There is a huge accumulation of cotton, no less than
161 million bales —enough to last a year. On July
31, with a new crop coming into the market, there
will be a carry-over of eight million bales. The
surplus of copper has risen to over one billion
pounds, and the same story is told of zinc, leather
and steel. The number of American unemployed is
estimated variously from 1,500.000 to 4,000.000.
Since September the railroads alone luive dismissed
800.000 men. The merchant marine, in which
£800,000.000 of public money, has been invested,
has SSO steel vessels idle, or more than half of its
tonnage, this in addition to wooden and concrete
ships also laid up. And big ships sailing to Europe
carry only 80 per cent, of their possible cargo. The
Harvester Trust has cut wages from 5 to 2G per cent.
In other industries the wage reduction often amounts
to one-third.
Every word of which is ;i warning to Aus-
tralia to come out of its fools’ paradise, give
up its insensate industrial and sectarian
broils and face the new situation manfully.
“(Yze.nos'’ takes grass seriously:--
“Returned Empty" (It. 19/5/'2l) is humorous
enough over the idea of improving West Queensland
pastures. lie would be positively funny if he lived
in a country where people on the land are actually
compelled to produce their pasture. Is ho taking
any notice of that £6,000,000 Maoriland surplus?
That is what happens in a place where practically
all the pasture is artificial. The rich grasses over
there are not burnt ofT or trampled down wholesale:
so they do not have the same bother about finance
that we do in Queensland. Then astonishing rents
are paid successfully over in H.L., while there is
widespread lamentation about the ridiculously small
rents in W. Queensland. Look at Norway. To
save the grass in the damp climate, miles of hurdles
have to be erected all about the fields, and the
bundles of grass intended for hay are usually hung
up and dried on these hurdles. Simply because I
suggest something in the shape of work, my critics
seem anxious to attack me personally-—as if it
mattered one continental whether I had big feet like
T. J. Ryan, or not. The facts are still before us
that 80 per cent, of our valuable fodder is regu-
larly wasted; and, at the same time, a greater pro-
portion of stock is allowed to perish in W. Queens-
land than in any other place on earth. All the
time the most popular remedy among the pastoral-
ists is to look on and mock all suggestions. One
man sits back with a wise appearance and pictures a
single-furrow plough in a 20,000 acre paddock. That
satisfies him. Another fails to see how fodder can
be produced at 6d. a cwt.; and he also sits back.
Still another genius exhausts his system in absurd
calculations. No one offers any practical plan for
the better economic handling of our great pastoral
lands. We want the man who will do something,
and the man who will find out ways of doing things
better. We have improved our sugar-cane, and we
have improved our cereals ; and now it is time we
turned some attention to our pasture. We must
consider all the possible ways that our grass can
be put into commercial use. Feed it immediately
to cattle, convert it into fodder of various kinds —
these are the readiest ideas. But scientists might
find some wholesale way of extracting its oil. of
converting it into paper and so on. £50,000 is
freely offered to the man who can discover mineral
oil, but it seems that nothing, can be spared for the
exploitation of the more obvious wealth which over-
• spreads the land in green magnificence.
« —
Thebe is much that is doubtful in the latest
X. S. Wales Stamp Act: but one thing that is
made very clear is that, when a person's
wages are at the rate of £5 a week or more,
every time he receives £2 or more of these
wages he.must give a receipt whether the
person who pays the wages wants it or not.
lie must “tender” it or be fined between £2
and £lO (Clause 02, page 35). And if
wages are divided into daily or three-times-a
week instalments to bring each one below £2,
the Act says the artless dodger is liable to
fine. But as the stamp revenue sagged after
this provision came into force, instead of
booming, it is inferred that a vast number
of coal-miners, wheelers, wharf-lumpers and
possibly even some barmaids have tailed to
stamp their receipts and haven’t paid the
fine yet. Clause 45 is less transparent. It
provides that banks must pay £2 a year on
every £lOO or fraction thereof of their old
notes stilt outstanding, and
Each of such quarterly payments shall be made
within one month after the date of the payment by
each such hank immediately preceding it.
So if a quarterly payment is made on March
1 the next quarterly payment will fall due
before April 1, and the next before May 1.
That is one reading. Another is that tic*
quarterly payment isn’t one month after the
payment h.v the same bank, but after that
of the “bank immediately preceding it,’’ which
is, or looks as if it was, a previous bank.
There is a legend about a man who was such
a natural-born child of misfortune that he
broke his leg playing chess. The same fatal
facility for striking snags* belongs to the
X. S. Whies Government. Ever since
quarters were invented men have been stipu-
lating that money should be paid four times
in each year, but few have expressed the
fact worse.
-♦ —;
“Mibza” continues the argument:—
The fact that Melbourne University has produced
many excellent doctors in no way disproves
“Gregor's” assertion (B. 28/4/’2l) “that the present
Melbourne medical course is notoriously inadequate.”
The three men noted by “T)ix” (B. 12/5/’2l) for
winning the degree of F.R.C.S. (Lond.) were the stars
in their year. But with the rank and file the matter
is entirely different. At the recent final examination
(March, 1921) more than GO per cent, of the can-
didates failed to pass the examiners in medicine,
surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology! And of those
who did pass a considerable proportion were men
who, for various reasons, declined to present them-
selves for examination in 1920. As the year was
considered to be up to the average both in mental
ability and working capacity, the fault must lie
with the instructors. Either that or the course
should be extended to six years to allow the stu-
dents to be adequately trained. In the last year
or so—thanks to indefatigable workers like Drs. Kext
Hughes and Victor Hurley —the clinical teaching
at the hospital lias improved enormously. But (as
I pointed out in B. 12/8/’2O) the student is almost
hopelessly handicapped by inadequate accommoda-
tion —fancy trying to examine a case after 10
others have had a go .'—and by the colossal waste of
time and energy in travelling from the various
hospitals, library and pharmacy college up to the
Medical School in Carlton, The anatomy and
pathology museums—-and excellent museums they
are, too —are mites away from the wards and oper-
ating theatre. There is only one solution possible,
and that is to build, as Professor R. J. A. Berry
suggested years ago, a large, modern, well-equipped
medical school in Lonsdale-street. Of course this
will lie bitterly opposed by the brass-hats. But they
havc been responsible for many curious anomalies at
Melbourne Uni., and not the least quaint of these
is the appointment of the Professor of Anatomy to
the position of second examiner in surgical anatomy !
“The Ghost” remembers Cooky’s young
days:—
Apropos the Bulletin's remarks on “The Tariff a
Farmer's Tariff,” it pleased me to recollect that in
Victoria, the home of Protection in Australia, agri-
culturists were the first to cry for that particular
brand of fiscal faith, it was in 1848, at a time of
general depression, when the eockies of the Port
Phillip colony were getting next to nothing for
their produce, that the Mayor of Melbourne, Henry
Coxdell, was persuaded to convene a meeting in the
old Royal Exchange Hotel, which then stood some-
where near the site of the present Commercial Bank,
in Collins-street.. The attendance was stpall; but
Dr. F. McCrae was voted to the chair, and Messrs.
.Tonx P. Favkxer, J. McArdle, W. Highett and
J. Williamson flung vigorous addresses at each other
and the few less voluble smaller fry present. Reso-
lutions were passed affirming the necessity of a duty
on imported grain other than that grown in a British
settlement; also, protection against competition
from squatters on Crown land tenures, and the
prohibition of persons distilling spirit from anything
but the assembled cookies’ grain. These comprehen-
sive demands show that they, like all Freetraders,
were very hungry for Protection when their own
industries could benefit therefrom. A petition to
the governing authorities of N. S. Wales was agreed
upon; but, though a committee used its weight con-
siderably, after the transmission of the petition a
long silence ensued.


The benefits derived by Cultivators from the use of explosives are so well known that it is unnecessary to dwell
upon them.
A Settler’s chief difficulty is to know the most economical and safest kind to use. The ordinary high explosive, Gelignite,
is unobtainable in most places except at very great cost. It must be handled with extreme care, and kept in a licensed magazine.
We have for many years supplied a compound known as Rendrock, which has been largely used far and wide to the
great advantage of Farmers, Fruitgrowers and Settlers. During the war the material was unobtainable. Its manufacture is
now resumed. The ingredients (solid in the form of cartridges, and liquid) may be transported by steamer or rail at ordinary
rates of freight, and no magazine for storage is required. The ingredients are prepared for use simply by soaking the cartridges
in the liquid for a few seconds.
Ask your storekeeper for a bulletin, which fully explains, or if he has not one, mail a post-card to—
Guthridge Limited, George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
Rendrock is equally as good for any kind of rock blasting.
POLITICAL
POINTS
On June 1 Mitchell, of Westralia,
modestly announced that the May debit bal-
ance was £104,000 (nearly 10s. per head
for the month), the 11 months’ deficit
£003,000 and the accumulated disgrace just
on £5,000,000. That same day he was made
a K.C.M.G. A brutal form of punishment;
but the man deserved it.
The application of the Federal public ser-
vants for a basic wage of £5 10s. Od. a
week has been rejected. It was as cheeky
an application as ever was made. True,
the Federal Basic Wage Commission found
that £5 10s. Od. was the cost of keeping a
family in reasonable comfort; but it was
instructed to assume that a family consisted
of the man, a wife and three Children ; and
not more than 30 per cent, of the male
wage-earners of the Commonwealth have two
children, let alone three. What the Federal
service asked for was that every public
servant should be paid for maintaining a
couple of infants that have no existence.
Since liyan left for the House of Reps.
Jack Fihelly has been .yearning to follow
him. The yearn has grown enormously, since
the last State election, which plainly de-
monstrated that the Queensland Rarliamonr
is no place for an ambitious and tempestu-
ous young Laborite, since Theodore and co.
will assuredly be walloped at the next appeal
.to the people, and then will follow six dull,
drab years of Opposition. But Marnnoa is
hardly the easy thing the mercurial Fihelly
is looking for, although at the moment of
writing it is tolerably certain that he
will stand. In 191!.) Jim Page's majority
over J. A. J. Jlunter, the Country Party
man, was only 1232 in a poll of 23,575. And
Jack hasn’t Jim’s great personal popularity
or long association with the electorate.
Moreover, Hunter’s hat is in the ring again.
On the threat to a great industry :
The last thing Jim Page did in the House of
Reps, was to support Dave Watkiins’s proposal that
the iron and steel duties should be raised 50 per
cent. During the war the vital necessity of iron and
steel manufactures was brought home to everyone,
but of the magnificent industry that has grown up
at Newcastle and Lithgow Australians are only dimly
aware. In 1913 the Commonwealth consumed
120,000 tons of pig-iron, and nearly half that quan-
tity was imported. Last year the local output was
345,000 tons. In 1913 65,000 tons of foreign steel
were eaten up. Two years ago (he Broken Hill Co.
alone turned out 209,000 tons of steel ingots, billets
and blooms, although it didn’t begin manufacturing
in earnest till 1918. But the additional Protection
afforded by war conditions has disappeared, and the
foreign dumper, helped by the disordered state of
international exchange, is getting in his ruinous
work. Belgium began it and Germany' will be along
presently. In Massy Greene’s opinion it is a rase,
for special legislation, which is a slow process and
uncertain at best. The only safe and speedy remedy
is a sufficiently high tariff.
Considino, M.H.R., who has nothing to do
with the Territory but seems a likely man
to raise a row about anything, is in pos-
session of a telegram from Darwin to this
effect: —•
God knows what will happen. The stigma is on
(he Labor party as well as on the Government.
Jtemember how America was lost and the possibili-
ties of repetition. We expect every Democrat to
go to the extreme in defending Australia’s birth-
right.
It is all about the sending of three Darwin
residents to gaol because they refuse to pay
income-tax till the N.T. lias direct repre-
sentation in the Federal Parliament. There
are discrepancies, however. That fragment
of America which was lost paid for its
own interna] or State Government, which
the Territory doesn’t; and it received no
financial support from political headquarters,
which the Territory does to the extent of
about 355. in the £ of its outgoings. The
secession should, therefore, be an interesting
spectacle, for it won’t be so much a case
of driving away the tax-collector as of hunt-
ing the subsidy-bringer or almoner or Lady
Bountiful or Father Christmas off the pre-
mises.
The Argus’s fiscal illusions must be a
sore trial to its squatter friends. Every
Australian sheepman now realises, with
Jowett, M.H.IL, that it would be economic
suicide to let wool remain the sport of the
foreign buyer. For the security of the in-
dustry the home market must be developed
to the limit. But the Argus doesn’t realise
it. Even while a deputation of N. 8. Wales
pastoralists was asking the Commonwealth
Treasurer to tide them over the situation
created by Bradford’s refusal to buy their
produce, the Argus was howling mournfully
against the new duties on woollens, and ex-
plaining that, instead of helping the home
market bv means of a little more Protection,
it would be much better to sell to Bradford
and “receive manufactured goods in ex-
change.” Incidentally, 22 new companies for
the manufacture of woollen textiles in Aus-
tralia (total capital £3,705,000) were regis-
tered in 1920 and 11 more (total capital
£1,460,000) are being formed. But the sig-
nificance of these developments is lost on the
Argus. That paper is still groping among
the catacombs of a belief that died in 1901.
(10-slow has wrecked another experiment
in State trading. This time it is the Gov-
ernment coal-mine at Baralaba (Q.), about
which a disillusioned Labor Minister has
been making bitter remarks. Baralaba has
an Bft. seam of clean coal, described by the
president of the union as one of the finest
in' has seen. But it cost 9s. to turn out a
ton of Baralaba coal, whereas Blair Athol, a
neighboring and privately-owned pit, was
mining its product for 4s. NAd. a ton. On
piecework the serfs of a ruthless capitalism
averaged five tons a day per man, and got
245. per shift; under the day-labor system
the exponents of the doctrine that Bill’s as
good as the boss and a darned sight better
collected a guinea a shift for an output of
a trifle over two tons per man. Asked to
get a. hustle on 45 Baralaborers proudly
weighed in with a total of 110 tons in one
day, and waited for things to happen. What
happened was the sack.
Premier Harwell (S.A.) broke out last
week with a plain statement that wages have
to come down :
To carry on under the old conditions is utterly and
•entirely impossible. Take copper-mining. To pro-
duce a ton of copper under present conditions costs
approximately VlOO. The price obtainable on the
market for a ton of copper is somewhere in the
region of £7O. Take the lead- and silver-mining
and smelting industry. The market price for the
products is 25 per cent, less than the actual cost of
production. What then? Wages must come down.
There is no doubt about it. Labor may protest as
much as it will, but all the protesting imaginable
“WE MUST ECONOMISE
THE AFFLUENT ONE: “Don’t he alarmed,
my friend. I merely 'want to ask if
yon read my speech on Economy? And
do yon realise how necessary it is to
cut your cloth according to your
means?”
cannot alter the plain facts of the ease. Labor may
stand out, of course, and say “We will not accept
lower wages.” If it does, industries now closed will
remain closed, and other industries will closedown
too. Where does that carry us? And where does it
carry the laboring-man?
Gunn, leader of the Opposition, promptly
called this “the most outrageous speech I
have read —a declaration of war upon the
wage-earners.” But Gunn doesn’t say how
a quart is to be got out of the pint-pot. And
until he can show hov it is- to be none, such
remarks, which epeourage men to stand out
for the impossible, are mere declarations of
war upon the wage-earners’ wives and chil-
dren.
Sydney Worker came out last week with
an attack on the pony-racing disease. It
required courage, for the pony-courses are
kept going by union workers and provide
Labor politicians, organisers and Domain
reds with their favorite recreation: besides
which pony magnates are liberal contributors
to the party funds. Says the A.W.U. organ.:
The pony courses have become Meceas for breath-
less, hustling crowds —and Meceas, unfortunately, for
.youths and women who might easily- be much mure
healthily employed.
All true, every word of it. But, strange to
say, sundry painters and house-decorators
who work till noon on Saturday at overtime
rates, instead of knocking off and going to
the . races (the pony-flutters begin, about
half-past 10), are bitterly slated in the
next column for their industry. In the new
gospel according to Labor, men who earn
good money by toiling on Saturday mornings
(and incidentally helping to reduce the hous-
ing-shortage) are not “healthily employed.”
Even the Worker would rather see them at
the races.
The Sydney Municipal Labor party is
morosely antagonistic to the Old Man in
London, but that doesn’t prevent it from
borrowing his loathsome money whenever it
gets a chance. Last week it got a million
from him, at just on 7 per cent. In the
pride of this achievement the Lord Mayor
flapped his wings and prophesied that “in
about 25 years this will more than probably
be the wealthiest council in the world.” But
with Tammany's help it needn’t take that
long, surely.
What with the Factories Act Amendment
Bill, the University Reform Bill and the Edu-
cation Bill, Peacock, Labor and Education
Minister, will have his hands full in the Vie.
Assembly next session. The Education
measure aims mainly at raising the maxi-
mum age for attendance at elementary schools
from 14 to 15. Victoria is not going to
repeat the mistake it made after the bank
smashes 2N years ago, when it “economised”
in the Education Department at a whole
generation’s expense.
Corsets were debated in the Reps, re-
cently, and tiiere was a strong extort, to leave
the production of. the article in the hands
of the foreigner. Lister, M.11.R., alleged
that local manufacture employed only 175
people, whose wages averaged a little over
£5OO a week, and lie couldn’t see why an
industry supplying about 5 per cent, of the
demand should need the Protection that
Massy Greene proposed. Apparently Lister's
idea is that crutches are not for men who
can only crawl without them, but for athletes
who can do 100yds. in lOsec. As a matter
of fact, Greene could not have selected a
better subject to show the effect of Protec-
tion. Since the Tariff was tabled an Ameri-
can firm has allotted £lOO,OOO for a factory
in Sydney.
The Speck has a local-option poll every
three years. No issue is carried unless 25
per cent, of the electors vote for it. In
1018, out of 42 districts, only three managed
to scrape up the necessary majority for re-
duction. At the latest poll Leven was the
lone district that asked for fewer pubs, and
New Norfolk and Scottsdale declared for
continuance. The other 39 said they did
not care which dog won the fight. Some of
the voting was farcical —Bothwell, four for
continuance and three for reduction; Green
Ponds, four each way; Spring Bay, three
and one; Zeehan, 39 each way—and there
were over 1200 electors on the roll. Prac-
tically speaking, 95 per cent, of the electors
say they are satisfied with things as they
are; but Stiggins is howling to have the
25 per cent, clause eliminated.
“The accused was found guilty of gross
cruelty to Allied prisoners of war. The
.lodge addressed him severely and at great
length, saying that his conduct had brought
undying disgrace on the German army and
the German name, and sentenced him to
receive a present of £lO which, he hoped,
would be a lesson to him.” That isxx’t
exactly how things are going at Leipzig,
where Hun judges ai’e professing to try Hun
officers who tortured and murdered prisoners
in their chai’ge, but it isn’t far out.
Piddington, K.C., lectured on his pet
Basic Wage the other night at Newcastle,
and spoke with bitterness about the state-
ment of S.A. Premier Harwell that along
with any serious fall in prices wages must
come down. Apparently he held, with the
Mount Morgan miners, that copper at £72
per ton can pay the same wage as copper
at £l2(i, and that as much can be paid for
the making of a £5 suit as of a £2O one.
"If the world is to be told,” he said, “that
the industrial outlook in Australia is so black
that the workers must submit to a reduc-
tion in the standard of living, then the immi-
gration policy is not simply organised
national hypocrisy, but is a hypocrisy which
cannot even be expected to deceive.” No
one has really talked yet about reducing the
standard of living, but it is a question
whether it is possible to raise it (say) 50
per cent, by keening wages up no matter
how much the value of the goods the wage-
earner produces and uses goes down.
The Sydney Trades Hall proposition that
Solicitor-General Sproule should be raised to
the N.S.W. Bench is generally ascribed to
the mistaken idea that he could be relied
upon to give wrong decisions when right
ones would annoy his old pals. The common
plea is that the Nationalists (always de-
scribed as corrupt villains of the deepest
dye) “created a precedent” by appointing
politicians to the Bench, and that Labor
should be as bad as them. Though it
TO COVER HIS NAKEDNESS.
THREADBARE PARTY POLITICIAN: “Ah!
This is a godsend! It will moke me
a fine pair of trousers!”
is silly to talk of the Holman crowd
creating a precedent when the transfer
of legal politicians to the Bench dates
back to the days of Manning and Martin,
the theory that any new Ministry has a
right to be wickeder than the one before is
certainly interesting.
A fourth N. 8. Wales Railway Commis-
sioner is to be elected by the 35,000 em-
ployees, who presumably represent about
120,000 people. They will have the same
share as the other 1,000,000 people in ap-
pointing the other three. Commissioners and
will enjoy this whole Commissioner to them-
selves, also they will have such extra control
as their unions can give them. It looks a
pretty clear case of plural voting, and as
taxpayers the railway men probably do less
than the average to pay for the lines. The
question of having a fourth Savings Bank
Commissioner (there are three now) elected
by the clerks and a fourth Western District
Lands Commissioner (again there are three)
chosen by the lessees will come up later.
In the general collapse of boom values
the small outback grazier, so long drought-
smitten, is enduring such a frosty time that
even A.W.U. M’s.H.R. like Arthur Blakeley
have been stirred to sympathy and are
actively championing his cause. But no
sympathy is forthcoming from the Queens-
land Labor Government. Instead, distressed
pastoralists asking for freight-reductions and
time to pay their income-tax were scornfully
told by Fihelly that they were “common men-
dicants waiting on the Minister’s doormat.’’
The same high-minded Administration has
distributed huge grants of public money
among the idle section of its own followers.
But these gentlemen of leisure weren’t in-
formed that they were common mendicants.
They, of course, were the victims of a blood-
sucking plutocracy denied, under the soul-
less system of production-for-profit, their
God-given right to work.
THE SONG OF THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wot we want is 'more perdooeers,
More perdooeers on the land ;
More an’ more an’ more perdooeers,
Spread on miles an’ miles of land!
W’y der we want more perdooeers?
Well, ter perdooce pigs an’ sheep,
Cattle and pertaters—cheap,
So as we can sleep an’ eat
Wile the cockles grows ther wheat!
Wot we want is more perdooeers ;
Immigrants of any kind.
Any color, creed or brand,
So as they' go “on the land” !
Wot we want is cheaper food,
’lgher wages, shorter hours,
Less ter do an’ more ter get....
Well, then, let the corky sweat!
Wot we want is more perdooeers!
SOCTJI AUSTHAIUA.
C. H. SOUTER.
A COW QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On account of the Casino Hospital’s heavy milk
bill a local resident lent it two cows. The cows
duly arrived, and then the hospital authorities learned
that they would have to take out a dairy license,
as, according to an opinion of the Attorney-General,
a hospital ‘milks for profit.’ ”
Oh, wise McTiernan, please relate
Your views upon a question now
Of graver import to the .State —
The milking of the old State Cow.
She is a piteous sight to see,
And respite never knows, T fear;
And yet with much brutality,
Her teats .are jerked from year to year.
Though Governments may wax and wane,
And .Ministries may fall and rise,
Ever the Cow that Can’t Complain
Regards them with imploring eyes.
Is it, I ask, a decent thing
To rack a patience so sublime
With such perennial suffering,
And keep on milking all the time?
X.fi.W.
HAL.


Hunting up jokas
ybt- occasion
Interlude „
Bond Sit'c.a.i' Drill.
‘Saturday. 1 )|
» ’'l/oW jfm* At\ Idea*. wwlg£& C'""
+<cr •thsit spfc*_«W^r“""" L«22vSotx .
PrActiSmgj
grentlc. Art of nvad^ln^
A Bucke&s,
Home tcl
THE TOURIST—AND AN INTERLUDE.
A distinguished traveller prepares for a new campaign at Windsor Castle and its environs—with an interlude in which the undistinguished artist was more con-
cerned than the distinguished traveller.


Telephones:
Central 10173, 2473.
Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY,” Melbourne.
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts' covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
TIIOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to 1 n-
Ex- Depreci- surance
Dec., Income. Claims. pelves, ation. Fund.
1907. . £483,480 £273,080 £107,14 i £103,265
1908.. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909 . 482,038 307,035 86,915 £50,000 38,088
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912.. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913.. 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914.. 628,243 327,210 125,362 11,182 164,489
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171,757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920. .''1)80,031 344,060 144,684 4,303 386,384
On the one hand £90,000 more income and
on the other £90,000 less paid away to
policy-holders—that was the Colonial
Mutual’s 1920 experience compared with the
previous 12 months. Not since 19171 had
claims been so light: losses-by-death (includ-
ing bonus additions) were only £5997 more
last year than they were five years ago, though
the volume of risks had meantime
from under 14 millions to nearly 174 mil-
lions. Maturing endowments, however, took
£42,000-odd more last year than in 1915.
The outgoings to satisfy policy claims last
year represented 29 p.c. of total income,
which compared with previous performances
this way: 1910, 00 p.c.; 19.15, 51 p.c.; 3.919,
55 p.c. Though last year's light losses
helped to reduce the proportion, im-
portant factor lias been operating. When
it had acquired a large' connection, the
Colonial Mutual became tired, and for some
years did not give much attention to new
business, particularly in the dull years fol-
lowing the ’nineties smash, so an increasing
proportion of its contracts got to the claims
stage. A dozen years ago the management
again got a move on, but just when large
volumes of new assurances were rolling _ in
srime ugly rumors were spread concerning
the Society’s affairs. Government inspectors
were put in to inquire, but, though they
reported the position sound, the Colonial
Mutual had a cold spell. The lost ground
is being gradually retrieved, and last year’s
new business was the largest written for
eight years. This gives further details: —
New Assurances.
1880 .. £823,210 1914 .. £1,644,064
1890 . . 1,880,800 1915 . . 1,298,248
1900 .. 610,638 1916 .. 1,520,361
1905 . . 922,401 1917 . . 1,937,242
1910 .. 2,598,247 1918 .. 1,654,400
1912 .. 3,227,737 1919 .. 2,207,923
1913 . . 2.043,234 1920 . . 2,482,385
The revival of new-business getting has not
been so great as the latest figures suggest.
The 1912 assurances represented 13,643 pro-
posals; last year only 8372 policies were
written, but the average amount of assur-
ances per policy had increased from £2.»i
to £297.
The varying volumes of new business
which under the besft of circumstances is
always costlv to write—have had a consider-
able effect on the expense rate shown next;
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 ..£2l 17 10 p.c. 1915 ..£l4 19 7 p.c.
1909 .. 18 0 7 „ 1916 .. fo i 0 „
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ 1917 .. 16 6 4 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 „ 1918 •• to 9 4 „
1913 .. 29 5 8 ~ 1919 .. 16 8 6,,
1914 !! 19 19 3 .. . 1920 .. 16 8 10 „
The paucity of new insurers six years ago
brought the cost rate down with a run, but
it has been climbing again as the volume or
new assurances has increased. But, gener-
ally, the Colonial Mutual's costs are much
more satisfactory nowadays; and that has
been due a good deal to the fact that indi-
vidual policy-holders are seeking larger
cover. It is impossible to state with any
preciseness what new business has cost, but
some idea of the improvement which has
been effected in this respect can be got by
applying The Bulletin’s usual method ot
regarding 7 p.c. as a fair cost of handling
renewal business and of charging the balance
of expenses against premiums from new busi-
ness. Over the past eight years new-busi-
ness costs, estimated on this basis, *'av e
worked out as follows: 1913, 172 p.c.; 1914,
353 p.c.; 1916, 113 p.c.; 1919, 100 p.c.; 1920,
104 p.c. So whereas in 1913 the whole of the
first-year premiums and three-quarters of the
second year's went in exes., the first year's
premiums alone now practically co\ei the
cost of getting each new policy. These re-
duced costs have, of course, assisted to build
up suroluses. For instance, had. it cost as
much last year to get new business as it
did in 1913 there would have been nearly
£70,000 less available for bonuses.
Surpluses have lately also been assisted
by improved interest earnings, the yield on
average funds having moved in this way :
1910 ..lit 3 10 I>.c. I *916 ..£4 10 5 p.c.
1912. . 4 5 11 ~ | 1917 ... 4 10 11 „
1913 <*. 4 8 10 „ | 1918 .. 4 13 10 „
1914 . . 4 9 10,, I 1919 . . 4 1(5 0 „
1915 .. 4 9 11 ~ | 1920 . . 4 17 9 ~
On latest average funds the Ss. lid. p.e.
improvement compared with seven years ago
put £22,160 more into the actuary's hands.
So the three factors influencing surpluses
have lately been operating to the advantage
of surviving policy-holders who took con-
tracts entitling them to participate in pro-
fits. The introductory table shows that the
past year’s operations added £35G,384 to
funds," a 7G p.c. increase on the previous best.
Rut surplus is not profit in a life office:
out of any year's surplus provision must be
made for the growing liability under con-
tracts. That is where the actuary comes
in. The latest balance-sheet shows total life
funds of £5,157,478. Secretary and actuary
James Pullar says that according to the
standard tables employed in such calcula-
tions, and assuming that the Society’s funds
will in future earn 34 p.c. p.a. (a conserva-
tive valuation, for, as shown above, they are
at present earning 4.S p.c.), the amount of ,
funds which should be in hand to protect
policy-holders is £4,941,320. There is thus
£210,148 more in funds than is regarded as
necessary, and of this the actuary recom-
mends that £154,288 be set aside to provide
reversionary bonuses amounting to more
than a quarter of a million. The cash
bonus to be distributed is £03,000 more
than last year's, and the policy-holders’ divi-
dends vary from £4 to 30s. per £lOO of
assurance, compared with from 455. to 20s.
12 months ago.
The t’olonial Mutual’s accident branch has
developed in this way:—
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 .. 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. 10,517 3103 4546 2808
1915 .. 12,250 3480 5978 2792
1910 .. 13,238 4275 6110 2853
1917 . . 13,550 4451 0438 2661
1918 .. 13,971 4578 6498 2895
1919 .. 15,917 6045 7063 2809
1920 . . 17,620 6231 8174 3215
This branch is also conducted on the mutual
principle. The actuary reveals a surplus of
£5432, and of that £3317 is to be employed
1o provide a uniform addition of 2 p.c. to
benefits.
The Industrial department has arrived at
a very interesting stage of its career. This
Shows, for a start, how it has grown
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1910 .. £54.908 £3.483 £92,844 £30,564
1911 . . 60,484 6,254 66,630 42,964
1912 .. 77,516 7,710 62,755 35,913
1913 .. 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
Funds.
1914 . . 97,036 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 . . 104,807 18,809 48,735 56,530
1916 .. 121,308 15,616 51,245 110,977
1917 .. 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,621
1918 . . 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
1919 .. 174,605 20,096 57,405 361,225
1920 . . 211,184 14,156 65,030 493,224
At the beginning the business proved very
expensive: for a time all the income and
something substantial besides poured out of
the branch each year, and no provision could
be made for growing liabilities. 'Later the
tide began to run in; but only 12 months
ago, when funds were stated at a couple
of thousands in excess of estimated liabili-
ties, £37,G00 of reserves was represented by
nothing more tangible than an “extension of
organisation” entry among assets. But the
past year’s abnormally favorable underwrit-
ing has enabled the management to efface
the old goodwill item and replace it by tan-
gible assets. So .future surpluses will be
available for bonuses, and there is talk also
of granting additional benefits under poli-
cies. In 1913 the department’s expenses
took 12s. sd. in the £ of income; by 1919
they had been got down to 6s. 7d. Another
sd. was clipped last year. And while a con-
siderable saving was effected in this way, a
very low claims outgo was experienced:
losses for the past 12 months were smaller
than six years previously, though the amount
of business in force had advanced from
£1,631,410 to more than three millions.
During the past five years the Colonial
Mutual has put practically every penny
available for investment into public securi-
ties. This shows the disposition of funds at
different dates: —
1904. 1914. 1919. 1920.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities and de-
bentures .. .. 3.3 22. i 34. i 03. 3
Mortgages .. .. 39.2 37.3 17.3 13.4
Freeholds, etc. . . .. 23.8 27.9 id. 6 I^-6
Cash and deposits . . 5.7 5.3 2.6 1.0
Other assets .. .. 21. S 12.6 8.8 8.9
The Country Producers’ Selling Co..
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
1912. . £3,590 5 p.c. = £984 £869 £1,077
1913.. 6,975 74 ~ ~ 1731 2872 3,449
1914 9,058 8' ~ „ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5,270
1915.. 0,081 7 „ „ 17,50 3498 500 5,603
1916.. 9,479 7 ~ ~ 1750 5295 1000 7,037
1917.. 9,081 7 „ ~ 1750 4826 1000 8,542
1918.. 8,626 7 ~ „ 1750 5383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7 ~ ~ 1750 5208 500 11,144
1920.. 15,186 8 ~ ~ 2000 8092 1000 15,238
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
The C.L'.S. accounts are the first out to
show how bleak has been the breeze which
has hit the people who handle pastoral pro-
ducts. This more or less co-operative co.
began in 1010, and last year was easily its
worst. N. S. Wales was having one of its
severest droughts when the financial ) year
opened, so both the quantity and qualify of
the clip suffered. This shows how C.P.S.
handlings tell off : —•
Wool Gross
(hales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,040 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1915 .. 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1919 .. 38,361 237,842 10,160 44,024
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1921 .. 25,697 238,426 15,507 35,003
But the drought was only one trouble, for
just about the time it broke the British wool
acquisition scheme terminated, prices, col-
lapsed and for a time there was practically
no market for wool at all. So though -7,054
bales were handled during the 12 months, in-
cluding 1357 bales unrealised when the finan-
cial year opened, only 11,161 bales were sold,
1079 were shipped on owners’ account, leav-
ing 14.514 bales on the C.P.S.’s hands at
March 31 last. But these were not the co.’s
only misfortunes, for while gross profits
fell' from £49,158 to £35,003 the cost of hand-
ling increased as a result of two new wages
awards, and, despite the smaller turnover
of produce, working expenses were reduced
by only £1259. So a profit of only £2373
resulted, and, after all, that may have been
merely a book profit, for it is possible that
when making up the accounts gross earnings
may have been credited with portion of the
commissions which the management anti-
cipated would be earned from the realisation
of the large unsold surplus of wool on hand
at the balance, some of which was unloaded
between March 31 and the presentation
of the accounts. However, the profit dis-
closed is quite inadequate to provide rebates
of commission of any consequence, and, “in
view of the necessity for meeting the re-
quirements of the co.’s clients in connection
with wool and produce awaiting sale,” the
directors have deferred making any distri-
bution to either shareholders or consignors.
Paid capital is only £25,142, but in its ten
years or so the C.P.S. has accumulated
£17,611 of undivided profit, some of which
has gone in reducing the mortgage on the
co.’s big Pyrmont store.
The breaking up of the wool pool has
effected big balance-sheet changes. Twelve
months ago £115,028 was shown as due to
sundry creditors, and on the other side
the Commonwealth Government, as agent
for the British Government, owed £101,438,
while there were other debtors for £38,071.
At the latest balance the sundry-credi-
tors’ item had been reduced to £36,637,
w’hile on the other side sundry debtors
owed the co. £45,958. Beyond that the
position is obscured, “freehold and lease-
hold land, buildings, furniture, plant, War
Loan and other assets” being in one parcel
with a book value of £54,933. Nearly £39,000
was spent on the Pyrmont wool stores nine
years ago, and £21,000 of it was financed
by mortgage. The mortgage has since been
reduced to £16,000.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Oct.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911.. £24,624 10 p.c. = £6,301 £ 18,323 £77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 .. 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913.. 35,351 12J p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39.774 .. 63.397
Cash bonus distributed. £145 .. 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 „ ~ 11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital £26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 . . 75.595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
1917.. 36,016 101 „ ~ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 ~ ~ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59.296
Reserves disappeared. £164 .. 59(132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
Apl.,
1921.. 20,050 8 „ „ 12,549 7,501 102,216
That last line gives the result of operations
over the past six months: other entries
group half-yearly performances to show re-
sults for full 12-month terms. The feature
of the latest entry is that profits are now
so much more handsome tnan they Meie
higher up in the table that more is being
paid away in divs. for six months than
was formerly distributed in 12. lhe Intel-
colonial has been a very energetic subdivi-
sionist. and the turnover of properties lias
proceeded so rapidly that nowadays annual
gross profits exceed by some thousands the
paid capital of only 10 years ago. I>c
result is that shareholders have had a magni-
ficent time: paid capital is now
compared with only £50,122 just prior to the
commencement of the table, and not one
penny of that enlargement represents cash
put into the concern by shareholders. Ami
notwithstanding the handsome divs. wine i
are being paid, the storage of profits still
»oes on. The past half’s net earnings gave
£7501 over and above the amount required
for dividends: and actually something moie
than that may have been set aside. when
making up its balance-sheets the Inter-
colonial has always taken stock of its be-
longings on a conservative basis. That was
made evident during the past year when the
directors shook out £78,277 of profits which
lmd been laid aside for contingencies prior to
3914 No doubt during the excellent run
in war-loan years further considerable pro-
fits were stowed away by valuing assets with
an eve to possible -trouble when the hollow-
ness of the apparent prosperity became evi-
dent.
The shortage of houses to rent is as acute
as ever in congested Sydney, so, though finan-
cial stringency and other factors are
operating to make the liouse-und-land agent s
life less easy, values have not slumped to
any great extent, and a co. with large funds
like the Intercolonial still prospers. Whether
it can continue to do so well in the doubtful
years ahead Tiie Bulletin does not know.
Probably it will not find business so easy
to get or customers who can so readily pay
their instalments. But tilings would have
to go very badly before shareholders suf-
fered anything worse than reduced divs. In
addition to the unknown internal reserves
there is a visible £102,21(5 to protect the
£313,724 of paid capital. The management
is in a cosy position to meet whatever is
coming, because it is depending only to a
very slight extent on outsiders to finance
its operations. Depositors have put in
£13,01(5; all other debts amount to only
£lBB5. The current account at the bank at
April 30 alone covered all outside liabili-
ties. After paying the latest div. there
were liquid assets over and above liabilities
of £(51,000-odd, or nearly 4s. in the £ of paid
capital. The book value of properties, bor-
rowers’ and purchasers’ balances, etc., was
£375.000-odd, or practically a further 245.
per £. # # „
Pacific Insurance Co., Ltd., of Fiji.—
The islands having for many years proved a
happy hunting-ground for insurance cos., the
“Big Three”' of Fiji—Henry Marks, J. M.
Hedstrom and A. B. Joske —conceived the
idea of establishing an underwriting concern
of their own. So in December, 1919, the
Pacific Insurance Co., nominal capital half
a million, was set up in business in Suva,
Alan H. Bussell, Australian manager of the
Union Assurance, joining the “Big Three”
at the Board table. First accounts, to March
31 last and covering a period of approxi-
mately 15 months, have now been presented.
There was no promoters’ consideration in the
float, and altogether 2(55,200 £1 shares were
subscribed and called up to 45., giving the co.
a paid capital of £53,040. Branches have
been established in Sydney and Melbourne,
and the co. is now represented throughout
Fiji, in Samoa and Tonga, and at Rabaul.
Underwriting proved very sweet over the
period covered by the accounts. Fire, marine
and accident premiums, less commission, pro-
duced £35,035, but of that £23,532 was
laid off, leaving £11,503 net with the co.
Claims took £2606 and salaries and taxes,
etc., £2358, giving an underwriting surplus
of £6539. Interest earnings added £3477, so
the management had £10,016 to appropriate.
The whole of the preliminary expenses of
£293 were written off, and also the whole of
the £475 outlay on furniture and fittings.
That left £9248, £460.1 of which has been set
aside in a reserve for unexpired risks. The
balance of £4647- is shown as net profit, and
is equal to 8§ p.c. on paid capital. But this
is not to be tapped, every penny of it being
transferred to a reserve fund. It is refresh-
ing to find this statement in the directors*
report:—-
In the early years of the life of the co. a conserva-
tive policy is of the utmost importance, as only by
conserving our resources can we hope to build up
for the near future a sound financial co. which will
command trust and provide first-class security to
its policy-holders.
Sundry creditors (including claims admitted
but not paid) amounted to only £5096 at
March 31, and total assets of £67,385 were
distributed in this way: Government securi-


Since the introduction of electricity for lignting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage batterv.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [1
* * * «
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British" iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm,
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Berth. — Advt. [1
* * -X- »
Look ahead! Think of the capacity of your water-
main system. The United States Bulletin No. 376.
entitled “The Flow of Water in Wood Stave Pipe,’’
says wood pipe will convey about 15 per cent, more
water than a 10-year-old (metal) pipe or a new
riveted pipe; and about 25 per cent, more than a
(metal) pipe 20 years old or a riveted pipe 10 years
old. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove. —Advt.
Mining and Smelting Plant and Machinery, etc.
—Mr. W. H. Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager
of Great Cobar, Ltd., Equitable Buildings, Sydney,
reminds those interested that Tenders, as recently
called for, close on the 15th June. Catalogues will
be sent on application to the above together with
any further information which may be required.—
Advt.
**. * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* * w •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves. , Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants ; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’—“National’’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Svdney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers. Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
BOWEN CONSOLIDATED COAL MINES LTD., Bowen, N.Q.
Capital £125,000, divided into 25,000 Fully Paid Up Shares,- and 100,000 Contributing Shares
of £1 each, of which number 22,688 have been issued and on which 12/6 per share has been
called up.
Applications are invited for up to 67,312 of the unissued shares at amount called up at time of
application, at present 12/6, and certificates will be issued as being paid up to the amount called up
and paid, leaving 10.000 shares in reserve.
Report by Mr. John McGeachie, of New South Wales, Coal Expert, and forms of application for
shares, may be obtained from, and applications will be received bv
A. McCALLUM & CO.. Charters Towers. N.Q.,
or A. V. MURRAY, Secretary. Bowen, N.Q.
Lower the cost of production by using l the famous
PIONEER
LEATHER
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: ,T. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEEXSLANI): Hoey,
Fry & Co.. Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Etd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
IV. A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John McKell,
Timpson Street, Pojrt
Adelaide..
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation.
.Motor ,Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
t£23,702; mortgages and debentures,
rnu’ , : eash and branch balances. £11.336.
Ihe Pacific Insurance Co. has made an
auspicious beginning.
Old Banker” discusses an anomaly :■ —-
A proposal has been made in Melbourne that the
method of settling between the “clearing” hanks
should be changed. Before the introduction of the
Australian notes each clearing bank paid a certain
amount in gold into a pool. Against the funds so
deposited £ 1000 vouchers, commonly called “sheep-
skins. were issued and became negotiable instru-
ments between the banks. The small odd balances
were settled bv cheque. Should a bank's supply of
the sheepskins ’ not be sufficient to meet its debts
to the other banks, settlement was made on a gold
basis. When the Australian notes were issued they
took the place of the “sheepskins.”
Apparently it is now proposed to abolish this
method and endeavor to secure a partial return to
the old system. But instead of the Clearing House
issuing its own paper settlement each week is to
take place by cheque. If the suggested arrangement
is adopted, it would mean that each bank would be
required to maintain a drawing account of con-
siderable dimensions at a central bank in each capi-
tal city. It lias been assumed that the Common-
wealth Bank would be the central bank; but it is
not likely that the other concerns would voluntarily
and deliberately raise its prestige by making it the
hank of bankers. As a matter of fact, the Common-
wealth Bank has not even been admitted as a “clear-
ing bank.” Before it opened its doors Denison
Miller applied for admission in Melbourne and
Sydney; but the application was refused in both
places, and the decision conveyed to him on the
eve of the opening day. The situation which the
bank had to face was awkward, as it meant that
every cheque or other instrument which might be
lodged with the new bank by customers for credit
or collection would have to be presented over the
counter to the other banks and payment received in
cash. However, the Bank of N. S. Wales, a member
of the clearing house, came to the rescue and agreed
to clear everything on behalf of the Commonwealth
Hank, and thus a situation of considerable anxiety,
of which the public knew nothing, was surmounted
at the eleventh hour. The Wales still acts for it.
This is anomalous now that the figures of the national
bank are by far the largest in the Commonwealth.
In London .a line is drawn between banks which
are admitted ( to the Clearing House and those of
recent growtli which are not members. The old
institutions—many of them private bankers—have
kept the Clearing House as a close preserve for
original members, and many of the younger joint
stock banks which have grown to enormous propor-
tions have not been admitted. They are forced to
do their clearing through some of the small old
private institutions, the latter reaping a harvest by
charging a stiff commission on the business which
goes through their hands.
* * * *
Edna May Central is drifting fast down
stream. The accounts show this change
in liquid assets in six months:—
July, 1920. Jan., 1921.
Hank credits .. ..£7,715 £2,057
War stocks . . . . 5,881 5,881
Fixed deposits . . .. 5,000 4,000
Total .. £18,596 £11,938
The co. had the luck to get in £20,252 from
gold before it felt the full strength of the
stream that washed Edna May out of
\\ estonia. The latest working account
would have been about square had not the
pumping required £5057 and development
£1687. But as a result of those outgoings
(he six months’ run ended in a loss on ordi-
nary work of £7832. The co. also spent
more than £3OOO on the Golden Valley
option, with the result of most modern W.A.
options—a total loss. Hector Stewart de-
clined to recommend purchase. The latest
accounts illustrate the extent to which the
industry is depending on the gold pre-
mium, for with it and several odds and
ends of income Central’s profit and loss
debit for the six months was kept down to
£6497. All the upper levels in the mine are
worked out, but the co. has 13,000 tons of
slimes out of which it expects to squeeze
£10,787 of profit. This will be wanted,
for the Board is spending £BOOO on a 6-
stage centrifugal pump and plant to un-
water and keep the mine dry. So far, with
the aid of the co.’s own plant and two of
the Edna May turbine pumps, the manager
has been able to open up 142 ft. of No. 5
level on the middle reef. For 50ft. pros-
pects were nix. Thence on to 142 ft. samp-
ling showed a reef from 3ft. to Oft. wide,
varying in gold contents from 9dwt. to
69dwt. The length of the shoot so far
isn’t sufficient to justify the expenditure of
£BOOO on a pumping plant, but there is a
chance of a fair lot of ore being got when
the No. 5 level permits work to proceed on
the hanging- and foot-wall sections of the
Middle reef at No. 4 level. Cash re-
sources are sufficient to carry through the
gamble of tackling the water problem, but
nothing can save the Central from the re-
putation of being a tip-top stringer.
Although 147,737 tons have given £254,515
of gold, only £15,000 has been passed out
in divs., a matter of 4s. per share.
* * * *
When Dick Osborne scrapped the Com-
modore, Meekatharra (W.A.), the last word
seemed to have been said. Now it is tacked
on to the Ingiiston as floated in Alec Pea-
cock's office. But why? The Ingiiston
itself proudly runs two shoots close to the
Commodore boundary, which gave £lOOO of
gold at No. 1 level, £OOOO at No. 2, £30,000
at No. 3, and £43,000 at No. 4, which is at
a depth of 387 ft. The Peacock crowd has
deepened- the Ingiiston shaft to 500 ft. and
opened out at 477 ft. This is because a sur-
prise formation of the fahlband type, such as
caused all the cuss words over the Commo-
dore, cut in at 437 ft. It carried veins of
quartz with good gold in them pretty well
down to the bottom of the shaft, but these
veins don t make a mine. Peacock’s people
hope for a welter over the Ingiiston of the
Edna Deeps type, but they don’t know
Meekatharra yet. Commodore was rich at
the surface, but it duftered every time deeper
stone went to the battery. Ingiiston has
something more defined to work on: never-
theless nowhere at Meekatharra may
chickens be counted till thev are in the
pen.
* * * .
Several Westralian newspapers are nobly
assisting promoters of local oil-prospecting
ventures to palm oft .shares on flu 1 public.
One alleged find is declared to have greater
promise than anything so far reported in .the
Commonwealth; another, concerning which
a Government geologist talked of kerosene
having been poured down a well, is stated on
the authority of an interested party to.be
genuine and one which the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co. would spend £lOO,OOO in testing if
a reward commensurate with the outlay was
by the Government in event of
success. Extravagant claims are being made
respecting the importance of other alleged
finds. Before plunging the public would do
well to recollect what Minister for Mines
Scaddan had to say (B. 21/4/’2l) concern-
ing Westralia’s oil prospects.
* * * • #
Westralian Mines Department is now
investigating the heavy loading of the Ives’
Reward flotation, a matter which should
have had its attention 12 months ago. Mean-
while the vendors and promoters are offering
the co. better terms to complete the deal, and
efforts are about to be made to induce share-
holders to put up more cash. But they
would be foolish to do so until some reliable
independent expert has furnished a report to
establish its prospects. Quite a number of
sound mining men regard the property as
absolutely worthless for a co
* * * »
W hen Jvanowna Red Dill boomed last year
Melbourne became involved in the near-by
Crown Link, and has since expended £2500
in rooting out ore and sending it to Kalgoor-
lie for treatment. Though “fully satisfied
with the returns,” the directors reckon that
the stone can be made to pav only if treated
on tin l spot. But as funds are low they are
anxious to hear from some other co. with
cash which would be willing to amalgamate
and buv a mill. That’s one side of the pic-
ture. The other is that, like the Red Ilill,
the show is too patchy for a co. to make
money out of.
* * * *
Southern Cross (W.A.) was livened up the
other day by a new find of gold in one of its
side-streets. Similar discoveries have been
made in other parts of the town during the
past few years, but none has produced a mine.
Attempts are being made to resuscitate
Frazer’s and two or three other adjacent
derelicts, and if these fail the Cross will
have to fall back on farming.
Minister for Mines Scaddan was button-
holed by tributors and others at Ivalgoorlie
the other day, and listened for an hour or
more to curses being heaped on the local
mining cos. The cos. decline to make tri-
buting agreements under the new Act, and
are apparently doing their utmost to make
the measure unworkable. Scaddan threatens
that if the offenders do not desist he will
ask the Government to appoint a Royal Com-
mission to go into the whole question.
“W’gabba” on the North’s resources: —
In a recent Bulletin “Cuzenos” threw a bouquet
at the resources of Northern Queensland. My only
grouch against him is that he was not nearly
complimentary enough when enthusing over
the wonders of that area. The general opinion
of the North is that it is a - vast territory
which has produced much silver, tin. wolfram, etc. ;
but it takes a man who has delved underground and
explored its mountains and streams to attempt to
estimate its magnificent potential resources and
what they are likely to count in the future develop-
ment of the Commonwealth. You can run through
the gamut of practically all the useful metals, and
the North has produced them all in an aggregate
running into millions sterling, and yet it is little
more than scratched, and few know what, an ineffi-
cient scratching it has been. In the Chillagoe-
Ilerberton districts there are enormous deposits of
mixed sulphide ores of lead, copper and zinc, of
which only selected portions have been mined and
smelted. The waste in sulphur fumes in the past
has been enormous. Customs returns show that we
import about £400,000 worth of sulphur compounds
each year, jet it was never thought worth while to
introduce compulsory legislation to avoid the local
waste. The Xorth will take Broken Hill’s sceptre
as a zinc producer in the next decade or two. Nearly
all the metal mines in X.Q. are highly zinciferous
at depth, and yet, instead of it being an asset, in
recent years many mines have closed down because
of the penalty on zinc in ores sent to the smelters.
Mines such as Mt. Garnet, Mungana and Mt. Albion
have enormous bodies of zinc awaiting the day when
Barron Falls will be harnessed and separation works
are established thereabouts, and with subsidiary
factories turning some of it into pigments and using
the valuable ochres which are now lying neglected.
With Herberton, Irvinebank and Kangaroo Hills in
the van, X.Q. possesses the richest tin areas in the
Commonwealth, and the good mines that are opened
up at frequent intervals should give us another
Vulcan or two on the law of averages. The Cairns
hinterland was one of the largest producers in the
British Empire of the rare metal group wolfram,
molybdenite and bismuth. These must come again.
A recent report of the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment shows the natural adaptability of the Gulf
Coast for the establishment of a brine industry. Our
annual bill for sodium carbonate, caustic-soda, etc.,
runs into a quarter of a million. The starting of this
industry would supply the raw ingredients for these
products. Unexploited and little-known coal-areas
in addition to Mt. Mulligan and Bowen we have,
notably in the Little River district of Cooktown.
* * ♦ ♦
The Barulaba State mine (Q.) closed
down last week owing to the casual methods
01 the miners. It may not re-open, tor tne
coal has not pleased the men running the
locos, on the Central railway, and represen-
tations have been made to revert to Blair
Athol coal owing to the difficulty of running
to schedule time. Bnralaba, like all the
rest of the coal from the Dawson liiver
measures, is a semi-anthracite, which is ex-
ceedingly difficult to burn. These coals have
been exhaustively tested in past years for
naval purposes, in loco., marine and land
boilers, and TO p.c. of the results filed have
been unsatisfactory. The ash as a rule is
not excessive, but it clinkers. The greatest
drawback is the loss of coal due to incom-
plete combustion. The Virginia, when here
with the American fleet, used Dawson coal
on the run from Melbourne to Albany, but
reported it unsuitable for naval purposes. Mt.
Morgan, which has a mine at- Baralaba, car-
ried out a series of tests with a special grate,
closed ashpit and steam blower, and under
those conditions successful results were ob-
tained. The co. also found the coal suitable
as a substitute for coke in suction-gas tests.
However, it appears to be no good under loco,
conditions, though it could be assisted by
mixing with a high volatile coal.
* * * *
The Ajax copper lode, which was stated
in a recent Bulletin to be one of the best
copper outcrops ever located in Central
Queensland (it is at Bajool, not very far
from Mt. Morgan), has been sunk on to a
depth of 30ft. by the prospectors; who have
raised about 25 tons, averaging 26 p.c. copper.
It is an unfortunate time for a copper show
to make its d6but, but this one certainly
looks to be something out of the box. The
surface stuff carries no gold, but averages
about 4oz. silver, which will be a slight help.
Geologist Ball, who recently reported on the
property, states that “the gossans are so im-
pressive in their bulk and physical character
that their thorough testing should be under-
taken immediately with any and all avail-
able resources.” Which is high praise from
a geologist and means that there may be
immense possibilities ahead of the mine.
The resuscitation of the Normanby field
(Q.) has created a spasm of interest in its
neighbor, the Marengo goldfield, which lies
just at the back of Bowen. It is in the
same belt of granite and diorite, and mining
operations were on the py> there from 1870
to 187 S; but nothing big turned up. The best-
known of the old, shows were the Albion,
Venture and Brilliant. Alluvial lias been
worked intermittently there for the past 40
years, but the last attack made on the reefs
w'as about 10 years ago, by Bowen people
headed by Hocking. They got out a few
crushings assaying 30dwt., but the reefs
were small —nothing much over 12 inches.
The • prospects of a revival are not bright,
but if Normanby booms much of the country
between there and Marengo, which is covered
by timber, will have its chance, for colors can
be got almost anywhere in the granite belt,
and only the impenetrability of the scrub-
clad gorges has deterred the man with the
pick and dolly.
Derek Tin, Stannary Hills (N.Q.), has
given its recently-erected battery a trial
spin, but the engine considered the task
set a bit over the odds. However, the co.
has a more sturdy iron-horse in the stable,
so it will not be long before the plant gets
to work.
There has been a fall in the price of blue
sapphires abroad, and the Queensland Gov-
ernment has been notified that the Anakie
diggers will have to accept less. How much
less is uncertain, but it is perturbing news
for the field, which has been a magnet for
unemployed minors from Blair Athol and
Alt. Morgan latch.
* *" * *
Oswalds, Alaldon (Vic.), still keeps going,
though only modestly. All the battery ore
it could scrape up last half-year was 1715
tons, which gave 12380 z. and 2500 z. in the
concentrates. A small profit of £ll4 wa*
earned, bnt with funds in reserve £1250 was
passed out. Most of the work done has
been on the Spur reef at 800 and 900 feet,
and it looks as if it might make into some-
thing decent below 800 ft. The peculiarity
of Alaldon mining is that it is the dropper
on to the main reef that brings the gold
along, and the Spur reef is of that type.
* * *
Last half-vear's sales of the little Corn-
wall Coal (Tas.) exceeded £20,000, a record.
"The lack of mainland coal had a good deal
to do with the success of the past year,” says
the report. It is an ill strike that hits every-
body.
“Wart”: Just-deai Joseph Hercules Will
has been wrongly credited with being the dis-
coverer of the Hercules (Tas.). It was Steele
Trail, now orcharding at Exeter, who made
the find when Will was prospecting at Alole
Creek. Trail pegged the ground on behalf
of a number of Launceston business men;
but the original holders let it slip, and it
was repegged by Will. Gaunt, the Launces-
ton sharebroker, then founded the Hercules
co.


BILLY: “Excuse me, your Majesty, I have-—or
—a little matter”
GEORGE V.: “Yes, yes; just go and mention it to
the -Third Gentleman of the Hatrack.”
BILLY: “I’d LLc to d»cu.s Um SUata*
question, Lloyd, old boy, I
L GEORGE: “Sorry, old chap, 1 »
get away to patch up another peace.
BILLY: “Winston, can you
spare a moment?”
WINSTON: pre-
sume on my generosity.”
BILLY: “For the sake of thelove
you once boye me, Norfhy, just
\ a few words”
y NORTHCLIFFE: “Not in any
J\ my publications!”
< \ /
BILLY? “Let me tell you,' Harry, how
we two can save the Empire.”
LAUDER: “Away wi* ye. I can save
it mysel’—Ah’m o’ a' savin’ disposl-
__
BILLY: “May I crave your
attention for one moment?”;
BEEFEATER* “Grrr—***
—!!— !!£'-
BILLY: "For Heaven’s sake* listen to me; cabby, or my reputation wiHL
* be blasted and I shall have to go home.”
DENNIS-'
(feHNeuuY
THE HUGHESES OF ADVERSITY.
“Mr. Hughes will not find the old enthusiasm awaiting him.” —London correspondent.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having 1
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman). Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir IT. Y. Biaddon. K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner. James Kidd, AY. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, John
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson s S"* e Co., l02I fe?~"-
Olderfleet. Collins Street Melbourne.
M.Z. John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A. —H. Little &• Co., 851 Hav St., Perth
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular. 20-30
lI.P.
ENGINES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES. —Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to Min. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene. 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL. ft
tfiGEWOifyto
EXTRA HIGH GRADE**
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Jim Page, M.11.R., who died in Melbourne
last week, was one of the few remaining
members who sat in the first Federal Parlia-
ment. Of the original Ministry not one sur-
vives, but among the rank and file of the
Reps., Bamford, Chanter, Chapman, Joe
Cook, Fowler, Groom, Hughes, McDonald,
Poynton and Watkins are still in the House.
Littleton Groom succeeded his late dad in
the first session, whilst Josiah Thomas, who
was also present, has since led a more in-
active life in the Senate. First Senators still
drawing their .salaries are Best and Higgs
(both now in the Reps.), De Largie, Keating,
Millen and Pearce.
George V. had a birthday last week, and
four more Australians were added to the
aristocraey-—a retired tobacco-manufacturer
(Hugh Hixson), a music-hall proprietor
(Ben Fuller), a pastoralist (Sid Kidman)
and a State Premier (Jimmy Mitchell, of
Westralia). Hixson, who wears quaint old
ruffles and is a pillar of the Baptist Church
and a solid philanthropist, is SO; Fuller
(40*) is the baby of the quartette. Kidman
is Australia’s wealthiest cattleman: Mit-
chell was a country bank manager who re-
tired in the mid-thirties to enter politics.
Like Forrest and Newton Moore, predeces-
sors in the Premiership, he was born at
Banbury.
Returning to Queensland after a long ab-
sence, Thomas Bilbe Robinson has had the
unusual experience of being flattered and
courted by both I.abs and Libs. Premier
Theodore deluged him with compliments and
expressions of personal friendship, and the
Nationalists mentioned that a seat in Parlia-
ment and the vacant leadership were his for
for the asking. According to the Labor
leader, Robinson was “the most influential
Agent-General Queensland has ever had.’’
He is certainly the only ex-A.G. who has
ever been asked to enter politics and lead a
party at CL. Robinson is an Englishman
from Rotherhithe, where his father was a
shipbuilder, and he laid the foundation of a
comfortable fortune as a Rockhampton mer-
chant. He is interested in art as well as
business, and used to be an officer in the
old Queensland Defence Force. He was the
British Government’s frozen-meat expert dur-
ing the Great War, and made deals running
into tens of millions on'behalf of the Allies.
An out-of-the-way record is claimed for
John England, who has just retired from
the job of grave-
digger at Bath-
urst (N.S.W.)
after half-a-
century’s se x-
toning. He has
dug 7500 homes,
an d rechons
that no one else
in Australia has
fashioned so
many.
PIANIST MISCHA LEVITZKI.
A Sydney daily announced the knighting
of Edwin Mitchelson, ;i Maorilander, as a
case of “Honors for a Racing Man.” He is
not a racing man. Probably he never had a
bet in his life. He merely happens to he
president of the Auckland Racing Club.
Id is main claim to fame is that he has
played an actively useful part in the govern-
ment and development of his country, and
incidentally accumulated many ducats. Born
at Auckland he started right off scratch, his
lirst job being as storeman for old J. R.
Dargarville in the wild country now known
as Kaipara. There he became acquainted
with kauri gum, started dealing on his own
account, and in time built up the biggest
gum-merchant’s business in the volcanic isles.
At 35 he was a member of Parliament; he
was a Minister from ’S3 to ’9l, when the
Ballance-Seddon tornado swept him back to
his gum to become a mayor, a bank and in-
surance company director, and that sort of
thing. Now he is 75 and a Leg. Councillor
by the grace of Massey. One of the old
man’s daughters married Roy Wilson (since
dead), one of the third generation of the
Auckland Heu.u.p proprietary.
Ben Fuller, talking about the “Sir” that
came his way the other day, remarked that
he regarded it as "an honor to the dramatic
profession.” Rut Ben was never an actor or
anything like one. The nearest lie ever got
to playing Hamlet was being one of a
buskin' party at English watering-places and
St. Kilda, armed with a melodious trombone.
Ben, the eldest son of John the singer, is
really an astute man of business. lie began
to get on his feet, so to speak, with a little
s'ong-and-dance and magic-lantern show that
he wandered round Maoriland with 25 years
ago. When Percy Dix, who had a monopoly
of the ML. city vaudeville business, blew
up, Ben and his father began to secure "a
grip on the bigger towns, established per-
manent shows of the pert-soubrette and black-
faced comedian order, and, getting iu early
on pictures, prospered greatly. A dozen or
so years ago Ben, leaving hi.s little brother
behind in Maoriland, pushed into Sydney and
soon had vaudeville and cheap-drama going
in all the States. It is a mighty good divi-
dend-payer this kind of business—to the man
who knows how to make it so. Ben knows.
He has never been in the habit of paying an
The public is a bit ’tired perhaps of “Cattle Kirin” Kid Kid mini's portrait. His signa-
ture is really more characteristic of the new knight. Here it is—reduced 25 p.c.
or so to get it into two columns
excessive number of people more than £l5O
a week, and during the last month or two
was able to find £ll,OOO for “gifts to edu-
cation.” He is a rather podgy-looking knight
and is not going to he 45 any more. In the
early Maoriland days he married Lily
Thomas, a Ponsonby girl, who enlivened the
entertainments with a sweet singing voice
and a pleasant, comely presence.
A blighted career was that of J. M. Ennis,
who has died in Adelaide at 57. He started
in life as an English choirboy, was a skilful
organist at 14, and a Doctor of Music at 30.
He came to Sydney in 1900 as organist at
Christ Church, and at the beginning of 1902
was appointed head of the Adelaide Conser-
vatorium and Professor of Music at the Uni.
He did splendid work in both capacities, hav-
ing sound business capacity, a marvellous
memory and charming manners, in addition
to great skill with organ and piano. He was
a principal factor in building up the joint-
examination scheme of Australian universi-
ties, which battles against invading English
examining bodies. But one besetting weak-
ness developed, and it got him down. He
gave up his work in 1918, at his own re-
quest, and had since been little heard of.
The Galleryman’s send-off:—
Behind the roughness and the clamor of the late
.Jim Page was a highly sentimental nature. He
was touched by pathos in all its aspects; when he
encountered a case of hardship he would inevitably
rake his pockets and probably turn away to hide a
tear. He never forgot Barnardo’s Home, where he
spent his boyhood; but. then, no one 'who had ever
done him a good turn was allowed to forget it.
The strangeness of the man was that he who
despised formality would fight the Government all
day and night on a mere question of procedure;
and the punishment he delivered with an overpower-
ing voice and a bluestone vocabulary would be
afterwards condoned by a quiet personal apology
to any man who felt himself offended. Though his
party feeling ran deep it never ran over, and he
would readily roar at one of his own crowd
who wasn’t playing the game according to the rules.
One thing- he remembered with just a trace of bit-
terness was the treatment he had to endure in the
shearers’ strike of the early ’nineties. One of the
-Melbourne dailies in its allusion to the struggle
mentioned smugly that both sides fought like gentle-
men. If Page were here he would roar a contradic-
tion. One night he told the story of the affair,
and there was a queer hush when he mentioned how
one squatter, near whom he was living, had ordered
his storekeeper to stop Mrs. Page's supplies in
the hope that a wife’s starvation would compel
the husband to give in.
Jowett, M.H.R., isn’t the first M.H.R. to
call attention to Australian tweeds by wear-
ing them in Parliament. The late W. J.
Lyne—Big Bill —did it nearly 20 years ago,
and fought to the last ditch to keep out the
foreign goods.
The one thing not generally known about
the late Jim Page's birth and education at a
Barnado Home was that his name was Pagel.
and that he dropped the last letter of it. His
appearance, too, suggested a Teutonic
strain ; but it didn’t .stop him from being a
fine bush-fellow.
W ill Crooks, the cheerful little Cockney
who won the Woolwich seat for Labor in
1008 and held it (with a slight break in
1010) until he retired, a boneless invalid, a
few months ago, has heard his last division-
bell. He was about the best-liked man in
the House of Commons, and on his two visits
to Australia he made troops of friends. It
might have been different had he come after
1014, . for Crooks was an old-fashioned
Laborite, a conscriptionist and a sturdy
Briton; also he had an annoying habit of
laughing, in the boisterous East End fashion,
at the humorless prigs who preach the “class-
war. ’ 11 is sort is temporarily out of favor.
At a dinner recently eaten at the National
Club, Sydney, in commemoration of Henry
I arkes’s birthday, but two of the five sur-
vivors of his last Ministry, Albert Gould and
Sydney Smith, attended. The two knights,
Joseph Cnrruthers and William McMillan,
sent apologies, and Bruce Smith was not
there. It is intended to place a war-trophy
on a rock near the Parkes grave at Faulcon-
bridge. This “recognition” of the old Parlia-
mentary hand costs the National party
nothing. The Parkes grave has a dwarf
obelisk over it; but this was erected by
Parkes himself, in memory of his father,
and the Nationalists placed a cheap tablet
on it to commemorate the services of their
old leader.
An old Inky Wayfarer, George Henry
Orford, has passed out at Collingwood (Vic.),
aged 84. Born in Sydney, Orford was
apprenticed to Hobart Courier in 1850. Nine
years later he was toiling for the Emerald
Hill and Sandridge Post in Melbourne,
subsequently dropping into a billet at the
Government Printing Office. Then he ac-
quired the Brighton Southern Cross, the
market-gardening organ, and the constella-
tion is still in the family. In a couple of
years, in fact, it will celebrate its jubilee
under the Orford management.
G. G. Martin, of Adelaide, who gets an
1.5.0., is hardly known at all to the public.
He is a young-old man who has been in
the public service nearly half a century,
under about 20 Attorney-Generals, from
Bundey onwards —including, of course, King-
ston, whose gratitude he won for his suc-
cess in guarding his chief from interruptions.
He is a tenor singer in private life.
W.T. Jennings, one of the “Twelve Apostles”
whom John Ballance sent to M.L. Leg. Coun-
cil in 1893 after his dispute with then Gov-
ernor Glasgow had been settled m his favor
by Downing-street, has just taken a passage
to Europe. “Bill,” who worked for The
Bulletin as a compositor in the paper’s
early days, lately lost his wife; and that,
along with the fact that he has had 28
strenuous years in politics, and also that
there are the graves of two fine sons in
France, sends him on this expedition. Long
ago Jennings tired of the Leg. Council, and
for many years past he has been the unselfish
M.11.R. for part of the King Country—
V aitomo, where the caves and glow-worms
are.
"Yank” Hyde, the youthful and swankless
post-captain in command of H.M.A.S. Bris-
bane, was a merchant-service officer under-
going reserve training in 11.M.5. London
when he wrote a thesis on gunnery which
so impressed the
Admiralty that
they took the then
unusual step of ad-
mitting a "cargo
Bill” into the per-
manent naval ser-
vice. He was in
Australia in the
early pari; of the
war, but the Ad-
miralty soon gave
him command of
one of the new-type
light cruisers work-
ing in the 'North
Sea.
Senator HATTIL
SPENCER POLL,
of Queensland, one
of the four legisla-
tors who set out
this week to cross
A astral in from
south to north
by train and
motor-car.
The estate of Frank Johnson, auctioneer
and formerly mayor of Adelaide, has been
• sworn at £15,000. Johnson, who was a
bachelor, put a clause in his will giving to
each of his employees a month’s pay for each
year of service.
Neville llowse's appointment as Director-
General of Medical Forces has set the Nation-
alist electors of Calare guessing how it will
affect his proposed candidature for Calare.
He could have the nomination for the asking,
and the prospect of it has been worrying the
sitting member, Tom l.avelle. Manifestly
the medical Y.C. can't be Director-General
and M.II.R. too, but he will have 12 months
to decide whether Parliament or his present
post holds the greater charm. The Doc. is
a Somersetshire man, and his father was a
surgeon before him.
Joe Will, one of the Speck's best-known
prospectors, has made his last journey. lie
came from Scotland in 1889, and one of his
earliest discoveries was the coal at Barn
Bluff. He was in the first party to reach
the West Coast from Mole Creek, and he
found coal at Lake Will, which is named
after him. The first, hut on the .site of
Zeehan was built by him, he was one of
the first holders of the Silver Queen mine,
and he has.been wrongly credited with being
a discoverer of the Hercules. He was 60
when the call came.
William Sandover’s name has been erased
from the list of Anglo-Australians in Lon-
don. He founded Westralia’s biggest hard-
ware business, and prospered exceedingly in
the booming- ’nineties, so much so that he
established a London office and ran it him-
self. A few months ago he came to see how
Perth had grown since the bark-and-sandal-
wood period, when river scows were the
means of communication between Perth and
Fremantle, and railways were objected to on
the ground that trains wouldn't be able to
get between the trees. It was Sandover’s
last holiday ; he died on the return voyage.
News comes from England that Bishop
Ivennion is retiring from Bath-and-Wells
at the age of 70. He was in Adelaide from
1882 to 1894, and was easily the most popu-
lar bishop S. Aus. has ever had. Charles
Marson gave him a lot of trouble as a
curate, and when Marson too moved to Eng-
land it was his odd luck to get a parish near
Bath, so he was again under Ivennion’s
notice. The Bishop at last had to threaten
him with, ecclesiastical penalties; but it was
characteristic of the man that when Marson
died the Bishop went out of his way to
attend the funeral and say a good word
about his earnest but eccentric colleague.
"Jeanong” : As a tough nut, Francis Chry-
stal Meston, of New England (N.S.W.), is
hard to beat. He is, on the best available
evidence, 98 years old, uses his own teeth
and refuses to ride a sober steed. Recently
he was thrown from a young horse while
chasing stock, alone, in rough country. When
he recovered consciousness he remounted,
despite a crushed rib and arm, and went to
his lonely home. lie rode for help next
day—with a temperature. After a few weeks
in hospital he was on his fiery chestnut
again. At the age of 80 he took up a resi-
dential selection, on which he engaged to live
20 years. He is the second son of Robert
Meston, one of the New England pioneers
and first member to represent that district.
Francis came to Australia in 1842, and he
took cattle to Port Phillip just after “Black
Thursday” had burnt out the early settlers
in Victoria.
THE ROSE MAX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In tin. 1 great books are starry men.
I breathe the blossoms of the pen ;
But still my warm thought flows
Through dreaming nights and silver days
To him the long green gardens praise—
The man who writes a rose.
Through strange red deeds the world goes on
Since loving hands in Babylon
A brighter petal .won ;
And still men pause ’twixt life and death
To read with charmed and holy breath
This lyric of the sun.
N.B.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Come and Join Me
00
in a
Perfect Smoke
—<
m
\\[
&
2t-
t
<s*>
A
PRICE
This Famous
Mixture is
NOW
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
IN
2oz.
AIRTIGHT
TINS
Three Strengths
MILD
MEDIUM
FULL
123>
0
ftlixfUre
44
M
i
unique range
qF MODELS
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


ly-'^rtuS
=^3
Buy an All-WOOI
Australian Rug
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Rugs are made in Australia from the finest
Australian wool. They are of that soft, light, even texture which
gives great warmth and wear without excessive weight.
These qualities, together with their handsome appearance, make
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Rugs ideal for use when travelling or motoring,
or as bedspreads.
In reversible check patterns or dark and light grey, fawns and
brown mixtures 30 /
In brown, fawn and green checks . ;
In brown and fawn checks 63/-
In grey checks 75/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. ChorleytfCo.Ltd.
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
■J*
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
s
315 George St.
SYDNEY.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v. 2 Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Mr. Ocky” recounts a delayed bomb-burst:
Some of the Diggers who have collected their old
paybooks lately from the Defence Department have
been amazed to find strange debit entries, and have
been told it is too late to make a fuss and that the
debits must stand. It is no good, apparently, for
the man who threw up his job and fought for a
square deal for others to suggest that the Depart-
ment hasn’t given him one, and that it was not his
fault that the paybooks were held back till now,
depriving him of all chance of checking any mys-
terious entries. Some of these men when in hospital
received cigarettes, tobacco, chocolate and other
.comforts in the natural belief that they were from
the Red Cross, and free. The paybook tells a differ-
ent story. One battered hero finds he has been
charged more than .£3 for fags and chocolates. He
hotly questioned the liability, and officialdom
retorted that London had ordered the entry, that
he had got the things from the hospital canteen, and
that it “must stand.’’ The Diggers never really had
much say, anyway, in their pay affairs. At one
stage in France there was a general demand for
paybooks in order that debits for cables sent from
Egypt might be entered, notwithstanding that the
men had been assured at the time that it would be
a debit against their deferred, not the current,
account. Many poor devils, scratching for enough to
finance a few days’ leave from hell in the trenches',
suddenly found they bad no funds. It was useless
THE YEARS GO AND
THE CHINS COME.
CLARICE: “There was a time when you used
to lovingly stroke my chin.”
HORACE: “Yes, hut you had only one them.”
for them to declare they had sent only two, not six.
cables. The six "had to stand,” and be paid for
then and there. Scores of men lost their well-
earned leave that way, and they hadn't Buckley’s
chance of any redress.
‘‘Ex-Dig.’s” East Lynne in the ’Loo: —
Another Digger recently told me the story, yearly
a score of years ago a
woman, deserting her chil-
dren, eloped with a mar-
ried man. Her husband
and the man’s wife met as
a result of inquiries for
the levanting ones, and
ultimately agreed to live
together. Subsequently the
woman who had eloped
was herself deserted, and.
broken-spirited with ill
usage, turned up again;
and the pair took her into
the household, giving her
the place of a household
drudge. Both of them
were vengeful, and while
rubbing salt into her
wounds hit upon a course
that was almost fiendish.
They threatened that if
she let the children know
she was their mother she
would be thrown into the
streets; and they taught
the children to humiliate
her. The Digger was one
of the children ; but while
he was in France he re-
ceived a letter, accom-
panied by documentary
evidence, from the mother
he had always known as a
drudge, telling the full
slcry. Later he heard that
she was dead. Filled with
a rage against those who
had persecuted her, the
Digger returned with a
desire to avenge her. He
found his father a broken
man. All the time he had
been punishing his wife
for her years-old offence
he had cared for her; and
he smashed up completely
upon her death.
“Crash”: Recently a Sydney woman re-
ceived a wire from I van hoe station, beyond
Wileannia (N.S.W.), stating, in reply to an
inquiry, that her son was there and very
ill. Between trains, mail-coaches and hired
motors she spent £l3, only to find on arrival
that the telegram should have read “very
well.” When asked, on the evidence of the
telegrams, to refund £23, the Department dis-
claimed responsibility, stating that the rush
of business necessitated the employment of
boys!
* * * *
“Morob” turns a time-worn page:—
Two hard-doers of the early seventeenth century,
who both deserve to be better known than they are,
were Cornelius Schouten and Jacob Le Maire, who,
in 1615 and 1616, did a bit of exploration work in
New Guinea waters. The lure that
drew the Frenchman, Le Mai re, was
gold, which he had heard was to be
found in New Guinea in large quan-
tities ; but Schouten was trying to
find a passage to the Southern Pacific.
In their two old and worm-eaten
•ships, the Hoorn and the Eendracht,
they sailed right round New Britain,
through St. George’s Channel, which
subsequent navigators mistook for a
large bay or indentation in the coast,
and in all probability Le Maire was
the first white man ever to set foot
in the Baining country of New
Britain. His journal shows that he
landed on the coastal side of it,
where he established a kind of pro-
vision depot before he set off inland.
He did not penetrate into the bush
very far, probably because he would
have to cut practically every foot of
his way through the undergrowth;
but during his absence the natives
pilfered part of the stores on the
beach. What Le Maire did to those
he was able to catch was, no doubt,
discussed with much feeling in native
village circles for the next hundred
years or so. Together with Schouten
he sailed over to Java, where they
both met tough luck by running foul
of the powerful Nederlands East India
Company, which in those days held
the sole concession to make trading
voyages, or even voyages of explora-
tion, in the North-Western Pacific.
The Hoorn was burned, and Governor
Coen, of Batavia, seized the Een-
dracht, while the two luckless navi-
gators were sent under arrest to
Holland, Le Maire dying on the way. To this day
a most circumstantial yarn prevails as to a find of
pearls made by Schouten. who, so the story runs,
buried his catch somewhere on the New Guinea
coast —all but a few, which he carried on his person
—when he saw that confiscation by the company was
inevitable.
Lex on the latest test case:—
The Private Secretary (retired) to the Governor
of Tasmania who was examined in bankruptcy in
Sydney last week disclosed in his evidence that he
ran true to the immemorial West End ol
London remittance-man type. In England he
m Sn/Tr I>om t 00 °
sL a ' mum ■ ,nool ' ca f-
Sometunes it is more, occasionally less-; but for
ALL SAFE.
"Do you think we forgot anything?"
“No, darling—only ourselves.”
Hie last 10 or 15 years it has always been motor-
cai.s. A certain casnalness about money was evinced.
“He thought he had been insured for £120,000 by
his father. He had an idea that the policy was
transferred at the outbreak of the war to his
brother, though he had not bothered to investigate
the matter.” A young Englishman, who, like Mr.
Wentworth, stayed at the Australian Club some
years ago, hud an open cheque for £85,000 given
him by a Sydney man. The sum represented win-
nings at bridge between Colombo and Bombay. As
a. matter of fact, the exact amount was £38,000 155.;
but the winner had let the other off the odd
£3OOO 15s. He had not troubled to investigate the
financial status of his debtor; and a more neatly-
written, convincing-looking cheque it would be hard
to imagine. Mr. Wentworth stayed in Tasmania on
£5O a quarter until December last, when his remit-
tances ceased. He then came to Sydney and lived
at the Australia Hotel at the rate of £240 a
quarter. That is the true London touch. Had he
come from (say) Peebles (N. 8.) or Huddersfield he
would have gone to Cremorne or possibly Balmain;
aye, even, mayhap, might have sought work. Where he
crashed was in borrowing £B6 from one Darcy
Donkin. The rule in the case of these well-meaning
young travellers is not only to refrain from legal
action, which is as profitless to the claimant as it
is boring to the defendant, but to help the stranded
one back to his reluctant family. Instead of pro-
viding the customary viaticum (a second-class single
to Tilbury Docks plus £lO for expenses) Mr. Don-
kin filed a petition in insolvency. It is a matter
for the recently-formed Remittance Men’s Union
whether or no this kind of thing is to be allowed to
develop into a habit; if it does it will certainly
spell the death of the industry. It is Mr. Went-
worth’s misfortune that he has been made a test
case, so to speak.
“0.K.”: Touching the matter of the in-
crease of burglary and highway robbery in
Melbourne, the case of Constable Tebbutt
and the market-gardener calls for considera-
tion. Two mop—Hutton and Dalvein—
were charged at the Sessions lately with hav-
ing committed daylight robbery on an elderly
market-gardener in Collins-place. The chief
witness was Tebbutt, who gave the evidence
of his own eyes. He saw four men mobbing
the market-gardener. Hutton locked the
victim’s hapds behind his back, while Dalvein
went through his pockets and abstracted
some notes. Calling upon the men to stop
and be arrested, the constable produced a
revolver. The men scattered ; the constable
dropped Dalvein with a bullet, and then made
after Hutton, leaving the wounded person to
be carried to hospital. Eventually Hutton
was caught and charged with helping to rob
the elderly market-gardener, in broad day-
light, of the four notes which he said were
missing from his pocket. There’s a plain.
straightforward tale told against two men
whose identity was as well established as
could be. The jury acquitted them. Cer-
tainly, one had already received the punish-
ment of a bullet in the back, and the other
laid been kept waiting some weeks for trial,
but. these considerations are beside the point.
Either Hutton and Dal vein were highway
robbers or Constable Tebbutt is unfitted to
remain in the Force another hour. Either
the jury had to convict those men on the
evidence of the witness who had shot one of
them, or if they acquitted the prisoners, as
they did, it was up to them to demand
punishment for the constable who fired a
bullet into the back of innocence, and com-
pensation for the poor injurecP gentleman
who received the lump of lead. They did
neither: and while that sort of verdict is
likely to result from a police-prosecution in
Melbourne, no possible number of additional
police will make the way of the wayfarer
safe.
* * * *
“Murkah’s” finger is on the sunspot:—
Had the Telegraph Branch recently endorsed its
telegrams “Belayed by sunspots” it would have been
stating a precise truth. In his book, “The Story
of the Heavens,” Ball states that there is an “inti-
mate connection between the phenomena of sun-
spots and the purely terrestrial phenomena of mag-
netism.” At all times, but notably during periods
of great solar activity as evidenced by the sun-
spots, enormous electron discharges from the sun take
place. By a law of electricity these electrons, or
inconceivably tiny shooting-stars, carry negative
electric charges. Approaching the earth the gigan-
tic swarms of electrons tend to concentrate at the
points of greatest magnetic activity (i.e., the poles).
At a height of about 50 mile's above the earth exists
a rarefied and ionised atmosphere. Under the
impact of the electron streams this ionised atmo-
sphere glows and we have an auroral displaj', the
ghostly throbbing of curtains of fire which is a
feature of such displays rising and falling with
the intensity of the electron stream. Another
fundamental of electricity is that negative or posi-
tive charges always induce opposite charges. Thus
the presence of these negative charges in the upper
atmosphere induces positive charges in the earth
itself, markedly at the poles. An induced current
flows one way'when the inducing power is increasing
and reverses when the inducing power is fading. The
electron stream {i.e., the power) continually varies
in intensity, consequently the induced currents surge
back and forth through the earth. Copper wire,
used in telegraph, cable and radio systems, is one
of the very best conductors known to man, and all
such systems are “grounded.” 'The vagrant earth
currents, finding these splendid conductors to hand,
as it were, flow up through the ground connections
and surge to and fro along the wires as the inten-
sity of the magnetic storm increases or falls away.
Hence signals are drowned. The surging currents
as they flow into and out of radio-aerials produce
a sound in the telephones like the crash of a drum
in miniature —and recently these crashes lasted for
days on end. And meantime regular communication
on cable and telegraph lines was impossible.
A DOMESTIC DISCUSSION.
FATHER: “Can you imagine your mother
marrying me if I’d been young enough
when the war teas on and I shirked my
duty?"
DAUGHTER (who has been “carrying on”
with a slacker): “Poor old dad! Just
your luck that there was no war when
you were young!”
(Continued on page 18).
SYDNEY 1921.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Diggers as traitors to the Empire spumed
By youths who never risked a scratch for it;
Churches, whose Founder resolutely turned
From hate, devoting half their time and wit
To making one another leap with pain;
Parsons and priests and sanctified abuse,
And holy verbal bricks as thick as rain ;
Heaters that one is not allowed to use
As soon as winter comes to chill the town ;
Hoses that to employ amounts to crime
When summer’s sun makes gardens parched and
brown ;
Cruisers that are effete before the time
Arrives to launch them ; Governors assailed
As hostile to the Flag by h-less bores;
Germans as loyal Britons warmly hailed
And Hebrews buying bacon at the stores.
N.S.W.
CALLAN PARK.
AUTUMN LEAVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I thought my green Australian wood
This Autumn turned to gold,
As English woods that long have stood
In haunted places old.
I saw their yellow leaves and red
Float in a golden cloud,
And fold the' earth and fold the dead
Sweet Summer in a shroud.
And then I wept in memory brown,
For how could heart be brave
Knowing the English leaves blow down
On your Australian grave ?
x.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


Molseley
TEN - FIFTEEN -TWENTY
Ei
i
S
vuttVV'
lllUii
Mite
a \ w
22^
It was not long after they entered the motor-world that the Wolseley Models took a place pre-eminent.
But then, and even when they had definitely gained the supreme position in Motordom, and even through
the years that they have maintained this emphatic superiority, their hosts of admirers little dreamed that
one day the Wolseley Models would come forth as the perfect masterpieces of car producfion typified in
The Wolseley “Ten,” “Fifteen” and “Twenty.”
The Wolseley Car was conceived as an ideal—and built to achieve that ideal. Originally it may have seemed something like
I dream; but the Wolseley designers, engineers and builders have successfully piloted a Dream-craft to Reality.
Appearance.
- There is the elegance of real artistic merit
in tlie appearance 'of the Wolseley. 'ihere
,is that refinement of beauty born of grace-
ful, sweeping lines, that perfection of finish,
that distinction of design born of, as . one
glance tells, extreme care, delicate original-
ity and consummate skill. For its appear-
ance alone .you will be proud to possess a
Wolseley.
Performance.
By performance a car is judged ; it is the
predominant requirement. Speed, steadiness,
reliability, consistency—all these are tountl
to the degree you would expect in a Great
t;ar —a Quality Car —as the \\ olseley is
conceded to be by all who own one—and
who could better judge? On the lulls, the
plains, wet slippery city streets or country
roads —no matter where or what weat.ier,
each and every test of performance emphasises
the Wolseley as a wonderful achievement ot
British brains and manufacture.
Appointments.
' “Luxurious,” most aptly describes the
appointments of the Wolseley. The uphol-
stery is of the very best and right through-
out the entire equipment a studied considera-
tion of the comfort and convenience of
driver and passenger is manifest. Excellent
.discrimination, too, is shown in the selec-
tion and design of the fittings, which are
thoroughly compatible with the general
quality of the ear. •
Power.
A glance below at the description of the
three Wolseley models will convey interest-
ing information concerning the Power of the
car. It is a sturdy, consistent Power which
pulls it over the steeliest hills, and through
the stickiest roads in splendid fashion ; a
Power which is immediate in its responsive-
ness, and assures a wonderful flexibility at
all times.
The'Wolseley”
Ten
» The
“Wolseley”
Ten marks
a most
decided
advance in “runabout” design, and is
equipped with advantages hitherto associated
with cars much higher in price. It is easy
to handle, speedy, reliable, re-
quires the minimum of atten-
tion, is decidedly economical in
upkeep cost, and develops over
20 h.p.
The “Wolseley”
Fifteen
Although an entirely new
model, the “Wolseley”
Fifteen retains the various
excellences of design which
have made the “Wolseley”
famous, differing only in certain modifications whose value |ias
been learned by experience in building aero-engines and line naval
mechanism during the war period. In speed, flexibility, hill-
climbing power and riding comfort, the “* lfteeiv has no peer
whilst the ample reserve of power always available makes it
a delightful car to handle. The weight of the ‘ Wolseley
Fifteen complete is 23cwt., and the engine develops over 40 h.p.,
the power-weight ratio being 3 h.p. to tlie cwt.
The “Wolseley”
Twenty
Despite
the high
renown
which
six-cylindcr
Six-Cylinder
Model de Luxe
“Wolseleys” have ever held for power,
smoothness and reliability, the post-war
model will be found a distinct advance on
its predecessors. It is a snlendid car in
every respect, reliable to the greatest degree,
beautiful, and offering the acme of comfort
and convenience. The “Wolseley” Twenty
develops over GO li.p.
SEND
YOU ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE AND FULL
PARTICULARS.
LET US
Representatives:
VI r TORT A— D ALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
VAv SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD., Phillip Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 64 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
txVmaM\_l\SM \XI AN MOTOR SERVICE, LTD., 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
GARAGE & MOTOR AGENCY CO., LTD., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
. . ! 4 .nKTROVr; MOTOR & CYCLE AGENCY, LTD., Hay Street, I
.., Palmerston North;
MITCHELL, Blenheim.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LIMITED
Head Office for Australia, 125 William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers Ltd.). Works: Adderley Park, Birmingham, England.
liLlllllflinillMllllllllillJiilllliiiiiiiiiiinifiiii
iiillliill
f_nTrTTTmilmj]|,|i[, !ll |||u ]ll [ l ||||| rTTTTl [| M ui|| m ,, m ,,,, || ~,,, |||||
9_9/ S Q33H
E
t
2 K'»;
T\
rfN l .


No. 15S. —Al] Diamonds, £l3/10/-
No. 144. All dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design,
Diamond set,
£l7/10/-
No. loT.—Single Diamond. £7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson & (o cw) Ltd.
Si/fJnaif &siablisments'.
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER 4*12 GEORGE ST..
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, £l7/10/-
No. 140.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 14S.—All
Diamonds.
£l6/10/-
Xo. 15G.—Single Diamond. £9/10/-
“Itaggedie Wun” tells tales out of school:
And so some of the heads have been telling their
fellow-members of the House about the instruction
m Military Law that was given at the Cadet School,
Zeitoun? Ha-ha 1 In the intervals between looking
at the damper I have on baking I’ll give you the
strength-of those lectures. I . went through the course
to qualify for the privilege of getting a drink at
Shepheard's, and so speak from first-hand knowledge.
There was one lecture, and only one, dealing with
military law. From 10 in the morning till mid-
day we were to imbibe from the fount of wisdom
lie did. The first hour was given to a demonstra-
tjon of just how a inan is tried by his C.O. Ofti-
cers in charge of the cadets played the roles of
accused and escort. After the play was over we
were given a general talk by the officer-in-charge
pj*® < / ,<lp( 1 Win "- The general trend was about
,y.\ Ut . a " c] hcll punishment and other minor
jflans of the defaulter’s life. Then questions were
asked for, and a cadet fired in one that elicited
the reply that the officer was not a lawyer, and the
QUITE OUT OF DATE.
ESTHER: “I wonder what it is that’s so odd
about Muriel?”
MABEL: “I think she has an effeminate
streak.”
query went unanswered. And that was all. Those
who bad fallen asleep were awakened by their mates,
and wo were dismissed for lunch. Now, if that is
sufficient instruction to qualify a man as a judge,
then 111 let my damper burn and eat it, crust
and all. What I found out about military law
afterwards was that whenever an officer wanted te
a man he could do it. There was always the
old Conduct to the prejudice of good order and
military discipline.” I know, for I have made
out. many charge-sheets. But, then, I was peculiarly
fitted for the job. I was, before the war, and still
am. after the war, a wool-presser. Naturally, they
would make a man with my qualifications an A.P.M.
They did.
* * * *
“Bar. ’: I enter this for the queer cas-
ualties stakes. A Digger was taken to a
hospital in France and a good deal of shrap-
nel was gouged out of his shoulders and
MONEY OR YOUR LIFE.
THE I'EST : “Look out! Here comes mother!”
LOUNGE LIZARD: “ That's a good hoy. — here’s a penny.”
THE PEST : “Here comes father, too!”
arm. After the anaesthetic passed off he
felt an appalling pain in the back of his
legs. Too weak to move about, he called a
nurse; but she, thinking him delirious, didn’t
interfere. A few minutes later, unable to
stand the pain any longer, he attracted the
attention of another nurse with language
that nearly set the place afire. She inves-
tigated and found a bare hot-water bottle
under the calves of his legs. The shrapnel
wounds healed long before the burns, and it
was months before the poor devil could
walk without a stick.
“11. H.” : When one meets the gorilla tak-
ing his walks abroad in the African forest
it is advisable to say something polite to
the animal lest he should object to being
ignored ; yet no one knows how the creature
will take it. He isn’t alone
in this respect. Recently some-
thing broke at Pelton colliery
(Maitland, N.S.W.), and to
prevent a stoppage, which
would have thrown the men idle,
the management got the loan
of a rope-splicing expert from
Bellbird mine. It looked as
harmless as lending a match
or a hit of tobacco, but the
Bellbird men chose to be huffed
and struck. If the small cour-
tesy had been churlishly re-
fusgd and the Pelton
men had been thrown
idle, the Bellbirds
might also have been
huffed. It is so like
the gorilla which, if
it was up late last night or got out of its
tree on the wrong, side this morning, is liable
to take the simplest remark as a casus belli,
But that animal isn’t on the voter's list, so
less is expected of it.
* * * *
“Dido”: One of the disadvantages of liv-
ing in these commodious flats is that there is
no place to hide the body—no yard to bury
it in, and you can’t bestow it under the
hearthstone, because it would fall into the
flat below, and cast suspicion on all con-
cerned. When our Terry, the toy terrier,
passed away last Stir.day-week, we found oitr-
selves in a quandary. We could not bury
him in the garden, the garden being only a
geranium in a candle-box. In this extremity
we invited the advice of Cameron, who is old
ir. wickedness, and has lived in flats for
seven years. “Don't worry,” said he. “Do
H up in the neatest brown-paper parcel you
can make, and leave it on the front porch,
addressed to yourself.” "Then what?” said
I. “Then await results,” said Cameron. I
did as he suggested, and within an hour the
body was gone. When that evening I met
Cameron coming from the music-teacher’s
room he explained that she had appealed to
him for assistance in getting i\d of the body
of a small terrier dog. Later I found that
the parcel was back in the porch. Who got
it next I may never know, but 1 suspect the
milkman.
* * * *
“T.H.K.”: “Spanker’s Mail’’ in a recent
Bulletin reminds me. We were bivou-
acked on what was left of Fricourt when the
long-looked-for mail arrived. After devour-
ing mine I noticed my cobber Scotty seated
near our humpy with his head in his
hands. “What’s up, lad? Bad news?” 1
asked. “Yes, pretty rotten,” he replied;
“I’ve just learned that I’m a father.” "Is
that all ? Surely that shouldn’t make you
grumpy. Wife’s all right, I s'pose?” “Yes,”
he replied, “she’s all right now; but God help
me when she gets to hear about it! - ’ The
poor old bloke’s sorrow ended at Flers a week
later.
“IOU” : I’ll give in to “Svranx” (B.
19/5/’2l) as to the worthlessness and worse
of night parades if they are held under con-
ditions I have witnessed, i.e., no lights, and
probably one staff man to handle 50 to 200
cadets. But in saying that area-officers have
the backbone of a jelly-fish he is throwing-
dirt at some of the finest Diggers that ever
faced a Hun. I have three boys serving with
the senior cadets. Morally they have not
slipped back; physically, they have benefited
considerably by good open-air exercise ; in-
tellectually their minds have been broadened
by coming in touch with people of all classes.
From a military point of view I am quite
satisfied to let them wear mv old uniform
for the defence of Australia if I’m too far
gone when the call comes. ■
“P.”: In a paper recently read before the
Royal Sanitary Institute Dr. Savage gave
the k.o. to the popular notion, that the
domestic cat is a diphtheria incubator. In
swabbings taken from the throats of Mrs.
Tom and her kittens the doc. found a germ
that might easily be mistaken for diphtheria,
but was proved not guilty after careful trial.
He furthermore tried to infect puss with the
disease by swabbing the throat with virulent
bacilli taken direct from human cases. In
every instance the throat was quite clean
within 24 hours. Now, after several even
more severe tests, this specialist opines that
it is imposible to even make Tabby a diph-
theria patient.
;T.C.4!>": Royalty in Maoriland is no-
thing if not democratic. In the Ngaruawahia
district they have a whare-puni built on
modern bungalow lines, with Maori trim-
mings, the key of which is kept by a prin-
cess. I met an aunt of the blood -royal buy-
ing fish in the township, and inquired where
the other lady might be found. “Te prin-
cess?” replied auntie. “Oh, she no come
into town to-day. She home washin’ te
shirt!”
“0.K.”: It is an exasperating disadvan-
tage of looking sick and not long for this
world that one is likely to be a mark for the
tract-distributor. Yesterday a tall, gaunt
female followed me out of a tram-car with
some pointed printed comments on my sinful
appearance and shaky gait. “This deeply
concerns you” was the heading to the good
work, and it opened with this question :
“What Must I Do to be Lost?” The answer
was “Nothing!” After which came a quota-
tion from a psalm to the effect that the
wicked shall be turned into Ilell. This son
of thing happens to me anywhere in tki-.
Christian land since I took to chronic chest
complaints.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: The alleged practical
joke in Victoria, wherein a youth was fatally
distended with compressed air, reminds jne
of another foolish prank, the accomplishment
of which would have caused the death of a
Sydney ’Varsity student who is now an Aus-
tralian navy surgeon. The medicals “cap-
tured” an engineering student and tortured
him in their own fashion. In retaliation the
engineers carried si med. to their school,
where an electric bath had been fitted up
to cleanse him of his sins. The authorities
intervened just in time to prevent the bap-
tism by immersion taking place. An inquisi-
tive professor of physiology (the late Ander-
son Stuart) later dropped into the bath a
guinea-pig and a rabbit. Death was in-
stantaneous.
* * * *
“Moe”: “Science Grad’s” mention (B.
10/ ; 5/’2l) ■ of the supposed remains of an
ancient Spanish ship on Stradbroke Island,
recalls that the Queensland coast is prolific
in such souvenirs, the claims of a good many
of which will not bear investigation. Just
south of Maekay a hulk lies rotting in a
smellsome mangrove-swamp, and for many
years the local inhabitants believed it to be
the bones of a ship of Spain—a belief which
was exploded not so long ago by the
discovery, among its decaying timbers, of a
piece of wood which bore a date in the
twenties of last century. Another similar
relic lies in the sand between Cairns and
Cooktown. But, in spite of them all, early
records contain mention of only one Spanish
ship lost on the Australian coast. Nobody
seems to know what its name was, or any-
thing about it, beyond the fact that its home
port was in the province of Castile; but the
loss of it is mentioned by Juan Gaetan, Ortiz
do Rotes and a number of other chroniclers
of the period of Spanish exploration in the
Pacific. As they all seem to agree that it
was last heard of wel I to the south, there
may possibly be some connection between it
and the rock carvings at Woollahra (Syd-
ney ).
THE EXPLANATION.
WILLIE : “Pa, what does this mean—‘He
arrived at the age of discretion without
having experienced any of the serious
troubles of life
FARDER: “That, my son, means that at about
65 years old he was still unmarried."
NAY, MORAL HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Curiosity, you will undo me
IVxlh your sly venom, that so whispers through me!
It s wrong, I know (my custom not to scoff is),
Jo peep unguessed into Brown's private office.
Brown s little typist Neil has slender ankles,
But still she’ll not relent, howe’er 1 tease her.
Iheie was a time —trust me, the memory rankles—•
IMicn I had failed not in my plans to please her.
Ah, Time, old thief!—ah, Time, as grim a thief as
I' er st ooped to crime! —how have you robbed
Josephus!
The slender ankles of Brown’s typist Nell now
Tickle my ’sternest virtues till they falter;
And I I’d go to Melbourne or to Hell now
And join the pale, sad damned if that would alter
Hei obdurate, staid indifference to my anguish....
How mad is man when most his morals languish!
‘1 he ankles crossed demurely are coquetting
(Biown is a wolf whene’er the prospect pleases).
Pm not supposed to see, but it’s upsetting,
The sight of Nell perched on that Brown’s bad knees
is 1
.. .should I win her by some craft endearing,
Would it be sin—or merely privateering?
The ankles of Brown’s typist Nell are slicker
Than flimsy silk that wispily doth cover ’em.
Through silk her bosom stirs (a trifle quicker)....
She’s an expensive item for a lover (im . . .".
Tou think? Well, yes, maybe it’s far more moral
lo go to pictures with the lift-girl Coral.
Coral the lift-girl has an ankle rounded
(Maybe a bit too much), a warm eye candid.
Pull many an idyll truly hath been founded
On average earth when the glad hours com-
mantled.
Ah, moial heart, be firm! make no surrender,
However the ankles of that Nell are slender! ’
I've bought plump Coral chocolates and rings,
Pei fumes and gloves and music (yes, she sings ) —
Oh, this and that, two guineas’ worth of things.
But I’ll not stoop to any immoral tricks,
Nor with abhorred Extravagance mate and mix....
Nell’s hose per pair cost thirty-seven-and-six!
N.B.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


PISTON
RING
JPIECE
M
off
trade
pat
mark
u.s
• nEG -
The WONDEEFUL INLAND PISTON MNg.
Thev HOLD IN the Gas and hLLP OL I the
Oil Now used by the largest Repair Garages
in the State as a thoroughly satisfactory job.
M m and fractional sizes in stock. l*r,ee up
to 34in. dia., 6/9 each.
SWANS
The House for Moto
limited
Engineers’ Supplies.
STURDY “BADGER”
JACKS.
Lift more for their
weight than any other,
and twice as readily.
QUICK IN ACTION
AND RAPID IN
RELEASE.
2 ton, llin. high, 28/-
] ton, 8-Jin. high, 3fl/fi.
AI HO others, llin. high,
at 38/- and 44/-.
PISTOL, GRIP GREASE GEN.
Will place the grease where it ought to
go, besmirching neither clothes nor
hands, 21/- each.
SOCKET WRENCH SET
IN WOODEN CASE.
We hold the finest assortment in
Sydney. Suitable for English or
American cars.
Price as illustrated, 41/6 per set
—l5 sizes.
Others, 65/-, 89/-, 85/-, 87/6 * 90/-
WILLSON MOTOR GOGGLES
protect your eyes without mak-
ing you look ridiculous.
3/3, 3/6, 4/9 each.
mechanical
MOTOR HORNS
Unaffected by
dust. 27/0 each.
ELECTRIC
MOTOR HORNS
Sure un«l posl-
VALVE SPRING LIFTER.
Compresses anti holds the «pr n K at the
same time. Suitable for practically an>
car. As shown. 8/6 each.
Others 1/9, 2/9, 5/6 each.
HALLADAY MOTOR-CAR BUMPERS.
The only safeguard for “The Bumper"
or “The Bumped.” Standard equip-
ment on “Australian Six.” We have soul
hundreds of these motor protectors and
there are no complaints.
Prices, to tit practically all motors: —
70/-, 72/-, 82/-, 90/- 97/6 each.
Specials for Dodge, Ford and Chevrolet.
TV BE PUMPS IN
GREAT VARIETY.
With or without
Pressure Gauges.
As illustrated with
gauge, 30/- eaeh.
Brass Barrel, no
gauge. 25/-, 28/-
With Range. 38/-,
41/- eaeh.
Steel Barrel. N.P.,
20/- eaeh.
SPEITDORF HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO
With Impulse Starter, and also with Bracket and
Chain Drive.
For FORD.
Ensures easy starting and better running. Pr.ce
complete outfit, 139/15/-
Silent
for
•‘PEEREESS” HONEYCOMB RADIATOR AND
BONNET FOR FORDS.
400 per cent, more efficient than the regular tubular
type. Will not burst through freezing.
Price as illustrated, £l5. Without Bonnet, £lO/10/-.
Also for Chevrolet, £l3/13/-.
Apply for leaflet describing this wonderful radiator.
TO HAVE THE
BEST FAN BEET
you do not have to
pay a big price.
Chrome Leather
Endless Fan Belt
will withstand for
a considerable
period oil and heat,
for Ford, 1/4 and
I/O each.
Dodge, 1/8 each.
Most others 2/- ea -
BRAZING BLOW LAMPS.
For PETROL or KEROSENE
Prices.
For Kerosene, 1 pint... 27/6
For Kerosene, 24 pints.. 62/-
For Kerosene, o'i pints £7/5/-
For Petrol, Spint 36/-
For Petrol, 1 pint 48/6
For Petrol, li pint 52/6
As illustrated, 5 pints, 83/- ea.
All the advertising: space in
this issue of Tiie Bulletin
would not catalogue our
entire stock, so—
Write us to-day for what you
want. You’ll be pleased
with our treatment. We
thoroughly know your re-
quirements—that’s why we
style ourselves
“THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR
ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.”
C. 6.
BRITISH THOMSON-BENNETT
HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO.
None better in the world. Twin
45°, 50°, 55 , £l3/13/-.
4-cyl., anti-clock, £l9*
MAYO free-air outfit for
GARAGE USE.
The onlv successful free-air outfit,
anaoity: will fill 20 ordinary tyres to
full pressure without re-charging.
Price of whole outfit, £l2 complete.
“YANKEE,” THE BEST
HAND OK BREAST
DRILLS.
Prices: Hand, 18/6, 19/6,
28/-, 35/-, 43/6, 52/9 each.
Breast, 51/-
As illustrated, 61/- each.
With either 2 or 3 Jaw
Chuck.
“DEPENDENCE” BRITISH
TAIL EIGHT.
Sure and certain, with tell-
tale pane to advise the driver
if lamp is burning-
As illustrated, 27/6 each.
Others, 30/- and 22/- each.
“RFCOKD” BENCH Vi'CES.
n/i
DOEBEE-ENDEB
SPANNERS by world-
famous makers.
B.S.A. from 2/3 to 6/9.
Billings & Spencer,
2/4 each, singly or in
sets.
Footprint, 1/6 to 4/6
each.
Williams, 2/3 each.
ENGLISH OK
AMERICAN BALE
RACES.
Large stocks, low
nrices. Get our List.
STEEL
Size (length of blade)
I’rices ...
SOCKETED MECHANICS’ SCREWDRIVERS.
•jin. Sin.. sin. 6in.
... 1/8 1/10/i 2/8 . 8/-
Dozens of patterns to select from.
Sin.
4/-
9in.
4/3 each
BEST BRITISH Oil CASS/»' S "° P
Iv!ihout“Tum„" uL.risl.l .W »/« «»«>*•
®pl
BRITISH OR AMERICAN SIHE CUTTING PLIERS.
No better House than ours for Hand Tools.
6in. 7in'. Bin.
British 3/6 3/9 4/- each
4/« 5/- 5/6 each
AUTO REEL-LITE SPOT
JLAMP. „ ,
A road finder and trouble finder
in one. Price 75/- each.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitf Street, SYDNEY.
IfcK'
o
*■ .vC 'lt
W-.
- *>
OF THE
LU
i/de '/famous
SCHEBLER .
MODEL. R, CAR-TYPE.
Prices from £5/10/- each.
77/go^A 0
AGENTS
SOLE


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 CORRINS ST., MERBOURNE,
QUEENSRAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGRE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH -lU ST HA RIAN BRANCH
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIRDING, GREN-
FERR STREET, ADERAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road front
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay, or from
4J4 Guineas per week.
Tels.; \ 3001, 3002. Apply-Manager.
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
11.V.E.”: The reason whv fatalities, or
r\(‘ii bites, so rarely occnir from sea-smukes is, 1
tlmik, that these creatures have a very small gape
GETTING OVER THE DIFFICULTY.
CONDUCTOR (new to the job): “I’m sure the
old hoy just here has paid his fare
twice. Think I had better tell him
about it?”
MOTOR-MAN: “No-o! Ask him for it again.”
an.l very small venom fangs, though the venom is
there all right. A specimen of the yellow-bellied
variety Ulydrus platurw) picked up by me on a
N. S. Wales South Coast beach had fangs onlv about
one-quarter of an inch long and a head about as
thick as a thin little finger. It is hard to imagine
why these serpents are endowed with powerful pobon
seeing that they live among fish and other marine
c 1 eat ures mostly cold-blooded, and therefore practicaljv
immune to the venom if bitten in self-defence or
otherwise. Unless he tacldes a whale or killer—both
mammals and warm blooded—a sea-snake has no
chance of doing lethal business; but sometimes he
bites a human being, and in such cases a funeral may
follow. One Indian sea-snake is said to be more
venomous than the binocellate, or spectacled cobra.
"Mr. Mac" : For sheer bad luck this will
take some beating. A rat took up his quarters in
our pantry about a week ago, and fared so sump-
tuously that a trap, baited with the most attractive
i ainties, only provoked his derision. On visiting
the pantry yesterday, the missus disturbed him, and
m his jump for safety from a shelf he landed plumb
on to the spring of the trap. Finish.
Joe : Re “Jim Garew’s” inquiry (11,
19/5/’2l) about old buckjump riders. Mick Scobie,
well known about Urana (N.S.W.), handled brumbies
untill he was well on to 00 years old. What stood
to Mick was that he belonged to the Professor Kemp
school of tamers, not breakers. He had the patience
of a poor parson and the caution of a bush cat. In
the round yard with Miclq you must not move or
ei en change a leg. And when the leather was put
on and he mounted, the prad seldom did anything
beyond touching his back. But if hi' did buck Mick
was there as long as the tackle held.
‘"Huc-akiuki” : The Maori of old had some
man iage customs that resemble the one mentioned
by “Kllenbee” in liis par about the Koiari tribe
ol Papua (B. 12/p/’2l). The young Maori warrior
would obtain from a tohunga some article over
which Uie latter had chanted an appropriate charm,
and place it surreptitiously under the pillow of
the desired one. The girl was immediately pos-
sessed of a longing for that particular brave. In
some .cases the tohunga served out food, which the
young waliine was to be induced to eat. If the man
tarried on the way from the tohunga to the girl
the charm was broken. Another method of pro-
posing was for tivi> tohunga to despatch a bird, the
miroiliiro, as a love-messenger. It; was said to Hv
directly to the girl in the ease, however distant,
and alight on her hand. Immediately the damsel
would be seized with a desire for the man who
wanted her, and she would immediate!,' go to him.
The same ceremony, which is called Iri or Ataliu
h.v the Maori, was used lo recall stealing husbands
and frivolous wives. Many a Maori “got I lie bird-
long before llamfat knew anything about it.
J.J.I .( . : doesn’t often send in
a resignation in writing; but here’s one received bv
Charles Smith, manager of (Jinny station (Q.) from
all abo., Jack William, who lias had a little educa-
tion and has been employed in the mustering-camp
as a stockman. The gist of the note is that the
boy wants to leave and go to Maree (S.A.), from
which place he will go on by train to Oodnadalta,
''l! e 'n , somebody i s evidently waiting for ,'Hiin!
Baiba ’ is Palpara (portion of Cluny.), and "he in-
tends his employment to cease when he reaches there:
Mr. Shalley Smisse, Clonney, Manager,—l am
eve shop . want going town to Marree from thear
t go in a tram to Otnatata the man wating for me
to going up with train i want know wat she want
me town thear when .1 get thear to Baiba I finish
my work. — Jack William.
“Ilerodot”: One tiling is certain—ancient
writers in Koine knew of a great
Southland, which, there is little doubt,
was Australia, and on every Roman
chart this Southland was sketched
in as a vague, shadowy place, in-
habited exclusively by devils. There
is a legend in existence to-day in
Dutch Mew Guinea (where there is a
good deal more folk-lore than in"
I’apua, or in the former German ter-
ritory) to the effect that many gen-
erations ago some natives watching
from the top of a mountain saw a
huge beetle, so big that it carried
men on its back, and having as
many legs as a centipede on both
or it, crawl ‘out of the scrub
in which it had been sleeping during
the night, and swim away over the
sea, taking with it a local nig., who
thereafter became only a memory.
1 his beetle may or may not have
been a Roman galley, whose crew
had careened, it, or dragged it up
on the beach for an overhaul, and
who decided to take back with them
a native in support of the story of
their travels. But if any Roman
galleys did reach New Guinea, it is
doubtful whether they ever found
their way back again, for no his-
torian mentions such a journey, which
would have completely eclipsed all
previous feats of navigation.
“Thirty-five”: “Pioneer's” yarn (B
28/4/’2l) reminds me. On a North Queensland
held a miner was so ill that some of them tried to
get him per stretcher to the nearest doctor hut
he died on the way and was buried by his bearers,
lieforo the body was covered all hands' looked hard
at the youngest of the party, but as he didn’t re-
spond to the unspoken request the dead man’s mate
supplied the burial service. He took off hi.s hat,
stepped to the graveside and addressed the cloudless
sky. “Lord God Almighty,” he said, “he was the
best blanker of a mate a man ever had.”
“Thirty-five”: A kangaroo-shooter in New
L: gland (N.SAV.) got word that his mother ha.d
died. On his journey home he pulled up at a
camp for a bite. He was “all broke up” and on
being sympathised with by the crowd, who knew
j'h’b iu ‘ complained thiswise between sobs and bites:
“These ’ere blanky mountains! A man gets awav
back in ’em, and the first thing he blankv well
hears his blanky mother’s dead.”
"Wilga” : “Centurion’s” tale of his
uncle swimming among the stars (B. 21 1 '2l)
reminds me of a hard case on the Lachlan a few
.'ears ago. On his way home in the small hours after
a wet night at lorbes he lay down on a bridge and
went to sleep with his head hanging out over the
A DARK PRESENTIMENT. .
YOUNG MOTHER (eshibiling her twins to friend who was married on the same day) :
"I had a prescatiment I would have twin girls. because the day we were married
He band Kept playing 'Two Little Girls in Blue,'"
FRIEND (with look of horro r) : "Heavens! Our hand played ‘Ten Little Nigger Hoys."
mer. Here a friend who was also getting back to
bis hollow before daybreak stumbled upon him.
Ihe newcomer gave him a friendly kick. “llev,
J’jJj; sa > rl > “do you know where you are?”
lulls eyes half-opened and he saw the reflection of
Ihe moon below him. “I thump where I am,” he
gurgled, “but, anyhow, I’m up above the blank v
inoo-oon.”
* * * *
“Q” ■ “Ariel’s” yarn (B. 19/5/’2l) that
a dog snapped a death-adder across the back several
times takes some believing. While planting cane at
Proserpine 1 hit one with a. mattock, almost severing
him across the back. 1 then dragged him to a big
flat rock, and to see the famous half-hoop act teased
linn with a piece of red rag tied to a !ft. stick.
Notwithstanding his injuries, any time he liked lie
(•(add half-hoop and catch that rug before 1 could
get out of reach.
* * * *
“Jim Oarew” : I can support “Leo Lear”
( U. 12/.)./-1) re ground-nesting birds gietting into
inaccessible places owing to the depredations of the
In.v. Near t’obargo (N.S'.W.) ! recently scrambled up
on top of a. big rock about 7ft. high and with almost
perpendicular sides. In a small depression, right on
the top, was a curlew’s nest containing two newlv-
hatched birds. it was the first time J had seen
a curlew’s nest off the ground.
About the name “Bendigo.” The
famous bruiser wasn’t given that handle bv his
parents. He was one of triplets, and their astounded
parents called them Shaclrach, Meshaeh and Abcd-
nego. It was the last of these who turned out a
top-notch pug. The crowd who followed stoush.used
to call him “Bendigo,” and eventually Abednego
adopted it as his professional name.
* * * ,
“Bill R.” : “0.R.” (B. 12/5/.’21) is
puzzled by a spring that rises and falls with the
phases of the moon. Every particle in the universe
attracts every other particle. Water, being of a
mobile nature, yields readily to the attractive influ-
ence of the moon, our nearest heavenly body; hence
the tides are always highest at full moon. ‘ Though
situated on a hillside, “O.R.’s” spring is very pro-
bably the outlet of a large body of water held by
clay or impervious rock within the hill. Over this
the haulage power of the moon would he consider-
able, and it would increase as she reached the full
* * * ’
"M. Arflow”: Skinny .Toe was mostly an
attentive listener, but when the talk turned to
fishing well, that was different. He remembered
making a bet with a commercial about the result of
a day’s fishing on the Mitchell (Q.).. Both were
alii out for the day, and about o p.m. they lined lip
lor a decision. There was a deadlock. The com-
mercial had some fine big fellows and wanted to
weigh the catch as against a count. .Joe stood
solid for a count. Anyhow, the nearest weigh-
bridge was six miles away. A woodcutter, who was
ot (he party, came to the rescue with a suggestion to
slack and measure up “same as firewood.” “1 won
the bet.” old Joe grinned. “But ’e wus some fisher
a "right—l only beat 'ini be ’arf a cord.”
Riih T. : I came upon him on the
Haddon-road. The horse attached to a vegetable-
hawker's cart had crumpled upon the track, and two
good souls from a heap of blue metal near by were
helping Sprig to put the neddy on his feet. They
had backed the cart away, and removed the harness, and
were heaving and hauling like Trojan heroes. Sad
to say, when they got the neddy up, his props
instantly crumpled under him. and he flopped again.
Sprig clung to the fond hope that it was only neces-
sary to get Prince fairly and squarely on his main
supports, and he would be all right. To this end he
got light under the horse when lie was next lifted, and,
bent nearly double, with his back to the belly of
poor Prince, he held the neddy up. Prince was not
■i big liorse unrl he was a very lean one, but the
task of sustaining him was a' trying one. “Rub
his legs!" gasped Sprig. “Might’s well let. him
down, mate.” ventured one of the lapidaries. “No,
no. lie’ll be all right. Rub his legs. Tain’t
worth while, mister.” “Ah, go on, rub his legs.
Gods truth, why won’t you rub his legs?” “Well,
we wanted to break it gently to you, boss, but, matter
of fact, the ’orse is dead!” And he was.
“Talawong”: “Aragun” (B; 5/5/’2l) has
never heard of dingoes attacking a foal ; yet i **..
assure him it was a fcotnmon occurrence on the upper
parts of the North Coast (N’.S.W.) some years ago.
1 had one six-weeks-old foal which was badly mauled
Irom hip to thigh, -and was only saved by the other
horses, which, when I arrived on the scene about
daylight, were lashing out, and keeping the pack at
bay. About 50 yards away was a two-days-old calf'
with its mother; they were (he centre of a ring of
cows, which were moving round with lowered heads,
ready to present a barricade of horns in case of
attack.
THE LIMIT.
CASEY ( seeing hogan with his swag up):
"Y'ain’t off, arc yes?”
HOGAN: "Yis! An’ th’ divil floi away wid
Masther Simpson! He thinks he can
tor-r-rk to me loike Oi wuz his bloomin
missus!”
1 liiHy-fi v<‘ : A western hospital nurse
told mo. A hard-bitten patient was brought in with
a broken leg, and after the setting the nurse nre-
pined to rub his back with methylated spirits, ex-
plaining- that it was to.prevent bed-sores. “Great
Scott \ ” he exploded derisively, “why, miss, I’ve been
in the saddle all me life!”
(Continued on page 22.)
A HORSEY COURTSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw her oft, but (lured not speak,
laitil beside the ford
Wo met, opposed, at Billy’s Creek,
1 and my cold adored.
1 lie sky with little clouds was pied,
And lovely was tin; weather.
Her noddy of a sudden shied;
Mmo bucked, and there within the tide
We two were thrown together!
Still distant was the lovely maid.
And seek her as I might
She held me off, and long 1 prayed
Upon my knees at. night.
Then h.v the church one Sabbath dav
I watched her wondrous charms.
And as she turned and rode away
Her pony reared in pretty play
And threw her in my arms!
Out to the tails we drove a pair,
Her little horse and mine.
They bolted down the mountain fair ;
" here lived a grave divine
They foil together. Coming- to,
“O Heaven!” whispered she,
“What will my father say and do?
1 ve run awa.v with you, and you
Have run away with me!”
’Twas not enough. She liked me less.
I felt all hope must pass,
Till bolting came her chestnut Jess,
And towed her on the grass.
I rescued her, and as she lay
Pressed home a. burning kiss.
She yielded softly now, but “Nay,
I’d have you know,” I heard her say,
“I’ve been dragged into this!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


•Stmxvih
Vacuum System
Standard Equipment on 95%
of all Cars Four Years after
its inception.
It is the greatest success the motor-car
industry has ever known. Ensures a con-
stant even flow of fuel to the carburetter on all
grades.
dtmrn Warning Signal —Another World Leader-
Sends out a full resonant blast that can be heard a mile
up the road. Never fails in service. Compare its
tonal qualities with any other signal and you will unques-
tionably choose a Stewart.
Over six million motorists will tell you that a Stewart
Equipment adds to the car s appearance, efficiency and
performance and to your own motoring pleasures as
well.
OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING WHOLESALE AND
RETAIL ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOU T
AUSTRALIA, including the following Interstate distributors:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
CORNELL, LTD., Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay Street, PERTH.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
mm.
WL
MS*
'-"'V
si
\
mmm
■m,
005
Now Listen Here!
Have you ever stopped to consider
what a large percentage of cars
to-day are equipped throughout
with Stewart Motor Necessities?
Quality alone can explain this universal pre-
ference for Stewart Products.
It is a well-known fact throughout motor-
dom that the Stewart Speedometer,
through its remarkable accuracy and
durability, has established the
Stewart “Magnetic” 3s the
accepted Speedometer prin-
ciple. But that is only the
beginning.
' !
'lo2k '
i,'
5^
2^x
-
m.
*
7
>/
■■■
THE MOTHER’S HOUR
AT THE PLAYER PIANO.
Everyone feels the need of relaxation, and the mother’s
chance comes when the children have gone to school
and the morning work in the house has been done. To
spend an hour running over her favorite pieces on the
PLAYER PIANO is very refreshing and stimulates the
mind to take up for the rest of the day the monotonous
details of her housework.
WE HAVE THE CHOICEST SELECTION OF
PLAYER PIANOS IN AUSTRALIA, ANY OF
WT-lICH CAN BE PURCHASED ON EASY TERMS.
COME IN AND HEAR THEM.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE, PRICE LIST AND
FULL PARTICULARS OF OUR
EASY TERMS. YOUR PRESENT
PIANO CAN BE TAKEN IN
EXCHANGE.
338 George St.
SYDNEY.


Your health will be better
and you’ll feel years younger
by taking an occasional dose of
Clements Tonic
The old reliable nerve and blood remedy, which for thirty
years has maintained its popularity as
Australia’s Family Medicine.
ri ?MFrMTQ e -rr?Mir> nerV T’ de P res sed or irritable; if you can't sleep, and
C.Ltuvltl\ 1 lONIC and note the immediate improvement in your health,
throughout Australasia sell CLEMENTS TONIC.
your appetite is poor, take
All storekeepers and grocers
“Rio Negro”: Wlien the New Australians
went to South America, they were unconsciously
harking: back to a very early line of migration. In
the old clays of slow-sailing ships which often called
at Brazil on their way to or from Australia, the two
continents were in closer touch than they have ever
been since. There was, too, a good deal of inter-
course, friendly and otherwise, with the Pacific coast
of South America in the very early days. To this we
probably owe, among other things, the Bathurst
burr. \\ hen Australians wandered away in those
days South America was apt to be the promised
land. In the Hobart Town newspapers of 1827 there
aie bitter complaints about the emigration of car-
penters and other mechanics to Rio, and about the
same time there was uneasiness in Sydney because
mechanics were leaving there to try their luck in
\ alparaiso. Runaway convicts also sometimes hit
South America I those who took away the brig
Frederick from the Speck in 1833 fetched up at
\aldivia, in Chile, where they settled and became
respectable citizens.
A. CHALLENGE TO CONTEST IT.
SILAS : “Iss like thy check, Zacky, puttin'
up agin me for Sunday-school superin-
tendent. Thee co'sn't pray worth a
candle.”
ZACKY : “’Ow long since? I'll pray 'ce'
any day for a pound; so if thce'rt game
plank down thy money.”
THE SILTER LINING TO THE DARK CLOUD CALLED RILL.
“Tell me, what, use is Bill as an ’ usband?”
“ Well ’a bein' very educated, ' e Can Mus look up the jobs in the poper for me to go
ofter."
‘Hamer”: How’s this for the champion
pei »per-tree? Circumference of trunk 3ft.. from
ground, 14ft. 4in. ; spread of tree, 84ft. The mon-
ster grows in Corowa (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Aragun”: I’ll back the half-bred dingo
to do more damage to stock than his full-blooded
brother. There ,are some hefty specimens around the
Richmond Range and New England (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, descended from a pack of mastiffs which were
imported to kill the dingoes, but went bush and
interbred with the true type. I’ve seen five of these
large hybrids tackle a heifer, and they had her ham-
strung before I could interfere. Another time I rode
on to two big fellows on the bank of the Mann River;
they were watching a cow that had taken refuge in
the water. Their favorite method of attack is to
get the beast running, then dash in and slash her
flank until they hamstring the poor brute.
* * * *
“Cartot”: An excellent substitute for
quinine is the Australian alstonia, which grows in
profusion in Queensland, the two prin-
cipal varieties being Alstonia constricta
and A. scholar is. The latter is by
far the commoner. Both contain an alka-
loidal active principle known as alstonine.
This closely resembles quinine, and in
N.Q. an infusion made from alstonia
leaves is frequently used, with conspicu-
ous success, in the treatment of malaria.
Some years ago a Cairns doctor put on
the market an anti-malaria specific which
consisted of nothing more than such an
infusion, with the addition of suitable
flavoring and coloring agents, and it was
not long before its fame spread through-
out the “malaria zone.” Alstonine has
been subjected to exhaustive pharmaco-
logical tests by the British Pharmacopceia
people, who suggest its use in certain
protozoal diseases; but, although a
number of tropical medical experts have
testified as to its value, 1 have yet to
hear of an Australian doctor who has pre-
scribed it. Last time I was in N.Q. I
saw acres and acres of the trees—each of
which probably contained a couple of pounds’ worth
of alstonine and allied chemical substances —being
used as firewood.
* * * *
"Dean : An Orpington hen of mine re-
cently started to moult, and in a few days she was
almost naked. Then she disappeared into the scrub.
A month later, just as suddenly as she had vanished,
she re-appeared fully clad in her new winter costume
and resumed her old seat on the roost. Now, why
did she hide during the moulting process? Was it
modesty ?
“Steve Hart”: The antidote to the sting-
ing-tree that got “T. D. Erndee” (B. 19/5/’2l) is
not a weed growing near it. It is contained in
the tree itself. If “T. D. Emdee” had cut a few
inches of the stem and applied it like a shaving
stick he would have been saved much agony.
* * * *
“Bung”: If “Alex” (B. 19/5/’2l) wants
to see a cross-eyed Binghi let him ask for Charley
Carter at Wa’l'laga Mission Station (South Coast,
N.S.W.). Charles’s orbs are so inclined inwardly
that his flattened nose is the only thing preventing
them from staring each other out of countenance.
Bally Rockim, a noted Bermagui (N.S.W.) nig., had
eyes that gazed east and west when he wanted to
see north. But “Alex.” won’t find him. Bermagui
rum took him off.
THE OLD BIRD SCORES.
BACKGROUND ROOSTER No 1: “ Old Guy's
pretty chippy these days."
BACKGROUND ROOSTER No 2: “Yes, he feels
flattered —-the liens are taking up knit-
tiny, and they rush him to unravel their
wool on his spurs."
“Jimsey": I saw a half-drunk galoot on
the Monaro who was always boasting’ of his hard
head try conclusions with a ram—a merino, who
had been kept about the house as a pet and was a
noted butter. The man got down oh his hands and
knees in front of the sheep and “baa’d.” Billy-
needed no further challenge. The man woke up
quite sober three days later.
Jacky Hoo’ : The reference Blank gave
Bloggs, a useless station-hand: “I’ve had him. Vou
try him. By Cripes!”
“Delhi”: “Globe's” par (B. 28/4/’2l) re
eucalyptus seedlings would discourage any already
°' ti "d t se ttlei who has the suckers to contend
'V ‘ 11 * le ' can disposed of easily enough by
simply cutting them down in the autumn—the few
that do shoot up after this treatment soon go out
aftei the hist severe frost.
•T.I. : I have a miner’s right issued
at Beeehworth (Me.) on October 1, 1860. Any older
ones knocking around ?
. “Pegasus”: “T. D. Emdee” (B. 10/3/’2l)
is no authority on the eupeptic qualities of tne paxv-
paw when he says the seeds only of that fruit are
eaten for “digestive purposes.” 1 have seen the ripe
pawpaw eaten (and the seeds discarded) by main-
a dyspeptic to prevent indigestion, and it works
wonders. Eat a whole large ripe pawpaw less seeds
every morning before breakfast, and your trouble dis-
appears. I was born and bred and live in Fiji, and
speak from personal experience and ocular evidence.
“Mudsplasher” : Yes, I’ve seen a dog kill
a porcupine. He rolled the - prickly beast along
the ground, then quietly laid down some little dis-
tance off, and the minute the pore, commenced to
unfold himself his enemy sprang forward and grabbed
him by the head.
* * *
* *
“Darnoc”: The writer has a six-months-
old calf that is both a lady and a gentleman. It
has one head, four legs, one body and one tail, but
all authorities declare it of .common gender. It is
being kept either for a stud bull or a milking cow
as occasion demands.
* * * *
“ Wealsman” : A Tag. municipal conference
lately spent many hours arguing the eternal rabbit
and how to get rid of him. One section insisted
that present municipal methods—go-as-vou-ploase in
one shire and catch-as-catch-can in the next—were
increasing rather than decreasing the pest. This
section proposed that the Government should pay a
bonus for every rabbit destroyed, taking a monopoly
of the skin trade, at fixed prices. Another section
violently protested against State interference of any
kind, with the right of municipal bodies to wallop
their own rabbit, so to speak. A third section
objected to a bonus, but advocated compulsory
poisoning by the central Government on a uniform
and wholesale scale. The total result of the long
and loud discussion was— nil. The conference found
itself back at its starting-point, and decided to
leave it at that, though the advocates of the bonus
system emphatically and persistently declared that
unless the rabbit was nationalised he would assuredly
denationalise the whole producing class. Incidentally,
the Speck’s veteran stock-inspector, T. A. Tabatt,
recently gave a demonstration of the latest methods
of poisoning rabbits in grazing-country. His poisoned
paddock gave up 63 dead. In an adjoining paddock
the same night a trapper killed 227. The rabbit-
haunted settlers of those parts are quite satisfied
that, for grazing areas ironmongery hits chemicals
to leg every time.
* * „
* *
“Mag”: “Steve Hart” (B. 12/5/’2l) in-
quires about bandicoot births. 1 have known six
m the pouch at one time. This was the teat limit.
Whatever the actual birth possibilities Mrs. Bandi
can only rear as many as she has teats, and I don’t
know any animal in the wild state that can rear
more.
Murra ’: A calf was born in a 500-acre
paddock, far away from the homestead, and when
a man was bringing ma and the youngster home the
old lady became troublesome, so
he left the calf, intending to go
back for it. Upon his return it
had disappeared. After five days’
searching I found the nipper
calmly lying under a shady tree,
none the worse for its hunger-
strike. Can anyone cite a similar
ease of a newly-born animal go-
ing five days without nourishment
and being none the worse for it?
Another calf item. One was born
in the corner of an old lucerne-
paddock about a quarter of a mile
from home, and was brought in
six hours after birth. Next day it
was taken from the cow and shut
up in a pen. A few horn's later
the door was seen to be open and
the calf was gone. We found her lying where she
had been born. To get there she had to walk for
a hundred yards, turn a corner, get through a six-
wire fence, and walk another couple of hundred
yards. Both cases happened on a well-known stud
rarm.
: Lately there lias been some dis-
cuss,on as to how Bendigo (Vic.) got its name.
I eisonallv I don’t know, and I don’t care; but if
those wanting some interesting information will look
up A Story in Verse,” by Conan DoyJie, in the
Strand Magazine, vol. 37, page 420, they will find
,t there, in a copy of “Bendy’s Sermon” in Doyle’s
own handwriting. The present writer was at a
school in Nottingham about 1870, when the pug
Bendigo was “converted” and used to preach as a
“reformed prize-fighter.” It used to be said, at
that time, that the champion got his name because
he fought in a crouching, or bendy, attitude—
“Bendy-go.”
THE ANGEL LIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into the west and far away
A golden host has gone;
They were the angel-lights of day
1 hat, showering blessings, shone ;
Behind them lies a world of grey,
A landscape still and wan.
Fair Dawn, .apparelled gorgeously,
Let in that noble host;
They marched across the waiting sea
Unto the watching coast;
"hile shadows vanished stealthily
Before them, each a ghost.
High Noon received them as his guests
And gave them greeting fair,
Enriched the splendor of their crests,
And summoned with his stare
A deeper glory from their breasts
A glamor broad and rare.
From him they marched along the miles
Endowed with richer powers,
And woke the lakes with glowing smiles,
And roused the drowsy flowers
That droop their heads "in shadowed aisles
All through the dewy hours.
Across high mountain-tops they marched,
Where lone the eagle reigns,
Across blind deserts, grey and parched,
Far slopes and spacious plains;
Bright waves and waterfalls they arched
With rainbow hues and stains.
At length they came with shining eyes
To where Red Sunset waits.
Soft-cushioned on his roseate skies
1 hat darkness desolates;
He greeted them in kingly wise
And showed them through his gates.
Into the West and far away
That angel-host has sped,
The makers of the shining day
That, showering radiance, tread
In gems anti plumes and rich array
From Dawn to Sunset Red.
They enter daily in the East
And daily quit the West;
They light the world as for a feast
For some high-stationed guest;
Anti as they pass the last and least
Of all they touch is blest.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Cl
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
k Under New Tariff, ,-f
I'' I •
&ect '&xc£e£-"
c
Ah
$O/.
&
O
3XV
rV
X
<s>r»
o>
O'?
o<s>
W HWH MW


SI
DELCO-LIGHT is a compact, efficient
and economical electric plant for
farm, village and suburban homes.
Delco-Light furnishes electricity for lighting
the house and barn and other buildings— it
has a capacity of 40 to 50 lights.
Delco-Light also furnishes power to operate small machinery.
It d oes the washing.
It pumps the water.
It operates the cream separator.
It churns the butter.
It drives tne sewing-machine and the vacuum-cleaner.
It brings city comforts and conveniences to the farm and
takes away much of the drudgery of farm life.
It is so simple that a child can operate it.
Starts on turning of a switch and stops automatically when
the batteries are full.
It has been developed by the same engineering and manufac-
turing ability that has made Delco Cranking, Lighting
and Ignition for automobiles the standard of the world.
100,000 Delco-Light plants in daily use.
Delco-Light pays for itself: Ask the man who
i owns one. .
There’s a satisfied user near you.
r -
W-
.ll p
MHli
*
;,Ml
m
I
4>
wm?<
WmWM
m
■
■;
| ; ;
:
H i
• ,
I I
M
•■
m
***r
m
“*■
m
life
; , ;
fw
11
***>
PSMII
NEW SOOTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURSE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellier Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA;
Geo. Wills
8 Co.,
PERTH.
TASMANIA :
W.F.gE.A.
Stewart,
29 CAMERON STREET,
LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY 800. LTD.
LAMBTON QUAY,
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS' CO-OP. Ass'a
CHRISTCHURCH.
W. A. Crowle Ltd.,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Distributors.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
tKe
World
few
Fife's schnapp^
m
r\
i', •
/
x
r ROu
Sl-ES
m
/
V
CROUP
vur j
id
EVERY Drop of \N
Tlearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
YY. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street SYDNEY. /
A Plain
Fact!
ear is asking a vain thing. It is like asking
for music without sound, for painting with-
out color or form, for the heart of a man
without his body or his senses. Poetry is
the line (lower of language; and language
is a spoken thing, not a set of signs.
D.J.Q.
Edward Carpenter
Edward Carpenter was both seed and har-
vest of the awakening public conscience of
the ’eighties and early ’nineties. Rather
suddenly came at that time a widespread
recognition of the truth that the Commer-
cial Age had been making too great demands
upon its instruments; and out of this recog-
nition flowed the success of that great Lon-
don dockers strike which was the beginning
of a new industrial era. The immediate re-
sults were many and curiously, diverse. On
the one hand there arose a demand for the
settlement of relations 1 etween employers and
employed by bodies having the weight of
public authority behind them. On the other
hand were those who believed that the world
had moved in the wrong direction altogether;
that conciliation and arbitration were pallia-
tives at the best; that man must return on
bis own tracks and get closer to nature, root-
ing out the fierce competition of the industrial
cities. Those who felt that something was
wrong contented themselves with crying
“Back to the land !” Those who felt there
was something very wrong formed or
favored such things as village settlements;
while the boldest and the most ardent among
our own people betook themselves to New
Australia, where, in the green fields of Para-
guay, far removed from the distractions of
Mammon, they would work out their own
salvation and be a beacon to a foundering
world. These changes had not come about
spontaneously. Propaganda, though we
never heard much about it till the other day,
is no new thing. Every wilderness froin
which the people have been led has heard
its John the Baptist; and Edward Carpenter
was a John the Baptist of the movement of
the ’eighties and early ’nineties.
Born in 1544, anti educated at Cambridge,
he became a fellow of his college and in due
time the Reverend Edward Carpenter; but
lie soon thought better of that, and was next
a University Extension lecturer. Walt Whit-
man was the greatest influence on his life, at
this time; and, accepting flu 1 American’s
teachings, the voting Englishman, comfortably
circumstanced, put off his lecturer’s coat and
went “back to the land." Thai was in 1881.
Two years later he published his “Towards
Democracy,” with the Whitman influence
permeating it —even to the form, or formless-
ness, of it. This formlessness was part of
the return to nature,: he went into the open
air to write, for indoors he was a captive to
the laws of rhyme and rhythm. Out of doors
he could write such as this and call it
poetry :
For (over and over again) there is nothing that is
evil except a man has not mastery over it; and
there is no good thing that, is not evil it it have
mastery over a man.
Things cannot be divided into good and evil, but
all are good as soon as they are brought into sub-
jection.
But, being a scientist, Carpenter felt that
prose must be the vehicle for his argued plea
for reform; and so he published in that
shape “England’s Ideal” in 1887 and “Civi-
lisation : its Cause and Cure” in 1889. Others
followed; but .since, after 31 years, he has
now published a “complete edition”- —the
16th, by the way—it seems fair to assume
that, looking back from his 78th year, lie
would most willingly be judged and remem-
bered by this latter volume of essays
, for to-day (I think we may say) the conclu-
sions are generally admitted as correct; and the
views which seemed so hazarded and precarious at
the earlier date are now fairly accepted and estab-
lished.
But that is claiming too much. Certainly
very few would now attack Edward Carpenter
with the rancor with which his propositions
were assailed 30 years asm when they were
not dismissed with contempt. That critic
must now be simply oozing bitterness who
could put any bitterness into a criticism of
Carpenter's work or a notice of Carpenter’s
life. The man himself is an idealist and
altogether loveable. He can see good in
everything and everyone—or tin- possibilities
of it. “There is nothing that is evil except
a man has not mastery over it.” So it is in
the natural order of things that we should
have, among this collection of essays, a “De-
fence of Criminals.” For the criminal is
preserving qualities which may be valuable
by-and-bye—just as they were held to be
valuable in some past time, when, for in-
stance, the Spartans “permitted theft
because they thought that thieving habits in
the community fostered military dexterity
anfl discouraged the accumulation of private
wealth, which they looked upon as a great
evil.”
Carpenter's message to the world is the
same, then, as it was when the New Aus-
tralians put it to the test of practical ex-
perience soon after it was given to the
world. If all the people were Carpenters
perhaps .success would be possible. Mean-
time we are not at all ready to admit that
the world is so bad a place even with the
disease of Civilisation upon it. Nor that
the world without the disease would be a
very desirable place. He quotes many ex-
plorers who found wonderful physical and
social qualities among peoples untouched
by civilisation. He has no opportunity to
quote those other explorers who met other
qualities and didn’t return to tell about them.
Nor did the exolorer.s who were impressed by
the physical excellence of the handful of
people they saw see the unfit who killed
early or late because they would be too much
of a nuisance to keep alive. And if from pri-
vate property has sprung most of the evils
which harass the mind of Mr. Carpenter, we
might now have far greater evils without it:
for it is one thing for 10,000 people to live
a fairly-comfortable life under “barbaric”
conditions, and quite another for 10 millions
to do it. Almost at the root of his philosophy
is the assumption that “as far as the palaces
of the rich stretch through Mayfair and-Bel-
gravia and South Kensington, so far (and
farther) must the hovels of the poor inevit-
ably stretch in the opposite direction.”
Nothing could be more inexact. One man or
half-a-dozen men may find a town a collec-
tion of hovels, and by their superior know-
ledge and capacity may not only build
mansions for themselves, but also transform
the hovels. Almost the whole of the problem
is whether if, figuratively speaking, you don't
permit men- to build mansions for them-
selves, they will develop and exercise those
qualities which will transform the hovels.
I Civilisation : Its Cause and Cure (Allen and
Unwin) |
S. H. P.
Kit Morley
There is, and has always been, a certain
amount of antipuiny displayed by the cul-
tured English reader towards American tic-
tion and American writers. As a rule, he
thinks he detects in the art ot America the
note ot slickness, or overweening superiority,
that is evident in its business practices, lie
resents this attitude because his contemporary
countrymen do not employ their novels as
media advertising and lauding their own suc-
cess, and because they pay nun the compli-
ment of placing him on the same level of
intelligence as themselves. But lie recog-
nises exceptions. There is the Philadelphian
ilergeshemier; there is Willa Cuther; and
there is Christopher Aioyley.
The last of the three, known to his friends
as "Kit,” is perhaps more English in spirit
than American. One of the first Rhodes
scholars, he received his university education
at Oxford, and liis great love for tins place
does not stop him from being pleasantly sar-
castic in "An Oxford landlady'’ and farcical
in "Kathleen.” Essentially a modern, lie
praises Brooke, De la Mare, Logan Pearsall
Smith and McEee with wholesome adnnra-'
tion. Yet he does not forget the giants of
days gone by. His “Shandygaff” consists
of "a number of most agreeable J nquirendoes
upon Life and Letters, interspersed with
Short Stories and Skitts, the whole Most
Diverting to the Reader.” They are indeed.
The book has no message and no purpose. It
is the effort of a critical joy-bringer who is
a partisan of no particular school, but who
that the wealth of tradition in
our literature is far from exhausted. It ends
with an appendix of 31 questions, being,
Morley suggests with delightful subtlety, for
use by teachers of theology, hydraulics and
applied engineering whereby the book may be
made useful in classroom and for private im-
provement.
. Two years ago his second volume of essays,
“Mincepie,” appeared. This series of 52
ventures into observation might have been
written by E. V. Lucas in collaboration with
•L C. Squire. There is the literary flavor..
about them that these men would give. It
would be very difficult to find the ace in the
pack, and the reader is hard put to it to
select the right bower from among “On Fill-
ing an Inkwell,” “Bullied by the Birds,”
"Owd Bob” and “Advice to those Visiting a
Baby.” I low many of us recognise ourselves
in this extract: —
I can neves- resist the temptation to try to see
what hooks other people are reading. This innocent
curiosity has led me into many rudenesses, for 1
am short-sighted and have to stare very close to
make out tne titles.
Here, we say, is a real bedside booly To
obtain tiie best results we are to buy it. if
tile bed is double, to buy two.
The same winmsey that is outstanding in
Morley's essays is to be found in Ins novels,
"Parnassus on V\ heels" and its continuation,
“The Haunted Bookshop.” The former is
the more amusing. Tne title indicates the
name of the waggon bookstore of Roger
Mifflin, a deligbtruj little man who loves
books and, above all, humanity. Into the lire
of Helen McGill, a spinster on the verge of
40, he conies with his genial personality and
his practical utopianism. These are irresist-
ible. She succumbs to them then and there,
and, investing her egg-money in the “old
parcheesi,” she sets forth on her travels with
him. And then the fun begins.
Heading “Kathleen,” you feel young again.
The attempts of the “Scorpions”—an Oxford
literary society—to captivate the fair Kath-
leen show “Kit” at his wittiest. In this vein
lie writes with Mr. Bart Haley "In the
Sweet Dry and Dry,” a dig at the Prohibi-
tion movement in America. It is not propa-
ganda. It is too interesting fo\- that.
Dedicated to G. K. Chesterton, “the most
delightful of modern decanterbury pilgrims,”
it relates the struggle of Virgil Quimbleton
and his wife, an alcoholic medium, to over-
come the Chuffs, who explain stories as
allegories bearing on the seductions of drink,
Little Red Riding Hood and the Wolf, for
instance, being the symbol of young woman-
hood pursued by the devouring Bronx cock-V
tail, and Cinderella being a young girl brought
low by taking a dash of brandy in her soup.
No ruse is too atrocious for these Chuffs.
They even employ a gun that produces a
pleasant detonation like the repeated drawing
of corks, and so lures the unhappy bottle-
habited man into an approach.
The ver.satilitv of Christopher Morley
is also responsible for two books of . verse
“Bongs for'a Little House” and “The Rock-
ing Horse.” Here we have every subject
under the sun-: home, friends, pipes (mostly
corncob),. O. Henry, soldiers, ice-waggons,
movie theatres and baggy trousers —all re-
ceive their meed of praise. There is nothing
forced, nothing insincere. Morley is glad to
be alive and adopts an original way of show-
ing it.
WILFRIO LEICESTER.
The Inky Way
The Maoriland Inky Way will miss C. L. Newn-
ham, lately of the Christchurch Press. He had
used the copy-paper of most South Island sheets,
and for 10 years was editor of the Timaru Post.
“Pollio”: Why won't artists stick to their job?
Or. at any rate, if they must turn satirists and
preachers and allegorisers, why can’t they retain
their sense of artistry alongside their conceptions of
humor and take care that their work shall he art,
anyhow, whatever else it is? South Australia was
worried for years by one artist’s eccentric symbol-
ising of Irish agriculture or Irish minor poetry or
something of the kind. (I don’t doubt that 15 cultured
people will hasten to explain what the thing really
was a symbol of, and all give l different explana-
tions.) Now Blamire Young is at it. ‘‘Flower in
the Crannied Wall,” now on .Gayfield Shaw's wall,
is intended (if Young is to be believed) as a hit
at the inconceivable bourgeoisness of Tennyson. 1
hold no brief for Tennyson, and I’m quite ready
to believe that a creature who could truthfully talk
Tennyson’s tosh about the flower aforesaid would
probably have a face like Young’s representation of
him. But I decline to believe that he would neces-
sarily or probably have one leg like a broomstick
half-broken. The village idiot Young depicts is obvi-
ously the village scarecrow: take his clothes off
and he is mere wooden framework below the neck.
As for the well-advertised “Flight,” the one thing
it can’t be is the Flight into Egypt. Clothes or
no clothes, the man isn’t Joseph—or any decent car-
penter—and the woman isn’t Marv—or any mother
of a first-born. The only flight it could possibly
depict would by Mario’s elopement with Queen Eliza-
beth. 1 don’t insist on Mario —any Italian tenor of
early-Victorian days might fit in. But Queen Eliza-
beth it is without a doubt, red hair, sensual snigger
and all.
Randolph Bedford writes: —•
One reason for English coldness to the Austra-,
lion’s religion of White Australia is the English'
critic’s cult of the exotic. The cult of Russian
literature —a most dull thing—has its home *in
London; and now a Jap writer, Oonnoske Komai,
is the latest , exotic subject for the blither of an
English critic, L. C. Redmond-IJoward. This critic
introduced Komai’s effort as “a wonderful little
book of Eastern gems,” mentions the Jap gentle-
man’s “charming Eastern simplicity,” talks of him
as one of “the personal links of the Anglo-Japanese
alliance,” and of his “having a sense of humor in
strange contrast to the solemnity of his muse,” and
then contradicts himself by quoting a few of the
“gems.” Here is one of them: —
“I, Japanese that I am,
Have come here to study Japan,
For I see it best from afar
As yon English see England dearer
Across the sundering seas.”
There is no loss in translation, either, as the en-
thusiastic critic remarks that the poet was educated
in England and was the London TlMi:s correspondent
during the Russo-Jap war. And lastly:—
“Had I a child
'Twould be a gem,
Had I a wife
She’d be a flower.
I love my land,
My only love,
At forty years
I have no home.”
How can you expect Australian aspirations to be
fairly judged by people who call such things “gems”
for no better reason than that men of another race
and color wrote them?
A Satchel of Books
The llappa End, by Joseph Hergeslieimer (Heine-
mann). A series of short stories of average quality,
but still containing flashes of the decorative writing-
ami character-drawing that distinguish Hergeslieimer’s
bigger work. The best tale in the book is “The
Egyptian Chariot,” an ironic picture of a crook’s
conversion that has an arresting climax.
My Commonplace Book, bv J. T. Hackctt (T.
Fisher Unwin). This book, now in its third edition,
is being sold for the lied Cross fund, and has met
with wide success. Tt is a collection of favorite
selections from poets and prdse-writers made over
a very wide field, and should take a high place among
anthologies. Although the selector is in Australia
there is not very much Australian work. Notes are
scattered through the volume —some of them very
illuminative.
Afloat and Ashore, by Michael Lewis (George
Allen and Unwin). Verses by a master of the Royal
Naval College, Dartmouth, reprinted from Punch.
The lines are of a semi-topical sort, and many of
the pieces tell thin tales. There is nothing very
bright in the volume, and the author is only' some-
what skilful.
Memories of Rustic Delion and Harden Thoughts,
by Maude D’Ombrain (Tyrrell's, Sydney). Two iittle
essays, with an introduction by K. Peden Steel,
published in memory of the author. The pages are
full of quiet thought and observation, and reveal
a gentle spirit in love with nature and the world.
The Mystery of Wall’s Hill, by Sydney Partrige
and Cecil It a worth (N.S.W. Bookstall series). A
story of back-country settlers and bushrangers which
pleases more than it convinces. There is plenty of
color, plenty of life and movement and a moderate
amount of thrill. The authors seem to have partly
forgotten the “mystery” which hangs over the earlier
chapters in the excitement' of other events; but their
people are real enough, and there is sufficient blood-
shed to satisfy the most exacting.
The Lost Valley, by .1. M. Walsh (De Garis, Mel-
bourne). A search for bushrangers 5 loot in the
Grampians (Vic.), with a lot of mystery and revolver
play, suggesting that the author is well, read in movie
literature. The yarn is exciting enough, however,
and the cryptogram that gives the address of the
treasure has the virtue of novelty, though the method
of its solution will probably occur to many people
familiar with the modern typewriter.
My Orient Pearl, by Charles Colton (John Lane).
An utterly impossible but not unreadable story Of
alleged adventure in Japan. The lovers are left in
the heart of the island-empire after having cut off
the head of a prominent citizen and important Court
official; but it is mentioned that they told things to
their children. The reader can make another story
to his liking, and either keep them living under a
cherry-tree near Tokyo or allow them to cut their
way out with the fury of love and despair.
The No Plays of Japan, by Arthur Waley (George
Allen and Unwin). The theatre is set a ’little like
that of the Greeks ; there is a chorus which explains
things; and the actors wear masks. Considering that
the Japanese theatre grew up from small beginnings
ami reached its classical top-note about the time of
the English Wars of the Roses, the resemblance of the
theatrical mechanism to that which Sophocles used is
remarkable. In the light of the dramatic form
which modern scholarship has proved the very ancient
Song of Solomon to possess, the reader is apt to
question both the alleged origin of the Greek drama
and the historic survey given in this book of the
No Plays. 1s it not possible that, they both had an
early Asiatic origin, and that their supposed growth
from crudity to perfect presentation is really a
revival of an art 'frequently lost, but never forgot-
ten.? Even the book of Job looks like some sort of
Play edited in an age when the theatre had tem-
porarily departed. The English drama was certainly
such a revival, though it had its origin in the crude
mystery plays of the monks. Tire No plays depend
largely for their interest on a single incident. There
are no real situations; there is no portrayal of
character; there is no development of a plot. The
language, guessed from the translation, may be
strangely moving and touched with fine poetry’; but
the action is of the very slightest. The speeches
of the actors are not always speeches in our sense;
for often they refer to themselves in the third per-
son and tell what they are doing or going to do.
Arthur Waley has' made an interesting book a'nd
supplied a great deal of information, .as well as
giving us what is obviously a beautiful translation;
but East and West divide sharply on their idea of
drama. Europe has long stood for action and’ Asia
for contemplation; but Japan might have been ex-
pected to break the Asiatic rule. " This book gives
no such indication.


BUILD WITH
FfbrollTfe
INSIDE OUTSIDE
and ROOF.
A bungalow home built entirely of
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets ami
roofed with “Fibrolite” Slates costs
considerably less than au ordinary
weatherboard house with au iron or
tile roof.
Being obtainable in 36 different sizes*. “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are easily and
quickly erected. Labor costs are reduced and
there is no waste of material. Studding
costs are reduced by 33 per cent. “Fibro-
lite” improves with age, is fire-retardant,
white-ant proof, warm in winter and cool in
summer.
Write for Free Catalogue “!{.'■
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’g's, Queen Bt., Brisbane.
581-3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
This Trio
Sheep, Cattle, Pigs at market.
Are you a Winchcombe-Carson sender? If
not try the firm with your next draft.
Consign
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Results provide a profitable proof of
Winchcombe, Carson's success as selling
agents.
tl
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zfenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland-
gENOBI^
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
s
A.W. TAPS and CHASERS.
MACHINE AND HANDWORKING.
VARIOUS THREADS.
SLIDE AND HAND REST,
INTERNAL, EXTERNAL.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., Manchester, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & GO. LTD.,
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
STOCKS CARRIED IN ALL STATES.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
ELDER,
AGENTS—
SMITH & CO.,
LTD.,
l’ertli
Adelaide
.Brisbane
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
l-'or quick and easy shav-
ing use tills famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
C j
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives. Norman Raker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulas, commencing With babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
T
Food
la • natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
and water, according to the age of the child.
Benger’s Food is more than an addition to milk. It is specially
prepared to perform the important duty of modifying cow’s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, from j
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bole Proprietors and Manufacturers BENGER 8 FOOD LTD, MANCHESTER, England.
BROWN & SHARPE
HEAVY SERVICE MILLING MACHINES
n
“ 4-s
<r
are built throughout to
stand up under the severe
service demanded under
present conditions. They
have the power and the
ruggedness that modern
milling demands.
The base is a heavy one-
piece casting, the knee of
rigid design with surfaces
presenting a rugged support
for the table.
Send for our Milling
Machine Book describing
these machines in detail.
SCROTTONS LIMITED,
Australasian
Agents,
151 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. “G.”
“Surat”: “Glenorchy” (B. 26/5/’2l)
quotes Hobart’s' 13 graveyards to 40,000
people—one to a little over 3000 head—as
an Australian record. But why go to
llobart to be cheerful, when our little village
of Merriwa (N.S.W.) sports four sleeping
grounds to GOO people—one to every 150
head': This doesn’t account for odd graves
scattered about either.
To make way for offices for the Vic. Elec-
tricity Commissioners the Marine Board
buildings in Flinders-lane, behind the Mel-
bourne Customs House, are being pulled
down. In the early days the structure was
the post office, and it has been a landmark
for the few whose memories can stretch back
•>0 or GO years. The material was sold for
removal at £250, and much of it is good
enough for new buildings to last a century.
In reply to a rumor that Cadbury’s were
importing 500 workers from Britain for
their big factory at Risdon (Tas.), Hobart
manager Haekett declares that only 13 mar-
ried then and their families and rive or six
girls are to be imported— not more than 30
altogether. All the rest of the 500 or GOO
hands will be local. The foundations of the
big factory are laid, two towers, 120 ft. high,
are nearing completion, and the whistle is
expected to split the welkin in November.
“0.K.”: One of Melbourne’s thirstiest citi-
zenesses is declared, on the word of a
senior-constable, to be a very well-connected
inebriate who formerly “travelled the whole
of Europe as a great singer.” She received
her latest punishment of six months under
the name of Isabella Warner, and if that be
the name she made famous throughout
Europe it certainly escaped celebrity in this
country. If the hopeless vagrant had another
name for the platform I think I could pick it
in twice. But why worry to preserve a
soiled name in alcohol?
Talking of the drama, E. G. Hemmerde,
K.C., joint author of “The Butterfly on the
Wheel,” which Lewis Waller and Madge
Titheradge made a hit with here shortly
before the war, is in financial difficulties.
He borrowed £lOOO from a Mr. Benson and in
10.15 the creditor tried to get it back. The
K.C. was constrained to inquire in reply:
“Have you the slightest idea what these
times mean to professional men?” Benson
was subsequently driven to compound with
his creditors, and recently the K.C.
pleaded the Statute of Limitations as a
reason why he should not pay, things being
still bad, presumably, in the legal world.
It is odd that such an exceptionally brilliant
man as Hemmerde should be hard-up. He
was the pride of University College, Ox-
ford, towards the end of last century, doing
well at everything, from the schools, - where
he got a first, to the river, on w'hich he won
the Diamond Sculls.
“Blue Peter”: The Australian Navy has
practically ceased to exist. Higher ranks
are kept on the pay-sheet as a framework for
the re-formation of the strength when the
call comes; but as there is nothing to put
the strength into, it seems a useless sort
of provision. It.is also costly, the salary-
list being a formidable one. Still, duties of
a sort are found for these officers; and occa-
sionally they get a tour of coast defences,
ports and anchorages, and so on. A couple
lett Sydney recently on such business—per
passenger boat! Which reminded old hands
of the commander of the Turkish fleet in the
Persian Gulf, who wore the title of admiral,
made himself very agreeable, and travelled
continually on the British-India boats. Occa-
sionally, when very genial, he would point out
his fleet—one cranky old warship, moored
near the shore, with a caretaker on board,
and covered with placards warning Arabs
that the Turkish Government would be very
annoyed if they didn’t keep away from it.
In the selection of the civil administra-
tion for the mandatory territory that was
formerly German New Guinea very little
consideration seems to have been given to
the claims of the many experienced officials
of Papua. Four of the new positions were
advertised in that territory—two Commis-
sionerships and two District Officerships—
but only one Papuan official bagged any-
thing, and he was already serving as an
officer in the Military Government of the
captured territory. It seems more than
coincidence that several of the new appointees
are relatives of high political personages*
Judges, etc., in the Australian States; but
this kinship does not endow the appointees
with the necessary qualifications for the
administration of government in a country
so full of possibilities. As experience of
native peoples, knowledge of the vernacular,
etc.,, can’t be conveyed by a Gazette notice,
it will probably be interesting to hear the
opinion of the League of Nations on the
administration in 1923.
The official estimate has it that the popu-
lation of Sydney, still holding its place as
the third city for population south of the
line, reached 857,100 at the end of 1920.
The figures for the other 300,000 square
miles of the State are not available yet,
but they will be a little over 1,200,000.
The year's increase in the city was 28,400,
which didn’t leave much for the rest
of the State. For the previous year/
Sydney gained about 36,000 and the
other 300,000 square miles a good deal
less. Sydney, the deputy metropolis of a
community of a little over 2,000;000, is
bigger than Rome, which governs 36,000,000;
or Madrid, which gives laws to 21,000,000;
or Brussels, which stands for nearly
8.000,000: or Amsterdam, the .supreme city
of a land with 6,000,000 people at home
and an empire outside. It excels Moscow or
any Russian city for inhabitants, and is
doing a good sprint to overtake Berlin. The
capitals of Denmark, Saxony, Bavaria, Nor-
way. Portugal, Sweden, Hungary, Canada,
Mexico, India and Egypt are all left out of
sight by this gigantic wen. When the
Government of N. S. Wales urges people to
go forth and replenish the earth it is in
the position of the Duke of Plaza Toro. w r ho
led his regiment from behind. The Duke
constantly falls further behind, and the regi-
ment becomes more dispirited, knowing that
the pay-chest is behind along with the
Duke. Ministers with 300,000-square-mile
minds being scarce at all times, the remedy
seems to lie in having 50,000-square-mile
States, as it is easier to cut a State into
six than to compress six Ministerial intelli-
gences into one.


\
\
\
s'
\
£
\
\
/f
n I i
11*1
\V
TRADE
MARK
i
For
(OUGHS
AND
Colds
ODSE. ONE TEASPOONFOI
;FIVE OR SIX TIMES A DAY.
THIS MAY BE INCREASED TO
DOUBLE THE QUANTITY FOR
ADULTS IF NECESSARY THE
LAST DOSE BEFORE RETIR-
ING TO PREVENT COUGHING
AND THUS ENSURING A
GOOD NIGHT S SLEEP.
Prepared Bv
mm
!|IJ:»WIU
13M35 CLARENCE STREE
SYDNEY, N.S.W.'
When it Rains, and the Wind
is Never Weary, then is
New Discovery Time.
Of all the new discoveries in medical science
the most remarkable in recent years is one which
has proved invaluable to thousands of people,
and which is rapidly taking the place of all other
remedies for the relief of c6ughs and colds. The
preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds, and is a scientific com-
pound of great merit. It is most healing to the
lungs and throat, and banishes the cough or cold
in a remarkably short time, leaving no bad after
effects. As it contains no poisons of any kind, it
is a perfectly safe remedy for children, and is
particularly good for croup and whooping cough.
The dose is small, and it is pleasant to take.
Don’t Neglect a Gold —It’s Dangerous.
Cold, wet feet, wintry winds and dripping clothes are the cause of many a cold, many a bad attack
of influenza, many cases of pneumonia. A cold must never be left to develop unhindered. A
dose of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken in time, dry clothes, and a warm fire will prevent
that cold taking possession of you.
A few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken when a cold is coming on is generally
all that is needed to soothe the fever and correct the bodily discomfort of a severe
cold. It is well to continue taking Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for a day or two
even after the attack seems averted, for its soothing influence on the mucous membrane
renders it less liable to a second attack.
Many sensible folk make it a habit in wet weather to fortify themselves before ventur-
ing out by a small spoonful of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. These are the people
who are never troubled with Coughs and Colds. So universal has become the
use of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery that it can now be readily obtained from
over 25,000 Chemists and Stores in Australasia. Its immense sale is a sub-
stantial proof of its merit and popularity.
DB SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs $c Colds.


ummm
m
, ■■ - ———< .i
' -
z?
■
£/:
m
m
eg
m
Nl
%
r-
SK
i
-
Z-M-y-
-m.
8?
Which!—Cough or Consumption ?
When you have a cough it does not mean that you
have consumption, or that you are going to have it,
but it does mean that your lungs are threatened and
it is just as well for you to be on the safe side
and take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Jk JfeaM
Cranny Cnamberlain
co Pyre-iCHTE c>
3fflßSSSSgSgßßgMaafflßsaasßagsmzs^SßßßS!
4
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Owners will tell you that they can
depend upon it for faithful daily
service.
And that this daily dependability
is available at a fixed low cost.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
li N\ »,
r
6
N f
Lbs
TV
\\> I '
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty.. Ltd., Melbourne. Standardised Motors, Limited, Sydney.
Cheney .Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
\\ interbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member oj the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
"Spare Corp.”: There is in Sydney to-day
a long-haired and member of the
Christian Israelites who proudly wears his
A.I.P. medal in his coat. When he attended
to enlist he was told that he would have to
lop off his hair, and In* passed out despond-
ently amid the gibes of the other waiting
recruits. But in half an hour he was back,
shaved and ready to attest, having made a
sacrifice which others would not understand.
Cattanach, Chairman of Vic. Water Com-
mission, hopes to build up another Mildura
at lied Cliffs, a little lower down the Mur-
ray, with IUOO Billjiuis as bloekholders. He
has offered to buy, co-operatively, out of the
advances available for each man, everything
necessary to give the settlers a good start;
and the Development Assoc, which the Jacks
and Jims have formed is turning the offer
over and over to see if it is as solid as it
looks.
“Meataxe”: Another young Tasmanian
has crossed the Strait to continue his musical
studies—-Jack Gough, junior, who three years
back forsook a pro-university course at Lauu-
eeston State High School to specialise in
harmonious sounds. At the piano he *
pocketed a bronze and a gold medal, and now
lie has blossomed as a ’cellist. Incidentally,
he has been reporting for the Daily Tele-
graph. A send-off from the newspaper
people, a special engagement at the local
Princess Theatre and a benefit concert from
Launceston’s musical element all happened
to him before he left.
“S.S.” : lie was down from the vicinity of
Baw Baw for a fortnight, and was telling me
how lie had put in his time during the first
10 days, lie ljad been to the Zoo, and be
bad seen the Aquarium, lie had also been
to the Gardens, and had visited Brighton
beach. At St. Kilda lie had been once on tin;
swinging-bouts, and he had seen the Tivoli
show. He wondered what he could do with
the remaining nights. I suggested another
show. lie shook his head emphatically.
“So,” he said, "no more stage-plays.” “Why,
don’t you like them?” 1 asked. “Oh. yes, I
like ’em all right,” he said, “but I don't want
to get inter the ’obit.”
It was stated at a meeting of a Hobart
Association for Criminal Law Reform that
Chief Justice Nicholls had expressed the
view that if sexual offences against women
and children were committed by force it was
a clear indication of abnormality in the
offender. Perhaps it is. Anyway, the llc-
formers unanimously decided “that men
guilty of sexual offences against women by
force, or against children of either sex,
should be regarded as abnormal, and be de-
tained under an indeterminate sentence.”
This, whether tin* offenders be "abnormal” or
not, is a healthy change from the flogging
and hanging recipe so long and ineffectively
in operation as a cure for the horror.
“Ten Eye”: Permit me to challenge
“Ragar’s” statements as to the collapse of
b&che-de-nier and shelling up Thursday Island
way. Certainly prices have slumped, and
numbers of Japs have been packed back to
Nippon in consequence—not an unmixed evil
—but there has been no slackening off of
activity among the island natives. Island-
owned boats, dinghies and canoes are ail
working. Fortunes certainly are not being
made; but, then, natives don’t want for-
tunes. A number of pearlers have been con-
verted into becho-de-mer boats, and a fleet of
luggers, with island boys aboard, is now
working round the south-eastern coast of
New Guinea. So, though Thursday Island
isn’t nearly as lively as it was during the
two or three years of inflated prices, it is
a long way from being dead.
“J. 11.” (London) : At the Savoy the other
day I watched a fur-clad figure being carried
solicitously in an armchair by two of the
hotel porters to a waiting motor-car outside.
It was the divine Sarah, looking marvellously
young and quite at ease, despite her amputa-
tions. She is acting in “Daniel,” one of
Cochrane’s shows at Prince’s, and her voice,
although showing signs of Wear, still charms.
In public Sarah' Bernhardt will still not
trust herself to speak a word of English.
When she returned thanks to a distinguished
gathering of the London stage after curtain-
fall the other night, she spoke in her native
tongue. Her courage is beyond admiration.
Although she cannot move about the stage,
she sticks to her work. But now she plays
all her parts sitting in a chair—which, of
course, rather restricts her repertoire.
The ancient law under which a landlord
may claim twice the value of furniture re-
moved from a house to avoid distraint for
rent due is seldom mentioned in Australia;
but it was aired in a police court at Glen
Innes the other day. This time the land-
lord was not a revengeful shark; he merely
mentioned that the sticks being worth £4.1
he was entitled to a verdict for £1)0, but
all he asked was the few pounds of outstand-
ing rent. In another case a few years ago
a landlord, claiming a pound or so due,
assessed the value of furniture removed at
£lO, and was actually given a verdict for
double that amount. Apparently, if a land-
lord presses for the full penalty he can get
it. The absurd old law should he thrown
out. If it is not used there is no harm in
killing it; and if it is used, there is reason
for calling in the undertaker.
Some more oflicial statements are being
prepared to show that, considering the large
amount of money spent in Northern N. S.
Wales (the new State), there is nothing to
complain of, and secession would he folly
and base ingratitude. As another case, the
lluns spent an immense amount of money in
France between 1014 and 11)11). and the
French still complain. Much depends on
whether the local people like the way the
money is spent. Thus, in the north of the
State, railways tend north and south to
carry business past the local ports to Sydney,
while in the centre they tend east and west
to carry business to Sydney. In this mat-
ter Treasurer Lang mislaid the blessed gift
of silence again. A daily paper declared
that he had spent £9OOO per mile of loan
money in repairing the Sydney-Parramatta
road, and figured how much loan it would
take to repair the whole State like that. And
Lang, instead of leaving the paper talking to
itself, hastened to say that only the roads
about the capital are to be repaired. The
rest of the State will have its share of the
bill to pay. and will put up with any old
tracks it can get.


□
0
D
la la Eji
©
U
The old saying that “distance lends
enchantment” was never more
aptly to the point than when
applied to those people whose
breath is laden with evil-smelling
and offensive odors. Many persons appear most
attractive at a distance, but produce a feeling of pity
and disgust when close to, because of the condition
of their breath. For instance, it makes little differ-
ence how beautiful a woman may be or how charm-
ing her manner. If her breath is foul her charm is
gone, and she is at a disadvantage whenever she
comes in contact with other people. Foul breath in woman
arouses in man a feeling of repugnance and a desire to get out of '
the company of such a woman as quickly as possible; and even
women will avoid her. It is, therefore, important for every woman
who values her personal attraction to take such care of herself
that this unpleasant and unnecessary complaint is avoided or
corrected. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a search-
ing and cleansing remedy, which will overcome this complaint.
They give you clean bowels, a healthy stomach, a lively liver and
blood that is rich and red. They are a safe and reliable remedy,
and will prevent many of the complaints so common if taken
once or twice a week to keep the system in a healthy condition. /
7.
D
p
Morses
mmmzmrß,
%
w
br/7//.
m
m
2
&
m
Vs
<fov/Ay//////v/,
m
for THE
liver
They Make You Feel Brighter.


<3
Cuticura For AH
Skin Irritations
Bathe with Cuticura Soap and hot water
to free the pores of impurities and follow
with a-gentle application of Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal. They are ideal
for the toilet, as is also Cuticura Talcum
for perfuming.
Sonpls.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
SiPPCutlcura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
Stutes, 3d.
There are thrills of delight on the bal-masque night,
’Mid the whirl of “a pace that kills'.”
All “the-beau-monde" is there a-la-mode-riguer,
With limousines, lorgnettes and frills,
Dames grandee derclletes and dudes debonair,
And chaperones suave and demure;
Where debutantes fair, with a Vere-de-Vere air
Sip their Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
and start well.
You may as well have the best to
start with and get complete satis-
faction from the beginning, it will
pay you in the end. The un-
equalled popularity of Bicycles
built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings
is due to the absolute reliability
and long service for which
B.S.A. Fittings are world-famous.
Once bought, you are sure of
years of economical service with
little attention, and no trouble.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A
B.S.A.
Send for Illustrated List and
particulars post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
IS
N
i
On winter tfie place to be
is snug indoors witfi a <^Bg)
gbd
THE PERFECT PIPE.
Made in London from the finest
selected French Briarwood,
thoroughly matured. Every pipe
the product of an expert.
For indoor or outdoor smoking—
get a GBD.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
&
2:
»
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing "to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £3B/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. S W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
uaiiUitiiij** l
TTcf.fl cince 1.W6 FOR Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
Efficient in every
detail.
A good reputation is the result
of a concensus of favourable
opinions. Owners all over the
world testify that the Sunbeam
is unsurpassed for efficiency,
reliability, comfort and elegance.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover
Square, London, England.
Cable Address - - “Subearaoeo,” London.
Head Office - - Wolverhampton. England.
SUNBEAM-
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT-
ENGINES.
24 h-p. 6-cjl.
‘Touring TATodel.
THE
SUPREME
SUNBEAM
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS
BROS., LTD., 822 George Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Captain 11. L. Barclay, formerly of Laun-
ceston (Tas.) ar.d one-time tennis champion of the
Speck, is now a first-flight player in India, where
he is stationed with his regiment. He was invited
to join the Indian team for the Davis Cup matches,
but could not get long enough leave.
“Nemo”: The oldest hdrsetrainer in the
Commonwealth, if not on earth, is Isaac Gallimore,
of Maitland. He is just on 87. He is usually one
of the first on to the track of a morning, and on
Wednesday of last week he had the pleasure of
seeing his horse, Taxin. toddle in first in the Novice
Handicap at Maitland. He holds the neddy on
lease, and rides him in his work himself.
Achieved, winner of the Waterloo Cup at
Rooty Hill (N.S.VV.) in 1918, broke his neck chasing
a rabbit last week. In 1910 he was just pipped by
•Benediction. The few pups he left commenced
running last season, and Maureen, winner of the
Dewar Purse at Rooty Hill last meeting, was bv
him. He was owned by a popular Liverpool identity
who buttons his collar at the hack of his neck.
“Skyrider”: William is just plain ugly,
he admits it himself. He is also a cyclist of repute,
and in a recent road-race won -a trophy. When the
club president was handing over the prizes and came
to Bill’s it turned Put to be a silver mirror. The
official looked at it and then at Bill and a wave of
human kindness overwhelmed him. “No,” he said
unsteadily. “I’m damned if I'll give it to him.”
“T.E.”: When Sydney Stadiums made an
offer of £20,000 to Carpentier for three matches in
Australia the proposal was promptly turned down.
Cabled that the Frenchman’s manager remarked:
“Carpentier is anxious to visit Ausuaiia, uui „ue
financial terms were uninteresting.” 1 like that last
word. It reminds me of the Rickards-Robey yarn.
Harry wanted to bring the star red-nosed comedian
here and wired him: “Would you take £l5O a week
fora year’s engagement?” Robey wired back: “Why
this idle curiosity ?”
“Hamer” : Although the man who acts as
agent for Tatt.’s is always liable to lose his postal
service, he rarely does so. Yet, the volume of mail
received by the agents must make them as well
known to the Department as the betting-shops are
with their multitudinous telbphone-calls. Appa-
rently the power to veto letter-delivery is only
exercised when ticket-buyers fail to receive tickets
for the money they have forwarded and complain
numerously to the Postal Department. It is easily
understandable. In 1919-20 the Federal Treasury
benefited directly to the extent of £96,349 from the
gamble; and to this must be added the postage 'on
tickets and results —which probably amounts to
nearly £lOOO on each big sweep.
* * * *
“Monaro”: Coursing in the Ma State
wobbles on doubtful legs from season to season. For
the past four or five years scarcity of dogs has been
the trouble. Before that a sequence of fliers from
the Bennett kennel, such as the unbeaten Benediction
and Beauty Spot (beaten but once near the end of
her running days), killed competition. In the three
Champion Cups won by this pair there were but six
starters on each occasion. Lack of hares is the
present disability. For the recently-run Dewar Cup
there were 71 noins., but owing to hare'shortage they
had to be cut down to 48. In fact, but for the
Liverpool Club (almost defunct for lack of hares)
coming to the rescue with a parcel of 16 champions
the meeting could not have been held.
The ease of J. J. Miller, of Melbourne, old-
time racing identity, sweep promoter and show-
printer, is a striking instance of how an elderly man
may lose his sight without losing his heart. The
other week “J.J.” had a birthday—the 89th. He
was in his early sixties when he was first threat-
ened by blindness, and the w'orld became utterly
dark for the brave old battler shortly afterwards.
But Miller never has seemed sad about it. The
venerable father of the Sporting Annuaf” is of the
small and wiry sort, and though misfortune may
hurl a brick at him it can’t knock him out. He bobs
up again saying “Never touched me!’ Somehow
the same optimism and tenacity of life was wanting
in his genial son, J. A. Miller* who passed out when
he had made a fortune by his management of West’s
Pictures in Melbourne, and was free of business cares.
•* * * *
“McNorth” : The Fiji Race Club holds a
meeting every now and then in Suva, and it allures
Indians, natives, Tongans, Chinese, Rotumahans,
half-castes, quarter-castes and mere whites. Owing
to the scattered nature of the group, it costs a
small fortune to bring some of the mokes to Suva.
In order to be represented at the last meeting,
cocoanut-monarch Tarte spent in shipping his string
of steeds from his kingdom of Taviuni much more
than he could hope to win in stakes and wagers.
Most of the races are ridden by white jockeys, but
there are events for Indians and Fijians. In one
Indian event the coolie Carbine carried 15st. —and
was beaten on the post! Up till lately the color-
line was drawn as rigidly in sport as in everything
else in the Fiji group, discolored humanity being
relegated to the outer reserve while the grandstand
was reserved for the use of whites, exception being
made only in the case of certain native chiefs and
their sons. But at the last meeting the Indians made
a fuss about being excluded, and in view of the
rapidly increasing shortage of labor and the conse-
quent necessity of keeping sweet with Ram Chowder
and Co., the turbaned brother was allowed to enter
the sanctuary.
» * * *
“Y.Z.”: The Head of the River boatraee
lias developed an enormous interest among superior
persons in Melbourne. It has jumped to the front
as a sporting fixture, and has become a remarkably
well-dressed affair; in fact, the display of glad rags is
hardly inferior to the Cup Day exhibition of dry-
goods. There is a reason for this sudden stimulus.
It is largely Sectarian. In fact, the head of the
river rowing is the only markedly sectarian sport
we have in the State. Here the Wesleyan and the
Anglican meet in opposition; the Presbyterian and
the R.C. are seen in deadly holds, and the blending
of the heats brings each creed into torrid rivalry
with all the others, with the result that an unex-
ampled warmth of feeling is created that owes about
10 per cent, to honest sport and the rest to the
age-long feuds of the churches and chapels. This
year the sectarian -rivalry, for reasons apart from
the amusement in hand, was extremely feverish, and
if there were no flaming heads and broken houses
the fact is • not due to the absence of will, but to
the'fact that the participants in the revels are not
of the scrapping orders.
The first encounter between Britain and
Spain for the DaviS Cup has resulted in a win for
the former by four rubbers to one. Seeing that the
Spanish pair, Alonso and Count de Gomar, had
both beaten the brilliant Frenchman Laurentz in
Paris, English critics were worried over the pros-
pects of their side without the services of Kings-
cote and Parke. But Lycett, who learnt all his
tennis in Australia, showed great form as a singles
player, beating Alonso (6 —4, 6 —2, 6 —-4) and the
Count (6->-l. 6—B, 7—9, 6—3, 6 —2), while, part-
nered with' Woosnam, he prevailed in the doubles
(2 —6, 10—8, 6—2, 6—2). Arthur Lo\ye, the gentle
sportsman who appeared in Australia in 1919, was
too good for de Gomar (6 —3, 4 —6, 6 —l, 6 —o),
but fell a victim to Alonso, who got home, in three
sets (8---6. 6—-1, B—-6). This performance should
make the Englishmen pretty hopeful of defeating the
Australians, their next opponents, should our colts
manage to survive their struggle with the Canadians.
J. Bull has a great ace in Lycett, who, though
previously celebrated as a doubles expert, has de-
veloped so rapidly in singles matches that he proved
an annoyance to Tilden in the World’s Championship
at Wimbledon a while back. Max Woosnam, bis
doubles partner, is one of the finest athletes in Eng-
land. He won his “quadruple blue” at the Univer-
sity in tennis, running, cricket and football.
(Continued on page 38 -)


K.
m.
S'
BUSINESS MEN,
You who are always so correct in your analysis
of a store, its service and its merchandise--we
invite you to pass judgment upon DAVID JONES as
a MAN’S STORE.
From the standpoint of GOOD Clothes at
MODERATE PRICES, have we not built up a reputation
for selling merchandise that is the best at the
price?
Let us take HATS as an example. Do we not
successfully cater for the diverse tastes of the
entire community?
Can you get better hats for the same prices
as our new shapes in Pure Fur Felts at 22/6 and
85/6? We think not.
And in the higher-priced headwear--Stetson,
Knox, Woodrow, Christie and Borsalino makes--the
values, are equally keen.
DAVID JONES LTD.
All-British
Fountain Pen
Ofioio
Pen
In your pocket
a sealed tube
Dozens of Onoto Pens are sent every day
through the post full of ink, often in silk-
lined cases. They get shaken and tossed
about in the mail bags. But it is per-
fectly safe to send them in this way.
For the British-made Onoto cannot leak.
When you close it, with a turn of the
finger and thumb, it becomes a sealed
tube. Not a drop of ink can possibly
escape.
When you open it again, you find the
finger-hold dry though the ink in the nib
remains fresh and moist, so that you can
start writing at once.
And when you want more ink the Onoto
fills itself instantly from any ink supply.
It is the simplest pen to use.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne,
ASK FOR ONOTO INK
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
©
2Z
77,
r
This car was planned and built with the pne idea of having the buyer get
out of it, in comfort of mind and body, all that the manufacturer put into it
in time, and thought, and care, and money, and experience.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable ( edal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
457 Adelaide St., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane, Q’land.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
Hobart.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.


i. Saunders’ fine Diamond Cluster Three-bar Brace
15ct. Cold, £2O- Smaller Diamonds, £l,">.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King, 18ct.
GolA £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ot.
Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Hold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
line double-cut Dia-
mond King, 1 Set.
tiolci, £25,
Larger Diamond-!,
£3O, £35, £4O,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring 1 ,18 ct.
(lold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ line Diamond Cluster Bar Brooeli,
i'ict. Gold, £l2/10/-
Single Cut, £5/10/-
1
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £2O.
Larger luiamondg, £25, £3O. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Necklet,
loot. (laid,
£BO.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Snun<V"'s’
Diamond
and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
15efc. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold patent Fxnandin<*
W ati h Wristlet, full-jewelled, lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £ 12/10/-
Other t, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders' loci. Gold
Links, sot two double-
cut Diamonds,
£6/10/-
(■Smaller 'Diamonds,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
(iold Links, set
fine double-cut
Diamond,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Single-stone Diamond Bar Brooch,
1-Vet. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fancy Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ft. Gold, £5/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST
CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REG.
POST FREE THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER.,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ fine doubfarcut Diamond Single-stone
Bracelet, 15ft. Gold, £35.
A. Saunders’
I‘aiicy circle
Diamond Neck-
lev, ! act. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Darge.' Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’
fine Diamond
Scurf Pin,
loot. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Kin
1 Set. (iolil,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond King, ISot
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders' Two-stone Diamond Ha* Brooch,
I Gel . Gold, £5,
A. Saunders’
double-cut 1 > ia-
mond liing, ISct.
Oold, £2O.
Snmll ! er Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
nioud King, ISet.
Hold, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O, £l5.
A. Sounders’ find Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamonds, £5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever move
merit, £3O. Smaller Diamonds, £25, £2O.
Guaranteed.
7
a*
A
V
ft
m
mu
1
Electric Lighting for Country Homes.
PLENTY of good light is a real necessity on the farm most mornings
and every night throughout the year.
Electricity provides the safest, cleanest, most convenient and best
artificial light procurable. It gives you the same lighting facilities as
are enjoyed by your city friends.
An electric-lighting plant on your farm or homestead is not an
expense. It is a paying investment, and will permanently increase
the value of your property. It will provide a constant source of current
ready for instant use at'the turn of a switch. In addition to lighting,
it will furnish power for Electric Fans, Heaters, Laundry Irons,
Washing Machines, Pumps, Grinders, Clippers, Separators, Churns, etc.
Both of the sets shown here are so simple that a child can operate
them with perfect ease and safety. Current may be used while the
generator is running, or it may be used from the storage batteries when
the plant is idle. An automatic signal indicates when the storage
battery is nearly discharged.
Next time you are in town, call on us and ask for a demonstration.
We will gladly give you full particulars, and an estimate for a complete
installation to suit your particular requirements.
Interesting literature is available for the asking. Send your name
and address NOW!
The Ball-Bearing Electric Light Plant
EM
pm
mm ii
SWITCH
STARTS
LALLEY
LIGHT
1000-watt
capacity.
Supplies
40 to 50
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Plant is
27in. long,
14in. wide,
21in. high.
Nil
//n /jZZ'o,
m
a 'A tj\'
iJ
}rf>
%
WW///////////
0,
OP
/////>
Z
“Vi
ft
0
//^
/*
a
r^ 7
1m
////////////
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney
1250-watt
capacity.
Supplies
60 to 70
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Occupies a
floor space of
x
12^iiL
ass


Father E. M. O’Brien is writing a life of
Father Tlierry. the first organiser of the
R.O. Church in Australasia. The pioneer
laclr'e left about NOOU letters to the Jesuits,
,nd these, carefully preserved, are available
to the biographer.
S. H. McGowan, company manager, who
faded out at Bendigo the other day, could get
any local office he liked : but when it came
to Parliament he never seemed to be wanted
—not even for the Dreary House. He was
mayor more than once, president of the agri-
cultural society, boss of the Manchester Unity
Oddfellows for the whole State, and other
things. 1 lis autocratic manner, understood
and allowed for by his home town, irritated
strangers. But he was a pillar of Bendigo,
and has claims to district remembrance.
ARTESIAN WATER
LOCATED BY MANSFIELD’S PATENT
WATER and OIL FINDER
This Instrument will
LOCATE THE PRESENCE
PORE WATER SUPPLY
And Prevent Futile Bores
It is unfailing, and can be
operated by any intelligent
person
PRICES
Free on Rails. Melbourne :
Suitable for
any Depth
Down to
/ 200 feet, £OO
The two larger instruments
will also locate Oil
If preferred, person attest of
site, without purchase of in-
strument, can be arranged
Thousands of Bores have
been successfully made on
sites located by these Finders
I
For Further Particulars Arrangements for
Demonstration, or Inspection of Instruments
apply to
S. JOHN LITTLE
Consulting Mechanical & Refrigerating Engineer
BROKEN HILLCHB’RS. 31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Serious Waste
of Petrol
is caused by not discarding your plugs more often
as soon .as the points show signs of wear. Send for
set at 2/9 each post free, and note increased mileage
and efficiency. Equal in service to plugs sold up to
three times the price. BARNES AUTO COMPANY,
Box 738, Brisbane.
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
Government Notice.
WAR GRATUITY BOARD.
NOTICE.
ALL CLAIMS not already lodged from
relatives or dependants entitled to
participate in the War Gratuity due on
account of the service of the following per-
son, deceased, must be lodged with the Dis-
trict Finance Officer, 6th Military District,
Anglesea Barracks, Hobart, Tasmania, on
or before JUNE 23, falling which they will
not be considered :—-
7811 Private HENRY TURMINE, 12th
Battalion, A.1.F., deceased.
(Sgd.) W. W. ALDERMAN, Lt.-Colonel.
Agent for “The Prescribed Authority,” War
Gratuity Board, Ilobart.
Legal Notice.
TO JAMES EDWARD CLEARY, hus-
band of MARY CLEARY, deceased,
and formerly of Blenheim, New Zealand, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
11th day of April, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send into the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of October,
1921, your claim to the estate of Mary
Cleary, deceased, who died at Blenheim on
the otii day of November, 1919, intestate,
failing which the said estate will be distri-
buted amongst those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New’ Zealand.
Missing Friends.
tF CHARLES WILLIAM YEANDLE HARDING.
X who left England in the year 1894. or. if dead, his
wife or children, will communicate with Reginald
Kelly, Solicitor, 59 Swanston Street. Melbourne, he,
she or they will hear something to their advantage.
ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS WELL.
A FANCY DRESS FRIENDSHIP.
“ ¥ WISH,’* said Helen, as she gave her
hair a tiual pat, "that I could get hold
of a really decent costume for to-
morrow night. This Jazz affair is getting
dreadfully tired. And every other girl m
the room is wearing its twin sister. ’
A pretty rose-anu-grey Pierette who was
adjusting Her right shoe nodded reflectively.
••MW’ she said, "but its no good worry-
ing. ns a bore not being a piutoci at....
i say, Helen jusc look there
The two girls gazed fascinated at a woman
who had just supped off her coal.
wore a delicious exgmeenth-century costume
of mauve satin over a sprigged petticoat. A
white powdered w.g set oft her softly g o''
ing face, and a patch was perched haughtily
in one uimple. . , „ ,
"isn’t she exquisite! whispered Helen.
"I think those oid-iashioned things are en-
chanting and original these days.
Come along, Mabel; they’re waiting for us.
It was a very depressed Helen who changed
her shoes in" the dressing-room after the
dance. Her costume was rumpled and torn
and a large stain was visible on the fiont.
"I can’t go to the ’Excelsior’ in tins to-
morrow night.” she confided to Mabel. Lit
have t|> tell Guy I’ve got a headache or
something.” , , , . ,
"Poor old girl!” sympathised her friend.
"I’ve only turn one fancy dress, and I
haven’t a sue in the wide. < >h. I say. 1 was
introduced to that lovely creature she s
a Airs. Beauchamp. She’s asked me to have
tea at her flat to-morrow here she is
l’ll introduce you, too.”
The following afternoon Helen and Mabel
were having tea with Mrs. Beauchamp. It
was- a charming room, and. though the
weather was warm, a small wood fire burned
clearly in the grate.
Mrs. Beauchamp’s appearance by daylight
had given both girls something of a shock.
Her frock was pretty, her complexion beau-
tiful, but the lovely wig of the previous
night had given place to her own hair, which
was lank, dull and straight. 1 hough she
seemed young, there was already more than
one grey streak in her locks. She looked
almost plain.
“I’m so glad you liked my frock. she
mailed in answer to a remark of Mabel s.
"But it always depresses me so. I do wish
I lived in the eighteenth century, or that
wigs were the fashion nowadays. I can’t
camouflage my horrid hair anyway by day-
light! Have another cake. Helen; they’re
real cream! Forgive my being frightfully
rude, but could you tell me where you get
your hair waved ? Or is it natural? Because
I was ad ini rig it all the time at the dance.”
Helen laughed.
“Can’t afford to patronise hairdressers,”
she answered, "and it isn’t natural. No. I
just use silmerine.” She finished as if that
explained everything, Mrs. Beauchamp
knitted her brows.
“Silmerine?” she inquired, “I’m afritid I’m
very ignorant. What is it? Where do you
get it? What do y®u do with it?”
“One at a time.” laughed Helen. It is
a rather nice-smelling colorless liquid. You
can get it from any chemist’s. You just damp
your hair with it, put in slides where you
want the wave... .and, voila, ze curls”....
’“But that’s too wonderful,” exclaimed
Mrs. Beauchamp. “Do you have to use it
every day?”
“Oh. no! The effects last for some
days. And the queer thing is that the more
you use silmerine the less often you require
it. It seems to coax the hair into natural
waves that stay in of their own accord.”
“If my hair weren’t so odiously thin and
streaky,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, “I would
rush out this minute and buy a bottle before
I have another sandwich. But my grey
locks would look too ridiculous in waves.
Shall I have a bottle of peroxide or Condy’s
fluid, and turn my few remaining hairs a
bright gold or red?”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” put in Helen, “I’m
going to reveal a horrid secret. A little
while ago I found some grey, hairs on my
own head. Mabel’s fair; she won’t go grey
so soon. So I got a packet of tammalite and
dissolved it in bay rum, and put it on the
faded parts with a clean little brush. It
was wonderful the way that it gradually
brought back the color to iny hair.”
"How lovely,” continued their hostess.
“Yes, I really must try that. Tammalite.
you said, didn’t you? By the way, a lot of
people I know are using boranium as a hair
tonic, but so far I haven’t tried it. Do either
of vou know if it’s any good?”
“Any good!" chorused the two girls....
“Why,' it’s the only thing
“I mix it with bay rum”
“You can use eau-de-cologne. I believe.”
"It’s the most priceless stuff.”
“M.v hair’s grown heaps thicker since I
used it.”
"Good gracious!” interposed Mrs. Beau-
champ. “I suppose I shall have to use it too.
I'll put it down with the tammalite. What do
you shampoo with?” she asked. “You’ve both
'got such glorious hair.”
This time Mabel answered. “Oh, the usual,
stallax. you know.”
"Stallax? 1 don’t seem to know it. Is it
some special preparation?”
“I don't think so.” replied Mabel. “It Is
quite ordinary stuff. I believe. You can buy
it in packages from most chemists. But it
makes the most lovely shampoo; it lathers
gorgeouslv in any water, and your hair dries
quicklv after it and looks so soft and bright.
My own hair always gets so dry and brittle
after a shampoo of any kind that I always
massage my scalp with olive oil before wash-
" "That's awfully ni<-e to know.” said Mrs.
Beauchamp. “Really, I'm most intensely grate-
ful to you two girls. I've been envying your
hair." , .
"And we’ve been envying your complexion,
said Helen. “I do wish I bad nice pink cheeks
like yours, and 1 don’t like the idea of rouge.
"Powdered colliandum.” said Mrs. Beau-
champ. in a dramatic whisper “just a trifle
..harmless indetectable any chemist s
!.. .used it for years. By the way, Helen,
didn’t you say something about wanting a
fancy dress for the ‘Excelsior’ dance to-night?
You'wouldn’t care to borrow my rig-out. I
suppose? It’s just your size, and I know it
would suit you.”
"Mrs. Beauchamp,” said Helen, “you re one
of the best.” —Advt.
Amusements.
SYDXE Y’S CHIEF T H EATKES
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.. Direction.
OFFER:
HEIi MAJESTY’S.
firefly.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
MON II C T l It IS * H IS A T It IS >
SET THE STANDARD FOlt AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMI’IA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd. _
JA N I> N ■ TA I T
» present the
REPERTORY THEATRE SOCIETY,
Under the Direction of Ureg.au McMahon,
in
CHAINS,
A realistic play by Elizabeth Baker, preceded by
THE LOST SILK HAT,
A Playlet by Lord Dunsany, at
THE PLAYHOUSE.
For Six Nights Only, commencing
SATURDAY, JUNE 11.
Box Plans at Nicholson's.
1,1. AN \V 1 L li 1 E SHAKSPKAKEA.N
PRODUCTIONS
THEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Season Ending June 10.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
■ C. LTD., MELBOURNE
«• ATTRACTIONS.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT. JUNE 11.
11 i:R MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A PIQUANT. UNUSUAL MUSICAL PLAY,
OH, LADY! LADY!
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan's. Prices ‘as usual.
Amusements.
I\(;s Til E A T 1515. 'I >■ K ° 1
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
K
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT. JUNE U.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
and GRAHAM BROWNE in ARNOLD BENNETTS
play of Fancy,
the great adventure,
A Tender and Whimsical Romantic P'av in Four Acts.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allans.
HOYT’S Til EAT RES. MISMIOi: KN K.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridcrel.
HARRY UARKY in
WEST IS WEST.
Also
HUGO PIPERNO in
DEAR ODD DAD.
Prices as usual.
jyi A.I ES I'IC THEATRE, MBI.BOT KN E.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
LOUISE GLAUM
in
THE LEOPARD WOMAN.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nislits at 8.
QLACIA R I V M. MELI* O U RN E.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS . . 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
TO IV N II Alj L, M E LHOII RN E.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINIST.
JASCHA HEIFETZ.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11.
Plans at Allan’s.
|y| 111.1t.V THEATRE;, MELIIOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
» It IT AN N IA THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Four extra Alexander watson
RECITALS,
in
THE PLAYHOUSE.
ALEXANDER WATSON.
JUNE 11th, 25th. 27th.
SYDNEY: KING’S HALL, July 2.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-
SHEET OF THE
BANK OF NEW SOOTH WALES
31st MARCH, 1921.
Notes in circula-
tion
Deposits, accrued
interest and
rebate
Hills; payable and
other liabilities
(which include
reserves held
fo r doubtful
debts, amount
at credit of
inve s tments
fluctuation ac-
cou n t, anti
amounts due to
other banks).
Paid-up capital—
be a r ins 6
months’ divi-
dend —
£4,958,260 0 0
Paid-up capital—
bearing 3
months’ divi-
dend,
£6,940 0 0
Liabilities.
£752,588 0 0
51,692,437
—£52,445,025 5 11
12,127,665 15 11
Reserve Fund ..
Profit and Loss
£573,315 0 0
Less Interim
Dividend to
31st Dec., 1920
£,123,956 10 0
£4.965,200
3,350,000
449,358 10 0
8,764,558 10 0
£73,337,249 11 10
Contingent liabilities r . „„ Q n „
Outstanding credits, as per contra 2,300,239 0 8
£75.692.488 12 6
Assets.
Coin bullion and
Cash balances. .£8,862,404 13
Australian Oom-
m o n w e altli
notes . . . . 5,840,697 0
Fiji Government
notes . . .. 130,428 5
Notes of other
banks.. .. 280,280 15
Money at short
call in Condon 1,830,000 0
Short-dated Brit-
ish Treasury
Bills
Investments —
British a u.d
Colonial Gov-
e r n in e n t
securities
Municipal and
other securities
Due b y other
banks. . ..
Bills receivable in
London and lie-,
niittances in
transit. .
0
0
0
0
850,000 0 0
7,503,333 19 2
754,634 0 0
302,388 .16 3
5,697,966 18 8
7 8
Advances under Government Wheat
Scheme ... .
Advances under Government War
Gratuities Scheme..
War Loan Advances (Australia and
New Zealand)
Bills Discounted, and Loans and
Advances to Customers .. . . 38,325,959 17 5
Bank Premises . . . . • • 815,000 0 0
£32,052,134
42,892 8 5
931,700 0 0
1,169,562 18 4
£73,337,249 11 10
Liabilities of Customers and others
on letters of credit, as per contra 2,355,239 0 8
£75,692,488 12 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 31st MARCH, 1921.
Cr.
To interim dividend for quarter ended
31 st December, 1920, at 10 per
eent. per annum, paid in terms of
Clause CV. of Deed of Settlement
out of the half-year's profits ..£123,956 10 0
balance proposed to be dealt uith
as follows: —
To quarter’s dividend to
31st March, 1921,
at the rate of 10
pe r eent. pe r
annum- out of the
half-year’s profit's £124,130 0 0
~ Bonus of 10/- per
share on 218,260
shares •• 124,130 0 0
~ Augmentation of
the Reserve Fund 75.000 0 0
. Balance carried for-
ward .. •• 126,098 10 0
< £449,358 10 0
£573(315 0 0
By Amount from last .Account ..£169,382 16 0
Balance of half-year’s profits after
deducting rebate on current bills,
interest on deposits, paying in-
come, land and other taxes amount-
ing to £153,128 13s. 3d., reducing
valuation of bank premises, pro-
viding for bad and doubtful debts,.
and fluctuations in the value of
investment securities, and includ-
ing recoveries from debts previ-
ously written off as bad . . . . 403,932 4 0
1)r.
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1921.
Cr.
To balance . . ■ ■ • • • • £3,420,000
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government securities,
and £500,000 in those ot States
'where we are represented—in all,
£1,250,000. The balance is em-
ployed in the business of the bank.)-
£3,425,000 0 0
Bv balance.. .. •• •• £3,350,000 0 0
,’ Amount from profit and loss . . 75,000 0 0
£3,425,000 0 0
By balance
£3,425,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
HARRINGTON PALMER 1
S. E. LATDLEY I
Auditors.
Audited 23vd May, 1921.


•THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.^—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ymmm.
H ii
1".
siiaiiwiar jj||*Wirv
m
When You
ask. for
Lager-
'^abbots
"The Beer
without
a Rival*
ffirmrn
IV
IL-U
oo u a
EXPERIMENTERS
HANDY BOOK
AND
CATALOC
'PRICE'
.211 SMANSTQN STREET J
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's '“Fireflv’-
CiUTEiuox “Scandal”
1a lace “Nightie Night"
iivoli Annette Kellerman
l layiiouse Repertory Theatre Society Plays
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
L.nion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
IlKii Majesty’s “Oh, Lady! Lady!”
koval “The Maid of the Alountains”
King s “The Great Adventure”
J ivoli .. .. Moving Pictures
Hoyts De Lcxh & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium j ce Skating
1 own Hall Jascha Heifetz
♦
From the minute Mischa Levitzki opened
the attack it was evident that the grand
piano, though much heavier, hadn't a chance
against him ; and after his Criqui-like on-
slaught in the Bach-Tausig “Toccato and
Fugue in I) Minor,” the instrument gave
up all idea of opposition, and Mischa thun-
dered on it, tore out its heart-strings or
tickled it with butterfly fingers, just as he
pleased. On Saturday night he pushed off
and sent it careering and swaying down the
Blue Danube in the Schluz-Evler “Ara-
besques” as though it were a gondola or a
feather-weight canoe. On Thursday night
the black and-white keys wove themselves
into a cloak of starry velvet night that the
plump-cheeked young man Hung lightly about
his audience, and one felt, like the man in
the Apocalypse, caught in a great wind from
Heaven. Following the programme, this
was the Andante and the Presto of Beet-
hoven’s “Appassionata Sonata.” The
Chopin groups on both nights melted on the
ear as golden, sun-ripened fruits on the
palate. The haunting “Nocturne in F Sharp”
was Levitzki’s Chopin introduction to Syd-
ney, and as he spilled this, charm from his
lingers it was as memory-laden as dried rose-
leaves. There was whimsical humor in the
“Butterfly”' study—it was as though an elf
chassfed a thistledown in a high wind —and
melancholy beauty in Saturday’s Nocturne
in C Minor. And there is nothing to do but,
as the lady did to the picture of Billy
Hughes, blow a kiss to the memory of the
Gluck-Sgambati “Melody” and the Gluck-
Brahms “Gavotte.” N.B. —Levitzki never
fails to play at least three verses of “God
Save.” Yet on Saturday night in the Town
Hall the galleries were almost empty. It’s
a shame.
* # * s':
Annette Kellerman, in song and dance
and diving acrobatics, is the star of the Syd-
ney Tivoli bill this week. She made her
first appearance in a costume that was mostly
graceful back and rose-pink wired tulle buff-
ings which gave the miniature skirt rather
a lamp-shade effect. She dances with her
whole body; it was just as much pleasure to
watch the well-trained muscles of perhaps
the most perfect back in the world rippling
under the satin skin as to see the breeze-like
movements of the tip-toe dancing. But it
“Going Up." at Her.
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Madge Elliott, the
dancer.
was in the wire
dance that Ann-
ette really came
into her own, and
when she fox-
trotted fro in end
to end ' of the
hounding line the
house was thrilled.
And when sh e
dived into the tank
that splashed over
eve r y now and
then, the audience
recognised its old
friend in the girl
who curled about
in .the water like a
graceful length of
seaweed or a fairy
princess - mermaid.
Annette h a s
Walter Houle for
male support in
her dancing, and
various black-clad
nymphs for her
ballet. The other
star on the bill is
Nina Gordon, the
mimic; and when
the large, fair
young woman got
as far as Connie
Ediss in her imper-
sonations e‘v er y-
body was chuck-
ling. Melba wasn’t
so much like Melba
:is the Dame is like herself, but the Harry
Lauder songs were unimpeachable.
“Scandal,” at Sydney Criterion, con-
tinues to make money for everyone con-
cerned. That, after all, is the true aim of
the modern theatre; and none of your
darned nonsense about Morality or Art. Re-
gardless of protests on the score of economy
r rank Harvey still snaps one shoulder-strap
nightly, and a rapt populace breathes heavily
as Maude Ha'nuford clambers into bed.
"Firefly” and Success continue to walk
hund-m-hand at Her Majesty's, Sydney, and
talk of a new entry in the record-book is
already abroad.
Sydney Lyceum features "The Open Door,”
an incoherent succession of sobs and ram-
bling complexities. It is appropriately
named: half the . story appears to have
walked out by the door and returned muti-
hited by the kitchen window. More eon-
vmcing and is dainty Shirley Mason
as \\ ing Toy,” the sunbeam in a sinister
t hinatown film. In "Love,” at the Strand
(it ought to have an interrogation mark at
the end of the title), Louise Glaum drops
the worthy pilot. A millionaire endeavors
to navigate the vessel with her, but lie’s a
poor sailor, so the other is at last rein-
stated at the helm. "The Education of Eliza-
beth ’ is proceeded with at the Globe. Billie
Burke is the pupil, and it’s always worth the
amusement-tax to see her. In "The Bait,”
at the same house, all the familiar ghosts of
American crook-drama stalk about to the
accompaniment of revolver shots. “Fabiola,”
at the Piccadilly, slips back 1G centuries or
so to Rome, or as near to it as the movie
property-man can get. Flapperdom will follow
Eugene O’Brien to Hoyt’s this week. It is
doubtful whether some of the flimsy knitted
“FIREFLY,”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Hugh Steyne an
Pietro, the
Italian valet.
jumpers will contain the heart-throbs. Oscar
Wilde s Salome” is suffering from a cellu-
loid translation at the Crystal Palace; and
the Grand and Majestic are open fo all good
Australians who missed Steele liudd’s “Selec-
tion” last week.
At Melbourne Town Hall Heifetz has
been drawing great houses as a matter of
course. he beautifully-easy bowing moves
the audience to real admiration, although
a good deal of the wild enthusiasm is false.
Wild enthusiasm at fashionable concerts is
mostly false, and Heifetz is to be congratu-
lated on the fact that he doesn’t get an
absurd overdose of it as compared with
some players of less expertness who have
gone before. Among many numbers which
he has played with perfect skill the “Rondo
Capriecioso” of Saint Saens was much pre-
ferred to Max*Bruch’s "Scotch Fantasie,”
except by such as want their music always
jn a kilt. His treatment of Sarasate’s
( 'M )s .v Airs” was noticeably charming, and
his rendering of Vitali’s "Chaconne” showed
him at his best as an interpreter. Every-
thing that is sweet can be said of the young
artist’s beautiful skill. Then there remains
the fact that the soul of the gifted performer
is at present only in the making The really
thrilling effects have to come. His enviable
failing is the one he is growing out of every
year. Some extra concerts seem inevitable,
for which result the excellent accompanist
is not entirely blameless.
At Melbourne King’s to-morrow will offer
the last opportunity for Jules Jordan and
John O’Hara to grow rich in 12 months by
supplying electric light to a one-store town-
ship. Bailey and Grant are. taking charge
of their theatre again, and will present the
Marie Tempest Co. in Arnold Bennett’s
“The Great Adventure,” new to Melbourne,
and full of morals for picture-buyers. Ben-
nett’s comedy starts on Saturday.
Three matinees of “Maid of the Mountains”
this week will help towards the piling up
of an Australian record score at Melbourne
Royal. Meanwhile Phil Smith continues to
relieve the tedium of his brief captivity by
an alleged morning swim in the deep blue
sea. where the picturesque and melodious
chorus of tisher-folk spread their nets.
Alexander Watson, back from Adelaide
with further travels in view, is giving extra
recitals at Me 1-
bourne Playhouse
inst e a d of the
Athenaeum II a 1 1.
Past Saturday he
repeated the mov-
ing story of Mari-
gold the cheap-
jack, in which the
broadest effects of
Dickens pathos
and humor are so
feelingly expressed.
A t Melbourne
Majesty’s the vim-
less revi va 1 of
“Going Up” will
go down on Friday
in favor of “(>h,
Lady, Lady !” Tlxe
same company will
presumably renew
its somewhat im-
poverished energies
in this com i n g
evejit. To Dorothy
Brunton, who will
play the central
character, it might
be suggested, m a
sympathetic whis-
“Nightie Night," at
Sydney Palace.
Joseph Coyne as
Billy Moffot.
per, that she would do well to get some
of her yellow curls cut off preparatory to
shedding a little of her superabundant
ornateness. Where many girls need toning
up I )orothy could do with judicious toning
down.
Claire Whitney reveals a disturbed coun-
tenance in "Mothers of Men” at Hoyt's Mel-
bourne shop this week. She is persistently
haunted by the wretch who commenced her
Cast, and it takes five 1 reels to eradicate him.
Some of the scenes are wildly melodramatic,
and Claire’s acting is almost ruined by the
fierce in-fighting near the end. lloyt’s sup-
porters get. plenty of incident and exciting
climaxes in ‘'West is West.” It is a tor-
tuous mining tale wherein gelignite threatens
to add to the confusion. The Majestic’.s
latest is “The Soul of Rafael,” a romantic
yarn of sun-worship and Injun savagery
which shows Clara Kimball Young as a pic-
turesque enchantress. In the other Majestic
item Earle Williams finds "Diamonds
Adrift” along the Pacific coast of the F.S.
and Mexico., but the plunder is secondary to
the importance of Earle and the nice young
thing who does the close work in the final.
At the Melba Dorothy Dickson is the awful
example of N’York high-life in "Paying the
Piper,” and the Britannia has "Homespun
Folks,” which throws a bright light on the
mentality and trouser fashions of rural
America.
Adelaide shows are for the moment pleasant
but unexciting, though a first-in-Australia
play is just opening a f the Royal. The
Humphrey Bishop Co., which is at its best
in concerted work, has played an "Ali Baba”
burlesque at that house, and at the Prince
of Wales, under the Fullers, the Walter
George Co. has wrapped up its offerings in
an operetta, “The Bandits,” written by one
of the co. Wondergraph has a strong pair
of pictures, the old “Held by the Enemy”
civil war play and a South American “Fire
Cat” play (Edith Roberts the Cat), in
which one of the earthquakes of the region
is sandwiched. West’s respond with a rail-
way smash and some striking night-,scenes
in San Francisco. The Majestic also is
sensational: Conway Tearle gets away to a
•lonely island, but cannot avoid The Girl
even there. The Pav. has the old midnight-
wedding Ruritanian drama, “The Story of
the Rosary,” which comes out well on the
screen.
“T.S.E.”: A recent par. showed how
closely the Combine is studying economy, and
mentioned the revival of "So Long Lettv”
in Melbourne, with the substitution of enamel
cups for china vessels. In Westralia tin-
company revived for the umpteenth time
“High Jinks,” “So Long Lefty,” “Going Up,”
and "Kissing Time.” The charge for admis-
sion was eight and eightpence, and the
orchestra was provided with roughly-torn
brown-paper lamp-shades.
"J.F.11.” (Lond.) : John McCormack has
had a successful concert season at Monte
Carlo, where Melba has also been warbling
to the fashionable winter-time gamblers. At
first there was a disposition to repeat the
Adelaide unpleasantness and make things
sultry for John on the ground that he was
a Sinn Feiner, a disloyalist and a born
British subject who had transferred his
allegiance to the Stars and Stripes. But
the Monte Carlo authorities made it known
that anybody interfering with McCormack
would be barred from the gaming-rooms and
tennis-courts. Which clapped an extin-
guisher on the would-be boycotters.
Xamoi”: Frank Ilarvey is getting up a
reputation for impersonating strong men.
llis Man from Montana in "Good Gracious,
Annabelle!” with Marie Tempest, was a
study in intensity and bell-top trousers, and
his strong man from Australia in "Scandal’’
is gripping the flapper. Harvey started his
career in the British Navy, and dropped from
the top-gallant yards into engmeei.ng work-
shops, where he took a full course m lock-
smithing, etc. Consequently he handler, the
key at the Criterion with a master ’pren-
tice’s touch. In an emergency he could
pick the lock.
"Rienzi”: G. B. Pshaw is having another
little boom. Lately his “Heartbreak House”
was being presented in Buda-Pesth, while
other pieces were being staged in Paris and
London. In London he is having a good
run at the Everyman, Hampstead, where the
programmes have included his one-acters,
“How He Lied to Iler Husband” and "The
Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” as well as his
curious study in irony and blasphemy, “The
Showing-Up of Blanco I’osnet.” This play,
which was long refused a license in England,
has been done all over Europe, and is
already regarded as a classic in Japan. Yet
his first effort, “Anns and the Man,” had its
Parisian prdmicre only in April.
Bert Bailey is shaking down happily again
in Melbourne with his wife and a daughter
who has decided that she is now “grown-up.”
The trio are Australian to their bones, and
could not be happy out of the Common-
wealth. London showed Bailey a fine ap-
preciation of his acting, a nd tried its best
to understand “On Our Selection.” But
the English dubbed it “On Our Allotment,”
much to tin; despair of the producer. Your
“allotment” in London at that time was the
dinky little patch in a park where you spent
your Saturday afternoons in producing pota-
toes and other veggies. Bailey says you
soon become a Londoner in outward seeming
—you fall into queues, sheep-fashion, like
everybody else. London is all queues. You
even queue outside your favorite pub and
wait for it to open at 11.
“Old Pot”: Apropos of the cutting out of
the mummer’s free-entry privileges (B.
-/fl/’-l), it seems that modern Australian
managements are determined to make retro-
grade movements. It was different once,
but then managers were not icy in their
hospitality. The new rule does not include
stars, who get the usual box or front stall
with the accompanying “ovation” as they
march into the seats. Hughie Ward was the
finest stage-manager I ever mot in that re-
spect. After the stars had their recep.
Hughie would make a perfectly-timed en-
trance and get his little lot. As to the "diffi-
culties placed in the way of pressmen, if
ringing up a manager be a difficulty, they
arose, I must confess, chiefly because of the
indifference shown to traditions of good
taste.
The ominous cloud of Direct Action draws
closer and closer as the winter dancing
season proceeds. The irreconcilables are the
pretty girls between 18 and 25, and the
threatened strike is against the tactless old-
sters .who push forward at every hop and
demand dances which would otherwise pro-
bably have been taken by skilled jazzers of an
endurable age, failing which the time might
have been more pleasantly and profitably
spent cooling down and powdering up. “The
social laws being as they are,” says one of
the rebels, “we can't tell these old people
the blunt , truth —that their day is over, if
it ever existed, and their jokes are out of
date, and their dancing methods prehistoric.
So there’s nothing for it but the strike, and
the new movement aims at refusing to go
to any dance where the floor is taken by
men of over 40.” It was suggested that
one or two sailors might be excepted, but
the mood of the hour is in favor of scratch-
ing the lot.
The Maid and Co., at Melbourne Royal,
have been getting new clothes—the phenome-
nal run certainly was ragging the chiffons
a bit. The Maid keeps to the satne color
schemes, but she has a fresh tunic of vivid
turquoise in which to captivate the new
Governor. She has also collected big circles
of diamonds to hang in her ears in the cave
scene. The run of the play can be
measured by the growth of her silky locks;
“bobbed” at the beginning of the season,
they now have to be “tucked” in true
Parisian style. Gadders tells us that Paris
is tired of the Buster Brown and tucks the
short ends tinder. Mionie Stewart has a
new white frock in which to weep, and she
has also put real old yellow lace on a gold-
tissue frock. The fishermen are furbished
up with new grey caps, and the fisher maidens
have attached some wonderful designs in
head-dress. As for newly-engaged Violet
Yorke, one scarcely sees her dresses, she is
so wrapped in a new radiance.


THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWX, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest-Grade Machinery Supplied.
itiEEBOU RNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery Hou«e.
BRISBANE:
Engineering: Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Minks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
I,OXDON :
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
?
fet
lout
nT
/&
w
5?"
/
/
TcSimnv .
Qgeenswm
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns—via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville,
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Wyandra,
Bombala, Wodonga, Arawatta.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.:—
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
20,000 Overcoats to Choose
from at Lowe’s “Drop-in-
the-market”
Prices
Post
Free
Lowe’s Pay Carriage
all over Australia.
£6/6/- FULL-BELTED
ENGLISH TWEED
OVERCOATS—
NOW
£4/19/6
Post Free.
This style of Overcoat finds favor
with men who desire something
“reasonably priced” in a good
Winter-weight: Tweed Top Coat.
Style is Single-breasted Raglan,
full belted, fly front, smartly-
shaped lapels, and deep vent in
back. Regular Value, fiO/C/-.
We supply ALL SIZES FOR MICN
in Herringbone-patterned English
Tweeds of Medium Grey and Fawn
Shades.
We recommend these Coats, be-
cause of the splendid value they
offer you at this
A/l
\
v
“Drop-in-the-Market” Price,
£4/19/0.
The materials are good English Tweeds,
chillproof, and windproof, their style is
right up to the minute, and the tailoring
is of the best class throughout.
Remember we have thousands
of other Styles at “Drop-in-the-
Market” Prices.
Order by Mail stating Inside
Sleeve and Chest Measure, and
ask for Lowe’s Catalogue of
other Overcoat Styles.
ADDRESS MAIL ORDERS TO—
“Department B,”
Lowe’s Ltd., George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Towe’S)
Four Big Stores in SYDNEY— one
in NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
msam
±:
%
3:3
w
rO
*5
m
#
VVJNC ffM
§m
Q
*
CZ3*^
< -<
OCXfXiONtS
& c
THE QUICKEST WAY
to get to the Grocer’s according to the facetious
small boy is to RUN.
And when you arrive the quickest and safest way
to get the Cheese that will please, is to say—
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
The outdoor worker, the busy business rran, the
women-folk and even the children praise this
appetising sandwich spread.
It has a flavour that hits a warm spot on every
palate, whilst as an aid to digestion, it is highly
recommended.
“ ex ” C heese is sold by all grocers in handy tins.
No other is as good. Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FoGGITT. JONES & CO.. LTD.
J 007


15s Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street
Sydney
Please note:—TELEPHONE No. CITY 8704.
Large stocks on hand of—
HIGH-SPEED STEELS.
SPECIAL ALLOY STEELS.
CARBON TOOL STEELS.
MOTOR-CAR STEELS.
Inquiries promptly attended to
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who never
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not only POLISH,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes; Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, Now on Sale.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
'“Demur.- The first theatrical job of
J earl Hellmnch. now playing leads for Ful-
lers at the Newtown (Sydney) Majestic, was
that of the nipper ip the “Silver King” with
\A llson Barrett, and later she was associated
>vith Beatrice Holloway as one of the Two
™ e r Vagabonds. While in vaudeville in
‘the Hast” she married Carden Wilson and
on his death she turned to bellow-drama
under the \\ illiafh Anderson banner, playing
low-comedy parts. Later she married Tom
lilton, who went under during the ’flu epi-
after successfully establishing Ful-
lers present dramatic co. On the sunny
side oi 30, Pearl Hellmrich has had an
eventful career; but she still smiles and
makes her own frocks.
M.I . : Flags, is it i I went to a picture-
show in Melbourne last night and saw Earl
fctradbroke at an open-air Empire Day fuuc-
-‘V'T<) Union Jack or Aussie flag was
visible, but prominent for more than half
<»t the picture was a young Aussie, held up
by his mother, waving—a Japanese flag!
“ firefly ”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Ralph Errolle singing of comic-opera love.
“0.K.”: Wh'en veteran journalist J. J.
lotting was recently congratulated- in the
press on his achievement of an
NUth birthday nobody remarked that he had
once figured as lessee and manager of Mel-
bourne Royal. lie had his brief flutter 28
years ago when the Royal was open to re-
ceive monthly or fortnightly tenants, like the
old Alexandra before Williamson converted
it into Her Majesty's. An old programme of
•'The Great World of London” proclaims
that it was written by J. J. Utting, author
of “White Slaves,” “Rebellion,” etc., and
this stereotyped thriller, wherein wickedness
was represented by “Black Charley (a Vil-
lain of the Deepest- Dye),” was followed by
a fragile topical farce, entitled “Reconstruc-
tion, written bv two other members of
Melbourne Herald staff. All sorts of weird
ventures came to pass at the Royal in those
days. Everybody had a go at management.
1 tancy that an enthusiastic young hair-
dresser took the theatre for the purpose of
reviving “Sweeny Tod, the Demon Barber of
Eleet-street. ’ One of the most ambitious
productions was George Darrell’s “Double
Event, founded upon a Nat Gould novel.
B run ton painted the scenery. Darrell himself
was, of course, the* heroic plunger who backed
the winning double in the last act. Green-
away, A thol wood and Inman were a detec-
tive, a jockey and a Lord: Edwin Kellv,
father of Edwin Lester, stood for a book-
maker; handsome Edith Blande played a
mystery ; Jennie Lee was a “curiositv”;
and 20 alleged thoroughbreds went through
a form of competing for the Melbourne Cup.
“Orb”; “Nella” complains (B. 26/5/’2l)
of the short-weight, bill provided by “The
Sign on the Door.”
Evidently “Nella”
has not been to see
“Nightie Night.” I
have. This was the
time-table: Over-
ture, 8.11. Interval
after prologue, ,'■>
minutes: after Act
1, 12 minutes:
after Act 2,
0 minutes. Cur-
tain, 10.16 t Actual
playing time, lhr.
45min. I suppose
the management be-
lieves that brevity
is the soul of wit,
but the good old
farce “O’Callaghan
on His Last Legs”
plays lhr. 45 min ,
yet no one ever
dared to make that
cheerful outbreak
a full night’s bill.
It was usually the
pendant to “Ham-
let” or “Othello,”
or curtain-raisers
of that kind, when
the price of admis-
sion was one shil-
“Nightie Night,” at
Sydney Palace.
George Blunt as
Dr. Bentley.
hrg without aniusement-tax.
“Cornstalk” : In appreciation of the helping
hand extended in literary and art circles in
by Haddon Chambers, a meeting of
x\ \ ork .s theatrical notabilities ■ recently
decided to erect a memorial to the Australian
dramatist. A memorial service was also
held at the Church of the Transfiguration
(“The little Church around the Corner”).
Among the prime movers are many artists
who have appeared in Chambers’s plays,
which have now become stock company clas-
sics and (according to the N’York press)
‘occupy a unique niche among the manu-
scripts that have helped make stage history
in America.” “Passers By” is the finest
thing Chambers did, and, if I remember
rightly, has never been seen in the drama-
tist s own land. Here’s a good chance for
the Taits to do their country a good turn by
staging a “somewhat different” Australian
play.
‘‘Pongo” ; Despite what “Fax” (B.
-1/4/21) and others say about the deca-
dence of amateur opera cos., there is one
whose efforts are always up to the mark—
the Mosman (Sydney) Musical Society.
Its first show, “The Mikado,” was stage-
managed by an old Thespian named Bentham
and conducted by Truman, now Sydney City
Organist, nearly 120 years agt* It has
put op Maritana,” “Lily of Killarney,”
Dorothy” “Les Cloches,” “Ruddigore,”
urn al 'i f *’ “Fra Diavolo,” “Patience,”
I am, hour Major,” “Girofle Girofla,” “The
Old Guard” and a host of other operas. The
leads have been Madge Hellmrich, Geraldine
Rivers, Mabel Batchelor, Muriel Barton,
May Peach (who later appeared as Mae
Svdney with the original “Arcadians”),
1 oine Ward, Dorothy Hellmrich (now doing
concert work in London) and Mrs. Truman,
ihe males have at various times included
every top-notch amateur and available pro.
the city has held. The society is still going
strong, and, in spite of the defections to the
professional ranks, it stages shows comparing
at least favorably with those of other days
And its orchestra is miles ahead of those'of
old.
Koyce Rolls ’: Effusive musical critics
who liken Jascha Heifetz’s fiddling to Greek
sculpture are not more diverting than the
hired publicity men who are spreading weird
yarns about him. The very latest tells
how Jascha s marvellous memory came, to
the rescue of his accompanists when some
music was lost in Noo l’oick. The show
was due to begin at any moment. Bat
Jascha quickly saved the situation. He
ordered a pile of paper, got his trembling
secretary to rule it for music, and, so savs
his faithful chronicler, “reproduced in a
few minutes the whole of the Concerto.”
Knocked it off, presumably, in shorthand.
“Wodgil”: One of the hits of the £2500
hospital matinee at Sydney Opera House
was made by Allan Priora, who sang the
tenor music from "Firefly” so brilliantlv
that the audience sat up and put its hand's
together with emphasis. Then it wondered
"h.v it hadn’t seen his name on a first-
class theatrical programme before. If I were
Priora I would go abroad and change my
name to Priorebsky (or Prioroskovitch), and
hire a press-agent to inform the Australian
public—the most easily gulled public in
tho world that I had just escaped from
the Bolshevists, or that Hindenbnrg had
detained me in Hunland during the war.
Then Australian impresarios would chase
me with contracts, and the musical critics
would gusli interminably in the weird (argon
that these exuberant persons employ.
"Whitebait”: "In the happier days of free
programmes,” says “Nella” (B. 2/(i/’2l),
“a neat printed slip invariably informed
patrons ,of_ any change in the cast.” “In-
variably” is rather a. generous word, and,
in fact, with the exception of emergency
changes on first nights, the slip was (and
is) almost “invariably” left out. All theatri-
ctil managements i, live by a certain amount
of false pretences, and it is regarded as
needless philanthropy to announce the ap-
pearance of an understudy in place of an
absent star, and thereby risk a ruinous slump
at the box office. As a theatrical roundsman
I have found the greatest watchfulness re-
quired to avoid getting tripped up by these
unadvertised changes. The only way to keep
level with the juggling of the casts —especi-
ally during long runs—is to attend the
theatres regularly and find out for yourself.
“Cremonensis” talks Fiddle :
Heifetz plays on a valuable Stradivarius instru-
ment dated 1780. I suspect that this is one of 10
Strads shown to me by Mr. Hill in his new Bond-
street shop in January, 1915. “You can have any
one of these for £1000,” he said. But thinking
that a Strad would n6t be of much use *in France
I allowed his generosity to go unrewarded. As
Antonio Stradivarius was approaching his 90th year
when Heifetz’s fiddle was made,' it isn’t wonderful
that its tone is a little thin. Tt is only in an
almost vertical right-hand position that the G string
really responds richly to the bow. The instrument
known as “the Messiah” (1716) marked the zenith
of the luthier’s genius. From that year his art
deteriorated until he died in 1737, aged 93. The
Strad tone is never so rich or broad as that of
some of the fiddles made by the rival firm of Guar-
nerius. Those two makers' stand as the heads of
the two Italian schools of violin-making-—Stradi-
varius of the Cremona School, founded by the Amati
family, and Guarnerius, head of the Breseian School,
founded by Caspar da Salo. Andrew Guarnerius
served his apprenticeship with Strad. himself at the
Ainati benches. Joseph Guarnerius del Jesu (so-
called from the “1.11.5.” mark on his fiddle-tickets)
came from a younger branch of the family, although
he was to sofne extent a contemporary of Stradi-
varius. Paganini preferred a Guarnerius, as is evi-
denced by his favorite instrument, which is en-
shrined in a glass mausoleum in Genoa Museum.
But he bequeathed a very fine example of Strad.’s
work to his son. I have frequently played upon this
instrument, which until 1910 or thereabouts belonged
to Prince Henry of Prussia. When 1 played it
the royal crown of diamonds was still set in its
tail-piece. Kreisler also plays on a Guarnerius
del Jesu, as did Joachim and Brodsky. The really
genuine Guarnerii are rarer than the Cremonese
master’s fiddles. Many inferior examples are abroad
called “the Prison Josephs.” This refers to a legend
that Joseph del Jesu was gaoled for debt and drunken-
ness, and that while in the clink the Governor’s
daughter made soft eyes at him and supplied him
generously with firewood with which to warm his
bones. From this inferior wood, so the story runs,
he made his inferior fiddles. But there is little
if any proof of the truth of the yarn.
“S.T.S.” : Villiers Arnold will live in the
memory as the one actor who could make
the entirely subsidiary part of Pish Tush
in “The Mikado” stand right out. In the
solitary chance this character gets, the song,
“And you are right, and I am right, and
all is right, too-looral-lay,” Arnold made
great play with a fan, falling into a steady
succession of quaint attitudes that left the
house yelling for more. It was the only
season of the opera’s many revivals in which
this very ordinary song was safe for an
enthusiastic encore.
“Old Pot” : Arthur Greenaway has finished
his Shakspearean season for Vic. school kids,
and, although the experiment was not gilded,
he had sufficient encouragement to do it again
later on. While in Melbourne Arthur and
his band of players entertained the Savages,
and staged the revel scene in the second act of
Othello. It went in great stvle. The
guests included Admiral Sir Percy Grant a
Shakspearean student, who personally con-
gratulated Greenaway.
“Rienzi”: Melbourne dailies are beginning
to exercise a censorship over play and picture
titles. The other day they refused to adver-
tise or notice a melodrama whose title im-
plied indelicate trimmings, though the piece
contained nothing to make a curate hide his
head. A little earlier the same journals de-
clared a him outside the pale of pubKcUv
because the title was supposed to refer to a
lady who is never mentioned in polite
Stanislaus Tarczyuski,
violin-teacher, Mel-
bourne University
Conservatorium. in
succession to
Gustave Walther.
society. The title
of course, hadn't
ihe meaning as-
sumed by the
papers, or it would
never have been
passed by the pic-
ture-censors ; but
still the journals
go on their way,
unite convinced
that they are pro-
tecting the in-no-
cence of the young
who have learnt all
they want to know
of life from plays
and pictures with
perfectly blameless
labels. For th e
really naughty or
forty productions
rarejy reveal their
blushful character
in their headlines,
whereas a frank
title, promising all
manner of thrills,
often christens a
drama that means
a wasted evening
to the dirt y-
minded. Contrast,
for instance, “The
Merry Widow ’ and “Mrs. Warren’s Profes-
sion,” the former hinting broadly at devious
adulteries, and the later so arid in porno-
graphic suggestion that even London’s Lord
Chamberlain has long lifted the ban against
its production.
“Macquarie Street” farewells Cta'uso:—
A recent enl.lv bears out the statement I made
months ago that stout tenor Caruso might never be
heard again at the Aletropolitan Opera House. He
has left N’York in search of health, which he expects
to find in the salubrious climate of his beloved Italy,
acting, no doubt, on the advice of his medical atten-
dants, who have probably warned him that any pro-
fessional engagement would very likely bring on
another attack of haemorrhage, for the lesion is un-
doubtedly pulmonary. Mild air, rest, freedom from
professional work, and the comforts and luxuries;-
that a colossal “roll” at the bank ensure are expected
to work wonders; and as the - complaint has not
affected his glorious voice, the star feels optimistic
with regard to complete recovery. Given a robust
constitution—which Caruso undoubtedly has, else he
couldn’t have stood the racketing of the last few
years—he may rub along fairly comfortably for
some time; but it is pretty certain that musical
N.Y. will have to look elsewhere for a high C idol.
I remember his singing in “La Tosca” at Covent
Garden, and his sobs in the Castle Sant’ Angelo
scene could be heard right at the back of the gods
(at 155.). Acting to him was as natural as singing,
which could not be said of the rival star, John
McCormack.
Marie Loir’s record-breaking run at
Drury Lane having ended, the old theatre is
to have £lOO,OOO spent on bringing it up to
date. Very little has been done to it since
it was rebuilt after a great fire just before
Waterloo. The four tiers of galleries are to
be reduced .to three and brought forward so
that the players can be seen without tele-
scopes.
“T.0.1.’5” fiery recollections :
The rebuilding of the Theatre Royal, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, recalls Joseph Wyatt, the man who
gave Sydney its first theatre. Joe was a midget of
a man who, in 1834, bought at auction (Sam Lyons
being the auctioneer) the corner now known as
Waters’s, at £55 10s. per foot, and the price was
considered so tremendous that thereafter for a decade
at least it was always the Golden Corner. A couple
of years later he commenced the building of the
Victoria Theatre, which stood where Mrs. McCathie,
Ltd., now trades. This house, which was opened
with “Othello” in March, 1838, was destroyed by
fire 40 years ago and wasn’t rebuilt. Wyatt in the
early ’fifties started to build the Prince of Wales
Theatre on the site of Moss’s Cherry Tree Inn,
Castlereagh-street. It was opened in 1855 and burned
down five years later; rebuilt and again destroyed
by fire in 1872 ; built once more in 1876 and burned
down again in 1892. The building, or what was left
of it after the ’92 fire, was “re-established” and did
duty for a generation. A curious legal scrap raged
about the old Royal. Barrister Jack Want claimed
the sole use of the O.P. box, a right given him by
the lessee. Sam Lazar (deceased), whose daughter.
Victoria Moss, when she inherited the lease, refused
to recognise Want’s claim. The ’92 fire ended the
litigation. Joe Wyatt, the pioneer theatre builder,
lies in a neglected grave under a stunted tree in the
Camperdown Cemetery.
THE SALVATION OF HERMANN BLIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pi ofessor’ was the name we gave
Poor Hermann Blind, who blew the horn
In orchestras—a fellow grave ;
To music bound, a hopeless slave;
He often wished he’d ne'er been born—
All night the horn he hail to play,
And taught his pupils every day.
the French horn is an instrument
.Constructed with a weird recoil.
To him from whom the blast is sent
1 Comes back a shriek malevolent,
And Hermann for his windy toil
Cot little sleep, because, he said,
The airs still echoed in his head.
There came an operatic co.,
And Hermann’s trials were increased.
Por hours.he needs must sit and blow
W ild Wagner strains. Such was his woe
That of a sudden power ceased.
He went to bed. With scarce a sigh
He now resigned himself to die.
They brought him one his soul to mend.
“Aloft there in the heavenly choir
You'll play your instrument, my friend.”
Ihe pastor said, “world without end.’’
Burned Hermann’s eye with fever’s fire.
He swore an oath. The blow he gave
Might put the parson in his grave.
Then Hermann riseh in his bed
Poured curses on the reverend gent—
I dare not print the words he said.
His victim lay to seeming dead.
“Saved! Saved!” he cried, and fell back spent,
At his last gasp, I’m certain, well
Contented with the hope of Hell !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Someone trod on his pet Corn
Some people speak of pet corns
as if they enjoyed them. But
why have a pet corn at all? You
will learn to laugh at the worst
corn once you try “Blue-Jay.”
A “Blue-Jay” Plaster is a sooth-
ing, certain cure for the very worst
corn. You fix it in a moment,
and the pain stops. In 48 hours
the corn is cured, and can be lifted
out forever.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific prepara-
tion. The man who produced it
had made a life study of surgical
dressings. Note the illustration
below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the pain.
The wax, marked “B,” acts on the
corn alone, and nowhere else. “C”
is a rubber-coated, moisture-proof
tape, which adheres snugly and
securely.
Blue=jay
TKg Sciervti+ic
Xorrs.Erv.der
/
c
B
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS,
in Packet .
4 in Packet
1/6
All Good Chemists will supply
m
KIM
mm'p
is
Gillette
—the shaving service for every man everywhere.
This is a picture of the standard set, in neat
leather case, obtainable anywhere in Australia
at 28/6
Adjustable to any beard.
No stropping—no honing.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
MADE IN
CANADA
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
ROAD-MAKING
. ■ rfT .
All Australian Made.
MACHINERY.
Kuwolt
‘‘/A
m
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR >.d TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT”
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION. * ~* 7
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by |
shoots into drays.
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE “C”
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE
f Central - - 5993
l Hawthorn 1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agrents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LiniTHD, Recifern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WIIITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
M'PD
Cyclists, you can increase your
Miles Per Day if you ride in com-
fort. Your greatest help to comfort
is a saddle that exactly suits you
selected from the wide range of
SADDLES.
May we send you our illustrated catalogue ?
J. B. BROOKS &• CO., LTD.,
U 4 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England
Representatives in N.S.W.: Scott & Hollsitsy, ltd., 31A Pitt St., Sydney
Saturday at li lemington saw the.formal
opening; of Melbourne’s jumping season, when nags
that think twice about a hurdle are lost, and bound-
ing hopes conies oft to naught, at the last fence. The
opening promised well for the gentlemen who lay the
odds and block the total isatOr, inasmuch as several
fancied candidates for the Nationals ran satisfac-
torily, whilst nothing showed out as a paralysing
good thing. When (fold Coin, in Norman Godbv’s
stable, got away with the York Hurdle he had Two
Hlues, Haoma and Youghal following him, in that
order, and it was not very certain that the horse
from Westralia would be able to beat all, or any, of
them over three miles a month later. Being in N.
Godby's victorious stable Gold Coin is bound to be a
warm favorite if he carries the crowd’s money in
preference to Sandule and others; nevertheless the
win last Saturday, easy as it looked, was not a
quite convincing National tip. Two Blues made up
a lot of ground in the last half-mile, whilst Haoma
and Youghal did well enough, considering that they
will have the best of the weights with both the
winner and Two Blues when thev meet again next
month. Later in the day Sandule" and Bright Plume
(representing rival Godby camps and the cream of
last year’s hurdle talent) were placed in flat races;
therefore their pretensions to cut a dash in the
National, even with list. 51b. and list. lib. on
their distinguished back?, cannot be denied. Bright
Plume’s second in the 10 furlongs race, with 6st. 81b.
up, was, to the writer’s way of reckoning, a better
performance than Sandule’s third in the mile welter
with Bst. 61b. aboard. For one thing, Percolator,
who carried more weight than Sandule and beat him
by several lengths, is in the National at 121 b. less,
and if his jumping muscles are onjy fairly developed
this son of Comedy King must be hard‘ to beat in
July. On the other hand the field that Bright Plume
met was pro’ably a bit faster than the welterers,
yet the seasoned jumper finished within a length
of the winner.
The small field that went out for the Steeple
included lolaus (last year’s National victor), Yarram
Lea, Bunroy (top-weight) and Mountain God,
the notably unlucky Steepler of last winter. In
the birdcage the last-named two looked brighter
than the others, and they finished to the fore, "Bun-
roy breaking down before Mountain God ran past
him in the straight. It was an impressive perform-
ance on the part of Mountain King’s son. But the
handsome brown has been impressive on previous
occasions until he hit a fence. The two miles and
a furlong on Saturday were well within his compass,
even though he was no riper than the trainer seemed
to think him ; but until he actually wins a National
there will always be a doubt as to whether Mountain
God is quite stout enough for the longer journeys.
lolaus has all the necessary power behind, but
appears rather wanting in “class.” At present he is
wanting in condition, too, and Saturday’s defeat
doesn’t go for much. Still, the better-looking winner
finished lengths in front of him. and finished bril-
liantly.
* * * *
Victorian jumping horses made hacks of
the Sydney brigade in the £l5OO Hurdle Race and
the Steeplechase of the A.J.C. on Saturday. In both
events most of the other runners arrived in the last
stages of exhaustion. The Pistol gelding Oopina took
the hurdles from Silent Way without serious effort.
But Hingston stole the steeplechase on Cotswold
by tactics that in nine cases out of 10 would lead to
disaster. The horse must be a phenomenally good
stayer. Hingston took the hill at sprinting pace, and
was quickly out a furlong and a half alone. Also
he sharpened up speed over the hill the second time.
These tactics encouraged the riders behind to keep
on waiting for the puncture, and at one time it
looked as if Cotswold was going to win by half a
mile. Coming down hill on the last lap Baker on
Pine Park reckoned further delay was dangerous
and started riding in earnest. The old gelding unwound
a fine run and closed on the leader at the straight
entrance, but had no steam left to carry on with
and was tiring away to nothing at the end. Cots-
wold had nothing in reserve either; but, consider-
ing the use made of him, he saw the journey out
remarkably well. He set up a Randwick record for
the journey. Miss Rosslyn, also from Vic., will be
in better ’chasing trim later on. She fenced very
faultily and gave Boyd an uncomfortable ride.
There was a queer sequence of happenings during
lOsec. of the Hurdles. Yarra Yana, one of the
leaders, collapsed at the fence in front of the stand,
and practically the whole of the field swept over
the fallen rider (Berry). As the horses passed the
ambulance men rushed towards the crumpled body
of the lad, but as they reached it Colonel Knut. who
had tailed off behind, came loping along and took
the hurdle, cannoning in the next stride right into
one of the stretcher-bearers. The impact upset the
horse, tossed its rider (Grahame) into the air and
shot the third party against the rails with terrific
force. It fractured his skull, broke his jaw and
knocked some teeth down his throat, where they
created a grave bronchial obstruction. Three
casualties were being motored to hospital before the
race was over. Two races later Tommy O’Brvai,
leading horseman for Booth’s stable and the most'
successful rider of the season, who had a bad fall
at Tatt.’s meeting in April, was seriously hit about
through Pagan Chief getting knocked over in the
Nursery Handicap. As there were 24 runners, and
Pagan Chief was galloping third when it all hap-
pened, Thomas bv emerging alive participated in
something akin to a miracle.
After taking a rest over Sunday Oopina and
C'otswold were introduced to the hurdles and steeple-
chase ' again on Monday. Though Oopina began
slowly and struck heavily at the end of a mile,
none of the others had a chance when Boyd brought
him along over the last two furlongs. Hingston again
took C’otswold a long way out in the steeplechase,
and after a dashing display won easily from a
demoralised opposition. Miss Rosslyn was backed
for a barrowload, but once more jumped uncer-
tainly and somersaulted half-way round.
Newcastle delivered a good thing in the
shape of Blue Baron, one of the Cool'trim family
and a frequent winner in the vicinity of the 'coal-
mines. Bidden bv Toohey, lie took the Fl’dng on
both days, each time capsizing a red-hot favorite in
Gilray, a Linacre colt trained by William Booth.
In the Bananalund Turf Club’s second
day’s racing on Friday (King's Birthday) red-hot
favorites won the first two races by lengths. Lady
Medallist’s son. Humphrey Clinker, made one act
of the Second Trial, and Albert Wood had only to
sit on the flying Syceonelle in the New Handicap.
Among a poor lot of stayers in the Brisbane Cup
(2m.), last year’s winner, imported Golden Sunset,
was expected to lob home, but the lightweights
Prickles and Tweedsmuir made the pace too hot.
and lmpeyan, third last year, won in 3min. 245e0.,
cut three-quarters of a second off the fastest time
for the race, made by Irish Princess in 1918, and
went close lo Kennaquhair’s Australasian record, put
up at Kandwick 14 months ago.
The Meddick-Crusader combination was
expected to win the Adelaide Birthday Cup; in
fact, the tip is said to have come straight from the
horse's month. The consistent Annexit. however,
just outlasted the two Victorians Skvsa.il and Sea-
bound. The former is a once-in-a-while staver bv
The Welkin, “Who’d ha’ thought it!” popped up
again at the meeting. In the Gang Forward Stake-;,
Leahcim. who dead-heated with Lionel Attwill, paid
the remarkable dividend of £lB3 Is. for £l.
Over 50,000 League followers struggled
into the Sydney "Cricket Ground last Saturday to
watch N.S.W. “B” and “A” Thirteens rout repre-
sentative teams from Bananaland and Maoriland.
The Bananalanders were the first victims. Rex Nor-
man opened the Blue account by hoisting a neat goal
from the line at the 25yd. flag. From a scrum near
the home line Bath (Q.) butted his passage across
and Baton converted. Q. 5. N.S.W. 2. After Brown
(Q.) had made a hack of Mick Prentice and sent his
outsider Broadfoot over the chalk line, the latter
lost the leather and .Harold Horder forced. The
next score came from Dudley Seddon, who started
Johnson and Horder goahvards, then, doubling round
cleverly, accepted the final transfer from Ricketty
and shot over. Rex Norman’s boot from an awk-
ward angle missed. N.S.W. 5, Q. 5. Prentice now
took a hand, and Norman raised both flags. N.S.W.
10, Q. 5. Ryan, by a good run, increased the Blue
total to 13, Norman just failing to convert, aid
at lemon-time the scores were N.S.W. 13, Q. 5. The
second spell was more disastrous for the Northerners,
the scorers being Horder (2), Johnson, Hodgins,
Norman, Pye, tries; and by Horder (1) and
Norman (2). The Reds added tries by Potter and
Broadfoot, which made their tally 11 points. No
side: N.S.W. 37 points (9 trie-;,' 5 goals) to 11
points (3 tries. 1 goal). The Blue backs plaved
soundly, but there was no outstanding player. Holder
was seen to much better advantage than on any
previous occasion this season. lie went looking for
openings, and tackled determinedly. Fraser was
safe as custodian. Johnson and Dallas Hodgins out-
shone Bananalanders Flanagan and Bath behind the
pack. The forwards were fairly well matched. The
Northern rearguard was not clever enough in finishing
goalward movements. Prentice. Pve and Ryan were
the best Blue ruckers, whilst J. Bennett was head
and shoulders over his pack mates for Queensland.
E. P\ Brown was the only Bananaland ba~k to shine.
He ran straight, handled well and defended ably.
N.S.W. “A” v. Maoriland was so dull that thou-
sands left Jhe ground before it was 'over. The best
player on the field was Dune Thompson, the Blue
skipper, whose exhibition of scrum working places
him among the very best of this or any other period.
Blinkhorn, on the wing, Pearce, McGrath, Watkins
and Burge were always in evidence among the
ruckers. The only Maorilander to catch the eve
was B. Avery in the forwards. He worked cleverly
and hard throughout the one-sided struggle. Tailored,
the Balmain-born M.L. skipper, played second-grade
Rugger along with the other eleven.' Tom McMahon
refereed faultlessly. Since 1908 M.L. and N.S.W.
have played 23 games under Northern Union Rules
of which the Blues have won 20 and the Blacks 3.
N.S.W. has scored 602 points to Maoriland’s 317.
Monday’s Rugby League fixture between
thirteens from Bananaland and Maoriland attracted
35.000 spectators. M.L. was the first to score per
medium of Woolley, who intercepted a pass from a'
Bananalander. raced down field to Fewin, and sent to
his outsider Davidson, who ambled over and also
converted. M.L. 5, Q. 0. The Blacks soon after
again crossed in. Walters doing the trick after
another fumbling bout by Queensland backs. David-
son’s boot couldn’t raise the hunting. M.L. 8. Q. 0.
The next score was engineered by Tanered! who
breaking through the ruck, sent" to Walters, to
Avery, to Poison, back to Averv, who scored. No
<roal resulted. M.L. 11, Q. 0. ' The Reds’ defence
here began to crumble, and the result was another
score by McClymont. no goal resulting. M.L. 14.
Q. 0. Wilson was the next to get across and David-
son goaled. M.L. 19, Q. 0. Paten (Q.) now hoisted
a penalty goal from an easy spot. M.L. 19. Q. 2.
In the second half Gorman trotted over for Paten
to convert, but Woolley and Wilson in turn added to
the Maoriland total with unconverted tries. M.L.
25, Q. 7. Stanley crossed in for the Reds and Paten
goaled, thus ending a wretched display with M.L.
victorious by 25 points to 12.
On Monday the Maoriland students
downed their Sydney brethren, chiefly owing to
their forwards, who dribbled finely and showed great
pace, and Riddells, the full back. He was never at
fault when it came to bringing the right man down,
though his kicking lacked Nothling’s precision. The
Sydney backs were inclined to favor the line in
preference to kicking in and following it up, and
this is where they lost the game. As a combination
they were far superior to the visitors and had more
pace. Morgan, behind the scrum, showed improve-
ment on the previous game, but he still starves
Stanley and consequently Black. Ward and Wise-
man were very sound, particularly the latter, who
invariably made a bee-line for touch and was very
hard to stop. There was not much to choose be-
tween the opposition packs, but Sydney can improve
on the form shown by the backs.
* * * *
In Rugby Union in Sydney on Saturday
’Varsity played their best game this season. How-
ever. they just failed to get there, Manly winning
bv 19 to 13. Mingay’s forwards gave him more
opportunities to shine than Morgan’s, and in addi-
tion the Uni. skipper wus inclined to be selfish.
Wallace, playing in Farquhar’s position, showed
up very creditably, and Nothling was as- dependable
as usual at full hack. It was Mingay’s play that
gave Manly the win, though certainly lie was' aided
by Thorne in the forwards. Old Boys staved off
Easts’ attack in the first half, but thereafter the
prospective premiers scored with monotonous regu-
larity. Their hefty forwards broke up what com-
bination the 0.8.’s started with, and, with the
exception of Phillips, Hall and Stewart, the side
made feeble attempts to stop the flying heavy-
weights. Carr, of E.S., played spectacularly and
DUNCAN
THOMPSON.
cantain of
N.S.W. caainst
Macriland
resembled the bis boy (lodging the kilds. A. Walker
and Douglas were easily tne pick of the rest. The
Glebe-ba ana in game with Newtown was another
fiasco. Gwynne, of G.-8.. kept the score down by
hanging on, and prevented a record for these games
being established. Mayne, on the wing, ran fineiy
and deserved more opportunities, and Erasmus and
Harding, the former especially, showed sound foot-
ball. Norths bucked in wonderfully against Wests,
but could not go the whole distance at the pace.
Scores were equal at half-time. Fox and Garnsev
were the chief Northerners; McManemy was off.
PrendergasG of Wests, outshone any player on the
ground. Wogan was sound and put in one spec-
tacular run, and Prentice plaved his best game to
date.
* * * *
All football roads in Melbourne on Satur-
day led to either Richmond or South. The twice-
defeated Tigers were tackling the undefeated Mag-
pies, and the 30,000 who squeezed into the ground,
and afterwards pushed the fence over and slopped on
to the playing area, saw a tremendous struggle—
fast, open, clever and exciting. At first the Rich-
mond men were slow at finding their feet; but by
half-time they held a small advantage. Then ’Woo'd
had their turn and got as far as 16 points to the
good, but the Tigers came again and drew level with
02 points all. For 15 minutes the game was in the
balance, but just on time a Richmond forward shot
his boot to the passing ball and scored the point
that meant everything—o 3 to 'Wood’s 52. Lee
kicked three lovely goals, but his two mates, though
they had abundant shots, were off the target. After
South’s lamentable exhibitions this season nobody
expected much of a struggle against Carlton; still,
25.000 paid to see the rout that wasn’t. For the
Red-and-Whites, though toiling hopelessly in arrear
most of the afternoon, lasted better and put in such
a fierce last quarter that they actually led once by
8 points. Then the Old Blues woke uu to the awful
position and managed to make a draw of it —10
goals, 10 behinds each. Carlton’s best excuse was
that before half-time they lost a good man, taken
away to hospital with a broken leg.
The Association, in which Port. Northcote and
’Scray lead, is coming into notoriety by reason of
the players’ fondness for stoush; so" much so that
the Hawthorn club has threatened to chuck the
competition. On Saturday ’Scray fell on P’ran at
Toorak Park with such violence that half-a-dozen
players were laid out. while an uncivilised barracker
stiffened P’ran’s full back with a brick. He was
arrested, hut the unfortunate goal-keeper was in
hospital and still dead to the world late on Satur-
day night.
* * *
In Sydney on Saturday, under Australian
Rules, Newtown led Easts at the end of the third
quarter by 47—32. However, in the final stretch.
Easts held them down to one point while they
notched 12. The issue hung on a mark by Little
at the “bell.” but a minor point went up and
Newts, won by 48—44. Norths, on their own
ground, crushed Balmain by 92—49. The great
high-marking by Fitzmaurice, Casey and Ryan was
responsible. Railway put up 13 goals 13 behinds
(91) against Sydney’s 5 goals 3 behinds (33). The
first round, concluded on Monday, was remarkable
for the heaviest scoring of the season. Easts fell
on Balmain by 21 goals 22 behinds (148) to 7
goals 7 behinds (49). Knott got 10 goals and
Richards 7. North Sydney beat Paddington by
78—68: and Railway were too good for Newtown
by 53 —22. North Sydney (24 points). East Syd-
ney and Railway (20 points each) head the premier-
ship scramble at present.
Under Soccer rules on Monday Queens-
land thrashed N. S. Wales at Sydney by 2 goal-
to 0. The opening half was scoreless. In the second
Queensland’s short passing was too much for the
home side, and the N. S. Wales backs had a
strenuous time in defence. Brown (Q.) was the best
man on the field.
* * * *
A good deal of nonsense has been written
about the line the English Test selectors may get
from the success of Jardine (Oxford) and Ashton
(Cambridge) against the Australian bowling. There
are two ways of trying in cricket —plain trying and
trying hard. Australian Xl’s usually give a demon-
stration of the first class of effort against the student
teams. Ashton, who hit up his century with ease
at Fenner’s last week, would find an altogether dif-
ferent atmosphere at one of the Test grounds ; and,
indeed, the Cantabs got a taste of the real stuff
in their second innings, when batsmen who had
knocked Mailey all over the field at a first attempt
suddenly found him unplayable. Pellew’s 146 must
have been an attractive effort. When the S.A.
champion scores fast he scores very fast and in a
style that is the last word in beauty. Andrews,
with 59, was the other big contributor to Aus-
tralia’s 362, and the ’Varsity was licked by an
innings.
* * * *
The most interesting addition to the Eng-
lish Test team to meet the Australians on Saturday
is C. B. Fry. The big 49-year-old Oxonian was
probably as good an all-round athlete in his day as
England ever produced. A champion bat and fast
bowler, a crack soccer player (and in the first
flight as an exponent of the Rugby game), the holder
for years of the world's long-jump record, which he
put up as an undergrad at the Queen’s Club, and a
useful horseman, tennis player and boxer, he has
been in condition practically all his life. Vet it is
hard to believe he is still up to international cricket
form, and it would certainly have been absurd to
make him captain over the head of the experienced
Douglas. Durstori, who was rested by Middlesex —a
precaution which will presumably scandalise the
OiisEHVKii—is to do the fast bowling, and Parkin has
been included on his recent form, though Australia
found him easy on Australian wickets.
Middlesex crashed by eight wickets
against the so-far undefeated visitors. The champion
county didn’t even hope for a win, judging by the
team selected. It included Crutchley, who by rights
is a Second XI man; Tanner, who is almost un-
known; and Kidd, who is never played in an import-
ant county fixture. Batting first the home team
amassed 111 and again 90, no one displaying anv
confidence against the Australian attack save Hearne.
Ills 4;> in the second innings was chanceless. The
Australians, who had opened with 171, hit up the
requisite balance at their second effort for the loss
of Andrews (10) and Macartney, who was l.b.w. to
llaig first ball.
At S.vd ne .v Stadium on Saturday night
Billy Shade, of America, settled the last of the pre-
tenders to his scalp that Australia possesses in the
person of Albert Lloyd. Albert is no fistic Carbine.
He is of the honest, cart-horse type of pug, always
a trier and earnest, and there with a kick if allowed
to p ace it, but extremely slow over the job. He
found Shade so fast that he was constrained to fight
on the retreat and rely on counters to stop the eager
foe. Hut none of them found the Yank at the right
time, or in the right place, and meanwhile Shade
was solving the rather simple pugilistic riddle which
“ , F r oni the half-way mark onwards he
administered heavy left hooks followed bv crosses
to the head, and under this treatment Lloyd gradu-
ally faded away, and collapsed in the 14th.
Shivering in his dressing-room at the Mel-
bourne Stadium, Francisco Flores sighed for the
steamy warmth of his native Philippines. The cold
made him feel like Jugurtha in the Baths of
nf+n a -' ld x-c ls was depressed by a memory
of the scientific hiding administered bv one Brogan
Moreover, his guard is poor, and of in-fighting he
VX s The result was that the Victorian
lightweight Dick Johnson added another scalp to
his belt. For a round or two it looked as if the
Main la man might collect, but the white vouth soon
mastered his crude tactics and gave him a rare
hammering. Asia was down and almost settled in
it* * lxtl b but he St. ussier] on gamely enough until
the tenth, when his seconds tardily intervened with
<i towel that had ouoc been white.
, N.. S. Wales 25-mile walking championship
t t -icti , v CtHr, i’i Pa^ k i rS - vdne T) 0,1 Monday was unat-
tractive. Eleven began the trudge, but long before
the end most of the competitors were in a bad wav.
veteran AN. Pitt early took the lead, and at 13
miles was nearly a lap (about a mile) to the good -
but at 20 miles he collapsed. After restoratives had
been poured into him he started again, and hung
out mechanically long enough to win bv a mile
in 4hr 24min. 25sec. J. A. llourke finished second
( Hi!’. 34nun. 49sec.), and M. J. McNamara wandered
along nearly 7min. later. The record for the event
(4hr. Omin. 24 l-ssec.) stood the strain. Pitt, who
is 33 years old, has an appetite for this sort of
thing, and is credited with trudging from London
to Brighton (51 f miles) in Bhr. 38min. But the
whole affair called loudly for the S.P.C.A.
In the inter-’Varsity championships at
Brisbane (iy.) last week, Melb. reps, won seven events
and N. S. Wales three out of the 10 staged. D. \V.
Gale (Melb.) took the 100yds. ‘(10 2-ssee.), 220yds.
(23 2-ssec.), and 440yds. (52sec.) ; J. X. O’Driscoll
(M.) put in a good mile (4min. 41 3-ssec.), and R.
Kean-Cohen took the half-mile (2min. 44sec.), R.
Hardison (Syd.) won the high jump (sft. 7in). and
J. Foote (Syd.), the 120yds. Hurdles (16sec.). T.
B. Dodds (M.) threw the hammer 115 ft. 24in.»-10ft.
81in. .better than his own record’dn 1919; ‘and L E
Le Souef’s (M.) shot putt of,37ft. 4in. was the odd
inches better than O. Nothling’s record. The points
aggregates were Melbourne 18, Sydney 11 and Queens-
land 1.
SAFETY FIRST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Melbourne umpires have demanded a guard of
six policemen to take them on to the ground, six foot
and two mounted police to see them salelv oil', and a
picketed barricade, se\en feet high amt netted a.I
over, leading from the playing arena to the umpires’
dressing-room.”
Why not devise an aeroplane,
Or, say, a captive small balloon,
In which the referee might reign
Throughout a fearsome afternoon?
When come the heathen at the charge,
He needs but sharply cut the hank
That tethers him to soar at large
Above the pushites rude and rank.
Or who could get
An umpire set
Securely in an armored tank?
Perchance it were a better way
The football audience to throw
In barbed-wire fastnesses, as they
Controlled in France the captured foe.
Thus held all harmlessly the crowd
Its passion furious assuages
With curses long and roarings loud.
Not umpires but the push that rages
So pen that they
Must watch the play
Contained in mighty iron cages!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Learn Boxing: by Mail
—and by the aid of the Baker Course
you will he able to hold your own
with your fists anywhere. Every man
who is able to box has a valuable
asset, and
Man
by this system the whole of the fascinating art of
self-defence from the very rudiments up to the high-
est stages of the game. The Baker System is simple
and self-explanatory. It is based on the personal
experience of this famous athlete amongst the world's
greatest exponents of self-defence. It takes the
student by easy stages, and teaches him all the "ins
and outs” of boxing.
If you want to learn simply write your name and
address across this advertisement, enclose three
stamps to cover postage, and you will receive a copy
of the fascinating booklet, “Scientific Boxing in
Your Home,” which describes the course in detail,
and gives all particulars as to terms, etc.
k
Jm
.•.v.;.y.'.WAWtowK;
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
496 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Cinema Motor Generators.
Wo Specialise in the Supply of Motors for Cinema Shows.
They are self-starting.
No starting device is required other than the D.l\ switch.
They are more cheaply installed.
They are fool proof. They are over load proof.
They will give Double Full Load Torque at Starting.
I)\names of interpole type which ensures steady running and absence of sparking.
FULL DETAILS AND PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
Homewood & O’Neill
Pty.
Ltd.,
Head Office & Warehouse:
.172-176 William Street,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1:
Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop >’o. 2:—
Ferrars Street.
South .Melbourne.
Sydney Office:—
375 Oeorge Street,
Sydney.
Wonderful
THAT’S the reputation of the FULLER & JOHNSON
Farm Pump Engine a reputation built up on satis-
factory pumping service in every country on the
globe and under every kind of pumping condition. This
wonderful service has made this engine tremendously
popular throughout Australia.
All who are using this engine have found it to be one
of the best paying investments they ever made.
Ask users you will find them everywhere.
The Original
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
comes all complete, ready to attach to any ordinary
windmill pump or standard—no extras of any kind are
needed. It is always ready for service.
Where windmills are already installed the Farm Pump
Engine is frequently used as an auxiliary to absolutely
insure a constant and adequate water supply.
The FULLER & JOHNSON Farm Pump Engine can
be quickly and easily set up and put into operation.
Use
(Fuller & Johnson
Power
Fuller & Johnson Engines are
distributed by
The S. A. Farmers’ Co-operative
Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
m
ft
m i
OH
B
Sold Everywhere.
-4 dreary place would he this earth
Were there no little people in it.
The sony of life would lose its mirth
11 ere there no children to. he yin it.
There s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health—chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS.
DO NOT DELAY A SINGLE DAY.
Avoid serious illness by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
s
Better Hammers
Better in quality, better in balance, better
in value, better in finish.
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
Engineers’ Ball Pein Hammers
:iro made from the very best cast-Steel, and can
be relied on for longer and better service.
Sizes in stock: 1, I}, I*, If, 2, 2], and
■3 lb.
All prices reduced. Obtain particulars from
Department “A.”
The Eagle SI Globe
Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital Highspeed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street,
3(il I.alrobe Street, Melbourne.
Cliff' Street, Fremantle.
>l»lin Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
I’aul £ Cray, Ltd., Newcastle.
B. L. Illigran, Collins Street, Hobart.
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian=made).
Price £125.
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
THORXLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
Gin. centres x Gft. bed; IMn. Hollow Spindle; Swing in Gap.
20in. din. x 7Mn. wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground : All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding: Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller —
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for complete specifications to
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


ORl—Sporting Life, high grade, cut
gold bar Tobacco, specially prepared
and packed for Farmer's from selected
Virginia leaf. Per ounce, 9d ; per
half pound, 5/9; per pound, 11/6.
OR2 Victoria House Smoking
Mixture; f lb. tins, 3/-. j lb. tins,
6/-. Price per pound, 11/9. "The
Four Winds’’ Mixture, f lb. tins, 4/-;
j ib., 8/-; 1 lb., 15/-.
Smoking Mixtures
That never have an “off-day”
Farmer’s Tobaccos and Cigarettes are reliable as
well as unusually good. They never have an “off
day”. If you are not acquainted, send for sample tin.
OR3—Farmer’s Hand-made Cigarettes, special Virginian,
plain, gold, cork tipped. Per box of 50, 3/6; of 100, 7/-.
Farmer’s, Sydney
We pay
carriage.
HARs
ORI
Box 497
G. P. O.
OR2
HIF
4 s"
I 0- 1 .
>JK to
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAK.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne.
Nest Her [?] Theatre.
I lie opening of the Birthday meeting at
r lemington was a bright social circumstance.
On tins day last year Edward I*. made a
“‘•st racecourse appearance; but Sassietv
was more gorgeous on Saturday than it was
e\eii then. The lawn looked like a slice
ot the Orient, the colors were so vivid.
lhe craze for woollens in shouting tones
is growing. In one group of daughters of
the merino peerage a complete outfit in
cherry color gossiped to a fair flapper who
was purple from nose to toes. Reside them
glowed one girl in n henna hat and a brick-
red cape, and another wlm had the magenta
of an aster knitted into her frock. Every
yellow, from orange to primrose, had an in-
nings against the green of the lawn. One
\ Yes tern District girl gof her shriek out of
shoes made from baby crocodile. You could
see the scales wiggle as sl\e walked. There
was an apple-green velvet turnout with.
lichen-givy fur, and one happy woman turned
ii broad-brimmed hat slap up oil' her face
and swaggered in a Foresters’ green cloak.
.Mrs. Waters got her effect out of 50 wild-
cat skins sewn together. The Madden
dame was in smooth black furs. Mrs. Watt
stuck to subdued tailorings, but brought an
ornamental daughter in white and henna
wool, with a fisherman’s cap. Mrs. W.
‘Oggins was in skunk furs. .Mrs, Whiting’s
embroidered navy serge came to a full stop hi
the vicinity of her knees, and Mrs. Lee
Atkinson’s attenuated fawn suit was very
smart. Mrs. Mungawalla Winter hid her-
S'clt inside a wealth of sables, while Mrs.
Jack Sternberg mixed gold and Venetian red
"/th mole furs. Eileen Hughes's husband,
Captain Feelian, scored a win with Mountain
<»od; but Eileen was not there to see—she
is abrawd.
The 'ice-regal pen was deserted. The
Earl came out, but stuck dose to tile sport-
ing centre, and gave l a lunch party for men
in the vice-regal rooms. The Countess was
home ill, and I.ad.v Helen stayed with her.
Captain Anson and Keppcl Palmer and
Commander Haggard got round cheerfully in
tweeds. The shining tophats of the aides
have gone.
hor half-au-hour the Earl was kept busy
shaking hands with the noble (iOO who turned
lip at the Birthday levee at the State House.
1 here had been inner-circle dreads that the
function would be a frost; so McCall the
Magnificent came to the aid of Neil Smith,
who is a novice at the game, and the result
was a good house, iiicre waB ample pub-
licity and pretty free circulation of private-
entree cards, and the display was about the
best since the State nreviously had an Earl
(Hopetoun) for its Rubber Stamp. Irvine
in his gold-lace, Supreme Court Judges in
scarlet and ermine, and ’Varsity grads, in
blight silks provided glitter and color to sup-
plement the flag and pot-plant decorations.
Lieut.-Commander Hagard, D.S.C., has
come in as an extra gent.-help to the Gov-
ernor. The Earl is such a cheerful starter
and shover that he can’t get through all
the work offering; and ns liis Countess has
been running a temperature, daughter Helen
has to handle a few remnants. And that
means a separate detachment of aides, etc.
. mat ‘ Q ee at Her Majesty’s for the
‘mild Appeal means a cheque for close on
£lOOO. Stars from all the theatres did their
bit. Gladys Moncrieff lit up the grey day
with hunters’ pink and white and her gor-
geous voice, and Robert Chisholm thun-
dered out the Toreador song. Dot Brunton,
wrapped in. a sea-blue woollen cape, did
some auctioneering. Fred Esmelton staged
a burlesque of Camille, with Lizette Parkes
as his Armand. The players got some fun
out of it, anyhow. The numbers strung out
till nearly 0 o’clock, but the house lapped
up every bit. Finally; there was a movie—
newly cooked—of the arrival of each star.
'Hie house was crammed. The Verv Xaicest
were all there. The Earl sat in a box with
Endy Helen Rous and various aides. Frankie
I eterson was in the fifth row of the stalls
and made a noise like an annoyed author.
He had written a playlet which the mum-
mers sliced joyously before they produced it.
The elevation to the marquisate of that
very superior person, Curzon of Kedleston,
may be the prelude to a royal engagement.
At any rate Lady Denies, writing in the
aohtu American Review, mentions that'
Albert Duke of York is enamored of Marie
Irene, the eldest Curzon girl, and the Decies
dame ought to know, being a friend of the
family. She was Helen Jay Gould until she
married into the De la I’oer Beresfords, a
elan which has several representatives in
the Commonwealth : and the first Lady Cur-
zon was Mary Leiter. of Washington.
Albert, the tallest and most athletic of the
King’s sons, was 25 in December, and Mary
Irene, whose looks are praised by discrim-
inating judges, is a month younger." When
her father goes up the golden stairs she will
inherit his barony of Ilavensdale.
Dress-reformers have a new peg to hang
their lectures on. ' After the Shaw-Ross
avro crashed it was discovered that a splin-
tered high heel had been half-torn from the
shoe of the girl passenger who was killed.
It looks as though the heel had wedged in
somewhere and jambed the rudder. The
poor little lass was out motoring with her
boy on the day of the disaster, and as they
passed an aerodrome they decided on the
impulse of the moment to make a flight.
There are no restrictions on dress in these
flights, though at some aerodromes passen-
gers are offered a heavy overcoat and a
helmet from among the “props.” Hitherto,
girls who do not prepare their dress, but
go up "as they are,” have suffered, at the
worst, a shout of laughter from onlooker.;
as they did the ballet climb over the edge of
the cab; but there is a real danger in air-
riding in flimsies and skirts and scarves.
Men are often equally foolish. In a flight
some months ago a man got the flapping ends
of his long raincoat jambed. It was re-
leased in time to save disaster, but the
plane did some high jinks before the cause
of the trouble was discovered. The Fisher-
man’s Bend disaster might have the effect
of tightening up the lax public-aviation re-
gulations and bring about some definite rules
as to what must not be worn in aircraft
sport.
Jascha Heifetz is properly particular that
his tie and collar are of the same pattern
as those sported by Smith and Jones, and,
therefore, not calculated to betray him off-
stage as a fiddler or any other genius. He
can make music on the piano as well as the
fiddle, and modestly admits to being able
to tackle a jazz-band drum at a pinch.
Jascha lately fiddled in Spain, where fun
and frivols rage until daylight. Asked if
he was having a gay time in Melbourne, "I
suppose,” answered the youth ingenuously,
"one could have a good time here !”
Public men were astonished at the accept-
nnee of a C.M.G.-ship by Arthur Robinson,
Attorney-*icnoml and loader for the Govern-
meat in the Lppali Ghambah. Collins House,
where lie is something of a magnate, was also
flabbergasted, and guessed that lie must be
mighty fond of decorations when lie allows
hinisell to be placed on the same level as
second-rate departmental officials. To have
services in three Houses and notable work as
a Minister assessed at that price was re-
garded as a very poor compliment. Zeal and
J. M. Davies spurned offers of “honors” that
were below the dignity of their office < I’resi
dent of the Landlords), and probably Robin-
son would have been better thought of in
the Colonial Office if he also had told
Churchill to "keep it till it grows.”
Captain Wright, who has gone to Rabaul
as Official Secretary, is 36 and a typical
Digger. Twice he
was in France—the
first time he was
returned invalided—
and later, at head-
<l ua r ters in Mel-
bourne, he was staft'-
officer for invalids.
In 1020 he took
over the secretary-
ship of the Automo-
bile Club, and dur-
ing his eight or nine
months in the job
he bumped the mem-
bership - u p f 8 o m
146 to 5,50. He is
a son of Canon S.
H. Wright, of New-
castle (N.S.W.),
and has a young
Australian wile and a brace'of infants who
are going to share his life in the tropics.
There is no clamor in this State for
women justices, and it is even doubtful if
our Act permits of their being gazetted,
as the pronouns “In?” and “his” are used
in the sections referring to appointments.
Municipal chairmen, whether presidents or
mayors, are entitled to sit on the bench for
their year of office and for the succeeding
12 months. If Mrs. Itobers. now a coun-
cillor, becomes Mayor of Richmond sh,e
would automatically be a J.P.; but the
Governor-in-Council could, under a section
of the Justices Act, direct her not to exer-
cise magisterial functions.
Police-Commissioney John Gellibrand’s
brother Walter and one of the Apple Island
Nicholas girls will take each other for better
or worse one day this month, and after a
short honeymoon will track off to visit rela-
tions in British Columbia. Walter (ielli-
brand tends his woolly lambs on a fine run
in the Speck.
Canon and Mrs. Shoobridge, of Hobart,
aie making ready to hand their youngest
chick, Amy, over to the Rev. Ormonde Bircn,
a padre with the British troops in Hong
Kong, who lately came back to his native
Aussie to see his widowed mother. He
earned a Military Cross when doing his bit
as an Anzac chaplain, but he got his bap-
tjsm of tire_ as an Aussie private in the
S African War. The twain first met when
the khakied cleric was serving as curate to
Canon Shoobridge in Slowbart. Brother
Frank Birch, who also sports a collar but-
toned at the back, is a sky pilot at the
Jervis Bay Naval College. The bride-elect
is a niece of Dr. Davenport, of St. Kilda.
Val Buchanan, a popular Toorak damsel
who lately unloaded her Saratoga after land-
ing back from a Cold Country trip, is now
preparing to repack her trunks with trous-
seau frocks apd furbelows, having made a
matrimonial date with Austin Butler, whose
widowed mother shelters in Como-avenue,
Toorak. The pair’s sweetheart da vs began
while they were in the flapper stage.
“The Magic and Science of Jewels and
Stones” is the title of the latesl work by
our Dr. Isidore Kozniinsky, pictured here
by tin* Burlington
Studios. lie Ims
been engaged on 'it
for several years, and
recently left for New
York with the manu-
script. lie has taken
also a wonderful col-
lection of gems, with
which the work is to
be illustrated. Added
to the Australian
stones arc to be some
notable illustrations
from abroad. Lady
Ast o r lent the
famous "Saucy'’ dia-
mond. and Professor
Sir William Ridge-
way, of Cambridge,
and l)r. George
liedorick Ivuuz, tlio fatuous gem expert lisivi*
ulso niado valuable loans. The “hook"’is to
be a heavy-weight affair of several volumes,
aiul will be encyclopaedic in its treatment of
(he subject. The author deals with ni.vth-
«dogy in a new way, giving a fresh twist
to i lie legends associated with gems and
stones, and as a result, scientific matters-of-
, l< ‘ 1 ri ‘ af ‘ a *' ( ' page's of romance. Kozmin-
sk.v, who is our chief authority on arclnr-
ology as well as on gems, is an Australian
and still a young man, in spite of the wisdom
<>l tiie ages lie lias stowed away.
Mrs. Crooke ( Ada, Menzies that was) died
a the homestead of her husband's squattage
Holey I lam, Hosedale, last week. Her pass-
ing w;iH make life greyer for the widower,
v .toiler Crooke, one of the oldest and best-
liked members of the House of Landlords.
I here are four children to mourn with him.
-Marie Bremner, who won the 1021 Melba
scholarship at the Conserve tori uhq is the 17-
year-okl daughter of Ernie Bremner, of Glen
lluntly. She has a soprano voice of promis-
ing quality, and if she has as,much push as
lu*r dad she will get there. He had the
courage to throw up the civil service because
promotion was too slow, and because when
lie made a big effort to popularise brown coal
he went unrecognised. lie is now managing
a motor firm, is senior vice-president of the
A.X.A., and in his spare time is in training
to be next year’s chief president.
Marjorie Ansell, a Toorak damsel, has
gained the Enoch £->0 scholarship for singing
at the Conservatorium. She is a daughter
of Ronald Ansell, and is said to be a song-'
bird to make you pause and listen.
The Governor and Lady Helen Rous, his
daughter, colles±e4 a house-warming party
one day last week. It was for the opening
of the new Malvern Theatre, which turned
out a wonder of comfort. The theatre is
fan-shaped, and dinky radiators of high
power are studded into the walls. There
is a snug lounge done in dull gold and Dutch
blues by young decorator Higgins, and tilings
are so arranged that Sassiety may give tea-
and supper-parties after a show. Con-
venient telephone tables are dotted about
Mendel Snider, a young Maorilander fra
Dunedin, has the new theatre, with a net-
work of other suburban movies. His wife
received the guests. She is also a Dunedin-
ite, and was one of the famous J.C.W. Pony
Ballet girls.
D. G. Macdougall has been appointed
Registrar at the Alfred Hospital. He ran
the recent appeal for the Alfred, and made
such a success of it that the hospital raked
m iIo.OOO, and will be able to practically
double its bed-capacity. With the increase
of room, the cost of maintenance will rise
hugely, and Macdougall’s job will be to
furnish a continuous silver lining to the
cloud of anxiety that hovers over a big
charitable institution. The new quarters for
tile nurses are well under way, and will be
opened in February next.
Every warning to giddy husbands is
inevitably a hint to incredulous wives, so
the divorce case of Mr. and Mrs. Albon, of
Kyabram, must not he overlooked. The
wife had been quite unsuspicious of hubby s
doings away from the domestic circle, when
she found in his pocket, not a billet-doux,
or photo, or draper’s bill, or any other of
the old, accepted give-aways, but just
chocolates— crushed chocs. Perfidious man
takes precautions against loose golden hairg
and marks of face powder. But up to now
he has been unwary as regards such things
as honey kisses.
"We put gold in people’s mouths and
take" “gold out ot their pockets,”
chipped in Alec Peacock, the Education Min-
ister, when the teetli-doctors came to see him
about a ’Varsity professorship the other
day. "No, no,” explained the precise mem-
ber of the deputation—“only notes. Our
customers’ mouths are our Treasury. They
hold our gold.”
The Northern Golf Club, which has its
links in the wilds of Glenroy, is spreading
itself on a ball due on June 1(3 at the Moonee
Ponds Town Ilall.
Hobart Sassiety folds its hands with Mrs.
Grundyish satisfaction because “the Allardyce
girls now wear gloves, and have given up
smoking— at least in public. The poor little
town was horrified when the young ladies
from Government House lit up cigarettes at
an afternoon jazz party soon after their
arrival.
1 h rough people making too frequent
casualties of themselves, the work of the
A ictorian Civil Ambulance has .so increased
that the present cars can’t manage the calls.
\\ ith a view to the purchase of a new motor
some good souls are arranging—of course—a
jazz. The Countess has given her blessing
and promised a family party, and the Misses
Ilyums are organising the affair, which is
to come off oil June' 20 in the St. Kilda
Town Hull.
It looks as though the weaker sex is going
to shame the Government into providing more
Police protection tor .Melbourne. Crime is
rile, and housebreaking and hold-ups are
daily occurrences: nevertheless the Chief
was a bit surprised when the other day this
communication came to hand:—
Mur 1 herewith apply for a position as an
honorary policeman? I am :il years of age. and
h/ive a good deal of experience in “the tangled
side of human nature.” I make this application
mostly in the interests of girls, young women and
children, whom I have oil on seen abused and pes-
tered by larrikins.
It was from a woman!
A eoo-ee from Adelaide:—
I lie Mayoress of the city recently visited the
Burra, and incidentally the Girls’ Reformatory,
" here a short time ago the damsels smashed win-
dows, nearly tore the place down, and finished up
hy sitting astride the ridge-pole and playfully pelt-
ing the police with stones. The Mayoress, who evi-
dently lias heard about music taming something, is
arranging a bridge afternoon at the Town Hall to
luise funds for the purchase of a gramophone and
records for this institution.
There was a big gathering of golfers and their
friends, including his Ex. and his two A.D.C.’s.
when the foursome competition for the captain’s
trophy was played at Seaton links. The captain
and his wife, Mrs. Frank Irwin, gave afternoon tea,
and entertained at small tables in front of the pavi-
lion.
The Jevrc at Government House on Friday was
unique in South Axis. His Ex. made it clear be-
forehand that anyone and everyone could come along
and it turned out a pot pourri of past, present
and future. The veterans, who were invited, repre-
sented the past, the general public the present, and
the schoolchildren—one from every public school,
selected by ballot—-stood for the future.
The juveniles are certainly being brought to the
fore. The Mayoress has an advertisement in the
dailies to the effect that a book is now open at the
town Hall in which the infant may inscribe its
name and address, and so secure invitations for com-
ing festivities.
Humphrey Bishop, whose operatic co. has been
taken to Adelaide’s bosom, lunched with his Ex.
on Thursday. In the afternoon the vice-regals had
an amateur crowd, “The Entertainers,” at Govern-
ment House to tea and cake.
Never since we have had an Elder Hall has the
annual \ arsity Ball taken place anywhere else;
but this year the director, Harold Davies, rules
otherwise, and on June 10 the function will happen
in the Town Hall. A long list of debs, promises a
battalion of white-robed maidens. A. B. Barker
and G. B. Culross are the joint secs.
The Adelaide Rowing Club is reviving that popu-
lar pre-war festivity the annual ball, a function
whereat champagne used to flow and all he merry
and bright. It is the younger generation, of course,
that has the matter in hand now.
Mrs. Elizabeth Thomson, of Mt. Pleasant, who
passed out recently, first went to that district as
Elizabeth Forster in the days of the gold diggings,
and there she married Francis Thomson nearly 4fi
years ago. It was by that marriage she became the
aunt of R. T. Melrose, M.L.C. Five daughters and
on’e son survive her.


/a
FITTINGS
Build the Perfect Bicycle.
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings* is depend-
able, looks good and is cheaper in the long run
than the machine which in first cost is much
less than the B.S.A.
| You can compare a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings by every possible test with a
so-called cheap bicycle, and you will readily
understand why a B.S.A. is the cheapest machine
in the end.
Year in and year out this bicycle will give
unfailing service, providing many hours of real
enjoyment because of its easy running and comfort.
The choice of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is a businesslike decision; the economy,
reliability and freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A. a sound investment
which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. riders say there is nothing to equal the satisfaction which the bicycle
of the “Three Piled Rifles” gives.
The range of models and constructional improvements shown in the B.S.A. catalogue
will illustrate why the bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is so popular.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
Look for the B.S.A. three piled rifles trade-marks; they
are stamped on the Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat-
pillar Lug, Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back
Stay Bridge, Hubs and Pedals.
These trade-marks carry with them a guarantee of long
and reliable service, and are backed by a reputation of
over sixty years’ standing.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A. Fittings are Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don’t
be put off with “pattern fittings,” but look for the B.S.A.
Trade-marks on EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
Send for 3.5. A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
REPRESENTING TIIE B.S.A. CO., LTD., BIRMINGHAM,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.
'" A
m
%
s


Charles
Bhdsiecks
Vintage 1911
CfflflPHW
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
/zl.
'OB9
5%
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
Thone Cent. 4954.
IYI. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
/
BOND’S Australian-Made
*
m
i
i
“ Ladder-
Proof”
Hose
In PURE SILK of
Luxuriously Soft
Quality, but possessed
of such remarkable capacity for service that
EVERY PAIR IS GUARANTEED
not to Ladder, Hole, or Tear.
“LADDER-PROOF” is undoubtedly
the Hose that YOU ought to Buy
“FOR SPECIAL WEAR.”
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Ankles are worn thin this winter, and
Claude Cumberlege has a shepherd's plaid
suit. These indexes to the fashions of the
season were shown at, Bandwick on the first
day of the June meeting. Snake-skin shoes
and aeeordeon pleats ran a close second, but
the lady in the Czeciio-Slav embroideries
played a lone hand. Joan Rolin helped Eve
to get a retaliatory foot on the serpent,
and so did Dr. Clayton's wife, who for the
rest was very smart in cream-embroidered
tailorings and nigger-brown millinery. Nellie
Leach, just back from America, had saved on
her Paris frock by cutting it short. With
her brief sleeves and elongated grey kids she
carried a walking-cane with an amber top.
Tittle Kath Williamson tried to smuggle
ihe whole of her small blue-clad self into
her wide bunny stole; Mrs. Tony 4 lordern
wore a blue-featliered headpiece, and other-
wise was black-and-white stripes; Mrs. Wil-
lough by clad her famous figure in a cloth
that was bluely green, the coat made three-
quarter length, and finished off with a deep
band of monkey> fur; Mrs. F. G. Sargood
was in soft black satin that held a line of
flame color in its drapings, and some per-
fectly gorgeous furs. Cream coats and skirts
are "in'’ once more, evidently in the hope
of petrol being reduced 50 per cent. The
Belgian Consul Segaerts, as usual, smiled
whether they lost or won. And the Walter
Bruntons made a perfectly scandalous scoop
over their horse Tully Bush.
Ermine and near-ermine was everywhere,
but the vice-regal pew boasted the finest
array of animal skins. Lady Forster was
enveloped in a cloak of mole that had an
adorable blue brocade lining, and Dame Mar-
garet was weighted down with animal heads
and tails and claws. With the State Exes,
was pianist Mrs. Swinson, with a dream of
Levitzki in her eyes.' The cold stillness of
winter hung over the afternoon, and looking
from the stands over the flat one got a
sky effect that a Corot or a Gruner might
almost have planned—layers of grey with
a. faint gold shining through brooding, reflec-
tive clouds that seemed to be weaving the
gossamer mist that floated from their surface.
The music orgy continues. Levitzki, fol-
lowing hot on the heels of Heifetz, flashed
out blood-red streams of the piano last week
as a Swinburne poem when tapped pours out
bacchanal floods. Whereas the violin of
Heifetz had suggested that its master’s sole
diet had been the food brought him by
ravens from Heaven, Levitzki’s art shows
no sign ot either that or a vegetarian menu ;
rather it expresses a nice sense of the bou-
quet of old wines and young loves. Like all
professional musicians he lias the arm devel-
opment of a prize fighter, and, as is the way
of the new school, lie sits mouselike at his
instrument. Thursday night saw the Town
Hall crammed with music-lovers, concert-
goers and celebrities. Marie Tempest’s en-
trance in a tomato-red velvet cloak that had
a high collar of soft brown fur caused more
excitement than the separate entrances of
the Yice-Regals—Lady Forster right on time
for the first note of “God Save.” of which
Levitzki makes a seven-reeler; the Dame and
Bir Walter and Mrs. Swinson (Beatrice
Griffiths that was) coming in just before
midway. The Cherniavsky trio were there,
distinctly siding with what th/S daily press
calls “the encore nuisance.” The delicate-
looking Jan of the curling hair and the too-
brightly-flushed cheeks, asked by the man
alongside if he didn’t consider “this encore
business” a great nuisance, replied in liis
husky voice: “Oh, I do not think so. Tt is
very nice to hear from the back.” And
thereupon he redoubled his own efforts.
Ida Adams, who had found Melbourne too
cold for more than a three-days’ stay, was
one of the listeners; the National Council
of Women was represented by Gladys Marks;
and the usual collection of young R.C. priests
and half the synagogue came to the feast.
When Levitzki had cleared the last en-
thusiast from his room he made straight
for the Kimo Cafe, where Rubi Trelease’s
birthday party was in /nil swing. (Rubi.
by the way, is a Maorilander acclimatised to
America.) Everybody theatrical was there
—Joe Coyne; good-looking Doris Duane;
Marie La Yarn-: impresario Meyer: French
boxer Dupre; Ida Adams. It was a great
party, because everybody was a star of
greater dr lesser dimensions, and with them
the smooth-skinned keeper of the stellar rays,
Gravestock. Only the dawning caused them
to gradually fade away. Levitzki and the
civil-engineer brother share a flat at Hamp-
ton Court, while manager Meyer camps at
the Iviino.
Midway between the sky and the pavement
of King-street—the exact location may not
appear in print—the National Council of
YV omen spread the mat of welcome for Lady
Forster and Dame Margaret. Commanding
Gladys Marks, plump little Mrs. Lancelot
Harrison and Dr. Grace Hoe Ike were con-
trasting figures in the group in command o'
the ceremonies. The G.-G.’s kidy was, as
usual, in blue, and Sir Walter’s wife was
toned like an autumn leaf. Dear Rose Scott,
with her fascinating old-time millinery and
her striking face, was the central figure; and
at the hands of Lady Forster she received
from the Council a cheque in appreciation of
her services. True to her creed of giving,
the Council’s old president immediately pro-
posed turning the cheque into a prize of law
books for girl-students at the Uni. All the
women who have meant something in the life
of Sydney were there to applaud Miss Scott,
and to eat of the party-spread from the
jonquil-decked tables.
The King’s birthday levee was, as usuai,
chiefly notable for the socially-prominent
people who didn’t attend. Barring officials
and the ever-swelling horde of knights who
regularly litter the ballroom with aspirates,
there was hardly anyone their Exes, had ever
seen before. Tin* public discovered during
the Prince’s visit that no one can be excluded
from these functions, and the* fact threatens
to be the death of them so far as local
Society’s upper crust is concerned.
Only about half-a-dozen Old Etonians
materialised at the annual dinner given by
the G.-G. on dune -4. Charles I’urbury and
Arthur Tooth have been attending these
affairs almost since the foundation of the
State, but Colonel Pape was a newcomer.
He married a Chirnside girl whom he met
on the-Cairo trout in 1!)1(>. Mr. Goldie was
a famous Cambridge oar in his day, and Mr.
\Y estmacott is an Englishman who is con-
nected with the Gibson family of Goulburn.
The other guest, Mr. Gibbs, was described
by a Governor’s wife as the nioest-louking
and worst-dressed young man in X. S. Wales.
Here s Eirene Mort, the only woman on
the council of the Painter-Etchers’ Society,
whose show in the
Education Gallery
opened yesterday.
The etchings date
back to .1835, and
include w orks of
Duterrau, Harris;
Conrad Martens.
Montefiore, J o h n
Mathers a n d Cove-
ney. Then come the
living etchers, of
whom it may be
said they are just
as good but not so
dead. Lionel Lindsay
is one of these; and
the clever girl
Judith Fletcher has
pictured here is an-
other. Eirene has
been etching for the past 10 years.
During the jazz contest at the liavilah
Cinderella in the I’addington Town llali
last week, the chair-climbing of the on-
lookers at Katie Ardill’s wedding was beaten
by tin;, stampede of the well-undressed to
view what was going on. Hardly anybody
sat to watch the competition ; everybody
dashed on to the floor. Those who came
second in the race dragged up chairs and
stood tiptoe upon them. Barbara Laidley
and Mr. Crossing won the competition, and
the next-best demonstrators were Miss Mac-
donald and Mr. Watts, who carried off the
prize given by the Hordern lady and Mrs.
Fred King. There must have been quite
800 trying to dance; all the little Sydney
that knows one another intimately was there,
and all the next layer that will as certainly
be of the top crust when dad makes enough
money. Sam Hordern’s wife was about the
only one in the room who wore gloves—
hers wore very long and equally expensive.
There is a present-day frankness in the dis-
play of arms and legs that must- be of great
service to the student of anatomy. The
indomitable Mrs. Sep Levy took the floor
in mole velvet that was heavy with beaded
fringe: Pauline McMorran looked dashing in
apricot taffeta: the same stuff was worn by
Joan Bolin; and tall Mrs. F. (». Sargood
wore black tulle and all-gold embroideries.
Nellie Stewart’s Romeo was the hit of
tin l theatrical matinee. In the prune-
colored tights, the silver cloak and the small,
befeathered bat, our Nell made such a slim-
limbed, graceful young lad of Verona that
any .Juliet might well have lost her heart to
him. Daughter Nancye, trained by mother,
was the whispering lady in the case. But
judge of mother’s perturbed spirit when she
read in one of the reports of the afternoon
that it was her niece she had played “oppo-
site.”
Olive Crane and Kama Birmingham, two
chicks of Julian Ashton's who are beginning
to spread their wings, blushed becomingly in
the shadow of the old Master as they wel-
comed the belated Governor Davidson and
his Dame at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery to
open the show of the younger art girls. Sir
Y\ alter looked like a genial coaehdriver out
of Dickens in his light-grey topcoat and grey
boxer, and the principal features of his lady’s
attire were grey suede shoes that shrieked
aloud of real money, and a beaded bag that
an account in the post-office savings bank
doesn’t run to. Olive Crane encased her
plump face in a tight-fitting blue toque, and
otherwise was blue tailorings; and Kama
Birmingham was the same, only her hat was
black velvet. The black-and-white work is
more outstanding than the colors, though here
everybody seems dominated by the same
imagination. . Everywhere there are illus-
trations of fairy stories, though Myra Cocks
1 " ho, by the way, has illustrated two sets of
Zora Cross’s charming verse) treats her sub-
jects with freedom and a humorous grace.
\ iola Macmillan Brown’s “Pierrot by Candle-
light’ attracted the eye of the artists, and
Grace Crowley’s “Excavation” (Grace is a
teacher at the Ashton studio) is as full of
movement as a breeze.
This is what Geo. M. Purver, secretary to
Jascha Heifetz, has to say about tin; Canary
Comedy :
It had been stated to me tlut an exhibition was
to be held with a view of raisiijg money lor the
needy hospital, that birds from all over Australia
were gathered for educational purposes to acquaint
people with the lives of birds in the Southern
Hemisphere. t was told that some patrons bad
oflercd £25 to the hospital as an opening contri-
bution, and that the presence of Mr. Heifetz would
greatly assist in raising money. It was my privilege
to reply that if the patrons would raise their initial
ofler to £lOO, Mr. Heifetz himself would contribute
the £2O, and would be only too glad to help the
cause.
It developed, however, that the graceful offer
was made by Graces in consideration of the fact that
\lr. Heifetz would appear in their Department Store,
drawing large crowds eager to see the newcomer.
H meant saving hundreds of pounds in advertising
and gaining Heaven decides how much for a charit-
able contribution.
Now, to console the writer of the article on
canaries. I w ish to state that a cheque of Mr. Heifetz
for £25 was forwarded on the day of that incident
to Mr. Moss, secretary of the hospital. I myself had
the pleasure of mailing it, and would challenge Grace
Bros, to show how much have they contributed to
the hospital for the privilege of advertising in the
papers that Mr. Heifetz, would appear in their store,
which occasion -undoubtedly drew an unusually large
crowd to their establishment.
The wives of the Consuls are getting to-
gether their sets for the Sydney Hospital
Auxiliary Ball next month. One of the Con-
suls is taking his duty to his better-half
very seriously. Every evening, to the strains
of a gramophone, he practises jazz and one-
steps up and down the sitting-room of a
Darling Point flat. When there is a heavier
thud than usual the tenants below groan
"The fall of the Bastille !”
M iss May Butler-George, sculptor and
painter, is staying with her brother, Dr. T.
E. George, at Rozelle, for a space. She
has taken a house in Hose Bay, and will get
to work on Sydney’s beauty spots after her
work for the monument for the 2nd Division
of Australians is through. Mrs. Rosenthal
entertained her and Mrs. Scott, of Fiji, at
the Australia last week, and she has been
for the week-end a guest of Mrs. Venning
(Singapore) at the Blue Mountains.
Anthony Horderns’ have some sketches of
hers that will be on show soon. Also
ivories, and the new discovery—etchings on
ivory.
The Soldiers’ Club was six years old on
King’s birthday, so Dr. Booth had it decked
in its best when Gov. Davidson and Dame
Margaret culled around to offer their con-
gratulations.
Do you remember when Bobbie Burns's
statue was erected? It’s a long time back
and there were a few hundreds left over.
These the Scots put in the bank, and during
the years they have gathered the moss of
interest, and now are to be devoted to the
endowment of two beds for soldiers’ kiddies
iii the new Burnside War Memorial Home.
Next Friday H. C. L. Anderson, an elder of
the Highland Society, lectures on his travel
through the war-zone, and them passes the
hat for the few pounds necessary to achieve
the necessary thousand.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral was as be-
decked with flags as a loyalty meet-
ing in honor of Dr. Katie Ardili,
who undertook to attend to Charles
Christie Brice in sickness and in health for
the term of his natural life. Dean Talbot
heard the vows and blessed the match, in
the presence of crowds of enthusiasts who
climbed on to every seat to get a better
view of the proceedings in front. Not the
least interested were two ladies refresh-
ing themselves from a bag of fruit. This
wasn’t symbolic—the bag contained oranges,
uot apples. Katie, like any ordinary girl,
wore white satin and silver lace, trailed a
long train with a shell-pink lining, and
riveted her tulle veil to her hair with a
chaplet of silver leaves. Four bridesmaids,
all in pink and black, guarded the finery's
progress: and best-man Captain Horace
Salier had three groomsmen to support him
through the wedding feast at Farmer’s.
Katie is the only daughter of G. Ardill, .T.P.,
of the Sydney Rescue Society. She her-
self has 44 years’ war service to her credit,
first at Calais with the British Red Cross,
and later at the Citadel Hospital in Cairo.
Of course, her husband is an A.1.F.-er.
N. S. Wales has decided that South A as.
sl-all not outdo her in the matter of orna-
raents. so' she has
decked herself with
01 women Justices
of the Peace, and
that is the first
step to women
jurors. One of the
outstanding figures
to bear the new
title is Millicent
Preston - Stanley
whom Judith Flet-
cher iust managed
to photograph before
the J.P. brand fell
up o n her. Miss
l’reston-Slanley i?,
p r e s i d e n t of the
Feminist Club, whose
energies are directed
at the moment to
getting the Government to see the import-
une" of the segregation, care and control
of the feebleminded. Sin* is well known as
one of our lines) women speakers and poli-
tical organisers.
The voice of one crying in the wilderness
has not been the fate of the little grdup of
girls and hoys who set out' finder Eilippini’s
guidance to carry grand opera into the
Northern Jtivers towns and Queensland.
From Gympie on they shave been under vice-
regal patronage. At Gympie Queensland's
new Governor heard the little band in “Pag-
liacci.” lie followed on the heels of the
players to Maryborough, and there at a
public dinner spoke so well of the company
that the town turned out to the perform-
ance ; and at latest despatches the company
was, by special request, preparing “Bobemc”
to greet him in Townsville. They have
shown at Armidale, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba.
Ipswich, Toowoomba again, Gympie, Bun-
daberg, Maryborough and Gladstone (where
the village priest took them in and fed them ) ;
then at Rockhampton, where they have jusr
put up the shutters. Lute Drummond re-
ports everybody trappy and in love with
Queensland. She herself works from 9..'J0
in the morning till 11 at night—with no
supper-parties after!
The Renwiek Hospital for Babies gets a
helping hand from the Singing Girls at the
Repertory on June 11.
Mother Rectress of St. Joseph's Hospital
at Auburn is smiling over visions of a linen-
press refilled by Mayoress Lambert’s cift-
party at the Town Hall last week. Every
guest went with a towel or a sheet or a
bundle of trayeloths over her arm.
The Prince Alfred mask-and-domino flutter
at the Wentworth on June 17 threatens to be
an overwhelming success, mainly owing to
the efforts of secretary Mrs. Gore-Jones.
Then comes, on July 8, Mrs. Maclurcan's
party to the Sydney Hospital Auxiliary; and
this will be the first occasion Dame Margaret
has set foot inside the big ballroom. Next,
on July 1. the ball in honor of the Spring-
boks, the S’African footballers; gets its kick-
off from the Braddon lady, though she isn't
one of the applicants for inclusion in Aus-
tralia's first Women’s XII.
During the last week of Julv or the first
week in August there’s to be an all-dog show,
with Miss Brooke as secretary, and a judge
coming all the way from England to award
the prizes to the pom and other aristocrats.
Dame Margaret has offered to open the exhi-
bition, and Monty Somer and Sam Hordern
are doing their bit to make it the biggest
and best ever held in Australia.
Here’s a story of Gladys Marks’s small
niece. The little girl is the proud possessor
of a Japanese paper umbrella which she
insists on taking on all her walks. The
other afternoon grandpapa expostulated
with her on the ground that it was a very
dull day. “It is going to rain,” he assured
her, with all the conviction he could put
into his voice. The small girl looked at
him reflectively. “Are you God?” she in-
quired gently as she unfurled the gay um-
brella with great firmness.
The Industrial Blind Appeal is getting a
lift from the Palais Royal, which has offered
to lend itself on June JO. The committee
which has the affair in hand includes many
of the women who made such a success of the
North Sydney Carnival.


n
Silver Toilet Service.
A New Design.
I ■
Solid Silver Toilet Service, comprising Hair Brush
with tine-quality bristles, Mirror and Comb, in
silk-lined case.
£l4 10 O
A splendid range of finest English-made Toilet
Services in the newest designs in plain and
engraved Silver, Ivory, Tortoiseshell, and Ebony,
is displayed at the Company s showrooms.
Illustrated Catalogues are posted free on
application, and selections are sent on
approval to any address in the Common wealth
at the Company’s risk.
Five per cent. Discount allowed on all cash purchases.
Y BIOT
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
IJ6-H8 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
if
GL4
%
Quick in Action.
Simple in Operation.
Watch-like in Accuracy.
THe Ansco
Vest-Pocket Camera
No. 2
takes REAL pictures 2 % x 3 5 inches, and beautiful
enlargements may be made to any desired size from
their clear, sharp negatives. No posing or seeking the
best light necessary. It takes me picture where the
picture is and i'akes it right.
HARRINGTONS offer this high-grade ROLL-FILM
CAMERA with Modico Anastigmat Lens, F 7.5, at
£.B.
Postage-—N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.
The House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, X.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N .Z.
HARRINGTONS SELL KODAKS.
Scotch Tweed Overcoats
BUCKLEY’S
' ' '■ 1 M — i 1 ' """""
Melbourne’s Leading Clothiers
SPECIAL BARGAIN OFFER
vN*!
X-:
> \
•- £
m
GENUINE SCOTCH TWEED RAIN-
PROOF OVERCOATS, USUALLY
15 AND 16 GUINEAS.
SPECIAL OFFER
9£ GUINEAS
MEN’S OVERCOATS OF SCOTCH
TWEED are undoubtedly the Fashion
for the coming Winter.
Buckley’s have imported a collection
of these smart and comfortable Over-
coats, the material of which is GENUINE
M A D E -IN- SC<ITLAND TWEEDS,
woven in the mills of GEORGE LEES
& CO., of GALASHIELS, and bearing
the trade-mark of the SCOTTISH
WOO LL E N A S SOCI AT I ON.
The finished garments are fashioned
and completed by the best English.
Tailors, perfect in fit and design, and are
lined with rich satin.
AN OVERCOAT OF SCOTCH
TWEED is not only comfortable but
smart, the patterns and . colorings are
I right, and individuality of material shows
in the “Hang” and “Sit” of the garment.
These Overcoats, usually sold at 15
and 16 guineas, are now
AU.I I’tUCliiD
91 GUINEAS.
The CLARENDON.—RagIan shape, medium
length, with raised seams and deep, perfect-sitting
collar, lined with rich satin, eminently a coat for
all-round wear.
We Pay Carriage on All Clothing.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
Bourke St. Melbourne
Chocolates
Made entirely in Australia
PACKED ALWAYS
IN RED BOXES.
Just
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12 6,
20/- and 30-
Post free to any
address in Australia.
Pitt St.
5 v only
m
m rM
m
&
m
mt
m
M
y'.
m


'ffi>sierg
/n
; v™
mw
"VOUR Hosiery playing a most im-
x portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose - such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
"Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. + 50 York Street,
Sydney
THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN
FOR YOU AS
WELL AS
OTHERS!
@L
m
and yon
can learn
to draw, NOT
TO COPY, by
taking u p th e
Weston Course.
Under our method,
which eliminates
drudgery, you work
in personal contact
with Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia's
acknowledged lead-
er in commercial
art and poster de-
signing.
The demand for
original illustra-
tive work daily
grows more insis-
tent, and you can
make big money
by taking up this
fascinating course.
Send for a
Booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” which
tells you all about
the course. Simply
let us have your
name and address;
enclose three
stamps to cover
postage, and we
will forward
this interesting
booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
55 Union House, SYDNEY.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
M
■ 5
BRITISH
AOE
Perfection
P IT'S RUBBER
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,330,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .'. . . . . £44.000,000
Annual Income .. . .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
vaos oi-Lsnvo
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33'/k.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70*.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS; YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
J&uutdx&jiux
Reduced Prices
EFFECTIVE 18th APRIL, 1921
Covers Tubes
ihers in Proportion
Colo Covers and Tubes are
Guaranteed 4000 Miles
Your Garage can supply
the: colonial, rubber, co. ltd.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St. Adelaide: 1 Twin Street.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street. I‘erth: 47 King Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street. Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
855!
\
%
Renault Agricultural Tank Tractor and
Wheel Tractor
Constructed by L. Renault, on the same lines as their famous Whippet Tanks.
For all classes of farm and forest work.
P. FERRAND, Box 1824 G.P.0., Sydney,
representing: Renault Automobiles,
is now in Sydney and will arrange demonstrations at the Hawkesbur.v Agricultural
College within the next few weeks. All interested are invited to communicate with
him. when particulars of same and ail information regarding the Tractors will be
supplied.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
•Vo notice (except of a hostile character will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address, must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. trill be returned
unless stamps accompany. •
Senacherib: You overlook the qualification
which was the whole point of the thing—the immi-
grant is a loss and a liability “if he merely does
no better than those already in the country.” In
other words, if the country has to drift further into
debt to keep him going. It isn’t an argument against
immigration: it is one against go slow and perpetual
strikes and the stupidity of refusing to man such
mines as Mount Morgan because they can’t pay the
wages they paid during the metal b00m....K.G.
(Kimbolton) : A bit too much like the Parramatta-
road before they spent the last loan on it Duncan
C.: “Prayer” moves too heavily.. ,A,C.S.: No earthly
use.... 313: It deserved better telling.... Ego Lex
Sum: A yarn often told with variations; but in this
setting it is unconvincing... .E.L.S.: Don’t write
verse like a telegram with the articles left 0ut....
L.L. (Prospect) : Well enough written. But what
is there in it?....Jas. S.: Very rugged, and without
much mirth or point.... Ekatere : Easy commonplace
with an occasional rhyme won’t do M.J.J.8.:
Not quite enough in “Teamster's Missus,” though it
looks like a picture from life. .. .G.L.F.: That dream
business has been worked to death... .Stan E.: The
cat wanted livelier handling May M.: Misses, but
not by much... .Chunjoberree: You’re on the road,
but haven’t arrived yet. Doubt if the three-
headed arrangement can get far.... Rex B. N T ot a
very good sonnet form, though possible; but the
lines are not exquisite and the matter has no grip.. .
Ole Blue: You could make something of “Dust” with
better handling; “Eyes of Love” bumps all out of
metre... .S.W.G.H.: We won’t “let a small cause
prevent it from being published”—at least one slice
of it: — ■
So now, ye masters of cricket,
Treat ’em all as you did Leicestershire;
If you don’t we’ll pawn you and lose the ticket,
So lick ’em all—Notts, Surrey, Lancashire ;
They’ll know their masters when they find you're on
victory bent:
Essex and Wessex, Sussex and Kent.
So now, batsmen, ’keepers and trundlers, dear,
And Mailey make those sketches very definite and
clear;
Then in cricket Aussie will just about boss our sphere.
And when you return, boys, we’ll wish you a Happv
New Year.
... .W.T. (Brisbane) : “Unworthy” is... .Bristow :
Not for us... .P.H.8.: Verse not up to the mark. .. .
H.C.H.: “Woman Pays” goes to pieces in the third
stanza... .P.McM.: Avoid false rhymes like “long”
and “gone.”... .Chip: Can’t find any mirth in them.
.. .A.A.L.: Commonplace phrases and sorrowful tags.
. ...D.F.S.: Send it to a Sunday-school paper; they
might rather like to have the old things said in
that way.... J.A.E.: Quite prepared to accept the
statement that your mounted constable was “a prince
of manly beauty.” But you ought to see our
grocer’s boy. He is positively imperial... .H.McL.:
Y T ou say the verses were “fixed up in a hurry”; but
even hurried fixing up won’t account for the scarcity
of ideas. .. .Hope: No amount of re-writing could
make it good enough... .A.E.G.: Not very interest-
ing.... Chev: The man gave a hungry dog some-
thing to eat and you thought a plain narration of
the fact would make a yarn.... Oliver B.: “Moon-
light Sport” has the real thrill
To-night we’ll go around to Curly’s range;
It’s pretty rough, but good shooting;
But where’s Laddy ? That’s strange.
’E's all right—’e's doing a bit of scenting.
Hark I did you hear him whine?
’E’s got on the track of some;
Sure, and a yelp ; ’e’s mine—
There ’e is. Bang I That’s number one.
)ou can’t beat Laddy finding ’possums;
'E’s just the shiney bob.
We always know when ’e’s got ’em;
’E’s better than a man on the job.
But what a beautiful night, isn’t it?
You can see ’em almost as plain as dav.
Darn it! Laugh? My sides nearly split,
When Patty slipped ou some greasy clay.
....Alan S. P.: There is nothing remarkable about
writing that at 15. or at 12, a fact you ought to
know now you are 18. it hasn’t a touch of real
observation or feeling J-.F.L.: Writing in small
puns is an irritating habit.... M.L. (Neutral Bay):
Tedious... .Esther G.: “Kyneton” misses.... Frank
H.: “Ariel” doesn’t quite do it.... J.K.8.: P00r....
)Tor: Not up... Marie E.: Ditto. . .A. 0.8.: It doesn’t
quite get where it wants to go N.J.S.: Nothing
in them; and the awful “dawn”-“morn” rhyme is
prominent.... 1.M.G.: So rugged that we expected to
find wallabies playing in it C.H.R.: Don’t know
the thing.... Gertrude M.: Not up C.M.P.: Prosy
and lumpy.... The Worm: No interest in it.... Cyril
S.: Both miss... .F.M.C.: Nothing there.... Harry
H.: Not what we hanker after... .M.S.W.K.: Themes
too slight; verse too crude. ... Violet C.: Try read-
ing a lot of good verse before you write again. . . .
F.T.Y.: “Intoxication” is fair verse; the other is
rubbish...W.B.: All miss. ..The Toad: May use one.
.... Bax: It is a fact that a camel used ’to plenty of
water cannot go long stretches without it unless
specially coached R.G.: Doesn’t lend itself to
illustration... .H. 8.: Faint pencil marks undecipher-
able V.G.: Just miss .J.H.A.: Nigger yarn
01d.... Jacko: No meat in them.... Pip: We don’t
mind a lie, but let there be some art in it.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COR RESPONDENTS.
D.R.: Nothing like either of them... .C. 1).:
Crude drawing C.M.: Both fall short G.H.:
That joke was illustrated better years ago LG.u.:
Nothing in it...L.G.D.: Work too stiff and cramped.
. ...1.8.C.: Drawing badly at sea...L.R.: Not up...
Riverina: Amazing essay in art....0.K.: Your per-
spective’s on the spree C.S.: The worst of the
week. .. .C.G.: Promising, but very uneven.
Dear Bulletin, —-It takes something to
drag a letter or even jolt a telegram of ex-
planation out of me; but, on commencing to
read that last yarn of mine, “Previous and
I got a jolt myself; and 1 must
explain it. if only for the sake of some old
fruit-growing mates of mine. I made Pre-
vious Convictions see a bloke pruning my
fruit-trees somewhere before Easter, accord-
ing to the chronological order of the stories.
Actually that incident occurred late in win-
ter, when Previous and Dotty had come
back from their trip to Ilay: and it was
only that confirmed casualness of mine which
turned that incident into this story. The
explanation may not seem necessary, but
there are “critics’’ like the one who spent
a lot of his valueless time finding out that
there was no moon in those parts on the
night Sir John Moore was buried. And
such nuisances succeed in giving pain to a
writer’s friends, and creating disturbances in
their families:* —Yours, Henry Lawson,


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
I
XeW and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luwe. Staterooms with bedsteads and j
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and -Laundries.
For aii information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares*
Apply
bRIRNT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tei.—City 4246, 2, 4. fi Spring Street.
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 29.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tolls. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY,
Telephone: City 2282,
THE North Coast steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANI) MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
HRISRANE viu BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S,S. WOLLONOBAK SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m,
S,.S, ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m,
Through Fare, including:—
saioun on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
SeCohd Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for tile comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Brisbane agents: Messrs, burns, philp
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies. Arc.
Rank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 a
All new business since 1833 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love,
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
Geseral Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised, Capital .. .. •• . .£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• •• £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• .. £200,000
Directors: Heubhut It. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents, throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. • ■ 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . • - 2,2^0,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixpd periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.)» Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ran be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Tails, etc.
SAILINGS PROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 28th JULY.
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP C 0„ DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
V
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with .Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCEES 12,500 tons
'DIOGENES 12,500 tons
■ *Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc;, on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd.. Adelaide & Perth.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability
Established 1817.
»n»W^
Directors :
- £4,965,200
- 3,425,000
- 4,965,200
£13,355,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Tlioinas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Hinnie. f>o.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditor* :W. H. Palmer, Esq. :S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
JanMitftralia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Saving’s Bank Department
at all Branches., aud Savings Bank Agencies at 304» Post Offices through
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. „ • . ~" Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
*Katoomba .
t BOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
J WO DONGA
(Melb. only)
J DIMBOOLA
Sat..
June LS,
noon.
Sat.,
June LS,
noon.
Tuefc.,
June 21,
o p.m.
Fri.,
June 24.
June 22,
4 p.m.
MeEacharn’s Line
Pty. (Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd. 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Ltd.,
(tor. Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
(Tel. 8212).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK A), BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Mary borough• Bunda-
*’BCanbeuka
(Omits
Bowen)
lAbawatta .
tICOOMA...
(Omits
Bowen)
JWYANDRA
Sat.,
June 11,
2 p.m.
Tues.,
.June 14,
4 p.m.
Sat.,
June 18,
noon.
Tues.,
June 21,
4 p.m.
*Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
•(Carries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.;
tCarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker La*
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. „ ~ , __ . ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA. MANILA. HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply—
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address.
•‘lroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Managing- Agents for:.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited,
litzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
P. & 6. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne). |
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & C 0.) ,: at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane). .
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports). i
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). v
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane), j
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.;
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown. j
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane!
Our
Customs
Duties. I
The Customs De-
partment is the'
greatest profiteer
in Australia.
Erratic, too. An
importer kno w s
not from hour to
hour what the De-
partment's ruling
will be. And all
without Pari ia-
ment’s sanction.
f MRP AX
S'
C=4
Lever in Steel vJasej
32/6.
15 dears’ Guarantee.
Just imagine a. 1 working man having to pajj
48 per cent, (just on half the cost price) on a
watch !
Yet ’tis the Customs’ charge. This, too. op
an article that cannot be made in Australia. ;
No wonder prices of Watches are soaring]
Fortunately, we carry grosses of the leading
lines, .and so have large numbers that We landed
prior to the imposition (expressive word) of
the present monstrous duty, and these we are
selling at the old prices.
Hence our present quotations are fully 20
per cent, less than they must be when present
stocks are sold.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.j
The Oldest' Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Fig-tires,
ii. Cash Only.
.23 8 25 Hunter Street,-


OSS
a,
a
pi
The beauty of this
delicious chewing
sweet is that
it's good for
young and old
It aids appetite and
digestion, allays
thirst, gives vigour
and vim when you
are tired.
Ask for the New
Chew it
after
every
meal
IWRIGLEY’SI
JUICY FRUIT
( Hfc WING GUM I
and see what a captivat-
ing new flavour it has.
big bars in each
packet for
Mads In
Australasia
Every packet
sealed against
air moisture
and alt impurity.
The Flavour
Lasts!
“ # AI79
flte
m
&
:
Edison Amberol Records
for June.
Quality and variety are the distinguishing features of
the Edison Records for June.
The Royal Purple list comprises songs by the renowned
artistes Thomas Chalmers and Carolina Lazzari, while
the Blue Amberol list includes offerings by some of the
regular favorites.
Royal Purple Records.
29056—Want of You. Bari-
tone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers
2905“ —Love’s Sorrow. Con-
tralto, orch. acc.
Carolina Lazzari
Blue Amberol Records.
401S —When You Write, Sweet Mane (Send
Your Heart to Me). Tenor, orch ace.
Vernon Dalhart
4022 —Someday Down in Carotin'—Fox Trot.
Saxophone, Xylophone and Piano.
All Star Trio
4029 —Cohen On His Honeymoon.
Monroe Silver
4020 —Only a Step to Jesus. Bass and Tenor,
orch. acc. Fred Fast and Lewis James
4031 Kaiwi Waltz, Old Hawaiian Melody,
Guitar Duet. Toots Paka’s Hawaiians
4032 — Dancing in the Barn—Schottisehe.
National Promenade Band
4033 — Brazilian Chimes. Male Voices, orch.
acc. Crescent Trio
4034 — Swanee —One Step, for Dancing.
Lenzberg's Riverside Orchestra
4035 — La Danseuse —Intermezzo.
American Symphony Orchestra
4036 —Miami—Waltz (On Miami Shore) —for
Dancing.
Max Fells’ Della Robbia Orchestra
4038 When I’m Alone. I’m Lonesome.
Soprano, orch. ac<>. Leola l.ueey
4040—When You're Gone I Won't Forget.
Contralto and Tenor, orch. ace.
Louise Terrell & George Wilton Rallard
4042—Dardanella. Soprano arid Tenor, orch.
arc. Gladys Rice and Vernon Dalhart
40455—A1l Over This World.. Male Voices.
Fisk University Jubilee Quartet
4046—Semper Fidelis March.
United States Marine Band
4048 —oh. llow 1 Laugh When I Think How 1
Cried About You. Conversational Duet,
orch. acc. ;
Rachael Grant and Billy Murray
4050 —Oh, Joe (Please Don’t Go).
A 1 Bernard and Frank M. Kamplain
4062—That Naughty Waltz. Contralto and
Baritone, orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
THOMAS A. EDISON'. LTD. (Wholesale only). 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Try Us First for All Sport Equipment
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match 8/6
M.S. National 15/6
Service 2^/6
0.8.8. Quad Centre 20/-
C. 8.8. Double Strung 27/6
Havmarket 30/-> 40/-
Uayniarket Special 40/-- 45/-
Haymarket Selected 45/-- 50/-
llaymarkct Extra Special 63/-
Spalding’s Tournament 49/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
Spalding’s Gold Medal 70/-
Slazenger’s Renshavv 45/-
Slazeng'er’s Demon 55/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 03/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 65/-.
Slazenger’s Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 95/-
iI. C. Lee’s Seneca 55 /-
11. C. Lee’s Church 90/-
(Backets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d. : other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Do/..
Grey Regulation -/<$ 5/6
Dunlop Regulation- Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 11)21 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1921 3/- 36/-
Slazenger’s Champion, 1921 3/- 39/-
Haymarket Champion, 1921 ..... 2/4 27/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W ~ 1/- ; other
States, 1/S.)
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
> V
\
7 V,
ifKwn
' I PHlk.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 35 / -
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers 2/0, 0/0
Tennis Ratchet 7/0
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/0, 4/0
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/0
Scoring Books 1/0
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 0/0
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils . . 0/0, 8/0, 15/-
All Prices subject to market fluctuations, wilthout notice.
«
W3S
iS*
SEASON 1921. i
Special Quotation to Clubs for Quantities.
As usual we are to the front with an unequalled
display of new season’s requisites.
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls Fitted with Best Quality Bladders.
RUGBY MATCH.
Nicholson’s Royal 7/6
Nicholson’s Royal, hand sewn,
9/6, 10/6
Nicholson’s Royal, selected. 15/6
Nicholson’s Royal, special. . 16/6
Nicholson’s International ... 17/6
Nicholson’s A.N.A., special . . 21 /-
Nicholson’s Sample, special. . 22/6
Nicholson’s Chrome, special 25/-
Ford’s Interstate 20/-
Gilbert’s Best English 32/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 6d. ; other States, Bd.)
SOCCER MATCH.
C. 8.8., special 8/6, 10/6
Rival, buttonless 12/6
Albion, buttonless 15/6
Haymarket, w’proof, 8-piece. 22/6
lord’s Interstate 25/-
M.S. Special Capless 27/6
cert, English Chrome 35/-
Cert Chrome, w’proof, 13-piece 35/-
Official League, 13-piece.... 25/-
Sykes’ Swift Tuphine, 12-piece 42/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
MEN’S ENGLISH COTTON JERSEYS
Extra Heavy Make —All Colors.
Postage 6d. extra.
Price 13/9 each.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly Add Sufficient to Cover Cost of Carriage.)
Pair.
Shin Guards, no straps .... 2/-. 3/3
Shin Guards, continuous straps,
2/6. 3/-, 3/3
Shin Guards, gold cape.
3/8, 6/6. 7/6
Ankle Guards, blocked leather, 3/6
Ear Caps each 2/3, 3/6, 3/9
M.S. Rugger Boots, special.. I</o
M.S. Soccer Boots, spec., 18/6. 25/-
Dally M. Rugby Boots ..... • 21/6
Elastic Bandages, knee & ankle, 13/6
Each.
Best Bladders, Match 11., No. 5 2/-
Football Inflators, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Football Pump Adaptors -/9
Referees’ Whistles, 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6
Lacing Awls -/9
Books on Football 1/6
Bladder Solution, tube */9
Stout Web Belts 3/6
Euseptol Training Oil, bottle. . 1/6
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
Specialty
arc
• •
Australia’s Greatest; Sports Providers,
Headquarters: 7208 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


'#oay&
~spj\N‘
f}a^
mm
m
m
m.
m
MISS
DORIS
BARCLAY,
A Charming
'New
Discorer y
OIRI..
(from a photo).
I want to add my testimony to the many which you have regarding
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, for I have tried this remarkable remedy, and
1 can honestly say that I have never come across anything to equal it. It
is simply amazing how quickly it eases my throat and cures my cold.
There is nothing in the world puts me out more than a cold, and I was
feeling quite distressed when 1 started to use I)r. Sheldon’s New Discovery
on the advice of a friend, and I had not taken two doses before 1 began to
feel better, and one small bottle put me quite right again. It is a true
Remedy, and 1 heartily recommend it.
Yours truly,
DORIS BARCLAY,
25 Sturt Street, Darlinghurst.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
STOPS COUGHS BANISHES COLDS
Good for Children and Grown Folk, too.
R
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
L
is
These features—Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands—
double seams and gus-
sets which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
W
v\
M
STLf
V
n n.
Ori
' f s
' "*
?*</
%
ji
Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I. A Road in Ireland.
I KNOW a road that climbs a quiet hill,
Hedged in with ashen boughs and
hawthorn green,
Where the long twilights of the summer spill
A peace so brown and deep life seems to
lean
Cross-handed on the staff of peering age,
Listening for steps that softly come and go.
Like some old song remembered by the page
In a worn book, 1 feel the great years now
Between these walls of green where once they
went,
Men of all God’s men made the most like
me,
Young with my folly, old with, my content,
All gazing far beyond the dusk to see
A something holier, sweeter, gleam on gleam,
Believed and loved as \ have loved my dream.
11. A Road in England.
Into the heart of this strange yellow land
There runs a straight road that the
Romans ruled
In military brass. On either hand
Sleep the deep shadows all the summer
cooled
With overarching tops of fluttering leaves;
But now the autumn sets a brazen glow
Upon the druid peaks, as one wlm grieves
For the lost legions that have marched
below,
Uaming against the setting of the sun.
Old land, long’ mellowed into autumn calm,
To what wild discords did the ages run
To blend at last in this low evening psalm V
EveningV The morning will run down this
way,
Blithe with a gold the legions could not
slay.
111. A Road in Maori la nil
The white grass bows before the August
breeze,
But all the vale is full of golden light,
Where the road climbing to the mountain’s
knees
Rests suddenly in awe; and, trembling
white
Against the western blue, ghost Alps arise
In minarets of silver set with gleams
Of broken pearl that faint like thoughts too
wise
To take the colors of our human dreams.
Each gaze into the west is as a prayer.
Oh, good brown road rutted with simple
wheels,
Hold down my feet! This shining morning
air
Sets wings of ecstasy upon my heels. . . .
I will not hear tlie angel trumpets blow
To the high lure of barren ice and snow.
IV. A Road in Australia.
Aloug this road the crowding waggons creep,
High-piled with wool and hides and har-
vest grain ;
Great horses, toiling where the way is steep,
Heave mightily against the quivering
chain.
The little houses happy in the sun
Look out through roses at the passing
show.
Their blinds nod heavily when day is done;
The teams move on ; but all the houses
know
How pulses here the wonder of a land
Bent to great labor, west and north and
south.
The white fence pickets seem to understand
The wheel-song blowing through the road’s
red mouth;
And as the darkness falls I catch one note,
Hoarse with new star-dust, from the Future’s
throat.
V. A Road in a Dream.
1 have not seen this road save in a dream ;
And yet I know it lies beneath the stars
Deep in a great dark valley where a stream
Gurgles a poisonous music over bars
Offblack and slimy stone. The desert wind
Dies at the mountain base, but whispers
fall
From crag to crag, and shadows hot and
blind
Lie under the broad bastions of a wall.
Beat, pilgrim, with your spear-haft on the
gate
Of the lost city of a thousand tears.
•Surely the queen shall answer in her state
With music and the lights of all. the year,
And draw you in above the moth and rust
To banquet with Will Shalcspeare—on the
dust
VI. A Road with a Turning.
Altonen go down this road once and no more;
Steeply it dips into the black of night.
They cannot hear the steps that went before,
Though some declare the lower way is light
A itli waving torches and the steady flame
Of some great kindness waiting at the end.
Tcrchanee it leads whence the first, pathway
came.
Who knows? Walk bravely to the brink,
old friend,
Then we must part....but let me tell my
dream.
I think the turning is not very far
A here the coach waits, not draped in sable
black,
f But green and gold and lighted with a star,
To take a load of merry fellows back
To healing waters, where their souls may
drink
And live and finish all they dared to think.
VII. A Road with no Turning.
This little road is mine from gate to crown
By right of love in whose fine ministry
The way between the leaves is trodden
In-own.
Tlir blossom breaks upon the wattle-tree,
The drab gum boles grow yellow in the night,
The white-thorn gives the opening year its
snow :
AH the good friendly things to left and right
Have lilest my footsteps as they come and
go.
' think the roads of all the world meet here.
I have walked very far for this dear view.
My own grey sunset drawing near.
My own hearth-smoke above the branches
blue.
All roads' I went are of myself a part,
A alking 6r dreaming ; but here walks my
heart.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Constable.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHN BRAMBLECOMBE, whom the
Judge had just commenced to address
as ■■Prisoner at the Bar, was not a
man in whom the dramatic instinct seemed
to be very highly developed.
You or I might have seen something ot
solemn, and even awesome, impressiveness
in the aspect of that Court of Assize in grey
and ancient Exeter at the close of the June
day in ISdti when the Burley llall murder
case was approaching its grim end. The
hig'li, narrow windows that dimly lit the vast
old chamber —in whose twilight the red robes
of Mr. Justice Dipman, and the less vivid
but very gorgeous raiment of bir buul
Vivian, the High Sheriff of the County, were
the only objects that were not indistinct —
let. the last of the day in upon a scene that
was tenselv dramatic and fascinating in its
impressiveness. Even the fatuous nonsense
which the Judge was droning and drawling
10 the man whom the jury had just toun 1
guilty did not seem altogether out ot place.
Tlie dving day, the tight silence that grip-
ped the spectators of the scene morbidly, the
tall figure of the man who stood erect behind
the spikes of the dock to hear his doom pro-
nounced, thfc rows of white faces shining,
tier above tier, in the black gallery behind
him —every feature in the court, saved the
Judge’s speech to the prisoner from being
altogether the grotesque travesty of judicial
wisdom and dignity that it really was. When
it concluded with the inevitable perfunctory
prayer oil Mr. Justice Jlipman s part,-
•• A nd-er-ma y-er-tlie Lard-er-have ma rcy-cr-
upon your soul-or!” —and the sighing groan
that preceded a shuffling of many feet and
a babel of talk as his Lordship pompously
left the bench, there was no one in the HaL
of Assize who did not look as if he or she
had but just witnessed, let us say, the closing
scene in “Othello.” No one except the con-
demned man, John Braniblecombe, lately
• a sergeant in H.M. Foot Guards. He went
down the steps from the dock, and into the
room below where he would await his re-
moval to the gaol, with an air of having liao
no interest in proceedings whose outcome
was a matter of indifference to him,
A good-looking man, well set up and active,
with a face that might have ornamented the
bench, rather than the dock, in the Assize
Hall above—a face that indicated strength
and reserve and little humor—the prisoner
had an air of not even being degraded by the
clanking irons that dragged upon his ankles,
or the handcuff’s that kept his wrists close
together before his waistcoat. He held him-
self with quiet dignity amongst the motley
throng of turnkeys arid borough constables
that leaned against its white-washed walls,
or came and went from the room.
“(’beer oop, zargeant,” said a genial, red-
faced fellow of the High Sheriff’s retinue.
"We’m but to bide a vew minutes vor to get
tli" paupers zeen to an’ put in arder—an
then us’l] taake ye to your last whoam. les
main zorrowfnl I be vor to zee a vitty chap
like you be down along here. But cheer oop
—-’twill zoon be arl over!”
There was a stiV in the corridor without,
and one of the Under-Slieriffs came into the
room, a pale gentleman, clad in deep mourn-,
ing, following him closely. The throng of
minor officials shuffled itself into a soit of
“attention” and there was silence.
"Pearce!” said the Under-Sheriff.
“Aye, y’r Honor,” and the optimist who
had lately spoken came forward.
“Clear the room —and remain 'outside.
Sir George,” addressing the pale gentleman,
“here is John Braniblecombe. I can give
you a quarter of an hour with him —1 am
afraid no longer. ’Tis nearly dark, and we
must hand him over to his gaoler presently.
Call—if you want me.”
He went out of the empty room, closing
the door, and left the pale, anxious gentle-
man alone with the manacled prisoner. Hesi-
tatingly he walked across to the corner
where John Braniblecombe stood —extending
a thin hand, as if to grasp the other’s. John
Braniblecombe looked down at the gyves
upon his wrists, but made no responsive
movement. If his face had any expression,
other than its habitual reserve, there was
something about the eyes and the set of the
firm lips that might have signified contempt.
But he said nothing, and merely gazed indiff-
erently at his visitor’s shoes.
“John” —the pale gentleman spoke in a
weak, thin voice that curiously matched his
appearance and his manner —"I’ve but come
to say to you that I’ve seen to it that you
will not hang. So take that much for com-
fort. I went to London before your trial,
and I have Lord Melbourne’s own assurance
—in writing—that you will not die. The
reprieve—made out in the certainty that you
would he found guilty —must even now be
hardly a couple of score of miles from Exeter.
You will be sent to Botany Bay. and there
vour ticket-of-leave —T have the word of the
Under-Secretary for the Colonies as to that
—will immediately be granted you. You will
be as good as a free man in New South
Wales. I will see to it that a sum of
money”
The prisoner looked up. and opened his
( .]ose-set lips. A low flush of blood suffused
the tanned skin of his clean-shaven face, as
he spoke.
“D—n the money. Squire! Tes not vor
money I’ve put my head within th’ hang-
man’s noose. ’Tes vor my mother’s name, an"
vor that Ibe your own bastard. But mark ve
this. If ever it may zo coom about that thine
other son. Ensign Targett, o’ my regiment,
who killed the poor girl, poor Phoebe Cole-
man —if he should coom across my path, an’
’tes in my. power for to injure him, I’ll not
hold my hand. Yon have been good to my
mother —an’ I have your word ve’ll still be
/n —but. by tli’ livin' God, if my cliarnce
(•owns wi’ him, I’ll take it! D—n your
money!”
“Your own brother. John!”
The pale man shuddered. He stretched out
his arms imploringly towards the stern man
in the corner.
“Aye, my bastard of a brother. ’Tes him,
not me, that’s that.”
* * » *
As thev walked out of the courthouse in
Scone iN.S.W.) the three members of the
bench of magistrates who had been dispensing
(Continued on next


Bv
•.• {-• v ;
9
0
0
Wmm
Zam-Buk is obtainable from
all Chemists and Stores.
Zam-Buk
Quickly Cures
Chaps
Chilblains
Chafings
and
Cold
Sores.
Zam-Buk Soothes and Heals, and
Prevents Eczema and Blood-Poison.
Sore, chapped hands are common at this
season, yet few people realise how dangerous
they are. Even the slightest crack or cold-
sore opens the way for millions of deadly
germs to set up blood-poison or chronic
eczema. The only safe and certain way is to
heal all your skin troubles with Zam-Buk.
This powerful herbal antiseptic soothes and
purifies the damaged or diseased tissues and
grows healthy new skin.
RAW, CHAPPED HANDS,
Mrs. Lily Phillips, 59 Bay Street, Glebe,
Sydney, writes:—“For healing chapped
hands in winter time 1 have found Zam-
Buk invaluable. At times my hands have
been extremely bad, the cracked skin caus-
ing much smarting and pain, especially
after immersion in water. The cold westerly
winds made the skin harsh and brittle, and
fissures would then form. For these I have
found Zam-Buk most soothing, whilst it
softens the skin, checks all harshness, and
heals the cracks. For keeping the skin in
perfect condition there is nothing to com-
pare with Zam-Buk.”
ECZEMA CURED,
Mrs. ,T. Pelham, 210 Har-
rington Street, Hobart,
writes: —*‘M.v children,
Arthur and Carrie, had
eczema very badly) the boy
on his face and hands, and
the little girl all over her
body. Roth suffered ter-
ribly. We learned from a
chemist the value of Zam-
Buk and Zam-Buk Soap, so
I first washed the children's
sores with the Soap, after-
wards applying Zam-Buk
Balm. The irritation was
at once allayed, and the in-
flammation drawn out. Zam-
Buk quickly dried the sores,
leaving new healthy skin
as soft as silk.”
Zam-Buk is an
. invaluable winter
balm for chapped
hands, chafing, cold
sores, cuts, eczema,
piles, rheumatism,
etc. Zam-Buk is also
the unequalled healer for
scalds, burns, bad legs,
ulcers, abrasions, ringworm,
barber’s rash, scalp diseases, boils,
pimples, blisters, festering sores,
sprains, scabs, blackheads, chaf-
ings, and Injured or diseased condi-
tions of the skin generally.
the weekly dose, of more or less haphazard
justice and injustice which that part of the
district of the Hunter River used to enjoy
in the early ’forties, discussed the constable
newly appointed to the little garrison of
police in what was then about the furthest
outpost of civilisation between Port Jackson
and Moreton Bay. There was certainly no
fount of justice to the northward any nearer
than the penal settlement at Brisbane.
Twenty-live miles away, at Page’s River,
was an outlying police-station in the beautiful
valley of Murrurundi; but across the Liver-
pool Ranges the country was still in the
pioneering stage, in which the enforcement
of any other law than that of the strength
and courage of the individual was at best a
spasmodic and uncertain thing. Three or
four years previously the Myall Creek mur-
derers had been brought to justice for a mas-
sacre of blacks out on the slopes of the New
England tableland, but the Queen’s writ as
yet only stumbled along, and did not run
fast, out in the wide North and the illimit-
able North-West.
Strolling across the town to dinner at the
Golden Fleece, Mr. Ebenezer Arkwright, the
chairman, remarked upon the new constable’s
line appearance.
“A good man, I’ll be bound. Holds him-
self well. • Very respectful. Knows his
place. An old soldier, I expect.”
“Yes, my. dear Arkwright,” sniffed Dr.
Barrie, with his perpetual little sneer, "I
think he is. But also an ‘old lag,’ most
likely. All the police seem to me to have —
ah-*—‘done time,’ as they say. Well, perhaps
as it should be. ‘Set a thief,’ you know.
But I’m bound to say this fellow looks a
good man. What do you think, TargettV”
Captain Targett frowned, as he flicked his
riding-boot with his whip. lie had a dark
face that was perhaps a little furtive, and
when he frowned he did not look his best.
Always, when lie rode into Scone from St.
Just’s, his station on the Dftrtbrook, he wore
a grey beaver top-hat, and never was he seen
in the street without gloves.
“Demme,” lie said, "I can't think where
Ive seen tin* fellow before. If he had his
whiskers shaven, I’m certain I’d recognise
him. \ cry annoying sort of thing, you
know. Has happened to me once or twice
before —and it worries me until I find out
where I’ve seen the face, and whether I know
its owner, or not. You see, having been in
the army, one is always more or less liable
to Vun across old soldiers—perhaps even
from one’s own company—in all sorts of odd
places. Yes, lie certainly looks a little bet-
ter than tin l average of them. As you say,
Doctor, then' is much of the ‘old hand’ ele-
ment. in our New South Wales constabulary.
Perhaps it’s inevitable.”
Seated in the verandah of the inn after
dinner, Dr. Barrie was entertaining his
brother magistrates with his well-known "story
of the mutiny lie had quelled as surgeon-
superintendent of the convict transport Gulf
of Guinem when thev were grateful for an
interruption in the (Shape of the appearance
of the new constable, with some papers in his
hand. He came to attention and saluted as
h(> halted before them.
Mr. Arkwright saw him first.
"Well, constable—are you looking for anv-
one?”
"If ’ee plaaze, y'r honor”—neither the
Life Guards nor the Lifers had altered very
much the accent of Devonshire that was John
Brambiecombe’s—“l cfo but want the name o’
one o’ you gentlemen vor to make good thickee
warrant vor to taake a bushranger.”
“Ha, a bushranger!” Dr. Barrie was in-
terested. "Who is he, constable? One of
the old-timers? Or a new man? Has he
been out long? \\ here is he?”
Captain Targett sat silently eyeing the con-
stable, the puzzled frown that so marred his
countenance perplexing it still further,
“My dear Doctor!” mildly expostulated the
Chairman of the Bench at this volley of ques-
tions. "Do give the constable a chance,
5 0w > my friend”—to Bramblecombe—"tell us
about this man.”
"If you plaaze, zur, he bain’t no old-timer.
E e be one as have but just now taken to th’
hush. A assigned servant, at St. Just’s —-
°ue o’ Cap’n Targett’s men, zur.”
"What s that? One of my rascals taken
to the highway ! Good God! I’m interested
tn this. The first I’ve heard of it. What's
name, constable?”
Captain Targett was all attention.
“ ’Tes a man named William Nottingham,
zur.” The constable stood very straight, and
spoke very stiffly, as he read from his war-
rant - “Per ship Halifax, seven years, lar-
cea-v> Feeds Assizes.”
“Nottingham—Nottingham? Oh, ah —
I know the fellow. Do you recollect
bim, Doctor? I sent him in last week, and
charged him with idleness and insolence. 1
think you would have been on the Bench that
da J’> oh • He had' a hundred. The loekup-
keeper sent me out a note to say that you’d
ordered him to hospital when he was taken
down. He hasn’t turned up at St. Just’<
since.”
‘‘Yes, yes—l remembrir. A red-headed
villain. Called me a old grave-digger.
Never said a word, or littered a cry—and
Simmons laid it on pretty thick, me being
there ; but he collapsed in the eighties. There
are st jn some fifteen lashes due to him. 1
l m t him into hospital for three days. Let
m J‘ see-—ln* should have been out on Monday,
What’s lie been up to, constable?”
"He was discharged from th’ hospital on
Monday, zur, an’ should ha’ gone out to St.
Just’s, but didn’t. Yesterday he stuck up
one <>' Mester Dumaresq’s shepherds, out to
Sr. Albans. ’Tes thought he’m gone to th’
norrard, zur. He was seen yesterday rnarnin’
near Cup Vs Lagoon.”
"All, Captain's Lagoon! Dr. Little will
need to look out at Cressfield,” remarked Mr.
Arkwright. "Very well. I’ll sign the var-
rant, constable. Who goes after him?”
“I do, zur.” <
“Well, good luck to you. See that you’re
'Well armed, though. Very .desperate, some of
these fellows get—especially after a taste of
tile cat.”
Presently, as the constable walked away,
Captain Targett paced the verandah for a
couple of turns, the frown deeper and darker,
“Now, who the devil’s that fellow? I'd
give five pound to know. Demme if I
wouldn’t!”
< * awn down into the deep, vine-
filied gorges that lie about the high hump
ot Alumna, below the Square Moun-
tain, m the brief inteiial between the first
taint paling m the eastern sky and the
golden-purple radiance that washes the
“tops tor a little while before sunrise, John
Bramblecombe handcuffed his man near the \
western side ot that deep hollow in the
ranges where Petwyn Creek has its rise in -
muddy springs upon the mountain-side. A
wild, secluded spot, it was in 1844, tower-
ing walls of densely forested and almost per-
pendicular mountain overhanging the little
creek that burbles through the. she-oaks to-
wards narrow gorge that gives entrance
to this hidden rastness; the sort of place
into which man or beast would hardly wan-
der other than by .accident.
All the afternoon before, accompanied by
a blackfellow—one Billy’s Peter—to trace
the footsteps of the quarry, Constable John
Bramblecombe had followed his man north-
ward up the valley of the Ivingdon Ponds,
his warrant in his breast-pocket and a brace
of horse-pistols in his holsters. He had
started immediately after his return to the
police-station from the Golden Fleece; had
had word of his man at Captain’s Lagoon
and Cliffdale; and, close to the Highland
Home Inn, near the burning coal-seams of
Mount Wingen, Billy’s Peter had definitely
established the fact that Nottingham’s
tracks led over the fiats and foothills to-
wards the high line of conglomerate cliffs
skirting the base of the mountains. Before
dark came down over ranges and valley they
had traced them-well up into the narrow
gorge down which Petwyn Creek flows out
into the valley and joins the Ivingdon Ponds.
As soon at it grew too dark to see the
tracks, he had tied his horse up securely in
the gorge, where another creek flowing down
from the Square Mountains joins it, but
first he had made certain that the tracks
led along the ravine running up to the left.
A hard and; laborious struggle through the
vines and white-cedar along the creek—a
little assisted by the light of a diminished
moon—had brought them into the Hollow
sometime after midnight. It had not been
ham before the black, plucking him by the
sleeve, had pointed to a faint glimmer of
firelight that flickered and died down upon
the lower branches of a tall old she-oak
growing with its fellows not far below the
head of the creek
“Plurry fool, that one,” grunted Billy’s
Peter, “lighten! fire. Altogether ,lam’ fool!”
William Nottingham, “per Halifax, seven
years, larceny. Leeds Assizes,” had wakened
in the dawn to a realisation of steel brace-
lets about his wrists, a stern man with a
pistol bending over him and a jeering black-
boy, who assured him contemptuously that
he was “two feller plurry fool." ‘
aw, i • „ . , , , ...
M hat was >e a-goin vor to dew, Netting-
am . asked the constable, as lie shared
bis breakfast with his prisoner. The man m
looked at him in doubtful sulkiness for a
moimmt or two, chewing the bread and meat
ieffectively befoie be replied.
“Do, land? Aw, nowt. Nowt—until I’d
done for Black Jack Targett, th’ ,
as had me tied up an’ flogged. For to blow
his light out—that was why Ah coom away
to t’ boosh. Ah wouldna care for a th
devils i’ Hell so be I seed that villain dead
afoore me two eyes. Aye, Ah'd stamp t
taace flat wi’ me clogs ef Ah seed ? un that
way !”
John Bramblecombe stared at his manacled
prisoner with a sudden interest,
Presently he rose to his feet and walked
up and down a little while beneath the dark-
green branches or the big she-oak, through
which the ascending sun began to.send shafts
of golden light. The little mountain brook
babbled ceaselessly its pretty, monotonous
tune. “Why not—why not—O God, why
not?” it seemed to sing through John
Bramblecombe’s brain. Far up in the ranges
the glorious warbling of a magpie carolled
to the clear blue above the serrated purple
skyline of the mighty hills,
At last the constable halted.
“Billy’s Peter!” he called to the blaekboy,
“you go longa creek and rindem horse belong
ni, ‘- Give ’un a drink, an’ stop longa that
P la ee till 1 bring this 'feller bushranger
along.”
When Billy’s Peter was out of hearing-
“ Will Nottingham, if so be ’twas vor to
co °i n to pass that ye ’seaaped from lawvul
custody, would "ee still be o’ th’ same mind
as regards Cap’n Targett?”
“Aye, by goom, would I ! Ah’ve no mind
f ’ r ovvt , but for to slay that black son o'
Satan.”
“Fight years gone by,” said John Bramble-
combe slowly, “I zuffered vor nil’s dnadly /.in.
He got about piy gairl—an’then he murdered
s^ft wi’ vilthy drugs. They tried me vor it—
ftu’ l )ft re I he. Promise me ve’ll slay this
fi o, ind o’ Hell, an' I’ll unlock th’ darbies,
Will ’ee promise to me; William Xotting-
h,lm—Bo kelp ye God?”
The constable laid his pistol down on the
S rasB aD( J searched his pockets for the hand-
CUaB ’ key.
r prisoner swore fervently, “Aye, by
God's help, so I will. Nowt other will 1
undertake till that good deed be done. So
help me, A’mighty God!”
"Then coom up here along. Will Notting-
P an) ; an “ay th’ good God vitly prosper ye
m -J, 1 goodly undertakin’!”
The man walked over to the constable
and helfl out , hls wrists. Quickly the con-
stable unlocked the steel bracelets, and,
quicker, the bushranger dashed his fist into
h J B face, so that he staggered back clutching
’V a , IoW to save himself from falling.
As he recovered himself the convict dropped
°“« kn( * a “ d snal * hed U P th «
was a. flush, a sudden mist of smoke
i? 1 '! an fild ' om £ roar among the mountains
"Win 1 n vro-T' n l! S ' 1 s- ic
i A l , ttmgham drew himself erect and
]o, '}* d d ™ n at th , e d .ynig man
Ao ill-feeling to ee, Bramblecombe, but
Ah <h«d to ha’ th’ barkers. ITa’ no fear, me
poor nian. All’ll settle your score, an’ mine,
Ttio ( .k T-iek Targett ”
Which promise to the dying, William Not-
tingham—“ship Halifax,' larceny, seven
years, Leeds Assizes”—very faithfully ful-
filled,
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE GO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
W.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Qffioe-98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE ’
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIU CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you t® keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is' suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
health ; but
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Prico i
remember
Carter's Lit*
tie LiverPilla
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
CARTERS
f
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
r
UI!ii!l!l!liII!I(l!S!Ilil||illI(||!|||!rillillllIl
ffiYFMUIuA'
111!!
ill
mi
iiiimmiiiiiEHiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimii! in
inmiimimmiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiHii
nr
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Full, rich tone, clear reproduction
Ready to play immediately opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag.
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
soldiers —s,i,n trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
amongst whom are many Diggers,’
with musical entertainment wher-
ever they may be.
3 Models :
Leather Cloth
Fibre
Cowhide
Obtainable all over Australia .
FROM ALL
MUSIC-DEALERS.
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.
Australian Agents
LA-
PSES/,
U
A
%
The House of Shirley President Is
Built on Firm Foundations
The works of men may last for ages if they build rightly.
The principle of the construction of SHIRLEY PRESIDENT
BRACES is correct. Anyone who will consider them will instantly
undei stand why men wear them not alone for the comfort and sup-
port they give to the body, but for the durability which their correct
design gives them
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
Ccmpg^jj
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870
Cable Address: President
if -■
Sin
c' ’' ’- • <" ’. t.«
«al*S
#ss
'.•■■■*
&!
■■■■
5*581
ww
e?
s?
*£t
■■■
§
w.
ws&
mkmii/t <
Dkr I
Mm's
Pills &
SAFEGUARD YOU* HealtH
otj.Coltis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEKISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDQN, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Beil S Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
emm
UM I
22 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridje«
TWENTY-TWO calibre rifles are more universally used than any
other. It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot —the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting—it is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
for Shooting RighU
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating and single shot models,
together with much interesting information on
shooting, will be sent you. post free, upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
854 George Street, SYDNEY.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is' the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.


iWVW m m Jr sVfift
//
ss
ff
'/
n
n
\
X.
X.
><•
5*
-A
V
ss
V
v>
m.
\V
</
\>
47
</
