

. ! /
m
* ~m
IJWj
M
H2T>
LM
xVWx'^^N
I K
“SKyxVO
Resch’s
inner
Ale.
T^freshin^f
Cooling!-
RESCH’S
Lager,
Dinner Ale,
Stout.
Brewery: Redfern, Sydney.
D
<1
U
*3
■ SR
s
m
%S
<-C
m
m
%
%
r-j{}
w
#-
I*//
$
>xwx
X
&
y&
t>
If*>
w*v
&
w
Kt
S
*h
BS
Sv.
SR
i
s^DN.e
PoNAGI^Ey
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2144
Thursday, March 17, 1921.
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney, Tele, 6431.—Advt.
S 3
fount-Pen
Economical of effort, time and
ink; possessing the simplest
lever self-filling action, and un-
precedented ink capacity; per-
fectly finished, attractive in
appearance, correctly balanced,
The Whytwarth Fount Pen
merits the distinction—THE Pen
of Pens.
H ct. iridium tipped gold nib; all points;
Entirely British and guaranteed.
17/6 Everywhere.
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company, Ltd.,
£lB-226 Clarence St., Sydney.
WHY IS
Eli
TOOTH
THE BEST DENTIFRICE?
Because it combines the Frictional Qualities of a Tooth Powder with
the Penetrating Qualities of a Liquid Dentifrice, plus a Practical
Germicidal Power.
PASTE
ngrovtt
LEATHER
LTI
is unaffected by grit, oil or water; hugs the pulleys tightly, eliminates waste-power and will
prove itself efficient on the most difficult drive in the machinery-room. We have the largest
stocks of leather belting in Australasia, and immediate delivery can be had in any size up to
12iu. wide. Let us solve your machinery problems for you. Our experts will always be pleased
to advise you regarding your belting requirements.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWIOf, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co. Ltd., Fremantle.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
Victoria & Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Melbourne.
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
Built by a firm with the highest
possible reputation, the supreme
Sunbeam is a ‘‘quality” car. It is
built to last and give continuously
good service under all conditions,
and therefore is eminently
suitable for overseas markets.
SUNBEAM-CQATALEN AIRCRAFT* ENGINES.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Department: 12 Princes Street, Hanover
Square, London, England.
Cable Address : Head Office :
“Subeamoco, London.’’ Wolverhampton, England.
ast
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIIXSFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.Q., Melbourne.
Tlic ■ • -iL-ilonI Bow ot -wllfch ini* omlived tbe Ontario*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
hi ityineur (lilt bjrArray and iiuvy mco.
r«ei1 fUioc I5«h FOR write fcrBw);
AUSTRALIAN BL1CHT. FAILING EYELASHES. WEAK SWOT.
S. GREEK, 210, Lambeth Road. London. F-ndud.
inwt oo “wiuskcuu w"—refuse ail siuguwmm.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
I : mrnrnmm
ghfdh
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
Book-borrowing and Book-stealing
I have encountered both the book-borrower
and the book-stealer; and on the whole I
prefer the bold, bad library robber. Books,
in the public eye, are like the domestic cat,
which, as the courts have decided, possesses
no monetary value. The most precious
volume is handled and tossed aside as lightly
as the daily newspaper by the average
reader; and the mere fact that you lend it
is taken as an indication that you no longer
need it. Somebody at the present moment
has A 01. I of my set of Mommsen’s Rome.
I remember distinctly how it came to be lent,
but not to whom I lent it. I had taken it
from its secure home in iny shelves to verify
a small point. A discussion rose among
several acquaintances around this very point
while I had the book in my hand. One of
the number asked for the volume to make a
note from it; promising to return it the next
day. It was a couple of months before I
remembered the occurrence again, and when
I did remember it I was not sure of the
borrower. No doubt that borrower soothed
his conscience with the reflection that it was
only a cheap edition. The book represented
about half-a-erown—and what’s half-a-crown
among friends? But the odd volumes of. the
set could never be purchased separately, and
the edition itself is no longer in print. So
if the kind person who thinks my books are
safer in his keeping than in mine will kindlv
restore my property I shall be'glad to pay
lnm the original published price as a small
token of my regard for his honesty. The
Mommsen volume is one of scores which
have disappeared in almost the same way.
It is practically impossible to hold the bor-
rower or to check him. IJis intense momen-
tary interest in something you are interested
in breaks down your determination not to
lend; and. once you lend there is no redress.
The chief crime of the book-borrower is
relending. Nobody has a right to lend a
thing that is not his own; yet plenty of
people lend borrowed books. * This is, of
course, direct theft; but you cannot bring
such a charge against the perfectly respect-
able person who in his friendliness and inti-
macy was “sure you wouldn’t mind.” A
friend of mine has about a dozen books of
mine which he showed me with interest as
having been lent him months ago by another
mend of mine. Both are such excellently
good friends that the mere phrase “mine”
seems to cloak the whole situation with a
virtue it does not possess; for I have wanted
some of those books, wanted them, in fact, so
badly that I have had to creep into public
libraries to get a. look at copies of them. It
is always the missing book which is most
required ; when by a miracle some of them
al Tm ie^uln , et * they are no longer needed.
. , le hook-thief is seldom a borrower *
but he is very often a book-lover. There are,
or course, people who grab a few volumes
while your back is turned and sell them to
the second-hand shop; but the person who
slips a book into his pocket or bag generally
sticks to it and adds it to his own library.
How some large and expensive wolumes have
got away from my shelves is a standing
mystery I certainly don’t have mv friends
searched on leaving the house; but how they
got. away with a quarto two inches thick
passes understanding. I have seen books of
my own filling places of pride in other
people s libraries; but, of course. I was far
too polite to claim them. You can’t tell the
man who asked you to lunch that he is a
thiet, even when he.calls you to admire your
°wn property in its new environment.
Books are real property and need real
legal protection. It has been explained over
and over again that the reason the penalties
for horse-stealing are so great ,is that the
ciime is so easy and the capture of the
criminal so difficult. Book-stealing is the
easiest of all crimes to commit, and the
capture of the criminal is practically im-
possible. Also, the place which the horse
tilled m the progressive advance of the primi-
tive tribe is now filled by literature. Let it
bo presumed that any borrowed book kept
by the borrower for more than a fortnight is
stolen. Let each book-owner be allowed to
register a secret brand which he may place
at a certain page of his books—a microscopic
thing to be stamped after, say. the ninth
word on the thirty-seventh page or the sixty-
seventh word of the forty-eighth page. As
long as the mark and the position are both
secret there should be some safeguard; but
the actual stamp would require to be of
such a nature that it could not be carried
about in the pocket and used freelv, other-
wise some enthusiast would stamp and claim
every book in the Mitchell Library. Any-
how. a book has as good a right to an ear-
mark as a sheep; and the penalty for steal-
ing it. should be as great. A country is
hardly civilised that affords protection to
mutton and none to the food of the soul.
M. M. C.
The Milky Way—Old and New
Every once in a while the most advanced
modern science makes some epoch-marking
discovery, or puts forward some revolution-
ary theory that brings us back full circle to
some point in the history of thought that a
traction at least of the human race reached
ages ago. Many persons think that, evolu-
tion was invented by Charles Darwin. But
a pretty sound theory of' evolution was
sketched out by the Latin poet Lucretius
nearly 2000 years ago. He wrote as a poet,
not- a scientist, but bis general notions were
on the right track. Mediaeval alchemists be-
lieved hi the transmutation. of_ metals, and
sought for the philosopher’s stone; modern
scientists who are working on the proper-
ties of radium tell us that before long the
transmutation of metals may be an accepted
fact.
Recent developments in astro-phvsies tend
to justify, or, at least, to explain, very
ancient beliefs and analogies about things
far beyond the limits of our world. They
lead us back towards some old attempts to
read a little of the riddle of the universe
Take, for instance, that great belt of stars'
stardust and nebulae which stretches across
the sky. We call it the Milky Way because
the old Romans named it the Via Lactea.
The Mexicans of the period before the com-
mg of the Spaniards held that the Milky
Way was the mother of all that is, and that
out of it were formed the sun, moon and
stars. It is alleged that the Dieri tribe of
Central Australia held somewhat similar
though less definite view's about what they
call "the stream of Heaven.” It is a far
cry from the priests of old Mexico, living
in that utter isolation from the OKI World
which lasted until Columbus broke the bars
of ocean and fulfilled the prediction of
Seneca, that a time would come when. Thule
would no longer be the last of lands,..to one
of the most brilliant chemists and most ori-
ginal and daring thinkers in Europe to-dav.
let Dr. Svante Arrhenius, head of the Nobel
Institute at Stockholm, writes of the Mexi-
can theory in his “The Destinies of the
Stars : "This idea evidently agrees very
well with the results of the investigations
of the last few years.” While Arrhenius
first achieved fame mainly in the field of
electro-chemistry (he received the Nobel
prize in chemistry as far back as 1903). he
is no novice in cosmological speculations.
His “Worlds in the Making” was a marvel-
lous study of the evolution of the earth
from a vast inchoate mass of gases and
stardust "without form and void” to some-
thing like its present form: In his latest
book he carries his studies still farther afield.
When the Homans gave to this matrix of
the universe the name which, in translation,
it still bears in most European languages,
they were no doubt influenced by its “milky”
look. The legend that the milk was spilt
across the sky when Juno in anger pushed
the sucking Hercules away from her breast
no doubt came later. Yet the analogy was
better than those who invented the name
and the legend could have imagined.
Arrhenius points out that there is a great
similarity between the. way in which lumps
are formed in curdling or souring milk and
that in which star-clusters appear to be
formed out of the original misty chaos or
nebulae of the Milky Way. Just as tiny
particles in the milk develop, by molecular
agglomeration, into curds, separated by whey,
so stellar bodies develop in the Milky Way
as a result of the condensation of gases
round nuclei supplied originally perhaps by
cosmic dust or by meteorites or comets en-
tering from without. The “dark spaces” or
“holes” which result from the formation of
such bodies answer to the whey. Inciden-
tally, Arrhenius estimates the diameter of
the Milky Way (the astronomers haven’t
managed to measure it yet) at 100,000 "light
years.” or, say, 000 million billion miles. In
other words, it is to our earth what that
globe is to an atom.
This comparison is a reminder that in
another matter those scientists of to-day
who combine something of poetic vision with
their genius for science find in many old
beliefs and theories something more than
monstrous fables and wild nonsense. Ancient
philosophers sometimes imagined the earth
as a living, breathing animal, and the whole
universe as endowed with life. 4 A gifted
physicist, Fournier d’Albe. has not hesitated
to endow the organism of the Milky Way
with life. The celestial globes he looks on
as the atoms out of which systems of the
order of the Milky Way are constructed, just
as the earth and other stellar bodies are
built up of atoms in the more usual sense.
Though he uses the striking simile “like a
monstrous octopus, the Milky Way swims
in the fathomless ether sea,” Arrhenius is
more cautious. Yet he points out that the
evblution of the Milky Way has a certain
similarity to the processes of life. The. great
nebula is born of the union of two indi-
viduals, two nebulosities, meeting in their
course through boundless space. It gained
substance and strength through the smaller
beings which the surging billows of the ether-
sea brought within its reach. It has now
attained the zenith of its evolution, and is
breaking up into molecules or solar systems,
composed in turn of stellar bodies or atoms
within the molecule. In the violent exube-
rance of youth these rush through space in
fulfilment of their individual life. Some day
they will die and begin the cycle anew.
“Again and again,” writes Arrhenius,) “shall
the starry mists go through the cycle of
existence, and after a lifetime, whose dura-
tion stands in proportion to their dimensions,
i.e., may be estimated by billions of billions
of years, give rise to new celestial beings.
Thus shall it continue in an eternal rhythm.”
DONALBAIN.
Gods and Fairies
To speak of the fairies of Ireland as the
conceptions of a rude and primitive people,
and to contrast the beliefs of a modern Irish
countryside with those of Australian natives,
is rather to mistake the make and shape of
things. Forty, or even thirty, years ago
such an error would have been natural
enough; hut of recent years the mythology
of ancient Ireland has been carefully studied
as well as the archaeology of Celtic times, with
the result that the traditions of well and
glen a.nd thorn-tree can all be traced to a
nobler ancestry in the worship of a civilised
people. Earliest Ireland was far advanced
in arts and crafts; its bronze and silver
work, still preserved, represent the top note
in western European culture; and the com
ditions of life before the Christian era seem
to have been very much better than any
known either in Ireland or Britain for some
centuries after the Norman Conquest. This
being so, it is plainly absurd to think of the
people who see fairies in an Irish glen as
rude dreamers just, emerging from savagery.
For ages the shrines of great gods and god-
desses filled the land. There is Lugli. god
of the sun, Lir, god of the ocean, with Maha-
nan, his son, as special guardian of the
island. There is Angus Og, the god of
youth and love. Brigid and Brian and Midir
and Aine and a score of others. These com-
pare in their essential qualities not with
the rude Scandinavian deities, but with the
Greek Olympians. Ireland was the one coun-
try of Western Europe that missed Conquest
by the Roman legions. Its gods and god-
desses were never identified, as were those
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
•uee
U
Philadelphia Mowers
M. STYLE, as illustrated. A sturdy
machine giving long service. Solid
iron cylinder, with Vanadium Cru-
cible Steel Blades bolted on. Excel-
lent cutting qualities.
SIZES lOin. Min. Min. 16in.
PRICES.. 70/- 80/- 90/- 100/-
Spring Grass Shears, k
2/11, 5/-, 5/9
Sure Klip Grass Shears,
3/fl
Unequalled Values in Lawn Mowers.
The names and reputation at the back of the
manufacturers are a guarantee of Quality and
Efficiency in our selection of standard makes
of Lawn Mowers. Unequalled values and the
choice of the largest assortment in the Com-
monwealth are also advantages of importance.
We specialise in Repair-work. Duplicate
parts for all our Lawn Mowers always in
stock. Send for Illustrated Catalogues; they
are posted free.
Philadelphia Mowers
PHILADELPHIA A. STYLE, as
illustrated, designed for the heavy
work in parks and golf links. Being
all steel, it is practically indestruct-
ible. Made with self-oiling cups,
Vanadium Crucible Steel Blades.
We are sole agents for this machine.
15in., £B/5/-; 17in., £9.
Wood Handle Grass Shears
PRICES: 13/-, 13/-
m
V
■4s?
s-a
■
ns
a
jj
Ml '//TT l '
- a
.j-.
-3?
m
Se.
*
S^r:
S?
a*hs
•: •-••-.
cj
Shanks’s Talisman Mower
THE TALISMAN, as illustrated,
highest class of wide-wheel Mower.
Has 7 blades, fitted best British
ball-bearings. Eminently suitable
for Golf Courses.
15in., £l7/5/-; 17in., £l9.
Shanks’s “Caledonia”
Roller Mower,
single chain, fluted rollers.
SIZES lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
PRICES.. £ll £l3 £l5 £l6/15/-
/
Shanks’s Standard Mower
SHANKS’S STANDARD ROLLER
MOWER, as illustrated. Perfectly
designed and constructed. Univer-
sally used on Bowling Greens. Cuts
closer than other makes. Adapted
for maintaining fine lawns. Made
with 2 chains, double edge, rever-
sible bottom blade, reversible g
cylinder cutters, also grass box.
SIZES—
IOin. 12in. 14in. 16in. 18in.
PRICES—
£I7 £lB/15/- £2l £22/10/- £24
Shanks’s Horse Mowers
SHANK’S No. 2 TRIUMPH SPECIAL.
Size, 36in. Admirably suited for main-
tenance of courses of an undulating
character. Lower part of frame is
hinged allowing Revolving Cutter to
adapt itself to irregularities of the
ground, and to cut toughest grasses.
Used in Sydney and Brisbane Botanical
Gardens and on all leading golf
courses.
PRICE
£l4O
Shanks’s Motor
Lawn Mower,
easily handled, fitted with handles for
steering, regulating levers conveniently
arranged close to attendant. Adapted
for use on golf courses. 30in.. £350
Green’s Horse Mowers
T. GREEN & SON’S HORSE MOWERS,
Gear Drive, with ordinary slide-out
grass box.
30in., £94; 361 n., £llO.
GARDEN REQUISITES.
Garden Hose and Requisites
DUNLOP GARDEN HOSE, No. 1, 2 x 3-
ply, 1/4 foot, 15/6 doz. feet.
OCEANIC GARDEN HOSE, No. 3, l x -
ply, lOid. foot, 10/- doz. feet; 2 x 3-ply,
1/3 foot, 13/6 doz. feet.
DUNLOP SPECIAL QUALITY, 2x3-
ply, 1/5 foot, 16/- doz. feet.
Other Garden Needs
8-ARM LAWN SPRINKLERS, as illus-
trated, 48 r-
A large assortment of Lawn Sprinklers
from 5/9 upwards.
GARDEN SPADES, 9/-, 9/&
DIGGINGS FORKS, 9/3, 10/-, 11/-, 11/9
EE AT HE lR GARDEN GLOVES—
' 2/6, 2/9 pair
Si
Triumph Mowers
THE TRIUMPH, as
illustrated, lias Bin.
wheels, 5 cutting knives,
ensuring close cutting,
suitable for couch-
g-rass lawns.
Sizes: lOin. 12in. 14in.
Prices: 62/6 64/6 66/6
Grass Box, 10/6 extra.
Lawn Rollers
22 x 20in., 3cwt. —
£B/10/-
24 x 24in., 3icwt.—
£9/10/-
26 x 24in., 32cwt. —
£lO/17/6
K
I
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD WILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


USE
1
UJ
re
n
i
■
71-n
vv
J 3
<3?
a
fl
r»
'i
< V/ \ V
j';, J' \
\
K" <3
W*
io
u
■€7
\
y. 4.
r«r
%
H
r^S
V
y
k/3
eivH**
\
7
3>
]
rm)}
V
)
x
ex
:DOIL
j
T 3
V
w,
Prejudice is the natural enemy of progress and advancement.
The old-time disfavor of Australian-made goods (simply because they were Australian-made) is
being gradually broken down on the rock of reason and commonsense.
The virile Australian, with initiative and ideas of his own, is solving many of his own problems
and has banked on quality goods irrespective of origin.
That is why Meggitt Limited’s Australian-made Linseed Oil is in such demand.
The output of Meggitt Limited’s genuine and pure Linseed Oil has increased over one hundred-
fold in twelve years. This wonderful increase is attributable to quality of product.
The quality of Linseed Oil depends upon its maturity, purity, freedom from sediment and foreign
matter.
With this idea of quality ever in mind Meggitt Limited are constantly on the lookout for
improved methods, better processes, more perfect results.
Insist on Meggitt Limited’s—raw or boiled—Oils made in Australia for Australians by Australians.
CATALOGUE No. 2 MAILED FREE.
PAINTERS!
LISTEN
AGENTS
-Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty Ltd., 666 BourTce Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street,
Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. William Adams &Co Ltd Kina Street Perth • Messrs
F - W- & Co Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd., Sussex Chambers,’Panama
Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd., Featherstone Street, Wellington, N.Z.
avbgcitt l t .°
PARRAMATTA
HEAD OFFICE AS KING ST
WUifoyonthebag n
guarantees quality
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal, Specialised Stock Foods and Tonic Meals.
UMSciDWHo^
tmi
MEGGJTTU
°/Ae Soy on the6au
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
Ihe Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
376 Complete.
See it working at
The Royal Easter Show,
Stall 30, Industrial Hall.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
fdhbfd
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & ~
CAMERON L.T?
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
"they COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CELEBRATED
23
;
A
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
B. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W.A.
V
This Easter —
Garry a Smart Bag.
We illustrate one which, besides being
attractive, is particularly serviceable.
It is an envelope bag of real morocco,
lined with solid leather and fitted with
handy compartments. Size 7| x 6 inches.
Price 507-
Ask for X7l when oi'dering.
We pay postage.
If you need travelling goods for your Easter trip, send for our illustrated catalogue of suit-cases,
trunks, etc. It will also show you many of our new styles in ladies’ handbags.
The AMERICAN BAG STORES Lid
THE BAG- STORE. iCORNER. — TONG- AND PITT STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE. PITT ST. • • SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
“Eclipse”
Triple Crush Emasculator.
Stockowners!
Why not be your own Vet.? On the spot have an equipment
of VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS and APPLIANCES to
meet the needs that arise on every Station and Farm. You
save worry, expense and delay. The items illustrated in our
Catalogue are the most modern veterinary science has yet
evolved.
Complete information and instructions ensure their safe and efficient application to 6aih purpose.
They can be handled by the average stockman with the utmost confidence, and are absolutely
indispensable where stock is raised for profit. Send to-day for our Catalogue.
DENYER BROS
The Vet. House
of Australia,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
Durability
in Engineers’ Tools.
Inferior steel fails to give that keen cutting edge that is
so necessary for punches, dies and milling cutters; and, in
addition, too frequent re-sharpening and replacement
mean loss of time and money.
To obtain satisfactory service always order.
Best Warranted Cast Steel
ON ►
Branded “Ah Eagle on a Globe.”
This is a carbon steel of high repute throughout the Commonwealth, and is
particularly suitable for all tools where carbon steel is used.
Full particulars of tempers supplied promptly on request to Department “A.”
THE. EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
378-81 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road, FREMANTLE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
K. L. Milligan., Collins Street, HOBABT,
19
a
r
DBG
TttE PtRP&C*
PIPt
The Pipe for Veterans
The seasoned smoker does him-
self and his tobacco justice by
choosing a GBD.
He knows it as medicine and
consoler, a help in work or play.
The French briarwood from
which it is made is first thoroughly
matured. A cool, sweet smoke
results.
Free from faults and exclusive
in appearance, the GBD is the
“Admirable Crichton” of pipes.
GBD
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Lone Headland.
On this lone headland the last lights linger,
Though east and away the night falls grim;
A lighthouse ray, like a pointing finger,
Sweeps round and round on the sea’s far
rim.
The dim beach dreams and the great cliff
ponders,
And wind-wrenched scrub at the sea-edge
groans ;•
Large gain of freedom is his who wanders
By wild, waste waters that no man owns.
For free of chains that the world imposes
On those who labor for roof and food,
No more the prison about him closes,
No more the grave at its gates seems good.
He breathes the wonder of days long-perished
When no law trammelled and no king
reigned,
Ere fame was sought for, and gold was
cherished,
And towns were builded, and souls were
chained.
His blood, red-surging within, gives token
That he is kin to the wild things still —
The wind unsaddled, the wave unbroken,
Free things that gallop what way they
will.
On this lone headland the last lights linger,
While, headlong rushing, a great wind
sweeps;
A lighthouse ray like a searching finger
O’er cliff and dune and dark wave creeps.
The wind spurs on and the wave speeds
faster,
The sea-caves droning an ancient psalm;
They know no bondage and serve no master,
But sway forever ’twixt storm and calm !
The lash that stings and the sword that
slaughters
May bring the slaves of the world to heel —
But who shall master the wide, waste waters,
And who shall order the winds to kneel?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Salvation.
Upon a day when care and pain had made
Me sick past hope of living, I cried shame
On Love and Faith. Stark mad, I dared
to blame
The gods as fumblers at .a, sorry trade.
Honor I mocked as shibboleth, Truth as
jade,
Agony I saw, and Lust’s devouring flame
That stank i’ the world, and Hate derid-
ing Fame.
Greed in the sun, Vice festering in the shade.
Then as I stood and clamored there stole
to me
A music that shed ecstasy on the air
And showed me life again, how pure,
how sweet.
“Whence,” cried my heart, “oh, whence this
wizardry ?”
So of a sudden I saw you smiling there
And saved by Love I worshipped at
your feet.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Weaver.
Behind the gates of birth she sits
Who weaves the webs of souls; she sings,
And with her grey old fingers knits
The souls of men from shreds of things.
Naught has she new, naught has she strange,
,For all her threads are thin and old,
And limitless as is her range
All, all are tales which have been told,
All, all are worn and cold!
No soul is new, but each is made
Of threads of souls which sought the skies
And loved and wept and were afraid
And laughed and dared, were mad or wise
In other days and other men,
And now are threaded on the loom
To make the souls of men again.
The bony fingers in the gloom
Weave souls within the womb!
She heeds not bodies, heeds not how
Or when or where her souls must strive;
Another soul is made, enow !
What matters, so it be alive?
The soul is woven, that is all,
It may be ill, it may be well,
And of itself must rise or fall
To Heaven or to deepest Hell
Within its poor frail shell.
And so old songs and old desire.
And long lost killings born of hate.
And tears long dead and passion’s fire,
Dead, cold and dead, in earth’s grey grate,
And laughter lost and vanished mirth
And flashing steel and. kisses gay
Are woven for another birth
And never, never pass away,
But live and are for aye!
Man steps his part in masquerade
Built of the shadows of the dead:
For dead men’s splendor is his aid,
And dead men’s sowings are his bread;
And, lam this, be says, and this,. '
Yet wonders when he finds within.
Strange haunting echoes of wild bliss,
Strange tempting to untasted sin,
And ghoulish shapes that grin.
Behind the gates of birth there sits
A wan thin woman old as time,
And she with bony fingers knits
New souls from out the ages’ grime.
She may not choose, she has no eyes—
Then’who shall judge her works aright,
When in poor stricken souls there rise
Grim sins from out the ages’ night,
Black threads among the white?
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


ML
m
X
O.jc-
p *ss*£
; K S 2
f
iVj
/
AOFA
V
A
L
$
V'l
'• M ,
V‘* .
HOVWgJ
W ;
U
U>
wftAVft
He
»M>
KA
iA7
K//
-A f tMM NTJ
VTOtVMVEb ||i ,Jl“
\ i'-
ll V,»
i i
r 1’
"n\l
-T
v'>
LI TT^c-
A;D
FA
wntY
NO
Ii * ’
— v ,1 >~‘*XN#l| fr>Aw
nviinui
»
;u»
*Cv“
GOOD WORK.
THE good work done by the early pioneers at the Sunraysed
Settlements is now bearing a remarkable harvest. By
Purchasing the dried fruits packed by the A.D.F. Associa-
tion of growers the housewives of Australia are finely supporting
the efforts of the inland farmers. This ready support has placed
the A.D.F.A. m the position of supplying at home and abroad
unrivalled lexias, muscatels, raisins and currants, and has enabled
Australia to altogether keep foreign and inferior fruits out of the
Australian market.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N. S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 42.—N0. 2144.
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE WEARY GOD.
FIELD-MARSHAL FOCH: “Pick up your sword.”
MARS: “What, again! Am I never to be allowed a rest?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Alusgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bULLETiN Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Lo., 211 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £i ids. per annum you can have The
.Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
iu any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage)'.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
re) used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers, ,
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps tor return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.lt;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The Britisli-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., -'ijl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 100 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., Vft
Howard Street, San Francisco ; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., Vi West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 119 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, 12 nd Street and
6th Avenue , New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richard-s
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered- as a
Neicspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
■in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 1921.
“SUCH STUFF AS DREAMS ARE
MADE ON.”
Few have disappeared from public life
carrying with them so much undeserved
obloquy as the wreck who shuffled out of the
American Presidential chair the other day.
Perhaps the closest analogy is the Redeemer
to Whom he was so freely compared in his
brief hour of triumph. Yet Wilson, para-
lysed and prematurely aged, holds the same
views as Wilson young and vigorous.
That, as a matter of fact, is his disability.
There is a homely saw about the different
points of view held by the Devil when well
and sick. The world of to-day is the Devil
/convalescent. The w r ar-fever has subsided.
The old acquisitive appetites have re-
turned. Many people are rather ashamed of
the sentimental stuff they wrote and spouted
about self-determination, the crusade for
freedom and -world-betterment and all the
rest of it, when the political doctors were
hinting lugubriously that, science had done
everything possible, and it might not be out
of place to call in a clergyman. The Ameri-
can prophet wfflo has been rejected with
such contumely by most of the world repre-
sents in his stubborn, pragmatical fashion
nearly all that was best in the spirit that
won the war. With the trifling difference'
that he no longer rules anybody he is the
identical man of whom Frederic Harrison
wrote in the Nineteenth Century three
years ago: — , ,
He rules like Trajan or Antoninus by the uni-
versal acceptance of his moral and intellectual
superiority, his embodiment of right and of duty.
The enemy cannot charge any ambitious aim on
him or on his people; they alone of the belli-
gerents have nothing to gain and stand for simple
faith, humanity and justice. With the cynical
helplessness of the Vatican, Wilson is morally the
Pope of Civilisation.
Apparently the victorious nations do not
require leaders of simple faith, humanity
and justice. The demand is for something-
less embarrassingly consistent, more pliable,
not quite so inhumanly righteous. Oppor-
tunists like Lloyd George and W. M.
Hughes are in power still, apparently, be-
cause they have gone back on pretty nearly
every elevated principle which they joined
with ex-President Wilson in expressing
during the war. President Harding is at
the White House because, in the vernacular
of his native land, he never stood for any
such dam-fool notions. He was a man of
business during the war as well as after it.
* * * *
When the retiring President arrived at the
Capitol for the inauguration ceremony there
was one official whose greeting he ignored.
Senator Lodge, senior Republican member
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
had put forward a set of peace terms which
differed widely from Wilson’s. There was
nothing definite about self-determination in
them, and they avoided any suggestion of
a desire to interfere in the affairs of Europe
after certain territorial adjustments had
been made as to the desirability of which
all the Allies were agreed. When the dif-
ferences between Wilson’s policy and the
one that beat him are reduced to essentials,
it appears that the former stood for an
active crusade against the old balance-off
power principle (which contains in itself
every factor that made the war) and the
other did not. “They fought to do away
with an old order and establish a new one,”
said Wilson, when the eyes of a chastened
world were upon him, “and the centre and
characteristic of the old order was that
unstable thing which we used to call the
‘balance of power’—a thing in which the
balance was determined by the sword. The
men who have fought in this war have been
the men of the free nations who were deter-
mined that that sort of thing should end
now and for ever. From every sort of
mind, from every quarter, from every con-
cert of counsel there comes the cry that
there must no longer be a balance of power.”
The electors of America who, voting the
Bodge ticket, put President Harding in
power said inferentially that they were cold
on . the balanee-of-power question. They
refused either to lay down their sword or to
be associated with the unprofitable troubles
of stricken Europe. Wilson in his rash
enthusiasm for the League of Nations had
wished to commit America to membership
of “a single, overwhelmingly powerful group
of nations who shall be the trust of the
peace of the world.” “America,” said his
successor for the nation in his Presidential
address, “seeks no part in directing the
destinies of the Old World,” and he went on
to mention that the only sort of acceptable
Peace League, would be one “which will not
impair the sovereignty of the United States.”
It was a notable triumph of materialism
over idealism; and in so far as there can
be no League at all, with the richest and
probably the strongest nation standing aloof,
it represents the death-stroke to the most
wonderful dream the world has known for
1900 years.
* * * *
The depressing lesson would seem to be
that the world is not yet equipped for an
effort in sustained virtue. When Lloyd
George talked in glowing periods of what a
grateful Empire would do for its heroes and
“the natural and imperishable right of the
subject races to fully control their own
destinies,” and when wealthy Englishmen
applauded him, neither dreamt that within
a few months of the termination of the
fighting in Flanders one lot of British sol-
diers would be wearing sandwich-boards in
England and another lot shooting down seek-
ers of self-determination in Ireland. They
would have been honestly horrified at the
idea. Yet with the exception of a handful
of Anglican bishops and a few laymen of
the Lord Hugh Cecil type, the British
governing classes acquiesce in the new con-
ditions : and most of them support the Coali-
tion chiefly because they rely on it. to deny
self-determination wherever possible, and to
yield the minimum where denial has become
impossible—at the same time keeping the
demobilised soldier in his place relatively
to the war-profiteer. When our own W, M.
Hughes advocated conscription in the name
of freedom he no doubt believed what he was
saying, and it is certain that 90 per cent,
of those v r ho cheered him did. How his
audiences would have boo-hooed, how dramati-
cally he would have protested and denounced
if some seer had arisen and said: “Germany
will be beaten and disarmed within two
years; but you will not give Australians
back the freedom they handed you on the
understanding that the sacrifice was neces-
sary to enable the war to be won. You
will keep the. War Precautions Act on the
Statute Book until you replace it by an-
other of a more drastic nature. Years after
all danger has passed you will be using it
to deport people and interfere with the right
of free speech. Parliamentary government
will still be in abeyance, and the State will
still be you well on into 1921.” This unedi-
fying state of things does not exist only in
the higher political reaches: it reaches all
down the scale. When the Storey party
was seeking office in N. S. Wales candidates
promised that there should be no more bor-
rowing, no more exploitation of the poor by
the rich, and no more poverty for any man
willing to work. All absurd, of course,
though there is no reason to think that those
who gave such assurances were altogether
hypocritical. They meant it at the time.
The Storey Government has proved the
same old Government. It has borrowed as
hard as any considering its opportunities;
its members have evinced* the same readiness
to travel and otherwise enjoy themselves at
the State’s expense; there has been the
customary nepotism, and more tihan the
normal ration of poverty. It did not need
the bloodshed which has characterised the
Lenin regime to satisfy sensible people that
government under Communism is no purer
or more satisfactory in any way whatever, of.
itself, than other forms of government. The
“Massacre of the Tenth of August” at the
beginning of Europe’s time of storm and
stress, 130 years ago, the platform of the
French revolutionaries half a century later,
and all the other upheavals designed to
bring the Millennium to pass out of hand
have been led up to and have ended in the
same way. The best that mankind can
expect is that human misery, the product
of human inequality, physical and mental,
may be alleviated in sections, here and there,
leaving the most passionate reformers fairly
well satisfied if the good work shows a
steady tendency to go forward rather than
retrogress. There is no quick Wilsonian
road to the Golden Age. Not one in a
million of us is ready for it.
THE AGRICULTURAL TRAGEDY.
“You want immigrants and you want immigrants
who will go on the land. How are you going to
provide for new settlers in any numbers worth talk-
ing about unless you take power to burst up the big
estates? Some of the best land in the State is still
held in huge blocks.” — N.S.W. Lands Minister
Peter Ffrench Loughlin.
These remarks, which are the sort that
any State Minister is capable of making in
his sleep, were tacked on to a recent an-
nouncement that the N. S. Wales Land Bill,
still-born last session, will reappear when
Parliament meets. Yet Lougiilin’s Land
Bill has really very little to do with settle-
ment and nothing at all to do with cheap settle-
ment. The scheme provides that where a
landed estate exceeds the value of £20,000
the surplus may be taken over by the Gov-
ernment. The £20,000 worth that the
owner may retain isn’t present value, but is
as much surface as would represent that
value if improved to the utmost regardless
of expense—possibly 200 acres improved to
£lOO per acre by the expenditure of
£2OO per acre-. A Court, which may refuse
to hear more than four witnesses and from
which there is no appeal, will decide matters.
Even if the land isn’t taken over till 1950
it will be taken at the value (which the
Court will decide) of 1920, or at less than
that value but never at more. All subse-
quent increment and the value of all improve-
ments made within the 30 years will be for-
feited. The people who are waiting will
be many, for it will be years and years before
the Sydney Government can take over all
the land which is under sentence, and owners
will leave off spending money on improve-
ments, for it would be coin thrown into the
sea and any increase of value would merely
be a further inducement to seizure. Deteriora-
tion may pay, but not the other thing. The
compulsory seller, in 1930 or ’4O or ’5O, is
to get the 1920 value or less in 4i per cent,
debentures with 38 years’ currency, worth,
at present money values, about £7O in the £.
But if the Government takes £lOO,OOO worth
of land on these terms and sells it, with the
confiscated increment and improvements, for
£200,000 the buyers must pay £12,500 cash
(6i per cent, deposit), so that every deal
will mean ready cash for the Department.
And the latter will collect the whole £200,000
due to it before it begins to pay the
£lOO,OOO due to the original owner. It
doesn’t look like good 'business for the
settler: it is absolutely rotten from the
standpoint of the expropriated.
* #• * *
The land is in various ways and aspects
the most gigantic swindle and confidence
trick that certain politicians possess. Their
avowed object is to make Australians an
almost purely agricultural race. But this
isn’t the way to attract immigrants, for im-
migrants don’t make for purely or mainly
agricultural The cry of the
stereotyped dullard is that we should get back
at great cost and amid much swindle and
robbery to the point which other nations are
passing on the forward track. This (is
because it is the custom here (but nowhere
else) to raise great loans for settlement pur-
poses, ,as if the land was a huge and hor-
rible debt to be paid off, instead of an
asset. The men who live on the “settle-
ment” gag are themselves town or city men
who avoid the soil as if it was poison or a
serpent. But the settler, a scattered, dis-
united non-unionist piece-worker, toiling all
sorts of hours for any paltry wage he can
drag out, is the antithesis of up-to-date
Labor 'theories, and that makes him more
desirable and easy for Labor politicians to
manage. Until a town (not city) popula-
tion, engaged in secondary industries, grows
up to supply local wants and furnish a local
market, he is about the last person that Aus-
tralia wants to cultivate. Most certainly
it doesn’t want to cultivate the settler in
the orthodox political fashion, whereby a
great deal of him is acquired at vast and
ruinous cost in loans, and is hardly here
before he is gone again. He is gone, but
the loan isn’t. The list of imports is the
list of things we use but don’t make, and
which we drag here over vast and costly dis-
tances, sending raw materials over the same
vast and costly distances in exchange, and
so burning up our substance at both ends.
Consequently it shows what kind of people
we want most. The record fluctuates, but
in a general way the indication is that Aus-
tralia’s present need is to import or other-
wise acquire 24 skilled artisans for one
farmer or The land, how-
ever useful to politicians who dabble in
millions that Smith may he chased off the
surface and Brown chased on, can stand
being left to take cai’e of itself for a dozen
or 20 years. At least it can stand that
treatment better than other matters can.
* * * *
Of course manufacturers are not likely to
grow much more than agriculture if sys-
tematically and purposely confined td five
monstrous cities looking out upon a waste.
If local raw materials from the far end of
a State have to travel 2177 miles to reach
Perth, or 1593 miles to reach Brisbane, or
652 miles to reach Sydney, and the finished
product has to wander all that way back,
local industry might as well be foreign in-
dustry. But when the continent is cut into
15 States with possible further subdivision
ahead, 10 new cities as good as Perth or
Brisbane will arise for exactly the reason
which made them rise. The land round
them will pretty well settle itself, without
the aid of chattering city politicians. When
it is 177 miles instead of 2177 to the place
where the products can be sold, many things
happen. And then there may be a revival
of the little towns which, in N. S. Wales
especially, have been undergoing systematic
depreciation for many years instead of de-
veloping into bright centres of industry,
culture and high thinking, with a perceptible
influence on the country’s destiny. Mudgee
(N.S.W.), to quote an example at random,
has had a railway for 36 years, and it was
a terminus for 25 years. It had 12 little
factories once, but, thanks to careful manipu-
lation of freight charges and to other causes,
the railway carried them all away to Syd-
ney. The midland, or rather eastern, town
of Parkes is now a junction where direct
lines to Sydney, Melbourne and Bourke
meet. When the gap between Trida and
Menindie is filled in, a direct line to Broken
Hill, Adelaide and Perth yvill meet the others
there, and it will be the City of the Cross-
ways. Also the filling in of another scrap
will give it a direct line to Brisbane. In
fact, it is developing as about the most re-
markable inland junction in Australia —a
sort of Chicago or Denver, barring the popu-
lation. The present population amounts to
about 5000. It will probably diminish in the
regular order of things when the excitement
caused by local railway building is over. The
brood of Big City politicians have no ap-
parent desire to alter this state of things,
which is occurring in many other parts
of the Commonwealth. They live politi-
cally by “settling” the same bit of
land again and again, as an agent sells
the same ghost-haunted house over and
over, thus living on the ghost. And their
rage when any district talks secession makes
it certain that they don’t want so much
settlement as would render their own capital
and its environs liable to be controlled on
this issue by the balance of the State.
The Loughlin Land Bill answers to ail
the requirements of the party that is behind
it. It looks large and well-intentioned and
democratic. It is a menace to the capi-
talist—often a man who has struggled out
of the manual working-class by a lifetime of
bullocking effort. And it promises no harm
to the one-big-city movement, an insanity
which the short-sighted union boss often has
as much at heart as the biggest city or sub-
urban property-owner in the Sydney Mil-
lions Club.
THE WEALTH THAT LABOR
DOESN’T PRODUCE.
The Russian census shows that the population of
Petrograd is under 800,000 as compared with more
than 2,300,000 six years ago. —News item.
During the first two months of 1921 there were
2000 deaths from starvation in Petrograd. —News
item.
It is a dogma with the advocates of up-
heaval that “Labor is the sole source of pro-
duction” or “the sole producer of wealth.”
And yet it is doubtful whether Labor pro-
duces as much as 25 per cent, of the world’s
wealth. At least 75 per cent, must be put to the
credit of the great art of Knowing How. The
Men Who Know How are not only those who
organise, though they count for a lot. It
is Knowing How, for instance, that creates
and maintains a beneficent concern like the
Australian Mutual Provident Society, with
its handsome returns to the co-operative
shareholders and its rock-like solidity, while
Not Knowing How has left the N. S. Wales
Government, after receiving in a year more
than the A.M.P. has made out of 71 years’
labors, a semi-bankrupt. But the term also
includes the men who devise machines, for
machines, made by high intelligence and
watched over by minor intelligence, do most
of the world’s well-paid toil. Thus in
N. S. Wales factories during a recent year
Labor was represented by 120,554 human
beings, while the art of Knowing How w T as
represented by 259,104 horse-power of ap-
paratus in' addition to all the hand tools
which the workers used. Even setting at
a low estimate the value of one horse-power
going continuously as against a man- or
woman- or boy- or girl-power going with all
manner of breaks and stoppages, Knowing
How stood for 90 per cent, and plain “bul-
locking” for a bare 10 per cent, of the
work done. And Australia is not a
machine-using country in anything like the
same sense as the United States. The im-
poverished races of the world are those in
which labor, the alleged “producer of all
wealth,” predominates, and they are poor,
poorer or poorest exactly according to the
degree in which it does predominate. So
the Australian aborigines are far down and
the Fuegians, lacking the asset of a good
climate, are further down. On the other
hand the nations that specialise in Knowing
How are at the top in ,th)e matter of
wealth, and whatever bad things may be said
of wealth it seems to be universally popular.
The United States—the mechanical country
par excellence-^- has acquired a mortgage on
the human race which might be even bigger
but for the fact that negroes and raw East
Eiiropean immigrants represent a non-
mechanical class and reduce the average, On
the other hand Russia, whose people are pre-
dominant among white races as an unskilled
lot, has long hours, compulsory toil and
miserable wages paid in paper. Also it has in-
sufficient production to keep its diminished
population from dying of hunger in a rich
land, even after the landlord and capitalist
were eliminated and ceased to feed on the
vitals and victuals of the community. It
has national insolvency added to private in-
solvency.
* * * *
Labor in the sense of mere haul-
ing and lifting-power has many votes; organ-
ising and inventive power (the power that
devises machines) has few. Machinery itself
has, of course, none at all. So if bare labor
as a whole can be persuaded that it is the
sole source of wealth it can “take over the
workshops” and everything else beyond a
doubt. Its instigators towards this end are
men of a regulation type who neither do
heavy labor, organise industry or make or
devise machines. They are lung-power per-
sonified and speech incarnate. If the brain
element of industry is disqualified as it was
in Russia in the days when votes were con-
fined to soldiers, sailors, peasants (the_ pea-
sants of a land where agricultural machinery
is primitive to a degree) and the actual
toilers in factories, and thus animal- or
muscle- or meat-power is made the ruling
force, then billets as Chief Animal are
created for the men of lung-power. Apart
from their lung-power they would rank
merely as unskilled labor, often lacking the
muscle and energy to stand even in the
front rank of that poor army. They cer-
tainly don’t represent borrowing-power, tor


fierv w-windedness isn’t security. And they
are not inventors. Nor are they organisers
of industry. In Russia the organisers were
got rid of and replaced by committees of
faborers in the first place, and when these
failed replaced again by Government drivers
of labor The inventor class vanished and
wasn’t replaced. When a man became a
long-hour low-wage private in the host of
industry he had no time to develop ideas.
In the natural course of events machinery
wore out, and it did it quicker through
having less expert knowledge than usual to
steer the apparatus and more than usual of
that mere brawn which is alleged to be the
sole source of wealth at the helm.
Soviet Russia is as fertile as ever, and it
was always a fairly good land in the inhabited
parts It is one of the few countries with
no war debt, that burden having been re-
pudiated. It has neither a loafing Church
nor a loafing Peerage to support. And the
ivorker has been working harder than ever
he did before. The Russian used to be a
light, casual, holiday-making sort of toiler,
but his revolutionary taskmasters stopped
all that. So that the collapse was not in labor-
power, but in machinery-power and organisa-
tion-power. Wherever the last two factors
were eliminated the ruin was nothing like
so complete. The country, for instance,
suffered little by comparison with the cities,
because the peasant, pottering along on his
own farm, had no complicated organisation
to go askew and his principal tool, the
land, remained intact. He was always poor,
but he escaped the worst because the Gar-
den-Trotsky doctrine could only be applied
to him in a small way. Therefore he is
now richer than the city artisan who used
to be his superior. But he objected to
supply the cities where the worker, getting
at last the full result of his labor in the
“taken over” workshops, had only a fraction
of the old amount to pay with. And;
in any case the State railways, now for
the first time free of debt, made an amazingly
poor fist at carrying produce or anything
else. In fact, all the elaborate industries
which the 0.8. U. wants particularly to
annex and manage and plunder —the mines,
banks, factories, currency system and so on
—came to unutterable woe, while the cocky
whom their schemes leave pretty much alone
because no one knows what to do with him,
survived after a fashion. Russia provides
the only modern example of a white race
trying to carry on on the principle that
brawn is king and brains and experience
assets to be despised. It represents the
biggest effort ever made to put into practice
the theory that “labor produces all wealth.”
And the result has been to give the fool-
doctrine of the hairy old German impostor
who evolved it the showing-up of a lifetime.
Lacking a working alliance with Capital
and the intelligence that Capital is in a
position to buy. Labor in the world of to-day
can produce nothing but want and anarchy.
THE URGENT NEED FOR FLYING
DOCTORS.
One of the many functions of the Federal
Department of Health,- which was gazetted
a few days ago, is “to inspire- and co-
ordinate public health measures.” Where
the head of the new Department sees, a
good thing in the death- or disease-prevention
line, it will be his business to recommend
it to the Government for support, and in
general to push it along to the best of his
ability. Just such an opportunity offers
now. The Sydney papers mentioned casu-
ally last week the death of two people from
diphtheria on a wayback N. S. Wales out-
station. They might have been saved,
probably would have been saved, if a doctor
or skilled nurse had been got to them in
time; but it was impossible. A Bulletin
contributor wrote (10/3/’2l) of a 12-year-
old Torres Strait white girl:—
Fever took her right away out there, remote from
doctors or any white folk. A pearling lugger manned
by a Japanese crew put in for water. Mrs. Zahel
went down to the beach and asked the diver to take
her and her sick child to Thursday Island and the
doctor. For three days she lay unconscious in the
dreadful little cabin with her dead child clasped
in her arms.
Such tragedies are commonplaces almost in
a land where the nearest neighbor may be
100 miles away.
* * * *
Some Northern Territory enthusiasts —
members of the Australian Inland Mission
—have evolved a scheme which, if it
materialises, should do a lot to prevent such
suffering and loss of life. The idea is to
bring medical belp to outbackers by air.
Winton (Q.), where the mission has a sta-
tion, is the headquarters of the company which
is providing a regular aerial service in
Queensland and the Territory. With a cer-
tain amount of outside financial support, and
with contributions on the lodge principle
from the settlers interested, the organisers
expect (1) to be able to pay for the car-
riage of doctors and nurses (at £lO per
hour—an hour being the equivalent of 70
miles) and (2) to have erected the neces-
sary wireless chain. If the Winton scheme
succeeds—and the auspices are fairly favor-
able —there is nothing to prevent its exten-
sion north and west. The aerial circuit
already organised takes in Longreach, Clon-
curry, Camooweal, Burketown, Hatches
Creek and Alice Springs. Another might be
based on Katherine, south of Darwin; or on
Marble Bar, out from Port Hedland; or on
the country round Meekatharra, at the end
of the Geraldton-Mt. Magnet line. The
Government stands to gain in other direc-
tions than the probable saving of revenue-
producing lives. If it wants its immigrants
to people the Commonwealth’s waste spaces,
in preference to flooding the already crowded
coastal cities, as they are doing at present,
the way to go about it is to make these
areas as safe as possible, even if they can’t
be made joyously comfortable yet awhile.
Every novel-reader is familiar with the
sturdy pioneer of last century, who, accom-
panied by his brave girl-wife, strode into the
wilderness, and, after incredible hardships,
hacked a fortune out of the reluctant bosom
ot Nature. It is likely that these super-
settlers never were numerous, and the supply
is certainly a limited one to-day. The
modern Argonaut, especially where he is
married and the possessor of a family, pre-
fers to be within hail of civilisation; or, at
any rate, in the vicinity of so much of it as
is represented by skilled medical attention
in time of need. It is the price the com-
munity has to pay for that popular educa-
tion which has brought home even to the
poorest the perils of amateur surgery.
There is another sound business reason
why the Australian Government should look
favorably on the venture under discussion —
as favorably, say, as a State Government
regards an A., H. and P. show", to which it
pays a £ for £ subsidy. It was officially
announced, last month, that an Aerial Mail
Service is to be begun, “in order to test out
the possibilities of aviation in the letter-
carrying business.” There is no reason why
a service with Government machines and
personnel shouldn’t carry as reliably as any
other kind of service, though in point of fact
the Peace Loan aeroplane campaign was dis-
astrous, while some previous Governmental
flying stunts were ridiculous in. their in-
effectiveness. But one thing is certain,
namely, that the experiment, which is
scheduled to last 12 months, will provide
no idea of the cost on a business basis
of such a service. The notion is on a
par with the use of battleships and naval
personnel to find out the expenses involved
in a regular mail service by sea; and in
addition to this aspect of the costing side,
there is the extravagance which grows up
naturally round every military or quasi-
military institution. In short the Govern-
ment is entering on an experiment which, if
it proves successful (in the sense of
indicating a capacity to shift letters
from here to there), will prove nothing
of any real value, while if it fails
from the mere carrying standpoint, as is
not unlikely on past records, then the cause
of aviation in Australia may be set back
for a generation. If it is necessary to
demonstrate that mails handled by the. right
men and machines can be regularly delivered
in Australia (which is doubtful, since the
thing is already being done in old-world
countries less suited for flying than ours)
an admirably convincing way of doing it
would be to show that doctors can be so
delivered. Any ground organisation done at
the taxpayers’ expense would represent
money well spent, for aerodromes must be
laid out freely within a few years if the
Commonwealth is to be defended at all. And
every air-track blazed by the pilot and his
relief-bringing passenger will be in some
sort the equivalent of one of those old mili-
tary roads along which the Diggers marched
in England and France. But, above all,
there are the Outback women expecting to
become mothers; the fevered children and
their bewildered and terrified parents; and
the men who have met with agonising acci-
dents. If the heads of the new Health
Department have the imagination to visual-
ise them, and if they can bring Ministers to
see with their eyes, the rest should be easy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Capitalist Conspirator—Modern
Style.
A remarkable feature of the meeting of
unemployed in Sydney Town Hall last week
was the agitated reception given by the
daily press to the stereotyped remarks of the
speakers. Some of the latter attributed the
work-shortage to a “capitalistic conspiracy,”
and the papers—notably the Sun —handled
the charge as if it were a scandalous novelty.
Of course it has been an agitator’s platitude
for over a century; which goes to suggest
that, to put it mildly, there have been times
and places when there was something in it.
It is beyond argument that an article grows
cheaper as it grows more plentiful. Rich
men all over the world have made use of
this law to amass fortunes, and amongst
other things they have exploited unemploy-
ment for the purpose of getting cheap labor.
They are doing it in India, Africa and else-
where now. One of them —a septuagenarian
shipping man —expressed disappointment on
arriving here from England recently at the
discovery that Australia was neglecting such
an obvious means of becoming affluent
quickly. Alderman Lambert and his friends
may be talking nonsense when they accuse
capitalists of sacking men to create unem-
ployment in Sydney to-day—a place where
most capitalists are sitting up at night think-
ing out schemes to get labor and to keep it
when secured —but it would be absurd to
deny that, like a Royal Commissioner, the
insurgents are in a position to “draw infer-
ences.” The past record of Capitalism, which
is rotten on the whole, is one of the chief
assets of the revolutionary; and for Con-
servatism to adopt an attitude on the ques-
tion based partly on the tactics of the
menaced ostrich and partly on those of Mr.
Pecksniff serves merely to bolster up the
logic of disorder. The rational course is to
put up no futile defence of. the infamies of
another age; to admit that there may be
cause for suspicion even now; but in any
event, and always, to stress the great truth
which people like Lambert hate for obvious
reasons to admit—namely, that there is as
much difference between the average capital-
ist of to-day and the average capitalist of
(say) the year the Combination Laws were
repealed, as there is between typical
working-men of the two periods. There are
a hundred reasons why the normal modern
capitalist wants to do the fair thing by his
employees. The old, hectoring, sweating
boss is no longer admired by his class; in
fact, he is an offence as well as an anachro-
nism, like a three-bottle man, or one who
imitates an 18th century Corinthian. Not
only does convention forbid the capitalist of
our period to grind down the proletariat,
but in this country the laws preclude any-
thing of the sort. All the employer asks is
that the worker shall produce; and (using
the self-same argument which was employed
at Sydney Town Hall last week in connec-
tion with Australia’s alleged “capitalistic
conspiracy to cheapen labor”) he demon-
strates that it is all in Labor’s interests
that there should be extensive production.
Just as plenty of labor on the market used
to bring down wages in pre-unionist days
(and is still doing it in the non-unionised
countries) so plenty of goods on the market
tends to bring down prices. Neither windy
abuse nor lofty rebuke is damaging to the
advocate of upheaval; on the contrary, such
things win him confidence and prestige. The
deadliest stroke anti-Bolshevism can deal to
orators of the Lambert type is to state the
proposition that Capitalism is anxious to
give Labor more than Labor can conceivably
get under any of the half-baked political
systems at present being discussed —and to
prove it. Thus profit-sharing has been a
tremendous success in many big businesses
in the United Kingdom, on the European
continent and even here. The main objection
to it, as J. 11. Thomas has pointed out in
“When Labor Rules,” is that “if you have
a profit-sharing scheme it entails, by the
ordinary laws of fair play, a loss-sharing
scheme” —which is a possibility that
the non-capitalist with a family to sup-
port is reluctant to face. Partly in
order to meet this the great English firm of
Priestman Brothers evolved another scheme.
In conference with their employees they
struck a standard average output per week.
Wherever it was exceeded the wages of
everyone in the business were increased pro-
portionately. If the output fell below the
standard in any one week it was deducted
from the next week’s excess. This idea has
been adopted in some 80 British industries
since its inception three years ago, and the
effect has been inter alia to largely increase
(1) production, and (2) the workers’ earn-
ings. Wherever a few business men who
know their jobs are gathered together devices
of the sort are being hatched out. They
are about the only conspiracies 99 per cent,
of the capitalists ever engage in. They do
not emperil the welfare of the bona fide
working class. Far from it. The only class
they menace is the Lambert-Garden class,
which is a different affair altogether.
The Reputation of the Subject.
One of the added terrors of modern existence
is the Royal Commission habit. Whenever
a Government is unwilling to assume re-
sponsibility on some issue involving votes;
whenever an influential man considers he has
been aspersed, and that it is desirable for his
character to be publicly cleared; and very
often when it is merely a matter of giving
a faithful old friend and supporter a lucra-
tive job—on all such occasions, and many
others, Governments, Federal and State, ap-
point Royal Commissions. The fashionable
cult of psycho-analysis, which, as a N. S.
Wales industrial inquiry disclosed last week,
has already reached the workshops, is becom-
ing a sort of craze amongst our multitudinous
Commissioners. The witness has no choice
in the matter of attending. He either goes
into the box or he goes to gaol. At the con-
clusion of his effort the Commissioner records
his impressions very much after the style of
the workshop foreman referred to above,
except that (1) instead of dashing off a hur-
ried sketch such as “Scotch,” “this man has
a rotten sort of face,” “sullen-looking—might
get nasty,” or what not, he paints a full-
sized portrait; and (2) his creation is for
publication and not for private reference.
Few, very few, Commissioners are equipped
for this delicate task. In Victoria Generals
have been getting such jobs of late; though
it is doubtful if there is any class in the
community which more completely lacks the
judicial mind. In N. S. Wales the prefer-
ehce is for Equity Judges. An Equity law-
yer who knows anything of the world outside
the still and remote shades in which he prac-
tises is a rarity. N. S. Wales has so far
produced two (the authorities made a Federal
Chief Justice of one arfd a Divorce Court
Judge of the other) —but they have always
been recognised as rule-proving exceptions.
Mr. Justice Street, who exhaustively an-
alysed the characters of the army of wit-
nesses in the Ashford inquiry last week, is
of course an extremely able man in
his own sphere, and one of unques-
tionable probity; but as an authority
on the rough-and-tumble business which is
life —No! emphatically no. Yet” he spoke
last week with the assurance of one having
the experience of a Casanova or a Charles
James Fox. The unfortunate Ashford,
whose domestic felicity may have been em-
perilled by one of the Commissioner’s some-
what gratuitous conclusions, was ground in
this matter between the nether millstone of
the Bar and the upper millstone of the
Bench. His counsel advised him not to give
certain evidence (on grounds which, while un-
connected with any suggestion of guilt, will
appeal as sound to every man of the world) ;
and because he took that advice (disregard
of which would have cost him his adviser)
the Commissioner feared the worst. There is
no valid reason why Royal Commissioners
should let themselves go concerning the
characters of the luckless citizens who are
forced to appear before them with the aban-
don and wealth of detail which have dis-
tinguished some recent findings. The public
is quite prepared to take the Bench’s word
for it, within reasonable limits. The effect
of a too meticulous attention to duty in this
respect can only defeat the best interests of
justice in the long run. It is no reflection
upon the probity of the average man to re-
mark that, as Royal Commissions have been
shaning of late, he would be advised on re-
ceiving his subpoena to follow the example
of the fabled bishop—the blameless divine
who, on getting a telegram saying “Fly.
All is discovered,” did so and was never seen
in his diocese again.
Wren and the Socialisation of Industry.
Last week the bosses of the A.W.U., the
coal and metal miners, the federated railway-
men and other anions issued a declaration of
war on “the employing class,” with some ex-
ceptions of the right color. The declaration
and the exceptions are embodied in the fol-
lowing paragraphs: —
There can be no peace as long as want and hunger
are found among millions of working people, and the
few who constitute the employing class have all the
good things of life. — Preamble to the new Constitu-
tion of the 0.8. U.
During the negotiations for the settlement of the
shipping dispute it was intimated that if a man in
whom the seamen had entire confidence were chosen,
the probabilities were that a settlement would be
reached. Mr. J. Wren was selected.—T. Walsh,
President of the Seamen’s Union.
The old leaders of Australian unionism were
men with ideals. They summoned their fol-
lowers to a nobler destiny than the coarse
profiteers’ Utopia that appeals to the bosses
of the 0.8. U. They labored to finer issues
than the mere vulgar enjoyment of “the good
things of life,” as visioned by noisy persons
with dull, materialistic minds. Loathing
the man who pays the wages wasn’t part of
their religion, and they hadn’t a Suspicion of
reverence for successful gamblers like When.
But the old union leaders have gone, and
most of the old idealism has gone with
them. The new men are largely imported,
and are class-haters and internationalists to
a man: Lacking the passionate love for
Australia that distinguished their prede-
cessors, they are forever wanting to drag
the Commonwealth 'into the internecine
squabbles of foreign countries. The
materialistic conception of history (and life)
dominates their stunted minds. Also, they
have a fervent friendship and admiration for
When and the tribe of Wren. According to
their strange ways of thinking an industrial
creator like Delprat is a soulless exploiter
of the toiling masses, but Wren is a high-
minded philanthropist, Wren is “a good
feller,” Wren is a man in whom the Seamen’s
Union has “entire confidence.” So when-
ever the modern trades-union boss denounces
the loathsome capitalist, be makes an excep-
tion in favor of the kind of employer that
Wren represents. In reality, Wren is
about the worst enemy the Australian union-
ist has. He is the prosperous impersonation
of a vice that has got a deadly hold on the
Australian working-class, and is dragging
them down. Every week tens of thousands
of thriftless toilers take their wages to
Wren’s nefarious racecourses, or .those of
the tribe of Wren, and pay tribute to an
unlovely mob of parasites. Last year it was
estimated that £40,000,000 passed through
the totalisators and the bookmakers’ bags
on Victorian and N. S. Wales courses, and
probably half as much again was handled
by shop-bookmakers. Of course the same
money was speculated over and over again,
but the original sums staked, plus admission-
charges, would amount to at least £7,000,000,
and the bulk of it was provided by trade-
unionists. Without their support the pro-
prietary racing industry, probably the most
profitable in Australia, could not exist.
Capitalised and wisely expended the money
annually wasted by Australian wage-earners
in gambling on horse-races would, in a few
years, put them in the way of becoming
masters of Australian industry, without re-
volution, repudiation, job-control, slowing-
down, or any other dishonest invention of
a diseased mind. The 0.8. U. bosses know
this, but they are not going to risk unpopu-
larity by saying so. It suits them better to
flatter the workers by calling them “serfs
of the capitalistic oppressor.” Besides, a
crusade against horse-gambling would be bad
for Wren’s business, and they are not pre-
pared to sacrifice Wren. They find him use-
ful now, and will doubtless make a place for
him in the new era. Under “the social
ownership of industry,” there will assuredly
be socialised tote-shops and two-up schools,
and no one could run them better than
Wren. -
The Indestructible Turk.
Nothing provides more impressive proof of
the beneficent possibilities of a League of
Nations, in working order, than the moves
and countermoves which are going on in con-
nection with the various Peace treaties. In
all these negotiations Britain stands out as
the reasonable party, the party who is eager
to make concessions, and, in general, to meet
people halfway. It is not that the British
Government contains a more merciful or
moral lot of men than (say) the French
Government, which is behaving after a very
different fashion: the point is that British
interests are world-wide, while those of
France are much more localised. France
has far better prospects of viewing
a ruined Germany with complacence than
Britain, apart altogether from the revanche
factor and kindred considerations. In the
year before the war the United Kingdom
sold Germany £40,695,000 worth of cottons,
woollens, ironwork, machinery, etc., exclu-
sive of a vast amount of wool and other
Dominion products. France’s business was
paltry by cdmparison. France may almost
be said to have no Mahommedan question:
it is perhaps the biggest problem the British
Empire has to handle. The British Em-
pire is in fact, a League of Nations in itself,
and finds it by so much the more necessary
to avoid giving needless offence. One or
two parts of the vast organisation continue
to be exasperated—notably Ireland—but
where no party issue enters into the affair
the tendency is to push the extremist and
the revenge-monger brusquely aside. The
above thoughts are suggested by a cable of
last Saturday:—
It is understood that Mr. Lloyd George, on behalf
of Britain, has suggested modifications in the Turk-
ish Treaty, particularly in regard to the military
and financial clauses, and the delimitation of the
Straits area, also the clauses relating to Smyrna, in
the direction of maintaining Turkish sovereignty,
while providing adequate representation of the inter-
ests of both the Turkish and Greek population.
It is a long time now since Gladstone
urged that “the Turks, their Zaptiehs and
their Mudirs, their Bimbashis and their
Yuzbashis, their Kaimakams and their
Pashas one and all” should be kicked bag
and baggage out of Europe. The school-
boy Lloyd George may have read that
strange sentence the day after it was de-
livered, and, burning with indignation at the
thought of so much immorality congregated
in one spot, have vowed that if- ever the
opportunity came he would disperse it. He
certainly made many such promises during
the early days of the war. He didn’t specifi-
cally endorse the entire policy of statesmen
of the Horatio Bottomley school —which
included the hanging of the Sultan cheek-by-
jowl with the Kaiser; the permanent occu-
pation of Constantinople; and the hunting,
by some unexplained process, of Europe’s
If million Turks across the Bosphorus. But
he let it be understood that such spirited
views were, in general, his. Not till things
became very awkward in India did he come
out with his suggestion that the Turks might:
retain Constantinople and “the renowned
lands of Thrace.” Apparently they are going
to do much better for themselves. The
demilitarisation of the Dardenelles, the
evacuation of Constantinople by Allied
troops, and the return of Smyrna to Ottoman
control —these are the latest concessions to
Mahommedan sentiment. It is not unlikely
that the Turks will, in course of time, regain
their old status in the Holy Places of Pales-
tine. It is certain they will pay
no indemnity worth mentioning; they never


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £250,000
ASSETS EXCEED £500,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time, and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
do. The settlement is one that would have
made the blood boil in the veins of an Im-
perial patriot of the 1915 vintage; and such
modifications of the Sevres Treaty are not
done with yet. But there is no doubt as to
the wisdom of what many will regard as a
shameful betrayal. Revenge is never en-
tirely satisfactory. Practised by a mainly
Mahommedan Empire at. the expense of the
Rome of Islam, it would wear a suicidal
aspect.
♦
Australia’s Great Austin Chapman
Movement.
It is an interesting paradox that great popu-
lar movements and agitations may get along
with hardly any supporters, and may get
on better for their fewness. A multitude
of supporters may be in the way, as Xerxes
found when he brought too many friends
into Europe. The recipe for a really great
movement is something like this:—
Get one man of influence, wealth, energy, patience
and lasting power who is boiling with enthusiasm up
to at least 2731° Fahrenheit. It doesn’t matter
whether he is patriot, saint or self-seeker so long as
he has the qualifications and boils..
Let him gather, as he should with ease, 100 sub-
sidiary boilers heated up to 731° Fahrenheit. They
may be mere reflectors of the great, heated man, but
they must be good reflectors. These, with perhaps
900 minor satellites, make a good enough great public
want and a vast unanimous national demand, pro-
vided no referendum or similar nuisance happens
along to prove its utter hollowness.
Then 2,000,000 people, if they are wholly in-
different, can be persuaded that they are in a state
of profuse agitation. That is to say, the man who
lives at 21.8 Dead-street is sure that the man at
228 opposite is excited, and likewise all the rest of
the street. All the rest of the street thinks the same
of him and all the languid items of the 2,000,000
believe they are the languid exceptions among
1,999,999 agitated human beings. They think this
because the section of the press which has been
secured for the purpose tells them that an infuriated
upheaval is on and it is nobody’s business in par-
ticular to say anything different. And by-and-bye
with luck the business slips through in response to
an overwhelming national insistence which isn’t really
big enough to overwhelm a beetle.
Australia has a striking instance of this sort
of thing at its door —one that howls inces-
santly for 24 hours a day and seven days in
the week. It is the Canberra capital agita-
tion. Nobody shows any real interest in Can-
berra now except Austin Chapman, who
is Federal member for the surrounding dis-
trict, with an electorate which extends to the
sea and the Victorian border. Canberra was not
the first proposed Federal-capital site, others
being Dalgety, in Austin Chapman’s elec-
torate, and Tumut, close handy to the same.
Neither N.S.W. nor Australia showed the
least sign of wanting Canberra or even of
having a desire for any definite capital site
in N.S.W. or anywhere else. The people
were never consulted —in fact, elaborate pre-
cautions were taken to prevent them having
the chance to express an opinion. They
never gave Austin Chapman any right to
go on as if somebody had stolen his best
clothes when successive Parliaments evinced
indifference on the Canberra issue. His
bounding vitality may create an impres-
sion that he is Australia’s preference credi-
tor, but he isn’t. A mere Act of Parlia-
ment could quite fairly and justly shift the
capital to-morrow to Armidale, Tenterfield,
Bourke or any other place. In fact, if the
disappearance of Austin Chapman could
happen (if he could be evaporated of dis-
solved and kept in a jug and not material-
ised again for years) it ought to favorably
influence the whole course of Australian his-
tory. For that gentleman is Canberra, how-
ever strange it may seem that so little should
make a noise like so much.
Buying Off the Enemy.
England once owned a king whose name
has been held in low estimation ever since
because, in the course of 37 troubled years,
he never put up a square fight against the
universal enemy, but always paid him to
quit. The enemy took the money and left,
only, of course, to come back again as soon
as he wanted more. After a time the enemy
grew so contemptuous that he took the
money in the old way and didn’t even pre-
tend to leave. The spectacle of Acting-
Premier Etiielred Dooley, the Unready of
N.S.W., trying to buy off the unemployed
spectre, which is Australia’s Great Dane or
other wild dog, is history repeated. Dooley
is only Ryan, Theodore or Scaddan over
again, but he is the latest Etiielred, so
naturally he has to pay highest. Speaking
recently in defence of his Government he said
that it had already spent over 10 millions, or
more than a million per month, in the pur-
chase of peace ; so no one could say it hadn’t
tackled the unemployed difficulty with vim.
And he might have added that there wasn’t
one shilling’s worth of permanent aid in the
lot. The relief couldn’t be other than tem-
porary, for while factories, once started,
may run for centuries, earning the new capi-
tal for extensions and always growing bigger
and giving more employment, the loan rail-
way or road stops short as a source of
employment the moment it is finished. Then
the enemy who was bought off for 10 months
with 10 millions is back requiring to be
mollified for the next 10 months with 12
or 15 millions. The surplus is wanted be-
cause there are payments to be made for
maintenance of the works, loss on working,
and interest, also because baby unemployed
are always growing up. Despite all this
borrowing the unemployed in the Ma State
are estimated at anywhere between 20,000
and 30,000, so the foe who was paid for his
temporary absence never left after all. If
the new loans cease, as they show signs of
doing, the unemployed seem likely to number
at least 50,000 —all permanencies unless
some improvement on the Etiielred dodge
can be invented. N. S. Wales wants and
has room for new factories to produce two
millions’ worth of goods per month at the
very least and replace the same quantity of
imports, and that would more than settle the
difficulty. But unfortunately the Ministry
of Etiielred Dooley knows no more about
encouraging industries than that other buyer-
off, the unready king, knew about railways.
In addition to Etiielred, England once
owned another king whose idea was not to
pay the enemy to go out of the country, but
to take strenuous measures to prevent any
THE GREAT CITY INDUSTRY.
such curse and incubus being in it. And
that is the sort of ruler Dooley is not.
♦
John Storey hadn’t been in England 24
hours when it leaked out —or rather the
bottom and sides came away and it poured
out —that he was on a borrowing mission
after all. He wants, according to the cable,
to be assured of new loans for the purpose
of carrying on “large schemes of a construc-
tive character,” which is an unsatisfactory
platitude, for the pyramids and the Hun
entrenchments in France were large con-
structive schemes, though they yielded no
return. And he wants to be assured of
money for five years ahead, which, at his
Government’s spending rate of about
£15,000,000 per year, would be £75,000,000.
It is a sign of the large way in which things
are done now, that, if the whole gold yield
of the Commonwealth came from N.S.W.,
and the Government owned it all, and the
gold cost nothing to get cut, but fell from
Heaven like rain, it wouldn’t pay interest
on this one loan —and interest due in London
must be paid in gold. The Commonwealth
gold yield for 1920 was worth £4,008,545,
and at 61 per cent, the annual interest on
a loan of £75,000,000 would be £4,575,000.
Theodore, of Queensland, attempted to
borrow enough to cover his customary loan
outgoings for two years, and failed. Storey
will probably create such alarm, if he gets
down to details over this plan, that he will
not only get no new money, but the renewal
of the 40 millions or so falling due before
1924 will only be done on extra hard terms
in an extra frozen market. Nobody would
want to refuse absolutely and so precipitate
the debtor’s collapse. There is always a
chance of each big holder selling out to some-
one else, if time can be gained, without pay-
ing too heavily for it. But to put the prodi-
gal on a good spending wicket for five years
would be almost like fixing the date of the
insolvency. By that time he would be
demoralised past repair. It suggests issuing
a very big short-dated life policy to a
habitual suicide.
*>
“A section of the Press is reviving Mr. Churchill's
Dominion Guards project, declaring that the
Dominions’ Premiers should discuss the scheme at
the approaching conference. The War Office authori-
ties are not antagonistic to the suggestion; on the
contrary, they are eager to strengthen Empire-wide
views in every direction ; but say the difficulties of
varying rates of pay in the Dominions and the
natural desire to control the movements of their own
nationals in the event of war outweigh the possible
advantages of the scheme.” — Cable.
There are other objections to the fool-
project than those specified by the War
Office. Take the Australian quota. Few,
if any, of those who saw active service in
the A.I.F. would volunteer, if only for the
reason that nine-tenths of them hated peace-
soldiering. The aspirants would be our
Base Camp Ghurkas, sporting M.B.E.’s and
other decorations won by alert conduct in
offices and on parade-grounds. Now the
Guards have always had a great fighting
record, and the last thing they would welcome
is the only sort of reinforcement likely to
be forthcoming from the A.I.F. The fact that
the Dominions Guardsman, private or n.c.0.,
got higher pay than his British companion-
in-arms wouldn’t affect harmony and good-
fellowship to any extent. However, the dis-
crepancies between the private incomes of
the British and Australian officers would be
a fatal bar to any association between them.
A subaltern in one of the foot regiments of
the Brigade must nowadays have not less
than £lOOO per annum, apart from his pay;
and a Life Guards officer requires about
double that sum. And of course many
of these young men have 10 or 20 times as
much. The few Australians available for
such an existence are already leading it: there
have always been one or two, like the Wil-
sons of Victoria, in the Brigade. The rather
sorry lot who did accept commissions from
this country would mostly set out to live on
their pay, and as Guards officers have no
mess, and are required to belong to an ex-
pensive club, the experiment would not be
likely to endure for long. After a year or so
of it the Dominions regiments would find
themselves in the position of the Welsh
Guards, which regiment, after the slaughter
of 1915-16, found itself commanded by a
Scotsman; or the Irish Guards, who, about
the same time, were largely officered by well-
to-do ex-cadets (English and overseas) and
Jews.
A belated disclaimer from Father O’Don-
nell, the Tasmanian ex-padre :
By his protest of “An Embittered Scot” in The
Bulletin of Jan. 22, “J.E.” proves that some people
still place implicit confidence in the daily press of
this country. He should know by this time that it
is not to be trusted upon a question of politics or
any other highly controversial matter. The S. M.
Herald's account of my lecture in Paddington
(N.S.W.) was in part wholly false and the remainder
a gross distortion. It was so set down as to pro-
duce in the minds of its readers sentiments such as
those of which “J.E.” delivered himself in his pro-
test. I did not advocate an Australian Republic. I did
quite the contrary. 1 quoted the words once used
by Mr. Joe Cook when he was in favor of an Aus-
tralian Republic. I said I did not think the time
was ripe for a republic here, especially as we now
had practically all the independence we required,
and that we could not stand alone against foreign
aggression. The Herald next morning came out
with a heading which read, “Priest favors an Aus-
tralian Republic,” and then set down Joe Cook's
words as mine. It would be hard to beat that for
dishonest journalism. But it was done with a pur-
pose ; and “J.E.” has proved that it was not done in
vain. Whatever portion of “J.E.’s” protest was
founded on that part of the Herald’s report must
therefore be set aside. With regard to Germany, if
the report had given what I said “J.E.” would not
have been lifted to such heights of indignation. I
pointed out that the policy of the Australian Govern-
ment in refusing to allow our people to trade with
Germany was economically unsound. While we were
forbidden to import goods from Germany, millions
of pounds’ worth of such goods were being dumped
in England. Some of those goods were after-
wards relabelled by “good,” Englishmen and sent to
us here at prices over 50 per cent, in excess of the
German price. Furthermore, in England, they have
now discovered that as long as Central Europe is
prevented from resuming trade under normal con-
ditions the world will be chaotic. For that reason
there are over one million unemployed in England
itself. It is certain that many millions will have
to leave Europe, and it would be to our advantage
to have some of them in Australia. If two million
Germans did come here they would help to build up
our country. In the past Germans have proved
themselves to be amongst out best and most indus-
trious citizens. “J.E.’s” argument as to what they
would do in the event of another war with, Germany
is pure moonshine. There is not likely to be another
war with that country, and even if there should I
think that two million Germans could do less injury
here than in Germany. It was a good thing that the
13 million Germans who reside in the United States
were there during the war instead of in the Father-
land. If the next scrap is with France or Japan,
then two million Germans in Australia might be
very useful as combatants. Under a General with
“J.E.’s” power of hate they might be worked up
to great heights of patriotism. It is because there
were so many “J.E.’s” at the Peace Conference and
elsewhere that the world is still in its present state of
disorder.
The Rev. Hugh Paton, at the unveiling of
an Honor Roll in St. Stephen’s Presbyterian
Church, Sydney, on Sunday last, raked up
the trouble which has been drenching Ireland
with blood for the past seven centuries: —
“In Australia we had Irishmen and members of the
Roman Catholic Church, even bishops themselves,
talking as though Ireland were in bondage, and utter-
ing slanders upon England and the Empire which
could not be allowed to pass unnoticed. Why was
England always attacked in this way? Why did the
Roman Catholic Church, through one and another of
its adherents, on every possible occasion seek to
vilify England?” Mr. Paton replied: “Because she
is Protestant.”
Twenty years ago the South African Repub-
lic had a population of 119,128 whites, of
whom 5000 were Roman Catholics and the
rest members of one or other of the Dutch
Reformed Churches or Presbyterians or Angli-
cans or Methodists. The bitterest slan-
derers of the Empire at the time were the
staunchest Protestants, and many of the
Dutch pastors not only cursed the redcoats
but fought them. In the 18th century Pres-
byterians in Ireland said more slanderous
things of the British Government of the
period than any Australian Roman Catholic
of our time. These were the days when
the English General Lake was hanging Ul-
ster Protestants and burning their homes;
when the Welsh Fencibles perpetrated the
Massacre of Newry; and when Ulster Pres-
byterian “rebels” were fleeing from English
onnression to America. Over half the
names attached to the American Declaration
of Independence were those of men of Ulster
stock who had fought in Washington’s
army against the English. The Presby-
terians of Australia did well in the war
(47,850 enlisted) ; but 60,503 Roman Catho-
lics did the same, and nearly 15,000 of them
perished. What balderdash it is, in the cir-
cumstances, to argue that religion is at the
bottom of the Irish row, or anything else
but that determination to be free at
any cost, which is recognised by most of
us as a virtue in the subject races outside
the Empire. Mr. Paton’s hate-fomenting
nonsense wouldn’t matter in the _ sort of
hedge-parson who depends for his living
on promoting sectarianism, but coming from
an A.I.F. padre of four years’ standing, and
the deputy-chief of a great city church, it
amounts to a tragedy.


WICHITA.
THE MOTOR TRUCK OF WORLD-WIDE USE
The striking features of the Wichita chassis are Strength, Simplicity, Durability and absence of unnecessary parts to get out of order.
Those who are seeking profits will find it to their advantage to investigate Wichita Trucks.
REFERENCES TO MANY SATISFIED USERS IN AUSTRALIA.
1| AND 2-TON CHASSES TO ARRIVE PER STEAMER GORALLA.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY.
’Phone: LIOB4 or L 1238. Red X Trams George Street to first stop past University grounds.
POLITICAL
POINTS
First day’s cable was to the effect that
N. S. Wales Premier Storey had reached
England feeling well. Second that his busi-
ness was to arrange for loans to carry on a
large “constructive” public works policy
for five years, which sounded rather like
£70,000,000, and that he wasn’t too good.
Third day the report was that there was no
basis for the assertion that he had gone to
London to borrow £3,000,000, and, as a
trifle like that would be of no use at all,
everybody believed him. Also he wasn’t feel-
ing at all like his bonny self and would pro-
bably see a doctor. All these domestic and
financial items must cost a lot in cable-
gramming.
France has a business-like way with
traitors, and 10 leaders of a movement avow-
edly aimed at “the destruction of the
existing social order” have been committed
on a charge which has plain, unvarnished
guillotine at the end of it. The 10 proposed,
exactly as the Garden push does in Aus-
tralia and almost in the same words, to
snatch the ruling power from all the people
and concentrate it in the hands of their own
minority, and the French take treason
against the people seriously. The Austra-
lians don’t.
Something like a crisis having arrived, the
A.W.U. has taken the bull by the end of him
that is best left alone and declared for 30
hours work per week, with 138 hours’ sleep,
eating, pony-racing, etc. If it comes off
there will be less local production, and more
goods will have to be imported to supply
local needs, and more money will go out to
pay for them, and when the local supply of
money runs short and the A.W.U. can’t get
its wages, it will set its witch-finder to smell
out a “conspiracy.” Too much basic wage
and too little basic work make trouble in any
country.
“Gallery” : Fleming, M.H.R., who has gone
over to the Country party, is an ardent Free-
tectionist, but will be of little use to his new
pals in the tariff debate. A mild, pleasant
enough fellow, without a hard word in his
vocabulary, he belongs to the number of
well-meaning mediocrities who can empty a
house quicker than Frank Anstey can fill
it. For some extraordinary reason he was
considered last year to have a chance of
attaining Cabinet rank. But the promotion
of Arthur Rodgers ruined his ambitions in
that quarter.
Balmain (Sydney) received the shock of
its life when it learned last week that 1600
men were to be sacked from the Common-
wealth’s Cockatoo Dock, leaving only 1000
employed. There was the usual talk of
“conspiracy” on the part of the people’s
Government against the people, as if the ease-
loving Ministry w r as likely to look for trouble.
The facts are that loan money is very short;
that the Commonwealth merchant fleet has
joined the ranks of the money-losers, leaving
it with not a profitable enterprise to its
name; and that if many more ships are
built at twice the price which equally good
ones can be bought for in the depreciated
market, the whole business will Stagger down
a whirlpool into insolvency.
The cable relates that the streets of Petro-
grad are, or have been, running with the
blood of the workers. Their trades unions
were long since suppressed, and their Soviet
was a cipher which merely’ registered official
decrees so they apparently rose up to demand
a Parliament and a republic and took
chances Chinese mercenaries are said to
be conspicuous on the Lenin-Trotsky side,
The fact that the Lenin Government had
Chinese in its pay has long been known, and
it was inevitable in the circumstances. John
is the only foreign condottiere who could be
hired, all other adjacent nations being other-
wise engaged. He is in almost unlimited
supply; he is cheap, he is driven to adven-
ture by local famines and civil wars; he is
an enthusiatic emigrant; and he isn’t a bad
fighter of a sort. And this much-disliked per-
son has good reason to be the last man to
desert the Lenin standard, for he is thousands
bf miles from home, and if his party goes
down he will never see the Great Wall again.
His employers are in much the same street,
fer they would be unwelcome guests almost
anywhere.
On a mild disturbance in the West; —
With three contests still to be decided (polling
occurs weeks later in the North than in the South),
Labor has gained three seats in Weetralia—Canning,
East Perth and Yilgarn. On the other hand, it
has lost Fremantle and Kalgoorlie to the National-
ists, and these are significant defeats, for both
were brought about-by unionist votes. Fremantle
is dominated by wharf-laborers and their women-
folk, and the retiring member, Ben Jones, had made
himself a champion of the direct-action policy which
culminated in the wharf riot of May, 1919. Jones,
INTERFERENCE WITH HIS COMFORT.
ACTING PREMIER DOOLEY: “I could enjoy this seat much letter if John hadn't left that
infernal dog tied to it.”
in fact, was the most rabid red-ragger in the
House. And “Texas” Green, M.L.A. for Kal-
goorlie, another predominantly unionist constitu-
ency, was hardly less extreme than Jones. Yet each
of these strutting roosters of intransigence was
badly beaten on his own dunghill, whereas East
Perth and Canning were won by Laborites of the
most moderate description, personal popularity being
the deciding factor in each case. When all the
returns are in Labor will probably have
18 members in a House of 50. Clearly the
Westralian workers are not ripe for revolution,
and Irish politics don’t interest them at all. A
reconstruction of the Ministry will be necessary,
for Premier Mitchell has lost Draper, his Attorney-
General (Mrs. James Cowan, a conspicuously able
social-reform worker, lifted Draper’s scalp), and Wil-
mot, one of the honoraries. But Mitchell will remain
Premier, unless the Country Party decides otherwise,
for the prospect of another Scaddan Government is
not regarded with joy.
South Aus. members of Parliament —both
Houses—receive £2OO a year. Premier Bar-
well, in his policy speech, last week, an-
nounced that the electors would be asked to
approve of a change to £4OO. The present
Ministerial salary is nominally £lOOO, but
actually less. Barwell thinks this absurd and
suggests £l5OO for the Premier and £1250 for
five others. There is no certainty that Bar-
well and Co. would profit by any increase,
The Country* party is quite unable _to make
up its differences with the Nationalists, and,
as the balance of power in S.A. is generally
rather a delicate one, a few seats lost by
split voting would bring in a Labor Ministry
under Gunn.
“Croson”: Rodgers, M.P., or anyone else,
take all the credit for p ort i a nd (Vic.),
. , , . ,* ’
being thrown open as a deep sea port, but
Portland isn’t getting a fair deal for all
that. In fact, it hasn’t Buckley’s chance of
ma king good. It has the water all right, and
pi of a sort but it wants a good deal
1 ’ A breakwater mentioned as
“absolutely necessary,” by John Coode in
1879; (2) shunting accommodation at the
shore end of the pier, so as to save double
handling and expense; (3) provision for
lighting during loading operations, and (4)
sheds on the platform to protect inward and
outward cargo. Given a fair show by some-
one who really tvanted it to go ahead Port-
land would swiftly knock Melbourne and
Geelong out as wheat-shipping ports. But
that would he real decentralisation, and a lot
of people would cheerfully see Portland at
the bottom of its harbor first.
From an observer in the Gallery:—
Hughes’s obstinate secrecy about the High Com'
missionership has aroused a mild frenzy of curiosity
and speculation. Departmental scribes camp despon-
dently on Ministerial doormats in the forlorn hope
of hearing something that will solve the awful mys-
tery. The other night I interviewed a Minister
on another matter, and tried to screw him round to
the subject of greatest moment, but when I eventu-
ally put the question point blank he smilingly
opened the door and said: “Next, please.” There
were two other desperate journalists outside, and I
crept past them, too wearied to maintain the long
pretence of having gathered something important.
The strain of this watchful waiting for an announce-
ment that may upset the political world is telling
even on the veterans of the game. One of them, an
inter-State man of high repute, humorously offered
£5O for early news just to get the demented subject
off his mind.
“0.K.”: The Victorian Railway Depart-
ment seems to have had evil thoughts put in
its head during the latest strike. In the first
place the revenue profited by public incon-
venience. As the result of running fewer
trains, which were overloaded with goods and
passengers to the limit of human endurance,
the takings of the Railway Department for
the week ending February 21 were about 30
per cent, higher than for the same week last
year. The temptation to work the monopoly
for narrow financial purposes is probably
haunting the Commissioners. And mean-
while the extremest section of the sulky rail-
way servants wants to know why there
should ever be any Sunday trains if the
public could silently do without them for
several weeks? Why, indeed? Why does
civilisation wear boots when the boys who
sell evening newspapers can chase the shin-
ing hour in bare feet? Why have arfy tram
service on the Sabbath seeing that Mel-
bourne had to walk on the Day of Rest for
eight warm weeks or more? Why are the
employees of food-supply establishments re-
quired to serve customers on Sunday when it
would do most of the customers more good
to have a black fast once a week.
The present N. S. Wales Government is
the prize promiser and defaulter. It pro-
mised the school teachers a rise, now long
overdue, and they threaten to sue Dooley
and co. in the courts for the money. It
promised the local farmers a bonus of 2s. 6d.
per bushel and they have failed to collect 2d.
per ton. Its child pensions and orphan
pensions haven’t begun to eventuate. In
fact its one notable prompt, definite success
was in releasing the I.W.W. prisoners, and
it has regretted it ever since.
Commonwealth Auditor-General Israel, in
his last annual report to Parliament,
remarked casually that amongst payments
made without vouchers were the following
items in respect of visits to the Imperial
Conference in London: W. M. Hughes,
£2750; Joseph Cook, £2750; R. Garran,
£1150; P. E. Deane, £1350; advances to
P. E. Deane, £6O; J. G. Latham. £1150;
R. Mungovan, £1100; W. E. Corrigan,
£1050; and L. Dumas, £520. Moreover,
161 other payments were made without
vouchers and 27 upon imperfect vouch-
ers. Pages 49 to 73 give complete
details of hundreds of thousands of pounds’
worth of Government stores, materials and
property classed as lost, stolen, missing,
gone astray or damaged during 12 months.
And yet Joe Cook complains plaintively that
ignorant people never point out where Gov-
ernment Departments can stop waste or save
money.
The views of “H. Horsecollar” :
The London price of wheat, which is the world’s
price so far as Australia is concerned, lately-
dropped to 10s. 9d. per bushel, equal to 7s. lid. or
Bs. at Melbourne or Sydney. Yet Australia pays' 9s.
as the price of having Dooley, McTiernan and co. in
office. Buying votes regardless of cost they pro-
mised an extra 2s. 6d. guarantee on N. S. Wales
wheat, making '7s. 6d. at the country railway station.
Queensland went one better with Bs. With railage,
wastage and other charges to provide for, the two
States had to bully the central authorities into
putting up the local sale price to 9s. That meant
a dearer loaf—so that Storey could be in office. Then
the flour-mills had to slow down because flour ground
from nine-shilling wheat was too dear for export.
That meant unemployment—so that Dooley could be
in office. As the supply of offal from the mills ran
short through less work being done pigs and fowls
had to be fed on more expensive food. That meant
higher-priced bacon and sundries —so that McTiernan
might be in office. Stupidity and ignorance are
expensive articles in politics.
Tom Skeyhill, of Victoria and of the
A.1.F., writing to friends here after three
months in Russia, summed up the Bolsheviks
thus; —
They promised freedom and they gave fetters.
They promised food and they gave famine. They
promised peace and they gave war. They promised
order and they gave chaos. They promised pros-
perity and they gave wretchedness. They promised
fraternalism and gave fratricide.
When Mr. Skeyhill gets back he may notice
the same thing on a minor scale in N. S.
Wales. The Storey Government promised
a minimum standard of comfort for all
workers, automatic increases of wages all
round, imprisonment of profiteers, a wheat
guarantee payable in cash, and hundreds of
other things summed up in the statement
that the demand for workers would keep
ahead of the supply and that the Govern-
ment’s activities would “only be limited
by the supply of labor available.” And after
almost the most glorious harvest on record
and the biggest revenue and supply of loan
money on record, it has the greatest deficit
up to date, the unpaid and overdue wheat
guarantee, the biggest unemployed trouble
since 1893, the stopped flour mills, the
stopped milk supply, the gradual collapse of
railway building for lack of money, strikes
even on its own relief works, the scandal of
its salary grab added to the scandal of in-
venting jobs for 13 Ministers of whom
three are quite superfluous, the long closure
of Parliament so that the Premier could
have six months’ holiday at the public ex-
pense after eight, months’ toil, the wonderful
silos that remain empty while the wheat is
stacked in the rain outside, and the smell of
stale fish in the air all round.
BORROWED TROUBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One party strikes its breast, and says
It’s shocked at Ireland’s wrongs ;
Then on its knees another prays
That with hot iron prongs
The imps of Hell will soon accost
This brood of anarchy,
Who show themselves completely lost
To God and decency.
The first responds with diatribes,
And roars the pleasant day;
The town is filled with strident scribes
And clamor of the fray.
They call each other loathly names:
The zealot’s brutal thud
The cause of ancient Erin shames,
And follow cries for blood.
We have within this burdened land
Some troubles of our own;
There are abuses here at hand,
And wickedness is known
That should inspire us all to haste
Our righteous wrath to sate,
And so I grieve to see the waste
Of good Australian hate!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Cow Cocky : " Lord , ble££ you, wkat have 1 dono, t
you ougbf to bite ibe distributor .”
Distributor Hera, you're on to
the wrong man . Hava a go at tbe
carters I have to employ
Ca-rtizA- : 1 Lor blirrxz- , bow can 1 belp it 7 Dyou
br>ow wbat rei>t 1 kavc to pay ? Co and
bite my landlord •
* M Good £jr2*c>ouS/ Ic&rit Vjcelp Vt.
Go and Bite, ibo chaps wholoajf
qyi building jobs . ”
“Hullo ! Bite, me, wcrulc! you. { "Why you re
my do£ , anyway , aint you ?
LOOKING FOR THE MILK IN THE COCOANUT.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd,
PRODUCERS or , _
LEAD —Soft Pis, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER—Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
Also^o/ITTHARGE (Assay'and Industrial!. * n
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXTDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SIFVER-FEAD ORES, BEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COFFINS HOUSE. COFFINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL. Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary. -
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Males.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
.• v J / Mlj 1 J£\. ll'U'
G‘J BKOOKWAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE. JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL.
H. B. HABKEB.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS
“AUSTRAL”
JE3HAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Geiat. ne Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
-11 ‘ Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (12i p.c.) (in Shares). Reserves.
1909.. £44,074 £20,625 £16,500 £73,578
1910.. 50,374 22,687 18,150 83,115
1911.. 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
1912.. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913.. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914.. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915.. 40,002 33,334 109,546
1916.. 40,019 33,334 116,231
1917.. 37,637 33,334 120,534
10 p.c.
1918.. 32,360 26,667 126,227
Reserves transferred to Capital, £88,890. . 37,337
Written off reserves, £2450 . . . . 34,887
7i P-c.
1919.. 21,309 26,667 29,529
Written off reserves, £1444 .. .. 28,083
10 p.c.
1920.. 66,938 35,556 59,465
The year ended Dec., 1919, was visibly one
of the poorest this very successful Sydney
newspaper co. had experienced. Early in
that year the directors capitalised £88,890
of reserves, providing a one-in-three bonus
issue; but on the enlarged capital the year’s
declared net profits were not sufficient to
provide a 6 p.c. div., while on old capital,
on which 12£ p.c. had been paid for four
years and 10 p.c. for another' term, the
1919 profits gave a return of less than 8
p.c. The net profits for the past 12 months,
however, were easily a record —more than
three times those for 1919, and exceeding by
£lO,OOO-odd the previous best disclosed.
So the div. rate on the enlarged capital has
been taken to 10 p.c., absorbing £35,556,
and leaving no less than £31,382 available
for strengthening reserves. Owing to the
flood of imports which poured into the Com-
monwealth last year, and which traders had
to pass on to the public, the term was no
doubt an abnormal one from an advertising
point of view; but It is doubtful whether
higher space-rates, the extra advertising busi-
ness and the portion of the extra ha’penny
charged for each daily sheet which went to
the co. alone accounted for the record profit.
Nor is it certain that the 1919 period was
so lean as the accounts for that period
alleged. . Not unlikely general-manager
Watkin Wynne had been viewing his paper
stocks with a very cautious eye. No serious
slump in prices having set in, the manage-
ment may have felt more, confident when
making up the latest accounts, and perhaps
the year’s profits benefited by taking stock
at nearer ruling values. There is no direct
evidence on the point; but what is clear
is that abnormally large stocks of paper were
held at the latest balance —the book value
of paper and materials being shown at
almost three times the figure of 12 months
previously. The position can be set out this
way, the final div. being extracted from the
1919 cash and the past year’s interim being
included with cash in the latest figures:—
19X9. 1920.
Cash, investments & book debts . . £102,404 £110,431
Liabilities .. .. .. 2,905 49,322
Surplus cash assets .. .. £99,499 £61,109
Stocks 55,252 161,969
Surplus liquid assets . . . . £154,751 £223,078
The year’s operations thus effected a
£68,327 improvement in the liquid position.
Heavier stocks cut deeply into cash, though,
and to finance its paper purchases the co.
was leaning on the bank for £42,919 at the
balance. Still public securities for £lO,OOO
or so more than that were held.
Paid capital is £355,560. £88,890 of which
represents reserves capitalised a couple of
years ago. But there w r ere many other bonus
issues in earlier years. The co. was doing so
magnificently at one time that distributions of
bonus shares were as regular as the hand-
some divs., each year’s profits buying scrip
as well as giving shareholders pocket-money.
Paid capital 24 years ago was only £50,000;
but bonus issues enlarged the register in this
way:—
1902 .. £75,000 | 1911 .. £199,650
1904 . . 100,000 | 1913 . . 266,670
1908 .. 150,000 | 1919 .. 355,560
The last capitalisation differed from othei^s;
whereas current profits provided the earlier
bonus shares the 1919 gift scrip was pro-
vided by a transfer of accumulated profits,
most of them stored in. the years when divs.
and bonuses were being scattered simul-
taneously. Old hands have, of course, had
a wonderful feast. But many people thought
the regular issue of bonus shares would con-
tinue indefinitely; at one stage up to £7O
was paid for the £lO shares, the dividend
return being only about 2 p.c. The co. is a
very different proposition nowadays; having
fully financed its newspaper, it is also the
owner of considerable property and, besides,
has a lot of funds in public and other
securities. After payment of latest divs.
the position was as follows: there were sur-
plus liquid assets totalling £187,522 ; free-
hold premises had a book value of £185,0<6;
and printing plant, etc., was set down at
£42 427 —total net assets with a book value
of almost £ll 13s. 6d. to represent each
£lO share.
» * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria:
Profit Profit on .
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales: Profit. (7 p.c.) serves.
Dec., 1913.. £2704 £lB7 £2891 £2,679 £39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,584
Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1915.. 2473 164 2309 2,679 39,118
(6 p.c.)
Dec., 1915.. 2507 10 2497 2,296 39,319
June, 1916.. 2282 2282 2,296 39,305
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1916.. 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
June, 1917.. 2714 83 2797 2678 39,848
(8 p.c.)
Dec., 1917.. 2891 241 3132 3061 39.919
June, 1918.. 2983 2983 3061 39,841
Dec, 1918.. 3088 120 3208 3061 39,9^8
June, 1919.. 3032 3032 3061 39,959
Dec., 1919.. 3210 —• 3210 3061 40,108
June, 1920.. 3365 3365 3061 40,412
Dec., 1920.. 3009 3009 . 3061 1 3g 961
Written off, £1399 j
This remnant of the boom days—the Land
Mortgage Bank at one time had a paid capi-
tal of a quarter of a million and was
working on almost a million of out-
side money—passed into the hands of the
Freehold Assets Co. some years ago. That
concern paid 12s. per share, and itself put
in another 2s. 6d. per share to help things
along. Over eight years the balance-sheets
have shown these changes :
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’l9. Dec.,’2o.
Mortgages . . . . £7,561 £23,616 £19,885
Balances owing . . 52,256 21,007 224
Properties .. .. 973
Cash debentures, etc. 39,403 75,743 99,122
Total assets .. £100,193 . £120,366 £119,231
Liabilities .. .. 50 230 198
Net assets ..£100,143 £120,136 £119,033
xifter payment of the latest div. there were
net assets with a book value of almost 15s.
6d. per share ; so the Freehold Assets Co. has
apparently done well out of the deal.
The*SQUATTiNG Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dpc., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1907. . £19,561 5 p.c. = £14,600 £4961 £26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 4 1-6 „ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12,069 31 p.c. = 9,733 2336 7,669
1910. . 9,696 31 „ „ 9,733 7,632
1911.. 7,444 31 „ „ 9,733 5,343
1912.. 10,461 3j „ „ 9,733 728 6,071
1913.. 18,292 6§ „ „ 19,466 4,897
1314.. 17,661 31 „ „ 9,733 7928 12,825
1915.. 14,569 61 „ „ 19,466 7,928
1916.. 1,839 31 „ ~ 9,733 34
1917.. 19,798 6§ „ „ 19,466 332 366
1918.. 24,157 ,8J ~ „ 24,334 189
1919.. 14,861 5 ~ „ 14,600 261 450
1920.. 4,506 Is „ „ 4,866 90
The drought—about the worst the co. had
ever experienced—lasted until June; then
the wet tumbled down and the year closed
with the gauges showing nearly 22in. —the
highest for more than 20 years! Though
the leases were looking excellent when the
books closed and stock tallies had improved,
the recovery came too late to affect the
year’s accounts to any extent. From the
52,212 sheep shorn 915 bales of greasy and
133 bales scoured wool were won, but all
being of poor quality they fetched low prices.
On the other hand, the year’s revenue bene-
fited by £13,656 surpluses and bonuses on
clips of previous years. Drought expenses
swallowed £2542, and Theodore’s “Repudia-
tion” Act fell heavily on the co.: the man-
agement had to pass over £5043 “arrears
of rents due to re-appraisement” of its
leases. A miserable profit of £4506 was
shown, but, since, as in the previous year,
no provision was made for wastage of leases
or depreciation of improvements, the 1#
p.c. distributed to shareholders was not
nearly earned. Dividends throughout have
been very poor—poorer than the table indi-
cates, for 9s. per share (15 p.c.) distributed
since 1912 has represented a return of capi-
tal. The actual dividend rate, despite the
war prices for wool, has thus averaged only
3| p.c. p.a. over 10 years. Since the Gov-
ernment resumed portion of the co.’s hold-
ings, it has had left 1018 sq. miles of leases
with 14 years stdl to run. Tlrs compari-
son shows how the area is stocked: —
1914. 1916. 1919. 1920.
Rams . . . - 1,412 935 1,583 1,208
Ewes .. .. 51,036 33,150 39,173 45,197
Wethers . . . . 24,949 10.705 6,257 10,714
Weaners . . . . 30,394 4,918 14,200 20,827
Instead of setting aside portion of each
year’s profits to assure a return of capital
sunk in leases when the co.’s rights expire,
the directors adopted the practice of paying
bonuses as occasion warranted. Shareholders
were requested to regard these special dis-
tributions as a return of capital. As men-
tioned above, 9s. per share has thus been
handed back, and when a further Is. has
been passed out the directors propose to
strike 10s. off each 70s. share paid to 60s.
and then write down the book value of leases
correspondingly. Paid capital is now
£292,005. and liabilities £20N17. Leases
and improvements stand at £225,158, and
liquid assets £87,754. The liquid surplus,
after providing for the latest dividend, was
approximately £62,000. Deducting the 9s.
return of capital, shareholders’ scrip totted
up £248,205 backed by £62.000 of liquid
assets, and leases (with 14 years to go)
and improvemgats thereon set down as worth
£181,358. There was thus £186.205 of capi-
tal to be made good before 1935, assuming,
of course, the co. does not secure a renewal
of its holding on favorable terms or is not
compensated for its improvements. That is
a big contract for the management to face.
It is quite impossible to measure prospects:
seasons and markets entirely control the
situation.
Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.), from the
date of the issue of pref. shares: —
f Dividends. —Written
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. Reserves.
1912. £30,327 sp.c. lOp.c. £21,066 £117,779
Premiums on new shares, £2941 .. 120,720
1913.. 29,328 op.c. lOp.c. 2(5,857 £10,500 112,691
1914.. 30,171 5 „ 10 „ 27,072 45,606 70,184
1915.. 28,328 5,, 10 ~ 25,698 72,814
1916. . 28,847 5,, 10,, 27,301 74,360
1917. . 23,039 5 „ 5 „ 15,517 3,000 78,882
1918.. 38,404 5,, 5 „ 15,517 8,000 93,769
1919.. 43,766 5 „ 5 „ 15,747 5,500 116,288
1920 . . 34,354 5 „ 8 „ 23,090 4,500 123,052
The figures shown in the first column are
not net profits, nor are the accumulated pro-
fits given in the last column the true re-
serves. Net earnings from production of
gas, etc., last year gave £32,354, and a
dividend from Restar, a subsidiary handling-
tar, etc., contributed £2OOO. Of this £34,354
there was transferred to a depreciation
account £7664, and to a retorts account
£2400, while £4OOO was struck off the book
value of property and plant and £5OO was
written off War Loans. Systematic provision
for depreciation of plant, etc., is a compara-
tively new feature of the accounts. Some
years ago, when a remodelling of the eld
plant became imperative, the directors dis-
covered that, in the long run it would
be more economical to dismantle the old
iron and lay down entirely new works.
Having come to this decision it was
ascertained that the former loose method of
allowing for depreciation had not. fully
covered the decay of old works. So in two
years, as shown by the table above, £56,000
of what had been regarded as reserves had
to be swept away. The clean-up would have
been more severe had not the accounts been
credited with £34,000, representing the
appreciation of the book value of the
co.’s land. Since then directors . have
been making provision for depreciation
on the basis of plant having an average life
of only 25 years. The directors decided to
make no mistake about providing ample
depreciation for the future, so in the years
1917-18-19 the div. rate was dropped from
1.0 to 5 p.c. while reserves accumulated.
For the past year the rate has been elevated
to 8 p.c. In this way £57,000-odd of nominal
reserves have been accumulated during the
past five years. The £123,052 now shown is
made up in this way:—
Premiums on shares .. ... £42,999
Depreciation reserve ... . . 35,235
Retorts reserve . . . . • • 8,400
Residuals plant reserve .. .. 2,500
Taxation reserve . ■ • • • • 16,000
P. &L. balance . . . . • • 17,918
£123,052
Apart from its premium capital, the co. thus
has about £BO,OOO of reserves, or more than
19 p.c. of the total shareholders’ funds and
borrowed monev in the enterprise. How very
different is the position in N. S. Wales,
where gas cos. are controlled, and such
accumulations are restricted to 10 p.c!
Whether such a large reserve is required by
Wellington Gas depends on the extent to
which repairs and renewals are charged
against current revenue..
The principal feature of the co.’s accounts
during recent years has, of course, been the
very rapid expansion of its outgoings and
income, due to higher costs and increased
prices. Last year gas cost lOd. per 1000 ft.
more to manufacture than in 1919, and owing
to uncertain coal supplies—the co. is de-
pendent on Newcastle shipments to secure
satisfactory calorific values —the gas pro-
duct has at times not been all it should have
been. Another feature of the accounts is
heavy taxation : in rates and taxes this co.
last year paid away £30,244, or. nearly 10
p.c. on its paid capital. A larger bite will
be taken during the current term, for the
assessment rate has been lifted from 7s. 6d.
to Bs, 9d. in the £. The management is at
present faced with the problem of financing
large extensions. New carbonising plant and
coal-handling apparatus now being installed
and other necessary works are estimated to
call for a total capital outlay of nearly a
quarter of a million at an early date.
The Equitable Building Society
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907 .. £2431 £2155 £276 £14,970
1908 . . 2541 2257 284 15,254
1909 . . 2504 2303 261 15,515
1910 . . 2573 2779 15,309
1911 - . 3002 2826 176 15,485
1912 .. 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 . . 3568 3257 281 15,839
1914 .. 3756 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 . . 3758 3300 458 17,173
1917 .. 3506 3088 418 17,591
1918 . . 3714 3024 690 18,281
1919 . . 3945 3094 851 19,132
1920 . . 4272 3517 755 19,887
A glance at the growth of profits suggests
that this little building society is expanding
steadily. Actually, however, it is smaller
than it used to be; it has been operating in
its limited field so long—it celebrated its
jubilee last year—that the amount of busi-
ness it still handles is remarkable. In
its 51 years the Equitable has advanced
more than £1,200,000 to enable Launceston
to get under its own roof, and £110,077 of
mortgages still remains on the books. This
is a few thousands less than 10 years ago,
and considerably smaller than the loan busi-
ness of 20 years ago. The table hereunder
gives the precise figures, and also shows
the movements of capital and borrowed
money :
1900. 1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital . . £55,048 £47,377 £53,948 £46,889 £47,282
Deposits 88,130 62,645 53,371 55,474 56,868
Mortgages 144,188 114,582 104,029 97,316 110,077
During the war business fell off, but the lost
ground has been more than regained: last
year the society was offered considerably
more business than its funds could accom-
modate. Altogether £72,0Q0 was applied for,
but only £47,000 was advanced. Repay-
ments of £41,000 helped the financing of this
new business; meantime, notwithstanding
attractive War Loan investments offering,
the society has secured £l4OO more deposits,
while Launceston’s thrifty have assisted
with more capital. The security for deposi-
tors is excellent. Apart from the £110,077
of mortgages, the Dec. balance-sheet showed
£19,893 of other assets (mostly public secu-
rities and cash), and since only £lBl7 was
owing to sundry creditors there were net
assets with a book value of £128,153 to pro-
tect £56,868 of deposits. The £19,887 of
reserves accumulated over many years is
also comforting for those who have put tlnor
savings into shares. They afford protec-
tion to this extent: 3s. 6d. in the £ of
the book value of mortgages would have to
be lost before the security for a penny of
capital was endangered.
A couple of years ago the Commercial
Bank of Australia swallowed the little
National of Tas.; now the only remaining
Speck-owned bank, the Commercial of Tas.,
is to pass to the big, mostly English-owned
E., S. and A., which last year absorbed the
London Bank of Australia. The Commercial
of Tas. is the second oldest bank in the Com-
monwealth —it was established in 1832 —but
since its operations have been almost wholly
restricted to the tight little island,. it has not
grown to any size. At August 31 last its
total liabilities amounted to £2,456,332; its
advances had a book value of £1,941,316.
That business and the 21 branches will give
the E., S. and A. a strong footing in the
Speck, where so far it has not been directly
represented. The Commercial of Tas. created
a precedent in Australian banking a couple
of years ago by capitalising £lOO,OOO of its
reserves. That took paid capital to
£300.000, but at August 31 last there were
visible reserves totalling £213,886, so the
10 p.c. divs. paid to shareholders repre-
sented less than 6 p.c. on their total funds.
There are 80,000 shares paid to £3 155., and
there were assets with a book value of
nearly £6 Bs. 6d. to represent each share.
The E., S. and A. is stated to have offered
almost £8 per share —provided an investiga-
tion proves everything to be in order —so
shareholders of the Tas. Commercial will
no doubt readily agree to the deal. In-
cidentally, the E., S. and A. recently bought
back from the Shock Exchange of Melbourne
its Collins-streel frontage for £Bl,OO0 —or
just about the pa-ice at which the bank sold
the land to the Exchange in 1888. The
Stock Exchange Co. will retain the Queen-
street frontage, on which stands its Safe
Deposit.
* * * *
“Old Banker” on banking amalgamations:
Notwithstanding the banking amalgamations which
have been effected during recent years, there is
undoubtedly room for further federations. In coun-
try districts, as a general rule, the towns are
over-banked. Consequently, what would be a square
meal for one or two banks, when served up to
about 10, provides a very scanty dish. It is per-
fectly safe to say that a big percentage of the
country branches of all banks shows a heavy loss
on the year. But the managements are obliged
to continue running at a loss in over-banked towns,
or establish themselves in already overworked
centres, for reasons of financial strategy—to keep
their competitors’ hands off their clients.
The presence of, say, 10 banks in a country
town is not necessarily beneficial to its citizens;


61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (EL SON
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
THE COMMONWEALTH LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
LIFE ASSURANCE OF ALL CLASSES.
Head Office: 51 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THORNTON H. MASTERS,
Managing Director.
AGENTS REQUIRED THROUGHOUT N.S.W.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. ri
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. [1
* * * *
For irrigation purposes “Pioneer” Wood pipe can
be placed in the ground below the plough level. It
thus cuts off all waste of water through evaporation
or seepage, and saves right-of-way expenses across
ground owned by others. You will be wise to
investigate its merits thoroughly. Send for our
deeply interesting booklet. All inquiries to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove (Ferry to Fig Tree) ; and at Footscray,
Vic. —Advt.
* * * *
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Olfice; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CoimisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants ;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
"1921 _ Models”—"National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
* * * —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’~«
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Cal! or write for particulars. IT. B. Selbv k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.—Advt.
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tl»e Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
PPAIIBTT xr A
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
auisj
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P., Chairman.
a ' , a matter of fact, this “competition” makes not
a jot of difference to them. All banks work under
a well-observed agreement concerning the rates
charged on overdrafts and for exchange, and all
other fees.
The banks are likely to feel more and more
the pinch of heavier expenses. The Bank Officers’
Association has been twisting the tails of the direc-
tors on the subject of salaries. On a conservative
estimate, the new award is going to cost some banks
an extra £50,000 per annum. In the past it
would have been .easy to pass these increases on
to the but with the big, non-dividend-paying
Commonwealth Bank as a competitor such a course
is impossible now.
* * * *
vTT <^r ? at < -"°b ar (N.S.W.) was asked by the
Warden the other day why it had not com-
plied with labor conditions on its Cobar Gold
and Chesney leases. The Receiver’s repre-
sentative explained that the whole of the
co. s assets were for sale, tenders closing in
June, and until then nothing could be done,
as the Receiver had not the power to expend
any large amount of money. The Warden,
after hearing this explanation and also the
evidence of the solicitor representing a syn-
dicate which reported the co. for not com-
plying with the labor conditions, decided that
in the best interests of the industry and the
district in genera) it was advisable to leave
niatters as they are until after the closing
of the tenders. But he insisted that Cobar
Gold Mine should be kept unwatered.
Occidental Consolidated, Cobar, has com-
menced blowing its whistle again after about
five week’ strike. Extreme caution had
been exercised by the co. in selecting em-
ployees with no Bolshie tendencies, but trouble
developed all the same. The co. has found
it necessary to raise more funds, and 30,000
10s. prefs. and £15,000 of debentures are to
be issued. No shaft sinking has been done,
so development of ore reserves must com-
At Ardlethan the other day Warden
James banded out three months’ suspension
of labor conditions to the Cherry, Champion
and Drumleish Hill mines. Carpathia and Big
Bygoo also have applications in. White
Crystal is working leisurely on its plant.
Stackpool’s Crystal has over £3500 of cash to
spend in looking for an ore body. A cross-
cut west has been started from 100 ft. in the
shaft, but the next-door Triangle lease appears
to have captured the original Stackpool’s ore
over the boundary. Dumbrell’s Bygoo has
completed its plant and proposes to run two
shifts. Manager Louat claims to have a
good deal of payable ore in the open cuts,
where costs should be low, and as the ore is
oxidised the show has a chance of working
at a profit.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek, Emmaville (N.S.W.), has
cleaned-up its wash underground, and has
only the headings left on the surface at the
Gordon and Rock shafts. The headings plant
at Gordon’s will be set to work next week.
The boring plants have not discovered any-
thing payable, and the next step is being
awaited by shareholders.
* * * *
Associated Extended, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
recently asked shareholders to take up
27,000 shares of 45., to be called to 2s. 6d.,
to provide a second plant. As the fully-
paids were at 2s. 6d. on the market share-
holders apparently decided that the scheme
was unattractive. As a way out, the direc-
tors now propose to issue the new shares as
fully paid on payment of 2s. 6d. The co.’s
plant is the only one working at Emmaville,
and last week it cleaned up* over four tons
metal. Working exes, ran out at £413, and
as this gave a margin of profit sluicing is to
continue.
Marshall’s Hill End (N.S.W.), having
an empty till, has doubled its share issue. It
now has 150,000 shares of 45., and of the
75„000 new shares shareholders are invited
to pay 9d. on application and 9d. on allot-
ment for 40,000. Marshall’s Tambaroora,
a. concern put out from the same stable dur-
ing last year’s Hill End excitement, is
getting a swag of 35,000 fully paids for
handing over Foster’s Tunnel leases, which
adjoin Marshall’s Hill End ground, and to-
wards which the old reefs, appear to be
dipping.
* * * *
McCahon’s, having abandoned its duffer
in Westralia, is going to give Vaughan’s,
near Castlemaine (Vic.), a go. Tons of
gold came out of the Vaughan creek and
leads in the ’fifties and ’sixties, and it is to
test the legend that one John Greenwood
when reefing got 20oz. stone that McCahon’s
is venturing near-by. Since Greenwood gave
up, his old claim has been raked by working
parties. One lot got on to stone and had a
few decent crushings, but when down about
90ft. lost the shoot, just as did Greenwood.
The second crowd put down a new shaft and
got some ounce stone. The trouble at
Vaughan’s is the faulting, and therefore
McCahon’s will have to prove that the
shoots it is after live away from the breaks.
Bullfinch (W.A.) receipts last year
totalled £96,719, but expenditure absorbed
£90.912. Latterly the co. has had reverses,
and its mine is now under exemption. To
have carried on under the new award and
bought stores at present prices would have
meant an increased expenditure of about
£lO,OOO a year, and as values are not good
enough to stand this additional outlay tne
Board decided to give production a spell un-
til conditions become more favorable. On the
whole, the co. has been a valuable proposi-
tion to the Commonwealth: besides paying
away over a half-million in wages and for
stores during its 10 years, it has spent large
sums in prospecting and in testingv options.
* * * *
Ivalgurli (W.A,) is tipped to close down
at an early date. For some time past the
manager’s reports have indicated that the
mine was gradually being worked out, and
had it not been for customs work the plant
would probably have ceased /running before
now. A year or two ago the co. offered to
purchase the adjoining North Ivalgurli lease,
which was then and still is in the hands of
tributors, but owing to the prohibitive price
put upon it no business was done.
* ' * * *
A Government pipe-line is being laid from
Southern Cross to Edna May Battler’s new
show, and pending its completion the co. is
marking time. Crushings over the plates
have so far been poor, but according to the
manager things will improve when cyanidipg
commences. They may, but whether opera-
tions will give profits is another matter.
* * * „
While some of the Bux crowd are faced
with suits for damages for alleged misrepre-
sentation and Badak is fading out of view,
George Dickenson’s Jeneri and Kedah syn-
dicates have agreed to wind-up. Both were
pure gambles; they started with nothing and
wind up in the same plight. Dickenson had
an expert on the spot ready to slip into
the Jeneri valley early, but the Kedah Gov-
ernment shut them out till Badak should
prove itself, and thus did followers a good
turn.
* * * *
Frederick Schruhm, successor to Alec
Macgeorge at the Balaclava mine, Whroo
(\ic.), finds that the co. has a valuable
property. That is much further than Mac-
george ever went, although in a mild way he
gave the show a fair mining chance. Schruhm
reckons that the ore shoots dip east and not
west, and so goes thither. The records of
the past are that 800 tons from Balaclava
llill gave £40,000 of gold down to water
level. Hence the hunt.
* * * *
“J.L.S.” returns to the attack:—
“Geologist’s” explosion (B. 17/2/’2l) calls for
a comment or two. On the question of ambiguity
1 must quote from Craig’s “Oil Finding,” 1.920:
Within the area of 12,000 sq. miles, including
these (Springleigh and Rutbven) borings and the
Koma borings, several other wells have been drilled •
trom one other (presumably one of those in the
Longireach district) solid or semi-solid bitumea
matter is recorded, and from- two “drops of petro-
leum. The points to be noted in this evidence
from Queensland are of great significance; they mar
be stated in the briefest manner thus: (1) the
geological structure so far as is known is not
adapted to the concentration of petroleum, liquid or
gaseous, towards any definite or restricted localities ;
(2) in this thick sedimentary series (Cretaceous?),
disposed in a very gentle monocline or “aclin©,”
there are not only strong flows of gas to be tapped,
but small quantities of very highly inspissated
petroleum are present also.... The case of Queens-
land is specially interesting in this connection (phe-
nomena associated with natural gas or gaseous
petroleum). That the strata have at one time con-
tained oil cannot be doubted on the evidence col-
lected ; that the oil was never concentrated seems
equally certain ; that the oil has been inspissated and
probably absorbed at great depth is evident, and that
the gas is still present to be tapped in great quan-
tity beneath the water-bearing strata in favorable
localities has been proved by boring.
“Geologist’s” opinion that present-day oil reser-
voirs will be found in the district under discussion
is based upon insuflicient bore evidence, as there is r.o
proof yet available that the oil products extracted by
solvents and brought up in the hot artesian waters
are other than the inspissated products or residues
of crude petroleum. If the prospects of striking
petroleum in quantity by continuation of the
present bores are considered great, then the pros-
pects of saturating the oil sands and mining any
likely oil-field there by the . intrusion of artesian
water into the measures are even greater.
The question of the abandonment of Roma or not
is one for decision by the State’s Advisory Commit-
tee, which is evidently of the opinion that it will
pay to concentrate boring operations at Roma for
the purpose of depetrolising the gas and utilising-
the residual for the manufacture of several industrial
by-products. Can “Geologist” throw a littlp further
light on what facilities the Roma district offers,
other than an intermittent supply of gas, for the
establishment of such an industry, and what the
industrial by-products are likely to be?
From a miscellaneous experience of several years
in all branches of the petroleum industry I am
satisfied that it is always preferable to bore for oil
where it can be found nearest the surface, and to
endeavor to penetrate the oil-sands through overlying
strata, where water difficulties are not likely to be
serious, or where such difficulties are readily con-
trollable. For such reasons I would infer better
results for Queensland from direct oil-boring in
likely, favorable spots in the Jurassic rather than
from a continuance of drilling on water bore-lines
in the thick Cretaceous, as at present, and addi-
tional evidence must be forthcoming to change my
opinion.
* * * *
Arsenic at £lO a ton is attractive while
the market price of the commodity has been
in the vicinity of £6O, and the Queensland
State Mine at Jibbenbar, Stanthorpe district
(Q.), is so rushed with orders from farmers
and sugar-planters that the congestion is
daily growing worse. As a temporary ex-
pedient a furnace was recently sent to the
mine from the Chillagoe works to help along
the roasting of the crude ore. Mines-
Minister Jones, accompanied by a geologist,
paid a visit to the mine last week with a
view to seeing whether the prospects of the
two lodes are good enough to stand the ex-
pense of further furnaces and flues. There
is likely to be no lack of orders, but with
the cost of production something like £25 a
ton someone has to make up the difference.
* > * *
Cairns broker Arthur Clarke, who has
kept the Oaks goldfield (N.Q.) jogging along
on 2dwt. stuff, was recently called in by the
syndicate running the Billy Hughes, on the
New Normanby field, to express an opinion
whether that promising show had reached
the stage at which its development should
pass to a company. In addition to the
reward claim the syndicate holds a further
acres. At the Billy mine an underlie
shaft is down 80ft. on a 2ft. reef which
Clarke reckons will go 2oz. Over the 80yds.
the reef has so far been traced and tapped
similar values show up. Having sampled
the shows, Clarke immediately undertook to
float the leases. So the Billy Hughes is to
pass to a co. of £25,000, in 100,000 shares
of ss. each, of which the vendors get 30,000
paids, 50.000 have been offered to the
public, to be paid to 2s. on allotment, and
the remaining 20,000 are to be held in re-
serve. The North is sniffing the prospects
of the field becoming another Charters
Towers or Gympie, and 35,000 were grabbed
ew days, Prosperine alone taking
up 10,000. Gov. Geologist Morton’s report
on the field should be available at an early
date.
* * * *
What a fine property is the Sardine, at
lvangaroo Hills (Q.), is apparent from the
returns from the complete stoping from the
surface to the 40ft. level, from which 570
tons ore gave 137 tons tin oxide, equal to an
average of 17.5 p.c. per ton. The mine is
gow to be worked below this by a tunnel
300 ft. into the hill, which will connect with
the vertical shaft. The headgear on the
mine is growing substantial.
* * * *
Waverley,. on the Oakey Creek portion
of Kangaroo Hills (Q.), Schober and party
have found a sft. lode, which is scarcely
opened out yet but is considered the most
promising prospect after the Sardine and
litamc. The. sft, is stated to vary from
5 to 50 p.c. in value in the width of the
shaft, with a 12in. vein in the middle prac-
tically pure tinstone. The holders were on
the point of abandoning the show, but the
last few shots brought'them on to the good
ore. There are 25 tons ore at grass, which
will probably go over 20 p.c.
* * * . ,
The State coal-mine at Baralaba, Dawson
River (Q.), cut a seam of coal Bft. thick last
month at a depth of 120 ft. Drives are now
being put in alohg the seam and coal is being
raised. It is a hard steam coal, with a
tendency, to clinker, but will be suitable to
mix with the lighter coals from Blair Athol
or the Styx. The Mount Morgan co. lias
a 640 ft.-acre lease adjoining, and is now
searching for this seam. Morgan expects to
be supplying its own fuel to its works in
a couple of months.
* * * *
Prospects at Silver Spur (Q.) still look
rosy. The manager reports that the winze
being sunk is going down on a very large
formation of graphitic shale carrying quartz
and good boulders of ore. These latter show
native silver, fahl-ore and silver sulphide
very freely, and are reminiscent of the rich
ore which was won in the vicinity of the ore
body at the 200 ft. level when the old mine
was a winner all the way.
* * * *
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) has ceased all
operations, other than the sinking of the
main shaft, for the time being. Recent de-
velopment work in the bottom level was
opening up ore of good width and grade.
But owing to present metal prices and high
production costs the co. had no alternative
but to close down. All other silver-lead
mines in the Speck are feeling the pinch, and
unless an early improvement in metal prices
takes place the Round Hill and Magnet will
be forced into idleness.
* * * *
Storey’s Creek (Tas.) still officially has
a strike on its hands, though the issue and
cause are almost forgotten. The A.W.U., in
its wisdom, sanctioned the strike for higher
wages in the face of a badly-slumped tungsten
mai’ket. and it has been wondering ever since
what happened. The co. recently sold wolfram
in London for 14s. Bd. per unit, probably the
lowest price received for tungsten for the last
20 years by any Australasian concern. At pre-
sent new air-compressing machinery is being
installed, and the management is getting
leady to re-start operations. With Chinese
tungsten available by the shipload the early
recoveiy of the market is not very bright.
Production work at the Niki silver-lead
mine, Zeehan (Tas.), has, in consequence of
the metal slump, been almost suspended, but
development is being proceeded with. By
careful management this property has been
made to return a small profit to its mostly-
Zeehan shareholders. The Select Committee,
headed by ex-Minister of Mines Ogden,
caused the co. a considerable amount of
bother and expense over its Coulston tribute
rights, but the diaectors’ determination to
fight brought about a readjustment of the
tribute conditions.
* * * *
A mild flutter has been in evidence in
Launceston over the recent lode gold dis-
covery at Mt. Brown (Tas.), and several
small shows are forming to try their luck
The locality is not well spoken of for per-'
mauency of values or persistency of deposi-
tion, the gold occurrence being somewhat
complex.
* * * *
The S. and M„ Moina (Tas.), is still at
work re-building its milling plant, after its
destruction by bushfire some time ago. Con-
struction is not being rushed, as the metal
market is unfavorable to this good little pro-
ducer. The necessary magnetic separation
is done in the co.’s plant at Launceston, the
wolfram, tin and bismuth being put out well
separated and of good quality.
* * * *
The engine-drivers’ strike at the Pioneer
(Tas.) still drags on, but with the summer
water shortage and the heavy slump in tin
the owners are not much concerned. In fact,
with the end of the mine in sight the wisdom
of working out the available wash under low-
market conditions is questionable.
* * * *
Mt. Jasper copper (Tas.) is now sinking
a winze on a silver-lead outcrop. How this
proposition, allegedly a copper-mine, can con-
tinue to obtain supnort from mining investors
is one of the wonders of the wild, wet West-
Coast.


MACHIAVELLI O-SISAR.
"Though Mr. Chapman may threaten and Mr. Fleming secede to the Country party, Mr. Hughes is not excited by the political situation. Even the possibility of the lack of unanimous support in the Cabinet would not depress him to any extent.
Possibly he feels that his protection lies in the inability of 'his enemies to decide who is to attack him.”
CAESAR HUGHES (contemptuously): “They can growl and mutter, but none of them seems willing to play the part of Brutus.”


i -
Hgs
I
s -
KS
mt
m
m
w
Peapes' “Warrigal” Rugs
Pure Australian Wool.
The finest Australian wool is utilised in the manufacture of
these handsome rugs.
The result is a softness of texture, a strength of weave that
ensure warmth, comfort and years of Service.'
The near approach of cooler weather brings these new
“Warrigal” Rugs fresh from the mills. Neatly patterned
and beautifully finished, with heavy fringed ends.
In fawn, green and brown .... 39/6
In light fawn, brown checks . . 637-
In grey checks, plain reverse side 75/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4% Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Batn
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Ex-Dig.”: Seeking relief in the Bank-
ruptcy Court from a judgment imposed on
him for not having married' the girl a grace-
less Sydney Yid admitted that, when the
threat of consci’iption was hanging over
Australia, he had fled to the U.S.A. Not
exactly “a laggard in love,” maybe, but cer-
AN EXPIRED RISK.
MYRTLE: “Oh, Charlie, you don’t know what
you’ve done! Father has always sworn
he’d shoot the first man who kissed
me!”
CHARLIE: “Bai Jove! And — ah—tell me,
did he weally do it?”
tainly “a dastard in war.” Helping battle-
shirkers to countries that were too proud to
fight was quite an industry in those days;
and as most of them had money, the mer-
chants flourished. A fifty-fifty division of
the spoils with the crews of outgoing Ameri-
can boats was the usual arrangement; and
it was easy to get the absconders past the
wharf-sentries as members of the crew. I
remember the case of one man in particular,
with a frantic fear of soldiering. He coughed
up £5O for a job as coal-trimmer on an old
scow bound for Callao. The boss of the
engine-room got to hear of the nefarious
bargain. “By God,” he said grimly, “I’ll
make him wish to hell he was in France!”
And I’ve no doubt he did.
* * * *
The girl who tried to hold up a bank at
Rockhampton (Q.) chose a poor sort of
place for a crime, if it was a crime and not
a picture-show jest. No one can lose him-
self among the criminal hordes and the dark
network of slums in a bright little city of
about 30.000 people, where the streets are
wide and straight and the buildings low.
It is impossible to flee to the mountains or
the forests, for there are none, though there
are some hills near Lake’s Creek. The
HIS IGNORANCE,
“Well, do you like it?”
“My word, I think it’s ripping!”
“Don’t be an idiot —that is the way it is
cut!”
trains don’t run every hour; the sea is 38
miles off; the West is a deuce of a distance
off, and on the bare, sunlit plains leading
there a cat can be seen leagues away.
Even the river banks are mostly low, so that
if a criminal stood with his feet in the water
among the prawns, his head would show-
above the surrounding country. For a girl
with thin boots, a million pounds’ worth of
stolen notes in her corset, and the hue and
cry out. after hex’, Rockhampton looks pretty
hopeless.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: Teasing the Sisters in the
English' hospitals was a recreation which
whiled away the tedium of invalidity, and the
English climate was an unfailing resource
when topics w-ere scarce. “I admit that our
winters are sometimes terrible,” said one
protesting damsel, “but we have a beautiful
summer. You want to see our summer be-
foi’e you speak.” Bill interposed wearily
that he had been in hospital a whole -summer.
“Then you know- how glorious it is?”
gurgled Sister. “Can’t say I do,” Bill re-
joined. “It only lasted a day and I was
asleep that day.”
* * * *
Melbourne is shocked, from time to time,
by the story of the artless girlie who meets
a tall man and gets gagged to prevent her
screaming. She popped up again the other
day at Albert Park, There she was, a child
of 12, bound and gagged and left on a
verandah to tell her tale of woe. Next day
she said the tall man was a creature of her
young imagination. What really happened
was that she went out for her mother on an
errand, and lost some coppers whilst playing
hop-scotch, after which she tore strips of
cloth off her attire and bound and gagged
her dear little self. At least, that’s what she
said she did the last time the police inter-
viewed her. A woman is allowed to change
her mind, and a girl of 12 who talks of tall
men tying her up is a woman already.
“Orwell”: Ted was always good for a 50-
piastre loan and sufficiently financial to take
any leave to Cairo t|iat offered—and a good
deal that didn’t. I went in with him one
day and discovered the source of his wealth.
We took up positions behind a couple of
bocks on the terrace of a cafe, keeping off
the Arab haw-kers and gamblers with stick
and boot. Then a native policeman passed.
I was in the act of kicking a black gambler
out of the way when Ted stopped me.
“The cop has to come back,” he said, and
he started to play hazards with the nigger.
In a couple of minutes he had won a hundred
piastres. At this juncture Ted let out a real
way-back coo-ee. It made the policeman
turn round, and seeing the gambler at work
he bore down on that miscreant, his cane
uplifted to strike. The nigger disappeared
like a flash. “It’s easy money,” Ted ex-
plained. “They always let you win at first,
so if there’s a John Hop somewhere near you
can make certain of a quid at least.”
* * * *
“Copabella”: Novel was the reason for
adjourning a larceny charge at Geelong
(Vie.) Criminal Sessions. The accused
femalg was on bail
and had been observed
in court at the sum-
mons time, 10 a.m.
By 2 o’clock, how-ever,
when her; ease was
about due, the police
were perturbed to
notice a void where
the lady should have
been sitting on the
penitent form. A hasty
search was made of
her usual haunts—
licensed, for the most
part—and she was re-
trieved. But she had to
be borne to the bed of
justice by the elbow-s,
and she was very
merry, very voluble,
deferential to the
Judge, affectionate to
the perspiring detec-
tives. His Honor de-
cided that accused was
hardly fit to plead
(though afterwards she
regained her poise
with remarkable
speed), and adjourned
the case to General
Sessions a month
later. He added drily
that the month should
be spent in custody,
not on bail.
“Sarg.” : I’d like to back up “Centurion”
(B. 3/3/ 21) regarding the usefulness of the
sword. “Pip” (B. 17/2/’2l) is right as far
as individual combat is concerned ; but indi-
vidual combat is a negligible quantity past
the environs of the wet canteen. When
Allenby introduced the epee to the Light
Horse William James swore at the extra
lumber to be carried on the already over-
loaded prad. But, later, when he found that
its wicked appearance cut an erstwhile dis-
mounted action down to a wild, glorious
two-minutes instead of a gruelling whole-
day stunt, he reckoned perhaps it was worth
carrying. Three Westralians tried to round
up GOO Jackos at Jenin with the blade in
its scabbard. Jaeko looked like arguing the
point. A frantic, “Draw those tooth-
picks!” from a senior officer brought the
ironmongery to light and Abdul slung it in.
Moral effect, certainly; but it succeeded.
Trading on this, a signaller earned the
D.C.M. (posthumous award, unfortunately)
by detaching the lingerie from his signal-
ling flag and mustering eight of the opposi-
tion with the white wooden “pole.” Abdul
always played the innings out against the
rifle; but favored pedestrianism where the
sword w r as in evidence. Besides, it makes
a better bivvy-pole than the fixed bayonet.
The story of Henry:—
Henry Ball was quite a little fellow-, but ex-
tremely natty in his dress and neat in his figure,
and particularly good-looking in an effeminate way.
He had had several billets in the six months I was at
Mrs. Dane’s select boarding-house, but he had no
patience with work as a steady thing. He had
sold lingerie in a Chapel-street depot, had acted as
a bookmaker’s clerk at Flemington, and knew- all
the two-up schools and poker-joints in town. Where
he got his money from was a mystery to those of
us who cared to interest ourselves in Henry, but
the mystery passed that week he went to Ballarat
for the races, when Mrs. Dane was induced to confide
in Miss Brittle.
Mrs. Dane was a widow whose select “residential”
was apparently a highly-profitable concern. Miss
Brittle was a boarder, 30-odd, and in receipt of
£7 10s. as head of the hats in a Bourke-street
rag-shop. Mrs. Dane told Miss Brittle, strictly in
confidence, that she and Henry Ball were extremely
fond of one another, and that their marriage was
imminent; which candor induced Miss Brittle to
communicate her sw-eet secret. There had been
an understanding between her and the said Henry
foi thi ee months, and they were to be married
after Christmas. It developed that Henry had had
much money from both. Henry was a gay deceiver.
Then and there the two women decided what they
would do to Henry when he returned. four of the
THE OFFENSIVE DEFENSIVE.
HE : “You’re evidently under the impression
that I toil day and night merely to
encourage one woman’s expensive
selfishness!”
SHE: “ You brute, who is the hussy?”
older male boarders were confided in. Our duty
was to ward off any undue interference, while the
two wronged ladies worked their will on Henry.
Henry returned. Henry went to his room.
Henry was followed by the widow, and a moment
later Miss Brittle entered the apartment of the ill-
fated youth. Both were substantial dames. I
pitied poor little Henry, and compassion was called
for, judging from the racket that ensued, the
cries of the wounded and the crash of falling furni-
ture.
When it seemed to me about time to intervene
to prevent homicide in company, the door suddenly
opened, and Henry came out. Henry was spick and
span, Henry was brushing his beautiful, wavy-
auburn hair with a silver-backed brush. Henry-
said mildly: “Here, 1 wish a couple of you big fel-
lows would come in and separate these foolish
women. They’re dashed well killing each other 1”
«■ * # •
“Dido” : Wlieu the Flohms —Isaac, Rachel,
Isaac junior and Beckie—put up at Guest’s
hotel near the lake for papper’s holiday,
papper made a definite agreement with Guest.
The charge was to be seven guineas a week
for the Flohm family; but when Flohm had
been to the bar on numerous occasions in
the course of two days, and Rachel had had
refreshments sent up to her room nine times,
Guest began to scent a misunderstanding.
He presented Isaac with a separate bill for
the drinks. You could have knocked Flohm
down with his own diamond breast-pin. He
gaped at the bill in consternation. “Don’d
I pay me sevenk pounts sevenk shillinks for
der use of der hodel?” he cried. “You do,”
replied Guest, “but you pay extra for all
drinks.” Outraged in every sense, Flohm
went bounding down the orchard to where
his wife sat eating Guest’s peaches.
“Rachel,” he cried, “sdop it, dey charge for
de bar! Dey charge for de bar!” Next
day Flohm decided to have a bath. He had
prepared for it, when Rachel went to the
keyhole. “Ikey, bedder be careful, my poy.
Perhaps dey charge for de barth.” Ikey
dashed out. “I aind’t uset id!” he cried.
“I aind’t used id !” I was surprised later
to see Rachel, Isaac, Isaac junior and
Beckie carrying buckets of water down the
back passage and out to the elevator tank in
the back yard. Noticing my interest, Flohm
addressed me, “I call you to vitness,” he
said, “if dey charge for de bath, I haff put id
bach!”
* * * *
“Doctor lodine” : What is the record time
for polishing off a pint of beer ? Once saw
a naval seaman matched against the hospital
superintendent on an island where the thirsty
predominate. They dead-heated in ssec.,
but the sailor was handicapped by having to
lift the pintpot in his jaws without using
his hands. In the long-distance championship,
which followed, Able-seaman Dinkum
piled up after eight consecutive pints, ex-
cusing himself on account of (1) recent ill-
ness, and (2> the beer being bottled and
therefore too fizzy for a proper demonstra-
tion. I’m glad it wasn’t draught beer. I
was the host.
A RECKONING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, 0 my heart, now let us count and ponder
The gains and losses of the bygone years.
Cone is the joy of youth, life’s noon, and yonder
The closing mist appears.
We’ve lost by now our faith, a certain matter
That has been held important by the sage.
In place of faith sly Reason smirks to flatter
The vanities of our age.
We’ve \lost by now our song. We prose and palter,
But find no music in a world g-one grey.
Dogged we trudge uncheered on feet that falter
Along the perilous way.
IVe’ve lost the old delight. Our blood that gaily
Leapt to a luring lilt runs level and slow.
The valleys now are full of gloom, and greyly
The sullen rivers flow.
We’ve lost our resolute hope. It raced beside us
All through the golden time when life was sweet.
Ilut Hope is dead as Hainan —woe betide us!
Our misery is complete.
Still, we have gains to count for compensation.
We’ve learned to grin and bear whatever be
Our lot, and to accept with resignation
A mock felicity,
We’ve learned not to expect too much. That makes it
Easier to suffer when the going’s bad.
Life gives a man a heart, then slowly breaks it,
Nero or Galahad.
We’ve learned that woman's falsehood holds a sweet-
ness -
That still atones for pain, a sweet that cheers
Our days and gives our purpose more completeness
Down disillusioning years.
IVe’ve learned that on the whole men may lie trusted
From here to Hell, that down far-hidden ways
Vanish the dangerous joys for which we’ve lusted,
And only friendship stays.
We’ve learned belief in God, belief in beauty,
Belief in honor, justice, freedom, truth,
Belief in honest faith and simple duty,
Things still disdained by youth.
So now, my heart, as we two count and ponder
The" gajns and losses of the bygone years,
We scan a past lit bright with joy, and yonder
A steady light appears.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


So Gold “Marigold” Brooch,
with Pearl Centre, £3/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set with Sapphire
and Pearls, £5/5/-
Stewart Dawson’s Modern and
Artistic FLORAL JEWELLERY.
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic Gift Jewellery.
These- “True to Nature” Brooches are all hand-chased in 15ct.
Gold, with green gold worked in to enhance the realistic effect.
You are cordially invited to inspect the displays in our establish-
ments.
bfdfh
Stewart Dawson & (o(w )Ltd.
J%vo Sz/dneif £siablisments \
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR, KING ST.,
M STRAND CORNER 4-12 GEORGE ST.._
StSI
Flannel Flower, 15ct. Gold, £37107-
Solid loot. Gold “Waratah” Brooch,
£6/10/-
“F. Island”: The casual Australian can
be devilishly thorough when he likes. In
Rabaul the A.A.M.C. has gone one better
than the anti-mosquito crusaders in Panama.
In both places stagnant water is taboo and
heavy penalties fall on the owners of up-
turned jam tins which might act as breeding-
pools for the malarial mosquito. But in
Rabaul I saw the A.A.M.C. orderlies boring
holes in trees to drain away moisture which
collected in the forks of the branches. The
township of Rabaul is practically mosquito-
free.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The eating-houses which used
to supply what one of them described as
“three coarse meals” for 7d., have
pushed their price) up to 30d. It is mar-
vellous how they manage it. I have tasted
worse food in much more expensive places.
Of course the “service” consists in merely
hurling food-laden plates in front of the
diners; and I told one of the badly-rushed
girls she had my sympathy. “Sooner be
here,” she said, shortly. “You get the same
money, and you haven’t got to put up with
the cheek you get in them flash places. I
was in a flash place before I came here—one-
and-three minnermum—an’ one day an old
pot calls me back after I’d give him ’is soup,
and says, ‘ ’Ere, take this away, girl.’ ’e sez,
‘an’ bring me a fresh plate. Why, dammit,
girl, you ’ad your thumb in the soup.’ A
little thing like that! ‘Gam! I’ll throw it
over yer!’ I sez, gettin’ angry; and I
chucked the job right away. Why, they’re too
finercky for me in them flash places. Gimme
an ’omely joint /like this.”
A BOOMERANG.
THE CAT: “Your Jim made such a funny
mistake last night. He hissed me twice."
THE OTHER : “Yes; he’s so absent-minded.
He told me, but he couldn't think who
it was.”
On two more imported curses:—-
A shrinking Violet, who, if she did all she is
accused of, probably suffered from nothing worse
than too much picture-show (United States variety)
is in trouble on a charge of trying to hold up a
bank at Rockhampton (Q.) with a gun. Two
agencies which are responsible for a lot of crime
and attempted crime are the glaring, garish, vulgar
multitudinous film at the ’all and the thumb-
marked, dog-eared volume of Karl Marx in the
municipal library. The first sends silly boys out
burgling, shooting, trying silly highway robbery
stunts, loafing (the heroes of the film are never
shown working), tearing round on stolen horses or
in stolen motor-cars (the heroes of the film always
tear round) and rehearsing elopements and arson.
It may even send out silly girls, also. The second
SORTING THEM OUT.
THE PESSIMIST: “Two-thirds of the people in the world are fools."
THE SUPER-PESSIMIST: “Yes, and the other third are damn fools."
is raising a generation of crude,' sullen, scowling
malcontents who work little, strike much, orate
much, loaf much, cultivate beetle brows and occa-
sionally Russian beards, and are bilious with ill-
digested husks of literature. The Wild. West
cinema doesn’t even portray the Wild West as it is,
but as it was (or wasn’t, but was alleged to be)
when Roaring Camp roared in the pages of Bret
Harte, and the Headless (and consequently brainless)
Horseman rode his gallant steed up and down the
printed columns of Mayne Reid. In Maoriland,
where spasms of hard Presbyterian commonsense are
not unknown, the Government has decided to shut
down on films dealing with murder, arson, insurrec-
tion, theft, bushranging, suicide and a few other
items. If it follows this up by a clearance of Karl
Marx and his disciples out of all public institutions
a sober race may spring up, better fitted to cope
with the public debt.
“Xenia” : Japanese activity in the seas be-
tween Australia and Asia goes back a long way.
In 1605 Edward Michelborne,
one of the earliest English
adventurers in the East Indies,
ran up against a Nipponese ves-
sel off the east coast of Suma-
tra. The Japs had done a little
piracy on the coasts of China
and Cambodia, crossed to Bor-
neo, and were thinking of going
home. Michelborne, who was
a bit of a pirate himself, started
to move some of the junk’s
cargo to his vessel, the Tiger.
The Japs tried to seize the
Tiger, but were beaten after a
bloody fight, in which John
Davis, who had piloted the first
Dutch squadron to visit the
East, that of Cornelius Hout-
man in 1597, and also the first
English vessels to make the
same voyage, the fleet of five
under James Lancaster in 1601,
was nearly cut to pieces.
Japanese soldiers were serving
in the Dutch garrison of Am-
boyna in the Moluccas in 1623, and it was
a charge of conspiring with the Japs to over-
throw Dutch rule that led to the massacre
of the English residents of Amboyna.
* * * *
For a few strenuous days after the re-
cent deluge that came out of the North S.A.
possessed a dinkum river that was all its
own —a big, live affair that danced gayly
to the sea, and not a streak of drought com-
mitting suicide in a briny lake with no out-
let. The Willochra, it is supposed, was
swollen by the deluge and filled Lake Tor-
rens, usually a slop at the bottom of a
saucer. At the end of Torrens a dry river-
bed flows south (it saves words to put it
that way), and for the first time within
human memory it filled to the brim and join-
ing up the small lakes or saline morasses
between made a temporary Mississippi pour-
ing into Spencer’s Gulf. Possibly that
Central River will never happen again until
the Official Rainmaker is established on
the Macdonnell Ranges.
“Audio”: A desire to hit the high lights
of London and enjoy the company of a
commissioned brother got me into one of his
tunics in the early hours of the evening, and
landed me in that exceedingly unpleasant
clink in Brunswick Square in the small
hours of the morning.- There were about
a dozen of us behind the bars, but I seemed
to be the only officer. It was bitterly cold
and w r e huddled together for warmth, all
except a big, gaunt warrior who paced the
cell like a caged lion, making night hideous
with the unprintable imprecations he called
down on the heads of “the cold-footed police
blanks.” He interrupted himself now and
again to catch hold of the bars and shake
the iron partition. This gave us hope,
because he looked strong enough to pull the
thing down, and his exhibition of sustained
anger was the best we had seen. He con-
tinued the performance till some time after
daylight, when the A.P.M. arrived with two
other officers. “Tom !” shouted our noisy com-
panion as sopn as he saw them. “Get me out
of this hole, for God’s sake.” “It’s all right,
sir,” replied the lieutenant he had addressed.
Then, turning to the A.P.M. : “What this
gentleman says is correct. He is Colonel
Blank of the Pioneers.” The rich and
varied language in which the late prisoner
addressed the A.P.M. when he got out was
some compensation for our sufferings.
“124”: Revenge subtly sweet and truly
Scriptural in its method was taken by a
Vic. provincial bowling association upon a
rival body which had placed it in a rather
humiliating position. The associations
have for years exchanged visits at which
they try their strength on the green, and it
has been usual for each to pay its way. In
1920 when Methodyville, playing away at
Goldville, would have paid the cabbies who
conveyed it to the station, cabby demurred,
saying Goldville was shouting the trip.
But some weeks later the Methodyvillians
received a deprecatory bill from Goldville
cabbies (30s. was the sum) with a memo
that they had tried to get payment from
Goldville but had been referred to the Metlio-
dies. Methodyville paid. Months elapsed,
and Goldville arrived to play the annual
match. Methodyville met the trundlers
with a fleet of motor-cars, honked them
down to an expensive hotel, and sat them
down to the costliest feed that the town had
known since 1914. Goldville said nothing,
especially about cab-fares, but—it under-
stood.
* * * *
“Spare Gorp.” : Despite the prevalence of
souveniring in France there was a super-
stitious belief that it was unlucky to “rat”
a dead man—especially one who had been
killed by jthe “ratter” himself. Prompted
by his feeling, hard cases, who had taken
all sorts of risks in their souveniring expedi-
tions, parted with valuable booty for trifling
sums. Impceuniosity was, of course, a con-
tributing cause, but then the lack of funds
was often attributed to the holding of
ratted goods. Coincidence certainly worked
hard to supply instances. One man who,
during the Passchendaele operations, found
2000 francs on a dead Hun (Fritz must
have been doing some souveniring himself).
promptly deserted,, remarking that he wasn’t
going to risk being killed whilst he had 2000
francs to spend; but he had hardly started
the spending in Poperinghe before a bomb
got him, Another man, who had taken some
cigarettes from a dead German in a newly-
captured position, was blown to eternity
by one of our own shells. A Digger who
was court-martialled for striking an officer
asked to be allowed to see , the officer before
being sent to do his sentence. In what
seemed to be a blend of contrition and mag-
nanimity he presented Pips with a pair of
German field-glasses. But he swore horribly
When he returned to his unit and found the
officer still alive and hearty.
“M.D.” on bureaucracy as a hindrance to
population:—•
A gentleman named Skelly has been in the lime-
light owing to an extraordinary occurrence at Port
Moresby. As head of a citizens’ committee he
has been after the Federal Government’s scalp for its
treatment of Dr. Matthew's, who has l>een prevented
from visiting the Government hospital to treat a
lady in an interesting condition. Dr. Matthews had
been employed as a Federal doctor, and when his
time was up he started private practice, in the
course of which he outraged all bureaucratic traditions
by sending in a maternity case when he did not.
belong to the hospital staff. The rules were strict
on this point, and the officials had no belief in
Place aux dames. To prevent the patient being
attended by her private doctor, 25 special constables
v'ere stationed under the verandahs of the hospital
night and day, which supplied the comedy element
of the squabble.
In the outposts of Australasia, where medical aid
is scarce, it wouldn’t be a bad thing, providing
his qualifications were satisfactory, to place every
practitioner in the district on the hospital staff.
The present case is unique. 1 don’t suppose any-
body has ever heard of an accouchement being pre-
vented by force of arms. The plight of the unfor-
tunate lad.y will awaken a chord of sympathy in the
breasts of those who are firm believers in the baby
bonus and motherhood endowment, whether financed
by sweeps on horse-races or otherwise.
“P. Pawnticket”: A new danger to the
man with a common name has been revealed
to my friend William Smith. There are
hundreds of William Smiths in Sydney, and
this one was living with a rather vixenish
w 7 ife, trying to make the best of a painful
experiment in matrimony, when he was sud-
denly deluged with correspondence from old
and almost-forgotten friends congratulating
BRINGING HER DOWN TO EARTH.
THE ANGEL ( gushingly ): “Could one better
this glorious view?”
THE HOG : “ Might—try cleaning the win-
dows."
him upon his divorce. Mrs. Smith has the
bad habit of opening her husband’s letters,
and the postman arrives after Smith has
gone to business, so the lady had the joy
of reading opinions to the effect that he
ought to have divorced her years ago, and
that she was the sort of woman who wrecked
a man’s life. The fact that a couple of the
missives were from women, long ago sus-
pected, did not improve matters. When
Smith got home he had a notion that the
house was falling on him. Crawling out
of the smashed crockery and disengaging his
wife’s claws from his hair, he headed for
the railway station, and arranged to cancel
his railway pass. The Smiths are still
separated.
A MARTIAN AT THE ZOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat confined by bolt and bar,
His small, lugubrious countenance
And sharp eyes gleaming like a star
Filled with a child-like petulance.
“What is his sentence ?” I inquired. “He seems
consumed by inward strife.”
The Keeper of the Keys replied: “What, him! Oh,
he’s in there for life.”
“A murderer!” I said, surprised.
“Who would have dreamt it from his face?
I never should have recognised
The type in him. I cannot trace
One vicious feature.” “No; quite so,” my mentor
interposed. “You see
He’s not locked up for doing wrong. He’s one of the
Hapalidae.”
“A lunatic! You stagger me.
It is the very last complaint
One would suspect. He looks so free
From any sort of mental taint.
A family affair, no doubt, passed on and on from
sire to son:
One of those painful tragedies with which your
world is never done.”
“He isn’t mad,” the keeper said.
“He’s clever —clever as can be.
He bears no malice, not a shred
To anyone—not even me.
We keep him permanently gaoled (of course it makes
him fume and fret,
But that applies to all the rest), because he is a
marmoset.”
N.S.W.
D. J.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Ividd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt. Duncan Sinclair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
rr
m
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for, 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson feCo., 102 D s *!Xv H ”“-
Olderfieet, Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St.. Christchurch
W A.-H. Little &• Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL.—Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet—4ooo feet.
BOILERS.—Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES.—Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR.—S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
[1
SGEWO%
EXTRA HIGH GRADE**
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
' In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO,, Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Alick Clydesdale, who won the Canning
(W.A.) seat for Labor at the expense of
ex-Attorney-General “Cocky” Robinson, is
president of the rather remarkable Ugly
Men’s Association, and Hurry Mann, who
succeeds Pilkington, K.G., as M.L.A. for
Perth, is a vice-president. Clydesdale runs
the Goodwood Racing Club for John Wren;
Mann is a retired detective; and they are
inseparable pals. Among the ex-detective’s
opponents was the eccentric Percy Brunton,
who polled 352 votes and saved his deposit,
which is more than Tom Molloy did, although
Tom is an old campaigner who has been
Mayor of Perth tfed a Leg. Councillor.
Brunton’s habit of causing infuriated citi-
zens to lose their deposits will end in his
being smothered with his own peanuts.
W. PERCY
WILKINSON,
Commonwealth
Analyst.
Dr. J. L. Beeston, who died last week,
was the fourth N. S. Wales Leg. Councillor
to go since Sept. 1. John Meagher, William
Robson and Jock Garland having preceded
him. The doctor was a Newcastle (N.S.W.)
man, and except for a visit to Britain during
his student days and a sojourn on Gallipoli,
his 58 years notwithstanding, lived there all
his life. He was a fine old Australian, and
Newcastle gave him a great funeral. A
widow and two sons survive.
Veteran-journalist John Gale, now in his
91st year, gives his version of the naming
of Yass (N.S.W.), a towm now celebrating
its centenary. He says that 60 years ago
the local aborigines told him that Yaah
was the native name, and the corruption
from Yaah to Yass was easy. In the same
way, Gale points out Goonong has been
altered to Gunning, and Kaligda has become
Collector. The old pressman represented
Murrumbidgee in N. S. Wales Assembly
from 1887 to 1889. ,
“Wealsman”: Len Bennett, who. with
E. T. Connolly, is to represent the Speck’s
licensed victuallers at the Perth
conference, has several times tried
for a Parliamentary seat in the
Labor interest but just missed. The
fact that he was a brewer’s travel-
ler had something to do with it, for
Tas. w T omen electors, however
democratic, are never enthusiastic
supporters of a candidate who
sells hogsheads of the stuff that
lures thirsty husbands out to see a
man about a dog. Bennett is the
sober, industrious and almost pain-
fully respectable father of a family
of half a score happy youngsters,
and at a Launceston shivoo in his
honor the other night no less an
authority than Police-Superinten-
dent Weston testified to the high
standard the popular L. V. sec. had
always maintained in thought and
action.
“The Wanderer”: Tom Brown,
who represented Calare (N.S.W.)
in the Federal Parliament for
years, is now “operator” at Molong
wheat silos. Tom used to do most
of his campaigning per bush bike,
and got many a vote that was not
Labor. When Piggott beat him,
Tom took it philosophically, and last election
he saw Piggott left by the political wayside.
That is where they all get, sooner or later.
Major Robert Ramsay, who, as president
of Colac (Vic.) shire, did the honors when
the G.-G. visited Colac, is a prosperous
grazier and the son of a man whose name
is indissolubly linked with Vic. political
history—the Robert Ramsay who was mainly
responsible for the abolition of the pension
system in the civil service. Robert pere
was political head of the Police Department
when Ned Kelly was captured at Glen-
rowan. Robert the second gave a good
account of himself in the Great War. If
he goes in for politics it wall be a thousand
pities if he wastes himself on the Legislative
Council.
“The Mamoose”: Norman Markwell is
the Pooh-Bah of Australasian medicoes. He
is superintendent of Torres Strait Hospital,
R.M.O. to the garrison artillery, surgeon to
the naval depot, Government medical-officer
to the natives for 400 miles round, health-
officer to the town, sole private practitioner,
and until lately was quarantine-officer. In
his spare time Markwell is writing a large
volume on heart disease from observations on
Japanese pearl-divers suffering from beri-
beri,- of which he has seen more cases than
any man in Australia.
The R.S.L. has lost its general secretary,
W. J. Henderson, who died in Melbourne
last week after an operation for a war-
caused malady. A Westralian and a man
of ability, Henderson served with the 10th
Light Horse in Gallipoli and Palestine and
collected a D.C.M. When the Westralian
Diggers formed a branch of the League they
made him secretary, and promotion to the
Commonwealth post arrived in a few months.
Plenderson’s heart was in his work, and he
dreamed of doing big things for his organisa-
tion, but sickness sapped his energies and
then came Death.
“Peter”: The pro-Hughes press has at last
found a use for the dark and silent Watt.
The rumor that Watt is embarking on a
large business career has encouraged the sug-
gestion that he might like to retire from his
comfy seat for Balaklava and provide Millen
with an easy way into the Reps. Millen will
be acting Prime Minister when Hughes goes
to England, and will naturally want to take
the wheel in the lower House, but he needn’t
count on Watt’s sacrificing his own prosuects
to gratify an old colleague’s ambition. Watt
is still quietly regarded as a starter for the
Prime Minister’s Stakes later on, though the
Hughes Government would rejoice if he were
scratched for all events.
Hutchinson and Co., the London publishers,
are looking out for Australian novelists,
and to that end have established a Mel-
bourne office with an energetic Londoner,
W. F. Fryatt, in charge. Fryatt has been
with the old firm over 20 years; he origi-
nally hailed from Harwich, which was the
headquarters of Tyrwhitt’s destroyers dur-
ing the war. The young man is a nephew
of the fine old skipper who was shot by the
Huns for ramming a U-boat.
“Jean S.”: “O. Blin” (B. 10/3/’2l) re-
minds me of my own youthful indiscretions in
black and white. Years ago, through
tne intervention of H. ri. C-aampion, 1
was introduced to Tom Mann as a cartoonist
likely to make the Fatmen tremble in their
lairs. Mann welcomed me boisterously and
enrolled me in the great movement to knock
off the chains of the working class. I did
two or three harmless pictures of a prole-
tarian chain-gang suffering from bad draughts-
manship, and w r as hailed as a “Comrade” by
various more or less dusty democrats, but I
didn’t reign long in that faded Marxian
atmosphere. Marx wasn’t helpful in
improving my salary. It all came back
to me when I saw one of my old chain-
snapping associates at Flemington the other
day. He was well-nourished and wore costly
COMPARISONS ARE ODIOUS.
ADMIRER: "Jolly little fellow; and what a
head! Why, with a head like that he
might some day be Prime Minister."
INDIGNANT MOTHER: “Sir! Remember who
IS Prime Minister .”
clothing. He puffed luxuriously at an enor-
mous cigar. He might have stood as a
model for a picture of a prosperous bour-
geois, sleek and content with the world. It
was “Comrade” Russell, the most fluent of
Mann’s snmll army of chain-bui'sters, and
now a salaried cipher in the Hughes Admin-
istration.
After several tries J. J. Simons has got
into Parliament as M.L.A. for East Perth.
Simons is the tall, energetic young man who
founded the Young Australia League and
started an ed_ucation-by-travel movement
which California copied. An admirable
speaker and organiser, he seemed marked out
for a political career, but he struck bad luck
at the outset, and the luck didn’t change till
last week. Another Laborite who has
arrived after many failures is Alick McCal-
lum, secretary of the Westralian branch of
the A.L.P. Alick began a long procession of
“outs” by being defeated at South Fremantle
in 1908, and now South Fremantle has in-
timated that he will do.
“Dodo”: There will be some staff changes
when the House of Reps, resumes talking
next month. Woollard, the present clerk-
assistant, has reached the age when healthy
ancients think longingly of bowls and gar-
dening, so he is dropping out in a couple of
weeks. Clapin, sergeant-at-arms, will pro-
bably assume Woollard’s wig iand black
nightgown, _ and brainy E. T. Hubert will
get the uniform with the strange growth at
the neck which Clapin ever wore with super-
lative dignity. Various underlings will go
up one, though there is a rumor of bringing
in an outsider to prevent the promotion of
a man who has undoubtedly earned it. Mean-
time the authorities are debating the early
retirement of the House’s oldest inhabitant,
Engineer T. Jeffrey, whose record of un-
blemished service covers 51 years. Jeffrey
succeeded his dad, and although he has
undertaken every imaginable duty in which
an engineer’s experience is required, has
climbed only to £2BO a year. This is a dis-
graceful wage for such an old servant, and
it doesn’t soothe his feelings to learn that
his maximum screw will be the minimum
of the new man who comes in.
William Vicars, who will represent the
Repat. Department on the new Educational
Board which has to do with the training of
deceased soldiers’ children, is the most hard-
ened repatriator of them all. He is head of
the big woollen firm that had a strenuous
fight for life for years, but finally won
* through and became prosperous, and the vol-
untary work he has done on Red Cross, War
Chest and Repatriation committees is enor-
mous. And the Digger has to thank him
for even more than that. The Aussie blan-
ket, which was the envy of the Tommies,
was to a large extent a Vicars product.
A well-groomed warrior is Brigadier-
General Wisdom, who, after a hair-raising
trip from West to East-floods held up the
overland at Tarcoola, and Wisdom and H. A.
Gullett travelled 270 miles in a railway-
trolly over a damaged track—has gone forth
to administer Rabaul and the neighboring
territory. He made money in the hotel in-
dustry at Coolgardie when that decayed
township was in the boom, but dropped a
parcel of it in a palatial seaside caravan-
serai for which the Time was not Ripe; For
six years he represented Claremont in the
Westralian Assembly, and when the war
came, having served in the volunteer forces,
he was made camp commandant and then
given a staff appointment, reaching France
in time for Pozieres. A most affable person,
Wisdom has the gift of making friends
in high places, and his public career
has been of the most comfortable description.
He has never aroused envy by an offensive
parade of superior talents.
Captain Henry Nicholas, an old master-
mariner of the tea-clipper days, went west at
the beginning of the month. Going-to sea at 13,
he worked aboard the clippers Sir Lancelot,
Forward Ho, Spendthrift and Leander,
the last of which won a prize of £5OO for the
fastest run from China. In later years the
Cap’n shipped cattle from Galveston, Texas,
to California as master of the Governor
Blackall, Ranelagh, Wentworth, Taldora and
Polly. Early in the century he retired from
the sea and settled down at Thursday Island,
where he crossed the bar at 79.
Jack Cochran, ex-M.L.A. for Darling
Harbor (N.S.W.), has been gently shoved
on the new Racing Board of Control at £3
a week. The Storey Government has been
kind to three of its ex-colleagues in the 1917-
20 Parliament—Cochran, Keegan and Tom
Smith. Cochran and Smith were appointed
to the Labor Department, the Public Service
Board raising no objection. But 10 years
of Parliamentary life had unfitted John Pat-
rick for the restraints of a departmental job.
He stood it for two days, and on the third
day he resigned. Keegan, who was M.L.A. for
Glebe, was made one of McTiernan’s Anti-
Profiteering inspectors. And there are still
a few political plums to be picked. Notably
the Agency-General and the fifth Railway
Commissionership; moreover, the Returned
Soldier Settlement branch is alleged to be
yearning for a director, and there is a possi-
bility of a vacant Commissionership on the
Fire Board.
“Friday Island” : When Jellicoe toured the
South Pacific in H.M.A.S. Suva his ship
carried mails to various islands—the regular
mail steamers being held up by the shipping
strike. To drop a bag at Samarai John J.
had to go out of his course, and being in a
hurry to get to Rabaul had wirelessed for a
launch to meet the ship. But all Samarai’s
launches with all Samarai’s white popula-
tion (about 100) came out to greet him.
The little admiral stopped his ship for 30
minutes, lowered a gangway, shook hands
with all who came aboard the starboard
gangway, passed them through the admiral’s
“cuddy,” where a hasty drink was given
(“hard” to the men and “soft” to the
women and children), passed them off down
the port gangway and sailed away. A kindly,
unassuming little man is Jellicoe.
R. NEIL-SMITH, private sec. to new Vic.
Governor Stradbroke.
Francis Henry Dillon Bell. K.C., Crown
Solicitor at Wellington (M.L.), will cele-
brate his 70th birthday on the 31st. He was
born at Nelson, his father, F. D. jfell, hav-
ing been Speaker and later Agent-General
in London. For three years in the ’nineties
Henry was M.H.R. for Wellington, and
he has been twice mayor.
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gribb called to see the minister,
A melancholy man.
The tears upon his red nose were,
And down his cheeks they ran,
And while the sobs his bosom tore
They splashed upon the parson’s floor.
He was a widower, he said.
His good and faithful wife
Since yesterday was lying dead.
“Ah, brother, such is life!’’
The parson sighed. “Come, come, be brave.
I’ll read the service o’er her grave.”
Gribb thanked him, and he pressed his hand.
“You’re very good,’’ said he.
“I hope that you will understand,
There’s something else. You see,
There is a lady good and mild
Who dotes upon my orphan child.
“I thought perhaps—well, sir—in fact,
I am—er, Susan says— ■
Wo are agreed. Er, will you act,
Say, in about three days?
Now, what deduction, sir, in view
Of both jobs being given you?”
VICTORIA.
S. SNELL.


**KB»£ A ' i
~
M
Warn
:
.
15 t
i; 9, - • •* >:
«*Hii»ik ..... v _____
Ml
f**?.
s:
m
■ilift
mm
I
r-
\
■
rf
: SBfe
M:
■Hj
ml ■ y
HA lIP J
B f J
BJ
rJ
-
■
JfHI
■' ' ■ "
HB
Mimsisi!
fh
s
( " r w T ’ '
V*
*
Cl
K
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR?


m
e
a
i«','. >5. ! .f
a
->.
«r
Stfs
*W' #Ffr ** JL s&l
&&&? *- ' ■ *cj* jd*'* > w ;, v#4
mm
%
PW.
S-. : ;<* , « • 9 * v - ' n -’
gw * *aP; * (/ «.*|i:, - * %r! 2r**»
Sg?v **-*r " . * 1 * WmM
f **£; /A 11#**'
: r■■ . ir
■ ~ s ’;
i»5
<*r
*»,
w
‘ " .;,: - - • * .;-- ■ -■
MgjESra
m*
W"V- «&■*
ME
KS
pwVC #•
* ...
■• * * ‘f
k £%*<t;
u
3
:v, '■•
!^r
** #
wl
mmm
BILL TUDGEY, of Kelvin, Gunnedah,
grew as fine a crop of wheat as you
would wish to see. It stood nearly
six feet high, and was a sea of yellow nod-
ding heads. Then that storm came which
caused a loss of hundreds of thousands of
bushels in N.S.W., and left Bill’s crop a
tangled mass of straw with the heads ducked
down in a sort of sodden misery. The pic-
H
ture tells the story. The crop looked fit only
for the firestick, especially after various
machines had been tried on it and had failed
to salvage a handful of grain.
But “Never say die’* was Bill’s motto. He
got another machine, and it was the right
one. He put a “crop-lifter” in front of it
tied in his team and carried on. From the
wrecked crop he got no less than 10 bags
per acre. It was a triumph for the farmer
and for the maker of the machine. Of course,
the machine was of Australian manufacture
one of the sturdily-built Sunshine Header
Harvesters from McKay’s great factory. The
crop-lifter brings the mass of straw and
grain up to the adjustable comb. Steel
spiral conveyors '(much more durable than
canvas) carry it on to the thrashing drum.
1 hence the straw walkers (at top) carry
away the straw, while the riddles take care
of the grain, and the fan blows away the
chaff. The cleaned grain goes to the grain-
box, and from there is shot into the bags
and is ready to market. The whole process
is continuous, and harvesting proceeds at the
rate of 15 to 25 acres per day, according to
the state of the crop. No other harvesting
system in the world can compare with the
work of the Sunshine Header machine in
economy, rapidity and big results.
H. V. McRAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
“Centurion”: De Burgh Persse, of Tab-
ragalbar (B. 24/2/’2l), made his biggest
financial hit in Mount Morgan’s. He got in
at the beginning and sold his parcel to Billy
Pattison at £l5 or thereabouts. A lot
of this money went to the upkeep of the
Galway Blazers. In later years, Tabra-
galbar, like other old stations of the Logan,
proved a gold-mine for “topping up” cattle,
and subdividing sales, for dairy farming,
added still more pence to the stocking. De
Burgh Persse was a breezy old sportsman,
and wore his hat more on one side than any
man I ever saw—unless.it was E. B. (Pom-
pom) Forrest, a co-director - of the Q.M.E.,
who predeceased him.
“y\t.E.L.”: Returning from M.L. to Aus-
tralia, Conan Doyle travelled by the Paloona,
and the usual cheerful idiot booked him for
the inevitable “concert”—second turn in the
second half. When the time arrived the
Prophet of the Occult produced a little red vol-
ume that looked like a Sunday-school primer.
“I will read you,” he said “one of my
poems—one of my best poems. It is called..
‘When the Guards Came Through !’ ” “Oh !”
murmured a lady in my ear, “I thought he
would speak on spiritualism. It is, so nice
once you get used to it.” In a ponderous
tone the great man proceeded to read the
verses—a blend of Newbolt and Rudyard
Kipling, each at his worst. Applause fol-
lowed and then silence. Then the quavering
voice of an elderly gentleman was heard.
‘We won’t let y’ go, Sir Rather,” he said.
“Gud Lawd, man, y’ must give us somethin’
better ’n’ that!”
“Pilgrim”: Add to “Chota’s” list (B.
20/l/’23) of appropriate names Diwell, a
tombstone-engraver who carries on business
opposite the cemetery at Hamilton (W.
Vic.).
Conrad Sayce,
who recently pro-
duced a good yarn.
“Golden Buckles,”
is going back to
his favorite hunt-
ing-ground for copy
in the company of
Sydney Kidman,
who is % travelling
from Oodnadatta
to the Victoria
River (W.A.), to
report on the coun-
tr y and its
cattle. Sayce
has been
drover, under-
taker, parson
came 1-m a n,
opal-gouger and
various othe r
things in the
middle of the
continent, and
he recently re-
ceived a com-
mission to
write his big
employer’s bio-
graphy. T h e
book will b e
tackled after
the author has
gathered some
fresh impres-
sio n s of his
hero on the
forth c o m-
ing journey.
CONRAD SAYCE.
“N.C.F.F.”: There is an old comp, at
Cheltenham (Vic.) who'was a copy-holder
at Massina’s when Marcus Clark was writ-
ing “For the Term of His Natural Life”
for the Australian Journal, in which it
appeared serially. He remembers that
Marcus re'ad his own proofs, and did most of
the writing at the printery ; also, that get-
ting sufficient “copy” out of the wayward
genius for the weekly instalment used to be
a work of art. Another contemporary of my
friend the comp.’s was James Emanuel
Mackey, a plodding, studious youth, who
wasted neither his boss’s time nor his own.
“H. Horsecollar” considers a married
couple:—
Tino, of Greece, has few equals as a hoodoo. Pro-
vidence gave him, to begin with, the chance that
had been awaited for over 500 years when Turkey
poked its fez into the war. Constantinople was the
old imperial Greek capital. It was built by a
Constantine, lost under heroic circumstances by a
Constantine, and legend had it that a Greek king
named Constantine, born on Greek soil, would recover
it. Tino was the first man or semblance of humanity
who answered the description, and with Russia and
Austria both fully employed, Abdul Fez with all
the Allies on his hands, Sarrail’s army to help and
a serviceable army and fleet of his own, the road was
open. Beguiled, presumably, by his wife, the
Kaiser’s sister, Tino took the wrong road and let
the dazzling prize slide. He lost his throne as well
as the ’bus, but got it back (the throne, not the
’bus) as heir to his own son, the man who had the
strange luck to be bitten in the stomach by an ape.
The restoration of one Hohenzollern seemed a good
omen. The tail of the Hun rose considerably, and
is still rising like a barometer in fine weather.
Also, the barometric tail of Abdul Fez has risen
partly because there is again a German woman on
the throrib, and she is more the sister of his friend
William than a devotee of Greek interests; partly
because he has no respect for Tino’s ability or luck;
and partly because he doesn’t think the Allies will
fight on the objectionable woman’s behalf and
strengthen the Hohenzollern interest. Anyhow, Abdul
Fez is truculently demanding back his lost terri-
tories, more especially those that Greece has gained,
which means that he wants to recover his foothold
in Europe, and the case isn’t quite hopeless. As
for the gains that Greece made in Asia —a strip
largely peopled by Greeks, and which was Greek 3000
years before the. Turk was heard of, many regard •
them as lost already.
As an empire-wrecker and a putter-back of the
clock of history, Mrs. Tino promises to rank high.
Yet she is no vision of beauty like Cleopatra, who
wasn’t a wrecker, or Mary Stuart, who only wrecked
herself. Woman is a great institution when she is
the rigiit woman, but the wrong woman is sheol.
“Yoyang”: Apropos of Yass (N.S.W.)
and its centenary, the first local M.L.A. was
Thomas Laidlaw, storekeeper, banker,
brewer, spirit merchant, post-master and a
few other things. He was unable to take
his seat because he received £2O a year from
the Government for attending to the mail,
but, resigning, he was re-elected unopposed.
Honest Tom was a connection of Laidlaw,
Walter Scott’s amanuensis, and was also
related to the Haigs of Bemersyde, to which
family Field-Marshal Douglas Haig belongs.
He married a Miss Galvin, of Campelltown,
but had no family. Tom’s mother was sup-
posed to have been the original of Minna
Troil in Scott’s novel, “The Pirate.”
Dr. C. Anderson, Sydney Museum’s new
Director, is an Orkney islander, and a gradu-
ate of Edinburgh University, where he was
medallist in physics, chemistry, zoology, geo-
logy, mineralogy and crystallography. After a
period as boss of the Ben Nevis Observatory,
Anderson came as mineralogist to Sydney
Museum, and later got his ILSc. from his
old shop for research in crystallography.
While Prctf. David was gallivanting among the
Antarctic penguins, Dr. Anderson held the
geological professorship at Sydney Uni. Pri-
vately, he is a rifle-shot, and a good one-
“Nemo”: The lute Harry Wollaston be-
longed to an old Australian family. His
grandfather, an Anglican archdeacon, was
the first clergyman who landed and settled
down in Westralia. He imported the
material for a church from England and set
it up at Picton, near \Aiere John Forrest
was afterwards born. It was there a long
time; perhaps it’s there still. He brought
also a lot of Money and a big family— two
particularly useful assets in those days.
Harry spent his boyhood at Albany, where
for many years his father was doctor to
the convicts and the soldiers, and where the
old Archdeacon died. One of the lad’s early
patrons was Admiral Spencer, whose
daughter married George Grey. On one
occasion convicts “on leave.” broke into the
office and secured £l5OO in
cash. The Wollastons had a convict servant
who had been a tailor and had a tailor’s
workbox, which he kept in the kitchen. Want-
ing a needle, Mrs. Wollaston took one from
the box, and found that it had a false bot-
tom, which secreted a number of new sove-
reigns. The tailor confessed that they were
part of the proceeds of the robbery from the
Commissariat, and showed Harry where the
rest of the spoil was buried—in sand near
the church. The robbers were sentenced to
10 years' imprisonment, but as they were
all “lifers” it made no difference to them,
except that they lost their tickets of leave.
“Smike”: A Melbourne weekly’s sense of
proportion was awry when it published a
half-page photo of people who had received
decorations from the Governor-General.
Most of the space w r as occupied by a pic-
ture of Percy Deane, sometime sec. of the
Priminister’s Department; in fact, Percy’s
likeness quite dwarfed that of Plight-Com-
mander Richard Minifie, who outraged all
the German conceptions of air-warfare by
chasing generals in their motor-cars, bombing
trains and aerodromes, and machine-gunning
troops on the
marc h. But
Deane captured a
whole C.M.G: for
being kind and
nice at the Peace
Conference, where-
as the airman had
merely been fast-
ened to the D.S.O.
with two bars and
the D. 5.0., also
with two bars.
Anybody who has
lingered in the
society of Hughes
becomes thereby a
great public iden-
tity in the judg-
ment of the Mel-
bourne illustrated
press.
G. J. ANDER-
SON, Maoriland
Minister for Inter-
nal Affairs. He
has prohibited the
exhibition of
crime-films.
George Simpson, who crossed ojpr at
Christchurch (M.L.) recently, was a.. notable
art connoisseur, and his private collection
of pictures was the finest in the Dominion.
Also he was a city councillor and Govern-
ment builder. His father helped John
Barnes to erect the first wharf at Dunedin
in 1858.
BALLADE TO JOHN HOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M e have few dukes and earls. It’s clear
That generals are as rare a quest,
And so with .veneration here
Our splendid policemen we invest.
So pouter-like, .with massive chest
Among- the mute, admiring- masses,
With shining helmet and the rest,
Majestical, the peeler passes.
His foot falls on the pavement near
When night has come, and we at rest
Are all quite comforted to hear
Its hollow thump. Then in his nest
Each curls, and knows what is is best.
The criminals may hunt in classes.
But what care we —towards the west
Majestical, the peeler passes.
In Juliet-lane a sound of fear.
The .wretches who that part infest,
Inspired by wickedness and beer,
Are thumping- dames they love the best.
But order falls: the rogues arrest
Their blows, and silence holds the lasses,
What time, like Jove in jumper dressed,
Majestical, the peeler passes.
Envoy.
Protruding is his lower vest,
For much of fat the man amasses.
Rave all who may, with hate possessed,
Majestical, the peeler passes.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


m
5-
r
T<
m
or
©
m
m
■:
W
s
glillill
■ ■
■ nr.-' - if-SJE
HHBKKUH
■HHI
:'•••:: ■•
*• •
mm -<f * .
Mm ■ t. •
v;°:
■.
i w
■
!
W
** * j
*# • ««
1
1
«
§1
*■ ' f -
:: 1
n
i
'{”* • ■
BHU
wi
' 1 ; ?
g»
i
555
m
1
n
■
■■
■
i
•■ ■
.The man on the land can now enjoy the convenience, safety
and comfort of electric light and power by means of the
I.G.E. Home Light and Power Unit
This is a complete plant for the generation and storage
of electricity and is compact, economical to run, safe
and easy to operate. It is of sufficient capacity to per-
mit the use of electrical appliances, such as vacuum
cleaners, sewing machine motors, electric irons, toast-
ers, etc., as well as electric light in every room in the
house. Furthermore, the full horsepower of the
engine is available at all times for driving pumps,
grindstones, churns, and light machinery. The
I.G.E. Home Light and Power Unit is a sound
investment that will pay big dividends of comfort.
Write for Particulars to-day.
Australian General Flgctric 0
35 45 WENTWORTH
SYDNEY <
fdhfd
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
.
BRISBANE, Q -The Engineering Supply Co of Australia Ltd
(E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—OIiver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE, S.A —Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
• ■' 1 \>'\ ' < , ' v
PERTH, W A --Charles Atkins Sc Co (W A.I Ltd .” Mazda House,"
894 Hay Street
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical SC Engineering Co Ltd
AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. CHRISTCHURCH. DUNEDIN


w
Ddubeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
Dodge Brothers Motor Car can be bought
with complete confidence for two reasons:
First, because Dodge Brothers build it,
and because Dodge Brothers have never
produced an unworthy car.
Second, because it has definitely estab-
lished its low petrol and tyre costs, and
its remarkable freedom from repair.
yj //
' N -A
6
>o v
\\i ill
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Fty., ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd,
Adelaide.
PROPELLER BRAND
Rolled metals
hfd
I
hfd
ENTIRELY
’AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
Rolled Copper, Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze
and Tobin Bronze in Round, Square, Flat and
Hexagon. All Usual Trade Sizes. Highest Quality.
Immediate Delivery.
hfd
“Austral” Chill Cast Phosphor Bronze (Sticks
and Bushes) is close-grained, without the hard
skin common to sand castings. Has increased
elastic and tensile strength, and machines easily.
“Austral” Brand Manganese Bronze (Ingots). A
high-class metal, practically non-corrosive.
M*
_ l
“Graphine” Anti-Friction Metal, in a variety of
grades, for different loads and speeds in all classes
of machinery. A distinctly high-class and
thoroughly reliable bearing metal.
Babbitt’s Metal —Original formula.
“Austral” Navy Bronze, for heavy bearings, high
and low speed.
“Austral” Plastic Metal, adheres firmly without
tinning.
Phosphor Tin (Ingots), containing 5 per cent.
Phosphorus.
Phosphor Copper (Phosphorus 10 per cent.).
Star Antimony (99.5 per cent, purity).
Ask for these
Australian
METALS
Leading Engineers and Govern-
ments use them extensively after
proving their quality.
THE Australian Metals shown here
represent an achievement. No longer
do engineers hesitate when the
best metals are required—the name of the
Austral Bronze Co., Ltd., is accepted far
and wide as a mark of reliability. To-day
A.B.C. Metal Products rank equal to and
often surpass the finest British metals, and
are in use throughout the Commonwealth
on industrial, motor, marine and general
engineering work of every description. The
success of A.B.C. Metal Products is proof
that no reason now exists for the use of
imported metals. Obtainable at machinery
and motpr-supply houses everywhere. Full
particulars of any line will be supplied by
the manufacturers.
THE AUSTRAL BRONZE
CO., LTD.,
264 Botany Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
SELLING AGENTS:—
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney,
and Fitzroy Building, 125 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-
501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Darling
Building, Adelaide. Also from GEO. KENT,
LTD., Perth.
A Blue Paper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD finished a bush-felling contract
at Maungawahine Creek, and spent the
last two days making up the accounts.
The chief outstanding item was £5 owing to
Rawhiti (David) Ivaraka, over at Te
Makonui, and I decided to ride across and
wipe off the debt. Brown Brother, who is
not harassed with the vagaries of auditors,
doesn’t understand the importance of vouch-
ers, and a postal remittance would merely
mean a glorious spree for the kainga, while
Rawhiti lighted his pipe with the voucher-
form.
I met Tom Keegan at Te Telco, and in-
quired if Rawhiti had been seen abroad
recently! Tom considered. Then “Not to-
day,” he said. “But I seen him Monday—
no, Toosday. Anyway, he’s around some-
where. He’s not working again.”
I reached Te Makonui about two o’clock,
and saw propped up against the nearest
whare a somnolent Maori.
“Hi!” I shouted. “You see Rawhiti round
here?”
The Maori slowly uncurled, eyed me unin-
terestedly, then suddenly sat up and looked
hostile.
“Wluit you want Rawhiti for?” he de-
manded.
“I want to see him. D’you know where-
he is?”
“I tonno. He ko away last week. I
tinlc he ko to town.”
“But he was here on Monday. Tom
Keegan saw him.”
“No see Rawhiti. He ko away. ,No come
back any more.”
He dropped asleep again. I tethered the
horse and hailed a passing Maori.
“Tenalcoe! I say, where’s Rawhiti?”
He stopped and I noticed his gaze was
also frigid. ,
“Rawhiti? Ugh—l tunno. What you
want Rawhiti for?”
“That’s my business,” I said shortly.
“He’s round here somewhere.”
“Not Rawhiti. He sick. He ko toctor.
I tink he die.”
“Hi!” I hailed a drifting youth. “Have
you see Rawhiti?”
“No,” he said promptly. “Rawhiti no
live here now.”
An old Maori woman appeared at the
door of a whare further on. “Tenakoe,” I
said, “you know where I find Rawhiti?”
She eyed me suspiciously.
“Rawhiti? — ! I tunno. Oh, res, he get
marrit. He no come back any more.”
“But he was here on Monday,” I pro-
tested.
“Oh, res. He ko away Saturday. He
marry Ekatere. No come back any more.”
“Not much wonder,” I commented bit-
terly.
A slim girl came down the road. She
looked more hopeful.
“Good afternoon! I’m looking for a
Maori called Rawhiti. D’you happen to
know where he is?”
“Rawhiti? —no. Oh, yes. He’s gone to
Rawakawa to the races. He’s no here now.”
“Who’s that?” I asked as a buxom Maqri
woman passed along.
The Maori is shaky on relationship. “Oh,
t’at’s my uncle,” said the girl.
I hailed “unde.” “I say, do you know
anything about Rawhiti? I’ve come 11
miles to find him. He’s somewhere here.”
Uncle look at me with a pleasant grin.
“Rawhiti? Ob, he ted. He tie long time
ago.”
“Well,” I said disgustedly, “he must have
died pretty sudden. He was alive on Tues-
day.”
Uncle grinned delightedly. “You te prurry
liar,” she said amiably. “He ted 10 year
ago.”
“Now, look here,” I said, adopting a stern
attitude. “He’s not dead. Now where is
he?”
A brown youngster slid into the group.
“Rawhiti not ted,” he said. “He only ko
to gaol. He steal te sheep las’ week.”
“How long did he get?” I demanded.
Fourteen-and-a-half reflected. “Twenny
years,” he answered triumphantly.
“That’ll do,” I said as the interested
circle closed in. “If any of you are alive
when he comes out you tell Rawhiti I rode
over to pay him £5, and if”
There was a chorus of exclamation.
. “You want Rawhiti? You give Rawhiti
te money? You no pring te summons—te
perue paper—make Rawhiti ko to court?
Oh. t’ere’s Rawhiti —in te whare over t’ere.”
I drew out the voucher-form as the grin-
ning Rawhiti appeared, and the explanation
was deal’. It had been sticking out of my
nocket, and the color was the dreaded official
blue.
If anyone seeks me with a “perue” paper
I hope my relatives will lie as splendidly.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Blood Lust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You came to me when day was young,
Clear-eyed you were and gaily dressed;
A song of gladness on your tongue
And dew points on your stainless breast.
All eager for the worm that stirred
Upon the sod my spade had turned ;
Nor recked you that a bandit bird
The sweetness of your body yearned.
And now the warm blood redly dyes
The plumes that once so brightly shone;
And from the chalice of your eyes
The limpid wine of life is gone.
Your slayer lies with wings outspread
Beside you, dead —a broken thing;
While, like a shadow overhead,
His murderer sails on easy wing
Unconscious that the hunter lies
In yonder -wood with bated breath,
And blood-lust in his tireless eyes,
To take the toll that is of death.
Red talons clenched and shattered wing—
A falcon to the earth is hurled!
T wonder if some evil thing
Is stalking me across the world.
N.S.W.
G. D. MACDONALD.


“Pay Less ,
Dress Better
The Murdock-made
Australian Tweed
Suit 69|6
Ready-to-wear.
TL ND to look at it you would scarcely believe
it possible to obtain such a well-finished
I \ Suit at the price.
This great saving to your pocket is owing to
Murdoch’s policy of buying cloth direct and making
the suit in their own workrooms—thereby cutting
out all dealer’s profits.
These Suits represent the highest Modern Attainment in Ready-
for-Service Garments. Every Suit is designed, cut and
fashioned to accurate proportions, and finely graded, ensuring
perfect ease and the smart appearance arising from correct
fitting. Made from Specially-selected Australian Woollen
Tweeds. The Coat has two-button Fronts, Roll Lapels, and
outside and inside Breast Pockets. Vest has four Pockets and
medium opening. Trousers have Side and Hip Pockets and
permanent turn-up bottoms.
Ready-to-wear, 6916.
I Murdochs
m ParkS*Vi
Where the Good
are
u
7>s
m.
HRWiiuttl • rIjSSS
Be Well-dressed
For Easter
it costs little
at MURDOCH’S.
T
HREE important items in the Mas-
culine Wardrobe —
A Suit, Shirt and Hat!
And it is these three factors particu-
larly vital to a man s comfort and
smart appearance that Murdoch s
can offer you at SPECIAL VALUE—enabling you
to be smartly dressed for the Easter festivities at a
substantial saving.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS —“
Murdoch’s welcome the opportunity afforded at Eastertide;
feeling it pleasant to once more get m touch with customeis
and old friends from far away. Will you kindly »<**** th /jJ
as a personal invitation to call in and have a chat whil
Sydney. .
Shirt
Special
mm
if ii rth
w
The reason that accounts for
the excellence of Murdoch’s
Shirt-wear also accounts for
the low price. Every Shirt
is made in Murdoch’s own
workrooms —thus you buy
direct from the manufac-
turer, and the reputation of
Murdoch’s good name is
dependent entirely on giv-
ing you a BETTER Shirt at
a LOWER PRICE.
MEN’S GOOD QUALITY CAMBRIC GOLF
SHIRTS, made with reinforced Linen. Neckband,
and soft double cuffs. In a pleasing range of neat
Blue, Black or Helio stripes. All very effective
and distinctive patterns.
Everyday Value .».■.*» . . 12/6
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL: 8/11
Our Easter Hat Special
Smart Fur Felt Hats, fashioned in good-quality Felt, with
2^in. brim. In a range of smart shapes. Fitted with soft,
sweat-proof leather. Shades: Slate, Brown, Cuba, Pawn,
Steel, Grey and Black, with Black Band and Side Bow. All
sizes.
Present Day Value 22/6
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL: 19/6
If you cannot call., Order by Post,
Address your let ter to DESK R.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’S
JL JL in Park Street Ltd., SYDNEY.
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.


'
Berry’s Patent
Foolproof Ironclad
■■■■■■■■■
ff**■.*+£-&
m
Us
TO
mnmmm.
FOSE
SWITCHGEAR
Late Berry Skinner (Made in Australia)
A long list of remarkable successes stands
to the credit of these celebrated Switch
Gears. Wherever used they have been
accepted as models of perfection. They
are safer, more reliable, while separate
:use boxes are unnecessary.
Briefly, the points of advantage of
Berry’s Fuse-Switch Gears are as follows:
Bapid make and break ; dust-proof; flame-
proof weather-tight when required;
great mechanical strength; freedom from
springs likely to get out of order.
The Switch can be opened and a blown
fuse replaced within 30 seconds, without
touching or coming into close proximity
with any other parts.
Write for particulars.
TWIST DRILLS
In Stock and to arrive.
All sizes—5/16ths to lin.
Write —•
NATIONAL MUTUAL BUILDINGS
hfd
Phone Cent 403/
ENGINEERING CQ l™
w C? COLLINS 8, QUEEN STREETS
Boy/303 CPO - M ELBOURNE •
N.S.W. Agent—George H. A. Mathews, Cr. Clarence and
Market Streets, Sydney.
S.A. Agents—Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
Queensland Agents—General Machinery & Electrical Co.,
Brisbane.
SuJ}£rni33
hfd
ORIGINAL
BALATA
hf
BRITISH
BELTING
The high character consistently built into every inch of
DICK’S Original Balata Belting is responsible for the
profound goodwill it enjoys with all leading Engineers
and Plant Owners. Its reputation for efficiency with
lowest operating costs is backed by over 35 years ofl
faithful service and sturdy performance.
The plies of DICK’S Balata Belting will not part under the
severe mauling of shifters, as they are closely and firmly welded
together by powerful machinery. There are no seams or splices
to bump, wear, or damage machinery.
Being impervious to all conditions of dampness, DICK’S is
the ideal belt for use in Refrigerating Plants, Laundries, Butter
and Dairy Factories, and in all plants where damp conditions
prevail.
One of our practical men will he pleased to consult with your
engineers regarding the correct application of belting, without
any obligation to you. WRITE FOR FREE COPY OF THE
BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIES COY. LTD..
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-3 Little
Collins Street. '
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
The Tryst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sheathed like a m y in transparent
leaves,
With naked feet she stole into the night
To meet her lover. Dew dripped from the
trees
To where the white breasts melted into white
Of fragile garments. And the twigs were
black
Against the stars, and on the unlit track
There were faint rustlings such as men dis-
cern
When pixies wander through the dusky fern.
Hate watched her come. Hate with his low
brow ridged
In veins outstanding. Hate, that once was
love,
Blackened by jealous rage. A sleepy bird
Tried to give warning from the bough above,
But she was deaf to any voice but one.
He was to her as music—and the sun,
And stars, and flowers of earth. She
merged
Her every sense to where his passion surged.
No word ! Her lissom body had expressed
Her raptures, as she sank upon his breast
And felt his arms about her—and the snake.
Feeling his dagger, in the brake apart
Gloated o’er severed kisses, crouching still,
Vowing that when he struck he struck to
kill.
And, as each hung upon the other’s mouth.
Quenching a hundred nights of aching
drouth,
He struck, but did not draw her from the
nest
That love’s strong arms had made. Just
once she sobbed
Almost a laugh, and then her limbs relaxed,
Her brown eyes closed, and on the heart that
throbbed
Its very life for her, she sank and died,
And winds came up from where the world
was wide
And brought the scent of roses, honey-sweet,
To lap her from full breasts to naked feet.
Love laid her down upon the dewy grass,
And sought her slayer in the shielding brush
To force the scream of death upon the hush
And find blood for her blood. But Hate
was gone
And there was night and stars —and love
alone
To bruise the chilling limbs with frenzied
touch,
And beg reward—where he had given so
much!
Thus Hate went trysting—for a dagger’s
red,
Mixing bright rubies with the pearls of dew,
Though the wise winds that know so much
had sung
The failure of such vengeance, sighing
through
The twigs erect and black, above a face
That was like some sunk moon in silver
grace
Lying upon the bosom of the sea,
So her pale face lit up the greenery!
Twin ghosts come still at trysting time,
they say,
And kiss and clasp, and in the brake there
stands
Another ghost, foredoomed to wait alone,
And weep across the dagger in his hands
A thousand years to curse their deathless
bliss,
And feel the jealous torture of each kiss,
And watch until the moon dies on the dav,
A perfect love that Hatred could not slay!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
A Literary Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
man who tried to be business-man
and litterateur in turns decided that
as the heathen would not rage from
23rd December till 10th January, he would
retire to the house of a friend in the ti-tree
by the bay-side.
“Quiet,” said the friend —“work when you
like, how you like, all you like. The beach
when you want it and the big garden round
the house always; pine-trees full of birds;
pepper-trees, bay-trees, walks of agapanthus.
climbing roses, scarlet-flowering gum just
breaking, Norfolk pines, yuccas, and deep
lush grass to hide yourself in.”
So the writer-man packed a bag and put in
bathers and tobacco and lines and a great
wad of copy-paper, lie reached the friend’s
house at dusk and saw the black pines, and
the weeping pepper-tlrees* and the yuccas hold-
ing up their ivory candelabra, and the white
agapanthus glimmering in the star darkness.
And not knowing that this was early Christ-
mas Eve he accepted the deceptive peace so
well that he was moved to think in bad verse,
something like this :
“Christmas,” said he, “approacheth and giveth my
mind release
From business and the market, and 1 shall sit down
in peace,
And write for a week of quiet, and sleep when I so
decide,
And wear but a pipe and pyjamas till the ebb of
the Christmastide.
I shall write me a dozen stories ’twixt now and
New Year’s Day,
And only the wind in the pine-trees and the breeze
blown over the bay
Shall be the sounds to embarrass the style of my
fountain-pen.
And I shall write and be happy far from the noise
of men.”
So he left the reverb’rant city with of paper a half
a ream,
And sat hirq down by the pine-trees where the curv-
ing bay shores gleam.
“Wind in the pine-trees and the blue gums,
and peace like a”-
“Phairrrr ! Phairrrr !” It was the voice
of one of those damnable paper-toy trumpets,
blown by a juvenile fiend. It sounded at in-
tervals as if approaching, and the tor-
tured writer-man’s ear stretched to hear it
again, dreading it, but hating the suspense of
waiting.
Then the tragedy arrived. It was the
friend and his wife, and three friends they
had asked to stay there for the merry season ;
and there were five children, one of them the
miscreant with the paper anathema that
wailed “Phairrrr!” The other infants
nroved their destiny to grow up bad citizens
by their armament of noises as evil—one of
them an instrument of torture that imitated
Gelert’s dying yell. The writer-man bore
the noise with the self-administered comfort
that to-morrow was Christmas Day and all
would then be well. So he put away the
tools'Qf his trade and tried to sleep. Vain
hope! Almost all night the noises raged ; the
tireless nuisances got their second wind at
daylight and found new horrors in their
stockings.
But courage! They must go out soon to
the beach, or sleep, or fall exhausted, or die
before long. So putting the disturbance
deliberately away the writer-man got out his
gear, began the story:—
THE LONE MAROON.
The turtle sank to safety in a hurry as McAlpine
ran the boat down the beach, and
One of the horrible infants began to stamp,
and it had been taught to stamp by an in-
ferior correspondence school. The writer-
man cursed and opened the garden door of
his room. There were the quiet pines all
right, and so to work—
McAlpine
“Nark ! Nark!” It was the noise of the
file-bird —he who imitates file noises for deaf
saw-sharpeners.
“Now damn you and your ‘Nark, nark,’ to
the third generation.”
Imitation of stamping apparently encored;
reappearance of the small fiend with the
squeaker “Phairrrr!”
The piano at the house opposite, aided by
voices damnably suburban, joins in :
Jer-roo-salem | Jeroosalem!
Lift up your gates and sing—
which is equivalent to singing “Oh, Bendigo,
Oh. Bendigo, take down your sliprails and
recite.”
The writer-man pettishly abandoned “The
Long Maroon” and wrote a new title on a
fair sheet of paper :—-
THE BAY OF A THOUSAND SHIP&
The super-cargo of the Three Cheers arose from
his bunk on the anchored ship
“Phairrrrrr!”
“And I says to him....and he says to
me.” That was from the friends and the
friends’ wives, already begun to prove that
two women and a goose make a market.
“The Bay of a Thousand Ships” lost all
interest for its creator; he suddenly desired
to write a pathetic story of a little child
who died —several children —and their
mothers with them. But he compromised
on a story with death in it—many deaths —
and wrote his title:—
10,000 FREEZERS FROM LAKE’S CREEK.
“Nark, nark!”
“I .said to him....and he says to me.
Stop putting your finger in Willie’s eye,
George. And then I said —will you stop
putting your finger in Willie’s eye? I’ll
beat you black-’n’-blue, you wicked, cruel
child!”
“Ay! Yay! Yay ! Yay ! Yay ! Yay !” the
contributions of Willie of the fingered eye.
“Now I’ll teat you.”
“Arrrh! Arrrrh!”
“And he said to me. .. .and I said to him.”
“Ay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay!”
“Nark! Nark !”
“Phairrr! Phairrr!”
Small fiend giving imitation of stamping,
his technique discounted by woman at ’phone :
"‘Thjit you? Yes, we came down last night,
bo quiet! Just peaceful! What’s that?
Weve got turkey! Frightful price....
George, you little wretch ! Let Willie alone!
Did you make a pudding this year? We
bought ours, less trouble. Oh, yes, I put the
threepences in all the same. It's beautiful
here—so quiet.”
“Yay! Yay ! Yay ! Yay !”
“Phairrrr! Phairrrr!’
‘‘l said to him and he said to me.”
“Nark! Nark!”
“By all the devils of noise,” said the
writer-man to the file-bird, “you’re the only
thing here that’s true to label.”
“Nai-k ! Nark !”
The writer-man hoped for night, as Well-
ington prayed for Bluclier, and the thought
of Blucher made him wish to put in the
boot.
Night came with some new noises and all
the old ones except “Nark! Nark!” he hav-
ing flown home to make it uncomfortable.
“Phairrr ! Phairrr!” was still going strong,
with the stamper a dangerous rival; and
Willie continued to roar his interminable
“Yah ! Yah ! Yah ! Yah ! Yah !” unable
to fox-get the ancient history of George hav-
ing fingered his eye. Maybe George had
fingered it again—the writer-man hoped so.
The energy of talking for ever and say-
ing nothing, of racing and stamping and
weeping without ceasing, was not human
but lunatic. No ordinary people could have
so talked and roared. The new noises in
eluded “Silvery Waves” on the piano learnec
in four lessons, and an everlasting cry to
some Hebrew scoundrel named Abey, asking
him without ceasing what he was waiting
for now. All the otherwise disengaged child
ren banged the doors.
By this time the writer-man had given up
the attempted story-writing and sought to
soothe himself by writing an “Ode to the
North Wind” beginning, “Hot, dry deter-
gent of the clean-burned North.” Then all
the noises swelled forte and he found a hot,
dry breath nearer home.
The women talked almost all night, and
in the morning the neglected children raged
like the heathen. The writer-man pressed
the quotation further, and wished to dash
them all in pieces like a potter’s vessel.
He thought of all the places he had found
the writer’s peace in—a room overlooking a
cliff and great trees of the Moreton Bay fig;
a little quiet flat in a city street with never
a jarring note in it; a hotel room in the one
street of a hamlet, with all the hamlet’s
traffic gathered under his window; a room
looking out on to Botany Bay; and another
place of peace overlooking railways and
tramways and centred in all the regular
kindly noises of city.
So he packed his bag and the three stories
and the ode that had never started to reach
anywhere, and returned to the place he had
despised. There, forgetting the beautiful
voices of infant devils and the song of the
nark birds in the pine-trees, he heard sub-
consciously, but gratefully, the regular clang
of the car-bells and their wheels thundering
on the points, and the wail of the electric
lift, and sat him down content with noises
so well rehearsed that they have achieved
technique.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


(fo io73edin Style
as well as in Contforl
m
m m
mm
'•
1
mms
if m
M
' I
> ’
7<r? M¥<
71 /
S flymS
S; J
■-
m
f*- £%
Jf
silSiyl
' 111
Ml
N
-
■
,N,-
wtm
IHH
: H
ill! i
■
•5-Sj
<• t
ft 1
■ :
■
if r f
m
U
* ff A <k* ''
& >
, ~ >,•
i
«■ 4 *
*
mm
m
i
•■■■ "
i m
A SURE WAY
to identify good Pyjamas is to look for
the Pelaco brand on them. H When
you find THA T mark of quality your
Pyjama worries are over. If Pelaco
Pyjamas combine comfort and service
with a snappiness of style that is
appreciated by particular men.
v
L. 1
irts


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. * A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GBEN«
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Brewed at Home
If if isn't
lis better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia —BAR NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. 0R PO STAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
King GeqrgelV
fHETOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“XXX”: That the death-add&r can sting
,with its tail hook is a very old and popular bush
myth. The hook has no communication duct to any
poison gland or reservoir. It is not venomous in the
slightest degree. Many a time I’ve won a small bet
by punching the tail hook of a defunct adder into
my forearm till the blood ran, and I have suffered
no ill effects. But death-adders, or, anyhow, some
of them, can spring. Once on the Buniga Mountains
(Q.) a mate and self found a fine specimen sun-
haking. My friend said he’d teased scores of adders
and never found one attempt to spring, and pro-
ceeded to demonstrate the truth of his words. To
allay my anxiety on his behalf he replaced his two-
foot tickling switch with a stout six-foot . green
wattle stick. No sooner had he touched his nibs
than, whipping head and tail together, it sprang
clear over its tormentor’s shoulder. A very white-
faced, badly-scared snake-charmer killed that adder,
accompanying his blows with “Take that, you
blanky, bouncing blank!”
* * * .»
“Jim Carew”: Re bush death traps (B.
24/2/’2l). Once came across a deserted hut with
the door shut tight, and containing the skeletons of
two horses. They must have wandered in seeking
tucker or shelter, and the wind closed the door on
them.
* * * *
“Rang”: “Two Seas” (B. 10/2/’2l), with
his “On the strength of some-
thing somebody told the
bloke who told him” (me),
tickles me acutely, and there’s
a pensioner at Menindie who
will also rock with laughter
over his inane par. I merely
quotfed the Broken Hill magis-
trate as a recent concrete
case in contradiction of “Mr.
Mac’s” statement that dingoes
would not attack humans.
Now—in ’O2 two drovers and
a youth turned a mob of
woollies into what was then
part of Brenda station, on the
Darling. The cook had his
left arm in a sling. As he
unwound the bandages and
showed a lacerated forearm
he explained: “I wus in ther
corrals when I sees a big
dorg slinkin’ into ther drive.
I grabs ther axe and hops
over. Before I knew what
wus happenin’ he comes fer
me like lightnin’—flew fer
me face, an’ if I hadn’t
fenced him orf with me arm
then I’d be minus half me
phiz. I ’appened to be
blockin’ ther exit, but 1
never seen which way he went
dfter he came fer me. I
didn’t think they’d go fer a
man like that!” One of the
drovers is long since dead;
the other is the old Menindie
veteran; I’m the “youth,”
and the cook is my uncle,
who still bears a nasty sear on his left arm.
* * * *
“Jay Jay Bee”: Re “Manu Manu’s” old-
man shark (B. 13/1/’2l). In 1889 I was returning
to Port Moresby from Yule Island in a lakatoi (two
or more canoes lashed together), and while opposite
Bed Scar head, poling along in about seven feet of
water, a large-sized fish ranged up alongside. While
his tail was on a level With the stern where I was
sitting, one of the natives said that he hit the
monster on the head with his pole, and the place he
struck the water was well in advance of the canoes.
As far as my memory goes the shark would be
soft. long. This may be “Manu Manu’s’’ or
Moresby’s fish seen in the same locality; if so, he
would be a fair age now.
20/iA2iT ISal i : Rc ' a Tea] f” (B -‘
zu/i/ /l). I was among the gods when Lance
Skuthorpe settled “Bobs.” From 8 p.m. till 10.30
idem it was just wrangle; hut at the latter hour
Martini bowed to the clamonngs, and Skuey in his
hogskin did the rest. Unwary riders, to their undoing,
didn t jerry to why Bobs was saddled on the further
THE INCOMPREHENSIBLE SHE
MABEL: “I can't make out why Maud wants to come bathing for at all. Why, she
spends all her time in the water."
side of the rink, directly opposite to and with his
tail to the manger. Instantly he was loosed for
business, he slewed round like a flash, followed it
with a half-turn in the air and a back step, which
invariably settled the argument. He’d seldom any
need to buck, but he met a tradesman in Skuey.
When Les Teece (son of old-time Crown .Prose-
cutor Jack Teece), Pratley and Co. ran their buck-
ing show at the Exhibition Park, Sydney, Waite
bet Jack Dempsey a “suit” that he’d stay the longer
in a poley without stirrups or barebacked on Snips
(a better bucking machine than Bobs. He delivered
his wares quicker and oftener). Teece, my infor-
mant, held the ticker, and Dempsey took the clobber,
but by a spasm only. At holding and saddling a
rough ’un Jack D. w r as on his own.
* * * *
“Vic”: The Warenda light is well known
out in that part of the country. I have seen it
twice, and thought it was a large
acetylene-lamp from a boring camp.
I pointed it out to the man driving
the car, and he said “It’s a star.” At
first I felt satisfied with this explana-
tion, hut after watching it for another
hour, when it neither rose nor'set, we
decided it could not be a star and
must be a camp light. On arriving
at Boulia we made inquiries, but
found that there were no boring plants
in that direction, and several people
suggested it might have been the
Warenda light. Saw it again a
month later on our way back
to Winton. Crowds of people
have seen it. 1 was talking to a
man going in the train from Dudress
to Cloncurry about Warenda, and as
he had been working there he hap-
pened to mention the Warenda light.
He told me he was camped on Poly-
gammon Creek, about 10 miles from
Min Min pub, when he saw the light,
■which he mistook for the powerful head-lights of a
car—you know how the two lights look like one
large one from a distance.
*** * .
“Delhi”: When Abo.-liars have finished
slandering the. wedge-tailed eagle, let me inform
them that the good it does more than compensates
for the fowls, etc., it is likely to take. Here on the
Dorrigo (N.S.W.) it does more to keep the rabbits
in check than any other member of the community,
and very rarely touches fowls.
* * * *
“Cane Grass”: Cooks are all liars. Our
artist lisped this out amid profound silence: “Ther
best shot I ever done wus with me old forty-four. I
wus after ’roos, an’ walkin’ through er box clump I
seen 11 wood-ducks asleep on a green limb pretty
high up. I wus able ter get right under them. Ther
bullet split ther limb, and as it closed again it
caught nine of the ducks by the toes. Course I had
ter fall ther tree ter get ’em.”
“Seaford”: Near the junction of the Alice
and Barcoo Rivers (Central Q.) I recentlv not
evidence enough to convince mie that aTo-Res who
disbelieve that snake included gohanna on his menu
have a lot to learn. I nearlv put my foot on a
black-headed snake whose inactivity and appearance
amidships led me to believe that he was suffering
internally. Killed him, and on opening him up I
found that he had swallowed a whole “go.” The
meal measured a good Bft.; the snake himself was
a six-footer.
“Bright”: I rise to support “Ewa” (B.
17/2/’2l) in his statement re the butcher-bird’s dis-
like of crowds. During about 15 years in Central
Riverina I always found him to prefer the company
of his missis to that of a crowd. For three or four
years a pair of these canary-thieves made their nest
not far from my home. There they reared their
young, and when these were old enough to care for
themselves they always struck off on their own
account and left dad and mum to their own private
field of action.
“Bouragi” : “Ragar’s” yarn of the Papuan
boys who received some bits of colored maps as
AN AMATEUR PERFORMANCE.
YOUTH (with disdain): “Pooh! That's
nuthin', mister. You oughter 've seen
the bloke at the circus on Saturday!"
part of the “notes” in which their wages were paid
goes a bit thin. A rigid ordinance enacts that native
employees must be paid off in the presence of a
Labor Department official. No employer could get
his quittance unless this was done. The most casual
of the many “Governments” I have known would
hardly have let such a scaler’s trick pass. In fact,
in my time, the official, after the pay-off, had to
superintend the spending at such places as Samarai.
(Continued on page 2(5.)
THE PEACE OF TOM BONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Toni Bone had been a happy man, but two years since
he wed,
The light from out his eye was gone, the hair from
off his head,
Elastic though his step had been, ’twas dragging
now and slow,
And with a marked impediment when he must home-
ward go.
Two years of wedded blister served to bring the man
to this.
He d thought he loved his Ellen; now he never
stooped to kiss.
Tom Bone was victim to a shrew, an oratress beside,
Who nagged from morn to midnight—Oh, her
mouth was loose and wide.
If Tom was not at hand when Ellen had an itch to
talk,
She tracked him down the paddock. Naught her
eloquence could balk.
For what he’d done she jawed him, what he hadn’t
fired her spite,
Or what he wasn’t going to do, or what she thought
he might.
She made his nights a terror, and she bullied him
at meals.
About the farmyard duties she was often on his
heels;
And Tom to run trained fine and fit—but he re-
solved to stay
When he knew a babe was due to him the second
week in May.
’Twas twins, and Tom was more depressed when
thinking of his lot
If the mother and the children howled in chorus
round his cot.
But at least there was some comfort, and a respite
very sweet—
The wifely tongue was noiseless, very silent were
her feet.
A LIFE OF UPS AND DOWNS.
“What sort of a crust are you making these
days?”
“Oh, mine’s a game of ups and downs, and
one is never sure of it.”
“What following the gee-gees?”
“No, piloting an aeroplane.”
She moved about with bated breath, forgotten were
his sins
In the ever present dread she had of waking up the
twins.
There were no curtain lecturings the man awake to
keep,
For though the heavens tumbled Ellen’s precious
babes must sleep.
She could not follow him afield with dolorous com-
plaints—
The twins must be attended. Praising all familiar
saints,
Tom found the common terror that besets most
married men
Was joy to him, and brought about the happy life
again.
If Mrs. Bone detects a fault, and talks and will not
cease,
Tom gets among- the sleeping twins, and suddenly is
peace.
Each night the husband prays awhile, well down
upon his shins,
That Heaven in their home will keep a good supply
of twins.
And when the blokes about his babes express derisive
glee,
Tom laughs aloud, and straightway spills his new
philosophy.
“Where little twins are round the house there’s
peaceful nights and days.
There’s only one thing better, and that’s triplets,”
Tommy says.
When Tommy takes a whisky in defiance of his
wife,
Or he does the thing that pleases him, and turbulence
is rife,
His Nell bears down upon him, but beside the cot
he dreams;
And Ellen scampers down the yard, and screams, and
screams, and screams !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


,
Miss Stewart Custombilt says—
dftetixffib
CUSTOMBILT NECESSITIES
‘speak for themselves’ through the satisfaction and
enthusiasm of millions of motorists the world over.”
Years of experience have taught the motoring public that "Stewart” stiands for "Built-irr” servree arid
quality. The Stewart trade-mark on an accessory is conclusive proof that it will give great r
satisfaction, longer service and better value.
If your car is not Stewart-equipped, you are losing a lot of the convenience, satisfaction, safety and
economy that Stewart Products ensure.
STEWART NECESSITIES ARE OBTAINABLE FR OM ALL
LEADING ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Your garage or accessory dealer can secure supplies promptly from any wholesale distributor,
' including the following Interstate distributors: —
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd.,
Swanston Street, Melbourne; Martin, Wilson Bros., Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide; Arthur Christian, Ltd.,
Hay Street, Perth.
Stewart Hand-operated
Warning Signal. Never
fails in service.
Stewart Magnetic Speedo-
meter. Accurate and de-
pendable. A type to suit
every car.
Stewart Motor-driven
Warning Signal. A prac-
tical, well-built Signal. Can
be heard at a great dis-
tance.
Every car should have a
Stewart Searchlight.
Makes night driving safe
and enjoyable.
Stewart Patented
Vacuum System en-
sures a constant
flow of fuel on all
grades.
The First
Touch Tells”
IT’S A
CHRISTMAN PLAYER PIANO.
Whether it is played by hand or by music-roll
the CHRISTMAN PLAYER PIANO has a
charm that is all its own. The musician who
uses it as a piano finds it wonderfully responsive
to his touch, and when he inserts a music-roll he
finds that he can still give the music all the
delicate shades his interpretation demands. One
of these magnificent instruments in the home
shortly becomes one of its greatest assets, as
every member of the household can enjoy it
differently, thereby making it the most cherished
article in the home.
We have perfect confidence in
recommending this excellent Player
Piano for use in severe climates, and
it will appeal to those who desire
something out of the ordinary in
musical instruments.
fdh
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
You can exchange your present
piano for a Player Piano. We will
allow you its full value, and the
balance can be paid in easy monthly
instalments spread over a period of
years.


There is no 8
housewives!
Toiling at least 16 hours per day the average
housewife gets little time to rest her weary
limbs. Especially now during the summer
months she feels the need of a nourishing,
stimulating tonic. Why not CLEMENTS
TONIC? For over thirty years CLEMENTS
Clements Tonic, Ltd., ltozelle, N.S.W.
TONIC has maintained its popularity in
Australian households. Pleasant to take,
economical to buy—CLEMENTS TONIC is
a boon to women workers who feel the need
of a tonic. Better order a bottle from the
chemist or grocer now!
“Yoyang”: It would be difficult to tell
exactly how many First Fleeters came to Sydney
Cove with Captain Phillip (B. 17/2/’2l), as even
the authorities themselves differ. Thus “Phillip’s
Voyages to Botany Bay” gives three results: Ist,
a total of 775 ; 2nd, 600 male, 250 female convicts,
total 850; 3rd, 586 male, 192 female, total 778.
Collins makes it 564 male, 192 female, total 756.
King gives 563 male, 189 female, total 752 ; and
Stockdale says 600 male convicts, 178 female, total
778. The number given by Barton in his “History
of New South Wales” was prepared by Statistician
Coghlan, who followed the statement given by Col-
lins. Presumably this estimate was considered the
most accurate at the time Barton’s History was
published. One edition of Phillip’s “Voyages” gives
the names of all the First Fleeters, and the price
of this book has gone up with leaps and bounds
in recent years.
* * * *
“Jane”: A while ago I was convalescent
in a private hospital in N. Queensland when ar
abo. couple (who had been born and married on the
station owned by the hospital matron’s people) came
in from the N.-West with a 10-months-old ebony
baby. The youngster had to undergo a minor opera-
tion which necessitated its remaining in hospital
for the day. It screamed for hours. At last I
offered to try and quieten it, and carried it into
the garden, walked about with it, and presently came
upon the old gardener. He stared at the screaming
black baby, then at me, scratched his head and
blurted out: “I say, missus, is your ’usband an abo.,
or is it a throw-back?”
* * * •
“Yarrum”: Be snakes and music. Rived
once next door to a policeman at Nelligen (Clyde
River), and one day he came to the fence and called
me to go in and play something on the piano.
Asked what he’d have, he said “The Irish Washer-
woman” would do. Absorbed in bashing out the lay
of the wash-lady, I wasn’t noticing Mr. Dunn; but
after a bit there was a bang, and I almost fell
from my perch. Then he dragged a sft. black snakf
from a hole in the floor, through which the critter had
thrust its napper to listen. I’d never seen it tried
before, but have a time or two since with satisfac-
tory results.
* * * *
“Jonah”: “Johnny Cake” (B. 16/12/’2O)
is right about his brumby stallions. Here in the
N.T. I have assisted at the running of dozens of mobs,
and only once did I see the stallion at the head of
affans j and that was on the Adelaide River Plains,
when, taking the lead just before reaching the stream,
he was first to cross. But once the mob had got
over he took up a possie on the low bank and defied
my mate to make the landing. An old-man crocodile
becoming interested in the game and the stallion
being the larger target, I regretfully sent the game
old grey to his Maker.
* * * #
“Aragun”: Jimmy Rouse was stuck fast
in the sand with three thundering big spotted gums
on. After breaking three chains and half-murdering
the team into the bargain, and having exhausted his
weirdly-assorted vocabulary he strode up to the near
leader, a broken-horned old brindle, and panted in
his ear: “You know, Li-un, I shouldn’t talk to you
like this, but I knew your grandfather, and he was
no blanky good, so what the hell can a blinkin’ man
expect from you?”
* * * *
Peter R,”: “Invalid’s” fast bag-sewer
(B. 20/l/’2l) is a learner compared with Jack
Davis, of Morven (N.S.W.). Jack used to sew
from 300 to 350 bags of wheat every day and put
three bushels in them too—and he didn’t work
12 hours 45 minutes a day, either. That was four
years ago—he might be able to sew that before
IN THE BAD OLD DAYS.
BUNDOWNER: “ Heard anything of that
blacktracker that's after me?"
SUNDOWNER: "Yes, a feller pinched his
bottle of rum th ’ other night, and
Jachy's been on his track ever since!"
breakfast now. By the way, what is the greatest
number of bags of wheat in one load pulled by a
horse-team? The biggest I know was one of 337
bags brought into Uranquinty (N.S.W.) some years
ago.
“Friday Island”: “M. Mulligatawny’s”
Yankee friend (B. 10/2/’2l) was not skiting when
he said that tuberculosis was cured in the Pacific
Islands. The name of the cure is “Climate.'’
The oil and herb-tea had nothing to do with the
THE SOURCE OF HER TALENT.
FIRST COUSIN JENNY: “Maid Polglase singed her solo some nice this morning. Where
do she get her voice from, 'er feather or 'er mawther?"
SECOND C.J.: “'Hr faather, av coorse. Deddin' old grandad Polglase used to play the
feather fiddle in the choir ’ome Redruth way?"
case. T.B. as a disease is practically non-existent
in the Sopth Seas, especially in those islands in
the “dry zone,’’ meteorologically speaking, e.g.,
Torres Strait Groups, Port Moresby district in
Papua and Cape York Peninsula (N. Queensland).
The most favorable time for a patient’s visit is in
the south-east trades season. These winds blow
from February until November daily from 11 a.m.
until sundown, with a gentle zephyr during the
night. At the first sign of T.B. in my own chest
my brother medicoes will not see ttje for smoke as
I light out for Thursday Island, which has “dry-
zone” climatic advantages and lacks the South Sea
curse—malaria. I shall eat ordinary foods, to
which I have been accustomed, plus turtle, dugong
and the luscious fruits, and I shall drink as usual,
plus the health-giving juice of green cocoanuts. To
Hades with drugs, stuffy consulting-rooms, tuber-
culin injections and monotonous, prison-like sanatoria
when there is a man’s life ensuring a pleasant and
certain cure awaiting one but 10 days’ sail from
Sydney.
“Ivoonak”: Old Brown looked in on
McCall the other morning and found Mac ploughing
with a mare that had only foaled the day before.
You wanter spell her fer a while, Mac,” says old
Brown. “I’ll 'lend yer my horse.” When old Brown
passed that afternoon Mac’s ploughing was going
better; he was using two horses—the same mare and
Brown’s bay.
“Bouragi”: Tell “Cudgewa” (B. 17/2/’2l)
he needn’t doubt the efficacy of dynamite for killing
fish. Writer has filled a whaleboat with fish with
one plug at Mitre Rock (N.-E. Papua). In river
pools it has proved just as deadly, as many a
Papuan miner, trader and Government official can
vouch. But it must be dynamite. Gelignite, with
its slow, rending action, is much less effectual for
' fishing,” and I should say the blasting powder used
by “0.” would be even more useless. No old hand
will use anything but dynamite. Incidentally, in
fresh water especially, many more outed fish are
found on the bottom than floating on the top. This
may explain to “C.” why he failed to collect the
wages of sin—dynamiting being sinful, or, what
is much more important, illegal, all the world over.
* * * *
“Hayseed’’: One night years ago an old
man who noticed two shooting stars travelling to-
wards the north said to me: “In 24 hours the wind
will be blowing that way.” He said his father
gave him that tip, and I have repeatedly noticed
how sound it is. One shooting star is a pretty
good sign, but if you notice two going the same
way it is a certainty that the wind will be blowing
in the same direction within 24 hours.
* The Parson”: Nat Fisher was the
wealthiest and most confirmed old bachelor of the
district, but at 62 he came to me to make arrange-
ments for his wedding. “I’m pleased to hear it,
Nat,” I said, “but what’js the lady’s name ?” “Lillie,”
he replied. “Yes, but what’s her surname, Nat?” “By
cripes,” said the old fellow in a puzzled voice, “I for-
got to ask ’er, but,” brightening up again, “yer
might know it yerself. She’s the little yellow-’aired
girl in Blank’s store.”
* * *
“EHenbee”: Kauri, the old Purari chief
mentioned in “Laloki’s” par. (B. 9/12/’2O), was,
amongst other things, a superb orator. Urika Island
had from time immemorial been unowned neutral
ground where warring tribes met to make
peace, and when the L.M.S. desired a
grant of part of Urika for a mission
station there was a great gathering of
chiefs and people to meet the Resident
Magistrate, who was making preparatory
inquiries, and speeches galore were made,
claiming the land for this, that or the
other tribe. Kauri heard them all go out
and then harangued them for three hours,
never pausing nor hesitating for a word,
and the white men present, although
not understanding a word, sat en-
thralled from beginning to end. Boiled
down, he said: “This Government man to
whom you have been lying is not a fool.
He knows the land belongs to no one.
He will not buy, but has presents to give.
I don’t mind you fellows getting nothing,
but if he gets annoyed with you, I will
probably get nothing either—so speak the
truth.” In the end they begged to with-
draw all claims- “Laloki” also mentions
Chalmers, who was killed and eaten at
Dopima, Goaribari. I have heard several
versions from different persons not pre-
sent ; but lately, one of my boys, who, as
a small boy, was present, told me that
Emai, the chief, gave orders that Chalme r s
must be killed. This was against the
desires of the rest of the people; but, be-
sides being chief, Emai was also a very powerful
sorcerer. Sorcery is the most potent thing in the life
of a Papuan, and thus the fear of disobeying and
thereby incurring the ire of a sorcerer led to the
killing as ordered.
* * # *
“Te Whare”: Re John Chinaman’s birds,
“FY7” (B. 10/2/’2l) errs about both the Austra-
lian nankeen crane (heron) and the nankeen kestrel.
There is a very similar nankeen night-heron found
in Europe and other parts of the world, but our
fiogr-murderer is said not to excurse farther than
Papua and the Celebes. The nankeen kestrel is re-
ported by La Touche (“Birds of Southern China”)
as common in that part of the flowery kingdom,
and, of course, breeds there, a 3 it does here —not
cemg a nomad. I admit that John does take an
interest in his birds where they can be used (often
grotesquely) for decorative,, purposes, or where they
are fitted for the pot, but he takes little scientific
or sentimental interest in them. His favorite bird
are the fowl and duck. I have a Chinese-Englis
word and phrase” book, flabbily produced by
Chinese printer, and except the fowl and duck
hardly any birds are mentioned.
“Dean”: The shrub mentioned by “T
Weed” (B. 20/l/’2l) is not confined to Papua. I;
iu known to the gins in Queensland, who also use
it as an abortifacient. They also know of a weec
Which, boiled and drunk, will cure gonorrhoea. Re
member a case at Noondoo a few years back in
which a shearer was completely cured within 10
days by a gin. But the dusky doctoress would no
part with her secret.
* * * *
“Tropic Bird” : “Ragar” (B. 10/2/’2l)
says that only the unlaid eggs of the turtle are any
good for eating, the eggs once laid, however fresh,
having a musty and mousey flavor. Next time let
him try them this way : Put them just as they are
into a saucepan of water and boil for 15 minutes.
Tlie yolk will then be nicely set and easily sepa-
rated from the white, which does not set and is no
good as food. Two or three of the yolk balls with
a little pepper and salt will make a tasty breakfast
free from any unpleasant flavor. A Binghi who was
with me on a trip when I found a nest topped off
a good square meal with 14 turtle “omelettes.”
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: Those who say snakes are
hatched from eggs and are not born of the parent
reptile had their theory substantiated at Dungog
(N.S.W.), recently. A farmer, Frederick Hancock,
while, ploughing unearthed a nest of 17 eggs, be-
lieved to be the production of an old snake caught
in a rabbit-trap just previously. The eggs had a
soft skin “shell,” and when opened in the presence
of several citizens, one was found to contain a living
baby snake about Sin. long and nearly as thick as a
lead-pencil. The youngster’s head and eyes were his
most prominent features.
* * * *
“Topo”: The following is being quoted
throughout North-Eastern Victoria as “a record for
Australia”: Bryan Hart, cutting up red-gum and
red-box trees for the Benalla butter factory, in 16
hours cut six cords of 2ft. wood. Careful measure-
ment found the six cords slightly exceeded. It
is certainly a district record—but Australia is a big
place.
* * * *
“Wagstaffe”: Quite agree with “C.R.M.”
(B. 3/2/ 21) that menace to health does not arise
from pawpaw trees, and it is a mystery to me
how such an idea, arose. For 10 years pawpaw
tiees, both male and female, have been round my
house, and the health of family and self has been
excellent.
* * * *
Karoo”: Talking of snakes, a friend of
mine had a pony which died suddenly, without
apparent cause, and the vet. who held the post-
mortem discovered that a black snake had decided
to commit Suicide in the prime of his mispent boy-
hood by crawling through the unfortunate gee-gee’s
nostril up to his brains or thereabouts.
GIVE AND TAKE.
“While I was engaged to her she made me
give tip drinking, smoking and golf. Last
of alt, I gave up something on my own
account.”
“What teas that?”
“The girl.”


1
r iv
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
lUnder New Tariff.
vl
S£ec/ l^ixeAe^~
: tHMTmrfWmfl
c
1
Ak
s O/.
o
$
rV
<s>
OS'
o *>
o<s>
'9
Vt
-a
zr*
zb_


Tkc
Purest
Spirit
iatke
'Vorld.
<
t Fife's schnap^ 6
m
m
Mi
MW
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
I’,
V
*rz.
■rO'S‘
%
CROUP
of Britain and Gaul, with the classical pan-
theon. Lir, Lugh and the rest had been
worshipped by the Thames and the Rhone;
but their memory only remains in the names
of ancient towns where their shrines once
stood. Leicester was once Lircastra, the
camp by the temple of Lir; Ludgate is
Lugh’s gate; Lyons was once Lugdunum, the
hill of Lugh; Leyden is another corruption
of the same name. In the Romanised coun-
tries the people gave up their gods or
changed their names to Roman equivalents
some centuries before the coming of Chris- _
tianity. In the double change the old deities’
were forgotten. But in Ireland Christianity
found the full ancient pantheon in possession
of men’s minds and hearts ; and centui’ies
afterwards priest and bard were still wide
apart in sympathy; the priest regarding the
displaced gods as devils, the bard cherishing
every tale of the Danaan reign with a long
look back to the older times. The bard in
Ireland never allowed the gods to die. A
Norman Fitzgerald in the thirteenth cen-
tury actually wooed and won the goddess
Aine, who bore him a child —a son known as
the Wizard Earl of Desmond. These gods
and goddesses, with their attendant hei’oes
and demigods, are the alleged fairies of Ire-
land. The magnificently successful English
rule, accompanied in every century by
Black-and-Tannery of the most murderous
sort, destroyed the chiefs, ruined the bardic
septs, drove learning into holes and corners,
tried to stamp out Irish language and Irish
religion, established hunger as the chronic
condition of whole counties, deprived the
people of arms and of hope; and then raised
up great journalists to twit them with being
unable to fight; but nothing could stamp out
the old gods. The Saxon peoples had fairies
—little rude creatures of fern-brake and
shaw—for the original Saxons came of a
savage stock a millennium or two behind the
Celts in the common arts and the amenities
of life. When the Saxon, gaining power.,
gained something of culture also, he thought
he observed his Irish neighbor seeing and be-
lieving in. multitudes of fames of his own
sort. That the Irish neighbor could be see-
ing and believing in great and beautiful gods
and goddesses, idealised types of noblest men
and women, never entered into his thought.
His race had never at any time possessed
such objects of wmrship. They were as
foreign to his natural thought as Christian-
ity or a genuine belief in the ultimate con-
quest of peace and goodwill. Yet Ireland
is very close to the old gods still. They have
lost their clear form and outline and have
been degraded a little by association with
foreign importations of thought; but they
are a very long way from being dead. To
speak of them in the same breath with the
haunting spirits of Australian aboriginal
tribes is not merely a sort of sacrilege ; it
is thoroughly unscientific. Angus Og is every
"way as fine as Apollo; and what sort of
investigator is the American Professor
Wentz, mentioned by “Donalbain” (B.
24/2/’2l), who would confuse an Apollo
with the ghost of the haunted suburban villa
or the fan tods of a primitive savage?
D. M. W.
Journalese
The word will be found in few dictionaries,
but it is a good one. It stands for the stuff
which would never be spoken but which
gets into newspapers, the phrase which has
been used hundreds of times before and so
comes mechanically to easy pen and tired
brain. “Write something about the Test
match,” says an editor; and mechanically
we dash off—no, drift off —with “The un-
ending struggle for the mythical ashes will
be resumed.” To be at its most character-
istic and its worst, the phrase should be not
only utterly familiar, jaded and worn, but
also at least twice as long as it need be.
The one weakness arises from mental lazi-
ness that takes the line of least resistance;
the other, it must be feared, has something
to do with the handy but demoralising cus-
tom of paying at space-rates. Thus the
curt Saxon word is dropped for the many-
syllabled one from the Latin or Greek.
London, to do it justice, recognises the
misbegotten creature it has produced, and
turns many an honest paragraph by sneering
at the “penny-a-liner.” Nobody to-day dares
to call a fire “the devouring element” ; or
to indicate the start of the flat-racing season
(which happens to be at Lincoln, on the
Common) by “when the saddling-bell rings
out over the Carholme” ; or to say “joined
the great majority” for “died.” But others
as bad linger on. London, by the way,
calls, or used to call, this jargon “Daily
Telegraph-ese,” for an obvious reason. Once
there was a correspondence in the open
columns of the D.T. that was more than
suspected of being written in the office. “A
Mother of Six’’ w r as one letter-writer, and
she remarked that something “irks me.”
Old “Dagonet” Sims, in a rival paper,
jumped on the pedantic phrase at once. “ ‘lt
irks me?’ ” he cried. “Come out from
behind that ‘Mother of Six,’ young man! I
can see your high collar!”
Sporting journalists are especial sinners,
writing, as they do, often in a hurry, and
for a public which does not worry about
literary style. In a single match lately we
read that one batsman “was given his
quietus,” that a mistake by another “cost
him the number of his mess,” that A “wel-
comed B’s advent to the crease” with a bril-
liant shot, and “earned the encomiums of
the spectators”; whereas the good chap who
wrote that would never dream of using the
“encomiums,” “quietus” or “advent” when
talking; any more than his colleague dealing
with a Henley regatta would—outside of
print—dream of saying that a boat was “the
cynosure of all eyes.” Two fine specimens
are to be seen in recent London papers.
Land and Water, on tests of carburetters:
"We may expect a veritable orgy in carbu-
retter claims for the next few months.”
There you have it both ways: “veritable,”
not incorrect but four syllables instead of
the obvious one, and “orgy,” a drunken or
religious frenzy dragged in where utterly
unsuitable. Referee, on a football club:
“It cannot claim to have had an overdose
of good luck lately.” Can one have a dose
of °-ood luck? Certainly one can’t have an
overdose. And most certainly one would
not “claim” to have had it. What was
meant can be perfectly expressed in the
simplest words: “It has had bad luck.”
It would hardly be supposed that a word
or phrase obviously wrong could get hack-
neyed by much use. Yet London Pink
Un has a small standing prize, at the open-
ing of every partridge-shooting season, for
the discovery in some paper of “The crack
of the rifle will be heard in the stubble”;
and, at every fashionable wedding, for “The
marriage will be consummated in the church”
of St. So-and-so; and the prize is often
claimed. During the war, there was a
great misuse of -‘holocaust” <which must im-
ply burning) and “decimated” (which is a
modest loss of 10 per cent.). “Obsessed”
is a curious word. It differs from
possessed” much as “objective” does from
subjective,” and till the other day was
never used except by the kind of erudite per-
son who would use those other words. Now
it has caught the Australian fancy and is
being worked to death. Still, it is hardly
Journalese because it is common in conver-
sation, like the over-used “indulged in” and
the meaningless “only too glad.”
The football writer gets laughed at for
saying “booted the sphere” ; but at any rate
he is trying to be original, to escape from
the monotony of an eternal “kicked the ball.”
Just so, one can have some sympathy for the
racing scribe who said that an event void
during the war had “slept in dormancy,” or
for the plucky attempts to find a new term
for the goals so frequent under the Austra-
lian code: “brought home the full cargo,”
“found the main opening,” or “bagged a
sixer.”. And writers on sport are not the
only sinners. Only the other day an Aus-
tralian Labor defeat was described thus:
“The electors turned a deaf ear to the bland-
ishments of the Caucus party’s standard-
bearers.” Long-winded metaphor can be
Journalese, even though not hackneyed by
over-use.
So much for those of us who go wrong
through having to write too quickly and too
often. But then there are the amateurs,
who err from lack of experience, believing
that Journalese is a real language, which
they must, strive to write in if they are to
see print. So they address themselves to
the “gentle reader,” call anything desirable
a “consummation devoutly to be wished,” say
“my attention has been called to” a par
which made them leap out of their chair
when they read it at breakfast, and end with
“In conclusion, permit me to observe.” Or,
if in waggish mood, they call a snake “his
Snakeship” and a fox “Reynard.” Happilv
a sub-editor is apt to deal firmly and faith-
fully with them. One great pitfall of such
writers has lately disappeared—the familiar
tag from the classics. Till just the other
day it was hardlv possible to criticise any-
one deceased without a “De Mortuis
to refer to leisure except as “ otium cum
dig.” or to give a hint without adding
‘ Verbum sap.” It isn’t done now; nor does
a Cup writer-—like his predecessor of 30
years back —call the also-ran division “hoi
polloi ” or “canaille”
And, honestly, we are not as great sinners
in Australia as are either English or Ameri-
can writers. For one thing, we have less
personal journalism, less of the obligation to
produce so many signed columns every week
or month—making inevitably for tired writ-
ing. But also as a nation we are less at
the mercy of phrases, labels—the Established
Church, the Green Isle, the Modern Babylon,
the Good Book, the Grand Old Man, the
classes and the masses, the cup that cheers,
the Bard of Avon, the Sage of Chelsea, the
blue riband of the turf. Our writers do
mostly try to work out a new way of ex-
pressing a thing. Failing a novelty, we
really prefer plain “Hamlet” to “the Prince
of Denmark” or “the moody Dane.” We
have no way of referring to Captain Cook,
or Gordon, or Henry Parkes, except by their
names. George Reid is the only prominent
Australian figure with a recognised label;
and his ran to two syllables only.
The price of freedom from Journalese is
that of freedom of all kinds —eternal vigi-
lance. If we are speaking about the - Cup,
we are content to call it just that; but, when
we handle typewriter or pen with a view to
print, we shall, unless very careful, before
we know r where we are, have called it a
“carnival.”
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Hardy and Galsworthy
The reputations of these two men have
prospered exceedingly of late years. Hardy
is, we now suspect, probably the greatest of
the Victorians, and Galsworthy the ablest
novelist that the 20th century has so far-
thrown up; and comparison is attractive,
for both are consummate stylists. Both are
masters of irony; both are imbued with the
love of Nature; and both are actuated by a
consistent philosophy. The irony of Hardy
springs from his outlook; grave and unbend-
ing, it depends on the incidents of his stories.
To him man is “slighted and enduring”; a
puppet in the hands of higher powers :
the sport of circumstances which play with
him like cat with mouse. “The President of
the Immortals had finished; his sport with
Tess,” he writes at the close of the most
poignant of all novels; and his greatest
stories deal with the unavailing struggles
of man against troubles of no human origin.
To him Society is an organism bent on the
persecution of the luckless, and he makes
little play with social differences. Gals-
worthy’s philosophy emphasises that the
sorrows of man are due to the actions of
man. His irony relies mxainly on descrip-
tions and sayings, plays upon social in-
justices, and shows that many whom the
world considers worthy are useless creatures
who spend their lives in eating and drink-
ing and the care of their precious bodies.
Society is not the creature of Fate, as with
Hardy; it is Fate, made by man, and by
man to be altered. His irony is often in-
distinguishable from satire, and sometimes
degenerates into sarcasm.
The style of Hardy, usually so noble, some-
times seems to creak. For a space you may
say “How bald is this writing,” until von
perceive that you should have said “How
stark.” It may rise to heights of lyric
splendor, as the descriptions of Egdon Heath
in “The Return of the Native,” a/nd his
vocabulary is so immense that no one but
an educated man can fully appreciate his
delicacy. Galsworthy’s style is rich, clear,
and distinguished, though not leys poetic,
and many of his sentences are singularly
beautiful in rhythm and diction, many terse
and epigrammatic. The pedant will point
out that Hardy splits his infinitives (he does
it on purpose, like Hilaire Belloc), and that
his great use of abstract nouns blunts the
keen edge of his clearness; and that Gals-
worthy sometimes begins his sentences with
an unnecessary “And” and even finishes
them with a “to.” “Journalese,” cries the
pedant. When great artists do these things
what is a poor little pedant to think? Are
the pidantic rules egregious, or the artists?
Both writers revel in the loveliness of earth
and sky, and both have an extraordinary
power of bringing pictures vividly to the
mind. Hardy’s work, however, is on such a
gigantic scale that comparison is hardly fair,
for to him characters are conditioned by
their environment, and one reads his books
as much for the scenic as the human in-
terest ; Egdon Heath might almost be called
the true hero of “The Return of the Native.”
Hardy’s peasants are vivid and amusing:
their analogues in the Galsworthy novels are
children and dogs. The “lady bulldog”
Miranda, the dog Balthasar*’ and, dearest of
all. the spaniel John in “The Country
House” are probably the greatest dogs in
literature.
Generally Galsworthy’s heroines are not
really charming, though true enough to life.
Passionate sensitive creatures,, they make
their own troubles; the type is not often
attractive. How different with Tess Darbey-
field! Hardy never describes her formally
except to tell you that she had big dark
eyes; yet with every word she says she grows
upon you till at length this dairymaid, who
lets herself be seduced with little real re-
sistance and ends by being hanged as a
murderess, is one of the most lovable women
in fiction. Of course Tess is a sheer tour
de force; one shrinks from the spiritual pangs
that must have gone to the birth of her. The
“little model” in Galsworthy’s “Fraternity”
is a being of somewhat similar genre, pathetic
yet not mawdrish, but more animal; the
excellence of her drawing is probably due to
her dog-like qualities, and she is on the
whole perhaps the most living of his heroines.
Similar also is Megan David, in the short
novel “The Apple Tree,” who kills herself
for love, and one isn’t a bit sorry; for she is
simply hysterical. Hardy’s men smack of the
Victorian era. and I find them tedious crea-
tures. His women are immeasurably better
than his men ; whereas Galsworthy’s men are
far more living than his women. Those of his
characters whom one remembers vividly—
except the dogs and children—are nearly all
men. Hardy, very old, has returned to his
first love, poetry, and we shall see no more of
his prose. Galsworthy spends his time in
play-writing, but he is still comparatively
young; and there is no reason why, with his
delightful style, his delicacy and his warm
human sympathy, he should not yet write a
very great novel.
C. M L.
The Brotherhood of Ink.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet are the uses of ink,
Sweet is the scratch of a pen,
While under the lampshine blink
The eyes of the ancient men.
Brothers, the black x on the white
With loop and wriggle and line,
This is the essence of light,
This is the spirit divine.
Yellow Confucius writes—
Yellow and blue make green—•
Blue of the Asian mists,
Blue of the mists between!
Over the years that are dead
The soul of his pen can sing;
And the thoughts of his dreaming head
Are fresh as a bough in Spring.
Longinus turning the phrase,
Lost in his Syrian calm,
Breathing the exquisite days
Under Zenobia’s palm,
Looks at me over the ink,
Looks at me, blinking the lamp—
Brother of mine, I can think
Your pages unblotted and damp.
Virgil all day with the plough
Furrowed his Mantuan land
Ages ago, but he now
Sits with a pen in his hand.
All have grown silent to hear
Father iEneas recite —•
Maro, old man, you’re so near,
Almost I see what you write!
Geoffry Villehardouin rides
Bold in the front of the knights:
Evil the thing that betides,
Bitter the tale that he writes.
Over the inkhorn and quill
Sighing he looks from the tent —
Comrade left young with us still.
Death could not see wffiere you went.
Brothers, the black on the white —
Pothook that loops to the line —
Ours is the essence of light,
Ours is the spirit divine!
Sweet are the uses of ink,
Sweet is the scratch of a pen,
While under the lampshine blink
The eyes of the young old men.
N.S.W.
P. O. M.


MISS MADGE ELLIOTT
(from a photo).
MISS GRACIE LAVERS
(from a photo).
m
*o*
MISS DOROTHY BRUNTON
(from, a photo).
mm,
wmm
Sr
22
if/SS DOROTHY HAW TREE
(jrorn a photo).
: •' t
Jlf/SS NELL FALLON
(.from.a photo).
Z
18
mm
v
' '
SR
£2
MISS BERYL NOVAK
{from a photo).
1
pp* -5 \-~
■K
MHMVMP
ilf/SS JEAN ROBERTSON
(.from, a photo).
MISS EDNA WATERS
(from a photo).
m
I
as
MISS DAISY REVETTE
(from a photo).
SOME BEAUTIFUL MEMBERS
of THE REXONA GIRLS’ CLUB
Why Not Be a REXONA GIRL, too?
]he Rexona Club of Rexona Girls is now many
thousands strong. All Rexona Girls are beautiful girls,
for beauty and Rexona go together. Why not be a
Rexona Girl, too? Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure
that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far
to give any girl that natural charm and beauty which is
her rightful heritage.
Be Dainty, be Pretty, be Attractive,
be a REXONA GIRL.
Use only REXONA & REXONA SOAP.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be
imitated, can be obtained by regular use of Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not
assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali,
which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse;
they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap
contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams
as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is known throughout the
world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples and leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety. Price 1/- per tablet.
The Rexona Remedies—Products of Quality.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
Rexona, the Aristocrat of Soaps, 1/- per tablet.
MISS CECIL BRADLEY
(from a photo).
MISS RENE MURPHY
(from a photo).
m
m
:
: •'
MISS ESTELLE RAY
{from, a photo).
\ <:V
MISS OLGA ROBINSON
(.from a photo).
MABEL BATCHELOR
(from, a photo).
MISS BRYDIE REVENALL
(from, a photo).
m
MISS DOLLY NEPEAN
(from a phoio).
MISS DOROTHY GARDINER
C from a photo).
MISS SYBIL ATHOLWOOD
{from a photo).


Mil roll Iffev
GE NUI N E ASBESTOS^CEMENT SHEETS
For Exterior and Interior
Walls and Ceilings.
*T.
jT
BSBR
r ;;:^
For Interior Walls and Ceilings Hardie’s
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets cost
less than lath and plaster, steel or lining-
boards. For Exterior Walls, “FIBROLITE”
costs less than weatherboard.
If you are building', write to-day for a free
copy of our Illustrated Catalogue for “Fibro-
lite.”
JAMES HARD IK & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Bts., SYDNEY.
%
mf.
ry
Fats for the Yards!
Cattle, Sheep and Pigs for Homebush
Market, Sydney, or Enoggera Market, Bris-
bane, truck to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Wide-awake Salesmen. Attentive,
capable and successful.
THE
STANDARD ALL-BRITISH
FOUNTAIN PEN
Self - filling—Safety
AN IDEAL GIFT.
THE SIMPLEST PEN TO USE
The Onoto is the ONE Fountain
Pen that has never given a moment’s
trouble.
You can regulate the flow of ink to
suit your handwriting.
A When you have finished writing, a
twist with the finger and thumb seals
the reservoir so that the ink CANNOT
escape until you yourself release it.
When you need more ink, your
Onoto will fill itself in a flash from
any ink supply. It cleans itself in
filling.
TIMAS D£ IA IDE S CO. LTD.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST.
Sydney and Melbourne.
%
THE
fd
ASK FOR ONOTO INK
BEST FOR ALL PENS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from G/ - and upwards- Cards of laiiix
and all particulars posted on application
rr The Manages.
■HE
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade ZinC OllSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZING CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address —
Producers’
Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the British Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
CARBON tool STEELS
For All Purposes,
Large Range of Sizes and Sections.
Sole Australian Representatives
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
CftfttlerrnsU Street, Sl'DXEf.
ELDER,
Adelaide
AGENTS-
SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane Perth
<mnxm. SPARKLING
KING Of TABLE WATERS
Gmbim Ume.Sodd JLiHiid & Magnesia
AGENTS /o
E.ROWIi.ANDS'.Pi x*.l*4 a
Mclfeouirue G- Sijcbmj
PURVEYORS TO VICE ROYALTY.
' r
:
vv
A Perfect Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
hfd
*1
y
“Audio”: She was in our town with a
travelling theatrical company. At table she
asked everyone’s opinion about the house
catching fire. It seemed an obsession, and
we all did our best to calm her fears. Her
girl friend explained the mystery to me.
“She’s just been given the prettiest nightie
in rhe world,” she said, “but what’s the good
of it to her if people can’t see it?”
W. Downie Stewart, who goes into the
Massey (M.L?) Cabinet as Minister of Inter-
nal Affairs, is a noted student of social and
industrial legislation and economics, and col-
laborated with Professor Rossignol in pub-
lishing “State Socialism in New Zealand.”
lie sits for Dunedin West, where he was
born in 1870, and which was previously
represented by his father. Stewart was in
France with the N.Z. Expeditionary Force,
but was invalided home crippled with rheu-
matism.
“Wessel”: Jim Beckett, one of the best
roundsmen the Melbourne newspapers ever
saw, is well clear of police-stations and fire-
calls now. lie has a lease of the few hun-
dred square miles of Vanderlin Island, on the
N.T. side of the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
nearest police-station and pub are at Booroo-
loola, bp the Macarthur River, 100-odd miles
away. Jim is working trepang, planting
cocoanuts and other tropical growths, and
stocking the island. There’s sandalwood
there, too, and sandalwood is scarce nowa-
days.
“10-2-4’s” memory:—
P. and O. ships make more Bolsheviks than Walsh,
Garden and the rest of the brethren put together.
My friend Albert Higford is a case in point. Pre-
sident of the Portville Bay (Sydney) Progress Asso-
ciation, chairman of the local branch of the Nation-
alist Association, a J.P. of 20 years’ standing, a
prominent member of the British Empire League
(N.S.W. branch) to the day of his death, and senior
partner in the firm of importers which bears his
name, he was a King’s Man to the back teeth. He
had never been Home, as he called it, but what
he didn’t know about the men who surrounded the
person of the Sovereign was immaterial. “Fine
fellers!” he would say. “There’s nothing like an
English gentleman. Nothing. You simply don’t
get ’em in this dam’ disloyal hole. The British
aristocrat is the finest work of God,” The last
sentence was delivered in recitation, implying a
quotation, though the author’s name was not dis-
closed.
Albert and his family made their first trip to
England on the Baruda, their “send-offs” from the
various bodies with which they were connected having
been impressive. At Fremantle the young Duke
of Tumperley and his wife got on board. She had
been a Balcobble, as every student of the illustrated
London weeklies knew, and the Queen had given
them a wedding present—a small silver paper-knife
suitably inscribed. Albert had already formed the
“Baruda Get Together Club,” and been made Presi-
dent of the Sports Committee, and Chairman of the
Ball and Concert Committee. The Duke was in the
smoking-room when Albert publicly announced that
his Grace and the Duchess had been appointed to
all three. The Duke, a tall, frail young man with
a galvanic smile which he employed to mask his
emotions, winced slightly, murmured a few words
oi appreciation and left. We never saw him in
the smoking-room again. But Albert had not been
one of the most successful bagmen of his day for
nothing. Shortly afterwards I saw him ordering
the Duke out of a deck-chair to play his heat in
the bull-board doubles. The Duke had hardly fin-
ished his lamentable display before it was the turn
of the Duchess. She had been drawn with the Pre-
sident himself—already a performer of no mean
order.
Theirs was the fatal weakness of good nature.
I diagnosed that they did not want to join in any
sort of deck game, or to become members of the
Jollo-Concert Troupe which Albert presently organ-
ised, or to dance, or play bridge at sixpence a
hundred, or participate in sweeps on the ship’s
run. But they lacked the moral courage to stand
up to the driving force which had made Higford
and Spiff’s the place it is. A couple of days before
we reached Colombo a dreadful blow struck them.
“I want you, Duke,” said Albert, “to join a little
party that the wife and self are giving at the
principal hotel. I know you’re not engaged the
night we arrive, because I heard yer tell the cap-
tain so.” For a fleeting moment the youth’s gentle
face took on the expression that his eminent ances-
tor Malahide the Black might have worn just before
he charged and fell at Crecy. “We’re not going on
shore,” he said. “But she’s coaling,” expostulated
Albert. “It doesn’t matter. We like it. We
always stay on board ships when they coal.” There
was an odd look on Albert’s face as he withdrew.
Next day, after the Duchess had made some miser-
able excuse to leave Mrs. Higford in the middle
of the latter’s favorite story of the fiasco which
attended Mrs. Bumpton’s Sunday supper-party (the
Bumptons are prominent members of the Portville
Bay Smart Set), after this piece of terseness, I say,
Albert’s suspicions were aroused. “I don’t know
if you’ve noticed it,” he remarked to me, “but
there’s something very funny about their manners.
Especially the Duke’s. "There are times when I’d
call him a dam’ young bounder.”
The venue of the Higford dinner-party, which was
to have been the Galle Face, was changed at the
last moment to the G.O.H. Furtively eating together
in a corner were the Duke and Duchess! It is
from that evening that I date the definite begin-
nings of Bolshevism in Albert and his wife.
At Aden a number of Anglo-Indians got on board.
Several knew the Duke. Nevertheless on being
elected to the “Get Together Club” they declined
to take up their membership. One, a youthful
baronet, was outspoken on the subject. “I don’t
want to have anything to do with the
club,” he said in answer to Albert’s representations.
“And don’t come worrying me to play those
deck games either. I hate the things.” “Such,”
remarked Albert to me afterwards “is the language
used by a so-called gentleman educated regardless
of expense at Eton Academy.”
I met him in the Strand one day shortly after <
he had issued invitations to a dinner at Horrex’s
Hotel, where he was staying, to most of our titled
fellow-travellers, and been fobbed off with lying
evasions in every case. He had become a Laborite.
Penal land-taxation, the abolition of the British
Upper House, compulsory work for the parasitic
rich after the Lenin model—these were the leading
planks in a formidable platform.
The spell faded, however, on his return to Aus-
tralia. It always does. Little by little his former
veneration for the House of Lords returned. He
began gradually to see the working man in the old
clear-eyed light—as a malignant criminal. Only
a day or so ago I heard him referring to the Duke
as “Turns,” and describing the grand old English
hospitality the young nobleman had extended to him
and his at Tumperley House.


r
Why waste time like that?
There is no stropping—no honing—if you use the
Gillette
There is a keen blade always ready. No matter how
great your hurry you can have a close, clean shave
without scraping or cutting.
Look for the Diamond Trade-mark—found on every
Gillette—the razor for a lifetime.
Standard Set in neat leather case, 28/6.
Obtainable everywhere.
CAtfAIU.
MADE IN,
THE
WORLD OVER
GILLETTE RAZOR COMPANY OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors: S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
p
s
8
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns—a touch of
refinement in the materials—a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary—all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
:bee Hus
brand on
each shirt
%
AC
<2
ALEXANDER STEWART <& SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory Wear and
Service.
5
AS 61
A
A
30
vr
i
1
8®
a
,1
&
i
le'//
558
VALUE versus TARIFF.
In rMlvrnaemnf ** 15 "11 1 »» » r.n
In purchasing “Billabong” Mills Pumn, _ v t- , . >. ,
made in our Sydney and Melbourne f \ • PS ° r * rou glnng, which are
and the skill which converts ' Ct ° nes ’ are Paying for material
the overseas article nearly half ' nt ° ar ‘ ,CleS ° f In P”cha,i„g
the conversion charges of money. The AtfstmliLradY
illc /Australian-made
“BILLABONG” MILL
gives you one hundred per cent, value-
value for best material and skill only. The
Billabong” is built stronger and more mass-
ive throughout than is actually necessary
S r m^ diti ° D f- Into this foundation
ot strength the makers have built several
patented features, making for safety, long
wear and pumping power.
One of these is the combined Speed Regu-
lator and Governor. This patented device
prevents racing, adapts the mill’s speed to
the wmd, and automatically pulls it out of
the breeze when it is dangerous to pump.
The m iH comes back into the wind, vet can-
a° 2 h, 00 ' -n’ y tun H ng the regulating screw
4e’ J D lS Speed - can be altered to suit
the local average wind velocity, or when
changmg size and stroke of pump.
Other points are, ball-bearing bed plate
making the mill silent when working • mass-
ive mam castings; automatic lubiicadon-
fepht bearings which can be renewed without
ge ?r . Duplicate parts at low
Send foJSrta 11 a » a moderate price.
e. n “ ror the Billabong” catalogue or for
SS. •”« feces »n eU p„° m r pSi
DANKS’
EXHIBIT AT THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
ON - Piy, Ltd^sSSSS
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
M
s: ■'
I
%
l
I
S 3
3F
sS\n
V
m
tl
%
OU^?-3£--/r
£5
S'*
*r;
ft
A*
SB
:;
DOvm^^jvJ
u> u.vrrf.
Our Rafeaf'
Combu\edL
I regulator
[CSOVERNORI


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The pricet advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British ilsles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Works of William Ernest Hen-
ley. New Edition. In 5 volumes.
12s. net each.
Yol. I. POEMS.
Vol. 11. ESSAYS.
Collected Poems. With Auto-
biographical and Critical Fragments.
By F. W. 11. MYERS, Author of
“St. Paul.” Edited by his wife,
EVELEEN MYERS. With Por-
trait. 12s. net.
Thomas Hardy’s Works.
Uniform Edition. 23 Vols. Cloth
gilt, 6s. net each.
Pocket Edition. 22 Yols. Cloth, 4s.
6d. net; limp leather, 6s. net each.
The Wessex Edition. 22 Vols. Cloth
extra. 10s. 6d. net each.
The Economics of Welfare. By A. C.
PIGOU, M.A., Professor of Political
Economy in the University of Cam-
bridge, 365. net.
Labor as an International Problem.
A Series of Essays comprising a Short
History of the International Labor
Organisation and a Review of General
Industrial Problems. By Various
Authors. Edited by E. JOHN
SOLANO. 18s. net.
The Glasgow Herald : “The contributors to
the volume are all of them well-known authori-
ties on some branch of the international Labor
problem, and some of them have a world-wide
reputation. The contributions are such as one
would expect—weighty and far-seeing utter-
ances.”
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
Leading Contents for December: —
THE BRITISH COMMONWEALTH OF
NATIONS IN 1921.
THE PASSING OF WOODROW WILSON.
EGYPT A NATION.
THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CON-
FERENCE AT BRUSSELS AND ITS
LESSONS.
THE ANGLO-JAPANESE ALLIANCE.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE:
THE POLI3H-LITHUANIAN DISPUTE—
THE LITTLE ENTENTE—GERMAN
SOCIALISTS AND THE THIRD INTER-
NATIONAL.
Also Articles from “United Kingdom,” India,”
“Canada,” “Australia,” “South Africa” and
“New Zealand.”
The Other Side of Death: A Study in
Christian Eschatology. By RONALD
G. MACINTYRE, M.A., D.D. (Edin.),
Professor of Systematic Theology, St.
Andrew’s College, Sydney. Bs. 6d.
net.
The Church Family Newspaper: “Dr.
Macintyre’s book is throughout thoughtful and
well written.”
The School-Book of Farming. By
L. H. BAILEY. Illustrated. 7s.
net.
[Rural Text-Book Series.
Helping Men Own Farms. A Prac-
tical Discussion of Government Aid
Land Settlement. By Professor
EL WOOD MEAD. Illustrated.
12s. bd. net.
*A thoroughly up-to-date discussion of
Government aid in land settlement, dealing
chiefly with methods and results in Australia
and California.
The Sugar-Beet in America. By
Prof. F. S. HARRIS, Ph.D. Illus-
trated 12s. net.
[Rural Science Series.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LIMITED
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS,
for the Fourth Year ended 31st January, 1921.
Presented at the Seventh Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on
Thursday, 24th February, 1921.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Report, Balance-
sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the twelve months to the 31st January, 1921.
The Net Profits for the year, after deducting Rebate on
Bills Current, Interest on Deposits, Land Taxes, Income
Taxes, paying all Expenses, and providing for Bad and .
Doubtful Debts, amount to . . . . • • • • - • £40,016 19 d
To which is to be added: —
Balance from last year .. .. •• 1,-oJ - <
£46,2 < 6
An Interim Dividend out of the assessable income was paid in August v
last, which amounted to
1 10
13,500 0 0
£32,776 1 10
Recoveries from debts previously written off as bad, and other re-
coveries now appropriated . . • • • • • • • • 39,000 0 O
Leaving a balance of . . • • •: . • •
The Directors recommend the following appropriations: —
To Dividend out of assessable income for six
months to the 31st January, 1921, at the rate
of 7% per annum • • ■ • • • !!
„ Reserve Fund (making it £70,000) . . . . 40,000 0 0
Balance carried forward.. •• •• •• ->026 110
For and on behalf of the Board,
£62,776 1 10
£62,776 1 10
Brisbane, 12th February, 1921.
A. S. COWLEY,
Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND, LIMITED,
For the Year ended 31st January, 1921.
Deposits
LIABILITIES.
Bills Payable and other Liabili-
ties, 'including- provision for
contingencies
. . £3,159,640 17 11
154,883 11 7
Capital
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
25,000
62,776
Contingent Liabilities-
£3,946,746 19 9
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances £620,007 10 0
Australian Notes . . . . . • 219,593 10 0
Government Stock . . . . .. 190,000 0 0
Remittances in Transit to Branches
and Agents . . . . .. 100,400 17 1
£1,130,001 17 1
Bills Discounted, Advances and all
other debts . . . . .. 2,602,298 14 3
Bank Premises .. . . ■. 120,000 0 0
£3,852,300 11 4
94,446 8 5
£3,946,746 19 9
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit as per contra
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rents. Rates and Taxes,
and other expenses at Head Office,
and forty-two Branches . . . . £111,666 18 3
To Interim Dividend paid 23rd
August, 1920 .. . . .. 13.500 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows :—
To Dividend out of
assessable income
for six months to
31st January, 1921,
at the rate of 7%
per annum . . £15,750 0 0
To Reserve Fund . . 45,000 0 0
To Balance carried
forward . . .. 2,026 110
— £62,776 1 10
£187,943 0 1
By Balance from last year .. .. £1,259 2 7
By Gross Profit for year (after
deducting Interest on Deposits,
Rebate on Bills Current and mak-
ing provision for Bad and Doubt-
ful Debts) . . . . . . .. 156,683 17 6
£157,943 0 1
By Recoveries from debts previously
written off as had and other
recoveries now appropriated .. 30,000 0 0
£187,943 0 1
RESERVE FUND.
Bal
mm
70,000 0 0
,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. .. .. £25,000 0 0
By Amount from Profit and Loss .. 45,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
Audited and found correct.
F. M. HAET, f.c.f.a.I
W. H. PARKER /
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
After Shaving
'*3
%
\
ouch!"
"The Little Nurse
far Little Ills''
** arhh!'
If your skin is the least bit sensitive
(especially the tender upper lip)—you
can quickly end razor-smart and sting
by applying Mentholatum. It cools
at once and heals antiseptically.
;
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
■a Healing Cream ,
FASSETT & JOHNSON, I/TD., SYDNEY.
‘/PutTet&c
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
Ail Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
“Murkah”: Bill Outback, “a cow for
music,” had arrived in Sydney for a week
or two. Chance took him to “The Mikado”
and Bill was gripped. "I got a job,” he in-
formed me, “and I’ve seen ’em all—'The
Mikado,’ ‘Yeomen of the Guard' and right
through—three or four times each.” Then,
with emphasis—'T wisht it was a flamin’
boarding-house.”
“Zante”: We were yarning away in a
country pub when the traveller let me into
a good business wrinkle. “When our firm
has to put the acid on a customer who is a
bit slow in paying up,'’ he remarked, “we
always put a wrong initial if he has two. If
he has only one add an extra one. Some-
times he takes the hint like a lamb, and
then there is no need to worry. But if he
turns snake-headed you can always point
out that the letter is meant for another man
with the same name a few hundred miles away
and has been sent to him by mistake, and
you show him that the initials are not his,
and tell him that the firm would never dream
of sending such a letter to an old and
valued customer like him. It works nearly
every time.”
In her biography of her husband, the
widow of Dr. Bevan, long a cherubic patri-
arch in Melbourne, tells of the peculiar ability
of George Reid, who could fall asleep in
any place at any moment, but retained the
capacity of registering in his mind what
was going on. This is borne out to some
extent by the experience of another M.P. on a
Melbourne platform. While this orator was
speaking George slept, and when the audience
applauded the member replied in hurt tones:
“Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your
appreciation, but until I can succeed in keep-
ing Mr. Reid awake I shall never be able
to believe in myself as a speaker.” Then
came the reply from George, still lying back
in his chair, with lolling head and closed
eyes: “My dear fellow, believe me I appre-
ciate you much more highly as you are.”
“Ragar”: Thursday Island is down in
the dumps. Fleets of trim luggers and cut-
ters are laid up, and their Japanese crews
have departed for their fatherland. The
pearlers have been hard hit, and returned
men who recently started on a small scale
are wondering why they ever took the game
on. The dark-skins who worked as crews
on the diving-boats have returned to their
islands in Torres Strait, where they are loaf-
ing and getting into mischief again. A few
boats are working at bfiche-de-mer, for
which there is still a demand from China,
but the demand for M.O.P. and trochus-shell
is dead. There is a bad time in store for
T.I. till things right themselves again.
Meantime shell will have time to grow,
pearls time to form, and the Thirstyites
time to think over their past sins.
“Orwell”: Quite a profitable business, and
one largely carried on in Sydney, is the pur-
chase and sale of “residentials.” A lady
who has adopted this as her profession as-
sures me a lot of money is to be made if
you know the right way to go about it.
Only shabby and “run-down” establishments
are bought by the speculator. A coat of
paint works wonders, and a smear of var-
nish on the floors and some new wall-paper
tend to distract the mind from thoughts of
bugs. There is no need to do all the rooms,
as every time the prospective buyer calls
you inform her that the rooms undone are
occupied and show her the rest. Lodgers
are a sort of live stock in this industry, and
by a strange irony are sold as goodwill. It
is advisable to have the house full of them
at the time of the sale; this is effected
partly by soft-soap and partly by remission
of some of the rent. If there is no lease
and the purchaser gets notice to quit a week
after paying £5OO for goodwill and £6O worth
of furniture, it’s her funeral.
“Quirk’s” warning:—
The most important feature of aerial fighting is
gunnery. The “aces” in the recent war did not
depend on their “stunting” abilities to anything
like the extent they did on their shooting. To become
and remain proficient in this art needs constant
practice, which was why, on “washout days” in
Prance, pilots and observers had to do a cer-
tain amount of practice in the “gravel-pit.” Pew
ex-pilots of the R.A.F. and A.F.C. could to-day take
a “ ’bus” up and use either the “ring sight” or
the “Hythe telescopic” with any serviceable degree
of proficiency, and as time goes on and they get
further out of touch, the position will become worse.
The most proficient pilot must go down before an an-
tagonist accustomed to the use of a machine-gun,
as the Japs appreciate, judging by a cable of last
week on the subject of their air-training methods.
Some day Australia will be “up against it,” and
unless our pilots are expert in aerial gunnery they
will be useless, however great their valor. One of this
country’s several Federal Defence needs is a volunteer
force of civilian airmen capable, at short notice,
of taking the air and repeating their past perform-
ances in many and varied dog fights over the
line. The men are available and will be for some
years to come, but they can neither fight to-day nor
instruct the younger generation to-morrow without
machines, guns, synchronising gears, sights and the
rest of the essentials that go to make up an active-
service air force.
“Argent”: The visitor of the future to
Broken Hill may have to go to the museum to
see a specimen of the genus landlord. Little,
if any, rent was paid during the long strike,
and there is less than a ghost of Buckley’s
chance of recovering arrears. The owners
will be lucky if they recover their
houses. In a place where firewood is short
and searching cold winds blow in the winter,
handy fences and flooring-boards are tempt-
ing. Local agents declare that as the strike
went on, floors and fences insensibly disap-
peared, and as for empty houses—well, they
stood a poorer chance than a snowball in
Hades. One agent who had 70 houses under
his control expressed himself in a gloomy
fashion. “At first,” he said, “they went
right into the houses and tore up the floors.
Then they worked outwards, carrying off
everything that would burn. The last to
go were the window-frames and doors.”
When people start to burn their shelters to
keep themselves warm, the time may not be
far off when they will begin to eat them-
selves to satisfy their hunger.


T~” ""; .'J.'-.y' 1 "
■
.
... ~ -
»S*«S!i*:!!SsS>s'Si
I'"’'***”**
mm
mmm-w
” -C* i
V
m
■■ 4*
wiKi
■Spi
W
”<MV *. l *' *’ "\ ' * ‘
S
m
mmm
I
I
I
®B%s|&
\■ - 1
•H.
m
■
' ••
■•< : :■ ■'. --V-r.n ..
• • Hi !
: ■
MMwA&WUUrfHtb
Reversing Mill Motor, 4800/13,700 8.H.P., 0/100 R.P.M., manufactured by Metropolitan Vickers, at
Trafford Park, Manchester, for Messrs. Bolckow, Vaughan & Co., to drive a 40in. cogging mill, production
60 to 90 tons per hour, rolling 3-ton ingots of 1 Bin. x 22in. into final billets of 4in. x 4i:
ROLLING
MILL
MOTORS-
Robust Construction,
Efficiency and Reliability
are the outstanding'
features of the
Metropolitan-Vickers
Rolling Mill Motors
h
MfTROPou T s N
ELECTRICAL
Vickers
Trafford Park. Manchester.
CO.. LTD.
Australian Offices:—
84 William Street, Melbourne
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Supply Depots:—
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
304 Kent Street, Sydney.
Agents:-
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
TURNBULL & JONES, LTD.,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.


Clear Your Scalp and
Skin With Cuticura
After shaving and before bathing
touch dandruff and itching, pimples
and blackheads with Cuticura Oint-
ment. Wash all off with Cuticura
Soap and hot water, using plenty of
Soap best applied with the hands.
One Soap for all uses, shaving, sham-
pooing, bathing.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co-, Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
JlfßF"'Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 8/-
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland-
7ENOBIA
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an oM-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBHA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholes,ale only)
K. BUCFtMASTER,
15, O’Cc nnell Street,
Sidney-
u
nr
o
Ju
>
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
m
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
>. or old folks.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
ICY-HOT TEA POT
Built ’lor Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lasta.lifetune. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
nan® ICS-HOT on bottom.
THE IICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
158 West Seuond Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
.
If any
Bulletin
Manager, ya
illustration appearing in The
takes your fancy, write to tne
iSo ivill quote you price for it.
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
i
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
i
h 2
. ■
■ ■
■mb
■■ '
m-
m
OS TER Power Screwing Machine No.
304 a weighs 14001 b. nett, complete
with three stop pulley countershaft
(including hangers and striking geai),
oil pump, die release, pipe rest stand
and die equipment. A engine
or motor is ample for all classes ol
work.
Screwing range—pipe lin. to 4in.,
bolts 4 in. to l|in.
Just the outfit for miscellaneous
screwing—screws, nipples short bends
—bolts—as readily as regular pipe
work.
DISTRIBUTORS :
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danlts & Son Pty„ Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
IFredc. Ash, Etd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Btd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Etd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ptd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering: Supply Co. of Aus., Etd.,
Brisbane.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE OSTER MANUFACTURING CO.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists. [is
For Infants
an all-important advantage.
Babies and growing children obtain from Benger’s Food
the great advantages of being reared on pure fresh milk.
These include healthful natural growth unchecked by the
under-nourishment which arises from unsuitable food.
fdh
Food
is always prepared with fresh milk, or milk and water
according to the age of the child.
It is specially prepared to adjust the milk to the delicate digestion
of children and invalids. All the great good in milk Nature’s
all-important food becomes available with Benger’s.
“ Benger’s T ood and How to U eit/'—A little work of authority on the feeding: of
infants, invalids, and the aged, amost interesting and informative booklet—post free from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bole Proprietor and Manufacturer*: BENGEB. S FOOD, LTD., MAHCHESTEB, England.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
fdh
XN3WXNtOddV
AS
fd
TO
H.M. THE KING
hfd
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Nominate Roclrick, winner of the
Lane Cove Club’s 12ft. championship, as being
the most remarkable craft in Sydney waters.
Completed one Saturday morning about 12 years ago
by Diver E. Rodrick, of Balmain, she was launched,
rigged, won her first race and sold all in the same
day. Since that time she has been owned by three
separate persons and has never been in receipt of a
start from any other boat.
» * * *
Aliek Wickham holds one record which
is unlikely to be taken from him. That is the
world’s highest dive (205 ft.), made at Deep Rock
carnival, Melbourne, in 1918. By some error the
diving-tower, which was intended to be only 100 ft.,
was built up to 205 ft. Wickham didn’t realise what
he was up against till he climbed to the top of
the structure and saw the water beneath him. How-
ever, he pulled himself together and brought off
a perfect “swallow.” He remembers nothing after
leaping from the tower. He was unconscious when
picked up, and his costume was found to have been
torn clean off. Jack Wren gave him £lOO to
buy a new one.
* * * *
“Mem” : The most eventful football match
I ever had anything to do witn was when the ath
Machine Gunners played the sth light Trench Mortar
Battery at Steenwerek in 1918. The players had
just taken the field when nine Fritz aeroplanes came
over flying low, while spectators and players alike
flung themselves into ditches or tried to disguise
themselves as blades of grass. Nothing hit us, but
there were plenty of casualties in a match at Neuve
Eglise, just up the road, on a ground much used at
the time by the 13th and 14th Battalions.
* * * *
Oxford and Cambridge have agreed to
drop from their athletics the hammer-throwing, and
replace it by a pole-jump. When it really wtfs a
hammer, it was a test of strength—with, of course,
a certain knack that had to be acquired. Then some-
one discovered that a cane handle gave a better
swing. Each man was allowed to devise and use
his own weapon, and the handles grew more and more
flexible, till now there is simply a weight swung on
a wire or chain. So the artificiality is abolished by
I the universities; and probably the English amateur
championships will follow the lead.
* * * *
Paris has been discussing the old question
of how soon a racing horse, which gets away from
a standing start much quicker than a motor, should
be overtaken by the speedier machine. In a race for
a good stake, the horse-owner agreed to the absurd
distance of 500 metres. The car picked him up
before the quarter-mile, and streaked home in 28sec.
The horse took 34. It looks as if a sporting handi-
cap might he made at the distance: Gar, scratch;
horse, 100 m. ; bicycle, 200 ; man, 300.
* * * *
“D.”: Queer misapprehensions exist on
both sides of the world about the Prince of Wales’s
performances in the saddle. In England they think
that, while here, he rode in public jumping events.
Thus a cable last week said he had yet to make
his debut in this capacity in England after his Aus-
tralian efforts. Of course, he only rode work with
us, and most of that on the flat. Sydney Sunday
News headed an announcement, that he had ridden
in “the Grenadiers’ Point-to-Point” . “Prince in
a Hurdle Race” ; and the S. M. Herald starred
the item next day, “Prince Rides in a Steeplechase. ”
A Point-to-Point bears no resemblance either to a
hurdle race or a steeplechase. It is really fast hunt-
ing with about 25 per cent, of the danger elimin-
ated, being over a selected line with no wire, rotten
take-offs or other traps. The Brigade of Guards
usually has its Point-to-Point over the country
which the Guards’ Drag hunts, that is to say, round
about Hawthorn Hill Racecourse, where the Brigade s
annual steeplechase meeting occurs. Hawthorn Hill
is half-a-dozen miles from Ascot. The fences in
this locality are small, but so also are the fields
which they enclose, and when the soldier-cracks
from the Shires bring their free-striding thorough-
breds to this cribbed and cabined area they are
liable to have their pride taken down a point or
two. It would be no place, for example, for a
horse like Kinlark. The Prince could do no better
than third last week. His chief assets as a horse-
man are probably enthusiasm and courage; but his
brother, the Duke of York, really appears to be a
top-noteher. Leading American polo-players, who
are good and unbiased judges, class him with the
half-dozen best amateur-riders in England.
* * * *
“H” : Re the statement (B. 3/3/’2l) that
Oscar Dickman’s world’s professional record of 2mm.
32sec. for the furlong is “much behind Norman
Ross’s amateur world’s best of 2min. 21 3-ssec. for
the distance.” Dickman put up his time over laps
of 50yds. with four turns. Ross’s swim was achieved
in a 33 l-3yds. tank with six turns' Furthermore,
the Abbotsford bath is open to the weather, which
the bath used by Ross is not. Whether Dickman s
figures are good or not may be judged by the fact
that Norman Ross’s first swim in Sydney last year
was in the 220yds. State championship, wherein he
defeated Kirkland, Longworth and Hay by 3yds, in
2min. 32 4-ssec., or 4-ssec. worse than Dickman’s
best. Take Dickman’s 880yds. professional world’s
best of llmin. 18sec. as against Ross’s time for the
journev in the State championship, when, after defeat-
ing Longworth, Christie and Brown by 65yds., 70yds.
and 80yds. respectively, the Yank was clocked to have
done llmin. 24 l-osec., or 6 l-ssec. slower than the
Pyrmont pro.’s time. The best recognised times of
the following swimmers as compared with Dickman’s
over the half-mile read interestingly: Kieran, 11mm.
11 2-ssec. ; Beaurepaire, llmin. 20 2-ssec. ; Long-
worth, llmin. 31sec. ; R. Cavill, llmin. 36sec.; O.
Healy, llmin. 36sec. ; H. Hardwick, llmin. 48sec. ;
F O. V. Lane, 12min. 55see. Ludy Langer, in this
year’s N.S.W. State half-mile event, finished 40yds.
ahead of F. Beaurepaire, F. Cotton and W. Long-
worth in llmin. 16 4-ssec., or 1 l-ssec.
better than the professional’s figures. To accu-
rately gauge the capabilities of two swimmers it
is always necessary to compare their performances
accomplished under equal conditions. Norman Ross
came to Australia credited with having accomplished
marvellous times in America, viz.: 100yds. in 54
4-ssec., 440yds. in smin. 16 3-ssec., and 500yds. in
6min. 2 2-ssec.; but he didn’t do ’em here. Dick-
man’s 2min. 32sec. for the furlong, and llmin.
18sec. for 880yds. may not be wonderful, but they
are good, very good, and will take some beating.
***•*■
If they can secure Parliamentary sanc-
tion for adding an acre and a half of the northern
part of the Carlton Gardens to the present oval
area the Exhibition Trustees propose to establish
a new central sports ground in Melbourne. Their
scheme provides for an initial outlay of £5OOO, with
more to follow for stands as revenue comes in. At
present the great gazabo of a building, which is only
used half a dozen times in the year, and the oval
bring in very little, and the trustees are dependent
on the aquarium and a Government grant. The
trustees are tired of being “keepers of the great
seals,” as John Gavan Duffy described them when
he was one of them, and they want their show to
be self-supporting.
* * * *
The Maoriland sportsman J. B. Reid
has been spending some mpney in the Cold Land on
thoroughbreds, and three of his buying, Tractor,
Paper Money and King John, were shipped for the
Dominion last week. Tractor is a three-year-old
colt by The Tetrarch from Gravitation, and, inci-
dentally, is the first of the stock of the “rocking
horse” to be purchased for this part of the world.
He is a half-brother of Flying Machine, by Ayrshire,
two of whose yearlings will come under the hammer
in Sydney at Easter, their dam, Gravitation, being
a sister of William the Third. Paper Money was
third in Grand Parade’s Derby, and King John, a
son of Roi Herode and Miranda, is a good performer.
They will be used for the stud, but Tractor will be
seen under silk in the Dominion.
(Continued on page 46.)


A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, engraved “Butterfly”
design, 60/-
SB*? B
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure silver-plated A 1 quality hiahlv
burnished, 70/.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, plain design, £4/10/-
? -5
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £Q,
4. Saunders’ Fruit and Flower Stand, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, daintily engraved,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Presentation inkstand, polished English Oak,
pure silver-plated mounts and fittings, English cut-glass bottles,
complete with drawer, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure silver-
plated A 1 quality, highly burnished, bead edging,
£5/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
a
* ; ?2L£X''‘
mm^ffc±d
, v« .®> 4^
r 1 * ’
SIZES ,-I-E
2-31-
5 Tons.
See the FEDERAL
at the
Easter Show,
Sydney.
wm
L
i '
•y‘
M'S
ftm
5P®”
YOU ARE INVITED
to thoroughly test
and
frankly criticise
any FEDERAL.
Every FEDERAL is a good
FEDERAL.
A FEDERAL Truck
must and will give you
the
Satisfactory
Transport
Service
you have a right to
expect from it.
It must do so.
It was designed to do
so.
It will.
SOLE AGENT—
H. W. CROUCH,
26-28 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY.


n
MK
® f<
a
' '
":'h
m
i
;2; J
I&SS
m
For those who travel by
sea or land Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found a most use-
ful companion, and should always be carried
in the pocket or handy in the suit-case.
When preparing for a sea trip a course of these pills
taken nightly before sailing will considerably reduce the risk
of seasickness. They should also be used while at sea to
insure the regular working of the system, which so frequently
becomes upset when on board ship.
The railway passenger who has to sit long hours in a train finds his
liver becomes sluggish and digestion disordered through eating hastily and
insufficient exercise. He likewise finds a medicine of the type of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is just what he needs.
*
mm
It is important to remember that change
of food and living conditions invariably dis-
arrange the system, and when that 'occurs
nature needs assistance, at least temporarily.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are specially
suited for this purpose. They will keep the
organs in perfect working order and prevent
many of the serious and costly illnesses if taken
when the first signs ofConstipation appear. With
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills always at hand,
using a little care and intelligence, the system
can be kept in a sound and healthy condition.
They Make You Feel Brighter.


Q
I
dt
$
9
IS'
$
*
V
1
I
/$•
fi
rs
62
O'
82
<-s
c/"
•35
82
r 2
*7
Headache'!
Professor uvertad*
FOR speedy relief of headache take Chamber-
lain’s Tablets. They act on the stomach,
liver and bowels, relieve the engorgement of the
blood system, thus steadying the nerves and resting the brain.
Headache cannot exist when Tablets are
taken. Their marvellous influence on the liver and bowels
puts an end to it every time. Ask for and insist on having
Chamberlainslablels
FOR THE STQMACHandLIVER
h
BALL BEARINGS
Save Money——Turn Friction Into Power.
Friction is the relentless enemy of power operation. Oh the line
shafting only, in the average mill, it destroys about 25% of all
power produced or bought.
Yet this waste can be largely reduced—and, in fact, has
been reduced to a minimum in thousands of plants of every
description, through the aid of SKF Ball Bearings.
They are reliable, easy running, and economical on
fuel and oil. They are self-aligning and require
scarcely any attention. They cut down friction
and power cost in a manner that is surprising.
Illustrated Booklet, "SKF Ball Bearings for Line Shafting,”
posted to any address on request.
A representative, direct from the home factory,
is now permanently located in Australia, and
his advice is at your disposal.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
MELBOURNE—369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street.
ADELAIDE —122 Currie Street.
BRISBANE —329 Adelaide Street.
PERTH —Unbehaun & Johnstone, 37 King St
HOBART —Medhurst Electrical Works &
Telephone Co., Ltd., 15 Argyle Street.
d
mi
■ 'llP
fdh
Art and the Hotel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ARE Polyhymnia, Erato and Calliope
turning pussyfoot? Is the in-
spiration Bacchus was supposed to
extend to the votaries of the Muses a delusion
and a sham? In London G. K. Chesterton
feels constrained to put up a despairing
defence of the hotel, and here a popular
bard like David Wright hymns the magnifi-
cence of tea. Yet it seems but yesterday
when our young verse-makers and exponents
of the finer prose style were all circulating
about some hotel or another, and when the
way up Parnassus boasted an inn at every
hundred paces.
There remains, no doubt, a literary gentle-
man who bux-ns the midnight alcohol to create
the force necessary to the production of a
resounding tale, and here and there is still a
bard who admits he can never repay all he
owes to Dionysius, god of wine, but these
have no longer their recognised habitat. You
cannot address them at any hotel with the
certainty of the Postal Department deliver-
ing the goods.
The passing of the literary hotel in Sydney
and Melbourne is very significant of the time,
the men and the manners. As recently as
15 years ago there remained in Collins-street
a hotel at which you could rely upon finding
at almost any hour of the day or night one
or more fraternal souls mingling with con-
genial spirits. To-day I do not know of one
house at which I could reasonably expect
to locate a young versifier or a veteran of the
pen. The nearest thing to it is a bar where
occasional reporters drift in to their
devotions, more because of its convenience
than out of respect for its literary traditions.
When Marcus Clarke met with Gordon on
any odd corner of Melbourne in the early
’seventies, the first suggestion after a
friendly greeting was the Argus Hotel; for
verification of which see any approved bio-
graphy of either. It was the same when
Gordon met Kendall, the pale-faced, weird-
looking Sydney poet in the misfit suit of
funereal black, with his black gloves
and eternal umbrella, seeking consolation
for the dismal failure of “Leaves from
an Australian Forest,” just published
by George Robertson. The same formula
was _ observed if either of these three
ran into Telo, Horne, Shiliinglaw, Ohas.
Horsley—the musician who pro-
vided the music to Kendall’s prize Town
Hall cantata, “Euterpe”-—or any one of
a number of others circulating about the
Australasian, the Argus, Punch, Hum-
bug and the Colonial Monthly of that day
and generation. You have only to think of
so crapulous a set of Bohemians associated
with the Argus and the Australasian of
to-day—if the mental effort is not too much
for you—to understand that these, and not
those, are the days of austerity for men of
letters here.
The only occasions when the favored
literary inn (legitimate successor of the
coffee-houses of other days) was not
promptly resorted to when two or more of
the litterati of the ’seventies were met w T ere
when Marcus Clarke’s editorial den at the
Colonial Monthly was the place in which
these shining lights foregathered, or when
they came together in the bachelor quarters
of several of them, rooms over a sewing-
machine shop in Collins-street East. On
these latter occasions the only observable
difference of conduct was due to the fact that
in the bar of the hotel, being in the public
eye, the poets and their friends might exhibit
some measure of restraint. Clarke’s sanctum
at the Monthly appears to have been
equipped with an excellent cellar, or, at least,
«i cellaret, with a capacity for replenishing
itself suggestive of the purse of Fortunatus,
and the bachelor abode had a hotel easy and
accessible, with one of the number always
willing to “run the rabbit.” How the men
of genius behaved on the occasion of such
assemblings may be gathered from artist Tom
Carrington’s stories of how the fiery little
woman from the machine-shop, who let the
rooms, came charging upstairs, poker or any
like weapon in hand, demanding a little
silence that her customers might make them-
selves heard. This same tempestuous female
did on one occasion run the celebrated
author of “His Natural Life” ignominiously
down her narrow stairs, and tumble him
into Collins-street, as the most obstreperous
of a riotous company.
It is hard to picture the melancholy Ken-
dall in his creased black suit and his absurd,
high-crowned, narrow-rimmed hat, and cling-
ing to his well-beloved brolly, a member of
such a company; but he often visited the
den, and many times he left his umbrella
there, a sure sign that he had gone home
elated past the fear of wind and weather.
It is more difficult to think of him as one
of the bibulous practical jokers who, on
the occasion of a great ceremonial, sallied
forth from the Argus Hotel at an unholy
hour on the Sabbath morn, collected all the
illuminated belltoppers with which the emu-
lous hatters of the city had decorated their
shops, and strung thejm in front of the Town
Hall, where they damgled all through Sun-
day to the joy of the ungodly. Yet it is
pretty certain that the hapless sweet singer
of Araluen was of this rampageous brother-
hood.
Mrs. Lane’s, built on the site of the
original Punch office, was the literary hotel
of later years. Now there is none, and no
scribe would for a moment dream of pot-
hatting a public monument in the early
Sabbath hours; and we have grown a poet
with the skill and th<? courage to sing sweetly
and appealingly of tea. Who, knowing of
Kendall’s descent into Hell, and the grim,
terrible fight that brought him up and out
of the pit, scarred with unhealing burns,
can regret the coming of a generation of
writers who have only a nodding acquaint-
ance with Bacchus, and who prove that fine
frenzy is not wholly incompatible with the
keeping of a neat faont lawn?
EDWARD DYSON.


1920—the year of drought
Millions fewer
sheep shorn
but
Thousands
more
isTen
fd
Combs and Cutters
A
a
•o
✓
sold than in 1919
Because it is such an amazing record we have reproduced our
Auditors’ Certificate to support it.
15% increase in sales when the demand might have decreased!
Think how our sales would have soared had shearing conditions remained
normal.
The moral is obvious! Only sheer merit could produce such results.
When every ounce of wool counts, it’s best to use the shearing
machinery that has been proved the most reliable.
Let us have your order now for the coming season.
CHIEF AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd, Sydney.
INTERSTATE AGENTS*
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville.
MITCHELL & CO., PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS.. Perth.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“B.”: As I write an imposing mass of
machinery and mining structures, running
for almost a mile along the Broken Hill
line-of-lode, is motionless and almost silent,
save for the screeching of an occasional shift-
whistle. Mostly the miners are maintained
by Government-relief coupons and uniqn
levies. Hundreds of unemployed 101 l about
the green-swathed, tree-lined reserves, play-
ing cards or dozing beneath the cool shade
of the trees. By various methods they
manage to change some of their coupons for
beer and silver. They buy smokes and
attend the pictures fairly regularly. Thanks
to the Government there is always enough
to eat and drink. In such circumstances
who would desire to work in the broiling
summer heat of the western plains?
* * * *
L. H. Freeman, on his way back to Eng-
land after a tour of Australia in the interests
of Lyons and Co., the London caterers, at-
tended before a Parliamentary committee in
Adelaide and gave some straight talk before
catching the express for Perth :
England wants canned fruit the way Canada gets
it up; it takes that as the standard. Californian
importations are practically never examined, but
thousands of Australian cases have to undergo arbi-
tration. Australian fruits have got such a bad
name in England that it will take something to break
down the barrier. Last year my firm shipped from
Australia a fair quantity of lexias and sultanas, and
the grading was all over the place. When the parcel
was arbitrated upon in London the decision went
against my firm to the extent of £6 a ton, and
we could not claim it back.... I have received in
London local three-crown dried fruits labelled “four-
crown.” Something should be done to stop that.
Something lingering, with boiling oil in it,
for preference.
“Zanthus”: Australia now imports from
overseas, mostly from Mesopotamia, over
8,000,0001 b. of dates a year, and the quan-
tity is steadily increasing. There is no par-
ticular reason why she should not produce
them herself. Very good dates used to be
grown at Lake Harry, in the north of S.
Australia, and there are plenty of places in
Australia with a suitable climate where an
oasis of date-palms could be created. Date-
palms grow and bear fine bunches of fruit
at Yanco, but the dates don’t seem to ripen
there.
“Prohibition”: Recent alterations to the
Papuan tariff make settlers mourn for the
departed days when beer and whisky were
relatively cheap. The new tariff imposes
a duty of 275. a gallon on spirits—4s. 6d. per
bottle! The beer impost rises to 4s. 6d. per
dozen reputed quarts, and whether it is
English, American or Australian doesn’t
matter. But the biggest imposition is the
rate of duty on Australian wine—los. a
gallon! This is a country where malaria
is ever ready to attack the person whose
vitality is lowered by excessive labor or
worry, and medical men prescribe ordinary
wine (in moderation) as a tonic. Australian
wine was the limit most people could afford,
and it is good stuff, too, like so many other
products of the Commonwealth. Where is
the sense in clapping this heavy duty on a
commodity that is as necessary to many
folk as quinine? Papua is treated by the
Melbourne authorities as if it were a foreign
land.
■w * •* #
“Good Australian”: Dehydration is on the
way. The Australian Jam Co. has erected
an experimental plant at South Yarra for
testing purposes. The Rochester (Vic.) Co-
operative Preserving Co. has acquired a
dehydrating plant. C. J. De Garis has
begun the erection, at Kendenup (W.A.), of
a J. H. Morton evaporating machine, which,
when completed will operate on potatoes,
onions, apples and grapes. The Shepparton
(Vic.) Cannery has been overwhelmed by
the abnormal glut of fruit for which it has
uo market, so it is considering the installa-
tion of a dehydrating plant. In Germany
dehydrating or drying systems are working
on a large scale, chiefly with potatoes and
onions. All hard fruits, like apples, plums
and pineapples can be treated easily.
Peaches and apricots are not so successfully
handled by the tunnel system of evapora-
tion, because the juice has a tendency to
collect in the centre of the fruit. Many
American dehydrators cannot treat these
two particular fruits, which are the chief
products of the Victorian orchards, but
British and German dryers, it is said, have
no trouble with either. The glut of fruit in
Victoria is so phenomenal that growers are
being forced to consider artificial systems of
drying their produce. Dried (not sun-dried)
fruit is only one-third the bulk and one-
sixth the weight of fresh fruit.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: A Sydney firm ot auctioneers
recently sold a unique property, Dangar
Island, on the Hawkesbury River, for £7500.
The island was owned by the late Henry
Carey Dangar, and comprises 76 acres. It
has a roomy and comfortable homestead, built
by Dangar as a yachting- and shooting-box
long before the northern railway line was
constructed, and is one of the most pic-
turesque spots on a picturesque river.
* * * *
Handing a three-year sentence to a carter
convicted of stealing .sugar from Hobart
wharf in cartloads, Chief Justice Nicholls
said it was plain that the prisoner was “the
tool of a thieving organisation which is one
of remarkable activity and efficiency,” but
that as he was protecting that organisation
“for some other reason than affection” —three
years. And the jury had recommended the
prisoner to mercy on the grounds that he was
apparently the mere catspaw of “certain in-
fluential persons who are not before the
Court!” The C.J. assured the prisoner that
if he would turn informer he would recom-
mend a substantial and perhaps total remis-
sion of the sentence, and as three years is
a long time for an active young man to spend
in gaol, while a wife and three young chil-
dren scratch for themselves or draw susten-
ance from the bounty of the large larcenists
at the head of the sugar-shaking industry, it
is pretty certain that the latter will feel
about as uncomfortable out of gaol as their
alleged tool will feel in it. The sugar-
shifting game must be, like virtue, its own
reward.
* * * #
“E.S.S.” goes to ffithgow :
Strewn anyhow along a narrow valley between
beetling hills, unattractive and accidental in its
general aspect, its little old buildings more sugges-
tive of penury than prosperous living, Lithgow
belies its appearance more successfully than any
busy centre I know. Supporting 10,000 miners,
whose earnings reach £l4 a week and more, it is
the richest working-man’s town in N. S. Wales.
It presents another paradox. With all the drab
and grimy character of a mining town, whose ever-
flaming furnaces make night intermittently brilliant
with their fiery glow, it teems with good-fellowship
and hospitality like wayback towns. As in rural
spheres, too, one hasn’t to take his silver with
him when he goes out.
“I’ve lived there 13 years,” said one miner, “and
I’ve never once taken the key out of my front
door. Any stranger could walk in if he wanted to,
but nobody has walked in yet.”
Besides its ever-flowing streams of metal, it flows
with beer and honey. The honey is got in trees a
few miles out, where “sugar-bagging” is recreative
and profitable. The beer would flow like Tenny-
son’s brook, but at 6 p.m. the publicans blow a
whistle, then in steps a good-natured policeman and
empties the bar with unofficial civility.
A picnic resort is Fish River, where the prin-
cipal recreation is killing snakes. Between thrills
the picnicker catches fish, admires the scenery or
prospects for gold. Many miners spend their holi-
days working like contractors searching for the
Eldorado that is suspected of being hidden there-
abouts.
As everybody knows, irongirt Lithgow contains the
small-arms factory. It contains other arms, soft,
clinging arms, but not enough to go round. From
this point of view Lithgow is not unattractive. It
has great matrimonial possibilities.
There is one little hut in Lithgow that is pointed
out to visitors as an item of interest. It was the
humble home of George Cann, N.S.W. Minister for
Works, in his mining days. There, too, are old mates
of Joe Cook, and a mate who travelled and worked
with the Prime Minister in days when life was
as simple and rugged as is symbolised by Cann’s
Hut.
* # * *
The Cadburys are pushing on with their
Claremont (Tas.) work and have got as
far as accepting tenders for various items
of building construction. A Hobart firm
has secured a window-making contract which
will use up at least one ton of putty.
* * * *
Jones, of the Speck, the biggest Austra-
lian jam-exporter, has issued a statement
setting forth (1) that the falling off in the
British demand for Australian jams was
not, as reported, owing to the inferiority of
the Tasmanian product, but to the action
of certain Australian packers “who have
relied more on quantity of output than on
the quality of the goods”; (2) that the sale
of a large shipment of Tasmanian jam sent
to London in 1919 was retarded by restric-
tions “in some way engineered by home
manufacturers,” which gave rise to the
false report that there was something wrong
with the quality of the jam; (3) that “the
influence that was felt at that time was
eventually overcome.” In fact, by May, 1920,
there was such a rush for Tasmanian jam
in Britain that the Jones firm’s London re-
presentatives were receiving more orders
than they could fill, and the firm had re-
shipped a cargo of 38,000 cases, which had
been landed at Havre, straight across to
London, where it sold like hot cakes. All
which is doubtless quite true. But a host
of Speck orchardists appear to harbor a
suspicion that it isn’t the whole story. For
instance, the Jones manifesto makes no men-
tion of American jam—well-packed, beauti-
fully-decorated, true-to-label stuff —huge
shipments of which are allegedly swamping
the British market. Taking one thing with
another, it looks as though the bottom might
fall out of the Australian jampot at any
moment.
IN PRAISE OF NINE AND SIXPENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High finance is like a rocket,
Poverty is kin to mud ;
Nine and sixpence in the pocket
Keeps a sweetness in the blood.
He whose mansion stands in brick or
Stone aloft for all to see,
Can he buy and drink more liquor
Than a navvy on the spree?
Can the lord of wool and mutton
Of his wealth and splendor find
Room for one more trouser-button
Where his pants fix on behind?
Simple words of long-tailed parrots
Filled the copybooks we wrote;
Is a donkey eating carrots
Richer than a free-born goat ?
“Thrift is noble,” said the sages
Of the schoolroom long ago.
“Save the pence” ; we wrote whole pages
Of the maxim in our woe.
Save? But what’s the use of saving?
Hoes it change the taste of beer ?
Does it end the need of shaving
One day’s whiskers round the ear?
Wealth I view without resentment;
Poverty I much regret.
It is mine to seek contentment
With as much as I can get.
Blessed is the man who whacks his
Pile with those whose hearts are sad ;
But when I have paid my taxes
Nine and sixpence keeps me glad.
(Nine and sixpence seen in detail
Buys three gallons crowned with foam —
Twenty-eight glass mugs at retail —
And a tram to take me home.)
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
•HSIJ.IKO
AIHOnOHOHX
WHEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles ” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cyclp.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the u Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
\
>
<5
7
r 'A
SW
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


THE.
oN -£fc
«SP.
-r 3
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
IPif/i which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED
185 S.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up. ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
JE1.,028,000 Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager ; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager :A. W. HEWETT.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lothbury, K.C. 2.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - Accepted from 1/-upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - - - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at 3j per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
The Pursuit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I THINK all girls should go to bed
At latest by eleven o’clock ;
But she, with tresses golden-red,
Appeared the murky dark to mock.
The trams ran on in simple grooves,
The moon was like new-polished tin;
I really care not who approves,
I hold late hours must work to sin.
And yet. . . .and yet. . . .Her lips were sweet,
Her eyes the darkest pansy-blue;
The dimples on her sandalled feet
Were pink as rosebuds in the dew.
I felt all rules must be relaxed
Where this fair lady was concerned.
Though I for that indulgence taxed
Might be in error’s camp interned..
“I’m Helen.” That was all she said.
I did not ask her surname then.
I thought of battles hot and red,
And eyes that burned the hearts of men;
Of windy Troy and Ida’s peak
And Hector weltering in his gore,
And whirling goddesses whose freak
The tears of nations must deplore.
Yet there she stood, the one-time bride
Whom Menolaiis proudly won.
I felt the world was very wide
And life’s romances but begun;
And so about her little waist,
To shield her from the least alarm,
My hot soul in its happy haste
Urged me to put a curving arm.
The clock struck twelve. We wandered far
About the streets and houses dark.
We saw the moon with star on star
Slide daintily above the park.
I kissed her lips. Oh, wine that grew
In Arcady when time was young!
She had the flavor fine and true
Of every song Parnassus sung.
I kissed her lips, her yielding lips,
Eleven thousand happy times —-
The metre of such kissing trips
Like running joy to find its rhymes.
Oh, it was joy elate, supreme
To feel the touch of neck and hair!
A glory seemed to sway and stream
About me in the midnight air.
We heard a level tramp of men
Along the asphalt beating loud.
The lamp-post marked their shadows ten —
And ten at midnight is a crowd.
My lady shuddered in my arms,
Then on my bosom hid her cheeks;
She panted, full of strange alarms,
“It is the Greeks L„ It Is the Greeks!”
Her word was true. From oystered shades
And places where the crayfish sings
They had come forth,. Our Ilion’s glades
Saw them as tall lonian kings.
Spears had they none, but from each wrist,
Trained in the bivalve wrestling strong,
Depended shell a weight of fist
As might, have fired an epic song.
Oh, Venezelos, Pericles,
Conon, Lysander, Constantine!
There was a shaking at my knees;
My soul was as a piece of twine.
“The Greeks!” she said; and well I knew,
If once they saw her glowing hair
Flash in the moonlight and the dew,'
What those terrific fists would dare.
“Love, let us run,” I told the maid ;
“Let us run fast and very far.”
Swiftly that wonder-girl obeyed;
And, trailing like a shooting star,
Her hair behind her Seemed to shout
Defiance in the very face
Of that' astonished Grecian rout
That started to put on the pace.
We ran. Oh, Marathon beheld
No race like this when Attic spears
Drove back the Persians till they yelled
For mercy to the after years.
We ran; Achilles at our heel—-
Steaka-da-oyst! My Helen’s flight
Was faster than the turning reel
When picture-shows go mad at night.
I followed—swifter, swifter yet—
And still the foe was close behind.
My collar had grown limp and wet;
My eyes with perspiration blind.
But that dear girl kept moving on—
Her second wind had now arrived —
And like a splendid meteor shone
The hair that age by age survived.
We left the town behind us far;
We passed by mount and stream and sea ;
Nor ever yet a motor-car
Had gone as fast as they and we.
The good sun rose, the day was fair.
It sparkled on a thousand creeks ;
And still she led me with her hair
At five yards distance from the Greeks.
Ah, well! The sun went down that night
In skies as yellow as ripe corn—
A sadder but no wiser wight
Was running still the morrow morn.
And still we ran through night and day
By hill and valley, mount and stream —
Oh, Agamemnon, go away
And let me catch the giriLand dream !
But no! The Fates these things arrange.
We may not pause, we may not rest;
Through every sort of chance and change
The chase goes on with endless zest.
Such is the world. With streaming hair
The one eternal Helen spiels;
The mad world follows everywhere
With Ancient Greece upon its heels.
N.S.W.
FAT O'MAORI.
A Papuan Pay-off.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
of service 10978, Miria-
\j Ivoivi, total pay £lB 2s. 4d..”
chanted the Inspector of Native
Labor, from behind the table in the tin
shack that boasted the name, “Native 1 Labor
Office,” painted in irregular letters on the
rusty iron wall. “Right!” he exclaimed,
rapidly checking a roll of dirty currency
handed him by the employer, and tossing it
over to the waiting “pay-off boy.”
He looked towards the interpreter, a coal-
black Delta native, gorgeous in blue serge
jumper and gold-braided rami [loin cloth],
nut-brown leather belt and ■ pouch, turkey-
red kummerbund, and carefully frizzed-out
mop of hair.
The educated descendant of an unbroken
line of successful head-hunters and rnaii-
eaters stiffened to attention.
“Interpreter, tell him this fellow boy time
belong him he been finish proper; money be-
long him he stop along hand belong him; you
talk he putera imana [liandj belong him
along pen and he finish one time,” ordered
the official, extending a penholder towards
the excited “time finish” boy.
The interpreter translated the speech with
a wealth of descriptive signs and grunts,
using about five times as many words as
had been spoken to him, while the delighted
laborer scooped up his wages from the table,
tremblingly touched the extreme tip of the
penholder as if afraid it might sting" him,
nodded in understanding to his garrulous
black brother, and tramped out to join his
equally joyful comrades on the verandah.
* * * *
The narrow verandahs of the trading-
store were thronged with a restless, talkative
crowd of “time-expireds,” each boy in his
most startling-hued rami, his money in his
hands, eagerly watching for the trader to
come across from his house under the palms
to open the building for the day. Through
the narrow windows the throng gazed with
joyous anticipation at the array of much
desired “trade” on the shelves inside, while
fierce arguments raged as to the particular
items each disputant had marked down as his
prey.
“Look, nakimi [brother-in-law], it is an
aioni [iron] io [spear] with eight points!
No fish could escape such a weapon if it was
thrown by me. It shall be mine and”
“That is nothing; look at the long knife
which turns round until you can see right
through the wood”—(pointing to an auger.
“Brother of my sister’s husband, that shall
be mine. Think how those miserable offal-
eating people of Koriaravi will envy us all
our wealth, for truly we shall make the
loudest-voiced drums on the river when we
have this wonderful knife that turns round.
Men will come many days’ journey to barter
for such drums—perhaps even pigs will be
given us for the work of this wonderful iron
thing,” said a long-headed, razor-shanked, jet-
black, Semitic-featured man from the Delta
region.
The talk rose shrill and excited as the
impatient boys surged about the verandahs,
some passing the baubau [native pipe] in
which a screw of green leaf held a smoulder-
ing pinch of rank, evil-smelling “trade” twist,
others sharing betel and lime and glossy-
green pepper leaves, which they chewed into
a hideous blood-red mass, plentifully expec-
torating the obscene juice about the floor.
A student of anthropology would have
found much of interest in the crowd, who,
although born and bred in the same island—
the greatest in the whole world —showed a
strange diversity of types. Polynesian and
Melanesian rubbed shoulders with the true
Papuan—the short-necked, nuggety Negrito
type from the rugged crags of the Owen
Stanley Range. Yellow, brown and black
skins, almond eye and oval eye, wire hair
and woolly hair, were represented amongst
the throng; hereditary enemies with un-
settled vendettas, the origin of which had
long since been lost among the centuries,
met in temporary truce under the prestige of
the governing white foreigner, and, their
homicidal desires postponed to a more favor-
able time, talked with each other like blood
relations.
The sago-eater from the maze of rivers
in the Delta, with his luggage, a handful of
arrows and a bow, sat beside a man from the
taro fields of the great alluvial plains along
the mighty Ivumusi River, who had a stone
club and a hunting spear among his
possessions. Nearly every man had a bundle
of “gatherings” which he had accumulated
during his service, mostly rubbish that
ranged from a bundle of grimy newspapers
to a collection of empty bottles and tins,
■and included such items as superannuated
safety-razor blades, lengths of fencing-wire,
old rice mats, rusty nails and scraps of metal,
pumpkin and rubber seeds, broken weeding
knives, and head-dresses of cockatoo and
other feathers, the latter carefully wrapped
in lengths of native tapa cloth made from
the beaten bark of the paper mulberry. All
so much worthless trash to a white man, but
valuable property according to the ideas of
the primitive Papuan.
All these trifles were jealously guarded,
for when they were added to the wonderful
“somethings” which the white man’s money
would buy them, the fortunate possessors
would be royally welcomed home as exceed-
ingly popular members of the tribe, and
great joy and happiness would be theirs.
The home-keeping fathers, mothers, wives,
brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles and the
smaller fry would be clamorous in their
praise of the returned heroes, among whom
each time-expired boy, true to Papua's- ad-
vanced socialism, would distribute every
mortal thing his term of toil had brought
him. And when his wealth had all fi'.ded,
and the return of other laborers had stolen
his popularity, Brown Brother would remem-
ber the white man’s rice and bulumakau I tin-
ned meat], and the joy of the evening dances
around the fires in the laborers’ lines on the
plantation, and he would feel strangely rest-
less until a recruiter sought him out, and he
would again “touch the pen” [engage] for
another term as an indentured laborer.
But all this was in the lap of the future.
To-day was the day for which he had waited
three long work-filled years—let the future
look after itself! “Would that mad white
man ever come and open the store?” was the
thought that filled every boy’s stomach
just now. (The Papuan belief is that all
mental activity is seated in his stomach; his
head is used for the purpose of seeing, hear-
ing, smelling and eating.) But the store-
keeper had been up most of the night before
as “banker” in a little card game, and was
dawdling through a late/ breakfast with the
emplpyer of the “pay-offs,” so wait they
must.
One bullet-headed, deep-chested, black
giant, from the former Anglo-German border,
loud-mouthed like all his tribe, was retailing
with great delight a story that gained the
laughter of his listeners.
“Truly, friends of mine, it was a good
thing to see those poor weaklings,, weep when
we came away. Such worthless ones, too,
and only fit to do the women’s work of feed-
ing fowls and making sago. I am a strong man
and I am here now for my pay ; but those
misbegotten children of diseased dogs and
pigs were watery-stomaehed and would not
hear the voice of [i.e. obey] the Taubada
[master] when he gave them a mark [task],
so they crawled like snakes into the jungle
and hid for many days.”
“Yes, brother, many days did they play in
the bush,” answered the listeners in unison.
“But we, my brothers, we did not run
away, for our stomachs are hard and we re-
mained every day and worked !” exclaimed
the tale-teller, smiting himself on the chest.
A chorus of boastful phrases answered
him.
“Now,” continued the loud-mouthed one,
“we are doko vaitaniva [properly time-ex-
pired] and go to our villages to meet our
wives and children and rest and eat of strong
food, while those offspring of dirt must work
and pay back to the white man the many
days they stole from him. O-o-o-o-o!” he
yelled ; “truly I am a strong man !” and he
struck his chest, and slapped his buttocks in
derision of the unfortunate ones. “One
moon more must they work before they can
be like us!” he added, hitting his buttocks
again.
The crowd roared with delight, slapping
themselves with enjoyment of the great joke,
while many lurid remarks were bandied
about regarding the paternity of the “worth-
less ones.”
A voice cried “He comes!” and instantly
the clatter of a dozen languages ceased as
the excited men crowded up to the door to
be first to enter the abode of riches.
The door opened and the mob poured into
the building, while the imperturbable store-
keeper and his assistants took up station be-
hind the counters and prepared for action.
Spread out in a line around the floor were
a number of near-camphor-wood boxes, im-
ported from China for Brown Brother to
pack his “trade” in, each box with a loudly-
chiming bell-lock, upon which the eager
buyers pounced like hawks into a school of
fish. There was much loud argument, even
blows were struck, before the trader got it
into his customers’ narrow minds that there
was no necessity to battle over the precious
articles, as there were many more stored
away in the building. Brown Brother was
happy, and quickly dragged into view a box
apiece, into which he stowed his purchases.
Piles of belts and pouches, jaw-harps,
gorgeous cotton handkerchiefs and print,
sheath-knives, twelve- and sixteen-inch
gardening-knives (for Mrs. B. Brother’s use
in weeding the family taro patch), white
calico, zebra-striped cotton singlets, tin
whistles and mouth-organs, fish-lines and
hooks, rake-combs, tomahawks, half-axes,
Florida water, matches, mirrors, print
dresses of shrieking colors, hair-oil that smelt
like two glue-factories, Derby tobacco,
cigarette papers, kerosene, hurricane lan-
terns, khaki trousers, felt hats of the
variety released in the ’Loo in 1914, and
much beloved “trade” tobacco rapidly poured
into the waiting boxes, while the storekeeper
handed out* change and mentally calculated
his profit on the pay-off.
Brown Brother with money is a mighty
spender. The actual coin is of no earthly
use to him; what he wants is a large box
full of “trade,” another box of tobacco, and
a suit of singlet and rami, over which he can
drape a few belts, necklaces of beads, and
other rattling trifles. Consequently he is a
welcome visitor to the trading store, for he
rarely takes much of his coin to his village.
In the case of this particular pay-off the
boys acted up to the reputation of their kind,
but it required the personal interference of
the employer and the storekeeper to prevent
them acquiring many articles useless to a
Papuan.
“How much this fellow lid [hat! belonga
hahine [woman], boss?” asked a burly .Kiwai
man from the Fly River, holding up a mush-
room hat.
“That fellow no good alonga woman belonga
you,” replied the man of business; “more
better you tgkem some calico,” indicating a
roll of yellow print with crimson roses.
The boy left the hat and, -after much
deliberation, bought a dress length of the
gorgeous fabric.
“Inai pilipou davana hida? [What is the
price of these trousers?]” inquired a mop-
headed man from the M'ekeo plains, holding
up a lacy affair. “I want them for the big
dance at my village,” he explained, with a
covetous look at the garment.
“Sold long time,” laughed the trader:
“here, you can have these dungarees. Strong
fellow, been make fast longa copper nail
[rivet],” he added, passing over the pants.
A boy fought his way through the throng,
a safety-razor in hand, and wanted to buy.
“No good belonga boy,” counselled the
employer; “more better you getem sauce-
pan.” The boy purchased a small boiler, and
retired to his box.
All about the narrow building the units of
the happy mob were busy packing their
boxes, while the tiny shop’s atmosphere got
thicker and thicker with the reek of un-
washed perspiring savage, and the dust
floated like a fog above the pandemonium of
tinkling bell-locks, the scream of ear-tortur-
ing tin whistles, the racket of shrill mouth-
organs and delighted natives. Wrapping
paper and discarded cardboard boxes littered
the floor ankle deep; among the litter a battle
royal suddenly raged between two boys over
the ownership of a pair of trousers, the com-
batants being finally prized apart each with
a damaged leg of the debatable garment in
his fist. As an article of men’s apparel the
pants were no longer of aqy service; but
Brown Brother is a philosopher and a
student of economics, so the belligerents each
tied a piece of string around his share of the
trousers, and quickly converted it into a bag,
into which he packed some of the smaller
articles he had purchased.
The last boy dragged his filled box to the
verandah edge, descended to the sand, picked
up his wealth and joined his brethren under
the cocoa-pahns along the beach.
The trader counted his cash, locked the
safe, and wearily sought a long chair and
whisky-and-soda on his verandah across the
way, leaving the store-boys to clean up the
wreckage of commerce.
In the cool shadow of the palm grove, be-
neath the softly swaying palm-fronds, among
which the balmy south-east breeze droned
its ages-old melody, the Inspector of Native
Labor and the employer checked up the pur-
chases of the boys, and assured themselves
that the trader had given a fair deal all
round. Satisfied with their observations, the
official and the planter joined their mutual
enemy in a successful attack on a couple of
bottles of lager, while Brown Brother “tried”
his various “somethings” until the sun dipped
below the sparkling sea-rim and the blue
and silver tropic night had come.
The red flames of the cooking fires blazed
up along the moonlit sands, throwing into
relief the bodies of the dancing natives, who,
happy in their emancipation from discipline
and regular labor, with the long-sought pro-
duce of their brawn and sinew actually be-
fore them, roared with mighty voices, * that
all the world might hear, their tribal war
songs and chants of love and victory. The
crash of the drums suddenly ceased, and over
the still air came the voice of the loud-
mouthed boy: “Truly, my brothers, my
stomach is glad!”
WALILIA.


WHITE
BLAC
&V
m.
/•
Ms®*-
„ S. -
wm
:
/.
\'rh - >&,•••/
, A.
i
N
M
.
■
M
SSH
s*
feg
Si
- -
mm
m.
si
■
Pjy >s s'-.y
m
:.;> .
itt!
1111 - .
.- - ■ <'»!'*;
|•' :
JaMssS
>
"
.*!
-
H®
■
M
m
m
• i
>:S
ir-vr V---- -V:
si
m
VW:
vii-i"
■
REAL SCOTCH.
WHISKY
GUARANTEED THE PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
TKe Quality and Color Never Vary.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


Italian Wines.
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor
Gold Medals,
London and
other
exhibitions.
r
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
hfd
» Homr looking at Yon"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
i+*97.
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
7
m,
W. ChorleyflCo.Ltd.
A /1
I
&3Bt
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
Jt
LADIES' g
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Humpty Pumpty”
Criterion “Iris Lady Friends”
Palace “Lightnin’ ”
Tivoli -‘The Lilac Domino”
Grand Opera House Shakspearean Plays
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Baby Bunting”
Royal "The Maid of the Mountains”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melua * Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Gi.aciarium Dancing
“Humpty Dumpty” is striding out well at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and not even the
defection of Maggie Dickinson (who mar-
ried Sydney Culver and floated gracefully off
to Loudon on Monday) has interfered with
the running. A unique blend of sprinter
and stayer (being by Music out of Legs,
who, it will be remembered was by that good
sort Undress out of the old Baldhead mare
Gloat), the panto, is expected to prove
highly interesting to the racing and other
experts who flock to Sydney for the Easter
season.
* * *
Almost the last cable sent by Wilson be-
fore boarding the Osterley is said to have
been a 47-word denunciation of one of Syd-
ney’s theatrical umpires, who gave “His
Lady Friends” out in the press. “A villain-
ously inept decision,” wrote the eminent Eng-
lish amateur; and for once patrons of both
grandstands and “hill” at Sydney Criterion
are likely to be in agreement with him.
* *
The Allan Wilkie season entered upon its
last week on Saturday night with "Julius
Caesar,” which Sydney hadn’t seen since
George Rignold’s company disbanded, 27
years ago. Allan employed his luscious voice
effectively in the Mark Antony orations,
and in the burial speech it was interesting to
note the gradations of the voice, from the
quiet sarcasm that failed to reach the mul-
titude to the broadening-out of the effects;
the stressing and pushing home of the
points, until the opponent of revolution had
consummated a first-class vocal revolution
on his own account. Fred Macdonald’s
Casca was a good, easy piece of acting, and
Jack Lennon as Brutus and Robert Pttrdle
as Cassius did notable work in the recon-
ciliation scene. Lorna Forbes, Frediswyde
Hunter-Watts and Vera St. John were
graceful female accessories to. this soldier-
play.
* *
The solemn pride of a management that
owns a winner was visible at the Sydney
Tivoli on Monday night, when “The -Lilac
Domino” reached its hundredth performance.
Having recovered from the effervescence of
spirits incident to such an occasion the
lively and melodious young woman is stepping
out confidently towards the second hundred.
* sk * *
To-morrow (Friday night) at the Palace
Theatre “The Welcome Stranger” will say
farewell to Sydney in the well-loved accents
of his race. “Lightnin’ ” is to be revived
for a few days in response to that unreason-
able creature Public Demand.
Young Australia loves a circus, and at
Sydney Hippodrome it is getting plenty of
circus for the
money that is un-
loosed at the box-
office from its eager
and perspiring
hands. And with
“26 celebrated acts”
to choose from it
likes nothing better
than a little jazz-
ing fox-terrier —a
very Vital Spark
among circus dogs.
*
A t Melbourne
Tivoli the Gilbert
and Sullivan sea-
son will certainly
end this week, but
two advts. disagree
as to whether Fri-
day or Saturday
will be the last
night. In any case
the, foolishness of
King Gama in com-
ing to the Court of
Hildebrand with-
out his fair daugh-
ter will not be re-
peated next week.
Meanwhile all Mel-
bourne is not yet
fully alive to the
fact that “Princess
Ida” is a G. and S.
“Baby Bunting ,” at
Melbourne Majesty’s.
Field Fisher as Samuel
Giggleswick.
opera, or that such a thing could be
staged at the Tiv. instead of Her
Majesty’s. These compound fractures of
precedent take time to be generally under-
stood. “Ida,” however, is as properly appreci-
ated as a good deal of indistinct enunciation
will permit, and the clever, whole-hearted
performance of Strella Wilson makes amends
for a lack of force in sundry minor particu-
lars. Also the utterances of Lady Blanche
(Moll Tyrell) grow more impressive, and
her duet with Beryl Walkely is perhaps
more discreetly accompanied by the orchestra
than it was. The pity is that an unfamiliar
work of such high class is about to be re-
placed by another picture show, even though
vaudeville be thrown in.
The other Tivoli advt. announces that
Harry Musgrove will start proceedings on
Saturday with an “alliance of the arts of
Photo.-play, Music, Vocalism and Dancing.”
The principal item on the screen will be
Annette Kellerman in a depiction of “What
Women Love.” Up to now the general idea
has been that women loved many things
which Annette never wears when she’s in
the water.
-i= * * *
“The Maid of the Mountains” continues
to be a feast of music and a flow of bright
dialogue at Melbourne Royal. Bight times
per week Gladys Moncrieff gets tortured by
jealousy when her best brigand carries on
with the girl in mauve, but the extra matinee
is not one too many. The heroine of the
opera is a lawless angel by profession, and
a straight-out vixen when roused, so the
ladies simply dote on her.
“JULIUS CAESAR,” AT SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE.
Julius Cesar (Augustus Neville) registers
shock.
If the- entertainment staged by the Amal-
gamation—under the style of J. and N. Tait
—at Melbourne King’s last Saturday was
intended as a warning of what may be ex-
pected of monopoly in the future, then might
Australia tremble. “Mademoiselle Mimi,”
as presented by a little lot of returned sol-
diers at Melbourne Playhouse in the first
instance, was not much out of time and
place. Moreover, it appealed to public
curiosity touching the class of entertainment
devised by Diggers on active service. It
travelled on patriotic sentiment, and attracted
goodwill across the footlights. But to-day,
in a theatre of full size, with prices ranging
from ss. downwards, the “Mademoiselle Mi-
mi” revival looks very poor stuff to educate
public taste on. The customary seaside
show- would soon starve if it were no better
than (his. The comedy, so-called, contains
no more plot than an artless parable in a
church tract. The w-hole cost of production,
apart from an exceedingly limited orchestra,
would hardly pay for three suits of clothes,
and the 3d. charged for the programme is an
alarming instance of managerial audacity.
Among the eight young men are two or
three manly voices (one With a fine, tuneful
vaudeville rasp in it) and one alleged com-
edian whose patter would defy any comedian
on earth to make it “go” with an unbiased
audience. Two of the Diggers, seemingly,
are female impersonators, but only one of
them ventures to open his mouth whilst
wearing a skirt. This “star” performer, who
plays the name part, looks convincingly
female rather than charmingly feminine,
and his voice is girlish in a natural, not
falsetto, way. But neither he nor the boys
he is supposed to flirt with can dance nor
keep one intelligently interested in the crude,
good-hearted sketch, or whatever it may be
called, which is expected to show a profit
for at least a fortnight.
At Melbourne Majesty’s “Baby Bunting”
is giving evidence of William Greene’s
plunge into matrimony. William arranges
the situation with the usual suggestion of
a night-outer scurrying after his last tram,
but apparently his guardian, Field Fisher,
accepts the other’s abandon as a reasonable
theatrical imitation of one who has long
settled down. Anyhow, guardians are only
put into musical plays to be the blind vic-
tims of glaring deceptions, and Fisher plays
his part with a massive innocence that would
make him a gift to a person with a Rich
Uncle in Fiji.
“Cinderella” finishes its long innings at
Melbourne Princess’s on Sutuday. After
that there is to be a long blank, interrupted
for a few nights by an amateur production
of “Tambour Major.”
*s*
M. J. MacNally and Harold Herbert are
giving a joint exhibition at the Fine Art
Society, Melbourne. MacNally’s pictures are
not so charming as usual. He has disowned
that appealing caprice of painting earth and
sky from the eye-level of a fly. Moreover he
is trying for drowsy effects with a palette
limited practically to sepia, olive green and
pale yellow. The tone of a scrambled egg
appears in the atmospheric flush of “Tue
White Bridge,” “Swan Bay,” “The Bridge”
and others, and though agreeable in modera-
tion it can be overdone. Still MacNally
exhibits nice things like “The Schanck
Road,” “The Road to Taradale” and “The
Dunes, Port Melbourne,” and he also does
fairly well in his studies on linen, though
the material seems rough for the best water-
color work. Harold Herbert continues to
advance in his handftng of gums, little bits
of creek and smiling bush, and he is also
venturing into compositions revealing fading
afternoons and deep riverside dusks. Pro-
bably he has not yet reached his highest
level, but he has long since passed the
period of the flashing, brassy landscapes that
first informed the art world that a new man
had arrived. His work all through the pre-
sent show is very good. The glorious sun-
light of “Spring Green” is particularly cap-
tivating. The picture ought to be the basis
of an immigration poster inviting the
“pommy” to the Promised Land.
s): :J:
“The Brbadway Bubble,” at the Crystal
Palace, Sydney, features Corinne Griffith as
fascinating twin-sisters. One, Adrienne,
leaves home and a tedious husband for the
footlights, first installing the other twin,
Drina, in her own wifely shoes. All might
have been well if the hdsband hadn’t been
scandalously good-looking and Drina as
affectionate as a pet kitten. Also at the
Crystal Palace is a brisk horse-film, “The
Hope.” A Gilbert Parker story at the
Globe and Haymarket deals with a little
half-caste wife, who becomes a perfect Eng-
lish lady with a small Anglo-Saxon son
within four years. It is unconvincing but
attractive. And “The Sins of Rozanne” gives
Irene of Randwick and Ermyntrude of
Drummoyne something to talk about. “Dan-
gerous Days” and “Brothers Divided” halve
the Lyceum screen. The Strand shows “A
Sporting Chance,” which turns out to be a
bit of publicity for a totteringly weak play,
and Louise Lovely, making a. huge fortune
out of story-writing, in “A Little Grey
Mouse.”
* * * *
This week Melbourne Majestic is feeding
its supporters with another twin-sister pro-
blem, “The Broadway Bubble.” It is a
case of the unmarried girl impersonating her
married sister, and leads to a situation that
every film student will await with bated
breath. Mae Murray, in the supporting
“ABC of Love,” shows that women learn
the alphabet quicker than men. Hoyt’s are
expecting a bloated treasury frdm “Once
to Every Woman,” a yarn that shows the
effect of a rural training on an operatic
star. “The Amazing Woman,” with Ruth
Clifford in charge, represents another song-
stress’s d6but followed by spasms of gamb-
ling and illicit affection until a bit of dab-
bling in charity brings a purified heart. The
prevailing fiction at the Melba, “Someone
in the House,” is another twisted study of
Amurkan crookery, but the Britannia next
door is a keen competitor with Blanche
Sweet in “The Woman of Pleasure.”
❖* * *
“Chu Chin Chow,” now running at Adel-
aide Royal, is mainly one long contest, be-
tween a stern, impassive Arthur Styan, in
the name part, and a sullen, revengeful Vera
Pearce, ending only when they resort to
Direct Action and she gets her knife-thrust
in first. Humor is strangely lacking; Wil-
liam Liddle provides most of what there is,
as Ali Baba. His brother Kasim receives
unusual prominence at the hands of Kay
Souper. There are some brisk songs, two
at least of them, the Scimitar and a chatter-
ing chorus, having a strong Gilbert-Sullivan
touch; and after a jolly duet, “Anytime’s
Ivissing-time,” one somehow looks for allu-
sions to Hughes and the Test matches; but
of course doesn’t get them. Considered
merely as a spectacle, the show is superb.
“Sinbadf’ under the new friendly arrange-
ment, moved to the Prince of Wales to finish
its run. Jack Cannot has now taken on to
the Victorian inland towns his tuneful but
preposterous suggestion that the land is
over-run with “the Armenians, and the Por-
tuguese, and the
Greeks.” Cedric
Johnson’s Vogues
and Vanities con-
tinue their pleasant
open-air run at
Austral Gardens;
Zo 1 i has been
specialising in his
Italian characters,
and a boxing skit
is the fresh attrac-
tion. On the
screen at West’s is
“Cousin Ka t e,”
once so -popular on
the regular stage
that an Adelaide
woman journalist
uses this as her
professional name;
also “Good Refer-
ences,” in which
Constance T a 1-
madge, being poor,
bluffs her way into
a rich household,
with satisfactory
results in matri-
money and cash.
Wond ergr a p h
shows in “Old
Wives for New"
the familiar „ but
unrecognised tra-
gedy of the man
whose wife grows
old before he does;
but American
divorce-laws tend
to straighten out
“Welcome Stranger
at Sydney Palace.
Robt. Toms as Ned
Tyler, the young lover.
that tangle with ease. And some real good
fighting, up and down stairs and in a lift, is
put up by William Russell at the Pav. in
“New York Luck.”
The free lectures, which so gripped the
interest of the man from Outback at the last
Royal Show, are to be an extended feature
this year. A formidable battery of lecturers
has been secured, and there will be talks,
with musical and cinema interludes, on sub-
jects ranging from “Feeding Pigs” to “Avia-
tion As It Affects Land Settlement.”
A. H. Fullwood has hung Gayfield Shaw’s
rooms with monotypes and etchings which
U«re both romantic and reasonable in price.
Full wood’s etchings, with one exception, that
of the Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, are of
England or the Continent, and his corners
of London bring half-forgotten snatches of
Henley to mind. Fullwood is one of our
most delicate etchers, and in none of the
works on view is this quality more evident
than in “His Ain Fireside.”
The Rev. Howell-Price, who died last
week, was the father of about the most dis-
tinguished family in the A.I.F. There were
four Howell-Price boj?s in the A.1.F., and
one was commander of a submarine which
took part in the Zeebrugge operations. All
told they collected a colonelcy, two majori-
ties, two lieutenancies, four D.S.O.’s, three
M.C.’s and one D.S.C. Three of the sons
left their bones in France.
“Orwell”: Rarely did the Woodbine dare
to answer back when rebuked by an officer,
but I was a witness to its happening during
the inspection of a guard at a camp in
Blighty. Most of the rank and file were
“home service” men, well over 40; but the
sub. in charge looked like a 16-year-old, and
backward at that. To me everything seemed
in order, but a perfect inspection in the
Imperial Army has never been known. The
lieutenant, therefore, pulled up in front of
a black-jowled veteran. “You didn’t shave
to-day. Bragg,” he said severely. “Yes, sir,”
replied the soldier. “How can you say so
with a face like that?” drawled the officer.
«We’re not all so fortunate as you, sir.”
was the unexpected reply. With that the
inspection ceased.
Father Tom O’Donnell, of the Speck, who
fell out with Labor on the conscription
issue, wdnt to the war as chaplain and got
arrested in .Ireland, has returned to hurl
language at things British, and Lloyd George
and Edward Carson in particular, per
medium of Hobart World. In a series of
articles headed “The Agony of the Emerald
Isle,” the indignant padre shoots vitriolic
epithets at the “super-loyalists” who are
bossing the Empire, remarking inter alia
that “the policy of the present corrupt Eng-
lish Government in Ireland is a shame and
a scandal and a danger to civilisation and
human liberty.” When Lloyd George reads
these and similar O’Donnellisms he will pro-
bably feel dashed glad Hobart World readers
haven’t got votes in British elections.


I
mm
:
m
■
i is
Wm
m
f
m
i
ni
Wmm
\' ~v ' v - >y> --' i
V’ v . • . ‘
r’a'- -
. : ■
IMim
■Mali .
i :: h
. V. •’.*•
, ■
R I
. :
«'• t
<?.*■! 4 S ' <’ t\
. ' * * A ' -v>
vr> ,; .VvVT • ■: ... vv§3 - *‘
:b.M i - >Vt-* .ft ■4i
.; m %*■ ifaHranC9
H 4 - vdNSM*
VfV ' ’ * ■
** «t ?? : x «pmp
. ._ ggg
f v* ss!T*s
BH;i * 1 ShHhi
w y - *3
■
' v
iiS
H
HH
"■■■■■■■■■■■■
See DELCO-LICHT
EXHIBIT STAND
No. 2
Royal Agricultural Show,
March 21st to 29th.
_r
.
%
iIHIIHar 2
;||Bi tf*
M I
owns one
: :
bfelfp
. y.
*OOT3a
Un
.till
mil
\\
dROUGHOUT the world
Electric Light is accepted as
the greatest illuminant yet
invented by man.
But —no longer is Electricity
a luxury confined to city and
large-town residents, for DELCO-
LIGHT —the complete Electric Light
and Power Plant—goes everywhere
for Everyone, furnishing all the great-
est time and money-saving advantages
of electrical equipment in farm or
home, church or school, store or
hotel—any place where bright illumi-
nation is appreciated and desired.
Not only does DELCO-LIGHT supply abundance
of bright, safe Electric Light for all purposes, and
Electric Power to make many tiresome tasks easy,
but it actually PAYS FOR ITSELF in the labor it
saves. Then, think of the safety, the comfort, and
the convenience it offers—-factors which increase
human capacity and raise the standard of living
consistent with modern ideals.
DELCO-LIGHT is a complete Plant, effici-
ent and easy to operate. *1 DELCO-
LIGHT Plant is operating near you—ask
its owner his opinion, or, at any of the
undermentioned addresses, see the DELCO-
LIGHT and obtain full parlidulars.
RTsl
.^GETsLTS
K
H T
N.S.W.:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
Kent Street, SYDNEY.
West Australia:
GEO. WILES & CO.,
PERTH.
Victoria :
WAfcBURTON, FRANKI, Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Tasmania:
W. F. & E. A. STEWART,
Cameron Street, Launceston.
Queensland:
SMELLIE & CO., LTD,
BRISBANE.
South Australia:
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Rtd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand:
A. D.
Lambton
& CO.,
Quay, WELLINGTON
FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
y
c°
m
o vs
161-163 St


-it:
m
&
%¥'-&' % ¥b
&
c
«
' ss
•-
c?
SYDNEY TIVOLI,
March 2G,
Constance Talmadge
in
‘Dangerous Business.”
HARRY G. MUSGROVE
in presenting at the Tivoli Theatres (by
arrangement with Harry Rickards Tivoli
Theatres Ltd.) high-grade photo-plays in
new and original settings, and with unusual
orchestral accompaniment, welcomes you to
playhouses of quality and superlative enter-
tainment.
ADELAIDE MAJESTIC
First National
opening
March 26.
MELBOURNE TIVOLI
March 19,
Annette Kellerman
in
“What Women Love/'
■
a\\\ //m\ m
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Biltong”: Tears ago a very comic opera
company struck Perth (W.A.) and played
“Les Cloches de Corneville.” When Serpo-
lette appeared we were uncomfortably
aware that the lady in the part should tem-
porarily retii'e from active service. But
there was no untoward incident till Serpo-
lette musically inquired: “Just look at that
and look at this, and do you think that I’m
a-miss?” From the back of the gods came a
long-drawn nasal “No-o-o !” The rest was
shrieks.
“Norbell”: “Fax” is wrong in insisting
(B. 10/3/’2l) that Amy Roselle (Mrs.
Arthur Dacre) never played Lady Macbeth
with Irving at the London Lyceum. I was
intimately associated with Mr. and Mrs.
Dacre here, and often heard them talk over
the Lady Mac performance, with anecdotal
references to Henry and his ways. The
tragic ending of the Dacres occurred in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, on Sunday, Novem-
ber 17, 1895, and on the following day the
Daily Telegraph concluded a long appre-
ciation of Amy Roselle with the statement
that she had “capped her career by a mag-
nificent perform-
ance of Lady Mac-
beth when Ellen
Terry fell ill dur-
ing the run of
Shakspeare’s tra-
gedy at the
Lyceum.” The
daughter of a
schoolmaster i n
Glastonbury, Amy
played all over
England with her
brother Percy in
juvenile roles.
When she was 15
she enacted Lady
Teazle, and while
yet in her teens she
became a • member
of the Haymarket
co. She rose rapidly
in her profession,
supporting Sothern
in America,
Samuel Phelps,
William Creswick,
the Bancrofts and
Mary Anderson.
She was. the Mary
Melrose in “Our
Boys” with David
James at the Vau-
deville, lasting out
the whole run of
"Baby Bunting ,” at
Melbourne Majesty's.
Alfred Frith as
William Pye.
1200 nights. Amy Roselle created the part
of Mrs. Cortlyon in “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” and one of her greatest hits was as
Cynisea in “Pygmalion and Galatea.” The
gifted woman was only 41 when the end
came.
“Smike”: My most breathless experience
as a dramatic critic was brought about by
a perverse refusal to acknowledge the late
Florence Baines as a brilliant entertainer.
Florence invaded Melbourne about 13 years
ago with a rather rough-and-ready farce,
“Miss Lancashire, Ltd.,” and she soon had
a seething band of admirers, headed by
Tommy Bent, deceased. Probably the glory
of attracting the reigning Premier made her
over-proud, but anyhow Florence was soon
annoyed at my continuous disparagement of
herself and her show. At length she bailed
up her manager in a devil of a rage (as he
told me afterwards) and asked for full par-
ticulars of her traducer. Learning th t I
was about half her weight—she turned the
scale at 16 stone —she shouted to her quiver-
ing subordinate: “Well, I won’t need to buy
a buggy whip for him. One of my old brol-
lies will do.” Whether she ever called at
the office for me I never learned. Respond-
ing hastily to a friendly tip 1 took to the
Dandenong ranges until the massive lady’s
wrath had' blown over.
“Nella”: Poor Federici’s death on the
stage-trap of the Princess’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, was not the only tragic happening
at that house while Nellie Stewart was
playing there. During the run of J. M.
Barrie’s “What Every Woman Knows,”
about 10 years ago, the stage-doorkeeper ran
up to the flies with an urgent letter, and the
quiet of the first act was disturbed by the
thud of a heavy fall. The doorkeeper had
dropped* dead on reaching the fly-floor. I re-
member \being solemnly warned not to tell
Sweet Nell anything about it during the
show, for fear of upsetting her, but she her-
self asked me for details before the second
act was over. Very little ever escaped
Nellie Stewart’s notice during a performance.
“Ancient Prompter”: Oxton had the re-
putation among his fellow-greasepainters of
being the closest-fisted mummer in the busi-
ness. When the boss died the company
felt it incumbent on them to subscribe to a
wreath. It was anticipated that Oxton
would, as always, object to separating him-
self from coin of the realm even to join
in the mark of respect for the manager who
had long paid him a decent salary. Antici-
pations were realised. Oxton didn’t like the
idea of flowers at funerals, he said, and was
perfectly sure his late boss would share his
aversion. Also he had ju3t bought a ter-
race of houses, and money was tight. It
was not until the business-manager, in full
evening dress, invaded Oxton’s dressing-room,
and personally appealed to him that the par-
simonious one could be induced to weigh in
with a contribution, and then it was only a
shilling. Oxton did not go to the funeral,
but it appeared from what he said at the
theatre at night that it was atrociously
stage-managed. “I went to see them start,”
he told the boys, “and there was a deuce of
a wait outside the house. They took about a
quarter of an hour bringing the wreaths out
and piling them on top of the hearse. No
wonder the horses in the first mourning-
coach got hungry. Stretching their necks
they began to nibble the flowers and
leaves on 'the wreaths and crosses.
They’d nearly got through one of the
largest floral emblems before they were
stopped. I was looking on from the
other side of the street, and out of curiosity
I walked over and inspected the card attached
to the half-demolished wreath. As I sus-
pected, it was ours, boys, ours! A nice
thing to give our hard-earned money for
flowers and have them eaten up by the
funeral horses!”
“O’South”: Had a glimpse the other night
of Australia’s old acquaintance Jack John-
son on a moving-picture screen. The dis-
colored bruiser was being escorted from the
court to the prison van after receiving his
sentence for white-slaving. A criminal with
a shred of decency remaining would have
tried to dodge the camera-man, but not so
Brudder Johnsing. He posed willingly,
raising his hat and bowing as though
acknowledging the plaudits of the multitude,
and opening his face in a smile that showed
he hadn’t been reduced to pawning his golden
teeth. He seemed to have the idea that he
was a popular idol still. Perhaps he is.
“Silas”: Will the film ever be a satis-
factory medium for the telling of a tale? I
have now seen many stories with which I was
familiar in print recapitulated on the screen,
and not in one instance did the movies give
me the tale half as well as the author had
done. Take the O. Henry stories, a great
many of which have been shown in picture
form, and you will find in every instance that
the “picturisation” (rotten word!) has
spoiled the story. Indeed in many cases the
tale has lost all value and been converted
into sheer inanity. Locke’s “White Dove” was
exhibited in Melbourne recently, with H.
Warner, one of the best of the picture-
actors, playing lead. The acting was good
and the accessories were excellent, but the
atmosphere of the story was lost, and it
looked scarcely better than the ordinary fac-
tory-made, American screen play. Of course
literary excellence goes for nothing in the
screening of a yarn, and construction, as
understood by the literary artist, is wasted
when the camera goes into action. Like-
wise, temperament no longer counts.
The Paris stage continues its attempts to
get as close as possible to complete nudity.
In a new play, on the idea of Don Juan
grown old, the hero has a vision of his past
loves, and all of them are —or appear to be —
in the altogether. Also, one of the principal
characters actually on the stage contrives to
let fall the shawl which is her only covering
above the waist.
“Steve Hart”: “First Robber” asserts (B.
24/2/’2l) that “country audiences are
never punctual,” but it’s mostly the travel-
ling show’s own fault. When the curtain
ought to be going up, half the damp com-
pany (it’s nearly all “East Lynne” up my
way) is otherwise engaged; one selling
tickets, another collecting them at the door,
a third showing the pure merinos to their
seats, and the rest scattered round the town-
ship borrowing props. So a long-suffering,
grown-wise public strolls along any old time,
after Dennis and the poddies are fed, know-
ing it’ll see all the show, if it’s 9 o’clock.
“Billy T.”: Butcher was a member of a
concert company that, extended as far as
Mildura and played small centres in the
lands about. He was an emotional tenor,
and being depressed by the failure of the
large, deep-bosomed contralto to appreciate
his masculine charms, and by the fact that
all was not financially well with the enter-
prise, he decided to commit suicide. Leaving
a note to that effect, he sought the river. He
was discovered by a native, wading about in
the water up to his chin. “Here, mister,
what yer doin’ ?” demanded the startled youth
on the bank. “I am committing suicide,”
replied Butcher. “Well.” continued the
native with increasing alarm, “you better try
the river a bit higher up. The bottom’s very
treacherous here.” At this stage three male
members of the company arrived, bearing
Butcher’s letter and seeking the body. They
heal’d the native’s instructions, and caught
the tenor in his rush for dry land. All this
merely to explain a facetious public notice
WIRTHS' CIRCUS AT SYDNEY HIPPO-
DROME.
Enter Foolish Ford, the bogus strong man.
set up by the river a little way below Mil-
dura, where it stood for three years:—
INTENDING SUICIDES, BEWARE!
The River Bottom is Very Treacherous Here.
By Order, J. Butcher.
“Topo”: A laconic reply was that sent to
Luseombe Searelle, composer of “Estrella,”
which owed whatever vogue it had to the
artistic fooling of Phil Day and the sweet
singing and winsome acting of Nellie Stewart.
“What will you give me to conduct my
opera?” Searelle telegraphed to the Firm.
The answer came in one word —“Nothing.”
“Old Pot”: Allan Will la’s Shakspearean
methods are modelled good deal on those
of Beerbobm Tree. F. R. Benson and Henry
Irving. When the critics were pulling Wilkie
to pieces because he had not dressed Shylock
correctly, especially in regard to his head-
gear, Allan pointed out drily that Irving had
worn the identical style of hat. I have in
my data about the actor-knight a picture of
him as Shylock. and not only is he wearing
exactly the head-dress affected by Wilkie, but
the make-up is almost identical. When in
Sydney Wilkie browses about bookshops in
search of old tomes about the classical actors.
His Richard 111. is in the vein uf Edmund
Kean, and is a much better study than that
of the last Dick I saw, George O. Miln, whom
the Herald will call John C. Milne.
“Private Boxer” : Hilda Spang, the grace-
ful and fetching leading lady of many Aus-
tralian successes, is now a recognised grand-
dame of the American stage. She was by
latest advices playing in a Broadway hit,
by Michael Morton (author of the Muriel
Starr vehicle, “The Yellow Ticket”), en-
titled “Woman to Woman.” In the cast
were two other players well-known on this
side, viz., Charles Mihvard and Charles Wal-
dron. Hilda, by the way, seems to have a
partiality for plays with “Woman” in the
title. On her last visit to Australia she was
seen in “Everywoman,” and “The Woman.”
“S.T.S.”: A re-
cent paragraph
about Julius
Knight’s return to
the London stage
recalls that Ada
Ferrar has just
done the same. She
was the first Mer-
cia and Marie
Louise and Prin-
cess Flavia that
Australia knew,
having to make
love with Knight
every evening on
the stage, though
off it they were
utterly unsympa-
thetic, sometimes
not on speaking
terms. (He never
talked of this out-
side, so far as I am
aware; but she did
freely.) London
saw her also again
this Christmas. But
time is less kind to
women, and she
has come down to
a revival of “Char-
ley’s Aunt,” and
the small part of
“Julius Cesar ,” at
Sydney Opera House.
Marcus Brutus (Jack
Lennon) .
the real aunt who drops in near the end.
“T;O.I.”: Mention of Macready as the
original Claude Melnotte recalls that a son
of the great actor appeared under Barry
Sullivan’s management at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, in the ’sixties. lie had been an
officer in the army. Macready fils appeared
for two nights as Captain Absolute in “The
Rivals,” but was a failure. Sullivan kept
him on as a super, but finally sacked him
in disgust.
“Smike”: Edmund Gwenn, remembered in
Australia for his throaty Lord Jeffreys in
the first production of “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” has made a hit ip “The Skin Game,”
Galsworthy’s study of English class-con-
sciousness and snobbery, which has had a
long run in London. Gwenn is now getting
on a bit, but all the same he slipped into
khaki four or five years back and came out
of the disturbance with two pips on his
sleeve.
The success of “Tilly of Bloomsbury” no
doubt means that all lan Hay’s other novels
will be dramatised. “A Safety Match”
is the next to be converted, and it is scoring
well at the Strand, London. Arthur Bour-
ehier is the middle-aged millionaire who
marries a penniless young girl, the daughter
(and .namesake) of Kyrle Bellew is the
heroinh, and George Grossmith’s daughter,
Ena, who started her stage career as the
younger sister in “Tilly,” lias a similar
though more cheerful part here.
“Orb”: Mention by “T.E.” (B. 3/3/’2l)
that Julius Knight was lately showing at
the London Comedy in a satirical play, <? The
Kingdom, the Power and the Glory,” re-
minds me that Charles Holloway bored Aus-
tralia with a bellowdrama styled “The Power
and the Glory.” “The Kingdom,” etc., is
a rotten title for a play, anyway, and seems
as irrelevant and irreverent as some of the
revue labels. By the way, the pitchers are
getting short of taking titles, and six-reelers
are now branded “Something to Think
About,” and “Life’s a Funny Proposition,”
and banalities of that kind.
“Rienzi”: The Society for the Adoration
of Dorothy Brunton includes a passionate
recruit in a Melbourne shop. Every even-
ing he sees the golden-haired beauty pass his
place on her way to work, and if anybody
happens to be handy, he will gaze fervently
after the vision and say: “There goes
Dorothy Brunton. Ain’t she a bonz!” The
other night I was buying a small article and
getting the change of a pound note in shill-
ings when the gods’ own Dorothy tripped by
with mamma, with quite unexpected results
to my pocket. Percy had dealt me 10 bob
when Dot appeared, and craning his neck
to watch her to his ultimate limit of vision
kept on absent-mindedly serving out the sil-
ver to the subsequent profit (to me) of 4s.
6d. A couple of evenings later the change
of another note produced a surplus of 75.,
simply because the little actress lihgered a
moment in view to gaze at something
feminine in a nearby window. I now claim
to be Dorothy’s greatest worshipper, and
hope she will stay a long time and always
take the same route to the theatre. P.S. —
I will sell the address of the shopkeeper
for something less than £5OOO.
ENTHUSIAST ONCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A small part for such a capable man, but ‘I get
out early,’ says he, ‘and I’m not looking for bouquets
at this time of day.’ ” — Bulletin, 2'iJ2/’2l.
Time was when lengthy parts I yearned for.
I wanted “fat,” and plenty of it.
Long scenes and many—these I burned for;
“Study shall mummers always profit,”
I told myself, but that, was when
My hair, now scant, was thick and curly.
These days my parts in size diminish,
And mostly in the first act finish,
But I’m content —I get out early!
Once, I confess, I was ambitious,
“Enthusiast,” my colleagues named me;
I scorned the cheap and meretricious,
Art —and the service of it —claimed me.
Often I’d burn the midnight oil,
And see the mom break dewy-pearly,
To get “the words” into my head;
But now, enthusiasm dead,
I’m satisfied to get out early.
Ahl once I dreamed of fame —no matter I
We can’t all “star,” that much is certain.
Lean parts are mine (they’ll get no fatter),
And so until the final curtain
I’ll be what’s called “a useful man.”
Well, be it so. Not sour or surly
You’ll find me when the smallest rOle
I’m cast for —oh, but life is droll!
Killed in Scene I, I get out early.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


British Built "SENTINEL'’ Steam Waggons
For Heavy Haulage.
“SENTINEL”WAGGONS v. PETROL WAGGONS
are higher in first cost, but they save their
cost in approximately 2 years owing to
operating costs, including capital charges,
being very much lower than those of petrol
vehicles.
are lower in first cost, but very much higher
in operating costs, including capital charges.
In approximately 2 years the excess operating
cost would pay for a “Sentinel” Waggon.
“SENTINEL”
FEATURES.
'
Vertical Boiler.
All Parts
Accessible.
Slow Running
Engine.
Simple 8 Strong
Transmission.
Large Paying
Load Carried.
Easy
Manoeuvring.
Neat
Appearance.
'oi tlfesS v OPO,
'%' llisp
mmMssm^gmam
timm
Standard “Sentinel” 5-6-Ton Waggon, Fixed Body.
v /. •■';
Cook, t.cHJi- aw tigArhtfirn
m Mjrmm. -mrsmm
~ : : . %,■■: '
Standard “Sentinel” 5-Ton Waggon, Tipping Body.
“SENTINEL”
FEATURES.
Coke or Coal
Fuel.
Absence of
Smoke and
Nuisance.
Reliability.
Durability.
Low Cost
Operation
and Upkeep.
“Close-up”
Road View.
Driving
Comfort.
STANDARD “SENTINEL”
MODELS.
hfd
Prompt Delivery from English Works.
Thousands of “Sentinels” in use throughout England.
Full Particulars from
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward & Mary Sts.
33-35 King St.
ADELAIDE:
96 Currie St
NEWCASTLE:
Watt St
LAUNCESTON:
31A Cameron St


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder sSoop
LEWIS &WMITTV MELBOURNE & SYbNEY
j/te finest Spirii in,
Clustralianjtisiorif
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED
BUTALSO BOTTLED UNDER
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
S 3
3CCP
URE MALT
lU.ED INAUSTRAU*
PROPRIETORS
pg
AUAN
HELBOaRnE-
h
Not until stable-companion Nautical had
been actually scratched for the Australian Cup could
punters accept Wren’s horse The Rover as a real
good thing for the race. Some weeks before last
Caulfield Cup a bunch of Wren’s money was in-
vested on The Rover, but he went amiss and passed
out, and this page ceased to speculate as to whether
his private reputation would ever be justified in
public. The fact of his being a much improved
animal in the best of form was a close stable secret
until Wilson’s lot of eight arrived at Flemington a
few days before the V.R.C. meeting. Then it
appeared that The Rover was in great heart and fully
wound up, after which it only remained for John
Wren to shout .the tip aloud,- and the world was
mostly ready to take what odds it could get. In
some people’s minds there was a doubt about the
temper and soundness of this troublesome son of
Sea Prince. He had behaved like a lunatic at the
barrier for the Doncaster Handicap when backed
to win a fortune, and the rarity of his
public appearances was an argument against the
five-year-old. However, The Rover was a good enough
thing for the Australian Cup with Nautical out of
the way. With the Leger winner in the race the
result might have been the same. A 71b. penalty
for winning the classic race had taken some of the
gilt off Nautical’s chance; still, it left him with no
more than Bst. to carry, and considering that
his Leger victory had practically assured him of
more than Bst. for Sydney Cup the exposure of
The Rover’s form, instead of giving Nautical a run
in the Australian Cup, looks very like an error in
tactics, explainable only on the supposition that
Wren’s hox-se is so rarely right that they need to
make the most of an opportunity with him. There
never was anything but The Rover in the 2}-mile
race. Ulster Boy, a terribly hard puller, made all
tFie" running, attended by the favorite, until the
final turn for home. Then the “moral” passed the
tiring pacemaker, and the rest was cheering. A lot
of people had taken the tip. .
Four of the 1C starters for the Australian
Cup were by Sea Prince, and the winner was
among them. Also Nautical, the eleventh-hour
scratching, who might have won witli his stable
companion out of the way, is a Sea Prince. The bad-
tempered chestnut is making his mark as a sire of
stayers, but seemingly they are best when they don’t
take after father in their conformation.
The rule that the barrier can do no wrong
comes pretty rough on punters in such cases as the
Bourke Handicap at Flemington last week. When the
barrier was lifted two horses were seen to be hopelessly
out of the race. The favorite. Rostrum, runner-up
in the Newmarket, had been left at the post, whilst
the second favorite, St. Ronans, got off so badly
that he might as well have been turned the wrong
way. This was balm for the books, who had been
sorely suffering up to then, but it set backers won-
dering why it happened.
The race between Furythmic and Nautical
for the Governor’s Plate admitted of more than one
reading. One view of the matter was that Nautical
is by disposition a pacemaker with a good
capacity for keeping it up, but a poor heart for a
struggle when tackled by a topnoteher. Although
beaten two lengths at the finish, the time —2min.
82Jsec. for 12 furlongs—showed that Nautical had
made the pace hot. There were critics though,
who thought the three-year-old had been even a
trifle too highly strung for the Leger, five days
earlier, and was already losing form, whereas the
champion undoubtedly was all the better for the
slower-run race that made him sweat over the same
distance on Leger day. Eurythmic was not over-
strung, anyhow, and his chance of a triumphant
Easter week at Randwick looks much rosier than
Nautical’s. A great horse up to 1A mile is
Eurythmic; nevertheless, the evidence of the book
is all against the supposition that he is a Poitrel
at two miles and more. His victory in the Perth
Cup goes for nothing in comparison with his failure
in last Melbourne Cup. Eudorus, the sire of
Eurythmic, was a brilliant horse who didn’t like a
longer distance than 10 furlongs, and none of his
offspring seem genuine stayers. A case in point was
the defeat of Wildun at Flemington last Thursday.
Made a warm favorite for the Autumn Handicap
(13 furlongs) Wildun looked to have the race won
until Well Off came along, in the last 50 yards,
and made a dead-heat. Had he been anything of
a stayer, Wildurrmust have beaten his very common-
place' opponent in the run-off. But the commoner
made all the running and beat him a neck. Had
the race been a furlong shorter the favorite would
have seemed to win easily. When Eurythmic meets
Poitrel over 12 furlongs at Randwick, he also will
probably win with apparent ease, as though another
half-mile would suit him all the way. Yet the
Melbourne Cup story is amost certain to be repeated
when he meets the little fellow in stamina-test
matches. Elfacre, getting away in front of Sir
Ibex and Cetigne for the w.f.a. mile at Hemingiton,
suggested sprightly youth versus tired age. Elfacre
is a four-year-old, to be sure, but he has not done
very much racing; while Cetigne, with a hard-
working past, will be nine next birthday, and 'Sir
Ibex is two or three years older. The vim has gone
out of them.
* * * *
The most interesting event of the last day
of the V.R.C. Autumn Meeting—more interesting
than Eurythmic’s race, seeing that the two miles
were run in only moderately good time, and the win-
ner’s stamina was not fully tested —was the I are-
well Handicap. Therein Blue Cross, the Newmarket
winner, met Coq d’Or, who had started favorite for
the popular sprint race. The English horse met
Blue Cross on 111 b. better terms, and the extra two
furlongs in distance obviated the possibility of his
being hopelessly “chopped” at the start. The re-
sult was a triumph for “form.” The Newmarket
hero scored another win, whilst Coq d’Or’s running
proved that he had no sort of right to be backed
down to a short price for the Newmarket, or for the
race last Saturday, when the odds against him
lengthened considerably before the start. He made
a pretty good showing this time, but seemingly there
is a lot of flesh to come off Coq d’Or ere he can
win a rich handicap or w.f.a. race. The burly ani-
mal is not wound up as yet, and not until he has
stood a preparation will it be worth while wonder-
ing whether he is still worthy of his English reputa-
tion of three or four years aero.
JAMES YOUNG, the N.S.W. scorer and
lightning-calculator in the Test matches.
Seven started in the Rawson Stakes w.f.a.
9 furlongs, at Rosehill on Saturday—Poitrel, Richmond
Main (sound again but very burly), Sardis,, a brother
of Polycrates and a winner in England; Erasmus,
Fluency, Swift Shot and Chrysolaus. In spite of
the beef he carried there was most money for
Richmond Main. Erasmus was backed with greai
confidence by his owner. On account of the dis-
tance:. Poitrel started at the longest price ever
offered against him, except once, in a weight-for-age
race. His general habit is to restrain himself for
a .mile, and then fly the rest of the trip. But this
time Bracken started working at him from the rise
of the barrier. Lying last, the pair were neverthe-
less always within striking distance of the leaders
and, entering the straight, the discrepancy was no
more than three lengths. As Richmond Main and
Erasmus commenced to argue the point Poitrel ap-
proached, and, when the four-vear-old, shifting out
under the strain, opened a clear run along the
rails, the little chestnut put the acid on both.
Erasmus began to falter over the last hundred yards.
Richmond Main, desperately ridden as soon as Albert
Wood sensed the new danger beside him, stuck to
his job with conspicuous courage. The judge gave
it a dead-heat. They ran the distance in “53^.”
Kellick’s gelding, Beauford, who made hacks of
some of the speediest sprinters at Randwick last
season, put up a wonderfully good performance in
the Railway Stakes. Weighted at 9st. 21b. _in a
field of cracks, the big fellow hit the front in the
first furlong, and was never headed. Demonte made
a run at him a furlong from the line, but quickly
blew out. ,
Owing to last week’s rain Sydney grade
cricketers had to. win, lose or draw their matches
on Saturday. Granney won the toss for C. Cumber-
land v. Petersham, and took the risk of sending the
enemy in. The latter “declared” with 5 down lor
211—Scott (59 n. 0.) and Thatcher (68). Tne
fruitgrowers, who went boldly for the runs, were
all out just on time for 178, of which G. Best
smote 53. Norths put Gordon in, outed them, and
hist got home on time with 4 wickets to spare.
Diamond (35) and Joe Taylor (47) alone showed
form for the losers. Pratten, 'Hall, McElhone and
Armstrong weve tli6 buts of tliG winning tGciiii»
more particularly the first-named. But the prime
factor in the win was King’s bowling. Paddington
got Glebe out for 163, to which Morgan contributed
a graceful, chanceless 98. Paddington then lost
2 for 85 Waverley drew with Balmain. Thomas,
Davis and the everlasting Jones showed good form
for the boneyard suburb with the bat, though the
latter’s 88 (n. 0.) was tediously made. McCoy
(60) was ’Main’s star performer: all the bowling
came alike to him. Ward Prentice, again, was
mainly responsible for West’s win. > Middle Harbor,
by scratching together 149 in a couple of hours,
looked like drawing. However, Prentice made a
raking 40, and, being well backed up, the runs were
secured with four wickets to go. lor the V illagei s
Eric Bull (46) and Ilogue (25 n. 0.) were above
the average. Bowling for the Sundowners, Russell
got 4 for 56, Prentice 3 for 30 and Dight 3 for
17. Sydney are very weak with Gregory, Collins
ar.d Asher away, and ’Varsity declared against them
with 4 for 204. Rock (97) and Hesslein (50)
gave a great batting display. Sydney hung on till
6 o’clock, when eight had been banished tor tb.
Mavne, now on Ms way to Westralia with
the Australian XV, put up a brilliant performance
in Melbourne on Saturday. Playing for East against
Carlton, he cracked up 234 without giving a chance,
and the effort left East with an advantage of 2
wickets and 193 runs. Mayne had the bad luck to
get out a couple of minutes before time through the
ball knocking a chip off his bat and rolling on to
Hie wicket. St. Hilda, so far unbeaten this season,
were nearly walloped by University. Saints, with
3 for 140 against the students’ 179, looked easy
winners, but, mainly through the bowling of L. Fre-
mantle (6 for 70), the seasiders just managed to get
level when, the last man was bowled for a duck.
The match therefore ended in a tie. Fitzroy, closing
with 8 for 284 against Richmond (Lansdown 100
n. 0.), were just rob ed of a win Iw Richmonds
dogged tail playing for safety until the hell rang.
Richmond made 9 for 197 and scored a good draw,
Northcote closed with 6 for 238 v. North, and won
on the first hits by 116. North’s second try, result-
ing in 5 for 208, early dashed ’Cote’s hopes of a
straight-out win. Melbourne’s total of 338 was too
big for South, who lost by 189 on the first hits.
Likewise Essendon were 141 behind P’ran’s tally ot
274', Essendon’s best man being the reliable Davies,
who made the top score of 41. #
Billy Shade, in silk pants of a subdued
slate-grey hue,'and Ray Lockwood, in trouserings of
violent green, entertained ■ the multitude at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. Wild swings were the
chief items of a somewhat amateurish programme.
In the third round Lockwood’s hard right to the
chin nearly ended the proceedings. Shade’s abun-
dant smile faded right out. Metaphorically speaking
he removed hat, coat and Waistcoat and settled
down to hard graft. About the fifth round he dis-
covered the fift in the enemy fortifications—a semi-
circular site lying about an inch above the belt.
Busily devoting himself to this area he soon had
its owner undermined and in sore trouble. In the
eighth scuffle Lockwood’s now far from convincing grin
subsided in a splash of gore, and immediately after-
wards a violent uppercut wiped it out for good. The
owner sank to the boards, and Joe Wallis performed
the last rites with his customary aplomb. The
element of absurdity and the flavor of uncertainty
compensated for any lack of skill in the display put
up by the strenuous Yanks.
* ■ y* » *
The final of the M.C.C. Tennis champion-
ships in Melbourne last week left Gerald Patterson
still cock of the court, though the previous day he
was nearly finished by R. V. Thomas, who, with two
sets in and a s—o lead in the fourth, needed only
another game to achieve the most memorable victory
of bis career. However, Patterson recovered in an
astonishing manner, and took seven games in succes-
sion, leaving the record two sets all. In the final go
Thomas had a 3—o lead, and again Patterson cap-
tured six out of the next seven games. This was
probably the luckiest and pluckiest encounter of his
career. In the final with O’Hara Wood (Heath re-
tired) Patterson had an untroubled win, Wood hav-
ing mislaid his tactics and apparently left his punch
at home. Wood had some earlier cause for depres-
sion in the fact that he and Thomas, ex-doubles
champions of the world, had been heavily beaten by
a new doubles combination, Wertheim and Fitchett.
This pair lost in the final after a hard go with
Hawkes and Patterson on Saturday, though neither
duet disclosed really high-class tennis. Wertheim
showed the best form of the four, but some of his
attempts at spectacular smashes were as ludicrous
as Patterson’s reckless walloping of easy halls.
O’Hara Wood and Miss Schlesinger prevailed against
G. N. Roberts and Miss Boyd in the mixed doubles.
But the latter lady, who possesses a good service
and a telling drive, won the ladies’ singles from
the Westralian lady champion, Mrs. Mather, in two
straight sets. Also, partnered with Miss Schlesinger,
the plump little artist enjoyed another triumph iri
the ladies’ doubles, scores: 6 —3, 6—3.
* * * *
Clarence Todd, of Trangie (N.S.W.), lifted
the City of Sydney singles tennis championship last
week. In the early rounds he overwhelmed D. Reid
and T. Cummins, and in the semi-final downed Nor-
man Peach (who has won the title twice) in a five-
set tussle by 28 games to 23. The final on Saturday
was another vigorous game against Bob Neil, and
again it took five sets to decide. Todd won by 6—B,
2—6, 6 —2, B—6, 64 —28 games to 26.
The final yacht-race of the Sydney season
for deep-keelers occurred on Saturday, over the
Manly-Shark Islar.d-Pinchgut course. Rawhiti 11.
got away so slowly that she lost her handicap from
Saxton’s Northcote Cup holder, Awanui. Awanui 11,
rourded the village mark first, followed! by
Rawhiti 11., which had 9-(min, to spare from
Oenone. Flattening sheets for the final work to
the Watson’s Bay light, Awanui was still well
ahead; Bona was closing in on the leaders; Magic
headed Sunbeam, and Oenone was displaced by
Scotia. Sunbeam had fallen back to whipper-in, as
the final two-mile reach from Shark Island was
entered upon; and eventually Awanui won comfort-
ably by 3min. lOsec. from Rawhiti, with Scotia,
40sec. away, third.
ROY LOCKWOOD, American cruiser
weight.
Sydney Sailing Club’s final 18ft. handicap
for the season attracted 19 starters. The winner
turned up in Georgie Robinson’s creation, Britannia.
Starting off the limit}, mark, the diminutive pilot
outmanoeuvred and outsailed the whole fleet, eventu-
ally lobbing home with 25 sec. in hand from
Moyana, oft the same mark. Hero, 41mm., was
third. The kite setting was execrable, Britannia
being the only craft to elevate and stow them
smartly. Limit boat Plume carried away her mast,
and Pastime was disqualified.
* * * *
Ethelda Bleibtrey won the 440yds. Vic-
torian championship from Lily Beaurepaire
('•Bogey’s” sister) by 47yds. in Melbourne last
Saturday. Margaret Dowd, Ethelda’s travelling
companion, was third. The time, 6min. 28 4-osec.,
was 1 4-ssec. slower than the Yankee wonders
South Brisbane effort, and 25 2-ssec. worse than
Fanny Durack’s world’s best. Ethelda was defeated by
Misses M. Richardson (Albert Park) and Lily Beau-
repaire, of the same club, in the State diving, cham-
pionship. - •
* * * *
Twenty-five started and 17 completed
the course in the three miles’ race ibr the
N. S. Wales A.S.A. president’s (James Taylor) cup at
Sydney Domain Baths on Saturday. The winner
turned up in Frank Williams (Spit Club), the limit
man, who covered the distance in lhr. 53min. 20sec.
handicap, 53min. 51see. K. Flavelle (Spit Club),
46 min. 51sec., was second, after swimming breast-
stroke over the entire distance.
■* * * *
By carrying off the mile championship
of Victoria, ‘in "the world’s. record time of 23mm.
’Ssec., Beaurepaire beats his own best for the dis-
tance by 19sec. Canadian G. R. Hodgson previously
held the record with 23min. 34isec. Faster times have
been recorded by Barney Kieran, 23mm. 16 4-6 sec.,
and Norman Ross, 22min. 58 2-6 sec., but, as lieithei
swim was accomplished in a bath of the lequired
length, they are not recognised. Ross s best mile
effort (long course) in Australia was in the JS. >
Wales championship. His time then was 24min.
6seC. _ - «
* * *
N S Wales A.A.A. held its championship
meeting (first day) at Manly on Saturday, and
reaped the biggest “gate” in years. Carl Ferguson
was the only title-holder to compete. E. W. ( blip )
Carr, who has filled out a lot, won the hundred com-
fortably froiu- R. E. White and Walton Hunt m 10
2-ssec. The race was run without strings, for some
fool reason or other. In the 120yds. hurdles ex-
G.P.S. champion F. W. Edwards won by a yard m
f 6 2-ssec. from A. W. Winter and Stan Young.
There was never more than a couple of yards between
them from the “gun.” The 440yds. gave the bronzed
R. G. Piggott an easy win by 6yds. in 52sec.; and
H S. Grandemange ran away from brother “Mossy
and L. McLelland in the mile (4min. 28 l-ssec.).
George Parker took the three-mile walk from diminu-
tive Ernie Austen by 30yds. in 22min. 7 l-ssec.—an
improvement of 2 3-ssec. on the N.S.W. record
figures. A. C. Kitchen, who won the Vic. two-miles
championship the previous week, was half a lap
away third. In the field events, K. J. Naukler won
the shot putt with 46ft. 4Jin„ but the weight was
only 121 b. Policeman W. F. Payne (42ft. 71 in.) and
D. Lane (41ft. 4jin.) filled the places. Naukler is
also leading in the discus throw with 130 ft. sin. from
C. T. Ferguson (99ft. sJin.) and A. W. Mimer
(96ft. 7in.). The event will be concluded on the
second day.
* * * *
Alf Grenda’s riding in Sydney cycling
carnival on Saturday was the most brilliant shown
by him this season. In a three-aside teams’ race
(with Bill Erskine and J. Atkins as partners) he
was first over the line in both heats in 2min. 40sec.,
after which he took the five-mile scratch from Erskine
and C. L. Papworth in llmin. lOsec. The lengthy
Tasmanian’s judgment was excellent. In the mile
handicap, Ken Ross (50yds.) won from Horder and
Nesbitt in lmin. 36 2-ssec.
THE BREAKING POINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I had been reading down the names of those
picked fo go to England to do battle for Australia
to retain the ashes. All read well, so I thought till
I came to one name, when, sir, quiet man that 1 am,
I swore. I threw back my head. 1 thought of
Punch, of Park, of Liddicbt, the brothers Richard-
son, Ivippax, Bogle, Hornibrook, Cranney, even, aye,
of our own local crack bowler, Charlie. And I
was overwhelmed with a sense of the wrong that had
been done these men.” —Bcrowra (N.S.W.) resident
in Sydney Telegraph.
A sportsman and an optimist, he never knew despair,
Nor so far lost his sense of good as to
swear,
Though on his evening train from town,
Drunks constantly roamed up and down,
And, half in earnest, half in skite,
Called upon* other drunks to fight—
All such annoyances he bore,
And rarely murmured, much less swore.
While year by year the railway fares went up and
ever up,
He (with his first-class season) had to drain a
bitter cup,
Each week-end, when relentless Fate
Heaped Woy Woy tourists and their bait,
Bags, children, tickets (second-class)
And lager on him in a mass —
Yet still he kept his equipoise,
Abjuring anger," shunning noise.
The insects of the Creek that gives his native town
its name
Are fierce, and where they bite it burns like some
red oriflamme.
■Time and again a sandfly’s sting
Caused him to leap like anything,
And mutter “Tut!” or “Oh, dear, dear 1”
Or, “Still another bite, I fear!”—»
But never any language worse:
No pain could wring from him a curse.
And so he lived, respected from Berowra to the
sea,
A model of the sort of man all men should wish to
be,
Till Mayne was picked to go abroad.
He read the news. Then “*!*” he roared,
And “***!” Next, flinging back his head,
“Oh, ! !**” in low, fierce tones he said.
Wires from Berbwra’s gum-clad hill
Report that he is at it still.
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


YOU CAN LEARN TO BOX,
We specialise in higli-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
learn to defend yourself in a “scrap” ;
learn all the science and technicali-
ties of proper footwork, of attack,
counter and defence, if you follow the
course that has already trained hun-
dreds of successful boxers.
LEARN BOXING
BY MAIL
under the Baker system, and learn
all the points of the game quickly
and effectively.
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, has compiled a very
simple and very easily-understood course of boxing
lessons, which will give you a thorough grasp of all
the essential points of the game. It is based upon
his personal experience in the ring, and covers the
subject from the first stages right on to the higher
points of ring-craft, the Baker course is easy to
follow', complete and intensely interesting.
If you would like to learn more about this fascinat
ing system of lessons, simply cut this advertisement
out, write your name and address across it, and send
it to us, enclosing three penny stamps to cover cost
of postage. We will send you “Snowy” Baker’s
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which describes the course in detail, and gives
much valuable information about the art of self-
defence.
Send to-day—NOW!
m
::S:*S4£
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
445 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
r *SH
!Mp i
m
Ly
is
WOlr
fdh
"WomcxtBest
‘"KotokSpipjf
ginned& Cdksed
fr\ C2ccs*tr&jG<3..
DRlTISH IMPERIAL OIL COY LTD.. AUjtATU V ft Z.
Stays
Rigid
in all
Weathers
Heat, Cold, Quick Changes
have less effect on
“Waratah.” It is speci-
ally made tor Australian
conditions. “Waratah”
strains tighter,
stays rigid, costs
less.
Get Free Booklet.
f-plate Lever in
Steel Case, 32/6,
Gent.’s full size, 15
Years’ Guarantee.
Customs
Duties, f
The Customs De-
partment is the
greatest profiteer
in Australi a.
Erratic, too. An
importer k n o w s
not from hour to
hour what the De-
partment’s ruling
will be. And all
without P a r 1 i a-
ment’s sanction.
Just imagine a working man having to pay
48 per cent, (just on half the cost price) on a
watch. . ,
Yet ’tis the Customs’ charge. This, too, on
an article that cannot be made in Australia.
No wonder prices of Watches are soaring.
Fortunately,, we carry grosses of the leading
lines, and so have large numbers that we landed
prior to the imposition (expressive word) of
the present monstrous duty, and these we are
selling at the old prices.
Hence our present quotations are fully 20
per cent, less than they must be when present
stocks are sold.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Lom/clotho
%
dfg
THE. WORLDS
#
df
CP
BEST VALUE
w
gd
fg
2EES)
dfg
fdh
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
VI -a
<*»
HEADACHE
and
SORE
THROAT
S
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP—BUT
there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cdre you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATH EAD’S
MIXTURE.
Greathead’s is sold in generous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
enough to cure the most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
influenza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead’s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
Motor Control Gear.
We can supply and erect control gear for
all types of motors, and for practically any
condition of service. This gear includes
starters, control panels, etc.
We can also supply oil-immersed switch-
gear for mines, sub-stations and industrial
work generally.
We shall be glad to give estimates and
answer inquiries for supplying complete
plant, as well as for electrical elevators
and hoists, gear transformers, motors,
dynamos, etc.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Homewood 8 O’Neill Pty. Ltd.
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-6 William Street.
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
9
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who never
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not only POLISH,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS-: Black, Brown, Dark Brown. Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK POLISHES LTD.
;
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J£ inches;
Weight 621b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £38/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Stfeet, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
The THORNLEY Lithe
(Australian=made).
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
gin. centres x 6ft. bed; Uin. Hollow Spindle; Swing in Gap,
20in. dia. x 7|in. wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller-
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for specifications and complete particulars to
BENSON
brothers limited
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


For Your Saster Holidays.
Suit Cases, reduced 7/6.
THIS is an exceptional opportunity to
purchase an extremely useful and con-
venient Suit Case; one that will com-
fortably hold all the clothing needs of the
average tripper on a short holiday.
Suit Cases, made of dark brown, hard vulcanised
Fibre, on metal frame; each case is fitted with two
nickel locks; additional strength is given by the
comers being capped with fibre; light in weight.
Lengths, inches 22 24 26 28
Usual Prices .. .. 35/- 38/6 42/- 45/-
Special Prices .. .. 27/6 31/6 34/6 32/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
" The Store for Men,”
BOX 497, G.P.O.
V** ' *
-£
m
m
BOND’S
fd
Australian-made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
Made in
Artificial
Silk Smart,
Comfortable and
Guaranteed, to give
satisfactory Service
''Yellow Diamond 11 which
sells at a very low price
stands supreme as a Hose
•OR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Melboune
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Opening
Day,
March 21.
The Australian Cup was a crowded, cheery
meeting even though the weather did annoy
feminine frockers by plunging suddenly back
into summer. There is no fun in having a
new autumn gown or wrap if it can’t be
shown off at a dress parade like the lawn.
Out came the tired muslins and foulards
and the breeze-bashed summer hats. The
north wind would not give even a careful
make-up a chance. Necks and arms and
faces are well tanned or reddened after the
seaside months, and women yearn for the
cosy coverings of autumn to frame-up the
complexion damage.
However some women went out for the
racing. Lady Forster was there with her
G.-G.; she looked cool and sweet in pale
blue georgette under a shady blue straw hat.
The Stradbroke lady wore a slim, tailored
white cloth and a dinky little hat of bronze
tissue. Lady Helen lious was tailored- in
pale fawn with a little pale pink velours hat
pulled down over her eyes; Mrs. Aide
Wheatly was plumply upholstered in dark
navy satin and chiffon, and Miss Amy Fer-
guson was in dove grey. The two bevys of
Government House folk had a lunch party.
Mrs. Mount Schank Clarke, the Frank
Clarkes, Mrs. Tracey and her captain, the
Phillip Russells and the. Norman Bayleses
ate with the vice-regal crowd.
Geoff. Moule’s bride came along in her
wedding-dress—a dove-grey symphony, and
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald dared the heat in a
duvetyn suit which swathed up round her
throat to the ears. She was fashionable
and happy, but very warm. Mrs. Denison,
from Sydney, was neatly pleated into mouse-
colored georgette with some jade green and
silver in her turban. Mrs. Bullivant spread
a pale grey coat frock of great magnificence,
and Mrs. Gildea (Bananaland) wore em-
broidered muslin and a shady hat. The
Lady Mayoress Swanson wore a brocaded
fawn silk with a pansy-colored hat, and Mrs.
Colin Craig (General “Birdie’s” daughter)
came out in neat tailorings of grey.
The Federal and State Exes, should squash
all argument by telling exactly whom is to be
kow-towed to, and why, when and where, and
also how much. At the Stradbroke reception
at Parliament House it was comically
pathetic to see a queue of women, each ner-
vously desirous of showing they knew what
was what. Some few bobbed not at all;
another section dipped up and down very
fiercely to the Stradbrokes, Irvines and Law-
sons in turn; and one or two abased them-
selves before the State Governor and his
wife as they would at a Royal Court presen-
tation. If the Forsters and Stradbrokes
march with the times they will scrap the
whole kow-towing business, which was fool-
ishly imported to Australia by the North-
cotes.
Did somebody pull the new Gov.’s leg
about a stretch of the Yarra above Johnson-
street bridge? When his Ex. was declaring
Ivew a city he provoked broad smiles by say-
ing that as the years went on more and
more people would come out to see their
garden city and the beautiful Dight water-
falls. But perhaps Stradbroke was having
a sly dig at the “falls,” which are a sort of
weir to conserve sufficient water to keep the
Botanical Gardens going and maintain the
level of Albert Park lake.
Bank managers can be quite tiresome to
intending oversea trippers just now. Hid-
eous Rumor says one of the young dollar
princes and his bride were forced to unpack the
steamer trunks they had packed for a trip to
the Fog because, two other members of the
gilt-edged family being due to steam off the
same day, the bank refused to hand out a
sufficiently large bag of gold to allow the
whole quartette to do the trip in princely
style.
As a Federal Minister at three A.N.A.
conferences George Wise has not cut the
figure he used to as a private member or
non-Parliamentarian. He has ceased, in fact,
to be a leader of the Natives’ Parliament.
Peacock, too, as a Minister, is much less
interesting than as a freelance. He found it
more to his taste to address kiddies at dis-
trict schools than sit out conferences. John
Gavan Duffy, when he first too'k office under
James Service, in 1880, told his constitu-
ents that there was a difference between the
man and the Minister, and if they had any-
thing against the Minister not to lay it at
the door of Duffy, who was all sorts of a
fine fellow'. Wise and Peacock w'ould pro-
bably like the same rule applied to them.
The first night the new State vice-regals
breezed into this city a certain politician,
after a sympathetic survey of the lady’s slim
proportions, reinforced his how-d’-do’s with
a chortle of satisfaction: “Ah, ha!” ha bur-
bled. "You have come to the right place,
Lady Stradbroke—we will soon fatten you
up out here!”
The M.C.C. tennis tournament at the
Albert Ground last week gave the G.-G.
and the State Ex. a chance to take a day off
from the deadly routine of Declaring Things
Open. Sassiety spread itself about the vari-
ous courts and rolled up in great strength
for the finals on' Saturday. Many of the
Very Best perched up on the stands and
grilled in the sun with that high-bred stoi-
cism which showed that they could endure
torture as well as the lowah ordahs. All the
tennis enthusiasts were there, notably the
splendid Tommy Cochran, who was simply
roped off with girls overwhelmed by his
stunning neckwear. Jowett, the man of
many sheep, stuck it out in a straw hat and
blazer, and Norman Brookes and his lady
also floated in after a somewhat vehement
debate with the gatekeeper. Whatever the
cause of the altercation, Norman seethed to
his seat looking like the “Before Taking”
in a liver-pill advt.
The Earl-Gov. is expected at the installa-
tion of F. T. Hickford as Grandmaster of
the Masons this week. As he is likely to be
the G.M. himself next year his Ex. will be
able to pick up a few wrinkles. From Hick-
ford, the Brunswick lawyer and ex-M.L.A.
of the Kyabramapootra era, who cuts no ice,
to a real live earl will be a revolutionary
change.
Rumor booms of big trouble slowly sim-
mering to the boil beneath the thatch of a
well-known couple in the village. Tales of
tiffs are trifles by the way-~-they happen in
the happiest dovecots, and may or may not
end in smoke; but divorce is a bird of an
uglier color. Between tea sips one hears:
“They say he” , “My dear, is it as bad
as that? How perfectly shocking!” “Of
course, it is quite true that she” , “That
means he will” -, “What a tragedy; but
if people will do these things” , “But,
when? Why? Who?” The answers will be
forthcoming when the case is called, maybe
next month.
Melbourne’s Billjim Shakspeare Society
seem to suffer from fits of the fidgets. They
are on the move again. These intellectuals
used to meet originally in the old Austral
Salon rooms in Flinders-lane. When the
Salon sauntered off to the Hardware Associ-
ation rooms, they followed along and Shaks-
peared quietly there for some time. Now
they seek higher elevations and intend har-
boring in Queen’s Hall, Collins-street. This
year they will trim the lamps of learning
under a father of light—Professor Wallace,
who will occupy the presidential stool.
Talking of the Shakspeare Society re-
minds one that the Dickens Fellowship still
meets together occasionally—recently at the
Queen’s Hall, Collins-street—but seems in
want of expert male reciters of scenes from
the novelist. Melbourne’s personal feeling
towards the memory of the author of David
Copperfield was weakened when Alf Tenny-
son Dickens, whose profile strikingly re-
sembled his progenitor’s, went off to America
to discover prosperity and—die. A Dickens
fellowship was lost to Obllins-street, as it
were, when poor Alf departed these shores.
And now his two daughters, Violet and
Kathleen, are off by the Medic to make their
home in the city where the Pickwick Club
was created by their illustrious grandfather.
In a recent Bulletin there was a por-
trait of Mrs. Frank Fraser, an English-
woman in Australia related to the St. Dun-
stans Pearsons, and interested in blinded
soldiers. Don’t confuse her with “our Mrs.
Fraser.” as the blinded Diggers call the
Australian Mrs. J. Fraser, herewith pic-
tured by i,afayette. Our Mrs. Fraser is the
daughter of the late Captain Archibald
Currie. She took over the work started
by Mrs. Henry Stead
and is now honorary
secretary to the new
Lady Helen Club
for Blinded Soldiers.
She has met every
Victorian blind Dig-
ger who has arrived
in the last few
years and has made
herself a personal
friend of each. The
Lady Helen Club,
which is a beautifully
furnished home in
South Yarra, was
taken over from
Doctor Lempriere by
the Red Cross, and
besides luxurious din-
ing and sitting rooms,
has bedrooms for Diggers of other States who
are temporarily in Melbourne. Mrs. David
Grant is the active president (vice the busy
nominal president, Lady Cresswell), and
Mrs. Brett, Mrs. 11. B. Higgins, Miss
Edmonson and Miss Armstrong are on the
committee, while Miss JVinnie Johnstone
helps the secretary. The Club is also a depot
for work done by the blind Diggers—basket-
work, furniture, canvas-work, rugs, etc. —
and all the money goes to the soldier him-
self.
Irvine, C.J., has given airman Garrett
O’Brien a few weeks to get ready to defend
the breach-of-promise suit brought against
him by Caroline Lundgren, the fascinating
Swede who captivated him while on the voy-
age out from England. Assurance was given
to ’S’onor that Garrett had no intention of
flitting back in a hurry to the Cold Coun-
try. The promise to the lady, he declared,
was conditional on his dad’s consent, and on
his being able to finance things. As dad
was adamant and money as scarce as grass
in drought time, he had to put the extin-
guisher on his ardent affection. The case,
which has had three preliminary canters in
court, looks good for heaps more copy for
the dailies —unless there is a settlement.
Harold Herbert, the young water-colorist,
whose efforts are being grabbed by collectors,
has never had a lesson in his chosen art.
Originally he studied applied art at the Bal-
larat School of Arts, and after three years
assisting Oarew Smythe in Melbourne, he
went back to the old
school to give the
students the best of
bis experience in art
metal and leather
work and book illus-
tration. Two or
three years ago lie
took to water-color
painting as a recre-
ation, and his /long-
practice in flat
washes enabled him
to handle his medium
much more success-
fully than the aver-
age amateur. Though
naturally modest, the
artist confesses that
he was surprised at
his first perfora-
ance, and when bis own opinion was sup-
ported by other painters, he began to take
his color-box for long walks in the bush
around Ballarat. Nowadays he is living en-
tirely on his art, and will shortly have the
enlightening company of painter George
Benson in a three months’ caravan hunt for
pictures in the wilds of Victoria. Herbert,
who has been stimulated by visits to other
artists, including Hans Heysen, is herewith
presented without flattery by Monteath.
Some Australian mermaids showed their
swimming form at the Brighton Swimming
Club sports last week. The Club struck a
suddenly cold, bleak, stormy day, but that
didn’t dishearten the girl swimmers, who
charged through the water like young tor-
pedoes. Mrs. Bleasby (Tom Bent’s daugh-
ter, who sticks to Brighton interests) had
hot coffee ready for the girls in all the inter-
vals. The Church of England Grammar-
school lasses for the third successive year
carried off the McKinley Champion Shield—
a memory of the late Mrs. James McKinley,
who was always interested in the Brighton
swimming girls. Mrs. Mayoress Pullman
distributed prizes, and Mrs. Bargawanath,
Dr. Jean Grieg, Mrs. Crawford and Mrs.
Symonds all helped the show along.
The Bowes Kellys’ newly-engaged chick
will not keep fiance Jack Hay waiting. The
confetti has been ordered for April 25.
The trousseau will be unpacked in the bride-
groom’s homestead at Flinders Island.
Almost directly afterwards the Kelly family
will have to get out their farewell hankies
again, for P. and O. manager Percy Alder-
ton, who five years back married Mrs.
Kelly’s niece, Belle White, is taking
his wife to the Cold Country to introduce her
to her English in-laws.
After much backing and filling regarding
the provision of decent screws, the Lawson
Government has at last appointed E. S.
Callanan and T. H. Wade, State-school den-
tists, to run the clinic taken over from the
Defence Department. Oallanan is a son
of the former Surveyor-General of Vic., and
looked after the ivories of Billjims during
the war. Wade also saw active service as a
dental student and then completed his Uni.
exams. Of course, the pair won’t be able
to attend to more than a tithe of the kiddies
with defective teeth, but if they make good
to the extent of their opportunities public
opinion will soon force the Government to
reinforce them.
It is unusual for people wanting a State
school to come along with a third of the
cost, but this is what little Mysia, in the
Korong electorate, did last week. Long
Weaver, the district member, handed Educa-
tion Minister Peacock, a cheque for £5OO,
the only condition attached being that the
school which is to cost £1495, should be re-
garded as a memorial to the fallen soldiers of
the district. Besides £l3OO in cash to patriotic
funds the handful of Mysia people sent
4000 parcels to Billjim during the war, and
seven of its families sent 21 fighting men.
Naturally such a village would have some
grit.
The William Weatherly widow tripped off
to Japan last week with her invalid elder
daughter and a couple of nurses to see th(
cherry-blossoms in their native glory Her
younger daughter, Mrs. Mackenzie,' 'stayed
behind to await the return of her naval
engineer-commander husband, who has
rushed back to the Fog for a week or two
before settling down at their newly-acquired
Western District prize-stock acreage. Tra-
walla.
Little *‘Fifi” Irwin, who has just fixed up
for a matrimonial event with the Weigalls’
A.D.0., Nigel Somerset, is hurrying off to
visit Adelaide’s vice-regal humpy. Fill’s
medical dad sports his brass plate in West-
ralia, but mother and the two girls usually
spend a few months each year in a swell
South Yarra hash-house.
Hawthorn, which is proud of the selection
of Tom Rust as Chief President of the
A.N.A., gave him a rousing welcome home
from Colac on Saturday night. He has grown
up in that city and is the benevolent auto-
crat of the local branch of the Cornstalks.
As deputy-president he helps to run the big
tech, school in Glenferrie founded by Swin-
burne. Tom’s pet scheme is that unmarried
adults and childless married pairs should be
taxed £6 10s. a year each, and that the amount
so exacted should be given as a baby bonus.
Tom is a bachelor himself. He is strong on
the friendly-society side of Nativism. and
has set out to add 3000 by December 31 to
the 31,000 already in the Vic. division of the
association. He will work and organise,
leaving the perorations to the other fellows
on the board of directors who can talk more
showily.
W. D. Gilfillan, who managed to secure
the £l2. i 0 a year job of Trade Commissioner
to Europe tp sell canned fruit, is to sail by
the mail-steamer Omar, which leaves on
April 6. He appears to hate have had some
pull by reason of having served on the Basic
Wage Commission. He was only second on
tlie list of the three sent up to the Lawson
Cabinet by the Fruit Conference Committee.
Mrs. James Cowan, the first representa-
tive of her sex to be Elected to an Australian
Parliament, is fairly well known in Mel-
bourne, haying been a Westralian delegate
to Nationalist and social-reform conferences.
Her husband is a kindly old retired magis-
trate, and there are several grown-up
daughters, all native-born Westralians like
their pa and ma. Mrs. Cowan is an accom-
plished woman and a most gifted platform
speaker. In this respect she has not a peer
among the Westraliennes, unless it is Miss
Ada Bromham, who contested Claremont on
the social-welfare ticket, and survived until
the last ballot; and she is certainly a long
away above the oratorical average of her
49 fellow-members of the sex that doesn’t
button its wearing apparel at the back. The
lady is an ardent prohibitionist, and jaun-
diced critics have called her a wowser. If
so, she is a most liberal-minded wowser.
Adelaide passes on a word or two:—
On Wednesday an American Tea, organised by the
Mayor’s missus, was held in the Town Hall. Invi-
tations were issued, but several drifted in without.
Everyone took a saleable gift, and brisk business
was done. Their Exes, were present, accompanied
by the Newdigate-Newdegate lady and Miss Ruxton,
shepherded by the Hon. Nigel, and the new addi-
tion to the Government House staff, Major Wyllie
(married). The shivoo was to raise funds for the
Consumptive Home. Her Westralian Ex. and Miss
Ruxton left on Thursday for Perth.
Our new American Consul was fed last week at the
Queen Adelaide Club by the Mayor’s lady. Him-
self was there and a party of 12, all in the
sere and yellow, who were afterwards motored to
the mayoral abode, where report has it they jazzed.
The rejuvenating germ is not required in Adelaide.
One of our country towns, as a memorial to the
local soldiers who died, got the figure of an Aus-
tralian soldier sculpted in Italy, but trouble arose
because the Customs refused to pass it as a work
of art and classed it as a tombstone. About £4O
has had to be raised to get it out of pawn. Dur-
ing its three months’ wait at Port Adelaide several
returned men saw it, and they say the Italian artist
has made some minor improvements in the uni-
form.
An old identity has just passed out in Mrs. Bar-
net, owner of the Gawler Bunyip. Although 78
her health has been good until latterly, when she
had to undergo an operation. For years she took
an active part in the mechanical side of the pro-
duction of the Bunyip, and, on the death of her
husband, in 1895, she assumed control of the estab-
lishment.' Several sons are in the business, F. L.
Barnet being the present manager.
Dr. Harold Davies, Director of the Elder Conser-
vatorium, gave an informal social to past, present
and prospective students on Tuesday night. After
an address on “The Way of Attainment” he per-
mitted dancing in the sacred home of art, followed
by supper.
The fascination of the stage was demonstrated
when the J.C.W. firm advertised for a few male
supers to appear in “Chu Chin Chow.” Before the
office opened there w T as a crowd of 300 surging round
the doormat, including tall and short men, women of
ail ages, little boys and girls—and an Afghan.
The latest example of nerve on the part of some
women is to write “Mr., Mrs. and Miss Smith” in
the visitors’ book at the Town Hall, and when
invitations are sent out for an “at home,” the
guests roll up with “Miss” Smith turning out to be
aged sixl


The woman of discrimination docs not radic-
ally change her style from season to season.
Lucile costumes her to best express her
individuality , and upon this, base their
exclusiveness of service.
The same principle applies to correct corsetry.
The well-dressed woman finds the corset that
best accents her natural charm—just as much
and just as little corset as may be necessary
and possible—and is not influenced by those
doubtful changes in so-called corset styles
that result in much confusion of mind and
improper corsetry.
Successful corsetry is the foundation of all
charm in dress; it is the expression of per-
sonality.
Lucile, Ltd.
Manager.
hfd
r*
Front
Lacing
CORSETS
are conceived in accordance with
the unchanging principles of beauty
and good taste and in them women
of every figure type may find the
proper expression of their indi-
viduality.
Study yourself; conserve the flat-
tering lines of your figure and subdue
the inartistic details. Shun the arti-
ficial in corsetry; the obviously
corseted woman is still conspicu-
ously unsmart.
It is no task to create a corset that
will repress the figure to a desired
silhouette at the expense of comfort
and grace, but we hold it art to
produce these Gossards that will
fairly persuade every type of figure
to graceful lines and proportions
with a comfortable, healthful sup-
port that expresses itself in poise
and distinction of carriage.
Every Gossard Corset is sold con-
ditional upon your complete satis-
faction. The high standard of
Gossard manufacture which has
been so conspicuously a part of
Gossard service and which has been
so consistently maintained permits
you to buy every Gossard Corset
with confirmed assurance that it is
worth every shilling you pay for it
—worth it in style, worth it in com-
fort, worth it in wearing service.
WM
1
■Mm
Vd
:
You will find Cossard Corsets at those stores you like Best and patronize most;
those stores that merit your confidence hy offering only merchandise of un-
questionably superior quality. Every corsetiere handling Gossards takes pride
in selling them and will take a personal interest in your satisfaction.
The H. W. Gossard Co.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Chicago New York London Toronto Sydney Buenos Aims
SPECIAL
at
8*
Guineas.
POSITIVELY THE BEST VALUE
OFFERED IN MEN’S WEAR.
WE are proud of our record of achievement in the
production of SPECIAL SUIT at guineas.
The materials are all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Australia, the trimmings—the inside
foundation not seen by the purchaser—are in keeping
with the high-grade materials and hand tailoring which
goes into every Special Suit.
BUCKLEYS SPECIAL SUIT
has another advantage—that
the materials, being lighter in
weight than most Australian-
made Tweeds, meet the need
for a highly-dependable Suit
at a Moderate Price.
Write for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form—Sent Free
on Application.
Special Suits Made to
Measure, 82 guineas.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
<4
m
BUCKLEYS _
BUCKLEY L NUNN UD. BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
NAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR RQRT
IN AUSTRALIA
hf
BUTTER SCOTCH
• WAFERS ■
packed in I*-
Tins.
5/6 EACW
POSTAGE 6? EXTRA
Sent to any address in ffustra/ia.
m
Wm
n
fv
*.l,t tfi
: 1
Onfy /Iddress
162^i1l St. SYDNEY.


Charles
HeidsieckX
Vintage 1911
CllfflM®
NE PLUS ULTRA
dh
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
fdh
fd
hfd
h
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
§5
NO SHEEP-OWNER
can afford to overlook
trying
Klcenfloxt
BLOWFLY DRESSING
PREVENTIVE and HEALER.
Penetrates Freely. Remains Soft and
Oily in the Wool. Scours out perfectly
Clean. Your agent can obtain supplies
direct from the makers.
TAUBMANS LIMITED,
232 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
It was forecasted a year or two ago that
very soon Dr. Jemima would be as frequent
as Dr. Jim. The forecast doesn’t look
much good now. The other day 200 of the
State’s brightest atoms of star-dust were
swept out of the schools into the University,
and about one-third of them were girls; and
of the whole lot only six chose medicine as
their study—six girls against about 60 boys.
Most of the Jemimas chose Arts; and that
means at the worst a school-marm’s career
presently, and at the best no impediment
to matrimony. More girls take science than
medicine, and of science much the same can
be said as of arts. None seeks the bubble
reputation in the law and only one, greatly
daring, in economics.
The Queen Victoria Club has captured one
of the most popular and the most artistic
women in Sydney for its new president.
Bright-eyed little Mrs. Alex. Gordon —the
divorce Judge’s wife —is the elected lady,
and it is hoped that being president will not
prevent her sometimes singing one of the
charming little French songs for which she
is famous.
Our Lady Helen writes to her Australian
friends over her new name Helen Novar. She
misses Australia’s sun and has had ’flu and
severe rheumatism since she returned to the
haggis country. A clever typist, she has
resorted to the machine to help her nervous
hands. Lady Helen was always a busy
working woman, and used to do heaps of her
own typewriting in her Red Cross .work in
Australia. The two ex-Exes. found many
changes had come about in their seven xius-
tralian years. Lord Novar had to make
friends with a new factor, who had been
handling his estates for years without know-
ing m’lord. His old-time factor and all his
family were wiped out in a sea tragedy. They
were on a pleasure boat which was either
torpedoed or burst its boiler, and went down
amid the echoes of one vast explosion. This
was among the censored items of early war-
time.
John Oland, whose book, “The Contempla-
tive Quarry,” published last year in London,
has received such fine notices, is really Syd-
ney girl Edith Harper, who left here some
years ago to study for grand opera. Almost
on the eve of what promised to be a brilliant
career the lady quietly but firmly married
Patrick Hepburn, the English astronomer,
and apparently relinquished her art. Under
the name of Anna Wickham she at a bound
leaped into notice with her poems in “Poetry
and Drama,” and now her book has estab-
lished her firmly in the literary world. She
had set poems to music and had sung them
in Australia before Paris claimed her; at
the age of 10 she wrote a musical fairy play
called “Wonder Eyes” that was actually
presented at a matinde in Sydney.
’Mid skits, jingles and cheers, the Osterley
swung away from the P. and O. wharf on
Saturday with the N. S. Wales section of
the Australian XV on board. The players’
best girls and wives and relatives crammed
into the small space, hanging on to the ends
of multi-colored streamers, and even the hard-
hearted took it as a matter of course when
stress of feeling showed in moist eyes here
and there. ’Twas long since there had been
a more hearty au revoirj and among the big
crowd were some who remembered the de-
parture of the first Australian XI in 1878,
when less than a half-dozen persons saw the
team heave its carpet-bag and spare suit of
clothes aboard. But that team’s homecoming
—how they were lionised! The Australian
and English teams will be fellow-passengers
when the boat leaves Fremantle for the Cold
Country.
Melbourne Theosophist and music enthusi-
ast Prentice looked into Sydney on his way
to Tasmania and gave the Theosopliical
Society a series of lectures on composers
past and present, while friend Walter Kirby
sat in the front seats and beamed approval.
Walter, by the way, is engaged to sing at
St. Pat.’s concert on the 17th.
Dark-eyed little Mrs. Hunter leaves by
the Mantua on the 29th for England, to join
her Percy, who is managing the Cold Country
end of Mr. Hughes’s emigration policy. Their
jwo sons are staying behind in, Sydney to
absorb as much law as the Uni. can teach
them.
Melanie Laidley Wormington’s honeymoon
was scarcely over when illness seized her.
The fragile slip of a thing is now making a
slow but determined recovery.
The committee of the Wentworth Free
Kindergarten met at Farmer’s on Friday,
but cast only a casual glance at the parade of
the fluff queens, for their tea-party was a
leave-taking of Mrs. T. J. Wilkinson, their
hon. treasurer for seven years, who has now
been forced to retire owing to illness in her
own home circle. A beautiful cut-glass rose-
bowl and an enthusiastic letter of apprecia-
tion found their way into Mrs. Wilkinson’s
keeping. President of the committee Mrs.
W. F. Litchfield, hon. secretary Mrs. Davies,
and hon. treasurer Mrs. Hamilton-Browne
were among those present at the tea-drink-
ing.
Beware of the artistic lass on her moving
day! One of the Conservatorium girls with
a big voice and a constantly-changing habitat
owing to a mania for rehearsing grand opera
in the bedroom was shifting to Woolloomooloo
because she said that was the only place she
could find landladies with no unreasonable
objections to grand opera. In the afternoon,
her lesson being over, she was emerging from
the Conservatorium with a heavy suitcase
when the really nice fellow-student crossed
her path. He asked if he might carry the
bag and she said, “I’ll carry it if you’ll carry
the other parcel.” She darted back into the
Con. and came out dragging a monstrous
and lumpy bundle secured in a torn blanket,
some safety-pins and a broken strap. The
nice young man gritted his teeth and took
the parcel. It. proved hard and unsympa-
thetic. to the shins. It caught him with unex-
pected angles and jagged points ; it impaled
his trousers and bit into his flesh. There
was no hint of fluffy feminine allure coyly
hiding within that bit of torn blanket. At
length his agony shrieked aloud, “.Jenny
Lind, what of your wardrobe is within this
parcel?” “That?” said she airily, “Oh, that
is a life-size bust of Beethoven!”
Eurhythmies came to the aid of the
Women’s College on Saturday afternoon on
the lawn of Ellerslie, under the rustling
approval of surely two of the oldest trees in
Darlinghurst. The old-new art of expressing
music by motion was demonstrated by a band
of graceful young things from Frenekam, who
might have been dryads in wind-blown
autumn leaves, such creatures of the Avoodland
they looked in their russet tunics. The long,
slim bare legs flashed freely over the grass in
a series of exercises and Maud Allan pos-
turings to the accompaniment of music ; but
the quaintest effect was when one exercise
endeq| on what to the mere Philistine was a
perfectly gorgeous shimmy shake. The
Coachman and Horses was a bright bit of
animation that we were told was a study
in plastics—for to be a eurhythmicist isn’t
the easy thing it looks, as plastics, rhythm,
psvcholow (of course) and half-a-dozen
other ingredients have to be digested. Yet, the
Maori beat out his haka, the Zulu bounded,
and, lo! the Red Indian, who, according to the
poet, had an untutored mind, managed to
express music by motion long before those
Darlinghurst trees were saplings. However,
in the group dancing eurhythmies are quite
orthodox, following the biblical injunction
not to let your right hand know what your
left doth, for half the group moves in
time to what the musician’s right hand is
nlaying. and the other half to what the left
hand is beating out on the piano. However,
nearly £l2O was garnered on Saturday for
the Women’s College.
Here is how May Moore, catches the happy
smile of Martha Mona Johnston, connected
for so long with the Army and Navy League
Club, Paris. Martha Mona was in charge
of the sports parties, and many a Digger has
put in a rattling
afternoon with rid-
ing, tennis or swim-
ming through her
direction. She is
Irish, and comes
from Westmeath,
where her people are
farmers; and
although her brothers
fought in the war,
and Martha Mona
and her sister (who
was a Queen Alex-
andra nurse) live in
a bungalow on their
father’s grounds a
mile and a half from
the homestead, and
close to four roads
where bands of one
Irish fighting party or another are constantly
travelling, these two girls have never had as
much as a practical joke played on them
to cause them alarm. “Irishmen are
chivalrous,” says Martha Mona, “so are Aus-
tralians. They are wonderfully alike in
their attitude to women —that was why I
first liked your boys.” Miss Johnston came
out in charge of the domestic helps on the
Themistocles, but she says she is afraid
there is too much sunshine and warmth in
this country for any young thing to be satis-
fied with nothing but housework.
Enthralled with Yeats's “Isle of Innisfree”
in a moment of divine frenzy Sydney boy
Ramsay Pennycuick conceived accompanying
music as mystic and
poetic as the words
themselves. The art-
istic Philip Wilson
sang Ramsay’s com-
position at several
of his recitals, and
when he left Sydney
early last year he
carried a copy of the
song with him. Two
or three months ago
a representative iof
Curwen’s music pub-
lishing firm heard
Philip sing it in
London. The result
was a letter from
the firm to Ramsay
offering to buy the
song and pay 'him
a royalty on sales; and the sweetest drop of
honey came at the very end —“would he please
send them some more of his work at the
earliest moment.” Monte Luke took the
accompanying photo.
Mr. and Mrs. Lachlan Beaton and Miss
Ruby Adams are off by the Ivanowna on the
24th on a trip to China. Their idea is
to go into the interior of John’s country.
Mona D’Arcy Irvine leaves by the same boat
for Hong Kong, where she is to be married
to Commander Gerald Ruxton.
Even Verbrugghen can teach Joe Bradley
nothing in conducting “Elijah.” Henri led
the Hamilton choir on Saturday night at
the Town Hall, when the Cousin Jacks let
forth a fine volume of evenly balanced sound;
but under Verbrugghen’s baton one or two
of the numbers lost something of the spirited
fervor that Joe’s choir works up when that
seasoned Elijah leader conducts them with-
out a score.
Matthew Maher (manager of Collaroy,
over which Phil Morton came to temporary
grief) is in St. Vincent’s, a very sick man.
He is a brother to the late Odillo.
When Strella. Wilson’s marriage with
Ralph Errol was announced, everybody
seemed to take it for granted that the bonnie
Australian girl had paired off with a little
foreign tenor, who woiild presently suffer
from spaghetti on the liver and always be
frantically excited when upset. Nobody
could exactly say why, but it was so. And
all the time Errol was an American, of Eng-
lish and Scotch descent, claiming to have
had none but American-born ancestors for
hundreds of years. He considers himself one
of the purest-blooded sons of freedom unde.r
the star-spangled banner. Moreover, his
ancestry made a special appeal to Strella
Wilson, because her father is a Philadelphian
who came to this country 35 years ago.
Penwoman Florence Baverstock and her
captain have left Jervis Bay and are coming
to live near Sydney.
Graceful Grace Stafford was one of the
most interested at the exhibition of eurhyth-
mies on Saturday afternoon. Grace’s pupils
are putting on some of Gilbert Murray’s
translations of Greek plays, commencing
with “The Trojan Women.” and Greek
choruses mean hard training in plastics and
rhythm. Grace, on her last visit to Eng-
land and the Continent, spent some time at
the fountain-head of the intellectual play,
and everybody is looking forward to her
productions.
Edward White, who died at Bathurst a
couple of weeks back at the age of 83, was
a native of Adelaide, and had the distinction
of being one of the first white twins born in
S. Aus. His twin sister, Mrs. Mary Tye, of
Croydon (N.S.W.), is still going strong, and
on the night following her brother’s death
travelled nearly 150 miles to be present at
the funeral. The father, John Charles
White, was the proprietor of one of our oldest
Country newspapers, the Bathurst Free
Press.
Australian verse is to get an outing in
the King’s Hall, Hunter-street, on April 21
when that elocutionary enthusiast Justin
Baughan Flynn will give selections from no
less than 30 of our poets. Even if only all
the versifiers within coo-ee turned up Justin
should be assured of a fair-sized audience;
but quite a number of other ppople are sure
to go along and hear this Aussie declaim his
big selection of Aussie verse.
An Australian bloke, writing from Wap-
ping, draws attention to the fattening effect
of the English —more particularly the Lon-
don —climate on Australian girls. The
Aussie lass who arrives, a mere ethereal
wisp of a thing, no sooner breathes in a few
hundred-weights of the local fog than she be-
gins to.reach out and develop. This devel-
opment has been almost fatal in the case of
a few singers, and actresses from down
under have had to work like demons to avoid
the destructive accumulation. The Austra-
lian friends of Dorothy Low, Dave’s little
sister, will be moved on hearing that the fog
has had the customary effect in her case.
Tiny aforetime, the young woman is
now a plump dame, with the bust of Juno,
but looks remarkably well in the solid form.
The matinee performance of the “ Lilac
Domino” in aid of the Hospice for the
Dying brought £5OO to that last little inn
by life’s roadside. Of this £5O came from
Hugh D. Mclntosh himself. There were no
expenses, the artists and the Tivoli hands
gladly giving their afternoon for the cause.
Joyce Nanlcivell, as she is still called,
though married to Sydney Loch, of “The
Straits Impregnable,” gives her snapshot of
a night in Dublin :
Christmas was, of course, very quiet from a
pleasure point of view—curfew at 10 o’clock, and
after that nearly every night one is lulled to sleep
by sounds of shooting, sometimes near, sometimes
far. One night the house I was in was raided by
the Black-and-Tans. They came in at 2.30 a.m. on
the coldest night of the year. A girl who occupies the
ground flat heard them first and had to let them in
or they would have smashed in the door. She
shouted to know who was there and they answered:
“Military! Open! the door is coming down in a
minute.” She opened it a crack and six revolvers
crept round and pointed at her. Between 40 and
50 men swarmed into the house and over it. One
enormous specimen guarded me while the rest clat-
tered about examining everything. They made
themselves tea and coffee, ate our breakfast and
departed, taking with them as sole capture a copy
of Balzac’s Droll Stories.
On Monday, the 28th, the Women’s Hos-
pital is to benefit by a surprise supper dance
at Miss Bishop’s, Elizabeth-street. Mrs.
Charles Hotham, Charles Flats, Craigend-
plaee, Darlinghurst, is selling tickets. Syd-
ney can’t afford to neglect the Women’s Hos-
pital. Its work and its expenses are as
eternal as life, and by giving to the uttermost
farthing we are helping to give Unborn Aus-
tralia a chance to become the nation of our
dreams.
The Southern Cross Information Bureau
that started its existence mid the marble
halls of Australia House, has removed itself
to the more plebeian offices of the British-
Atjstralasian. Trouble is that being under
the roof of Australia House the seeker after
information thought that Miss Armstrong
was in the game for the love of the thing
and not for a cash consideration. After all
10s. 6d. is a very small sum to ensure
accommodation in the crowded area.
The picturesque grounds of Edith Hill’s
home, Rancliffe, in Ocean-street, Woollahra,
should be gay on the 31st, when the Forster
lady will open a f@te to help the Infants’
Home, Ashfield. This is only the third time
in 25 years that the Home has made a public
appeal, and a committee that includes Mrs.
M'eares, Mrs. A. S. Phillips and Mrs. Rabett,
is working up all sorts of novel money
extractors. They themselves declare the ex-
tractions will be quite painless.
A little gossip from Brisbane: —
H. N. Leach, who put in some years in uniform at
Rabaul, has joined the Daily Mail as chief of staff,
in place of J. P. Young, who has resigned. The
D.M. staff farewelled J. P. and thrust a suit-case on
him.
Mrs. Elkington has gone towards Asia with Dr.
Elkington, She will stay in Java until hubby returns
there in June for the Medical Congress. On the
Jap boat that carried them eastwards was Elliott
Gruner, who is going in search of new landscapes.
Passed out recently at her daughter’s home in
Maoriland, Mrs. Ettie Barnett, who served as a
medical masseuse in the A.I.F. from August, 1915.
She did good work in various hospitals overseas, and
on her return to Brisbane was at Kangaroo Point,
and at Kosemount. She was discharged in January,
1919, and had been ill almost ever since.
Dr. Kidston’s old house at Tingal Hill, Wynnum,
is to be turned into a home for the aged poor. Eight
Sisters of Nazareth came out by the Osterley last
week to manage the home, which is to be called Mt.
Margaret. Accommodation for 100 inmates is to be
provided (d.v. and strikes permitting) almost imme-
diately, and later on a group of modern buildings
will be erected.
His Ex. went up to Toowoomba on Friday and had
a look at the military training camp. He then
lunched several guests at the Club Hotel, and after-
wards motored to Jondaryan station as the Bill
Kents’ guest.
Harold Parker, Bananaland’s sculptor, and his wife
are coming out on the Orvieto. He will first visit
his parents in Brisbane, and then hie off to Mel-
bourne and open a studio there. ■
The foundations of the St. Martin’s War Memorial
Hospital have almost been completed, and the build-
ing itself is to be commenced very shortly, although
only £44,000 out of the £BO,OOO required has so far
come in. The promoters have no fear that the other
half of the money will not be forthcoming. They
hope to be able to assist returned soldiers in need
of treatment, and to run an out-patient department
on better lines than those in vogue in existing insti-
tutions.
Lieut. Bert Hinckler, the Bundaberg flying man,
arrives in Sydney by the Ascanius on March 18. He
is bringing an aeroplane with him, and says he
will fly from Sydney home to Bundaberg.


ESTB
fdh
1853
Suggestions for Wedding Gifts in
Highest Quality Silverplate.
Illustrated Catalogues, containing numerous suggestions
for Wedding and Complimentary Gifts, are posted free
on application.
Mail Orders
receive prompt
and careful atten-
tion, and selec-
tions are sent to
the country on
approval.
Cake Stand, height 6 inches,
£4 0 0
Five per cent,
discount allowed
on all cash
transactions.
Sugar and Cream Frame, with
Sitter,
£4 0 0
Two-Cup Egg Frame, with
Spoons,
£3 15 0
Sandwich Dish, length 8£ inches,
£2 15 0
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JI6-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
fd
Indispensable to tbe Expert
Invaluable to tbe Beg'inner
There isn’t another Reflex Camera on the market that represents
anything like the value which Harringtons, Ltd., offer in the
“Ensign Popular” Reflex.
The lightest, simplest and yet strongest Reflex made.
It weighs less than 41b., and measures only 64in. square when closed.
No one could possibly go wrong with this camera. Every bit of
complication has been eliminated. Even if you have never used a
camera before you could learn to take successful pictures with this
Camera in five minutes. The hood erects and sets itself instan-
taneously. It is ready for immediate use and the full-size picture is
always visible.
FOR PLATES OR FILM PACK
PRICES:
No. 4X, with Ensign Anastigmat Lens, F 4-5, 6in.
£2l/10/-
No. 4L, with Cooke-Luxor Anastigmat Lens, F 4-5, sfin.
£2l/10/-
No. 4A, with Aldis Anastigmat Lens, F 4-5, No. 16, sfin.
£22/10/-
No. 4Q, with Dallmeyer Serrac. Anastigmat Lens, F 4-5, 6in
£26/10/-
No. 4M, with Ross Xpress
Anastigmat Lens F 4-5,
6in.,
£2B/17/6
Film Pack Adapter, to
take Film Packs,
>7
3
I™
“The House for GOOD Cameras,’*
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, JST.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
ANNUAL REPORT.
The Directors present the 42nd Annual Statement of Accounts.
The Income from all sources for the year 1920 amounted to £465,000.
The total Expenditure aggregated £230,000, so that the Funds of the
Society were increased by £235,000 during the year, and now stand at
£1,580,000. This addition is a record lay-by.
As is well known, the policy of the Directors has always been to “hasten
slowly,” content with each year being a little better than its predecessor.
In evidence whereof here are the figures for the past six years:—
ALMOST INCREDIBLE SURPLUS.
The usual annual investigation of the Society’s liabilities was made as
at the close of the year 1920. The stringency of this valuation can best be
estimated when it is realised that the instructions from the Board to the
Actuaries are that they shall assume, in their calculations, the Society’s inability
to realise on its more than a million and a half of investments a higher rate of
interest than 3-| per cent.
On this highly conservative basis the Actuarial liabilities amounted to
£1,440,000. As the funds at that date were £1,580,000, there remained the
almost incredible surplus of £140,000, which represented something like 46
per cent, of the premium income for the year 1920 —a record probably never
'■'fore aproached by any Life Office in the world.
In order to make certain that there was not an error, the Directors
deferred the matter back to the Society’s Actuaries, Messrs. G. P. Diamond,
ALA., and C. Gostelow, A.l.A.—the latter of whom is leaving the service in
< Vf W ee^s occtl py a responsible actuarial position in New Zealand —but,
™e most careful checking, these gentlemen reported that the figures were
a solutely correct in every particular.
'hhe Board has decided to distribute, in bonuses, £90,000, and carry over
the balance of £50,000 to the current year.
The financial strength of the Society can be estimated by the fact that
although almost every other Life Office in the world finds it necessary to
distribute from 90 to 100 per cent, of its surplus, in order to pay its bonuses,
the City Mutual pays to its poli r ~ holders the largest bonuses of any Life Office
in the world, whilst using less than 65 per cent, of its available surplus in
doing so.
In other words the bonuses, large as they are, could, be increased by half as
much again if the Directors did not prefer to adopt the conservative policy
of making the safety of the members their only consideration.
CLAIMS.
Claims by death are again less than for years past, in spite of the fact
that the number of policyholders has largely increased during the year.
An interesting sidelight on the effect of the late war is shown by the
fact that while the death claims in 1917, when the Society’s constituency was
only 22,000 members, amounted to over £61,000, the figures for 1920 with a
membership of nearly 37,000 aggregated less than £35,000.
That the City Mutual—perhaps alone amongst the world’s Life Offices—
was able to maintain its magnificent bonuses during those awful four years is
a gratifying item.
THE CITY MUTUAL AND THE WAR.
An English financial critic of eminence, discussing the affairs of the
Society in his journal during the past year, attributed some of the Society’s
conspicuous success to the fact that it had abstained from issuing policies on
the lives of militants during the war.
He was evidently confusing the City Mutual with some other Australian
institution. This Society accepted all the soldiers’ assurances offered it
without any exception whatever.
It did infinitely more than that. In the dark days of April, 1918, when
recruits were urgently called for, and an appeal was made to the Australian
Life Offices to assist by issuing policies, the City Mutual, by the unanimous
vote of its Board, risked its very existence in the cause of Empire, after nearly
forty years careful building up, by the offer of 5000 war policies for £2OO each,
involving no less than one million sterling of assurance. No other office in
Australia was prepared to go to this length. Most of them declined to issue
any policy at all.
The Society was publicly thanked for its patriotic action in this matter,
and although as events unexpectedly transpired, the war was over before full
effect could be given to the policies, this in no way detracted from the
Directors’ public-spirited attitude.
GENERAL.
The Society holds, in Government Stock, £439,000, almost 28 per cent,
of its funds.
When the books closed at the end of the year there were 36,377 members
whose policies, including bonus additions, amounted to £8,537,482.
GEO. CROWLEY, Chairman.
Sydney, Ist March, 1921.


J&*
ffisierp
'V'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luocite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and -withal has the ability to -wear longer
than the average hose"' such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and -women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a -wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE '
Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
m
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
YOU, TOO,
CAN BE
AN ARTIST.
If you can write
you can draw, for
it’s simply a mat-
ter of learning
how to place the
lines correctly.
The Weston method
teaches you simply
and thoroughly the
principles of com-
mercial and poster
art, and you can
soon master, with-
out any drudgery,
the points that have
made Mr. Harry J.
Weston Australia’s
leading commercial
artist.
Each student has
the benefit of Mr.
Weston’s personal
criticism and help,
for he explains
each lesson clearly
and simply.
You have un-
bounded opportu-
nities for making
money in the field
of newspaper
illustrations,
poster designs
and advertising.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN”
is the title of an interesting booklet describing
the Weston method and giving specimens of the
fascinating lessons. We will send it to you
FREE if you will forward your name and
address and enclose three penny stamps to cover
cost of postage. Send for it to-day!
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
37 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■ ;■
1 »
-
*1
m
TfSH
AD
Perfection
RUBBER
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
hfd
hfd
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
fcGtSTe*
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
TO MINING COMPANIES, CONTRACTORS, ENGINEERS, BOILER
MAKERS, MACHINERY MERCHANTS, DEALERS AND OTHERS.
Auction Sale
of Machinery h Plant.
Messrs. JTJBB, WELLS & CO. have received instructions from the
METROPOLITAN WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE BOARD to sell by
PUBLIC AUCTION, at the Board’s Yards, BRISBANE:—
WATERLOO STREET, NEWSTEAP YARD, on TUESDAY, 22nd MARCH,
1921, at 10 a.m.
At PINKENBA YARD, on WEDNESDAY, 23rd MARCH, 1921,
at 10 a.m.,
a quantity of the MACHINERY and PLANT, as recently used by the Board in
the construction of the Local Sewerage, consisting of —
BOlLERS. —Portable, Vertical and Locomotive Types— quite a number and
of various sizes.
WINCHES.—Steam Winches, Friction Winches, Tangyes and Thompson’s
Double-Cylinder Winches, with Fast and Loose Drums.
ENGINES.-—Standard Gas Engine and Winch, Standard Gas Engines,
Tangyes Gas Engines and Marine Engine.
PUMPS. —Gardner’s, Worthington’s Boiler Feed Pumps, Cornish Lift Pumps,
Gould’s, Dean’s, Centrifugal and other makes.
Priestman Time Grab, Drag Line Excavator, 3-ton Leyland Motor Lorry, Quantity
of Sundries, Pulleys, Shafting Brackets and obsolete materials.
Intending Buyers can inspect at any time prior to sale.
Catalogue and Full Particulars from —
JUBB, WELLS & CO.,
GENERAL AUCTIONEERS,
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
’Phone 1534.
The CLUB BEIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
Wfr'
me
11111 l
II »^7rJ
I \>J B^SZ&Zi.
se£s^qs;
If you appreciate a good
Cigar, the “Club Reil”
is worth a trial.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
Edison Amberol Records
for March.
Up-to-date must be the description of this new list of
Edison Cylinder Records, for it embraces the live hits of
both the dance and musical-comedy world.
Royal Purple Records.
29048—0’ Divine Redeemer! Soprano, Orch. acc. Marie Rappold.
29049—Vien Leonora (Leonora, spurn not my love). La Favorita.
Baritone in Italian. Taurino Parvis.
29050 —Traumerei. Violin, Piano acc.
By Andre Benoist, Albert Spalding.
h
Blue Amberol Records.
3923 —Uncle Josh’s Birthday. A rural scene.
Cal Stewart and Company.
3926—Home That’s in My Memory. Tenor.
Orch. acc. Lewis James.
3934 —Freckles. Ore. acc. Bert Harvey.
3936 Flanagan’s Real Estate Deal. Vaude-
ville Speciality. Steve Porter.
3937 A Bullfrog Am No Nightingale (Ethio-
pian Oddity). Bass and Male Voices.
Orch acc.
Ernest Hare and Male Chorus.
3939—Pretty Dick Polka.
New York Military Band.
3941 Nobody Knows (And Nobody Seems to
Care). Contralto. Orch acc.
PT : Louise Terrill.
3942 Bell Hops, The. Negro Vaudeville
Sketch. Billy Golden and Joe Hughes.
3946—M011y Malone (My Own) —Passing Show
of 1919. Tenor. Orch. acc.
Charles Hart.
3946-
3948-
3951-
3952-
3953-
3962-
3965-
3966-
—Backyard Conversation between Mrs.
Reilly and Mrs. Finnegan.
Ada Jones and Steve Porter.
-Shall We Meet? Baritone and Tenor.
Orch. ace.
Vernon Archibald and Lewis James.
—Nightingale Song. Yodel. Orch. acc.
Frank M. Kamplain.
-Lucille. Fox Trot, Fox Dancing. Saxo-
phone, Xylophone and Piano.
All Star Trio.
-Sahara (We’ll Soon Be Dry Like You).
Orch. acc. Billy Murray.
-Dixie Lullaby. Soprano, Mezzo-Soprano
and Contralto. Orch. acc. .
Homestead Trio.
—Dardanella—Fox Trot. For Dancing.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra.
—Make that Trombone Laugh. Fox Trot,
for Dancing. _ , .
Harry Radermans Jazz Orchestra.
Kent Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Don M.: “Record Story” is too thin gruel
for the lions of the Red Page... .H.W.: Ten times
too long in coming to the point; and theu the point
isn’t made sharp enough.... Hoppy: You need fumi-
gating. .. .Ward Well: But there doesn’t seem to
have been any late fall in freights so far as frozen
stuff is concerned; in fact, partly perhaps because
the tramp doesn’t butt into that trade, freezing-space
rates have lately been advanced. And that’s not
going to improve the prospects of the small lamb-
grower R.R.P.: Manicure'your fays and massage
out a few of the wrinkles and re-submit... .Deirdre:
You don’t make us believe ’‘Mystery Voice" is true.
J.M.: The color hardly carries It; and there
inn’t much yarn to help... .Coralie: Certainly has
a breeze in it. Pity there is so little else... .R.N.C.:
“Bows” well enough tied together; but the material
is slight and a little frayed Syd Tom: “Good-
for-Nothing” would score a pass if it were handled
better Ole Blue: “Rollin’ the Bluey” has good
stuff in it, but wants a better ending T.B.E.
(prohably): “8.0.8.” doesn’t make a yarn; and
the way it is written shows that you didn’t want it
to get a hearing G.E.M.: Try and get rid of
that running on from one stanza to another....
M.E. (Bondi): That sort of thing is no use here
Flatfoot: Not enough there.... J.L.1.: Ghost yarn
must go back.... .F.B. (Geelong): It doesn’t score.
. ...E.C.F.: “Matter of Distance” too slight....
E. : Not well enough done... .F.W.H.: Pretty
commonplace except for the particularly ugly word
“Belovedest”... .One Night Stand: The fact that
actors .will in future stay away from theatres where
they must pay for admission does not strike us as
the top thing in humor... .E.A.P.: Nothing there...
.T.J.R.G.: Wanted better handling... .L.V.T.: Pre-
tentious nonsense of the old sort... .JL/.C.R.: “The
Secret” not our style.... Stripper: The “cook” is a
bit rugged and the point isn’t much.... Shadow:
Doesn’t strike us. .. .A.H.S.: Wordy and du11....
A.8.P.: Not enough in the verse... R.E. (Attunga) :
Thought commonplace; verse bad.... Federene:
Doesn’t get near....R.C. (Lindfield) : “Sunflower”
and “Ruth” not up... .E.G.8.: Rotten yam....
Oliver B.: We wouldn’t miss the “Dance” for
worlds:—
It was well back in a little country town,
Where they held their weekly dances;
To be fair, I’ll tell you square, don’t frown,
It was fun to see them in the lances.
There were big, fat, little and skinny,
Some had big feet, little and flat;
To see them rush for dear little Minny,
The queen of the hall, you believe that.
This was getting a bit too strong for the M.C.
He had to put the acid on two or three;
As other little girls were waiting, you see,
To have a dance even with you or me.
Then things were right all the while,
The M.C. was pleased, by his smile;
They were dancing lances by the mile,
I’ll swear none of them had the bile.
.. .M.S. (Croydon) : “Australia Awake” and “Coon
Lullaby” are very poor verse...A.R. (Abbotsford):
“Evening” moves clumsily... .W.L. (Melb.) :
Wanted better handling M.M. (Armadale): Don’t
care for “Road”... .S.B. (Kalgoorlie) : Learn to
write before you attempt a story... .P.O’R.: Too
slight... .C.K. (Malvern): Rubbish Frank O.:
People who make ink out of a mixture of mud
and cold tea and then write in a minute hand ought
to be warned off all courses... .Edith A.: You had
the material, but you’ve missed both the atmosphere
and the humor... .Malparado: Too crude... .D.R.
(Melb.): Why that maddening mixture of “you”
and “thy”? F.W.S.: Yam fails F.H.
(Hawera) : “Earthquake” too slight... .E.M.E.:
“Ships” not up.... J.A.L.: “Pine” doesn’t stir us.
L.O.D.: Goes rather feebly... .J.M.D.: Grammar
ran away in terror at the first stanza of “Waiting.”
....Gertrude M.: “Port o’ Dreams” not quite.
Fanuela: Those images are far too artificial....
Grandmother: “Room 21” has been done better; and
rather often D.L.S.: Shockingly bad verse....
G. : That sort of stuff is no use to a self-
respecting paper Coo-ee: Too long and dull in
the telling... .E.H.S.: “Age of Humbug” very poor
stuff. ... J.H.M.: No use... .Adelaide P.: Not nearly
up... .Rasmus : Not up E.J.R.: They don’t get
anywhere near F.W.S.: Not for U5....J.H.
(Queensland) : The “Keats” verses are good, but not
good enough for the subject J.G.G.: Fair verse
with no lift or feeling S. J.L.: The stanzas made
us so sad.... Olive C.: Not for us E.F.: We
don’t insist on typewriting, but “ordinary” hand-
writing may be a bit too ordinary M.8.J.:
Doesn’t get near 313: No use H.M.S.: You
may be “a worker for the poor,” but you certainly
are a poor worker in verse D.L.S.: Very bad....
F. (Auckland): Not enough yarn.... James S.:
Topical verse must be brighter than that.. .A School-
boy: Send us some more in about 10 years....
Splinter: “The Queen Waits” doesn’t move u 5....
S.J.S.: None of them up.... Southerner: A dud....
E.W.: One whirling slab:—
Makes we wonder, when statesmen bold I see,
Whose bilge well filled with capon and—-(not tea)
Bask in borrowed “dust,”
Feed their every lust
Of appetite and pleasure, and then spurn
Those whose fires piled high, is slow to burn
With feelings of revenge. The worm could turn!
How then, I wonder!
J.L.S.: The author didn’t offer us the verses,
so a sense of deep thankfulness holds us sijent....
Irene C.: Thin verse about nothing Aussian:
Tedious stuff R.S.Y.S.: Please don’t write in
pale treacle Coonie: Not enough in it for a
yarn Mool Boel: Can’t find any mirth or point in
it W.D. (Gisborne): Rambling stuff of that sort
is useless Penhandle P.: Might make a par....
E.P.L.: No use E.A.F.: Too slight A.J.L.:
“Bush Tutors” misses Geo. B.: Goes brightly,
but gets to nothing A.R.K.: Verse very rugged.
A.J.W.: “Duchesse Diamonds” no use to us
H. : Fairly smooth verse without a pulse
Kuaka: “Census” moves heavily.... Two Bullockies:
Verse too lumpy W.T.0.: Not up...5.C.G.: Wild
howl for “scorching passions,” “a mate” and
“peace” rejected A.J. (Glenmaggie) ; “Mother
Walters” won’t d0....Eg0: The verse is common-
place and clumsy M;A.C.: Feeble... .W.H.R.:
Doesn’t strike us A.F. (Sassafras): No g00d....
R.R.D.: Out of scansion at the fifth line; and unin-
teresting all through Trier: You’ll have to try a
lot harder... .Mickey: Rubbish written in soapsuds
rejected... .G.R.M.: A yam doesn’t seem the best
mode of protesting Aragun: Feeble little flutter.
.... Duncan C.: Not bright...... R.R.D.: “Retribu-
tion” doesn’t w0rk....5.H.G.: No g00d... .Mildred
C.: Machine-made thing badly put together....
R.E.A.: Not wanted... .C.8.T.: Poor stuff.


Shipping.
orient; line
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
'Xel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley-—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 30,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H fL North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
„ 10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 pTm.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including :■ —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For fur ther particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS. PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE ' "
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES: E. H
MACARTNEY; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.:
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A, C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Ageots throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain
and Ireland, and
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
other places.
fdh
pus "spouad paxg
joj jsaiajui 5s
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 7th APRIL.
R.M.S. MAKURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 2nd JUNE.
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. TAHITI, end March.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fd
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
the blue funnel line.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
fiom £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
p. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets . interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
aft
Directors i
£4,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Hubert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tbreadneedle Street E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London!
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
flommenu'calth
hfd
3M #t 2btralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSEB OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabauf (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER,
Jan. Ist. 1921.
K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE (Transhipping for Geelong and
other Victorian ports).
ROCKHAMPTON (port Alma), MACKAV, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Carries Ist and 2nd Class passengers.
tCarries Ist and 3rd Class passengers.
1 Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker Lim
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
JBlaclilieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOll:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSocirty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager,
George;
St. Hilda,
HOTEL.
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Anstralia.
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS


Missing Friends.
JAMES SEARLE, DECEASED.
PERSONS claiming to be next of kin of
JAMES SEARLE. late of Tambo,
Queensland, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned.
E. W. HUGHES, Deputy Public Curator,
Rockka mpton, Queensland.
Position Vacant.
STATE TRADE DEPARTMENT,
QUEENSLAND.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of MANAGER, Queensland State
Cannery, Brisbane. The operations at the
Cannery cover the Canning of Pineapples
and other Fruits, Fruit Preserving, and the
Manufacture of Jams, Sauces, etc. Full
particulars, together with copies of testi-
monials and age, to be furnished to the under-
signed not later than the 21st day of March,
1921.
W. H. AUSTIN, Commissioner.
J.egal Notices.
npO RICHARD HEATON formerly of Queenstown
-1 and Devonport in the State of Tasmania and of
Port Melbourne in the State of Victoria and who is
believed to have been serving in the month of
September 1918 on His Majesty’s Canadian Transport
No. 2234 the husband of Louisa Amelia Heaton of
Henry Street West Devonport in the State of Tas-
mania.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
fifteenth day of February one thousand nine hundred
and twenty-one has issued out of the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania in its Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of the said Louisa Amelia Heaton praying for
a dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
that without just cause or excuse you deserted her
and that without any such cause or excuse you have
left her continuously deserted during two years and
upwards.
In default of your appearing the Court will proceed
to hear and determine the said charge and you will
not be allowed to address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within three calendar months from
the date of the publication of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
(Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Finlay, Watchorn and Clark, of No. 32 Murray Street,
Hobart, in the State of Tasmania. Proctors for
the Petitioner. .
N THE DISTRICT COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Held at Brisbane. The Minister of State
for Home and Territories Applicant
Richard Henry Oldfield Respondent.
To Richard Henry Oldfield of Oxley, Queens-
land, and Alexander Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that an application by
the Minister of State for Home and Terri-
tories pursuant to Section 39 of the Lands
Acquisition Act 1906-1916 to , determine
the amount of compensation payable m
respect of the compulsory acquisition by the
Commonwealth of Australia of Resubdivi-
sions 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132
142, 143, 147 and 148 of Subdivision o of
Portion 374, Parish of Enoggera, County of
Stanley, State of Queensland, of which land
you were at the time of the said acquisition
the registered proprietor will be heard at
the District Court at Brisbane in the State
of Queensland on Monday the ninth day of
May 1921 at ten of the clock in the forenoon.
DATED this 2nd day of March, 1921.
W. H. CARVOSSO, Registrar.
CHAMBERS. McNAB & McNAB, Solici-
tors, 139 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Agents
for Gordon Harwood Castle, Commonwealth
Crown Solicitor, Melbourne.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
In the matter of an action wherein ARTHUR
HENRY EVA. of corner of Water and Rogers streets
Brisbane Storekeeper is Plaintiff and WILLIAM
DENIS RUSSELL of Brisbane late Storekeeper is
defendant and numbered 104 of 1921.
TO WILLIAM DENIS RUSSELL the abovenamed
defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that on the twenty-fourth day of
February 1921 a Writ of Summons was issued in
the above action which claimed the rescission of an
agreement made between the Plaintiff and yourself
on the fourteenth day of January 1921 and/or the
rescission of a Bill of Sale made by the Plaintiff in
favor of yourself and registered number 74 of 1921
the execution of the said agreement and/or Bill of
Sale having been induced by the false and fraudu-
lent misrepresentation of yourself and for Five Hun-
dred Pounds for damages for such false and fraudu-
lent misrepresentation or in the alternative for Five
Hundred Pounds for breach of Warranty contained in
the said agreement of 14th January 1921 and for a
declaration that the Plaintiff is entitled to set up
the said breach of warranty in diminution or extinc-
tion of any moneys due by the Plaintiff to you under
the said agreement and/or Bill of Sale AND TAKE
NOTICE that by an Order of this Honorable Court
dated the twentv-fifth day of February 1921 it was
ordered that substituted service of the above-men-
tioned Writ of Summons be effected by serving a
copy of same together with a copy of the Order
on Joseph Russell your father and on George Storer
of Brisbane Solicitor and that Notice of the said
Writ and of the said Order be published twice in
the Sydnev Bulletin a newspaper published at
Sydney in the State of New South Wales and that
after the expiration of seven days from the date of
the last publication of the said Notice in the said
Newspaper the Writ of Summons herein shall be
deemed to be served in Queensland AND TAKE
NOTICE that in default of your causing an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the Registry of the
Supreme Court at Brisbane within fifteen days after
the last of such advertisements the Plaintiff may
proceed in the said action and judgment may be
given against vou in your absence.
Dated this Seventh day of March 1921.
(1.b.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
DANIEL J. O’MARA, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Federal Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
TO JOHN CRONIN father of John
Thomas Cronin and formerly of
Christchurch in the Dominion of New Zea-
land and to all persons claiming by through
or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
18th day of February 1921 you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the Ist day of July 1921 your
claim to the estate of John Thomas Cronin
who died in France intestate on or about the
13th day of December 1917 failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 23rd day of
February 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
.Wellington, New Zealand.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Tivoli theatre, sidkel
EVENINGS AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LIE AC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
SIDNE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
CRITERION.
HIS LADY FRIENDS.
PALACE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT.
JOHN D. O’HARA
in
LIGHTNIN’.
ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY,
CHANGE EVERY EVENING, SEE DAILY PRESS.
Plans at Nash’s and the Grand Opera House.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
18 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Grand opera house, sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Commencing
EASTER SATURDAY, MARCH 26,
AT THE MATINEE.
MatinSes daily throughout Easter Week.
,J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D: Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Preliminary booking at Nicholson's.
|J NI O N PICTURE THEATRES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
hfd
ABBEY
SHOES
Invariably distinguished by an exclusive-
ness of design that pleases the most fas-
tidious.
Abbey Shoes are noted for their perfect
fitting and wearing qualities.
Abbey’s Special Highest Grade Patent
Derby Shoe, in made-to-order style,
stocked in half-sizes, C, D and E fittings.
PATENT DERBY, 757-
BROWN DERBY, 637-
postage EXTRA.
Write for our artistic catalogue.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Amusements.
w
IRTH BROS. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS., LIMITED.
EVERT EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
Matin6es Wednesday, Saturday and all Holidays.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
BABY BUNTING.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
DOROTHY PHILLIPS in
ONCE TO EVERY WOMAN,
and
RUTH CLIFFORD in
THE AMAZING WOMAN.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE JOYCE in
THE VICE OF FOOLS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
Amusement!.
gy|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD and SELZNICK.
QHITAKMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
h
Millars' Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shave w “ h “Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Kazor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
fdh
nOABjJ
<«
*
We've had the
ladies particu-
larly in mind in
this NEW
W ti i C L IT "V - .**
JUICY FRUIT
;H } W I \G M.M
Jusf get a pack-
et and see how
delicious it is.
6BU
bars
In each
packet
for
3 4
Three long-lasting* tasty
flavours to choose from*
The Flavour Lasts
SEALED
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
-v ■>: ■- • ••• - ->■,
Chew It
after
even
I meal
m
Made In Australasia
%
A4«o


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Mike Weak Backs Strong.
“I feel I must write and tell you
how Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills have
cured me. I was a great sufferer
with my kidneys, and tried a great
many things. At last I thought I
would try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
as my mother swears by them.
After taking one bottle I felt much
improved. I have since taken six
bottles, and I can only say I am
cured, and very grateful for it.
You may use this in the paper if
you wish, for I am more than
grateful for the result of taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd.) Mrs. B. MORAN,
“Arcadia, Grosvenor Street,
“Woollahra.”
Mrs. B.
MORAN
(from a photo).
is
Gin Pills Will
If you suffer with pains in your back or sides, or have any signs of Kidney
Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes or in the ieet or
ankles, if you are nervous, tired or run-down, or bothered with Urinary isorc c ,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles are the remedy , *
will quickly relieve you of your misery. They relieve the worst cases ot Backache
and Kidney Trouble because they remove the cause of such troubles. I hey ge
the root of the matter, clean out the kidneys and make them filter out all the
poisonous waste matters and uric acids which lodge in the joints and muse es,
causing Rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder, and quickly relieve you.
They are a unique remedy entirely different from anything you have ever used.
There is nothing else to compare with them. No matter how old you are, or how
long you have suffered, the very principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin rills is such that it
is practically impossible to take them into the human system without obtaining l
results. Take a bottle of these wonderful pills home to-night and try them for
yourself. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are sold in airtight, sealed glass containers, price
1/6, or in larger bottles, holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
fd
Df Sheldon’s
BACKACHE
and Kidney troubles.
1
;
m
%
m
*! C
/rp
02
hfd
THE QUICKEST WAY
to get to the Grocer’s according to the facetious
small boy is to RUN.
And when you arrive the quickest and safest way
to get the Cheese that will please, is to say—
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
The outdoor worker, the busy business man, the
women-folk and even the children praise this
appetising sandwich spread.
It has a flavour that hits a warm spot on every
palate, whilst as an aid to digestion, it is highly
recommended.
“Rex” Cheese is sold by all grocers in handy tins.
No other is as good. Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 867
Kathaleen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DRAIN your bride-cup and go, Katha-
leen, Kathaleen ;
Red and pale ran the wine for your
long bridal-e’en —
Blood and bale at the froth, Kathaleen, fire
and frost.
Drink and go if you must, for the world is
won and lost
Since you drank it on your knees with Eva
by the sea,
When the Norman locked your fetter first
and threw away the key.
Woe and wail! you, Kathaleen,
Kathaleen ?
Sevep beldams of the Pit, hooded hags come
to keen.
Hold away, girl, from ghouls! These seven
hundred years
We bedded deep as death. God was sleep-
ing: who had fears
They would fright the summer sun with
their glassy eyes again?
Grot nor grave will keep us faith; all is
now ebb and wane !
Drink we must, Kathaleen. You have mixed
ua the cup.
Bride nor slave never more; ’tis a queen
bids us sup.
In the nets of your hair we are haled to
your feet—
Torn feet that u. - tracked us, world o’er,
to that seat
In the veiling of winds and of thunders
where sue
Your Geraldines gone and your Brian Boru.
Horror hives in the dark—they who died
for the green—
The heavens cannot hold them, Kathaleen,
Kathaleen.
Your ancientry .are up: dread of men, the
Morrigu,
Blazes through the wrack scything ghost-
grain for you.
Higher yet—hush and hark ! The reft arches
acclaim
The Dawn Star of Eire, Brigit of the Flame.
Goddess, ghoul, get you back to the Daanans
anew !
Eire’s four winds have taken the clay that
fronted you.
But, thou, old Abysm, hide us where the
blood-feud never ran
From the rayed and wasted Phantom that
yesterday was man !
Wild witch-girl, begone ere your sea-flown hair
Uncradle at our eyries the winds of despair!
Break your bride-cup and go: the black
wine’s at our lips.
The levin flares above us to the roaring of
the ships.
Rend your bride-veil and part: ’tis a spangle
of eyes,
Doves’ eyes and doom’s eyes, widowed and
wise.
Cast your ring in the sea : wash us free, wash
.us clean
Of the hooded Death we wed, Kathaleen,
Kathaleen!
MAORIEAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.
A Sure Lose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PEGASUS was proving himself to be
worth a trial in metropolitan com-
pany, but his connections had no
false notions about the glory of getting a
mere good run for their money. With
them a bird in the hand was worth every-
thing in the scrub. They were out to col-
lect, and it gave them much more joy to
rake in £lOOO at Edenhope than a fine
performance in the Melbourne Cup would
have occasioned if it cost them a tenner.
They meant to go after the big things
ultimately, if only to increase the value
of the gelding. But country form and
country tracks are not final tests. The
horse might be a second or two below city
requirements. He was certainly nearing
the end of his tether as a sure thing on the
rural turf, for his handicaps were always
going up now; and he didn’t seem exactly
a Carbine or a Poitrel.
You will understand the kind of hands
the animal was in. They played the hard
game every time. Flash Thorn would
sooner run for a £2O stake and all the
money in the ring than for a £2OO purse
carrying a penalty.
Of course, Pegasus was not sent out to
win except when a win suited. Thorn was
compelled to feed the books to work them.
The increasing need to run these byes stung.
Thorn had several serious talks with
Brady, his partner, and the pair decided
that the time had arrived to make every
post a winner. The last cronk performance
had sent the crowd mad, and there had
been an inquiry. That meant that the ani-
mal and his connections were under open
suspicion, and they could take no further
chance of being outed.
“Skeeter Forbes is carrying three stone
of lead in his saddle-cloth now,” said Brady,
rather disconsolately, at one of these con-
ferences. “We have netted £5OO in the last
fortnight, but it can’t go on for ever. I can’t
even see the next hundred sticking out now,
after the way we have woke the books up.”
“He’s won us a pot o’ money,” said
Thorn, “but it nearly all came out o’ the
bags. He hasn’t one decent race to his
credit. If we put him under the hammer
to-morrow he’d bring somewhere between
£6O and £100.”
“Yes,” added Brady, “and he’s served us
better than a £lOOO horse. Nobody but
us has known what we could do with him
all the time, and we’ve pulled off all sorts
of quiet jokes.”
“He’d have to be a Poseidon to do that
for us in the city,” mourned Thorn. “We’d
be well. out of it if we could get another
£lOOO in the next few weeks, and then
give Town a fly. His days as a certainty
are over.”
“Unless we send him at the fences in
a few months’ time,” Brady suggested.
“He has earned a spell.”
A couple of days later Pegasus was run
to a short head by Brownie at Balmoral.
It was the hardest race the gelding had
ever had to try for. All the stable had
been able to get on was £3O, at 6 to 4 on.
The result put a nasty taste in the mouths
of Messrs. Thorn and Brady.
They hooked Skeeter for an interview
directly he got off the weighing-machine.
“What, did you go t’ sleep for?” snarled
Brady. “Think yuh were on a merry-go-
round?” ,
“Cheese it!” Skeeter came back. D yuh
reckon the horse can lump a brewery home
every time? Another two yards and yuh
wouldn’t have collected.”
“The boy’s right, Brady,” said Thorn.
“The third horse was eight lengths away.
We’ve got to meet practically the same held
at Casterton, with a half-stone penalty
added. Brownie’s weight will go up 41b.;
the others don’t count. What’s the hope,
Skeeter ?”
“No chance in life. Go to Casterton and
back Brownie.”
“Sure! And be sent out for twelve
months,” Brady snapped.
“Anyhow, Brownie's got our measure,
replied the boy. “The penalty settles that.
Pegasus was coming back in the last chain
with lOst. 81b. What’ll he be like with
list. 31b.? Take it from me, I’ll get a very
good view of how Brownie carries Sst. 121 b.
at Casterton.
“Do you know the boy on him?” Thorn
asked. .
“Yes; rattlin’ good amateur. Nothin
doing there.”
“Well, we’ve got to win,” said Thorn.
“You pick up that bundle you've dropped,
young man. You've got your tail down, and
that won’t do for next Saturday week.
There’s this much satisfaction in it:
Brownie will be a red-hot favorite at Caster-
ton, and if we can’t get long odds we’ll at
least be able to place our bets.”
The three took their charge to Hamil-
ton, where on the q.t. Thorn sent a wire to
a small gentleman named Prout, whose dwell-
ing-place was in Richmond, that classic Mel-
bourne suburb where they kill unpopular
football umpires.
The wire advised Mr. Prout to call at
the G.P.0., where he would find £lO, and to
set out at once for Casterton, where more
money would be discoverable. The signature
was not “Thorn” but “Smith.”
By Prout money from the . clouds was
always welcomed without question. He did
not identify “Smith,” for which reason lie
concluded the name to be assumed and the
business strictly confidential. Without beat
of drum he packed a smM gladstone-bag
and caught the next morning’s train west-
ward-ho.
A ferrety little man, Re jambed his spine
into the carriage corner, concentrating his
attention upon the manufacture and dissolu-
tion of innumerable cigarettes. He only
stirred at Ararat and Branxholme, where
he had to change trains. For some reason,
despite the cash that he carried in his pocket,
he elected to make the journey fasting. When
he swapped carriages ho also succeeded in
changing his travelling companions._
Arrived at Casterton, he soon identified
Mr. “Smith” standing beneath a lamp on
the railway platform. A speaking glance
was exchanged. Then Thorn mumbled:—
“Keep back a minute and the crowd will
peter out. I’ll pick you up near the gate
of the station-yard.”
When the pair met as. arranged, Thorn s
instructions were quite brief. He concluded :
“There is Hentv-street before you. I’m at
the Casterton ; don’t go there. Turn to the
right and put up at one of the two pubs
lower down the street. I’ll cut in here
past the billiard-room. Oh. I say! You
can afford to eat. The weight’s Bst. 121 b.”
The next issue of the Free Press con-
tained a neat little card :
J. KEMP,
the well-known jockey of Stawell, is open
for engagement at the forthcoming meeting.
' Weight, Bst. 31b.
Meanwhile the Pegasus camp, with the
exception of Thorn, was not enjoying life
as of old. Thorn made it his religion to get
well sprung every day. If he wasn’t tippling
in the Casterton, he was shickering in the
Albion, and his one topic was the hollow lick-
ing that Brownie would suffer at the feet of
Pegasus on the following Saturday.
He always had a wad of notes to support
his argument, and gradually he piled up a
string of bets.
Brady unintentionally helped things along.
Thorn was not accustomed to drink unwisely,
and Brady tried to shepherd him. Three
days before the races the trainer entered
the Albion looking for Thorn, who was in
the act of booking another wager.
“I’ve just taken starting-price to £5O
Pegasus,” said Thorn. “If you want a put
at the market you better hop in and get it.”
Brady showed undoubted symptoms of
aggravation.
“It’s illegal to bet in hotels,” he said
sourly, and marched out.
“Who’s that wowser?” asked the squatter
with whom Thorn had just made the gamble.
“My partner in Pegasus.”
“Hem! He doesn’t seem to think much
of your nag’s chance. Would you like to
double the bet?”
“Certainly,” replied Thorn, and doubled it
was.
Brady’s disaffection was quickly noised
abroad, with the consequence that Brownie
firmed, and Thorn found himself with £5OO
at stake on the day of the meeting. Brady
and Skeeter had not chanced a shilling.
Mr. Kemp, of Stawell, had been offered
a mount or two, but side-stepped them. How-
ever, he sought out the owner of Brownie
and asked for the ride.
“I am quite satisfied with my hoy,” said
Mostin. “He ran Pegasus to a head last
week, and will beat him to-day.”
But Mr. Kemp was nothing if not per-
sistent. He approached Mostin’s amateur.
“You are up on Brownie?” he asked.
“Yes; anything to do with you?”
“Oh, I don’t care. It’s a pity to see you
go off so young, though.”
“What do you mean?” asked the lad.
“Brownie is a man-eater. You got through
at Balmoral, but don’t you know this is
the brute that killed Blake at Ararat, Black
at Stawell and smashed up Bliss at Hors-
ham. all on the fiat?”
“My God!” gasped the boy. Thanks
for the office. It’s no good to me.”
I-Ie sought out the 10-stone owner.
“Look here.” he said, “you can ride your
own blanky horse!”
(Continued on next page.)


THE WORLD’S CREATES! HEALER
and SKIN CURE.
Zam-Buk Kills Germs and Grows New Skin.
The discovery of Zam-Buk has brought a new and wonderful substance into the
home circle.
$ 9
There is certainty and a new range of medicinal action in Zam-Buk
because it derives its remarkable properties from Nature’s own healing herbs.
There is safety in its use because of the complete absence of rancid animal
fats and mineral poisons, such as are found in cheap salves and mere ointments.
# * # * * #
Zam-Buk is a herbal balm which possesses healing and germ-killing powers of
the highest order. Zam-Buk is of unapproachable excellence whether used for simple
cuts, burns or scalds, or long-standing and painful skin disease.
& % &
In poisoned wounds Zam-Buk does not merely exclude germs; it kills them,
thus removing instantly any risk of complications. Zam-Buk also has a wonderful
record of cures for Eczema, Ulcers, Piles and Ringworm. Because of its proved
reliability, its unusually high curative properties, and its handiness and inexpensive-
ness, Zam-Buk is firmly established as the World’s Greatest Healer and Skin Cure.
-Bilk
am
When you ask for
Zam-Buk, see that you
get it. Do not be
put off with some-
thing which is claimed
as “just as good.”
There is nothing
“just as good” as the
proved, reliable, ever-
ready and effective
“Zam-feuk.”
*v 7
•jSv
•.v.v.y.v.v*
lav^v.
Ointments may «® e
ointments may go.J» ut Zam
Buk goes on for ever>
t "SU&'Sil&?' u
“Why, Alf, what’s the matter?” asked the
astounded Mostin.
“A blighter like you ought to be scragged,”
said Alf. “Handing boys over to a canni-
bal like that!”
“A cannibal?”
“It’s no good arguing the toss. You ride
him yourself, and I hope he eats you too.”
That disposed of Alf.
The saddling bell had gone already and
Mostin had no time to waste. Frantically, he
rushed to IvemD and asked him to accept the
leg-up.
Alf, to avoid further unpleasantness, kept
away from the birdcage, taking a perch in
the stand. Brownie was last out, when
everyone’s attention was fixed on the barrier,
and Kemp was fined £1 for being late at the
post. Alf did not recognise the man in
Mostin’s colors, or he might have attempted
an alarm, even at that moment.
The arrival of Brownie in the starter’s
hands brought relief to two persons—Thorn
and the jockey.
Thorn, no longer drunk, told Brady to put
his wad on Pggasus.
“Not me,” retorted Brady.
“Right-o! You won’t shorten my start-
ing-price bets,” said Thorn. “But don’t put
it on Brownie. Don’t! Don’t! Don’t!
Brownie not only won’t win ; he can’t win !
Keep your money in your pocket.”
“Very well,” said Brady.
“Hear the ring,” snarled Thorn. “They
hold very little of my money. Most of it is
on the side. Listen! Six to four Brownie,
threes Pegasus. I wouldn’t like to shorten
Pegasus on that. He won’t lengthen with
these country fielders, but if I went near one
of them he’d harden half-a-point on sight.”
The metallicians called the odds, Brownie
firming to evens, while Pegasus stood on
threes, with the others not asked for. There
was not much money in the ring for that
race, Thorne’s bets having anticipated the
books. He had £5OO out at threes.
“They’re off!” was called from the stand,
as the field got away.
Pegasus and Brownie were kept together,
well back, for the first five furlongs, when
Kemp moved Brownie along, Pegasus keeping
in touch.
A slow race would suit the top-weight and
Kemp knew too much about his business to
permit of that. He made the sixth a cracker,
and Skeeter felt that nothing but a miracle
could save Pegasus, whom he steadied, only
to notice that Kemp was also conserving his
mount.
Kemp took Brownie along steadily to the
seventh token, with Pegasus lying on his
quarters, but the leader was making too easy
work of it to please Skeeter. The pair were'
several lengths clear of the ruck, and Skeeter
was beginning to hope that Kemp would leave
the making of his run till the last moment. He
was growing hopeful with every stride nearer
home. With lialf-a-furlong to go Kemp
applied the whip and shot away from
Pegasus. The top-weight tried to respond
to the call, but the gruelling sixth had been
too much for him. His pace was spent and
Brownie cantered in, hard held, three
lengths to the good.
The race had been won in masterly
fashion, and Kemp received a splendid ova-
tion. Mostin’s action in changing his riders
was ascribed to an astuteness that made
assurance doubly sure. The jockeys weighed
in correctly and the minor settlings were
about to be made when the “protest” signal
went up.
The objection had been lodged by Thprn,
who said he recognised in Kemp a one-time
prominent Melbourne jockey, now under life
disqualification for malpractice.
Ivemp wept, but admitted the charge.
He pleaded that he had tried to make a
fresh start where he had hoped he was un-
known, and protested that he had only been
bowled out by the very excellence of the
service he had given that day.
The stewards could do nettling but dis-
qualify Brownie and give the race to Pegasus.
Mostin’s explanation was received, and he
was exonerated. Kemp already was under
the maximum penalty, and he had made no
sworn declaration that rendered him amen-
able to prosecution.
“I’ve raked off £1500,” said Thorn to
Brady. “£5OO is Prout’s, though you will
persist in calling the man Kemp. The rest
makes up our £lOOO. I didn’t take you into
the know because you worked better without
the information. You are a trainer, and you
might have got the notion that nature meant
you for an actor. You played just the part
I wanted.”
“Suppose,” said Brady, “Prout had missed
the mount?”
“That,” said Thorn, “was another reason
for keeping you in the dark.”
“If you woke the ring up, you’d ha’
got fours or fives in place of threes,” growled
Brady.
“If I’d ha’ woke the ring un, you’d ha’
smelt a mouse as big as an elephant. As it
was, the whole atmosphere was dinkum, ex-
cept to Prout and me. I only backed Pegasus
when I was drunk, and you never touched
him.”
“I’d lia’ touched him if you’d told me
what was doing. The books wouldn’t
have got away with the pile. They nearly
got a skinner!”
“Yes, you’d have gone after £l5O and
knocked the bottom out of my s.p. stuff.
You’re a good trainer, Brady, bpt you don’t
know the limits to a gamble.' You’re all
duck or no dinner. We’re a thou, to the
good—-the best day we’ve ever had. Next
week we show Melbourne to Pegasus.”
STAR.
Love’s Revolt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS he stood with his back to the mantel-
piece, his right hand impatiently
fingering a gold albert attached to his
watch, and clutching a newspaper nervously
with the other, while holding up a minatory
finger at her —no, he didn’t, he had only two
hands; he toyed with the albert and clutched
the newspaper—-a critical observer would
easily have deduced from his bearing that he
was considerably disturbed in mind, and
the reason was not far away. She (the
reason) looked tantalisingly attractive as she
reclined curled up in a large sea-grass chair.
Her dress was bedecked in the rich and gaudy
hues of the Age of the Profiteer; an aroma
of ambrosial perfume impregnated the air
around her: her bearing was respectfully de-
fiant and her voice resonant of calm rebel-
lion ’ The angry remonstrances of the man
and"her replies ("both naive and sharp), left
no doubt as to the circumstances: it was the
old story of cold wisdom being countered by
careless folly.
“This marriage, I tell you, shall never take
place if my authority counts for anything,”
he said sharply.
“I love him, he loves me, and marry him
I will despite all remonstrances,” she replied,
He bit his moustache till it resembled that
of a first lieutenant of infantry; great vari-
cose veins were concealed by the stylishly-cut
check trousers sheathing his calves; irritation
was visibly stamped on his puckered forehead
at the recalcitrancy of one whose happiness
was dear to him, and whom he wished to save.
“This man is penniless,” he rapped out.
“But I am not,” she ripped back.
“The disparity in your ages is a bar to a
happy union,” he continued.
“I’m old enough to know my own mind, and
I believe Edgar knows his. At any rate, I
love him, and that reason is all-sufficient,” she
retorted.
“He’s an adventurer,” rasoed out the angry
man, “or he would not contemplate such a
marriage.”
Her golden hair, catching a brilliant sheen
from the subdued sunlight filtering through
the cream-colored blinds of the large Oriental
window, did not temper his anger. In fact,
its hue seemed to annoy him.
“Adventurer !” she gasped. “You are un-
just, He was always a favorite with you
until he fell in love with me. His being poor ,
hardly of my own age, and in love with me
seems to have altered vour whole view of
»
“His character and financial standing are
but minor considerations. This announcement
in the Society columns”—here he brandished
a copy of the evening paper—“will be the
talk of the city to-morrow. I feel I must go
away till you can be brought to see the mad
folly on which you have embarked with this
man: the difference in your ages can’t be
less than 40 years,” he exclaimed heatedly.
“You lay too much stress on the matter of
aae ” she replied gravely.
ag Ji i, e anr nL hetween the
She had devoted some st J% trnttinu
brief hours snatched from jazzing, tox-tiotting
and bridge parties, to the subject of youth
and age, and flung at him some opinions she
had stored away in the recesses of a mind
harassed by thoughts of what flappers call
a “good time.” “‘Age is not a matter of the
l . nri) - ~ mnH-pv of
bOC fiJ n nf tbp ’muscles but of
ossification of the muscles, but ot
ossification of the enthusiasms and senti-
ments'“she Quoted. “I would remind yon
that Swedenborg imagined that Heaven's
angels are advancing continually to the
springtime of their youth, so that those who
have lived longest are really the youngest,”
she added, with a note of flippancy, which
was lost on the irate gentleman standing over
ug r u 6 °
“We are not in Swedenborg’s Heaven, but
dwelling in this matter-of-fact sphere,” he
gulped impetuously.
“But love is Heaven,” she answered mildly,
“Under its benign influence the slough of
years will drop from us both, and we will
become one in love, in sentiment, in enthusi-
asm and in age. Oh, Edgar, nothing will make
me forsake you!” she rapturously apostro-
phised the absent one. Then, turning to her
mentor: “Not even you, whom I honor and
esteem, and whose behests it is my wish to
treat with respect.”
“Is there no argument I can advance that
will deflect you from the course you are bent
on following? No feeling in your heart for
me who have viewed with complacency your
penchant for amusements? Who never re-
proaelied you regarding your jazzing? Who
looked indulgently on your fox-trotting, and
kept open house for your gentleman friends?
I appeal to you/ he implored, “to be guided
by me in this momentous matter.”
“I have thought of all these things, and
your indulgence and patience; but a matter of
love is one before which the dearest ties of
relationship must yield.” she replied. “My
resolve is as fixed as fate.”
He took a couple of rapid steps forward,
looked down on her as she sat coiled up in
the chair, and with anger in his eyes said:
“When Sir Leicester died 20 years ago
this mansion and £2OOO a year were my
share of his estate. You were also well
provided for. The bridge-parties and other
amusements associated with life in society
I viewed with misgivings, but the betrothal
just announced is the last straw on my
shoulders of patient endurance. Our paths
bifurcate at this juncture, if your decision
is final. Is it ?” he demanded,
“It is final. I will take my departure
hence, > and Edgar and I will be married
immediately, ’ she replied,
She slowly uncoiled herself, rose from the
deep recess of the seagrass chair, pressed
into shape with her carefully-manicured
hands her golden hair which had become
disarranged, by the cushion, and ihook out
her short silk skirt.
“Let us at least part as friends,” she said
as she confronted him.
. “Enough ! Go! he groaned, as he sank
mto the large chair she had just vacated,
. “What pangs these imprudent marriages
inflict on parent and child, he murmured,
as she Pirouetted towards the French wm-
dow leading on to the lawn, oust at the
moment when a young man of 25 entered
,
L ” ~ , .
“Oh, you could not have arrived at a
more opportune moment, ’ she exclaimed as
she stepped on to the gravelled path to meet
him. I have been ordered to forsake this
home m which I was born, in which Sir
Leicester died 20 years ago, and in which
tt . breathed hie last onlv three vears
Barcourt breatnea ms last only tnree years
«SO. Oh, take me away, ledsar Ido not
K? „ “ s d “ SXm
1 ve already spent heie. .
He took the arm of the twice-widowec
beauty-parlor habitue and escorted her to the
motor by which he had just arrived. The
26-year-old son in the big chair yeaned
again and pressed his temples with both
hands as he heard the motor glide off with
his ma and Edgar.
BERNARD MAGEE.


h
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum Wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
8
A Modem Engineer’s
Workshop is not
complete without a
GOOD BRAZING OUTFIT
In this line of goods we admit no competitor superior in knowledge
or range of stock.
We have been handling this class of goods for a great number of
years now, and know exactly “the trade’s” requirements for
BRAZING EQUIPMENT
suitable for use with
BENZINE LAMP, i pint (will melt i Copper Rod in Imin.), 48/6
BENZINE LAMP, 1 1-3 pint „ „ „ „ „ 52/6
PRIMUS STOVE for Melting Babbitt or Similar Metals—
_ _______ 22/6, 25/- each
GAS BRAZING OUTFITS.
ALL IRON BELLOWS, with Continuous Blast with Blow Pipe. For
Medium Work, 75/-
WOOD and LEATHER FOOT BELLOWS, Continuous Blast,
10 xl4 in., 47/9 each. 12 xlB in., 53/- each.
FLETCHER RUSSEL’S WORLD-
FAMOUS BLOWPIPES, for use
with above Bellows-—•
53/9, 57/-, 70/-, £5/12/-
BEST COPPER SOLDERING IRONS,
lib., 3/9; 21b., 6/9, 31b., 10/6 ea.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplier
fdh
SAFEGUARD You* HEALTH
OrJ.Collts Broiling
CWorodjwc
The Original and Only Genuine.
THIS BEST .MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and ill the Cough of BBONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short -all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all .Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
$
. •<
•; ••• C*rV 'Tv- •
- ?- •• *•_ <• .--r • ./
- - .
r ■- * . - •
.: « •;• 'V ,»:•••- '• W.Va*v. : :SVv'.-l
. ' -iJ
■-.: v
lllfe
TO^Kl
u
8%
i
s*-s
aSS
Vi
c-i4u
/z
%
m
fd
Remington “WetprooP*
Shotgun Cartridges'
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over. |
“NEW CLUB” —with black powder loads.'
‘‘REMINGTON” —a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality, j
“NITRO CLUB” —known to sportsmen
> everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability. j
“ARROW”—the cartridge de luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other features making
it the highest type. >
There are four types or kinds but only one grade—
the HIGHEST. j
All cartridges loaded at our factory are now
being treated with the Remington special ex-|
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
hfd
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, C.P.0., Melbourne
h
fdh
For Saving'Time and Saving'Steam!
YOU fit a valve for an important and exacting duty. The best valve is one that, once fitted,
stays, works and is free from trouble. Correct body design, quality of metal in valve and
seat, and, above all, perfection in operation.
Those are just the advantages of British Steam Fittings, which we supply, because they’re British.
You will find that the following lines of repute cost no more than comparatively unknown brands.
Steam Valves, Fullway Valves, Plug Cocks, Asbestos and Gland Packed
Cocks, Pressure and Vacuum Gauges, Gauge Mountings, Lubricating
Devices, Injectors, in Brass, Gunmetal or Iron.
Call and inspect, or write for particulars.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


» ft
r
Wi‘ (iMi
*>\v
rr.
r$
i
±j
. .iJy-T
£-■
V \
r.
\v
U,
22
////
WA
>?
J
TiidcSimmons fei
For> all Sporting
Re oiiir»emenf s -
We supply everything for all indoor and outdoor Sports.
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT is made for Better Service and is the
first choice of discriminating purchasers. Price List free on request.
FOOTBALL.
RUGBY MATCH FOOTBALLS.
Complete with best-quality bladder.
(Postage on one ball: N.S.W.. 6d.; other States, Bd.)
Each.
81. Nicholson’s Royal 7/6
82. Nicholson’s Royal, hand sewn .. . 9/6, 10/6
83. Nicholson’s Royal, selected 15/6
84. Nicholson’s Royal, special 16/6
85. Nicholson’s International 17/6
86. Nicholson’s A.N.A. Special 21/-
87. Ford’s Interstate 20/-
89. Gilbert’s Best English 32/6
SOCCER MATCH FOOTBALLS.
Complete with best quality bladder.
(Postage on one ball: N.S.W., 9d.; other States. 1/2)
Each.
810. C. 8.8. Special 8/6, 10/6
Bit. Rival, special buttonless 12/6
812. Albion, special 15/6
813. Ford’s Interstate 25/-
814. Haymarket, waterproof, 8-piece ... 22/6
815. Special, capless 27/6
816. Official League, 13-piece ........ 25/-
817. Cert, Chrome waterproof, 13-piece.... 35/-
818. Syke’s Tuphine, 12-piece 42/6
MEN’S FOOTBALL JERSEYS.
(Postage 6d. extra.)
Superior Quality Cotton, heavy English make, good
assortment of colors, as follows-Black, Emerald
Green, Maroon, Royal Blue, Sky, in self colors;
Black and Cardinal, Black and Gold, Black and
Green, Black and Red, Black and Royal, Black
and White, Blue and Gold, Chocolate and Gold,
Navy and Gold, Red and Gold, Red and Green,
Red and White, Red, White and Navy, with
2-inch hoop bars, each 13/9
Football Stockings, pair 5/9 and 7/6
Knickers, pair 7/6
SUNDRIES.
(Carriage extra.)
81. M.S. Soccer Boots, special value, pair —
-18/6, 25/-
82. M.S. Rugger Boots, Special value, pair 17/6
83. Dally M., Patent Rugby Boots, pair . . 21/6
84. Shin Guards, pair—
2/-, 2/6, 3/-, 3/3, 3/9, 6/6
B4A. Ankle Guards, pair 3/6
85. Ear Caps, each 2/3, 3/6, 3/9
86. Lacing Awls, each -/»
87. Inflators, each 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
88. Silk Elastic Bandages, pair ........ 13/6
89. Association Goal Posts, set 55/-
810. Umpires’Whistles, each 1/3. 1/6, 2/-, 2/6
811. Euseptol Training Oil, bottle ...... 1/3
LAWN BOWLS.
Every Bowl tested and stamped by N.S.W. Bowling
1 Association. p .
81. Taylor’s Bowls, first quality, ivory iair -
mounted, No. 3 Bias 70/-
82. Taylor’s Bowls, extra quality, silver-
mounted, No. 3 Bias 84/-
83. Taylor Rolph Bowls, extra quality, large
ivory disc ... 75/-
84. Spalding’s Bowls, best quality, No. 3
Full Bias 47/6
86. Dunlop’s Bowls, extra quality, No. 3 Full
Bias .' ... 55/-
(Postage on pair: N.S.W., 3/2; other States, 4/2.)
Engraving Bowls, two initials and number, per
pair 3/6
“DENNIS
RACKETS.
(Postage: N.S.W., 9d.: other States, 1/2; Rackets
50/- or over post free.)
Special School Match 7/6
M.S. National ..... 15/6
M.S. Selected 33/6
M.S. Extra Special.. 42/-
Hay market .... 30/40/-
„ Special ... 40/-, 45/-
~ Selected ~ 45/-, 50/-
„ Ex. Special . . 60/-
Ayre’s Champion ... 50/-
~ Matador 55/-
„ 5.N.11. 87/6
Spalding’s Greenwood 35/-
„ Vantage ..... 37/6
~ Tournament , . 48/6
„ Gold Medal . . 67/6
fd
hfd
TENNIS BALLS.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Each. Doz.
Hayriiarket Champion, 1921 2/4 27/6
Ay re’s & Slazenger’s Champion, 1921 3/3 35/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 ........ 2/9 33/-
TENNIS NETS.
(Carriage extra.)
81. Steam Tarred, 21ft. wide, rope headline, each —
17/6, 25/-, 30/-
82, Steam Tarred, 21ft. wide, wire head-line, each —
35/-, 42/6, “47/6, 50/-, 55./-, 63/-, 70/-
All Tennis Sundries Stocked
TENNIS SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
h
The “Grip” Backet Press,
3/6, 4/6
Patent Spring Backet
Press 8/6
Backet Handle Grips—
I/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books ...... 1/6
Backet Gut, 36ft. coils—
2/-, 6/6
Backet Gut, English, 21ft.
coils .. 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 15/-
GUNS and RIFLES.
817. Hollis D.8.8.L. Duck Gun, 12 gauge, 34in.
steel barrels, both choke. Greener crossbolt, speci-
ally built for heavy charges and long-distance
shooting. Weight about 811 b. Freight paid—
£lB/18/-
831. Darlow D.B. Hammerless Gun, 12 gauge,
32in. barrels, Greener crossbolt, patent fore-end,
side clips, auto safety, raised rib, pistol grip,
highly engraved. Weight about 7|lb. Freight paid.
£22/10/-
81. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed for
long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire. It
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath
the forearm. The action used is of the safety-
bolt type, and is exceedingly simple. The barrel is
round, ISin. long, bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate. Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain
V-back sight ' 33/-
(Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
and Rifles,
- i
r •
•4r
A'
\ . <2
.V
n- --
;er-
? XX
*T
IC.
immons
HEADQUARTERS:
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Branches:- Citt) and Suburbs;
Hunter St NEWCASTLE; Edward St BRISBANE.
d
"s
*8
\
Mi
