

The
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited.
Mine Owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
' v # * I ■ • ' , .■ : ?
■ '
■
wmm
rjfesfStefess
' •
'
,
, * * tx i S^' '
► ' « 1\ % ‘ V '\ if s*“ V
- ■ : ' ■ •-"'-
■•, *.• •• •■••■ i ■ ■ v, y- V.... • . •; . ■ *•/• .. 5.;..
£9 : uu *
-V.\. 11
> t $$ A _ , f . , . rj-innirrii
- ' ,
X.v • 4k.: ftlt , •'
i a
g | f ||fj
■ :
gy Kii I s
fff' / 1.
MWMjw
11
»i
Slit
.
m
•. •«.
'•••■•■ ■
■
Portion of
t\.£ at. J » ‘ <
Steel Works at New
PIG IRON,
RAILS & FISHPLATES,
INGOTS, BILLETS,
BLOOMS, TEES,
etc.
ni l Lil.iii
??QPR/7&
v
ft
*
uu
O
s
3:
%
*
£
iiLtmiQ
ROUNDS, FLATS,
SQUARES, ANGLES,
STRUCTURAL STEEL,
SULPHATE of
AMMONIA, etc.
Bianch
m
LONDON: 3 Great Winchester Street.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE: 75 King William Street.
Head Office:
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cables and Telegrams: “Gambroon,” Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42. —No. 2141
Thursday, February 24, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD., 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
Free on Approval or Return.
“Outline of History”
By H. G. WELLS, in Two Volumes.
This History of the World, of Mankind, told with fearless, sweeping
and refreshing candor, will he sent to you (carriage paid) for 7 days’
free inspection on approval. You can return it without obligation or
retain it by a 10/- deposit as a complete cash purchase at a reduction.
Naturally, we could not afford to make this offer if this set of “Outline
of History” did not stand apart and above on merit. '
The Waver ley Edition is Yours
for 10/- Down or Cash.
Who can gainsay that H. G. Wells is the most brilliant and perceptive writer
of our day V HiS grasp of detail is as great as his understanding of what really
matters in history, and he has the remarkable faculty of making his readers see
through his own eyes, to the reader’s greater perception, knowledge and under-
standing. He has here not only written History in Outline ; he has also given
it proportion, and brought its vastness within the range of the average man or
woman.
Cato, the Censor
Queen Elizabeth
Napoleon
Queen Victoria
Lloyd-George
Woodrow Wilson
etc., etc., etc.
These and all men and women of History are seen with-
out any ‘"policy camouflage”; without convenient' ill-
proportioned or Jingo veneer —just us they were. Candid
and logical always, harsh and unfair never, Wells leaves
many illusions irreparably broken. He knows Man,
does Wells, and here he shows us the men and women
of history with consummate skill; shows us Humanity
as it ever has been.
THE MAIN DIVISIONS ARE: The Making of Our World: The Making of
Man ; The Dawn of History; Judea, Greece and India; Rise and Collapse of the
Roman Empire; Christianity and Islam ; The Great Mongol Empire of the Land
Ways and the New Empires of the Sea Ways ; The Age of the Great Powers
(including the 1934 catastrophe) ; The Next Stage in History.
THIS IS THE ONLY EDITION POSSESSING 64 FULL-PAGE
ART REPRODUCTIONS & OTHER EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
The Only Two-Volume Edition containing all H. G. Wells’ Extensive and
Important Corrections. (Many fresh footnotes and text alterations were made;
two sections were entirely re-written. All these appear in the Wavertey Edition.)
The Only Corrected Edition Offered For Sale on Terms.
The Only Edition Sent Out for Free Examination.
The approval offer for this work is unique, and is born entirely of our confidence
in its superior merit.
“Outline of History” must live forever; you want your copy to be complete and
correct. The Waverley Edition is all that; so make sure of your set to-day.
This Coupon will
Bring you the Book
If Requested a Prospectus
Only will be sent.
FREE ON APPROVAL COUPON.
WAVERLEY BOOK COMPANY,
218-226 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
On Approval, please forward me, with no obligation to purchase, the two volumes
of ‘Outline of History by 11, G. Wells, for free examination . If unsatisfactory I ivill
return the set within 7 days ; otherwise I will forward you within 7 clays either £3
cash or 10/• deposit, undertaking to pay the balance in 5 monthly payments of 10/- and
one of If-/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.2/24/2/21.
A 12pp. Prospectus only, -with sample art and text pages, will be sent if requested • merely
write “Prospectus only” across coupon.
THE NEXT WAH- ——
What Will It Mean to Australia ?
READ
The War of the Future
By GENERAL VON BERNHARDI.
Germany is not crushed. Already Prussian militarism is
raising its head and contemplating an offensive war on an even
greater scale, with more deadly weapons. Read and study this
book, and help to defeat its sinister purpose.
PRICE 20/- (9d. postage).
From Your Bookseller.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY., LTD.,
262=4 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
TOOTH/PASTE
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B,
Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
H
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly I
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use J:he “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
:aiqj.sntMJ
j NON POISONOUS POWDER.' <
IHEflttffT INSECT DESTWErT
Hies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mmqoitoes
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. [3
The Red Page
Troubadours All
The woman in the bulging kimono was
obviously bored stiff—that is, as stiff as the
bulges would let her be. The old 'man on
the verandah-steps gesticulated freely, de-
claiming and orating in a thin, piping voice.
A wisp of a man from another world. Years
ago I had heard him in George-street, and
I'm afraid he had bored me too, but I hope
I didn’t show it so patently as his present
audience. Presently he ceased, and liis
shadowy arms and beard fell still, as he took
a leaflet from his roll and gave it to the
woman. She gave him in return a coin, and
went into the house. The troubadour
shouldered his swag, and came out to the
Bathurst-road, which erstwhile was the sea-
board* road of- Provence, or Watjing-street,
or that steep hill to the gates of red Siena.
The old man’s burning eyes looked through
me tis if I were not there; and I watched his
light, quick figure fade in the dust of a
bush-road leading back to the township.
I doubt that he knows in the flesh the high-
ways I mention, but he must know them
well m the spirit. Here in New South Wales
he is the direct descendant of the singers who
travelled those roads —of the real troubadour-
singers, I mean, not of the princes and kings
who tried to imitate them. The noble art-
poet- who sang for love of the thing (Art
tor Art’s sake), and wandered about with
hired musicians and jongleurs, letting the
scared peasants listen to him, was a later
excrescence. The true troubadour carried his
own lute and his own singing baritone or
tenor; the singing of his verse bought him his
bed and board, and sometimes a little money
for his pocket as well. He lasted for about
two centuries, fropi 1090 until 1290, rising
and falling with the chivalry he sang and
inspired. The verse rose through the epic
ballad, fuller of life and meaning than of
music, to the development of lyrical form and
stncter verse, generally retaining still the
epic s spirit and fire. From that it declined
to artificiality and didactic degeneracy ; and
finally disappeared with the age of chivalry
which had brought it into being. Mostly
the poets kept to the roads and fields with
the birds, but here and there one was caught
and caged by some feudal community or court
to sing in captivity. This he did for a time,
getting into horribly hot water with princes
and husbands, being ennobled or stabbed,
hanged or canonised, and generally dis-
ci edited, until (if lie were alive) he took to
his native road again, wandering on to his
death in some ditch or tavern-quarrel.
-those troubadours "who got into history
were naturally the well-born art-poets or
the true poets who preferred a staff-job at
a court to the hunger of the freelance high-
ways. .The first (naturally again) is a
riov\ em •• Count of Poitiers
it. . ! “”) • Beyond his princedom and
that his life and works were equally im-
moral, he doesn’t amount to anything. The
nexp recorded troubadour is better; Bernard
de Yentadour (1140-1195) was the son of a
serf whose master, the Vicomte Ebles 11.,
encouraged and assisted the youth, who re-
taliated by falling in love with Ebles’s wife
and sundry other ladies, his pas-
sions being embodied in his verse. Marca-
burn (1140-1185) was a foundling who
exemplified his grudge against the world in
a satirical bitterness of expression which led
to Ins murder by the castellan of Guian.
I eire d Auvergne, Jaufre Rudel, Richard the
Lion-heart, Guirant de Borneil, Bertrand de
i>orn all dashed into song about their vari-
troubles military and amorous. Peire
\idal (11 <o-1115) is the most famous trou-
badour. He sang at the apex of the art’s
golden age, and seems worthily to take the
highest place, both in volume and in quality
or matter. Perhaps analogously, he was
historically insane and the “terror of hus-
bands. ’ Folquet de Marseille (1180-1231)
was interesting, too. He was the son of a
Genoese merchant at Marseilles; his youth
was spent in amorous riot and song, but he
suffered a change of soul on the death of one
of the many ladies. This change drove him
into the Ghurch, where he became the terror
not of husbands, but of heretics, finishing
up as the Bishop of Toulouse. Ilis 25 songs'-
are full of a bright, passionate beauty, but
naturally they, were written on the human
side of the odor of sanctity. And so on,
down to the tracks and moralisms of Peire
Cardinal (1210-1230), and to Guiraut
Riqmers < 1.2;.0-1294) bitter complaints of
the hard-upness and disrepute of the once-
famous troubadours. He was the last of
the order, his cry of the eternal poverty of
poetry being the .swan-song of them and
their chivalry and “gallantry,” their hedge-
row freedom and their lap-dog jobs.
Not quite the last. Sitting in offices and
rooms about the world there are the makers
of topical verses, the singing commentators
on the passing deeds of the years. These
deeds are not. now called “chivalry” and
“gallantry,” as the newspaper-office" is pot
now called a prince’s court; but the trou-
badours are there, happy in chains in the
rooms, or hungry and happy at the gates.
And here and there on the highways of the
world some man sells his verse, like the old
man on the BathursGroad—writes it and
gets it printed without reference to any
critic —selling it at sixpence a time for bed
and board and perhaps a little something in
the pocket. Later in the day of the bulging
lady I heard his voice in declamation at the
kitchen-door, but he had finished and sold
his song when I arrived there. As he went
down the path I noticed that his trousers
were bound with string to the knees, suggest-
ing mediaeval buskins; his swag looked like
a lute slung from his shoulders as he turned
into the road again.
HILARY LOFTING.
American Humor
When did American humor take on a
distinctly national disguise and throw off
the old English boots it previously walked
in? The question has worried me since I
picked up a book of the early Victorian era
—exact date unknown—entitled “The Merry
Companion for all Readers." This brown-
odvered volume is own brother in artless
funniness to “Mr. Merryman’s Broad
(frins," stated to be “an Extensive Collec-
tion of the Wittiest Sayings ever published.”
Both are lineal descendants of “Joe Mi
ler’s Jest Book,’’ born in the reign of Quee
Anne, and continued with additions for an
other century or more. The : “Broad Grins
includes a few samples, apart from quota
tions from Artemus Ward, of America
humor. For instance :
The Boston Investigator states that a Wester
Justice ordered a witness to come up and be swor
He,, was informed that the person was deaf an
dumb. “I don’t care,” said the .Judge passionatel;
“whether he is or not. The Constitution of tl
United States guarantees to every man the rigl
of speech, and as long as 1 have the honor of
seat on, this bench it shall not be .violated
invaded. What the Constitution guarantees to
man he should have, I reckon.”
As for “The Merry Companion,’’ whose com
piler takes the name of Dr Merry and, com
mends the book as “calculated to enlive
dull hours,” it is largely American i
color, and from it I gather that the Yew
uited States, at the heyday of Sam Slick
had not freed itself from the ancestra
shackles forged by Joe Miller. No cult o
“smartness” arose for at least 75 year
after the death of George Washington
There may be aspirations after new humo
in
The man who thinks he can talk a girl out o
love has gone south to stop the Mississippi wit
a chip. (“Merry Companion,” p. 63).
But the average jest runs on these lines : :
Maryland Wit: A gentleman with a glass ey
was about to exercise the right of suffrage the othe
morning, when he was accosted by a political oppo
nent with, “I say, master, what are you doini
there? You can’t vote; you’re not natural eyes’d.’
The joke was taken in good part and created
general merriment.
That side-splitting story from Maryland is
as due to the influence of England’s own un
rivalled Joe Miller as the following item; —
The Value of a Wig.—A Southern paper relate
the _ following' story of an officer of the army, who
having lost his hair during an illness' contracted a;
New Orleans, provided himself with a handsome
wig before starting on the late campaign in Florida
In an engagement with the Seminoles he was
wounded and fell to the ground, where he lay with
out power to rise. The red enemy who wounded him
came up for his scalp. The officer feigned to be
dead, and breathed as low and softly as possible
The Indian stood over him, drew his knife, passec
it. fearfully and quickly round the head of his
victim, and then, with a “whoop,” bounded with
his bloody trophy into an everglade. The officer
afterwards got back in safety to his camp, and
relates with much glee the story of the loss of his
— wig.
The italics in the Yankee anecdote are
seemingly intended to tell the reader where
he is expected to be tickled to death. A
direct quotation from an American paper is
only one of a hundred in “The Merry Com-
panion”
Very Likely.—The late Mr. Isaac Slocum, of S.-
eoun., postmaster of that place, formerly of Boston,
was distinguished for his wondrous alienation of
mind, which was a source of great annoyance to
him. In addition to holding, an egg in his hand
and boiling his watch for five minutes, and many
others, the last instance of his absence of mind is
supposed to Lave been the cause of his death. One
night he retired (o his chamber, and after undress-
ing, placed his pantaloons between the sheets and
threw himself across the back of the chair, in
which situation he was exposed during the night,
—American paper. , .
At a rough calculation “The Merry Com-
panion” came to light in 1850-70, and pro-
bably soon after the American Civil War.
Its . literary kinsman, “Mr. Merryman’s
Broad Grins,” gives an old-fashioned anec-
dote of President Lincoln as though he were
alive at time of publication. Up to this
period American newspaper humor, as we
now understand it, had not shaped itself.
There was no straining after smartness, in
the modern sense of the term : no extrava-
gance of idiom; no pretence of a terse-
ness which is sometimes more wordy than
the wit of great-grandmother’s day. Ameri-
can anecdotal style was still almost true
to Joe Miller traditions. Uncle Saminality
was in its inarticulate infancy, judging
from a bunch of “Yankee Similes” in
“Broad Grins,” which give “proud as a
tame turkey,” “melancholy as a Quakers'
meeting-house by moonlight” as new
Yankee notions, whereas they are of antique
form compared with the occasional similes
of Charles Lamb. If, then, the language
of Noo Yark had not become thoroughly
Americanised as late as 1860, when did it
start out to whip creation, and how many
phases of ostentatious novelty did it go
through ere the dialogue of modern Ameri-
can “crook” drama was arrived at? And
to what extent was the great influx of
foreign elements after the Civil War
accountable for America’s severance of its
old ties with Joe Miller? England has con-
tinued to keep Miller’s memory green.
Within the present century books of alleged
witty anecdotes have appeared in a narra-
tive form, which was the mould of, light
literary fashion what time loyal America
was offering up prayers for the welfare of
King George the First. But it is unthink-
able that any modern American story could
bear a close family resemblance to the
60-year-old specimens selected front the two
brown books.
O. K.
The Fairy Family
Royal Commissions, Federal or State,
have sat on nearly every subject under
.Heaven. But there is still, a lack of a search-
ing inquiry on the subject of fairies. For
example and starting-point there is a
large and solid work on “The Fairy-faith in
Celtic Countries.” written by Evans Wentz,
and published by the Oxford University
Press. Wentz, an M.A. of Stanford Uni-
versity. California, and a B.Sc. of Jesus
College, Oxford, could give Judge Ewing
points in activity. Single-handed he
took evidence in Ireland. Scotland, the I.sle
of Man, Wales. Cornwall and Brittany, and
raked the world over for analogies and paral-
lels to the Celtic belief in fairies, spirits
and the other world general ly. Scores of
witnesses in these six Celtic* regions told
him about seeing and meeting fairies. He
came to the conclusion that after allowing
liberally for error and imposture there is
something very solid and real about fairies
and the spirit-world. Like James Stephens
and other mystics and poets, this Californian
(Continued on page 27.)


It
a
Anthony Horderns’ Convincing Values
For nearly a century Anthony Horderns’ have rigidly
maintained their policy of Value-Giving, and to-day are
determined to serve a discriminating public even better
than ever. The dependable quality merchandise featured
on this page reveals values which, by comparison of quality
and price, are unequalled.
V -\
*
Men’s Reliable Half-Hose
Our selections comprise the pro-
ductions of dependable manufac-
turers.
All-Wool Black Cashmere,
3/9, 4/11, C/3, 6/9,
7/3, 8/3, 8/9.
All-Wool Black Cashmere,
with embroidered sides,
7/6, 8/-, 8/9, 9/11,
11/-
Black Cotton, 2/6, 2/11,
3/3, 3/11, 4/8.
Brown Cotton 2/6
White Cotton ■ • 2/3, 3/6
Tan, Dark or Bight Grey
Lisle Thread •• 5/6
Heather Knitted, all wool,
4/9, 5/9
\
WA
m
“Holeproof”
Half-Hose
The smartest Sox in Cotton and Silk Mixture,
extra woven heels and toes. Dark
Brown, Gunmetnl, Navy, Black, 6/6
Superior Quality, in similar colors to above,
8/6
Comfort-Giving
Underwear
English Balbriggan Underwear, ex-
cellent qualities, perfectly made and finished,
ensuring comfortable wear.
Sizes 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
Undershirts, % -sleeves,
with ventilated gus-
sets 11/9 11/9 la/ . 12/0
Underpants .. 12/6 12/9 13'- 13/6
Trunk Drawers.. 12/- 12/3 12/9 13/3
C 9
<
Cotton Twill. Fawn shades . . 20/-, 217-
Fawn Gabardine 32/6, 607-
Khaki Drill 307-
Fawn Cotton Cord 26/6
Fawn Corded Mole 32/6
Fashion Shirts
Comfortable fitting, in reliable
fabrics, designed and made
by experts, in our own
workrooms.
In Striped Crepe, V-cased
band, dressed cuffs and
neckband, in Blue, Black
and Brown stripes.
Price. . 14/G each.
In Striped British
Zephyr, V-cascd band,
dressed cuffs and neckband;
latest design.
Price, . 11/6 each.
f
Strong Working Shirts
Made in our own Workrooms, from reliable Critish Materials.
Harvard with collar and pocket or neck- Horrocltses’ Harvard, collar and pocket,
" bard, 6in. double back .. 10/9, 11/9 9in. double back 15/6 each.
Best Bolton'Harvard, collar and pocket or Strong Striped Navy Drill, collar and
band, 9in. double back 14/6 each. pocket 14/3 each.
Best Bolton Harvard, pink check, pocket, Black Mercerised Twill, collar and pocket,
collar or band, 9in. double back 11/- 8/11, 13/6
Mail-order Service
A trained
expert staff
executes Mail
Orders
efficiently,
satisfactorily,
promptly.
Write for
Catalogues, and
state kind of
goods you are
interested in.
White Aertex Cellular Underwear
Undershirts, ; sizes 34,
36, 38, 40.
Price 10/9
Trunk Drawers, sizes 34, 36, 38,
40.
Price 11/3
White Lisle Thread Underwear.
Sizes 34 36 38 40
Undershirts
13/9 14/3 14/3 15/6
Underpants.
15/3 15/6 15/6 1«/6
Trunk Drawers.
14/9 15/- 15/- 16/6
Long-W earing
Riding Breeches
Expertly cut and made with, great
care from' dependable-cjua ity
materials, they are the ideal Riding
Breeches for those who spend long
hours in the saddle.
Ciffl
Useful
Dressing Gowns
An indispensable item in a man’s outfit.
Featured here are a few examples chosen from
our large and varied selections of smart,
up-to-the-minute styles, fashioned from
dependable-quality fabrics.
In Light-weight Tweed, 90/-, 96/6
Fancy Check, medium weight, 106/6
Light-weight Cameline, shades of
Brown or Grey . . . . £5/19/6
We pay carriage
on Men’s Wear
to any part of
N.S.W., and to
the nearest port
on Inter-State
and Island
Orders.
Variety in
Men’s
Pyjama Suits
Expertly-cut garments,
ensuring comfort. Made
in our own workrooms,
smartly fashioned from
dependable British fabrics.
Flannelette, 16/6,
18/9, 19/6, 21/-
suit.
Crimean, 21/6, 28/-,
30/-
Selvena 27/6
Striped Oxford.
22/-, 24/6
Duro Zephvr 21/-
Horrockses’ Zephyr,
24/6
3KI
A
White Tennis Shirts
In Mercerised, collar and pocket,
8/11, 11/6, 16/6
In Matt, collar and pocket ... Jl/6, 12/6
In Matt, neckband .... 11/6, 12/6
Colored
Golf Shirts
Made in our own work-
rooms, from reliable
materials, fashioned and
finished by experts, thus en-
suring a perfect fit.
British Cambric, V-
cased front, dressed
neckbband, soft double
cuffs, in a variety of
neat Blue and Black
stripe effects.
Price .... 8/6 each.
White Crepe, v-cased
front, dressed band,
soft double cuff, de-
tached collar to match,
10/6
Service-
Giving
Boys’ Suits
“Rig out” your boys at the House of Economy,
where you benefit not only in values, but also in
extensive, wide selections.
The Durham Suit, as illustrated, is ideal for
school wear, to fit boys 7 to 15 years.
Designed with four patch pockets, yoke and
stitched-down belt at back, plain or band
and button knickers.
Fancy Tweeds, 37/6, 42/-, 45/-, 48/6,
50/-, 60/-
Worsted, Dark Grey, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-,
75/-, 84/-, 90/-
Serge, Navy Blue 68/6, 86/-, 90/-
!
d- -ML.
■
asas?
Boys and Youths’
Pyjama Suits
In Striped Flannelette 9/6
In Striped Ceylona . 13/6
In Striped Mercerised, smart stripes,
17/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


M
Wn
n
■ ■
J&k
Make happy moments last for ever—
KODAK.
Happiness is fleeting. It passes away all too soon unless you Kodak. Each Kodak
picture can record a story that will bring back joyous memories of the past.
The No*. 2 Folding Autographic Brownie is an excellent instrument with the simplicity of the popular Box Brownies.
You can learn to use one in half-an-hour. For pictures 1% x 3 4 - inches. Price, 58/-
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid model. It is compact and most efficient. For pictures 2£ x 3£
inches. Price, 987-
Other Brownies from 14/6 to £5/15/-; Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-. Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak
dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
879 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville ; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington. N.Z.
His Master’s Voice
Gems from Grand Opera.
There is a brilliance, a colorful quality in grand opera, that alone wholly
satisfies the musical soul.
Besides, it is to this sphere of art that all the world’s most wonderful singers
devote their gifts.
To hear them was once an enviable joy. To-day they can be heard anywhere
at any time on
His Master's Voice
Solos and concerted numbers from all the famous Operas, rendered by such stars as Melba, Caruso, Tetrazzini,
Galli-Curci, Farrar, Ruffo, Alda, Kirkby-Lunn, are reproduced only on “His Master’s Voice.”
Your music-dealer will be pleased to play some of these for you, to demonstrate the perfect tonal quality,
the rich volume of these wonder-records.
GRAND OPERA TRIO.
10-inch record, 7/-
2 —lls9 —“Faust” —Trio from Prison Scene, Act. V.
THE GRAND OPERA COMPANY.
10-inch record, 7/-
4626 —Anvil Chorus (“II Trovatore” —Verdi).
12-inch records, 10/-
046 X7 —Gems from “Aida/’ Part I. (Verdi).
04618—Gems from “Aida/’ Part 11. (Verdi).
04568 —Gems from “Carmen/’ (Bizet).
04539 —Gems from “Cavalleria Kusticana’’
(Mascagni).
04562 —Gems from “Faust” (Gounod).
2 —054024—Sextette (“Fucia di Lammermoor”—
Donizetti).
04527—The Bridal Chorus from “Fohengrin”
(Wagner).
01575—Gems from “II Trovatore” (Verdi).
04537—Gems from “Mignon” (Thomas).
04553—Gems from “Pagliacci” (Leoncavallo).
04573 —Gems from “Rigoletto” (Verdi).
04572 —Gems from “Tales of Hoffmann”
.(Offenbach).
04619—Gems from “Traviata” Part I. (Verdi).
04620 —Gems from “Traviata,” Part 11. (Verdi).
A beautiful “Catalogue of Music by International Artists” has recently been issued. This is printed on heavy
art-paper and contains portraits, biographies and lists of the most successful numbers of all the greatest
musical notabilities.
“His Master’s Voice” accredited agents can supply this at the very small charge of 2/6.
Instrument Catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
“His Master’s Voice”
Reg. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
t
“Gramophone
Reg. Trade-mark.


PINKETTIS
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
s'eepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST AND
Send a Stamped Envelope fox* a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from- Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
9
Why Look Old ?
There is no
need to! Dr.
Allen’s Wal-
nut Stain
t r a n s forms
grey hair to
a youthful
walnut shade
without any
harm to the
most delicate
skin.
n
Absolutely permanent and
waterproof.
All chemists.
MEXICAN
WAINUT STAIN
tF”
Tooth Paste
f FRAGRANT
& REFRESHING
Eudenta Tooth Paste contains ingredi-
ents that penetrate into every nook
and cranny of the teeth, thus retard-
ing decay and leaving the mouth
fresh and sweet.
Furthermore, it is locally
made. That is why it can
be sold at the
nominal figure of
V-
BUY A TUBE
TC-DAY!
.-■f.TV
Invest in Reliability
Strength, Simplicity ancl Reliability are of vital importance in an Oil-
Engine for marine use.
Ihe “AMIS” was designed with these points in view, and is the
outcome of years of experience in the manufacture of reliable, light-
weight engines.
Illustrated above is the Single-Cylinder type suitable for Launches,
Fishing Boats, etc.
cost burn Crude Oil—Kerosene or Benzine —at remarkably low running
In stock, 6-, 10-, 15-, 20- and 35-h.p.
YV e shall be pleased to send further particulars and
complete specification on application to
NELSON (a ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 LoftUS Street, Sydney.
Choose
GBD
•HumiiumiiT
. i
n
m,
/ V v d
fc/?i:
It s a choice you won’t
regret —for every day your
GBD will become a more
cherished friend.
The GBD draws well and
gives a cool, sweet smoke
right from the start.
It needs no
because its French briar-
wood is thoroughly
matured and every detail
of its manufacture is in
the hands of London
experts.
Many popular shapes.
On sals everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Insomnia.
There may be some hushed place beside the
sea
With crescent leaves to mould a rocker green,
Some net of boughs in summer-scented wind
With the blue silences to swoop between,
A pillow of wild hops or sun-steeped moss,
Where poppy pipes drift opium across.
There may be sheaves of bracken on a bill
And grey-trunked gums, and grasses whisper-
ing
Where Nature rules her kingdom into rest,
Except for fairy lullabies that sing
Through the forgotten palaces of dream
Above the murmurings of the Lethe stream.
There may be some dark room, tight-shuttered
in
Yet fed with air that wafts a hint of flowers
Where one could force the wheel of Thought
to pause
And taste the healing of unconscious hours;
Some castle of white Peace, some magic keep
That would hold nothing in the world but
sleep.
If I could find that holy room to-night
I would dare all the dragons at the gate,
The gruff two-headed dog, the flaming sword
J o reach, such haven. Though it be too late
I or any sleep that blest me from the blue
J o lack disturbing memories of you!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Rachel.
I bred a man for worms to eat •
And he was tall and fair.
The world was at his brown feet,
The starlight on his hair.
I heard in dreams dark Rachel weep
h or that she loved and could not keep,
i or that she bore of mother pain
And rendered to the earth again,
For him that in an hour of pride
Slew nine mothers’ sons and died
In the front of them that fell
For the God of Israel.
Let the bell toll!
God has his soul;
Worms have his heart.
What is her part?
The woman is weeping;
Cain’s children are keeping
The country of Nod.
March, brothers, march on !.. ..
But Rachel has gone
With a question for God.
/ bred a man for worms to eat;
And he was tall and fair.
The world is at his brown feet
The grave-dust in his hair.
Here God and I and the worms meet
And what shall be my share?
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Sunset Wind.
It blew straight out from the sunset’s heart,
A inarm wind, free and true.
The grey, grand hills stood wide apart
To let its music through,
Where the dragon-flies at evening dart
And the lake at dusk is blue.
Against fair skies, all saffron-clear,
The tasselled tree-tops swung,
The sighing songs of the wheat in ear
Were soft as whispers sung,
When the river-bells, all sweetly near
And gently tuned, are rung.
Yet peace came not with the sunset breeze;
Unrest was in men’s eyes....
Perchance they saw, beyond vague seas,
The loom of landless skies ;
While women rested arms on knees
And wondered, woman-wise.
Maybe in sunset’s glory drest
They saw white paths sea-pearled,
Leading to realms beyond the west
That shines behind the world.
Where rare home-dreams had come to rest
With fears forever furled.
Oh ! every human heart has dreams
Of home; and home might be.
Here by the quiet-singing streams
Or there where tides run free;
But for brave souls the homelight gleams
Further than land or sea.
So from the sunset’s opened gates
That night’s dim fingers close,
Quickening hope that hesitates
The wind of sunset blows
Dreams of a land where welcome waits
And God’s wide hearthside glows.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Wandering.
I went by road, I went by town,
, By sunlight and by shade,
By sweating wall and chimney brown,
- Where ragged children played.
I went by lane and dank, dark street.
’Neath smoke-imprisoned skies —
I heard their little, dragging feet,
I saw their tired eyes.
The road ran laughing up the hill,
The bracken flickered brown.
Far back lay dreaming fair and still
The white wraith of the town.
I heard the grasses whispering
Along the winding way.
I heard the nesting thrushes sing,
Beside a jewelled spray.
O scents upon the windy steep!
O petal-showered skies!
I only heard the children weep,
And saw their tired eyes!
The light slipped from the willow chains,
The song from stem and tree,
•Becatfse the children ofSthe lanes
Could not be glad with me !
• victoria
MYRA MORRIS.


Modem Methods of Construction
ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING
with the exception of Exterior Walls for
Messrs. JOHN KEEP 8 SONS LTD., Clarence St., Sydney
1
K
FT/
NEW OFFICE BUILDING FOR MESSRS. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JOHN A. DEAN, General Contractor. ROBERTSON & MARKS, Architects.
WE WERE CONTRACTORS for all INTERNAL WALLS, FLOORS AND ROOF,
which were constructed in
REINFORCED CONCRETE.
We will give ESTIMATES AND DESIGNS for all classes of Concrete Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
173 Clarence Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 42. —No. 2141.
THURSDAY, FE HR GARY 24, 1921.
Price 9d.
TELLING- THE TALE.
“Cables from India report great Bolshevik activity there and in neighboring countries, with a vigorous propaganda for the ‘liberation of Asiatic peoples/ ” Neics item,
ms UNCLE FROM MOSCOW: “My little pet here has devoured Liberty in Russia, and now your people may wear her
clothes if you will give us the run of your homes.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Sian.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or. other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 1)1
Howard Street, San Francisco ; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 7) West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 7 19 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington. U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21tli Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, )2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Ilussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong ICong. —Brewer and Co,, Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet— otherwise: Soz., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3id.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1921.
THE REVOLT AGAINST HATE.
A REMARKABLE feature of modern times is
the way the chorus of approval of all such
adramatic virtues as tolerance, friendliness,
and patient determination to get at the
bottom of the ether fellow’s point of view
swells and swells. A recent utterance by the
retiring Moderator-General of the Presby-
terian Church in Australia is typical. “The
real heresy,” he remarked, “lies in the failure
of goodwill towards our brother man because
of his nation or class or creed. To set a new
standard in this respect should come very
naturally to us The men reared in our
Presbyterian atmosphere have shown a tem-
per of understanding with other races and
peoples which has made their services of
immense benefit and significance.” All the
Christian churches have produced individuals
who were distinguished by this quality —men
of the type of Hooker ; none of them, as the
ex-Moderator-General implied, possesses it as
a church at present, or, for that matter,
ever has. Thomas Cartwright still stands as
a sort of symbol of his sect —holy, right-living
and cultured, but furious in his indignation at
the superstitions of the non-elect and terrified
at the effects of their machinations on true
religion and the State. Such men have con-
tributed with a lavish hand to the dreary old
tragedy in Ireland, and we have always had
our share of them in Australia. If any two
facts stand out consistently through the
world-history of the past five or six centuries
they are that the Christian Churches have
plunged eagerly into almost every un-Chris-
tian row, and that they have emerged from
such struggles weakened and in the chastened
frame of mind suggested by the sentiments of
the ex-Moderator-General. Thus, England,
which was 75 per cent. Catholic when
Elizabeth came to the throne, did not be-
come definitely Protestant till the destruction
of the Armada, which was to have won the
nation holus-bolus to Rome; and the progress
of Protestantism, which had been vigorous,
almost ceased at Elizabeth’s accession, the
reason being the failure of the Calvinists,
Lutherans and Huguenots to show either
goodwill or a temper of understanding to-
wards one another, with the result that un-
edifying abuse and misrepresentation were
commoner than helpful intercourse amongst
English, French and German pastors. When-
ever a churchman of influence has abandoned
truculence and innuendoes about the infamies
of the opposition shop—then, nearly always,
his church has scored. But, in the main, the
white men’s churches have specialised in
criticism and complaint —mainly of each
other—and they have vehemently backed up
the worst crimes of their Governments. And
year by year their hold on the people has
grown less.
With the passing of the churches as
authoritarian institutions (it is sometimes
forgotten that the i early presbyters exercised
the right of excommunication as vigorously
as any Pope), and with the collapse of the
“Divine Right of Kings” doctrine the abso-
lutist politician came into his own. The
tactics of the party leader were the same as
those of the 16th century prelate or presby-
ter —to get power by discrediting the opposi-
tion and to hold it —legitimately for pre-
ference, but where this was not practicable
by any means that offered. Until recently
the party leader always got his mandate
from the propertied classes. The franchise
qualifications saw to that. The differences
between Tories and Whigs, Conservatives
and Liberals, resolved themselves for the
most part into a question of how much or
how little personal liberty a citizen should
be allowed. But the language remained
as provocative and the hatreds as frank.
“Be Alarmists! Diffuse Terror!” wrote
Burke 130 years.ago to the Whites of the
period who were trying to crush French
Bolshevism. The spirit is the same as
Cartwright’s “Heretics ought to be put to
death now. If this be bloody and extreme
I am content to be so counted with the
Holy Ghost” ; and Alva’s Army Orders
issued while he was massacring Protestant
Dutchmen in the Low Countries. Nor does
the outlook of either differ much from that
indicated by the instructions issued through
Winston Churchill to Koltchak and
Denikin in respect of Russia last year. As
the franchise widened the opportunities for
political Csesarism diminished, always ex-
cepting, of course, those occasions when
nations were at war. If politicians like our
own W. M. Hughes had not been able to
maintain the legal fiction that the world-war is
still raging they would be relatively impotent
to-day. As things are, Australia, which has
not one soldier under arms in the effective
sense, is under martial law to the extent that
persons can be deported or otherwise pun-
ished for expressing or even holding views
which it is allowable to express under the
Common Law of the land. But in any
event the conditions which had developed
here, as elsewhere, a good many years before
the war are still in existence and functioning
strongly, The race for office continues to go
as a rule to the deftest and most strident
liar. It is immaterial how much the tirades
delivered by the seeker after power to-
day contradict the tirades he delivered yester-
day ; the essential is that he should be trucu-
lent and noisy and bitter. W. M. Hughes
for example, reached office, shortly before the
war, as a Laborite. His campaign speeches
were founded on a .simple theory. He
preached the class-war, claiming that the
other fellow was a robber and an extortioner,
heedless of the misery of the weak, arrogant,
purse-proud and unpatriotic-—loyal only to
the one king, Mammon. It was urged
against Mr. Hughes that he was disloyal to
the Empire—that the local fleet which he
desired was to be used against the R.N., and
that a citizen army was “un-English”; he
was accused of being a demagogue who set
workers against their employers for his own
selfish ends, and a fraud who knew that four-
fifths of the stuff he talked about “preda-
tory trusts” and “boodling capitalists” was
balderdash. And finally he was pictured as
a Socialist; and no mild Fabian one either,
but a raging, tearing Communist with designs
on the home, the wedded state and religion.
Just now he is calling his old friends the
names he was once called by his present
friends. The people he used to lead are dis-
loyal to the Empire; they are Communists,
Socialists, Jacobins, Bolsheviks; and they
deserve to be “taught a lesson” when they
do that which he first taught many of them
to do. namely, strike. Meanwhile the party
to which he formerly belonged is showing
even him points in the way of bounding vitu-
peration and loose talk, which can have no
effect but to make an understanding between
the warring factions absolutely hopeless.
In the past such situations were incurable.
The churches were committed to a sanctified
rage, one against the other, almost as an
article of faith. The religious man did well
to be angry with the heretic, and only the
lost were tolerant. There are men now liv-
ing who can remember when the poor had
no rights worthy the name; when children
spent 12 hours a day in mines, and men and
women worked a hundred-hour week for just
about enough to keep them alive. Tremen-
• dous changes, spiritual as well as social,
have come during the past half-century, and
more particularly during the past half-
dozen years. The churches may still be
intolerant, but they are no longer proud of
it. In fact, their best men—those such as
Australia’s last Moderator-General —call in-
sistently for “a new standard.” To be a
sectarian-monger is no longer a sign of
grace: in the opinion of nine people out of
ten it merely indicates either low cunning
of the short-sighted order possessed by card-
sharpers and other bilkers, or stupidity. The
rich do not grind down the poor any more
in English-speaking countries. For one thing,
a vast library of statute law has come
into being to stop the practice ; for another,
they have lost the requisite attitude towards
life. The French royalists of the pre-
Napoleonic period had it, and so had the
English manufacturers of later days, not to
mention the slave-owning Americans de-
scribed by Mrs. Beecher Stowe. But in
our generation the person who argued
that the wage-earning classes should eat
grass, or that children should be harnessed
with ponies to trucks, or that blacks are
intended by Providence to be slaves —such
a person would be as out of place as a
polemical 16th-century divine, Catholic or
Protestant. In other words, despite a super-
ficial appearance of increased hostility—due
chiefly to the fact that millions are articu-
late with voice and pen as against thousands
a few generations ago —yet it is probable
that the world has never been more ready
for class peace. The political strife-maker
is more and more ceasing to be a hero and
a popular idol, and degenerating in the esti-
mation of the public into the sort of nuis-
ance who disturbs a railway carriage by
brandishing a beer-bottle and challenging in-
offensive travellers to fight. In this country
his truculent methods have even brought
Parliament into contempt. The exploiters
of sectarianism, where they are clerics, are
very minor ones, and are oftener obscure
laymen with some humble financial axe to
grind. The Millennium is still very much
round the corner, of course, but a mild fore-
taste of. at any rate, one feature of it is
inside the bounds of practical politics. It
may be achieved by ousting from public life
all those who make a trade of hatred. The
best and most intelligent in all classes and
creeds see the need of it, and would, follow
anyone who offered a strong lead. It is those
in most danger, the Hugheses and Hen-
leys on the one hand, and the Walshes
and Gardens on the other, who fail to sense
this growing spirit which is one of the most
gracious changes to which the world war has
given birth.
HAMLET WITHOUT THE GHOST.
“The General Council of the Bar in London re-
cently received a communication from a firm of
solicitors complaining- that a leader who had been
specially retained had found it necessary to return
his brief and refused, when requested, to return the
retainer fee. As an important principle was in-
volved the Council decided to consult the Attorney-
General, who expressed the opinion that the
consideration for a special retainer is that the recipient
will take the brief of the giver and not that of his
opponent. The King’s Counsel in question did take
the brief of the solicitor who retained him, with all
the obligations which the taking of it involved. It
did not appear, therefore, that returning the brief
for lack of time to attend to it, or for any other
proper reason, should involve returning the fee on
the special retainer.”
When the party in search of an opinion
consists of an association of barristers, and
when the expert consulted is himself a prac-
tising barrister, imbued with all the tradi-
tions of the profession, it would be odd if
a new principle were stated favorable to liti-
gants. And so, here, the old and always
questionable arrangement has been re-
affirmed. A retainer is not a retainer at
all. It doesn’t secure the services of the
expert who is paid for accepting it. At the
best it only serves to buy him off from the
other side. “Pay me,” says the brigand
of Old Spain, “and your journey through the
mountains will be uneventful so far as I
am concerned.” “Pay me,” says the advo-
cate, “and whoever else disturbs your com-
ing legal voyage I won’t.” There is not
much difference really between the attitudes
of the two professors.
* * * *
It would be much less disastrous for those
who are unfortunate enough to go to law if
the K.G., on accepting his retainer, could
be required to there and then state his in-
tentions. But no means exist of making him
do so. In Australia, as in England, it is
a fairly common occurrence for the instruct-
ing attorney to pay eminent counsel special
fees in advance, over and above his retain-
ing fee, (1) as an inducement to him to get
up the brief (many make no effort in this
direction till they come into court) ; (2)
to make certain of bringing him into court.
The litigant, as it were, retains his repre-
sentative twice over. And even then if
something better turns up the great man
will turn his employer down. The leader’s
justification under these circumstances is
that his junior is available to do the work.
But advocacy, especially in jury cases, is
very much a personal affair. Brown, K.C.
—assured, experienced, known either person-
ally or by repute to every one in the jury-
box, a stronger man perhaps than the Judge
himself —is ill replaced by futile little Mr.
Smith, whose qualities as a lawyer and as
a man of the world are equally slight, and
who lacks the other’s genius for bluff. When
there is ranged in opposition to Smith,
Robinson, K.C., alert, humorous and cap-
able, everything, in short, which goes to
make up a personality, the dice are heavily
loaded against the quailing junior’s client.
If Brown had said in the first place that
he never meant to turn up at the hearing,
that he expected the cause celeire of the
year in which he v/as engaged to be on
simultaneously, or that Smith was a near
relative, and that it was desirable he should
have a run in a big public event with the
colors up—then the victim of his perfidy
might have briefed (say) Jones, K.C. But
there are all sorts of fat pickings in the
way of consultations, advice on evi-
dence and so forth in the months that
intervene between the preliminary salu-
tations and the actual sword work,
duties involving neither time nor labor,
and the leader is reluctant to miss them.
He does not consider the plight of his client
to whom the result of the case may mean
the difference between solvency and ruin,
and whose prospects of success, as already
mentioned, are bound to be vastly prejudiced
by his defection. All he considers is busi-
ness. As a business man no captain of com-
merce can show a leader of the Bar points,
He makes no bad debts (stipulating in doubt-
ful cases that he shall be paid before going
into court) : he does no honorary work of
the sort that is common in the medical pro-
fession, and almost alone amongst toilers
he claims and gets payment for work he has
not done.
* * * *
To the senior barrister, steeped in the con-
viction that what has been must be best, so
far as his profession is concerned, there
seems nothing anomalous in a convention
which he would reject with abhorrence in
connection with any other calling. Suppose,
for example, as a racehorse-owner he paid
a crack jockey a retaining fee to ride for
him in a certain event, and, relying on his
animal being well handled, backed it to win
him a fortune. He would be scandalised,
indeed, if the champion horseman decided
at the last moment to take a day off. and
indicated as a substitute some more or less
unknown apprentice. And the whole com-
munity would experience a sense of outrage
if, owing to the apprentice’s incompetence,
the lawyer-owner was robbed of his money.
The claim that the public makes on members
of the Bar is not a great one. It is only
asked that these elevated characters should
set before themselves, in their business rela-
tions with those who employ them, the ethi-
cal standards which form the guiding stars
of jockeys, prize-fighters and so forth. If
barristers accept a sum of money to perform
a certain service it should bind them, health
permitting, to fulfil the contract, just as
the taking of a deposit binds a real-estate-
owner to sell a piece of land. If they pro-
mise a litigant they will appear for him they
should appear. And if, without good cause,
they fail him at the last moment, then they
should be liable to actions for damages, as
laymen are who lightly break agreements
and thereby involve others in disasters. It
isn’t suggested that all advocates act in
this high-handed and dishonest fashion.
They don’t. But quite enough of them
make a habit of it all over x\ustralia to
make it worth the different State Parlia-
ments’ while to check a practice which has
nothing but extreme old age to commend it.
THE SNAG THAT HAS STRUCK
REPATRIATION.
The lamentation of “Henry IIoksecollar” :
Peace being more expensive than war, it is re-
ported by the Federal Treasurer that the Repatria-
tion bill this year will stagger humanity to the
extent of £65,000,000. Australian politicians have
a lordly way of doing things while the loans hold
out, and their capacity for spending money with
small results amounts to genius. It is natural,
therefore, that the repatriation business in its most
essential aspect should have struck an early snag.
The essential aspect, it must be mentioned, had
no connection with putting returned soldiers on
the land. That was a formality or habit which
was immensely popular wi th land-jobbers, sellers,
dealers and sharks; with politicians who love to
handle millions and talk in billions; and with
boomsters who welcome any proposal, from land
settlement to the extraction of the square root of
cucumbers, so long as it serves to bring money into
the country and keep the public razzle on its legs.
The really commendable feature of the scheme was
the teaching of trades to returned soldiers who
had none.
* * * *
It is amazing to consider the number who had
no trades—-the odd-job youths who, when the war
found them, were on the road to be unemployables,
crying out to have work made for them out of
Government money. How far the restrictions put
on apprenticeship were responsible, and how much
wa's owing to other causes is a side issue. A trade,
unlike a farm, is a thing which a man can carry
about with him; also, it is very often drought-
proof, and requires no capital, borrowed or other-
wise, until the tradesman decides to set up on
his own account. A glance at the number, variety
and ruinous costliness of the manufactured goods
which this country imports suggests that hardly any
trade could come amiss. When Statistician Knibbs
issued his green pamphlet of figures for 1919 he
filled 28 pages with his list of imports, the great
bulk of them manufactured goods which our trades-
men might have made here at good wages, and
only 15 pages with the list of exports, mostly raw
materials, and many of them materials which could
have been made up here by our own tradesmen at
good wages. So vocational training bade fair to
turn out men to work for a sure and growing market.
Yet the Department finds that its graduates are
hanging on its hands in increasing numbers, and
their sustenance is expensive. They are men whose
efficiency is guaranteed while the efficiency of the
ordinary unionist isn’t. The latter may be an
alleged boilermaker who can barely drive rivets, or
a nominal carpenter , who hacks apart and nails
together wood .very touch at random. So long as
he pays his dues and obeys orders, lawful of other-
wise, all is well. The graduates find difficulty about
getting into unions,, which have established the
right to prevent men working outside, and yet to
prohibit them coming in. An ordinary trades union
isn’t a liberal body like the combine of doctors or
lawyers, bound to admit everybody who passes the
necessary tests as to ability and a certain inspection
as to character. The general rule of the unions
is that one qualified returned soldier or inferior mili-
tary Worm may be employed by permission to every
six of the men with vested interests. An inference is to
be drawn from the unprecedented rush of imports
which, for the first three months of the year ran
to £42,000,000, or at the rate of £162,000,000 a
year, whereby this country struck a sudden financial
crisis. It is that there is so much to be done (if
union rules, strikes and go-slow regulations would
allow it to be done) that there is employment for
six military trainees, if they existed, for every six
old unionists with vested interests.
So there are all these anomalies in full blast at
once:—
The War Service Homes Commission has inti-
mated that it is no use promising any more houses
for a long time, because labor is scarce. Housing
Boards and private contractors are in much the
same situation. And the slums grow worse and
worse. Yet not only are building tradesmen work-
ing five, instead of six, days a week, but a number
of trainee bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers arm
others aren’t allowed the much-talked-of “right to
work” at all. .
The community is keeping the increasing horde oi
unemployed in some fashion or other.
And, by virtue of the incredible sums (largely
borrowed) that it is paying for imports to prevent
itself having work, it is also keeping a vast numbei
of monopolists, sweaters and profiteers.
* * * *
A great deal of lamentation is spent on the fact
that immigrants seem to avoid Australia even though
the British Isles are overflowing. Some of the respon-
sibility rests on the congestion and centralisation
policy under which there are on the mainland onj
five places to go to, for the decaying or stagnant
country towns are not places in any reasonable
sense. Something is due to the warnings of Labor
bosses, especially from N.S.W. and Queensland, wheie
Labor rules, that these aren’t fit places to bring an}
one to. But the real and chief explanation of this,
as of other ills, is the strenuous effort that is being
made to turn Australia into a home of mediocrit}
and only attractive to those who have taken
Wolsey’s advice to Cromwell, and put away am
bition. The stranger has no-assurance about getting
into the union of his trade, and there are few coun
tries where the man who doesn’t get in is more
helpless. Once inside he must earn no more than


the worst of his fellows. He must strike with im-
plicit obedience and more often (last year, anyhow)
than any other white man on earth. The machinery
of the law is at the union bosses’ control to exact
his subscription, his strike levy and his payment
towards the union paper. The immigrant who
conies here with ready-made capital may become an
employer, but the chance for the plain worker to
rise from the ranks is smaller than it ever was
before. He may find a sort of career in politics, for
seven union officials were recently appointed to the
Queensland House of Peers in one lot; but the
openings here are mostly reserved for the proletarian
nobility. If he does rise to be an employer (even if
he employs no one save himself) there are few places
where he is told more continuously that he is a
criminal and a pest doomed to confiscation and
obliteration if not perdition, and few where he is
suspected more and inspected more and required to
keep track of more awards and Gazette notices. So,
instead of getting much new population it is to cost
£65,000,000 to keep the old lot.
THE FIGHTING CELT.
The love of fighting for the sheer sake of
fighting is a wild and beastly virtue. Yet
tiie world actually puts a value on it, and
some people and races are moved to claim
it when they don’t possess it. As a rule, it
goes with a low order of intelligence and
small capacity for usefulness and develop-
ment. The rhinoceros has it and not much else,
therefore no one keeps a tame watch-rhino-
ceros about his house. The domestic dog of
the best class lacks it, and fights only under
extreme provocation. Among folks who are
or were always looking for stoush may be
numbered the Ghurkas, Turks and other
Tartars, the Iroquois in their best scalping
days, the Afghans, the Mahdi’s, Dervishes or
I uzzy-Wuzzies, the Assassins (followers of
the Old Man of the Mountain), the Thugs
(possibly), the Vikings, the Buccaneers,
Corsicans, Huns, Montenegrins, Spartans
and to an extent the Scottish Highlanders,
who are better than most, yet never con-
tributed to any form of civilisation as the
Lowlanders did. The Jews were of the
natural fighting section in the anarchist
days of the Judges, when they were of no
literary or scientific use to man or beast,
but they passed out of it by compulsion
when dispersed and disarmed, whereupon
they began to compose poetry, write books
and run banks. Among the people who
have never made a fetich of fighting, though
they sometimes scrapped well in an emer-
gency, and who have made a lot of civilisa-
tion were the Chinese, Hindus, Persians and
Egyptians.
The present Irish fuss is creating quite
a literature about the really Celtic Irish.
These are often claimed as natural fighting-
men and born soldiers, always spoiling for
a row and asking that the tail of the public
coat shall be trodden on by Kilkenny cats
after the Pathan or Ivhyber Pass fashion.
At the same time they claim to be endowed
with the mental qualities of the Arabs in
their brief efflorescence when they produced
a new faith, a new architecture and a new
school of medicine ; the Persians who made
a new religion and a new poetry ; the Egyp-
tions who invented Pharaohs, pyramids,
mummies and irrigation; the Greeks who
made a mythology, a new art and literature
and a complete new civilisation ; the Syrians
who made Baalbec, and the other peoples
who made machinery. Now there is no
Irish school of painting, sculpture, archi-
tecture or philosophy. Ireland never in-
vented a religion. And the claim that the
Celtic Irishman is a natural fighter is said
to be quite recent and to have sprung up
within the last MX) years or so. It is said
that the Irishman sprung it himself, single-
handed. Some writers, especially those of
the National Review school, call the claim
in question.
They say that the true Irish majority as
distinguished from the Norman-Irish, Anglo-
Irish and Scots-Irish minority—typically
the men of the West, where, in the absence
of eruptions from Labrador, the race wasn’t
disturbed much—constitute the one dis-
tinctly non-fighting race of Europe. It is
alleged that they are not storm troops, but
inferior guerrillas or snipers ; that the times
when they formed an effective line of battle
under leaders of their own race can be
counted on the thumb of one hand, and that
their character is that of a Welsh Celt as
described by a Welsh novelist: “A rank lier
in wait.” The habit of elusiveness, of
nocturnal surprise as well as daylight
surprise, of pack warfare (the wolf is not
necessarily a coward, yet he runs in the pack
formation by instinct and believes that the
odds should be as many as possible to one)
is characteristic. So is the habit of long-
distance fighting. The Scottish Highlanders
were accustomed to fire one volley, if they
possessed guns, and then rush to close
quarters with a yell of “Claymore”—the clay-
more being a sword the length of a devil which
swept off human heads and horses’ feet in
passing. They had a pibroch blown on the
bagpipes which was worse than the claymore.
They yearned for close fighting. The Celtic
Irishman in battle didn’t shout as above-
mentioned, and apparently he hadn’t any dis-
tinctive national weapon like the claymore,
scimitar, bayonet, assagai, boomerang or even
the blowpipe. His instrument of music was
the peaceful tootling harp—not the pipes or
the trumpet or hollow cow’s horn. And he
gave the world no new battle-formation like
the legion or the phalanx.
In fact the Irishman may have been de-
veloping along the same lines as the Provencal
w T hen the invasion altered his career —may
have been an apprentice troubadour or pursuer
of the joyous act of minstrelsy. He was so
much aloof from Europe, with no ambassa-
dors at foreign courts and no knights repre-
senting him at silly gaudy tournaments —so
outside both the Latin and Teutonic orbit--
that it is hard to say how he tended. Possibly
he began to pose as the instinctive fighting
man only because, other ambitions failed him.
The Persian (singer of nightingales and
roses) puts up no such bluff, and the Lower
Ganges man and the Nile dweller frankly
admit that the front row or orchestra stall
of battle is the last place they want to be
found in. But they are different. '
The conquest of Ireland looks needless. Ser-
bia, Greece, Switzerland and Holland had less
resources, more powerful enemies and fewer
friends, yet they fought their way through
Scotland under the Bruces and Stijarts had
for effective purposes, less than half the area
of Ireland and a mere fraction of its popula-
tion, for Scotland was two nations instead of
one, and while the southern more-or-less-
Saxon half did battle against all foreign
enemies the Celtic confederacy which held the
North looked on. Then Scotland was vulner-
able both by land and sea, while Ireland could
be attacked by sea only. Yet Scotland held
its own fairly well and even at times carried
the war into the enemy’s country, which Ire-
land didn’t. Scotland always found a figure-
head sovereign to rally round, while Ireland,
after the first invasion, never did, though there
were four centuries between the original raid
and the real, or at least realistic, con-
quest in Elizabeth’s day, and that was fair
breathing time. Most of Scotland’s battles
in England (Northallerton, Neville’s Cross,
Ilalidon Hill, Flodden, etc.) were glorious.
failures, and the attempt to take London in
1745 was a fiasco. Still they were aggression
and a carrying of the war into the enemy’s
country. Ireland never threatened any place
in England save by word of mouth.
As late as 1841 Ireland contained 8,175,124
people against Scotland’s 2,620,184. England
the dominant partner—the Prussia of the
Empire—had to count in Wales, conquered
like Ireland, to reckon up rather less than
16,000,000 inhabitants. The odds weren’t
impossible. Ireland should have been with-
out a shadow of question, by arms, industry,
diplomacy or all three, the second member of
the firm, and instead it was the broken reed
that didn’t count. And no nation —not even
Greece under the Turks —has lamented like
it.
The Irish themselves in their independence
days apparently had an idea that the Celts of
the West—the purest specimens of the race
because the most secluded —were of a more
futile and spasmodic race than the folk with
a Saxon, Norman or French admix-
ture. “W ho ever heard of a High King coming
out of Connaught?’’ -was the cry when
Roderick O’Connor of the West applied for
the Chssar’s job. He got it, and the story of
the fight which he didn’t put up against the
paltriest handful of invaders was the story of
how Ireland’s subjection began. What Ire-
land lacks is a hallowed spot like Senlae, in
England, Xeres in Spain, the Field of Black-
birds in Serbia, or St. I lonian us Gate at Con-
stantinople, where its Last Ditch King met
the invader with every soldier he could raise
and went to immortal smash, dying as a
Ditcher should with all his wounds in front.
Ireland never even took the trouble to elect
another king when Roderick flickered out,
though the invader had cone back home again
save for a few garrisons.
The first real war for Irish independence
didn t come till Elizabeth’s time. England
(including Wales, which wasn’t cordial) con-
tained about 5,000,000 people then, and it was
m much trouble abroad. Ireland, with not so
much less population, was aided from Spain
and Italy and later from France. It had
afiies while England lacked them. In the
North the O’Neills, Earls of Tyrone, put
up a fight which was long and almost sue-
cossful because the tip of their territories
were nearly in sight of Scotland and im-
poverished, hard-fighting, unscrupulous Scot-
tish mercenaries poured across to bear the
heat and burden of the fray. These Dugald
Dalgeties won, at Blackwater and Benburb,
the only battles (as apart from ambuscades
and riots) that the islanders ever had to
their credit against the invaders, and when
the Irish magnates quarrelled with their
.Scotch hirelings their luck ended.
At other times the Celts were officered by
Spaniards and Italians, among the best fight-
ing men and organisers of their day. Ow-
ing to the supplies furnished by England’s
enemies, who reallv thought they had found
a useful ally, the Irish troops at times were
better equipped and better trained and offi-
cered than the English themselves. They
made a gallant show until the scrap began
and their foreign leaders were proud of them.
When they ran like hares at the first shock
it happened over and over again that Spani-
ards and Italians stayed for very shame to
die fighting unless wounded and captured.
The Celtic army had to make some sort of
.show, and the aliens took on the thankless
part.
Later, fighting for .Tames 11. against Bill
of Orange, Lauzun, the Frenchman, tried to
make the Celts stand at the Boyne and
failed. A year later St. Ruth, the French-
man, tried to make them stand at Aughrim
and died in the midst of failure. After
that Sarsfield and a host of other Norman-
Anglo-Franco-Irish took their broken hopes
abroad to serve the Bourbons and left
most of the real Celts behind. There was
very little defined war after that.
Ormonde, Prince Rupert and Montrose,
inspirii g leaders who could almost make sol-
diers out of mud, tried to make them out of
the Celtic rank and file without much suc-
cess. Colkttto’s brigade, serving with
Montrose in Scotland, was swift in the chase
and wicked in the sack, but unsteady in
battle. Strafford tried to raise and dis-
cipline an army of the same material, to be
a standby for Charles I. against his Eng-
lish subjects, and his lieutenant wrote to
him thus: —
They are crafty and subtle, but very shallow. They
are mutinous, but cowardly. They are very proud,
but exceedingly base. They are full of words, but
to little purpose. They will promise much, but per-
form nothing. They speak fairest when they intend
worst. They quarrel often, but fight seldom, except
upon great advantage. They are bloody as a wolf
when they can overcome.
And Ormonde, when he saw, at Rathmiues,
the greatest and best-equipped army ever
known on Irish soil flee, without fighting,
before a handful of English, said bitterly
that with English soldiers he had never lost
a battle, and with Irish soldiers he had
never failed to lose.
In fact, a little crowd of writers who
have become angry (especially the school of
the National Review, which is always
angry about many things) formulate the
theory that when the Celtic Irishman fights
either in insurrection or politics he is a
“pointer”; also that he may be a hedger, but
that there is nothing of the Last Ditcher
about him. They say that he doesn’t ob-
serve the customs of chivalry or the laws
of the Marquis of Queensberry or the code
of honor of what the French call “le boxe”;
that he makes the wrongs of his country an
excuse for meanness and love of his country,
for which he never fought as Boers and Scots
and Greeks and Dutchmen have done, a plea
for not going to war when he really doubts
his own nerve; that he is the ideal political
manager and dodger, but not the ideal
fighter; that he is like Ketjben, “unstable
as water and shall not excel.” In fact, that
he is in Western Europe what the Bengali
is in India —the man of words; but with a
raffish, swashbuckling air which the babu
could never acquire.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Industrial Mirage.
Me. Justice Me Caw ley, of Queensland,
delivered judgment last week in the basic
wage matter. An extract: —
Tne Court had decided that it was permissible to
lay down a minimum wage, which shall be applicable
in industries of average prosperity, reserving to the
Court the right to fix a lower minimum in industries
which are unable to bear that minimum, and to fix
a nigh wage where the prosperity of a calling ren-
ders such higher wage proper.
The first thing that hits the eye is the
phrase “average prosperity.” How can a
Court fix such a standard and determine
in each case whether it has been reached or
exceeded V The prosperity of an industry
cannot be gauged or calculated in terms of
net profits. Varying asset values, fluctuat-
ing trade markets and a hundred and one
other equally important influences must be
taken into account; and supposing the
standard to be fixed satisfactorily these influ-
ences will necessitate endless variations of
the award. An industry may be rich one
month and poor the next, as in the case of
the shipowners, who, on the Queensland
principle, might reasonably claim that their
business, as a result of the strike, is no
longer of average prosperity, and that they
are, therefore, entitled to make a reduction
in wages. But there is a more discouraging
aspect of the proposition. Australia, in
spite of the handicap represented by its
chronic labor rows, has been steadily amass-
ing every sort of new industry dur-
ing the past decade. But these con-
cerns, for the most part, are not vet
of “average prosperity.” They will have
to be helped and encouraged if they
are to survive the adverse conditions of in-
fancy. Yet the Full Bench’s pronounce-
ment seems to indicate that Queensland is
taking the very course to condemn them
to extinction. It is proposed to fix a lower
minimum in industries which are unable
to_ bear the average wage. The result of
this course is as obvious as it must be disas-
trous. Suppose an industry should find
itself in the unfortunate position of having
to secure a reduction of the fixed wage. The
immediate effect will be to penalise every
man employed at the new minimum wage.
This can only end in the anaemic industry
being ruined altogether, for no normal per-
son will remain in one employment when he
can get higher pay in another. The scheme
is the usual experiment, and should enjoy the
support that all honest experiments merit,
but unless human nature up north proves a
far, far better affair than anything known
elsewhere—and it has given no indication
of being so hitherto-—the new arrangement
is as surely doomed to failure as the old-
time quest of the Holy Grail.
The Dogs of War.
A bush paragraph the other day included
the not uncommon statement that “the de-
ceased had been partially eaten by his dogs.”
The man—a rabbiter or fossicker or some
other kind of nomad—had possibly passed out
from natural causes, and his three large
and faithful hounds had stood by him. Or,
again,_ the caucus of dogs may have become
dissatisfied with him and caused his death;
in fact, it may have been a revolt of his
ungrateful followers. The situation of
N. S. Wales Acting Premier Dooley is not
widely different. In the old, wild, irre-
sponsible days he and his friends kept dogs:
they always sympathised with the strike or
the hold-up or the slow-down as a justifiable
protest (whether it was justifiable or not)
against a Government that was invariably
corrupt. The existence of the unemployed
was never anything but an evidence of Minis-
terial inefficiency or callousness. Now 10
months of Dooley administration find an
extra-bad unemployed problem, and Dooley’s
supporters talk to him just as he taught
them to talk to other people, and he has to
talk back in quite a masterful strain to
avoid being eaten instead of merely bitten.
When a crowd of the workless rushed the
Government offices it was pushed out by
violence. When a later one bashed in an
official door with an improvised battering
ram, the police were summoned to disperse
it. And when some hundreds of men tried
a furtive experiment to see how far they
could go in the way of taking possession of
Sydney, by marching _ nine abreast on the
pavement and sweeping other passengers
away, arrests followed. Then Dooley began
to say passionately that some, at least, of
these unemployed were shams and loafers;
and that their leader had been offered two
billets and refused both. His colleague,
Treasurer Tang, talked of having offered
plain work in the country to 500 of them,
not one of whom turned up. Others
were lately offered work at Bermagui, but,
having got on the steamer, they came ashore
again, being dissatisfied with the sleeping-
accommodation. Dooley and Lang were
still in a heated state when the police had
to be called in again, because tram-loads of
men, for whom work had been found at
current wages in a Sydney suburb refused
to' pay their fares like other workers. Just
here the rift in the lute became very obvious,
for Mr. Garden’s Labor Council denounced
Dooley for using his police minions to
“brutally attack, arrest and gaol the unem-
ployed” who were “peacefully walking the
streets .in search of employment,” and de-
manded his resignation. The situation sug-
gests a few reflections: —
When a party of irresponsibles promise lavish
concessions as a bid for office and pay, it is difficult
to put the peg in when they become official and
responsible. To make the crowd half-drunk with
bad grog or impossible assurances and then tell
it not to get wholly drunk and out of hand is the
same as deciding to fall only half-way down a
precipice.
The Dooley inflamer, following the usual course,
wants his followers to draw the line at refusing
work, taking- possession of the city streets, annexing
tram-cars and bursting in the doors of Government
offices.
The Garden inflamer denounces him as a brutal
tyrant for this. But if the Garden party succeeded
to power it would also have to draw the line some-
where —possibly when a quarter of Sydney was
burned down as the petroleurs and petroleuses, who
were the last word in the Commune, burned down a
quarter of Paris. (They were the last -word because
armed interference prevented any further remarks.)
Then it would be quite in the order of things if a
still more advanced person arose to denounce
Garden as a retrogressive and conservative tyrant.
The plain conclusion is that it is best not
to have anything to do with inflammable
clogs. When they have eaten their master
they logically start to eat one another, and
the only reason why the last and least rea-
sonable and most-infuriated dog survives is
that he can’t eat himself.
Government by “Black and Tan.’’
“11. H,” writes :
Probably the horrors that Archbishop Clune
alleged in Perth about repression in Ireland are true.
“Already,” he said, “over 250 innocent citizens
had been shot or assassinated in the name of law
and order.” The fact is guerrilla warfare tends to
make savages of both parties. A company, regiment
or brigade, serving under the eyes of its officers, may
obey the rules of the game. Much depends on the
officers. But when hundreds of small parties are
scouting over the country by day and night they
degenerate into pushes, and no limit has yet been
fixed as to what a push may degenerate into when
given a free hand. How much will be left of
Ireland’s prosperity when the scrap ends, if it ever
ends, is a moot point. Just before the upheaval it
was the most favored isle on earth, and probably the
most prosperous spot of its size in the Empire. The
dynasty of Scottish Prime Ministers which began
with Gladstone had none of the English traditions
about Ireland being the prize of their country’s bow
and spear. So the alien established church was
abolished, while Wesleyan Wales still endured one
equally alien. The big landlords were to a great
extent bought out on what the landlords regarded
as hard terms, with over a hundred millions advanced
by Britain. A race of small proprietors replaced
these landlords. The war postponed the scheme for
buying out the remainder, but the tenant farmers
who remained secured fixity of tenure, and their
rents were periodically re-appraised by a Fair
Rents’ Court, always on a descending scale. The
British tenant was left to wait for these advantages.
In addition, the island enjoyed extra-light taxation,
and escaped compulsory service. Emigration, long
on the decline, practically stopped. The civil war
has made considerable wreck of this prosperity, and
it is possible that proud, gloomy, unpicturesque Bel-
fast has lost more than the average. The boycott of
the Sinn Fein counties has demolished half its
linen trade. There are 5,000,000 tons of idle mer-
chant shipping in the world, mostly for sale cheap,
and (for the first time, it is said, in 250 years)
there isn’t a single ship building anywhere for the
British Navy. So Belfast’s shipyards are pretty well
demolished also. Belfast doesn’t quite know if it is
dead or only sleeping. But it does know that the
two Home Rule Parliaments, one for the North and
one for the South, are to be elected; that it hasn’t
produced one outstanding leader for a long' time
except Carson (such as he is). With Carson
retiring through old age the Northern Parliament is
likely to be a dull, poky, futile affair. Possibly
there would be a good many listening ears now if
some one the size of Gladstone proposed to make
Ireland independent, to shift the rather diminished
and dispirited' Protestant irreconcilables to England
and send the cursing Irish in Great Britain back
in exchange. Anyhow, whether Archbishop Clune
has got his story quite right or not the present war
seems to lead nowhere, and it is a demoralising busi-
ness. What will it profit a man if he gains all
Ireland (especially if Ireland isn’t worth anything to
him) and loses his own soul ?
The Digger’s Home.
\ olijmes of evidence come from all parts
of Australia that the war-service homes
scheme has degenerated into a modern variety
of chaos. This was only to be expected
from the formless and happy-go-lucky
fashion in which the business was initiated.
Ihe rulers of Australia went through the
war without learning that scores of thou-
sands of those who fought the nation’s battles
were youths who would return men, would
marry and require houses. They didn’t dis-
cover the obvious until the hosts had come
home. Then, to the joy of every land
and building profiteer throughout the
Commonwealth, they decided to build
houses for their saviours, regardless of
expense. By way of ensuring as much
administrative extravagance and delay as
possible, they appointed a gorgeous War
Service Homes Commission, with a branch
in each capital, brushing aside sugges-
tions that they should utilise the existing
workers’ homes departments, which had the
requisite local knowledge, machinery and
experience in buying material and placing
contracts. Then they allowed the Com-
monwealth Bank to build houses, independ-
ently of the Commission, an arrangement
which gave rise to sordid rows between Bank
men and Commission men, and didn’t help
the soldiers at all. In each case there
was profound ignorance or disregard of local
conditions. The plans having been fixed up
m Melbourne or Sydney, hundreds of houses
utterly unsuited to the climate were built
in Queensland and Westralia. Opportuni-
ties to lay out garden cities on cheap virgin
land adjacent to the onpital—an achieve-
ment possible in every State —were rejected
in favor of raising showy brick villas
on boom-inflated suburban blocks. A dull
bourgeois lack of imagination characterised
the whole business—that and over-centralisa-
tion, the inordinate price of building material
and the delay arising from the scarcity of
skilled labor and the establishment of the
hve-day week. At the present time not
only is the demand for houses far greater
than the supply, but the rotten material
and workmanship visible in some of the
alleged residences have extorted howls of
wrath in everv State. The soldier who
bought land on the deceptive assurance that
the Commission would soon put a house on
it has a distinct grievance, but he will be
better off in the lone- run than some of those
who have been charged a fancy price (land
material and labor being at the maximum)
for a jerry-built structure already in process
of decomposition. Nothing is more certain
than that a larae proportion of the cost of
these dismal edifices will have to be written


T h ? Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A“!K3i a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
off, at the public expense, as a measure of
simple justice to the victims of Jerry the
builder. The qualities which have produced
this tragic muddle seem inseparable from the
system of Government construction, as prac-
tised by the Commonwealth. Probably the
same drivelling incapacity would have been
shown if the same peonle had undertaken to
provide a row of fowlhouses.
This Poor Rich Country.
Dear Bulletin, —The contributor of the
article “Who Says the Door is ClosedY” (B.
1.0/2/’2l) made one statement which
seemed to me a relapse into a stereotyped
fallacy. It ran thus: —
For this land of unexampled productiveness and a
shade under two inhabitants to the square mile to
officially inform the U.K., which has 351 people to
the same area, that it is too overcrowded to accom-
modate a bigger population, is one of the most
impudent bluffs that have yet been tried on the
patient old Mother Country.
The theory about our “unexampled produc-
tiveness” and “boundless natural resources”
and so on is of recent invention. And the
•second one is unpleasantly suggestive of the
vast wealth which Dame Humbert alleged
to be locked up in a certain safe and on
which she borrowed money for many years
until the safe was opened arid the millions
proved to consist of a hairpin and a railway
ticket, or something to that effect. In fact,
the unexampled productiveness and the rest
were invented to raise- money on, which I
suppose was what some recent sensational
tin shows in the Malay country were in-
vented for. Australia, of course, isn’t in
the same hopeless category as the tin shows
or the Mrs. Humbert safe ; still a great deal
of the praise lavished on it is quite unjusti-
fied, and it has possibly done more than any-
thing else to dry-rot the Australian soul.
Always the Australian is taught that he has
no need to work in the persistent way other
people do, for his fortune is coming to him
spontaneously some day, and that lie can
borrow without limit, for his pile is un-
limited. This garish tale hasn't brought
immigrants—in fact, they seem to have
become scarcer since it was promulgated.
The demerits of our continent may be frankly
recognised. It has, in the south-east, what
looks like a river system on the map, though
the Big Trickle is a diminishing and drying
stream when it limps into the sea. There
isn’t enough of it to do much steady irriga-
tion with. Broken Hill and Cobar lie in
the fertile, smiling Valley of the Trickle, and
they don’t smile much. Many parts of the
valley are far worse. From the Darling it
is possible to follow latitude 32 westward
across three-fourths of the continent, and
not strike one reliable stream, for it is the
biggest dry spot in the British Empire.
Knibbs marks off half or more than half the
continent into two sections —the one with
no rivers and the one where all the rivers
or dry beds called such continue to form one
or two small, shallow, briny lakes in a
depression. After the east coast range is
left behind Australia boasts, between that
point and the Indian Ocean, one hill 3800
feet high (in W.A.), and two in S.A. which
tower to 3005 feet. It is possible to cross
the continent in a fairly straight line with-
out climbing higher than 1000 feet. Wheat
stands for over two-thirds of the cultivation,
and as a wheat producer, in the good year
1917-18, when the crop (Ilf bushels per
acre) was a shade above the local average,
Australia ranked tenth, coming after Italy.
. Though it only grew wheat on selected spots
(15,300 square miles selected out of nearly
three millions), it came as low down as
22nd for yield per acre. The gold output
has become almost unimportant—in 1918-19
it wasn’t much more than enough to pay for
imported “silks, velvets and velveteens.” As
regards coal and iron, Ellis Barker, in
his “Economic Statesmanship,” rates the
Commonwealth, with Oceania thrown in, far
below the tiny British Isles. Still Aus-
tralia is a suitable country for emigrants
even if it is valued at 500,000 fairly
(just fairly) good square miles, and
2,474,581 square miles of bad and doubtful
debts. That would make it France
times over, and France holds eight times the
Commonwealth’s population. In the present
condition of a good part of Europe it is a
poor place that emigrants won’t go to. But
it isn’t advisable to exult, and conse-
quently borrow, on a 2,974,581-mile basis
and do it recklessly at that, if there are
only 500,000 miles to pay with. And ap-
parently Australia can’t exult without bor-
rowing. The common idea is that the
country is so rich that another hundred or
five hundred millions of debt don’t matter,
and so poor that it can’t build a culvert
except with the aid of a loan, and so dog-poor
that immigrants must be warned away from
its emptiness because its emptiness is over-
crowded, and is teeming with riches to such
an extent that 30 hours work per week is
sufficient, though other people may work 54
hours, and so teeming with misery that one-
third of the population needs pensions and
one-third needs rations, and the other third
needs to be shot for profiteering. The
truth lies in none of these extremes. —Yours,
etc., Henry llorsecollar.
Combating Revolution with Mud.
Recent events have made it painfully plain
why the Prince of Wales wasn’t allowed to
go to India. The instalment of self-govern-
ment granted by the British has been furi-
ouslv rejected by the Indian nationalists.
Led by Gandhi, the lawyer, they organised
an impressive non-co-operation movement
(non-co-operation is passive resistance, or ns
near to it as ill-disciplined and explosive
Asiatics can get), and when the Duke of
Connaught arrived at Delhi to convey King
George’s blessing to the Indian Parliament,
and to rejoice with the liberated masses, he
found his enfranchised fellow;Siibjects
arranging a demonstration on their own
account. And even the official correspond-
ent had to admit that it was an extensive
affair of its kind :
There was an enormous extremist procession
through Delhi on Saturday afternoon. Gandhi and
Shaukat Au took part personally, and there were
fully 100,000 natives present. The leaders’ car was
wedged in the crowd for an hour. Gandhi rode in a
decorated car ; on his face was a fatuous smile. Am,
fat and pompous, was with him. They were guarded
by mounted volunteers, the officers wearing Sam
Browne belts and stars.
The Duke of Connaught proceeded to New Delhi
during the afternoon. There was hardly a spectator
to watch him pass.
There is little food for enthusiasm there, and
worse was to follow. The Viceroy’s train,
travelling from Delhi to Calcutta, was
stopped near Allahabad by a mob of dark-
brown dissidents, who ordered the King’s
representative back to the capital. He
went back. The new Parliament, com-
THE DISREGARDED CASUALTY.
L.B.M.: “He’ll be dead before this battle ends.”
posed as it is of moderate natives and
nominees of the Government, was with
difficulty restrained from demanding that
General Dyer and other officers con-
cerned in the Amritsar shooting should
be hanged. In the alternative it affirmed
that “the connection of India with
the British Empire is based on the principle
of equal partnership and perfect racial
equality, Indian lives and honor being held
as sacred as British lives and honor.” No
one objects to Indian lives and honor being
held as sacred as British lives and honor,
but if “perfect racial equality” implies that
India has a right to flood Canada, Austra-
lia, Maoriland and South Africa with cheap
coolie labor, it is a principle that, except in
India, will never be admitted. Perhaps
Britain will find it expedient to concede the
racial equality of British and Indians in
India, and possibly in Britain also, that
chilly and crowded land not being popular
with Hindu emigrants, but Australia,
Canada, M.L. and Afrikanderland have their
own views of racial equality, and will decide
the matter to suit themselves. Meanwhile
nothing is to be gained by clodhopping
criticism of the nationalist leaders such as
that quoted in the text. The Gandhi agi-
tation may be put down force, or over-
come by sagacious government; but it will
certainly not be laughed out of existence
by intimations that Gandhi grins foolishly
and that Ali is fat. Robespiebre was also
addicted to grinning during popular demon-
titrations, and Napoleon was a corpulent
person. The time has gone by for the de-
gradation of official or semi-official messages
to the level of lampoons, for combating revo-
lution with a propaganda of mud. These
tactics have been done to death, both in
Russia and Ireland, and other methods are
necessary if the Empire is to hang together.
In some aspects Gandhi is the most for-
midable antagonist that the British rulers
of India have ever encountered. He has
united Brahmin and Mohammedan in oppo-
sition to the Government, triumphing over
age-old jealousies of race, caste and creed,
and a man of that stamp is not to lie dis-
posed of by inane remarks about liis per-
sonal appearance. It becomes increasingly
dear that the situation which he has created
will tax the wisest statesmanship of Read-
ing and Montagu, the two Jews to whom
the British Raj is looking in the present
crisis.
“J.E.” whites :
Randolph Bedford (B. 10/2/’2l) objects to my
remark that the present Brisbane Government’s man-
agement turned the best-paying State railway system
into the worst. Let official figures speak. In
the year before Ryan took office Queensland railways,
yielding £4 ss. 7d. per cent, on cost, were 13s. 7d.
better than the next best (N.S.W.), while in 19X9,
yielding los. sd. per cent., they were 14s. lOd.
worse than the next worst (Tasmania).
The assertion that in the pre-RYAN days Q. rail-
ways made profits by paying the worst wages in
Australia isn’t accurate to excess. The long list of
railway workers’ wages in 1914 showed cases of
unusually low wages, but there were at least three
grades of railway men whose wages were on the
highest scale. And up to 1914, according to ICnibbs’s
“groceries, food and house rent” figures for the six
capitals, Queensland was far the cheapest State to
live in (it became dearer than Perth and almost
level with Melbourne and Adelaide by 1919), which
was one cause of the low wages. Anyhow, wages
weren’t in question, and are only dragged in on
the cuttle-fisE or squid principle of obscuring the
real issue. My point was that, by raising wages, etc.,
without perceiving for some years the simple fact
that charges had to be raised also, the earnings were
made absurdly low. And when people were asked to
lend 6 or 61 per cent, money to build railways
that only earned 15s. 5d., they said such crazy
management wasn’t to be trusted.
Mr. Bedford’s statement that the Hughenden
troubles were “attacks by ex-soldiers on anti-
conscriptionists” is on a par with the equally well-
known fact that it was Louis XVI. who beheaded
Robespierre, all contemporary and subsequent ac-
counts being erroneous. It also recalls events such
as the crucifixion of Pontius Pilate and the in-
auguration of the Social Purity Movement by
Charles 11. That the Townsville riots “boiled
down to a disturbance resulting in the sentencing of
a man and a boy to a gaol and a reformatory” is
probable enough and disgraceful enough. When
authority is weak or corrupt or dependent on the
votes of the riotous class, much worse and bigger
things may boil down to even less. There have
been massacres which did not lead to the arrest of
anyone.
In the matter of the transcontinental railway I
never manifested the least objection to “the inex-
pensive linking up north-west and south-east of all
Queensland western railways,” 1 wouldn’t object
if they were twice as bad money-lasers as they are,
provided Queensland does the work inside its own
territory with its own money. I only dislike it
being done with the Commonwealth’s money, when
the Commonwealth has a great estate of its own
to develop, acquired on conditions which it is now
proposed to ignore, and when the Theodore scheme
involves leaving that estate largely undeveloped for
an indefinite time. If cattlemen do “make their
easting” through Queensland, though I never met
one doing it, so much more reason for Theodore and
co. making a Queensland line with Queensland
loan money, taking it as read that Theodore will
never consider the question of doing it with Queens-
land money.
- «
Sydney’s unemployed made a mistake in
tactics last week comparable to that of the
Sinn Feiners who started fires in factories
in Liverpool (England) the week before.
The Liverpudlians are friendly to Erin —over
50 per cent, of the inhabitants of Bootle, the
city’s dockyard quarter, are of Irish descent
—but when they saw their exiguous livings
being interfered with to no purpose they
became annoyed. The Irish problem is going
to be solved in the last resort only by the
good sense and goodwill of British Labor;
and owing to the day out enjoyed by a few
snake-headed specialists in arson in Lanca-
shire the desired consummation may be
delayed-with fatal results to many in Ire-
land. Most Sydneyites who work are keenly
sympathetic with the unemployed. It was
persons of this class whom the followers of
Mr. Joe Warner hustled off the city foot-
paths last week until the police intervened
for their protection. Now, few things
embitter peaceful characters more than the
indignity of uncalled-for personal violence.
Leaders of the Warner type well understand
it. As they do not seek peace but a sword,
as, in fact, olive branches are about as much
use to them as dismissal-notices are to men
in good billets, their eagerness to get the
work-seekers disliked can easily be appre-
ciated. But it is all against the interests
of those of Warner’s retinue who are
honestly desirous of employment. The
general public does not want undue humility
from men who are temporarily down on
their luck. But, on the other hand, it
resents the sturdy mendicant touch combined
with the truculence of a Hun n.c.0., which
is what it has had served out by the unem-
ployed of late. And it is on the goodwill of
the general public, after all, that the pros-
perity of every set of workers depends.
“Wealsman” sees a light ahead: —
Something of an offset to the stupidity and wrong-
headedness which both organised wealth and
organised labor are displaying may be found in
the widespread and surely growing desire of all
sorts of decent men to assist experiments in in-
dustrial reform. There was never such interest
taken in the progress of these experiments, and any
scheme which looks at all like an earnest attempt
at a solution may be sure of receiving, for the
mere asking, the whole-souled assistance of the best-
trained brains in the community. Thus, to take a
small Australian example, we have Dr. Gregory
Sprott, Tasmania’s widely-known authority on
hygienic questions, cutting days out of a hurried holi-
dav in the Cold Country to visit Bournemouth and
give the Cadbttrys priceless advice in regard to the
hygienic arrangements at their projected Risdon (T.)
establishment. Town-planning expert Reade, for-
merly of Adelaide and now' town-planning for the
Government at the Straits Settlement, also took a
willing (and gratuitous) advisory hand in the
enterprise. Instances could be multiplied in-
definitely. With so many men and women of good-
will and knowledge in the world, all anxious to
contribute real and unselfish work towards the
peaceful and expeditious solution of the problems
which vex mankind, there should be no serious
danger of the feet of civilisation slipping in the
gory futility of revolution. Brains earnestly ap-
plied can settle any human difficulty that ever was
or ever will be. Half the trouble is that the
hard-faced profiteers, whose war-gains enabled them
to buy the high places or corrupt the place-holders,
are obsessed with the notion that they control all
the brains ; and the other half is that the workers
suspect the same thing. The latter have lost faith
in their political and legal representatives, and they
regard any hope of intellectual sympathy or assist-
ance from outside as a vain thing. Holding these
views, neither the greed-bemused profiteers nor the
disgruntled proletarians are likely to see or seek or
suffer any way out but that of Stoush, or submit
to any trial less homicidal than one of endurance
methods which, -whatever the immediate result, must
inevitably increase class-hatred' and intensify the
danger of civil disorder. That the present method
of production for profit is doomed is obvious
enough. That the wage system—-which makes
employment conditional on the worker accepting
something less than he produces—-is essentially dis-
ruptive, and ought to be superseded by some method
of organised co-operation, is nowadays disputed by
few. The whole problem then resolves itself into
a question as to the best and easiest method of
substituting co-operation for competition. A simple
proposition of that kind ought not to be beyond the
eapacit.v even of Parliament —any Parliament. But
—well, there still remains, as a beacon of hope
shining through the murky industrial atmosphere,
the fact that no earnest experiment in re-organisation
will perish for lack of skilled helpers.


m
# .A ,
m
» M
r Cke yfoisfrafia
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning: Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE
PRIVATE
Dinner or
a la carte,
DINING ROOMS or
ROOMS at Euneheon.
Supper—All meals served
Order early and avoid
delay.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The latest strike in N.S.W. is not for
increased wages as usual, but to do battle
against a reduction. Judge Beeby proposed to
knock more than 23 per cent, off the wage
of the milk-farmer. He is a piece-work toiler
with long hours and practically no holidays,
and is often in a small way. Also, he has
had bad times of late through heavy mortal-
ity among his tools of trade. If the city
Government makes many more enemies the
splitting of N.S.W. into four States (the
County of Cumberland being the fourth)
may come suddenly. For the north and
south, anyhow, secession would be the short
way to get clear of the Land Confiscation
Bill, the Profiteering Bill, the Fair Rents
Bill, the amazing stamp law, the Labor
Council, the One Big Union, the Closed
Ports policy, a considerable amount per head
of the State debt and a few other things
that wouldn’t be missed.
Thirteen men were charged at Sydnej
police court as leaders of a trifling unem-
ployed disturbance, and 10 were “laborers.”
In this loan-sozzled land that proportion of
unskilled to skilled workers (10 to three)
wasn’t absurd. Most of the 170 or 180
millions that Ma State owes have gone to
cultivate and encourage the rather helpless
class with no trade, and as almost all the
products of skilled labor are imported, there
is no corresponding helpful class with trades.
The knockabout person ought to be in the
main a trained man who is filling in time
when his own biz. is slack, and the teach-
ing of a definite occupation should be as
much a matter of course as instruction in
reading and writing. These 10 “laborers”
represent an element that is dragging Aus-
tralia down.
Rarely does a State electorate turn down
a member who has been elected Speaker, but
that was what happened to the late Frank
Madden. As soon as Boroondara had re-
turned him (previously he held Duncan Gil-
lies’s old seat for Melbourne’s Eastern
Suburbs) he got the Speakership, and flat-
tered himself he was fixed for life. Four
years later the too-versatile A. G. Lumsden,
nearly succeeded in ousting Frank'Madden.
The difference between their totals was only
11 votes. The Speaker was knighted in
1011, and perhaps the title was worth some-
thing to him in subsequent elections. But
in 1917 blue-ribbon Greenwood beat Madden
badly, and from that time Frank nursed the
conviction that the country was going to
the devil.
“Gallery” : There was some excitement in
the House of Reps, the other day, when
uneasy noises from one of the bathrooms
suggested an elephant in the throes of bron-
chial catarrh. Suspecting that a member
had taken a fit three of the staff rushed in
and found a well-known Laborite stretched
out in all the beauty of nudity on the floor.
The invaders retired in a hurry, being testily
informed that the tribune had been dabbling
in violent exercise in the gymnasium, and
was finishing off with breathing exercises by
way of hardening his lungs for next session.
Exercising its power of nominating a
Federal Senator for the unexpired term of
the late R. S. Guthrie- —a little over two
years—the Harwell Government has
appointed E. C. Vardon, whose 54 years of
life have all been devoted to printing and
politics. His father, the late Joseph Vardon,
was a Senator too, and founded the printing
firm. Vardon and Pritchard, now a co„ of
which the son is director. E.C.V. has been
member for Sturt in S.A. Assembly since
1018.
Queensland’s £2,000,000 paper-money loan
at 04 per cent, filled by the skin of its teeth,
after expensive advertising, the employment
of a high-salaried “loan organiser” named
Dash, threats of compulsion, a long
extension of time and a strenuous canvass
of N.S.W. and Victorian firms and institu-
tions which do business in Queensland, and
which possibly subscribed lest something
worse should befall them. Queensland itself
seems, as usual, to have kept aloof. But this
precarious, breathless and strugglesome busi-
ness won’t keep a boom going. An attempt
is now being made to get £2,000,000 from
the Federal Government, but that body has
already lent the States every penny that
could be spared out of the Notes Fund, and
it has to dig up money for the wheat guar-
antee and the first instalment of the sol-
diers’ bonds, and it is pledged to still more
repatriation loans, and N.S.W. is begging
hard for an impossible £5,000,000 loan to
pay its extra wheat cash guarantee, which
it gave in its giddy youth when it had all
the world in a sling.
One of Holman’s unwise inspirations when
he was N.S.W. Premier was that, when a
district wanted a work of any sort, it could
get it provided it subscribed the necessary
loan money itself. That is to say, the local
people got the full interest on their bonds
the same as anybody else, and got their job
(probably a hopelessly unpayable one) and
the unearned increment it added to their
property values, while the community at
large paid the interest and the loss. Hol-
man, towards his finish, had the rottenness
of the method explained to him, but his suc-
cessors, who are proof against explanation,
have reverted to it.
The political cronies of Donald Mae-
kinnon smile at his announcement at the
V.C.A. send-off that he proposed to devote
the remainder of his life to fostering a love
for cricket. He is marked down by them
for a Federal seat. They will be more
specific after the redistribution of elec-
torates which will succeed the census.
THE OPTIMIST.
“The N. S. Wales Taxpavers’ Association feels that it is time to call a halt to reckless political finance.”
Cable.
There was.talk for some time of adding a
14th Minister to the already monstrous
N.S.W. Cabinet—a Minister for Anti-
Profiteering. He was possibly to be honor-
ary at first, but he wouldn’t remain so.
Perhaps it wa# owing to the general cry of
rage that the Caucus turned the scheme
down. Attorney-General McTiernan, wear-
ing his best garment of massive innocence,
which suggests a white nightshirt on a
giant, rebuked the press sternly and sourly
for aspersing the noble and self-raising
Cabinet. But the thing was seriously dis-
cussed, just as repudiation was discussed
at the Perth Labor Conference and else-
where, and the public doesn’t know whether
it was the inopportuneness or the infamous
greed of the idea that caused. its rejection.
The Queensland railway men lately threw
at the Ministry a specimen of the strike
logic which it itself taught them when it
was a happy young Opposition in maiden
meditation fancy free. On top of two 'con-
siderable rises in quick succession they de-
manded another one running as high as 40
per cent., with miscellaneous concessions
added. Being told to go to the Arbitra-
tion Court, they said they had been there
twice and their request had been refused as
exorbitant if not impossible. Therefore,
they wanted a special tribunal which
wouldn’t refuse or a strike must come. The
business of the Court, they explained, was
to grant all demands, and its decisions
counted only when it did so, the case being
one of “Heads I win, tails I win also ; like-
wise I keep the penny.” The Commissioner
tried to explain that justice didn’t work
that way, and was simply told that if it
didn’t it had better learn.
“0.K.”: How unconsciously humorous is
Theodore, of Queensland, in his announce-
ment of the only means whereby Labor can
attain its righteous ends!
Labor will have to initiate a movement by-
co-operating and eliminating the middleman and the
parasitic speculator responsible for passing on the
cost of living, and also by abolishing usurers and
controlling financiers.
Co-operative trading is, on paper, the cure
for all industrial unrest. The principle is
in no need of a Theodore to boost it. But
what happens to co-operative manufactories,
wholesale houses and retail stores, as a rule,
is the fate of the ordinary business which
was not built upon a foundation of indivi-
dual success. They go bung. Personal favo-
ritism, slackness and jobbery are the white
ants which eat co-operative enterprise away,
otherwise all intelligent workers would have
been running their own works and reaping
all the available profits of their own labors
long ago. If Theodore’s Government shops
are not triumphs of legislation the failure
must be due to the same disease that has
stunted the growth of the co-operative move-
ment. A community that eliminates the
middleman and parasitic speculator will need
no Theodores. The question is whether
an infallible process of elimination can pos-
sibly begin whilst there are Theodores about.
From a man in the gallery:—
Great efforts are being made to restore Willie
Watt to a position equal to his former dignity and
affluence, and some optimists are even asking him
to rush forward and save the country from Hughes.
The notion is that Watt can command the support
of several Nationalists and probably a section of the
Country party, but it fails to impress. As a matter
of fact, the lurking dislike of Hughes among his
party has never developed into overt action, owing
to the possibility of Labor slipping into office and
precipitating a dissolution; moreover, there are
divisions among the pro-Watt Nationalists and
Cookies far keener than their enthusiasm for
Watt. The Tariff amendment represents one point
of divergence, and there is also the Canberra insanity,
which has sundered personal friendships and has
brought party meetings to the verge of dog-fights,
with Ma State members as the principal dogs. Chap-
man, the good Australian and Protectionist of other
days, has become a political monomaniac on the
subject of Canberra. Time and again he has threat-
ened Hughes with dire punishment, but he cannot
oust Billy on a question so relatively trifling. Neither
can any possible combination Under Watt deprive
the little autocrat of a wink of sleep. It is the
various and often trivial vendettas among his enemies
than maintain Hughes’s clutch on the Priminister’s
salary.
The haunting spectre or malignant ghost
or unfamiliar spirit that the Queensland and
N.S.W. Governments have raised for them-
selves really amounts to another repatria-
tion question. Anybody provided with
enough loan money to pay good wages can
get an army of railway employees or civil
servants or pick-and-shovellers together.
(Even publicans can be got together quite
naturally, though it seems like costing
N.S.W. £15,000.000 to disperse them.)
They come from nowhere, and the self-sup-
porting jobs they leave behind them till up
as water does when a fish is pulled out of
it. But when it is proposed to reverse the
process because the war is over or the loans
are over,' a very costly problem arises, and
there is a big vested interest to tight. The
two States mentioned got together a new
army of Government employees which could
only be kept together if the impossible loans
lasted. Now Queensland has a Railway
Economy Board sitting to find out how
many of the recent appointees can be turned
loose on a disappointed world. Many of
them must go, and their gratitude on being
given the jobs won’t be a patch on their
ingratitude on losing them. This is natural
enough, for many have grown rusty at their
old work, and their old places have filled up.
and as they start again at the bottom they
have the hoaxed feeling. The Storey Gov-
ernment has appointed no Sacking Com-
mission yet, and still protests that it won’t
need to turn its deluded protegds adrift
—to bid them get out of the vehicle and
walk back after inviting them for a joy ride
—but unless somebody will keep on lending
£15.000,000 a year the vehicle must be un-
loaded. Nothing is easier than to make a
vested interest, but to divest it again is
another matter.
“S. Malaprop” on a brown hill not very
far away:—
Broken Hill used to be an asset for Australia,
though it never did much good to N. S. Wales, being,
by reason of the absurd way boundaries are drawn,
nearer to both Adelaide and Melbourne than to it 3
own capital. At latest it was costing N. S. Wales
£2OOO a week in poor relief, and the bill was increas-
ing, so it is about as expensive to hold in its
small way as England finds Ireland to be. With a
strange capacity for the inopportune the strikers
only patched up their long quarrel when the
bottom had fallen out of the metal markets. If
the mines had been working all the time and making
money out of the high prices they might have kept
going, but to re-start a big hole after long stoppage
costs a heap in repairs and general house-cleaning.
The weaker cos. felt afraid. Then the shipping stop-
page came to interrupt the coal supply, so the Hill
might as well have kept its own stoppage going, if
a stoppage can go. Not only is N. S. Wales, out of
the' sheer vanity of possession on the map, standing the
charity bill for this place, the main profits of which
always went elsewhere: it has also the railway on its
hands. When the Hill was approaching the 40th
vear of its mining career, and was that far on the
way back to being mere brown emptiness again, and
when the cost of railway building was at its highest
and credit low, a megalomaniac Ministry resolved
to emphasise the fact that the place belonged to
Sydney by building a very long railway to join up
with the ageing spot. At last advices the unfinished
western section of the work was eating its head off
at Menindie, and the eastern section at Trida, and
when, there will be* funds for the middle section is
a mystery. N. S. Wales would probably have saved
money and worry if it had long ago shifted its
boundary a few miles east and let S.A. have the
Hill. And the Hill, with a Government close at
hand, instead of one 1396 miles away by the pas-
senger route, might have been better managed.
The velocity of Australia’s glissade down
the slope of loafing and luxury which has
the pit of bankruptcy at the foot is shown
by the trade returns. During the last half
of 1920 imports were £87,891.247, which
represented £49,226,842 worth more work
sent abroad and so much less done here than
for the second half of 1919. Exports
(£61,461,867) were £9,973,653 less than in
1919. So they fell short of the amount
required to pay for the country’s foreign
buyings (paper is no use in such a case)
by £26,000,000 and a trifle. Allowing for
what we should have exported to pay interest
on foreign debts, the shortage must have
been very near £40,000,000. So even if the
public debt had been repudiated without any
disaster being caused thereby (which is im-
possible) and all the interest saved, the
slither towards the pit would have been a
record just the same. The Federal Gov-
ernment lately arranged with the Bull Gov-
ernment for the latter to accept its lOTT
for £92,ooo,ooo—about £42.000,000 for pay
of our army long in default and £50,000,000
for purposes not very well defined. It also
borrowed another £5,000.000 for purposes
not well defined. Presumably this ground
and lofty finance will pay the fluff bill for
a few months ahead. When Parliament
meets some early questions should be these:
(1) How much of the wonderful and inflated
revenue is gold—the only stuff which will serve to
pay interest on the monstrous foreign debt unless
imports are -cut down about one-half so that there
will be a surplus of the products of hard work to
be sold for gold at the other end ?
(2) How much is paper of no value outside?
(3) How much of Australia’s liabilities for interest
on outside debts are really met now out of fresh
loans, and what is likely to happen if fresh loans
stop ?
THE ONLY WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The League of Nations is certainly making an
attempt to face the problems of the world.”
—Daily Caper.
The problems of the world are great.
They range from strikes to cadging kings.
From breakfast with an empty plate
To crimson songs that Russia sings.
Geneva gazes on them all
And sadly shakes a weary head;
Judged by the writing on the wall,
Most men and things will soon be dead.
Yet is the League attempting still
To look all problems in the face;
Without the power it has the will
To ease the burdens of the race.
Not force of arms is its resort,
It fills no trumpet with its breath ;
But, finding even paper short,
Hopes on and talks itself to death.
N.S.W,
P. O. M.


Billy ridc-S a race
Billy clocks some,
bruising).
Billy goes
a.- surfing ■
Billy pl&ys
football.
Billy
bill iar discs •
Billy plays
pin^-pon^.
: .\V? 5
AUSTRALIA’S SARTORIAL ANARCHIST.
"Mr. Hughes took part in the inter-departmental cricket match in high collar, tie and hard hat, and batted with his coat on." News item.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
PRODUCERS ok
LEAD—Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
'SlLVER—Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZINC DUST.
Also of LITHARGE —-(Assav and Industrial).
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and
BEARING METALS,
LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
* BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-LEAD ORES, BEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL. Manager
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOK MAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES, Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
BHAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobei : .,j.
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
SECOND only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once Relieve himself of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
which has had over thirty-four years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
JJcokl'et. ’
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Queensland:—
Net To Re- Re-
Jan , Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918 ..£33,019 6 p.c. = £27,000 £6,019 £6,019
1919 .. 34,000 6 „ „ 27,000 7,000 13,019
1920 .. 40,240 6 „ „ 27,000 13,240 26,259
Internal reserves disclosed. . £30,000 56,259
1921 .. 45,017 6J p.c. =: 29,250 15,767 72,026
That table gives results since the old North
Queensland and Royal of Queensland banks
amalgamated four years ago. For the first
three years £26,259 of visible reserves ac-
cumulated; but during the past 12 months
a further £30,000, representing “recoveries
from debts previously written off as bad
and other recoveries,” was added, while the
balance of the term’s visible profits not re-
quired for dividend purposes has contributed
£15,767 more. The recovery of £30,000 of
old debts previously regarded as lost is very
convincing evidence of the caution which was
exercised by the management when weigh-
ing up the securities of the two old banks
for transfer to the amalgamated concern.
The disclosure of these profits also hints
that general-manager Mackenzie Lees is
perfectly satisfied with the internal position
after the past four years’ operations. Until
this year disclosed net profits were smaller
than the combined profits of the two old
banks. This was due to increased ex-
penses, for gross profits had moved ahead
steadily: the two old banks together earned
£110,095 in 1917 ; for 1919 the amalgamated
concern showed £135,833. Last year the
gross profit was £156,634, and though ex-
penses were £16,000 heavier than for the
previous term, £4777 additional net profit
showed up. The bank may have done bet-
ter than its figures disclosed: gross profits
are shown “after making provision for bad
and doubtful debts.” However, the directors
are apparently so well satisfied with the
position that they have decided to pass out
some of the additional net profits shown,
and the distribution for the second half _ of
the year was elevated to 7 p.c. p.a., making
the year’s div. p.c.
The balance-sheet movement since the first
accounts of the amalgamated bank were
issued have been as follows: —
1918 1920. 1921.
Deposits .. .. £2,964,030 £3,095,457 £3,159,641
All other liabilities 152,909 196,604 154,883
Liquid assets .. 1,499,407 1,280,710 1,130,002
Advances .. .. 1,930,226 2,381,111 2,602,299
Premises . . ' . . 157,500 120,000 120,000
.Deposits have grown not quite £200,000 in
three years, and though that is not a furious
pace it is satisfactory in view of the difficulties
of the period. With many customers, some
of whom would have shied at an overdraft
in pre-war days, clamoring for accommoda-
tion, and with the best of judges doubtful
as to what would happen the week after
next, conditions have not been easy for the
managements of the smaller banks. Never-
theless, the business they have handled has
been very profitable. Since 1918 _total lia-
bilities have increased by £197,585; mean-
time, so great has been the pressure for
accommodation;’ the book value of advances
has increased by £672,073,’ The result has
been that the holding of liquid assets has
been reduced, and at January 31 last only
slightly more than 34 p.c. of all liabilities
was within easy reach. Still, this was
several points stronger than the position
two years ago, when the financipg of the
sixth , and seventh War Loans put a strain
on the banks. To protect the _ £2.184,522
of liabilities not represented by liquid assets
the Bank of Queensland shows advances with
a book value of £2,602.299. bes’des premises
set down as worth £120,000. The directors
expressed their opinion of the former parcel
when they brought the recent £30,000 of re-
coveries to light; and further, since the
securities were thoroughly overhauled by two
managements only four years ago there is an
assurance that no old lame horses are in the
stable. Paid capital is £450.000, and there are
visible reserves of £47 026. For every £ of these
funds the bank holds £6 9s. of the public’s
money, and that is well within the generally-
recognised trading limit and a much milder
proportion than in some of the big banks.
The big Commonwealth Bank is now a more
active competitor: having taken over the
State Savings banks it recently proceeded to>
open up for ordinary business, too. But there
should be plenty of work for all banks; not-
withstanding the Bolshie tendencies of its
politics the Northern State has immense
possibilities, and there should be good pro-
spects for the two locally-owned banks —the
Bank of Queensland and the Queensland
National
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
“A” k “11” “C” -
Shares Shares
10 p.e. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913. £74,514 £63,750 £8,778 £1,986 £9,558
9 p.c.
Tune, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8,925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8,925 10,692
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7,650 1,188 11,880
Dee., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7,650 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7,650 1,102 16,179
Dec., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7,650 15,429
—All Shares.—
June, 1917.. 39,495 5 p.c. = 38,250 1,245 16,674
Dec., 1917.. 26,341 5„ ~ 38,250 4,765
June, 1918.. 60,286 7 „ „ 53,550 6,736 11,501
Dec., 1918.. 90,579 9 „ ~ 68,850 21.729 33,230
June, 1919.. 48,366 8 „ „ 68,360 13,236
Dec., 1919.. 74,093 8„ ~ 73,200 893 14,129
June, 1920.. 81,750 8 „ ~ 80,692 1,058 15,187
Dec., 1920. .103,486 8 „ ~ 85,200 18,286 33,473
Only on one occasion since 191 S, when the
Gas Act of 1912 was amended to, in effect,
guarantee the cos. 8 p.c. on capital, has there
been such a wide margin between profits
and the distributions to shareholders. In
that instance the A.G.L. Co. voluntarily
reduced its price Id. to 4s. 4d. per 1000 ft.
For 11 months of the past year the co. was
getting ss. Id., but at the end of November
the Court agreed to an increase to ss. 9d.
Considering the short period during which
the higher rate operated, the increase of
profits for the past half compared with the
earlier six months is somewhat surprising.
The good markets for residuals were
partly responsible, for during the later
term' £104.760 was got from sales of
coke, tar and ammonia, compared with
£90,752 for the previous half. But it
will be interesting to see what effect
the extra Bd. per 1000 ft. will have on the
accounts for the current term. Not that it
matters much to shareholders. Their divs.
are limited to 8 p.c., and no advantage is to
be got from piling up reserves in excess of
the amount permitted by the Act to provide
for renewals, for the issue of bonus shares
is no longer permissible. The Act allows
the cos. to charge against revenue annually
an amount not exceeding 3| p.c. of capital
expenditure, the accumulation in this re-
serve for replacements, renewals, etc., not at
any time to exceed 10 p.c. of the total share
and borrowed capital. In the introductory
table the amounts charged against revenue
in this wav are not shown, nor is the balance
to the credit of the fund included with the
reserves. The appropriations for deprecia-
tion have varied widely: in fact, if p.c.
is a fair allowance for depreciation and
“special purposes,” in several terms since
the principal Act was amended the 8 p.c.
div. was not actually earned. This table
shows the allowances the co. has made each
half-year and the balance to credit of the
fund :
Charged Total at credit
against revenue. of fund.
June, 1918.. £36,308 £36,308
Dec., 1918.. 60,602 94,930
.Tune, 1919.. 40,000 132,070
Dec., 1919.. 20,000 127,358
June, 1920.. 40,000 138,788
Dec., 1920.. 66,371 144,894
Paid capital is £2,130,000, and £1,107,454
of borrowed capital has been .sunk in works,
etc. —a total of £3,297,454. The accumu-
lation in the depreciation fund is thus a
long way short of the 10 p.c. maximum
allowed by the Act. During the past three
years £263.281 has been dropped into the
reserve, and £118,387 has been expended on
replacements, etc.
Including the allowances made for depre-
ciation with the net profits shown in the
first table, earnings have taken this erratic
course since the amended Act operated:—
June, 1918.. £96,594 1 Dec., 1919.. £94,093
Dec., 1918.. 151,181 | June, 1920.. 121,750
June, 1919.. 88,366 | Dec., 1920.. 148,121
During the past half-year the co. thus
earned £50,000-odd more than during the
Dec. term of 1919. Last half the quantity
of coal carbonised exceeded 200,000 tons for
the first time, or nearly 27,300 tons more
than for the same period of the previous
year. This shows how the principal revenue
account figures have moved .since 1917: —
t —Half-Year Ending December—
Revenue — 1917. 1918. 1919. 1920.
Gas .. .. £396,107 £478,215 £523,811 £677,887
Meter rents . . 8,903 9,962 10,146 10,939
Residuals . . 65,364 81,162 75,638 93,821
Expenditure —
Coal, oil, etc. 163,798 172,940 222,888 253,730
Wages, salaries 71,136 69,623 85,947 116,753
Management.. 11,322 13,421 14,985 13,911.
Maintenance.. 67,465 90,894 123,238 137,259
The feature of that comparison is the very
heavy increase of the outlay on repairs and
maintenance—now more than double what
was charged only four years ago. No other
item of expenditure has taken such a leap.'
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big freezing concerns of Maori-
land :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct., £ £ £ £ £
1908.. 37,075 Bp.e.= 13,203 19,021 4,848 82,491
1909.. 50,622 8 „ „ 13,433 22,265 14,924 97,415
1910.. 75,719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
1911.. 42,213 10 „ „ 16,915 15,000 10.298 142,957
1912.. 41,269 10 „ „ 16,915 15,000 9,354 152,311
1913.. 37,760 10 „ „ 16,915 20,000 845 153,156
1914.. 40,438 10 ~ ~ 16,919 30,000 146,675
1915.. 42,564 11 „ „ 18,615 23,949 170,624
1916.. 44,851 12 „ „ 20,307 24,544 195,168
Premiums on shares . . 31,400 226,568
1917.. 53,948 12 p.c.= 20,575 33,373 259,941
1918.. 66,479 14 ~ „ 41,100 - 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of internal reserves disclosed ( 3 - 0 20
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital )
1919. .147,940 16ip.c.= 75,000 72,940 108,260
1920.. 80,802 12| „ „ 75,000 5,802 114,062
Only four years ago this co.’s nominal capi-
tal 'was £200,000; now paid capital is
£OOO,OOO. For some years prior to M 916
paid capital had stood at around £173,000,
but to finance war business it was increased
to £300,000. Then it was doubled by the
issue of bonus shares, so the 124 p.c. is a
very handsome return to old holders, notwith-
standing that some of the cash-paid issue
was got in at 50 p.c. premium. By way of
capital and premiums shareholders have put
up £331,400 of cash: during the past two
years no less than £1.50,000 has been dis-
tributed in dividends, and though the bonus
issue absorbed most of the visible reserves
two years aao, the latest balance-sheet
shows' £114,062 after making recent distri-
butions to shareholders. Maoriland’s meat
cos. had a wonderful time during the war,
and the good run has continued since. Dur-
ing the period of shipping shortage huge
accumulations piled up at the freezing works,
but since these stocks were held on behalf
of the British Government, the management’s
only trouble was to provide storage space.
Since the shipping difficulty eased the accu-
mulations have been reduced: in Oct., 1918,
this co. held £983,371 worth of meat on
behalf of the British Government, besides
large stocks unsold. At the latest balance
it had £460,373 of stocks for the British
Government, which had already advanced
£345,000 against them.
These operations and high prices have
necessarily considerably expanded the
balance-sheet figures compared with pre-war
days. Here is a comparison over two five-
year periods: —
- 1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £81,620 £307,385 £649,732 £635,346
Fixed assets . . 297,723 273,522 813,011 852,674
Other assets . . 99,891 542,587 597,481 534,233
It is impossible to give comparisons in
detail. Nowadays sundry debtors, invest-
ments, consignments unrealised and stocks
in works are lumped in one entry. The
rapid development of the concern can, how-
ever, be shown in this way :
1910-15. 1915-20.
Increase of total assets . . £418,495 £570,799
Added liabilities .. .. 225,765 327,961
Growth of net assets .. £192,730 £242,838
New capital and premiums 68 158,146
Improvement . . . . £192,662 £84,692
The amount distributed by way of dividends
must be considered in conjunction with those
figures. During the balancing period
1910-15 £81,173 was passed out in cash to
shareholders; during the later five-year
period, £206,328. Probably during recent
very affluent years the management has done
even better than its accounts have admitted;
anyhow, the profits given are after making
provision for various purposes, including
“contingencies” which may not arise. Only
two years ago, when the capital was doubled
by an issue of bonus shares, the directors
unearthed £50,000 of internal reserves.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresii Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1910. . £24,355 12 p.c.= £ll,OOB £13,347 £69,972
1911.. 25,594 11 ~,,12,842 12,752 73,724
Transferred to capital, £55,038 .. 18,686
1912.. 39,417 11* p.c.= 16,328 23,089 41,775
1913.. 31,727 111- ~ ~ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to Capital, £18,346 . . 38,094
1914.. 28,760 lUp.c.= 17,796 10,964 49,058
1915.. 16,478 8* „ „ 13,851 2,627 51,685
1916. . 13,732 8 „ ~ 13,209 523 52,208
1917.. 20,192 10 ~ ~ 16,511 3-,681 55,889
1918.. 17,979 10 „ „ 16,511 1,468 57,357
1919.. 24,367 10 „ ~ 16,611 -7,856 65,213
1920.. 13,876 10 16,696 62,393
That £13,876 is the poorest profit which
has shown up since 1909: it is poorer
than the £13,732 for 1916 because there is
now £17,400 more capital at work. As the
table shows, this co.’s business has always
been erratic, though fat years when set
against the lean have given an average
which has provided shareholders with very
satisfactory divs. The capitalisation of
£73,000-odd of reserves shown above does
not make the 10 p.c. more handsome to old
holders, though. The 1902 drought had
badly rattled the co., and the £73,384 of
bonus capital provided by the good run in
the years which followed the drought merely
replaced the Bs. per share which had been
written off. Last winter’s drought in .the
coastal districts curtailed the co.’s large
milk business —in December last the F. F. &
I. was distributing 38,000 gal. weekly to
shops, hospitals, etc., and on contract —but
the co. had other troubles besides. The
Necessary Commodities Commission and now
the Profiteering Prevention Court have been
experimenting in price-fixing with doubtful
results to all parties—including the public,
which at times has paid almost famine
prices while certain districts could find no
market for a large proportion of their milk-
ings. Recent decisions of the Court have re-
sulted in further tangles ; distributors, though
they declared that they were operating at a
loss, were recently disallowed their claim
for a wider margin; the dairy-farmer, on the
other hand, has decided to do a little price-
fixing on his own account and has refused
to supply Strawberry’s product at under
Is. 3d. per gal. Owing to price-fixing, the
drought and heavier handling costs, the F.
F. and I. directors declare that the losses
incurred by its milk business during the
latter half of the past year were heavier
than the profits resulting from all other
operations. But, also owing to the drought,
the co.'s cold-storage business was very dull
during the period.
The latest 30 p.c. was not nearly earned :
the £13,876 fell short of the amount required
for divs. by £2820, and no visible provision
was made for depreciation. The balance-
sheet figures have moved in this way over
a number of years:—
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £16,410 £55,578 £59,054 £70,441
Property, plant, etc. 109,736 203,027 176,009 190,963
Stock .. .. 9,088 22,010, 25,135 38,426
Cash & investments 39.340 20,970 32,137 27,057
Book debts . . 16,453 31,324 64,356 67,343
Capital is now £182,514, and the reserves
of £62,393 are made up of £30,000 set aside
for redemption of leases, £lB,OOO in a reserve
for depreciation and contingencies, and
£14,393 in general reserve, dividend equalisa-
tion account and to credit of P. and L.
There were additions to fixed assets during
the past year, but owing to the £17,400 of
new capital got in the surplus of liquid
assets over liabilities at £63,386 was only
about £2OO less than 12 months previously.
Slightly more than one-third of the co.’s
capital was thus represented by surplus
liquid assets.
* ft * *
Manly Gas Co. (N. S. Wales) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1910 .. £3219 10 p.c. = £3195 £24 £3,623
1911 . . 4076 10 „ „ 3816 260 3,883
1912 . . 6350 10 ~ „ 4247 2103 5,986
Assets written up, £8093 .. .. 14,079
Bonus of £9150 (.20 p.c.) distributed 4,929
Reserves disappeared, £3790 .. 1,139
1913 . . 6169 10 p.c. = 5599 570 1,709
1914 .. 6167 10 „ „ 6375 1,501
1915 .. 6481 8 „ „ 5100 1381 2,882
1916 .. 5626 7 „ „ 4462 1164 4,046
1917 . . 5695 6 „ „ 3825 1770 5,816
1918 . . 8337 8 „ „ 5430 2907 8,723
1919 . . 8358 8 „ ~ 5460 2898 11,621
1920 .. 9788 8„ ~ 5460 1 541 12> 162
Written off renewals res., £o/87 j
Twelve months ago the directors reported
that they had decided to build a new retort-
house, including a modern carbonising plant,
and also to construct a new gas-holder to
improve the supply of gas for outlying dis-
tricts. Since, for some time, little addi-
t.onal revenue could be expected to flow in
to off-set interest on the “very large outlay’’
the directors contemplated, the “Wild Cat”
wondered what effect the expenditure on
new works would have on the price of gas.
This co. is “regulated” by the N.S.W. Gas
Act, which practically assures 8 p.c. to
shareholders: at least, when the co. can
satisfy the Court that it cannot earn that
rate it is permitted to increase its prices.
As a result of heavier cost of coal and labor
another successful application to the Court
was made during the period, and 8 p.c. has
been passed out. The directors do not appear
to have speeded-up their construction pro-
gramme ; they now announce that a new
“carbonising unit” is in course of erection,
and that negotiations for the purchase of
a gas-holder have been completed. As a
result the capital outlay has not been so'
large as was expected, though the precise in-
crease in the book value of fixed assets,
after allowing for depreciation, is not ascer-
tainable owing to “investments” having been
parcelled with works, etc., in the 1919 and
previous balance-sheets. No new share capi-
tal was got in ' during the year —it
stands at £68.250 —but borrowed capi-
tal was increased from £21,450 to £23,050.
This comparison shows liow increased pro-
duction and higher prices have affected the
income from sales of gas and residuals,_ and
also shows how exes, (including provision
for depreciation) have advanced: —
Sales. Expenses. Sales. Expenses.
1914. . £18,277 £12,110 1918. . £32,833 £27,296
1915.. 23,192 17,961 1919.. 36,567 31,216
1917.. 28,116 24,320 1920.. 44,866 38,577
After providing for depreciation profits now
represent 14 p.c. of income compared with
33.7 p.c. in 1914. The reserves of £12.162
shown in the introductory table include
£11.133 in a “special purposes and depre-
ciation fund,” from which £3787 was struck
off during the past year. Besides its share


Dalgety U Company
-Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom. WEEK-
END messages are accepted up to midnight
on Saturday for delivery in Great Britain'on
the following Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 /^.(minimum
.. ~ . , ' 1 15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4|d.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILAVARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country •have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery,
it is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. n
* * * *
Ei ery man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * *
When you require a water conduit of proven
dependability specify “Pioneer” Wood Pipe. It is
not affected by electrolysis, frost, acid fumes or
corrosion; its initial cost is low; its maintenance
practically nothing. The carrying capacity of
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe is from 15 to 20 per cent,
greater than that of metal pipe, and that capacity
does not decrease with age. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * * #
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt,
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ » » ,
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• # W «
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Lepla’strier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sidney,— Advt.
* * * *
“Foden” Steam Waggons, the recognised “cham-
pions” of the “transport brigade” during war.
“1921 tipping-body models” just landed in Australia.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals; at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
Airostyle Paint-Spraying Outfit
120 per cent, quicker than brush, and better
for big works.
Get particulars.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Ol YEARS' REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWIGI (EL SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies,
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
2op rF ? oan ca Pital, at Dec. 31 the co. held
r-oi . customers’ deposits, and owed
±-18L besides. The book value of fixed
a ®fcts is now £105,966; other assets were
±oo3o of book debts and £1369 of cash and
” ar Doan. After providing for the final
the co. had an excess of liabilities over
tujuid assets of £2163 apart from the
£23 000 of loan capital. The management
will thus have to seek additional funds to
finance its extensions.
* * * *
Colonial Gas Association, Ltd.—This
co. runs a string of Australian gasworks—at
Albany ( W.A.), Mt. Gambier (S.A.), Sand-
gate (Q.), and at Footscra.v, Bairnsdale, Box
“ill* Oakleigh, Maldon, Horsham, Benalla,
Seymour, Shepparton and Warragul (Vic.).
During the 12 months to June last it sold
-M j million feet of gas, and though its A r ic.
interests were interfered with by a two-
uuuAhs’ strike, disclosed . net profits at
±i 5.908 were slightly better than for the
previous year. The best shareholders have
had over many years has been 7 p.c. p.a.,
and the directors had hoped to make a simi-
lar distribution for the past year. But
owing to tlie exchange difficulty the concern
has not been able to get any of its Australian
surplus within reach of shareholders in Lon-
don, and since in December there was little,
prospect of arranging remittances for some
time to come, the directors decided to recom-
mend a div. of 71 p.c.—to be cut out in an
allotment of 7 p.c. prefs. This suits the co.
much better than if good cash could have
been passed out, for it badly wants new
funds for extensions. At June 30 last it
held only £1297 of cash. Its liquid assets,
including stocks and book debts, totalled
£42,000-odd, and. besides £89,700 of deben-
tures, it owed £26.932.
* * * *
The mostly-English owned Australian
Mercantile Land and Finance Co., Ltd., is
taking over Hill, Clark and Co., the widely-
known Sydney wool and produce concern.
Hill, Clark’s some time ago decided to erect a
modern store on its own account, but the
Sydney City Council objected to the plans,
and as the management considered that im-
possible conditions were being insisted upon
they decided to drop the scheme. Three
directors and principal officers of Hill,
Clark’s go over to the A. M.. L. and F., and
the transfer is to be effected on July 1.
* * * *
Anglo-Persian Oil has made a further
offer to prospect Westralia. The co. does
not commit the State to any outlay, but,
on the other hand, offers to give it an inter-
est (extent not stated) in the event of oil
being struck. Correspondence laid on the
table of Parliament last session showed that
the Anglo-Persian crowd had urged that all
oil rights in the West should be reserved by
the State, and that in the event of this
being done the co. should be given the job
of exploiting them. But the Government
decided that as the rights of those who
already held concessions had to be respected,
it could not entertain the suggestion at
present, anyhow. Subsequently, the Agent-
General cabled that the co., on the advice
of the Admiralty, was willing to look for
oil in the State in return for large mining
concessions similar to those received in other
parts of the world.
Associated Oil Corporation has issued a
prospectus from Mount Gambier (S.A.) and
Sydney asking for £lOO,OOO cash from the
public in £1 shares and giving 50,000 paid-
up £1 shares to vendors and their engineer,
Guy R. Andrew. A rotary plant capable
of boring to 4000 ft. has been secured, but
its cost or the cost of erecting it does
not appear. Mr. Andrew “anticipates being
able to reach a depth of 2000 ft. in from
four to six months. The co. is, therefore,
in a position to start work immediately
upon flotation.” The Corp. holds licenses
from the Mines Department over 50 square
miles. Andrew, according to the prospectus,
the last shred of his professional
reputation that this will prove a wonderful
oilfield.”
* * * *
“Talpa”: “J.L.S.” (B. 10/2/’2l) says of
the Roma bore that there has been “an
enormous waste of casing-liead gasoline
recoverable by .standard methods of strip-
ping.” Well, would “J.L.S.” have installed
a plant costing between £20,000 and
£30,000 to deal with a problematical supply
of gas, or one which might have possessed
fio petrol content? Would that have con-
stituted a “fair run” for the Government
before an experimental plant had tested the
gas? With regard to the geology of the
field, it may be that Jensen is right about his
anticline, but as the nearest exposures are
30 to 40 miles north of Roma, it is hardly
probable that the dip of the beds or the
strike will remain constant in angle or
direction for that distance. The supposed
“terrace” structures are conspicuous by their
absence around Roma, and as there is no
evidence of uncomformability directly under
the petroliferous beds, it is hard to predict
sudden flexures sufficient to make pro-
nounced folds.
The Malayan Government has reduced the
price of tin to £205 per ton, but it does not
intend to sell any of its big holding until
the world’s prices look up. The reduction in
price will mean the elimination of some of
the Chinese output, which furnishes about
10 p.c. of the Malayan output; so the Gov-
ernment’s cash will go a lot further. Pro-
ducers in the Commonwealth, Bolivia, the
Dutch Islands and Siam are meanwhile hard
hit and all have curtailed production. Owing
to the large stocks it is accumulating, Malaya
will be a controlling factor in the tin iharaet
when the demand sets in again.
The second blast furnace at the B. H.
Prop.’s Newcastle steel works closed down
last week, when supplies of iron ore gave
out. The foundry furnace is now the only sec-
tion of the blast furnace dept, at work, and
its capacity is comparatively small. The
reserve of pig-iron is keeping the open hearth
and the various mills going, and the scrap-
yard is being drawn on. But men are being
paid off gradually, and unless the strikes are
called off promptly the big enterprise will
be forced into idleness. Ore-getting at Iron
Knob (S.A.) is still held up owing to the
strike of the co.’s employees.
New White Crystal (N.S.W.) appears to
be casting hungry eyes on the old
co.’s 12-mohths’-old pup, Stackpool’s Cry-
stal, and an energetic proxy hunt has
been proceeding, apparently with a view
to securing Sydney control of the pup as
well as of the parent. It is only about six
months since Sydney got control of the
parent concern, and set out with a bank bal-
ance of over £6OOO to show what model man-
agement and economic administration could
do. Shareholders were told that the extrava-
gant expenses of the previous management
would be cut down, and that there would be
no more calls. No statement has yet been
forthcoming to show what reductions have
been made in the expenses of management,
directors’ fees, travelling expenses, etc.,
which had made White Crystal administra-
tion the costliest on the Ardiethan field.
Nor has anything yet been heard of results
in the crosscut at the No. 3 level.
* * * *
New England (N.S.W.) tin shows are
experiencing a difficult time. Last year,
when tin was well over £3OO, hundreds of
men and scores of dredging and sluicing
plants were turning out profits. Now, with
the Sydney price round 30s. per unit, only
isolated shows are at work. Among the
concerns either idle or about to close down
are the Associated, Buffalo, Butler’s, Bourke’s
Hill. Cope’s Creek Central, Great Britain,
Carrs Creek, Pond’s Creek and l r -Water.
Vegetable Creek is nearing the end of its
days. Associated Extended hopes to keep
at work, while Wellington Vale proposes to
start in the hope that the market will re-
cover at an early date.
* * * *
Associated Extended, Emmaville(N.S.W.)
is one of the few shows still running, but
managing-director J. Whear Roberts told
shareholders the other day that the going was
not easy. The cheerful aspect is that equipment
is now cheaper. The Board proposes to com-
plete the purchase of material for a second
plant at a cost of £l5OO. Supporters were
asked to subscribe for 23,000 shares on
which 2s. 6d. each is to be called up. Boring
on Extended’s new block has proved seven
llft S ° f 71b ’ groUnd for an depth of
m T V ' V A Horton—not to be confused with
I. W. Orton, of Badak fame —is nowadays
so interested in New England (N.S.W.) tin
that he has decided to drop off the Tongkah
Compound and Federation Tin (Tas )
Boards.
* * * #
Kelly Bros, commenced operations on their
property near Wellington (N.S.W.) in mid-
September and have to date crushed 315
tons for 349f0z. gold (fine), the latest fort-
nights run_ giving 50|oz. from 34 tons. There
are about 500 tons ore in sight, estimated as
worth 115 s. To the north of the present
workings a new body, going about 20z., has
been struck, and development is proceeding.
* * * *
Westralian gold-mining divs. last year
aggregated £384,083. Gt. Boulder heading
the list with £131,200, followed by Ivanhoe
£75.000; Sons of Gwalia, £73.125; Golden
Horseshoe, £30,000; Kalgurli, £lB 000-
Associated Northern, £17,500. Oroya Links,’
£14.375 ; Lake View and Star, £lO,OOO ;
South Kalgurli, £9375; Edna May Central
£2958; and Mararoa, £2500. The two last-
named are not likely to earn much, if any-
thing, for shareholders in the future, and
of the remainder the Gt. Boulder, Golden
Horseshoe, Ivanhoe and Sons of Gwalia are,
according to the Chamber of Mines, the only
four that can be worked at a profit under
the latest Arbitration Court award, unless
costs in other directions can be reduced.
* * * *
Last year Westralia produced £374,504
worth of minerals other than gold. Copper
accounted for £25,065; tin. £49,449; silver
mostly contained in Ivalgoorlie ’bullion!
£30.792 ; lead and silver-lead ore, £83,324 • pir
lead, £68,587; coal, £104,665; and miscellan-
eous minerals, £7622. At present only a little
copper mining is being done at Phillips
River and Roebourne, and except for dredg-
ing and delving on a very limited scale at
Greenbushes, the State’s tin-mining industry
is practically at a standstill. At Northamp-
ton a few parties are raising lead ore and
having it smelted at Fremantle, but the pro-
duction of this centre should be very much
greater than it is. Some day a strongly-
financed c-o. will come along and obtain out-
puts that will astonish the lead industrv.
“Some difficulty has been experienced,”
says the latest half-yearly report of Paris
Gold Mines, “in following the lode down, but
now prospects are very encouraging.” A
Bulletin man was on this co.’s Westralian
leases a few months ago, and after a good
look round came to the conclusion that it
would be better for the co. to distribute the
money in hand among shareholders than
fritter it away in trying to find a payable
mine where one does not appear to exist.
* * * *
Bendigo A 1 (Vic.), having sunk £26,000
in development work and £6200 in plant,
etc., on the New Moon and North Argus
areas, is wearied of the iob. The co. has
been digging down from 1043 ft. to 1241 ft.
in the New Moon mine, through spurry
country, but the gold is patchy, and so the
Money Millers’ verdict is that it is impos-
sible to anticipate available tonnage of pay-
able stone. North Argus did not give even
a pay patch, and so is shut down. With
17,246 forfeited shares in hand, the Board
has made up its mind to follow suit at the
New Moon directly the grade fails to covey
costs. Developments at the Neangar shaft
have been deplorable, and it. too, has been
scrapped. All this means that Bendigo
Al is hanging on to existence by the slen-
derest of threads. It has £2342 of cash
in hand, and owes, £297 to sundry creditors
in addition to a Government advance of
£10.350.
* * * *
Quite another picture is provided by the
A.I. at Gaffney’s Creek. There the ore goes
well over the oz. mark, and not onlv has a
2s. 6d. bonus been forthcoming, but £5OOO
has been diverted to build up a cash reserve
of over £lO,OOO. A handy div. of £6364, paid
by the Gold Producers’ Association, helped
this reserve. John Till’s view of the mine
is that its future prospects are better than
they have been for years, and Till knows
mining in the mountains from surface to
sample. He is now working overhead at
Nos. 6 and 7 levels to try to link up the
quartz floors that gave him good gold at
No. 5. Success means a lot, as it will
smash the tradition that the big Wood’s
Point dyke formations cannot carry gold at
e v e n 1000ft.’ to say nothing of the ground
at 1300 ft., where he is now experimenting.
At the Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.),
the Money Millers point out proudly that
after five years and £BO.OOO of call's the
mine is self-supporting. Prospects are based
oon? S^en(^ei ' 1814 oz. having been got from
2850 tons. Morning Star was such a dazzler
in early pioneer days that the market is on
the quiver. Still it should demand a lot
more than words and a crushing or two to
. ave <AA ares at s * Forrester’s report about
the 400 ft. level fails to tell of shoots of any
size, but at 600 ft. one of the floors run's
from 4ft. to 7ft. thick and is worth from
20s. to 80. per ton. Now the shaft is to be
hustled down to 700 ft. to see if the quartz
ar )d gold live to that depth. If so, there
will be far more justification for putting up
another 10-head of stamps than stone now
in sight warrants.
* * * *
Another approaching float is the Brisbane
Silver Mines, Ltd., the promoters of which
lately secured Moorhouse’s silver-lead lease
at Indooroopilly privately, and paid £5215
at a recent auction for White’s lease, which
adjoins the former, towards the dip of the
lode. Ten men are at present working in
the Moorhouse ground at the 70ft. level, and
an underlie shaft is being sunk from it in
a schist formation carrying veins of galena
and fmr silver values. A small shipment
of high-grade ore sent south lately went
90oz. silver and 65 p.c. lead, but freight
and treatment works out at a ruinous cost
for all but the highest grade. The small
man has been practically squeezed out, and
thr f acos ” . the Indooroopilly. Finney’s
Will and the Brisbane, will almost certainly
be forced into amalgamation later on, when
the inevitable decrease in values in deeper
ground comes along, to combine and put up
a treatment plant on the spot. Present
arrangements may be all right while rich
oxidised ore is being won, but the pinch will
come later. Finney’s Hill sent away 102
tons of firsts for the last quarter of 1920
the average being 70oz. silver and 49 pc’
ead. During January 48 tons were shipped,
but returns are not yet available.
* * *
The. low price of tin has slowed down
operations at Irvinebank (N.Q.), and the
Btate smelter has closed down temporarily
Most of the miners are stacking their ore
and waiting for a jump in the market, as
70 p.c. tin concentrates are worth only £BO
to xoo on the northern fields at present. All
that is being* done at the State works just
now is grading of ore, though the battery is
clushing to provide concentrates. If prices
do not improve shortly even this work must
stop.
* * *
Efforts are beimr made to raise capital to
work the leases adjoining Clark's gold-mine.
Charters Towers, towards the dip of the
!• e ' l rk s , had u run of 2oz. stone
f 1 ® 400 ft. down to its bottom level at
900 ft.. though the reef was never large.
It would take a shaft about 1100 ft. to reach
the lode in this ground, which at the surface
was worked considerably on the Peabodv,
Alabama and North Australian reefs. Tlie
latter, was the first reef picked up on the
held by Hugh Mosman and George Clark,
the discoverers, in 1871.
* * *
Anakie sapphire field (Q.) is about the
only mineral field in the northern State
that is booming at present, consequent on
the operations of the State Government’s
official buyer, who has been busy for the
past four weeks. While returns for
December were under £3OOO, the first
week’s buying in January under the new
arrangements disposed of blue stones valued
at iobOO. of which the miners’ share on the
spot was over £4OOO. They get a dividend
later, when the expenses of buving, grading
and marketing have been met. The last two
weeks’ buying brought another £lO,OOO to
the miners, and the first month’s clean-up
will probably be worth nearly £25,000,
which is a big jump from the £3OOO in
December.


AGE
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
HIS sad old voice is like the sea,
Low murmuring long-forgotten things,
And he is bent as a lone tree
Where the snow clings.
The life that once so hotly burned,
Leaping and glowing through his frame*
Little by little has returned
Whence erst it came,
Till there is left but one weak spark
That fluttering flickers, high and low—*
Soon that will die into the dark,
And he must go.
And he is old and frail and sad,
Save when he dreams before the fire
That he is once again the lad
No toil could tire.
For half in sleep and half in dreams
The last days of his life are flying—
But to the little ones he seems
So long a-dying!
Victoria.
SYD. C.


7
Ff
min i mu mi mi in i ii mYi
111111111111 ii m 111 it 11 ii i it
off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
Uhe Boor
Without a Rival"
BREWED FROM PURE MALT&HOPS ONLY
■4OOO
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE C 0„ Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.'
DUCK
CARTRIDGES
Fresh Loaded.
“Blue Seal,” smokeless. Chilled shot,
22/- 100.
“Kilos,” smokeless. Chilled shot, 23/- 100.
“Infallible,” dense smokeless. Gas-tight
cases. Chilled shot, 24/- 100.'
“A.P.” “Special,” deep brass. Smokeless.
Gas-tight eases. Chilled shot, 26 /- 100.
‘lAmberite,” “Du Pont,” “Ballis-
tite,” “Smokeless,” 24/- 100.
2% Match Cartridges, 30/- 100.
A reduction of 6d. per 100 on all orders of 500.
2^ice
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Frank Madden glided out at the week-
end. He was Speaker of the Yic. Assembly
for 13 years, and had held the position
longer than any of his 10 predecessors, except
Fjancis Murphy, whose tenure lasted foi-
ls years. Before he beat Beazley for the
Speakership, Frank had been an Assembly-
man for a decade. His brother John was
Minister for Justice under both McCulloch
and Service, and the. other brother Walter
(still on deck) was Minister for Lands
under Bryan O’Loghlen, but Frank never
attained Ministerial office. He was one of
the five members who brought about the
settlement of the railway strike in 1903
when Irvine was Premier, and was the only
surviving ex-Speaker when Edward P. visited
State Parliament House last year. Teddy
gave the veteran two smiles —one for him-
self and one in memory of his dead brother
Jack.
An old Melbourne resident whose name
had always received more attention in the
commercial world than his personality, was
Thomas William Lincoln, aged 84 when he
passed out last week. Years ago he was
partner in the firm of Mclvor and Lincoln,
tailors and haberdashers. Big, burly Mclvor
overshadowed his partner, but when Mac
died some 30 years back or more, and Frank
Stuart took command of the business, it was
thought advisable to shift the second half
of the firm’s name to the front and call it
Lincoln a n d
Stuart. Then
Frank Stuart, the
genial man o f
public affairs, was
gathered to his
fathers and his son
reigned in his
stead, and the big
concern was con-
verted into Lin-
coln, Stuart Pty.,
Ltd., old-man Lin-
coln being quite
out of it. His son
Willie Lincoln
tried h ; s hand at
Australian drama-
writing, and was
perhaps the
earliest Australian
author of a film-
story when he got
going in the new
business of moving
pictures.
A memory of the
late FRANK
MADDEN as
Speaker of the
Vic. Legislative
Assembly.
“J.R.D.”: Frederic Barker, one-time
Bishop of Sydney, was an offshoot of the
Arundel peerage, and like his namesake of
Ipswich (Q.) was near the sevpn-foot mark.
He was not quite as tall as Ipswich Dick,
who was no relation, but I once saw him
in Sydney alongside Chang, the Chinese
giant, and he put up a good showing for
the Cold Country. The Bishop induced a
lot of relatives and about half a million
of British money to migrate to Australia.
On the maternal side he was descended from
Bradshaw, who helped Cromwell to remove
Charles the First.
Ireland and Queensland divided the affec-
tions of De Burgh Persse, who died at South-
port (Q.) last week. Member of an old
Galway family, he graduated at Trinity Col-
lege, and tried medicine and the Army before
emigrating in ISG3. Seven years later he
returned home and married, having made
money as a pastoralist, and in later times he
paid four more visits to Ireland, staying
years on each occasion. Between whiles the
industrious Irishman was M.L.A. for Fassi-
fern (1875-82), chairman of directors of
Q.M.E. Co., which he helped to found, and
a director of several other companies. He
was also a member of the Q.T.C. committee
' and an enthusiastic huntsman, having been
master of the Galway Blazers during one of
his sojourns in the country of his ancestors.
• If Roderick Mclver,. who has been pro-
moted from clerk of courts to be Vic.
Inspector-General of Prisons, does as well
in his new job as his younger brother, Will,
Secretary of Lands and Chairman of the
('loser Settlement Board, has done at the
Lands Department, he'will deserve well of
his country. Seventeen years ago Bill was
a fifth-class clerk. But he studied hard and
passed all sorts of exams., and now he is a
permanent head at £l2OO a year. Roderick
is 55, but he isn’t too old to take down from
the shelf Bowser’s Act requiring convicts to
do ‘ some real work in prison for the main-
tenance of themselves and their dependants
outside. Callawa’v managed to do some fine
work as Acting Inspector-General when he
was between 55 and 60.
The appointment of Gordon Hewart, K.C.,
to the Lord Chief Justiceship of England
forms one of the romances of Fleet-street
journalism. Gordon Hewart won a scholar-
ship at Oxford from the Manchester Gram-
mar School. Leaving the University, he
became a leader-writer on the London Stab
and Mobning Leadeb. Called to the Bar in
1902, he made his name in the famous Arte-
mus Jones libel action against the Man-
chester Sunday Chbonicle, when he
obtained £l7OO damages for his client, and
argued the case (though not a K.O. at the
time) in the Appeal Court and in the House
of Lords. He refused the Home Secretary-
ship in 1916 and the Irish Secretaryship
last year. Although he served as Solicitor-
General and Attorney-General in the Lloyd
George Government, he never had much use
for the littL Welshman or Winston Churchill,
whom he scathingly denounced' as a “poli-
tical mountebank.” Gordon" Hewart will
probably take the title of Lord Hewart, of
Leicester, for which constituency he has sat
since the beginning of his Parliamentary
career. A brother lives in Victoria, and is a
Bulletin contributor.
“Veronal”: Years ago Peter Mitchell and
the writer discussed the Australian poets.
Peter’s favorites were then Barcroft Boake
and, being a horse-lover, Paterson. I had
not then read Boake, but later on a volume
of bis verses came to hand labelled “From
Bringenbrong to ‘Veronal.’ ” Peter’s father.
James Mitchell, was a tall man of the Tyson
build, with keen, grey eyes—cool and cold
as an iceberg, trusty as steel, and seemingly
as hard. Peter was a replica minus the
(apparent) hardness.
“Nemo” : The early life of the late Harry
Wollaston (B. 15/2/’2l) was crowded with
religious associations. In 1854 Dr. Wol-
laston, his father, removed from Westralia
to Maorilahd, where he abandoned the cur-
ing of bodies and took to the curing of souls.
He was ordained by Bishop Selwyn, after-
wards Bishop of Lichfield. Young Wollas-
ton got his schooling at St. John’s College
in Selwyu’s diocese; his tutors were men.
afterwards well known as Bishop Abraham,
Archdeacon Harper and Bishop Pattisom
Maori and South Sea Island boys were edu-
cated in St. John’s. One of Harry’s fellow-
scholars was Joseph Atkins, afterwards
ordained by Bishop Pattison. and murdered
with the Bishop by South Sea Islanders.
A month ago the Westralian Labor party
looked to having a. fair-to-middling chance
of winning the Swan seat with a V.C. can-
didate. But the recurrence of a way injury
sent Lieutenant Larry s McCarthy (he has
the D.C.M. and the French Croix de Guerre
as well as the V.C.) back to hospital for
surgical treatment, and the Nationalist and
Cocky candidates will have the field to them-
selves.
■ “Hawk”: The passing last week of “Busy
Bee,” as his photographic assistants, 50 years
ago, called Barcroft C. Boake, recalls memo-
ries of that man of grim silences and quaint
humor. His financial boom came with his
tenancy of the gallery over Jones’s jeweller’s
shop in George-street, Sydney. He migrated
and struck bad luck, a lease of a studio in a
new arcade being specially unfortunate. His
landlord giving no release 8.C.8. made the
arcade an inferno of horrible sounds by play-
ing the cornet. To the indignant remonstrances
of the other tenants he replied : "As I have
nothing else to do I am learning to blow my
own trumpet.” The lease was promptly c-’u-
celled. Living at Peacock’s Point it was his
fad, to the dismay of neighbors, to make his
dogs howl at midnight. This cult of the weird
in the father may have parented the tragic
gloom in the poet son. Working in the
studio for 12 months with 8.C.8. I never
heard 12 words from him. I have known no
one so well and so little.
H. R. Fenton, dead at Glenelg (S.A.) at
77, was a nephew of the famous General
Gordon. In private life —he was a Govern-
ment official —he had a passion for heraldry,
and was easily the highest authority in
South Aus. on the unicorn rampant and the
griffin improper. To the depicting of these
ancient emblems, Fenton brought a sense of
both line and color which might have earned
him fame if devoted to some more live sub-
ject.
W. P. Heathershaw is almost certain to
be the new chief clerk of the Vic Chief
Sec.’s Department. He was on probation
for a year or more as Treasury accountant,
but was not happy there, and returned to
his old second-class clerical job at the Chief
Sec.’s. He is son of a parson, and brother
of Syd, who was Acting-Police Chief between
the death of George Stewart and the appoint-
ment of John Gellibrand.
From an old memoir-writer
At one time or other, Frank Madden had made
himself disliked in Melbourne, and there was always
a feeling that he owed his standing as Speaker in
the Vic. Leg. Assembly to the popularity of his
brother John, the fortunate Chief Justice. Long
ago burly Frank uttered some atrociously “upper
classy” remarks re the morals of working girls,
remarks which offended everybody save his hard-
shell Tory friends in the House. He was Ihe earli-
est champion of the bookmakers when Jack Murray,
afterwards Premier, was an unregenerate advocate
of the totalisator. Madden was almost the typical
fat man of the cartoonists. Plainer in face and
coarser in figure than brother John, he lacked the
urbanity of that well-groomed identity. Yet he
was not a bad sort, as such sbrts go, and he had
at least one amiable weakness. He loved to see his
long-winded reminiscences of lacing published in one
of the bulky Melbourne weeklies.
NOT WHAT SHE MEANT.
NICE GIRL ( entertaining nervous johnnie on
the eve of his departure for Europe) :
“When are you going ‘Home'?”
NERVOUS JOHNNY: “Oh, I say—u m—let me
see — oh, about half-past ten, I expect”
“Jeames”: Lady Rose Weigall, who died
last week, was the typical grande dame and
village benefactress of the mid-Victorian
period. Southwood House, where she lived
with her artist husband, is on the outskirts
of Ramsgate, a thriving seaside town of the
Manly Beach sort, which offers few oppor-
tunities for social work amongst the respect-
ful poor. She fell back accordingly, year
after year, on the London Boys’ Brigade.
The members are impoverished lads who
are taken in during their summer training
bv charitable folks, and when they came to
Ramsgate they camped on the Weigalls’
private cricket ground. Several relations
of hers who are not Weigalls are well known
in Australia. Freddy Fane, the Test
cricketer of a dozen years ago or more, is a
nephew, and Lord Loughborough’s aunt mar-
ried Lad l7 Rose’s nephew, the 13th Earl of
Westmoreland.
“124”: It happened during the heat of
the Armstrong controversy. A Federal M.P.
with a fine sense of publicity was “gather-
ing the roses” of notice at a public meeting.
He began thundering against the Vic. selec-
tors. “What do they know about cricket?”
he shouted. “What does ——- know? Or
? Does even know the names of
the players?” His colleagues on the plat-
form shuffled their feet, coughed, and upset
a tumbler—but the orator continued to
scarify , and , and . At last
he stopped and got down to the calmer word-
ing of his resolution; and a seconder fol-
lowed on milder lines, but. carefully naming
the three culprits. The mover had poured
the vials of his wrath upon the wrong trio.
C. J. McKenna, who, as a sub-officer, broke
the back of gold-stealing at Bendigo when
it had reached the dimensions of a scandal,
is retiring from the Police Force after attain-
ing the rank
of superintendent.
The Murray Gov-
ernment gave him
a lift in the ser-
vice for his special
work, and that
made climbing to
the top easier.
Whether it is due
to the falling off in
the yield, the pro-
motion of Mc-
Kenna, relaxation
of vigilance, fear
of gaol, a tidal
wave of honesty
or something else,
little is heard in
Victoria nowadays
o f gold-pilfering.
Major and petty
thefts, however,
are common enough
on the wharves
and on the rail-
ways.
W. A. CALLA-
WAY, for many
years Under-Sec.
to the Vic. Chief
Sec.’s Department.
William Lathlain, Mayor of Perth (W.A.),
was in Sydney last week. Pending the re-
building of the old premises on Slien.ton’s
corner, which went up in smoke last month,
he has converted Perth’s largest concert hall
into a department store, but that was only
part of the business that brought him from
the Indian Ocean to the Pacific. The Perth
Council has 4000 acres of endowment land
between the city and the ocean beach, which
is only four miles away. The Government,
which owns the tramways, has authorised a
beach extension, and the building of a garden
suburb on modern town-planning lines is pro-
jected. It is a scheme that Lathlain has set
his heart on, and it was largely in the hope of
interesting the financial institutions in it that
he rushed across the continent.
From an old newspaper man:—
, Stinie .Morrison, who died in gaol while serving
a life sentence for murdering Leon Beron on Clap-
ham Common, London, claimed to have spent some
years in Australia. A pressman who could talk Yiddish
was largely responsible for tracking him down. The
man of ink located the Whitechapel restaurant fre-
quented by the murdered man and discovered that on
the night of the murder Beron was seen to leave in
the company of a tall dark stranger. A lad confessed
that he had accompanied the same man on various
burglarious expeditions and conducted the pressman
to Morrison’s previous lodging, on which a - watch
was set by the police. A week after the murder
Morrison returned to his old haunt and stumbled into
the arms of the waiting “demons.”
“Wealsman”: Tas. Forest Conservator
Irby, on whose recommendation the Speck
Government has inaugurated the first defi-
nite timber-policy which the island has ever
possessed, is not too engrossed in logarithmic
calculations among the sawdust of his pro-
fession to deny himself an occasional joy-
flight into the realms of fiction. At any
rate, he is the alleged perpetrator, under
the leafy disguise of “Sylvanus,” of one of
the most readable boy-convict stories extant.
The book, “Alan Dale,” published in the
Boy Library series by the R.T.S., London,
deals Avith the adventures of two Point Puer
boys who left the prison hell of Vandemonia
as assigned servants to a Iluon settler, and
fled to the unknown dangers of the
Hartz mountains. The story goes at a fine
gallop from start to finish. It kept my own
hopeful’s eyes ashine till a late bedtime, and
caused him to awake the dreaming family
with a yell of exultation at 4 a.m.—he
explained that he had butted a cruel warder
in the "stomach and toppled him over Suicide
Rock into the boiling sea.
E. A. Southee has hung his coat up at
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) Agricultural College,
on H. W. Potts’s old peg. A native of
Cootamundra, and still only 31, Southee was
a Sydney High School boy before he took his
satchel to Sydney llni., and went to Oxford
as N. S. Wales Rhodes scholar in 1913.
When the war came, Southee got into khaki
with the 23rd Divisional Train, 8.E.F., and
saw it out till the Armistice. Then the
indefatigable young man graduated M.A. at
Oxford in 1919, and was doing research work
at Cornell (U.S.A.) when he heard of the
Hawkesbury vacancy and cabled for it. At
Oxford, as well as Sydney. Southee got his'
blue for football and athletics, and he won
the Australasian broad jump at Wellington
(M.L.), with 22ft. l|in.
MARKHAM’S LOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Markham has no need to work,
[laving wealth to buy him ease—
Lachlan lands and lands at Bourke,
Town and station properties.
Friends of mine—big, robust men—
Talk of Markham’s stocks and shares,
Mines and other wealth, and then
Wish that Markham’s lot was theirs.
How they’d fling the coin about, r
Lead the world a joyous dance,
Put the ills of life to rout —
If they had but Markham’s chance!
Lying back in gilded cars,
How they’d smile on luckless folk !
How they’d feast, and what cigars,
Lounging on their couches, smoke!
Tread they would as light as air,
Toiling not and sweating not,
Free of sordid fret and care—•
If Markham’s lot were but their lot. *
Yet, if each man had his wish,
Having it —would he desire
Empty wine-cup, empty dish,
Eyes unsleeping, blood on Are ?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


■lniisfeSStl
vm
m
1
Your Austral Suit for
Easter —Order Early
EASTER is one of the two great holiday times. It
is natural for a man to want the first wear of his
new suit during the Carnival period.
This concentrates a large volume of business on the
three or four weeks before Easter. It is most advisable,
therefore, to place your order for an ‘‘ Austral” Suit as
early as possible.
You will, thereby, assist us to expend the full measure
of care and attention to insure the maximum of style,
cut, workmanship and finish, which are the outstanding
features of all “Austral” Suits.
Austral Sac Suits
To Measure, of All-Wool Australian
Tweeds and Worsteds, in Grey, Brown
and Blue Checks and Stripes.
£6H-.
£9191-,
£6/1 5|-,
£lOllOl-,
£7|ls|
£ll/11
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns,
together with tape-measure and forms for self-measure-
ment, free on request.
Orders Delivered Free in City, Suburbs and Country.
(SOWING BR“ L T S
486-494 GEORGE STREET; 1-17 ROYAL ARCADE
(Opposite Queen Victoria Building);
Branch Store at 304-306 GEORGE STREET
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


£9
Li
Another Peapes Style
for Summer Wear,
So popular has the Mohair Suit, introduced last week by
Peapes’, proved, that this week brings another design in
the same reliable material.
Mohair of a handsome mottled brown shade has been
utilised in this smart spores style.
It is as light as any washing suit, yet needs no laundering
and will give the most satisfactory service.
Coat has 3-button front, 4 outside patch pockets, 4-belt
and pleated back with vent.
Trousers have side, hip and fob pockets, and permanent
turn-up bottoms.
An ideal suit for informal wear; of exceptional value at
90/-
Peapes’ pay postage.
I lease state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
KEEPS YOU FIT.
So soon as the system is upset
by stomach or liver trouble
the desire for exercise is lost.
A clean body internally is the
one assurance of physical and
mental health. Keeping the
system clean is the simple,
valuable duty of Sal Hepatica.
it is superior to other medi-
cines, because it is so
pleasant to take. Sal Hepatica
is sold by chemists every-
where. Price, 2/-, 4/-.
sal_hepatica
‘P/cmsant to tafie.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
HER AILMENT,
“Half a dozen doctors have given Mabel
up!"
"Really! What is the matter with her?”
“Elie simply wouldn’t pay their bills.”
“Naming”: The little French shop dis-
plays much intimate feminine apparel, but
nothing is debauched by contact with the
rude price label of retail trade. A young
thing of my acquaintance was captivated
by a blouse exhibited in the window, and
asked the price of it. It was taken out for
her inspection, and a languid assistant mur-
mured “Naine guineas.” She regretted she
couldn’t afford it. “Oh, dear, don’t let that
trouble you.” advised the other. “Just
come back at 6'o’clock and we’ll have a man
here who’ll buy it for you.”
“F.11.A.”: “Can’t take that, sir. It’s
foreign money,” said a London barmaid as I
slipped over a two-bob piece with the Aus-
tralian coat-of-arms on the back. “Try the
post office or the bank.” The post office did
not want any “foreign” money. “Oh, yes,” the
postmaster agreed, “Australian money was
good during the war. But the war’s over
now, don’t you know.” I left it under my
plate at a restaurant and headed direct for
the steamship office.
* * * *
“0.K.” : Melbourne’s fear that the brothers
Pierce would escape any sort of penalty for
the fatal shooting of David Davidson was
set at rest last week by a verdict of man-
slaughter against the ill-conditioned young
ruffians. The Judge sent them up for 12
years’ and six years’ hard labor respectively,
which is a more judicial outcome of their
alarming crime than hanging would have
been. All the same, their sentence is neces-
sarily a crime against commonsense. Penal
servitude under existing conditions is an ab-
surdity. The Pierces will be only compul-
sory workers, not compulsory servants of
the society they wronged. Prison labor
makes practically no reparation to the com-
munity. Next to putting a rope round a
man’s neck and removing the floor from
under him, the verv worst thing the law
can do is to make a non-productive convict
of him, for a term, and then let his criminal
instincts loose upon the world again.
“Ex-Dig”: The return to the line after
the first absence was always one of the
worst experiences of men at the Front. The
first visit had its fears relieved by some
curiosity, and, possibly, some dream of
glory; coming back the seasoned soldier
knew the interminable drudgery and drab-
ness to which he was returning from his
gay leave—knew also that in all probability
he would have to stay in the drabness un-
less he got “knocked.” But there was some-
thing even beyond that to put the wind up
the returning man. Somehow a grim fata-
lity attached to the first return. I could
make out a long list of men who, going back
to their units after a first absence —many of
them carrying their pips into the line for
the first time —went out within a week. One
Digger I remember fell in. a shell-hole on
his way in. badly cutting his hand. He
grinned delightedly as he showed his mate
the injury, but was reminded that it was
a little thing which would only keep him
out of the line for a week at the outside.
“Never mind!” he said, “it’s my second
time in. and if a man lasts over that his
chance is good.” But the poor devil’s luck
was out. Going in with his platoon a couple
of weeks later he stopped one for keeps.
“Fax”: Giving evidence at Westminster
(Lon.) Licensing Court in favor of a license
for kosher wine, a Jewish minister declared
that teetotalism was never advocated by his
co-religionists. He had never heard of a
Moses being drunk, or of a blue-ribbon
society in connection with the Synagogue.
The reverend man might have added that the
prosperity of the sons
of Israel was largely
based on the abuse of
alcohol by Christian
clients and cus-
tomers. Pawnbroking,
for instance, has its
social roots in in-
sobriety, and nobody
ever heard of a Recha-
bite dukeling or tee-
total younger son get-
ting into the hands of
the Jews. Ikey on
the racecourse could
not grow rich quick at
the expense of total
abstainers only. His
shortest odds are
distributed among
punters who have
mostly inflamed their
hopes with derrink.
In all lines of com-
merce and speculation
spirituous liquor is a
staunch ally of the
strictly temperate, therefore sobriety is the
badge of all Shylock’s tribe. Shakspeare
missed, a point when he forgot to represent
Antonia as having had a glass before he
signed the bond.
“Callan Park”:—
Eternally true is it that “a fellow feeling’ makes
us wondrous kind.” I was reminded of the old saw
while sitting in the Hotel Blank the other day,
having tea, coffee drinks and cocktails with a few
leisured friends. A naval officer rushed in with the
hot eyes and eager voice of a despatch-rider in
action. “The unemployed!” he gasped. “Nine
abreast! Ten abreast! Pushing people off the side-
walks ! Dreadful! Awful!” Stout Mrs. Hazell-Prot
sighed deeply, swallowed a quantity of tea, and then
said: “They should all be shot. Fired at with
machine-guns. Yes, all of them. More tea, waiter.”
Her brother inquired, with the irrelevance of inso-
briety, who was winning the Test, and with the arrival
of another round of Martinis the plodding demonstra-
tors and their preposterous leader were forgotten.
By all, that is to say, but myself. Looking
round the vast hall with its teeming medley of
drunks, semi-drunks, bookmakers, guns, Jews, tour-
ists, Yanks, painted ladies, painted gentlemen and
languid suburbanites, I puzzled and puzzled as to
why the work-pursuers should be interfering with
busy people who asked no other right than to be
allowed to use the pavements in pursuit of their
callings. Why did not the Macquarie-street unem-
ployed push their way in amongst the Hotel Blank
unemployed and push the latter off their cocktails ?
What an advertisement for direct action! How
simple in the doing and how gratifying when done!
It was at this stage that I remembered the Shaks-
pearean axiom above-quoted: also the rule “Dog does
not eat dog,” and a nigger ballad of some 20 years
ago, which began:—
Never act unkindly to a loafer,
You may want to loaf yourself one day.
REDUCED TO THE BAREST
NECESSARIES.
"There goes Mrs. Speedy. They say every penny her husband makes she puts on her
back.”
“ H'm, poor beggar! Must have been out of work lately.”
“Dido” : Chumm was given the privilege of
sleeping on the small side balcony at his new
suburban board and residence, and thought
he was going to be very comfortable there,
till the third night, when his sleep was
interrupted for hours by conversation carried
to excess just below beyond the fence
separating the house from a vacant lot,
brown with deep dry grass and brambles.
When he could really bear it ho longer.
Chumm drew a bath-gown over his pyjamas
and went down to suspend the conversazione
sine die. When he hung over the fence he
could discover only one conversationalist, a
woman in a kim., sitting on the grass with
her back to the palings, and talking aloud.
She was discussing the ordinary events and
ailments of the day. and explaining the
quaint ways of baby. “My good woman,” said
Chumm, “whatever are you doing there?
You won’t let me sleep. Do go home. There
now, like a good woman, get up and go
home.” But the woman, who seemed to be
afflicted with a fit or ailment the chief
symptom of which was irresistible and in-
ordinate converse, did not budge. “Please,
please,” cried Chumm, “you must go home.
Go home at once.” Then came a harsh male
voice from the window across the lot. “No,
she d —n well won’t go home, neither. Go
home yourself. Do you think you are the
only man on earth who wants sleep?”
Obviously it was the sound of a husband
Chumm sleeps indoors now.
“Whitehall” sounds a warning:—
Sydney has been spawning new clubs in the last
few years, and disaster is bound to overtake many
of them. London, the originator and natural home
of clubs, has only about a hundred of recognised
stability; and some of them have been doing very
moderately of late, while others have failed alto
gether. Nothing wanes and waxes more abruptly and
mysteriously than the prosperity of a big club. It
was a Bourbon who told Lady Blessington in the
middle of last century that he would rather be
elected to White’s than gain the throne of France.
Making all allowances for the fact that men of
fashion drank deep and talked lively in their cups
in those days, it remains obvious that the ex-
gaming hell was a considerable place. By the
’eighties it was hard up, and at the beginning of
this century all sorts of doubtful persons, socially,
had to be taken in to keep it going. The Raleigh,
which was full of raffish squires and moneyed city
men, seemed founded on a rock. Yet it burst, and so
did several apparently affluent places founded under
the inspiration of Edward Vll.—notably the Amphy-
trion, where he often dined.
The killer, so far as Sydney clubs are concerned,
is the climate; and unlike the week-end habit, which
has had such a deadly effect on the London clubs,
the local climate is a static menace. It will always
drive people out of the city and into the open so
long as the requisite means of transit exists. The
effect is to make even the leading clubs—the
Union, Australian and N. S. Wales—little more
than luncheon resorts. While they had things to
themselves they did well enough, even on this basis
—and before the advent of the motor-car business
was, of course, still better. But latterly the com-
petition has become tremendous, not to say absurd.
There is a University Club, which satisfies many
who might have joined one of the others- ail
Imperial Service Club for A.I.F. officers (and 'inci-
dentally an opposition affair is being talked about for
the excluded other ranks, who were often richer
than their officers) ; a Catholic Club and a bag-
man’s club, a city-man’s club and a pressman’s club
Also Sydney possesses, in the Millions Club, a resort
for social lion-hunters, and this week it is to achieve
a Nationalist Club. It is understandable that sol-
diers or old University friends should like sometimes
to come together. But who on earth wants to meet
a man because he is a Nationalist? Who would hot
rather flee sUch ft nuisftnee as he would an obses-
sionist of the other political camp like Mr. Walsh or
Mr. Garden?
The melanchod.y fate of the Athenaeum, which boii-
tained a few interesting people (corresponding to
Hughes, Holman and one or two others in the
Nationalist Club) but a tremendous preponderance
of wooden bores, should serve as a permanent warning
to optimistic club promoters. Sydney is a place in
which about two-thirds of the well-to-do people
spend much of their time avoiding the other third—
and it is the latter section that hangs round clubs.
It is a city of open spaces served by speedy train,
tram and boat connections. And the market for
domestics —whose work is in itself enough to make
or mar a club —grows daily more limited. If I had
a large sum of money to invest I would far rather
put in in the lump on some honest horse than into
any club.
“A.J.”: At Gallipoli sill ranks met in the
water, quite bare of distinguishing badges.
One lad dived and came up with his nose
almost touching the bulging waist of our
SEASONABLE.
THE HEATED ONE: “Phew! It’s one hun-
dred and ten now.”
THE SPORT: “Good Heavens, how many did
Armstrong make?”
Major. lie gazed for a moment, then tapped
thoughtfully on the most prominent part,
saying cheerfully: “By gad, my boy, you’ve
been among the biscuits!” The Major led
the guffaw.
“Murkah” : In the use of the term “blank,”
inflection is everything. A father and son
1 ought side by side on the Western Front.
A chunk of h.e. got the father and the son
stood over the shattered body. “The poor old
‘blank’,” he sighed. Pity, sorrow, anger and
filial affection in the one opprobrious word.
(Continued on page 18.)
TO PHILLIS: ON THE ETHICS OF UNCLOTHED-
NESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some of the young women going from Sydney to the
Manly Carnival changed their costumes in the saloon.
They were practically naked to the waist and disgust
was expressed by their fellow-passengers. ‘The young
devils,’ said one gentleman. ‘Unclothing themselves
like that! It isn’t fair.’ ” —Archbishop Kelly to S. M.
Hkuald interviewer.
My Phillis, if it chances that again
You deck yourself en route to Manly Beach,
Pray, as you love your Corydon, refrain
Prom flinging off whatever is in reach.
I may not enter into details. You
Will know the sort of things with ribbons blue
At which I hint.... In sportsmanship’s dear name
Keep on, keep on your and Play the Game.
When Bradley’s looms upon the weather bow
And lingerie waves free in the saloon,
Omit, my own, to show those present how
You looked so often on our honeymoon.
JEsthetically none could criticise —
Your perfect form sour jealousy defies:
But sporting form must be considered too.
Be fair ! Retain your I teg of you.
Remember, Phillis, ’tis but joy postponed
(If joy there be in stripping to the waist).
So. why let sporting feeling be dethroned
By reckless and inequitable haste?
This craze for going round half-naked may
In its right place, be sated any day,
With almost total freedom from restraint*
And not the slightest danger of complaint.
Upon the ocean beach you may take off
As much as any girl might wish to shed ;
But on the harbor side you must not doff
Those garments by convention hallowed.
Nudity at the Corso’s western end
None can on fair and sporting grounds defend.
However, ha 1 f a mile the other way
You may go minus —— and all day.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


HIGHEST DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHONOGRAPH*
■ll
Kill*
■
m
m
fit
1
- s
iisiiiiwiii
*
llii
i "®***“* , *»A>*fc
141*1
s** $
pg| z' 4
V'H
■
fc* i£S
# :< K -'fid
' '1!..-::-
.
K:% *
-!
■
. ,1- 4 :;:
«r* ;t
- K.'"^
f JfcJ
Uw
■
i
m
'*»» T>
» ’
gpjlll
s IliM ; - ■
%rm
i&, vv *' « U \0 % m& - 'A' / '
i^^l^lliSWlil
i. :.: .■.?■:■■■■■■
■i^*il»ii»®iiiisiiiliiiiliiiP*»
- : * ms- n i
i i
i
/
%
• ~ :
*** £'■• '- '■'■*.? « ■” 4
> tb, - * /-* «.i
»# # 4Fr si fi4g '* i^.v
n
ii-
IN richness and musical depth, in delicacy and
clearness of tone, the VOC ALI ON is supreme.
In the VOCALION you have not only the advan-
tage of listening to the instrument as a regular phono-
graph, but in addition you may control the expression
by means of the wonderful GRADUOLA. With
this fascinating device, you may put your own feeling
into every record you play.
SOLE MAKERS
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
and at 252 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE 436 ST., BRISBANE
RUN OLE ST. (cr. Gawler Place) ADELAIDE
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me Art Catalog of the Jleolian
VOCALION explaining hou) l can secure one by
moderate monthly payments.
Name
Jlddress


HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
C-AC-
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vie.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
0
<
0
0
C-A-C'
STAS
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management i-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Dido”: Jubilee is down near the Inlet,
and is a little known holiday resort, but has
a certain following, of whom Jube, the
painter of dainty seascapes, is one. At Jubi-
lee you stay at one of two places; but who-
ever you are, or whatever else you do, you
observe the common law which prohibits
males adventuring towards the Mermaids’
Basin between the hours of 2 and 5
P-in., those being the bathing hours for
ladies. One morning during the Christmas
.spell Jube was painting at a sketch of water
and rock when he noticed a little man in
blue dungarees tramping along the hedge
of ti-tree, carrying a rather large cask. The
sight was unusual, and Jube may have had
a momentary curiosity as to the use of the
cask ; but be was too absorbed in his work
to pay much heed. That afternoon at a
quarter-past 5 Jube had an appointment
to take tea with the girls at the Mermaids’
Basin. Of course bathing was all off by
this, and Jube found the girls suitably garbed
once more, but troubled about firing to boil
the billy. They were even trying to chop up
a cask with a small tomahawk. “We found
it just in the ti-tree there,” Jane explained.
“It is. heavy, but we have had great games
with it. We have rolled it all about the
place, and we’ve had it out in the water. It
A LITTLE LESS.
THE MAJOR: “I’m not coming down while
the surf carnival’s on. The beach will
be so crowded that there will be hardly
room to swim.”
THE MAID: “Oh, how considerate of you.”
was great fun.” Jube took the axe. It
was quite an easy matter to knock in the
top. Then how the girls squealed. There
was a little man in the cask, a miserable
wretch in blue dungarees.
* * * *
“8.C.”: Mrs. Gilhooley’s favorite topic
was the spotless cleanliness of her hotel.
She mentioned it to the Judge when he
arrived to spend the long vacation under her
roof, when she showed him his room, after
dinner and after supper. His Honor retired
early, but was awakened by a vicious bite.
A slap at the spot resulted in a deflation of
something and the unfamiliar odor of a
species of bedroom fauna. He lighted the
lamp and surveyed the mass formations on
the sheets and the great retirement toward
that ceiling. Almost bursting with indigna-
tion he left the room and presently returned
with Mrs. Gilbooley at his heels. Dramati-
cally the Judge threw back the bedclothes
and thundered, “Madam, what are those?”
Mrs. Gilhooley bent down, and for a moment
watched the evolutions of the insects; then,
challengingly, she replied to his question:
“Urn —them’s bugs.” His Honor tried to
A DISTURBING ECHO.
“Where have you been these last two days?”
“Heavens, don't talk that way—it sounds
just like my wife!”
say something, but the lady got in first, and
continued: “and sure it’s like yer damn
cheek bringing ’em to me house!” His
Honor returned to Melbourne by the early
morning train.
“Snell” : The Aussie next door, who is still
nursing injuries sustained, tells me the fun-
niest thing he saw during the war. He and
two comrades were doing London, and exu-
berantly enjoying their new freedom. “One
evening we were waiting for a motor-’bus to
take us back to our roost. I noticed a little,
fussy old chap standing on the kerb near me.
He had one of those fluffy belltoppers you
sometimes see on very old blokes in London,
a lot of cheap white whiskers, a face like a
pampered kitten, and a big black umbrella
under his arm. Suddenly the bottom seemed
to fall out of the world. Down came half a
street, with a roaring like the breaking up
of all creation. The air was full of furni-
ture and trouble, and dust and smoke came
to blot out half the horrors. A German in
his little Taube half a mile high had scored a
bull’s-eye at eyedrop, and blown a slice of
London to flinders. Then in the thick of it
all I discovered my little old man again. He
was still standing on the kerb; his eyes
were as round as marbles; his mouth was
wide open ; but he had put his umbrella up!”
* * * *
. “Doctor lodine”: Woman-haters are rare
in the Navy, but I struck a whole-hogger in
an elderly A.B. He neither drank nor
smoked, swore nor gambled; was a hard
worker and an excellent seaman. My curi-
osity was piqued as to the reason for his
lack of ambition to reach petty-officer rating.
One morning he was helping to shove inedi-
cal stores into my sick-bay, and leading
questions brought to light a terse story of a
blighted romance. “Y’ see, sir,” he said,
I wuz engaged to a tabby in Williamstown
—me ’ome port, sir. ’Ad a cottage ’arf paid
orf, an’ a hundred quid in a shore bank.
The banns wuz read out twicet to the ship’s
company hassembled, sir—and on’y three
days afore the weddin’, sir, thanks to ’er I
wuz put on the V.D. list. Arfter that, sir”
—his weather-worn countenance assumed a
still more doleful aspect—“l lorst orl faith
in the^ purity of wimmen !”
“Audio”: I was awakened by the blubber-
ing of a kid in the bed opposite. He was a
Tommy about 36 years old who had been
brought back from the operating theatre
while I was asleep. “’Ave they taken orf
me leg, Sister?” he whined. The ward sister-
patted down his bedclothes. “Come, now,”
she said, “you must be quiet.” But he was
still feeling the effects of the anaesthetic.
“Taken orf me pore leg!” he moaned. “Never
be m use to no woman no more.” The Dig-
ger in the bed next to me laughed. “Funny
blokes them Tommies,” he said as he lit a
cigarette. But the sister had returned. “You
mustn’t laugh at him,” she scolded. Then she
turned to the boy and said : “Pull yourself to-
gether and stop crying like a baby. The man
who’s laughing at you has had both his legs
off.”
“Ex-Dig.” : He tumbled out of the train and
grasped the porter by the hand, addressing
that functionary as “Bill.” To Bill he ex-
plained with honest emotion that he had
come back from the war by way of America :
and that he intended to show the old people
how to run the farm and to shake things up
generally. Bill looked puzzled, but not liking
to seem forgetful of a 1914 man he called the
station-master, whom the returned wanderer
hailed as “Jack.” Jack being his
name, the station-
master politely con-
cealed his perplexity
and summoned the
Mayor (“Jim” to the
Digger), who hap-
pened to be on the
station. When the sol-
dier mentioned that he
was Tom Smith, there
was a hazy impression
that there must have
been a Tom Smith
who enlisted in 1914
and that it would be
a churlish thing to
show that the town
disremembered him.
So some more leading
citizens were gath-
ered together and
things became bright
and willing, especially
as the Digger had a
roll of notes and in-
sisted on spending
them. Towards morn-
ing Tom Smith was
persuaded to post-
pone his return to the
old home till next day,
, , to enable his fellow-
townsmen to escort him out in style. But
when the reception-committee called in the
morning it found Tom still in bed. sober and
extremely puzzled. Also he failed to recog-
nise the reception committee at all. “What
blooming town is this?” he demanded. “Bud-
fr, 1 ' 0 /’-, Good .Lord! I thought it was Cow
v iat. .He had taken the wrong train and
was 200 miles from the farm.
• : 1 ag . ree with the central argument
“1 fj-anscontinenta l Railway Lies” (B.
H,, u a'’ !V U A th , e wnter is unfair to
lughenden (Q.) when lie describes it as “a
place where returned Australian soldiers
were greeted with curses and assault ” I
was one of the first soldiers to return to
Hughenden during the war, and I know of
only one case in which a Dmger was
assaulted He was followed and hit 0 n the
head with a bottle at night, and the ruffian
who did it was knocked about that much
afterwards that he asked to be allowed to
die in peace. 1 urther, every man who went
to the war from Hughenden and district was
handed a cheque for £2O on his return the
money having been collected for that pur-
pose by the Hughenden people. Hughenden
doesn t deserve a kick. It is as patriotic
a township as there is in Australia.
Iu Suy a (Fiji) recently
seveial Indian motor-drivers
were fined for exceeding the
speed-limit. Fast driving has
got on the nerves of the island
capita!, so the local paper gave
tull publicity to the cases, and
described the offenders in a bold
headline as “Road Hogs.” But
n ? x .( da.V there was a procession
of infuriated turbaned brothers
to see the editor,” and that
worried person apologetically
explained in print that "Road
Hogs was a term in common
use and that no reflection on
Indians was intended.
W filch shows that an Inky Way-
man can’t be too careful in a
country where being likened to
swine is regarded by half the
population as the greatest and
most blasphemous of insults.
The banker’s story :
lie came in one Saturday morning:, a large, inebri-
ated brute with fists like clubs. He had money in
tie bank, but his hand was so unsteady that he
eouldn t sign his name legibly, consequently payment
was refused. For this he held the teller responsible,
and, after hurling vile accusations at that blame-
less person, he reached over the counter and smote
the teller violently on the nose. Then the man from
the mulga tore the brass-work down, jumped over
the counter, and bogged into the accountant, who
had rushed into the teller’s box. The accountant
got all the worst of the argument, and it was no
time before the bushman had him on the ground and
was putting in the boot.
The whole bank was now in turmoil. Ladies
were screaming; others had fainted. The wild man,
yelling horribly, got in holts with the manager!
We felt proud of the manager that day. Although
only list, he put a hammerloclc on the dissatisfied
depositor, and downed him. Luck, however, was
against the boss, as Mulga twisted on the ground
and got on top, belaboring the manager’s face with
ponderous blows. The ledger-keeper now hurled
himself at the assassin, and succeeded in pulling
him off. All three rolled on the floor. It was
a rousing fight. One of the lady clerks produced a
hatpin; but couldn’t get near enough to use the
deadly weapon. An iron bar lay in the back yard.
She ran and seized it. When she returned the
stranger had the ledger-keeper by the throat, and
the manager, whose strength was failing, was trying
to gouge his eyes out.
The desperate young woman waited her chance
with the bar, and brought it down hard. The
bushman ducked, and the manager got the full
force of the blow behind the ear. He rolled over,
out to the world.
The ledger-keeper was black in the face and froth-
ing at the mouth. She lifted the bar once more,
determined this time to make no mistake. She
put her two hands to it and prepared for a smashing
blow. The bar caught on the point of a book-
shelf, and, cannoning on to her own head, momen-
tarily stunned her.
Undaunted, she raised her iron weapon a third
time, and brought it down with a tremendous whack.
Providentially it missed the ledger-keeper, and the
ferocious intruder, his head split open, fell back
limp and harmless.
The accountant, who had come round, and the
junior clerk, who had been dodging about futilely
with the office ruler, dragged him to the door and
threw him into the gutter. Then the business of
the bank was resumed.
* * * •
“Dido” : The true story of Bills’s success
in business. Bills was a clerk with Dobbie
and Co., City, and one hot night he was
down with the multitudinous mixed bathers
at St. Kilda, when a disagreement arose
over what Bills considered an unwarrant-
able interference with his missus, who was
lying on the sands. Bills, being rather hot-
blooded, did not pause to consider that his
wife’s evidence of identification was rather
weak, but went for the alleged offender,
tooth and claw, and as pretty a fight as
you’d wish to see went on in the dark. Half
the time the combatants were buried in
sand, but they succeeded in doing each other
considerable mischief. Then peacemakers
intervened, and the pair were torn apart, and
held foaming and furious, while someone
struck a light in a spirit of judicious inves-
tigation. Then for the first time Bills recog-
nised the alleged ruthless insulter as his
boss, and his boss with the bellow of a fran-
tic camel recognised him. Naturally Bills
was reluctant to beard the lion in his den
on the Monday morning. He told himself
it was no good going to the warehouse, any-
how, as he would most certainly be fired on
sight. But after hanging round for half an
hour he decided to chance it. The moment
he entered Dobbie came bounding from his
lair, and Dobbie had an ill-disguised black
eye and a thick lip. “What do you mean?”
TOO
CRAMPED.
H UBBY: “Why can't you dress within your
income?"
WIFEY : “Because it is like dressing in a
top berth.”
he thundered. “How dare you?” he roared.
“I’ll teach you to come to your work at this
hour. Dammit, sir, you are fined sixpence!”
THE OCEAN BLUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Milly took me yachting
(1 am no sailor bold),
I did a lot of plotting.
Although the tale is old
It still, if told quite neatly,
May please the girl we’re spotting
To fill our life completely.
Things seemed to fall most sweetly
When Milly took me yachting.
We left the carle and canker
Of everyday affairs.
While she fixed up the spanker
I chucked away my cares.
She said, “Come now, sit by me
Till we let go the anchor.”
There was no soul to try me
Too much, no fool to guy me....
We left the care and canker.
But in the end I kissed her
(She was the daintiest dear) :
No fellow could resist her,
And keep his conscience clear.
One hand upon her shoulder,
I stooped and nearly missed her.
She would not let me hold her,
As that old tale I told her,
But in the end I kissed her.
The twins go with us sailing
Now, when we put to sea,
And I’m kept busy bailing
Or fixing things for tea.
Yet though age comes and sadly
The springs of life are failing,
I am not growling badly.
I face the future gladly....
The twins go with us sailing!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


“Pay Less ;
Dress Better."
Have You Ordered
Your Easter Suit?
There is no Suit at
the price to equal
the Murdoch-made.
MURDOCH-Tailored Suit is essential to
the complete enjoyment of your Easter
Vacation!
jg?
There is the joy of being really well-dressed
—the comfort of being perfectly tailored
and the satisfaction of knowing that Time
will abundantly prove the wisdom of your
investment.
All this—apart from the saving in cash!
JtZ?
The Murdoch-Tailored Suit is fashioned by
men who are acknowledged Specialists in
Modern Masculine Attire. The smart, clean-
cut lines and stylish appearance is not merely
surface treatment; it arises from faithful,
painstaking attention to the vital points—the
foundation upon which the life and lasting
appearance of the Suit depends.
An Easter Hat Bargain
Smart Fur Felt Hats fashioned
in good quality Felt, with 2£in.
brim. In a range of smart
shapes. Fitted with soft sweat-
proof leather. Shades: Slate,
Brown, Cuba, Fawn, Steel,
Grey and Black, with Black
Band and side Bow. All sizes.
Present-day Value, 22/6
Murdoch’s Price, 19/6
There is a magnificent collection of
English and Australian Cloths to select
from. If you cannot call, send the coupon
for Patterns —a nice variety with Prices
and Measure Outfit will be sent FREE
by return Mail.
Murdoch’s Price
Suit Made to Measure
841-
9
Other Prices 95/-. IKo/-
130/-. 150/-. 170/.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON FOP PATTERNS.
To DESK R,
MURDOCH’S, in Park St, Ltd., SYDNEY.
Please send me Free of a r L cost a n i ce range of
Suiting Patterns and Mea' jUre -Form Outfit.
NAME #
ADDRESS
/
Murdoch’?, Pay Postage to all Parts of
Australia.
IN
MURDOCH’S
PARR STREET LIMITED, SYDNEY.
/
“The World's Largest Men and Boys’ Wear Stfore."


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
ffIGEWDRjto
EXTRA HIGH GRADEJ
READYRUBBfIJ
3] R- TOWNS & CO., Sydney., Agents.
11
What better proof of the
miraculous powers of this dis-
covery is there than that num-
bers of sufferers are now
cured? All chemists. 5/6 and
1/6, or sample from W.
Maly on & Son,
Co., Malyon’s, Sturt Street,
Ballarat.
Alt CHEMISTS
CUT OUT THIS
&SEND WITH Ife
row SPECIAL SAMPH
A Signal Success
SS>,
King George W
** WHsmf
The TOP-NOTCH’SeatA
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
henpecked.
FIRST BUNNY: “Old man emu is very
effeminate .”
SECOND DITTO: “How's that ?”
THE FIRST: "Oh, he sits on his wife’s eggs
for her.”
“Cuzenos” : Can any Abo. supply me with
information about Narcisse Pelatier, who is alleged
to have been marooned for 16 years among the
blacks of Princess Charlotte Bay? It was some-
where in the same tropical neighborhood that Mar-
garet Crawford was rescued after doing a couple of
years in the altogether.” She was the sole survivor
of a shipwrecked schooner. Her rescuers were a
company of seamen from the 11.M.5. Rattlesnake
(Captain Stanley). Landing on the coast for a
supply of fresh water, these men were amazed on
seeing a white woman among a mob of retreating
blades. They called out to her and met with a ready
response. She hid behind a tree till she was sup-
plied with two shirts. With these she made quite
a respectable toilet. She was taken on board the
Rattlesnake and returned to her parents, who resided
in Sussex-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
* * * *
“The Wanderer”: Piss are on “the drop,”
but not up at Wingham, Manning River, (N.S.W.).
Eight baby grunters—five months and eight days oil
dropped” into the saleyards at AVingham on
Jan. 29, and brought eight guineas apiece. Thev
were reared by Pat O’Brien, of Wherrol Flat, near
Wingham—and Patsy had evidently been kind to
them.
“F.R.G.S.”: Have heard several songs of
the Woradgery tribe of blacks, which had been
sung into a phonograph by I. F. H. Mitchell, a
pioneer squatter of the Murray River district away
back in 1838. One was a tribal song of joy, another
a dirge of sorrow, and yet another was a satirical
lefrain about a settler named Jobbins who had
cut a piece out of a blackfellow’s leg with a cut-
lass for stealing milk. The airs were all plaintive
yet tuneful, and infinitely superior to the music
of Oriental people, whose gamut of notes is most
limited. Mr. Mitchell, now in his 90th year, is a
walking storehouse of aboriginal folk-lore, songs,
myths and yarns, and has written a vocabulary of
the Woradgery tribe who were scattered along the
banks of the Hume River.
* * * *
Dux” tells bow Tito Tamehana goes to
law: —■
Goot day, boss. You te ferra know all about
te (< raw [lawl ?”
Yes, I said; “sit down and tell me what the
trouble is.”
Tito sprawled into a chair and began: “You know
tat pakeha ferra Tom Smith ? He te ferra run
away with my missus. Py cripe, I te wild. I
have him up for te tamage, eh? 1 make te beggar
sit up he tink te Maori te plurry fool 1 Pv crine
1 show him!” ’
“And what damages do you intend going for’”
I asked.
, !cnP e > dunno,” replied Tito, scratching his
head, alien after a pause he asked: “You think
te ten shillin’ too much?”
* * * *
‘John Quill” : Tell “Dimdam” (B.
who relates how a snake sft. in length
took refuge in a lib. baking-powder tin, that I’m
not surprised at the resource of some snakes, but
I Hi amazed at the size of lib. baking-powder tins
out his way.
“Arctos” meditates on men and bears in
the sun:—•
Ihe animals at the Melbourne Zoo butted in
duiing the . latest hot spell with some evidence
bearing indirectly on the question of whites
r. browns and brindles in Tropical Australia.
When the temperature went higher than it
had been since 1908 the polar-bears and other
citizens of the frigid zones were still sitting up and
taking nourishment, but the sun-bear from the Malay
Peninsula and Molly the chimpanzee, also from the
tropics, were prostrated with the heat
and suffered more than any other animals
in the place. The polar-bear has over his
sunny relation the advantage of being a
bather; but in captivity, when he does
not have to fish for his tucker, he spends
but a small part of his time in the water
even in hot weather. The fact is
that, like other natives of cold and frosty
places, he enjoys the sun when he gets
a chance at it. And yet the polar-bear
isn’t in as good a position to change his
climate as man. He can’t put on a light
suit when he comes south, and he knows
nothing about iced drinks, electric fans
and other conveniences of civilisation.
The case of the two bears reminds me
that in places like Thursday Island and
Darwin you . see white men working in
the sun at jobs like wharf-lumping and
stone-breaking, and appearing to thrive
on it, while the darker-skinned citizens,
sometimes described as “tropic children
of the sun,” hunt the shade, and prefer
tailoring and other under-roof trades. It
is the man from the colder climates who
revels in the sun, not he whose ancestors
have been exposed to it for generations.
Cases of sunstroke are practically un-
known among the whites in tropical Aus-
tralia, though most of them don’t take
many precautions; but in India, Meso-
potamia and other places the native
inhabitants are by no mean's immune
from a touch of the sun. Of course, a
vast number of the variously-colored per-
sons _ who are often lumped together as
tropical races are no more tropical than
we are. That is the case with the Japan-
ese, the vast majority of the Chinese,
a lot of Indians and quite a number of
African negroes. If there is anything
in the argument about original environ-
ment a Japanese or a Chinese from the North is as
little suited to the tropics as a European.
“Ragar”: Re Assistant-Magistrate Flint’s
report on the spiritualistic meetings among the
Papuans. An old Parama Islander told me' he had
spoken to the spirits of his dead relations, and
that they would always come when he called them.
He assured me there was nothing unusual about
the business, and plenty of his people did the same
thing, AVhen asked what the spirits looked like
he said they were “all same other people,” but
was unable to give any account of where they came
from or where they went to after visiting their
friends. All the islanders believe that the spirits
of their dead go to reside in some special island
reserved for them, and that on occasion they will
come and warn their relatives of approaching hap-
penings. Call it what you will, the savage races
have some gift of seeing into the unknown which
is not possessed by us. Remember an old Zulu
witch-doctor who told me how I could recover some
stolen cattle. I saw him the day after the theft,
and he described the beasts, the man who was
driving them, and the kopje they were passing—
about CO miles from where we were. I followed
the trail he gave me, and after passing the kopje
and so on, as he had told me I must do, I came
up with the beef and the thieving Kaffir. The old
seer was stone blind, so could never have seen
either the man or the beasts.
FORCE OF HABIT.
“Flying upside-down, eh! Who is he, I wonder?”
“ Oh that's S mither s. Used to run a car and spent most of his time underneath
it, and now he cant break himself of the habit!”
“Wealsman” : Tasmania is so small that a
kangaroo could hop from centre to sea in any direc-
tion between moon and sundown. The island con-
tains 16 million acres, about two million sheep,
40,000 horses and the same number of pigs, 200,000
cattle and a similar mob of humans. The last
blackfellow disappeared over 50 years ago; the emu,
the fur seal, the right whale and assigned servitude
vanished about the same time. The marsupial wolf
is now extremely rare, and the Tas. devil and the
wombat are becoming legendary. Dingoes and kooka-
burras and koalas, if they ever dwelt on the island,
which is doubtful, are not there now. But the real
marvel in iasmania has hitherto been the stubborn
refusal of furred animals to be wiped out. With
short intervals of protection the kangaroo and ’pos-
sum have been at the mercy of gun and snare and
poison for 120 years. Yet they have survived to
such purpose that during last year skin-hunters were
able to account for nearly 200,000. An official
return just published gives the following list of
slaughter's for the year: Kangaroos, 98,176; wallabies,
93,103 ; black ’possums, 16,244 ; grey ’possums,
40,014; ringtails, 274,534. Figures for the two
previous years (1918-19) are not available, but the
destruction of native fauna must have been almost
as great as during last year. Experienced bushmen
■reckon that the killings in these three years have
so nearly done the trick that nothing less than
two years of absolute prohibition of hunting can save
the Tas. furred race from total extinction. But
(probably with an eye on the market quotations
for furskins) the Speck’s Police Commissioner has
recommended a close season of a mere three months
(May 1 to July 31) this year, for all kangs. and
’possums, which is not much protection for animals
that are unable to shift camp more than a day’s
march from the furthest outback without falling
into the sea, and must necessarily live close to
settlement.
“Looker-On” : Pongo had a bad attack of
mange, and we considered drowning the kindest way
to cure it; so put a new sugar-bag, a large rock and
the tyke into a cart and drove five miles out
to a creek. We put the rock and dog into the bag,
securely fastened the mouth with strong cord and
threw the lot in. A few nights later I heard a
scratching at the door, and on investigating dis-
covered our poor old tyke back home again, but look-
ing very tired. In his mouth he had the bag, which
he must have dragged all the way back, half-full
of beautiful mullet. He apparently imagined that
we had sent him down to fish.
* * * *
“Dean” : Can add to “Two Seas’ ” list oi
death-traps in the bush. Riding through the Scrub
recently I found a young heifer with her lower jaw
firmly embedded in a treacle tin. It took some
pulling to get the tin off, and my discovery just
saved the animal’s life.
“Eddyson”: When we went camping in the
Hungry Range, Carmichael’s brother-in-law, Tommy
Blake, was of the party. Tommy was recently from
the “Ould Sod,” and his knowledge of Australian
fauna was most limited, but he was given a gun
with the other thue wallaby-hunters, and when the
four were posted .ound a thick patch of likely-
looking scrub, he was instructed to be on the qui
vive from the moment the dogs were put in. Ponto
and Pinkie were thrashing the undergrowth, and a
shot from Carmichael and another from Crowe on
the west side indicated that the game was moving,
then there arose the frantic yells of Tommy Blake
evidently in dire distress. With the horrors of
snake-bite in his mind, Carmichael ran. We all ran.
AUiat we came upon was a vision of Tommy on his
back on the grass, embracing a well-grown buck
wallaby that was busy kicking the clothes off his
body and the meat off his bones. Tommy had the
wallaby in his arms hanging on like grim death.
<( H ere ye are, I cot one!” cried he triumphantly.
ihe other devil got away.” Carmichael knocked
the animal on the head, and Tommy stood up, look-
ing woefully at his damaged trousers and his lacer-
ated legs. “I cot one, but fer the future, Misther
Carmichael, ye’ll handle yer own blanky rabbits,”
said he.
“Bouragi” : Papuan ghosts, as “Ellenbee”
and “Wal” have noted (B. 13/1/’2l), are unchancy
cattle. Round Mekeo way the ghost of a wife is
more dreaded than the spooks of the rest of the
family, and is supposed to go about with a weather
eye specially cocked for the old man. To guard
against this unsportsmanlike behavior, hubby “goes
bush” for some time after his spouse’s demise,
avoiding his favorite pubs and club's. Moreover, day
and night he is armed to the teeth in case he does
run into the dear departed. On the Mamba not only
are the spooks invited to the feasts, as “Wal” says,
but in most villages are platforms with food always
laid on them for the hungry shades. The Mamba
people were very hard to break of the custom of
BIS WILL.
THE SKY PILOT: “What you are wanting in,
my man, is will power.”
THE INEBRIATE: “Not on your (hie) life.
When I (hic) shay I WILL have a drink,
I have it.”
burying their dead under their houses, instead of
in a cemetery out of the village. They thought it
more seemly that the spirit should be with friends
than on his own in a lonely patch in the jungle.
At a burial the corpse was always harangued at
length by his old friends, before planting, and
assured of good treatment. And always the spirit
of the slain was waiting to take it out of the slayer.
(Continued, on page 22.)
THE MAN FROM FISHTIN FLAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A casual sort of josser struck the track to Heaven’s
door,
Where St. Peter stood to keep out those who sin ;
And when he found it fastened he just squatted on
the floor,
Till Pete said (through the wicket) “Coming in ?
Do you wish to join the angels, leaving all your
care behind ?”
Slowly rose the stranger upward, spat, and said,
“Well, I don’t mind!”
Peter viewed his mood uneager with a genuine sur-
prise ;
)A hen he handed out the haloes there were signs
Of a high appreciation of a welcome to the skies
In all the saints—from sinners dismal whines.
•So he pointed out the jewels that in Heaven’s gate-
way shone,
“They are real and priceless stones, lad,” and the
stranger said, “Go on!”
Peter, piqued and rather staggered by the coolness of
the man,
\V ho so coldly viewed Heaven’s prospects of
delights
Said, “I’ll show you Heaven’s beauties set before you
like a plan,”
And took him round to show him all the sights.
And, at last, with pride elated, Peter said, “Well,
now, my lad,
Isn t Heaven just the limit?”—and the stranger
said, “Not bad!”
Put some calves and lambkins skipping, on a
flower-spangled rise
Just a spark of animation then aroused ;
And a glint of some real pleasure flashed ’a moment
in his eyes
As he watched the herds of Heaven as they
browsed,
“Pretty good!” lie murmured softly. “But there’s
better sights than that.
You should see the blooming poddies at my place
at Fishtin Flat!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Australian Novels
By the Commonwealth’s Best Authors.
1/3 each—All One Price—l/44 posted.
"DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES’’ - - - - by Henry James James
"LYDIA’S LOVERS’’ by Gerald R. Baldwin
"THE FENCELESS RANGES” by Roy Bridges
"BULLY HAYES, BUCCANEER” by Louis Becke
"BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COMMAND” - - -by Roy Bridges
"THE SPELL OF THE BUSH” by John X. Cameron
"ON THE FRINGE OF THE NEVER NEVER,” by H. R. Bloxham
“THE HEART OF THE BUSH,” by Broda Reynolds
“THE CAPTAIN OF THE GANG” - - - - by Don Delaney
"THE MAKER OF PEARLS” - r - - - - by S.. W. Powell
“BILLY PAGAN” by Randolph Bedford
"ALADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKIE” - by Randolph Bedford
"THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
"THE MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY” - by Harrison Owen
"THE SKIPPER OF THE ROARIN’ MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
"YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
"THE SELECTOR GIRL” by Broda Reynolds
"THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR,” by Jack McLaren
"A CURATE IN BOHEMIA” by Norman Lindsay
"FOR TURON GOLD” by Don Delaney
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,” by J. H. M. Abbott
"RED MOUNTAIN” - - - by Jack McLaren
"HACK’S BRAT” by A. lan McLeod
"BASE BRANDS” by H. M. Somer
"SOUTH SEA SINNERS” by Arthur Crocker
"ÜBIQUE” by C. W. Martin
"WOLAROI’S CUP” by Ambrose Pratt
"HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL” - - -by Jack North
"THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
"TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE” by E. J. Brady
"THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION”- - - - - by H. K. Bloxham
"THE SHANTY-KEEPER’S DAUGHTER” - - by Vance Palmer
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
"THE GOLDEN KANGAROO” by Ambrose Pratt
"GENTLEMAN JACK” by Don Delaney
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK OF HUMOROUS
VERSE AND RECITATIONS.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or Direct from Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George St,
SYDNEY.
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them -in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns— whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
'// \
\\\
%
mm
7
Av
m
K>/f Jj ','/,
m
WM
¥.
£
iff 4//
LA^/
/
_ y
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
See I-His brand
- each slurb
on
as
%
<5
4*
m (Reed.)
fdbiteftT
Split-Sleeve
(Gives correct Set to Cuffs always)
ABSOLUTELY THE KING OF SHIRTS
40,000 Yards—22| Miles—of
“TAFFATWILL” Shirting Arrives
Direct from Mills,
Manufactured into Shirts in
our own Workrooms.
Value at 17/6
12|11 each.
Square Deal Price.
Fill in Coupon for Patterns.
First quality and value can be safely taken for granted
when you purchase a Leviathan “Taffatwill” Shirt.
This beautiful-looking, hard-wearing material is
obtainable in neat, striped designs of black, blue
or helio, on rich cream grounds; stiff or soft
double cuffs. Neckbands, 1 3in. to 18in.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
V>ha
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.,
Cr. Swanston and
BotirKe
MELBOURNE.
—• o <>' f7
3° //
<£/>■
A v
!?
J
'1
It suits all beards
You may have a prejudice against safety
razors, thinking them fit for the young shaver
only, but the
has a curved blade which can be adjusted to the require-
ments of any growth.
It leaves the face velvet-smooth, cool, soft and com-
fortable.
Standard Set, in leather case 28/6
You will find the Diamond Trade-mark on every genuine
GILLETTE razor, blade and box.
Obtainable Everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO.,
Montreal, Canada.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Wholesale Agents, .
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
■KNOWN THE
U3AO QIHOM


Brewed at Home
3
If -it isn’t,
lii Better
A Tin of “BEVAR* ’ BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. 0K POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES -
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS,
Queen s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
DEAFNESS
n pf
V
Perfect hearing is now
being restored in every
condition of deafness
or defective hearing
from causes such as
Catarrhal Deafness,
Relaxed or Sunken
Drum s, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and
Hissing Sounds, Per-
forated, Wholly or
, Partially Destroyed
uru m s, Discharge from Ears, etc
WILSON COMMON-SENSE EAR DRUMS
‘Little 'W ireless ’Phones for the Ears ” re-
quire no medicine, but effectively replace
what is lacking or defective in the natural
ear drums. They are simple devices, which
the wearer easily fits into the ears, where
they are invisible. Soft, safe and comfort-
able. Write to-day for booklet, or order now.
"he price is 21/-
H. WILKINSON (Wilson Ear Drum Co.)
Ist Floor, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Mention this paper.)
Murkali”: “T.E.A.” asks (B. 2i/l/’2l)
for some explanation of a mysterious floating light
in West Queensland. The decomposition of vegetable
matter produces phosphorated hydrogen, which, on
contact with the oxygen of the atmosphere, spon-
taneously ignites and burns with a phosphorescent
glow'. Normally this gas gets away as produced, but
under certain conditions (high humidity) of the
atmosphere it is produced vvith great rapidity, and
the stage is then set for an exhibition of fireworks.
This explains the intermittent nature of the dis-
play. The movement of the light is accounted
for by its being carried on the prevailing air-
currents. Its seeming retreat wdien approached is
probably more apparent than real. The flame doesn’t
last long. In any case it would be like approach-
ing a fog—while seeming solid in the distance on
closer approach it appears to fade away. The
phenomenon is commonest in marshy country.
* * * #.
“Bullah Delali”: Saw a cow in the
Gloucester forest district nearly as heavily laden
with ticks as anything I have seen in the tick area
in Bananaland ; but the beast was in good condition.
The ticks were nearly as large as “the” tick. Can
any Abo. reader explain the absence of harm, and
tell me how to know t’other from which ? Bv the
DOING THE DECENT THING.
"Poor old ( hie ) Simpkinsh drowned in
beautiful (hie) harbor last week.
Haven't found trace of (hie) body
since.”
Poor old Simpsh. Eeast (hie) toe can do
is buy wreath to put on poor feller'sh
grave.”
way, when a dog harbors a tick of the death-dealing
kind, does he present any warning symptoms before
he turns up his toes, and how do you tell this •
tick from the other two?
Arthur R.”: Saw Wirefence accidentally
hack a slice from his hand with a fernhook. He
immediately offered the bleeding fist to his sheep-
dog, who proceeded to lick it clean. This, he
explained, effectively removed all the dirt. Called
round a few weeks later and found the nasty cut
had almost disappeared.
NO HURRY.
“I want to know trill you be my wife?”
“What’s your salary, again?”
“Five pounds a week.”
“Fiv e pound! Why, that wouldn’t keep me in handkerchief!"
"Oh, very well-I'll watt till your cold’s better.”
“H.V.E.”: Touching “Golub’s” remarks
(B. 27/l/’2l) on the assumedly greater death-
dealing powers of certain Indian snakes as compared
with ours, the venom of the former can, apparently,
be just as effectively destroyed by an immediate
application of moistened permanganate of potash
crystals as can that of our deadly
snakes. The enormous colored popu-
lation of India mostly go barefooted,
and persons are, therefore, more
likely to be fatally bitten. A bite
through clothing, I think, results in
less venom being injected from the
specialised or grooved poison-fangs.
Wall (“Terrestrial Snakes of India”)
mentions only the hooded and king
cobras, the chain viper and most of
the karaits, as being deadly in the
extreme, while the deadly Australian
snakes include several members of
the black snake ( Pseudechis ) family,
the brown, tiger, copper crest
(superb snake) and death-adder. Wall
gives cases in which persons bitten by
the most deadly Indian snakes have
recovered under prompt and skilled
treatment, while an Indian physician
of note —Sir Lauder Brunton—pinned
his faith to permanganate of potash,
quickly applied, as the most effective
remedy. So far seropathists have
evolved nothing effective as a snake-
bite cure or prophylactic. Snake
venom, by the way, is not greenish
in color, as many suppose. On one
occasion I induced a black snake to
eject some venom upon the blade
... of a tomahawk. It was a clear
liquid resembling very thin honey, but quite
colorless. Some years ago, I believe, the Govern-
ment of India offered a reward, of £lO,OOO for an
effective remedy for snake-bite, but so far no one
has scooped in the big cheque.
“M.G.C.”: Anyone tell me how the old
man rounds up his missus in snake society? We
had several wrigglers at our house and every night
in the stillness at regular intervals could hear a
short muffled sound—“ping”—as if a taut wire had
been flipped. Since we killed the snakes the sounds
are no more. Also—does his Satanship “hiss?”
Have been in at the death of several, but never heard
a murmur.
"Euro” : He came to my room at two in
the morning, proffering the wing of a chicken,
two cigarette butts, and the remains of a meat-pie.
I put him to bed, and when he lurched back to con-
sciousness the hours later I poured him out a bra idy.
“Take it away,” he groaned ; “what I want is some-
thing to settle my stomach.” “A cup of tea then?”
I suggested. “No good,” he replied. “Bring me a
few slugs.” “Slugs ?” I repeated. “Yes, slugs,” he
sai Not shellbacks j some of those long slippery
ones.” I took the tongs, fossicked round the garden
and brought in four slimy, flabby, awful things. He
took two off the sheet of paper and wiped them
gently on his sleeve. “They’ll do,” he said, and with-
out further comment he transferred the abominations
to his cavernous mouth. “Nothing like these to settle
one s stomach,” he remarked, reaching for the remain-
ing two. I believed him. Merely watching the journey
of the medicine settled mine.
* * » *
“14”: I have white ants (in my house),
hey are not yet present in serious quantities, and
now is the time for action. If any Abo. can sug-
gest effective action I promise to add his name to
my list of ‘Great Men I Have Known ”
* * » *
oni l^ kah ” : tie “Jim Carew’s” (R.
-0/1/21) query about moonlight superstitions.
Theie is no such thing as moonlight. So-called
moonlight is merely reflected sunlight. If the moon
gave forth light of its own it would
always be “full moon.” Instead, only
that portion is visible which is illumi-
nated by the sun. The apparent differ-
ences result from our ever-changing points
°, f „ view of the illuminated portion. “Jim
C. can be sure that the superstitions men-
tioned are baseless. The power of light
after reflection, is the merest fraction
only of its original strength. What the
sunlight doesn’t do direct it certainly
won’t do after reflection. I don’t think
the “shape” of the crescent moon has any
effect on rainfall. A two-years’ drought
is a heavy jolt to such a theory. If there was
n.i thing in the moon-blindness argument all the
swagmen in Australia would be blind.
“Veronal” gives an artistic convict his
due:—
Although the credit is often given to others the
Paintings of Australian birds were made bv
one Thomas Watling, “convicted by a Scotch iurv
and sentenced to transportation.” Watling reached
Sydney m the Royal Admiral on October 7 1792
ing ’ f a or ?T k W Self Wrot & “ be T ne em P lo " ed i" S
in<„ toi J. W. , Esq., the nondescript produc-
tion of the country.” Comparatively few modern
ornithologists _ seem to have even heard of these
remarkable pictures, numbering about 300, but A
;• ha , s , recently epitomised their history
m The Emu. Wathng’s paintings, in three
volumes, after becoming the property of the Earl
Museum y ’whlro r fi^ lly J ) . e< l ueath «l to the British
nn !i n , e Latham discovered them, and with-
out acknowledgment used many of the figures in
Wi” Pr l r - tS ,i 0f hI H, works which relate to “New Hol-
„“ d „ bl , rd j', Considering that Watling’s birds
trali a P w a « te + < l betWeen 1788 and 1792 - and that Aus-
tralia was then—except for the settlement on Farm
Cove—a howling wilderness, his work is all the
ore remaikable. Many familiar birds then mas-
queraded under strange names, often inaccurate.
For instance, piping roller” for magpie (crow-
shake), which, Watling says, the abos. called “jarra-
vyon-uang ; also “golden-winged bee-eater” for the
1 ttle gill-bird (brush wattle-bird) —“wad-de-or-gal”
“ at,v , e hn fO- A bird named by Latham, Turdus
melanophtys (black-browed thrush) is no other than
the bell-miner— Kendall’s “bell-bird,” which the
blacks named dill-ring,” suggestive of its inces-
sant tinkling call. Watling not only painted
birds, but made many good notes on their habits.
Of e redhead (red-browed finch) he says: “It is
easily domesticated, and of a lively disposition, even
in a cage. Native name ‘goo-lung-ag-ga.’ ” Thus
the pioneer Australian ornithologist turns out to
be a humble convict, who himself says: “The pride
and vanity of the draughtsman has induced him
t 0 ' i u na,ne to_ all the drawings, but should you
publish them I think the name may be left out.”
Latham, at any rate, seems to have meanly adopted
this suggestion and extended it also to ' Watling’s
notes, which he often used without acknowledgment.
“Audio” : The word “corroboree” really
covers two very different branches of dancing as
practised by Binghi. There are the ceremonial
dances, in which only the initiated men participate,
though the women and children are allowed to view
some of them from a gallery seat, and the more
social functions in which everyone takes part. The
latter are dances made up of set figures, in which
many people join, and histrionic representations of
village and hunting life. From an artistic point of
view the Melville Island natives are miles ahead of
any others I have seen at this pastime. They are
particularly clever at imitations of animals, the
crocodile being first favorite with the impressionist.
The men form a circle and the soloists come into the
centre one after another. The chorus beats time by
stamping and smacking its flanks with open hands
until the end of the turn, when it closes in to form
a wild savage mass of waving arms and howls. The
orchestra is a trumpet made either from a long piece
of bamboo or a piece of gum-tree branch which has
been hollowed out by white ants, the rim being
smoothed with wax. It is about as musical as a
seaside jazz band.
* * * *
“Harborite”: “Zanthus” (B. 20/l/’2l)
says that the albatros3 recently caught in Sydney
Harbor fretted to death in the Zoo. Happened to
skipper the tug which captured the critter. Saw
him swimming, and steered close up his port quarter,
and just as the bird took flight a sporting deck-
hand heaved a lump of coal, scoring a hit near
the figurehead. We surrendered him to a Harbor
Trust official, who forwarded him to the Zoo. Sorry
to bear of his decease, and demand a post-mortem.
Claim that cause of death was coal-shock.
* * * »
“Steve Hart”: In B. 28/10/’2O I recom-
mended burrawang nuts as suitable for some re-
turned soldiers to make match-boxes out of. Now a
syndicate on Currawan Creek has a lease of about
30,000 acres, on which they have a factory and are
now turning out starch. The nuts would still be
available for match-boxes. As far back as 1862
Henry Moss of Nowra made arrowroot from burra-
wangs, gaining a silver medal at the London Ex-
hibition of that year; and in 1867 he secured a
bronze medal and certificate at the Paris Exhibition
for starch from the same source.
«•* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Will some Abo. explain
this ? Recently put a billy of water from an artesian
bore on the fire at the same time as a mate put
° n a billyful f r om the water-bag. That taken
from the bore was hot (somewhere between 90 and
100 degrees), yet it only boiled about a second
before the otfoer which was put on cold.
GIVE AND TAKE.
THE ENTHUSIAST: “Eve got my breakfast
twice over already .”
SEASICK PERSON : “And Eve lost mine twice
over."
Alex.’ : A small hailstorm t’other day
accounted for four of my young ducks. Gathered
the casualties and planted them in the manure-
heap. Two hours later I detected a violent heaving
on the surface of the heap, and exhumed the four all
alive and kicking. The heat of the manure ’had
restored the suspended animation of the quack-
quacks.
BUTLER’S BEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Butler’s Bend, so stockmen say,
• When they tell o’er again
i lie tales oft told by drovers old
And sun-browned cattlemen,
J bei e stands a clump of mallee-trees
Hard by a stony hill,
Where, in the gloom of midnight, lurks
A something gloomier still.
They say that camping-cattle there
With one accord arise,
And headlong rush through rocks and bush,
Fear blazing in their eyes,
And thunder on with outstretched heads
In panic wild and blind,
As though a spectral stockman rode
With wheeling whip behind.
Tis said that there no wild thing comes
To hunt or hawk or play ;
That all unstirred by wing of bird,
The leaves droop night and day ;
That no sound steals except, at times,
The hooting of an owl
From far away, or farther still
A dingo’s lonely howl.
Yet no man knows- why such things are,
1 hough tales are sometimes told
Of shadows dim, and chill and grim,
That made the blood run cold—
Of,shadow-shapes half-seen, and felt
As one feels chills that creep
Fiom gullies dark, where ancient trees
Stand breathing in their sleep.
In shed and far-out station-hut,
When night’s black shades descend
And fireshine gleams, men think on themes
Like this of Butler’s Bend ;
The red logs lighting up their eyes,
The shadows at their backs,
They tell of haunted cattle-camps
By lonely routes and tracks.
N.R.W.
FIRESHINE.


Only 2% of the Australian Public have Cars or Motor Cycles
It’s surprising, in view of the fact that Australia is per capita one of the
rid!Sfcountries in the world, that more motor cars andmotor cycles are
not in use. In the United States of America there s a car for every
fturteen inhabitants, whilst in England, France, &c , there is a far h gher
pi oportion of motorists than in this part of the world. Want of
roads is of course a big deterrent, but considering the many advantages
and benefits that accrue irom the use of car or motor cycle it s amazing
START RIGHT!
When you have made up your mind to purchase a certain make of car there
still remains the important question—What tyres shall I use? It is a recog-
nised fact that the best of cars are only as good as their tyres. Therefore a deal
depends on a wise selection. Judging by the popularity of “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYRES
with tens of thousands of Australasian Motorists—these tyres are foremost for
value and service. These motorists are influenced solely by road results—
mileage—absence of trouble—dependability Now the fact that fully half the
motorists in this country use “Dunlops” is the best evidence of value rendered,
and that’s what you want. Many thousands of miles of hard driving are built
into every “Railroad” cover. Their price is less than imported tyres, yet they
ensure results that will render your motoring profitable and pleasureable.
Therefore have no doubts-use “Dunlops”-it pays! All garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER 00.
All States
A fid N.Z.
>1 i
L i
b a a s» a
*5
s
* i;; ,iii i
I U','!
v
■p
i}'i||lil!"i : !i
1
u
IP
o Si! 'S raiiinilßß
m u Ull> .. Hit HUi.;:— /Mils. I c—
sgan
0 § A. . 11 s!>! Liilli:- ■
X
u
uutinni
WC
VT
w~
r
m
that only about two per cent, of the Australian public own automobiles.
The car and the motor cycle of to day are efficient servants that render
wonderful service for their outlay, and being well nigh foolproof can be
driven and maintained by anyone with ordinary intelligence. The run-
ning cost is not excessive if one is satisfied with moderate speed even on
good roads, and it is surprising how moderation in this direction lengthens
the life of the tyres and reduces consumption of petrol and oil. Further-
more the wear and tear of a car or motor cycle is considerably reduced,
and its life doubled. No doubt many potential motorists have been
handing back for post-war models, but row that they are. coming along
the increased cost of same has put a damper on their inclination in that
direction, but it is well to remember that even at present figures motoring
is well worth while, and its many advantages cheap at the price.


w\
a
i
p\'X\\\am\\\\\\\\€
IT
0
y si
\\ i\
/ /
(I n\\\ h\\'u\'v\bu*»
*
i
i
> VxXVx


Judge Goodyear 30 x 3| Tyres
solely by the cost-per-mile
"‘I have this day handed to Messrs. Turpie and Gillespie for repair, owing to a
stone piercing same, a 30 x Goodyear All-Weather Tread Tyre which has
travelled over 16,000 miles. This is its first time off the back wheel of my
car, which has very heavy service to perform in my shire work. The cover
appears to be good for several thousand miles yet. It has seen out several
other makes of covers, and has convinced me of the good value of Goodyears.
I attribute its long life to: (a) its quality, (b) proper care in inflation.”
G. W. C. VENABLES, C.E.W.V.1.E.,
Shire Engineer, East Lodden, Serpentine, Victoria.
THE value of anything that is judged by
service—anything that wears “out”—
can be easily found.
About such an article there is no element
of sentiment. There is no question of
“fashion” or of taste. It is just a matter of
return of service.
But, in the case of a motor tyre, there is a
secondary qualification besides Length of
Service. There is Quality of Service. The
first means Economy. The second, the
conditions under which that economy is
produced, such as comfort, reliability and
safety.
The case for the Goodyear 30 x 3i All-
Weather Tread Tyre is based not on claim
but on performance—Service. The above
testimonial is yet another evidence why
Goodyear Tyres are cheap, judged by the
one proper standard—cost-per-mile.
SERVICE STATIONS AND DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
(tram
S'fl
V
pi
%!
/
*5
11111111111 l
I
//


p
The Door to Success
looms up before most people at some TZZ
time or another, but many of us can’t ~
find the key.
Success in Sandwich making depends upon
several things, and variety is one of them.
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
provides you with the right key.
Its piquant flavour is a joy to every palate. It
makes Sandwiches that are eaten with relish.
Make some for your Afternoon Teas and Suppers,
fill the lunch boxes with them. “Rex” Cheese is
nourishing food—you can’t have too much of it.
Sold Everywhere.
Packed ty fOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 866
vUNC/te
0
5V
m
JONCs
gcS3-
Cut down labor costs
£75
Even when man-power
is available for farm-
work, it is a heavily
expensive item. The
man who employs the
“Auster” is assured
efficient, consistent,
reliable work at a
minimum cost. The
“Auster” is always
ready and willing. It
saves time, and labor-
costs.
ADSTER
Farm and Utility or
Marine Type Engine
can be utilised in countless ways. It drives electric-light plants;
pumps water from well, dam, creek or bore; saws wood; or drives
any kind of machinery within its power. It consumes only i-pint
kerosene per b.h.p. per hour.
Two Sizes: Single-cylinder (3£ horse-power), £75.
Twin-cylinder (6-8 horse-power), £135.
Full particulars on request.
WG WATSON&C°L TD
279 Clarence S 1 Sydneys
-
m
*
m i
Hr * Jf&CKCi?bsntrr<?
. _ e,ac«„ OJ o3
Listed on LLOYD S REGISTER, London.
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— “HEAT-
TREATED.”—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL. For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Purest
Spirit
intke
Utrtd
7T.
( j
I
L
1
Inland
Ipor the quick delivery of perishable goods the Ley-
* land 3 ton Box Van fills every requirement.
Speedy, strong and handsome, it affords perfect pro-
tection from sun, wind or rain. Specially suit-
able for Biscuit Manufacturers, Softgoods Ware-
houses, Millinery Manufacturers, etc.
mrg
mu
if.
Leyland Lorries always
in the " VAN’
LEYLAND LOGIC
The 3 ton Box Van shown above
is fitted with worm driven rear
axle and patented steel spoke
wheels. The Engine is governed
to give 15 miles per hour on top
gear. A verg wide Steering lock
enables it to be turned in min-
imum space and with the great-
est ease. Efficiency and econ-
omy are features of all Ley land
Lorries. In addition the large
body space lends itself admir-
ably to advertising the owners
merchandise.
tEYEAND MOTORS LTD.,
Lomlon Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Ety.j Litd., High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (31e1b.) Pty. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd.
BRISBANE: ADFT attif • T>l ,„ _ r
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown I Du" ku Ltd
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
scientist holds the belief that the gods and
fairies of ancient Ireland are not yet dead.
Many of the statements collected by Wentz
imply that the fairies and their kin have a
very real and practical influence on the
affairs of mortal men. Most remarkable
of these, perhaps, is the belief amongst the
peasants about Tuam, in Galway, that the
failure of the potato-crop and the great
famine of 1846-1547 was due to disturbed
conditions in the fairy world. One Thady
Steed, in talking about the horrors of the
famine, said: “Sure, we couldn’t be any
other way; I saw the good people, and
hundreds besides me saw them fighting in the
sky over Knock Ma and on towards Gal-
way.” It was the famine that drove a mil-
lion or more people of Irish blood overseas,
maihly to the United States. But for it
the Irish question to-day would be a very
different thing.
It is all very well to talk about fairies in
Ireland and other old countries, but there
is plenty of scope for an inquiry in Austra-
lia. To begin with, our black predecessors
had a good stock of spirits, very much akin
to the Celtic fairies, scattered over the con-
tinent. . Wentz contends that the Alcheringa
and similar beings believed in by the Arunta
tribes of Central Australia offer a close
parallel to the fairies. Incidentally, the
popular notion of the fairies as pretty little
things, like a cross between a butterfly and
a cherub, on the lines of Ida Renton! Outh-
waites drawings, doesn’t tally with the real
Celtic beliefs. Not all the fairies are even
dwarfs or “little people,” though many of
them are. These Alcheringa beings are a
spirit race, inhabiting an invisible or fairy
world. Only certain persons, seers or medi-
cine men can see them, and these describe
the spirits as thin and shadowy and always
young-looking—compare the Irish Sidhe.
Like many fairies, and like the spirits of the
dead in Brittany, they are believed to control
human affairs and natural phenomena. If
ever we get the complete anthropological
study of the surviving aboriginal tribes for
which Baldwin Spencer has been pleading, it
will be largely concerned with fairies or their
equivalents. The beliefs of the Maoris about
spirits and the other world offer many points
of likeness to those of the Celts. Much the
same is true of our new Melanesian sub-
jects. It is absurd to try to understand
their Avays of thought and of life without
taking their spirit beliefs into account. If there
is anything in the hypothesis suggested to
Wentz that many of the fairies are the spirits
of long-vanished races, Tasmania, where a
race that had inhabited the island for count-
less ages was wiped off the face of the earth
in less than three-quarters of a century,
ought to have a plentiful crop of fairies, it
is a curious fact that there are districts in
the island where belief in spirits and in the
supernatural is more general and more deep-
rooted than anywhere else amongst white men
in Australia. Apparently hard-headed and
unimaginative farmers and bushmen will spin
you weird tales of apparitions and appear-
ances, and of the spirits of convicts long since
gone to their account, and of the black-
fellows who held the land before the “Sys-
tem” came to curse it.
Superimposed on this aboriginal faith in
spirits are the beliefs which the settlers
brought overseas with them, as they brought
rabbits and blackberries and Scotch thistles
to remind them of the places from which they
came. Some of Wentz’s informants declared
that the fairies sometimes emigrated with
those who believed in them. At Barra, in
the Hebrides, he was told the story of one
Lachlann Maclean who was loved by a fairy
woman (exactly similar tales are told to-day
by natives of the New Hebrides and New
Britain). He wearied of her and emigrated
to Nova Scotia as a means of escape. In his
first letter from America he stated that the
same fairy was haunting him there. The
Irish, largely from districts where Erse was
then the common tongue, formed a large pro-
portion of the earliest settlers in New South
Wales. They carried with them not only
their beliefs in fairies but the ritual and
practices of their fairy-faith. Evidently they
did not think that in leaving Ireland they had
left the fairies behind. Wentz mentions the
fact that in 1909 a woman who was charged
at Tuam with watering milk swore that she
had added only the “three fairy drops.” It is
recorded that over a century ago this adding
oJ: the “fairy drops” was carried out by Irish
dairywomen in New South Wales. It is
possible even to-dav to find in the country
districts of Australia many instances of
superstitions derived from the fairy-faith,
though any conscious belief in fairies proper,
as apart from spooks and spirits generally, is
rare even amongst the million and a half or
two million Australians of Celtic descent.
DONALBAIN.
The Nobel Prize
It seems something in the nature of a
satiric jest that the Kaiser and Woodrow
Wilson should each have been awarded
the Peace prize founded by Alfred Nobel,
who himself amassed a fortune out of high
explosives. Since its innovation at the
beginning of this century the prize for
Literature has been awarded four times to
Germany, three times to France, twice to
Sweden and to Denmark, once each to Nor-
way, Spain, Poland, Italy, Belgium, India
and England. Rudyard Kipling is the only
English recipient. Swinburne and Mere-
dith died ivithout being chosen, and Thomas
Hardy, Joseph Conrad and John Masefield
have more substantial claims than some of
the previous prize-winners—Rudolf Eucken
and Tagore, for instance. The prizes for
1918 and 1919 were reserved for award in
1920. Ivnut Hamsun, a Norwegian novelist,
has recently received one, and there are still
two to be handed out. It is surely time
that the Swedish Academy turned its eyes
to England and posted its cheque to John
Masefield.
Ivnut Hamsun, the latest recipient, is a
man of 60 with about 20 novels to his credit,
of which three only have been translated
into English—“ Hunger,” “Pan” and “Growth
of the Soil.” He was born in Gudbrands-
dalen, and as a youth worked with a shoe-
maker. Twice he tried his fortune in
America, working on the Newfoundland Banks
as a fisherman. “Hunger” was originally
published in 1890: it is largely the semi-
delirious confessions of a man who has ex-
perienced w r eeks of starvation in the city.
The erratic fancies and bizarre impulses that
sway the mind of the starving journalist are
reminiscent of the half-mad Strindberg, who
chronicled his adventures in his book
“Legend.” Otto Weininger, the erotic genius
who wrote “Sex and Character,” has called
“Pan” the most beautiful novel ever written.
An „ extreme judgment, but “Pan” is ari
erratic and fascinating love-story set in the
lone forest-clad hills above a small fishing-
village. “Growth of the Soil” is patterned
with the maturity of a great creative artist.
It is the life-story of a sturdy Norwegian,
Isak, and a woman, Inger, whose hare-lip has
been a barrier to finding another man to live
with her. .It tells of the development of a
homestead in unfilled and uncleared tracts
of the rugged Norwegian mountains. Such
a tale of intimate humanity—the epic of its
magnitude, its steady strength and unhurry-
ing rhythm—is paralleled only in some of
the novels of Thomas Hardy and that im-
mortal book, “Sons and Lovers,” of D- H.
Lawrence.
R.S.E.
The Inky Way
“Boyd Cable”: You may cuss or bleas the
Northcliffe press as you please, but, on the whole,
it has been a very good friend to Australia. The
best booster of all the Harmsworthies is perhaps
Arthur Mee, editor of The Children’s News-
paper, My Magazine and other publications. Don’t
make any mistake about the value of the kiddies’
paper to Australia. It has a huge circulation,
and it is read with interest not only by the young-
sters but by their elders and parents, because it
puts in simple, untechnical language descriptions
and explanations of all sorts of little known or
abstruse subjects. Recently, for instance, there
was an article on the Burrinjuck Dam and all
it means to Australia, and a full-length double
column of photos illustrating the article (which
photos I’m glad to have had a hand in bringing
to the notice of Mr. Mee), and I’ll bet that there
are scores of thousands of people in this country
who have learned more from this pictured article
on irrigation work in Australia than ever they
dreamed of before. The C.N., by the way, is
unique in that it gives, no space whatever to adver-
tising, although space in it would be worth a very
large amount with its big circulation and wide
appeal. This ’Bidgee Dam article isn’t a solitary
one on Australia. Almost every week some of
the firm’s papers, and especially the C.N., devote
a lot, of space to Australia, and- —unlike many pub-
lications here—-the facts are written up by Aus-
tralians in London, or by others who know well
what they are talking of, and don’t make the
silly mistakes so unpleasantly common in writings
on the Commonwealth.
“To set more than one woman blushing at the
same moment is the worst thing that can befall a
man.”— Disraelian aphorism of Thomas Moult , a new
English novelist, in “Snow Over Elden.”
“Montalex”: Alice Grant Rosman (R.P.
20/l/’2l) illuminates a matter that has hitherto
kept me guessing. I hate often had sent to me
my own stories (from The Bulletin and else-
where) reproduced in various foreign newspapers
and magazines—generally without any acknowledg-
ment, occasionally, of course, with mention of the
publication the screed had been “lifted” from, and
only once with my name subjoined. The British
prints, though they stole my stuff, did not mess
it about, but the American editors “expanded” me
by interpolating a lot of matter that was not only
hopelessly out of the pfcture but was in itself
the sorriest of literary daubing. With several of
these editors I entered a protest. One replied that he
had only altered me to suit American readers, and
herewith was—whatever it may have been. Another
"ith the important exception of
the herewith. ’ A third explained that the very
compactness of the story had compelled him to
spin me out.
Admiral Sims, of the U.S. Navy, in his new book,
The victory at Sea,” quotes as a huge joke “the
famous remark of the Australians about the Ameri-
can soldier, ‘A good fighter, but a little rough.’”
If any Australian critic in France ever did say
this, it probably meant that in his opinion the
recently-arrived Yanks bad not yet learned the
finer points of their job. But they themselves took
it as meaning an absence of all kid-gloved methods
and the charge of being “rough” was much quoted
—t)ueen Mary is named as being specially amused
by it —the Australians themselves, says Sims, being
“perhaps the most ferocious combatants on the
Western Front.”
Hobart World is shifting its newspaper plant
from the mid-Collias-street site into its job-printing
premises lower down the street, contiguous to the
locality formerly known as “Wapping.” The old
stand (leased when .Tack Nettlefold started the
Gaily Post a dozen years ago) is wanted by the
owner for “closer settlement.” The place was
never roomy enough for a daily paper, anyway, and
the Daily Post-World has earned the hearty objur-
gations of a long procession of pressmen as the
most incommodious newspaper office in the Common-
wealth.
“S.T.S.”: A new writer who has not made much
impression on Australia yet is Beatrice Chase, whose
novels are having a tremendous vogue in England.
Admirers call her the Marie Corelli of the West
Country. Her name is really Olive Katharine Parr,
and she lives on Dartmoor, which she uses freely in
her stories; there are at least 20 already, some of
them in their 50th thousand. Also she is herself
the heroine of an Oxenham novel. As one critic
says, “Think of it if Hall Caine had written a novel
called ‘My Lady of Stratford on Avon,’ and had
presented, in it, all the literary and social activities
of the author of ‘Barabbas’ to a gaping world.
This is precisely what Mr. Oxenham has done for
Beatrice Chase in ‘My Lady of the Moor.’ ”
“N.F.P.” (Burtville, W.A.) : Tn a Red Page review
(B 6/1/ 21) of two recent works on the eucalyptus
a statement is quoted that “the habitat of the scarlet
flowering-gum is only 400 acres in the south of
Westralia, and much finer specimens are to be found
in cultivation than'in the tree’s native wilds.” If
the man who wrote that will come to Burtville (it
is about 400 miles inland) and make a five-day
trip with me eastwards to the spinifex belt, I
will show him miles of country where this beautiful
tree grows and blooms in profusion after heavy
rains. They were a sight for the gods in Christmas
week when I came in, as also were Roses of the West,
which grow much nearer in and were worth a
long day’s journey to see.


Send Your Wool
to
WinchcombeCarson
A BRIGHT SIGN IN A BRACK
OUTLOOK.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
WOOLBROKERS,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
DICKS
TRADE
MARK
More Power-Less
Worry—Lower Cost
Good belting should give you these three
things—Dick’s Original Balata Belting does.
The composition of balata gum and specially-
selected cotton wears longer; lowers your
operating cost; the quality is so good you’d
buy Dick’s Belting for that alone.
Write us NOW for Price List.
SOLE AGENTS:
JAMESHARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phono 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
They are reliable.
The satisfactory service obtained
from genuine B.S.A. Fittings is a
point wbicb has gained the approval
of thousands of experienced riders
whose appreciation is one of the
most valuable proofs of quality and
reliability. Comfort and long service
are the chief features of all models.
Be sure you get a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
B.S.A.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Catalogue and
particulars post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
mm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <shaJ> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZING CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the British Board, of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WLTII CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
IT WILL (lAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
GREY, with light binding,
From
ir
m
%
&
314 George Street (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
V
/
(
M
G decided preference of
hat-conscious men for a
STETSON Hat is but
natural —its lustrous,
elegant appearance and
smartness of style is proof of
good taste, whilst STETSON
famous wearing quality is
evidence of sound judgment.
Wear a STETSON-it will add
to your personality.
Sole Australasian Agents
P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD-
Sydney. N.S.W.
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
LEATHER
WASTE POWER MEANS WASTE MONET.
Every manufacturer knows that in the majority of power plants there is considerable wastage,
owing to leakage in transmission. Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting eliminates this.
It is scientifically prepared to grip the pulleys snugly; it is strong, durable, economical —a
record-breaker even under the most trying conditions. Mangrovite Beltings, which are now
being sold at reduced prices, are made from selected hides, tanned by a special process which
gives elasticity and wear-resistance. Let our engineers advise you.
MANGROVITE- BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Cibbe, Bright & Co. Ltd., Fremantle.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd.,
Victoria & Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co- Melbourne.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Broker”: I’ve just concluded the job of
dissecting the trade returns of a wine and
spirit firm for the past six years. The turn-
over was a few pounds short of half-a-million,
and the bad debts were only £129, of which
£l6 was recovered. A leading auditor assures
me that in all his experience of wholesalers
doing business on credit he has never known
the like.
* * * *
“First Caul”: Though you never see them
quoted in the daily papers there is a market
in Sydney to day, as in most big ports, for
cauls. The old belief that a man who owns
a caul will never be drowned dies hard
amongst shellbacks, and some will pay as
much as £5 for a good specimen. In some
parts of the world women’s hospitals earn
an honest and much-needed penny by the
sale of cauls not really needed by ' their
original owners. Some believers in cauls
hold that they are a guarantee against violent
death by land as well as by sea.
* * * #
“Xela” : When the liner Pays de Waes, the
latest addition to the fleet of the Royal Bel-
gian Lloyd, steamed down the Scheldt, en
route to Brazil with the eldest son of the
King of the Belgians aboard, a knot of Aus-
tralians at Antwerp exclaimed : “Why it’s the
old Indarra!” And so it was. The A.U.S.N
Company’s Indarra was a 10,000-tonner, and
one of the most palatial steamers ever seen in
these waters, but a credulous public would
have none of her. Even some alleged seamen
helped to. launch ridiculous rumors as to the
“topheaviness” and “unseaworthiness” of the
beautiful vessel, and as a consequence she
rarely had a full passenger-list even at times
when inferior rivals had everv berth occupied.
After carrying the Belgian Prince to Brazil
the maligned craft is to take back King
Albert and his Queen on the conclusion of
their South American tour. Long may the
good old ship run—but we are not likely to
see her equal in the Australian service for
many a day.
“Dido” : A new procurator has put in an
appearance in Melbourne, inspired by the
tragic inability of people to get servants. She
is a registrar without a registry, or perma-
nent abode, or expensive premises of any
sort. Her plan is to call on any house-
wife advertising for a servant, and to under-
take to procure an Annie for a given re-
ward, usually two guineas. Housewives
willing to give two guineas to get a good
general into the house are fairly numerous.
The proctor then sets herself to work to
seduce a servant from some other establish-
ment, sharing the reward with the willing
Biddy. Apparently she has a staff of ser-
vants running in with her, and the fact that
she has got you a girl this week is no
guarantee that she will not hook her out
next Tuesday. Furthermore she is prepared
to deal at once with the lady whose domestic
she has enticed away, guaranteeing to supply
her with a reliable Anne for the sum of £2
25., C.O.D. Two families in St. Kilda, after
comparing notes and maids, have discovered
that four guineas paid jointly to the peri-
patetic agent resulted merely in an exchange
of servants between the two households.
An Adelaide fortune-telling prosecution has
had the effect of showing that police-women
are really quite human. The defence of the
“Madame” in the dock was that she really
believed in her own powers, and gave clients
correct statements and valuable advice. The
police-woman who had posed as a client told
how she had received advice about one “boy”
who was not satisfactory and another who
wmild be more so; and she admitted that the
tacts as existing tallied fairly well with the
advice. But the Bench found the whole thing
illegal, whether accurate or not.
“Ex-Dig.”: This disrespectful letter was
brought by the postman to a well-known
Federal Department recently :
Dear Mr. Repat,—l want yous to know that it
is no use youse asking me to pay back my lone, as
1 havernt a fether to fly with, and if I did yous
wouldn t get it. I only had six monce substance
from yous, and then I got nocked back. Then I
applid for a bike to do the backblox on, an’ after
a lot of trubble yous gave me an old boneshaker T
could only pawn for ten bob. Insted of me doing the
bakblox the bakblox has done me. I trid the local
Repat for some dough, an’ they said they would
have to refer to you, wich I call ded meen, becos I
know you will nock me back again. So I’m going
to Vic. to give it a fly. I rekkon the gratitude to
solders is not what it’s craked up to be.
It’s a mournful fact that when the wanderer
“gives it a fly” in Vic. he will find his record
known over there and be “nocked back” still
further.
* * * *
The directors of a big Adelaide timber co.
have had the unusual experience of finding
themselves all in a police court to answer
the charge made by a smaller co. of “having
had in their possession 770 palings reason-
ably suspected to have been unlawfully
obtained.” The prosecution showed without
difficulty that the palings had been landed
from a ship and conveyed to a yard which
didn’t own them, and the defence was merely
that “there could not be a conviction unless
it was proved that a servant received goods
with the knowledge or instruction of the
master.” The Bench said that the defen-
dants had no “conscious knowledge” of what
had been done, but added that “the trouble
had arisen through their stupid mismanage-
ment of their business.” Information dis-
missed, but no costs allowed.
MELBOURNE’S CHANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Cabled that large numbers of old-type London
omnibuses are being shipped to Melbourne.
Old England has a pretty wit,
What better joke than this?
It sends shiploads of ’buses here,
The more we get the more, it’s clear,
We’ll have the chance to miss.
VICTORIA.
FILM UP.


Willard
A battery that is months
old when you buy it has
months less of life in it
when put on your car.
The Still Better Willard
Battery is shipped “bone
dry” and is brand new
when you buy it. It is
the only battery with
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation.
Ifan* §§Bj
•Ull* l ' uZaSQr
STORAGE
BATTERY


nxou
he largest selling
quality pencil in.
the world
Y/ENUS
V PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Standards & & Hospital
BffitftaiDY'
Jr.
•>- ... s«scs»^*' v -
r«v:-'i,-,v»i'" —s»?* .«ss<r..
gp#^
|e
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
ttzMcoC
vim-mu
The New Idea
in Summer Underwear
“Keepkool” is the
healthy man’s un-
derwear. Made
from absorbent
long staple cotton,
it is both ribbed
and porous ensur-
ing fullest comfort
throughout the hot
summer months.
SOLD BY
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS, Sydney and Melbourne
" KEEPKOOL ” for COMFORT
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
1%
A
p<
11.
-J
r_3
—i FfTTn^:
a.- y^r^S^s
<uUi
r^3CKa^
-dfflJb,
503Cb(§1R/^
>*<*g
i
K*l>«d Subject
JOHNSOHUOH
Pacini wii
*+
Just
Like New
ANY housewife can easily
XjLkeep her home clean
and bright by devoting a
little attention to her furniture, woodwork, floors and
linoleum. All they need is an occasional application of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. This cleans, polishes and pro-
tects the finish, adding years to its life and beauty.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a hard, dry, glasslike
polish of great beauty and durability. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches —preserves the varnish—and
prevents checking and cracking.
i
ii in
Liquid and Paste
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil consequently it
does not gather or hold the dust and it never becomes soft
or sticky in the hottest weather or from the heat of the
body. It will quickly and permanently remove that bluish,
cloudy appearance from your piano and mahogany furniture.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made in liquid form as well
as paste. Use paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile, lino-
leum, etc. We advise the liquid for polishing furniture,
woodwork, leather goods, etc.
A Dust-Proof Auto Polish
Automobile owners will find Johnson’s Liquid Wax the
most satisfactory polish for their cars. It sheds water and
dust and makes a "wash” last twice as long. Protects and
preserves the varnish. Write for our folder on "Keeping
Your Car Young”— it’s free.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WHY ASK?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Only foolish people who know nothing of animals
and little of God’s ways ask whether the ass really
spoke.” —Dean Talbot in St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Why should you ask 1 Not faith but open hearing
Has long convinced us that this thing is so.
Now, while I write, a thousand throats are clearing
To bray of matters that they do not know.
Long is the note. The solemn intimation—
Hee (much right-thinking given gratis), haw!—
Eager to spread the last misinformation,
Still works the grand crescendo of the jaw.
Knowledge of animals! God’s ways 1 The fairway
Of human hope is cumbered with the row —
There are five asses on the office-stairway
And all are coming to address me now.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
“Fitzhenry”: For initiative the Austra-
lian town kid is not far behind his bush cob-
ber, as witness one Hot Socks who stamps
and posts letters for 15s. a week in
a Sydney commercial house. An important
letter to another firm not arriving at its
destination within a reasonable time, the
manager charged Hot Socks with not post-
ing it. H.S. emerged from the manager’s
office, all confusion and scarlet. Two
minutes later he was rubbing a candle-end
over a stamped envelope, and confiding to
a brother-slave: “This letter’s a week old.
but no one’ll know—the postmark won’t
show on a greasy envelope.”
“The Wanderer” : The old wooden cell that
accommodated Jimmy Governor, the abo.
bushranger, at \Vingham police-station,
Manning River, (N.5.W.),. is now used as
an office by the sergeant of police, who hails
from the back o’ Bourke. Jimmy was
captured at Bobin, some miles from Wing-
ham, and his entry into the enraptured
township eclipsed any reception ever wit-
nessed on the Upper Manning. We have
had various Governors along at different
times, but Jimmy was the Governor of
Governors. His name, as he wrote it him-
self, is still on one of the panels df the
lockup cell at Wingham. Taree and Wing-
ham used to be savagely jealous of one an-
other, and it is recorded that Taree wept
copiously because Jimmy was incarcerated
at Wingham instead of Taree.
“W. Beer”: When the new C.O. took
charge he ordered a full parade in marching
order. The battalion cursed volubly and
made surreptitious visits to the Q.M., whose
offsider was willing, for a small considera-
tion, to replace a torn haversack or make
up one’s full issue of “ammo.,” but Bill, the
cook’s mate, seemed beyond his purchased aid.
Bill hadn’t been on a parade for months, and
was in a desperate plight. We fixed him up
with gear, gave his rifle a clean and scrubbed
the handle of his entrenching-tool, which had
been used to poke the fire and stir up stew,
but when the company was marching to join
the rest of the battalion Greasy was a wor-
ried man. “I hope the ole blanker don’t
fix bayonets,” he whispered, “I broke mine
splinterin’ wood.” Drops began to fall, but
the G.O. was wearing a raincoat, and the
first order he gave was “Feex baynits.”
Pompously he strutted along the ranks, fol-
lowed by a string of officers and n.c.o.’s, and
then he came to Bill. “What’s this?”
thundered the C.O. “What do you mean
by this awful turn-out, my man? What do
you use this for?” indicating the fractured
bayonet. “Close quarters, sir,” replied the
fed-up Bill. There was a strangled chuckle
in Bill’s neighborhood, and the parade was
called off. “Take ’em away,” howled the
C. 0.; “take ’em away and bring ’em back
when they look like soldiers.”
“0.K.” puts a conundrum :
Wliat is an industry, anyhow? Most of the hard-
faced citizens of Melbourne are complaining that
horse-racing has been a paralysed industry these
last few weeks, owing to stoppage of special race
trains for hopeful punters, wealthy owners and the
crowd that “lives on the game.” Speaking as an
unhopeful punter myself I never thought I was a sup-
porter of local industry when I tried to pick winners.
Cock-fighting of old never ranked as an industry,
though breeders and trainers of gamecocks made a busi-
ness of it, and proprietors of cockpits employed door-
keepers and chuckers-out. One way and another
quite a lot of labor and capital are employed in
the boxing business, and probably boxing does more
for the culture of able-bodied humans than the turf,
so called, does for the improvement of the breed of
serviceable horses and ponies—especially ponies.
Every form of sport or athletic exercise is an
industry in the racing man’s sense of the term —not
so big an industry as the turf, but less open to
question as a public benefit.
Seems to me that of all the open-air, or indoor,
sports that sinful man is likely to have an occa-
sional bet on, horse-racing does a larger proportion
of direct harm, and a smaller amount of indirect good,
than any other —not excepting card-playing, which
goes to maintain the “purity of the home,” not-
withstanding gambling at the club and in the bar-
parlor of the pub. As a wealth-productive source
of employment horse-racing doesn’t count any more
than the stage or card-playing: as an entertainment
for artless sightseers it - has but the one recommen-
dation of being as breezy and active a form of
physical exercise as golf—or more so. As a mental
exercise it is viewed with alarm by parents and
guardians in ordinary, disapproved of by wives as
a rule, and d —d all over the place by wowsers. On
the other hand horseracing is the pride, the glory
and the sole support of bookmakers, jockeys, trainers,
touts, whisperers and caretakers of courses. Also it
contributes to the upkeep of gatemen, card-sellers,
cloak-room attendants and journeymen bar-tenders
and waitresses, most of whom could live just as
well without the Sport of Kinks.
A meeting of bookmakers’clerks occurred in Melbourne
the other day, serving as an unintended reminder
to political economists that hundreds of remarkably
clear-headed and quick-calculating young men waste
their days in pencilling for social parasites. Among
all the folk enumerated there are none who produce
aught to the enrichment of the State. Nothing that
is manufactured for the racing “industry” can com-
pare for possible usefulness, i.e., the welfare of the
community, with the manufacture of cricketing
material. If we are to call horse-racing an industry
I bracket it with musical-comedy production and the
supply of restaurant suppers for the wealthy, which
last-named industries furnish unwholesome food for
mind and body respectively. The turf, the Tivoli,
and the tummy-pamperer—these three. And the least
defensible of these is the turf. I have always been
an enthusiastic adherent of horse-racing, and now I
regard it as the last vice a man should cling to after
his digestion goes. But I have no social, moral or
industrial illusions about it.


<?£
xt
“A Mortgage on More Miles, with 100 per cent Security.”
The Pennsylvania Rubber Company voluntarily GUARANTEES V.C. Tyres to be positively SKID-PROOF,
because exhaustive trials have proved them so to be.
Unsolicited testimonials from prominent Australian Motorists strikingly substantiate the assurance that V.C.
Tyres Secure a Car Safety in Slippery Situations.
“V.C.” SUPER-QUALITY epitomises Economy—it gives you “a mortgage on more miles”—it keeps your
tyre bill down to the “lowest possible.”
V.C. TYRES ARE NOT HIGH-PRICED.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LIMITED,
Sole Agents in New South Wales,
George Street, Sydney.
ELIZA TINSLEY PROPRIETARY LTD.,
Sole Agents for Victoria and Tasmania,
644 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


SUFFERED WITH
ITCHY PIMPLES
On Face. Very Red And In-
flamed. Cuticnra Heals.
“I suffered severely with pimples
on my face for a period of four months.
The pimples were in blotches
and they came to a head and
were very itchy. I felt as if
I could have scratched them
to pieces and they were very
red and inflamed.
“Reading the Cuticura ad-
vertisement I resolved to give thr/-n a
trial and sent for a free sample. Vhey
eased them so that I bougfv: more
Soap and Ointment and I wav nealed.”
(Signed) Mrs. FlorenceCraig,Bs Flem-
ington Rd., North Melbourne, Vic.
You may rely on Cuticura Soap
and Ointment to care for your skin.
Use for everyday toilet purposes
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- Sc 3/-
•5 \
n ■
w
><u,
m
>~S^
c yu».
- u <r
>?•
Wt
SS><
c%
AO?
VCTSi
to. 0-
1\
~;K>
a \i?
rLv-Ms
« A-Cv^fei^T’o-
LJ
7ENOBIA
Like an echo of the Bower
scented breezes from English
gardens comes the fragrance of
Zenobia Perfumes.
They faithfully reproduce the
sweetness of favourite old-world
blossoms. Zenobia are thedaintiest
and most charmmg perfumes the
fastidious woman can find. Delicate,
yet lasting; elusive yet di.-tinc-
tive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are :
Zenobia Lily of the Valley
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
Zenobia Night Scented Stock
Prepared only bv ZENOBIA LT D.
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
livery flower faith-
fully reproduced.
All Chemists & Stores.
Australian Representa-
tive :
K. BUCKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
[1
if.
f ' s '''\
ms .;i
br
wr
to
rvvft
sS?
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
tftfi
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Aliy Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
m
m
n
CONTINUOUS STAVE
1
3
Section of 12in. dia. “Pioneer”
Wood Stave Pipe, re-laid after 10
years’ service at Geelong- by the
Geelong Waterworks and Sewerage
Trust, Geelong, Victoria.
An extract from the Sydney Morning
llerald, da.ted January 26, 1921, proves the
vital importance of an adequate and reliable
water supply. A sawmill was burned down
in Bathurst, and the officers in charge of
the fire brigade gave evidence at the inquiry
that the “pressure of water from the street
main was so poor as to be useless, and the
mains were corroded so badly that a nomi-
nally six-inch pipe would do the work of only
a two- or three-inch one.” The magistrate
stated that the position was most serious,
and should be brought under the notice of the
authorities.
THE CARRYING CAPACITY OF
“PIONEER” WOOD PIPE is from 15 to
20 per cent, greater than that of metal pipe,
and, not being subject .to rust or corrosion,
this capacity remains constant.
Send for Illustrated
BooKlet.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
NEW SOUTH WALES.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Pries - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
WAN OT
t* *l
SWAN
INK
USE
Swan INK
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safely Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
/
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
THe All/
British.
SlTMTtffi
ard
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car has fulfilled
every demand expected of it. It
has unusual power, and is especially
economical in running costs.
2 and 4-Sea ters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street,
SYDNEY.
m
'
-
M
“Blue Forms": We were absorbed in the
transcriptions that earn our fortnightly
stipends, and didn’t notice the arrival of the
two printers’ men with the stationery till
one of them dropped a bundle on the floor.
Our pained looks of interrogation and sur-
prise caused his pal to admonish the offen-
der. “Be careful, Bill,” he whispered
hoarsely, “you’ll wake ’em up!”
M. 11. Bottoms, who has been promoted to
the new job of Secretary of Education (Vic.),
entered the service as a junior clerk a little
over 25 years ago. An old Bendigo boy, he
used to walk miles to school after complet-
ing a primary course, being determined to
matriculate. Beginning as private secretary,
Bottoms is now at the head of the adminis-
trative (clerical) staff".
The Rev. Octavius Lake, writing his re-
miniscences in Adelaide Register, enlivens
his memories of Exeter Hall, London, and
evangelical teaching, with a touch unusual —
in print, at any rate—for Methodist ministers,
lie says, without apology or even inverted
commas, that “the cynics of that day did
their dam’dest to prevent the young men of
London from yielding to such influences.”
How is this for a model for the social
reporter of to-day?—
He was wise enough to delay the definite pro-
posal of marriage for some weeks, until, on August
2, I :554, in her grandfather’s garden, they gave
then selves to each other, she with her adoring heart
and ;weet face framed in the curls that fell on ea(h
side of it, he with his clear eye, swift brain, high
collar, white tie and protruding tooth.
It is from the “Life of Rev. C. H. Spurgeon,”
by W. G. Fullerton.
The Vic. Government’s natural desire to
close Melbourne Gaol (almost within the
heart of the city) and. turn the site to pro-
fitable account is just as naturally opposed
by the legal profession, not to mention the
police. Interviewing prisoners on remand,
or about to be tried, is legal business, and the
shifting of these clients to Pentridge, where
only convicted persons have been housed
hitherto, will inconvenience members of the
opposition. But Pentridge is easily reached
by motor-car, and it would pay the Govern-
ment handsomely to “shout” motors for the
lawyers rather than preserve the gloomy,
straggling old gaol in its present valuable
position. The premises where Deeming was
hanged must go, sooner or later.
“Orwell” : Sam had been arrested by the
military police half an hour later than the
time marked on his pass, just as he was
returning to the unit. After that Jacks on
duty in the vicinity were assaulted nightly,
not brutally, but sufficiently to have their
sick-parade slins marked “ex duty” the fol-
lowing day. Sam was the culprit. He
explained to me confidentially that he had
gone out the first night to get a little of his
own back, but the sport was so good that he
had continued it as a hobby. His practice
was to ambush himself in a dark doorway
and step out in front of the first isolated
enemy that approached. He was met, as
expected, with a request for a pass. His
reply to this demand brought forth an arrest-
ing hand which provoked Sam’s fist to leap
out suddenly with the force of a horse’s
hind hoof. But Samuel’s nocturnal activi-
ties came to an abrupt and bloody end one
particularly dark night. As the familiar
outlines of peaked cap and Tommy coat hove
in sight he hopped out of his porch and
passed the usual greetings. They were
accepted as an invitation, and soon blood
freely sprinkled the snow. In the tenth
round it dawned on Sam that he was
getting walloped, and about the fifteenth he
went down and out. When he recovered his
: senses he found that the administrator of
the anaesthetic had dragged him under a
street lamp and was rubbing snow over his
face as a reviver. As Sam gazed into the
battered face above him astonishment half
froze the words on his lips. “’Struth,” he
whispered, “the C. 0.!” “Private B ,”
said the Colonel, straightening himself, “you
are under arrest for striking your superior
officei’.”
“Wodgil” : The engaging admission of a
Sydney tout or foxer that about a hundred
members of his modern and dishonorable
profession find light and congenial employ-
ment in Centennial Park is another proof of
the superior civilisation of the Big City.
For disciplinary reasons it has been denied
that there is a touts’ union—free and
accepted bag-snatchers are not going to let
the minions of the plutocratic press know
what’s what —but it may be stated without
any breach of confidence that one is on the
way. Indeed the separation of those who
spy on park lovers into gangs of “day-siders”
and “night-workers” is so significant that he
who runs —this phrase has no professional
•application—may read. But the ambitions
of the leading chevaliers d’industrie soar
beyond the formation of a paltry local craft
union. They dream of an ail-Australian
organisation—a real Foxers’ Federation—
with a basic wage for the continent, a 30-
hour week and special rates for Sundays and
overtime. I am betraying no secret when
I say that a conference will be held shortly
in one of the Sydney parks to discuss the
subject, and that the agenda-paper includes
the following resolutions among others:—
That this conference is uncompromisingly opposed
to all forms of militarism, particularly the police
force.
That the Irish Republic be recognised forthwith.
Patagonia for the Patagonians.
Nationalisation of the means of production, dis-
tribution and exchange.
That the ' minimum wage be one vanity-bag an
hour. Overtime, double rates, or as agreed between
tout and Romeo.
No dilution of labor except on moonless summer
nights, when each member of the union shall be
allowed one (1) offsider.
A six-hour day and a five-day week. Sunday
spooning to be prohibited by law.
No pair of al fresco lovers to be allowed more
than one hour. Any couple exceeding the limit to
pay penalty rates as aforesaid, and find the-foxer
in beer and sandwiches.
Any member found guilty of blacklegging to be
compelled to go to work.
Other motions equally interesting relate to
the provision of smoke-o and free night-
glasses_ and a proposal for the adoption of
the Third Internationale. But the foregoing
will suffice to show what the foxers are
doing to resist the encroachments of a
nefarious capitalistic system upon their hard-
w’on rights.


Amusements.
Harry Richards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Tivoli theatue, Sydney.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
*|"IVOLI THEATUE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Hugh D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
Matinfies every Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Plan at Glen’s.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26.
HIS LADY FRIENDS.
PALACE.
WELCOME, STRANGER.
JOHN D. O’HARA
and
JULES JORDAN.
Allan vv ilk i e shakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
GRAND OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
CHANGE EVERY EVENING, SEE DAILY PRESS.
Plans at Nash’s and the Grand Opera House.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
18 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N I O N PIC T U IS E Til E A T U E S
u
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 26.
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
BABY BUNTING.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE GIGANTIC FAIRY PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
FRANCESCA BERTINI in
COUNTLESS SARAH,
and
HARRY CAREY in
RIDERS OF THE LAW.
Prices as usual.
For Sale.
Freehold Timber Land for Sale
in British North Borneo.
2000 or 3000 acres of Good Timber Land
for Sale.
THIS land has a good stand of timber to
the acre, including a large quantity of
the well-known Borneo hardwood “BIL-
LION.” The land when cleared of timber
would be ideal for the cultivation of Rubber,
and is situated about 25 miles from Sanda-
kan, being easy of aecess by launch. Trans-
port would present little difficulties. All
jungle is virgin, there being no secondary
growth. For full particulars apply to
BARLOW & CO., Singapore.
Barbed wire. English, 12-gauge,
Black, 35/6; Galvanised, 54/6 cwt.
Delivered rail, boat, Sydney. About 3 tons
of each. BOX 17, ROZELLE P.O.
Missing Friends.
THE Mr. DANEHY of the Goldfields
who advertised for his family in the
Boston Post, of Boston, Mass., U.S.A., in
or around 1912. will hear something inter-
esting by communicating with ,7. J. Danehy,
48 East 48th Street, Bayonne, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
SULLIVAN. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM SULLIVAN, native of Toowoomba, late
of Mount Morgan, last heard of living at Edith Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, please communicate to S.A., this
office.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Amusements.
IyjA.JICSTIC THEATRE, AIEJ.BOC KNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
GABY DESLYS in
THE GOD OF LUCK.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUJI,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y| ELISA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD and SKI.ZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Session*.
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. i Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays,
Tariff from i 6- per Jay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Auction Sale.
To Malsters, Grain Merchants, Produce
Companies and Others.
FOR SALE
BY PUBLIC AUCTION.
THE MALTING AND
BREWING PREMISES
SITUATED AT BLACK GULLY, TOOWOOMBA,
about ONE MILE from TOOWOOMBA RAILWAY
STATION.
Also
THE AUXILIARY PREMISES, SITUATED
AT WARWICK, opposite the RAILWAY STATION.
Under instructions from MESSRS. WILLIAM JONES
AND SONS, LIMITED, ENGLAND, DALGETY AND
COMPANY, LIMITED, WILL OFFER FOR SALE
AT AUCTION,
At the Alexandra Hall, Toowoomba,
on
TUESDAY, 15th MARCH, 1921,
At 11 o’clock,
The Well-built, Extensive and Up-to-date Malting and
Brewing Premises, situated at Black Gully, Toowoom-
ba, with all Machinery, Engines, complete Malting
Plant, Fittings, etc. The Buildings comprise Malt
House, containing Two Cement Malting Floors,
Barley Grading Floor, fitted with Plants for Grading
and Cleaning both Barley and Wheat. Also Malt
Store, Brewery Premises, Manager’s Residence of
Sixteen Rooms, Men’s Quarters (Ten Rooms).
The Premises at Warwick comprise:—
Brick Building, containing Malting Floor, Annexe
with Kiln and Furnaces attached, and Receiving
Room; also Engine, Implements and Plant.
Full particulars and terms and order to inspect
may be obtained from
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
TOOWOOMBA, BRISBANE, and all Branches.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ml
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVE ft LEY PEN.”
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
If you appreciate a good
Cigar, the “Club Reil”
ia worth a trial.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
TAN MILITARY BOOT
ALL SOLID
LEATHER.
Strongly Made from the Best Materials on the Good-fitting
Military Last.
The Three-Decker Soles being Brass Riveted, Sprigged and Sewn
on Edge.
Our Guarantee with Every Pair. Money Refunded if Not Satisfied.
Every Genuine Pair Stamped with Our Name on the Sole.
Add 1/- Exchange on Cheques.
Youths’ Sizes, 2 to 5, 19/-
MEN’S SIZES, 5 to 10, 22/-
Men’s Size* ll’s .... 23/-
Slen’s Size, 12’s .... 25/6
SERVICE SHOE CO.
Queen’s Parade,
Clifton Hill, VIC.
POST
FREE.
m
m
i
The problem
of perfeet
music in the
home solved
at last.
“What instrument shall I
buy?” That’s been your
question, and the New Edison
tone-test has answered it. The tone-test has unquestionably
proved that in
The NEW EDISON
an instrument has finally been perfected which absolutely Re-creates the
artist’s voice or musical instrument —Re-creates it with the same expression
and feeling that appeals to your emotions.
Write for details and illustrated literature, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
a
■z
ABBEY
SHOES!
Footwear that combines the qualities that
make for the utmost in distinction and
smartness. Their stylish shape lasts as
long as they are worn.
The illustration depicts a particularly
attractive Glace Kid Derby Bal., of special
quality, leather lined, which we stock in
full sizes. C, D and E Fittings.
PRICE 63/-
Also in Box Calf Derby 47/6
Tan Calf Derby 63/-
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR INTERESTING
CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitf. Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If you arts looking
for low prices —
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY!
Write to-day for
BIG SALE BOOK
Finney’s Pay the Carriage
FINNEY’S
“ Drapers of Queensland ”
BRISBANE
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and JSavy men.
TTspd since 1 506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Out West
Watches
y\ m /
ruuuc
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
Steel la-jewelled Lever
Watch, 84/-
Our celebrated super “Fx and R” Watches are
the BEST for Out-West Districts.
The movements are J-plate Levers.
They have brequet overcoil balance, springs.
They have 15 jewels, with jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust- and water-
proof.
They are specially- made to stand
HARD RIDING AND KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: Ihe
watch has kept excellent time, stood hard rid-
ing, buekjumping horses, and all sorts of
weather. I don’t think a better watch can be
got.”
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Fisures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.


Italian Wines.
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor.
Gold Medals,
Dondon and
other
exhibitions. ‘
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
6^
YG
BOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
DTi
Swift
ra| asia n Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney!]
BOSTOCK’S ——The Ideal Liquid Dressing for
White Shoeware.
A perfect white—and does not rub off. It is quickly
applied, dries almost instantly, and makes the shoes
like
new.
0
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesties Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “His Lady Friends”
1 alack . “Welcome Stranger '
■Tivoli “The Lilac Domino”
Grand Opera House Shakspearean Plays
Hoyt's ; Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Baby Bunting”
Royal “ine Maid of the Mountains ’
Tivoli “Chu chill Chow’’
Princess’s “Cinderella”
Hoyt’s Du Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba .Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Gi.aciaripm Dancing
—♦
At Sydney Opera House on Saturday
night “Macbeth” unwound -its tragic coils
belore an audience that sat stiff with horror
from the first cracked whistle of Plmnpton
Wilson’s voice as the First Witch. Wilkie’s
Macbeth, necessarily lacking the subtlety of
his Hamlet and the stateliness of his Shy-
lock, stands out a figure of ruthless strength
until conscience makes a coward of him.
The old wonder-speeches lost none of their
thrill in his delivery of them, and there
was so much action in the duel between
Macbeth and Macduff that it must have
reduced the star’s avoirdupois by a pound
or two in the sweltering heat of Saturday
night. As Lady Macbeth, Miss Hunter-
Watts seemed to imaginative persons to
drop gouts of blood from her tongue in
place of words. In the sleep-walking act
she made her moan with impressive realism.
Robert I’urdie’s Macduff was an excellent
piece of work; indeed, the whole cast
deserves special and individual diplomas of
merit. Macduff’s little son prattled his lines
charmingly, and Lorna Forbes, as the wife
Macduff left behind him, was such a grace-
ful creature that the whole house dropped
a tear over her untimely demise.
* si: *
“Patience” was staged amidst tremendous
enthusiasm at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on
Saturday night, and it will be replaced
amid more enthusiasm by “The Mikado”
on next Saturday night. And, to turn from
the more or less sublime to the, at any rate,
partially, ridiculous, “The Mikado” will pre-
sently give way to one of those immortal
works in which the scenic artist collaborates
with the man who writes the syncopated
music of the U.S.A. Iu brief, the panto
looms, and its title this year is “Humpty
Dumpty.”
* * #
That infallible barometer the box-office
indicates no change in public appreciation
of .“The Lilac Domino” at Sydney Tivoli.
Rene Maxwell, Jamieson Dodds, ivy Shil-
ling, George Gee and Hugh Steyne continue
to merit whatever the management pays
them, and capital minor work is done by
Gaston Mervale and Marie La Yarre.
At Sydney Palace Jules Jordan and J. D.
O’Hara are still modernising Little Valley,
New England, in spite of itself. They have
been doing it nightly (and at matinees)
since the first day of 1021. and Sydney is
still sufficiently interested to demand eight
performances'weekly: at post-war rates.
“Baby Bunting” has left Sydney Criterion,
and on Saturday night Joseph Coyne faces
an Australian audience for the first time.
“His Lady Friends,” which is the comedy he
has selected for the occasion, is particularly
suited to his light touch and delicate humor.
“ CINDERELLA ,” AT MELBOURNE
PRINCRESS'S.
The musical director sings a song.
At Melbourne Tivoli, where “Chu Chin
Chow” proceeds as usual, there is talk of
Workman returning to his Ali Baba job
for the 100th performance, which happens
this week or thereabouts. In two or three
of the many scenes where Ali looms large
the difference between Workman and his
understudy is severely felt, and the win-
someness of the new Marjanah is only slight
compensation for the loss. Still, her fresh
young topnote in the starlight inset scene is
a distinct gain to the show.
:|t *
At Melbourne Royal the original “Maid
of the Mountain,” recovered from her sore
throat, is warbling perhaps a trifle more
artistically than before. To say that Gladys
Moncrieff’s voice is even better than her
previous best, and that she gets more light
and shade into her acting of the wilful young
worshipper of Baldasarre, is to suggest that
Chisholm, as first lieutenant of the pirate
band, might also improve himself in his part.
True, he wears a horribly uninspiring uni-
form in the second act. Whereas Baldasarre
receives an uplift from his vice-regal clothes
Beppo must wince at his own reflection in
the mirror. He can’t help his green outfit,
of course. The cut of the pants is not Chis-
holm’s fault. But what he can help is hit
piercingly nasal tone and want of refinement
in diction. A brigand with grand-opera
aspirations, like Beppo, ought to be think-
ing of his accent and his elocution all the
time.
To-moribw (Friday) sees the last of
"Humpty Dumpty” at Melbourne Majesty’s
—a good specimen of panto, with a bad
title and a painful pretence of a plot. Dur-
ing this last week Maggie Dickinson, who
plays the part of a mere agile interloper
with poetry in her toes, is glorified in the
<#dvt., and the dances she danced before the
Prince are new features of the show. For
these are Maggie’s final appearances in Mel
bourne prior to her wedding trip to England.
Already the understudies have had a matinee
gallop in the shoes, so to speak, of Miss
Dickinson and Sidney Culver. The male
Successor in each case was Macpherson, ye
ken, whilst Josie Melville partnered him in
two dances, and Lucy Sullivan in the other
one. When the panto goes the gap will
be easily filled by Dorothy Brunton and
“Baby Bunting,” who are due on Saturday,
the 26th.
“Cinderella’’ continues to rage eight times
a week at Mel-
bourne Princess’s,
and the Fullers’
only regret is that'
th e neighboring
Palace isn’t open
to catch some of
the overflow. The
Palace is now
being handsomely
renovated for the
fe-opening at
Easter.
At the Crystal
Palace, Sydney,
Blanche Sweet is
“A W Oman of
Pleasure,” w h o
marries a squire
against his will.
Squire tries to lose
he r in Darkest
Africa, o f course
Unsuccessfully. On
S a turda y the
Lyceum will open
for one day and
one night only to
show Paulin e
Frederick in “The
Loves of Letty,”
and an Inj u n
r oman ce, “The
Tiast of II i s
People.” At the
Haymarket an d
Globe, in “Something to Think About,” Elliott
Dexter is changed from an atheist into a true
believer. “Water, Water Everywhere” is a
Billy Fortune comedy of Prohibition. At
the Empress Warren Kerrigan is one of the
“Live Sparks” that set things blazing on a
Texas oilfield ; and Hoyt’s and the Australia
have a thrill in every spasm of “The Mid-
night- Patrol.”
; “The Devil’s Claim” at Melbourne Majes-
tic is too Noo Yoiky. and melodramatic for
the restrained Oriental style of Sessue tlaya-
kawa. In “The World Aflame,” also at the
Majestic, Frank Keenan softens the antago-
nisms between employer and employee,
and eventually proves the Heaven-sent arbi-
trator we are all looking for. At Hoyt’s
Francesca Bertini scrambles through
“Countess Sarah” and discovers that
spaghetti and plain kisses are preferable to
the diamonds of a decayed trifle of the
Italian nobility. “Blind Youth” rests largely
On the alleged artistic inspiration of the
human female. “Riders of the Law” is a
discourse on the survival of the slickest in
drawing a gun. June Caprice goes to the
Melba in “The Love Cheat,” and Alice Joyce
exhibits to Britannia patrons the awfulness
Of being “The. Prey” of a blackmailing share-
broker. Alice’s demonstration, mostly
ocular, will last until the end of the week.
“Cinderellaat
Melbourne Princess’s.
One of the ugly
sisters.
A semi-amateur production of “The Mar-
riage of Figaro’’ commences a short season
at Melbourne King’s next Saturday night.
"PATIENCE" AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Charles Walenn as B[?]ne, the poet.
The charming little opera was tried with
practically the same cast at Melbourne Play-
house two or three weeks back, and the suc-
cess was good enough to tempt Fritz Hart
to a more ambitious essay in a larger
theatre. A. Howett-Worster, from Daly’s
Theatre, London, is Fritz Hart’s lieutenant,
and will be heard in a prominent part.
Adelaide Royal has put off its summer
garb of pictures, and is starting serious work
with ‘ Sinbad the Sailor.” Its rivals are
mostly out of doors. The Vogues and Vani-
ties have put up an elaborate Neapolitan
sketch, giving Zoli a chance to play one of
his favorite Italian parts, with Con Moreni
as an Australian; the local color is not too
pronounced to prevent Somerset and a Birch
canoe being heard from in their turns. The
So-and-So retort with the prison scene
from “Faust,” finely sung by Pauline Bind-
ley, Everand and Percy Mackay. West’s
pictures show the triumph of woman. In
“The Deadlier Sex” a jolly American girl
kidnaps her man and keeps him in the woods
till he learns to give in. In “The Woman
Untamed” an island goddess does her love-
making with a club. Blanche Sweet and
Doraldina are the strenuous heroines, and
the men don’t matter much. At the Pav.,
too, Viola Dana is a feminine crook who
scores off the mere male. But Wondergraph
lias Thomas Meighan in the treacly “Prince
Chap” with three heroines to depict the
baby girl who grows up to marry him.
"V by can’t people be grammatical V” de-
manded the young sub-editor. “Wish to ex-
press their gratitude our little son.
Can’t they understand that if you start in
the third person you mustn’t switch off to
the first V” So lie hastily corrected the
“personal” ad.; and it duly appeared in the
paper thus: —
Mr. and Mrs. Smith desire to express their grati-
tude to Dr. Jones and Nurse Brown for the great
kindness they showed to their little son in his
recent severe illness.
“C. Oekney”: Maeterlinck’s “The Be-
trothal,” the sequel to “The Blue Bird,” has
at length found its way to London. It was
staged by the Grossmith-Laurillard manage-
ment at the Gaiety—where musical-comedy
has held sway for a quarter of a century-
early in January. Granville Barker was
the producer, and a communique to the press
announced that “whether the piece succeeds
or fails it is the G. and L. firm’s most
ambitious venture from a purely artistic
point of view.” If it only does half as well
as the Blue Bird” the managers are on
velvet.
“Medico” puts leprosy in its place:—
“Gregor” (B. 3/2/’2l) says “the ex-lepers at
Brisbane were probably the first in the world, cer-
tainly the first in the Southern Hemisphere, to be
discharged from the living charnel-house of ’a laza-
rette.” The annual report on leprosy in N.S.W.
published by the Department of Public Health, show's
that from the Sydney lazarette alone there have
been discharged in the last 10 years 10 patients in
whom the disease had been cured, or, at any rate
had become so quiescent that repeated tests failed
to elicit any evidence of infectiousness. After dis-
charge these patients are examined periodically, but
so far it has not been necessary to readmit any of
them for a return of the disease. In the other much
larger lazarettes of -the Southern Hemisphere—fo■
instance, in the Philippines, at Molokai, in South
America—the discharges have, no doubt, been much
more numerous. At present there seems reasonable
giound for expecting' improvement or cure in a fair
proportion of cases, and to speak of a modern
lazaretto as a “living charnel-house” is, to put it
mildly, an anachronism. “Gregor’s” concluding sen-
tence extolling the heroism of those “who volun-
tarily entei a lepei station with the intention of
helping the inhabitants” is equally misleading.
Among hundreds of doctors, nurses and attendants
who throughout the world are eng*aged in caring for
lepers, instances of infection are so rare as to be
practically a negligible quantity.
“Micawber”: Film business in Los
Angeles, according to a letter from “Snowy”
Baker, is experiencing a big slump, and the
salaries of directors, stars and promoters
have dropped horribly. Where 200 big film
corporations were operating six months ago
there are now only 12 ; the others are hanging
back awaiting something like a return to
normal conditions. “Snowy,” by the way,
has expanded himself into “The Snowy
Baker Film Corporation of America,” of
which Colonel Selig is managing direc-
tor. The latter’s Zoo is 50 acres in extent,
and snapshots that have come across the
Pacific show the Australian athlete wrest-
ling with bears, riding elephants and posing
with several others of the brute creation.
“IX”: Sydney’s new political centre has
a foolish title—the Nationalist Club. On
the principle followed by those responsible
for the place, if it had come into
existence 15 years ago it would have been
the Freetrade Club. On the decease of
Freetrade the title would have had to be
changed to the Anti-Socialist, and from
that to the Liberal, arriving ultimately at
the present appellation. This kind of thing
confuses tradesmen and others, and it in-
volves no small expense in the way of new
dies for the club stationery, and new paper,
fresh linen and cutlery to replace the
articles marked with the old name, altera-
tions to scrip contracts and agreements and
endless other details of the sort. And the
trouble is unending. Nationalism is not
much longer for this life. The same aroma
begins to gather around it as that which
heralded the passing of Liberalism. In its
new translation Conservatism will probably
be the Radical Party or the Advanced
Democratic Party, and nothing is more cer-
tain than that it must eventually become
the Labor Party. The founders of Britain’s
chief Conservative Club deftly avoided this
difficulty. They called it the Carlton, after
the mansion and terrace close by. The
name Constitutional is also non-committal,
and so is the Reform. The Catholic Church
has shown an appreciation of the point in-
volved here: it never canonises anyone till
he has been dead for a century or more.
, “Copabella”: Methodism, mellowed by
Digger influences, provided material for an
exquisite movie-play in a Vic. provincial
town. A civic reception had been planned
in honor of a party of Digger navvies, on
their way to a “patriotic” road job. The
boys had travelled across country by motor
truck ; they had lifted their fortnightly pay
before starting, and the country traversed
had been —in the spirituous and fermented
sense —drought-stricken. They arrived with
money in pocket, and with a 20-h.-p. thirst
raging. Any other town would have taken
such, a party to the nearest bar and told
the company to name it, but here the
Metliody spirit was as strong as it was non-
intoxicating, and 25 astonished Diggers
found themselves sitting down to afternoon
tea. Being gentlemen, the boys accepted the
novel hospitality, put it away rapidly, and
murmuring their thanks stole unobtrusively
away to where the hard brown stuff foamed
from the counter-engines. Then came the
pure delight of seeing the warriors being
rounded up to resume their journey—the
Mayor in a shining motor acting as musterer.
His Worship gathered them in from this
pub and that, and as fast as he deposited
them at their motor-truck standing at the
City Hall, they broke back for “just one
more.” As the rally progressed so did the
rallied grow merrier; they slapped his Wor-
ship on his dignified back, told him coram
populo what a dashed good sort they thought
him, and begged him to have one, too. With
18 of the 25 mustered and stacked on the
truck, the Mayor gave it best and retired
from an unequal contest. The party then
slowly mustered itself and departed amid
volleys of cheers for Methodyville, its liquor
and its Mayor.
Thousands have enjoyed Frank Mahony’s
drawings of horses. He was Australia’s first
great horse-artist, and so far he is its best.
In later life he had bad luck, and he died
in London three years ago a poor man. He
was buried in Acton cemetery, near where
he died, and some of his friends are now
working to collect enough to raise an in-
scribed headstone in his memory. Anyone,
anxious to pay a last small tribute to a
good Australian and a good man might
send their donation to Mr. Oxnard Smith,
of the Royal Art Society of N. S. Wales,
at 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.


1920—the year of drought
Millions fewer
sheep shorn
but
Thousands
more
Jtsfefo
Combs and Cutters
4.
s':
sold than in 1919
BECAUSE it is such an amazing record we have reproduced our
Auditors’ Certificate to support it.
15% increase in sales when the demand might have decreased!
Think how our sales would have soared had shearing conditions remained
normal.
The moral is obvious! Only sheer merit could produce such results.
When every ounce of wool counts, it’s best to use the shearing
machinery that has been proved the most reliable.
Let us have your order now for the coming season.
CHIEF AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
Dangar, Cedye & Co. Ltd, Sydney.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville. A. W. SANDFORI
BUKIN3, rniiar MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
, PTY. LTD., Melbourne
) & CO., LTD., Adelaide
CO5:
Keep down your fuel bill.
“Ideal” Hot Water Boiler—burns
wood, coal or coke. ..
Hot Water and Home Heating on Reduced Fuel Bills.
For supplying hot water in volume for domestic use and for many trade purposes, the
Slow Combustion “IDEAL” Boilers
take first Diace for economy and effectiveness. They are universally used in Britain,
BuroDe America and Australia. These boilers have a small fuel consumption run from
five to'eight hours without recharging with fuel, and require no skilled attendant. T 1 o
obiection in the past to many types of boilers was that they delivered water tainted \\i h
rust Thelatest-type boiler, treated by the Bower Barrf method, overcomes this defect.
We Guarantee the “Ideal Bower Barrfed” Boiler to Deliver
Water Free from Rust,
a great consideration where pure water is necessary. Capacities are from 50 to 2 000
eallons per hour, according to size. ...... ..... ..
The owner of a large boiler writes: “Where 1 used a harrow-load of coke with the old
system, with the ‘ldeal’ I use a shovelful only.”
“IDEAL” BOILERS ARE USED IN CONNECTION WITH:—
Hot Water Supply,
Fruit and Copra Drying,
Plate Glass Silvering,
Swimming Baths,
Laundry Work,
Heating Buildings with
Radiators,
Cooking Apparatus,
“Ideal”
Nurseries and Conservatories,
Skin Drying,
Turkish Baths,
Incubators and Brooders,
Sterilising,
Glue Kettles,
Dairy Work.
“Ideal” Radiators versus Coke or Coal Fires.
The “Ideal” Radiator, used in connection with the “Ideal” Boiler, will
heat an average-sized room at a cost of from one halfpenny to one penny
for 24 hours.
It will provide a warm, healthful heat, free from draughts, and cut down
cleaning and house services to the minimum. These radiators may be
used in the finest drawing- and reception-rooms, without fear of defacing
decorations, carpets, hangings, etc., with soot, smoke or grit. Each
radiator may be turned on or off as desired. In planning new buildings
unnecessary fireplaces, etc., may be eliminated, saving on the cost of
construction.
Expert information furnished, and a plan for your particular require-
ments supplied. Write or call,
‘ldeal” Radiator,
mr,
“Ideal”
low Pressure Steam Boiler.
324-530 Pitt
Street, Sydaey
John Banks 8 Son Pty. Ltd
391-403 Bourke
Street, Melbourne


N-S-W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74? S-t., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
IHlllllH""
11111111111111 l
llllllllliillllllllimiimiiiiiiiillll
I ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WHOUT POSSESSION
Ijllll
illltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
— — fo/ic/tesjf 215*17 Swanston St.,Melb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King st,Hev/castle. l97*Castlereaah St.. & 159 Georae St. West. Svrinex/
CAFITAX a 200.000
Joseph W.HiJL
‘Phone City932s.
General Monager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mcnt de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POVERTY
POINTS
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
’ Orb” : Once I acted in a moving picture,
and ever since the kinema has no illusion'for
me. W hen I see (1) the distracted heroine
waving a frantic farewell to her lover from
her bedroom window, and (21 the handsome
young man waving back at her from the
stern. of his boat as it scoots across the
lake, it is borne in on me that the waterscape
part wa.s photographed in a convenient
locality weeks before the lady leaned out of
her bedroom window in a city studio. Also
I am obsessed with the idea that the most
romantic object she had to wave to was a
pimply-faced property-man in glue-splashed
dungarees.
“Billy T.”: She was mistress of the hotel,
a large lady with a face like the setting
sun seen through smoke, and she was quite
40, and weighed probably 14 stone, though
short for her years. We talked theatres,
as is usual when there is nothing doing,
and she asked if I had been attending the
houses for long. I admitted to 40 years of
it. “Ah, then,” she said, “you must remem-
ber my face. Surely you do. Have a good
look. Now, don’t you? Of course vou do.
“ WELCOME ,
STRANGER,"
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Lawyer Kb. Hooker goes over to the
Jew's side.
I was a great favorite in my ■ time. You
can’t have forgotten me. Look again.” She
gave me her front elevation, then a side
view, and even sang a scrap of a popular
song of long, long ago, but I simply could
not remember, despite the fact that I was
hurting Mrs. Publichouse in her tenderest
place. At length she was explicit. "I can’t
understand how it is you don’t remember
me. I was Baby Pounds. I did imitations
and songs when I was six. I remained on
the stage till 1 was 11.” And I could not
recall her face!
“Norbell”: Pagel (B. 17/2/’2l) teas a
strong man. A Tanload of “jacks and
stringers” for the circus seating broke
through the decking of a bridge on the Bom-
bala-road when Eroni’s circus was on tour.
The whole procession was held up till Pagel
lumbered along. He lifted the wheel bodily
out of the hole just as easily as a steam
crane would have done, and with much less
fuss.
“Rienzi”: Sara Allgocd, who had a long
run in Australia as Peg o’ My Heart, is
doing well in London in “The White-Headed
Boy,” wherein Maire O’Neill, one of Sara’s
old colleagues in the birth of the Irish
Theatre at the Abbey, Dublin, is gathering
some exceptional bouquets from the press.
“The White-Headed Boy,” which has caught
the Cockney ear with its clever dialogue, is
the work of one Robinson who some years
ago wrote “The Lost Leader,” a rather
sumptuous epitaph on Charles Stewart
Parnell.
“Smike” The production of “Faust,” over
which “0.K.” and “Nella” are arguing the
point (B. 10/2/’2l), was the one in which
Federici, as Mephistopheles, perished while
making his exit through a trap on the first
night. That trap, still in existence at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, is known as the Federici
trap, and there is one man still working
there who remembers every minute of the
tragedy. Federici, who collapsed in full
view of the audience, was carefully lowered
CASS DOWNING,
musical director
of Melbourne
King's panto.,
“Sinbad the
Sailor.”
by the stage-bands on to the asphalt below
stage in the belief that it was a momentary
faint. When Mephisto. failed to respond, lie
was carried into the green-room, where the
idea of the faint had hardened into the sus-
picion of some kind of coma or seizure that
only demanded vigorous rubbing and restora-
tives to bring the singer to. The job was
undertaken in relays, and the little band of
helpers worked until 2.30 in the following
morning. Then all came to the conclusion
they had been handling a corpse.
‘‘Stargazer”: I met her in company one
Sunday night, and she grew confidential.
She was a clever vaudeville performer, she
told me, but her papa had been a clergyman.
It broke papa’s heart when she took to the
stage. Papa was such a good man, but she
had not been able to put up with the better
life, and had broken from home and the
precepts of her youth. Ma had borne it
pretty well, but poor papa—oh, dear, you
know what these clergymen are. It was
some time later. I was desolate, and drifted
into the back stalls to kill a dull night. I
had the misfortune to get near a talkative
elderly dame iu bright blue. I hate bright
blue for elderly dames, especially fat. elderly
dames. This one also smelt of something,
I could not tell what, but most probably gin.
She told me her daughter was on to-night.
Lucy was a wonderful clever girl, but she
called herself an outlandish name. Lucy Hogg
had been good enough for her for 18 years,
and ’Ogg was good enough for her father
and mother. Lucy proved to be my friend
of the party. “Her father was a clergy-
man?” said I. “Oh, no, Bill was no clergy-
man,” replied the fat mother in bright blue;
“not exactly what you'd call a clergyman.
He was a slaughterman, but almost a clergy-
man, for all that.” “How almost?” I asked.
“Well, you see, sir, he had religious mania.”
“First Robber”: Apropos “Rienzi’s” par.
18. 10/2/’2l) about “The Maid of the
Mountains” audiences refusing to believe
that the curtain really would be hoisted at
7.45, and languidly strolling -at 8.5 or
thereabouts, I’ve noticed that country audi-
ences are never punctual under any circum-
stances, and I believe they will sail in 10
minutes late when Gabriel has rung in the
last overture. The country show that ad-
vertises a start at S rarely gets a move on
until half-an-hour later. When George Mus-
grove took Nellie Stewart streaking through
the landscape from Hay to Coonamble and
Chillagoe, aiid places like that, he advertised
that the rag would go up at S sharp, and it
always did. It was one of our nightly jokes
to see Mrs. Paspalum, in evening dress, sail
in half an hour late, and become purple with
indignation because Sweet Nell had mashed
King Charles before she arrived.
“Nella”: For 35 years or so, whenever
“lolanthe” has gone up. the drum-major who
leads the Guards’ Band on in Act 1 has
been Fred England. He did it in the current
production. It seems a small job for such
a capable man, but “I get out early,” says
Fred; “and I'm not looking for bouquets at
this time o’ day.”
“Gustavus Gravelpit” : I recall a visit to a
matinge performance of a pantomime in Eng-
land where the principal comedians addressed
one another as “kippers.” According to the
“Baron” the “Dame” was “a giddy kipper,”
and the Dame later on declared that her
daughter, the “principal girl,” was a “silly
little” ditto. The Brothers Whatnot, the
broker-men, chucked the girl choristers on
occasion under their chins and remarked;
“Saucy kippers.” In fact the cast must
have unloaded nearly a boxful of the smoke-
dried fish on us during the afternoon. The
wheeze had been cracked for the umpteenth
time when a mystified youth of about 12
summers, who had brought his mother to
the show, shrilled out wffiile the scene was
being changed, “Ma, what is there so funny
about a kipper?” I am reminded of this
incident wffien I visit the panto nowadays
in Australia by the damnable iteration of
a certain tenor-singer's name by the funny
men. “Footscray” at last takes a back seat
as a gag. It is the allusion to “Walter So-
and-So” that is now relied on as a sure
laugh-provoker. I feel like the 12-year-old
boy, and can only ask, “What is there so
funny about a tenor?”
“T.D.M.”: It was just as well that Melba
cancelled the arrangements for her “final”
tour of her native land, under the manage-
ment of flautist John Lemmone, as her ill-
ness at Monte Carlo, from which she is now
virtually recovered, would have prevented
her keeping her appointment to leave London
On February 2d. Lemmone and the Dame
have been friends since they made their first
appearance together in 1884 at the Metro-
politan Liedertafel’s concert in the Town
Hall, Melbourne. Mrs. Armstrong, as she
was then called, sang “Ah fors e lui,” and
her teacher, Cecci, sang the tenor part
behind a screen. The diva also warbled “The
Bird That Came in Spring,” Lemmone play-
ing the flute obligato. John Lemmone does
not regard Melba's illness as having
been serious. Being one of her trustees he
naturally expected that if there had been
any great danger he would have received
a -cable.
“Fax”: One of the latest statements
about Soviet Russia is that all citizens who
neglect or refuse to go to a theatre when
officially invited to witness a series of Com-
munist plays will be fined, the fines to be
payable in food rations. Actors presumably
will be fed with the fines. There should be
truth in this story. The drama of instruc-
tion —the play with a purpose—is fostered
in unlettered China, isn’t it? A Chinese play
impresses simple moral lessons on the un-
educated majority. The scores of millions
of Bolshevists who cannot read are to be
taught the theories of Sovietism even as
habitual patrons of old-fashioned British
bellowdrama are- told that virtue is invari-
ably triumphant, the sin of the villain is
bound to find him out. and every cloud has
a lining of comic relief. What the Bol-
shevist misses is the element of entertain-
ment. He doesn’t pay to go in, but he
must pay for stopping away. His educa-
tion is free, threatrical and compulsory.
“Old Pot”: George Darrell had a pre-
cedent in refusing anything but juvenile or
heavy lead from Ben Fuller (B. 17/2/’2l).
William Charles Macready, the original
Claude Melnotte in “The Lady of Lyons,”
acted that fustian hero when he was up-
wards of 70 and made his first appearance in
it in January, 1838, when he was 45, again
playing it when he was 51. He complained
in his diary that on the latter occasion he
was “cut up repeatedly by the bad taste of
the actors.” Helen Faucit, afterwards Lady
Martin, was the original Pauline, and the
play itself was to have been staged as “The
Adventurer,” but Macready did not like the
name and “The Lady of Lyons” was adopted.
Ola Jane Humphrey made a hit as Pauline
when supporting Julius Superbus in Sydney.
General Sir Neville Macready, formerly
London Police Clhief and at present
martial-law expert in Ireland, is a son of the
old actor, to whom Tennyson addressed a
sonnet.
“S.T.S.”: Gerald Du Maurier tells an
interviewer that Tree offered him the
part of Little Billee in the production
of “Trilby.” But he was inexperienced
at the time, and knew that the offer
was made largely out of compliment
to his father, author of the novel from
which the play came; so he asked
instead for the small part of Dodor.
and made up as nearly as possible like his
own uncle, the young French officer from
"PATIENCE," AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
John Ralston as Archibald Grosvenor.
whom the character was drawn. Another
of his stories is about a revival of Sardou’s
“Diplomacy.’’ When he gave off, in Eng-
lish, the plentiful “Mon Dieu'l” with which
the play is peppered, an old lady in the
stalls protested each time against the name
of the Lbrd being taken in vain. So he
lost his pluck* and when he should have
rapped it but again at the crisis of the play
he altered it to “Great Scott!” The pathos
of the situation was lost in “the biggest
laugh I ever heard in the theatre.”
“X. Hib”: There has been considerable
fluttering in Australian film cotes. Harry
G. Musgrove, quitting the joint jobs of man-
aging director and general manager of Union
Theatres and Australasian Films, went to
America and bought the Australasian rights
of the First National films, controlled by
J. D. Williams. F.N. buys film but does
not manufacture, and has 6000 exhibitors
behind it. Musgrove now turns his rights
over to First National Exhibitors of Aus-
tralia, Ltd,, a £.100,000 organisation in
which he will be co-director with Geo. E.
Dickenson, who is throwing over a secre-
tarial job (held for 11 years) with Amalga-
mated Films. The First National has exclu-
sive contracts with Chaplin and the Tal-
rnadge sisters, and is working with the show-
men on a co-operative basis. Meanwhile
two Union Theatre and Australasian Film
directors have rushed off to America, pre-
sumably to get what’s left.
“Smike”: The “Cliu Chin Chow” Com-
pany descended upon the Hawthorn (Vic.)
tea-gardens the other day and picnicked in
a strenuous fashion. Vera Pearce, who made
an equestrian entrance when the cameras
were ready, couldn’t find a suitable draught-
horse, and had to be satisfied with a smaller
moke. She appeared in khaki, and held out
a gold bangle for the liveliest mermaid who
could beat her in a swim. The trinket went
to a charmer who tied with Vena, whilst the
multi-colored crowd banged their hands in
great excitement. But the event of the day
was a melon-eating contest among the
colored persons. The prize was captured
by a midnight fairy who was worrying the
rind of a slice like a plate about two-fifths
of a second after the start.
“Norbell”: Concerning that par. about
Amy Roselle having been Lady Macbeth to
her brother Percy’s Macbeth, at the age
of 14, “Fax” (B. 10/2/’2l> might have
mentioned that at a more mature age Amy
was Lady Mac to Henry Irving’s Thane of
Glamis at the London Lyceum. She had all
the tragic intensity necessary for the part,
and the critics gave her high praise.
“Minim”: “0.1 v.” on Melbourne Age’s
wasting of the interpolated numbers in
“Maid of the Mountains” (B. 10/2/’2l)
reminds me that the score of “The Southern
Maid” at Daly’s, also by Fraser Simson, has
similarly been added to. There are three
extra songs—two by Ivor Novello, the other
by the Adelaide-born George Clutsam. J. W.
Tate, whose compositions are deemed “in-
ferior” and “artistically harmful” by the
Age man, has been writing songs and ballads
in England for nearly 25 years. Also, he
’s a brilliant pianist and accompanist.
THE FAVORITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In ‘The Golden Farmer,’ to please our provin-
cial audiences, we introduced a real cow, and she
was a great favorite. In fact we all grew very
fond of her.” —An actor’s reminiscences, Melbourne.
I mind her well, a plump, brown cow,
With gentle ways and trusting eyes,
A clover breath and placid brow.
She played her part, as you’ll surmise,
With perfect ease, and proved to be
A favorite with the company.
For she was kind to one and all.
Johanna with the baby came,
And she, responsive to the call,
Gave copiously to feed the same—
The child marked by the fallen girl
As heir-presumptive to the earl.
At morn the fat comedian ran,
Appealing for a trifling loan,
And helped himself into a can.
The direst want we oft had known,
If ’twere not for the actress wise
With sweeping tail and gentle e\ es.
Sir Hugh Fitzhugh, with splendid stride,
And bearing in his hand a glass,
In lowly posture by her side
Took for his need (too oft, alas!),
And to her, too, would others come
1- or milk to wet their morning rum.
When she was seized for debt a grief
Descended on each acting wight.
Nor was our sorrow slight and brief,
It welled again to tragic height
Whene’er we saw that wretched brute,
Her giftless human substitute!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
I
i
WT//M'/.
4~4|1i4~
SCOTCH
■■ i|||-.f- 4|h
4- ’ll" t ’ll ]
||^||Sf«!|^|
is just as familiar and as popular
as it is in its native Scotland.
In these days of scarcity it is only by the most careful husbanding
of stocks we can hope to maintain regular (if inadequate) supplies. But
nothing will induce us to impair the unvarying quality of ‘ P.D.' Whisky.
x },
\
1/
A
Of Historic Lineage
and Wor Id-wide
popularity .
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch — everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, LTD.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
Dawson
ounoed Whisict
<^3£»
H
ci
0/(
loct. Gold Watch, with Gold Expanding Bracelet,
Extra Reliable, 1 £23.
Large Selection of. Designs.
Bracelet Watches
Platinum Gem=set and Gold.
HE Firm’s selection of High-grade Bracelet
Watches is the largest in the Commonwealth
and is replete with the very newest designs
in finest English and Swiss manufacture. The
very wide range of prices and styles
ensures the perfect satisfaction of every individual
preference. Before leaving the establishment every
watch, from the choicest to the least expensive, is
thoroughly tested and regulated; this, together with
their exceptionally fine construction, enables the Firm
to guarantee in every instance the highest degree of
service and reliability.
Selections of Watches or Jewellery will be sent
Post Free on Approval to any Address in the
Commonwealth —both ways entirely at the Firm’s risk.
lle Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
GOOD TASTE IN CORSETS
THERE are many Gossard Front Lacing Corsets
designed to accent the natural charm of every
type of figure. Whatever your corset needs there are
many models created in accordance with the un-
changing principles of beauty and good taste that
will assure you graceful lines and proper proportions
with that unconsciousness of restraint that can only
result from the healthful support of a faultlessly
fitting corset.
The cost of Gossard Corsets represents that fair
price where the utmost in quality has been reached,
and every Gossard will give you a wearing service
that alone will justify its cost.
4
The slender woman should never sacrifice
her full possibilities of beauty on the fallacy
"I’m so slight it doesn’t matter what corset
I wear.” The predestined Gossard Will
smooth unflattering angles to attractive
roundness and enhance the lithe grace that
is her chief charm.
The woman of large proportions cannot
but be interested in what Gossard artistry
has accomplished for the stout figure.
Symmetry of line is gained by a natural,
pliable support with no excess weight and
clumsy over-straps to distort the figure to
the ungraceful appearance of being over-
corseted. Would it be convincing to k noW
that the woman in the photograph above
weighs quite a bit over two hundred?
are to be found at those stores that safe-
guard their prestige by offering only
merchandise of unquestioned quality and
that merit your confidence by making
every sale conditional upon your complete
satisfaction.
The H. IV. Gossard Co.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Chicago Nrw York London Toronto Sydney Bueno t Airet
Long before the face shows signs of passing
years, the lines of the figure betray it.
To the gentle persuasion of a Gossard, the
prominent hips, the fleshy back, or the
too-short waistline of maturity give way
to the graceful proportions of youth,


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LEWIS&whITTy MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF. MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
A.B
(Registered.)
A.B
S/STFRF C
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The perfect assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
« T J > .V,» Clarence Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
'i, *' Ic HER X, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
nMirVTYirBo 8 '»™ TD ’’ Bazaar Terrace. Berth. Agents for West Australia.
DISTILLLKS CO., LTD., 85 Currie Street, Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
Bxtra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
In the Englishmen’s first innings against
N.S.W., in the return match, Hobbs got 41, but his
inning’s was worth three times as much. The scoring
strokes of a leading batsman nowadays are so well
known that they are anticipated and so do not earn
their full value. For this reason he often gets out
attempting a new scoring stroke. Lesser lights like
Hendren, who got 102,-Makepeace (73) and Fender
(60) are not studied by the opposing captains to
the same extent, and they are able to successfully
aim at the gaps left open. Trumper, unlike any
other batsman in this regard, was the despair of
captains, as he was able to place almost any ball
anywhere, and used to frequently square-cut Braund
when that bowler had the off almost bare. Douglas
has developed more strokes since' his last visit, but
is well watched, and in getting 46, unlike Fender,
played Mailey with confidence. The googly bowler
missed • Gregory, who was resting a strain, as a con-
trast to his bowling. Hendry bowled a good length,
but the others were easily played, as they got no help
from—the* pHf r ’V Folkard always-spoils himself by
inattentive fielding,
and his poor show-
ing is most notice-
able among a team
of cracks. N.S.W.
lost Collins and
Bardsley early, and
Macartney’s 130
lacked his usual
perfect timing, but
Taylor’s century
was a masterly
effort. Gregory’s
consistent batting
against the Eng-
lishmen has been
a feature of their
tour. The visitors’
fielding has gone
from bad to worse,
both on the ground
and in the air.
Even Hendren has
become infected.
Only Hobbs and
Strudwick remain
unaffected.
MAKEPEACE,
of the
English
XI.
The notable feature of England's second effort
was a superb 138 by Woolley. Ilendren was again
very much at home with Mailev, and so, this time,
was Douglas. But the English 'skippers 82 n.o. was
a dreary innings on the whole. He wasn't after
runs: all he asked was to be allowed to stay there.
The innings closed for 381, but as the Cricket Asso-
ciation decided that the match was to end on Tues-
day, the result was a draw.
The choice of umpires for the Fourth
Test was prolonged by the English captain’s objec-
tion to Elder. Douglas wouldn’t have that excellent
judge of the game at any price. Other names were
submitted and turned down, and at last, after a con-
sultation with Wilson, Douglas agreed to put all the
names in a hat. Douglas then thrust in his hand
and drew out—Elder! This umpire, by the way,
has been accepted by Douglas for the Fifth Test
in Sydney this week. When he was reminded of
his previous attitude the gloomy captain said that
it didn’t matter now.
Last week’s canard about P. M. Horni-
broolc. the Bananaland left-hander, being a possibility
for the English tour, was based on his astonishing
form of late. Playing for the team now touring M.L.
he has taken 11 for 100 v. Wellington; and 10 for
46 v. Auckland —21 for 156 in two matches. And
the team for England includes only two mediocre
lett-hapders in Macartney and Collins.
The only change in the Australian Fifteen
for England which was published in The Bulletin
on 10th inst. is the substitution of Carter for Rat-
cliffe. Carter justified himself in a spectacular
manner in the Fourth Test, if indeed his talents had
needed any demonstration. It was a moral certainty
he could have had his steamer ticket if he had
wanted it, and the only reason this paper omitted
to pick him was his statement that he had done with
cricket and would never go abroad again. Mayne,
who was dropped as a possibility by the Melbourne
critics, was suggested by The Bulletin some weeks
ago, and, as a matter of fact, there was never any
doubt that he would not be finally included.
* * * *
“Whitebait”: E. E. Bean, the Vic. selec-
tor who is chiefly blamed by the Melbourne press
for the dropping of Armstrong from the Vic. team
against England, is getting it in the neck from all
angles. He works in the Govt. Printing Office, and
has hitherto had leave to attend the Tests, on the
understanding, common in the service, that such ab-
sences would be deducted from his annual holiday.
For the coming Test he has discovered a reluctancy
in departmental circles to give him leave. Simul-
taneously the Lawson Cabinet has taken the unusual
step of cancelling a promotion due to Bean which
had been previously announced in the Government
Gazette. If the cricket season went on a month
or so longer there isn’t much doubt that someone
would make a political issue of him for the purposes
of a general election.
* * * *
Rain spoilt the play and attendance on
the opening day of the Bananaland-N.S.W. match at
Brisbane. The visitors again met Itay in bowling form.
He clean bowled four of his five wickets. R. Bardsley
(70) and his club-mate Gostelow (28) were the only
N. S. Welshmen to show form, and the former’s
play was of the subdued kind. E. Brown, of Mor-
peth, was stumped when shaping well at his first
showing in big cricket. The northerners went in
at the tail-end of the afternoon and found the
wicket was made for Russell.
Donald Mackinnon, who is off to England,
was given a smoke night by the Vic. Cricket Asso-
ciation at Melbourne Masonic Hall last week. Donald
is the president of the Association, and the English
and Australian Xl’s and all the district clubs, bar-
ring the M.C.C., attended. Armstrong couldn’t come,
being in bed with malaria, but the unanimous
absence of his club has revived much talk of the
foolish feud which was supposed to have perished
after the recent trouble.
There are no records to relate regarding
Melbourne district cricket on, Saturday. The best
performance came from the Fitzroy blizzard,
McDonald, who celebrated probably his last appear-
ance with his side by getting 6 of Essendon for
27. The Fitzroy skipper, who won the toss, sent
the enemy in on a good wicket just to get the
help of the fast bowler. Essendon totalled 70,
whereof Musgrove contributed 43 n.o. ; and ’Roy
are now 6 for 124. Ryder, who is likewise booked
for the fifth Test in Sydney this week and will then
be -preparing for England, got four of Northcote’s
best for 43, and finished the day with 39 n.o.
’Cote, ■ totalling 153, received a welcome 73 from
Carroll, who has lately improved his average
immensely. ’Wood’s 3 for 70 leaves the game in
an interesting position. The feature of South’s
mild altercation with P’ran was King’s 6 for 66,
which mainly helped to retire the shop suburb for
119. South are already close up with 112 and four
wickets to fall. University knocked up 254 against
East, 99 coming from L. Freemantle’s bat, while
Park added a crisp and faultless 54. The Richmond
v.. Carlton disturbance was unimpressive. Richmond
made 188 and Carlton have started to mop up the
deficit with 2 for 14. St. Kilda, always a strong
batting side but rarely represented in inter-State
cricket, are so far 6 for 240 against North, and
should win without difficulty next Saturday.
* * * *
On Saturday for the first time since
Curlew lifted the Albert Cup in 1914, the race was
staged by Sydney’s R.P.A.Y.C. Seven deep-keelers
faced the Manly course in a fluky, sou’-easter.
Oenone lost nearly fmin. in crossing the line, and
the ultimate winner, Sunbeam, had but 37sec. to
spare at the finish from the late comer ! The limit
boat, Rawhiti, was first to haul a breeze at the
Village mark 3min. ahead of Oenone, with Crane’s
free-sheet flier Sunbeam, which had headed Magic
and Scotia next to flatten sheets 3fmin. later. Scotia
rounded 2-]min. astern of Sunbeam, followed after an
interval of -jmin. by Magic, which preceded Aoma by
imin. Bona was last around, nearly 9min. later.
The punch to Shark Island saw no changes in the
positions, but the backmarkers had closed in on the
leaders. Easing away at the buoy Rawhiti led
Oenone by only lfmin. ; Sunbeam was next. The
same order was maintained when the fleet flattened
sheets at Pinchgut, and it was well down to the
Watson’s Bay mark before Albert’s vessel was headed
by Oenone and Sunbeam. Brunton’s charge led by
lOsec. at the Pile Light, followed by Sunbeam,
which nosed round |min. in advance of Rawhiti. The
run home provided a great race, but Sunbeam again
proved that she is too slippery in the “eased sheet”
department, and won as aforesaid from Oenone,
which had lmin. 21see. to spare from Scotia.
* * * *
Wanderer, 13min., with E. C. Gale in
command, was first home in Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club’s A class handicap last Saturday (her first
success this season). Gale sailed a fine race, land-
ing the prize, with Bmin. 42sec. to spare, from artis'
Tom Ferry’s Logan-built Winifred, off the 12min.
mark. Win. only snatched second place from Dendy’s
scratch craft, Seabird, by 2sec.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron’s 18ft. Handicap
was contested over the triangular venue. The
winner turned up in Britannia, who, excellently
handled by Georgie Robinson, landed both heat and
final. Georgie is a son of the famous old-time
open-boat crack Jacky Robinson, and built Britannia
himself. During the winter he plays serum-half for
Balmain.
To knock out Jamito, whom the conquer-
ing Oriqui met at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, would amount to gross cruelty. The broad-
faced Islander swallows punishment so avidly that a
full offering might even revolt Stadium patrons, in
addition to ruining the hands of the provider. With
some such reflections in his head, possibly, the
French champion contented himself with beating
Silvino every round of the 20 sessions that their
contest went, laying on the wood with particular
vigor in the last two spasms. It was all childishly
easy to the accomplished Gaul. Jamito, after all,
has naught but the stout heart and the iron frame
bequeathed to him by his savage forebears, and
these qualities were as little efficacious against
ENGLISH BOWLER HITCH.
the other’s ' speed and skill as the defence of the
third-best bat in Dogs Leg Uuiiy might prove against
the bowling of Jack Gregory. Such excitement as
the match contained arose from the problem of
whether Jamito would go one, 10 or 20 rounds, and
on these issues a good deal of money changed hands.
* * * *
Paul Dowd, who arrived in Sydney by
the Sonoma, mainly with the idea of meeting the
best men—foreign or Australian—in the feather-
weight class, is no ordinary pugilist. In the
words of his own advance notice: “He is highly
intelligent and well polished, possessing a fine
spirituality all his owm—he is a philosopher; a man
of letters, poet, inventor, composer of beautiful
classic music, and co-operates with his father in writ-
ing general, comic and sentimental songs. He is
a student of Natural History, is interested in Art,
Character, Analysis and the Science of Physiognomy;
is a graduate of a famous American University of
Physical Therapeutics, holding the diploma ' and
other credentials of doctor, and he recently prac-
tised privately as a doctor in America.” These
assets may not actually win him battles, more
especially against the clod-like type of stoush-
merchant, whose materialistic mind is dead to
every influence but a wallop on a vital ■ spot; how-
ever, they should certainly help. Culture is not
really dead in local boxing circles, though it sleeps
sound. The newcomer is a son of Andy Martin and
Nellie Ridgway, whom old-timers will' remember as
bright particular stars in Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus
a quarter of a century ago.
* * * *
“Bogey” Beaurepaire’s second defeat of
Ludy Langer in the mile championship of Australia
in the St. Kilda (Victoria) enclosure by 75yds,
(time 24min. 44sec.) proves conclusively that his
first victory was no fluke. The water was lumpy,
but nothing like it was at Hobart when the f-mile
title was involved. The time has been bettered on
previous occasions by Beaurepaire himself, Long-
worth, Kieran and R. Cavill, but on all these occa-
sions the water was smooth or the event was swum
in short-lap baths provided with push-off boards.
St. Kilda bath is open to the sea at one end. the
laps measure 100yds., and a rope takes the place
of push-off boards. But, whilst Beaurepaire is to be
congratulated upon his fine swim,' Ludy Langer
showed his usual good sportsmanship in competing.
It is well known that he is not at his best over any-
thing exceeding 500 metres.
* * * *
Ethelda Bleibtrey, the American girl
champion, was among the eight who lined up for
the 220yds. N.S.W. championship last week. For
150yds. Misses Robertson and Wylie disputed the
lead with her, and then the beautifully-built visitor
piled on steam, and cleared away, to win by six
yards, in 2min. 58 2-ssec., from ' Miss Wylie,' who
was 20 yards ahead of Miss Robertson. The time
was Ssec. slower than Fanny Durack’s best. Ethelda
uses the Yankee trudgeon, already demonstrated here
by Norman Ross, and her evenness and absence of
splash is marked.
On Saturday she appeared in the N.S.W. 100yds.
championship. Four others started, but Mina Wylie
again was the only one to put up a serious fight.
The draw for positions was against the Yankee
wonder, who got the shallow water. She took off
last, but rose from a fine shallow dive at the feet
of the leaders. Over 50yds. it was a clinking go.
with Miss L. Robertson just clear. Ten yards further,
Miss Wylie was in the lead, but at the 80yds. mark
the visitor, though she was steering an erratic
couise, asserted herself and won by her o\tii length
(6ft.) from Miss Wylie, with Miss Fevyer third.
Ihe watch showed 64 2-ssee., which knocked out her
own world's figures by 1 1-osec. Miss Wvlie’s time
(66 l-10sec.) js the best yet done by an Australian.
"Pongo ’: What a collection of swimming
marvels the Cavills of Sydney are? Their grancl-
father, erstwhile world’s long-distance champion,
swum the F.ng'lish Channel, though he was disquali-
fied for (it is alleged) hanging on to a rope whilst
absorbing refreshment en route. His sons, Charier
Sid, Percy, Arthur, Ernest and Dick in turn held
State, Australian or world’s championship titles and
records. Last Saturday Dick Eve, son of Mrs Eve
of Manly (who was Freda Cavill, and a fine per-
former m her day) annexed the diving championship
of Australia at Melbourne, while Miss Thea Cavill
the 15-year-old daughter of Dick, romped home an
easy winner in the 300-metres ladies’ handicap at the
Bleibtrey carnival in Sydney. Incidentally, she was
unlucky not to collect the diving championship as
well.
* * * *
This year’s Maoriland national swimming
championships put many new- records on 1 the
book. The best efforts were Miss G. ; Shand’s
(Canterbury), who knocked 2-ssec. off the world’s
record in winning the 440yds. event in 6min
41 3-ssec. and put up new figures for M L bv
doing the 100yds. in 69sec.—2 2-ssec. better than Miss
Walrond’s record. Miss Shand also won the 75yds
intermediate championship in 51 2-ssec. In 'the
men’s events, E. V. Cunnold (Auckland) took the
880yds. (12min. 40 4-ssec.), and was second in the
nnle and third in the 220yds. J. Enwright (Auck-
land) won the 100yds. (63 l-ssec.), L. Kronfeld
(Auckland), the 220yds. (2min. 36 4-ssec.—a M.L
record), and L. Hill (Canterbury) retained the mile
title in 25min. 45sec. N. S. Batchelor won the
100yds. back-stroke in 2min. 6 2-ssec., and also
took the 220yds. boys’ intermediate in 2min, 44sec
An old-time event which got a place on the pro-
gramme was the plunge, which C. H. Rich won with
It was a pity that Graham Symes, whom
8. H. Fry, seven times champion billiardist of Eng-
land, defeated much more easily than Hooper—the
final scores were 3000 to 2501—did not meet the
Australian m the semi-final. Hooper would probably
have won, and would thus have had the opportunity
of playing in the Marathon final in which he shines.
It is evident that the Australian champion (who
really hails from M.L.) is a big draw. He is play-
ing a series of matches in London against Fry for
the Boy Scouts’ Fund, which has the backing of
that energetic sportsman “Teddy” Woodbine.
The late Frank Madden, as a Y.R.C. com-
mitteeman, took a keen interest in the turf, but did
"If ° et - , Perhaps the most notable instance of an
effort of his to do a little gamble was when he
ottered _to toss Governor Loch whether he should
take lus Ex.’s horse,_ or his Ex. should take his
to make a carriage pair. Loch was not on. A Salv’-
army capting once jumped over Madden’s fence to
remonstrate with him for gardening on Sunday. The
knight replied that he was more at home in the
law of the land than in that of theology. The law
on trespass was very definite, and he was game to
bet he d make use of a section he had in mind if
the intruder did not make himself scarce in 10
seconds. The* man with the red guernsey got.
When J. ,T. Garvan, of Sydney, gave
41450 for a youngster by Mountain King from Soli
last year, he got something which may be worth the
cash. A fine, strapping colt, of even temper, he
now figures on the card as Braehead, and on Satur-
day, at Rosehill, ran away with a sprint for.two-
year-olds over four and three-quarter furlongs. He
ran the journey in 57|see., a record for Rosehill
course.
* * * #
At Rosehill on Saturday the Welkin
horse Yolpi, trained by William Booth, was favorite
with Fib in the Flying. Getting away well as
usual he was in front at the last furlong, but at
the first touch of the acid he crumpled up. Volpi
is a great track performer, and in his races always
shows exceptional pace before going to pieces. Prior
to the Challenge Stakes the stable, taking a line
from his performances with Maltgilla, counted him
a certainty for the big prize, and let the mare run
for sport. But it was she who won. It is the
third time he has protested against being hurried
all the way.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League has decided
to pay the men who go to England this year £4 ss.
per week each, and all exes. .Nothing like it has
ever been attempted; but in view of the “gates”
now drawn in these matches it is all right as finance.
The tour starts on September 27.
Hans Ohrt proved that there was no fluke
about his former defeat of Alf Grenda (N.S.W.)
by downing him in two straight heats out of three at
Sydney on Saturday. Ohrt’s times were 2min. ssec.
and 2min. Later in the evening Ohrt took
the five-mile scratch race brilliantly from F. Wells
in lOmin. 50sec. A novelty three-heat match between
sprinter Harold Horder and Harris Ilorder (cyclist)
was decided, but the bike was much too fast and
won both events in 9 l-ssec.
Leichhardt, at their own regatta at Iron
Cove (Sydney) on Saturday, won the junior eights
(1-i mile) from Balmain in Bmin. 57sec—which
took the N.S.W. junior pennant—filled the three
places in the mixed fours, and took the maiden
fours .from Sydney.
* * * *
In the Sydney-Maitland junior challenge
match, at Maitland on Saturday, T. Sampey was
first in the 100yds. (llsec.), 220yds. (2545ec.) and
440yds. (58sec.). A. Wood won the broad jump
(17ft. lin.), and hop, step and jump (37ft. Bjin.);
and W. McKeown took the high jump at sft. 3in.
Sydney, however, piled up enough points in the other
events to win by 33-27. N.S.W. champion sprinter,
“Slip” Carr, stripped at the meeting, and, although
conceding big starts, won the 100yds. handicap in
lOseo. This is the first time he has done evens.
There is talk of making a three years’
close season for furred ga re in Tasmania in order
to save the marsupial population from annihilation.
The skins sold last year were: Kangaroo, 98,176;
wallaby, 93,103; biack opossum, 16,244; grey
opossum, 40,01-4; and ringtail opossum, 274,534
ODDS AND EVENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The moral sense of the community is shocked by
the proposal to introduce lotteries in the interests of
maternity.” —Daily paper.
Life is a gamble. Take it as you find it.
You back yourself to win and trust to luck.
Each action has a punter’s chance behind it;
The Fates lay odds against your brain and pluck.
It's five to one on you when matched with liquor,
Though here and there a life is drowned in wine;
Five quid to fourpenee that you fall love-sick or
Marry the girl because her eyes are fine.
It’s even chances that domestic blisses
Begin to fade before a year has fled,
A million to a gooseberry some kisses
Get spent on damsels that you never wed.
It’s twenty-nine to two that fortune blesses
Your pleasant home with numerous mouths to feed ;
And sixty-eight to three that Mary’s dresses
Are out of all proportion to her need.
Look on the facts; then what’s the use of fretting
About another simple chance or two:
Only the saintliest is found regretting
The winning number in the sweep he drew.
Buck up. The sky can hold all sorts of weather,
Plank down the cash of life and let it go;
You never know on Monday morning whether
The ball at last is at your willing toe.
If statesmen, taking at a pleasant amble
The road of least resistance, talk of dice,
Accept the gentle, patriotic gamble
And boil in oil the man who talks of vice.
Who heads the pennies? Any fool can play it,
This game of chance, though few the fools that
win.
The income tax —-why should you tamely pay it?
Double or quits! Ho, watch the coppers spin!
The racecourse fades; the horses turn to cat’s-meat.
The loose cash circulates with motion free,
Where those who always used to lose in Tatt.’s meet
And lose more boldly in Maternity.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Health Means Success!
The man who has perfect physical condition is the man who is
going to make his mark both in business and social life. Good
health depends upon the organs of the body performing their
functions properly, and taking up the Baker
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture
means toning up the entire nervous and muscular system.
By this simple, progressive series of exercises, which can
be undertaken without any apparatus, you can become
physically robust, alert and self-confident.
Each pupil who takes up the course is trained under the
personal supervision of Mr. R. L. Baker, and the exercises
are given in accordance with individual needs.
YOU can have perfect health by enrolling now under the
Baker system.
If you write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and mail it with three stamps to cover postage, you
will receive the interesting booklet “Health and Strength
from Self-Culture,” which gives you all the facts about this
famous system of Health Culture. Why delay ? Cut the
advertisement out NOW!
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
432 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
J^lHPr
H,
m
n^foTOßQjlßir
x cj<s? (s&sec/
ir\ Cdus*tn3jO&<
SRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COY. LTD.. AIISTATU V/V Z,
£stablis(\*id 1883
W CHORLEY
„ & COMd .
TAJ LOR S
& Breechesmakers
EXCLUSIVE LADIES
TAILOR-MADES
W. CHORLEY i) CPJZ
3>J3 George Street
SYDNEY
telephone Grp Ijfi
Cable Address
CHORLEY
SYDNEY
M'
i
"The Little Nurse
for Little Ills.”
In 1/6 pots at
all Chemists.
Colds
RUB on plenty of
healing Menthola-
tum to-night on the
throat and inside the
nostrils. It penetrates
and brings instant relief.
And you’ll find Mentho-
latum is just as soothing
and healing for burns,
wounds and headache.
Do prove this for
yourself/
m
AW
f^*J^ EAL,r l 0 CREA^y
mentholatum
PASSETT & JOHNSON, LTD., SYDNEY.
Over 10 million pots sold last pear.
A-C/ 1 \ I
WrtentiansideaDßrantainE^
In every business —
the pen is a necessity. Use Waterman’s Ideal
and make it an economy. Waterman’s Ideal
saves time. It also ensures neater work and
better-kept books.
Three Types—“ Self Pilling,” “ Safety ” and “ Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., OjeUenCortter
Kingsway, London, England.
Anttralia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney
o
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
NOBEL’S
SPORTING
BALLISTITE
Field § Match
CARTRIDGES
iiSi
m
?>y
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
tt
**
Shotting Boot
, rv/I £
<>.
K’J
-vi
*.v7
,i i
IS//
m
-j
UfiED tan WILLOW calf
BELLOWS.
TONGUE
J
. WELTED.
SEWN ALL
WAV ROUND
THREAD
HAND STITCHED
I»incm/
© INSERTED robber layer
IN FINEST TUSCAN
CALF, 4 gns.
This Shooting Boot is really a marvellous
production. Until its advent it was considered
impossible that such a boot could be produced at
even twice* our price. •
The Tuscan Calf in which it is made is unques-
tionable the finest the world knows ; while every
detail of the boot’s construction gives evidence
of the highest order .of workmanship possible.
Stout, Stalwart Soles, with Sewn 1 Veits all the
way round, l-itich Riibber “in between” Sole;
Bellows., Tongue, firmly, stitched to .sides ; the
boot-withm-a-boot feature .of Best Tan Willow
Calf Lining, and the strong wax stitching through-
out, are points which, ensure dust-dry feet—-
though ankle-deep in water.
Considering its ..strong lines -—which when you
examine you will wonder. Jf such a bopt can ever,
wear- out —and its ■ unique capacity for service,
the “VV'earite” Shooting Boot,. at 4 guineas, re-
presents value that you will not question.
Call or Write. Freight Paid.
LINCOLN STUART £ C° PXXITP
244-54 FLINDERS STREET,
MELB,


Freedom From Foot Troubles
increases your efficiency.
Bring all your foot troubles to Farmer’s
certificated Practipedist, on the Ground
Floor,-—adjoining the Men’s Footwear
Department. He will tell you frankly
the nature of your foot ailments and the
means of alleviation and cure,—without
charge. Expert Manicurists are also in
attendance, contiguous to the Footwear
Department, should you desire attention.
Farmer’s Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, C.P.O.
mm
appointments may le
booked, personally or by
'phoning City / / 000.
for either, or both, of
these services for men.
\> v o« c S
Does Your Home Express You ?
LiURA JAY believes that the home
should be planned by a woman.
Extensive training and wide ex-
perience have made her unusually
successful in such work. The many
distinctive homes and gardens that
she has planned owe their individuality
to the fact that they faithfully reflect
the personality of their owners.
Consultations may be arranged
by telephone.
21a
T. & G. Buildings,
Sydney.
Telephone: City 8735.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
As Parliament is in recess, the Manifold
mid Macke.v knights, as the head of each
House, sent a joint wire to Fremantle wel-
coming Far] Stradbroke, who comes to take
the job of Governor. Thinking it was up
to the Government and People (spelt with
capitals) to take precedence of President
and Speaker, Premier Lawson got in first
with a wireless message, which struck his
Hx. just before he spotted the coast of Aus-
tralia. The poor man will learn a little
later that he is not nearly as important as
the expenditure of electricity might imply.
In making preparations for the reception
e ,? ew State Ex - to-day (Feb. 24), IP
'' • ' • McCall, Clerk of the Uppah Chambah,
has been in his element. lie helped the
late T. G. Watson to “do things properly”
(as George Jenkins, the Magnificent, would
express it) when George and Mary came
along in 1901; was managing director of
everything when the Yankee Fleet floated
into our bay in 1908; and was a chief con-
sultant when Edward P. was skimming
across the-land last year. Having hobnobbed
with Majesties and Highnesses, he can deal
with a mere earl on his head. If H. II
Newton does not look out, IP W. V. will
beat him on the post for a C.M.G.-ship or
something that carries a coat decoration.
Carlyon, in his efforts on behalf of the
Alfred Hospital, raised a fat bundle of
many hundreds with his dinner-dance on
Ihursday night. The booking was fierce, and
the belated folk who could not book were still
more fierce. The management obligingly put
rows of tables round the edge of the" ball-
100m floor, and the late bookers happily
sardmed there. The correct dining part is
elevated several feet from the dancing floor
—a broad, canopied terrace all round, so
that waiters have no bumping acquaintance
with dancers. The ballroom is a vast place,
handsomely decorated with lights gleaming
through bougainvillea blooms, and there is a
deep gold and white balcony with more room
for very exclusive dinner parties. New cloak-
rooms are the pink of perfection, and open
on to a waiting lounge, and the windows of
the front lounges seem to have nothing be-
tween them and the cool waters of the Bay
—a balmy background for heated jazzers
this weather.
The Florrie Young Memorial has a big
say in the Alfred Hospital appeal. Florrie’s
sister, Mrs. Tallis, came to the party and
dined quietly in a corner with Mrs. Row.
The Mayor of St. Kilda vigorously speeched"
thanks to Mr. Carlyon, and that gentleman
answered in a modest, embarrassed way.
Town-Clerk Chamberlin worked hard all the
evening settling the guests into their cor-
ners. Sassiety swarmed in and wore its
best bib and tucker. There were the love-
liest jazz hats and vivid silk cloaks. One
daring dame had a Bird of Paradise in a
gold hat. Ex-Mayor Allen had a big party.
Mr. and Mrs. Ilewison—she was in plum
color to match the room—were there. Arthur
Woolcott and his lady had a high light on
their table. Her gown was some woven
misty-blue silk. Mrs. Russell Gabb wore
the coolest frock of leaf-green foulard. Doctor
Don Bennett renewed old acquaintances
after his long absence abroad. The Bruces
came along—she in the filmiest short black
frock and smartly bobbed hair. Lieut. Daly
—-newly attached to our Navy—was there
with his curly hair and his dancing steps
in the perfection of smoothness, and Doctor
\ ance—also of our Navy—had a night off,
too. Squatter Tom White had his pretty
missus along in a slender sheath of blue
and gold. There was an interval between
dinner courses for dances, and the affair
finished decorously at midnight.
There is a rumor that the Australian
Club is going vigorously through its list of
possible guests at its Springtime Ball.
There was even a horrid murmur of there
being wo It seems that .last year the
guest list became radical—and bulgeu ut
ever so little from the conservative boundary
lines of the haughty club.
Some of Melbourne’s most soulful .shes
talk approvingly of the “Academy” which is
to be founded in their midst, though the pro-
ject shows small signs at present of a
feminine side to its character. Apparently
the idea is to form a society of Artistic
Intellect, composed mainly of men, by men,
for men. Statistician George Knibbs shook
his silvery mane in the chair when a meeting
was called at Furlong’s Studies. Edward
Vidler did the calling, and Bernard O’Dowd.
John Shirlow and many other children of
lisrlit and leading in the non-commercial
world, told the meeting what it ought not to
do.
Without leaving the box or bothering about
listening to a long address from counsel, the
jury acquitted Frederick Barnard, the J.
Hop. who went, revolver in hand, to demand
his 3 8-year-old daughter, when she was camp-
ini' for the night at the house of Thomas
Boy Davies, a fellow policeman at South
Yarra, in the absence of Mrs. Davies. Gelli-
brand sacked Davies after the incident at
his house and suspended Barnard, There
was an outburst of sympathy for Barnard
after the trial, and it is certain he will be
ordered to resume police duty.
Home-made bread production was pro-
posed at one of the Housewives’ Association
meetings last week. Once upon a time, it
seems, one of the Melbourne suburbs (Bruns-
wick) threatened to declare war against the
bakers if they refused to bring their price
down, whereupon the tradesmen capitulated
without further bluff. But your far-seeing-
matron wants to beat the profiteers any
other way than by making her own bread
She either makes it badly, to hubby’s great
disgust; or she surprises him with such a
palatable loaf that baker’s bread is shut out
of the house for evermore, and so she has to
keep on baking.
Strange that girls should be so plentiful
and boys so scarce in the Frank and John
Madden families. Everybody remembers the
bevy of plump Madden girls who used to be
eternally photoed and fussed-over what time
papa the Chief Justice reigned as Lieutenant-
Governor. He had so many bouts of reign-
ing that his daughters grew accustomed to
“tenng town halls and places to the strains
ot God Save. ’ They had only one brother.
Guy, whose plumpness was ill concealed by
a kilt when he entered a Royal Scottish bri-
gade. And the five daughters of Frank Mad-
den only one brotber - He joined the
A-Lh . Artillery for war purposes and be-
came Captain J. G. S. Madden.
Herbert Chester, the Heyfield grazier,
has been made to pay dearly for his infatua-
tion for Mrs. Elizabeth Martha Rowley He
was the co-respondent in a divorce suit,
heard last week before Irvine, C.J. and a
jury. According to the evidence Chester
made the acquaintance with the lady when
her husband, now a farmer at Rosedale
carried on a butcher’s shop at Heyfield, in
Gippsland. He followed her to Ballarat
where she gave way, and then came a
dramatic climax at Heyfield, when the hus-
band flourished a revolver but didn’t fire.
The jury fixed the damages at £2OOO, and
BUnor thereupon made an unusual order,
laking the view that the lady was more
xo^ ed ®S ai nst tban sinnin g» he directed that
toUU ot the damages should go towards
enabling her to do something for her own
support”; that the £l5OO probably remain-
ing should be invested, a third of the income
? om ?.- to injured hubby, a third to the lady
tor life so long as, married or single, she
stuck to the straight and narrow path of
virtue, and a third to the son of the mar-
riage, who was also to get the other third in
case of pa or ma dying.
Handsome Strella Wilson, who tied up
quietly with singer Ralph Errol, has now
gone with hubby to
win operatic laurels
in Uncle Sara’s land.
Strella, still in her
early twenties, is the
idolised daughter of a
well-known Brighton
resident. Her voice
was first pruned by
Madame Agnes Jan-
son, after which she
stepped over to the
Melba C onserva-
torium as the pupil
of Anne Williams,
and was finally pol-
ished by Mary Camp-
bell. Melba also
added her mite of
training at the Bast
Melbourne Con. No-
thing but the improbable misfortune of ill-
health should hold this bonnie Australian
back from the front rank of songstresses.
When Strella was a Church of England
Grammar School girl she was adored by
her scholar pals. She is so full of enthusi-
asm and energy that her teachers,
and otherwise, found the difficult-; '.*
tO e Push her on, but to Xanc°e-1
1 College girls will remember
one of their playmates, Vera Blaine—a
rattling good tennis-player and all-round
sport in her pigtail days. She married
Wibmer, an Englishman, paymaster on one
of the fleet that used to harbor in the bay
in pre-war days. She returned to England
with him, and he did good service and weath-
ered the war successfully, but during Armis-
tice days he fell a victim to ’flu on the
Continent. Vera with her weeds and one
chick has returned to her native heath, and
she is with her handsome mamma shelter-
ing under the tiles at Royston, Armadale.
Donald Maekinnon, ex-Attorney-General,
will not be the only Victorian Executive
Councillor on board the Narkunda when it
sails for London on March 5. J. P. Jones,
Labor M.L.C.. who was one of the honorary
Ministers in Elmslie’s short-lived Adminis-
tration, will be a fellow-passenger. Like
Maekinnon, Jones- js entitled to be styled
honorable’ for life. Maekinnon grows wool,
and Jones, in his big factory, has as much
of it as he can get made into clothes. Both
are regarded as model employers.
Ex Mayor Wynne, of Kew, will have to
keer the home fires burning while his hand-
some Mrs. (a daughter of the late medico
Rankin) trips with her golden-haired chick
Muriel to Europe. The Wynnes have a
soldier son buried there.
This is Monteath’s latest of Raymond Wal-
lis, who takes you in hand like a lost child
and leads you to the masterpieces in the
Decoration Art shows. For some time
Raymond has been
introducing Austra-
lian painters to well-
gilded connoisseurs
at the Decoration
galleries, and his gift
of recommending a
fine work in well-
groomed English has
helped many an
artist to a tine fat
cheque. None but
the best, of course,
ever get the chance
of appearing at this
particular address.
Painters like Pen-
leigli Boyd and John
Eldersha w, and
etchers of the quality
of Sydney Ure Smith
and John Shirlow are always welcome, and
they have been grateful for the efforts of
the dapper young man who looks after their
shows. In a couple of months Wallis will
be trodden upon by a swarm of etcher-
collectors who have got wind of a show of
Sydney Ure Smith’s latest prints. Follow-
ing that there should be another great rush
to inspect some original canvases by the
promising Sydney man—Norman Lloyd.
The hand of sympathy to Mrs. Alec Lan-
dale, whose younger daughter Edythe (Mrs.
Cyril Landale) passed out in the Fog last
week, the result of pneumonia. Mrs. Cyril
healed a family feud 12 years ago by marry-
ing her cousin, but thereupon Melbourne lost
a dashing citizeness, for the bride settled
across seas, and only once returned to this
country—for her sister’s knot-tieing with
Ronald Murray. Death has been unmerciful
to the clan of late. Cyril Landale fell in
the war a year or two after the loss of their
only babe. Squatter Alec Landale died sud-
denly in 1914 when tripping in England,
a few months before one soldier-son Douglas
went west. By a strange coincidence Squat-
ter Hunter Landale (Cyril’s elder brother)
passed out in the last year of the war,
shortly before his 19-year-old son died in
camp in the Cold Country.
The passing of the Cyril Landale widow
recalls memories of the pretty pair of Lan-
dale sisters just back from a finishing school
in Paris, who startled social Melbourne of
those circumspect days by their extreme up-
to-dateness in dress find manner. They were
bubbling over with fun, but it was an inno-
cent fun which never verged on the naughty.
Their most sensational surprise-packet was
launched at a smart matrons’ fancy ball in
the Prahran Town Hall, at which the Lan-
dale sisters were due to appear as fairies
or flowers or something equally conventional.
The matrons’ eyebrows nearly got lost in the
front fringes when two of the trickiest little
colored ladies carrying tiny parasols minced
m on the arms of two coons (one of the
latter was the late Harry Brush). To-day
the quartette would have been cheered for
their enterprise, but as it was they were
upbraided for their audacity.
The Bowes Kellys’ eldest daughter Violet,
who was reputed to be the best-liked girl in
Toorak, gets back from Tassy next week
with her assets reinforced by an engagement
ring. Jack Hay, who ’AacecUit thj?.' ie j s a
mainlander, earning crust on the island.
clothes-nresser lady was putting
- • ward her claims for business. “I do all
the Best people in South Yarra,” she said.
“See, here is a suit pressed for Doctor So-
and-So.” And then she proudly produced a
masterpiece in repairs, and showed off!
General X’s pants—-with a miraculously neat
patch in the seat. Mrs. Newly-Wed, tak-
ing hubbv’s clothes to this exclusive lady,
felt that she was getting intimately to know
the Naicest.
_ Cupid reports that recent country-town
victims are Daisy Cathcart, eldest daughter
of solicitor Cathcart, of Horsham (Vic.)
and Francis Fetherstonhaugb, son of Doctor
Fetherstonhaugh, who for many years medi-
coed at Geelong. Francis, who was a sol-
dier boy, intends transplanting his Daisy to
his station home at Longreach, Queensland,
where they will run baa lambs to help fill
the money bags.
Lynne, Mrs. Butler’s only girl chick has
collected her pretties and feminine gei-
gaws, and taken them, with her very good
looks, to the Apple Isle. She is sheltering
beneath the thatch of the Craggs, of La™
with n :J n l threatens a disconsolate mamma
with an absence of three months. Lynne
gets her inches and fair splendor from 'both
tnith °u V - ti <e ' an<l is not unlike distin-
guished-looking auntie, 1 11. Moss.
Norman Hodges’s young widow said “I
° Laptain Geoff Moule most demurely
on Thursday I<—a bride m soft pale grev
behind a screen bouquet of red jacqueminot
loses and a cart-wheel hat of grev straw
draped with grey silk lace. She 'had no
budesmaid as foil, but the awfully good-
looking bridegroom was kept in countenance
by Aigel Somerset. The new Mrs. Moule is
one of the rich Mount Scliank (S.A.)
Uaikes. Sister Roma Clarke Harrison was
decorative in fawn with a huge velvet hat.
while mamma was in pearl-embroidered
geoigette. The backgrounding decorations
were blue delphiniums and pink roses.
ii iv^ lt>lsS a ew intimate friends were
all the wedding party. Some Knoxes, Fiskens.
1 urn bulls and Molesworths c«*lne alon°-
informally, and Maie Ryan, Olive Bridges"
1 eggy L orrestier and Gladys Kettleweli
were there. They are all girl-pals of
the girl-widow-bride. A party at Wimrnar-
Inigh, then the newlyweds left for Mount
Scliank and their honeymoon. They leave
by the Osteriey on March Kb Ilubby goes
direct to join his regiment at Cologne, the
14th King’s Hussars.
A air Dodds Lyons has been so occupied
being carved up in Mrs. King’s hospital that
she was unable to go to the llodges-Moule
wedding. V air was one of the bride’s great
pals in the pre-war days.
Stanley Kingsbury, news editor of Mel-
bourne Herald, who is now r acting-editor,
will relinquish his job shortly after Easter
and go to Boston, U.S.A. He is a son of
the Bananaland Crown Prosecutor, a grand-
son of David Ham (who was a member of
the Vic. House of Landlords for 18 years),
and a connection of the Baillieu family.
An earnest believer in Christian Science, lie
is hearkening to a call to sow, cultivate
and harvest in the most fruitful soil, lie
was on the Monitor, the organ of the
sect, before coming to Melbourne, and will
contribute to it again. On the Herald
lie specialised as a confectioner, building up
tiers of headlines, beating up telling “leads”
and striking the purple patches.
. visiting military person, with nothing
nice to say about “colonial” legislators he
has met, professes to be tickled to death by
the open alliance between democratic poli-
ticians and militarism in Australia. The
visitor’s way of putting the case is rather
scandalous. In Britain, he says, a man
resigns his military commission ere he enters
I arliament as a paid member, but here we
have Senator Glasgow and Ryrie, the Assist-
ant-Minister of Defence, taking divisional
commands at £3OO a year. Between the
Army and the Legislature, says the critic,
a man can. knock out a nice little income,
and then his first purpose in life is to keep
the militaristic fires burning. Why, Com-
missioner-of-Police Gellibrand has been
offered a divisional command in addition to
his other position, and is understood to be
considering whether it would be possible for
lum to earn two salaries at once without
impairing his efficiency in either billet.
The newest appeal for financial reinforce-
ments is for the Blinded Soldiers. There
comes an urgent cry from the club and hospi-
tals that we have not room enough for our
blinded Diggers. That is money that must
be got together. The Lady Mayoress has
ball rolling at a big meeting in
the Town Hall, and the frivolously inclined
are thinking up dinner-dances, etc., to help
the cause.
Adelaide sends a little gossip:—
On Saturday a large and sweltering gathering
at Birdwood witnessed his Ex. unveil the new
memorial arch, in honor of the men who enlisted
fi om the district. General Birdwood laid the
foundation-stone last. March. A captured gun was
'..SO- RRTeiled by Lady Weigall, and Angas Parsons,
J., presented a Union Jack to mark the occasion.
The Newdigate-Xewdegate wife of Westralia’s Gov-
ernor, with her daughter and Miss Bagot, arrived in
Adelaide on Tuesday, en route for Tasmania. His
Ex. s A.D.C., Capt. Houston-Boswell, met them, and
motored them out to Marble Hill, where they lunched
with the vice-regal party.
Councillor and Mrs. C. R. J. Glover lunched with
his Ex. and Lady !\ eigall prior to leaving with
daughter Thelma by the Narkunda to catch the
Niagara. Among other letters of introduction, his
Ex. gave Mr. Glover one to Lloyd George. On
Tuesday the departing councillor ' was lunched by
Alderman Forward, and Councillor Bruce, at the
South Australian Hotel; and the South Park Croquet
Club tendered an afternoon tea, at the Arcadia Cafe,
to his missus, who has always been an enthusiastic
member of the club.
Mrs. Theodore, mother of Queensland’s Premier,
died at Aldgate (S.A.), on Wednesday. Her son and
his wife had paid her a visit only a couple of weeks
ago. Mrs. Theodore arrived in S.A. 40 years ago,
and after 10 years’ residence at Port Adelaide the
family moved to Aldgate.


mm
OB^B
V-' .
■
wl
.......
mm
f
j» * -y
na
a
V/
mm
«*4r
k'/
3®PS»i§BI
■ ,-■ $ ■•
rl. «
&%W W j& ]
mt
OwlPlifl Si
H
|:1B
dS*T2m?& i
SS$ • %? 4 '*spS£ 5*%.
*
« a
,
'
i
Ml
■Pi
-'-!
v -
h
■ -.
iCtOm
* , -i
* 1 *"
'
>•
:'-‘0
~JET
a*..,.
■
a i
M
s
■■"«■•
etn
is. sg:
Me
Pi
2g\ %
W'Wa&»- mm*>, . L
-.<■
0 -£ : *
V
-. r
il
* f.
.;v
jraarai •' x
9msMs 1 ; *:' *
11
|mSsp
i
, ■■■
fs
• :!*
■
wmm
....
. .-. •'
.......
MHI
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man when he reaches home at night.
Too weary to go out—too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs and would enjoy.
For such men the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland* of real pleasure All the favorites in light operatic
music! ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instant y
be played. You arrange your own programme and play'it a
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
HEAD OFFICE AND SHOWROOMS ;
,33 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
bkale
AND COMPANY LTD.
ir*
FACTORIES:
.47 TRAFALGAR ST
annandale
BRANCHES: _
BEALE ac COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
Queen Street, Brtsbane, Toowoomba. Maryborough, Rockhampton, Towosv.Ue, Mackay and Gums
'
■HI ;|l
■
«
r- '
Hump*


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
jr HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
•089
CENTAL
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
9
m
BARE FLOORS ARE SANITARY
MAKE THEM BEAUTIFUL.
USE
Ifl
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
The Sumptuous Appointments
of the
Wentworth Cafe,
together with coolness, comfort and
exquisite attention to detail, have made
it Society’s most delightful meeting-
place.
Dinner Dances
every night
(12/6 per
head).
Special Dinner
Dances Thurs-
days and Satur- 1
days (21/- per
head).
Until further
notice Cafe will
be open till 12
(midnight) for
the convenience
of after-theatre
parties.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
Calalogue
The American swimming girl—so much
delayed that she might be spoken of as the
late Ethelda Bleibtrey—came to town on
Wednesday of last week, and was chucked
headlong into a sea of festivities and the
Domain Baths. The Swimming Association
shook its cash-box and decided that it could
afford the splash, so the Australia drawing-
rooms were turned into a bower of crimson
rambler-roses for the background of the
official word of welcome. Every Annette
Kellerman looked in to say “How d’you do?”
the response being the Amurkan’s “Glad
to know you.” Ethelda proved an upstand-
ing young woman with the muscles of a
pugilist holding up the blonde head. Did
I say blonde? —the hair is so colorless that
surely one of Ethelda’s ancestors must have
looked with favor on the lass wi’ the lint-
white locks. Her eyes are blue, and she
greeted Sydney in a Tam of the same hue
and a white satin frock. In the evening,
under the electrics, she took to the water
like an eel and won the 220yds. champion-
ship without apparently getting into her
high voltage.
Again on Saturday, before a big gathering,
including Dame Margaret and everybody who
is anybody in the ladies’ amateur swimming
world, the hefty young visitor won the big
race of the day, and the announcement that
the timekeepers had adjudged her guilty of
breaking a world’s record, brought her an
ovation. Standing on the white finishing-
board, hand-in-hand with Mina Wylie, the
bronzed American—-who is already hugely
popular with the crowd—looked abashed and
sorry that she had done anything to cause
such a fuss. Mina Wylie was first to offer
congratulations, with a pleasantry: “But
wasn’t it a lovely swim?” and Mrs. Gately
(Fanny Durack) was only a few seconds
later in showering praise. Ethelda is dif-
ferent!" built to most Australian swimming
girls. Her wonderfully straight legs, with
an absence of flesh, are akin to those seen
in Australia before with Norman Boss and
the Ohrts(cyclists), whereas the majority of
the Australians were big-thighed and muscle-
formed. It was a comparison that couldn’t
miss the eye.
On Thursday a semi-civic reception was
handed out to the swimmer by Labor-Mayor
Lambert’s missus, supported by Deputy-
Town Clerk Layton. The guest of honor
this time wore a fawn Tam and a blue
satin aress, and her friend Miss Dowd, who
never wears a hat at all and walks as
though moving to the strains of an invisible
jazz-band, wore a dress of the same shade
in taffeta. President of the Swim-
ming Association Mrs. Hugh D. Mcln-
tosh topped her gown with a toque
built of flower petals; Mrs. Bleibtrey
was a slim, graceful figure in black with a
mass of brown crinkly hair. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan and Tom Mutch’s wife represented"
politics. Ethelda refused to be outdone, and
in a manner as large as the United States
themselves invited all present to look her
up when they dropped in on America, and
added a rider to the effect that she’d teach
them all how to swim if they wanted her to.
But the afternoon party at Belhaven, the
Tivoli Mclntoshs’ home, was the hit of the
celebrations. There was a fleet of motors
to meet the merely tramming guests at Vic-
toria-road and carry them to'the bunting-
hung entrance of the homestead. There
were photographers and cinema-men and
jazzing on the wet lawn, and a scrumptious
party under the marquees. Ivy Shilling, in
a duck of a crinoline hat and a knitted silk
dress, was one of the best dressed on view;
and there was Marie La Varre, as robust
as ever, “letting it rip” at the piano ; Renee
Maxwell, all flashing teeth and striped-silk
jersey; and “The Man from Toronto”—in
short, the whole Tivoli box of tricks, with
Ethelda in the boom and large slabs of
Australian mermaid playing about in a back
water, while Mrs. H. D. (who goes off to
America once more, this time fortified by
a fountain-pen presented to her bv the Swim-
ming Association) fluttered round generally.
There was a general atmosphere of lace over-
dresses and smart stockings, several speeches
and two sentimental songs sung by Miss
Bleibtrey in a sweet little twitter.
Captain Offiey Wakeman, who was one of
the aides at Government House in the
Strickland reign, married Winifred Prideaux-
Brune, with the assistance of the Bishop of
London and two padres, recently in London.
The Prideaux-Brune family are developing
Quite a number of Australian ties. One of
the Insurance Garvan girls married a
Prideaux-Brune, so did a daughter of Sir
Philip Grey Egerton, and her step-mamma
was Itupert Clarke’s first missus. Bride-
groom, who is a captain in the Grenadier
Guards, was recalled to England on the out-
break of the war.
Ola Humphrey Broadwood has turned her
flat at Darling Point into a nest of Eastern
coloring. When the front door is flung open
the scene is like the corner of an Egyptian
bazaar. Greens and rose, and reds and
violets glow on the walls, the couches are
heaped with rainbow radiance, and Ola’s bed
is covered with a gorgeous embroidered affair
that ends in knotted silk at least three feet
deep. There are panels of Egyptian and
Indian embroidery, exquisite lengths of lace,
and one wall is hung with a Bokhara rug
worth a king’s ransom.
When William D. Boyce, proprietor
of three papers in Chicago, and one in
Indianopolis. asked for a book on Australia
from the l(),0U0-volume library of his club
in Chicago, he found but one, published the
year he was born. As Australia wouldn’t
go to him lie decided to come to Australia,
and he’s right here now with a son, a secre-
tary and a photographer, writing us up.
What surprises him most is the low
cost of living; it’s only about half what it
is in the U.S. He says that * Australians
know a great deal about U.S.A., but the
Americans know practically nothing about
Australia. In Maoriland, where he has
just spent two months, he found out what
Maorilanders didn’t know themselves —that
they live 10 years longer than English people,
and nine years longer than Americans. This,
he puts down to their freedom from bustle.
When he was leaving Wellington (M.L.)
the waiter at the hotel said: “It has been a
great pleasure to wait on you gentlemen—l
would never have taken you to be Ameri-
cans.” Boyce is the author of several books
of travel, and if he writes about Australia
as interestingly as he talks, it will make good
reading.
Australia has never played such a remark-
able cricketer as Arthur Mailey, who googlies
a man and adds piquancy to' the insult by
caricaturing his vic-
tim for .some paper
or other. Mailey
learnt his art and his
bowling by long se-
cret practice before
he ventured to regard
them as fit for pub-
lication. An old
neighbor talks of him
trying morning alter
morning in his own
backyard those devi-
ous and hated slows
with which he col-
lected a record num-
ber of wickets in one
innings in the Fourth
Test Match. At
night he recorded on
bits of Bristol board
humorous memories of his fellow creatures.
He is now known almost a.s much for his
caricatures as his cricket, and the spreading
celebritv of his pictures is shown by a hand-
some offer for his work from a London pub-
lisher. He intends to prepare an illus-
trated yarn of his travels, to be printed in
Australia on his return from England at
the end of the year, and meantime Alex.
MeCubbin is issuing in a handy book some
new impressions of the team he will be
travelling with This photo of the artist-
cricketer is from Monteath, Melbourne.
Marjorie Mackay, of Boree, Walcha,
wasn’t long behind cousin Violet in announ-
cing her engagement. She has made Lieut.-
Commander Denis Q. Fildes the happiest
sailor in the R.N. Denis’s father is Sir
Luke Fildes, K.C.V.0., R.A., one of the
swagger portrait-painters of the Smoke.
Criqui. the Frenchman wuth the fists, hav-
ing bashed everything human within sight,
has turned his *?aze and thoughts towards
the stage. Said he’s considering an offer
from the Fuller circuit to sing sentimental
songs. If a little difference in the estima-
tion of the money value can be bridged, Syd-
ney audiences will see bashful Criqui in a
new part.
There was another, party on the Mclntosh
lawn last week. This time it was the wed-
ding of Joseph Maxwell, V.C., to his cousin
Mabel Maxwell, that drew cinema men and
photographers like a cloud of locusts to the
Belhaven lawn. The two were made one
by Chaplain Peter O’Hare, supported by
Chaplain Dwyer, of the merry eye, while
Storkey lent his V.C. presence in the bride-
groom’s interests. Bride Mabel was all
white georgette over charmeuse, and her
cousin bridesmaid wore pink crepe de Chine
and a black lace hat. A small sister of the
bridegroom balanced between the bridal train
and a basket of pink, spidery dahlias. There
were lashins of champagne, and Bill Holman
to make pretty speeches about the bride, and
it is said that a house full of furniture and
a cheque were Hugh D.’s wedding presents
to the pair.
Miss Muriel Rolls—the youngest sister of
the decorative Mrs. “Jimmy” Burns—now
signs herself Mrs. Richard Rigg. She was
married in ’Frisco a month ago, and her
home town is in New Mexico.
Because her sister sent an S.O.S from a
private hospital, Mrs. Harold Brash had
to desert the Sorrento Golf Links for a few
days last week and come, across to this city.
She has now returned to swing a club once
more.
Bruce McLaehlan, youngest son of the late
Secretary for Railways, has just slipped the
usual diamonds on the left huger of Carrie
Nash, daughter of medico John Brady
Nash, who sits in the Upper House. Bruce
wore pips in the Rabaul affair, and, later,
at Gallipoli, but Johnny Turk put him out
of action after only a week-end on that un-
healthy spot.
• new Duties Act has sent up the
high cost of loving a little bit more, and
now Edwin, when he wishes to elope with
Angelina, will first have to make sure he has
the necessary duty stamps about him, and m
a handier place than Hop’s old friend carried
them. The new Act requires a 2s. 6d. duty
stamp to be stuck alongside each declaration,
and with marriage papers this means four—
one by each party on the copy to be regis-
tered, and the same on the certificate handed
to the bride. Five shillings can be saved, how-
ever, by making a “copy” of the one the
bride ties up with blue ribbon afterwards,
but the certificate that goes to the registrar
must have two stamps of 2s. Gd. each. The
stamps can be saved altogether by getting a
legistrar to tie the knot; but his fees have
gone up ss. (fl ss. now), so the Govern-
ment gets its cut any way.
Rhodes scholar Robertson returned to his
homeland by the Tahiti a couple of weeks
ago, bringing an English bride with him. His
first appointment is to the Geelong Grammar
•school.
Mrs. Jack Fitzpatrick, of Tilberoo Illabo,
has brought her twin daughters down to
sample the surf at Coogee for a few weeks.
. mo n u 0r ‘ Genera , l . Forster s l se »t the afternoon
at lilberoo on his recent cross-country trip
from Illabo to Temora.
David Storey’s daughter, Rubv. who has
been m charge of the Red Cross tea-room at
Rand wick ever since that institution became
a General Military Hospital, was farewelled
at the hospital last week, and presented
with a handsomely-fitted travelling case that
the staff and patients had bought between
them.
Mrs Isabel Moore, who was killed the
other day ma f p ll from a horse in prepara-
tion for the Dunedin (M.L.) show, was well
known to many Australians. She was a fine
equestrienne, and—as Miss Button—gath-
ered many prizes, besides owning Slow Tom
a great steeplechaser.
Mrs. Holman isn’t grumbling at the price
of gloves for a week or two. She netted
the second prize from the Sunraysed trea-
sure chest with a yarn, and that’s brought
her in a hundred pounds.
1 1 r ] iei i e .’ s a small bund of women living in an
old-fashioned terrace house in Darlinghurst,
who for 20 years have flung the shield of
their knowledge and kindness of heart between
sickness and the poor. It has asked no help
from the public, but has steadily kept on
cleaning up the. black spots in the city’s
byways, so keeping the highways a safer
place for all. Many kubways, from the ’Loo
to Lilyvale, know the District Nurse. Hers
is no affair of starched clothes and well-kept
wards, but the spending of one’s day from
0 in the morning till late afternoon in over-
inhabited streets, bringing relief and healing
to the homes of the sick poor. When the
Association set up 19
years ago there were
eight nurses under
Matron Hester
Maclean (now one
of the inspectors of
Maoriland’s Health
Department), and
to-day, with three
times the work to
cope with, there are
• still but nine nurses.
The Home is a trea-
sure-house of grati-
tude, rag rugs,
patchwork quilts
and crotch eted
do y 1 e.y s, woollen
gloves, and pin-
cushions of the
gayest coloring, with
“Nurse” picked out in pins, have pride of place
in each sister's room. Until it gets a larger
home the Association cannot expand, and
every year adds to the necessity of enlarg-
ing its staff, so for the first time in 20 years
the little community emerges from its
seclusion and asks the public to help it raise
the £lO,OOO necessary for its new home.
Here is Ashby’s photo of Nurse Dawson,
sister-in-charge of the home for more than
10 years.
Teddy Cahill is making Brisbane thrill to
the base of its spine with the electric cur-
rent he generates from his piano in Liszt’s
" uhapsodie Hongroise,” and when the enthu-
siasm reaches the point of chucking bottles
°l fizz across the footlights. Teddy responds
with all the defiance of the Kowalski “March
Hongroise. ’ The Paiace Cardens Theatre
is the scene of the Queensland boy’s triumph
and Gov. Matthew Nathan, the Premier
Theodores and the Mayoral Maxwells sat in
the front benches on the first night of
Teddy’s reappearance to give him the loud
hand. Ilis chum George Brooke lifts his
sweet tenor notes at the same address, and
later on in the year the two make for
London.
Bulletin writer Ida Dawson, responsible
for many good Abo. pars, drops a line from
her new camp at Estanc-ia Pilcancu, between
800 and 900 miles from Buenos Aires, and
about 40 miles from the beautiful Lake
Mahuel Iluapi. She travelled to Nenquen
by rail and the rest of the journey, about 800
miles, by road through desert country covered
with grey thorny bushes, ancient river beds
with high banks of different colored clay
lying in regular layers one above the other,
dry salt pans, lagoons, the most extraordinary
outcrop of rock and—not a tree for miles and
piles. The wood she cooks the damper with
is “monte guancho” a bramble that burns
green. In B.A. she had a coo-ee from Percy
McCarthy, of Moss Yale and Goulburn, Mr.
Chomondeley, a Victorian who lives even fur-
ther south than Ida, and Guy Dawson, son of
R. W. Dawson of Goulburn, all looking well
and happy, and all agreeing with a loud voice
that Australian women have the prettiest feet
and ankles and deportment of any women
they have met.
Little Mrs. Deane is returning to Sydney
after two solid years’ work in New York’s
leading beauty shops. She will demonstrate
all the way to ’Frisco for Arden (the
Canadian beauty specialist whose ice-packs
are the latest wrinkle cult), then she comes
Svdneywards on her own with the latest
ideas in beautv culture. Mrs. Deane gives
some startling figures as to what Noo Yark
women cheerfully pay to have Time’s handi-
work rubbed out; and she reports Miennn
Scantlebury and her mother doing well in
Boston.
Plow many hundred cars do you think flash
along the Mountain roads every week? \ou
don’t know; neither do I—but I do know
that not one of them calls at Bodington to
take the poor t.b. boys out for an afternoon’s
airing. The next time you are driving along
drinking in deep draughts of the life-giving
mountain air, remember that there are boys
at Bodington dying for the fight they fought
lor Australia, and take them even once to see
the witch maids drag their misty draperies
through the tree-tops in your own favorite
valley.
The 12 camera wizards who form the
Sydney Circle last weffk hung the Kodak
Salon with works of pure artistry. Most
of the subjects were chosen with the eye
of a poet. J. E. Paton’s “By the Sea” and
“A Hawkesbury Farmhouse” are exquisite
bits of work, the spirit of adventure reach-
ing out from the first, and the second being
like a delicate pencil-study by Hilder;
Webster’s “Sunlight and Mist”‘looks like
a water-color work; Wakeford’s “Empty
Barn” is a field of sunlight; romance beckons
through Mallard’s “Open Gate”; and Arthur
Ford’s “Spell” is a typical bit of Australia;
while Monte Luke’s “Femme de Mode” looks
uncommonly like Mrs. Vernon Nathan.
The Women Painters are arranging a
cabinet, picture, crafts and loan exhibition,
to open on April 13 in the Education build-
ing. Sending-in day is March 31.
A little Brisbane budget:—
Alice Cadogan, who put in four and a half years
over the other side, first as translator of German in
the War Office, and then as an officer of the Royal
Flying Corps, has come to Brisbane, and hung out
her shingle as teacher of the piano. She is a cheer-
ful soul, with almost half the alphabet trailing after
her name—A.T.C.L., L.R.A.M. and R.C.M.L.—and in
pre-war days paid her first visit to Queensland, after
five years study in Hunland, followed by recitals in
America, Canada and New Zealand. She is Welsh
by birth.
Vida Lahey has come back to Brisbane after a
long visit to England and Paris. She went over
first to make a home for her three soldier brothers,
but soon began doing her bit in an aeroplane fac-
tory. After the Armistice she grabbed palette and
brush again, and hied away to Paree, where she has
been studying for two years.
Pauline Hertzberg, the pretty daughter of the A.
M. Hertzbergs, has taken the diamond badge of
impending matrimony from Lieut.-Colonel Aleck
Mackenzie, D. 5.0., who was O.C. Ist Battalion, and
hails from Penrith.
Miss Jessie Munro, of Toowoomba, leaves for
Bombay early in March, to marry Lieut. Alan
Raff. Her girl friends “farewelled” her last night.
W. G. Conley, G.M. of the Sydney Morning
Herald, and his wife are in Queensland. They
glanced at a few old friends in the city and then
went on to Toowoomba for a little “coolth.”
Our Premier had news on Tuesday of the death of
his mother at Aldgate, near Adelaide. She was a
native of Manchester, and was only 61.


(S° LD TO
YOU
THE DAY
THEY
ARE MADE
Packed in boxes:
3/-, 5/G, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and
30/-
Pnst free to any
address in Aus-
tralia.
' ! fSP. % *
f #5
1
s
v:m 'mm
V4~^
*
-i \. t
>V?<*
*<r~*
ME
SURE OPY
WHEN YOU BRING
Ov'Jb
BUCKLEY’S
(Melbourne’s Leading Clothiers)
SPECIAL SUIT
AT 8i GUINEAS
Combining Style and Economy.
These Special Suits are each a
masterpiece in value. Smartly-
styled and dependable in wear
they represent the most attractive
offer in the Men’s Suit World
of to-day.
We have assembled a choice
selection of All-Wool Tweeds', in
a beautiful range of designs and
colorings, representing the finest-
made Woollen Products in Aus-
tralia.
Everyone who possibly can
should make a point of
inspecting these special
Suitings in our Tailoring
Department, whilst the op-
portunity lasts, but for
those to whom this is
impossible there is the
medium of the post,
by which anyone liv-
ing at a distance can
share in this wonder-
ful offer.
Write for samples and
self-measurement form,
sent free on request,
quoting Number R 125.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all Drapery
Goods to any Post
Office, Railway Sta-
tion or Port in
Australia.
m
m
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
SILVER-PLATE TABLE APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, complete with Egg-
cups and Spoons, Toast Rack, Butter Dish and Salt Cellar,
£3/10/-
m m
A. Saunders’ Salad Dish and Servers, English
Crystal Cut Glass, A 1 quality, pure Silver-
plated Mounts and Servers, £5/5/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, hand
burnished, plain design, £B/10/-
■
illISllS|»!ia«lSilB«
tom' V
BSM/z/S,),,:!:! '■ H ‘« f^l'iii ■ ■.«■.« v '., ■ > - »«i • , «
mm
MiHiriwi
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, plain design,
highly burnished, Enamel lining, £5/10/-
a
i^ibii^mSyfeSijag
G
Zjw-2“* u
»C,\-
■' V'-,
mfm ■
Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
detachable dishes, £l2.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
Lg
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £4/4/-
•*
m
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand burnished and engraved, £6/10/-
*•
m
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, with
Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Satin Glass
lining, £7/10/-


H°LEFR«PF
Ho/lERYI
GOOD JUDGMENT
ctncf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
JN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silh, silh faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
_, Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR
'lade in
HOSE.
Australia.
AN IDEAL, HOSE,
combining: wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
s r?’
a
e
*
h
1C
* 9
l a
m
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Does
Your
Salary
Satisfy
You?
or would you like to
get right amongst
the men who make
big money by be-
coming a commer-
cial artist ?
LEARN TO DRAW
—not to copy ; and
learn easily and
pleasantly by the
Weston Method.
The Harry J. Wes-
ton Postal School
of Drawing, under
the personal direc-
tion of Mr. Weston,
Australia’s foremost
commercial and
poster artist, will
develop your latent
artistic ability by
a series of simple
lessons.
Send for the
Free Book-
Become a big
money - earner
by taking up
this simple
practical course,
every lesson of
which is a pleasure. Mr. Weston’s booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen,” mailed free if you
send address and enclose three penny stamps to
cover postage. SEND IN TO-DAY AND LEARN
how to make money with your pen.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
35 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
im
h
Comfort Written
All Over It.
THE ‘“LONGREACH” Saddle is perhaps the
most comfortable we produce. Note how
the flap is sewn direct on to the seat, doing
away with the usual skirt and giving a
narrow, comfortable grip. Note, also, the
shape of the pads and the position of them.
They give perfect security. It is made cn
our high-grade “Fouright” tree, and fitted
with folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups.
THE
“LONGREACH
SADDLE.
Write for our
Catalogue.
-/ SI/SIJ
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Railway Station in
New South Wales.
SdlH
-oom-oom-oo
-JS
“K’BURRA” STOCKWHIPS—EXPERT PLAITED.
Thongs—
-12-i>iait..
16-plait..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait,
16/6; 24-plait, 18/6. If for 9ft.
tliongs add 1/6 to above.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
In the Matter of
GREAT COBAR LIMITED.
Sib Arthur F. Whinney, 1y.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William Horner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager in
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for the
purchase of the following assets, namely
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tools,
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill,
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing at
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Bank
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and Leaseholds
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak, County
Robinson, and at Litligow, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak and Litligow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Lithgow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. (2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and forms of
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. H. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow.
Tenders endorsed as provided in. the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver in
tne case of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Bocal Receiver for tenders
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be in the hands of the Receiver or
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day of June, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First day of February, 1921.
Equitable Building, W. Fletcher,
oou George Street, Sydney. Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink-flow to suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives!
NORMAN BAKER & LON'CHUKST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask for Onofo Ink —Best for all Pens.
o
o
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
Draws Out the Poisons.
Impurities in the blood produce many ailments, including boils, ulcers, carbuncle,
bad legs, certain forms of eczema and rheumatism. Albert’s Grasshopper
Ointment does not drive these poisons back into the system, where they would
be likely to attack the lungs, heart, liver or other organs. Owing to its
powerful absorptive properties it draws the impurities absolutely out of the
system. This restores the blood and skin to a pure, healthy state, and causes the
boils, ulcers, pimples, eczema, carbuncle, etc., to heal up and disappear. The
Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment, having perfect confidence in its efficacy,
urge its use in treating all maladies due to poisoned and diseased blood. The
written testimony of a countless number of persons who, during the past half-
century, have used the Ointment with beneficial result, renders it impossible to
doubt its surpassing value in treating all blood and skin diseases. The Ointment
is absolutely harmless and contains no injurious ingredients. PLEASE
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier, and for those who suffer from
headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded to purchase any substitute preparations.
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT AND PILLS are sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
ALBERT & CO., 73 Farringdon Street, London, ENGLAND.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Snowy: “Day of Atonement” doesn’t
strike us... .G.A.8.: Not well enough done....
W.N.C.: “The Curing” misses by a long way....
Ernest O.: “John Ryder” doesn’t convince....
H.H.0.: A commonplace novel crowded into the
space of a short story. . .W.K.K.: Don’t like “Maria”
....Clifton: “Muriel” doesn’t make a yarn... Hem:
Learn how to write before trying to tell a yarn...
Hall B.: “Nerison” misses.... Robert W.: “The
Jonnyeake King” is a sorrowful tangle of words and
sentences Jack-o’-Clubs: Not for us T.L.A.:
No use. .. .A.C.S.A.: Makes us sad.... Ruby L.:
Can’t find the humor you allege is there.... Hendon:
Not up N.E.S.: Verse is a bit crude, but the
writer could do better Duncan C.: “The fashion
now in rhyme” is to trample all trick verses in the
mud. You mean to say it was the fashion 30 years
ago. Anyhow, yours is a very bad example of the
rather futile thing. . ..K.L.N.: Nothing there. .. .
P.R.N. : Empty as a drum Elsie R.: Feeble little
thing fluttered to death in the basket Tom Cat:
Dreary stuff. . . .A.A.A.: No use.... Observer: Rotten
. ...L.L.P.: A person who tries to put that sort of
stuff over is either an ass or a fraud Fred N.:
It works the well-worn phrases to get nowhere....
H.W.S.: “Escape” not for us A Query: Hear the
tender cadences of its sweet melancholy:—
Tell me, weeping willows,
Dost thou weep for me ?
Can you see my soul’s feeble glow
In its cage of misery ?
He has gone for ever.
I was pride that turned him away ;
. Love lay sleeping, then awoke never
To dream again. Pride is lotting clay.
.. . -P.A. (Albert Park) : Shocking verse. .Ivalic:
Sorrowful fragment on the human attitude to gold
solemnly rejected Balfour: Very bad Sucre
You w'ork all the old commonplaces. .. .Arthur R.:
Don’t like the telling, nor find the theme convincing.
.... Mea M.: Long-drawn-out yarn about things that
don’t matter with bitter attempts at mild humor.
Nosmo K.: Doesn’t move us Christddie: Very
poor verse R.H. (Wollongong): Feeblest attempt
for nearly a week.... Sparta : Not up. . . .F.B.R. :
Says nothing new and nothing well Jack A. W. ■
Well, fire off a bit of it:—
“Don’t stimulate,” cautioned a doctor, to a man
who d complained of his lungs;
“But rather, reinforce yourself with tit-bits like
sheeps tongues,
Heroic helpings of rabbit-pie, drink plenty milk
and you 11 never die.”
‘‘Sinister advice,” the patient shuddered
Id sooner be drowned and eaten by fishes
than ever smell such dishes,
For drinking iced lemonade on top of fruit but
semi-ripe
HaS typeT” me 3 dyspepsia of the most malignant
.. Dorothy G.: Nothing in it. . . .A.F.A.: The point
of the.yarn is too slight for all that mass of words
’■•• J.MC.: No use sending us rambling stuff like
that Cornus: Not up. Try to get to something
real....N.G. (Inverell) : Verse doesn’t get near
8.F.E.: Very lumpy H.W.D.: Not up. . . .N.L.R.:
Not for us.. Frank G.: Write about something you
know. A.S. (North Sydney): Wobble and bump
verse about nothing in particular. ... Senex: Not up
. . . .G.P. (Surry Hills) : It has a distinction of its
own. One stanza :
If life pupates through chrysalids of time,
Can we not see a vision more sublime?
What wots the pupa of her future state,
Or brilh ant hues of her earlier mate
(Her near future mate) as he flits around
As it waiting her uprising from the ground,
To lose in airy oscillations
dhe grime of grub-way associations :
£rain that responds to earth’s embrace,
And shoots forth in verdure and lowly grace ?
1)° they not prefigure another time?
Is the lesson not old, though new the rhyme ?
Melina: No age limit in qualifying for the Bar.
The men referred to read privately and took from
three to six years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.R.H.: If he’s as dirty as that it’s about time he
“took the water”... .M.Y.: Misses D.L.S.: Take
a good look at a real drawing Rex: Some pro-
mise, but a good way to go yet A.N.: No use
for effort in blue ink on scrap of ruled note-paper...
C.A.M.: He made them better than you d0...H.M •
Gone back. .0.D.: Not yet....W.8.: Ancient gag
and dismal drawing K.F.: Deformed strike agi-
tator on his way home again.,., A. Ed: Pretty
hopeless. .. .Snowy L.: Crude yet; study drawing-
gags 01d.... .Chip: Awful.
Said the Digger :
This Gallagher was a little Irishman from Bun-
garee, Vic. He reached the West front in 1917
and seemed very indignant at the way the war was
being conducted. There was a personal note in his
criticism of the Hun’s method that was rather quaint.
Apparently it was Tim’s fixed conviction that Hin-
denberg had got him set individually, and his reflec-
tions on the super-Hun were as -poignant in their
blasphemous eloquence as anything I have ever heard.
However, I was given a better understanding of Gal-
lagher’s point of view later, when he confessed to
me: “ "Tis the like o’ this, mate. All me life I’ve
bin pelted be the immortal powers. First, there
was wan iv them thunderbolt things smashed me
cradle afore I could walk. At 19 I was lamed for
a year by a junk iv rock that fell frim a blast at
Cardigan. Then Clarke, dynamitin’ shtumps frim
his land et Red Lead, dropped a half i v one elane
down a small prospectin’ shaft I was workin’ in.
Then a blast wint off premature in the home paddock
and knocked me hell west. And now where am I
tell me that? I come here fer safety, and dam’ if
[»me ould inimies ain’t gettin’ at me still under cover
iv this warrr!” When a shell burst in his vicinity
Tim would jump up and yell, “Missed, you - -1
Missed!” and he would give the atmosphere for
lOOvds. a brimstone taint, levelling objurgations at
his invisible foes. But they got him at last, and
then the flying Huns hit the hospital lie was in. I
met him later limping in the Strand. “Hello!” I
said, “you in London?” “True, for yeh,” said he
“and all the worse for London!” ilis prediction
proved correct. He met his finish in an air raid
that blew a great gap in the city. “They’ve got
what they’ve bin afther,” said he just before dyin°-
“Now, mark me, the war’ll be over!” And lie was
just buried-when the Huns were pelting back to the
Rhine and the Armistice was being arranged.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, fi Spring Street,
Sydue
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 30,
VENTURA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies, & c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : Janies Love, Esq. ;
W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OITICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors : Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve" Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1.850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 92 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
° the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping.
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND ££ ST -EQ U IP FED STEAMER S TRADING
RET WEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN COMINLNI.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
STEAMERS SAIL EVERY 28 DAYS:
R.M.S. NIAGARA.
R.M.S. MAKURA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The C.rent Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
(irand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara tails, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. TAHITI, end March.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
.
..
mm
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Lund
Reserve Liability
- £4,958,260
3,350,000
- 4,958,260
£13,266,520
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie. fCsq.
’.r.ioTS .
liobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors • W H. Palmer, Esq. ;S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
ilead Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, -Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.. £2,500,000
.. £2,220,000
~ £2,500,000
£7,220,000
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman,
lion. H. E. ICater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Ilenrv Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout Keiv South Wales anil Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
Tondon Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every iear.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about •• •• £ 4?’oooOOO
Accumulated Funds exceed .. •• £4 ■ ’
Annual Income nearly
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel,
ft. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Shipoine.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
As the sailing dates are indefinite,
intending passengers are requested to
keep in touch with the agents of the
various steamers.
Huddarl ParkcrLi^'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston thice sailings per week,
l or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.SM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEV UK A,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeka from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.B. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 400 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
0 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including: —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £ 3/12/-
Seeond Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply rT ,„„ rn
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. UtcL
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.j Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. . ,
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
land Ports). , , ,
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). , , „ . .
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooldown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
9r
A
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There’s no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
mm
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On.
Be sure and ask for CASH S Names.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6-6 doz. S/--3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
J. &J. CASH ES; gSSSfrb.
WRITE FOR
STYi_E BOOK
mm
mm
ism


GENUINE
i
V
ft hl|H
(Regd)
BILLIARD &S NO OKE
yf^
-)
I
n play they are resilient—faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes :
If in
17/3
Ifin.
21-
2in.
25/- set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.;
Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes :
llin.
£6/6-
liin.
£717-
2in
£BlBl- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Australasian Distributors
L/C
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
1
Benger's booklet
is full of helpful
advice for mothers
with infants post
free from
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd.
117 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
For partial feeding—
before and after weaning.
Throughout the wide world, Benger’s Food
carries the recommendation of the Medical
Profession for partial feeding, i.e., when
feeding baby begins to be too much for mother.
If one meal of Benger’g is given alternately
with the breast, the subsequent complete
weaning proceeds smoothly and without check
to the infant’s progress.
Food
contains no dried milk, it is always prepared
with fresh cow’s milk (or milk and water),
which it modifies perfectly to the delicate
digestion of infants (vide medical report).
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers - BENGE R’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
A.
mm
vi
<
t %
Metal Slitting Saws
Hard work at high speed soon finds out
the weak spots in a metal slitting saw.
Made especially from Capital High-Speed
Steel, with a fully guaranteed elastic
temper.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
metal saws always give satisfaction, and last a long time
1 lie following sizes are in stock :
oin. x l-32in., Bin. x 1-l Gin., 3in. x 3-32 in., Bin x 1-Sin Bin y qov
sin. x l-'l6in., Sin. x 3-32 in., Sin. x l-Bin., Sin x 3-16in’’ fiin’ x
6in. x 1-Sin., 6in. x 5-32 m„ din. x 3-10in.', Sin. x 1 Sin.; Sin \ |l| “ '
t, ~ , Sin. x l-4in. ' *’
Further particular, regarding supplied on application to Department “A «
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL Co. Ltd
of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 266 Eatrobe St.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 48 Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder
Road, Kalgroorlie.
BRISBANE: John Reid &
Nephews, Charlotte Street.
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray
Ltd., Scott Street. J
ADELAIDE : Charles Atkins &
Currie Street.
-H„b.“ uls “' Col -
PLUME SPIRIT
-/
o
rai
111
%
Of course I use Plume”
Plume is giving satisfaction to
thousands of motorists who appre-
ciate its punch, its uniformity, and
its cleanliness.
Plume is a powerful driving
force ; it is rich in heat units and of
great energy ; steep hills only serve
to prove how good it is.
Plume also gives that extra mile-
age that makes such a difference to
the petrol bill; motorists say it gives
them a greater run for their money.
Plume is the spirit of accom-
plishment—ready for its work, day
in and day out, the year round.
If you don’t know that Motor
Spirits are not all the same, turn in
at the dealer who displays a Plume
sign, and join the great army of
satisfied Plume users.
Just ask for Plume
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
11 A
Shave
with
a
“Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “£ lum ” has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping*.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle
Single Razor, Ivory Handle
Pair in Double Case
Strops each, from
25/-
15/6
30/-
10/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Banish Backache and Kidney Troubles.
Prove Their Value for Yourself.
For years I suffered with
the pain in my back was
so severe it seemed I
could hardly stand it.
Nothing that I took
seemed to do me any
good, although I tried
numerous remedies.
Finally I took a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
and am now entirely
cured. I had not been
taking the pills two days
before I could feel the
good effects of same.
They are marvellous pills,
and I can heartily recom-
mend them to anyone suf-
fering from Backache or
Kidney Trouble. They
deserve success, and 1
shall always recommend
them to my friends.
Sincerely yours,
MURIEL E. DAVIS.
Glenlossie,
Eastern Avenue,
Kensington.
kidneys and backache. At times
Mrs. M. E. DAVIS (from a photo.).
AS GOOD FOR MEN AS FOR WOMEN.
T . • npopssarv for anyone to suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
c ,i' KS'.nrsi's- •>«■«»•*»*•.
Gin Pills quickly remove all such troubles.
T)r Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the most wonderful remedy yet devised fo L, r “) <lin ®
the poisons and remedy* thecause. No u>nz , g that it is
iHSCffifflKiite you take'them, and you fromthe ZftlmeTat
you use them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
D*Sheldws
pills,
BANISHES
«BACK ACh E.KI DN EY. BLADDER
AND URINARYTROUBLES
V
m
&
%
J
Every Man
Needs a Razor
that will give him a clean, smooth, and rapid shave. But
such a shave is only possible with a perfect shaving edge
and a perfect shaving edge can only be obtained by stropping.
This is where the “Valet” Auto Strop excels any and every
other safety razor. Built right into the frame is a simple but
wonderfully efficient stropping device that puts a new edge
on the blade before every shave. Any dealer will show you
complete set (from 27/6 to 65/-), and demonstrate the razor.
“VALET”
i o «8 iFop
Safety Razor
*r
i)2
uii7ii { v
Oi
imi'uii'
’ffin'n
mm,
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australia.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
The word “ Valet " on Razors,
Strops, and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the Auto Strop
Sa ety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207,
City Road, London, England.
Trysting Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL the fruits of Goblin Market
Glow on either hand:
Eden-apples, grapes and cherries,
Clusters of translucent berries,
Red with juices bland,
Gourds and melons gay,
Magic, mystic, moony-golden,
Fruits that might a saint embolden —
These are mine to day.
All the jewels of the Indies:
Twisted coral-gems,
Beryls clear yet secret-hearted,
Pearls from chiming reefs uncharted,
Emerald diadems;
Every splendid stone
That the old Arabian lover
Jinnee-guided might discover —
These are all my own.
All the fragrances of legend,
Blown across the sea :
Rose-dust, ambergris and spices
Stored with curious devices
In jade and ivory
For a princess proud—
Ah, but every phial is broken,
And the swooning-sweet love-token
Wraps me like a cloud !
All old quaint and faithful creatures
Ring me lest I fret:
A 1 Borfik, the Heaven-wender,
Una’s lion, and that tender
Gelert, deathless yet.
You are drawing near!
For snowy-pinioned doves of Venus
Flutter back and forth between us:
Pegasus is here.
All the little flowers of music
Clash their crystal bells;
And the wood-wind’s silver crying,
Flutes and violins’ low sighing,
Harpstrings’ showered spells
Lure to join the throng
Wild birds’ rapture, wild bees’ humming—
You are coming, you are coming—
All the earth is song.
Now I break and scatter from me
Treasures spun of air,
Waiting’s fancies, waiting's glories,
Stolen wealth of wide-world stories.
For a joy more rare
Let my eyes be clear ;
Hands be empty for your giving,
Heart attuned for royal living—
You are here, are here!
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Corbett’s Love-story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fjM HOSE who believed in predestination
always said that Corbett was damned
from the beginning, and he would
have saved himself much trouble if he had
been as sure as they. But some queer kmk
in his brain apparently denied what the rest
of his body made haste to confirm, and so it
was that he had passed thirty by some years
and still was sufficiently a white man to get
tangled up in one of the most pathetic little
romances the men of Asuma Beach ever came
in contact with.
By that time Corbett had been pretty
nearly everything which a Public School Eng-
lish gentleman is bred up not to be. Six sepa-
rate Island boats had the honor of paying
him super-cargo wages until he was booted
out for drunkenness and insubordination.
It was the time he came seared from hell
out of the engine-room of a trading-steamer
where he had worked exclusively with Kana-
kas that the Wonderful Thing happened to
him. The story did not begin like a romance,
for the first intimation given the Beach of
his reappearance was when the negro m
charge of the fountain flung him out of the
newly-opened icecream-soda store along the
front. The Resident Doctor —he had a fine
house among the screw-pines and casuarmas
up the hill —came by in immaculate ducks
and shoes and pith-helmet in time to see
the chucking out; and, because the man-
handling of a white by a black is rather
more of a disgrace in the Islands than else-
where, he hauled the helpless thing to his
surgery and there dosed it with stuff that
made it sit up and curse itself back to man-
hood again.
After that, being a youngish man with a
young invalid daughter whom he worshipped
and a real belief in the Ultimate Good, he
talked to Corbett and finally presented lum
with a suit of clothes. Corbett, who had once
had a pretty turn with Greek epigram and
Latin verse, accepted all he could get in a
manner which moved the doctor’s heart, and
then went away through the village in earnest
search of someone to whom he could swap
the new clothes for a bottle of grog.
The Deputy-Commissioner happened to
take tiffin with the doctor that night; and
coming eventually to Corbett quoted a native
proverb applicable to the situation:
“ ‘First, the Lord made Tongans, then lie
made pigs, then He made the white man.
After meeting a few of the Corbetts of the
world one learns to appreciate the native
standpoint.”
“Appreciate!” This was the doctor s pet
theory. “We don’t give the poor devils a
chance. Not a chance. It’s the curse of
Reuben over again, and we who can go back
to England to-morrow if we want never try
to help them lift it. Corbett”
“Corbett’s damned.” The Deputy-Com-
missioner was withered by long living in the
Tropics, but his eyes were keen as lancets
when they looked into men’s lives. “He’s in
the gutter, and he’ll never get up. Corbett’s
damned.”
Corbett was just thinking the same. Being
unusually sober he was unusually depressed,
and even the sight of the young girls bathing
in the open surf, with the sun glinting on
the pornoise-brown smoothness of their bodies
and the cooling trade-wind carrying their
riotous laughter, did not halt his feet.
In a rotten little house down among the
Beach refuse he found Hotchkiss, a grey and
drunken beachcomber of fifty years, who
stretched gnarled and filthy hands and blinked
moist eyes and called him “Dear boy.” But
all Hotchkiss’s bottles were empty, and the
craving still drove Corbett on. He circled
the village by the upper road, where the
matted foliage shut him into a great bath
of perspiration and the slow-flapping gorgeous
parrots screamed at him until his mouth due
up with his curses. High up among the ferns
and vines that netted m the world, oichids
gleamed with livid lips and demon eyes, and
Corbett began to run stumbling from them
as one runs from devils. ,
Out on the dusty coral road again he
heard the boom of breakers coming m witu
the trade like the roll of mighty drums, and
still he ran with the sensation that heaven
and earth were iu league against him. A
house showed up among slender areca-paims
and great pandanus-leaves, and lie sciambleci
over the low hedge with a feeling that sanc-
tuary was near. The gay hammock slung
between two palms-boles was sanctuaij, but
he did not know it then. Did not know even
when he came near and looked down on the
peaked cameo-pale face and big dark eyes or
the doctor’s invalid daughter the gill
of whom the Beach said: “She is eyes only,
lacking body and legs.” ... . ,
The hand hanging over the fringed edge
was frail and tiny as a child’s. The face was
a child’s, and no one had ever told Corbett ot
her seventeen helpless years of denied maiden-
hood Si e lay looking at him with those great
eves quickening into light; and he, good to
look at, despite the flushed face and tumbled
hair and the marks of dissipation which her
innocence could not read, looked back with
a vague acceptance of old standards moving
in his dulled brain. This was a lady despite
her youth. lie sought to remove the hat
which still lay on the shore among the land-
crabs, and not finding it stood abashed, it
seemed to him in some way natural that
he should wait her whim, natural that she
should put out her tiny hands, crying:
“Oh, where have you come from/ 1 did
so want someone to come, for I’m so lonely
to-day and the pain is so bad.”
Corbett did not remember where he came
from, but again that persistence of old
standards controlled him.
“I came to stop you from being lonely,
I think. And to make you forget the pain.’
And she laughed as a child laughs, and
lay back on her gay cushions.
“Come and do it then, quick ! Quick, before
the pain begins again. You’ll find a chair
over there —and some fruit.”
The cool pines and bananas assuaged Cor-
bett’s thirst for a little, and her wilful
whimsical power over him seemed to grow
with her chatter, so that he had been there
perhaps twenty minutes when the doctor
came. And the doctor, after one amazed
glance at the man, was caught like a lover
by sight of his daughter’s glowing face.
“Oh, Daddy, we’re having such a lovely
time. He doesn’t know anything about me,
and I don’t know anything about him. So
we’re just pretending. Come here, Daddy,
and I’ll tell you. Did you know your Maura
was really an Egyptian princess, Cleo-
patra was ever so jealous of her?”
The doctor shot a look at Corbett, now
standing with shaking hands gripped on the
chair-back. Medical knowledge told him
that the man was near the end of his powers
and certainly no more than half sober. And
yet in some way he had brought a light to
that dear face and a gaiety to the voice whicn
all the doctor’s arts could not compass. I or
a few moments he met her light mood with a
desperate equal Tightness. Then he got Cor-
bett away, and when the surgery door shut
behind them Corbett dropped on the hrst
chair and said: ~ ,
“Give me a nip, for God s sake.
The doctor gave it, though not for God s
sake; and then, as Corbett’s brain cleared a
little, he looked up, half-defiant, halt-
apologetic. . ...
“She wanted someone to play with, poor
little kid! I once had a little sister. 1
didn’t say anything to hurt her.”
The doctor gently guided him to the couch.
“You lie down and get a sleep. I’m going to
her,” he said. .
It was possibly the hardest moment m the
doctor’s life when he forced himself to re-
alise that the drunken derelict sleeping in
the surgery had done more for his darling
than anyone else had done. Some wandering
breath of fantasy had touched Corbett with
glamor for the sick girl, and she lay talking
of him incessantly with her father’s hand
in hers. _ ~
“He is so wonderful at pretending, Daddy.
You’re the best ever, but you can’t pretend
very much, you know. And dear old Isursie
can’t at all.' He knows all about everything,
and we played we were in Egypt and Home
and”
It was a grim face that looked down on
Corbett an hour later. Lying with head
flung back there was a curious appeal about
the young man. He might almost have been
worthy to tie the shoe-latchets of the girl
who could never have a lover as other maid-
ens had one. Lying there and then
Corbett opened those two wise eyes and
looked up.
The doctor spoke like one strangled.
“Get up—and have a wash. I want
to speak to you.” _
“You might give a chap a drink.
“Go in there and bathe. Do as I tell
you. Then come back.”
The man whom the negro had thrown
out and the store-assistants intimidated
did as he was bid. But when he came out
twenty minutes later the cold water and
the cold drink placed by the bath had done
their work. „ , ~ , ,
“Well?” he said, and faced the doctoi
as one man may face another.
It was the doctor who was ill at ease.
He had a favor to ask of Corbett, the by-
word of the Islands; and whether Corbett
agreed or not it was like that the joke would
go out and become a by-word too.
“You’ve been a gentleman, he said
abruptly. “You talked like > a gentleman
to my daughter this afternoon.”
“I don’t remember what I said this
afternoon.” He felt very weak, for he had
net eaten a decent meal for these three days
and more. “I talked Roman and Greek
legends, I think.” ,
“You amused her.” The doctor steadied
his voice with an effort. ‘She has veij
little to amuse her. She.. . .is not strong,
you understand. What would you.. ..Ic
make it worth your while to stay ier ® * 1
little and talk to her. provided, pf course,
that you behaved yourself. It is just po. si
ble that an interest might... .improve her
health ...” He had never dared allow that
hope on his lips before. It sent him giddy for
the moment, and he looked at the hunched
(Continued'on next page.)


m
r
; r,
A
: :
eiu a 3 tor
GIVING OUT?
s P r °t>ably due to weak kidneys, a
troubie that often follows a cold, a fever, worry or over-
work It shows in constant, dull, throbbing backache, or
arhS ? nge !i When st °°P ln S or lifting. You have head-
• 1 l.°j IZZy s P e ?i a tired nervous feeling and
of d?n!f r kldney , aCtlon -. Dol }' t neglect it—there is danger
east toT §ra rl° r Sen T S kldney disease - It is usually
easy to correct these early troubles, however, and avoid
Dromnt r t, dan S e [ rous by giving the kidneys
prompt help. Use DOANS BACKACHE KIDNEY
.- r LS ’ .„ thousands have saved themselves
kidney ills by timely use of DOAN’S.
serious
Mrs E. Wilkinson, 20 Campbell Street, St. Peters Sydney
bending or gc.trng proper re s ,'. t
when attending to my household dnti« o q .. J _ dm perea me
that I could hardly move and if T St Sometimes I was so bad
pain was almost unbearable After trying all so^t? 6 f h ° USe a the
without success, Doan’s Backache Kidnwpfu. 1 of , remed ms
my notice, so I got some and tbev Pdls w « re brought under
After taking two bottles of these me goo<i almost at once,
and eight bottles completely cu re d P me ThnVZV? T° b
ago, and I have been well ever sinee ’ rli wa ? twelve months
Doan’s Backache Ividnev Pills in in * a^wa J 7S keep a bottle of
occasional, y , ‘ “os.
Eight years later Mrs. Wilkinson snvs__“T i,
>iZ agoT'" ‘ ,tooe D ° >n ' S S
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
«« r ’ Sutherland Street, Mascot, Sydney, says:—
Some months ago I was suddenly .seized with a terrible pain across
my back just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
J I} ld ’ bu *» on the contrary, it got worse, and I was soon
o bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled,
and even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but
they gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested
I should take Doans Backache Kidney Bills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely, driving the
pam out of my back, regulating the secretions and banishing every
other distressing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now,
and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
man sitting on the couch and felt himself
tom with a wild mixture of passions—
prayer, hate, desire to kick the brute out,
savage resentment that Ins daughter should
be soiled by any connection with such a
result of the evil of the world.
Corbett considered his fingers. There
was opportunity here: money, drink, good
food and soft lying.
“I can’t get along without drink.”
*ou shall have what is necessary. I’ll
attend to you so far as your case can be
attended to.” For a moment the doctor’s
face was convulsed. Utter need only was
whipping him on to this. "JShe has taken
a fancy to you, and it is rarely enough she
does that. If she can be interested she may
ld give you the soul out of my body if
you could do anything to make her strong
again.”
In the doctor’s clothes, on the doctor’s
couch, Corbett sat still and considered,
lhe cards were tabled now, and this man
who had lived on his wits for ten years
and more was moved by no emotion but that
ot a greedy shrewdness. Beauty, romance,
tiagedy, he had gone past them all. The one
thing which mattered now w 7 as the amount
ot cash he could screw out of this old chap
for the penance of talking daily mush to
tiiat sick kid with the eyes—she certainly
had wonderful eyes. lie looked up, anil
At aura would not have recognised the thin
sneering face.
I 11 do it for a week or two, if we can
come to terms.”
“Then let’s get down to it, damn you,”
said the doctor.
Before the week was out the Beach was
staring aghast at the doctor’s aberration.
“Corbett?” said Lee when the gunboat
came in and he heard the story over cool
drinks. “That drunken loafer and little girl
Maura? It’s criminal.”
“They say he doesn’t talk to her as he
would to other women. It’s a fantastic game
of some sort. They both pretend.”
“The further Corbett gets away from
reality the better for all concerned, I should
say. But it’s a rotten notion, any way.
lhe doctor must be mad,” said Lee. And
to this the rest of the company agreed with-
out reservation.
But the doctor was not mad, although
he lived on the edge of a volcano such as
he believed Etna to be a fool to. Because
he had the skill for it, he so nursed Cor-
bett’s body that the demon of drink slept a
little while, and sane living and good food
recreated the old decent instincts—for a
time. •. And the magic of that light
which never was on land or sea shone
among the orange-trees and magnolias in
the garden up the hill, where the delicate
thoughts and fancies of budding girlhood
turned for the nonce a drunken derelict into
a god. a hero, a Prince Charming, a vital
and glorious reality which brought the bloom
to her thin cheeks and the vigor to her
listless limbs.
“I feel as if I live in these places when
we talk of them,” she said. “A long time
ago I made up stories by myself, but they
never came really, really true until I found
you."
The air held the waiting breathlessness
vhich seems to dry a man’s very soul in
his body, and the wash of the surf down on
the coral reef made Corbett run his tongue
along liis lips with sudden desire for a
drink. Then, all unheralded and unsus-
pected, his demon was upon him again, lie
got up hurriedly, and she caught at his
sleeve.
“Don’t go away. I always so hate the
feeling of a storm. It makes me so tired.
Oh, stay and talk till daddy comes back.”
,“I can t, ’ said Corbett. lie wrenched
his arm free and went swiftly past the
orange-traes and the curtained vines on the
verandah, seeking the dining-room where
the doctor kept the small amount of drink
allowed him daily. lie took it all in one
draught, neat, choking it down as though
m terror of something which he could not
fight. The drink steadied him for the
moment. Ife sat down, looking ro’und as
though newly awakened. And here the
doctor found him.
There had »been nights before this when
he and the doctor had sat over their cheroots
and grinned at one another mirthlessly, for
both knew that no power on earth would
hold Corbett for long, and each wondered
with a carefully-cloaked fear how and when
Corbett would break out. Now they looked
at each other silently, until Corbett said:
Well, it’s come, Doc.”
“For God’s sake be a man!” The doctor
flung himself forward with trembling vio-
lence. “Fight it, Corbett. Fight it. You’ve
stood off it long enough to prove to you
that you can. If you’ll take hold”
I don’t want to take hold.” Corbett
sat with hands hanging between his knees
and, looked at the doctor impersonally. “I
dont want to be brutal, but I’m tired "of all
tins. led up. Bored stiff. I want a glori-
ous burst, and, by Heaven, I’m going to have
to you, I’ve the means.”
“Corbett”—the doctor’s eyes were full of
anguish—“l never thought to pray to any
man, but, for the love of God, try to hang
on a bit longer. She’s better. She’s getting
better every day. Lately I’ve even had
hopes that she might walk. I’ve never known
her take such a fancy to anyone before.
You ve just got to be near her and she is
all vitality, all brightness. If you with-
draw that influence 5he....1....by God,
you shan't withdraw it. I’ll kill you first!”’
“Oh, rot! What do I care whether you
kill me or not?”
“I had hoped—for her sake”
“Did you? Wanted me to love her, did
you, knowing that she can never be wife
to any man? Jolly considerate of you! I
don’t reckon I owe you much on that score
or another. You’ve dosed me up and kept
me on my legs for her sake. And I’ve let
you do it for my own. Now, I guess we’re
about square, and I’ll get out and have my
flutter.”
“You need never come back here.”
“I won’t. Don’t you worry, old top.”
Manner and voice were as offensive as he
could make them. It seemed as though the
knowledge that the time of his bestiality
was near was already having its effect on
him. ‘ Give me what you owe me and I’ll
get out.” His limbs twitched like those of
one already struggling in the slough. “Quick,
I tell you. I want to go.”
lie was on the beach ten minutes later
with money in his pocket for the buying of
his shame. And he bought it. For days
he bought it, eagerly, wastefully, passing
from one drunken bout to another until the
time came when he opened his eyes on
Bliasa Singh’s string bed on the verandah
of his house down in the Hindoo quarter
and saiv the red evening light through the
palms.
Behind him was dark and tinkling laughter
where Bhasa Singh’s women chattered over
the scandal of the day. Before him, down
in the narrow street that was bent like a
dog’s liind-leg, someone beat a tom-tom
monotonously and someone sang plaintively.
To Corbett came the strange belief that he
was dead, hung between earth and Heaven,
both of which had spewed him out. Hell was
indubitably within himself. He could feel
it burning, smell it—only the smell was
curiously like cooking bread-fruit. The heat
pressed on him with its wet hands; pressed
on his eyelids. He seemed to be making
enormous efforts to open them.
And then it seemed that they were open,
staring into scarlet flames which seared and
blinded and would not let him go. A face
formed in the flame ; a face like a silver rose,
pure, tender-eyed, sweet-lipped, shining on
him like a promise, a salvation. It grew
nearer, nearer against the pulsing flame and
the black dark ; an ethereal, perfect, healing
thing which in some strange way belonged
to him and which he could not name. Sud-
denly he knew.
“Maura!” he cried, and the sound was no
more than a guttural stutter in his parched
throat.
It was perhaps an hour later that the
doctor, disturbed by sundry scratchings and
sounds without, left Maura’s bedside in
order to kick the pariah dog away. And
the dog he found beating on the door, whin-
ing in the dark, was Corbett, half-clothed,
unshaven and unwashed, with an empty
bottle stuck in his ragged shirt and wild
eyes gleaming.
“Let me in, let me in,” panted Corbett.
The doctor crushed down his first impulse
to flinv him across the road into the fern.
“What have you come here for?” he said
rouehly.
“I don’t know,” said Corbett, beginning to
whimper. “Something called me —but I can’t
find it now.”
The doctor was a believer in the Ultimate
Good, which comprises many things. Besides,
Maura was dying. If this was the mes-
senger the Lord had sent to ease the cross-
ing ! He opened the door slowly,
“Come in, you beast.”
Whimpering still, Corbett came in. He
felt very sick and weak and lonely, and the
strong hands which presently took him and
bathed and clothed and fed him were un-
gentle enough. A drink cleared his head
somewhat, although control of his limbs was
difficult when he got his directions at last
in the doctor’s dry voice.
“Go in and see her now. Tell her you
came to see her. Tell her you couldn’t stay
away. Understand?”
“Come to see her!” echoed Corbett. “Yes,
of course. To see her.”
“Be very gentle.” The doctor’s voice
sounded like the booming of a great sea
“She is so weak. Tell her you love her’
Kiss her.”
With a hand running along the wall to
steady him Corbett went into the next room,
with the doctor following. Maura loved
bright colors, and the crimson cushions
heaped about her were to Corbett's eyes like
the flames that had burned him. And then
from the midst of them, grew that face like
a flower,. fair and pure, and infinitely sad
with its closed eyes. Caught by an agony
which he could not explain, could not under-
stand, Corbett left the protection of the
wall and ran stumbling, forward with his
hands out.
“Maura!” he cried, loud and clear.
“Maura!”
A half-hour later the doctor forced the rim
of a glass between Corbett’s chattering teeth.
“It won’t be long now. Keep it up ! Talk
to her!” he said.
Corbett looked up at the grey face in the
grey light.
“How not long?” he asked stupidly.
“You killed her when you left her. But she
can only die peacefully in your arms.”
The uttermost bitterness of life was in
the quiet words, but it failed to pierce Cor-
bett. On his breast Maura turned, opening
great eyes dark with love and death.
“Not pretending now,” she murmured. “I
love you—love you.”
Corbett lifted her and put his drink-
cracked lips to hers. And so she died, with
a smile of completest joy and contentment
on her face, and the two men looked at her
with neither thought nor speech for each
other. At last the doctor spoke, striving to
check the passion in him.
“(live her to me and get out.”
Something rose in Corbett then, tearing at
the chains which bound him, flaming on his
lips.
“She’s mine ! Mine !”
“Give her to me.” The doctor’s shaking
voice told that he knew this for sacrilege,
desecration.
“She 'mine,'” said Corbett, as though he
spoke for eternity. Then, suddenly giving
her into the reaching arms, he slid down by
the bed with hidden face. “0 God! 0
God! O God !” he cried.
It is quite true that Corbett was damned
from the beginning. On the Beach he now
occupies the hut and the position of Hotch-
kiss, dropped over-ripe from the tree of life
years ago. He is at once the disgrace and
the interest of the Beach, for almost nightly
the Resident Doctor comes down from his fine
lonely house on the hill to smoke a cheroot in
Corbett’s dirty little back room, where Cor-
bett lies on a littered bed all the time, with
black bottles about him. They seldom speak,
but once in a while Corbett turns his be-
mused eyes on the grim white figure sitting
against the wall avd says simply:
“I loved her. Doc.”
And the doctor, with a voice harsh as a
saw. rasps out:
“I know you did. old chap.”
Then comes the silence again, with the
sough of the wind and the wash of the tide
on the long white beach when the trade comes
in over the sea.
G. B. LANCASTER.


; r
liss
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
o
2*^l*
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HO RUCK S
MALTED MILK
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
08} PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, Use the telephone, and obtain
information, without charge.
lliililNllilHHlililllllHlllllllHllllillllllillf
liiiillllHSiillllilllliliiiilillllllllilllllllilll
Hum
iHiiiiiiiimiiiHiiiiiiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii
k
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian Ay nts
©ECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Full, rich tone, clear reproduction
Ready to play im nediately opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag,
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
soldiers —in trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
amongst whom are many Diggers,’
with musical entertainment wher-
ever they may be.
3 Models :
Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. 11 10 0
Cowhide •. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
FROM ALL
_ MUSIC-DEALERS. - r
W 1»
m
mmm i
if
The very strength of Shirley President Braces is your security.
More durable than just ordinary braces, because the factory put
this strength and durability into the making. Millions of satisfied
wearers the world over. Look for the name “Shirley President
on the buckles. Guaranteed by the makers.
For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., U.S-A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives;
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, S:Z.
■
“A SHI&UD”
—a reliable protection—against the attacks of indigestion is to be
found in Beecham’s Pills. Confirmation of this comes from all parts
of the world. The long record and the high reputation of this success-
ful preparation should inspire every confidence in those who have yet
to take it for the first time. Beecham’s Pills bring speedy relief to
those suffering from lassitude, biliousness, sick headache, constipa-
tion, poor appetite and other signs of stomach trouble. Furthermore
if these pills are taken from time to time even when there is freedom
from any special ailment or indisposition, they will greatly assist in
maintaining fitness and condition thus proving " a sure shield ”
against the attacks of that great enemy of the general health-
indigestion. Preserve your strength and vigour- by using
BKCHAMS
PIU.S
Sold in boxes, labelled 10&, ls-Hd and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fuHy
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all. - , #
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life b<
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches/
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in lack of i
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but rememberi
Carter’s Little 1
Liver Pills touch
the liver and cure
[carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small PM—Small Dosa—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
Refrigerating S Ice-making Machinery,
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can Pe
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Iheir strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
It
R
C -5
Rttph on ‘
for Shooting Right
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25,30, 33,
35. Catalogues post f
upon request.
m
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative., Box 686, G.P.O.,‘Melbourne.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
126
each
Post Free
is in Use.
( Patented )
U »
fig »
19 /fi each :
Jl mf!%J Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


DEWARS
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY-TASTE—AGE
is the Essence of Goodness and Fine
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion. which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s; a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is;
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar’s is the Paladin of Whiskies.
Age
is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
is the Veteran of Stimulants,. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.
