

>
Bird
Proof almost fire,
rust, corrosion,
sulphurous and acid
f u mes, gases, smoke,
steam, alkalies, etc.,
and constantly
improving with age
-“F1BROL1TE”
provides a perma-
nent roof for all
industrial concerns.
,r;
Unretouched photograph of building jfiOft. long by UOft. unde, for the Australian Fertilizers Ptv Ltd Port
Kembla, N.S.W where over 100,000 sq. ft. of “FIBROLITE” Corrugated Asbestos Cement Sheets were used fir
roofing, owing to the immunity of this material from sea-air and fumes. J
For many years large factories and industrial and mining concerns have keenly felt the need of a roofing
material that will not rust, corrode or disintegrate. Experience goes to show that when exposed to sea
air, acids or chemical fumes, the life of past-day roofing materials has been relatively short.
“FIBROLITE” Corrugated Roofing has efficiently met the need. The reason for its almost universal
adoption for roofing large factories, etc., is found in the many exclusive features that it possesses over the
materials which it supplants. It requires no painting or other protective coatings. Its first cost is its last cost
FIBROLITE” CORRUGATED ROOFING has been used on all classes of industrial works with the largest
measure of success. It is giving the best possible service with absolutely no maintenance costs on many
huge roofs including the works of Messrs Metters, Ltd., Sydney; The Austral Bronze Co., Ltd., Sydney
The General Chemical Co Ltd., Clyde; Messrs. Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Works, Sydney; Messrs. Wm. Haughton
& Co. s large stores at Melbourne, and on the largest wharves for the Sydney Harbor Trust Commissioners
JANES LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.:
“Asbestos House, 1 *
York & Wynyard Sts.
BRISBANE, Q.:
Courier Building,
Queen Street.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, yonr iargi
“ FIRROLITE ” Hoofing Catalogue dealing with roofiing for
large works, etc.
Company . .
A ddress
ni'
MELBOURNE, VIC.:
“Asbestos House,”
Little Collins Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.:
30 Currie Street.
AGENTS IN
PORTS AND TOWNS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
1 '
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2171
Thursday, September 22, 1921.
Price 9d. -
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431; —Advt.
M^S?
03
I
n
THE TRACTABLE PLIABILITY
v .so essential in a belt that is to operate successfully
under every condition of manufacture is found in
the celebrated
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAWHIDE BELTING
All the natural attributes of the selected hides
from which it is manufactured arc retained to the
right degree by the MangTovite tanning process.
It is famous tor its tenacious grip on the pulleys.
Try it on your main drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
, CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Dorhani & Co., 397 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Herd ,V Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Bibbs Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co., Ltd., Colli iis-strceT,v Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” will be available
shortly, and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
PRINCE'S FLA T E
SPOONS AND FORKS AND
"TRUSTWORTHY” CUTLERY
&d
158-162 OXFORD SI Wl. 172. REGENT ST W. 1
2.QUEEN VICTORIA ST E.C.4.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
3
I^§
>2
■■ -■
The Canteen illustrated is completely
fitted for 12perrons with Prince’s Plate
Spoons and Forks, plain patterns, and
“Trustworthy” Cutlery. Price, com-
plete £5l : 10 : 0 !
Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks are
entirely made at the Company’s own
Sheffield Works. “Trustworthy"
Cutlery is famed the world over for
its lasting quality, i
CATALOGUES
POST FREE
THE
Pen
i
ONOTO INK-
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Ask for
the New
Streamline
Model.
When you want to write, the Onoto is
always ready. When you have finished,
a twist with finger and thumb turns the
Onoto into a sealed tube, which cannot
leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of
ink, the Onoto Fills itself in a flash from
any ink supply, and cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
«GST WWIfUI
&*« AHO PL6ASAKT Gfc**MOC* lli 'jfcy
, **o Mtreepnc *»«m* o=^Xf^^r
teO! <c'«MS»
pV-^-a
stc.hudsom^^S
I rff . fcUlTßfculL fc <»•****T „J
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the Unitea
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 davs. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful ot
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 : or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Utd., Sydney.
The Red Page
The Dog and the Cat
The average man loves Sir John Falstaff
and does not love I ago. Why? No
man born into the world is all humorist as
Falstafl was, and no man born into the world
is all c\vni<- as lago was. But we all know
men who have, to a greater or less extent,
the distinguishing qualities of these two, and
the more the men we know resemble Falstaff
the more we like them, ■ and the more they
resemble lago the less we like them. But
an examination will show that our likes and
dislikes are not directed by reason. lago
and Falstaff are antitheses, yet they have
many qualities in common, They are, to
begin with, both self-eentred and live but for
themselves. In tlveir different ways they
both live for the ideqsuges they can suck out
of living, quite regardless of the hurt
they indict upon others by taking those
pleasures. Then they are not concerned in
the slightest degree with tile betterment of
the human race, They have no life-ideals.
They are not patriots.. Thev are neither of
them capable of self-sacrifice. They are
both parasites as far as the work of the
world is concerned. They are both Clevel-
and witty,, and both have a common mark
for their cleverness and wit—the vices and
infirmities of their fellow-men. They are
always picking out these vices and infirmi-
ties and holding 'them up for the world to
see. Nothing is 'sacred to them. lago
sneers at horn-sty; ' Falstaff jests about
honor. They are both liars and 'deceivers,
fcigo plots and schemes amt Falstaff fobs
the women who art-.kind to him, and wav-
lays theunerchailts on Bad’s 1 [ill, and bullies
and takes bribes from the recruits lit- gathers
for the Brince’s army, and stabs the fallen
Hotspur and claims that lie has slain him
in fair fight. Kven where their qualities
•lifter it is pot always to tin- advantage of
Falstafl. Falstaff is a boaster and a coward.
lago is neither'a boaster nor a coward. Yet
the fact remains that the world, watching-
both these characters, hates lago and loves
Falstaff.; Why?
It might be answered that it is beeausd of
the consequences of what these characters
do. lago’s villainy .brings disaster to all
who have anything to\do with him, whereas
Falstafl .does no great harm to anybody, but
himself. There is much in this. ’ We are
all hero-worshippers,- Please our heroes and-
you please usj la.go brings disaster to
Othello; Falstaff only amuses Prince Hal.
But there is ; something more, Man is
amused- at the : sight of the dbg chasing the
cat, but is repelled at sight of the cat play-
ing with the mouse. The dog is cruel to the
cat and the cat is c-rut-l to.-the mouse. Yet
man puts himself in the place of the dog
chasing the cat and in the place of the
mouse bf-ing tormented by the cat. In the
same way lie puts himself in the place of
Falstaff jplaving with his victims and in the
place of; the victims being played with by
lago. Falstaff has much of the dog about
him; lago much of the cat. Falstaff blus-
ters and rants over his victims on Gad’s Hill.
Just like the dog lie makes a show of ferocity
and anger. lie terrifies these victims, but
he does not pretend to be friendly to
them; he does not. pretend he is taking their
purses for their own gootj ; he' does not pre-
tend that lie is not having the time of his
life. His obvious, impudent and never-
denied life-aim is tin- fun find sport of what
he does. lago is all pretence, and his life-
aim is to inflict pain. The cat leaves the
mouse and pretends that she is not watching
it. She allows hope to awaken anew, so
that she can kill out that hope. lago poses
as the kindly-disposed friend of all his vic-
tims. He weeps before them and laughs at
them. He assumes ideal qualities intending
his victims to believe lie is the part lie plays.
Falstaff assumes ideal qualities too. But
he does so with his tongue in his cheek and
a twinkle in his eyes.
Humor is strangely paradoxical. The
public hangman is pointed out to you and
you do not see anything funny about him,
but Mr. Punch plays the part of the hangman
and you -roar. - Then-somebody points out to
you a man who under the stress of circum-
stances lifts eaten human flesh. He is a
cannibal-and you shudder. But the humor-
ist gets, up and tells you as gruesomely as
possible the cannibalistic story of the Nancy
(tell, and you are amused. Then you sec.
a man, dirty, old; decrepit—a repulsive
sight. But the humorist imitates this old
man and tells you pi a mournful voice that
he has not washed! himself for years, and
you laugh. The humorist exaggerates and
makes absurd, and thus robs of their repul-
siveness all these sWbjedts. He destroys the
dark picture, suggested to your mind. He
ridicules danger, pain, dishonesty, poverty,
dirt—all that is displeasing. So lie brightens
the world for you. ; But the cynic, dealing
with the same subjects in his unpleasantly
witty and clever Way, suggests that either
you or your apparently so-harmless neighbor
(upon whose harmlessness you-'so much rely)
under similar circumstances might be as all
these subjects. He hints at the dangers that
lie hidden, and thereby darkens your world.
If lago’s motives, for instance, are what tliej
are and are hidden so from his fellow-men
by such apparent honesty and pleasant-
seeming, then wliat motives are hidden from
us by all apparent honesty and pleasant-
seeming? And if he can see so clearly into
other people, then can our secrets be hidden
from such men as he? Discomforting and
disturbing reflections! Man loves himself,
and he loves the things and people that please
and are kindly disposed and comforting to the
self that he loves. And because he in-
stinctively persists in taking the hero’s-frart
for himself in every tragedy, comedy or work
of art of any description that he watches, he
fears this lean, smiling, clever being, who. as
he talks- with the characters in the play,
seems to be eternally saying, “I can set-
right into you: I know all your secret
thoughts and motives.” But he trusts the
fat, laughing rogue whose every action seems
to say, “Look at me and see what a clever
fooT t am. I will show you how absurd
everything is.” He knows this man is too
busy enjoying himself to go prying into
motives and maliciously stirring up tlie things
that threaten and are distressing to the even
tenor of the world’s way. So the world hates
lago and loves Falstaff, because all loves
and all hates in the world are motived by
trust or fear. We are all self-liars and self-
deceivers, and we are all more or less
believers in our own lies.; And in the main
it is good and necessary that we can so
believe. For if we did not have some’ sense,
of our own importance we would none of us
do'very much in life. But it is also good and
necessary for us at times that our little
beliefs should be disturbed and our little-
ness nnd unimportance in the vast scheme
of things be revealed to us. lago, with his
sneering tongue and his mocking smile and
his cynical showing-up of what the ideal
man we strive to be is, is the disturber born.
He is the storm-hurst that is so fearsome,
yet clears away so much stagnation and de-
cay. But we must be warmed hack to con-
fidence again. We must have something
to lead us out of the evil swamp of pessi-
mism into which we have been led. When
our anger lias subsided we must be made to
laugh. So tin- fat old Jack Falstaffs are put
into the world.
ALAN D MICKLF
Another Road to the Millennium
In Manhgoii of llningnitg (Dutton and
Co., N. York), Alfred Ivorzybski studios Man
as a mathematical problem, and demonstrates
kow he may he saved on a basis of pure engi-
neering. Ilis predecessors, and particularly
Darwin, whom he despises, got more convinc-
ing results along simpler lines. It requires
ho elaborate logarithmic formula to establish
that the human race progresses in peace, as
a rule, adding while it does so at an ever-
increasing rate to its population and wealth ;
and that the more people there are crowded
into one place, and the higher their standard
of life, the more difficult it will be for them
to supply their needs, and the shorter the
time is likely to be in consequence between
cataclysmic wars and famines. Germany
was driven into the late war by the operation
of this law, and Japan is now arming in
recognition of it.
But: most of Count Korzybxki’s conclusions
are not likely to be accepted generally with
such readiness. He divides life into three
classes: and represents them, according to
his habit, in diagrammatic iorm, as three co-
ordinates. The y minerals, with their
inorganic activities, are shown as the zero
dimension; the plants (growth) get one-
dimensional line; the animals (growth and
movement) are on a two- and humans
(growth, movement and thought) on a, three-
dimensional plane. Now, man is not an
animal, the writer assures us, and never was.
The “Origin of Species” is largely nonsense;
and “those who speak of the survival of the
fittest:, as in the Darwinian theory of ani-
mals, hark an animal language.” Man
evolved not from, but. side by side with, the
animals, lie did not come down from the
tree: he was never up it. And if the Dar-
winian theory is pernicious that of the
Churches, which regard Man as a. sort of
fallen angel, is damnable in its falsity. The
author distinguishes Man from every other
inhabitant of the earth by what lie calls
Man’s “time-binding capacity”—in plain
English, his power to think backwards and
forwards, lit; is immensely pleased with
this phrase
This mighty term —time-binding—when compre-
hended, will be found to embrace the whole ot
the natural laws, the natural ethics, the natural
philosophy, the natural sociology, the natural eco-
nomics, the natural governance, to be brought into
the education ; of time-binders': then really peaceful
and progressive civilisation, without periodical col-
lapses and violent readjustments, will commence;
not before.
The proposition that animals cannot think
and do not develop I mentally is supported,
somewhat disingenuously, by the instance'
of the beaver, which always builds the
samq dam, never a better one. Like
the Bourbons, he neither forgets nor
learns. But scores of animals exist
which are not in this category. The
humblest house-dog may he seen remember-
ing when one comes home, thinking ahead
when a, move is made in the direction of the
meat-safe. Man differs fundamentally from'
the animal, , says Ivorzybski, because- he has
always been able to produce wealth, and the
animal never has nor ever will. Test this
by any of the classical definitions of wealth
—that of Mill, for example, which make
it consist of "useful or agreeable things
which possess exchangeable value.” Some
people secure wealth in the form of money
by controlling a rowing-boat or a motor-
launch, or an ocean-going steamer, or a
shipping-line, hi- a shipping-trust. Others
achieve the same thing in the form of food
by controlling a plough or a spade. And
the gorilla performs a similar operation
when he takes a club in his strangely human
hand for the purpose of knocking fruit off
a tree, or the prey which is destined for
the family larder on the head. The first
capitalist was the first animal that hid a
bone out of his surplus, so that he might be
sustained on some future occasion in his
pursuit of further bone-wealth.
Korzybski’s anti-Darwinism is bound up
with the ideal to which the whole book is
directed—our old friend the Co-operative
Commonwealth of Nations. He is every-
thing that is meant by a humanist. He hates
what he. calls “animal” logic and ethics and
a system under which the strong are con-
tinually bearing down the weak, now in the
industrial world, now on the battlefield.
Coming to modern times, he ascribes most
evil things to politicians—-wars, strikes,
lock-outs, banking crises, revolutions and all
the other occurrences which make one sec-
tion of mankind wretched and the other
merry. Therein is a half-truth, about equiva-
lent to arguing that all Belfast riots are due
to Sinn Feiuers. or Orangemen, or Lloyd
George. No 20th-century politician, for
example, German. French of English, could
have averted the late war, or even delayed
it for long after the expansionist effects of
the work of a previous generation of Ger-
mans (in scientific methods of saving infant
and other life : in propaganda work on be-
(Continued on page 27.)


(lat^oaMofdefasJ^je
Aodern
Kitchen Equipment
iiiiiilijlUUJ""
m
:
i i‘- U
W A±
fTOy 1
n
ijlfi
fii i
it
I 111
;f
/ 91
4 ~^*^S
1 tt
15 >
1-
ii
..1
%
? ■
&
H
f-=s£r
I
ViD
itIYW--.
ItT R
v
£ ft=&=f'
H
n
w
ijy
Every housewife recognises the fact that for a house to be well
ordered it must contain aids to labor-saving and culinary articles
that conduce to hygienic cooking. There is no better place than
Anthony Horderns’ at which to purchase these necessaries.
Kudos Gas Cookers.
Kudos Gas Cookers (as illustrated) are Ameri-
can made, and incorporate the best features which
stand for efficiency, economy and labor-saving in,
cooking. They are easily kept clean, and offer
wonderful value.
Oven size.
Width, lGin. Depth, 12in. Height, lOin.
Price £4°
Water Heaters.
The Garland Copper Coil Heater is strongly
constructed, is thoroughly efficient, and is decidedly
economical in operation.
Price £3
Dresser Cabinet.
The Modem Dresser Cabinet (illustrated \ is
strongly made in . picked pine. It is 50in. wide,
24in. deep; top 12in. deep, 82in. high over all.
Enclosed cupboard has shelf 12in. broad and hooks
for jugs, above a sliding baking-board. Other
cupboard has wire gauze on three sides, and shaped
shelf to admit hanging joint of meat from top.
Plate-rack is removable.
Price £lO/15/-
Plain Pine Kitchen Tables.
Without Drawer.
4ft x 2ft. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. sft. x 3ft.
28/6 33/6 35/6
With Drawer.
31/6 38/6 40/6
Chilcott Refrigerators —Galvanised Steel Pro-
vision Chambers.
Width, 20in. Depth, 15in. Height, 37in.
Prico £4/17/6
Porcelain lined .... £6/7/6
Width, 22in. Depth, loin. Height, 3Sin.
Price £5/10/-
Porcelain lined £7
Width, 24in. Depth, 17in. Height, 41in.
Price £6/2/6
Porcelain lined £B/10/-
Household Tinware.
Here are a few useflul household aids which will
give great satisfaction. Prices are very moderate,
as these representative examples demonstrate.
Oval Burnished Tin Boilers and Steamers.
13in. 14in. 15in. 16in.
24/6 28/6 30/6 33/6 each.
Fish Kettles, Burnished Block Tin, with Drainer.
13in. loin. 17in. 19in. 21in.
12/3 14/- 16/9 18/9 24/6 each.
Tin Colanders —10in., 2/9; 12in., 4/3 each.
American Dish Pans, strong and deep.
Victor Flour Sifters —Tinned, 2/3; Nickel-
plated, 3/6 each.
Hot-water Cans — 4pts. 6pts.
7/- 8/- each.
6qts. Bqts. lOqts. 12qts.
9/3 10/9 13/9 15/6 each.
Pastry Cutters —Sets of 3. Plain, 1/6; Crinkled,
2/3 set.
Tonguo Pressers——7in„ 21/-; Bin., 25/3.
Country Customers experience com-
plete satisfaction in the knowledge
that their requirements are expertly
attended to by our competent Mail
Order Staff.
Perfected Aluminium Ware.
Aluminium Ware is greatly favored because of
its cleanliness and hea,t-retaining properties.
Anthony Horderns’ Aluminium Ware can be relied
upon to give lengthy service—which means added
economy.
Seamless Saucepans—
2pt. 3pt. 4pt. opt. 6pt. Bpt. lOpt. 12pt.
7/9 9/3 10/6 11/6 12/9 17/- 20/- 23/6
Shallow Stewpans—
Sin. 6in. Tin. Bin. 9in. lOin. 12in. 14in.
6/6 8/- 9/3 10/6 12/9 16/- 24/9 39/- each
Double Milk Saucepans—2pt. 4pt. 6pt.
17/- 19/9 23/-each.
Teapots —24 pt., 12/- each.
Round Aluminium Boilers- —
14pt. 16pt. 20pt. 24pt. 30pt. 40pt.
39/- 49/- 53/- 62/- 66/- 74/-each.
Wearever Saucepans, with tinned steamer —
Bpt 25/-
Antjiony Horderns’ Enamelled Ware comprises
almost every utensil of Kitchen and General Utility.
Note these keen prices:—
Mottled Grey Enamelled Stewpans—
2pt. 34pt. opt.
5/3 5/9 . 6/9 each.
Mottled Grey Enamelled Round Boilers—
14pt. 2gall.
16/6 18/6
Colanders—Grey, lOin., 5/3.
Enamelled Bowls —l2in., 5/6; 14in., 6/6 each.
Grey Enamelled Kettles —3pt. 4pt. spt.
10/- 11/3 13/- each.
We stock everything that is needed
for the up-to-date Kitchen. Our
list of labor-saving utensils is the
most complete in Australia. Write
to us. Lists will be Posted Free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone:
City 9440.


Every Home
needs an
KODAK
The Autographic Kodak has created a
revolution in photography, for it enables
you to write on the negative information
that the photograph itself could not give.
It tells the who? when? where?
An Autographic Kodak will give you
charming pictures’ of your children, of
the progress they make, of your favorite
corners of the house, your friends at tea
on the lawn, your pets, your triumphs in
the garden, and a record of every delight-
ful happening—a record in picture-form
with any written information you choose
added.
A popular model for home pictures is the No, 3A Auto-
graphic Kodak Junior, which takes full-sized postcard
pictures, 51 x 31 inches. Price—recently reduced—
£s/10/6. Other Kodaks from 47/6; Box Brownies from
12/6; Folding Autographic Brownies, from 52/6.
wm
<Mn ■>
?
With an Autographic Kodak or Brownie, you first take a
picture; then you make a written record on the negative itself.
Of a]] Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PT Y.
37® Sydney; 284 Colins'Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane- The Valiev 37
“The Koctak Corner', £&ton ** ****’ ; Optica]
LTD.,
Rundle Street, Adelaide;
and Supplies Co., Perth ;
The greatest artists choose it
9^
7.
IF
4x// /
V
/
[His Masters Voice
CARUSO.
most celebrated singers
and musicians of this
generationchoose“His Master’s
Voice” to bring their art to your
home.
They testify to the supremacy
of “His- Master’s Voice” by
making records for it exclusively.
Among these celebrities are:—Caruso, Melba,
McCormack, Paderewski, Kubelik, Farrar,
Destinnova, Chaliapine, Ruffo, Zimbalist,
Heifetz, Hambourg, Galli-Curci, Kirkby Lunn,
Gluck, Elman, Tetrazzini, Calve.
Write for instrument catalogue and list of records.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
d
“Gramophone,”
Reg. Trade-mark.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“llis Master’s Voice,”
Rea. Trade-marl:.


PINKETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
01/ FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope Fora
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents,
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Standardise £? Hospital
Bffi&NDY
'/3ft
\W%^
\v^
» ft'W/Vr*>V
:#fe»
n
\m
A rich, pure,
health-giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co.. Ltd., Sydney
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ď
Beautiful
Walnut Hair
that is at once charming, youthful
and the object of general admiration,
is obtainable permanently and
harmlessly by means of
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
Obtainable at all chemists.
Popular Both in
Quality and Price.
It’s such a. delightful and efficient
Tooth Paste that, even if the price
was double, Eudenta would l>e
worth it.
Australian-made throughout, it is
ideally suited to combat the de-
teriorating effects to the teeth due
to local conditions.
ASK
V
Ask Your Chemist
for <
“Eudenta”
To-day.
/
e
k/ i
M
r*\'-
41
i", VI t
XL
y pJiK!
i'yiii
lit' /
Infill
I'll
luii
How much did
o M
you say l
Don’t trust to memory over
prices or figures. Write them
down with Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pen. Carry one
with you wherever you go.
Three Types—" Self-Filling, ” “
“Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands,
and Jewellers everywhere.
Safety ” and
Of Stationers
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., tteJJen.<&>reer
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia : IrIAROLD D. IDIXON,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The enormous difference in
value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNPADABLE
FABRICS
is rndesfructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is mode in a
great variety of fabrics
including Casement Cloths,
Damasks. Tapestries, Reps.
Chenilles. Madras Muslins.etc
also
sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom,Bedroom or Nursery.
Of a// (behest Fumuhrrj
Morton Tundour /abncs /
(Trade o~A,) Car/is/c,.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Unknown of God.
The bullet struck; my body lay
In death contorted on the clay,
And high a-quaking spirit soared
To seek the footstool of the Lord.
1 fell in fear, and weeping prone
Bewailed my sins before the Throne,
The wickednesses I had done
Confessing sorely one by one.
Those sins were many. Long the space
L lay beseeching Heaven’s grace.
Then fell His hand upon my head,
“And what is sin?" Jehovah said.
viCToniA.
E. D.
Poetry.
Dreaming, 1 saw her down the moonlit night
Sweep, a fair goddess crowned. Fuearthly
llame
Burned as her raiment. Flowers of living
light
Bloomed where her swift: feet passed. Alter
her came
Warriors and kings of old, a motley throng.
Maidens in whose loose hair were lilies
red.
Young men with lutes who made most pas-
sionate song;
Ever before their eyes, a flume, she fled.
She had no heed of them. Then in despair
Under the moon of madness down they
east
Lilies and lutes upon the green grass there.
Yea, the kings east their crowns where she
had passed—
Even the red kings, grim with battle scars—
Since she they sought was more remote than
stars.
N.SAV.
A. SMITH.
The Despoiler.
The earth awakes from winter’s gloom,
The new day’s breath is warm and sweet,
And Nature sets the land a-bloom
Beneath her eager, dancing feet
When, veiled in soft September rain,
Spring slips into the world again.
She comes, a slender, lissom girl.
With laughing lips and eyes alight
To set the deep Earth’s heart a-whirl
With age-old passion, slow and white.
llis arms are wide to claim his bride
When Spring is turned to summer-tide.
While Spring iies sipping love’s red wine.
Where the reed in the fiver sways .and
dips,
A Satyr lurks in a poison vine
With a leering grin on his twisted lips—
Drought, stealing naked through the land,
With Death and Disaster in either hand.
His pulses drum with a wild desire,
Ilis hot breath fans her tinted face.
Her laughter dies beneath the tire
That sears her youth in a tierce embrace.
Drought has stolen his tender mate,
Leaving the sad Earth desolate.
QUEENSLAND.
L. N. CHRISSEN
Ordeal
The evil deeds committed by this hand
Of mine took shape and gazed at me the
while
Hank on grim, dreadful rank I saw them
stand
And heard them moan and gibber and
revile
My soul that had created them and brought
To shame the tender beauty God had
wrought
About my feet,
All that had kept life whole and made life
sweet.
And one ill deed had claws that dripped
with warm,
Clean blood of some slain innocent delight.
And one had eyes that evilly blinked, a form
Attenuate, hateful, sinister as the night
When pain gnaws hard at sleep and faces
sad
As shame peer in to make our dreams go
mad;
And one had loose, full lips that fawned, and
bared
Breasts impudently beautiful that dared
Me yet to sin,
And the fierce quest of killing joy therein.
And one slant-eyed wept subtly with a face
Shaped impishly to modish-modest grace;
And this one stood beside me as I lay
Cursing cold night that still held back the
day; ...
This deed stooped stealthily my lips to kiss
With her lips’ hinted slow perversities,
So that one deed. Imagined Murder hight.
Still as she kissed me blushed into the night.
While all those deeds of terror turned away
Their faces as she made my lips her prey,
Till my reluctant blood burned hot and
bright, _ „ ,
And Shame leapt at the heels of raise
Delight.
But as I lay there with that poison stealing
Swift to my heart, a delicate hand with
healing
In all its honeyed touch came down and
swept
From sight my deeds of ill, so that I slept
And all my dreams were sweet —-
Oh. sweet as happy Motherhood whisper-
ing low ,
To all the babes o’ the world ; and so. and so
1 knew that hand of healing, and I said.
Content: “I thank thee for. my ill-deeds dead
As for my new hopes thriving happily
\bout your feet, what time you succor me
And set the gold sun glowing in heavens
blue.
While all my dreams come true.
A'.S.W.
FRANK NORTON.


fd
/
} .FJ
V
I
• M
CORNER STITCHER.
\
m
VARIABLE FEED
CROSS STITCHER.
rv
m
.... ifl
"*■* J
DOUBLE CORNER CUTTING AND SLOTTING
MACHINE.
MANUFACTURERS OF A COM-
PLETE RANGE OF MACHINES
FOR THE USE OF CARDBOARD
BOXMAKERS AND PAMPHLET
STITCHING MACHINES FOR THE
PRINTING TRADE.
VARIABLE FEED
STRAIGHT STITCHER.
r
i
mm***
it*;
h i i
NAILING-STITCHING MACHINE.
Agents for Australia-
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
17M7J Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward & Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St.
ADELAIDE:
96 Currie St
NEWCASTLE:
Watt St
LAUNCESTON;
33 Cameron St,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post . as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2171.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 , 1921.
Price 9d.
DOWN—BUT WILL THE BRUTE STAY DOWN?


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Australia for tlie Wiiite Man.”
Printed and published by AVilliam Macleod; of
usgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
214 George Street. Svdnev. N'.S.W.. Australia.
MELBouitNR Office: Empire Buildings, 208 Flinders
street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'°r /. 1 16s. you can have The Bulletin sent
regularly to you every week for. a year, to any
address in Australasia,, post paid. To any address
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
re/used.
2he contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
fhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’’ column
contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
vnnn exceeding two columns in length, or. say,
■WOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletln will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, flat
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thh Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon. Douse, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian," 01 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.O.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston Hat. Works and News Co., 109. 1
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co.. IGI East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago:
Wheatley News Co.. Kearney and Market Streets.
San Francisco. New- York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27 th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom., All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 80s., lid.; B ioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
IBxxZle&ri.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.
CONFERENCES AND KING HUNGER.
Lord Northcliffe observed in Melbourne
last week that Australia might have to choose
some day between Britishers and Asiatics,
or words to that effect. He implied that
as we lack population and are taking prac-
tically no steps to defend ourselves, our chief
hope lies in getting W. M. Hughes to table
an argument at the forthcoming Washington
conference on Disarmament showing why we
ought not to be invaded. Unfortunately
there are questions on which people decline
to be kindly and reasonable, or even moral.
The conference or agreement or treaty de-
vice for averting war never has been effi-
cacious in the long run. Neither, of course,
has its antithesis and usual companion, the
big army or navy; but the possessor of a
powerful defence force has, anyhow, a
chance for its national existence when the
hour strikes for the treaties to be flouted.
Britain is alive to-day because, in spite of
the many pious resolutions, passed at the
various Peace Conferences since 1899, the
navy was maintained at the fullest strength.
Korea has been absorbed by Japan, although
its independence and integrity were guaran-
teed in the most solemn manner in 1904, be-
cause it could not assert its rights with the
sword, never having troubled to buy one.
The Commonwealth’s soundest pledge of
security and one of the best insurance poli-
cies it could take out against attack might
be achieved without participating in any
conference: that is to say, by announcing its
intention of welcoming white immigrants
and of reverting to the naval-defence scheme
which was suspended by the war. Alter-
natively W. M. Hughes might go to the
conference and try to persuade Britain to
continue defending us. while we do not even
provide a dry dock capable of accommodat-
ing a modern capital ship. And then, of
course, there is the pacifist way, as recently
stated by Hakby Holla ad, now of Maori-
land. "The Labor movement,” he told the
k. M. Herald, “insists that in all arrange-
ments between Great Britain and the
Dominions the basis shall not be for naval
and military purposes, but for the purposes
of social, political and economic amenities,
making for a World Commonwealth of peace
and industry.”
* * * *
The longing for a World Commonwealth
in which everyone shall respect his neigh-
bor’s property has existed since civilisation
began— amongst those with most to lose by
being “expropriated.” It is the basis of
Conservatism. In the industrial world men
like Holland are prepared to fight the prin-
ciple to the last ditch. Regardless of arbi-
tration or other agreements, they raid the
capitalist from every angle, often on a trifling
issue. Where hunger enters into the' ques-
tion their readiness to satisfy their physical
needs, and more, at the expense of the near-
est possessor of bread or beer is only limited
by the capacity of the police to restrain
them. Conferences are of no avail in such
circumstances, and past promises are derided.
The vigorous peoples of the world have always
acted so. The early Romans, Greeks, Phoe-
nicians and Etruscans did what our profes-
sional unemployed, such as Mrs. Pank-
HTJR.st Walsh, are continually urging their
followers to do; they raided the food-sup-
pliqs. The Venetians, Dutch, Pisans,
Spaniards and Portuguese followed suit. The
British Empire has come to pass largely
because the earth is a cold place f or the
unorganised weakling. The Germans tore
up treaties by the handful and went to war
in 1914 because they needed colonies to
supply them with food or food’s worth. Like
their ancestors whom Tacitus described
Gind also like our modern revolutionaries),
they had no desire to acquire through the
sweat of their brow what they could acquire
through blood.” War, whether with battle-
axes or strikes or 5.9’5, is preferable to work,
in the opinion of many; and it is preferable
to starvation in the opinion of all.
* * * *
The proposition that Australia is asked to
accept is that the problem which arbitration
has failed to solve as between individual
and individual or section and section of the
one nation can be settled arbitrationally as
between peoples which have nothing in com-
mon except dislike. It is claimed, in effect,
that a hungry Asiatic is likely to be more
forbearing towards the Australian food-
capitalist. than the Australian worker is to-
wards the Australian money-capitalist. To
the Chinese coolie who can support life on
an income of £2 per annum, a domestic eco-
nomist to whom a coin worth the thousandth
part of a dollar has a food-purchasing power
of some sort, the Australian toiler, who never
starves and is usually in a position to over-
eat of the best, represents a being that has
already reached Paradise. The warlike and
nationally organised Japanese is in an even
more difficult position than his relation on
the mainland. The W < j st has probably brought
Japan more curses than blessings. Half a
century ago when the modernising process
began there the population was a shade
over 30,000,000. Up to that time it had
increased by only about a million in the
previous 100 years. Practically the whole
of the cultivable land was in use, but the
people had enough to eat except in very bad
years. To-day the population is just under
00,000,000, and is increasing at the rate, not
of a million a century, but of a million a
year The Japs depend not only for most
ot their food, but for nearly all the raw
materials which ‘they use to make things
wherewith to buy food, on foreign countries.
Some, such as China, are in a position
which is as had as if not worse than their
own. Western hygiene and Western medi-
cine have already made a favorable impres-
sion on the birth- and death-rates, and the
only thing the Chinese have to dispose of
cheap and in vast quantities is their labor •
they need the bulk of their food themselves.
Wherever an increase in wealth and culture
comes to a backward people, as has hap-
pened in the case of Japan, and as is han-
pening throughout Asia, the same result
accrues : fewer children die and more are born.
Ihese leaping populations find an increasing
difficulty in growing their own food. The
Jans have long since given up the attempt,
and Java —which, with an area a little over
half that of Victoria, has a population nearly
30 times greater—threatens eventually to do
the same. They can no more be kept from
turning their eyes to favored spots, such as
Australia, than hungry members of the un-
employed can be restrained from discussing
the banquets of the rich.
* * * •
Japan imports wheat and wheat flour.
This year’s wheat crop in Australia was
valued at £58,500,000. The Japanese are
getting meat-hungry, but they have little or
no meat: ours is one of the first meat-
producing countries of the world. They need
wool, and in an average year import* more
of it than almost any other commodity except
cotton. Australia’s surplus wool is worth
about £50,000,000 a year. We have not
quite two persons to the square mile: they
have 320. N. S. Wales is about twice the
size of Japan, and it has less than four
million acres under crop : the Japs have cul-
tivated their barren little islands to the
snow-line on the mountain tops. Everyone
knows the humbug who behaves disgracefully
and claims that he is doing so on lofty moral
grounds. The sectarian cleric who stirs up
hatred against the opposition faith never
does it, according to himself, to fill his
church and enrage his rival: his saintly
aims are to save souls and do the rival a
good turn. The borrowing politician does
not pile debts on posterity in order to buy
himself political support: he does it from
an unselfish desire to benefit the country. It
is the same with our pacifists, and with the
large section of the population which scorns
the name pacifist, but acts as such. These
frauds hold forth about the brotherhood of
man and the holiness of peace: but what
most of them mean when they are politicians
is that money spent on roads and bridges
earns more votes than money spent on ships
and men, and what most of them mean when
they are taxpayers is that they want any
public cash that is available for themselves
in the form of motherhood endowment
schemes and the like. They are aware that
the famished Asiatic is likely to arrive here
in search of his dinner some day, even as
the foreign money-lender is bound ultimately
to demand repayment. But such black
epochs appear to be fairly remote at present.
What with the British Navy and the U.S.A.
and other influences, Australia, the capitalist
country, ought to be safe from the Lazarus
nations of Asia for this generation, and even
perhaps for the next. And that is as far as
the anti-defenceite troubles to look. Of
course Lord *Nortiicliffe knows all this
and more. Where he errs seems to be in
imagining that a majority of the inhabitants
of the Commonwealth are as debased as some
of their politicians. The truth is most of
them understand that neither soft words nor
signed documents are any use in the face of
clamant want, and they are willing to do
their share as regards policing their pro-'
P.erty. All they need' is the lead which poli-
ticians such as \\. M. Hughes can give
them here better than at any conference.
A COUNTRY WHICH IMPORTS ITS
POLITICS.
Australia imports too much and produces
too little, and many of her troubles are
traceable to that fact. But this indictment
against a shiftless nation doesn’t only apply
to goods that are bought and sold. There is
an unfavorable balance of ideas as well as
an unfavorable balance of trade : in politics,
literature, music, dancing, personal adorn-
ment vve slavishly copy other countries, re-
gardless of whether the customs or crazes
imitated suit Australian conditions or not.
In politics the national weakness is especially
noticeable. Foreign political fads and nos-
trums, introduced or recommended to be
introduced because they have worked
well in vastly different circumstances, or
might possibly work well if they were ever
tried, are among the most noxious of our
imports. From France came the mania for
“nationalising” things—factories, workshops,
pubs, butcher-shops and fish-shops—which
has been imposed upon a people strongly
individualistic and traditionally distrustful
ot Government interference. A German Jew
who never saw Australia and who wrote
when the North Asiatic nations were armed
w itli stinkpots was the author of the madder
form of socialism which has wrecked civilisa-
tion in Russia, and which, if the Labor mili-'
tauts have their way, is to supplant nation-
alisation in the Commonwealth. England
sent us Freetrade, which stifled the growth
of Australian manufactures for half a cen-
tur.\, and Second Chambers. From the
same country, during the war, we borrowed
daylight-saving, an experiment which, after
a brief experience, excited universal derision
and was abandoned with universal relief.
f North America contributed the Federal sys-
tem of government, which hasn’t been brilli-
antly successful in its new home; South
America the notion—extremely popular in
advanced” Labor circles—of paying the
public creditor and employee with barrow-
loads of inconvertible paper. To Switzer-
land we owe the referendum ; and somehow
the referendum in Australia has become as
powerful a pillar of conservatism as a Legis-
lative Council. Indeed, it has actually pro-
longed the existence of one Legislative* Coun-
cil, and that in the most radical State of all.
And there is proportional representation.
It is alleged to work well in Belgium, but
in N. S. Wales, from the point of view of
those who believe, as Lincoln did, that a
majority, with proper constitutional checks
and safeguards, is the only legitimate
sovereign of a free people, it has been an
unadulterated failure. At this moment it is
keeping in office a Government which hasn’t
a majority of the House, which represents
barely a third of the electors, and which
would in all probability have been crush-
ingly defeated if it had gone to the country
.any time during the last 12 months. The
Government is actually retained on the Min-
isterial benches by the votes of three men
who are not the choice of any constituency.
There are 90 members of the Legislative
Assembly and no less than one-fifteentli—
three Ministerialists and three Opposition-
ists—were rejected at the general election.
They hold their seats merely as nominees of
party leaders, having been appointed under
a clause of the Act establishing proportional
representation which robs the electors of
the right to select their own representatives
and hands the job over to a caucus clique.
The Act provides that when a vacancy occurs
the prize shall go, on the nomination of the
recognised leader of the group to which the
old member belonged, to the ‘‘nearest un-
placed” candidate on the party ticket. In
theory this looks fair enough, if the justice
of depriving the electorate of a right which
has been enjoyed by the British people for
centuries- can ever be admitted, but in prac-
tice it is. capable of being unscrupulously
perverted in the interests of a crowd which is
hanging on to office by the skin of its teeth.
\\ here a party is split into factions, as was
the case with the N. S. Wales A.L.P. in
1920, there is nothing to prevent a leader
who takes his instructions from caucus from
setting aside the “nearest unplaced” candi-
date who might be an uncertain supporter
and nominating a man whose vote can be
relied upon in a crisis. This was done in the
case of Brookfield, who won Sturt as an
Industrialist in opposition to the A.L.P., and
whose seat has been presented to Wright,
a defeated A.L.P. representative, although
there were two other Industrialists, Hynes
and O’Reilly, in the field. The argument in
this case was that Wright had polled many
more No. 1 votes than either Hynes or
O’Reilly, which is perfectly true. But in
the contest for Eastern Suburbs one C ymp-
bell nolled many more No. 1 votes, as an
“unofficial” Laborite, than the spotlessly
“official” 11. F. Dwyer. And Campbell’s
offence against nartv disc-inline—his name
had originally been on the Eastern Suburbs
ticket —was precisely the same as that of
Minahan, who suffered a similar loss of
credentials, but was returned and hastily
readmitted to the fold. Yet when a vacancy
occurred in the representation of Eastern
Suburbs Campbell was pitilessly turned
down in faVor of Dwyeb.
A great deal of nonsense gets into print
about the rights of minorities. In their
tender regard for the rights <>f minorities
tnose who fastened proportional representa-
t.-°S*up<? 1 .Wales aimed a blow at the
rignts of majorities. They deprived the elec-
tors of their right to put an end to the
sort ot government that exists in the Ma
Mate to-day—government by grace of the
minority whose name is Levy. They have
destroyed the right of constituencies whose
members die, resign or are expelled during
the liretmie of a Parliament to choose their
own representatives, and have put a sinister
weapon in the hands of the political boss,
they have dangerously increased the autho-
rity of those who make the laws and control
the public purse; dangerously weakened the
authority of those who find the money and
for whom the laws are supposed to be made.
And emboldened by the exercise of power
stolen from the people under the forms of
law, an influential Minister—perhaps the
most influential Minister—talks of proceed-
nig to greater lengths. Parliament, he says,
now saves the people the trouble and expense
of by-elections—why shouldn’t it also save
them the trouble and expense of too fre-
quent general elections? Why shouldn’t the
Government repeal the Triennial Act and
remain in office indefinitely, to show its zeal
for the public welfare and its kindness of
heart? These specious ideas have been run-
ning in Gregory McGirk's mind for 12
months or more, lie returns to the subject
with suspicious eagerness again and again.
And tin l chances are that something of the
sort will be attempted when (or if) Storey
goes. It would he the greatest political
swindle of the century, but the rewards
would be magnificent, and in case of failure
no one would be gaoled or hanged. And the
plotters might argue that a country which
allows foreigners to do all its political think-
ing for it —which imports fiscalism from
Britain, federalism from the U.S.. the refer-
endum from Switzerland, proportional repre-
sentation from Belgium and several brands
of socialism from Europe—and which has
already submitted tamely to being robbed of
prescriptive political rights, would stand
anything.
A MILLION FARMS AND A
VISCOUNTS LEG.
The Million Farms project, as lately reduced
to details for consumptionMn the Cold Coun-
try—Lord Northoliffe’s leg having been
pulled for the purpose—is to begin with the
borrowing of £30,000,000 in six years for
“preliminary works.” These are defined as
the same old jobs—roads, railway and irriga-
tion works. CABRtTTMEKS, the boomer of the
project, belongs strictly and exclusively to N.
S. Wales, and lie preaches his idea in Sydney;
the Millions Club is there; the useful North-
ceiffe was buttonholed there; and the first
effort for Federal aid was the roping in of
Joseph Cook of Sydney. So it is certain
that a lot of these preliminary works are to
be in N. S. Wales and are to share its luck.
Loads yield no income, but cost a lot for
maintenance. One very old road near Syd-
ney was repaired this year at a cost of some
itSUOO per mile. Of the last 1399 miles of
railway built in the State, 1300 miles are
run at a loss: of the whole 5000 miles in
existence less than one-half pay. As regards
the State's one big irrigation work, half the
capital is already described as lost. The
closing against overseas trade of all the ports
save Sydney, and the consequent dragging
of most of the State’s foreign trade twice the
needful distance at more than twice the
needful expense, is largely accountable for
the breakdown of N. S. Wales production,
but there isn’t the slightest hint that the
Million harms railways are to connect
cheaply with the nearest ports to give the
Million Farmers any better chance. In fact,
the people who run the show seem the very
last to interfere with the One Ilig City mono-
poly. So presumably the new lines will sim-
ply be the old ones repeated. They can’t
reasonably be expected to be any better. If
the routes for the new lines had offered
finer prospects those routes would have had
lines instead of those that got them.
The Governments will, of course, go on bor-
rowing as usual. This will be a parallel line
of loans and a double-banking of posterity’s
burden. At the end of six years of “pre-
liminary works ’ it seems that the country
will have a lot more debt, roads (in disre-
pair), railways and dams. The prelimina-
ries being over, the farms (on which it will
depend whether rfhe preliminaries are worth
2d.) will presumably start if the scheme
isn t dead by then, and provided a whole
procession of new millions can be found. If
Lord North cliffe can’t see it for himself,
somebody might suggest to him that it would
be better to postpone all this speculative
preliminary work and establish the first Ten
Thousand Farms alongside the little-used
roads, railways and dams we have. Some of the
roads and railways look more lonesome for
want of farms than mid-ocean itself. This,
of course, would mean bringing the glitter-
ing device to a prompt show-down, which
would be the same thing as a ghastly show-
ing-up. There would be no great borrowing,
no great boom, no razzle, no rainbow, no
Martin-place oratory, no wonderful salted
claim —only an attempt to fulfil the promises
of the past instead of making new ones. X.
S. Wales alone has already SCK)O miles of lino
that were all built for Million Farm pur-
poses and Queensland has more. Before the
useful Northcliffe allows his limb to be
pulled any further he should therefore at
least ask: (1) Is all the country along
these miles of existing railway occupied by
farms? (2) If not, why borrow more to
build new railways? Of course he may be
told that the new lines will open up better
country than the ones that have been built.
But he will not believe it unless he also
believes that Governments built lines that
would not pay when they might have built
lines that pay.
About the getting of the Million Farmers
the cablegram which was sent to galvanise
the British press, arouse John Bull’s en-
thusiasm and get at Johx’s pocket, included
these statements: —
Most of the farmers to be drawn from Great Bri-
tain. Hitherto Australia's immigration policy has


consisted, in part at least, of collecting city workers
in London and dumping them in the capital cities
of Australia to shift for tnemselves
All Australia’s unemployed, it is urged, would thus
be absorbed and many thousands of workers from the
United Kingdom could also be engaged....
Now, as a matter of hard fact, Australia
always went in solidly for cultivating the
agricultural immigrant, though it helped a
few artisans out. But the whole business
stopped for Victoria in 18 1 3, S. Aus. in
1886 and X. S. Wales in 1887. That is to
say, assisted immigration of the more or
less general sort ceased 84 to 48 years ago,
except in Tasmania, where it lasted till 30
years ago. It stopped when the curse of the
big cities had scarcely started. W hen
assisted immigration resumed the other day
it was confined to agriculturists and domes-
tic servants. But even if the whole of the
839,792 immigrants helped into Australia in
124 years were alive and in Sydney to-day
they wouldn’t fully account for Sydney alone.
And if all the 696,539 white people born
ouside the Commonwealth who were found
inside the Commonwealth on the 1911 census
day had been in Sydney they wouldn’t have
much more than explained the existence of
Sydney either. It is the native-born who
make “the capital cities of Australia," not
the immigrants. But now, if Britain sup-
plies half the money to boost the scheme, it
will doubtless insist on a voice in saying
what kind of men it will supply, and in
English cities there are ghettos such as Aus-
tralians don’t dream of that J. Bull would
gladly export bodily. The great profligate
loan device, it is also promised, is to absorb
our own unemployed. Speaking for N. S.
Wales, where the number is greatest, so long
as the Ministry sits dispensing oceans of
loan money in Sydney the unemployed can’t
be hunted out of that city with machine-
guns, and if there is another 300 millions to
be dispensed by Carbutiiebs and his friends
the city would have to be burned down to
shift them. All this is just ordinary, loaf-
ing human nature, and old imperial Rome
had the same trouble. If the State capital
was moved to a small, far-inland town the
unemployed would move, and if the State
divided into four States, with four capitals
in four small country towns, they would dis-
perse. As it is they stay outside the Com-
monwealth Bank waiting for Denison
Miller to hand out the millions. Still, until
they go through a course of reformation
they wouldn’t be much use on farms, and the
British city unemployed, who know less ,even
of dry farming than they do of their own wet
variety, would be no use at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Settling a Family Quarrel.
A week ago it looked as if the soberest
and most stable of all the States was in
danger of being run for a season by the im-
possible Prendergast, who has taken
Theodore, of Queensland, as his model, and
who controls 21 votes in a House of (55
members. Prom that disaster Victoria has
been saved. When it came to the pinch
Allan, the Cocky leader, and the bulk of
his followers decided that a wild debauch
of borrowing and thumping taxation and
ruinously expensive vote-catching schemes-
the inevitable accompaniments ot Labor rule
nowadays—would be too high a price to pay
for even a compulsory wheat pool, assuming
such a pool to be practicable. So they
abandoned their insistence on the compul-
sory principle and accepted the Govern-
ment’s offer of a voluntary pool, with con-
trol by the growers and a guarantee of 4s.
a busnel, of which the farmer will get 3s.
4d. Five Farmers’ Union members, who
owe their seats to the Labor vote, made a
show of supporting Prendeugast’s no-con-
fidence motion, but six others followed
Allan’s lead, and the Lawson Government
remains. Victoria is thus for the moment
assured of reasonably efficient financial ad-
ministration during the critical times ahead.
The outlook would be still brighter if the
Farmers were offered and accepted .Minis-
terial representation in proportion to their
numbers, as in Y\ estralia. It will have to
come to that in the end, and the sooner
the better, for the Liberals can’t do with-
out Cocky, and Cocky can’t stand alone.
The same remarks apply to N. S. U ales,
Queensland and the Commonwealth. In-
deed the moral of the Victorian convulsion
is that the Liberal and Country groups in
the four principal Legislatures should drop
their stupid squabbles and coalesce for the
good of the country, since neither can coal-
esce with the distracted Labor party nor
rule on its own account. In the absence
of a party such as Labor once promised to
be —anti-borrowing, democratic and 100 per
cent. White Australian —a Liberal-Cocky,
coalition is the most satisfactory sort of
Government that could be devised. It seems
to be the only alternative Australia has. or
is likely to- have, to being ruined by bor-
rowing maniacs, or by cranks who rave
about socialising the means of production,
distribution and exchange.
♦
In the Bottomless Pit.
Queensland’s financial year closed on June
3(1 with an alleged surplus of £9630. To
achieve this the purely peace taxation was
put up to £4 17s. 6d. per head per annum
against £1 Bs. 2d. per head in the last year
before a miscalled Labor Government took
office, and against about £2 Is. in Victoria
to-day. For the present year, of which
nearly a quarter is gone, a deficit of
£465,038 is expected, though “the expendi-
ture for all departments has been cut down
to what is considered an irreducible mini-
mum.” In other words, bitter retrenchment
has set in wherever the unions are not
supreme. Two causes are mainly respon-
sible for the shocking condition of the
finances. Income-tax has fallen away seri-
ously, as, of course, it must when flash fools
run amok and destroy the income. The rail-
ways yielded only £231,000 (10s. 7id. per
cent.) towards interest on their cost. In
1915, the last year before the madmen came
to town, the lines gave £1,430.000 and were
the best instead of the worst-paying State
system in the Commonwealth. The Govern-
ment, always with an eye on its job. made
concession after concession to the employees,
and so enormously added to their number
that the wages bill is now £1,500,000 more
per annum than it was in 1917 for less
wrtrk, many trains having ceased to run, and
the staff lately asked for another £1,200.000
a year. A tremendous increase in railway
rates was made in 1920, and the return on
capital was thereby dragged up from los.
sd. per cent, to £1 11s. lOd. The slump to
10s. 7]d. shows that the flogging of a dying
horse won’t revive the animal, Btill. the
position of the employers is strictly logical,
b'or years the Ryan-Theodore-I ihelly
party educated the workers to the doctrine
(equally familiar now in X.S.W.) that they
should demand whatever wages they wanted,
and if it was impossible for “the capitalist
to pay them then "the capitalist” must make
it possible. The Theodore Government is
now “the capitalist”—the only promising
one left in sight, for the mine-owners have
ceased to present much possibilities for ex-
tortion. In pursuance of the carefully in-
culcated doctrine that any and every reduc-
tion of wages is robbery, the old war wages
are still demanded, though war prices have
slumped, and, it being impossible to pay
£lOO for the production of £72 worth ot
copper, work has stopped in the only big
mining industry the big State possessed. Ihe
Gpvernment mine at Chillagoe still pays
a few men out of the Treasury, and that
is about all. A State in this condition and
with an unemployment record which, in
proportion to population, beats England s,
can’t borrow. Nobody lends 01 per cent,
money to the sort of Government which in-
vests it at 4 per cent, and depends for the
other £0 on the possibilities of extorting
some more blood from the taxpaying stone.
Another £10,000,000 of debt ..n that basis
(and Theodore asked for £0,000,000 in one
act) would mean dragging another £(>0(1000
a year from the people, and the impossibility
of the thing would spell insolvency.
-
The Place for a Million Farms.
Amid all the blare of trumpets and pound-
ing of big drums about the million-farms
project, it is a horribly depressing fact that
the Northern Territory doesn’t get a men-
tion. The great Common Property is more
exclusively public land than any of the
States, it has also less railway than any
of the States, so lines can be built
there with a dead certainty that all the land
values created will accrue to the people, and
none of the profit will be unobtrusively swal-
lowed by Private Landlordism. There is no
place in Victoria or Tasmania where it is
possible to build railways of the kind that
are talked about —railways that will cut
through the middle ot a strip of Government-
owned soil at least 40 miles wide, said soil
being good enough for fairly close settlement.
It is questionable if there are any such spots
in N. S. Wales, for without irrigation the
West is quite unfit for agriculture, and
in the Centre and East any line, even a short
one, would impinge on lots of private pro-
perty somewhere. Queensland has possibili-
ties,’ but. with its system of parallel east
and west lines, not so many as-might appear.
South Aus., in its unoccupied parts, is rather
waterless. The Territory and the upper
part of Westralia offer the only really splen-
did opportunities, and the former, as being
the Common Property of the Australian
people, has the supreme claim, since the Aus-
tralian people are, at any rate, to endorse
the bill and advance half the money. As a
recent statement (the one cabled to the
Northcliffe press in England) said: —
Australia raised £300,000,000 for war purposes
and must be prepared to do so again to ensure peace
by peopling Australia.... Denison Miller, Governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, says he can. provide
Australia’s half of the money.
But why should Denison Miller, the ser-
vant of All Australia, manager of the bank
of All Australia, and in charge of the
funds of All Australia, offer £150,000,Out)
of the money or credit of All Australia unless
the vast and fairly well-watered area which
is the property of All Australia gets first
consideration? If it is a question of
“peopling Australia,” then the place with
fewest people per sq. mile wants attention
far more than fairly thickly-settled corner-
blocks of minor size, like Victoria, Tasmania
and N. S. Wales. The real danger from
under-population lies in that northern quar-
ter ; and even if Carrutiiers can plaster a
£800,000,000 debt upon Australia and pro-
vide a million farms in the south-eastern
corner of the continent the danger will still
exist. Nothing will remove it but the settle-
ment of the North. That is the national pro-
blem beside which every other shrinks into
insignificance.
Two Small States and Their Lesson.
Just as the dead warhorse is supposed to
leap several feet in the air at the sound of
the bugle, so quite a number of people are
rallying round Joseph Carrutiiers in re-
ponse to the magic words ‘‘Big Loans.”
Most of them are dubious in the sense that
they leave it to Joseph to show how all this
money can be borrowed, but they are pretty
well agreed that the borrowing would be a
good thing and would help “development”
and “settlement.” Some of them try to make
themselves believe that Carrutiiers is pro-
posing something new. But of course he
isn’t. Tlje States added over £180,000,000
to their debts (this had nothing to do with
war debts, which weren’t their affair)
in the past 10 years (1911-1921) and
£58,000,000 in the previous 10 (1901-1911),
So the country has for years and
years been running on the lines of Joseph
Carruthers’s marvellous discovery with-
out knowing it. Yet, though all these
borrowings were for settlement _and de-
velopment. there are now 303,458 more
people living in the six capitals than there
are in rural districts where farming, dairy-
ing, sheep- and cattle-raising, and such-like
things are done, whereas in 1911 there were
183,799 more living the rural life than the
metropolitan life. Thus it seems that the ex-
penditure of £180.000,000 has put the kind
of settlement specially aimed at 467,257 per-
sons to the bad. and to that extent it has
back-pedalled. The two States which have
done far the most, in proportion to their
size, in the way of acquiring people have
these characteristics: —
They are by far the smallest. Victoria and Tas-
mania together make little more than one-third of
N. S. Wales, though N. S. Wales is small compared
with Queensland and Westralia.
They have far the least debt per head, Victoria
They have comparatively modest Government estab-
lishments, and Victoria in particular stands out as
by far the least taxed of the States.
Their record seems to suggest that with
reasonably sane laws and sane conditions
settlement in this crowded world does a good
deal in the way of taking care of itself, even
if voung men don’t dream dreams and old
men have financial spasms. And, conversely,
the expenditure of millions on public works
breeds the untrained, unskilled odd-jobber,
whose tendency always is to drift to the citi.
It isn’t, then, merely coincidence that vast
borrowing for settlement lias had, generally,
the very opposite result in the long run to
that which was intended.
Public Health and Hypocrisy.
The Storey Government signalised its acces-
sion to power by practically suspending the
X. S. Wales V. D. Act. (The measure had
been passed some two years previously, but
the Nationalists put off the unpopular step
of making it operative till the last.) Minis-
ter for Health McGirk now intimates that
he has “decided to abolish the provisions of
the Venereal Diseases Act relating to noti-
fication. Experience has shown that they
are useless. Doctors —in his judgment rightly
—refuse to divulge information concerning
their patients.” lie observed further:—
Many poor men cannot get treatment from doctors.
In such cases it' a qualified chemist sells a proprie-
tary mixture to cure them I can have no objection.
It is an unpleasant indication of how far
this country Ims gone in the direction of
Ministerial absolutism and government by
ukase that a member of the Cabinet -a
“qualified chemist” himself —should take it
upon himself to thus sweep aside the law ol
the land. Mr. McGirk has no more legal or
constitutional right to abolish notification
than he has to authorise chemists to defy
Acts of Parliament. Australia has become
used to seeing the principle of joint Minis-
terial responsibility dragged through the mud
since Mr. Hughes set out to win the war
half a dozen years ago; and there is no
longer anything novel in the spectacle of
Governments flouting the laws they are
sworn to obey. The oustandingly noisome
feature of this case is McGirk’s dishonest
attempt to put the blame for his party’s
terror of the V.D. vote on the medical pro-
fession. Notification has been compulsory
for years all over Australia in leprosy, T. 8.,
typhoid, small-pox and various other dis-
eases. The doctors never shirked their duty
or attempted to spurn the law here. Com-
pulsory notification of V.D. was the rule in
all the armies of the Allies throughout the
war, and the doctors obeyed it. And since the
war it is the doctors who have been most
vehement in every Australian State in stress-
ing the point that an arrangement which was
good enough for the men who helped to
save Australia is not too drastic to be ap-
plied to those who were saved. An eminent
authority—Dr. Barrett, of Melbourne —lec-
tured on this subject in Sydney only a week
or so ago; and the burden of his discourse
was that venereal disease was the greatest
curse known to medicine; that it was cap-
able of being eliminated; but that a first
essential was courageous governmental
action. When the last of the States was
coming into line in the matter of V.D. legis-
lation in March of last year, the Medical
Journal of Australia presented the official
attitude of the profession. It called on medi-
cal practitioners to “regard the duty of noti-
fying all cases as a solemn trust”; and it
warned medical officers responsible for the
administration of the Public Health Acts
that “as a first step in the control of these
ghastly infections they must harden their
hearts’ and seek a deterrent penalty for every
dereliction.” The doctors all over Australia
have, with a very few exceptions, acted as
the law and the B.M.A. directed them to ;
it is their Governments that have consis-
tently omitted to back them up. The sup-
port they might have had from Mr. McGirk
may be deduced from the heroic measures lie
is taking to protect Sydney from the bubonic
plague outbreak, of which Queensland is sus-
pect. All ships from Queensland must
anchor in Watson’s Bay : "the port medical
officers have been instructed to examine those
on board thoroughly” : if there is the slight-
est sign of rat-infestation the ship will be
held for fumigation; and so on. “If all
sections of the community readily co-operate
the danger of plague in Sydney will be
averted. Of course, if the public fail to do
so we must take steps to force them,” an-
nounced the Minister. He can afford the
elaborate gesture. The plague vote is
negligible.
On the Breeding of Judases.
On the occasion of the defection from Labor
of Peterson, M.L.A., Premier Theodore, of
Queensland, w r as pleased to allude to his late
colleague as a “common political rat” and “a
Judas.” “The Labor party,” he said, “has
suffered much from such men, who were
dragged from obscurity by the movement.
Mr. Peterson is a little worse than other
betrayers, as he waited till Labor was in a
difficulty before he acted the part of a
Judas.” As to the betrayal of Labor,
Theodore is right—right up to the hilt. Poli-
ticians have been dragged out of their native
obscurity, where they preached the abolition
of class privilege and the need of Labor
government in order to banish unemploy-
ment and make tne land prosperous.' Through
incapacity and cowardice, thrpugh tempo-
rising and shuffling, through everlasting kow-
towing to irresponsible organisations, they
have then succeeded in making the Labor-
ruled State an example for all men to shun
and none to imitate. Queensland’s foreign
credit has long been stopped owing to her
Parliament’s undisguised repudiatory tend-
encies, her unemployed swarm in every nook
and corner of the land, her railways are
piling up deficits at the rate of over a mil-
lion per annum, and her direct taxation is
more than twice as much per head as
that of the so-called Tory State of Victoria.
In six years the Liberal Governments of
Queensland required £4,688,702 of taxation
from the people; in six years the Labor
Administration has required £14,559,291. If
this kind of thing does not imply a betrayal
of Labor principles, then"so much the worse
for the principles. Yet if continual purg-
ing can keep a party pure the Queensland
Labor party ought to be the purest body in
Australia. At various times it has got rid
of nearly three dozen of its leading politi-
cians, and apparently the end is not yet.
And if abandonment of the party implies
"betrayal,” as Theodore says, then recent
developments in the municipal elections and
the Maranoa contest (to say nothing of the
last State elections) demonstrate conclu-
sively that tens of thousands of hitherto good
Labor supporters and staunch unionists are
tumbling over one another in their haste to
“betray” the Government that is plunging
them into such ruin. Evidently these men agree
with Theodore that there are rats and
traitors and Judases somewhere in the
movement, and they go further and definitely
locate them on the Queensland Treasury
benches.
♦
McPherson and Other Matters.
Victorian Treasurer McPherson went
lately to London to talk finance, and got
an extra-kindly reception, partly because he
could say languidly that there was no hurry
for the loan, and that his State, having a
surplus of £156,.000, could do without it
if J. Bull preferred; partly because his
State owes less in London than it did in
the first years of Federation. These are
some figures for 1902 and 1920: —•
Debts in London (Repayable in Gold).
1!)02. 1920. Decrease.
Victoria . . £45,092,472 £42,400,040 £2,680,432
S Aus .. 28,111,350 22,908,239 203,111
Increase.
Tasmania . . 7.830,250 9,011,250 1,781,000
Westral a . . 13,570,853 32,178,553 18,007,700
Queensland . . 34,058,347 54,330,047 19,072,300
N S Wales .. 02,451,950 101,977,445 39,525.495
Therein lies the difference between compara-
tive soundness and various degrees of rotten-
ness. Local borrowing is foolish, but
at the worst it doesn’t make a bogus boom
bv artificially increasing the amount of money
in the country, though it increases the
amount of documents which can be sold tor
money. it simply represents the unwisdom
of giving bonds instead of tax receipts in
exchange for the cash that the Government
requires. It doesn’t multiply absentees. It
doesn’t, after creating a boom, bleed the
nation white in the export of interest, send-
ing out in time £lOO or £5OO or £lOOO for
everv paltry £lOO that came in. The in-
terest. being paid to Australian subjects, is
taxable here, which foreign interest isn t,
and that makes a difference to the revenue.
The Government owes, but the country
doesn’t. If there should be grievous stress
on renewal day pressure can be brought on
our own people which can’t be exercised on
any other country’s people. In case ot
actual breakage foreign creditors might move
their Government to send a receiver, backed
by a fleet, to forcibly annex our revenues for
their benefit, as has happened to various
countries with too much outside debt, but
there is no such chance with the local per-
son. And the local creditor can be paid
with good or bad or indifferent paper while
the outside one demands payment ot prin-
cipal arid interest in a substance which
costs us £5 10s. an ounce now, though it was
worth only £4 an ounce when we borrowed
it. So Australia naturally finds that the two
least distressed States are the two "'hioli
have, for 20 years, steadily avoided the im-
portation of borrowed money.
The Portable Academy of Crime.
It is strictly in the natural order of things
that the police should report crime in Aus-
tralian cities to be taking on a new and
more formidable aspect. If the force wasn t
kept so busy collecting electoral rolls and
directing street traffic it would have made
some such report long ago. The new crop
of young man and woman and hobbledehoy
and flapper thieves is said to be so abundant
that old practitioners have, to a great extent,
given up personal work and become employers
of journeymen criminals —contractors, teach-
ers', consultants, what you like. In the
shop-lifting line a sickly and overdone senti-
mentality which protects the first otfendei
even if well and unfavorably known, from
punishment, long since put the business on
a wholesale footing. The old professional
shop-lifteress no longer lifts by hand, but
trains and directs a staff of wage-slaves, or,
rather, percentage slaves. As they are cap-
tured one bv one and discharged one by
one under the First Discovery Act, they
retire from the business, or move to a new
field where they can be first offenders again.
They don’t give away the old Fagin woman
who runs the “joint,” for they get immunity
without that, and Dr. Arthur, M.L.A.,
would be shocked if they didn’t. It is,now
reported that the system, previously organ-
ised for shop-lifting purposes, has extended
to almost all sorts ot payable law-breaking.
The crop of young and promising criminals
is so large that the Law is worried over
what it will do when several years crops
have accumulated, as the wool accumulated
in war time. Various causes are assigned,
including the pony-race madness and the
horrible abundance of diseased Aankee films
of the “Fatty” Arbuckle sort. But these
things don’t account for the fact that the
new type of criminal in many cases takes
a new pride in himself, and regards his job
rather as a virtue and an effort in the wajr
of high emprise, and mingles it with scraps
of Karl Marx and other garbled philosophy.
He is, in fact, often a sort of pietist just as
the Thug was. He is a product of the
order which began when, for want of a
Compulsory Service Act, only good Austra-
lians went to the war, while the poorer ele-
ments of the community stayed at home to
make inonev by capturing the political
Labor machine or otherwise. It was the
inauguration of a state of public mind in
which many things became possible, includ-
ing the Perth Labor Conference, the demand
for the release without trial of the I.WAV
incendiaries, and the present Sydney Muni-
cipal Council. The numbers of the new
generation that mixes burglary with theory
are constantly recruited from the Portable
Academy of Crime which is everywhere and
is allowed to be everywhere. Its professors
teach quite openly: (I) Murder (called
“revolution”) ; (2) wholesale robbery de-
scribed as “nationalisation of the
“taking over of factories and workshops,
etc.; (3) abolition of the self-governing
rights of the people: (4) the general wreck-
age of existing civilisation. Wherever the
unemployed are gathered together can be
found, on chairs and soap-boxes, the degen-
erate men and unsexed harridans of the
Portable Academy of Crime, urging violence,
theft, hatred and the stoppage of industry
so that there may be more unemployed and
more suffering and more chance of violence,
theft and hatred. If the Portable Academy
of Crime was closed and inciting to theft


T h i Farmers’& Settlers'Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“?W; a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
/
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
p ny has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
and murder under the name of revolution
was made punishable, it might help to re-
store the public mind to its old normal con-
dition of sanity. At any rate, it would re-
move one impediment to that restoration.
A New Way with the Unemployed.
A North Queenslander has ideas: —
All this cant about the expense of putting people
on the land makes me ill. There already exists an
army of commissioners and rangers, surveyors and
agricultural experts, and a few billion acres of
unalienated land are shouting for settlers. My pro-
posal? Revert to selection before survey, under
which men and women who really want to own a
roof and tucker could go out and find their own
little paradise—and, incidentally, pick their own
environment. When surveyors were hard up for a
job they could mark the boundaries; although it’s
really quite simple to grow spuds and pumpkins and
goats and chooks without survey pegs, provided the
settler has sense enough to start well inside his
probable boundary lines. The survey, when it
comes, needn’t worry him. No rent should be
charged, or very little, for the first few years,
but forfeiture should be the penalty for howling for
State assistance. On the other hand, the tenant
should bo given si permit to shoot all interlopers.
Where there’s good stringy, messmate or ironbark
to be got there will be no occasion for iron rooting.
The only outfit need be wire-netting for the garden,
five bundles of barbed and two of plain wire, axe,
shovel, mattock, 12 months’ tucker, cooking-gear,
energy and brains. The land won't cost, a penny,
being already there and non-productive. As long
as the settler is supporting himself lie's off the
unemployed list, which means lie’s a national asset
instead of a national incubus. if his girl gets sick
of starving in front of drapers' windows and lias u
rush of brains to the head, send her up to him
free, the ranger or surveyor being authorised to
murry without charging a cent. When the farmer
begins to sell his produce rent and rates can start,
but not before.
Above nil tilings, don’t force your tyro to take up
more land than he cun work; many a settler has
starved on 250 acres who could have done well on
26. And resurrect the public hangmen: mo tol
our troubles arose because he worked off the wrong
people. Give him a free hand with frauds who
want £BOO houses and £3OOO farms. The whole
show could be worked by the present army of
rangers at a thousand a year apiece, and no cheek
from city bosse".
When the original settler has built and cultivated
and yearns for new land to conquer, buy him out at
a reasonable figure and send up tlie sort of orphan
who wants a ready-made homestead, taking care that
the newcomer carries forward the good work or for-
feits without compensation. Let the pioneer go
pioneering: every man to his trade, and that’s his. In
fact, the expert bushie won’t want half the foregoing
outfit, but he emphatically needs a free hand and
no damned red tape. The only official correspondence
will be something like this;—
Selector to Commissioner: Have got this place in
going order and am sick of it. Send ranger.
Ranger to Commissioner: Selector ha 9 made good
home on 45X. Produce all tropical, though coffee
and tobacco go best. Says the place is getting too
crowded for him and wants to move further out.
Commissioner to City Boss: Block No. 46X ready:
send orphan, and also £2OO for pioneer, who will get
another farm ready.
Commissioner to Pioneer: Newcomer and nurse
arrive next boat. Your money at call: alio permit
to occupy next place. Department has added £5O
to your £2OO. Have a good old time before you
start again.
Work Inspector to City: The man you "ent up is
doing well, but handicapped by useless wife.
City to W. 1.: Send wife back. Will forward
another on appro. Divorce enclosed.
W.I. to City: New wife satisfactory. Farmer has
hnlf-a-ton of coffee and fScwt. tobacco for sale.
City to W. 1.: Sending boat for produce.
W.I. to City: Twins arrived on 45X.
City to Farmer: Taxes remitted for two years.
Credited you with confinement expenses. Forwarding
gramophone and home-cinema for twins.
That’s the lot, except for one item. I would have
Royal Commissions ploughed in for manure.
A Clerical Error.
Justice Burnside gave damages last week
against a Presbyterian minister—the Rev. .1.
R. Blanchard — in an action for defama-
tion brought by Gunzbekgs, wine-saloon
proprietors, of Perth. Speaking in the lan-
guage of hyperbole, which is common to the
cloth when roused, Blanchard hau de-
nounced wine-saloons as “snake holes,” out
of which “cama poison and death,” and de-
clared that the Perth saloons “contributed to
the spread of venereal disease.” Not only
has the Westrnlian Savonarola to pay
Gunzberos their damages and costs under
this decision, but every oilier wineshop is
in a position to recover from him unless
he can prove that it is a snake hole. It is
significant that a Judge and not. a jury was
responsible for this remarkable state of
affairs. It was laid down in Rex v. Cutbill
that “a man may publish anything which
12 of his countrymen think is not blam-
able”: and if there is any issue on which a
jury is likelier to give a sensible decision
than a lone lawyer, living, ns a rule, remote
from the world, it is one of this class. Jus-
tice Burnside may know wineshops which,
like (tUNZbergS’, happen to be above re-
proach : he is one of the last men in his
State to have had experience of the establish-
ments which Blanchard, no doubt, had in
mind when he delivered his disastrous
address. Any jury, on the other hand, would
contain members with personal knowledge of
the fact that, though the saloons of W.A.
(meaning all of them) do not disseminate
poison and contribute to the spread of ven-
ereal disease, a generous proportion are cer-
tainly guilty of such offences. Juries do not
favor word-splitting. In such a case as this
they would reason 99 times out of a hundred,
with rough and ready justice and common-
sense, that, though the cleric let his feelings
carry him a why to a regrettable extent, yet
he was attacking a business which is ad-
mittedly capable of reformation. They
would hesitate in the circumstances before
bringing possible ruin on a man because in
the heat of oratory he had omitted to qualify
a generalisation. There are scores of c'-isses
which have been denounced or ridiculed for
generations—lawyers, politicians, mother-in-
laws, bookmakers; and more latterly, in this
country, disloyalists ( including ex-members
of the A.T.F. who belong to the Labor party),
capitalists and so on. Many of the accusa-
tions and insults levelled at these sections
in the mass are obviously untrue as regards
thousands of individuals belonging to them.
And every one realises it. A crowd which
listens to embittered remarks about its
rulers discriminates instinctively in the
same way as it does when it hears mus'e-
liall jokes about its female relations. In
short, custom has hallowed extravagant cri-
ticism in scores of directions. It does no
great harm, even where it is inaccurate;
and nearly all inexpert criticism (by clergy-
BONE DRY.
LABOR: “Look at that! Just as I was get. tin' 'er used to always being bailed up and
living on nothin', the old cow's gone an' died on me."
men of hcrse-racing, by old ladies of flappers,
etc.) is inaccurate. On the other hand, some
of it does much good. The right of free dis-
cussion should not license anyone to hold up
individuals to hatred or contempt as wine-
saloon proprietors, as horse-owners or as
anything else that is within the law. But
to blanket assaults on such fhiiTgs us institu-
tions not only would involve condemning many
well-meaning public characters virtually t<>
silence for the rest of their lives; it would
mean that innumerable concerns calling
loudly for improvement or removal would
never either be altered for the better or
destroyed.
♦
The Consul for Belgium in Sydney has com-
plained that “German and Belgian” iron
and steel and “German and Belgian” ex-
change have been kept bracketed in the
press in the interests of the Industries Pre-
servation Bill. He protested against the
association, and concluded :
Belgian iron and steel products are actually
cheaper than any others because Belgium is a Free-
trade countrv; because Belgian workmen (who
receive actually in the iron and steel trade wages
about 500 per rent, higher than before the war)
are highly skilled and splendid producers; because
Belgian manufacturers are reducing to the utmost
the general cost of production.
The Belgian steel-worker mav get five times
higher wages than he did before the war but
his employer also gets far more Belgian
money in exchange for the gold he receives
when he sells abroad. Partly as a conse-
quence of this the Belg : an manufacturer
can sell steel rails abroad at about £4 a
ton below the British manufacturer's price. So
also Germany is able to flood countries like
Britain. America and Australia, because it
receives payment in gold, and gold can buy
nearly 20 times more of the paper in which
the workmen are paid than it could before
the war. Thus, though the workmen nom-
inally get in local paper five times more
pay, the manufacturers get a metal which,
converted into local paper, is worth nearly
20 times more than it used to be. To this
extent, nevertheless, the Belgian Consul is
quite right: in his foreign trade the Ger-
man manufacturer has a great advantage at
the moment over even the Belgian. For
whereas foreign gold will purchase 53 francs
in Brussels where in pre-war days it gave
the local manufacturer only 25. in Berlin it
will buy for the German manufacturer 404
marks where formerly it purchased 21.
Faced with a hostile motion involving a
remission of rents and repayments to soldier-
settlers to the extent of ’£120,000 in four
years, the Speck Government, in great agi-
tation, pointed out that this loss would
have to be borne by the taxpayers and paid
out of revenue. But returned soldier-member
HUBST insisted that unless a substantial
remission could be promptly arranged more
than half the returned men would be com-
pelled to throw up their holdings—-a result
that would mak# the Government’s treat-
ment of soldier-settlers the one and only
issue at the general elections early next year.
Ministers and their supporters were so im-
pressed with this argument that they hastily
arranged a compromise w'hieh leaves the land
payments undisturbed, but gives the soldier-
settler easier terms for repayment of cost of
stock and buildings. Thus a settler with
£3OO worth of stock will pay £3O a year for
10 years, instead of £75 a year for four
years. Repayment for buildings extends
over 25 years and need not commence until
five years hence. This scheme obviates the
necessity for immediate taxation and passes
the country’s debt to the soldiers on to pos-
terity in the same old makeshift fashion.
Meanwhile a select committee is set up to
inouire into the whole soldier-settler busi-
ness, and will probably recommend a whole-
sale writing-down of land bought at boom
prices and a readjustment of repayments
based on the reduced values. And, of course,
the amount written off, probably more than
half a million, will be carefully heaped on
top of the national debt, so that the children
of to-morrow may enjoy the privilege of
paying interest on the excessive profits their
patriotic land-owning forebears extracted
from soldier-settlement.
A young manufacturing country which
hasn’t had time to breed much competition
among its manufacturers has more than
the foreign dumper to contend with.
The president of the Vic. Chamber of Manu-
factures remarked the other day that on a
recent visit to Asia he founfl Australian
stuff that made him heartily ashamed. “If
we wish to build up a strong trade in Asia
we must deliver .the goods.’ 1 he said: an d k
is equally essential, if we are to hold on to
the fairly high Protection we have now got
that the manufacturer should "deliver rh.’
goods in the home market also. The fact
to be borne in mind by good patriotic Pro-
tectionists is that the virtue of local manu-
facture doesn t communicate itself to manu-
facturers as a matter of course. The manu-
luC^rerif a shrewd, careful,
thrifty, far-sighted citizen in every ease, but
lie lsn t: the. sun of Protection shines on
the just and the unjust alike. In a large,
national way of speaking the best thing
that can happen to a manufacturer who ex-
ports inferior goods or packs goods in a
careless manner is ruin, utter and complete,
lie is giving the countrv a bad name. He
is a plausible excuse for the stinking-fish
preacher. lie is a popular delusion and a
snare to sympathy. Australia needs to get
rid without delay of the idea that because
a man wants to make his fortune by manu-
facturing something lie necessarily deserves
a guaranteed market for his goods" and three
cheers. There are times when he really de-
serves gaol.
♦
A horrible occurrence at Spencer-street rail-
way station (Melbourne) suggests that it is
time Australia came into line with the rest
ol the civilised world in the matter of eaged-
bird murdering. Owing to a mistake .some-
where a consignment of starlings addressed
to tin l Northeote Gun ('lub were found, when
retrieved at the parcels office, to have antici-
pated the attention of the club sportsmen.
Every one of them was dead of thirst and
starvation. Pigeon-shooting has been obso-
lete amongst the better class of British sports-
men since it was barred at Ilurlingbam 15
years ago. It was recently abolished at
Monte Carlo, in response to a threat by a
powerful section of patrons to boycott the
place if the disgusting business was persisted
in. In England, however, a shady gang of
gamblers continued to slaughter trapped birds
for betting purposes; the only decency
betrayed by them being a general tendency
to shoot under pseudonyms. Both the House
of Commons and the Lords have now passed
the Captive Birds Shooting (Prohibition)
Bill, making pigeon-, sparrow- and starling-
shooting a punishable offence. It is an
example that the Australian States. Wost-
ralfn excepted (that State has already abol-
ished nWon-murderine and has no sparrows
Or starlings to assassinate), cannot be too
prompt in following.
The Honorary Justices’ Association of Vic-
toria, a body formed to bolster up the dis-
credited system of amateur Judges, makes
a specialty of periodically parading Mel-
bourne’s Gaud Mayor a 9 a magistrate. This
happens once during the mayoralty, when
the_ gentleman in charge of the eitv’s d-aks
is induced to take his seat on the bench
and rp-’ke a pretence of deteraun : ng the
law. So tb*» citizen reads once a year some-
thing like this:—
In mayoral robes, Cr. J. W. Swanson, the Lord
Mayor, took his seat on the bench in the District
Court to-day as Chief Magistrate of the City of Mel-
bourne. Mr. J. J. Rogers. J.P., welcomed Or. Swan-
son on behalf of his colleagues and the Honorary
Justices’ ■ Association of Victoria. Speaking for
representatives of the Bar, Mr. H. O. Joseph said
that a man fit to be Lord Mavor of the city was a
fitting adornment to its Courts of Justice.
What is a "fitting adorn men t"? Mr. Swan-
son. the building contractor, sitting on the
bench in mayoral robes, may be picturesque;
but if he know t ,,ri low n rd on me in his
pyjamas he would fit the Bench better, even
if he was no ornament upon it.
As one way of helping the N„ S. Wales
unemployed (now, according to the Federal
Statistician, nearly three times as numerous
as when the Government took office) about a
quarter-million (which will probably develop
into half-a-million) is to be spent on a new
building for the N.S.W. State Savings Bank.
The State Savings Bank is a superfluous
concern, for the Commonwealth Bank every-
where works alongside it; and as soon as tie
unnecessary building is finished the de-
tracted Ministry will have the building gang
on its hands again. The work won’t employ
any extra people after it is finished. Simply
the crowd of pen-pushers will shift from
one home to another. On the other hand,
an eight-storey woollen factory would em-
ploy as many men while it w T as going up, and
afterwards give permanent jobs to perhaps
1000 new men. It would fill a real want;
save money going out to pay for imports; be
a monument to real State-owned industry;
and its profitableness might incite to the
establishment of many similar industries
and monuments. Or if the Government
wisely decided that runn : ng n factory wns
beyond its pow’ers, it could offer cheap pre-
mises to private persons willing to do it.
The present mopping up of money by Gov-
ernments puts new private enterprises "almost
out of the question. So the unemployed
merely got construction jobs, and w r hen the
jobs are finished the workmen are as much
unemployed as ever.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
R-SWMONT de PIETE
1)"# I C?r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh 5t.74. Sydney
CAPITAL itZOO.OOO ‘Phone City
SwcAes Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle. N-S-W- 71517 SwanstohSt
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh 5t.,159 6eorge St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill.
General manager.
rv
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and T. Co. Ltd/
POLITICAL
POINTS
Frank Tu.lor, who is still a sick man. wants
to drop the Labor party leadership, but has
been unanimously pressed to retain it, and
the decision will be confirmed at the pro-
fessional meeting of the Caucus before the
Heps, resume business on the 28th. Hut the
burden will fall on the modest and hard-
working deputy, Mat Charlton, who may
also have to take the lead when this Parlia-
ment goes to the country next year—unless
the young bloods make trouble meantime.
On a “crisis” that is no more:—
Lawson and Peacock went down to Vic. Assembly
expecting to be beaten by at least one vote, i’hey
got the surprise of their lives when an emissary from
the Hayseeds slipped into the Cabinet room just as
the bells were tinkling at tail) to'tell them that the.'
were safe by 11 votes. After nine weeks turmoil,
including an appeal to the country, the Cookie- had
taken what they could have had from the beginning—
a non-conipulsory wheat-pool with a bank guuiantee
of 4s. a bushel. It is rough on Gibsou, Hannah and
Parker, who lost their seats ; but Hughes, Tunnerliffe
and Fctherston, their successors, have uo complaint
against the f ates.
“Friday Island’: Parochialism'’led to a
nasty state of allairs over a case of bubonic
plague discovered in Queensland. \\ hen the
facts were made public enough time bad
elapsed for the infection to have been carried
to all Australian States. Had the outbreak
occurred on an incoming ship the Common-
wealth Quarantine Department would have
known in time to take steps to prevent, the
spread of infection. It seems accessary that
we should have a Federal Authority ot
Health (in addition to the Federal Quaran-
tine), to whom cill ca&es <>i the six notifiable
infectious diseases should be reported imme-
diately. At present they are only notifiable
to the different State authorities, who man-
age their own little affairs with sweet mutual
contempt Surveyors’ boundary lines are
not germ-proof fences.
Nothing has been heard lately of the Self-
Determination Leagues which sprang up like
fungi a few months ago in the footprints ot
Wren. Next to Bolshevism self-determina-
tion is the looniest political superstition ot
the age. ltussia started il. and has been
warring with one or other of its own lot of
self-determinators ever since. Woodrow
W’ilson borrowed the idea and fed it with
polysyllables, and Fiume, Upper Silesia, the
Greco-Turk war and the recent Austro-
Hungarian scrimmage are among the fruits
of his folly, although they haven’t all ripened
yet. Sinn Fein drank thirstily of the W ood-
row cocktail, and is now discovering that it
put an enemy in its mouth. For if the South
Irish Celt is entitled to secede from the
Saxon on the self-determination principle the
Saxon Ulsterman is equally entitled to
secede from the South Irish Celt. Self-
determination, in fact, can be used, and is
being used, as an argument for partition,
which is the last thing the Sinn Femers
wanted.
Australia has already- borrowed about
£410.000,000, partly for war but largely for
“repatriation.” The States owe another
f 440.000.000. and most of that also was
borrowed to settle the country. Now Gar-
ruthers and his friends propose borrowing
£3OO 000,000 more —still for putting people
on farms. It will make roughly 30s. _per
acre mortgage on every acre with a loin,
rainfall. Yet viewing the blank spaces on
the map it seems as if railway-building has
barely commenced. The I’.S.A. is much .the
same size, and it has 204,000 miles <>f line,
which leaves Australia about 24U.MH;) miles
to build yet. It almost looks as if it would
be necessary to pay cash for some of the
public work’s of the future. To put a mort-
gage of flu for development purposes on
every acre with a loin, rainfall is a pro-
position that even the most violent bor-
rower might shy at, even if the lender didn t.
Military medico Neville llowse, \ .C’-, lately
staggered the Public Health Association Con-
ference (Melbourne) by telling it that
young male Australia is physically a rathei
poor lot. Out of every 10U0 at the age of
18 nearly one-fifth (11)8) were unfit to be
passed into the defence forces for further
training even for home defence. It is pro-
bably part of the price wo begin to pay for
being the most "citified” community on
God’s earth —one which puts 2,283,000 out of
its mainland population of **,212,000 into
five monster towns and is forgetting what
the real country looks like. But it is pitiful
and shameful none the less.
The melancholy history of Queensland
Government railways under Labor rule has
been brightened by a gleam of Voltairean
humor. Between 1015 and 1021 billets were
found for thousands of sturdy democrats
who vote the right ticket, and it has been
THE COMPLETE JUGGLER.
semi-officially stated that 2000 of them are
superfluous. In other words, Queensland
has been taxed up to the eyes to keep these
men in their unproductive jobs. Last year
the railways were run at a loss of £1,581,0(10.
In 1919-20 the deficit was £12229,579. The
figures for five years are £(>.;>(£>..>oo. vet the
other day a number of anti-capitalists from
the railway unions strode_ into the Arbitra-
tion Court and demanded increases of wages
amounting to £1.200,000 a year, on top oi
the extra £1,500,000 a year they have en-
joyed since July, 1017. Jokers like these
are wasted on solemn industrial tribunals.
The music-halls are yawning for them.
While Hughes was in the Cold Country Sir
William Vestey, head of the firm which put
£1,000,000 into the Darwin meatworks and
has leased a piece of the country about the
size of Scotland, gave him some straight
talk about the lamentable mess the Territory
has got into. S’William pointed out that
his firm wasn't anxious to write off a cool
million, but if the Bolshies were going to run
the show, then Yesteys wouldn’t throw good
money after bad. He wanted to know if
there was any hope of the Federal Ministry
picking up a backbone and a policy some-
where The P.M. promised to look into the
whole ricketty show when lie returned to
Australia, and try to get it into shape.
Meanwhile his Cabinet has asked one or two
likely persons to supply it with a few poli-
cies to pick from.
The resignation from the Queensland Gov-
ernment party of Peterson M L.A., for rea-
sons dearlv stated evoked the regulation
howl from' one of Theodore's supporters
1 Vase M.L.A., said that Peterson had been
bribed to tin- extent of £2OOO by parties not
specified As the Government hasn t lost
office through Peterson's act it seems
a ridiculous sum. Peterson enthusiasti-
cally urges Pease to tell Ins story out-
side. where the truth ot a Story matters, lie
will probably do so if there is an.
truth in it. and won’t if there isn t. Ihe
Parliamentary privilege which allows one
member to libel or defame another—or any-
body else, for that matter—is an abomina-
tion. anyhow, and merely helps to keep nast.x
men in politics when otherwise they would
be in obscurity for lack of stock-in-trade.
It was declared with pride the other day
that the present Ma State Government is
no mere city- or street-bred affair, but keeps
a sleepless eye on larger things outside. 1 lie
evidence whs tlmt since it cnine into ottne it
had spent £2.4")0,r»52 of public works money
in the well-developed metropolitan area
(£1(1,447 per square mile) and io,lW,o(i,>
(£l6 10s. per square mile) in tlie rest
of the State. This, it was held, would
enable the rather neglected outbacks, where
all the ports still require equipment, to catch
up like a house afire. Apparently it has
been decided since then that the £l6 I.os.
is overdoing things, so work on the city
railway is to be resumed and charged to
the country at large, and the Harbor bridge
is to be built. £2.000.000 being charged to
the metropolis itself, if the matter isn’t for-
gotten. and £4.000.000 to the country m
general.
In untidy X. S. Wales there are retrospec-
tive increases of wages, so that the employer
finds himself let in for heavy extra expenses
on transactions .that are supposedly finished
and closed up; and there are retrospective
offences of the profiteering sort, the seller
being liable to find that something in ancient
history is a gross and punishable overcharge
now, though it wasn’t then. These are dan-
gerous precedents, for the other party may
become demoralised, and when it gets into
power 4t may make a big reduction of Minis-
terial salaries sufficiently retrospective to
dig a big hole in the old Ministry’s bank
accounts. It may make some of the revolu-
tionary things that Walsh, Garden and co.
are constantly saying high treason retrospect-
ively. And instead of extending Parlia-
mentary and municipal terms of oHice it may
even extend the gaol sentences of certain
people —say, people who conspire against tin-
rule of the majority.
The Westralian deficit, now 10 years old,
topped £5,000,000 last month. Scaddan was
its progenitor, and when the first million
was reached a grateful country hailed him
as “Gone-a-million Jack.” Thus Mitchell,
under whose care the infant has grown
famously, becomes “Gone-five-million
Jimmy.” Pale, hagridden Treasurers like
Fihelly of Queensland must envy the facility
with which the West is amused.
The Germans have been complaining bit-
terly about the Commonwealth’s embargo on
the importation of German goods, and when
W. M. Hughes returns he is to he petitioned
to allow our late enemies to pay openly for
their wheat, wool and meat in manufactures.
This would he reasonable enough if the Ger-
mans displayed any readiness to exchange
what, they need for what we need. Tin*
fact is they are eager to supply pianos, fur-
niture, railway stock, textiles and other
articles which are being made here, and to
do it at prices based on coolie rates of pay
and hours of labor. But when it comes
to letting us or* anyone else in the British
Empire have their specialties—the dyes, for
instance—they are profiteers of the first
water. They need our raw products, but in
taking them their intention seems to he to do
the utmost possible damage to our industries.
Ex-cricketer Joe Darling, now a Tasmanian
M.L.C., threatens to equal Kink O’Malley
as a proposer of fanciful schemes. The other
day he urged his l'ellow-woolgrowers to pre-
sent the whole Australian wool-surplus to
China as a trade advertisement. Nothing
daunted by the chilly reception that proposal
got, he now wants Parliament to “equalise
taxation” by compelling single men to con-
tribute something unspecified to a State
fund from which yearly doles would be paid
to married persons with families. Some of
these days, after the scheme has gone
through, one of Joseph’s own • youngsters
will bail him up and say : “Dad, I know I’m
a little incubus and all that; but, anyhow,
don’t forget you got coupons with me.” Still,
Joe Darling isn’t the only modern legislator
who goes on the theory that children are
little curses that the State ought to atone
for in some way.
In announcing his secession from the
Queensland Labor party Peterson, M.L.A.
for Normanby, challenged Theodore to have
ago at him in his electorate. One John-
ston did tlu> same thing in Westralia when
Scaddan was consul, but, unlike Peterson,
he resigned his seat. Returned then as an
independent Laborite (Scaddan, like Theo-
dore, declined the invitation), Johnston now
sits with the Country party, whose members
he described, a few months before joining
them, as "the Bulgarians of politics.” After
a tortuous career as sfraightout Laborite,
Independent, National Laborite and plain
Nationalist, Scaddan has become a Cocky,
too.
The new scheme of the Sydney Govern-
ment is to charge one-third of the cost of
the Harbor bridge to the metropolis and the
other two-tliirds (.£4,000,000) to the country.
Five-sixths (perhaps seven-eighths) of the
State, if its Own ports were equipped and
made accessible and it were allowed access
to Brisbane and Melbourne, wouldn t re-
quire Sydney any more than it does Tim-
buetoo, though it would still he an interest-
ing place to think about, like London or
Jerusalem. The other sixth would be quite
content to come to the Big City b.v the oh!
Redfern route: and most of it will do so
even if there are six bridges across the har-
bor. The country’s gain will bo a saying of
about six miles on the Northern line in
other words. Inverell. which really wants
to trade with a port of its own. 120 miles
away, will be 503 miles from its compul-
sory port instead of 509 miles. On the long
lines ending at Coonabarabran. Coonamblo,
llrewarrina, Bourke, Cobar, Broken Hill
(when finished), Cargellico. Griffith. Hay.
Alburv, Rom baht, Nowra, etc., the gain wi 1
be nil. Ouite a.whale of a national work
is the Sydney Harbor bridge.
HIS LORDSHIP WONDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Lord Sort hoi iffc wonders at (he lack of Australian
interest in the Washington Congress.’
You’d cease to wonder. Viscount, if you stayed
A little longer in a weary land,
From State to State proceeded, and surveyed
Our politicians —then you'd understand.
No marvel, Northelitfe, would it be to you,
And sympathy would penetrate your breast.
It all our fourteen Houses you could view,
Our Congresses, Commissions and the rest.
In vain among that desolating rabble
You’d search for statesmen like we bad of old:
The worst of all our maladies is gabble,
So your Convention finds the people cold.
And when we look upon a larger stage
And notice what the men of words have done
\\ ith that fair promise of a grander age
By silent deeds and sacrifices won ;
When we consider how the tribe of deft
And fluent spouters gathered since tin* war
Have argued, posed, intrigued, cajoled and left
Confusion more confounded than before;
We doubt the worth of philanthropic blether
With deference to yon and Uncle Sam —
In fact, me lud, we rather question whether
One Congress more or less is worth a damn.
N.B.W.
WODQIL.
MORE SALT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie English people preferred more fat and .
higher percentage of salt.”— The president of tin
Primary Producers' Union.
More fat! The yean; grow dry and thin and lean
The beef that was our fathers’ is no more.
The turtle fails within the soup-tureen;
The unemployed eat to the nation's core.
More fat! We need it; but if fat has failed.
Give us at least more salt in blood and bone.
Our fathers went wherever ship had sailed,
And the great salt of seas is still our own.
More salt! little waves run up the shore
Rusted with iron from a thousand keels.
Strange flags upon the brine are more and rnore-
Did we break lvultur but to kick our heels?
x.s.w.
MARY MCC.


DRAWING THE FANGS OF MARS.
‘It is understood that Lord Northcliffe is remaining in Australia to discuss the Washington Conference with Mr, Hughes”
NORTHOLIFFE: “Come now, Mr. Hughes, let’s arrange things —you’ve got the gas and I’ve got the pull”


•:.
"'■* V-
V*'*V i
w
DRA
r;.* #
COSMOS
Give &‘perfect EajjM,
TROPOLI
CO. LTQ
ELECTRICAL
d
21 fzlij&bet'h Melbourne.
309- Kenh 5K sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Emplros
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Qeiignite
Blasting: Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WRITE =
ďf
Q/'TCVAAN POWERFUL SPEEDY
UOW'PRICED
d
RKivraso
MmSßr
i»oe-w«K
ď
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd., 75 Penders Street, Thornbury, Victoria
ThE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bbokex Hu r. Proprietary, Ltd., which
manufactures iron and steel at Newcastle,
and has hopes of some day again mining
si 1 ver-1 ead-zinc oh the Barrier. r l he fol-
lowing shows the development of the big con-
cern since it went into the steel business:
]> a j(j All Other
May, ‘ Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
191-2.. east.ooo £1,104,785 Nil £318,715
1913.. 472,402 1,303,772 Nil 802,337
1014.. 472,402 1,531,065 Nil 44 <,BOB
1015.. 472.402 1.703,919 £599,053 159,230
1910.. 472.402 2,104,247 570,000 407,K03
1917.. 472,402 2,325,795 021,432 558,052
1918.. 472,402 2,700,181 901,700 801,730
1910.. 2,100,000* 2,255,280* 848,000 742,253
1920.. 2,100.000 2.457,944 804.000 995,884
1921.. 2,452,937 2,902,483 1,930,422 990,089
* £1,500.000 of reserves capitalised.
And this shows where all the funds have
gone, the hook value- of tile mine having
remained stationary at £287,1.1.7- throughout:
Book Debts,
Mining Stocks Metals in-
Steel Equip- and Steel vestments,
Works, meat?etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
1912.. Nil £556,548 £709,170 £249,000
1915. . £1,283,000 532,038 482,545 350,513
Port I’irie Smelters sold.
1917.. 2,309,000 103,738 778,081 079,942
1918.. 2,845,400 113,288 929,224 700,323
1919.. 3.365.000 97,388 1,000,924 1,189,724
1920.. 3,974,846 83.388 1,147,306 862,470
1921.. 5,039,107 93,988 1,644,433 1,377,880
Apart from the financing of raw material
and finished products, more than five millions
is tied up in the Newcastle steel works. So
the mg old mine at Broken Hill is uowa-
uays comparatively a very small item in the
business. With normal production it can
not have many years to go: it. has been
gradually fading away, and, though the man-
agement is always silent on the question of
ore reserves, every year there is an admis-
sion that development work is revealing
nothing of consequence. It is doubtful
whether silver-lead will in future count for
very much in the affairs of the co.; under
existing working and marketing conditions
profitable production is out of the question.
Towards the middle of last November mining
was resumed, hut after two months opera-
tions were suspended and only .sufficient
hands are now employed to keep the mine in
condition. Mining was, however, a big fac-
tor in assisting the establishment of the steel
works. Probably no other industry was
put on its feet under such favorable condi-
tions ; the Prop, was helped with record
prices for its silver and lead, and so was
in the position to feed .shareholders hand-
somely while it was angling for millions for
its steel enterprise. Further, the war
altered the attitude towards local industry,
and the Newcastle works had, by the time
war troubles had curtailed steel importa-
tion, been advanced to the producing stage.
A second blast furnace was blown in in
1919, and a third was fired last month. The
output of pig-iron for the past four years
has been as follows: 1918, 109,154 tona;
] 919 135.908; 1920, 169,409; 1921, 226,760.
Here are further details of production for the
past two years:—
1920. 1921.
Tons. Tons.
Open hearth (steel ingots) .. 166,772 209,458
Blooms and billets .. .. 161.681
•>Bin mill .. . . 73,667 84,070
lln mill !. .. 60,760 81,179
12in and Sin. mills .. ... 21,816 36,934
Rod mill 2 4? U I’oo9
coke plates .. :: :: ifl 240:905
Sulphate ammonia .. • ■ 2,618 3 > 385
" Gal. Gal.
Tar ..1,913,358 2,456,960
That shows the recent big development of
the producing end of the concern. Opera-
tions in both years, however, were affected
by industrial ‘troubles —though not at the
Prop.’s works. The two months’ shipping
strike and the more lengthy argument at
Iron Knob (S.A.), whence the co. draw's its
supplies of iron ore, both interrupted opera-
tions at Newcastle. These stoppages are
serious handicaps in an industry w'liose suc-
cess depends on continuous processes. Dur-
ing the six years since production commenced
at Newcastle nine strikes have interfered
with operations: these strikes, the directors
state, “covered a period of 96 weeks in all,
or about 30 p.c. of the total period, and
this period of inactivity has been brought
about almost entirely by outside factors over
which the co. has had no control.’ Of course,
industrial conditions have been abnormal, and
the B. H. Prop, can hopefully expect an im-
provement in the future.
To what extent silver, lead and zinc have
affected the accounts recently is not ascoi-
tainable, but though production has been
practically at a standstill at Broken rlul
for two years considerable amounts haie cer-
tainly found their way into the co. s cotters
as the result of surpluses over book values
from realisation of old metal stocks. In-
come and outgo over three years have been
as follows:
1919. 3920. 1921.
Sale of mine pro-
ducts and steel
and stocks .. t 3,481,952 £3,121,u53 £3,..*«>,9^'
Working exes. .. 2,471,032 2,270,954 3,040,<->2
Working profit .. £1,010,950 £850,599 £695,225
That is, of course, before providing for de-
preciation and office exes., etc. they are
very interesting figures, and show* wiiat a
verV big thing the enterprise has become tor
the Commonwealth. Last year at the steel-
works more than 2 : -J millions went in wages
and exes., and the latter mostly means wages
to men not in the co.’s employ. And around
this oo.’s works others have grown whieli
employ probably rather more labor in the
aggregate. The £(11)5,225 working proht tor
the past year was augmented by
and what happened to the total of zt.>t\l. “»
is shown hereunder :
Gross Profit - r * 79B ’ lBC
Depreciation .. •• .. £101,700
Office etc. .. .. •• ®
Directors’ fees . . .. • • .
Debenture and new share costs .. 31,29 a
Debenture interest . . . . ■
Income-tax .. •• •• •• i’o
Sundries 3,818
440,0U,0
Net profit .. . * £3j>1,831
There are several heavy non-recurring
charges in that list: discount on new deben-
tures, £45,000: underwriting costs of new
debenture issue. £20.190. <0 the t’.»l •
left after meeting all charges no less than
£241,108 went to shareholders.
.* * * *
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Mapriland) -
To He- lte-
Dec., Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.
1908, . £B,lBO 10 p.c. = £7,500 £6BO £88,066
1909.. 12,6/3 10 „,, v',500 5,073 98,139
1910.. 20,610 Hi „ „ 8,312 12,298 10a,437
1911.. 18,512 Hi „ „ 8,500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19,801 12 ~ „ 9,000 10,801 126.250
1913.. 23,176 13 „ „ 9,750 13,426 189,676
1914.. 18,425 18 „ „ 9,750 8,675 148,351
1015 34,508 13$ .. „ 10.000 24,508 172,859
1916 11,834 ■ 13$ 10,000 1,834 174,693
1917.. 23,170 13$ „ „ 10,030 1 12 170 186i8G 3
Written off property, £lOOO j ’
1918.. 12,934 18$ p.c.'ir 5.000 7.934 194,797
1919.. 32,654 16j ~ ~ 12,500 20,154 214,951
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 189,951
1920.. 30,803 13ifp.c.= 13,750 20,053 216,004
1921.. 43,086 15 ~ ~15,000 28,086 244,090
The Standard did £2OOO better last year than
those figures show ; that amount of profit was
appropriated for the guarantee and provident
fund. Twelve months ago it seemed that
premium income would fall off, because trade
threatened to ease and values to slump.
They did during the latter portion of the
year; nevertheless the Standard collected
£23,500-odd more net premiums than for
the previous 12 months. It was a remark-
able period in several respects, as this com-
parison of the underwriting experience for
many years shows: —•
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c-
-1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53:8 „ 27.6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 „
1914.. 112,056 62,928 39,283 56.1 „ 34.9 „
1916.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1916.. 128,581 77,661 60,175 60.4 „ 39.0 „
1917.. 125,502 61,926 50,521 49.3 „ 40.2„
1918*. 69,948 27,200 25,352 45.4 „ 42.3 „
1919.. 142,677 63,239 58,940 44.3 „ 41.3 „
1920.. 165,054 73,331 70,200 44.4 „ 42,5 „
1921. . 188,625 77,451 85,448 41.0 „ 45.3 „
*Six months.
The record premium income was bitten into
by the heaviest cost-rate ever experienced;
but never before had the claims rate been so
low, though most underwriters, particularly
English, found last year less favorable than
its predecessors. There is some doubt, though,
whether the expense rate was actually so
heavy as appears from the underwriting
account. There £20,054 is charged up for
licenses and taxes, against £11,654 for the
previous year. Meantime a new entry has
shown up in the balance-sheet: “Provision
for taxation, £10,000.” If that came out of
gross profits, and is not required to meet
taxes incurred during the period, then the
expense rate looks heavier than it actually
was. Apart from taxes the expense ratio
worked out in this way: 1914. 33.1 p.c.;
1920, 34.3 p.c.; 1921, 34.7 p.c. Anyhow, last
year’s loss rate w r as so favorable that, despite
the additional charges, the underwriting
profit improved to 13.7 p.c. of net premiums
compared with 13.1 p.c. for the previous 12
months. This improvement on a larger
volume of business, assisted by £1763 more
from interest, accounts for the spring in
profits.
For manv years paid capital was £75,000,
on which during the course of the ttwe
dirs. were gradually elevated from 30 to 163
c Over a year ago reserves were tapped
for' £25,000* to make paid capital
£ IUO.OOO, and on that 15 p.c. is now being
paid. So without dipping into their own
Dockets shareholders are receiving twice as
much by way of dividends as they got a dozen
years ago. The Standard is making these
handsome divs. with the greatest ease. In-
terest from investments alone provided all
except £652 of the £15,000 distributed among
shareholders for the past year Conse-
quently practically all the underwriting
profits remain in the business to further
strengthen it. The co. has put up an
extraordinary record : though its underwrit-
ing business has more than trebled m 20
years, accumulated profits have alone main-
tained the equipoise between risks ami pro-
tecting funds. A score of years ago funds
represented 213 p.c. of net premiums; the
proportion is now IN? p.c:—not so substan-
tial as formerly, but still considerably in
excess of the 150 p.c. which is general v
considered desirable. Reserves are nearlv
ennal to 130 p.c. of net premiums: the
general aim is to hold 40 p.c. ofnn.\ \ eai -
premiums to cover unexjnred risks. Mmum
this unusually strong support tor policy-
holders require fortifying there is i-Hkl.UI.
of capital callable, the 300.000 shares of £3O
being paid to only £1 each.
1 low th(> Standard’s funds are invested is
shown hereunder, the figures of other years
being given to slmw how war finance altered
the management’s investment policy:—
1914. 1920. 1921.
Mortgages . . £115,065 £76,630 .«47,4?0
Debentures .. 58,719 54,035 [>7,522
War Loiin .. 139.000 1X6,417
Premises .. 17.318 12,504 14.039
Casl". etc. .. 47,522 60,373 89,246
In pre-war days mortgages were the long-
suit, but though the balance-sheet total is
now £355,000 greater than in 1014, £08,.>00
less is out on mortgage. It was questionable
whether it was advisable for an insurance
co. to have so much of its funds tied up in
that form, though the higher interest was
certainly an attractive bait. !>y having
since put practically every available penny
into War Loan, the position lias entirely
;i Hired. The Standard now shows a
thoroughly satisfactory array of investments.
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
uov) : ~ ,
t —Dividends. —\
“A" & “15" “C”
Shares Shares To Re- Re-
Profits, 10 p.c. 7 p.c.-serves, serves.
Dec. 1913. £74,514 £63,750 £8,778 £1,986 £9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 08,288 57,375 8,925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1.914.. 02,696 44,626 8,925 10,692
0 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,468 44,625 7,050 1,188 11,880
Dec 1915.. 65,472 44,625 7,650 3,197 15,07 <
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7,650 1,102 16,179
Dee., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7,650 15,429
—All Shares.—
June, 1917.. 39,495 5 p.c. = 38,250 1,245 16,674
Dec., 1917.. 26,341 5 „ „ 38,250 4,765
June, 1918.. 60,286 7 „ „ 53,550 6,<36 11,.>01
Dec. 1918.. 90,579 9 „ „ 68,850 21,729 33,230
June, 1919.. 48,366 8 „ „ 68,369 13,236
Dec. 1919.. 74.093 8 „ ~ 73,200 593 14.129
June, 1920.. 81,750 8 „ ~, 80,692 .1,058 15,187
Dec., 1920.-103,486 8 ~ „ 85,200 18,286 33,473
June,. 1921. . 80,492 8 „ „ 85,374 28,591
There is nothing exciting about N. S. Wales
gas cos. nowadays. Divs. are standardised
at 8 p.c. p.a., and the Gas Act practically
assures shareholders that return by giving-
managements access to the Courts to secure
permission to increase prices if higher costs
threaten to make 8 p.c. impossible. Share-
holders being thus protected, the published
accounts are chiefly of interest to consumers
—for the present, at any rate. Towards the
end of November last the proclaimed price
was lifted from ss. Id. to ss. 9d., and though
that increase operated for only one of the
six months covered by the accounts to
December 31, a’ wide margin of surplus profit
was shown. The extra Bd. was operating
during the whole of the past half, and muni-
cipal councils were also called upon to pay
more for street lighting; nevertheless, profits
disclosed were not sufficient to provide the
standard div. Results were the poorer, too,
because much less than the usual provision
was made for “depreciation and special pur-
*)oSeS ’ Charged Total at Credit
Against Revenue. of Fund.
June 1918.. £36,308 £36,308
Dec., 1918.. 60,602 94,936
June, 1919.. 40,000 132,070
Dec 1919.. 20,000 127,358
June 1920.. 40,000 138,788
Dec ’ 1920. . 66,371 144,894
June, 1921.. 25,00(0 130,338
“Industrial depression and also the falling off
in winter trade caused by the exceptionally
mild weather” were partly responsible; only
185,245 tons coal were carbonised during the
period, compared with 200.915 for the pre-
-3 vious six months. But the slump in sul-
phate of ammonia prices was probably the
chief reason: the 1940 tons sold gave only
£12.854, against £28,689 got from 20rS tons
in the previous term. Owing to the increased
prices for gas, total receipts, not includ-
ing interest on. investments, were £105,000
larger than for the same period of 1920. This
shows how the principal working account
figures have climbed for t'he half-years ended
June since 1917 :
1917. 1920. 1921.
Revenue —
Gas .. ..£362,491 £578,230 £694,080
Meter rents . . 8,568 9,643 10,050
Residuals .. 61,088 81,109 69,269
Expenditure-
Goal, oil. etc.. . 137.271 225,493 297,217
Wages, salaries 69,079 100,920 114,695
Management . . 11,518 16,248 15,666
Renewals, etc. 71,116 124,713 155,950
In the first table the accumulation for depre-
ciation and special purposes is not included
with reserves. Six months ago £144,895 was
in that fund, and £25,000 was charged
against revenue during the past half and
dropped in. Meantime £39,557 flowed out
to meet the cost of removing portion of the
old city plant and reconstructing it at Mort-
lake. After 80 years the co. is abandoning
its works site on the water-front of Darling
Harbor at the end of this mouth. This
area was resumed by the Government some
years ago.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney) :
, Dividends. N
Net l*ref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1910. . £17,208 £lO5O 81 p.c.= £0,375 £9,783 £36,788
£25,000 transferred to capital.. .. 11,788
Profit on Investment, £45,600. . .. 57,888
Jtonus on ord. shares (371 p.c.), £37.500 19,888
1911.. 18,465 1050 l'op.e.= 10,000 7,115 27,303
IJonus-on pvef. shares, £ 4377 .. ... 22,926
£20,000 transferred to capital. . .. 2,926
1912.. 21,152 230 10 p.c.— 10,000 10,922 13,848
All Shares.
]9f3. . 18.091 10 p.c. = 12,000 6,091 39,939
1911.. 13,957 10 „ ~ 12,000 1,957 21,896
1915.. 15,615 10 ~ „ 12,000 3,615 25,613
1916.. 15,573 30 „ ~12,000 3,57) 29,082
1917.. 3 6,350 10 ~ ~12,000 3,350 32,432
3 illB. . 36,683 30 „ „ 12,000 4,633 37,005
1919.. 16,017 10 ~12,000 4,017 41,082
Co. wound up and ss. per share ( £30,000) dis-
tributed iii cash.
New eo. formed, assets written up and 30,000
fully-paid £1 bonus shares issued.
.lime,
1921* . 14,424 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,924 2,866
*lO months.
This big Sydney residential hotel has had a
remarkable record. It was one of Mel-
bourne’s boom-time ventures, established by
the Australian Coffee L’alaee Co. Shortly
after completion of building, 30 years ago,
the first Hotel Metropole Co. was formed
(in Melbourne), and the crazy finance of
those days is well illustrated by the first
balance-sheet. Hotel and plant stood in the
books at £154,000; paid capital was £55,731,
and liabilities totalled £96,759. In 1906
there was a reconstruction, and the co. was
brought to Sydney. Fixed assets were then
acquired for approximately £115,000. Paid
capital was £92.507 —£17,507 of prefs. and
£75,000 of ordinaries —and the mortgage
debt had been got down to £25,000, which
was to be repaid in annual instalments of
£3OOO. The eo.. guided by W. P. Small,
an export in costing, had a wonderful run,
and by 1912 the pret. shareholders had their
capital returned, together with a bonus of
ss. per share, and the mortgage had disap-
peared. The introductory table shows also
that £45,000 of bonus shares were issued,
making paid capital £120,000, and on this
10 p.c. was paid regularly for a number of
years. To represent the £120.000 of capital
there were at the end of 1919 fixed assets
with a book value of £119.000 and a surplus
of more or less liquid assets over liabilities
of £42.000-odd after providing for the year’s
divs. Sueli large cash resources as those
available were not required bv the business,
so in July, 1920, it was decided to recon-
struct and issue five shares for four in a
new co. after the old one had distributed ss.
per share in cash. The alterations which _
the reconstruction made in the balance-sheet ’
figures is shown hereunder, final divs. at
both dates not having been extracted from
cash holdings:—
Dee., 1919. June, 1921
Paid capital .. .. £120,000 £150.000
Reserves .. .. • .. 29,082 11,491
Specific reserves .. 17,000 500
Liabilities .. .. 5,836 9.462
Fixed a-sets .. .. 119,000 138, 00 t
Stock 4,279 3,600
Investments and cash .. 49,639 29,646
So despite the cash bonus to shareholders
the co. has still a large surplus of liquid
assets—£23,6B4 at the balance, though that
was cut into for £8125 to provide the final
div. Profits shown in the last line of the
introductory table, it should be noted, are
for 10 months only. They represent profit-
earning at the rate of £17,500-odd p.a.; so
though the management has had high costs
to contend with the Hotel Metropole has
been doing better than in previous years.
Besides it has had £20,000 less invested
funds to help its income.
# * * *
Early in 1917 the “Wild Cat” recorded
that a’co. of £40,000 had been formed pri-
vately to manufacture high-grade steels by
the electric-furnace pi’oeess at Alexandria
(Sydney). Under the capable management
of J. M. Desehamps the enterprise developed
very rapidly. In one respect the little eo.
started under favorable conditions: it com-


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been develoDcd. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to nin
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and GoUlburn Street,
Sydney : and corner Queen and Little Collins Street-.
Melbourne.— Aovt. rj
* * * #
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There ate over
6000 fittings which carry the G.E. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world's best—they are made
of British iron and are Scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* - , #
If you are contemplating the installation of a water-
conduit it will be well to know that “Pioneer” Wood
Pipe is more economical than metal pipe. Unaffected
by acids, alkalies, fumes or electrolysis and with a
laiger capacity than metal pipe of the same dimension
it has many advantages for those in need of an effi-
cient conduit. W rite for our illustrated 68-page
book. The Australian Wood pipe Co., Ltd., Burn;
Bay Road, Lane Cove.—Advt.
* * # *
ASBESTOS. The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
oik and Wynyard Streets. Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of'likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
vs „ Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
pi*!™’ « a Cen ’ o0 i 3i V A " d at Chilis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
obtained Pate n»
bourne, and
Con , SON * Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
AdeLude. thirty years practice. Write
for Inventors' Guide.—Advt
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester. England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
nient with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol etc ,
plants; sulphurjc-acid plants; glass-works rdants -
coal-washing plant,; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces, heating and ventilating plants etc Re
LeP,a?t,ißr aitd Co ” Circular
* * «.
j l ®" l .. oc^e^s 'National'* suetion-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastner & Co., Circular Quay (East).
# # —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus. .\« av
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s A- Oertlin"’*
Balances, Weights.. Morgan's Crucibles, Bonn's
Sample Crushers. Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rM S ' os- r° r wnte J or r)ai ; t , ici,l <'> r s- H. B. Selbv & Co.',
Ltd.. 6o George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors b,v taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to liis estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GABVAN,
Managing Director.
&
YC
BOORD&SOI*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DTO
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 36 30 Clarenee St
Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
f
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane. ~
I CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
manufacturing whqi the world’s
makers of high-grade steels were too busy
on munitions to think of the Common-
woalths needs. This gave Mr. Deschamps
opportunities of demonstrating what his
organisation and plant were capable of
doing, liesuits were remarkable: the Alex-
andria foundry was soon turning out vari-
ous classes ol high-grade steel-work never
■lefore attempted in the Commonwealth, and
,i l . Quality equal to the world's best.
Within two years capital was quadrupled;
ana now the enterprise is on the eve of de-
veloping into a very big concern. Hadfield’s,
litd.. tin 1 famous Shemeld steel-inakers, are
so impressed by the infant’s progress that
tliey nave decided to come in as partners,
and Australian Electric Steel, Ltd., will
shortly blossom into Hadfieid’s (Australia),
Ltd., with a half-million capital, of which
Enghsli crowd will supply a quarter-
nullion. This is the first time the old-estab-
lished sheliield concern has bothered to go
outside its home territory. The new Austra-
®o. intends to push ahead immediately
M ith the enlargement of its Alexandria works
and also establish a foundry at Perth. It
is proposed to instal plant, to meet practi-
cally all the Commonwealth’s high-grade steel
requirements, and also develop an export
trade, particularly with the Far North. The
backing of the big Sheffield co., with its in-
numerable proved processes and patterns,
should mean rapid development. The
achievements of the little four-year-old Aus-
tralian Electric Steel, handicapped as it was
■' hmitcd capital and the problem of finding
work tor its plant, have been a striking testi-
“ony the possibilities of Australian manu-
maturing industry under capable manage-
ment. In that respect Australian Electric
pted was particularly fortunate. Not the
least interesting of its features is its very
complete costing and check system.
The Bulletin’s prediction that the Brit-
ish Government would find itself in a bad
tangle over zinc concentrates has come true.
Ihe B.G. contracted to take the entire out-
put ot Aussie zinc concentrates for 10 years
and this was to knock out the Hun smelting
industry. It has done nothing of the sort.
Continental smelters have been supplying the
limited demands of tin* market with a pro-
duct obtained from Chinese concentrates
purchased at 90s. per ton e.i.f. All the Brit-
ish smelters, which in pre-war days were
largely manned b.v Fritz and the Belgian,
but were always in a parlous condition be-
cause of tli<‘ competition of the low-wage
Continental zinc-works, arc shut down. They
declare that they cannot make a do of
spelter at under £4O per ton, and the market
price is about £l5 less than that. Mean-
time. the British Governments stocks of
Australian zinc concentrates are piling up.
'file House of Commons was told recently
that 579,075 tons were held at March 31,
and that these stocks had since been sup-
plemented by 82,881 tons. Practically the
whole of the Aussie concentrates are on the
Government’s hands, and there is apparently
no prospect of trading off the stocks except:
at a heavy loss. No wonder "the opinion is
generally expressed that Australia made an
exceptionally good deal” ; but it is going to
be at the expense of this country’s future.
Assisted by chaotic exchanges, Fritz’s hold
on the zinc industry is apparently tighter
than ever, notwithstanding Hughes’s delu-
sion that he had cut out the “German
canker.”
The world’s production of gold continues
to fall oft. Last year’s aggregate output is
estimated at 16,790,(MJ00z., worth 71 millions
sterling at standard price, compared with
17,003,0000 z. and 75 millions respectively for
the previous -fear. These figures are far
below the record established in 1915. when
-- : i million ounces worth £90,050,000 were
produced. The output for the past five years
was smaller than for the previous two quin-
quennial periods: 1906-10, 105 million
ounces; 1911-15. Ill), millions; 1916-20,
95,400,000. The estimate of last year’s sil-
ver production is about 1 7o![ million ounces,
an improvement of about a million ounces
compared with the previous year, but 25 mil-
lions less than the record production of 19.11.
Of all the weird and wonderful devices for
trying to raise new capital, that put forward
by the directors of Occidental Consoli-
dated (X.8.W.) takes the ribbon. When
that Cobar concern was refloated the pro-
moters ladled out gift ordinaries equal to
41! p.c. of the number of shares taken up
b.v the public. Having got into a hopeless
tangle with plant—the Cornish rolls failed
on Occidental ore —the management proposes
an issue of 40,000 Ist profs., carrying 121
p.c., and with the right to share in surplus
profits, to finance a stamper battery and
equipment, and to provide working exes, for
three months until the plant can operate.
As a bait to the public to take up this scrip
the directors are throwing in their 2200 fully-
paid bonus shares, and the promoters “are
also willing” to, make over 12,500 more that
were acquired in the last float, and employ
them "by wav of underwriting commission.”
Shareholders are asked if they also will pass
back the bonus shares thev received, so that
they or others who subscribe to the new issue
may be handed the paper. “Of course,” the
directors’ circular to shareholders naively
adds, "if you have parted with them you can-
not.
Unless Occidental sets the new capital it
is done, and the cash-paid scrip will be worth
“ttle more than the bonus paper scattered
in the float. A balance-sheet made up as
at August 2 shows liabilities of £22.476
(including £15,45S of debentures). On the
other side were cash, book debts and stores
totting up £6579. Of the liabilities £1983
represent loans by the directors, which they
propose to take out in shares, and with pre-
miums from the (Juki Producers’ Associa-
tion the management reckons that it will
be left with £4500 of debt to be met in cash.
In plant and buildings £52.800 has been
sunk, but what the lot would be worth
under the hammer is another matter.
IhPugh treatment has been badly bungled,
values are apparently in the mine: the aver-
age seems to be slightly over the half-ounce.
Ihe problem is extraction; fine grinding
is necessary. The management now declares
, V-!\ "the equivalent of a 50-stamp mill with
lUiOlb. stamps to put through 1000 tons
weekly” will feed the six tube-mills and
produce the necessary grade of fineness.
"White Ant”: With the White Hope in
the balance and Celebration at the blue-duck
stage, it is not out of place to try to esti-
mate who profited from the Hampton Plains
boom. Celebration got its vogue because
tour of the. big managers at Ivalgoorlie
thought it good enougn. Daly came from
London, saw and passed it. After that Adel-
aide went crazy with floats, but soon the
market, following expert opinion, relied on
Celebration, Y\ llite Hope, Mutooroo and Per-
natty. Of the four Alutooroo was the most
deftly handled; it had a past-master in
booms, Dick Osborne, lie did not grab at
the stars, and when the Baillieus dodged in
to buy a block of scrip with a call over an-
other block Osborne ladled out the goods.
Daly did not report favorably to Collins
House, which slid out, and, if' it did over-
sell, it filled its pot with good stuff col-
lected from the market. White Hope was
'Afferent paddock. Daly’s approval and
Oiblm s presence as manager gave it a chance
to a bullish crowd. These hung on to the
tail of Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co., who,
having annexed a wad of cash in the Celebra-
tion float, were ripe for further gambles. The
inn bought 40,060 10s. pa ids at 205., and
later on snapped up 10,000 at 40s. The
linn s reputation is not to dwell in a market
where profits are available. As they did not
exercise their option over another 80,000
shares, did they slide out: before coming to
tins decision? Then there were the Hamp-
ton 1 lams reconstructions in London in
which certain old Aussie friends were fav-
ored by being allowed to come in. If oppor-
tunity counts for anything, L. It., C. and Co.
should have done best of all. Adelaide got
hit all round because it went crazy. But not
so badly as Ivalgoorlie, which, after rocking
out all its scrip, decided on the strength of
the expert reports that the boom had come
to stay and so re-bought just before the
crash. Others who made money were brok-
ers and early-birds in the floats, who sold
when the market was on the feed. But they
are few in number. As for the experts who
attended the field in droves, no one knows
how they fared.
Sbm,e 0 f the best-known option-takers in
the West have stopped acquiring, mines for
public flotation, and are doing a little buy-
ing on their own account. One party, headed
by George Ridgway and Svd Yeo, "has pur-
chased a half-interest at Yalgoo from the
W lttenooms. The show has a lot of 80dwt.
ore m sight, and is of a kind that may-
yield substantial profits before it snuffs out.
Another party led by Dome Doolette and
r. B. Trade has purchased outright the old
hand Queen and adjoining Gladsome at
* '<>!>'et Vale. Both were regular producers
until a year or so ago. when water drowned
the former and flooded the latter. There is
said to be a hundred thousand tons of pay-
able ore in the water-logged workings of tlie
Gladsome, but the Sand Queen is an un-
known ouanfity at depth. Some say there
is payable stone in the bottom ; others that
everything worth while was extracted before
the pumps were withdrawn.
Jim Cornell, who recently visited S’Africa
as delegate to the soldiers’’ conference, told
the Westralian Leg. Council the other dav
that Ivalgoorlie has a lot to learn from
Johannesburg in concentration of holdings
and consolidation of labor effort. At present
the Boulder. Horseshoe and Ivanhoe in one
group, and the Lake View, Associated Per-
severance and South Ivalgurli in another, all
have separate managements, separate bat-
teries. mills, etc. If they were worked under
a system of concentration of leases such a-
prevails at Jewburg a great proportion of
the overhead charges could be done away
with, several plants could be scrapped, fewer
men in the aggregate emoloyed. and the life
of the field perhaps considerably lengthened.
Cornell declares that he saw more under-
ground labor-saving appliances on the Rand
and at Kimberley in one day than he had
seen at Ivalgoorlie in all liis experience.
Another heave last week nut New Lmigi
Logan (Vie.) close to the 20s. mark. This
is much to the joy of the Ararat brigade.
who suffered for so long because scrip would
not budge above a few pence. Of course,
developments on a big alluvial lead are slow ;
there has not been much change in the mine
for six months, save that work to the east
off.the down-the-gutter main drive is now
giving some rich samplings. Also, on the
outskirts of the block of worked-out ground
opposite the Catheart junction a nor’-west
drive is in 3oz. stuff. The least this should
do. once parties have been got. into the wash,
is to put the co. off the call-list. Drives put
out north from crosscuts farther still to
the cast have run into poorer ground—wash
that might have paid with alluvial conditions
of a score of years ago. The opening-up
which has been done shows that the run of
gold is curling round from the Catheart
junction, down the lead. The cross-drives
to the north will prove its width; those
south oft No. f rise will demonstrate if the
gold lives 1000 ft. away down the gutter.
11 so, the existence of a fair-sized block of
wash will be proved, and the inducement to
plug ahead for another 1000 ft. will exist.
Intermediate rises between the junction and
the most southern main level will soon in
turn establish it the gold is patchy or con-
tinuous. \\ hen that work has been done
New Langi will be less of a prospecting
show, which is about the most to be said
of it to-day.
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: Why is it no attempt has been
made by boring to find out whether Bendigo’s
Quartz reefs exist below the tertiary plains
extending from Bay wood to the Murray?
the longest and strongest line of auriferous
Silurian rocks yet discovered in Australia
stietches from Dauriston, near Ixynetou to
Kaywood, 20 miles beyond Bendigo. Not
all oi this 04 miles of reefs was gold-bearing,
but at least 40 miles of Silurian rocks have
been worked at a profit. In the Bendigo
district the reefs were quite rich almost up
to the point where at It ay'wood they dipped
under the tertiary. The Nil Desperandum
Co., the furthest payable mine on the edge
ot the tertiary plains, gave nearly £50,000
in dividends. The Haywood and Neilborough
leads were both most profitably worked for
a. considerable distance beyond their mat-
rices. Because there are no Silurian out-
crops beyond Haywood it does not. prove the
quartz reefs have cut out or become like the
glacis of a precipice. No systematic effort
has been made to locate anticlinal folds
below the tertiary. It is certain they must
be there for the Silurian rocks cannot have
suddenly broken off short. The Vic. Mines
Department ought to get busy and put down
several arcs of deep bores between Uavwood
and Mitiamo. In 1898 E. J. Dunn, of the
Geological Survey, recommended boring for
shallow alluvial leads on the plains to the
north-east of Haywood, because it was
highly probably leads of a payable character
would be found. In 1894 James Stirling
reported that he believed payable leads
existed between Raywood and Ivainarooka,
and that they could be proved by boring at
a small cost. The northern and north-west-
er territory of Victoria, about one-third
of the whole State, is totallv unprospected.
In consequence, the quartz, reefs of midland
victoria and the northerly continuation of
the auriferous leads are lost for the present.
iV u !i MV' ro ' s hiding a hundred
W alhallas, not surveyed geologicallv and
prospected in only half-a-dozen places !
“Avoca” ; Whatever is the value of Brook-
stead (Tas.), the Badak Co. is likely to
strike a mass of trouble over that venture,
tears ago landholders on the South Esk
and tributaries, as well as the Water Trusts
of the townships of Perth and Evandnle and
the Commissioners of Fisheries, gave notice
to the Gipps Creek Co. that unless the dis-
charge of tailings or of water charged with
waste mining material immediately stopped
proceedings would be taken to obtain an
injunction /rum the Supreme Court restrain-
ing till* mines from polluting the streams.
All may go. well with Badak until machinery
has been installed and sluicing operations
are m progress; then the fun will commence.
* * * •*
From W. C. Hart, who secured the option
over Brookstead for Badak:—
In the first instance, the price is not £50,000,
neither has it ever been condemned by any engineers
of solid standing; on the contrary, it lias been lauded
by such men ae Dr. Stoic (of Rothschilds), Mr.
Montgomery (Geologist of W.A.), Reg Murray (Geo-
logist of Victoria), and many others. The higher
the expert’s standing the more glowing are his
reports on Brookstead, and I am satisfied in every
way that the remarks appearing in your recent
issues have no just or equitable foundations.
Then why during the past score of years
have hard-heads turned the proposition
down i It may not have been because tin
values are not there, but because the condi-
tions for profitable working are not favor-
able. «
Moonraker” on the Speck’s undeveloped
coal resources:—•
Ihe Speck should have ceased importing coal years
ago. Preolenna, in the Nor’-West, has a coal-field
which has been reported upon by various experts
umpteen times during the last 20 years, and never
unfavorably; but the Speck is still importing, not-
withstanding that every holiday season it suffers a
regular hold-up from those modern sea-pirates, the
union bosses, and that industry is disorganised unto
importing is resumed.
There was hope for the field when John Earle and
Jim Belton were running the Speck for a few daw
about the time the big fight came alone Th
necessary railway to the field was actually started
But some red-ragger in the Labor party hinted th..-
it the railway was completed to the field, Privat.-
Enterprise would benefit by making a profit on the
coal that travelled over it. Then about four mile.'
Horn the spot in the bush where coal-mining opera-
tions had been carried on for some years previously
a peg was driven in to prevent the Line moving on.
and an area was reserved, presumably for a Star
mine.
When the Nats, came into power someone declared
that if Preolenna coal was put on the market, some
of the other coals dug in the State would go off;
so both P.E. and the State mine were allowed to
remain in the bush.
In the beginning of 1921) there was a cry for
development of coal resources within the State, and
after intimating that the Government did not look
with favor upon the building of privately-owned rail-
ways, Minister for Works llaves went boldly ahead
and put £29,000 on the Estimates for the complc-
tion of the line. After the holiday season the Stati
steamship service was inaugurated (s.s. Melbourne),
ami now it is hinted that if the Speck stops import-
ing coal there will be nothing for the service to
cany half its time, and so the railway completion i-
still being awaited and importing continues.
* * *
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.) is up
it nowadays. Last year’s work gave
£loy,d(Jo from gold (57,450 tons were milled),
but exes, were so heavy that after providing
tor income-tax there was a loss of £2l,ol<i
I'or the previous year I*. & L. went £10,550
to leeward, so the current year opened with
£•> 1,500 wanting to square the accounts.
Lode Hill tin (N.Q.-), with Bob Turner
still in command, has a few pounds in tlm
locker over and above debts. The Northey
folk long since shed out, and now that tin
** <tojvn to £l5O and wages are high the
Board hands the claim over to the tributor.
11ns should assure wages and improve the
prospect of Board foes and office rent. Lode
Hill may reappear some day when tin is
U P again, but a boom will bo needed to "ive
it any glitter.


AT AN ART SHOW.


THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
GT Cheeseman
>2l?
'M'S 5
II
iaS*
nrrco
Bcrninir
m
% v i
W
:kn
-'-v
■u.
>ST •'/->!
55*
• n!
a
w
V'.tl
&
When You
ask. for
Lager-
d
The Beer
without
a Rival”
ďf
?
%
d
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller apd neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE C 0 Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
BARNES LINSEED OIL
James Hebblethwaite, kindly and schol-
arly poet and parson, has attended his last
funeral. The ceremony took place on Sep-
tember 15 at Cornelian Bay, the Speck’s
beautiful Derwent-side cemetery, fittingly
enough amid the mingled perfume of wattle
and hawthorn and with English skylarks
spijlijig cataracts of melody from somewhere
in the blue spaces far up in the windy sun-
shine.
By one of his shadows:—
Northcliffu sounds genial and democratic, though
it is hard to tell whether his tendency to talk to
dustmen and tram-conductors is prejudice or affecta-
tion. He is certainly accessible, and no one can
have many words with him without being impressed
by his tenacity and independent mind. A list of
the men and things he despises would paralyse the
Arous, and many of his “duds” are national heroes
in conservative circles. His friendly manner to people
he hasn’t any reason to dislike is part of'him, but
I suspect him of having made a vanity of wearing
sloppy clothes. Ilis hat is the soft grey with the
verandah down in front that the shirt-sleeve bookie
wears on a hot day at Flemington; his well-filled
sac suit looks like a souvenir of the late James-Tyson,
who all his life was a horror to the Tailor and
Cutter; and he wears comfortable soft collars, and
sports those disturbing neckties that milk-ohs wear on
their Sundays out. If he includes a valet in his staff
the wretched menial must receive a large salary to
stay with him.
WILLIS, of
the Austral-
asian Coal
and Shale Em-
ployees'’ Federa-
tion, a leader
of the party of
Direct Action
,Tbe first woman J.P. to take a place on
the Bench in N.S.W. is Mrs. Edwards
Burns, who appeared in the Burwood Police
Court last week. She was a mere spectator,
however, as in the metropolitan area and
some other districts which have been brought
under the Act appointing stipendiaries, no
honorary magistrate can sit judicially.
From a table in the court:—
When Frederick M. Clements, a Sydney chemist
who made a heap of money out of Clements Tonic,
died last year he left a queer will. It directed that
practically all his estate should go to various chari-
ties in England. By codicil he instructed the trus-
tees to pay £l5O a year to “Edith Clements.” This
was his only sister, who for many years had kept
house for him, though he did not describe her as liis
sister in the will. The other day the lady appeared
as plaintiff at the Probate Court in a suit to capsize
the will on the ground that her brother at the time
of its execution was off his head. As about £llO,OOO
is involved six wigs also appeared and mentioned
that the proceedings would be somewhat long. Edith
Clements is a fresh-eomplexioned, middle-aged little
lady of prim manner and -precise speech. The story
she had to tell about the 'domestic habits of brother
Frederick suggested that he must have been one of
the oddest fish in the world to live with. He had
two passions in life—one writing a diary and letters ;
the other issuing written instructions about the
manner in which the details of housekeeping should
be attended to. The diary he kept in a desk until it
grew too big. Then it was stowed away in sections
in boxes. The housekeeping orders he used to draft
on sheets of cardboard, and every morning his sister
came downstairs there was a fresh communique hang-
ing to a peg on the kitchen door. In these he would
give orders how to cook eggs for canaries; how to
season pies, preserve butter from contamination, and
keep radishes from getting soft. One day there
would be orders about catching tea leaves in a
colander. On the next peremptory instructions to
keep the sawdust the grocer packed the eggs in. If
the pepper and mustard pots Were out of alignment
with the toast-rack sister Edith was fined twopence.
Should the butter-dish be turned the wrong way the
fine was one penny, and if both calamities transpired
simultaneously she was not allowed to open the
kitchen window for 24 hours. Whether he was mad
in the eye of the law is a question for Harvey, J.
He was 64 at the end, and some years before that
arrived had sold the tonic business to Elliott
Brothers.-'' ' '
Lee, of the Speck, will lift Braddon’s
record as the State’s long-distance Premier
if he lasts till October 13. Braddon held
office from April 14, 1894, to Oct. 12, 1899
five years five months and 28 days. Lee
formed his Ministry on April 15, 1916, and
it is still going, although when he took
office his warmest supporters didn’t expect
him to survive one session. Other lengthy
Premierships were those of Philip Fysli
(March 29, 1887, to Aug. 17, 1892) and
Jack Ev ? ns U - 1804 ' t 0 June 19,
1999). Lewis, the Treasurer, has led two
Ministries for a total of six years and seven
months, and was Dobson’s Attorney-General
for a year and eight months. In short, he
has drawn Ministerial salary for 13 years
and nine months.
The great Bufns-Philp firm has lost two
general-managers within three years—first
the veteran Adam Forsyth ; now the brilliant
midd e-aged I*. G. Black. The latter, who
had been a gluttonous worker, had been a
sick man for many months, but was thought
to be better, and his death at Cairns (N.Q.),
whither he had gone partly on pleasure and
partly on business—he couldn’t go anywhere
wholly on pleasure—was unexpected. He
was on the very lowest rung of the ladder
when he first caught the eye of James Burns •
thereafter his progress was rapid, and
tor 29 years before he succeeded Adam For-
syth he was the co.’s chief inspector. He
leaves a wiciow% a son, and one of the finest
collections of Pacific Islands curios in the
world
Before the Cocky party thought better of
putting a Labor Government in power in
Vic., Prendergast had been picking his Min-
isters. lie would have been Treasurer him-
self. Lemmon was to be Railways and
1-abor; Hogan, Lands and Agriculture;
obiter, Attorney- and Solicitor-General;
Bailey, Chief Secretary; and J. W. Billsqp >
Minister of Education. Jobs were alsofßc#
be found for Murphy and Rogers, the latter
probably as Agent-General in London.
Northcliffe has taken Franklin Peterson
orQ m^ e R CiUs and will plant him among
'B IIVIES delegation at the Disarmament
Conference at Washington. Subsequently,
all going well, the young man will be given
a job in London. Franklin is the son of the
deceased Melbourne musician, but this con-
nection .didn’t help h’m so much as the fact
that he fs a nephew of Northcliffe’s old friend,
the late Sir William Peterson. Also he is
a good prose- and verse-writer, and has been
blamed for some of the flippancies in the
Argtjs’s “Oriel” column, though he isn’t so
implicated as his best friends think. Before
taking to the inky Way he was for a while
associate to Justice Higgins and the late
Edmund Barton; and he has had a bit of
experience in the Islands as A.D.C. to Brig,-
General Johnston, Administrator of German
Aew Guinea.
“D.”: Two of the youngest members of
the A.I.F. were in the public eye last week.
Arthur Johnson, who committed suicide in
Melbourne, was 134 when he joined up 44
years ago. He came back “with a ten-
dency to be despondent.” J. W. L. Pugh
enlisted. at the age of 13, was wounded in
June, 1916, in the Salient, evacuated to
England, returned and was wounded and
gassed on the Somme, and was then sent
back to Australia. Arrived in Sydney, he
did three months in Darlinghurst Gaol be-
cause an A.M.P. believed him to be a mas-
querader. He has had no gratuity, back
pay or medals, and is destitute. At the
other end of the scale are men like Gunner
Taylor (“Captain Penfold,” the balloonist),
who, though deaf, the possessor of a wife and
family and within a few months of the half-
century, went to Egypt in 1915 with the
artillery, and so on to France. It is all
very rough on our professional loyalists who
failed to pass the doctors or were too old at
40 or thereabouts when the Empire was in
danger.
John Hunter, who sold Trunkey (N.S.W.i
its first boots, died last week aged 81. In
the old days he worked in Bathurst, and
while there was held up in De Clouet’s hotel
when Ben Hall and his gang raided the
town. Their main objective was the race-
horse Pascha, but the groom managed to
delay matters by losing the keys of his stable
till the jJolice arrived.
JOHN MacFARLAND , M.A., LL.D., Master
of Ormond College for over 80 years, and
Chancellor of the Melbourne University.
Shackleton’s Antarctic expedition, which
lert London last Saturday in the 110 ft.
yuest, has not a single seaman or fireman
signed on for the voyage. The rough, manual
the , tnp „ IS to be divided amongst
the 18 members of the expedition.
Claude Shuttleworth, of Adelaide, is dead
at 70, after a lingering illness. He was very
small and dark, and retained the long Dun-
dreary whiskers of his youthful days.
1 hough he was a land and property agent
he was a man of notable probity, and a
mighty chessplayer in his leisure hours.
"il 1 D y s °a is severing his connection with
the Daily Herald, London’s Labor paper.
He can t keep in step with it politically, and
his parting with it may lead to the estab-
lishment of a paper that will give proper
scope for his pencil and pen. The frag-
mentary drawings published in the last three
years have certainly been doing the artist
no good, and they can’t have done the
paper much good either.
William McCullough, Maoriland’s oldest
working journalist, who has humped Matilda
along the Inky W ay for 62 years, will be one
of the representatives of the Shaky Isles at
the Y\ orld s Press Conference in Honolulu.
He founded the Bell in Auckland when that
city was only a fair-sized pah, and 52 years
ago pulled the first proof of the Thames
STAR, just on 80 the young man’s hobby is
dancing, and he’s looking forward to a hula
with aiele Hawaii at the crossroads of the
Pacific.
John Bramston, who was private secretary
to George Bowen, Queensland’s first Gover-
nor and Minister without portfolio in Robert
Herbert s first Ministry, is dead in England
at BJ. After Herbert went back to England
Bramston became M.L.A. for Burnett and
Attorney-General in the Palmer Government,
a post he resigned to go (literally) to Hong
Hong. But he stayed in China only a year
or two. Herbert, who had become Under-
secretary of State for the Colonies, got him
a job as Assistant Under-Secretary, and he
held it. until 1897, when he was pensioned
and knighted.
George Davis, whose dad was Defence
Minister under Shiels 28 years ago, may
succeed Hicks as Vic. Honorary Minister in
the Uppah Chambah. When McWhae goes
to London _to succeed Peter Mcßride, an-
other Minister without portfolio will be
needed in the same House. If Lawson can
snare Cohen, Iv.C., he will get some help at
Cabinet meetings, but if he reaches out for
J• K. Merritt, he will only add stolid respec-
tability to the Ministry. As the Govern-'
. ®nt is still very Caledonian it may count
in Cohen s favor that he is president of the
ocotch College Old Boys’ Assoc.
From the Federal Gallery
fuLh o eHeVe " hen listenin S to “Eompev-
Elhott in the Senate that as a warrior heWa-
one of the most militant. He owns a pair of merr
blue ejes and a big boyish smile, and he talk- ii
a manner that is almost shrinking compared with
Bakhap, who, notwithstanding, is-a model 0 ;
Senatonal dignity. “Pompey’s” voice, too, is soft
and innocent of any theatrical effect. Appealin'
to a Minister it is almost pleading, and answering
an lnterjector it is miserably pacific. People who
have visited the Senate expecting to hear the warrio
hammer Pearce with loud, smashing sentences haw
come away terribly disappointed. Alter listening
to a few cooing phrases the visitor arrives at on
invariable conclusion: “Whatever that fellow did at
the Front, he certainly didn’t win battles with hi-
mouth.”
rA?T C \ P ass ®? out a t Palmerston North
, j u’ , aron V°n Blaremberg, one of the
old school of autocratic dominies who believed
in putting knowledge through the hide if it
couldn’t bo absorbed otherwise. But he
was himself a man of high scholastic attain-
ments. He succeeded Guthrie, now Minister
for Lands, as headmaster at Terrace End
and was in turn followed in 1895 by Fred
l 1 airbrother, who still reigns there.
Parker, ex-C.J., who has- left Westralia
to end his days in Melbourne, recalled at his
Perth valedictory that he was the last sur-
vivor of the delegation that visited London
in 1900 to see the Federation Bill safely
through Parliament. And he told a story
of Gladstone, whom he met in 1890. The
G.O.M. wanted to know why the Austra-
lians didn’t admit Chinese to their coun-
try. “I suppose it is because of their vices,”
he said. “No,” replied Parker, “it is because
of their virtues. We couldn’t work along-
side them and live. The race would go
under.” But the ancient, who religiously
believed that Shem was as good as Japheth
12,000 miles away, didn’t seem impressed.
“My views are that there should be free
ingress and egress,” was his final Contribu-
tion to the argument.
“T. 0.1.” : William Kerr, one of Melbourne's
old-time town-clerks (B. 15/9/’2l), was a
bitter L.O.L. man. In the old political
contests, national and civic, no man was
more libelled than John O’Shanassy was by
him ; yet O’Shanassy appointed the broken-
down Kerr, in 1858, to be station-master at
Sunbury, then the terminus of the North-
Western line. He died on May 25, 1859.
“Wessel”: The most floriferous family I
know lives out neaij Clermont (Q.L The
eldest son is Fielq Flowers (like Field
Flowers Goe, once Anglican Bishon of Mel-
bourne), the second French Flowers, and the
third Wild Flowers. It’s a mighty good
job for some poor kid that Cauli didn’t
suggest itself.
“Val E.”: If ever McGirr’s Motherhood
Endowment Bill comes to light in N.S.W. a
lady at Jerilderie ought to get a fair allot-
rient. This good Australian has produced
10 children in nine years—three singles,
twins, triplets, and 18 months later twins
once more. One of the triplets is still alive,
one lived a week, and another three months.
The youngest twins are not yet a month old.
“Chris”: In the days when Dick SeddoD
ruled the Ricketty Isles a Chicago news-
paper man called upon him, said he was in-
vestigating the political and social conditions
of Australasia, and asked the old man if he’d
mind giving him a few points about the
Maoriland system of government. A smile
rippled through Seddon’s whiskers; then,
throwing himself back in *his swivel chair, he
stuck his thumbs in his ample waistcoat and
boomed : “My dear sir, our system is a genial
tyranny, and / am the tyrant!” And, as
he mostly did, he spoke truly.
ROBERT
SPROULE.
Solicitor-Gen-
eral of N. S-
Wales, and
likely to be an
Industrial
Court Judge
when the newt
appointment is
made.
The oldest active resident of Wellington
(M.L.) is John Waters, who waded ashore
in 1841 just in time to help in celebratin?
the city’s first birthday and cheer the crew
of the Maori war canoe which annexed the
pig at the regatta.
TEMPTATION BOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dear old tarts come trooping into town,
Fair, fat and forty, in their snorting cars;
Shaggy noth furs and stuck with diamond stars,
Each waddles by me in her bursting gown.
But I, who cannot raise a single brown,'
A soldier spent and broken in the wars,
Hungrily sniff the insolent cigars
Of podgy patriots who have turned me down.
Better, I think, if I had stayed behind
By that grim Chessboard on Gallipoli,
Where the red poppies tremble in the wind
Above the mates who, all unconscious, lie
And do not envy me, those Happy Dead,
Fighting my daily fight for daily bread.
x.s.w.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


SSQOOO WSMWES
IVices backffiGood Old Days
MENS SUITS (Feady-to-Wear)
84/- All-Wool Australian Tweed,
medium or Dark
Grey or Brown.
All Sizes. NOW
75/-
£5/15/-
Donegal Tweed, Grey or
Brown. All
Sizes. NOW
£55-
£6/6/-
English Tweed in Dark Grey,
Navy or Grey
Pencil Stripe.
All Sizes. NOW
£5115/-
£6/15/- English Brown Worsted, some-
thing extra
smart and good.
In all sizes. NOW
£6/6/-
£9/9/-
English Tweed in new Browns
and Greys, smart
cut. All Sizes.
NOW
£B/9/6
£1 1/1 1/. English Tweed and Worsted,
Medium and Dark Grey,
also Black or
Navy Pencil
Stripes. NOW
/Sl/65
22/6
Crash Motor Coats, storm collar,
half-belt, Strapped
cuffs. NOW
15/11
75/-
Silk-finish Fawn Poplin Wash Suits,
Sac and Trousers
Style in all Sizes for
men. NOW
63/-
MEW’S TROUSERS
12/6 Striped Cotton Tweed, smart de-
signs, Cuff bot-
toms. All Sizes.
NOW
ď
25/-
English Worsted-finish Trousers in
32 different
signs.
de-
NOW
16/11
30/-
English Tweed in Grey or Brown,
or fancy mixed
Grey. All Sizes.
NOW
19111
35/-
English Tweed in Navy Pencil
Stripe, best
mings.
trim-
NOW
30 -
30/-
English Tweed in smart Brown
shade, Cuff bot-
toms. All Sizes.
NOW
22/6
11/6
Blue Denim Trousers,
Riveted
buttons, seams sewn
with linen thread,
three pockets. NOW
5/9
ADDRESS MAIL ORDERS TO “DEPT. B,”
BOX 1622 G.F.Om SYDNEY.
LOWE’S
DROPINTHE-MARKET
TAILORING PRICES.
£*l*l-
- Suits
mi-
£B/81-
Worsted Suits
£ 6161 -
£5/5/-
Australian Tweed
£4/4/-
And here is another of
“Drop-in-the-Market” Prices
for lightweight Tweeds, Wor-
steds and Serges.
£6/6/-
: /
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
m
£7/15/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£5115
£B/15/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£6115
£9/9/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
am-
£9/15/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£7/15/-
£10/10/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
f
£ll/11/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£81176
£l2/12/.
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£9j9l-
£l3/-/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£91716
£l3/13/-
SUITS TO
ORDER.
NOW
£lO/10/-
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
LOWE’S SELL IT FOR LESS
LOWE’S PAY CARRIAGE.
MEN'S SHIRTS
10/6
English Cambric in Black and Blue
Hairline
Stripes.
d Block
NOW
5/11
13/6
English Striped Cambric in Blue,
Black and Helio.
Block and Hairline
designs. NOW
9|ll
11/6
English Striped Cambric, reliable
colors, no
NOW
collars,
91 6
12/6
Block-striped Cotton Taffeta
Blue, Black, Helio,
or Pink, collar to
match. NOW
106
9/11
White Mercerised Tennis Shirts,
strongly made, with
collar and pocket.
Good value. NOW
7/11
15/6 Men’s Flannelette
own strong make,
and designs for
Spring and Summer.
NOW
Pyjamas, our
correct weight
9|ll
MEN’S SOCKS
£/\\ British-made All-Wool
fast - dye Cashmere.
Extra spliced. NOW
Black,
2/11
MEN’S HATS
25/-
*
Cut and Turned Edges, Semi
curled Brim, all
colors. Sizes to 7^.
NOW
18/9
35/-
Cut, Bound and Turned edges,
popular Colors. All
Sizes. NOW
27)6
50/-
and 55/. Woodrow’s English Plain
Felts, Cut, Turned
and Bound edges. All
Sizes. NOW
37|6
52/6 (
to 57/6 Woodrow’s
Mixtures in
Slate, Steel and Navy.
All Sizes. NOW
39|6
45/-
Borsalinos, in Cut, Turned and
Bound Edges. Latest
Colors. All Sizes.
NOW
351-
37/6
and 35/- American High-grade
Fur Felts, Cut, Bound and Turned
Edges, to 6| only.
NOW i
301-
21/-
Genuine Panamas with greaseproof
leather, 2in. and
Brims. Sizes 6| to
7£. NOW
15/-
ADDRESS MAIL ORDERS TO “DEPT. B.
BOX 1622 G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
p
till
vCwiLsiL liMl
Bond&Qeon^eS!
Oxford Street
ru \-r
FOUR STORES in SYDNEY.
ONE in NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
Dakin? House
Central" Railway


3fi
Peapes’ “Warrego” Shirts
New Supplies Available.
These ideal working shirts have been .scarce for some time
because ot Peapes’ refusal to pay the high price demanded
• the manufacturer of the special shirting used for them.
«ith the decline of the cotton market, however, Peapes
have the opportunity of securing full supplies at a consider-
a Ide reduction.
Consequently V\ arrego ’ Shirts, of the same dependable
strength which made them famous for wear, are now avail-
able. Hie material shows white stripes on blue or srrev
grounds. ® •
I’KAPES’ NEW PRICE: 11/6.
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants?
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
!
PRESTIGE
How Much is it Worth to You?
CoroNA
The Complete Portable Typewriter
WILL ADD PRES'HOE TO VOI R LETTERS.
ACCOUNTS, REPORTS. ARTICLES, ETC.
COSTS ONLY £l7/17 - COMPLETE IN CASE
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street. Melbourne.
:3C" Queen Street, Brisbane.
19 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
“Macquarie Street”: The case of Virginia
kappo is interesting to surgeons because of
the extreme rarity of rupture of the female
madder. It is common enough in men,
•‘specially men who have strictures and get
drunk. It has been known to occur in vir-
gins after very though appa-
rently that possibility had long ceased to
interest Miss Itappe. whose pretty face had
on her own confession, brought her so much
trouble. she had been drinking heavily
all the evening, and no doubt her bladder
would be very full; and if a woman in that
state was, tor instance, kicked by a horse
or had a great mutton-fist bashed against
her lower abdomen, the bladder would pro-
GOT PAST THAT.
SMITH (who has been abroad) : " Yon ng
Huggins still pairing attention to your
daughter”
JONES : “No: they're married now." 1
bably burst and the woman, if not immedi-
ately operated upon, would die in some hours.
Women can continue laughing and dancing
long after a man is sunk in the depths of
woe and introspection, forced to sit still
lest a worst thing befall him. Any person,
man or woman, in that condition is very vul-
nerable.
“Tim Tiki”: When Edward Mortimer
Oil lam Maurice, a Bay of Plenty (M. 1..)
cocky, buried lii.-
wife recently lie
dispensed with oil
tli e conventions.
11 e carried the
coffin to the ceme-
tery and buried it
without ceremony
oil any sort. One
man wanted to
attend the funeral;
Maurice told him
that, as he was
busy in the Cream
er y, h e didn't
know exactly when
the cortCge won' I
move i off. This
man consequently
arri v e d at the
cemetery after the
burial, and .Mau-
rice then obtained
his signature and
that of another
man whom he saw
near by as wit-
nesses of the burial
—the IjUw requires'
that there shall be
two. It was for
(his evasion that
lie appeared before
th e Supr e m e
Court, and. after
being warned that
he had narrowly
eseaped gaol, was
lined £lO and costs
£4 2s. Still, an
undertaker’s bill
would linvo been more.
•Since »r* N. S. Wales miners perished 19
years ago in Kenibla coal-pit Australia hasn’t
had a grimmer mining tragedy than that,
which smote the Chillagoe district (N.Q. I
on Monday morning. An explosion of gas,
previously unknown in the neighborhood,
wrecked the Mount Mulligan coal-mine and
entombed SO men toiling underground. At
the moment of writing three dead bodies had
been Impled forth from the deadly workings
and there was small hope for their impri-
soned mates, but parties of rescuers were
pegging away with desperate courage—the
courage which never fails Australian miners
in the presence of disaster.
“William J. Digger” introduces Cassidy :
A born fighter, Gallipoli gave him his chance;
and presently they promoted him to corporal for
gallantry; but back at Lemnos after the Evacuation
he vanished in the night, and was lagged a week
later on the other side of the island, spending his two-
up winnings freely. A
little Greek girl wept
loudly when the escort
moved off. A court-martial
followed, and, to use his
own words, Cassidy became
a “rispictible proivite
woiist agin.”
He wias missing when
we got back to Egypt,
and only arrested (in
Gyppv garb) two months
later, at Alexandria, when
the Baftt. was on the
point of embarking' for
France. But Cassidy didn’t
go to France. He dis-
appeared—sank without a
trace! Two years later
his cobber saw him in
Dublin. He was driving
a tranlcar.
-1 had been picturing
Cassidy in the bottle-green
uniform of Sinn Fein, or
in the ranks of Ihe Black
and Tans, for he was a
born fighter, when the
other day he. stopped me
in the street. “What,
Cassidy?” I said. lie
gripped my arm. “Whist!
•Vqt so loud,” he whis-
pered, “for the luve o’
Mike. Me name’s McAn-
drevvs, and 'tis sorry Oi
was to lave Scotland.”
“Doing well ?” I asked.
“Splendid ! But”—and he
lowered his voice to a
confidential whisper—“would yer moind liridin’ me
a couple o’ bob, Sor? Oime out on stroike.”
* * * *
\ andorian ’ (London ) : I happened to be
in Louvain when ail odd pair were also con-
templating the awful mess the Germans left
behind them. Not all of the mess. For
Belgium is recovering faster than anv other
country in Europe. But the wind still blows
from every quarter through the dust-heap
that was once the magnificent Library. One
of the pair among the ruins was the noble
Cardinal Mercier. A tall, ascetic-looking
man, with a benign face, in a frame of white
hair, he could contemplate the Louvain of
1921 with calmness. His companion was
the small, spectacled Heir-Apparent to the
Throne of Japan. The young Prince from
S OLO HYMPATHIQEE.
“I don't dream much, hut my husband had,
a frightful nightmare the other week."
"Yes, poor hoy, I've seen him out with her
two or three times."
Nippon was like,,a startled child, round-eyed
with wonder, as he gazed at the classics a
lew blackened tomes just dug up bv workmen
and fluttering in fine black dust as the wind
stirred their poor shreds. There was a big
cavalcade to escort the Japanese majesty,
;md the quaint old town was befiagged. As
the line of motors passed down a narrow,
cobble-stone street, I had a close view of the
Cardinal, bending forward with beaming
smiles to greet the people ‘who loved him. lie
sat with his back to the petrol. Opposite was
the little brown royalty, very youthful and
rather stunned by bis battlefields’ tour. The
Government'had chosen the Cardinal as the
most representative citizen to explain,
through an interpreter, .exactly what war
meant in Louvain on August 2.y, 1914.
“S*”: Jessop’s pictorial wheeze <B.
1/9/21). concerning the resident of Dotty-
villc who carried his
chimney to the cfiim-
ney-sweep to be swept
out, has a foundation
in fact. _ Bight carted
bis e h i mn e y from
the foot of the bills
11 miles into Traral-
gon (Vic.), and con-
sulted tbe local black-
smith. Bight’s chim-
ney was a capacious
thing of iron, and
Bight’s complaint to
the tradesman was.
“She smokes. Fills
the blessed ’ouse with
smoke, she does. See
what you can do to
her.” The blacksmith
looked the chimney
over and gave judg-
ment. “Chimbiey’s
quite all right. No-
thin’ wrong with the
chimbley. Bring the.
’ouse.”
Dear Bulletin. —The vast diary of the
late proprietor of Clements Tonic, portions
of which have been read out in a Sydney
court last week, is not so original as might
be imagined. That of Joseph Cook was re-
cently brought to my notice:—
tie thinks he's the whole Ministry. Let us see
117(0 left the Labor party first? Did I ever attack
the Trusts? Ami yet they give him £30,000 and
me nothing!
lie falls off horses. The Centennial Park police-
man has to waste hours of the public's time picking
him up, dusting him, finding his hat: and hoping
no bones are broken. Why doesn’t he break his
neck? r shouldn’t mind. Look at the damage he
does to the grass. n e ought to be prosecuted.
lie left me here 1 London! alone this morning - while
he went off to make speeches. No consideration for
others. No heart. No pity. He knows I wanted
to make a few. But no, I must stay in silent
obscurity at Australia House. Kvervone laughs -it
him and admires me. Me —50 per cent, intellect, 50
per cent, character. llha—so per cent ,v- -
courtier! Him l ! Faugh! ! ! lupre^sea then:. .\
Who would make the be«t Hicrh
A suave gentleman, one who has worn a'froc'k c, ,
toi quaiter oi a century and lias ,* " 1:01
Laborism for 30 years, or a luaSnt . u<Ko( : lt ‘;'
Socialist! I await a n£lv. m! '
ait suit, his bo ok he will take it: yn ’
calculating selfishness of the ifnn ' ’ 51 c c l
Actmgf rime Minister—Prinie ' Minister Virtn,
and integrity—unscrußulousness. Genial ami hi™
-yipensh malignancy. Deep colSfiT
cynical lndifterentism. And yet- dci/ao Priml u,
ister! And after 30 years’ service. ,£3fl ono \
thousand a e year. And fie gets the u£S£Sn in'
And so, for page after page, the vivid in,
pressiomst picture of the relations hetwwi.
the two is tiling with a master s hand upon
the canvas. How convincingly it brings
Mine, to be sure, the truth of the maxim-
-15 ex-republican is; an empire-builder t<>
ms own colleague. —Yours, etc
Paei<. v
Sixenate ; Years ago when a N.S W
Labor Government clung perilous!v to office
l>v a majority ot one, it was worried by a
lew members w ho were inclined to look upon
rim booze when it was wet. One of them
extremely over the odds, lmt desperately
wanted on the premises, was put to bed t".-
keep him quiet; and he insisted on undress-
!"g to his shirt. When he was awakened
by the division bells, it was found tlmt some
anti-Gabor joker had spirited away his trous-
ei'K. Frantic with the ul'giugs of his part,
comrades, the politician almost made his
pm\\ with a cutty-sark appearance in the
Chamber; but he was eventually wrapped
m a blanket. Ills name cropped up later,
alter lie bad retired. "The member is not
m Ins seat,” said an Oppositionist, "but 1
notice bis pants are there.” And they were,
tiie original joker having surreptitious)!
dropped theft} across the bench.
"Adelaide”: Base Records advertise cheer-
fully in tne Adelaide papers (8/9/’IM i :
"Wili the next-of-kin. or anyone knowing
the addresses of the following deceased sol-
diers, please communicate direct to Officer in
< ’liarge, Melbourne.” And Conan Doyle is
not here to consult!
A constant testimony to the in-
artistic sense or sheer indifference of tlr-
Melbourne National Gallery trustees is the
huge marble piece of “Bull and Herdsman”
which Boehm sent to them years ago. The
man leads the ring-nosed bull as though for
judging purposes, and the fattened beast is
so massive that the sculptor took the pre-
caution to have a wedge of marble left
between the belly of the bull and the ground
to support the weighty figure during its sea
voyug l and subsequent removal to the Gal-
lery. 'J his thick stick of marble was to be
sawu_ away from il,• * statue before it was
exhibited. Bertram Mackennal told me years
ago that, the sculptor desired this to be done.
There could be no object in omitting to
remove a ridiculous disfigurement which
served as a safeguard on a rolling vessel, but
was not intended to be a support in a motion-
less art gallery. Yet to this day—l saw
"Bull and -Herdsman” recently—the thing
NOT TREE TO LABEL.
“Are you the painless dentist ?”
"NO. Tee got rheumatism."
that destroys the effect of movement in that
sreat mass of marble beef remains unsawn,
ho Boehm’s work is a monument to the -unfit-
ness of the Gallery management. The junc-
ture of the bull’s belly and the ground below
is an insult to public intelligence. So are
many other things in the Gallery. For in-
stance, the small Corot landscape which cost
4000 guineas or more. The charm of the
painting is in its atmospheric effect mainly,
but the atmosphere is grimy with dirt. The
picture wants washing. An uncleaned land-
scape oil-painting under glass is somethin,
of a joke.
( Continued, on page 18. )
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s diff’rent kinds of ’ate, ole pot—
the ’ate of lags for chains,
the 'ate of water cats ’ave got
(Berleeve me, cats ’ave brains),
I’he ’ate of schoolboys fer a Chow,
The ’ate of Creek fer Turk ;
•Vy special 'ate's that stupid cow,
'J lie Bloke in Constant Work.
You see ’ini with ’is little bag
A-trottin’ through the park ,
’ls collar's noo, 'is tie’s a dag,
’ls boots is clean—the nark .'
I'. s full oi brekt'uV ’ani-an'-eggs,
An’ always got a smirk ;
TVs jus’ an eight-day-clock on legs,
The Bloke ip Constant Work.
Vou try an' touch ’im fer a sprat—
My oath, ’e takes it bad !
“Fellow, how dare you come at (hat?
You go an’ work, me lad 1
our kind I call the city's sores ;
Beggin’ for fags an’ perk !
Buzz off! You’re just a loafer I" roars
The Bloke in Constant Work.
I'd get a push an’ stoir-h Mm, but
The Johns Ml queer th’ fight;
Owever, in me drcainin’ nut
We outs ’im every night:.
I sees the Crowd with yell an’ ’cot
Tear down that tremblin’ cturk- ■
By cripes, ’e don’t ’art get the boot,
The Bloke in Constant Work
s', s.w.
HORACEE COWNTERLUNCHE.


/ IheWonderful
Duo -Art Pianola
master, piano of the world
m
ilwuiuiimillUltll
lliaiuj
m
Here is a musical instru-
ment, embracing sre Pianoforte,
fhe Pianola, and die art of uie
Pianist —die DUO- ART is a
development of die Pianola.
OThe DUO-ART Pianola reproduces
keyboard performances widi absolute Verity
of detail.
From die first note sounded to die finale,
die entire performance will be die actual
playing of some notable pianist.
As the artist plays, so one hears.
Just pause and grasp die significance of
diis statement.
In one’s own borne and at ones will,
Paderewski, Hofmann, Harold Bauer, Percj?
Grainger, and scores of odiers will step to
die pianoforte and plaj)—will actually equal
dieir best performances upon die concert stage.
How diis is all possible-—bow?, through
die development of die Pianola and perforated
music roll and a wonderful super - sensitive
recording piano, such almost miraculous results
haVe been accomplished —is but another
chapter in die history) of Pianola achievement.
Tte DUO-ART Pianola is built in die
following pianos onIy:—STEINWAY,
STECK, STROUD and famous WEBER.
We accept Pianolas in part payment for
die DUO-ART, also Placer Pianos and
Pianos. Moderate monthly payments arranged.
Informal recitals of die DUO-ART are
held daily at our Showrooms. We extend
to V ou a cordial inVitation to call; if a Visit
is inconVenient, please fill in coupon below?
and s?ou w?ill receive post free, full particu-
lars and prices of die DUO-ART.
SOLE MAKERS:
The Aeolian Company
(Australia) Pty* Ltd*,
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at 252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
RUNDLE STREET (cr. Gawler Place),
ADELAIDE.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY ! N.
Please post me Art Catalog and Prices of
tke DUO-ART Pianola.
My present instrument is a
Address -


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
Tins modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Representatives
in N.S.W.:
Scott & Holladay,
Ltd., 31A Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Possibility
and Probability
ANY accessories have contributed to the
possibility and the safety of the motor
cvcle, but the fitment which removed the
greatest prejudice against .it in the early days
the thought of dangerous vibration—and so
made its success and future popu'arity a
probability was undoubtedly the
ďf
Model 8175
with compound
spring and coil
springs in peak.
BROOKS
SADDLE.
The saddle that killed the vibration bogey."
Write for a cof>y of the Brooks Book.
J. B. BROOKS &■ CO., LTD.,
134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
“For Ever Best/'
STM
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
lin Hat : rhe crash of bombs and roar
ot guns brought me in a hurry to the street
from my bed in the hospital in a North Lon-
don suburb. High overhead, looking like
nothing so much as a cigar wrapped in tin-
toil, a /epp gleamed in the searchlights. As
looked, it lifted its nose, slid swiftly up
and vtimslied. Frantically the long fingers
or light searched every yard of the black
sky and minutes passed before one found the
raider again, a mile or so north and making
or home at top speed. lake hounds to tin 1
kill, the other burs of white raced across
sky, and built a circle of light around her.
i he guns had barely started again when from
away up above, where the shells were burst-
ing in little stabs of flame, two tiny red
Hares came floating down. One of our air-
men was signalling the gunners that he was
over the Zepp. Instantly every gun ceased,
and in tense silence the eager watchers
waited for the next move. It came swiftly.
From the side of the airship shot a tiny flame
that grew each second. London’s record
rour went up as the excited millions
realised that the raider was doomed. For-
getful of shelter, the people poured into the
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
“The new baby's arrived!”
“Is it a boy or a girl?”
“Must be a girl. They're powdering it
already.”
streets shaking hands with strangers and
falling over each other in the pitch darkness.
Suddenly a sheet of fire from the stricken
Zepp leapt hundreds of feet into the air,
turning the inky darkness into light as bright
as day, and then a most astonishingly un-
dressed multitude realised its bare legs and
nighties, and scuttled for cover. Londoners
may see other airships fall, but they will
never see more of each other than they did
the night Warneford won his Y.C.
“Rounds” : The appeal of the person who
“wants it kept out of the paper” took a
novel form lately when a man was knocked
down and injured by a hearse on St. Ivilda-
If>a<i 1 f >a< i ’ leporter 111 a Passing motor was one
the nrst to the rescue. Later, noticing the
pressman making a note or two, the injured
man pleaded: "Fer Gortl sake, if yer a press-
mail don t suy it was a hoarse. Say it was
a motor-ear.” He explained that' lie had
come oown to Melbourne representing some
RIVALS.
The Comforter: “You should think of your husband as being better off where he is”
THE WIDOW: “I dunno. Bill had £500 saved.”
movement or other in his township—“anti
it they knew up there I was run down by a
hearse,* I d never hear the end of it.”
* can beat “Haku’s” record (B.
T-11- "'*■'' c °W-cocky with a quiverful at
Bunco (Vie.) is entitled to make deduc-
tions totalling £338 under the Federal In-
c»“e Tax Act, which allows a rebate of
±l(» for each youngster under 16. But his
second wife brought him two.
* * *
Advance”: “Spare Corp.’s” cobber who
reckons that the Battle of the. Wazzir
started over a profiteer-
ing scandal is wrong. It
began through four unde-
sirables being refused the
money they were accus-
tomed to extort from the
ladies of that district.
Although the affair re-
sulted in the arrest of
10 soldiers and the “de-
tention.” as witnesses, of
about 80 others, no con-
viction was made by the
Court-Martial in Cairo,
as many of those who
were to give evidence
were knocked out in Gal-
lipoli. The ringleader
had no more fight in him
than a cold frankfurt
His other notable en-
gagement was as an
A.W.L. in a locality with
a similar reputation near
Brixton (Eng.), but that
time lie collected a few years’ gaol. I saw
him last at Tidworth, after the Armistice,
with a free pardon and all his back pay to
draw for four years!
“Bouragi”: “Carpentaria’s” description of
decline and fall of Cooktown (B.
A)/8/ 21)_ tugs at my heartstrings. I knew
the city in the days which “Carpentaria’s”
goat hath eaten, when John Chinn’s pack-
horses from the tin claims were as thick in
the streets as John’s pound-notes were in the
pub tills. In those days ordinary bank-
notes amounted to foreign money, and were
regarded accordingly. The distinguished
visitor was always taken round the sights of
Cooktown. The first was the Endeavor tree,
nine (or was it eleven?) pubs from the
wharf. This was the tree Captain Cook
might have tied the Endeavor to. Six pubs
past that was the monument to a heroic
woman who died trying to save her child
from the blacks who murdered her husband.
The most conspicuous thins on the monument
was the name of the mayor in whose reign
it was erected. When you reached the pub
where the New Guinea girl .stayed once with
her white husband, before she went back to
New Guinea with him and helped her rela-
tuns to strangle him, you were all probably
dorniy, with 12 pubs to play. A cab was
cal led and you proceeded brokenly to the
two Mile pub. At this shanty diggers going
to the golden Palmer took their last drink
or bought their last bottle ; here, those return-
ing slaked a long, long thirst. The counter
ivas covered with copper and silver coins of
every nationality under Heaven, nailed there
as bad currency. Only the gold ones passed
muster. ihe last item in the visitor’s pro-
gramme was the ascent of Mount Cook. This
always had to be put off till next day.
/ i With due respect to “Dinkum”
'..A 9 / 21 )’ strychnine, in either large or
small doses, will not allay the craving for
alcohol m advanced cases of dipsomania,
though it will ward off the collapse so often
threatened when the liquor is suddenly shut
on. Unless the patient is willing and eager
to be cured, nothing is of any
value. The bromides, judi-
ciously given in combination
with other drugs possessing a
similar effect, exert a marked
sedative action, soothing the
patient to a wonderful degree;
but their drawback is that often
they produce unpleasant second-
ary effects, or else their use is
contra-indicated altogether by
the condition of the patient.
'Vnen the patient honestly
wishes to be cured, and has
some remnants of will-power,
the task is by no means diffi-
cult, and consists solely of a
determination to go through
with it. the medical attendant’s
job being to make the ordeal
as easy as possible and watch
out for ineijtal and digestive
complications. Danger will
persist for perhaps three or
tour years, and during that period the
patient is likely to succeed or fail accord-
ing to (1) liis own will-power and (2) the
disposition of his friends.
*■* * *
“Moe” : “Mirza’s” lady who read up the
symptoms of uterine cancer for the purpose
°) p C o- C /D a /V.?5 % 1 ‘ I , itt]e sli P fJ'om rectitude
i B ;M/21) didn’t do it in the Melbourne
1 übnc Library. In that institution all books
dealing, with medical subjects are placed in
a special division, access to which can be
gained only by students and practitioners
on presentation of proof of identity. Long
experience has shown that this is the only,
satisfactory way. Indeed, some- places, in l
eluding the Free Public Library in Sydney,
go further and place in a sneci-i ,
a«.v book well known to e ntain sL^ 5 " '
sages or illustrations. That the
necessary is frequently proved Taken'
incident that happened a few weeks i,
l l;g ; :k 1s C&
:i publication dealing niostlv win
« h °S£ r ir^E 13
s» aft, 1
enough to write down the name of it for her.
“Jimmy Jamtin”; “Ilaku” (R s/O/’oi i
under'it;" t in ‘- hild ™» "ire
mj(j< j ii> i know one m South Oinmlintii
\ 10.) Of 18 children, 14 of whom £
14 years of age, and dad is entitled to I
total deduction of £464 in his Federal in
come-tax return. ai 111
* * *
••Skipper”: I„ 1!)1G u Bournemouth
nig.) medico proudly showed me the medal
by i ! ,S l a . th(>l ' iu th «‘ C rimean War. and
teceived by him (the medico) late in l')14
years alter dad lmd passed out. The medai
had been posted to the old man’s regiment
nttei his transfer to another command »•„<
returned to the War Office and pigeon-holed
During the late scrap the War Office pigeon'
me.'oi W' < °. l \ southing, and the
■ ~ s l )<)St, ‘ (i without comment to the
beir. Tins beats the Fount of E„’s cxoeri-
<*'H-e (R. 1/!)/'l>, , by a good 35 years"'
I'riday Island : The speed-merchant
cnnes a thud Sooner or later. The Small-
l>ox( om mission in India, of which an Aus-
tralian medico was a member, ordered vac-
cination on a wholesale scale. The star
performer was a doctor who ambidextrously
needled two patients at a time, conveniently
holding the magazine glass-tube of lymph in
his mouth, cigarette fashion. At the end
of the first hour he jubilantly mumbled that
lie had done 240, and in giving his tullv
moved Ins lower jaw just enough to tilt the
business end of the mazagino against a
».mall abraded pimple on his nose. It
took !
# v i*.
AT’.- ; Many a man out hack has seen a
uiought Crack his credit and a bush-fire hum
up his bank balance, but hear what can hap-
pen in the wilds of Ran ana land, as told in the
Gy Mr it; Times (27/S/’2l)
IN MEMORIAM.
„,! !r ' A ‘ V ';T ,, 1 l loving " K ’ ,nor - v of m.v (leal- mother,
ulio went to tier rest in Gympie, August 2’ 1 <>**n
aged 67 years. > •- .
J loved you most in life, dear mother,
I miss you most iri death,
Yom- poor old eyes had no sooner closed
» hen the dingoes arose,
And from their kennels came
And grabbed what it took us 11) years to gain.
Mingo a*” 1 b ' he ' lovin " so "’ Thomas Blank, tailor,
* *
“G.M.” : A I.P. in an outback (N.S.W.)
tU i da -V was arrested for
language and riotous behavior. He was
hailed out, but didn't turn up when the case
was caHed the next morning. His brother
Justices were shy about dealing with him
CAUSE FOR ANNOYANCE.
LLIS FRIEND: “Ney, .Jones, I might see you
to-morrow. Do you still lunch in the
same place?"
JONES: “No; I’m not going there again.
Why, to-day the girl served it in a dirty
glass.”
ex parte, and the chariot of Justice was
bogged till one of them had an inspiration.
‘Ring him up on the ’phone,” said 'he to tin 1
sergeant. “Charge him " with the offence-
and ask him how he pleads.” He pleaded
guilty and was duly fined.
HEGARTY’S HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am wearing a hat drooped fore-and-aft,
"ith a strap beneath my cliin ;
It s sdken bound, with a space around
, here the air gets out and in;
A friend goes by in a motor-car
And grins like a Cheshire cat,
And winks an eye as lie passes bv
Cor lie notices Hegarty’s hat— ' ’
Ihe hat that Hegarty used to wear,
Comrade Hegarty’s hat.
1- °r over a year, he wore the hat
" lien we both were on the land
And on the day that he went away
lir , As h ? shook me by tiie hand,
he sa . id ’ “ ma - v it; bring you luck,”
And lie gave it a gentle pat.
it fitted well and I looked a swell,
For I suited Hegarty s hat—
J lie hat that Hegarty wore to church,
lieacon Hegurty’s hat.
it measures a foot, from peak to peak,
And it must be three feet round ;
It is lined with red and stains the head,
And it weighs about a pound ;
My coat is torn and my boots are worn
And tiie heels are nearly flat,
I do not care for rent or tear
When l am wearing Hegarty’s hat—
ihe lid he dipped as he passed the girls,
Mister Hegarty’s hat.
It's one of the toupee-helmet kind
That are not improved by rain;
It. is red with dust and grey with rust,
The crown has a greasy stain;
It’s one of tiie kind that blows awa.v.
But it's none the worse for that,
For my chin is long and the strap is strong,.
So I stick to Hegarty’s hat—
The.hat that Hegarty gave to me,
White man Hegarty’s hat.
TC.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


d
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation doesn’t
protect a battery against
abuse any more than a
check book protects you
against the cost of living.
But it unfailingly guards
against need for re-insu-
lation during the battery’s
life, and that is a thing
that never can be truth-
fully said about ordinary
insulation.
w


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
SiffT-
-1 K. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney, Agents.
Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device in the world that will
retract and focus waves of sound upon the drum-
head, and assist the hearing power where any sound-
can be heard at all.
m
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
.They usually last about
two years.
Mrs Wm. Foster, of 35 Edward Street, Sheppar-
ton, Vic., writes, July 24, 1921“ I have piuch
pleasure in testifying to the benefit I have received
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have b°en
wearing them for several years, and have not had
any trouble with them. They are very comfortable,
and I could not do without them. I consulted
several leading specialists without success.”
Write for Free Booklet or order now
H. WILKINSON, "‘"‘"’.“■J™«•.
A Signal Success
<3
King (jeorge IV
WHHMf I
The TOP-NOTCHScotch. J
aaBWPT
ABORIGINAUTIES
MAGE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
The Nark, : In Meiklejohn’s geography
it is said that Binghi “can count up to five —and
no further.” An abo. once gave me the same infor-
mation, using his fingers to illustrate: “Wangurra,”
meaning one; “boolarry,” two; “boolarry wangurra”
or “wangurra boolarry,” three; “boolarry boolarry,”
four; and “boolarry boolarry wangurra,” five. He
repeated it several times. The Binghi in question
belonged to a tribe in the Maranoa (Q.) district. It
would be interesting to know if these words are in
common use among the abos. Their tribal dialects
vary, of course; but did they have a universal system
of accounting?
• * * * *
“Iuo”; “Wit Ruv” (B. 11/8/’2l) asks
how much arsenic will suffice to kill a dingo. Two
grains is enough; but double that would probably
settle him quicker, “Janus” advises as much as
he can put on a threepenny bit; but that would
be enough for six baits. If he wants the scalps
arsenic is not the best poison to use, as the dingo
would be miles away before he died. Arsenic has
the other disadvantage that it is poisonous for all
time. One dose would kill a million if it could be
recovered each time it did its job.
“Widgeon”: A pair of spur-wing plover
have for several seasons nested on a small island in
a backwash near our homestead, and as soon as the
young are hatched they are transferred to the main-
land. The water around the island is from 2ft. to
Kft. deep, and the distance to the shore about 15yds.
How do they do the trick ?
* * * *
“Bill R.”; When we were sheep-droving
with “Tombong” \\ right he had a pony mare that
used to raid the camp commissariat and scoff the
butter every time there wasn’t someone there to
shoo her away. She would eat buttered johnny-
cake, too, but if offered the fiat fellow without the
grease, she would disdainfully twist up her nose like
a wowser passing a pub.
* *
“D.F.”: The old-time Maori had a delicate
sense of humor. When a band of Nga-puhi warriors
from the North first brought the musket into Taranaki
there was great curiosity about it. A Nga-puhi
demonstrated how the thing was loaded and primed,
and then told a Taranaki slave to look down the
muzzle. The slave did so, whereupon the warrior
pulled the trigger and the top of the slave’s head
vanished. The crowd thought that was the best joke
of the week.
* * *
“Elsinore”: In regard to that cat-rabbit
argument, I think the. results are mostly caused by
fright at a critical period of gestation. Near lii
verell (N.S.W.) a few years ago a farmer’s mare gave
birth to a foal, half rabbit and half horse. The
front half was distinctly rabbit in shape of head,
ears and nose, and the front feet were paws, with
claws on them. The rest had all the characteristics
of a well-shaped horse. It was strong and livelv
when the owner found it, but he knocked it on the
head.
* * * *
“Ses”: We pulled in at a small wayside
store that sold soft drinks, and my mate asked
for limejuice. “Sweet or sour?” the woman asked
him. “Sour,” he answered with a grin. Not know-
ing the ropes. I said “sweet.” 1 got limejuice.
“Sir Spen”: The Shade of the Anzao
passed over Pine Creek, near Bellingen (N.S.W.),
the other day and paused beside H. C. Henderson,
whose thigh had been badly broken in a fall from
his horse. When he recovered his wits the bushman
dragged his injured limb across a gully to his mount.
The steed, young and fiery, snorted and drew back.
Several yards more of painful progress, another
hasty grab at the reins, and the same performance
over again. Eventually the horse was secured and
led beneath the bank of the gully, where the man
with the shattered thigh threw himself across the
saddle and commenced his agonising ride homewards.
On the way was a gate which was so securely
fastened that Henderson had to dismount to open it.
Originally he had tried to bind the break with his
stockwhip, but at the gate he felt something else
must be done if the horse was to be re-mounted, so
he re-bound it with a handkerchief. After many
attempts he painfully scrambled across the saddle
again and saw the appalling five-mile ride through.
“Dunederra”: “Merlin” (B. l/9/’2l) says
that a sheep-pig cross i£ impossible. Let me quote
from Coburn’s “Swine in America,” a recognised
text-book:—
There exists in some sections of old Mexico a type
of “hog” represented as the prpduct of crossing a
ram with a sow, and the term “cuino” has been
applied to this rather violent combination. The ram
used as a sire to produce the cuino is kept with the
hogs from the time he is weaned The cuino re-
produces itself and is often crossed a second and
third time with a ram. Be it what it may, the
cuino is the most popular breed of hogs in the State
of Oaxaco, and became so on account of its pronensitv
to fatten on little food.
Coburn doesn’t, however, vouch for this origin of
the cuino.
“Newest Arrival”: We were talking of
swimming horses, and Mae claimed a record for a
marc that he bought on Waikeke Island (M.L.).
She was taken to the mainland on a Scow, and the
next day she was back at her old address, having
swum seven miles of salt water to get there. “You
call that a record?” snorted Scotty. “She had no-
thing on her back. I once had five packhorses, each
loaded with ljcwt. of fencing-wire. They waded
into the Waitangirua River, and as soon as they lost
their footing they sank head first- —sand everv flamin’'
one was drowned. Isn’t that a blanky record?”
“Wee Bobbie”: I was recently allowed to
witness the tattooing of a native girl on the island
of Guadalcanal' (Solomons), a ceremony which the
white man is rarely permitted to see. The girl
she might have been 14—was allowed no sleep or
food for the two days and two nights previous, and
immediately her head touched a low mat-covered
bunk she was asleep. The tattooer, an old man bit
a betel-nut in two, chewed and grunted awhile’ his
THEN HE'D TAKE HIS MINCED.
MISANTHROPE: “Is the steak tender?"
BUTCHER: "Tender as a woman's heart, sir."
Misanthrope: Give me a pound of sausages."
eyes on the girl. Satisfied that she was sleeping
soundly he drew from his dirty basket the wing-
bone of the flying fox sharpened like a needle, and
deftly drew the first of a series of small rings run-
ning in a half-circle from the eye to the ear. The
blood oozed out in a crimson ring of dots. The girl
did not move. The second scratch of the bone in
the first mark caused her to turn her head. At the
thi'd tear of the bone in the same wound she raised
her head and cried a little; but immediately the
scratching ceased she was asleep again. The opera-
tion took the whole day.. Sometimes, "but not often,
after the tattooing a girl’s head swells and she dies.'
If she does “devil-devil” is blamed. Poor devil!
* * * *
Six and Eight”: The narrow escape de-
scribed by “Cam Shaft” (B. 11/8/’2l) recalled the
day volunteers for the late W. B, Dailey’s Soudan
contingent were leaving Bathurst. As the train
steamed out from the station the dense crowd gave
a surge and pushed a captain of volunteers between
two of the carriages. The train was stopped to
scrape the captain off the wheels, but that badly-
scared sojer was found with his legs resting on one
buffer and his arms passionately cuddling the othp.
“Coringa”: The crow isn’t the only bird
that has taken to lending a beak at tick eradication.
Both willy-wagtails and peewits gorge on them.
Also domestic fowls. In the Burnett (Q.) I’ve seen
the chooks at work every morning on Cocky’s cows
as they were lying down outside the yard after the
milking.
“Orney”: A fox disturbed a flock of
domestic turkeys on the bank of the Murray near here,
and the bubblies flew in all directions. Reynard col-
lared a couple, and some left sunny N. S. Wales
for \ ictoria. but one split the difference and landed
on a rock in the middle of the river. If. sat on that
rock for a solid week, its one form of exercise being
a continual squawking, its sole stimulant an occa”
sional drink of water. At the end of the week it
had a brain-wave and —flew home.
Pick”; The Gidleigh (N.S.W.) boundary-
riders have, during this lambing, wiped out so many
crows that the depredations of the satanic fowl
have been unnoticeable. Crow-traps have been the
means. They are simply constructed —a batten
frame Bft. by Bft. and 6ft. high, enclosed with a
2in. wire netting, and with a slightly concave top,
in the centre of which a rectangular opening 18in.
by loin, is left for the birds’ ingress. They can
hop through easily, from a perch on the edge, but
the spread of their wings when flying prevents their
exit. The bait is a dead sheep or a helping of
skinned rabbits. Clearing the trap must be left
till nightfall—one slaughter of prisoners by day
and no more will be taken in that vicinity.
f C <*•»«».
iU-k 1 wonder that no Wallaroo
’OB and tt entered the field ' 1 lived there in
vouch fr t) We f any quanti .ty of folk who wool']
from the Z CXlStence of the hybrid. About a mile
of an hill T’ nCar , the was a patch
of sandhills, honeycombed with rabbit-burrows, and
gone bush™! h' l" S ° rtS ° f felines that
° e bush. I have shot several, so can swear to
the cats. [ regret that I haven't shot the cat-rabbit;
but I have seen it. It had a cat’s head and rabbit’s
body, especially noticeable as regards the hinder
parts. The body was barred and colored on the lines
?! the domestic tabby. 1 have seen at least two of
these creatures. They were known Ideally as
pinkies,” because when the first discoverer of them
told the yarn he was unanimously accused of over-
indulgence in that beverage.
* * *
’ : Some time ago a landowner in
the Bega (N.S.W.) district found two bullocks with
heir horns interlocked. They appeared to have been
so fastened for days. After an hour’s futile attempt
to separate them he summoned help, but even then
no separation could be effected until the bullocks
were thrown and their horns sawn off. The horns
were so fastened into one another that it was impos-
sible f,, r the animals to feed, and had they not been
discovered they must have starved to death.
* * *
“De Oriel” : They have a rat at the Mel-
bourne Zoo nearly as large as a bulldog. A genius
has suggested to the authorities that he should cross
with the ordinary rodents,
and in course of time
there would be a race of
rats so big that they
couldn’t get into their
holes and would all die
of exposure.
DODCING THE MIDDLE-AGE
SOREAD.
CIARA DUOK: “She’s a fearful figure, isn't
she!"
DESDEMCNA HEN : “You can’t wonder—the
number of chicks these poor people rear.
My husband makes me send mine to
the incubator!”
“Livingstone”: How is this for a record?
A ewe belonging to a cocky at Omeo (Vic.) had
triplets during her first year of married life ; the next
year she went one better by producing four, and this
year the very motherly person has had five.
(Continued on page 22.)
MURRAY RIVER NAVIGATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a restless kind of spirit in the men who
live outback.
One that makes them shy an' boggle when they
see a beaten track ;
They will hump their old Matilda through the desert
with a smile,
But they hate the hard macadam or the plumb-line
measured mile.
That same spirit’s in the Murray. In a casual sort
of way
It goes fossickin’ an' windin’ through the gravel
an the clay,
From the slopes of Snowy Mountains, all along its
wane! nn’ course,
Sometimes turnin’ as if longin’ to run backward to
its source.
As 1 steer my paddle-wheeler through its narrows
an lagoons,
I can hear the yarn it whispers, an’ the chantey that
it croons
In an ancient abo. lingo, an’ I talk to it at times
Till we’ve come to be like cobbers, svvappin’ lies
an’ makin’ rhymes.
I can hear it through the throbbin’ of the engine
in niy craft,
An the plashin’ of the paddles an’ the hiss of spray
abaft,
As we steam along in sunshine or beneath the silent
atari,
While I coax the old stump-jumper over snags an’
river bars.
THE OUTRAGE.
o'ive no time fer yer since ye tuk me best
milker.”
you're mistaken. I know nothing of cows.”
"Liar! Didn't ye marry me elder daughter
er that dommed Brannigan!”
I know all the Murray’s secrets, an' its manners, an'
it's mind ;
I could almost shut my Weather eye an’ navigate
it blind,
Through the zig-zag of the Needle Point or when
we madly reel
Round the corner of the flooded Devil’s Elbow on
one wheel.
I have seen it parched an’ shrivelled in its famine-
haunted bed,
I have seen it run a banker, rollin’ fat an’ overfed •
it will sometimes rock my tough old tub in fury
like a sea.
Then it calms till I can moor her with a neck-rope
to a tree.
Right from Mannum to Eehuca I have sailed its
floods an’ shoals,
When it’s been more lake than river, when it’s been
a string of holes,
Sometimes skimmin’ over treetops with full steam
up like to bust,
Sometimes crawlin’ up the channel almost kickin’ un
the dust.
I could tell of years of dreadful droughts an’ vears
of burstin’ barns,
An’ the city folk would only wink an’ talk of
sailors’ yarns ;
But a passenger once said to me in drv times-
“Cripes! I’ll bet
er could float up Little Bourke-street if they kept
the pavement wet! ”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


Three Million Novels
in mi in mi 11
That is the Wonderful Sales Record of the
“ Bookstall ” Series of Australian Novels
'•Bookstall" Novels are the work of the Commonwealth's
best authors.
They are written by Australians for Australians, are illus-
trated by Australian artists, and are wholly produced m
Australia at the wonderfully low price of
1/3 each. 1/44
Posted from
the Publishers.
Obtainable from all Booksellers in the Commonwealth and
at all Bookstalls.
OVER 100 VOLUMES TO SELECT FROM—
CATERING FOR EVERY CLASS OF READER.
Complete Catalogue obtainable free from the Publishers on
application.
TWO NEW NOVELS:
“PRINCESS NAIDI’S FETISH,”
by Claude P. Wynn.
An excellent Island-adventure story.
NOW IN THE PRESS—ORDER YOUR COPY EARLY.
A splendid new novel by one of the Commonwealth s most popular
authors:
“THE OIL-SEEKERS,”
by
Jack McLaren
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
1
i
%
3
%
I
I
B
I
Sir
I
i
I
3
3&M
4
x
%
X
'k
<*/»
UALITY
XOUNTS
Thistle Shirt Quality beats
the Price.
YoU may pay a little
more, but you will not
pay nearly as often.
THISTLE SHIRTS typify good taste in eonpied nRh comfort
and splendid wearing quality. Perfect m « make they
also characterised hy the fine patterns and tasteful colo .
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
GIVE THISTLE PYJAMAS a TRIAL. Accept no substitutes.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.,
Makers,
BRISBANE & SYDNEY.
LEVIATHAN
TAILORING
Investigate
this Offer!
Newly purchased All-Wool
English and Australian
Tweeds in a wide range of
herringbone, pinpoints and
Fancy Mixtures.
Tailored-to-order
£6 llls
The latest cut and skilled tailor-
ing by an expert staff ensure a
perfect-fitting, distinctive suit.
Lining and trimming of superior
quality.
If fit is not perfect, acceptance of suit is
not expected.
Write for
FREE PATTERNS.
We will send pattern's to
any address on applica-
tion. Send for yours.
Order by post.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
g| T*e
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd*
Cor. Swanston
and Bourke Streets.
MELBOURNE.
The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through—never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
he retains the tastes and predictions ot the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste tor
m
m
m
'lit*
Dawson
Bvcuot'o Wr.ISKY
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
'Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
stocks we hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.
Whisky.
Everyone s favourite
Scotch—Everywhere!
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW.


%•*'
„ *>
•r
Holeproof Hosiery
Leaves nothing' to be desired.
Style, Beauty, Wearing' Qualities.
Note tHe Extra StretcH Top.
Holeproof Hosiery
FORw/meN. WOMEN children^
Pure Silk, Silk Faced Lusterized Lisle.
Ino : (B. 11./8/'2l) wants to
stop his horse from breaking away. No special
tackle is required—only an ordinary strong bridle
Have both reins the one length and tie them to a
tree as high up as a man can reach. The strain
comes on the roof of the horse’s mouth, and he
won’t try his tricks many times. lie can’t break
the bridle, as he can bring very little power to bear
on it.
Mee Bobbie : Here in the Solomons the
other day while digging in my garden r turned up
a steel-grey wriggler which 1 took to be a worm.
My cook boy who was with me immediately became
excited. “Look out, master!’’ he shouted, “This
one he bad fella too much. Suppose snak’ he bite
man an’ somefella put him medicine, he savvy live;
//its,, fella bitem man no matter medicine he savvv
die.” I then examined the crawler more closely.
His ’skin was like a snake’s, his length about Bin„ he
was almost the same thickness from head to tail
and his mouth was well underneath, like a shark’s’
1 inquired about the varmint from a number of
natives, and they all held a high opinion of his man-
killing capabilities. Anyone acquainted with the
twister ?
THE SOFT QUESTION THAT
TURNETH ON WRATH.
VOLUBLE OLD ZIFF : “Must be most fasci-
nating finding out all about one’s own
cor! What is the most' interesting
part?”
MOTORIST: "Pumpin' up the tyres, damycr."
Reynard : Will some Abo. inform me
why " a,ahs Pick off the bark for about a foot wide
round the tree in which they have their nest? Here
m the Collarenebn (N.S.W.) district they generally
take up housekeeping in a hollow limh of a coolahah-
tree. It is always a green tree, hut in about a
year atter they vacate the. premises it will die
“Mellifica”: Even the little busy bee
seems to have been bitten by the big-city craze.
Ihe other day there was a regular swarm of them
going hard at the flowers on the stands in front
of the Sydney G.P.O. In Melbourne you will come
across plenty of bees in the city reserves and parks,
but there they don’t seem to have gone into the cut-
no wer business.
>».T. : AH m one night J. Rowe hobbled
his horse out in the Thompson River, boiled his
? Ui j *“ the , bed of tbe Barcoo and slept in the
sleen 0 a " d yCt had a ° ood ™S b t’s
sleep. The feat was simple enough. Rowe camped 1
a dry . tl,lle at the junction of the Thompson
and Baicoo rivers, which form the mis-named Cooper’s
Ciee.lv This creek” is the joke of the atlas. It
takes two big rivers to form it, and in the journev
south-west its channels steer anywhere. The pranks
it gets up to before it eventually struggles home
SOLVING THE PROBLEM.
THE BOY : :Mister. if I uax to lead. him under that trce. you ronld climh on the
branch and drop on tim.
in :i dilapidated condition to Lake Eyre prove it to
be the most aimless and undisciplined river in the
world. It is so variable that no tvvo maps can
agree as to its course.
“Boomerang” : How many youngsters can
a black snake have at a birth (B. 11/8/’2l) ? At
the beginning of 1918 one delivered 49 shakes near
Trunkoy (N.S.W.). T. Pye, of the Bathurst dis-
tiiet, captured a black-wriggler with 56 voung-uns.
And after a returned soldier killed a female black
snake near the Murray a post-mortem disclosed 45
snakelets, one of which, like that mentioned by a
recent Abowriter, possessed two heads.
* * * *
“H. Elta”: The distribution of the wara-
tah in the Speck (a poor relation of the gorgeous
tulip-like N.S.YV. ofie) is
cuiious. On the West Coast
and also in the Far South
it grows freely at or near
sea-level; but further east
and north it is confined to
the mountains. There is
plenty of it on the Great Lake
tableland, and on Mount Well-
ington, near Hobart, it is
thick enough above the
2000 ft. level. East of the
lower Derwent there is only
one small patch, and that
grows up on the top of Mac-
Gregor’s Peak on Forestier’s
Peninsula (194 ft.). This is
over 30 miles from Mt. Well-
ington, the nearest other
place where there is any of it.
Maybe it is confined to the
hilltops in those parts because
it is there that the climate is damp enough for it;
but, if so, how did it ever get to Mt. MacGregor?
* * * *
“L. J.D.” : R C homing frogs. A neighbor
was pestered Dy an old green frog which camped
on her piano for years. The other day she gave
it to me to lose. I threw it off a bridge into the
river about five miles from the house. Two days
later she informed me it was back again, and had
brought a mate.
Zamia” : The little “cave mouse” (Phas-
cogale flavipes), which is about the size of a half-
grown rat and like a miniature native-cat (Daiyure),
is a great climber. It makes a nest of gum-leaves
in crevices and holes in sandstone caves, and, to
judge by the places it sometimes nests in, is able
to walk on the ceiling like a fly. The even smaller
Dromicia nana, or opossum mouse, makes a nest,
too, but puts it in a hollow limb. In the coastal
aiea of N. 8. Males this fellow has gum-leaves for a
foundation, but always tops off with the leaves
of the Christmas-bush. Even where there is none
of the bush within 100yds. of the' nest he must have
the leaves.
Dido ’: Trott was telling of the magnifi-
pointer he once possessed. It had been declared
by experts to be the very finest dog of its kind the
country has .ever known, and it had laid the founda-
tion of Trott’s fortune by the prizes it won. “But
it never done nothin’ better in its life than when
it run down a cattle-thief of them days name Dick
the Duffer. I was workin’ fer Chandler at Twill
Creek, and they had the head of the police stayin’
with them a week or so. A day’s shootin’ was
arranged, and of course I had to go along with me
(log- Bon. Wed been out about a hour when Don
sets someth,.,’ in a' clump of saplin’s at the foot of
a hold dead gum. The Chief of Police stands ready
at one point, and the boss at another, and there is
Don still as a fire-dr.?, pointin’ fer all he is worth.
SUs Pf » hare, and throws a stick in to stir him
up. Nothin moves. ‘Yer dog’s made a mistook,’
says the Chief of Police. ‘Skews me,’ says I ‘me
dog never makes a mistook.’ 1 wades in among the
saplm s, and there’s a man cropchin’ half-dead from
Unger and loss of blood. It’s none but Dick the
H l6 hlanky cattle-thief the police has bin
after half a year. 1 got the £2OO reward on his
head No blessed fear of old Don bein’ in error.”
Put, I protested, “i 6 it a good sporting quality in
a dog to point a human being?” Trot rose to the
occasion. “P’raps not,” he admitted. “It would
fa i' lt: ’ generally speaking. But, you see, Dick
the Duller s other name was Quail.”
* * * *
“L.J.D.”: Has any Abo. ever tried “cut-
ting- a cartridge for kangaroo-shooting? I have
always: found it far superior to the rifle-bullet
especially in thick scrub. A cut is made in the
cartridge nearly severing it about the centre of
the dividing wad. The shot leaves the gun shell-
like, carries farther and is a sure killer
* * * »
“Worrimoo”: The teams were turning out
at a tank two miles from town. They had run
out of tea, and when I struck the camp Bill’s off-
sider was unyoking • while Bill was shaving himself
to go into the town. He stood at the head of
the pole bullocks, using Leopard’s big dreamy eye for
a mirror and a bound-up tuft of Brindle’s tail for
a lathering-brush.
4 ** * *
►Steve Hart”: There is no need to go
short of cigarette-papers if you are near any ti-tree.
Ihe inside bark makes a good, tasteless substitute.
“Golub”: There is scope for a good deal
of research work on the part of some Abo.-scientist
as to the relationship between the quantity of venom
voided by Australian snakes and its potency It
seems to be a fairly general rule that the more
dangerous the reptile the smaller the quantity ot
venom secreted by its glands. This is borne out by
a comparison between, say, the tiger and one of
tne less deadly varieties of the common black snake,
Pseudechis porphyriacus, the former discharging onlv
a J-? V I' r ° p ? of P° ison at the moment of its striking
"hile the latter ejects often as much as l-Ue.c.—
roughly 18 to 25 drops. The same ratio "exists
between almost any other two similar kinds of snake,
provided always that there is sufficient difference
m the degree of their toxicity to allow of the com-
parison being made; and it is not confined to Aus-
tralian reptiles. Both the Indian cobra (Naja tri-
pwdum.,) and the rattlesnake of the South-Western
Jrnted States (Crotalns horridm) seldom have more
than five to ten drops of poison in their glands
even when these are freshly filled. On the other hand
some of the less fatal species of the same two coun-
tries frequently secrete the equivalent of 100 drops
only part of this quantity being used at each bite.’
that hat, yet been classified is also t
the largest glands and the one secreting " ,th
amount of venom this beino- , t e greatest
the poison gland 7StS ne " i<,pii! ’
the reptile’s body in lelgtl Formed' it LT
sidered that the volume of venom was a!?
proportion to the size of the 0,,U ■ always in
ease of which the exact reverse applies. That the
more venomous reptilia possess the smaller amount"
ot poison would seem to beav out the interestim-
view that the function of the venonili
between aiding i„ the capture of the prev andTsist
mg in the digestion of it. In regard to the wi
function « „„„ . p^’nd
secretion would have the same effect as a greater
quantity of a less concentrated fluid
* * «
“Yarrum”; “Snakes!” said the old shep-
herd to me. “Don’t worry about ’em? I’ve been
bitten tight times, and cured myself every time by
juM scarifying the part and letting the dog li c k
the poison from the wound. S’long as a man hat
mind all t ” t " d ° ff of his own »*e needn't
mind all the snakes in creation.” I wonder!
-r 5 ‘ 5: or « 1 ’ mm .v Susui, of an island in
orres Strait, explained to me why tliere had been
a shortage of cocoanuts the preceding two or three
tears. We got zogo [magic] 1 elong cocoanuts-
bell" 0 r °i Un< St .° ne ’ , rCd ° ne ’ st °P alo "g big clam-
shell inside bush. S’pose you want flenty cocoa-
nuts, zogo-man he puts medicine along that stone;
frn’n if; , by ' u "'; b >' 6 them tree they make flenty
u(. Oat time when Wuria he married lie take one
girl from ’nother island. Father belong that girl
lie no like; heart belong him come very wild. By-
an -bye that old man come; you savee him, he been
zogo-man long that other island. He go ’long bush,
steal that zogo-stone belong we, take him ’long
that nother island. That tree he can't make no
fruit now, only little bit. We look ’long that tree-
whieh way that t’ing? We no savee that stone he
been lose. Our heart come very sorry. We look
ong that shell in zogo-place ’long bush—nothing
stone. He no get. We look ’long ’nother island
where that old man stop; trees belong them make
f enty fruit. We t'ink he got zogo-stone belong wc
We ask that old man; he tell we, ‘.S’pose you take
turtle-grease, rub him along them eocoanut-tree, he
make fruit!’ Oil, only gammon us. We no like
By-an’-bye he tell us, ‘Yes, 1 been take zogo-stone'
because I no like my daughter marry that man. 1
bring him back again—my heart sorry along von
fella.’ Ife carry that stone come by-an’-bye one
time when he been come for make feast for dead
body ; lie put that stone ’long shell, clean him put
proper medicine belong him. You look nous-all
them trees he make too nnich fruit. True 1 tell
you.”
"Impress"; I have a pedigreed Australian
terrier which gave birth to one pup. The father of
the pup is a pure-bred pomeranian, and the pup
itself is a fox-terrier of the rough-coat species with
au exceptionally good head. Can any Abo. account
tor this remarkable result?
•lim Carew” : I didn’t know until recently
that my old friend the goanna was a cannibal; but
when 1 came across a big black and yellow go.
with all that remained of a brother go. (about six
inches of his tail) sticking out of his mouth, 1 was
convinced. Does the go. kill and eat his relations,
or does he only eat them when he finds them dead?
THE COMPLEAT CADDIE.
GOLFER: “Ah, my caddie has not come.
W ould you like to earn fire shillings by
carrying my sticks around?"
PASSING SWAGGTR: “Blank
blank!!!'
GOLFER: “ Excellent , my man. excellent. I'll
make it ten if you swear like that when
I require it."
MISSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I -don t know why I never see
The bushland elfs and pixie-men
Of whom the poets sing so free —
I s’pose they’re all beyond my ken.
I've seen the sun, with golden gleam,
Rise rosy o’er a frost-crowned hill -
And watched the horses blowing steam,
And felt my lungs with keen air fill.
While harsh frost crackled underfoot,
lie heard the magpies’ morning mirth;
Ive seen the tumbling waters si -t
Where mountains give the river*, birth.
Where happy, bright-eyed ’possums plav,
On breathless moonlit nights I’ve sat
And watched them till the peep o’ day
Among the blue-gums on the flat.
And after brisk midsummer storms,
When all the world looked fresh and clean,
l ve seen the racing, weird cloud-forms
1 hat, torn apart, showed blue between.
Till death I've seen a dingo fight,
Shielding his home, a hollow log;
I’ve seen the joy and fond love-light
Leap in the eyes of my old dog.
And oft I ve ’seen dream-faces shine
Within the dying camp-fire’s glow;
flown where the old trees curl and twine,
I’ve watched the weary waters flow.
The poets sing of all of these,
And so, it makes me wonder then
Ilow it can be 1 never see
The poets’ elfs and pixie-men.
VICTORIA.
OLE BLUE.


■si
. A
■ *
*. .a . i *
S >
ms
Vi/.
./• -V •' Vt, •■• „* j!
•'>::*;*>*•« ~ . .-rr-
.;< -' *• ■/
~±.- *• -*>«•"»( yr-. v
■
SSKS
v--
4-i {%sss
*s.
Si
j. • 1 *
' ■
'2HW*V
■*#*&£?**.
■V. * V ‘' ~
>
* , 4
\
-
; v v
«»*
WSr.
m
-■**
•.
y’••
I
w;
*T
.
Jr
*~
m
Wfflfr-.
*
M&t
rmm
■
4&*
’,y
■ ’;'-fc
V2*
•-
>r
■
'
ip
V
*, £ ♦.
■nuras
W&
!?■
+' .1
9 -i->
It’S remarkable
Dunlop “Railroads
will stand tip to
w hen ptit to tKc test.
The ability of rubber and fabric,
scientifically applied in the
construction or
—as
D
D
_to withstand hard driving month after
month over the roughest of roads and
tracks is as pronounced as it is remark-
able The quality of “Railroads is
such that they cost less and run further
than most tyres. In fact, they enable
motorists to get through trips that ap-
pear well nigh impossible to vehicle
traffic. We illustrate herewith what a
New Zealand motor cyclist had to
negotiate on a fast run over the moun-
tainous route from Hawera to Auck-
land—29o miles. On a Dunlop shod
7 h.p. sidecar outfit the trip was com-
pleted in 23 hrs. 5 mins, gross time and
17 hrs. riding time, despite heavy mud
most of the way. In climbing Mount
Messenger it took 3 hours to cover 1 *
miles of mud track, whilst the descent
took 2\ hrs. “It was a great test of the
tyres,” says the driver; and judging by
the photo prints, one can readily be-
lieve it. There is no doubt Dunlop
“Railroads” are dependable, and as
regards value and economical service
—well, tens of thousands of carists and
motor cyclists will use nothing else.
It pays to use them ! All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. All States and N.Z.


* ; Jlt
ft
m
• ■ /'i “ .
i
i
S
i i
A
•\A »»;
S 5
I
ms
%
X
■pjTr
U
S^\->
S^s-V
£
s
X^vN
S'
&'
3X
WSS
»
m
A
a
WA
x
m
%
///i
w
*8
x
X
n\
X
H
13
mm


The Man who buys Goodyear
Tyres taK.es no chances "
WHEN high cost of production made tyres high in pn<ce'
Goodyear met the needs of motorists by ‘he intro-
dudlion of the New Goodyear Single-Cure yre w ic
the lowest-price quality tyre on the market.
Again, when decreased cost of production ma<^e
reduction in the price of all tyres, Goodyear Tyres were
the first to be offered at lower prices.
Goodyear has been always in tbe van of tbe movement to
give to motorists tbe utmost of quality and value at t e owes
price possible. And to-day, though the price o/ Goodyear
Tyres is much lower, the quality of Goodyear Tyres is as
high as ever it was.
The Goodyear All-weather Tread
Tyre, which you can buy so much
cheaper to-day, is still the same
reliable, trouble-free, long-lasting
Goodyear that the experienced owner
buys and appreciates.
The lower prices apply alike to Good-
years for Dodg'e, Chevrolet and Ford
Cars as to the larg'er sizes for Cadillac,
Hudson, Chandler. StudebaKer and
other heavy models.
Recent years have proved that, regardless of price con-
sideration, thousands of motorists have fitted Goodyear
Tyres as though there were no other tyres in the world.
These steadfast users derive a fine advantage to-day
from the greatly lessened cost-per-mile.
Branches and Agencies
in all principal cities.
m
muUULip>YKA.U
T
1
9
0
0
5?
J
S
P»
r
I
»
>
**
*
0
d
ď


V
«7
p
ML
VI
•iiU.
‘•Brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Johnson’s Prepared.
Wax— the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors hn-
lshed with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its eflect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.
An Orchestra at Home
Just imagine the musical pleasure
you are missing if you do not
have a Gramophone in your home.
You should buy
A
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
Gramophone.
The world’s greatest artists record
exclusively for “His Master’s
Voice,’’ and consequently the best
records are at your disposal.
m
safe
C''
WPITE FOR CATALOGUE OF ALL THE
FOLLOWING MODELS:—
WE v SHALL BE PLEASED TO DEMONSTRATE
INSTRUMENTS AND RECORDS AT ANY TIME.
GRAMOLA No. 2 ,
GRAMOLA No. 3 |
LIBRARY GRAND I
STUDIO GRAND J
CABINET
MODELS.
BRANCHES
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.
in
a
338 George St.
Sydney;—«,
MELBA
TASMAN
ZEALAND
JENOLAN
EXCELLO .
TABLE
MODELS.
Prices from 12 Guineas.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
WkttcL
SCHN^^
S TAXDS ALO^E-
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Some Coughs take a lot of “ shaking off ”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
w. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
I
25-1
\\
COUCHS
COLDS
s
CROUP
LUNG
Y**
TROUBUJ
CHEST
affections
half of full cradles, concentrated industrial
effort, and so on) had begun to take shape.
Since politicians (he goes on) are fools or
criminals, and since in any event they know
nothing at first hand, as a rule, of the arts
of production, their present activities should
be handed over to scientists —engineers and
the like, men skilled in Duilding aqueducts,
changing the courses of rivers and construct-
ing railroads which are the arteries of civil-
isation’s body. Having thus established, in
a manner of speaking, that the men who
blew the great mine at Messines and designed
the dug-outs for the troops should have done
the work of Foeh at G.H.Q., Ivorzybski pro-
ceeds :
The characteristic energies of man as man are by
nature civilising energies, wealth-producing energies,
time-binding energies., .if they be not wasted by
ignorance and selfishness, by conflict and competi-
tion characteristic of beasts, they are more than
sufficient to produce a/ high order of increasing
piosperity everywhere throughout the world.
He even indicates the Department which is
to be the nucleus of the new civilisation, and
suggests a name for it —the Department of
Co-ordination. The members of the different
sections, which range from one of Mathe-
matical Sociology to a News section (“to
edit a large daily paper, giving true un-
colored news about the whole co-operative
movement, markets, etc.”), will be “the very
best men in the nation,” all selections being
made “through proven merits, not clever ora-
tory.” It is a fascinating dream this —our
present-day substitute for the quest of the
l'hilosopher’s Stone —of a world from which
all unpleasant strife shall have been elimi-
nated; a place devoid of bloodshed, lust,
theft or any sort of self-seeking, where every
prospect pleases and only creatures which
go on all fours are vile.
But even if by abolishing competition it
were possible not merely to maintain but
to vastly improve a civilisation which has
been built up from basement to roof on
competition, the thought persists that life
would become a deadly affair. The clergy
may denounce gambling, but it remains in
one form or another the salt of life. It is
a poor, depressed type of curate who does
not expect that the ecclesiastical lucky-bag
will one day yield him a rectorship—if not
a bishopric or uetter.
J. B.D.
Madame Roland
There is a fascination about the name of
Madame Roland. Her life-story i§ the
essence of all romance. There is everything
in it * that a novelist could wish for, and
more than the strict historian has a right
to expect. The other Saturday a writer in
the Age attempted to compress her life-his-
tory into a column, but he left out the two
things about, her that mattered most her
failure to conciliate the coming men of the
Revolution, Danton and Robespierre, where-
by the tragic downfall of her party was hast-
ened ; and her love for Buzot, which was the
main interest of the last 12 months of her
life. She was eloquent,' intelligent, good-
looking and supremely brave; her
“Memoirs,” written under the shadow of
the guillotine, would of themselves have
entitled her to live in history. Next to Andre
Chenier, whom the tumbrils took away as
he was finishing a magnificent piece of verse,
she was the most illustrious victim of the
guillotine. But looking at her from this dis-
tance we can see what her early panegyrists
could not —that she was too temperamental
to be a success in politics, and more particu-
larly Revolution politics, where the stakes
were always Life and Death. So far from
being an argument in favor of the theory
that public life is a proper sphere for women,
she was a warning the other w T ay.
There is a curious parallel between her
story and that of Marie Antoinette —one the
daughter of an Empress and the other of
a Paris engraver. They were of the same age,
all but a few' months, and they died on the
scaffold within four weeks of each other—
Marie Antoinette in October, 1793, and
Madame Roland in November of the same
year. Both played light-heartedly on the
edge of the cauldron before they were drawn
into it. Both illustrated with their lives,
and more especially with their deaths, the
fact that feminine influence and feminine
likes and dislikes are never so dangerous
as when nations and dynasties are at stake.
If Marie Antoinette had been less intolerant
of the hungry Paris mob she might have
advised her husband to his and her own
salvation. If Madame Roland had not hated
Danton for his rough voice and his ugly
face she would have secured a friend power-
ful enough to save her and those she loved
best from the guillotine.
Those were days when, in the words of
Voltaire, the gods were athirst. From
the beginning of March, 1793, to July 27,
1794. there were 2633 executions in Paris.
During the four weeks before the end, when
the Red Terror was at its reddest, there
were, according to the figures in Lenotre’s
“Revolutionary Tribunal.” iust 1000 persons
sent to the guillotine. Nearly all, bourgeois
and aristocracy, died with amazing courage.
The standard was set by Philippe “Egalite.”
first cousin of the king, who, in the words
of one disgusted spectator, “came on to
the scaffold with the air of a general at
the head of a conquering army.” A man
like that was cheating the rabble of its
revenge. Among them all none showed a
more dauntless front than the wife of
Roland, and she had no centuries of aristo-
cratac tradition behind her—that tradition
which says you can do what you like with
your life, so long as you show a supreme
contempt for death. For that reason the
wonder ot her end was the greater.
\\ hen £ 7 years of age she married the
philosopher Ro.and. He was 20 years older,
and no more beautiful to look at than most
philosophers. But this unusual woman was
not seeking surface charms; she wantect
a man whose mind she could admire, and
Roland seemed to fill the bill. lor ID
years they lived in the country, where a
daughter, named Endora, was born; then
at the beginning of the Revolution they
came to Paris. From March, ’92, to January,
’93, Roland was Minister of the Interior.
Those were his wife’s halcyon days. Every-
one worth knowing in Paris, or, for that
matter, in France, came to her house. Ut
them all she preferred Buzot. a young man
of 33, prominent Girondist, handsome, elo-
quent, dreamy, enthusiastic, like herself a
theoretical republican and believer in the
regeneration of the world. That their love
was innocent in the conventional sense is
certain, but the woman could not treat it
as a secret. She feit bound to take her hus-
band into her confidence and inform him
that her feelir" 5 for him were no more than
those of "an admiring daughter”—that her
heart was elsewhere. For the ageing philo-
sopher it was a deadly blow. A less truthful
woman would have been kinder.
By the beginning of ’93 things were rush-
ing down. The Jacobin torrent was sweep-
ing everything in front of it. Roland’s life
was no longer safe; at the earnest request
of his wife he consented to leave Paris in
disguise. She insisted on remaining; and on
the Ist of June they arrested her at her
house. After that the end came quickly.
The victorious party had tasted blood, arid
sanctuary for ago and sox had gone; besides,
the new Revolutionary Tribunal was ex-
pected to justify its existence. When Mad-
ame Roland came before the bar, Fouquier-
Tinville was just getting busy. On November
8 she ascended the steps of the guillotine,
and with hands bound behind her, while the
executioner Sanson was getting everything
in readiness, she glanced up at the statue
of Liberty above her head. She was heard to
utter the words that have become a memory
and a slogan: “O Liberty, what crimes
are committed in thy name!” The testi-
mony on this point is conclusive; that she
asked Sanson for a pencil “to write down
the strange thoughts that are rising in my
brain” is not so well authenticated. It is
certain that she asked, and was permitted,
to be executed last of that day’s batch, in
order that the spectacle of her death would
not unnerve someone who was awaiting his
turn. So she watched the knife fall —
watched it more than once—then bent her
head, and passed on!
To readers of Carlyle she is the “brave,
white woman of the Revolution.” Many
documents concerning her have come to light
since Carlyle. Her “Memoirs” were pub-
lished about 50 years ago, and more recently
appeared, in a small French edition, her
letters to Buzot, written from the Abbaye
prison. How they reached him is a mystery,
but some of them were found on his body
after he had committed suicide. There were
tragic lovers in those days. In one letter,
written shortly after her arrest, she says :
“Thanks be to Heaven xor having substi-
tuted my present chains for those I formerly
wore! How I cherish these irons which
leave me free to love you-wholly, to think of
you ceaselessly!” Students of the Revolu-
tion no longer think of Madame Roland as
an intermeddler in politics or a philosopher
in petticoats. She was the captain of her
fate; defying it and superior to it, though
it had shattered all her ideals, and robbed
her of her lover and her life. She had mixed
iri a man’s game—the deadliest of games —
but could not play it in a man’s way. So
she died, and indirectly caused others to die-
But against the background of the Revolu-
tion no figure is silhouetted more finely, no
one whose head seems to be held quite so
high.
ALFRED BUCHANAN.
English as She is Spelt
[The writer is Editor of the New Standard Dic-
tionary, the huge undertaking of the Funk and
Wagnalls Co. of New York.]
I am' sorry that, so far as I can ascertain.
The Bulletin made only incidental refer-
ence to High Court Chief Justice Adrian
Knox’s remarks on English orthography;
but the New York Times has supplemented
those remarks with what appears to be a
fairly complete text of his Honor’s observa-
tions.
From this report it appears that his Honor
is opposed to the spelling center, and charac-
terizes it as an Americanism. In this his
Honor lives right up to the traditions of
English law, the foundation of which is error.
Venter is an English spelling that ha.s for its
sponsors Lodge, the English dramatist (1558-
1625) ; Sylvester, the English poet, miscel-
laneous writer and translator (1563-1618) ;
William Shakspeare (1564-1616) ; rare Ben
Jonson (1573-1637) ; John Selden, the
famous English jurist and statesman (1584-
1654) ; Francis Bacon, Lord High Chancellor
of England (1561-1626) ; Minshew, the lin-
guist and lexicographer (1599-1617) ; Cot-
grave, the philologist (1634), and so. as not
to burden you with many more details, I
will name the following : Donne, Milton, Wot-
ton, Fuller, Prior, Pope, Berkeley, Goldsmith,
Burns, Swift and Robertson. These bring
us down to the dawn of the 19th century,
when the old French form was reintroduced.
Surely two hundred and fifty years of Eng-
lish usage is a sufficiently respectable an-
cestry for any word in English speech.
The form program has been traced back
to the records of the University of Aber-
deen, 1690, so that this word has two
hundred and thirty years of English use.
To the student of words, the most amaz-
ing thing is the substituting of z for s in a
large number of words formerly ending in
-ise. The modern tendency of the English-
speaking people, as indicated by the late Sir
James A. H. Murray, is to spell these words
-ize when they are so pronounced. It is regret-
table that a great many people ignorant of
correct English orthography have steadily
misspelled w T ords ending in -ize. making indis-
criminate use of -ise. Sir James A. H.
Murray, in his “New English Dictionary on
Historical Principles.” records the -ise forms
of words in the vocabulary of his work only
when these are sanctioned by the best usage.
When not so sanctioned the use is recorded,
but the variant or erroneous spelling is not
included in the vocabulary.
FBANK H. VIZETELLY.
Henry Lawson
Y note from Henry at the Coast Hospital:
.v uuic
It's about time I bad a say in reply to the letters
of svmnathv that have come to me in hospital. 1
* ~- - . • , , .
wanted to get one or two tilings m prim, out
the only reporters and their editms and sub editoia
I could get iu touch with, or who got in toiuli
with me, were too hopelessly saturated with their
, , , , - , i,,, t
blasted journaiese and mawkish sentiment Hut
well now in thanking a tew real friends 1 uant
to be friendly with all.
Many of the letters of sympathy from the school
kiddies were genuine and sincere, though the gems
are amongst the dictated fakes. The best Were
those in which the Australian kid fi-jed
some news or the “straight wire concerning tilings
in general in his or her locality—and very often
succeeded in sbite of the watchful eyes of parents
. , a . ‘ . two „„ im.i fnr a whole rpnlv
or teachers. Some ot these ca. ... ‘
for themselves. But I lost the use ot m.' -
hand, and up to the last day or two could om>
scribble painfully in pencil. Kids cannot be bluffed,
and I want my friends amongst them, of all ages,
“inside” and outback, to know the fact about that
hand, ft was impossible for me to answer them,
but I’ll make up for it in other ways.
And I want to thunk the people who are at the
back of a great deal of our school children’s thought-
fulness—that overworked, underpaid, self-sacrificing,
soon-forgotten body, the State-school teachers; many
of them mere boys and girls; some of the girls
sent to the most appalling loneliness, in the most
se ° : , 11 lw.riniont
uncouth places, where the heads of the pa
dare not send a male teacher, they are the bravest
body of people in the world—as brave as any of
the early pioneers in any land; for whereas the
woi-st that could happen to these was death at the
Hands of savages many of our teachers have to suffer
temperamentally many years of the , worst kind of
*.i , i u ‘ thoiv nons still
mental- and heart-torture, and keep their pens still
and tongues silent, about it. 1
a very good or a very brave man, but I stand pare-
beaded to these people now.
I want to thank the struggling, hardworking
people, with their swarms of kiddies, in the blind,
mean, stony street where I have lived for years ■
the people who were never mean, blind and stony
themselves—for their many little kindnesses: great
but not unexpected kindnesses. I have written of
them many times in many years, and will write of
them manv times again, I hope. For they are my
,n y
own people. ,
And I wish to thank certain young devils of the
freckle-legged and sandy-headed persuasion who are
free of the streets and fences and cannot be made to
go to school by any means or on any pretence what-
soever for refraining from thieving from my garden,
vegetable and flower, or letting others do it; and
, „ ’wii-ps” throuoh to me re the
for getting mulga ® , . ,
welfare of the house, such as it is, and its keeper,
“The Little Landlady.’* They would do the same,
but rather more blithely—for they would deem it
to be in a better cause—if I were in quod.
The Inky Way
G. n. Meudell: Adam Lindsay Gordon read “The
Sick Stockrider” —in manuscript—to his friend J. J.
Shillinglaw, and on finishing said he disliked the last
verse. Tearing it off the foot of the MS., Gordon
tossed it aside ; but Shillinglaw had the forethought
to preserve the fragment. The last verse of the
poem in the edition published by A. H. Massing &
Co. is:—
“Let me slumber in the hollow where the wattle-
blossoms wave.
With never stone or rail to fence my bed;
Should the sturdy station children pull the bush-
Howers on my grave,
1 may chance to hear them romping overhead.”
The suppressed verse continues as follows: —
"1 don’t suppose 1 shall, though, for I feel like
sleeping sound.
That sleep they say is doubtful; true, but yet
At least it makes no difference to the dead man
underground
What the living men remember or forget.
Enigmas that perplex us in the world’s unequal strife
The future may ignore or may reveal:
Yet some, as weak as water, Ned, to make the best
of life,
Have been, to face the worst, as true as steel.”
It is assumed that Gordon considered these ideas
too philosophic for the dying stockrider ; but most of
us will agree that they would have been, on the
whole, an improvement. The concluding verse is
sentimental and belongs to the kind of pathos
expounded in coon songs. The rejected verse would
have been a corrective.
“Two Seas”: A recent par bemoaned the fact that
a sailing ship in Pent Jactoson hove her
anchor to the tune of “Abe My Hoy.” Why
not ? Abe makes a good capstan chorus. Each
generation has its own capstan songs. Only the
hauling chanteys remain as they were 00 years
ago, probably because they mark the time so that
every man puts his weight into the drag at the
same moment. For instance, take a topsail-hal-
liards chantey of the old days. “A Yankee Ship
Came Down the River” sings the chantey-man as
he reaches up for a firm grip and the watch tail
on and yell “Blow, boys, Blow!’’ The chantey-
man takes up the solo again and the crowd sing
in chorus: “Blow, my bully boys, Blow!’’ pulling
as one man on the three words emphasised. But
any old song may be adopted for a capstan
chantey, and no doubt when “Marching Through
Georgia” was introduced many old shellbacks who
“walked her round” to that rousing chorus de-
plored the change from the tuneful dirge concern-
ing “Poor old Captain Stormalong”:
“We dug his grave with a silver spade,
We lowered him in with a golden chain.”
This was the sort of cheerful ditty that suited the
mood of departing mariners who had signed on for
a long voyage at .£2 per month and a ration of
stinking pork and weevily dog-biscuit. Not so
long ago I saw a crew of boys walking round the
capstan of a. barque of 800 tons. When she was
launched she was a full-rigged ship witli spars big
enough for a craft twice her tonnage. She carried
then a crew of 30, and as a tea-clipper homeward
bound with the first crop of the season could give
the old Cutty Sark herself a fair go. Hut when I
saw her she was loading sleepers for B’Africa, and
only the beautiful lines were left to show the smart
ship she had been. The small and cheap crew
from Cardiff —she carries only 12 hands now —were
riding on the singing, not “Good-
bye, fare ye well,” but a , cheap refrain of “The
squoire’s in the kitchen with the cook upon his
knee.” But, as before, why not? The anchor came
up to that as well as any.
“Yoyang”: On re-reading “The Vicar of Wake-
field” recently I was much struck by the precocity
of Goldsmith’s two youngest sons. The elder was
not quite four ; yet both attended to their father in
prison, reading to him daily. I witnessed a demon-
stration of what is called the Jones system of read-
ing a few weeks ago, and tiny tots were able to
read quite unusual words both from the black-
board and from finger-signs. Was some such sys-
tem taught in the Vicar’s time?


THE CALL OF THE YARDS.
TRUCK YOUR FATS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney ; Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane. Top market results constantly
attract sheep- and cattle-owners to consign
to the. firm.
if
MAXI
99
You don’t have to experiment with
Hardie’s “MAXI” Selected Quality
Leather Belting. We have done that
for you. And one belt will convince
you that no better leather belting is
possible—irrespective of price.
“MAXI” Leather Belting transmits the maxi-
mum degree of power at the lowest possible
cost. It gives years of sturdy service with
no upkeep costs.
Write for Price List.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
r#y
(Lzm
HUE
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
—a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet - scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED,
Loughborough, Leicestershire,England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
f
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ďf
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade ZinC DlJSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREEITIiIELBOURNE.
SUPPORT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
COMMONWEALTH CABLES LIMITED
(To be incorporated under N.S.W. Companies Acts 1899-1907).
This Company is being formed to MANUFACTURE TELEPHONE AND OTHER CABLES for the
POSTMASTER-GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT and others. It will commence business with a contract
running into £217,000, which has been entered into with the Postil luster-General by the Vendors
and Promoters (Messrs. C. A. Gibson, W. G. Gibson, M. Gibson and J. ,J. Hughes) through Messrs.
Gibson & Sons. I'he Company will manufacture all classes of electrical cable and insulated wires for
electric light and power transmission, for which there is a large and increasing demand.
ESTIMATES CAREFULLY CHECKED BY AN INDEPENDENT CABLE ENGINEER, MR. M. C.
TIMMS, A.M.1.E.E., AND CERTIFIED TO BY MR. ALEX. JOBSON, PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT.
CAPITAL necessary for erection of works, plant, machinery, working
capital and preliminary expenses, is estimated at .. .. ..£85,000
NET PROFIT on above contract for £217,000 with P.M.G., which will
, take 2 years to complete from formation of Company, estimated at..£38,400
(Due provision has been made for depreciation, income-tax, overhead
charges and contingencies.)
A\ ERAGE YEARLY PROFIT from this Contract alone for first
two years £19,200
IT IS THEREFORE CONFIDENTLY ANTICIPATED THAT THE
RETURN 20 PER CENT. PER ANNUM ON THE CAPITAL OF £
capital, £85,000, and £lO,OOO in deferred shares)-
PROFIT EARNED SHOULD
95,000 (consisting of called-up
MANAGEMENT: Mr. C. A. Gibson, of Gibson & Sons, Engineers, who holds large contracts with
the P.M.G. s Department, has consented to act as Managing Director. The services of
quahfied cable engineers have been secured.
SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW BEING INVITED FOR 105,000 ORDINARY
SHARES OF £1 EACH, payable by instalments. It is anticipated that only £85,000
will require to be.called up at present.
AND PROMOTERS' RECEIVE NO CASH, but will fee recompensed by allotment ‘of
10,000 DEI I ERRED SHARES. These shares will receive dividends only after ordinary shares have
received 10 per cent, p.a., until dividends totalling 50 per cent, have been paid on the ordinary
shares.
Flotation Expenses will be borne by the Company.
SECURE FULL PROSPECTUS FROM YOUR SHAREBROKER,
or the Secretary (pro tem.) of the Company:—
N. B. STEWART, A.C.P.A., c/o Alex. Jobson, F.C.P.A., 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
d
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87™ s rSdnsy
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Eife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. . . .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,906
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W„ APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
□
□
1
CONTINUOUS STAVE -WIRE WOUND
#*■
i-V*
Illustration of 2 Wood
Stave Pipe lines, .'iBin.
dia. and 60in. dia., in-
stalled in 1921 and 1916
respectively. These pipes
were laid for the Tas-
nanian Government and
are used in connection
with the Hydro-Electric
scheme at Great Lakes,
Waddamanna (pressure
varies from 20/200ft.
head).
IT IS A FACT
that no progressive modern engineer
makes recommendations for an important
pipe line without first carefully considering the qualifications of "Pioneer”
Wood Pipe. * _ I
Besides being far cheaper, more durable and more efficient than metal pipe,
wood pipe gives a continuous line from beginning to end —including bends
and curves either horizontal or vertical to follow the contour of the land and
eliminate costly excavation work. It is, in fact, exactly what the word
impIies—CONTINUOUS. Wood Pipe has a 15 to 20 per cent, greater
volume of flow than metal pipe, and this flow does not decrease with age.
Send for interesting Free Booklet.
We are also manufacturers of the famous WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Chief-Secretary Dooley in N. S. Wales
Parliament:—
We have sold fish to the people from 10 to 20
per cent, cheaper than they were previously sold.
We are able to do this because we sell all the fish.
Scales, heads and entrails included. • It is
a filthy way to sell fish, but Dooley can’t see
the filth in the glamor of an alleged 10 per
cent, saving.
* * * #
“Cleveland”: “Captain Spink” (B.
l/9/’2l) is piping a longshoreman’s tale
when he says that the Clyde-built Sir Lance-
lot . h( ?! ds . the record running for 24 hours.
Phis distinction is held by the Blackball Aus-
tralian liner Lightning, which did 430 miles
between noon-observations on February 28
and March 1, 1854. Three years later this
same flier ticked off 430 miles on March IS
and 19, when running her easting down oil
her outward voyage to Melbourne.
* * - * *
“Pick”: Who said that no care is exer-
cised in the Commonwealth DepartmentsV
Twenty-seven years ago the N.S.W. Observa-
tory sent a rain.-gauge to Bungendore public
school for weather-record purposes. A month
back the headmaster received instructions
from the head of the Weather Bur ban to
luuid the ancient tinware over. And when
the teacher, who had repaired it until there
was scarcely any of the original left, declined
to part with the relic, a Commonwealth offi-
cial was sent to demand and take possession
ot it.
Brisbane owns, in a way, a bit of the
famous old Cutty Sark, the clipper ship that
did one of the famous runs that the old sea-
dogs still talk about. A man who is still in
business in the Queensland capital met Cap-
tain John Willis, of the famous clipper, in
London, and they did business, as the Bris-
bane man puts it, “in the old-fashioned style.”
"lie told me when I returned to Brisbane
to disburse his vessels, cable their departure
and add how much money in round figures we
wanted, and he then would send a cheque to
our London agents. We corresponded at
times and he gave me his flag, which I fly on
my motor-boat. Of course I called this boat
the Cutty Sark, too.”
“Fife Rail” : Cutty Sark was a heeler, but
Capt. Spink (B. l/9/’2l) overlooked Ther-
mopylae's passage of 63 days from London
to Melbourne in 4869. The famous Capt.
Kimball was in command. A similar
performance, had already been put up by the
James Baines in a run from Liverpool to
Melbourne 34 years before. These voyages
take first rank in the sailing records of the
Australian trade. Both the Cutty Sark and
Thermopylae went to Portuguese owners
when quitting the British register. The
Liverpool-owned Lightning, on her maiden
voyage from Boston to Liverpool, did 436
knots in 24 hours, an average of over 38
knots, and the world’s record for a day’s
run. The Idghtning was Yankee-built but
British owned, and she is frequently given
credit for being the swiftest ship ever put
together. But although design and handling
had a lot to do with sailing records, still
some, of the ships that put them up were
lucky as to weather conditions.
One. of them tells how the Diggers are
doing in Gippsland :
A large number of estates, varying from 200
acres to 3000 acres, have been cut up into blocks
of 50 acres to 200 acres each for soldier-settle-
ment. The Board rarely purchases a place that
will not carry more men than it employs when
acquired. In one case a block of 800 acres was
bought at £l5 per acre. It had been in the hands
of one man for 14 years and supported from three
to five men. When taken over it was in a disgrace-
ful condition, being over-run with bracken and dog-
wood ; the fences were out of repair—in fact, it was
neglected in every way. This land was sold to five
soldiers and now maintains 12 men. Over 70 acres
are already under the plough; last year there was
none. One 60-acre paddock was in such a condition
that it carried practically no stock; cleaned up
and sown down with grass it affords sustenance
for 25 head of cattle.
It is admitted that a lot of land resumed by the
Rc-pat. was bought at boom values, but the improve-
ments now being made by the soldiers are counter-
acting that. In one district 68 Diggers are getting
a living off 6740 acres formerly held by 16 men.
In nearly every case it is the same tale: dirty,
neglected paddocks have been cleaned up and put
under the plough.
On the whole the new men promise a lot better
than the old. Some of the best country in Gipps-
land is held by small graziers in blocks of 400 or
500 acres. Many of these alleged backbones are
too tired to work their blocks and too mean to pay
labor to do it. The result is that the land is in
poor, almost useless condition. The so-called ex-
perience of the majority of hill-farmers consists of
fattening a few bullocks or a few miserable
cows on inferior pasture and watching their cows
go dry .in a hot autumn and die in a cold winter.
THE SHEARING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Coney sealskins are simply Australian rabbit-skins
that have been sent to England to be shorn, dyed
and returned to the Commonwealth.” —Evidence of
Sydney Inspector of Customs.
Vi e can shear Angora billy-goats, but cannot shear
a rabbit ;
For we must import from somewhere, as a well-
established habit.
All the lovely Coney sealskins that next winter turns
to money
Just a year ago were coverings for plain Australian
bunny.
Yet the people at the counters who think sealskin
is a feature
Of the# great and mighty ocean and a gentle sea-
tossed creature
Are not wrong in their conjecture; for this pelt is
such a rover
It has spent more time on ship-board than it did
among the clover.
I am sorry for Australia when I read it in the
papers
That such plans must be adopted by our great
importing drapers.
There are unemployed in thousands—tvho have also
got the habit—
But there isn’t one among them gets a chance to
shear a rabbit!
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


dfd
f
Virginia
Cigarettes
HTHE PRINCE CHARMING cigarette is the Prince
* of all cigarettes, and sets a new standard of
excellent quality in either popular priced or ex-
pensive cigarettes. Perfect tobacco, manufacture and
packing go to the making of this Charming cigarette.
10 for 9 D
20 for 1/6
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
4
■\
□
□
r
People prefer the Hupmobile for its unusual power and performance, its
unusual economy, its unusually long life, its unusual freedom from repairs, its
unusually high second-sale value. They prefer it, not because it excels in any
one of these things, but because it excels in combining them all.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier —extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


The Rose in the Wilderness
kt jW RS DESI’ARD,” announced the
| maid. For the minute the name
was unfamiliar: then, as a very
perfectly-tailored girl came into the room, I
laughed.
“Why, Ruth, I was just wondering who
the stranger was. I always forget my
friends’ married names. Tea, -Marie, and
hot, buttered toast. Well, how goes it,
Ruth?”
The firelight flickered on a pretty face
that was momentarily hardened in rather a
worried look.
“Fairly well,” she said, as she loosened
her furs. “Fact is, I’ve come to say good-
bye. I’ve had a cable from David, and he
wants me to go over to Canada to him on
the next boat. Of course, I’ll love to see
him again, but it’s all rather uprooting isn’t
it? I have never lived on a ranch in my
life, and I think I shall he rather homesick
at first.”
I sympathised, and we talked for some
time. Then she said : “You know I'm rather
worried about the frivolous problem of keep-
ing my looks. David told me that what first
attracted him was the fact that I looked so
different from most Canadian women. But
under Canadian conditions, shall I be able
to keep it up? For example, I have my hair
washed and waved at a hairdresser's every
fortnight; that will he impossible in ray
new life. And I look hideous with straight
hair.”
“Why, that’s easily solved: take over a
supply of silmerine with you. You only
want to damp your hair with it slightly and
put in slides or a curler or two, which can
easily be concealed under a boudoir-cap. Get
your hair accustomed to silmerine treatment
on the voyage over; then by the time you
land it will probably have developed a dis-
tinct natural tendency to curl, and will only
occasionally need damping. Of course, it
is much better for the hair than to sap all
its gloss and vitality with hot irons. For a
home shampoo I think you cannot beat stal-
lax. A teaspoonful of stallax granules to a
cup of hot water will make the most deli-
cious foaming lather, which cleanses the
hair splendidly. You’ll be able to dry it in
the sun in no time in that gorgeous climate.
If I were you, I should always keep some
reliable tonic in the house, for you never
know when your hair may require a little
stimulating. Yes, boranium and bay rum
is excellent: I always use it. Also, I think
it would be a very wise plan t<> keep some
tammalite by you ; dark hair like yours has
a very disconcerting habit of turning grey
in patches. If your hair does show a ten-
dency to fade, you have only t<> dissolve two
ounces of tammalite in three ounces of bay
rum, and you have a wonderful hair-restorer
ready for use.”
“Why, that seems too good to be true!”
exclaimed Ruth. “I must write that down.
Now, Estelle, I’m going to worry you some
more. What kind of complexion-cream
should I take? I want something that lasts,
that doesn’t take up much room, and, above
all, that really does keep one's skin in con-
dition,”
“The answer to the riddle is mercolised
wax,” I replied. A tin such as chemists
usually sell lasts for three or four months; it
is solid,• compact and not wasteful to use,
and it’s the finest oumplexion-beautifior there
is. Its great merit is that instead of making
the skin dull by clogging the pores with
grease, as too many face-creams do. it gently
absorbs the dull, outer tissue which gets
coarsened by hard, water, dirt and so on, and
reveals the dazzling freshness of the new
skin below. Of course, in a hot climate,
where the sun and dust tend to ruin even
the prettiest skius, ii will be simply invalu-
able. I’ll give you another useful tip: be
sure to provide yourself with some tablets
of stymol ; then, if you happen to have a
blackhead, you have only to melt one tablet
in a little warm water, bathe the blackhead,
and you will be able to remove it without
the slightest difficulty, with a clean towel.”
“Thanks so much. I'm sure I shall be as
grateful to you when I'm so far away. Of
course, I shan't need powder, because since
1 discovered clem ini to I haven’t needed it."
“No, you couldn't do better than Carry
on with cleminite," 1 assured her. "1 can’t
think why more women don’t give up the
old-fashioned messy powder and use that
nice lotion instead. Well, Ruth, I think
you’ll blossom in the desert all right, if you
are wise and take care of your looks."
“I hope I’ll be able to,” she said, "be-
cause however much one loves adventures
and roughing it, I don’t want to become a
masculine-looking woman. After all, David
liked me as he found me, and it's up to me
to try and stay the same.”
“I must go,” she said, rising. “I don't in
the least want to, but there are so many
people to see. Will you come and see me
off? I sail on Friday fortnight. Good-bye.”
“Good-bye, Ruth, and the very best of
luck to you both. Write to me, won’t you?
Good-bye.”—Amr.
If Poweik /s
WHAT You WANT-
XjsePlume
If you want to feel the exhilara-
tion of driving a car, which, day
by day, is fairly tugging with
power, use Plume Motor Spirit.
You will feel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of the
power developed by Plume Motor
Spirit. They say Plume doesn’t
jib on the hills, that steep hills only
serve to show how powerful it is—
and it doesn’t let them down when
they are in a hurry.
Plume is all power —it gives the
pull and the quick acceleration that
are so essential to satisfactory,
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra mile-
age that makes such a difference
to the petrol bill.
Pill up with Plume next time,
and experience the pleasure of
driving a car that is alive with
power.
P 4 A
M
111.! 1
Will
»\l*
w/
/j
W////'
A,
PLUME
MOTOR
SPIRIT-
VACUUM OIL CO.PTY. LTD.
Tv
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Down under the stars in the gloaming',
On the sands of the summer sea,
0 dearest! as we go a-roamihg,
Say, what will your answer be ?
Through life’s ever-varying seasons
Will love and devotion endure?
When winter-time brings urgent reasons
For Woods’ Great Pepermint Cure. — Advt.
isai
~ ‘s' HAI
- ]...
I
ď
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Fnod-F rink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C<?
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
Choosers
*
*■ ;
m
mcp.n
The Congenial Companion.
You are assured of congenial com-
panionship when you smoke a
GBD.
This genuine French Briarwood
Pipe is always in harmony with
your ideas of a good smoke.
Made by London experts and well
finished in every detail, it is the
boon companion of thousands of
smokers.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
In a recent Melbourne bigamy case the
pre-destined offender bore the name of Dear-
love.
Australia's first pipe-maker was one
Skinner, who made “clays” in a lane off
Pitt-street, Sydney, and sold them at a
penny each.
Kaiser Wilhelm has done something else.
Census returns show that very few children
born since the Big Rumpus started have been
called William. George has replaced it as
the most popular moniker.
“Pat It.”: Not only are there Sunday flick-
ers at Cunnamulla (Q.), but football is
played on the afternoon of each Sab-
oath. The local parson is captain of one
of the teams, and only sheds his football togs
in time to don his surplice.
“II.”: Born at New Norfolk 104 years
ago, Mrs. Johnson, prior to her death at
Ross last month, was the oldest living
native-born Tasmanian. She married at 10
and then went to Ross and stayed there.
The town had its centenary celebrations only
recently, and the vigorous old lady walked
two miles to be present at the jubilation.
“T. 0.1.”: Alfred Ford, the SO-year-old
notary public who died in Melbourne lately,
got his biggest lift this way. When lie
reached Melbourne in 1855 he found a job
with James Hingston (“The Australian
Abroad”), who was a law stationer in
Chancery-lane. Evidently Hingston was so
grateful for his assistant’s help that when
the boss died he left him £5OOO and the
business.
"Sixenate”: In a N. 8. Wales court re-
cently a woman way charged with the
slaughter of her infant, who was drowned in
a dam. “Something frightened me,” she ex-
plained, “and 1 let my baby fall in, and my
good handkerchief fell in, too.” Apparently
the idea of the woman, who was described as
dull-witted, was that the mention of the loss
of a good handkerchief would show beyond
question that the whole thing w r as an acci-
dent.
“T.W.”: Old wineman Fells, who re-
cently handed over his cellars in Tooley-
street, London, for his employees to run on
their own account, had the handling of the
first big exhibit of wine from these parts—
at the Indian and Colonial Exhibition at
Kensington (Eng.), about 35 years back.
Fells failed to make full use of a big oppor-
tunity, and let pushful Burgoyne get in and
make a million or so out of the stuff. The
smaller man runs a. brand of Australian wine
along with various whiskies and brandies,
but has never boomed it into a vogue.
“E. 8.”: Ned Kelly has been dead a long
time, but his memory is still kept green.
When a son of farmer-Edward Griffiths, of
Benalla (Vic.), in the Kelly country, mar-
ried a .sister of the bushranger, Dad was very
wroth, and was reflected in his wili.
(Mow the will As providing many shekels for
several Gents Qne, owing to the objections
lodged by the son, who is, incidentally, mak-
ing nasty allegations regarding the mental
state of Dad wfFPn the will was drawn up.
A Court will have to settle it.
“Aclay” : A resident of Gippsland recently
took unto himself a wife, and the whole
wedding-party finished the day with a picnic.
That night the bridegroom went to gaol
because a policeman found him in a drain ;
the best man was also locked up because
he fought the John, and the bridesmaid
joined in the procession because she mistook
rhe officer for her long-lost brother and
hugged him too hard. V hen they appeared
in court next morning they resembled the
remains of a free fight, and the Voice that
Breathed had a very beery smell about it.
"Stamps” : A Federal civil servant whose
name and speech had a suggestion of Fritz
about them resigned his position recently.
After a few months’ absence he applied and
was reinstated to his former job, despite an
unfavorable report from the departmental.
Sawbones. Not. so long back a dinkum Aus-
tralian, after climbing to an important posi-
tion in the service, resigned. Six months
later he applied and was reinstated, but to a
job on the lowest rung of the ladder, and
that only after he had completed 12 months'
probation. llis reinstatement was in ac-
cordance with tlie procedure laid down in
the Commonwealth Public Service Regula-
tions. and he had no grouch, but —how did
the alien work the oracle?
oyang” : A report of Professor Scott’s
ieeture on the Hume and Ilovell overland
trip to Port Phillip in 1824 suggests that the
quarrel between the explorers arose out of
a banquet given at Geelong to Hovell in
1858. At the time of that banquet the now-
lamous quarrel was 30 years old, as old as
the overland trip itself, for it is well known
that on that job Hume and ilovell were
anything but friends; and all who knew
Hume knew that they were never friends
after. Among other things which caused
the quarrel to continue was the fact that
Hume could never recover his map of the
trip from Hovell, who denied having had it,
though Hume saw it on his desk at Goul-
burn. This map now turns up in Sydney,
ami is said to have been recovered from an
Edinburgh solicitor’s office.
"Adelaide”: The formal charges laid by
the Bishop of Adelaide against Canon Wise,
lor ritualistic practices, have been abandoned
during the Canon’s absence in England. But
in a message from London he makes it clear
that the olive branch is the very last thing
he has any use for:—
1 only wonder at the sheer indecency of those
who, having made the mistakes they have made in
the past, fail to apologise for what they then said,
and still imagine themselves to be infallible in
their utterances concerning other Catholic customs.
.... I find to my delight that I am just an ordinary
Catholic priest, and doing what hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of priests are doing in England, and
that St. George’s [the Canon’s church] is a very
ordinary Catholic Church in its practices and adorn-
ments What a pity it is that we in Australia
are so often kept in ignorance of the Catholic basis
of England’s religidn,, and are led to suppose that
the stupidities of the So-called Reformation were the
only religion England ever had.
I am no theologian: if I were perhaps I
should be able to see how there is room in
a Protestant church for the man who wrote
that last sentence.


A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, hand
burnished, plain design, £B/10/-
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Sauce Bouts and Frame, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £4/10/-
Smaller size, 70/-
TABLE-APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £9/9/-
Otliers, £5, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £l5/-/-
A.. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, handsomely
engraved and burnished, Gi>/“
El
A. Sannders’ Ilot-Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated,, A 1 quality, Rustic
Stand, £7/10/- .
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, At quality, highly burnished, plain
design,i complete with eight detachable tubes £B/87-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE—IT’S FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller. 805-815 George Street (Oppositeßailway Station). Sydney
A. Saunders’ Hot-Water Jus, pure
Silver-plated, Al quality, engraved
“Fern” design, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Rose Bowl, pure
Silver-plated, Al quality, highly
burnished, complete with plinth,
£5/10/-
WIND POWER WINS.
A wide-awake farmer sent us this comparison of cost of pumping
between a “Billabong” Mill and a horse. The job was the filling
of a dam from a well 115 feet deep. 2500 sheep and 15 head
of horse were watered daily at the dam. Read the comparison.
“Billabong” Beats Horse.
WINDMILL.
Total cost of mill . . £42 2
Cost of erecting .... 7 18
Freight 4 0
2 gallons oil 0 7
9
0
0
0
£54 7 9
Rosul t—Permanent
supply £54 7 9
THE OLD WAY.
1 man for 26 weeks at
30/- per week. .. J . £39 0 0
1 boy for 26 weeks at
20/- per week. .... 26 0 0
Feed for one horse for
same time 19 10 0
Shoeing, etc 2! 10 0
£B7 0 0
V '•
Temporary supply .... £B7 0 0
The farmer writes: "From the above figures you will see that
the ‘Billabong’ has more than paid for itself in the first six
months, and is as good now as when erected. You will also
notice I have allowed nothing for the value of the horse.
The above was written seven years ago, and the Billabong
has been increasing the farmer s savings ever since. Cut out
waste like the wide-awake farmer. Send for the free
"Billabong" catalogue. It shows how to do it.
NHOP
324-330 Pitt St.
SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke St.,
MELBOURNE.
m
m


Caused Itching and Burn-
ing. Cuticura Heals.
,; My little girl when a baby twelve
months old, was affected on both
cheeks with dry eruptions. They
caused a deal of itching and burn-
ing, also a terrible disfigurement.
The irritation caused her to scratch
them, v/hich always left them very
red and sore.
“I then saw Cuticura Soap and
Ointment advertised and sent for a
free sample. After trying the sample
I found her face much improved so I
bought a tin of Ointment and a cake
of Soap which completely healed her.”
(Signed) Mrs. yv. A. Johnson, An-
auramba, Via Crow’s Nest, Q’land.
Improve your skin by daily use of
Cuticura Soap,Ointment and Talcum.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns.& Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Gastronomic faddists, herboraceous cranks,
Pulverise our patience with their pallid pranks,
Dieting restrictions make a man a “weed,”
food-fads are fool-fads ! Take whate’er you-need,
Nuts are meant for monkeys, meats meant for men,
Vegetables clear the blood, eat them now and then,
When you have a cough or cold, alcohol abjure,
A\ hat you really need is Woods' Great Peppermint
Cure. —A DVT.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
for Colonial Riding.
Conditions make it imperative that
only a bicycle of proved merit be
chosen when buying a new mount.
Start well from the beginning and
purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The reliability and
long service of bicycles con-
structed of B.S.A. Fittings make
them an investment which pays
immediately from the date of
purchase, and saves many troubles.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guar ante: d
interchangeable
f
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE '
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
§7
mm
imilllliiiilHiiiimiiiimimiiimimiiiiiniinniimiimir
£
>5
•).
Sg,
k
F=?
S'
S
iAWSTIC
WIEN who are at the forefront
&jj of their profession, in culture,
Li SI j n discrimination and ability
to choose the best, place the
STETSON in a position of
leadership in the realm of hats.
A STETSON possesses such correct
smartness, such obvious quality that it
is,a distinct asset to a man’s appearance.
See yourself as others see you. Try
on a STETSON at your Outfitters
irrnx. to-day
•Aim
'*■£///7>
Uii
iiLuni
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
Men's Stou* 7 IS
, Light 6/-
Ladies’ • • 41-
Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2 -
Ladies' 1/3
(Heels only ,
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS Ltd.,
London, Eng.
#J| THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear;
d
MILITARY’
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Auitr ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue* Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
8. & W. AUSTRALIA, C« M. RANSFORD, 22, Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
**
m
S
o
res
Jhjoucil
jAvud’x^JLijOL
The hard-wearing
qualities of COLO
TYRES testify to
the high quality of
their construction
Ask your Garage
The Colonial Rubber Co. Ltd.
Head Office, 5-7 BarrapK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland : Albert & Swanson Streets.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Ihe diminutive Queensland abo. Roley
Doctor piloted A. Judd 5. horse Sundown over 7ft.
at last Albury (X.S.W.) Show. This is an
eighth 61 an inch better than Sundown’s leap put
up at the same place last year.
* * * *
"Pongo”: Goulburn is said (B. l/9/’2l)
to have established a Rugby League record by
walloping Yass by 70 to nil. But South Sydney li.
in lb la defeated Mosman at Moman by 10 -2 to 2
points. Though in that case the opposition scored
something while in the other case it didn’t, there
was a bigger difference in points in the earlier
match.
* * * *
There’s a Galahad among the jockeys in
Adelaide. He did no sort of justice to his mount
in a hurdle race, and when carpeted before the
.stewards gave an unconvincing excuse. Afterwards
he made it known that he had been really ill, but
did not: like to give details before the woman short-
hand reporter the stewards employ. So they got a
icport lrorn his doctor, after which the boy was
completely exonerated.
Moriarity, of the South Adelaide Football
club, has been, named for the third consecutive
season the most brilliant player in Adelaide. After
every League match played the central umpire puts
in a sealed envelope his opinion as to the best man
on the ground; and at the end of the season the
Magarey medal goes to the one with most votes, it
has never before been won three seasons running’.
This year’s Sydney premiership cricket
will have a record number of first-grade clubs,
ltaiidwick, St. George, Marrickville and Mos-
rnan have been added to last year’s dozen, and the
competition divided into Last and West sections.
Alter seven rounds the leading clubs in each grade
play off, and the teams gaining the highest points
take the premiership. The season puts on flannels
lo.' the first round on October 1.
*
~ yic- veteran oarsman A. Chamley, who
died the other day, had over a hundred wins to his
credit. Partnered by J. Donald lie won the Cham-
pion Pairs three years in succession, 1902-3-4. As
a member of the Yarra Yarra and Albert Park Fours,
in as in tl ? e lea<li 'ig boat in 1890-3, 1898-9, and
1902-5. In eight-cared inter-State events he appeared
nine times for Victoria without a defeat. After his
last race in Sydney, when Victoria just scrambled
home ahead of Tasmania, he slipped on the landing
stage and broke his arm, which left him a looker-on
for the rest of his life.
* * * *
Dick Green, of Sydney, who has just gone
west, aged 80, was oorn at Urecnwicu, on the
1 arramatta River, in 1853 he won a race for ama-
teurs in outriggers, and in the following year, at
the Anniversary Regatta, lifted a .-£lO prize and
another of £7 for youths not over 18. In 1863 he
went to England, received forfeit from Robt. Cham-
bers, and returned virtually the world’s champion,
being the first Australian to meet the big overseas
scullers. In the early ’seventies he kept the “Old
Champion Scullers’ Arms’’ at the corner of George-
street and Queen’s Wharf—a site which is now tra-
versed by trams.
* * * *
“Point”: The frequent absences of Mayne
from - the_ Australian XI in Britain are alleged to be
due to his weakness as a fieldsman, but other influ-
ences may have been at work. Maine is not a popu-
lar man, especially in South Aus., where he origin-
ally played in first-class cricket, anil he didn't gain
anything by being- dragged into an inquiry regarding
Armstrong’s conduct during the ■ Vic.-X.S.W. match
in Sydney last year. Maine’s appearance in that
Mfair wasn't cnle'-l'vWl to endear bun to either
Armstrong or Armstrong’s friends, and his supporters
particularly 111 Last Melbourne —promise lt > have
the whole matter opened up when the Australians
return.
“Celt”: The roughest racing episode I
ever saw occurred at a hamlet near Castlemaine
(Vic.) a short time ago. A trot was due, and the
rulers were taking up their positions around the
course. When tlje starter had abopt two-thirds of
the nags on their marks some “stiff" rushed out
irom tlie onlookers and throwing down his headgear
yelled “Go!”—and they went. The starter was
caught side-o'n by one of the contestants with a
little Clydesdale blood in it and unseated, and his
01 erthrower went 011 arid won. The man with the
bag paid out, and the race was not re-run.
“Linesman”: Shimidzu, who has proved
hiinsdi a tougher proposition than his < compatriot
Kiimagae in the Davis Cup battles, is a remarkable
athlete, lie can play a gruelling’ game in the fiercest;
heat and finish in good trim when most of his oppo-
mnts are being collected with a spoon. The tem-
peratures of India never worry him, and it is his
hard driving powers, combined with his endurance,
which have lifted him to a top place in manv Indian
championships. Like Tilden, he claims that high-
class tennis is impossible except by plain living and
prohibition. Even away from India he feeds mostly
on nc-e, and never drinks anything stronger than
water.
* * * ♦
flic annual protest against the “reverse
way of the course” gag is just now in season, it
u ill be applied, as usual, to any deceitful handicap-
favorite from Melbourne that runs badlv in Sydney,
and Vice versa. The excuse will be that the animal
probably didn t take kindly to the reverse wav of
racing, as though it had been brought up from
infancy to travel, always in one direction. Yet the
hook will continue to show that the crack two-year-
old of one State is likely to run just as fast in the
other, and famous old battlers like Carbine, Lochiel
Abercorn. Lord Cardigan, Wakeful, Trafalgar, Posei-
don and other inter-State heroes never cared twopence
which way of the course they were galloping.
Towards the finish of the Westralian gold-
fields round of race meetings backers got a bit of
fhoir own back. The useful Andronicus (7st. 91b )
who has done well in the West, won the Kalgooriie
Cup from the 10 to 1 chances Red Banner (7st 91b )
and Klaxon (Bst. 21b.). but the time was slow—
2in in. 3isec. for the 12 furlongs. The Andria nag
uent out at 1 to 2, and returned his tote supporters
9 to 2 for a win and a shade over 2 to 1 for a
place. Fair Intervener, an English mare recently
imported by P. A. Connolly, was favorite and ran a
good fourth; she had credited her owner with the
w.f.a. Spring Stakes four days before. The Hampton
Handicap, the last of the big events, went to the 5
to 1 shot Mnnjardy (7st. 41b.), the co-favorites
Bcnry (Bst. 41b.) and the heart-breaking Klaxon
(Sst. Tiili.).. running respectively second and third.
“M.I’.A. ’ : The English athletic champion-
ships held at Stamford Bridge revealed a trio of
eraek-a-jack athletes—Edward the sprinter, Hill the
toiler and Howard Baker the high jumper. Edward
is evidently of West Indies blood, built on greyhound
lines, with an action that has waste of energy cut
down to nil. Edward won the hundred and two-
twenty, beating Abrahams, the Cambridge crack; Hr
is a slow beginner and a strong finisher. Albert Hill
ran a mile that threatened the longstanding 4min.
12Jsec. made by W. G. George in the ’eighties. The
time was 4min. 13 3-ssec. The veteran George told
me afterwards lie thought Hill capable of covering
the mile in 4min. lOsec. He is of the Emil A r oigt
stamp rather than an Alfred Shrubb. Baker, the
high jumper, cleared the bar at a northern counties
meeting at 6ft. oin. At Stamford Bridge he won
with a touch under 6ft. 3in. He is a very big
man. tall and well set up, and runs hurdles' as a
side-line. However hurdles and field games alike
were cleaned up by an invasion of Swedes, whose
javelin-throwing was a very graceful exhibition.
(Continued on page 55.)


Amusements.
SY DX E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
PADDY. THE NEXT BEST THING.
PALACE.
TEA FOR THREE.
Allan wilkie’s shakspeauean
PRODUCTIONS.
AUSTRALIAN TOUR:
Com. Wagga, 27th 28th; Albur.v 29th A' 30th Sept.
\ii>trnLisjiiii Representative: lIUOII D. WILSON.
17 The Ranking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N lON Pit; T U R I*; T H E A T K K «
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRIC ROYAL.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
“HIS LADY FRIENDS.”
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CHU CHIN CHOW.
The World’s Most Gorgeous Stage Spectacle.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
INCUS THEATRIC. M E I. 15 O U It N It.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
K
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY & GRANT present the Latest English Success,
JEFFERSON WINS THROUGH,
by VINCENT DOUGLAS.
Plans at Allan’s.
BkINCESS’s TUILYIKir. MELBOURNE!
* Lessees: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Cosmo Hamilton’s Daring and Fascinating Play,
SCANDAL.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S Til HAT It ES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridget.
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
THE MIRACLE OF MANHATTAN.
Also
CARMEL MYERS in
A MAD MARRIAGE.
Prices as usual.
IyjA.IES’UC THEATRIC, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
FRANK KEENAN in
FALSE CODE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
» ItiTANN IA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Municipality of Moree
Moree Artesian Bore Baths.
TENDERS are invited from responsible
persons for a 10 years’ lease of the
now famous Curative Baths. These im
elude Ladies’ and Gent.’s swimming basins,
private bath-rooms, refreshment-rooms, care-
taker’s cottage and other offices, and six
acres of land. Tenderers to state the
amount of cash premium and annual rent.
Full particulars and specifications of terms
and conditions may be had on application to
the Town Clerk, Moree, N.S.W.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Baths,”
must reach the undersigned by 12 noon on
Tuesday, the loth November, 1021.
.TXO. W. NELSON,
Town Clerk.
Council Chambers.
Moree, N.S.M ..
I.3th September. 1021.
THERE
IS
NOT
ďf
a better watch
made the world
over than our
“Super Fx and
R” Watch.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R” fully-
jewelled lever, 84 / -
For hard bush wear.
For sandy, dry country.
For rough riding.
For long life. »
For profound accuracy.
For intrinsic value.
After SI years’ experience with watches we
write the above, and our fine reputation and
large capital are behind our statements.
Fairfax g Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
11 ‘cash’only.' 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Amusements.
IVI
EIJIA
THEATItE.
JIEIiIiOIBNK
Showing tlie pick of the world’s films, includinp
the productions of CHAPUN. VITAGRAPH, PATHE.
WOULD and SKLZNICK. .
Al.l, AUSTRALIANS visiting London j
should read the Biutish Austuahasian, |
ud weekly—an illustrated payer containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Biutish Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London. W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information -without charge
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will ouote you price for it.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction'tias Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footseray, Victoria.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gcrvasio. Barcelona, Spain.
Superb MUSIC
—even in the country
It does not matter how far back
you may live, you and your chil-
dren may have at slight cost all
the advantages of the city resident
so far as music is concerned.
The Edison Amberola, tor
instance, is quite a low-priced
instrument, which renders both
instrumental and vocal music in a
most charming manner.
Specially good for dance music, making the small or
large party perfectly independent of outside aid.
Your nearest, Edison dealer will gladly play you a selec-
tion of the latest items, or an interesting booklet will be
sent, post free, on request. H rite now.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
d
ďf
I THE FAMOUS W
COD LIVER; f
OIL 1
EMULSION 1
and WasHng
Disorders i
l nr y
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Missing: Friends.
Re WILLIAM GLENDON, deceased.
WILL Mr. MICHAEL GLENDON, formerly of
Kilmote, Victoria, a brother of the above-
named deceased, please communicate With the under-
sikned. He is entitled to a small share, in the
Est 't". SHAW fr SHAW. Solicitors, Perth. W,A.
JAMES CHARLES HAMILTON
HAYES, otherwise JAMES CHARLES
HAMILTON or JAMES CHARLES
HAYES, last heard of at Toowoomba,
Queensland, Australia, will hear of _ some-
thing to his advantage by communicating
with the undersigned. Anyone knowing his
present whereabouts or the address of his
wife or children, kindly communicate with
H. F. CORNISH, Solicitor, 0 Stone Build-
ings, Lincoln’s Inn, London, W.C.2, Eng-
land. Australian papers please copy.
d
LUBRICATING
OILS. . . .
Tn Every Grade
for Every Service
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
THROUGHOUT ALL STATES & N.Z. (
K 5
/f
i
rttfc"
I
W
I'
JSfcKS&Kf.
IS
HMf COL NtT
SHEIt
IMEDlunl
mojoroil
mmmiihiiHnrr
V
\
f
c«s
o
*v
-■■.
: : %
LI.
Sure its’SHELL"Daddy P


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEM, RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay. or from
4*4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON k JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.'
Tels.; Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager.
On your way home
find room in your
bag for a bottle of
T.B.
LIGHT ALE
You’ll appreciate it
at dinner or suppe/!
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery,
Sydney.
Laugh at
Skin Troubles
The rash on your face that
makes you feel as though
you must creep away ana
hide will vanish when treated
with
LICMOLUENE
It contains valuable curative
properties that will overcome
Eczema and all other Skin
Troubles. All chemists sell
it, 5/6 and 7/6. Send 1 6
for sample tin to \Y. H.
MALYON & SON, BAL-
LARAT, VIC. Ligmolliene
Soap is soothingly medicated
and cleanses clogged pores, 1/-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SIIOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “The Maid of the Mountains"
"°' AL "Oh, Lady, Lady!”
Criterion ‘‘Paddy, the Next Best 'thing'”
Palace "Tea for Three”
Huits Moving Picture!
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
w , “His Lady Friends”
Her Majesty s “G'hu Chin Chow”
Jung s “Jefferson Wins Through”
Princess’s “Scandal”
Hoyt's Db Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
f, 1,1,4 Moving Piriures
Britannia Moving I’iclurea
Majestic Moving Pictures
The Williamson firm has another “Peg o’
My Heart” in “Paddy, the Next-Best Thing,”
adapted by Mack ay and Otd fiom Gertrude
I age s novel. Given its first Australian
run at Adelaide Royal, it has drawn packed
houses and gained popularity rather than
aroused enthusiasm, it is a lmppy play.
There isn t the vestige of a villain, or even
an unsympathetic character of either sex
The whole story is just Paddy’s unwilling-
ness to recognise her mate when she meets
him. The book has been cleverly compressed
into five short acts, with all the outdoor
adventures cut. Paddy is a wild tomboy in
a quiet Irish family. Sister Eileen is greatly
attracted by Blake, a London visitor, who is
fancy-free and makes no objection when a
girl-cousin improbably asks him to say for
one evening that he is engaged to her, Paddy,
who has regarded him as Eileen’s property’,
promptly swears undying hutred again, st
him; but at that moment her father dies,
and the home is broken up. Wtien they
meet again in London he is her declared
suitor, Eileen being now quite happy with
someone else. Paddy is older, but not more
conventional or less hostile, and Blake’s
first attempt at love-making becomes a
wrestle—almost a fight. In a railway-
carriage scene, well staged, she starves
rather than share his lunch ; but when he
seems asleep she gorges—and of course lie
mi t asleep. The action moves back to the
old home. Blake has rescued it and put the
deeds in her name. She is not to be
“bought” thus; but under his threat to
leave for India, and some sisterly straight
talk from Eileen, she melts to a finish obvi-
ous from the start.
The pleasant idyll is played by a co.
nearly all new. Unfortunately someone has
(it must be charitably supposed) advised
Isobel Brosnan that Australia likes the color
laid on thick ; and she uses a trowel. Hands
and arms are ever at work like those of a
stace Hebrew, and her behavior over the
supposedly solitary lunch has all the
“Grumpy” tricks and more. When she will
consent to be quiet she has real power, her
voice and manner often recalling Nellie
Stewart. Claude Flemming plays up to her
“THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS."
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Crumpet (the Governor's aide),
Leslie Holland.
well; burly and not young, something on
Willoughby lines, he is arguably just the
right Petruchio to tame th.'s Katharine,
rather than the eye-glassed and blase youth
insisted on by the author. The smaller
characters are mostly good. Doris Kendal
as Eileen is quietly charming, and always
effective whether sad or glad. Honors go
also to Cecil Kellaway as the father, an un-
romantic good chap who dies from the
effect of unaccustomed one-stepping on a
weak heart, and wLose last act in life is to
light a cigar. Grace Lavers walks on in
two small parts, Meta Pelham is a life-
like aunt and Spencer Fisher not only “pro-
duces” but acts well.
There are six characters in "Tea for
ITiree. at the Sydney Palace, and only
the three matter. They are Carter, a Tired
mis.ness Man, wooden-headed and jealous;
lions, a Coed Woman, not averse from a
o'u-r ex P e P s ? of her dear Carter; and
i bmp a Platonic Lover, who would be a
devil of a fellow if he could. The internal
evidence suggests that the author, Roi
Cooper Megrue, intended to make a tragedy
or it and changed his mind after writing
two acts. Over the tea which he sips with
i e ' jrtuous Lady, unbeknown to Carter,
, * aton^c Lover talks in a most inflam-
mable way. He arouses Carter’s suspicion
by blurting out the secret of the tea-party
« deux, rallies the unhappy man in lago’s
ve:n on the inconstancy of married women,
and audaciously prigs Mrs. Carter’s photo-
graph. To recover the article the agitated
vvoman visits Philip’s rooms at n : ght—and
the now furiously-jealous husband is
watching over the way. Husband
bursts in (wife has escaped meanwhile),
is baited almost to madness by the
cynical and, as he supposes, success-
ful lover, proposes in his fury that one or
other should destroy himself by drawing a
marked card out of a hat, wins the sinister
lottery and reads an account of Philip’s
suicide in a newspaper. But just when Mrs.
Carter is denouncing her now remorseful lord
in a poignant scene the deceased walks in and
you learn that the whole business —assigna-
tion, duel, suicide and newspaiier report—
was a fake designed to cure Carter .of his
jealousy, and win a permanent place at his
tea-table for a harmless sentimentalist. It
is all very clever and very unconvincing, and
Marie Tempest does the thing admirably. So
does Graham Browne. There is merit, also,
in Ashton Jarry’s impersonation of Carter,
albeit he is a bit too Johnnified at times.
And Dorothy Hamilton, Frank Allenby and
Steff Macdonald get as much as can reason-
ably be expected out of the three immaterial
r les.
❖ >!« $ 5jC
Iyennerley Rumford and Clara Butt (nut
it. that way for a change) continue to hang
out the “Full-House” sign at Sydney Town
Hall. People simply can’t get enough of
the cavernous depths of the big contralto’s
voice, nor of her nice-looking husband’s
quaffing of love-draughts of wine in honor of
King Charles.
* * sje *
“Oh, Lady, Lady !” is in her e’ghth week at
Sydney _ Royal; and “Maid of the Moun-
tains” is still fresh as a daisy at Her
Majesty’s. But she may have her nose put
out of joint by “Paddy the Next Best
filing,” which comes to the Criterion on
Saturday.
Since Wilkie Bard’s departure Sydney
Tivoli has given itself over to the comedian
of the loud and noisy type. There is one
emet humorist, however, storyteller Stuart
Barnes, and the benedicks of this city find
that life lias more beer-and-skittles in it
now that their valiant champion has re-
turned. A tolerably good baritone, Devron
Brock, has been dredged up, and there are
other diverse entertainers —ranging from a
one-man musical revue-er to a pair of
“mentalists.”
* ❖ *
Bert Lytell smashes the boot market at
Sydney Lyceum by starting the barefoot
craze on Broadway, He does it for love of a
temperamental V.A.D. who has nursed him
through his after-war illness. But he finds
Broadway very hard, and while his boot-
maker’s bill diminishes his account at the
ped curist’s becomes staggering, so he forgets
the temperamental V.A.D. and marries the
daughter of a New York boot king. A good
story is told in “Bob Hampton of Placer,”
with James Kirkwood in the name part and
Wesley Barry as his faithful, friend Bud.
The scenery is rugged and picturesque, and
the whole is just sufficiently love-flavored.
There is nothing of the turnip about the
Swede when .it comes to acting—the new pic-
ture by a Swedish cast at the Lyric and
Grand has more of a chwken-nnd-champagne
flavor. The American Civil War is at the
Crystal Pa In re. As Maryland, a
Southern girl, Catherine Calvert does the
old Curfew Shall Not Ring To-night act
when the village bellringer proceeds to
sound the alarm for the pursuit of Mary-
land s best boy, who is a Yankee, and who
has risked entering the Confederate lines
far a kiss. Cosmo Hamilton’s “Midsummer
Madness,” all woman, wine and song, and a
Cumberland romance with Mary Miles Min-
ter to help it, hold the Globe and Haymarket.
“Jefferson Wins Through,” which has
passed on from Sydney to Melbourne King’s,
is merely an evening-out for Bert Bailev in
the part of the fractions Christopher Jeffer-
son. But for more rigid economy in whiskers,
Bailey’s mill-owner is the twin of his old
Dan Rudd, though he occasionally uses
“nowt” and “By room” to suggest that his
vo : c« was brought up in Lancashire. Len
Budrick, as Nathaniel, gets more of Lanca-
shire's booming vowels into his eloquence,
and is fairlv convincing until the final act
n-ioVcsi fnrce of Ir's future "fid rpnof-of-'on.
Vivian Edwards is the whiff of optimism
from the U.S. that sets the doleful House
of Jefferson smiling. In his short invasions
of the stage Edwards is boisterous and
affable, but, though he bristles with cigars
and sticks his boots on the table, he refuses
to regard his nose as the organ of American
speech. Leslie Gordon totters about as
Christopher’s elderly manager, and adopts a
broken tone and sagging knees when confess-
ing his prospective lapse into matrimony.
John Galway, as Geoffrey Moserop, the sou
“TEA FOR THREE ” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Graham Browne as the friend; Marie
Tempest as the wife; and Ashton Jarry
as the husband.
of Jefferson’s broken rival, is stiff and unin-
spiring; and Eileen Sparkes is the Rose Jef-
tersou who has an unaccountable vearuing to
nestle in the arms of the poker-backed boy.
feti 1 it can be said for Eiieen that she has
noth.ng else to do. Sylvia McNair needs
more than a grey wig to suppress her youth-
-1 [uuiess as Mrs. delieisoii, uuc sue gives some
idea ot the wily housewife who fondles her
hectic lord into a sweeter frame of mind.
❖ * s;: >;s
“Chu Chin Chow,” the “East Lynne” of
pageantry, came to Her Majesty s, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday night for the Show. The
huge cast is lull .of established favorites
drawn from every quarter of the profession.
■ *' Styan, most offensive of meiodrama
villains, makes an art.stlc job of the name
part. Kay Souper (Kasim 1 supplies the
fehakspearean and Repertory Theatre touch,
comedy (Charles Workman), broad
(Maggie Moore), drawing-room (Eily Mal-
yon), and romantic l Raul Plunkett) are
all represented. The Forty Thieves are a
melancholy lot, suggesting bv their disorder-
lmess and general appearance 0 f shaken
moral a tightening up in the methods of police
control in Asia. The scenery, as in pre-
vious productions, is gorgeous.
V
At Melbourne Royal the unflagging Coyne
p °.- make the best of what is br ghtest
in His Lady Friends.” The performance
weakens when Coyne’s three lady protegdes
line up in his cottage by the sea. partly be-
cause there is little that isn’t conventionally
and theatrically foolish for the three con-
flicting visitors to do, and partly because
they are not quite the right sort of ladies
to do it. Gwen Burroughs, perhaps, gets
nearer to the spirit of the absurdity than
Kubi Trelease and Clarice Hardwicke, but
even Gwen is too crude in her minxlike de-
signs on Jimmy Smith’s bank account. And
because those three festive dJlar-grabbers
are not such hypocrtes as they should be
the s'mplicity of Mrs. Jimmy (Blanche
Browne) is made more impossible than it
need b°. Apart from the trio of designing
marauders, however, the characters are well
t.vned. Marjorie Bennett, in a bathing-
suit and otherwise, is as humanly grateful
to Jimmy as Hilda the cook (Ceei 1 Snongl is
humanly awful. If Marie La Varre is a
too-emphatic contrast to the gentle drab-
ness of Blanche B’-owne, the fault is on the
right siflp. There’s a wor’d of gi’-gpr in
warlike Marie, and if there’s one feminine
tra t the gallery girl Pves more than another
it is Ginger with a big G.
** * *
Until Friday of next week the “Scandal”
had will remain in nosition at Melbourne’s
Princess’s, during whmh Mrs. Broimh
and Fmma Temple, also H. R. Roberts in a
lesser degree, will draw comparisons between
He house that was ■a-d the times that a’-p.
Inf'deat a n V- it bp a g-onti jflpa for
He ladies aforementioned to « f art an eWn-
tion class on the premises. But as actions
speak ToiWr than worh in “Scandal.” aW
nothing talks quite so eloquently as the bold,
bis Bed. lessons in elocution are not of im-
mediate importance.
At Melbourne Tivoli the early Musgrovean
policy ol pictures-cu/a-vaudeville has been
abandoned, and from this time forth the
show will be all vaudeville, twice a daw A
Wizard who wears a Chinese costume and* was
named after Chung Ling Soo is a new turn of
the moment, whilst the; soprano warble of
l'eggy Peat occurs amidst the vaudevilles
that were newer last week. The all-impor-
rant consideration, of course, is Wilkie Bard,
and Bard having got lus unobtrusive grip
on Melbourne s sympathies, the loss of Fatty
Arbuckle, etc., is not felt. Or. rather, it
is felt and generally approved of.
Dame Clara Butt is due at Melbourne
Town Hall next Saturday, and for a week
or two thereafter.
n 6 Jjc
In “The Miracle of Manhattan,” starring
Blaine Ilammerstein at Hoyt’s, Melbourne,
this week, the populace learns how a Sas-
s.ety bud can live on Id dollars a week with-
out spending more than half of it on powder
and lip-salve. It is a thrilling tale in which
Blaine, after harrowing adventures, marries
an ex-criminal and makes a gentleman of
linn. Hoyt s other yarn, “A Mad Marriage,”
with Carmel Myers us the principal adorn-
ment, is an alarm-clock to all who have gone
to the altar in haste. At the Majestic
Clara Kimball Young is Fashion’s last word,
and some of her frocks could be easily de-
scribed in shorthand. All Clara’s sex are
rushing to the. display, and mere men admit
that, if quantity counted, a dustman could
pay her dressmaker’s bill. The runner-up
at the Majestic is "The Mystery of the
Ihirteenth Chair,” effectively played by a
picturesque cast The Britannia’s reigning
hero is Felix O’Day, a beautiful Irishman
who is driven to forgive an eloping wife by
a brand-new attection for an antiquarian’s
daughter. At the Melba they have “The
City of Silent Men,” which argues that the
life of a New York crook is only one damn
Sing Sing after another.
=!' sic j)<
A p : eture*show without any Fattv
Arbuckles in it:—
Among the big performers contributing to the Aus-
tralian Art Assoc.’s show at the Fine Art Gallery
in Melbourne, no one is more conspicuous than W.
B. Mcinnes. His best is an excellent study of a
mother and child' posed in an attitude of tranquil
affection. He has a more sensuous portrait of a
pretty brunette in a buttercup evening-dress, and h >
revelled in the lights dancing on the lady’s gown.
Bernard Hall, still persisting in the now elderly
eccentricity of lemon-tinted backgrounds, sends a red-
headed lady, apparently dressed for a Chinese fancy-
dress ball, but he does better in a small nude. George
Lambert has two small, well-painted canvases,
“Weighing the Fleece” and “Oakleigh Riders,” which
are more in the nature of magazine illustrations.
George Coates depicts the ruby, well-fleshed face of
a popular club secretary, but his portrait of W. L.
Baillieu is net a good likeness, nor is the complexion
true. Streeton dabbles in his favorite blues in his
distant “View of Adelaide,” and Septimus Power
glories in the scrumptious curves of fat cattle, scoring
principally with a portrait of a champion bull.
Charles Wheeler’s self-portrait seems to hold the
mirror up to a headache, but the modelling of the
face is unimpeachable. “The Man in Grey” is
Clewin Harcourt’s magnum o; us, though he uses side-
lights for contrasts like a fashionable photographer.
Harry B. Harrison has an array of portraits all dis-
tinguished by good color, but, in instances, rather
hasty in the treatment of the hands. The late
Edward Officer’s picture of a serene morning at Mace-
don is very attractive, and the sunny glow of W. D.
Knox’s landscapes gives the spectator something of
the real Australia. Norman Macgeorge’s bright
palette gets a good advertisement in “Field Toilers,”
and James R. Jackson reproduces in some notable
examples the pearly effect of high sunlight on
rippling water, Arthur Boyd’s “Gathering Storm”
pictures the deep, translucent greens in a threaten-
ing sea, and Victor Zelman’s “Fleeting Sunshine”
is more natural than J. J. Collins’s “On the Top
of the Ridge,” wherein foreground details are almost
submerged in the obtrusive background. Louis McCub-
bin recalls the war in a vivid view of galloping artil-
lery and disembowelled houses. George Bell’s “At
Dusk,” the only canvas in the decorative genre
style, recalls the work of Rupert Bunny in the rigid
repose of the ladies in the composition. Harold Her-
bert heads the water-color section, Eldershaw coming
next, and M. J. McNally some way behind with a
couple of wan impressions. Also, there are the
inevitable paste llists, Dora Wilson and Cumbrae
Stewart, and Napier Waller gets a look in with a
well-handled design in monochrome, “The Return of
Bacchus.”
** * *
The cabled success of “Australia’s Wild
North-West” film at the Philharmonic Hall
(Bond.) probably means a long engagement
for M. P. Adams, who tempted Robert Court-
neidge to take the picture up as a business
proposition. Shackleton’s Arctic Explora-
tion show ran 52 weeks on the same Phil-
harmonic screen, and Shackleton’s manager
was one of the experts who sized up “Wild
North-West” as a winner when Adams go:
them to sample it. Moreover, they all
agreed with Courtneidge that Adams was
the best man to tell the incidental tale—
far better than any culchawed English lec-
turer.


ď
f
d
u
SvH
•r*.
Hi
•>'V
WHS?
mm.
£
Ashley River Bridge, New Zealand.
Enainoer : F. IV. Marchant, Esq., M.I.C.E.
Reinforced Entirely on B.R.C. System
B.R.C. Reinforcements are suitable for all types of Structure. B.R.C. means
ease of handling, accuracy of spacing and greatest safety—three very essential
features.
Suppliers to :
Melbourne Harbor Trust.
Queensland Public Works Department
Melbourne City Council.
Footscray City Council.
Richmond City Council.
Newcastle City Council.
Victorian Country Roads Board.
Mosman City Council.
Woollahra City Council.
S.A. Public Works Department
Perth City Council.
Commonwealth Railways.
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works.
St. Kilda City Council.
Malvern City Council.
Sydney City Council.
Vic. Public Works Department.
W.A. Public Works Department.
North Sydney City Council.
Adelaide Tram Trust.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
South Melbourne City Council.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Telephone: Central 8861.
8 W
Fabric
RrrrfTTfTframm
_ xorrrmrrraTra
VIC. . .
N.S.W.
S.A.
Q’LAND
N.Z. . .
TAS. .
W.A. .
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
I WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
I WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane.
. JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland.
T TABORT, Jun., Hobart.
..ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.


RIFLES.
Automatic Winchester .303 Cal. Carbine.
Twenty-two-inch steel barrel. Capacity
(i shots. The nattiest .303 rifle yet pro-
duced. Price £l2/10/-
Automatic .33 Cal. Winchester. Twenty-
inch barrel. Capacity 11 shots. The
highest-velocity .22 cal. rifle produced at
a reasonable price. £lO/10/,-
Repeating .33 Cal. Remington. Hammer
less. Twenty-inch steel barrel. Take-
down pattern. Fires 22 short, long and
long rifle cartridges. £6/10/-
F. Browning Model “Be Luxe” .33
Cal. Single-shot Rifle. Twenty-four-inch
barrel. 55/-
Rifle and Gun Repairs Done on the
Premises. Work guaranteed.
G.unsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON* INTOXICATING
s*
If it isn't..
Its - Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER ” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of "BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath s (all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, Mark Foy’s
Oreen Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
m suburbs and country. Or postage paid 1/9 from K
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
RIDING BREECHES
Sports Coats
ďf
LADIES’ g
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
W. CHORLEY
g CO. LTD.,
315 George St.
SYDNEY.
[?]oet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisile
POVERTY
POINT
„ “Boswell" : Tile bowelless rapacity of the
Yankee Film Monopoly was never "quite so
emphatic as in its current attempt to boost
the corpse of Virginia Itappe. For the time
being at any rate it had to drop , Arbuckle,
but no sooner did ’Frisco announce that the
dead girl was_ to be a living star in ’Murka.
than Australian prints which owe portion
of their existence to the eternal movie
pander were disfigured with great splash
announcements featuring the deceased in
“A Twilight Baby.” For ghoulish exploi-
tation of a corpse this indecent dollar-chase
has rarely been excelled.
The drunken orgy at San Francisco which
ended in the death of the movie actress
Bappe and a charge of murder against
"Fatty” Arbuckle, is not going to do pro-
hibition any good. The movie millionaire,
like any other .sort of millionaire, can get
liquor in the U.8.A.; but even millionaires
can’t be sure of getting good liquor. What-
ever sort they get they have to consume De-
li ind locked doors, and few people behave
quite normally behind locked doors. Cer-
tainly for whatever wild things- happened at
that gin party at the St. Francis Hotel the
locked door was responsible; so prohibition
stands in the dock alongside “Fatty.” And
the verdict against it must be guilty if it
locks doors but can’t prohibit.
“Penn Ebb”: Bert Bailey has promised
Con Drew to give “The Jinker” a gallop
at Melbouriie King’s before Christmas. Syd-
ney Repertory did it in 1917.
’Mudchannel”: The practical result of
"Old Pot’s” paragraph (B. 25/S/’2l) in
regard to the miuor mystery of the disappear-
ance of the First Folio Copy of Shakspeare
presented to Essie Jenyns and bequeathed
by her to "the Sydney Art Gallery in the
Domain." has been to bring the hook’s where-
abouts to light. Secretary Ifould, of the
Library, saw the paragraph, and it reminded
him that the Library safe had held the trea-
sure for over a year waiting for it to be
found by the executor. Meanwhile, the
executor had been searching England and
Australia for it. and was beginning to
despair of ever finding it.
"‘Spotlight”: Months ago, during the Melb.
season of the Allan Wilkie eo., a Poverty
Pointer scoffed at Wilkie’s idea of making
his organisation a permanent one for the
presentation of Shakspeare in Australasia.
The co., after 12 months’ existence, gave its
2(»Bth performance recently in Wellington
(M.L.) and produced its tenth Shakspearean
play. By the way. has any actor on the
Australian stage, other than Wilkie, played
such a varffety of parts in this country as
Hamlet, Fal staff, Othello, Shylock, Jacques,
Mark Antony, Petruchio, Macbeth, Malvoiio,
Richard 111., Mercutio and Romeo? And this
is only Shakspeare. There are also in old
comedy Chas. Surface, Sir Peter Teazle,
young Marlowe and old Hardcastle, and Sir
Anthony Absolute: in romantic drama Mat-'
thias (“The Bells”), Marcus ("The Sign of
the Cross”), Svengali and others, while in
melodrama Wilkie has portrayed leading
parts in “The Squaw Man,” “Seven Days
Leave,” etc., to j, say nothing pf repertory
plays, in which ‘lie has played Sir Joseph
Crofts (“Mrs. Warren’s Profession”) and
-Nathaniel Jeffcote (“Hindle Wakes”). Even
farce comedy lias seen him as the chauffeur
in “The Rotters.” An amazing record when
you come to sum it up.
“Fax” : The odd thing was that Alice
Crawford, the Bendigo girl, ...now Mrs. G.
Valentine Williams, “distinguished journalist
and war correspondent” and occasional star
actress for the movies, should ever have
dropped out of notice as a leading lady on
the stage. After going to England with the
Wilson Barrett Co. and getting a good start,
she looked likely to make a big name for
herself. She was tall, handsome, brainy and
naturally litted for fine stage work. But she
never was associated with a very popular
character. She was tin l gifted woman wasted
on plays that didn’t prosper. Also she was
said to have a will of her own. ffom-ething
certainly accounted for her retrograde move-
ment in theatrical repute, and perhaps it was
a commanding temper, though this paper
should be the last to mention it. On the eve
of her departure for England Miss Crawford
sought out The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic, told him he had been thft first to pre-
dict a future for her, and asked him to
accept a very handsome photo of her. The
only grateful actress he ever met!
“Lud” : The British playwright who was
best known for his skilful adaptation of
“The Marriage of Kitty” (“Le Passerelle”)
passed out in England recently. Appearing
for some time as an actor under the name of
“Cosmo Stuart.” lie was in reality Cosmo
Charles Gordon Lennox, eldest son of Lord
“JEFFERSON WINS THROUGH:’ AT
MELEOURNE KING’S.
The young lover says he will start a null in
opposition to Jefferson (Bert Bailey).
and Lady Gordon Lennox and grandson of
the fifth Duke of Richmond. Though as a
light-comedy mummer he never created much
stir, lie won considerable success as a drama-
tist. He provided his future wife, Marie
Tempest (whom he married in ’9B) with
three winners—“ The Marriage of Kitty”:
an original comedy on somewhat similar
lines, “The Freedom of Suzanne” ; and (with
Robert Hic-hens) a version of “Vanity
Fair,” called “Becky Sharp.” He was re-
sponsible for a baker’s dozen of other plays,
-pi e . i ) , i , sgest hit amou S'st them being “The
T tiier, adapted from Bernstein’s “Le
voleur,’ in which .Margaret Anglin starred
in Australia.
Leo K.”: Olive Wilton, who understudied
Line lie Polini in “Eyes of Youth,” '‘Kind-
ling and other Tait productions, is trying to
put a repertory theatre on its feet in Hobart.
A while ago she staged Pinero’s “His House
in Order at the Royal, and it was a success
from every point of view bar the box-office,
ft lsn t easy to get repertory going in a place
Jin hart, with its population of only
ou,IHJO; but Miss Wilton is going to put on
a couple more shows, and if thev succeed
she will continue with the scheme ; if not she
probably won’t.
“THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS,"
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Gladys wancricff as Teresa, and a couple of
aentlemen bandits.
"Camb": About the last thing Clara Butt
did before leaving London was to sing the
curtain down on “Chu Chin Chow” at Ilis
Majesty’s. Incidentally, the same lady sang
the same anthem at the opening of the
theatre, well over 20 years ago. Tree built
it. and his executors have run it till now.
when it passes into the hands of Grossmith ;
but Asche will still have it to produce
■‘Mecca” (or whatever the Censor allows it
to be called). Among the "Chu Chin” play-
ers whom Asche called out and congratulated
in presence of the public at the final eurtain-
fall, was Australia’s old friend Bessie Major,
also the veteran Julian Cross, the oldest
member of the cast, but guaranteed not to
havd missed a single performance during the
five years the play has run.
"M.D.” on eyestrain at the “movies” :
,ln view of the gigantic cinema theatres that are
being erected, it is to be hoped that those responsible
for the comfort of patrons have absorbed the latest
information about the arrangement of the front
seats, and the avoidance of too large an angle of
elevation when the picture is viewed from this part
of the house. The fact that the point of acute
vision—the macula —-is brilliantly illuminated, while
the periphery of the eye is in darkness, has been
thought to be ! productive of harm; but a brilliant
illumination of the macula, and even .a flicker, are
not so injurious as an unduly large angle of ele-
vation. Some of the theatres, in Sydney err in this
respect, the angle of elevation from the front seats
being- GO degrees' or over, whereas, the limit of com-
fort is 35 degrees. By arranging the front seats
in a semi-circle, the ocular comfort of the audience-
will be assured; and most modern theatres are.being
built on these lines. ‘Everybody knows what an
Art Gallery headache is, but trustees don’t bother
about eyestrain and the angle of elevation, and still
indulge in the habit of “skying” works of art. The
natural position of the eyes is straightforward, or
looking down a gentle slope. In order, to rest the
eyes of picture-show patrons after exposing them to.
intense white light, a screen, either blue or green,
should be lowered during the intervals; and those
intervals should be frequent.
“Wodgil”: Can’t Melba’s manager dis-
suade her from giving- dollar concerts in her
native city? The design is quixotically gener-
ous, as Northcliffe points out: —
The visitor came upon a photograph of Melba. “1
hear,” he said, “that Melba i» going to sing to you
for ss. That is a wonderful act •by a real Austra-
lian. She could get £ a seat in London.”
I heard the lady in the Albert Hall for two
bob. For' another sixpence I acquired a
right and title to a seat (or at least a place)
in Covent Garden —it hadn’t been given over
to bruisers then—when she played Mar-
guerite in “Faust.” That was in the Coro-
nation period of 1911, when London was
putting the gun into the unsuspecting tour-
ist. Now, after the lapse of 10 years, dur-
ing which, no doubt, the lady’s voice has
grown finer than ever, she is to warble to me
m her own home town for a pitiful five bob.
It is sheer self-robbery, and ormhtn’t to be
allowed.
London Stage, reprinting some quaint,
pars and bits of news which appeared in its
columns when the world was 40 years
younger, recently had the following, which,
as it truly says, “reads like a page from the
dark ages”:—
Mr. AY alter Bentley made an application last Satur-
day to the Court held at Inverness for a theatrical
license. It was opposed by the Rev. John Mactavish
who said Sliakspeare's plays were objectionable on
account of their profanity. He added, “I oarnesth
pray that, looking; at the matter in the light of
Eternity, the Justices will contribute to the gloi
of God by refusing the application.”' Mactavi-h
was gently put on one side and the license granted.
“Stargazer”: “Old Pot”: (B. 8/9/’2li,
contrasting great Alice Barnett’s enormous
proportions with the sentimental stuff she
often had to spout in Gilbert’s operas, forgot
one of her funniest situations. It, was in
“Dorothy.” She fainted as the result of
information supplied, and Elton, as Lurcher,
had to catch her. “You have slain our little
Eva!” gasped the comedian. One night Elton
went down under his burden. “Eva up a
bit!” lie stammered, following on the former
gag. Finding himself damaged by the acci-
dent, Elton consulted a doctor, who found a
broken rib." "Thank God she didn’t fall on
my neck!” said Elton. Alice Barnett's
Katislfa, though approached for cleverness by
Celia Gilhoni’s, has never been equalled, the
original having all the physical advantages.
“Gilbert built the part round me,” Miss Bav-
nett told ine. “Of course,” she added, “with
the help of scaffolding.”
“Nella” : I haven’t heard any Pointer re-
mark on the likeness of Wilkie Bard to our
old friend Robert Brough. Voice, appear-
ance and dry, incisive method are all
strongly reminiscent of the brilliant actor to
whom Australian theatregoers owe so much.
“Yarra Ben” : The movies are a boon to
the poorer classes, I have heard. Passing
by a picture palace at 10 o’clock one .recent
Saturday night I heard infants’ cries. In
the vestibule was a row of perambulators.
Each perambulator contained a baby. Several
of the babies were awake: some were crying,
others yelling. The mothers were presum-
ably inside the show enjoying “Should She
Leave Her Home?” or some such absorbing
“moral lesson.” It struck me that these so-
called “cheap” entertainments are in reality
the dearest things that Australia patronises.
“E.T.” : Truth can be stranger even than
stage plays. And the Sydney citizen who
entered police lI.Q. the other day armed
with a knife and remarked “I shali murder
someone with your permission.” was merely
infringing the rights of the Polite Lunatic
in “The Belle of New York.”*
Ready for Cabinet is the bill, prepared in
the Vic. Chief Sec.’s Dept., providing for
censoring films. The screw of the censor
and the footage charge for sub-editing are to
be fixed by Ministers. As co-operation with
the Commonwealth is intended, and only
enough ‘money to make the scrutiny work-
self-supporting is required, the levy on, the
cinema people should not be heavy. While
it is not a .safe bet that the bill will pass
this session, it has a better show, piloted
even bv such a minor Cabinet light as Baird,
than, say, Morley’s (private member’s) Tote
Bill.
“T.M.D.”: Stephen Ewart, who is sup-
porting Ethel Irving in London (B.
15/9/’2l), is a brother of LI. Hamilton
Stewart, who was in the “Sherlock Holmes”
Co., headed by the late Cuyler Hastings.
Stewart first struck Australia with the
“Ben Mur” co., whose run came to a sudden
stop when Sydney Majesty’s was burnt
down. The leading man was Conway Tearle;
a stepson of Osmond Tearle. He was really
Freddie Levy, son of that wonderful cornet-
player Levy whose widow Osmond Tearle
married. __ Austin Melford, a provincial
“Silver King,” Mabel Lane and George
Black, an artist with a huge voice were
others in the cast. Ewart is a polished actor,
and it was a pity he was ever allowed to
leave Australia.
“Old Pot” : The original Australian Kitty
in "The Marriage of Kitty” was Rose Mus-
grove, who several years ago married and
retired from the stage. Rosie had some
trouble in breaking down papa George’s
objections to her entering the profesh., but
she managed it, and began her career in
"The King’s Musketeer,” in which Cecil
Ward was D’Artagnan. She scored a suc-
cess, and during the Sydney season under-
studied Henrietta Watson as Milady, and
played the character brilliantly when the
russet-haired one was ill. On .1.0. AV. decid-
ing to produce “The Marriage of Kitty” he
searched England for an actress to play
the part, then decided to give it to Rosie:
and although she had not the experience
of Marie Tempest (B. 15/9/’2l) she gave
an excellent study of the wilful heiress. Wil-
fred Draycott. a heavy, bucolic-looking
actor, unmistakably English, was Sir Regi-
nald Belsize.
THE HEROINE: AMERICAN VERSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Born poor and bred in poverty,
How could I be as gooff
As really [ desired to be?
My prayer was understood:
“Oh, Heaven, make me rich that thus
i also may be virtuous ! ”
I went astray, as one must do
If one is poor, I ween,
Yet hopes to linger good and true —
In Heaven’s sight, 1 mean.
A Wall-street man, with millions free,
Came, saw, and straight adopted me.
He gave me noble motor-cars,
And very costly furs,
And diamonds like evening stars;
A real nice girl who errs
Expects as much of Dead Sea fruit -
Yet how I hated him, the brute!
My honest love was all for John,
The good young engineer
Who into far Brazil was gone
To earn a million clear—
A million clear for me and John
To comfortably marry on.
Meanwhile I flaunt my splendid frocks,
Each of enormous worth,
And laugh a hollow laugh that mocks
At vanity and mirth.
My lover’s aunt and sister Kate
Have scorned me, and I nurse my hate.
I bring them both to scalding shame,
I laugh their tears to scorn;
But ovt’i' my unhallowed fame
1 sometimes sit and mourn.
This only gives me strength t’ endure—
Thank Garrd at heart I still am pure !
He comes one day, my John, my clear,
And all is understood!
My explanations sad but clear,
My motives fine and good
Are ail in vain? 1 see him now
A thunder-cloud upon his brow !
The other who possesses me
I loathe. In vicious stealth
I’m daily plotting to be free,
Now that I have his wealth ;
And on the morn on which I fled
I dropped a statue on his head.
He followed me where I lay hid;
He said he loved me still,
inhuman wretch! My gun 1 hid,
And then I aimed to kill.
The jury sobbed, the pale judge sighed
“ ’Tis justifiable homicide!”
We two are wed, my John and I :
We have a baby-boy.
I sweetly watch Hie days go by
Each with its special joy.
Xow happily I may unroll
My native purity of soul!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


Richard Hunt § Co.
/
/
New Season Goods.
From Leading
ENGLISH MANUFACTURERS.
Prices from 30/-
BATES
SCOTTS
11. JOHNSON
A. J. WHITE
TRESS
STETSON
KNOX.
Richard Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
What does
SKF*
mean?
—more than a long-proved quality in ball-bearings; even more
than a KIND of bearing—sKF stands for an altogether different
principle in ball-bearings, that has all precedent, and has
been the means of saving millions oi H.I .>1 '' JJJJJ*}* ti •
The most advanced engineering practice ot the piesent time in
Australia and throughout the world accepts
BALL BEARINGS
as being the nearest approach to frictionless power-production yet
30in. pulley spoke started the rotation of 140tt. 0127/16111.
shafting heavily loaded with this and other pulleys. 5Kr Bal -
Bearings are self-aligning, and instantly adjust, themselves to slia t
deflection spring or load change. Equipped with SKr Ball-
Be n-inis you get more power out of the same plant than
Ke v"u <oi<Tif Plain beatings or roller bearings we, r
utilised—not to mention saving of oil, time,
wages, upkeep, and increased life of
beai .ngs and belts.
We invite discussion of
VOUR power problem.
GARDNER, W/ERN
& CO. FT*., LTD.,
HEAD OFFICE: 384 CITY HOAI), SOUTH MELBOURNE.
SHOWROOMS: 369 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY DISTRIBUTING CENTRE: 223 CLARENCE
STREET, SYDNEY.
Distributing Centres also at Brisbane, .Adelaide, Perth am
Hobart.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
-T7,
i+* r*
** nn
fffl
-m
u
0
fro
<m#
Royal Cord' ’Nobby’ * Chain ' ’Usco
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Use
Fuller& Johnson
Power
THE FULLER & JOHNSON Throttling Governor
Petrol-Kerosene Engine has been on the market tor
years and is a thoroughly up-to-date standardized
engine of known value.
Just the engine for the farm, station, or any othei place
where dependable power is needed.
Each engine is a sturdy, full warranted machine and will
perform exactly as represented. It is “easy to start, wm
operate smoothly and steadily on either kerosene or petrol
and will deliver more than its full rated Brake Horse Pom •
The simplicity of design, the high quality °f materials used,
the perfect balance—and the most rigid inspection t ~ '
to each purchaser an engine capable of long and continued
service.
Learn more about these exceptional engines— card
, mailed to the nearest distributor named below L .
full descriptive literature.
w
Easy to Start
In sizes 3,5, 7,9, 12, 15, 20, 25 B. H. P. Stationary and Portable
DISTRIBUTORS
The S. A. Farmers* Co-operative Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., LTD,, Perth and Geraldton.
■*\ ■ . ;
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Ag-ents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney,
LEWIS &
whirry
MAKERS
: ‘ vA *■**'«*■**
1
mmmm*
m 3
m
CAUSTIC SODA
Eledro!ytic-38 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
Furious showed she could last nine fur-
Jcngs iiy taking' the Rosehill Guineas on Saturday
without much trouble. Handily placed textile turn
■ lie loped past Braehcad opposite the Leger, and
y.'ss travelling: easily two lengths clear of him when
:f e journey ended. Pelaw Main, who had been in
the first flight most of the way, was third, a neck
nehind Braehead. In all probability the run* will
keep Furious favorite for the A.J.C. Derby unless the
Victorian colt Harvest King - , who has arrived at
Kandwick, does something specially fast on the
track. The Maorilander Cupidon, who was solidly
hacked and had every chance, finished well back in
the ruck. Against Furious are her breeding and her
failure to stay in the Chelmsford ; on the other -hand
she is a well-grown and beautifully proportioned
lass and possesses a splendid action. Worth noting
that the double—the Kosehill Guineas and the
Derby—has only been annexed twice.
With 91b. the best of the weights Beauford was
leaving Greenstead at the end 6f Sydney TatEV
Tramway Handicap on September 10. On Saturday
at Rosehill they came together in the Hill Stakes, a
§ mile, w.f.a. The Greenstead people backed the big
; orse .from S.’s down to 6 to 4. Beauford shortened
to 2, and there was moderate support' for Elf-
aere at 4’s. The others, including Wish Wynne,
■ ioloaeello, Sardis and Speciality, were scarcely in
the market. Greenstead and Elfaere were first out,
and with Beauford handy ran on in front to the
vraight. They remained in this order to the last
furlong, and there Beauford, settling down to gallop
m earnest, made an unholy exhibition of them.
Though Wood scarcely moved on him he hit the
fine three lengtlis ahead. Greenstead and Elfaere
collapsed inside the distance and were passed in the
hist hit by Violoncello and the promising My Poppo-
Bangaway three-vear-old Popaway. Beauford ran the
m ile in “39},” which, for Rosehill, is exceptionally
•rood time, fie won so easily and was ridden so confi-
dently that his already short Epsom price contracted
still further. Picking the Epsom is now largely a
question of finding something to beat this lean-
looking flier. On performances he looks, the nearest
thing to a “paper certainty” seen for years. But
the Epsom is mainly a record of defeated favorites.
Syce Knight showed his win in the Chelmsford
Stakes to be no fluke by appropriating the mile-anrl-
. -half handicap at Rosehill in conspicuously good
style. William Booth, who has always insisted that
the Knight is a stayer, was confident. Never worse
than fifth, the chestnut worked up to the lightly-
weighted Tiekaroo opposite the Leger. Tickaroo, a
smart horse, having 271 b. advantage in weight, made
a keen fight over the concluding stage of the journev.
and Tommy O’Bryan had to ride for his life to keep
Syce Knight in front. The horse stuck to it in the
gamest way and was half a' length to the good at
the_ post, reached in “34}.” He carried 9st. 21b.,
which is 101 b. more than he will be hampered with
in the Metrop.
Easingwold’s chance for Caulfield Cup
looked none the worse after the colt had been beaten
into third place for a six-furlong sprint at Aspen-
dale (Vic.) last Saturday. Nor did it look any
better. Easingvvold did very well on paper, judged
by handicap figures, but as only three horses were
backed and he was one of them, and he got every
opportunity to win had he been brilliant, it can't
be said that his performance had much of the
Kurythmic about it. All the nags from Westralia
these times are expected to be Eurythmics; there-
fore the third consecutive defeat of Easingwold
helped to rub the disappointment in, without show-
ing any further cause for blank despair. He may
win a nice race ere the year is out, but it is
unlikely to be the Caulfield Cup. Which wise
remark applies to nearly all the notable handicap
horses one can think of.
* * * *
Royal Comedy was expected to win the
Aspendale Park Handicap last Saturday, and up to
the last 20yds. of the journey the good thing looked
' try good. Then came Section like a shot out of
a gun, and just inside the post the son or Broad-
sword and Circle caught the Comedy King horse,
who is no wonder. But how about Strathredole, who
hgured once again among the “also raps”? If
public form is to retain any public respect the
claims of Strathredole to a Cup chance must be
denied tor this approaching season, anyhow. The
big norse has run so many times and been so
persistently beaten.
Patience is one of John Wren’s turf vir-
tues. A lot of people besides the handicapper had
begun to count Bunwil among' the has-beens before
he turned up in Sydney last Easter with designs
on the Doncaster. He once more performed like
a dud oil that oeasion, liuf he has tiius far won a
couple of races this trip. To complete the unex-
pectedness of his recovery of form Dunwil runs like
a lion-hearted battler, which is just what he was
thought not to be.
“Linesman”: Wallace Jolinsou, who de-
feated Jim Anderson in the semi-finals of the U S
tennis championships, is not to be confused with
I JMen s great partner in the Davis Cup, who dis-
appointed all His friends bv losing easily to the
champion in a four-set go the other dav. ' \\ allace
is the man who has made a fine art of the cut-
stroke game, which is always full of surprises on
account of the varying pace, length and spin that
can be imparted to the ball. On wet asphalt, as the
Melbourne player Wertheim demonstrated on a recent
Saturday, a hard cut will produce an urrCikabJe skid,
while the cut’s close relative, the slice-hit, will, in
t.ie hands of Johnson aforesaid, prove an effective
weapon owing to its backward. break. 1 have seen
a slice expert lift a ball just over the net and
make it leap back into his court, but this is a
trick shot, almost impossible in a first-class game.
tew of the front-rank Australian players rely on the
cut or the slice. Gerald Patterson employs the cut
in his ground play, but it belongs £o iiis secondary
armament.
M.C.C. and South Yarra, wlio are running
neck and neck for the Melbourne tennis champion-
ship, had a close battle in a doubles match on Satur-
oay. O Hara Wood and Fairley (South Yarra) beat
Down and Taylor (6—2, 6—3), but had to throw in
the towel to the big M.C.C. pair, Patterson and
Wertheim, who, concentrating on Fairley with hurri-
cane shots, . ran out easily (6- —1, 6—l). The
same invincible duet lost seven games in two sets
against the other South Yana pair, Sandral and Haw
thorn, who, however, knocked out Down and Taylor
(6--c, 3—6, 6—l), thus leaving M.C.C. leading in
Uie aggregate by the narrow margin of three games.
INext Saturday the two teams finish their argument
in a singles match, and the; event will be of con-
siderable interest, as it will be the first singles
encounter this season between Patterson and o’llara
W ood.
The Metrop. (N.S.W.) Coursing Club
held the last meeting ot the season at Liverpool least
week-end in awful weather. The only event of
importance was the Bracelet Stakes, for which six
owners unleashed their dogs. In the first round
Achievement beat the better-fancied Hazeldawn ; Peg-
gotty easily accounted for The Pivot, and Black Alf
soundly thrashed Antigonon, who was an odds-oii
favorite straight-out for the stake, and on whom
odds ot seven and eig4it to one were laid on the
course. Aext round Peggotty beat Achievement, and
in the final easily accounted for Black Alf who
claims as his dam the flying Beauty Spot.
After a particularly brilliant career, in which she
only had one flag raised against her (i.e., when she
wai" robbed of a win in an Australasian Waterloo
Gup in Maoriland), the winner is to retire from
training. _ She will shortly visit that nrolific sire
of champions White Hope. Seeing that Garnet Mad-
.drelPs, hrindle, champion is bv_ imported The Dickens
—Bride’s Veil, she will he about the onlv hitch of
the present day with any pretensions to form that is
not mbred in some way or another to imported White
Hope. Peggotty numbers amongst her wins a 32-do«-
stake at Liverpool, the Australasian Waterloo Cup o"f
1920 at. Brisbane, and the N. S. Wales Champion
Cup.
Desmond Baird played what lie declares
Will be his last game of football when he success-
DESMOND
BAIRD, one time
of Geelong and St.
Kiida, now cap-
tain of North Syd-
ney, Australian
Rules premiers in
Sydney.
fully piloted North
Sydney home in the
M?. State Australian
rules premiership.
Unlike most sports
■‘Mons” has decided
that youth must be
served. He made his
d€but_ in League foot-
ball in Melbourne at
18. North Sydney
was the apple of his
eye this season. He
was captain, coach,
trainer, treasurer and
almost everything,
and ’Shore are proud
of the man who put
them at the top of
the- tree.
Ihe most strenuous game in Vic. League
’ball on Saturday had nothing to do with the pre-
miership. It was merely a scuffle between the Saints
and the ’Dons to decide which shouldn’t adorn the
tail of the procession. Point for point they scored
until the middle of the last quarter, when the ’Dons
rushed three goals in succession and shook hands
with themselves. But the Saints’ swan-kick of the.
season was a mighty one. In 1,0 minutes, by con-
certed play that would have won any premiership if
persisted in, they added SO points, making 96 to
Essendon’s 94 —and sent the “Same Old” home wal-
loped, whippers-in and, unless they can persuade
Minister Oman to grant them the North Melbourne
ground, dead for evermore. The other games didn’t
matter, Carlton, Richmond, Geelong and ’Wood being
already settled as the “final four, ’ and the players
mostly performed accordingly. Carlton outed ’Wood
with 64 points to 67. ’Roy smashed South witn 1 9
to 45, and Geelong, with half its regular players
resting, crashed before Melbourne by 71 to 115.
A N.S.W. League XIII administered the
21st consecutive hiding to Bananaland’s Leaguers at
Davis Park, Brisbane, last Saturday. Score: 34
points (8 tries 5 goals) to 20 points (4 tries 4
goals). 'Varsity centre threequarter Flattery was
the sleekest of the Blues. He galloped over the
chalk-line four times. Oxford hoisted four goals,
to which custodian Rigne3 r added a snappy dropped
goal from the field. For Bananaland Stanlev, Houri-
gan and Fraunfelder got tries, and Mooney kicked
four goals.
N.S.W. Rugby League banned the girls’
football match which occurred last Saturday at
Sydney Agricultural Ground. Nevertheless, over
20,000 people paid to see a better exposition of the
game than is sometimes given by men. The tackling
was hard and clean ; the handling good ; the scrums
were well formed ; the hooking of both rakes clever ;
and only four penalty kicks were awarded through-
out. The girls played Northern Union Rugby as it
should be played—by kicking the ball as seldom
as possible. Maggie Moloney, sister of the South
Sydney flying winger, proved an exceptionally fleet
sprinter, and scored four splendid tries. The "oppos-
ing- halves, Misses Mathenius and lloskins, gave a
great display of scrum-working, heaving the leather
out to their supports like tradesmen; and both
teams indulged in Some beautiful passing rushes.
In fact, the only weak' department was the place-
kicking. After a great go the Metropolitan side
(blue) won from Sydney (maroon) by 21 points
(7 tries) to 9 points (3 tries).
The Kangaroos fielded about their best
Xllt for the first match of the tour against Salford
on Saturday. In the absence of Les Cubitt with an
injured ' knee Fraser commanded. Salford, accord-
ing to last season’s English Northern Union’s compe-
tition table, is the weakest club now playing. James
Lomas, who skippered the English team which
played here in 1910, was a Salford man, but in
those days they were a power in the Northern Union
world. Australia has now two victories over Lomas’s
old club. The 1911-12 Australian combination de-
feated them by 6 points (2 tries) to 3 points (1
try). On this occasion Australasia’s tally consisted
of 12 tries 6 goals (=4B) to 1 try (3 points).
Johnny Thomas, the nippy back of Wagstaffe’s 1920
tourists, registered Salford’s only score. It was
Thomas’s last match. He is ‘retiring after 19
seasons.
*- * *
The Springboks’ final test with Maoriland
on Saturday ended in a scoreless draw. The
waterlogged and heavy ground would have delighted
the old-time All Blacks, who revelled in scientific
dribbling, but the new generation of M.L. Rugby
U nionists are not like that. The Springboks had
much the best of the first half, but lost through
over-kicking and bad line-work. In the sejeond
term, the All Blacks dominated, but they tried
foolishly to pass a wet, heavy ball, and threw away
many chances. The result left the tests even—one
win each and' a draw. The match is the last of the
Springboks’ >, Australasian tour, the fixture v. N.S.W.
the coming week-end having been abandoned.
West Adelaide (S.A.)' downed N.S.W.
under Australian Rules at Sydney on Saturday, by
96 — 71. The Ma State team was weakened by the
defection of half-a-dozen aggrieved North players.
From the bounce the tourists’ combined play rattled
N.S.W., and at the end of the first quarter the board
showed: Wests 40, N.S.W. 1. Then the Ma Staters
got together; McKenzie—the best pla.yer for his
inches oil the field—booted a goal, and Gloury,
Doolan and Kruschert followed suit. At half-time
N.S.W. led 57 —44. In the third quarter Wests
rattled up 22 to 1, and went on to win. Bishop
(who has particularly safe hands), Macklin (4 goals)
and Prior (3) did well for Wests; and N.S.W.’s best
were Milton (4 goals)—a great forward—and McKen-
zie (2 goals).
■» * * *
Five S’African runners and two cyclists
will drop into Adelaide in time for the Australasian
championships on Dec. 31.
* * * ' *
B. It. Heath (Easts) for combined Syd-
ney clubs v. Riverview at Sydney on Saturday, won
100yds (10 9-10 sec.). 220yds. (24 4-ssec.) and
broad jump (18ft. Sj-in).. while F. Clark (Souths)
took the 120yds. hurdles (18 2-ssec), and dead-
heated in the high jump (sft.). Riverview crashed
in every event;
'* * * *
In the N.S.W. Combined High School
championships at Sydney last week Goulburn (18
points) won the senior title from Parramatta (9).
East Maitland (134) took the junior from Fort-street
(11), and Cleveland-street (IK) ; and Singleton (8)
carried off the junior cadet title from Technical College
(5) and Canterbury (3). J. Nicholson (Goulburn),
who has a fine style and stride, won the senior
100yds. (10 4-ssec.) and 220yds. (23 2-ssec.). C.
McLennan (Wagga) took the 440yds. in 56sec; K.
Coates (Parramatta) broke two schools’ records in
the half-mile (2min. 8 4-ssec.) and mile (4min.
54 l-ssee.). E. Jensen (East Maitland) won the
senior high jump with 6ft. Gin., and the junior
with 6ft. 4in. —the latter being a schools’ record.
S. Burt (Sydney High) smashed another record in
the 120yds. hurdles, which he did in 17 l-ssec.
Burt hurdles beautifully, and showed great pace over
the final flights.
At Holy Cross College athletic champion-
ships, Ryde (Sydney), last week, M. Russell tackled
the programme and won five firsts, one second
and three thirds. It is thus that embryo champions
are transformed into tired invalids.
“Push Off”: Last Thursday N. S.
Wales Amateur Swimming Association informed
the Amateur Sporting Federation that unless
it made provision in its rules whereby an
amateur playing Rugby League football would be
eligible for membership of the Swimming. Assoc., the
latter would leave the Federation. In Australia, as
in the U.K., the amateur status has degenerated into
a jest. Thus Rugby Leaguers who have never made
one penny out of football —merely, as in the case of
many schoolboys, taking to the 13-aside game because
it offered them better sport—have been declared ”
pros, by the Amateur , Sporting Federation, which con.
tains members who have collected hundreds of pounds
for their services as cricketers. There is one, and
oiiiy one, honest definition of an amateur: “An ama-
teur is one who derives no remuneration for his
services in any sport, outside legitimate travelling
and hotel expenses when travelling as a represents
five.”
* * * *
Arnst and Hadfield have shifted the
world’s sculling championship match back to Boxing
Day on the Wanganui. The chance of a better “gate"
is the lure.
A. Le Fevre, the Royal Melbourne pro-
won the open golf championship at Sandringham
(Vic.) on Saturday. He had a wonderful card ol
295 for the four rounds, his third score of 69 being
A. LE FEVRE.
the R.M.G.C. pro-
fessional, who won
the open, jah
championship of
A ustralia at Sand-
ringham on Satur-
day last.
a record for the
course in competi-
tions. T. F. Rut-
ledge, the Royal Mel-
bourne amateur, was
second with 305.
which was produced
by some excellent
long shots and accu-
rate work on the
greens. Bruce Pearce,
who was well down
at the 'end of the
second round, made
brilliant recoveries in
his last two cards, and
shot out of the ruck
into third place, just
beating R. A. Jupp by
two strokes. Pearce’-
and Rutledge’s last
tally was 74, the
lowest for the round,
and two points better
than Le Fevre.
Ernie Goozeman. the Californian nine-
stoner, who let fiy his first punch in public, so far
as Australia was concerned, at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, should lay some proud crests low
before he leaves these shores. He is a hurricane
beginner, durable as a mule and with tremendous
power behind his blows. It takes a lot to rattle
that veteran glove artist Bert Spargo, of Melbourne,
but the Yankee boy did it for a round and possibly
two. During that hectic interlude Spargo was con-
cerned exclusively with the question of evading
destruction. Then he dropped to the hard-faced
little visitor’s methods, and was relatively a.t his
ease. By the middle of round three he was safe;
and in the two following sessions he began forging
ahead on points. Goozeman was still striving for
a knock-out during round six, when in his enthusi-
asm he landed low with a pile-driving smash that
disabled the enemy. It was a palpable accident, but
Wallis had no option but to disqualify. A creature
of emotion, like so many of his trade, Ernie burst
into tears. He should draw a big crowd at his next
showing.
# * * *
Musician, W. J. Weir’s 16J. Spon-
dulix gelding, did not break a world’s record, as
stated by the daily press, when he jumped 7ft. lOin.
at Wangaratta (Vie.) last week. Heatherbloom
cleared 7ft. lOin. off grass in yirginia (U.S.) in 1905.
and he is credited with having done Bft. 2in. oil
cinders the following year. *
“Bail”: Despite tlie fact that Ryder and
Mayne were, comparatively speaking, passenger*
they have rejoiced their selectors by capturing fourth
and fifth places in the batting averages—which is
an excellent performance considering the few chances
they had to get practice. Their figures are a com-
plete vindication of the judgment of E. E. Bean,
the Vic. selector, who strongly urged their claims
to' tickets for England. Bean has been the victim
of bitter snorts from Melbourne sporting writers,
but the Yic. Cricket Assoc, bad sufficient faith in
him the other night to re-elect him the State selec-
tor, along with Mat Ellis and Peter McAlister.
Gregory is the first to bring off the
“double”—his was 1171 runs (av. 35.4) arid 120
wickets (av. 16.5) —on a first trip with an Austra-
lian XI. His best match “doubles” were 100 and
25 and 6 for 81 v. Surrey, and 1 107 and 6 for 34 ®.
Northants. But he got the “double” with the A.I.F.
team in England in 1919 with 151 wickets (17.27)
and 1008 runs (27.24). Collins (captain) also got
the “double” with the A.1.F.—1988 runs (40.57;
and 127 wickets (15.21).
* * *- *
Armstrong closed the tour with the record
of a “duck” in each innings of the match v. Thorn-
ton’s XI. It was the only double failure of the
tour, although Mailey’s 0 and 0 not out v. York-
shire and Bardsley’s 0 and 2 not out v. Middlesex
are only a fraction better. Strangely enough Arm-
strong began the tour with 0 v. Leicestershire,
* * # *
Macartney kept ahead in the see-saw with
Bardsley for top place in the Australian XI batting
averages, and finished with 2331, averaging 58.2.
Bardsley scored 2217, av. 55.4. Both averages
exceed the previous best —Bardsley’s 51.93 in 1912.
The many innings-victories of the present tour, how-
ever, helped the averages. Macartney had only 42
hits and Bardsley 44. Since the first Australian XI
in 1878, only Charlie Bannerman (31) and Murdoch
(19) have had fewer innings among those who topped
the averages.
Bardsley’s batting figures on the three
trips to England:—
Not Highest
Innings. Out, Score. Buns. Average*-
1909 .. 51 4 219 2180 46.39
1912 :. 53 6 184 2441 51.98
1921 44 4 209 2217 55.42
148 14 6838 51.02
In Australian first-class cricket last season he scored
817, averaging 74.2, so his figures for a season in
England and Australia are 3034, averaging 69.49.
BACK TO NORMAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking the Australians’ two defeats, Arm-
stiong said that towards the end of the tour the
learn so suite Dial tiie players could scarcely lift
a bat or bowl a ball.”-—Sux.
k. “,°o^- pt 19 (1!ns ) at Hargicourt the Ist Division
n«Ki -<o4o Jiieii at tilt* Hop-over. lTiev suffered 490
casualties, and, apart front the enemv wounded and
dead, captured 1700 prisoners. The Ith Division
with 3048 men, suffered 532 casualties, but captured
2043 prisoners.”
l our years of warfare, and they never talked of
weariness:
Never knew a rifle feel too heavy in a raid:
Drini days in trenches, nights of frozen dread and
dreariness:
Boyish eyes that fought to face the barrage un-
afraid-
j *• i
Four months of cricket in the playground of the
fortunate—-
Cricket in the England that they dreamed of in
the line:
Green fields and azure skies and smiling friends
importunate:
Cheering in the ears that knew the shrapnel’s
hungry whine.
Now they are tired and bored and languid with the
best o'f them:
Subject to the whims and moods that in the peace-
ful past
Shook with emotion Warner, llanji and the rest of
them—
So you all may know the pre-war davs arc back
at lasi.
x.s.vr.
10-2-4.


DON’T BE MISERABLE!
m
* a iSP
Don’t be weak and puny!
Don’t be always ill!
Don’t shorten, your days!
Don’t let ill-health conquer you!
ENJOY EVERY MINUTE OF LIFE
by keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health and strength lire will open out new vistas for you and
business will be a pleasure.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker can help you to a full realisation of the
joy of life, if you take up his
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
It is emphatically not a “strong man” course, but a senes
of simple, enjoya.le, graduated exercises that will bnn imo
play tne neglected muscles, stcauy the nenes, heip you to
breathe and deeeop proper.y, and make all the organs ot tne
body perfoim their functions correctly.
No apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to suit
pa.tieuiar individual lequirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting book.et,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture, which tells a
about the course and contains many valuable hints. it
you send this adiertisen ent, with your name and address
across it, together with three stamps for postage, the book
will be forwarded.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
585 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
d
“Metropolitan Razor
limn uI a i'tu red throughout
b v CII li Isi T O I* II Elt
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use 1 his famous
Ha/.or, which is of the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.
G vs T e^
Price 10/6 o
rppvesentntivi
all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
i, Norman linker & l.oi.urhurst. 60 1 ork Sti'eet, Sydney^
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts who’ never
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dress ng should not only I Ul.iteri,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes; Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, Now on Sale.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
rySBSs
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BO STOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz: —
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
AH first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
m M
m
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Roil Cigar Factory•
fd
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
AGENCIES:
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20. (
B
THE
WINTON.
It more than
fulfils anything
we claim for it.
“The WINTON
SADDLE
brings many a letter of commendation
from satisfied users, and is the la"t
word in Stock Saddles. It g.ves you
the ease of a park saddle with the
security of a stock saddle. The flap
and skirt are combined in one pie.e
of leather, giving a ron-chafinc, nar-
row waist, and the pad" lie along the
rider's thighs. The tree is our own
made “Four'ght” tree, and the leather
used is nice, flexible kip. The fittings
are folded leather girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6|s|-
Freight Free for Cash
with Orde to any Port
or Rai way Station in
NSW
write for our catalogue. English Pigskin Seat, 5/- extra.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers, 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
ďf
■22 RIM FIRE.
d
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
jf,.
si „®aV
E
Your Riding Costume
for Spring Wear.
Just the style of thing you’ll like —admirably in
keep’ng with the needs of Spring Weather
PERFECT RIDING COSTUMES in HIGH-
GRADE KHAKI DRILL.
“ LINCOLN-STUART ”
Tailored
Ready for Wear
£5/51-
Possessing all the attributes of Style and
Thoroughness—Cutting and Workmanship
being executed by a specially-trained staff
here is the Riding Costume to more than
Satisfy YOU at a price you’ll be glad to
P-tf*
BIDING COSTUMES Tailcred-to-Order.
In Gabardines and Covert
Coatings, of Guaranteed
Quality, from..
£BjBj-
Divided Skirts, in Blue Saddle Serge,
from • ° 5 / *.
Breeches, Ready for Wear, in Khaki
Drill 32/6
White Linen Coats ”*/-
In White Drill 00/-
Riding Hats, Boots, etc.
The L.S. Special Hard Felt (Black) Rid-
ing Hat •••• 30/-
Caps to Match your Costume, 15/6 & 17/b
Waite Helmets
Stocks in White S lk '•
High Riding Boots, in nnest Tan Willow
and best Box Calf £6/15/-
Leggings in Tan and Putty, Spring Front,
& 14/6, 18/6, 25/-
CALL OR WRITE. WE PAY FREIGHT.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
“SPECIALISTS IN EQUESTRIENNE WEAR,”
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


The Value of an Appearance
that betokens ability "to do things.”
Selecting “ the right man for the job ” is not attributable to
a psychic sense, as is often supposed, but to a physical
sense—judging from appearance. With few exceptions a
man who ‘‘ looks the part,” ‘'acts the part,” —hence the value
of an appearance that betokerjs virility —ability. Grey hair
-is the first sign of the waning of youth and soon creates a
pessimism in the mind, even of the individual himself.
“ Inecto,” the new, permanent, and pre-eminent hair dye, is
the discovery. Its application is simple and inexpensive.
Obtainable at all the leading Hairdressers and Chemists.
FARMER 8C COMPANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Sole Importers for Australia.
I
/
“BUY A BUNDLE”
PLYWOOD.
Genuine “NATIONAL” Plywood, made
from Queensland Hoop-Pine. Maple and
Silky Oak, is the HIGH EST-GRADE
PLYWOOD YOU CAN BUY. Buy the
best. Insist on “NATIONAL” Three-Ply,
and see the brand is on every sheet. It
is our guarantee. Sold by all leading
Houser.
ALL Sizes—Sanded and
Unsanded.
THE NATIONAL
PLYWOOD CO,
CORINDA, BRISBANE,
QUEENSLAND.
MELBOURNE
HATTEP
A Touch of
Patls in the
Heart of
Melboutne.
Northcliffe was responsible for the most
notable stop-work meeting of Inky Way-men
ever held in Melbourne. Aided and abetted
by directors, general managers, editors, subs
and chiefs-of-staffs, the reporters let engage-
ments slide in order to meet the big man in
the concert-room at the. Softgoods’ Building
where the A.J.A. hangs out in Flinders-
lane. Herb Davies, general president, and
bimmonds, Vic. president, spoke words of
welcome, and the Viscount chatted, rather
than orated, pleasantly for 25 minutes, tak-
ing old and new Fleet-street for his text,
and summing up in favor of the present-day
thoroughfare, which is less dirty, alcoholic
and uninspiring.
The officials got a shock when a handful
of press-women turned up. The Club Devil
. them at the foot of the stairway with
‘lhis is a Man’s Club,” and howled for the
secretary. The sec. and the assistant sec.
arrived breathing polite regrets and agita-
tion. “We are awfully sorry,” they quav-
ered. “It is quite a smoke meeting and is
in the club-room!” Some of the pengirls
faded out, but an indignant few stood their
ground. “One pound ten and sixpence have
I paid every half-year since this associa-
tion started,” barked one, “and — I’m going
up!” Then a grey-haired official arrived,
pawing the air. “Follow me, madame —-
follow me,” he chanted, and led a ruffled
procession upstairs, through the sacred club-
room and on to the platform, right among
the inevitable potted palms. The roomful
of men gazed owlishly through the thick
smoke, while, in the background, a polite
secretary was mopping his brow and mut-
tering “I should have thought of this.”
Lady Stradbroke’s Day (October 21) got
its initial push on Friday at the Town Hall
when the Mayor, flanked by J. G. Turner,
of the Hospitals, raked in a powerful com-
mittee. The day is to help the combined
hospitals, and the movies are giving pub-
licity on their screens. After the committee
business had been fixed, the Countess arrived,
clad in Autumn brown togs and smiles, with
Mayoress Swanson and Mrs. Ellery as a
bodyguard. Turner gave a vivid word-
picture of overworked nurses, crowded wards
and turned-away patients; and Marshall of
the Movies spoke of a walk-through-town
(the Mayor objects to “procession”) of vari-
ous helping bodies. Even the Chinese and
their dragon will join the walk-about.
The 24th A.M.F. Battalion —which already
sports Jacka, V.C.—has bagged the Governor
as Colonel. A brilliant regimental dinner
was given at the Occidental Hotel to wel-
come him. The room fairly blazed with
the regimental scarlet and white —the
colors also of the wonderful old A.I.F.
Batt. of which poor ' Dick Courtney
was Colonel, and with which Jacka won
his V .C. About 40 ex-A.I.F. Shoulder-straps
were at the dinner, including General Gelli-
brand, G.O.G. of the 3rd Division, and
General Stewart, of the lOtli Brigade. Lieut.-
Col. Cox, C. 0., spoke a welcome to Colonel
Stradbroke, and the new Colonel made bril-
liant talk in response. The party was one
of the crack events of this giddy season.
The Town Hall was sparsely populated
for little Molly O’Brian’s concert. The
“Moonlight Sonata” was the 18-year-old’s
star piece, but her other items were incon-
spicuous. Molly plays with charm and
feeling, but she will be handicapped until
she is torn from the piano stool and put out
to grass so that she may build up her frail
physique. Maggie Stirling and Ivirby lifted
up their voices to fill in the programme.
John Longstaff’s parents having become
shining examples of health and happiness in
old age, it is a matter of interest to know
how they did it. Living a .country life may
explain some of their vigorous longevity, and
doubtless they were born to be long in the
land if conditions were favorable ; but when
a couple live to celebrate the (55th anniver-
sary of their marriage the statistician wants
to know just how young they were on their
wedding-day. Dad was 31 and mum was 23;
so the arguments for and against very early
marriages stand where they did. The one
thing certain is that Ralph Longstaff is one
of the very few bridegrooms that married
at 31 and had 65 years of subsequent happi-
ness.
John came over from Sydney to Slieppar-
ton to attend the festivities, and found the
fine old couple well and unaware of any
ailments. Four daughters and a host of old
friends joined in, and there was much said
about the promising grandsons—Jack’s
children.
Pretty little Bronte Shannon, an Adelaide
girleen well known in Melbourne’s younger
set, is booked m London for a matrimonial
engagement with a tall, slim voung English-
man called Street, the only sprig of a War-
wickshire family. They hope to pay a flying
visit to Australia before settling down in the
Cold Country.
Bachelor Harry White gave a farewell
party before going off on one of his wan-
derings. Dinner, trimmed with the wines
ot a connoisseur, was at Ardoch; then
motors whizzed the guests to orchestra
stalls at the Tivoli to see Wilkie Bard, and
there was a rouudm«-off supper at the
Esplanade. A family assortment of Fel-
steads, the Lucases and Dr. and Mrs. Hef-
fernan were in the party. The unattached
yachtsman is plannmg a new craft —Aus-
tralian-built—for a mooch round the Pacific
next year.
uoris Duane, who appears in “Scandal” at
the King’s, is not quite the novice that
sundry critics suspect her to be. As a mat-
ter of fact, she has seen Beatrix Vander-
dyke hounded to bed over 500 times. For
most of her career in the bedroom play Doris
has been in the part of Regina, but she was
also the French maid in a run of 10i nights
at Chicago. She played the lead for three:
weeks in New York, so she has experienced
nearly all that “Scandal” offers from an act-
ing point of view.
Mrs. Ivate Fulton, over whom a mound
has just been raised, was a sister of Justice
Cussen and the widow of Robert Fulton,
in his day a familiar figure in the Western
District grazing country. She lived to
have her pet wish realised—to see her son
Leo started in practice as a med. Daughter
Meta made a recluse of herself to be nurse
to her mother in the family home at Haw-
thorn.
Melba, who professed to be done with
camera men when she arrived in Melbourne,
got into two photographic gfoUps-for-publica-
tion while the visiting Viscount was in this
capital. The G.-G. and her Ex. were in the
groups, too. Northcliffe gave the Dame a big
nd. incidentally, by declaring her, next to
Royal Mary, the best-known woman in the
Cold Country.
Northcliffe dropped into the Australian
Art Association’s show and proved that he
knew a good picture by buying two of the
gems—W. D. Knox’s “Arthur’s Seat” and a
fascinating cool-toned landscape by James
Jackson of Sydney. Melba had previously
bought W. B. Mclnnes’s “Petunias,” and
that was well chosen, too.
Major Ethel Tracy-Richardson, who was
one of the first Australian nurses in Egypt
and had a career of great war glory, is giv-
ing up Defence and Government work next
month to become Mrs. Attiwill, of Hexham,
and the stepmother of two charming girls.
The popular Nightingale is having a brilliant
send-off from her fel-
low-workers. After
being at Heliopolis in
1914 she returned in
1915 in charge of the
first batch of Austra-
lian wounded sol-
diers, then went back
to almost im-
mediately with a flock
of nurses under her
wing. After that
cqme strenuous work
in England,. and she
was recalled from
Harefield to Austra-
lia as matron-in-
chief of, the Com-
monwealth Army
Nursing Service.
Only two matrons in
the Australian A.X.S. became majors, and
matron Tracy-Richardson was the first of
them. Until her resignation this month
she has been matron in charge of the Mont
Park Mental Hospital at MacLeod. She
i- the eldest daughter of the late H. Tracy-
Richardson and a niece of Captain Richard-
son, Director of Naval Forces, and she is
here presented to you by the grace of
Spencer Shier’s camera.
The Major’s brother. Captain 11. Tracy-
Richardson, who is harbormaster at Rabaul,
will also plunge into matrimony next month,
his fellow-plunger being Iris Donohue,
daughter of Mrs. Donohue, of Kirkstall,
Brighton. He ivas with the 7tli Field
Artillery for 41 years, and then returned to
Melbourne as embarkation officer.
Artist Tom Carter is promising “some-
thing quite different” in decoration at the
Art Students’ Ball, due in St. Kilda Town
Hall to-morrow (Friday). Carter, by the
way, spends all his time since his return
from Europe in teaching his art at the Tech.
Colleges, so he has scarcely a moment to
produce exhibition canvases these days.
The Thonemanns’ 17-roomed Meryula at
Yarra Junction was burnt to the ground on
Sept. 11. The family was up there for the
week-end, but no one knows how the fire
started. Nothing much was saved from the
flames but a few jewels.
Joan Weigall, armed with brush and paint-
box, has flitted to Europe by the Themis-
toeles. She is a daughter of the Tlieyro
H eigalls, and is going to study art furiouslv.
giving only odd moments to sight-seeing.
W. L. Baillieu, of Victoria’s Dream
House, may resign his North Province seat
and stand for Melbourne when MeWhae goes
to the London office. But Norman Bayles
who threw up his Assembly pocket-borough
at Toorak last year, has set his heart on
succeeding MeWhae, so Baillieu can expect
opposition.
This young Australian, though only 12
years old, seems to
have a lieu on a
career. Xavea Rivers
(you say his first
name “Zarf”) is a
boy with a pure
soprano voice, and he
soars ’way up in alt
with the sweet
clearness of it bird’s
notes. He has made
various noteworthy
appearances since he
was five years olu,
and is a pupil of Mrs.
Spana. Two years
ago he was singing-
excerpts from grand
opera in Melbourne
Town Hall, and his
“La Donna e mobile”
roused a fury of applause. Since then
Madame has kept him at steady study and
put a veto, for the time, on public appear-
ances ; but Melbourne will hear the melodi-
ous youngster very soon with all the study-
improvements added.
A Villers-Bret. Appeal stall at the Agri-
cultural Show is a happy thought and a
rair thing. The farming folk have a full
half-share of interest in the French district
where so many of their boys battled, and
one good “French week” in Melbourne de-
served another at the Flemington ground.
Mrs. Crivelli and Miss Armstrong are in
charge of the stall. . Madame has also
arranged a money-raising jazz at the Orien-
tal on the Wednesday between Caulfield Cup
and Henley.
Mrs. McCubbin is arranging a show. of
the late Fred MeCubbin’g work at the
V.A.S. Gallery on September 27, and many
private collectors are lending their canvases.
Theodore Fink will speak the opening
phrases.
A Dickens Pageant, in aid of the Blind
Appeal, is due at the Playhouse, on Septem-
ber 24, and will go on pageanting for ‘four
days. About 160 Dickens enthusiasts have
volunteered their services, and the audience
is promised as much fun as the rehearsers
themselves are now getting out of Sairey,
Swiveller and co.
Miss McCrae gave a jazz dinner at the
Oriental to help St. Vincent’s, and 500 must
have crowded in under the yellow poppies
and scarlet balloons. Some marvellous, jazz
hats were on view, and, when there was
room for dancing, the short jazz skirts and
the ribbon-laced jazz slippers were a sight for
the gods. But the squash was so intense
that one pretty fair girl struck a graceful
attitude and fainted. Also the size of the
party attracted the Raiders. They marched
through the lounges twice during the even-
ing, only to be met by waiters bearing irre-
proachable lemon-squashes and the bland
smiles of the Blameless. Doctors from St.
Vincent’s were there: in droves, and dear
little nurses (in workaday dress) sold .sweets
and flowers. Some amateur * auctioneers
raked in pounds for trifles (two small silk
flags autographed by the Vice-regal Strad-
brokes brought about £2O apiece), and Miss
McCrae’s small nephews did polite bush-
ranging.
David Hennessy and a daughter and
dozens of other guests went on to Molly
O’Brian’s recital in the Town Hall, then
returned to jazz till the early hours.
The women automobilists are speeding up
for their cafe chan taut on October 6 at the
Oriental. The club, which is boosting up
its membership roll, is going into new quar-
ters. at Lister House, and is making drastic
alterations in its way of clubbing. It begged
the Royal Automobile Club to take it in as
an auxiliary; but it not being leap year
the wary male motorists muttered “Nothin’
doin’.” They prefer that the women motor-
ists should roll on their own tyres.
The girls and boys of Alberto Zelman’s
Symphony Orchestra, who got a great lift
in public esteem through their work at the
Melba Concerts, are to get another night-out
at the Town Hall on Monday, October 6. at
a concert with Nellie Billings at the piano
in a concerto, and Ilowett-Worster as the
other extra.
Crowds flocked to the Playhouse three
nights last week when the Ormond Dramatic
Society romped cheerily through a home-
made three-act comedy, “The Bachelors”—
once for Villers-Bret. and twice for the Col-
lege Library. It is a bright little effort, and
if the author, J. D. Rogers, a young engineer-
ing Anzac undergrad, isn’t careful he may
grow up into a playwright.
t The Women’s Section of the Farmers'
Union is having its say. It proposes a
general meeting and party at the Lyceum
Club on the night of September 22. Country
members will be in force.
All Saints' old Grammarians would be
welcome settlers in any drought-stricken
area. They, have only to arrange a frivol
to attract a downpour. The annual jazz
at the Gregory Hall on Friday night had
the usual weather ; but. it was a joyous event.
There being a man or two over, not a girl
hid partneriess among the cloaks and goloshes
in the dressing-room. All Saints’ head-
master, "Paddy” MacLaren, and a pale
young curate foxtrotted just as cheerily as
if their collars fastened in front. The sim-
plicity of the decorative effect was refresh-
ing after the usual orgy in colored-paper
and flowers; but there were balloons —the
jazz-girl simply can’t, do without them.
From the remodelling of buildings in Col-
lins and Swanston streets has developed a
new arcade, and Howie House and Howie
Place have suddenly come to light. The
House faces Coll ins-street and the Place
goes through to where a movie-palace backs
in from opposite the Town Hall in Swan-
ston-street. The House had a gay opening
ceremony the other day. Sassiety was shot
up in liftfuls to the* JLiivoli tea-rooms, and
the crowd was so great that there was
scarcely elbow-room to tilt a cup. All the
proceeds went to the blind.
A versatile woman politician, who has an
inside knowledge of the working of the three
parties, heckled Hutchinson at several meet-
ings in Borung. He silenced her at last
by telling her in the sweetest of tones that ill-
natured people who had noticed that she was
at all his meetings had begun to talk about
them.
Girls are gasping over the trousseau of
a young suburban bride of next month. The
giddy finery was all ready for use some
months ago, when it was deposited in the
Mint for safety! “And it can only be
undies,” exclaimed those who did not get a
peep at ’em, “because other clothes wouldn’t
be fashionable, getting them so long before!”
Perhaps a few diamonds are let into the
seams, or goodness knows what.
By the way, quite a lot of our feminine
card-players, finding bridge too dull, have
plunged fiercely into poker-playing. Red-
rongued rumor has it that the losses of a
few of the more gamblesome are building
up future trouble. In one instance the loss
of a diamond ornament has followed a
matron’s run of ill-luck at a poker night-out.
“That Bleibtrey girl,” as jealous jazzers
dubbed the mermaid, has broken an-
other swimming record in Noo Yoick. "If
she only kept to swimming!” wailed flap-
pers here; but she jazzed even better than
she swam and yarded up all the partners-
de-luxe in this little village.
Adelaide passes on a word or two: —
The city is in the, throes of the September Show.
It is quite impossible to get a seat on any tram,
or procure a quick meal at any tea-shop, and the
voice of the Bush is loud in the land. The Farmers’
Union seems to be the main hayseed meeting-place,
if you judge by the hundreds of motor-cars outside
the big premises.
At Southsea (Eng.) the other day Adelaide Napier
said she would to Dr. White, whom she met when
he came to Australia with the Prince on the Renown.
She went for a trip to the Cold Country a few
months ago, and their acquaintance was renewed;
then a few weeks back she 1 cabled her engagement, and
now she has sent word to Lady Weigall that the
deed is done. The bride is a wealthy orphan whose
mother was one of the Riddoehs.
Most of the women working for the Tokyo Town
Fair ended up hollow-eyed wrecks, and every day
you heard of some victim who had collapsed. There
will have to be a fresh distribution of V.C.’s, and
those who survived the six days’ strain at the Exhibi-
tion will need no doctor’s certificate to get a life
policy.
The Royal Yacht Squadron Ball at the Semaphore
was a hilarious affair. Society went down from town
in full force, and there was jazzing fore and aft of
a sumptuous supper served on the stage.
Our golf champion, Legh Winser, and H. L.
Rymill, Stewart and Dr. Swift, have gone over to
Melbourne with the idea pf bagging some of the
championships that may be lying about the greens at
Sandringham.
Gertrude Owen, who has been secretary at the
Y.W.C.A. for the past two years, is leaving at Christ-
mas to fill the bill as national secretary of the Aus-
tralasian Y.W.C.A. Her activities will then spread to
Maoriland. She is also secretary of the National
Council of Women, so her going will leave a fair-sized
gap to be filled.
Mrs. E. W. Nicholls has just been elected president
of the W.C.T.U. for the 24th time. The officers
generally- of this august body seem to be stickers, as
Miss Lockwood was re-elected sec. for the 16th time,
and Mm. G. W. Cooper recording sec. for the 12th.
About the limit seems to have been reached by the
Adelaide lady who, reading that a racehorse bears the
name of Mountain God, wrote to the papers to pro-
test against it as “blasphemous.” In the subse-
quent correspondence she explained that she thinfc
it wrong also to call a hotel the Angel.
“Pussyfoot” Johnson was confidently expected in
Australia last week. Adelaide’s temperance enthu-
siasts went to the Outer Harbor to meet him, bur
found he had left the Malwa at Colombo, and will
make a tour of India before coming on here.


Best-quality Silver Plate.
£t>
Silver Candlesticks, in Case, ' Silver Inkstand, in Case,
£lO/10/- £3s '
Presentation Silver
The articles illustrated are of the Highest Quality,
and offer the Best Value Obtainable. A com-
parison of price and value is invited before
purchase. Selections will be forwarded on approval
at the Firm’s risk.
WlUnt ©vummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Comfort
of an
always
sharp
Blade.
MS
rs
m
mz.
m
t I
\1
€6
VALET
Safety Razor
It is easy to shave as closely and cleanly as a barber if
you have a “barber’s edge” on your razor blade. Years
of practice have taught him how to strop his razor to
the highest pitch of keenness. With the Valet Auto-
Strop you can obtain such an edge every morning,
without serving an apprenticeship.
Built right into the razor is a self-stropping device which
puts the keenest edge on the blade Half-a-dozen
strokes on its strop is all that is needed. Nothing to
unscrew-no separate stropping machine-no constant
expense for new blades.
And the “Valet” Auto Strop is as easy to clean as to
strop—just a rinse and a wipe, without taking to pieces.
THE STANDARD SET (as illus-
trated) consis s of heavily silver-plated,
self - stropping “Valet” Auto "drop
Safety Razor, twelve “Valet” blades,
and “ Valet ” strop, complete
in handsome case lined 27/6
velvet and satin “ * /
Oj all lti°h-class dealers
thri nghout A ns/rulasta.
Managing Agents for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBT, LTD.,
Broughton House,
Clarence & King Streets, Sydney.
4^
*Ut<*Str+rf)
§6?T=
GOLF SUITS
AT
BUCKLEY’S
—are the Acme of comfort to all
athletic outdoor men.
The garments we illustrate convey
the idea admirably and truthfully.
This smart, adapted Sports
Model is the result of a concen-
trated effort to produce garments
which will allow the excessive free-
dom necessary in a Golf Suit.
The gathered back, with inverted
pleats to allow freedom of action,
is controlled by a half-belt at waist;
the snug shoulders, the soft roll
collar and the large patch pockets
add attractive touches to the
genuinely comfortable coat.
The trousers are made with hip
straps, belt loops and turned-up
cuff bottoms.
In All-Wool Scotch
and
Australian Tweeds,
Tailored to Order,
6 Gas.
Ready-to-wear, 5i Gas.
Write for full range of patterns and
self-measurement form.
f,
\
&
«u
VJ
tfVTOIW
v,»
Vi
As
\
V
!—. Xm~”-
BUCKLEY <& NUNN LTD.,
BOURRE STREET MELBOURNE.
m
%
}/M
i
jgt-
Jr
f
Jf
%
AND SEE why “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is <he
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”- a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM I t with a knife - “Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
(P 1
V
—2
t.J. w


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
Kins,
George V
CHAMPAGNE
El MS
champagne
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in England : Loaded in Australia.
For all gauges of shot - guns, and
loaded with the best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer to :
KYNOCH
LIMITED.
ďf
90, William St.,
MELBOURNE
THE IDEALLY-SITUATED
Wentworth
Hotel
SYDNEY’S LUXURIOUS HOME
FOR TRAVELLERS,
Combines the Brilliant Social Atmosphere of
Sunny Australia with Luxury of Appoint-
ment ahd Perfection of Service.
Visitors to the Hotel are Invited to
Join the Dance and make free use of
the
Wentworth Cafe
and Ballroom.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
The impressive moment of the Royal
Humane Society's annual meeting arrives
when the hymn “for those at sea” is sung
by the audience. Something of the import-
ance of those little bronze medals and cer-
tificates which the Society is about to present
to saviours of human life begins to hre the
imagination, and presently, when those who
have risked their lives for others pass up
through a naval guard of honor, they turn
, to „ be 3 ’ ust the ordinary girl and boy and
bloke of everyday, till the looker-on begins
to wonder how many heroes and heroines
travel in with him to the daily grind in the
SoO every morning. One figure, very loudly
cheered, was Mrs. Brennan, of St. Peters
whose little seven-year-old son lost his life in
trying to save a playmate from drowning in a
brick pit. Fred Marks received the Society’s
silver medal on behalf of the brilliant sol-
dier brother who went through all the
dangers of the war to give his life for another
ut Palm Beach. And bits of lads ranging
from nine or ten to a broth of a bov of 6S—
-1 homas James Daley—were other heroes who
received the reward of bravery at the hands
of Chief Justice Cullen’s lady. Sir Walter
and aide Egerton represented vice-regal en-
* U ?) as ??' The Society has a new president,
A. K Robinson. Former president F. H.
Dangar held the job for 44 years.
With September the garden fete for
™ arit J | a ys marauding hands on your bag.
lhe Sydney Day Nursery got in early on
n rid ay, when Miss Bailey lent the grounds
of Ascham for the flutter. The old lawns
and trees were charming after two days’
heavy rain. In one corner the wistaria drooped
mauve and languid, and looking out across
the lawn one caught a gleam of a sapphire-
gemmed finger of the Harbor, though the
children from the day nurseries, in their red
twill pinafores, are no doubt using a double
supply of hankies this week after the jolly
tune they had rolling on the grass. The
flower-stall was a riot of beauty—all the
blooms had been sent from the mountain gar-
ns ?f one of the day-nursery’s friends. The
McMillan lady made the opening speech;
then business became brisk, and, in spite of
what seemed a slender attendance, the after-
noon’s takings ran into three figures.
St. Paul’s College has just held its
first Commem. ceremony since 1915; and
there was a great rally of friends in the
hall. Grouped around the Warden were his
Ex., Justice Street, Judge Backhouse, Judge
Docker, Archgaiters Wright, Le Gay Brere-
ton (with a poem hanging on his eiclashes),
and the Principals of Moore and Wesley
Colleges, female support being given by a
handful of professorial ladies, the Chief Jus-
tice’s wife and Miss Fairfax. The memory
of Brian Pockley, an old student, the first
Australian soldier to die in the war—he was
killed in New Guinea on Commem. Day,
1914—was honored in the Warden’s address,
which went mainly to prove the necessitv
for the extension of the College. After the
speeches everybody wandered to the new
Administration Block. All the softness of
early Spring was in the air, and the flapper
visitors walked in the gaiety of bright-hued
Fujis and hats millinered by September: but
mother clung to her furs, and looked the
happier when the shadows of the College
swooped down and suddenly wiped the sun-
shine frOm the tea tables.
. Thick layers of mixed tongue formed the
biil-of-fare at the party given by the Modern
languages Assoc, in the gallery of the Edu-
cation Department. Songs and music and
recitations froyi all lands had been collected
for the programme; even some farm-yard
noises brought straight from Germany by Mr.
Bauer. Mrs. Verbrugghen sang three songs in
French. Spanish had two Irish exponents
and because Dante has had a sexcentenary
the whole of his Infernal 10th Canto was
read. The Verbrugghens and the imposing
Soubeiran lady were at the party, to which
Belgian Consul Segaert brought his young
son. The Wrights, she in French grey, were
the centre of a little group on which Lam-
bert’s “Important People” looked down
serenely.
Mary Mackenzie Young, the handsome
daughter of a handsome mother, has engaged
herself to 11. G. Bissell Thomas, whose
people live in Wolverhampton (Eng.).
Bride-elect is the daughter of the late Cap-
tain Mackenzie Young, 16th (Queen si
Lancers and Mrs. W. 11. Wood. Mrs. Wood
was Miss French, daughter of General
French, and she married Mr. Wood, who was
then X.S.W. Chief Secretary, when Mary
was about seven years old. They went to
live at Wentworth Falls, but sold off the
place about four years ago when Mrs. Wood
moved to London. Her other two daughters,
the Misses Wood, are still in the schoolroom.
But the engagement that is stirring the
Australian Club to its depths is that of old-
member Guy Belisario, of the law firm of
Bowman and Mackenzie, who is about to
link up with Mrs. Samuel. She is blonde
and pretty and witty—a trio of charms that
no man or woman can resist. Mrs. Samuel,
who has been in Sydney only a short time,
had for cousin that brilliant woman “Eve,”
of the Tatler.
Joan (Babe) Edols, whose engagement
ring is still winking shyly, is the only daugh-
ter of the Ernest Edolses, of Macleay-street.
She is just 19, and the young man in her
case is Dr. Frank La Touche, of the staff
of Bodington, Wentworth Falls, and a
son of padre La Touche, of Epping.
Colonel J. S. Lyster, one-time commandant
of Bananaland, S. Aus. and N. S. Wales,
has settled down with his family in Guern-
sey, one of the Channel Islands. Mrs. Lys-
ter, in a letter to a Sydney friend, tells of a
recent visit to the island by George and
Mary. Mrs. Brown-Potter, who lives in the
island, wasn’t invited to the royal garden-
party, presumably because she is a divorcee;
but the lady put up such a battle with Lieut.-
Governor Swettenham that he sent along the
coveted cardboard. While the scrap lasted
Society in the island was rent in twain —
pro-Potter and anti-Potter.
Pianist Charles Philip, who gives a recital
on the 20th, at the Conservatorium, will
play a charming composition by Kathleen
Wyatt, who got her inspiration from “The
rain .drum-drum-drumming on the burdock
leaves” in Andersen’s fairy-story of “The
Happy Family.” Roland Foster and Ernest
Truman are among those who think Kath-
leen’s efforts above the average, and Sid
McDonald is booking one of her songs for
his next concert.
Those who heard Graham Browne and
Marie Tempest in “Tea for Three” during
the week and have therefore seen its beau-
tiful back cloths, may be interested to learn
that they are the work of John D. Moore,
the young architect who has succeeded in
catching the Gallery’s eye this year. Both
Miss Tempest and Graham Browne look
upon John Moore as a Heaven-born scenic
artist —they say they never before have
played with such striking back cloths.
Everybody in Australia has seen the pic-
ture of Warwick Armstrong, captain of the
famous Eleven, but the gallant leader who
is bringing back the ashes lias a wife, and
let’s introduce her.
As Aileen O’Donnell
she was one of six
daughters born at
the station home of
the late P. L. O’Don-
nell, of Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). All the
girls were fine riders
and, though educated
at convents in Syd-
ney, spent their holi-
days in the saddle.
All except one are
now married. One is
Mrs. Flannery, wife
of the K.C.; another
Mrs. Shaw, wife
of Lieutenant-Com-
mander Shaw, of
Portsmouth ; another
the wife of Dr. Brennan, of Cootamundra.
Mrs. Armstrong has accompanied her hus-
band on some of his cricketing tours; but
her favorite pastime nowadays is collecting
the various skits and cartoons of her big man
for the small son and heir, Geoffrey Warwick.
These cartoons are so numerous that the
boy will have a prodigious album when lie
is _ old enough to appreciate “Dad’s” heroic
cricket deeds. Mrs. Armstrong is hoping to
meet her husband in Melbourne in December.
In Darlinghurst there’s a schoolmaster
who has had quite a lot to do with shaping
the Australian stage. He’s William Ander-
son, of St. John’s parish school. It was at
one of his school concerts that Dot Brunton
made her first public appearance, and Cecil
Bradley was another who kept an anxious
eye on the beat of the silver-tipped baton
when she faced her first audience. For four
nights last week the kiddies of the school
produced “Princess Chrysanthemum,” an
operetta in three acts; and there was pro-
mise of a whole crop of musical-comedy stars
for the Firm.
Singing-girl Julia Caroli, in a yellow
jersey silk frock deeply fringed and a great
display of dimples, hostessed a welcome in
Farmer’s smoke-room to Agostino Fossati,
wim has left Milan to preach the gospel of
Italian singing methods to Sydney aspirants.
Fossati, who was a pupil of Mascagni’s, is
small and slight and rather bald, speaks
English well, is modest in manner and pre-
pared. on Miss Caroli’s recommendation, to
like all things Australian. Musical Sydney
and Mrs. Monty Severn came to say “How
d you do”; Julia’s small mother, in grey
supported her daughter; and Mrs. Cyril
Monk wore a pretty mole dress that turned
back here and there to show a lining like
a pink sea-shell. The air was filled with
velvet vowels and sudden hissing sounds like
a boiling kettle, for half the Italian colony
was present. Lilian Frost. Mrs. Kosen-
liloom, Kathleen Malone, from Melbourne, and
Chappie s manager from the same City of
Virtue helped to swell the welcome, while
tennis-playing Poppy Bremer (she’s a cousin
°t Sylvias) supplied just the right musical
accompaniment to a running fire of conver-
sation.
Here is a picture of Bryce Carter by May
Moore. Bryce—one of a family of five boys
and one girl—was horn into art-enthusiasm.
Ills grandfather was a noted water-color
artist and his father a fine tenor singer. Of
. s brothers, Frank Mowat i.s an excellent
violinist and Norman one of Sydney’s leading
artists. Bryce, who was born at Ivew (Vic.)
in 1882, after med-
dling with the piano
took np the ’cello
seriously, first under
George Howard and
then under Volmar,
with whom he re-
mained till the mas-
ter’s death. Until the
Sydney Amateur Or-
chestra disbanded he
regularly appeared
with it; then he
filled a contract for
a year in Java and
thereabouts; and
since his return he
has been doing solo
work for the J.C.W.
theatres. His wife
was Miss E. M.
Josephson, of Blayney and Grenfell. They
have two children; the elder, Eric, just 10,
threatens to rival his father with his own
instrument.
At a lecture the other night Sir Walter
Davidson introduced Hugh R. Denison as
the Fairy Prince of the Colonial Institute;
but it s not every Prince that can afford to
give a six-storeyed city building as a perma-
nent stable for his hobby-horse. The gift
premises are in Bligh-street, opposite the
union Club. The building has known good
deeds before to-day; for many years Mar-
garet Harris made it a home for wander-
ing personages to pop into for a hot bath,
a hot meal and a comfortable room to rest in.
Mrs. Pilar, the Paris newspaper woman
who is studying us and has already had one
or two entertaining sketches of Melbourne
published in her paper, La Libekte, arrived
in Sydney one day last week. The Blue
Mountains claim her next, and then some
station homes where she will see the great
Uutback she heard so much about while she
was nursing alternate layers of Frenchies
and Diggers. The Parisian’s pen runs to
verse and short stories, and she has been
guilty of at least one set of stanzas in praise
of our boys—“ Australia,” published in 1918.
The mermaids of the Ladies’ Swimming
Assoc, breasted the social wave at the
Wentworth, and with attendant mermen ate
and danced and made a great fuss over
Fanny Durack, to whom Mrs. Flowers, on
behalf of the water folk, presented an
illuminated address from the brush of Tom
Ferry. Annette Kellerman and her husband
remained until Annette was forced to take
to the water at the Tivoli, and they came
back later. Mrs. A. C. W. Hill presided,
proposed the toast of the evening, and Fanny
responded in a happy little talk.
Thea Proctor is returning to Melbourne
about the end of October. Before settling
down she will give an exhibition in Sydney.
And Arthur Streeton will also give Sydney
a chance to view his works before he packs
for England.
. Amy Castles and sister Eileen have been
giving concerts half-round Australia. They
have been through Queensland and the
Northern Rivers. Newcastle the other night
went crazy over them, and, indeed, Amy is
singing wonderfully well. Now the pair,
with Torzillo of the Magic Lamp and a
gem of an accompanist, are in Orange stay-
ing with the Meaghers. The big success of
the season has been the singing of the old
songs of the Country of the Four Green
Fields to a harp accompaniment, Sydney
and Melbourne are booked, and South Africa
and “the East” are to follow. Jack Grif-
fiths is managing the happy foursome.
Graceful dancing-girl Mollie Willoughby
was leaning over the rail of the outgoing
American boat, her arms filled, with flowers,
and friends stood calling farewell messages.
Came a messenger with a cable to say that
mother, who was to meet her in
New York, would be a month late in keeping
the appointment. Mollie is a young woman
of quick action. In 10 minutes she was off
that boat, bag and baggage. If she had a
month to wait she’d rather do it in Sydney
than New York, thank you.
Prince Obolensky, who divides his time be-
tween the Union Club and the local office
of Vickers Maxim, is leaving shortly for
England. His wife is now in London.
The memorial volume to the late Colonel
n is ready. It consists of view-
points of him by. his friends, a foreword
,/ US b i Braest, and a number of
photographs. lh e Art in Australia firm h
publishing the book at a guinea.
1 ® eau f° r t Burdekin has had a novel—
her first—accepted by John Lane. Her
sister-in-law Mrs. Alex. Hay, left the MSS.
Ut ~ rm s London office and within a
month the -writer got a cable offering a
loyalty of 10 per cent, and 20 per cent, for
hve further books. She is an English girl
who married her barrister-husband while he
was serving in the R.P.A.
■?i t ‘ i, jUke ’ s Ball committee has had no luck
with the two dates it picked for the dance
in aid of the comfortable Anglican hospital
m IJaiTinghurst, other ball committees hav-
already pegged out the desired dates. So
the St. Lucians will postpone their dance till
Ims ter. Meantime they propose to raise the
wind by a tete in the grounds and ballroom
ot the Tony Hordern home at Darling Point.
St. incent’s Old Girls called a reunion the
other night at the Wentworth in the inter-
ests ot St. Mary’s Building Fund. The big
Convent in Victoria-street was represented
by old girls ’ from the ’teens upwards, and
to the stranger it seemed that good looks had
been an essential for admission to the school.
Josie Hannan and Beatrice Downes recon-
ciled lemon taffeta and jade-green dancing
frocks with the duties of the treasury; and
Elsie McKelvey, in lavender and lace (the
lavender was the product of the silkworm,
not of the garden stuff), looked upon the
results of her work as secretary and called
it good. Father Murphy, of the Cathedral,
gave a bless-you-my-ehildren. Mayoress Lam-
bert trailed black satin and coral-beaded net
and brought a slim sister in pale blue. Vice-
president Mrs. Hatfield wore blue shot taf-
feta and hostessed a party.
If you have a family of children, for 6d.
a head (feet included) you can £>uy them
an afternoon’s entertainment next Saturday
in the grounds of the Women’s College. There
a fete is to be held for the College Building
b und ; and Mrs. Allard and Arthur Benja-
min are arranging a concert. If you are
grown-up the man at the gate will dock you
for a shilling. But the show will be. worth
the money.
Those who held up hands in horror at
the idea of Sydney girls playing Rugby
would have fainted at a view of something
like 20,000 —mostly men—fighting to get
through the turnstiles of the Agricultural
Ground 0 n Saturday. Not manv of them
seriously expected a skilful game; so not
many were disappointed. But it was good
exercise for 20 people, who among them
had plenty of flesh to get rid of. The sourest
faces in the gathering belonged to the ambu-
laiice-men ; they weren’t called upon once to
use the smelling salts or the powder-puff.
The Uni. Boat Club is jollying into a
dance on October 24 at the Wentworth to
celebrate the quarter-centenary of the Inter-
Collegiate Boat Race and ’Varsity Regatta.
Oh, the flight of time! In another 75 years
the Inter-Collegiate Boat Race will be 100
years old! V. M. Barnet (St. Andrew’s)
and il. F. Wilson (St. Paul’s) are the secs,
and that’s appropriate enough, for who wrote
more epistles than that same Paul? -
A Brisbane postscript:—
Ivy Tritton, whose marriage to Roy Shaw draws
near, has been lavishly muffined; and mother gave
a big at-home to her friends at Elderslie. A large
marquee housed the afternoon tea, and a jazz band
lured the younger guests to the verandahs.
Another wedding which friends are buzzing over
is that of Eric Wardrop, only son of. the Colin
Wardrops, to Nessie Ferguson. Mrs. Heindorff gave
the bride-elect a tea on Wednesday last week.
On Thursday a war memorial (a gun this time)
had to be unveiled at Petrie, and after the business
was over his Ex. was entertained at the Petrie
home. Mrs. Tom Petrie, who is on the far side
of 80, and her daughters took Sir Mathew round
to see the' trees and the stock. Constance Petrie
(she is now Mrs. George Stuart) is the compiler of
“Tom Petrie’s Reminiscences,” and a copy of the
book was handed over as a souvenir.
The committee of the Harbor Lights Guild gave
a card-party and jazz on Monday night in aid of St.
Martin’s Hospital. Mrs. Reg Hillcoat lent her
home for the jolly shivoo.
Jeannie Hogarth, daughter of the late William
Hogarth, of Balgownie station, went out in a deluge
of rain to marry D. C. McWilliam, of Pittsworth.
The wedding was at St. James’s, Toowoomba, and
after the ceremony the bridal pair went on to Pitts-
worth, and are motoring to Sydney now.
Lottie Richter (Mrs. Davis) was the soloist at
the Musical Union’s last concert, and she looked a
very cheerful “Spectre’s Bride” in a blue georgette
frock with a shimmery overdress. (Please don’t
leave out any of the syllables in that “shimmery.”)
The Gov. and Col. and Mrs. Parsons came to hear
the lady’s delectable soprano.
Mrs. C. Patterson, Mayoress of Toowong, a good
friend to returned soldiers, presided at a women's
meeting at which the unemployment of soldiers ms
discussed. The local Red Cross is going to help, too,
and already a list of entertainments has been made
out. In at least one suburb energetic women will
try to give our soldiers the jobs they were promised
—when they enlisted.


h B m
i
hub
igiriji
II
MBHI
* w*. i .
Hi HH
IHi
apsis
n
%
. ■ • .
HHI
mm
Bmmb
1 1 ■
n
- ?"\Si
* *w' >•« ,
EH S SI! 99HlllBliilI H
-
■HH
•-4 i
MB
mm
m wm
yyy
* * ■*«*.' .
..
H
Hi
m
Hi
*
i 1
' ■* .
■
:
&
■
am
I mmm
:
HI
H
Hi
• i - a
Hm
Hi
nPTmTTnTrTriUMHiUiu, MmiUMimimmnmniiiHiiininimnm
H
'P
1
IHf
~ VJ
t
tfSH
■ i
■
: v
m
m
im
«
1H
111
i ■
,
§
y 9i
' vi
HH
; ; :
-i
f * ;
t
a
: :
■
■
• r
■■Ml
ImiliMi
.:.’ *?
■«- *■ q^^S3S=3oCl£3g-
■
*s>,
rMzz^iSMm:
fmmmg
>y
* ■HI
lllPli
HHI
v j
mw %m
.. i "•■ I
imi
nllilli
mm
mmmm
m
■
mwmmm
B
mm
m
B
m
. H
H
■v
.
m
■
-
H
BB
mSm
Hbi
.
■y.-'
H
HI
■
m
mm
m
am
n
■
H 9
an
n
Hi
■
SB
: .
m
Ifell
hH
H
Hi
ns
■Hi
■
n
m
3\Ausic and Imagination
Phillips Brooks—that man of keen perceptions
-once said: "A school song in the heart of a
child will do as much for his character as a fact
in his memory or a principle in his intellect. In
other words, music as a means of culture, is a
patent factor in human civilisation. This being
true, how essential it becomes that the young
mind should drink in nothing but the best! Let
him practise, certainly, but not rely on his own
puny efforts as a stimulus to imagination.
The Beale Player-Piano combines in one instrument the best
means of attaining ideal results. The finest compositions m
the musical world can be played with the roll and used to im-
press on the child’s mind the full beauty of correct rythm
and tone colour. Aside from the enjoyment you will person-
ally derive from the instrument, this educational value is a
highly important feature of the Beale Player-Piano. And at
all times it is available for hand-playing. The Beale Patent
Tuning System ensures an instrument always in tune, and
this, despite the great amount of use a Player always gets.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the <%€ale
Showrooms:
340 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Head Office and Factories
4f-47 Trafalgar Strez
ANNANDALE.
BRANCHES
NSW.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria • Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hoba“ Mapfes, Launceston. South Australia: John Evan. Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
no-02 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


Acidity
If neglected may bring #
about serious disturb-
ances to health. Head-
ache and Indigestion
are often traceable to
this cause. Get relief by
taking the ever-reliable
Kruse}
Fluid
Magnesia
Emigrations are being
Of sred. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by
Felton, Grim wade &
Co. Prop. Ltd., Melb.
gpSi
he largest sellmcf
quality pencil in
ihe wovld
VENUS
VP
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
cfysMKt/n,
YES!—You Cal
Easily Mark any
GARMENT or MATERIAL
to ensure You Protection
against loss, and individuality
by using
Hi
Unlimited scope, easily sewn
on. any Name Woven in Fast
Color.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6,
6 doz."s/- —3 doz. 3/6.
Be sure and ask for CASH’S
ut all Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St. Richmond,Vic.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
I
5* (S
A
The
Santwill
■WORK SHIRT
Sand in color. Twill in quality
The
“ SANT WILL ” is
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shirt
yet introduced at its
Price. Not only sturdy
r‘ n quality % but sturdy in
color as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
of dust and grime, and looks Clean and Present-
able all the time. Also in White—same price!
It is so Well Made, so Strongly Sewn, the Buttons arc
no lirin, and tin* Measure of Cloth so Liberal, that Com-
|>cti tors have been amazed I In it one linds Broad-
shouldered Comfort. Perfect Fitting Sleeves and ricmy
of Boom for the Muscles to Play in Comfort.
8/6
New Low-Level Price
each or three for
24/-
/Vo Skimping ! !S on-gaping /
Buttons Sewn on to Stay!
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Carriage Paid
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
TOWNSVILLE
Please write to Desk “ ll'.'’
u
w
o
1. Simplicity.
a
2. Impudence.
O I-
o
3. Importance.
Learn to Draw
os
cs z
r
By the Weston Method—
It is so Simple.
Starting with simple
studies in straight lines,
curves and circles as
above, you soon become
proficient enough to
dash off in a few
moments a free, bold
sketch, similar to this
3. Importance—showing the effect _
gained by adding a few simple one .
lines.
The Harry J. Weston
Postal Course of Drawing
encourages and develops originality, which is the foundation of
success in art. In everyone there lies dormant the ability to draw.
you can write you can draw, as long as you learn where and
ho\y to place the lines to gain the desired effect. This course takes
you on, step by step, through a series of easily-graded lessons,
from the very rudiments of drawing up to the higher branches of
design and color-work.
THE WESTON COURSE IS SIMPLE.
Ihe keynote of this fascinating series of lessons is simplicity. There
are no tangled technicalities to master; there is no drudgery, and
the course has distinct advantages, for each student is in constant
touch with Mr. Harry J. Weston, the well-known commercial
th ,?„ first lesson ever Y study is PERSONALLY
l , , i • °y r ’ Weston, who corrects all faults and gives
helpful advice at each stage. Advancement by this method is
naturally very rapid, and from all parts of Australasia students
write expressing surprise and gratification at their success.
There is a
continual and
ever-growing
demand for artists
of original creative
ability, and lucrative
positions await those
able to use the pen and
pencil skilfully.
You will be surprised
at the rapid progress
possible under the Wes-
ton Method, which soon
enables you to make free, bold
sketches of people and scenes
around you, providing an end-
less source of pleasure, and a
hobby that it will always pay
to cultivate.
One of Many Tributes.
Writing recently to Mr. Wes-
ton, a successful cartoonist on
one of Australia’s daily papers
said:—
“I would like to state how admirably use-
ful your course appears. Many of the'little
easy ‘stunts’ you show I now use, but they
took me months of midnight oil to discover.
Teaching yourself is a heart-breaking process,
and 1 fervently wish 1 had had your instruc-
tion when first I was striving to draw. Years
back 1 used to study your well-known posters,
and later I was able to look at them not only
as an admirer, but as a critic. The warmth
of coloring and mastery of strong line, com-
bined with a distinctive style, greatly im-
pressed me, and I would class them with the
famous Mucha and Hassall posters. The
FOUNDATION of drawing is STRENGTH IN
FIGURE WORK, and your mastery of this
should make you the ideal teacher for pupils.”
SEND FOR THE DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET
ON THE WESTON COURSE.
In his booklet, ‘‘There’s Money in the Pen,”
Mr. Weston describes the scope of the les-
sons, and gives many valuable hints regard-
ing art work. Examples of the studies are
also given, and specimens of work done by
students. If you send your name and address,
with three stamps to cover postage, we will
forward by return a copy of this most inter-
esting booklet.
i
is
“There’s Money
in the Pen!”
The Harry J. Weston
Postal School of Drawing,
76 UNION HOUSE, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
' 0 no< *' ec (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
11.L..T.: Doesn’t show a very intimate
knowledge of the subject H.S.P.: For Heaven’s
sake don’t put your typewritten lines through a wool-
press before you send them. We are nearly blind, and
the misused typewriter is more to blame than the
bare fist... .M.J.L.A.: The faulty lines overwhelm it.
.... Gaverti: We’ll have to make room for this much
of it, anyway:—
A million coekies on a million farms
.Defied the elements, as they did
Cried “Lo, your warnings now are false alarms—
fate cannot touch us, we have thirty quid.”
A million cockies on a million farms
l ingered their “dough” saying, “We’ll teach these
swabs
What men. they have to deal with! Have not we
Got behind us six hundred glittering ‘bobs’ ?’’
A million cockies on a million farms—
What should they care for all Dame Fortune’s
frowns ?
" Irfi “natural resources” such as theirs,
lo wit, two thousand and four hundred “browns”?’
.. ; .T.R.P.: Do try to write plain Australian.
Ibis paper isn't published in the Bowery
Hills: \on seem to be one of those unfortunate people
who must go round two blocks to get to the pub
opposite.... Spent B.: Don’t worry about your spell-
ing. That’s not so important Billie B.: There
shouldn’t be much doubt as to where The B. stands
m that matter. Even if Canberra were in the
Garden of Eden it would still be a bad site from the
Australian national point of view, because the estab-
lishment of another capital in the south-east corner
will tend to draw population to that part of the
continent where it is least needed and away from
t hat part where it is needed most desperately....
F.M.L.: Far below the standard C. J.N.: Try
again; but that pen-name belongs to an old contri-
butor. . . .The Parson: Your discourse is too 10ng....
Anchorite: Most of those yarns have been told before.
Old Timer: “Stingaree’s” liquid exploits para-
graphed some time ag0....8i1l Ironbark: Pars not
up; but have another shot Zangomar: The first
yarn ever told about the ’roo was that one of the
mailman and the pommy T.L.8.: Not up
H. 8.: Faint pencil-marks undecipherable.... Okivi:
Misses.. . .Miriam N.: You miss the whole point in
complaining that those who advocate the registra-
tion of prostitutes are anxious to degrade women as
such. The aim is to get control, not specifically of
members of a sex, but of those who offer their
bodies for sale. If men made a business of this
insanitary practice, as they do of book-making,
pawnbroking and the like, their registration would
be called for with equal insistence by those who
understand the tragedies to the innocent that are
involved in the existing lax system.... Oliver B.:
Ah, here’s the real thing:—
Travelling in a railway carriage,
On the North-South line;
Some singing, some in rage,
Smoking, gambling, drinking wine.
Of all the lads you ever met,
They’d turn you white, your hair grey;
Cared for nought this shearer set,
“Your turn now, Tom, to pay.”
All right, we’ll have a song now, Jim,
We’ll all join in the chorus;
Jack’s a good singer, you can beat him,
Then we’ll have one from Morris.
But Morris wasn’t having any;
He wasn’t going to sing.
Now don’t be silly, or funny.
Or tears we may have to’bring.
One. two, three, or you’ll get the lead;
“I can’t, I never could sing” ;
Now each get him by the hair of his head,
Lift him, now for a song. He did sing.
... .L.C.Iv.: Variation of old yarn.... So: Impossible
to handle stuff so closely typed K.H.: Could all
be said in half that space L.M.G.: Pointless
platitudes F.R.A.R.: The Bulletin pays for
what it uses Tom C.: You get lost in a marsh of
maudlin sentiment... .Handover: There’s no hope
for you unless you can get to the point without
playing an overture to each paragraph Grano:
Off our beat. (Many replies held over.)
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.N.Q.: Been said before H. J.W.: Stick to
photography.... A.T.W.: Display neither art nor
originality G.H.: Slipped again A.E.: Hope-
less... .J.W.: Ruled out... .H.y.R.: All below par.
11.C.: Nowhere near it W.F.G.: All going
back... .L.YY.: Not up.... J.W.S.: A scratchy
jumble E.A.H.: Too suggestive of U.S.A L.F.:
The draught-board part’s all right Quill: Will be
paid for as a suggestion.
“C. Coral" peeps into Davy’s locker:—
'I here probably are old galleons scattered on the
floor of Torres Strait, and particularly along the
Barrier with its ship-trapping reefs. The find made
by the Jardines (of Somerset, Cape York) a few
years ago, running into something like a couple of
thoupsand pounds’ worth of specie, indicated a Span-
ish wieck not far away. Discoveries of coin, old
cannon, copper ingots, etc., at Murray Island and
neighboring localities also point to the voyagers
from Spain (via America) having left a ship or two
somewhere in the vicinity. Torres left his card at
Cape York in 1605, but he was probably not the first
Spaniard to prowl round. In 1595 Mendana had
instiuctions to found a colony in the Solomons and
then to hustle along and report on “Java Major.”
(This was after an earlier voyage.) He had four
ships at least on that expedition; and they didn’t
all return. It is quite conceivable that one or
other of them got to the Barrier, or perhaps right
in among the islands, and then came to grief. The
Portuguese, early in the 16th century, had a note of
our continent as “Great Java.” Around Stephen
Island, Bramble Cay and up in that direction the
ocean bed is simply strewn with wrecks. Running
along in calm weather I’ve seen the remains of
several myself. Dalrymple Island, close to the big
steamer passage through the Strait, was the hiding
place of much loot taken from plundered ships by
the islanders. The peculiar fish-traps or weirs in
the eastern group of Torres Strait islands are
thought to owe their origin to Spanish-Peruvian in-
fluence; and some of the old carved wooden figures
in these islands bear close resemblance, facially and
in costume effect, to the Spaniard of bygone days.
At Darnley Island, too, they’ve got very old,
roughly-sculptured stone images bearing evidently a
blood relationship to Mexican stuff in the British
Museum, and suggesting replicas of the Easter
Island figures on a smaller scale.


SMwslns;.
orient: line
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ant
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
I'd.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4. 6 Spring Street.
Sydne
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way ot
South Sett Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Voseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—-Great Cities,
NEXT SAILING OCTOBER 5.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cot. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking:. Public Companies. &c.
THE
lank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 1-1.
macartney Hon. sir Robert philp, k.c.m.g. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane,
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street,
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St,, E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £ ?Qs’nn“ o o
Capital Paid Up oo?’nnn n n
Reserve Fund . . . > • - • • 320,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 a
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
MKECTORS— James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. tl. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General, Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
head OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
A j and the world.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capita l • • ®
Capital Paid Lp • • £250,000
Hireclors* Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
T si y LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jagg Smith, M.L.C. ;
Manager: C. M. C. Shannon. •
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager. £. P* Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Une} mspe M J ager . G n Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
lON DON (37 Threadneedle Street, E. 0.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
% 1 r i -dro?wL aU .» tl B,nM«
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Turner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
. £529,988
1,125,000
Suaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares.. :• ••
& Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
and Ireland, and other places.
Britain
receives deposits
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
U(>lholirne office : 267 Collins Street.
M IJdney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
* o a or.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
620,000
£1,245.000
625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
“ with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
Tondos Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
Drafts hind*" Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping. «**.
Canadiaiv-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAKER A, 10th NOVEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. “
K M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Heturn fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
V Send lor pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N il..
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti.
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United the
™ -eat ogw £ EZxsZZXSt —— -■
SAILINGS 29 t h SEPTEMBER, 10 a.m.
MAR AM A, 27 th OCTOBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the //,'/, STREET. SYDNEY.
SJSSrf STREET, MELBOURNE.
d
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
S.t&blished ISIS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
CfT
15,000,000
3,425,000
5,000,000
£13,435,000
Director *
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President. .
Thomas Buckland, J'.sq.
Robert 1
The Hon.
Franc B.
The Hon.
Faithfull, Esq., M.L>.
James T. Walker.
. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
" #»*-"■' s««»,»™ *•**»«. '•«'• ” j , " i, ° n
Agents and C< respondents throughout the world. Forpi2 . n placeß DTRKCT. Foreign Bi lls
negotiated not, issned, negotiable thronghont the World.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1884.
Capital paid up .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
. *2,909,0**
. £2,380,000
. £3,000,000
*8,269,025
ďf
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
Grneral Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout >'e\v South Alains an ■“ ee
The'l"*m"of PH?and* The* 1 London*' County Westminster and
London Bankers-1 o fl-*^.^ Barclays Bank. Limi^d.
VI) agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Jenolan Caves,
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
w Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
, v nar.ANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by spee^jr^ndj£° t 0, ‘ tM ° U _ Sh “ C £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR *S/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing a~* enter-
Covering first-class ra ' t^j / 1 1 nent at Oaves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
,-pvfrNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Chains House, Sydney.
Shin»in«r.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf p oits ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
] Sails from I Sails from
I Sydney. | Melbourne.;
•KAROOLA.
tCOOMA
(Melb. only)
fLEVUKA...
(Melb. only)
*Zealaxdia. .
t BOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
*KATOOMBA
(Calls Albany
for
passengers)
JWODONGA.
Sat.,
Sept. 24,
noon.
Sat.,
Sept. 24,
noon.
Tues.,
Sept. 27,
3 p.m.
Sat.,
Oct. 1,
noon.
Sat.,
Oct. 1.
noon.
Sat.,
Oct. 8,
noon.
Tues.,
Oct. 4.
Wed.,
Sept.
28.
Wed..
Oct. 5.
Wed.,
Oct. U
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwfaith,
McEacharn’s Line,,
81 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684).
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
St. (Tel. 9568).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), B0WEN ’
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, BumUj-
bere and P Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
_ _ | Howard Smith.
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221),
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
! (Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
i St. (Tel. 6221).
_ A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
i (Tel. 10684).
Sat.,
Sept. 24,
noon.
Tues.,
Sept. 27,
4 p.m.
Sat.,
Oct. 1,
noon.
Tues.,
Oct. 4,
4 p.m.
•Carries 1st, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengeis.
(Carries 1st and 2nd Class Passengers.
♦p. rries 1st and 3rd Class Passengers.
It ran ships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
(Omits
Bowen)
tWYREEMA
t§COOMA.
(Oiijits
Bowen)
fLEVUKA
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
*mw*
K\£‘SS~ Particulars to be obtumed on rrppli-
stV- AMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and S '««« three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sai u'IJODABT PARKER LIMITED,
AWSJM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort ot passenger*.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney IS days.
For all particulars apply to MaedonaW,
Hamilton A Co., 469 Collins Steeet
Melbourne, or Burns, 1 lulp & Co., lata.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T' North Coast Stearin
Navigation Co. Ltd.
«®S! T °
£3 -JETS- SlEpr^
COaSt ‘ For further particulars apply
& CO., LTD.
O 0
NIPPON YUSEN RAISHA
Steamer.
wmatutt:
TANGO MARU
NIKKO MARU
Leaves
Brisbane.
Sept. 20
Oct. 31
Nov. 28
' Monthlv Sailings Thereafter,
rhrough Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
1 D via Japan.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
awl Company Umitecl,
Managing Agents foi Australasia,
AND TO DALGETY’& St CO.,’ LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Mnralonald Hamilton.
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
\nstralasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Cental Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Centr { lt’itzroy Estates Limited.
Blacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS KOI!:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney). Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messa-eries Maritime* Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
New Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian- Australasian BOyal Mail Lme (at Bnsbane);
San Francisco Service (Lmon S.S. Co. , iV
Unio 1 n n S.S P Co! ) ol New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
MiirldTi-r Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation / Ml J" ne^ rj “j: j;l^^ bane ‘
Als T o Agents to? Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Bnsbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and L.ghtcr Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (I'Jji), Maiy-
borousrh, Bundaberg, Bowen and Coo,Town.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


METALS FOR
ENGINEERS
EXTRUDED METALS FOR
REPETITION WORK.
Screw makers and other pro-
ducers of repetition work
can now obtain regular sup-
plies from us.
EXTRUDED BRASS
RODS, all sizes, from 3- 1 6
inch.
HOLLOW SECTIONS FOR
NUT MAKING are also
available.
Send for list showing full
range of extruded sections.
COMMUTATOR SEG-
MENTS.
METALS FOR ELECTRI-
CAL ENGINEERING. These
metals are manufactured
from Australian electrolytic
copper, and conform to the
requirements of the electri-
cal engineering trade.
BUSBAR COPPER, Sizes
from to 6in. wide, and
from thick.
ROLLED AND DRAWN
BARS AND RODS, Brass,
Copper, Arsenical Copper,
Muntz Metal, Manganese
Bronze, Naval Brass, Tobin
Bronze, in round, square,
hexagon and flat. All usual
trade sizes.
Quotations and complete
information on application.
AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. LTD.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115-Clarence Street, Sydney, and 125 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; (MELBOURNE) PTY r ., LTD., 499-501 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, and Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from
GEO. KENT, LTD., Perth, W.A.; and -TONES & CO., Clyde Quay,
Wellington, N.Z. aim?
Millars' Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
J ARK AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Pav i n g Blocks, Builders*
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A,
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68§ PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
Superior Drills
Save Time and
Labor
ďf
Unless a drill bites into
the metal quickly and cleanly
you are not getting full value. Every
unnecessary minute that a drill takes means
You'll always.set a satisfactory job if you use
Capita! Brand High-Speed Twist Drills
Because their manufacture is carefully watched and onlv the finest of
material us used -every "Capital” High-Speed Twist Drill is guaranteed.
Aa\ that js found < elective will be replaced free of charge.'
Large stocks of every description. For prices, etc., address Department “A.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital Higli-Speed Steel,
379-381. Kent Street, Sydney;
2<s<i Latrobe Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle;
John Keid & Nephews, lirisbane
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle;
K. L. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart,
Dependable Guns
a
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong-.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
.r
mm
ass:
g vm
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30iii. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
Delivered,
The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
£5/12/6
£6 151-
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL ™ Tobacco
The World’s Best.
Uiahi
barrels,
patent
BJB. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
. English D.8.8.1i. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. tOd. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
_ ; th
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammer less D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan uitrol Shin. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2}in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b. « t/ - y, f ,
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 9L,1 0/10/"
d
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrel's, take-down
system, magazine holds Six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
J-J2. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
ď
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, l‘--gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about Freight paid,
£l2/12/-
MYRROHLS™ TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.6. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
f
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 611 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
BS Ejector, 65/- Freight paid,
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Delightful Miss Madge Elliott
is a Rexona Girl.
2*
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT (from a photo)
Miss Madge Elliott, one of the
most charming artists of the
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Com-
pany, now appearing in “Oh,
Lady, Lady!” at the Theatre
Royal, Sydney, is a true Rexona
Girl, and writes us as follows:
“Add me to your Rexona
Club, please. It anyone
deserves election I do, for I
use nothing but Rexona
Soap for my bath, my com-
plexion and my hair. If I
knock myself in hurrying on
or off the stage, or get a
little stiff, I use Rexona. It
is worth its weight in gold
in one’s medicine chest.
Please notify me when
elected.
“I am,
“Yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) MADGE ELLIOTT.”
Girls! Rexona Soap gives Natural
Beauty to Skin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be imitated., can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of soaps can only cleanse; they
cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing,
antiseptic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which m the treatment
of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skm and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see it it does
not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples, and leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety. Price 1/- per Tablet.
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
PEANUT BRITTLE
s£Cho/ce_MlL Cofi/£cti°lL
packed in I*-
/lirlighl Tins.
3/6 EACH
POSTAGE 6* EXTRA
Sent to any address in Australia.
| H I
ll
:
m
\:/u
M
* * : .'--
■
lb
W&M
On/y /fddress
. SYDNEY.
The Symphony.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
REY Chronos made a symphony of
V>l Of tremulous warmth and golden-
purple haze;
Of sunsets like to red anemones,
And dawn skies rich as ruffled rose-flame
seas
Where morning stands, both rosy palms afire
With the great golden jacinth of the sun,
Of wistful pain and nameless memories,
And the sad sweetnesses of heart’s desire
For joys long done.
Sorrow, and love’s eternal poignancies,
And blind heart-hunger naught can all
appease
i Made mellow with a tenderness divine
Like ivory moonrise glimpsed through amoer
wine)
Sang through it; and the golden thoughts of
youth.
As a lark-song in lands of fantasy,
Throbbed rapture in its phrases, strong and
fine
With that clear hope and eager, passionate
truth
That yet sjiall be.
A music like the promise of a dream.
(Had change intrinsicate in every theme,
Woven as morn’s clear light of myriad hues,
Of ever-variant moods that interfuse
To sunny gold of heart-free- happiness ;
\ music of young eyes and merry lips ;
A barcarolle of magic streams that woos
The saddest heart from drab Grief’s sullen
stress
And searing whips.
The secret soul of every subtle thing
Too gossamer for man’s imagining,
Lethean lilac and wistaria bloom
Round the wide windows of a shadowy room
Mellow with books and evening quietness;
The dark clear loveliness of sudden night.
With dusk red poppies lanterning the gloom ;
Still bridal seas that amber dawns caress
With star-pale light!
Love-laughter in a. woman’s eyes and dreams
Of all that great love haply is. or seems;
The fiery tenderness of serenades
In night’s moon-white and passion-haunted
glades;
Red firelight-velvet on a yellow rose,
Late plucked by idle Beauty’s shining hands,
A merry gift to love, ere yet it fades
From the imperious heart that meekly chose
His burning bands !
Dim glimmering strands and hills of heart s
desire .
(For ’tis the far-off splendors that inspire) ;
Twilight and fire-flame (these for tired eyes
And hearts grown weary with the loud
world’s lies) ;
Twilight and fire-flame, and a wistful dream
Haply of towers made beautiful with time—
Chateaux in Spain that nestle phantom-wise
In the green glens of some lost land agleani
With rose and lime!
Grey Chronos made of these a symphony!
All glad and sad things past and still to be
Found place therein; and stricken as with
fire
The whole world pulsed with one supreme
desire
As that awakening mus’e, phrase by phrase,
Burned through grim Winter’s ancient sor-
rowing, . . , , . .
Long since, when first for his immortal lyre
Grey Chronos wove that symphony of days
And called it Spring.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Sentiment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f |"1 HE house was in a narrow little street
I that ended suddenly against a sweat-
ing factory wall. Like most mean,
grimy byways, it boasted a lavish title Li os-
venor-street. Sam hated the street and the
house. The house was like Jenny drab and
uninspiring. Perhaps it was just because of
this likeness to Jenny that he did hate it. For
he hated Jenny—now, since he had married
her. She had not always been dirty about
the neck, with dead frowsy-looking hair, and
a shrill, viperish tongue that almost drove
him mad with a desire to kill. Perhaps it
was the factory that made her dirty. The
flying cocoa from the packing-tables settled
thickly in the seams of her neck, and made
the hairs on her arms spray out like thin
brown forests. Sam was always reminded of
a big, hairy, dust-coated poppy stem when he
looked at her arms.
It was her own idea to go on doing
the work that she had done since child-
hood. At 26 she was surprisingly slick
at it, and could turn-in, label and lid more
rapidly than any other hand in the room.
She ivas able to earn plenty of money this
way, and, anyhow, she would not have con-
tented herself in the little shut-in house in
Grosvenor-street away from her boon com-
panions. Sam often heard her singing and
laughing when occasion took him to her end
of the factory. As a rule he worked the lift
in another part of the building, but some-
times he carried the huge sacks of lids, and
threw' them on the floor under the tables. He
enjoyed that when once he could straighten
up his back again. The lids made a noise like
the tinklings of little bells as they tumbled
out. And he liked the look of them lying
there —shining silver, like heaped fish under
the moon. Then he would look up and see
Jenny stooping over the busy table, wdth her
knowing black eyes snapping in her sneering
sallow face, and her arms smeared with
cocoa. And he would promptly fall to hat-
ing her again, knowing that she was jeering
at him. and calling him a “boob” to the other
grinning girls.
It was a strange enough thing, but JW
did not laugh and sing at home, bhe was
always too tired after factory hours to even
prepare a decent meal. A pie wl th toi
sauce "did” them for the middle of the daj.
In the evenings more often than not she
took home stuff from one of the ham-and-
beef shops fronting the sea. Things were
indescribably dirty in the house. Ihe sinK
in the kitchen was always stopped-up and
smelled vile. But the dirt was not all.
There was something that went deepei tha
that. Some loss or wrong that Sam could
not exactly explain. Some hurt that he could
not put his finger on. He was inarticulate,
a stupid worker mazed and fuddLed under
wrongs which he resented dully but had no
power to undo —a sad man of oil witn a
brooding face and an instinct for solitude.
When he did venture to expostulate witn
Jenny he was met by a volley of abuse.
"Put on a clean blouse, yer boob. sne
jeered. “Gor’ blimey, oo are you. 1 e
Hook of York or the Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne? If cocoa's good enough ter git yer
living by it’s good enough to live with .
“Well, you needn’t work on it,” said Sam.
His face was dark with a surge of blood in
it. ‘T don’t want you to be keeping on at
the fact’ry. It grinds hell out of you. 1
want you to be home —making a real little
home for me and you.” Sam floundered in
the emotions that had unloosened his tongue.
“’Ome!” Jenny laughed shrilly, going-
back into the little kitchen that gave a view
into a tiny back yard. There was a stale
sickly smell of cocoa about her that mingled
with the odor of frying fat in the pan.
“’Ome: Ain’t yer got pitchers? An ther
gramophone?”
The gramophone was Sam s latest cross.
It had been purchased with Jenny’s own
money. Again, as it had done a dozen times
before, it sent Sam stumbling down to the
beach in front, away from the rasping
hideousness of it. Anywhere away from its
tormenting raucousness and the sight of the
sullen-eyed woman in her soiled clothes, Hap-
ping a paper book by the stove, or picking
decayed teeth with a sharpened match.
Sam did not know why he hated_ these
things. As he put it to himself laboriously,
he “didn’t have no call ter.” His mother
had been the same as Jenny. And he had
spent all his life in this same sordid locality
—had worked the greater part of his days in
that huge red-brick factory which dominated
the seafront. Yet a savage resentment rose
in him as he felt his tired feet crunching the
line sand. He did not want any tea. Jenny’s
half-cooked sausages in their lake of greasy
gravy held no lure for him. For the first
time his dull pain and *muted apathy stirred
into something that was poignant and real.
He thought dimly that a woman must feel
like this when her unborn child was
stirring. He was suddenly filled with a pas-
sionate desire for happiness, as strong as
the physical hunger of the starving. It
seemed to him that God had never made any
of his humans to be shut away—even as he
was, and Jenny. If there was a God. Any-
how, it didn’t seem to matter one way or
the other.
There was a smouldering crimson sunsel:
that gave light for long. And wind ! What
wind! There always was wind on the
beach. It, too, seemed to carry a message
on its wings that he could not. interpret.
Sitting hunched up by the pier he could
shut out of his life, as it were, the hideous
factory, and Jenny and the dirty house —hug
to himself the illusion that he was alone in
the world. He watched out of his odd, light-
colored eyes, exulting in the impersonal power
of the sea. How innocent it looked ! How
harmless! But it bided its time and over-
whelmed everything when it had a mind to.
The white of a veering gull fascinated him.
The coarse grass under his stumpy, black-
nailed fingers felt strong and vital. The
sky was seared with the thin, high-pointing
masts of ships. The feeling grew on him
that all the rocks and sand-ridges and
tangled grass-roots were personalities.
The music about the piers never stopped.
All his life he seemed to have listened to
that music: a never-ending chorus of fog-
horns barking out from the sea; strange,
sighing whispers coming in from the un-
known ; the clip-clapping of water against
the sides of ships; the continual creaking
song of ropes, and the deep music of iron
falling against iron.
Sam felt a desolating pity for Jenny, but
she could not share in his strange love for
this sea-symphony —its infinite restfulness;
its exquisite monotony.
Walking back through the bluster of the
incoming night his thoughts turned on Lola.
Lola worked at the Market alongs.de the
red railway bridge. She served behind a
stall where they sold second-hand clothes.
Sam liked the old market —liked the strange,
sweet, nauseating smell of it, and the voices
of the butchers and Ashmen crying their
wares. He liked, too, the still, impassive
faces of the Chinamen above their p led-up
fruit. It was their placidity that he admired
because it was so unlike any part of Jenny.
Jenny again!
He loved Lola’s face behind her stall, too.
It was calm and unquestioning, and she had
full red lips and a voluptuous bosom sug-
gesting maturity. He always thought of her
in connection with old clothes —the ghostly,
gallows-things that hung behind her, sway-
ing and shaking when the wind from the sea
came in, blowing the sawdust and loose
papers along between the stalls. He would
people the dingy, washed-out garments with
bodies. And imagine rotund figures behind
their drab folds, and the lure of white flesh
rising above sleeve and neck. Lola had not
laughed, as he had feared she might, when
he had voiced his fancies, but had under-
stood swiftly.
In the jargon of the market people, Lola
was “no better than she ought to be.” Her
name itself was lost in a mist of obscurity,
though that could by no manner of means be
ascribed to Lola’s own fault. And if her
morals were of her own careless making, she
had a heart of gold under her heaving
blouse-front, and a magical flame in her soft
eye. On this Friday night, when Sam
saw Lola’s dusky little hand lying along the
railing, something rose un in his throat that
threatened to choke him. He heard the
vome of his own soul above the clamorous
cries of the meat-vendors, and the trundling
(Continued on next page.)


WORRIES BRING ACHES
toubkfi fca T™ 2,“ d W " ryin ' “ *° b ™S <»> tidncy
It’s easy, of course, to say, “Don’t worry,” but it can’t be helped when
mgs go wrong constantly. However, make it a rule never to worry over
tnttes, and when there is reason to suspect kidney weakness, help the
kidneys before anything more serious can happen.
Kidney weakness usually shows itself in backache, pains when stooping or
kmeneSS m the mornm £’ headache, dizzy spells and urinary
To strengthen weak kidneys, use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This is a
reliable, safe remedy that acts on the kidneys only. It can’t hurt sound
kidneys, and it does help sick kidneys. SYDNEY people say so. Two
interesting cases are published here.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
LASTING CURE OF THREE YEARS.
Mrs. A. Hughes, OS Angel Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says‘My husband says he is convinced
that Doan s Backache Kidney Pills stand ahead of
any kidney remedy he knows of, and he speaks from
experience. lor a long time he was troubled with
naggmg pains across the small of his back, and thev
often nearly crippled him, as he could not stoop
or turn without suffering positive agony. He
took remedies of all kinds, but it was left to
Doans Backache Kidney Pills to effect a cure.
This medicine aqted on the kidneys very quickly
giving* him relief in a day or so, and eventually
curing him completely. They not only drove the
ache from his back, but strengthened and toned up
ms kidneys so thoroughly that he has had no
return of the complaint since, a period, of over
three years. His general health also improved
very much.” *
CURED SEVEN YEARS AGO
AND STILL WELL.
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany,
ojdney, says: ‘‘l was a great sufferer With my
back, and the pain was at times so bad that I have
had to leave my work and go home. I also had to
walk about m a bent position, and could not
straighten without increased suffering. I used vari-
ous Preparations but only got slight relief. Reading
of cures effected by Doan’s Backache K'dney P 11s
I decided to try them. One bottle eased the pa'n
and the second completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about seven years ago, and
i have had no sign of backache all that time, so it
is not mere temporary relief, but a perfect cure.
I am always advising my friends to use Doan's
Backache kidney Pills, and take this ooportunity
to publicly recommend them.” J
N
m
9
r
n
r a
%
r
y u u
'Every
Picture
Tells a
\Stoiy’
BE SURE YOU ASK
FOR DOAN’S.
ď
f
Backache
Kidney
ďf
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
*ll Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
of prams and vegetable-laden carta
A ei ' sta “ dm g und er tne flaring lights,
Hnrrv t( n/f e P odltr y-stall, where lay a rilthy
out hlnnr) teat a ei a anfi P ded " u P tins vomiting
Min, u d , and , odorous entrails. And awav
wonder-thn<-° £ hl u halt ‘ grow n mind was the
wondei that such beauty as Lola’s could
bloom amid so much filth.
.^ 01 ‘ Jenny rose in him. It was a
little stirring of sentiment. Already she had
that m he S cnn U i C 1 «•“ ® mbodied O’Pe of the past
, bat J le c °uld afford to ieel i.Ke that. He
fish stall Vei Th° a flower ' stand that banked a
hsh stail ihere was a tall fern there with
tm2if 01 1 ge i iad bright brown stems. He
lemembered picking fern like that, with
Sflush nf el r n hl ree , Gully H That was in the
rst flush of their love. He would buv that
fern for Jenny—for the sake of old remem
brance He felt that it was Jenny’s d“
He took it home, staggering under its weight.
d f nn y regarded it contemptuously, her
stmks 1 k nd u t ingel ; ing the golden fronds. “It
stinks Lke fish,’' she said.
„ Sa Sp„ ey6 T Were burning like braziers. Of
a sudden Jenny saw. He was her man
lie was grown sentimental again. He had
always been like that in fits and starts
bhe smded, displaying her blackened teeth
nil p> f i yoU r ?, “o? the ding-dong boy, after
all! she said, kissing him hotly.
that ated ber for kissing him
thJrtni! Wa f m ’ soft caresses in the weeks
wnL f n° Wed were some sort of recompense.
When he was away from her, her image
clamored, for attention. Often Sam found
himself staring sombrely at the fern. When
hfmself' e *wV t hke that . be was reminding
himself that, he was married to Jenny—that
a parson with a red nose had gabbled mean-
ingless words over their heads one day that
for S ever 6eP them ; ’ oined to Sether hatefully
The fern seemed to symbolise the last link
a despamng love between him and Jenny.
Ope afternoon he told her to water it—told
ef loughly. lor answer she threw a cup at
his head.- Sam wiped a little blood away
with a dirty handkerchief, smiling a slow
inscrutable smile.
He was thinking now of what Lola had
in Ar b n Ut he £ uncle hav ing a farm up in
the Mallee where a couple could live and
work comfortably. So far he had declined
to listen to Lola s honey-voiced suggestions.
It was perhaps an obscure consciousness of
the tact that if he once dwelt on the tempta-
tion he would fall that had kept his nrnd
S before. Now he calculated
coldly and hardly. There was no bitterness
in him, only an inordinate hunger for peace
and rest from Jenny.
Later in the night he came back stealthily
and watered the fern out of a little broken
jug.
He_ went over the subject next time he
met Lola. She listened patiently. It was
this profound patience that had held him in
tliG beginning. It nwod him now. Hg mndo
a strong point of Jenny’s ability to keep
herself going. Of course if she hadn’t been
a bie to work, the thing would have been out
of the question. And she would be happier
She had assured him a hundred
u les that she would be glad to be rid of him.
-kola Lstened stotiuly. Once she said in
her strange passionless voice: “1 m sick of
the maruec, and the smell of rotting cab-
bages and hsli. It'll always be the same 1”
toarn picked, on the n.ght for their night
witha line carefulness for detail. Jenny
wou.d have just received her weeks pay.
Ihat at least would be something to go on
witn.
. He left her sleeping heavily after a tea of
tripe and onions. Her mouth was open,
and her blouse gaped at the throat, barn
moved stealthily. ri e felt that he was listen-
ing to an enormous siience. At the door
he turned back. He saw the tern on its
stand, its lacy foliage gleaming under the
gas. He made an inarticulate no.se. A
wave of foolish, hopeless sentiment Hooded
him. He thought of that day in the cool
green gloom ot the fern gullies. He had
loved Jenny then. He lifted down the heavy
pot without effort, placmg it on the flmr
near the door. He scarcely knew why "lie
d*d this. A pitiful tribute to the ghost of
toe young Jenny, perhaps. or peinaps
he wished her to remember him as he had
been then —she would see it when sue woke
He samimed uvvkwaidly iiito the streev
He would write to her sometime from Mul-
garoo-not g.vmg the postal address.
~ , OUr inter he and Lola came from the
Market on their way to the tram. Thev
passed along by the end of Grosvenor-street
s. mster and mysterious in the half-dark A
crowd- of people were gathered there like
shapeless ghosts.
A woman detached herself from a group
burned across to him. Sam waited, a
sense of d.saster upon him.
, J}P S , Jen hy.” said the woman, pulling h : m
by the lapel of his coat. “We’ve been look-
ing everywhere for you. She’s fell over an’
hurt herself They’re takin’ her to an
oispital. Its her back she’s hurt The
doctor says she won’t walk for munce.”
Sam was silent, numb. At last he knew
Lola was plucking at his sleeve. Again he
was conse-ous of her awful, infinite patience.
. better git along home,” she said
qu.eny.
She was no better than she ought to have
been, this Lola of the Market, but she had
hti moments of acute perception.
Sam stumbled up the street. He had
asked no questions. A prisoner does not
speak. And he was a prisoner again. He
could almost feel chains on his wrists. “It
was a bad fall,’’ went on the woman
volubly. • She woke suddint out of a sleep
*Ln 6 * ° Ver pot-plant some fool had left
on the floor. She pitched right out into the
passage.
The fern !
Sam heard himself cackling with laughter.
He picked vp the broken pieces in the door-
way. Then he straightened himself. His
eyes contracted suddenly. The chain on
his wrist was more than imag ; nat : on. He
could feel its imprisoning tightness, and
looked down in horror. A fern-frond had
twined itself around his wrist.
MYRA MORRIS.
A Papuan Sorcerer’s Basket.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY old cobber Tauporo, doctor, adviser,
rainmaker, oracle and purveyor of
love cUarms and murder'to the tribe,
squatted cdmi'oriably on the verandah edge
aiid procee.ueu to grind a cuew of ueiei-nuc,
pepper-leaf and Lme in a tuiy wooden mortar
ne nsned from n.s three-decker basket of
woven panaanus-leaf. Gett.ng the wad into
the proper consistency by a nueiai admixture
of sanva, he popped the revolting, biood-red
mess uico his mdutn and muncued contentedly
until 1 could lrn.sli weighing the load of taro
1 had bougnt from Ins son-ji-law.
“ n ell, old man,” i remarked, giving him
a pmch of "trade” twist for Ins baubau,
‘the canoes have been lucky to-uay.”
“Yes, taubada [master], much fisu c[o they
bring back to the women and children this
evening; few stomaens wul be without a
proper filling when the moon rises,” replied
tne oid rascal.
"They must have dropped on to a big-
school out on the reef,” i sa.d.
“And it iS I, Tauporo the wise, who have
given them their luck,” answered the old
cr minal. “It was the charm I made for
Molaisi that brought this catch into the nets.”
“How could that be, Tauporo, when vou
have not been with them? Does youf mag.c
work so far V”
The wrinkled face cracked with a cruel
smile.
“Truly, my father, it is as I say. For
many days have the fishers returned w th
empty baskets, and the women have scolded
then’ husbands, while the children have cried
themselves to sleep; but my stomach was
sorry for my people, so I took the tooth of
Uala the alligator, and bark of Gavera the
mangrove, and many other things, and now
you see how strong is the magic that I made.”
“Show me, Tauporo, what you have in your
basket,” I suggested, for the contents of that
three-tiered basket had often interested me.
“Why should I show you things that even
the fathers of the village have not seen, and
you a white foreigner, tdo? Blit, still, you
are not as the m'sinan [missionary] in the
Big House, who laughs in his ignorance at
things that his narrow stomach cannot
understand. Yes, white man with the soft
stomach [kind heart], you shall see the
things that hold the wisdom and magic of
my father’s fathers, for you do not chatter
like an arai [white cockatoo] that has found
a snake in its nest,” said the old man.
He lifted the top tray of the basket, on
which he had his store of betel, pepper, lime-
gourd, tobacco, a few discarded safety-razor
blades, b ; ts of newspaper, a few fish-hooks,
pieces of broken glass for use as lancets, and
sirrrlar trash.
In the tray uncovered by the removal of
the upper one the principal objects were a
number of crocodile teeth, the cavities of
which were filled w ; th various herbs and
bark ; a coil of plaited human hair, the dried
cadaver of a snake, and odds and ends of
ginger, fern-roots and other vegetable sub-
stances.
The old villain caressed the crocodile teeth
and his eyes lit with a happy i.gnt "ite-
£°. ld > “y father, the giver of luck to the
fasheis. he said. 'Only myself, my father
and his forefathers who are kin to the
liiver Master know how to use this charm
In the long ago, when men first came out
of the earth to live and die in this land, the
lirsc magic-maker w as naif crocodile and half
man, and his children and tlieir cousins, who
dwelt beneath the waters, were as one family
But this friendliness did not last, for a dav
came when food was scarce, when a great
sun [drought] withered the gardens, and
people starved and died, and then one hungry
and misguided man lulled a crocodile and
ate it so that he might live. So misfortune
came upon the people; for the River Folk
angry for the loss of their relative, held ever
in tneir memory the wrong done to them, so
that ever since, when chance put a man in
their way, they have taken payment for
their brother. And so it has gone on, man
lulling the River Folk and the River Folk
eating the Land Folk. But my family did
not Kill and eat, so that they remained
fr.ends with the River Masters, who gave
in gratitude to my forefathers the secret
that I their descendant hold to this dav
For do not the crocodiles live on fish— and
they use no net or hook with which to catch
their food !”
The old romancer squirted a stream of
betel-juice from his mohth at a wandering
pig on the sand below, then continued:
“Thus it is that the charm is made in the
teeth of the River Master, for all men know
that the fish swim into the jaws of the
mighty ones as they lie on the mud below
the waters.
“Here is the tail of a pig— ■a. wild pig from
the jungle—that is another charm, for
with it and the bark of the haitau and the
flowers of the orchid that lives in the long
grass, with gum and a white stone [quartz]
from the river, and cinnamon, I make a
medicine that causes the legs of a dog to
grow long, so that in the hunt the animal is
fleet and able to lift itself over the grass
that the fastest pig is caught by it.”
The old man went through his baskets
showing me the most ordinary things gifted
with the most extraordinary virtues. A chip
of cane, a lump of evil-smelling rubbery sub-
stance and a snake’s vertebra?, he assured
me, were an unfailing remedy for rheuma-
tism ; a string of human hair, fibre from the
pandanus and parrot feathers, woven to-
gether, cured the bite of venomous snakes.
_ A length of bamboo, corked with a plug of
pith-wood, in the under-tray, attracted my
attention, and I put my hand on it. Quick
as light the old villain knocked my hand
away.
"Do not touch that, taubada, for death
lurks there,” warned the old man. “See,”
he continued, “Mata the black snake is in-
side,” and he pulled the plug and shook an
extremely angry serpent into the tray.
“What does that cure, Tauporo?” I in-
quired.
“Many things, my father,” answered the
devil-worker: “it is death, and all men know
that death cures all things.”
WALILIA.


1
*5
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathers ton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
I{ you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alii. CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we slii.e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do hot expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
I THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
with -success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
Small Pill"
Small
Dose -
Small
Prices
d
CARTER'S
WITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousne s s,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimple* and
Blackheads.
v 7 !JHk
sa
SP
it£S
lit V
■I ff* p
t
x / - ■ 111?
sHS W -' V ' x v
"t j- -m, r \
•. /
r •; *
ill?.- fate'TOH
Shirley President
Braces
When one contemplates erecting
the tallest building in the world
or a pair of braces one must
have a definite plan; that the
plan may be good or bad, time
will tell.
But if one builds with the point
of view of having the welfare of
the users at heart, the plan is almost sure of success.
The President Suspender Company started fifty years ago to build
braces to give the wearer the most comfort and the best value. At
all times they built for quality.
Fifty years of continuous ever-increasing satisfied wearers the world
over is a testimonial that their plan of building was correct.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
8-10-12 Smail Street, Sydney, Australia.
Jternfngton
REMIKGTGN
MC
m
mu
tu
4 AO
fiH
>
m
Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model M Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis
charge because of the three safety devices. (1J»
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety leve .»*
(3) magazine removal safety.
for Shooting Ri^W
ďf
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length,,®
thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 °unces unloaded .finish.
dull black? holds 8 seven rimless automatic
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chambe .
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/tn
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
as is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
. i caliber.
*•1*111*
,M *«n
'"““IIU
d
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
I). D. Bryant, Australian ifyepresentative. Bex 686, G.r.0., >lelbourne.
Tbe Learned Scribes of Bygone Days
Did write our Books with Quills,
But nowadays we right ourselves
by using
R. G. WATKINS CO.
107-109 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
;yg>fS
M-
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING--which is pertinent to the times
-their DEPEND ABILITY counts a great deal for then
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture
the reason for this. Machines installed 2a/years ago ale stiU
at work to-daV, giving the same service as when nrst installed
We study your requirements and design the layout ,of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so witn
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at vour service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
f. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney. Perth* and b Au^jk^j^2l
Up
■
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE,
2nd PRIZE,
3rd PRIZE,
value £750
value £3OO
value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
Chance lor 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won by W. M. Neilsen, Q n g Shilling
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay or • "
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
Arthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall. Sydney.
ď
f
d
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 3o YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum Rufcop
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum*’ Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum. which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
i
ďfd
Thousands in Use.
( ratented)
M
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
ď
The simplicity, lightness and excellence o( the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
..


m
nOBiHaHBHHHH
-
■
a
□
n
m
o
m
mm
■m
m
■w:i
iW:
m
-
■IHII
■ '
WM
K
m
ipjw
■■•.-A;
•:W
✓
ss;
m
r/**-
'
:
A '' ■ :l
H; :$Z
*?■:< i:
. .
/
rl
ff
C. -U
*»£
4«ss
m$
, i
a# ;
Whs
f
few
■ y
y
Hi
• ; S.
li
■V : : i
»$»
'
" A
■
• wm
■■ ••■•
(ssm
u.
•, ' '.
m
m
m
•v.
»|H
asm
~s
i • ;
\
3K
V
Australia.
Sc If- Contained
It Jias /many times been contended that Australia can be a
self-supporting nation-that Nature supplies at least the raw material
or er every need, and that it is only left for enterprise to place
Australia absolutely .independent of “outside” supplies-in very
truth a self-supporting country.
A verification of the truth of this contention is instanced in the Iron
and oteel Industry as carried by the Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Ltd. securing its ore from its own Australian deposits,
treating it in its own Australian works, carrying it in its own Australian
ships, and its works manned by thousands of Australian workmen.-
To-day it, is possible to secure in Australia
The Iron and Steel Industry Means the distribution of enormous
sums of money in wages hitherto not paid to Australians, and it Will
mean still bigger things one day, for, with the natural resources of
supplies Australia must, and will, become ohe of the world’s
greatest iron and steel centres.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Pig Iron (£2 £,“„■) Rails and Fishplates,
Ingots, Billets,Blooms,Tees,Rounds
Flats, Squares, Angles, Structural
Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, See
tiw broken Hill
Proprietary Company Lt<?
.Equitable Buildmq, Collins Sf. Melbourne
