

••IeMOLf pup
I
euiojj
HlUltiUUtiUM'ii:
i
mi '
91
&
. 1
■
fflllllllPSl
rnmi
Ijllli
\ v-i :^!: . n
m
iffllli f tlMilai
HE? fr-ssg
HEsSi
fi ?•: IS
liiiiiiißii iliitliji! ip
rhjli lijltfpi;- pi j|| i!
iijiiiiiiii pNi mmk 11
\pgm\\ !! SliPI I i 111
• , , , Sev h
§l® li iilSSSirli
sm
Mm\
iiPl
ill
%'im
mi m
Af;icynti !F3S!a
mn
cpS2>HE G-E Home Light and Power Unit is a portable
(V mac hi n e for generating electric current wherever the
service of a Lighting and Power Company is not available. It consists
&f a gas engine which uses kerosene as fuel, an electric generator, and a storage
battery. It will supply, at small cost, ample current for lighting house and farm
buildings, for the operation of heating and labour-saving appliances in the home,
dairy and stables, and for driving fractional horse-power motors in connection
with farm machinery and other industrial purposes. Write to-day for full particulars
Australian General Electric 0
35-45 WENTWORTH H 6 QIIEEIM STREET,
SYDNEY JkiiOUSjd MELBOURNE
Phone: City 3510. ' Box ?517 G.P.O.
Pkone : Central 2646. Sox 538, G.P.O.
AGENTS:
BRISBANE—The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus*
traliaLtd. (E.S.C.A.) Comer Edward and Charlotte Sts.
TASMANlA—Oliverfl£ Oliver, Hobart It Launceston.
ADELAIDE,-Charles Atkins 4c Co. Ltd. 88 Currie St.
'
PERTH—Charles Ai
f * Mazda
«£ Co. (W.A.) limited,
{ Hay St
V 'V :W
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2176
Thursday; October 27, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Qffiee, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you lmd a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1021? Tt will be sent post
free' to any address on application.
HYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sjdnev. Tele. 6431.—Abvt
MAHGfIOMTE
RELIABILITY
is manufactured into every inch of
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAWHIDE BELTING.
Every stage of its production is standardised and
supervised by experts with such precision and care
that we have no hesitation in fully guaranteeing
every belt. Try it on your hardest drive.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWiCI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., 397 Little Collins
Street. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA:. Henry Clark & Co., Ltd., Coll ins-street, Hobart.
a
Self-
Filling
á
The Pen for Busy Writers
It fills in an instant from any ink
supply. Open and close the lever;
that’s all! The lever is flush-locking
and cannot be felt when pen is in use.
A special feature is a patent catch which locks
the lever when closed, thus preventing
accidental opening when pen is being put
away into the pocket.
a*Bte
The “Swan” Self-filler
is safe to carry in any
position without feaf of
leakage.
Sold by Stationery Jewellers and importers.
Self-tillieg patterns.
Standard patterns. Safety patterns.
Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.
SWAN HOUSE,
133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, _ Zurich,’ Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale) : J. A. BURKE,
5. Primrose Bldgs., 255 a, George St..Sydaey
I
EL E Y
AMMUNITION
<£ Always Reliable ’’
For Shot-gun cartridges in ali
gauges, loaded with high, grade powders.
In case of difficulty - '
refer your dealer to :
ALBERT
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
â
ADAMS
Y
N
D
r^ioT^ 9 '
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies—Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft.
S-plait . . 10/-
12-plait . • 13/-
16-plait . ■ 15/-
7ft.
11/6
15/-
17/6
Bft. Oft.
18/- 14/6
17/- 20/-
19/6 22/6
10ft. 12ft.
17/6 21/6 each.
22/6 26/6 „
25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States, Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZRQY,_VIC«^
rtvrrt
Sh
7
jaL/A*J
FLIES
The Red Page
Modern Music
From whatever point of view it may be
regarded, the performance of Igor Stravin-
sky's extraordinary work, “Le Sacre du
Pr intemps,” given recently in .London, stands
out as perhaps the 1 most challenging, the
most revolutionary, artistic event of recent
years. The carefully-selected orchestra
was the best procurable in London ; the con-
ductor was Eugene Goo'ssens, one of the
most brilliant composers and leaders ;of the
younger English school; the audience con-
sisted of artists of all camps, with a sprink-
ling of Society people who like to be in the
fastiion, expressing their opinions openly, as
at a political meeting, with cheers and groans
(th'is was in London, too, not Paris) ; and
just on the stroke of time Stravinsky sud-
denly arrived from Paris, a dramatic inci-
dent that gave the performance in the
Queen’s Hall a still greater historic interest.
Without a doubt it was an astounding
thing; and for weeks it was the only subject
of discussion in musical and artistic circles.
Such an overwhelmingly original work, with
its revolutionary harmonies and rhythms, its
tremendous force, compared with which the
most daring music of Richard Strauss is
orthodox and academic, upset all critical
standards, and shook the older theories of
musical aesthetics to the foundation.
“‘The Rite” has been the subject of two
ballets, the earlier by Nijinsky, which was
■said to be of great plastic beauty, and the
later by Massine, whose choreographical con-
struction was freer and closer to the musical
composition: but Stravinsky maintains that
“The Rite” exists only as a piece of music,
and we are asked to listen to it as symphonic
rather than descriptive. In an interview he
said■
i have never tried, in my stage works, to make
the music illustrate the action, or the action the.
music; I have always endeavored to find an archi-
tectural basis of construction. I produce “music
itself.” Whenever “music itself” is not the aim, music
suffers. This brings us to the question of musical
emotion. For instance, Beethoven’s works are never
purely musical in their construction; his form is
always dialectic, influenced by the philosophical con-
struction of Hegel. Wagner commits the same sin,
influenced for his part by Schopenhauer, and so with
all the Germans.
’So we have to accept this picture of the
primitive world as abstract music. “The
pretext,” says the composer, “of the prehis-
toric birth of Spring has suggested to me
the construction of the work I have called
‘The Rite of Spring.’ The pretext I choose
is but it pretext, like the painter’s pretext
for painting. If anyone objects, and prefers
anecdote to a simple musical movement, he
is surely in his mental infancy.”
Though Stravinsky is the most remarkable
musician of the time, there are a number
of interesting contemporary composers, not
only in France and Russia, but in Britain,
where, after a barren period of two centuries,
there seems to be a geuuine renaissance.
Arthur Bliss, a composer himself, tells us
that Vaughan Williams is. in direct com-
munion with Purcell, as Ravel is with
Couperin. And “Holst the mystic, Bax the
romantic, Ireland the rugged, Goossens the
exquisite, Berners the satirist, are all adding
something to the stream of national music.”
The old epoch has closed. We are assured
that we must say “hail and farewell” to
many old favorites: —
(G) The oratorio, composed especially for the
provincial festival on the lines laid down by the
Cgnon arid Chapters.
(2) The symphonic poem a la Strauss, with a soul
sorely perplexed, but finally achieving freedom, not
without much perspiring pathos.
(3) The pseudo-intellectuality of the Brahms camp
followers, with their classical sonatas and concertos
and variations and other stock-in-trade.
(4) The overpowering grand operas, with their
frothing Wotans and stupid King Marks.
It was Serge Diaghileff, director of the
Russian Ballet, who first introduced the great
national Russian music to Western Europe,
and is now the champion of the younger gen-
eration in all countries. He is the strongest
opponent of the classical German school.
“The scholastic forms of German musical
Lutherism,” he' writes, “with their rigid dry-
ness, their unctuous and monopolising bad
taste, have held generations in absolute
slavery;. and just as on entering Richard
Wagner’s house at Bayreuth one had the
impression of visiting a rich dentist, one
readily understood that the taste of a Berlin
banker pervaded his famous fanfares.”- To
Brahms he refers scornfully as “a putrefying
corpse”; to Beethoven as a “mummy”; to
Schumann as “a homesick dog howling at the
moon”; to Elgar as somebody “paralysed
under the effects of the poison-gas of Brahms
and Wagner.” These outbursts can hardly
be taken literally; they mean no more than
that he wants a fresh hearing for composers
of a different school, the French and Russian
pioneers, and the original composers of to-
day.
But the moderns cannot be expected to
have things all their own way. Ernest New-
man. a profound scholar and admirable
Writer, has taken up the cudgels on behalf of
the despised “classics.” He admires the
earlier Stravinsky, the composer of “The
Firebird” and “Petrouchka,” but he will have
nothing to do with the Stravinsky of “The
Rite.” Newman is always interesting to
read; but since he attempts to claim omnis-
cience, to understand and appreciate all
schools and tendencies, the younger men re-
gard him as an old crusted Conservative,
much to his annoyance, for some years ago
he, too, -was a leader of revolt. But, alas!
it was a different revolt.
Newman regards all art from the stand-
point of the critic, not the creator.' But to
the moderns the most important quality in a
work of art is not its finality, as in the
acknowledged masterpieces, but in that
“seminal force” which alone produces a genu-
ine creative movement. They may find more
inspiration in the pre-Mozartian opera than in
the perfect product Moza'rt has left us. They
find also that Wagner and Brahms closed and
crowned a definite epoch, and that to con-
tin lie the tradition would result only in
sterility and stagnation. They feel that
nothing new can be said in the old idioms. So
they try to find original and more suitable
harmonies for the expression of modern
thought and emotion. No doubt many of
their experiments are perverse, like much
of the work of the Futurist and Cubist
painters; and it is often difficult to distin-
guish true originality from the many
mechanical imitations of it, and from merely
sensational novelties. As Newman says, it
is easy to write some of this modern music,
all that is necessary being to use “every
chord but the common chord, and every in-
terval but a lucid one.” But Newman no
longer believes in national art; he has
become a scep'tic. On the other hand,
Diaghilelf flaunts his banner of nationalism,
and insists that the vaccine of the older
classics all but arrested the development of
European music, which it certainly .slack-
ened for a , good half-century. But for
Moussorgsky, Debussy and Stravinsky, it
might have languished indefinitely.
LOUID ESSON.
Gamblers and Bookmakers
According to Gliris Brennan—one of Aus-
tralia’s best scholars and at long intervals a
true singer—the 18th century decided that
an actor need not be a man of education, the
19th century decreed the same thing for the
artist, and the 20th century has done it for
the literary worker. Men like .Robert Burns,
who were in the past regarded as having suc-
ceeded in letters without the necessary train-
ing, prove, on examination, to have had quite
a large, if somewhat irregular, general drill-
ing in the knowledge of the schools. A tutor
taught'Burns Latin in his father’s house
when he was still too young to hold the
plough; and other scholarly men directed
his English reading into sound though nar-
row Channels. The Scottish poet was, in
fact, possessed of far more than the average
culture of our time; and his' letters show
him to have - been a little pedantic and
affected rather than the wild, illiterate genius
of a - rude countryside. , The present
anarchy of letters is due largely to a deeply-
planted belief that the prizes of literature
are as likely to be'awarded to ignorance as
to knowledge, and that, the great bulk of the
reading public being ignorant, it is more
likely to respond to its like than to the
foreign touch of the trained mind working
in delicate fashion with a background of
knowledge. Publishers have proved this
occasionally true; and they have proved still
more convincingly that the educated person
who is willing to strive for a kind of tenth-
rate excellence, which looks as if it might
have been achieved by the wholly ignorant,
is likely to get the public ear. Best books
look long for a, publisher; worst books have
a better chance of finding one; books writ-
ten cheaply of set purpose have the best
chance of reaching print. So the cheap books
multiply and hold and maintain the bad or
unformed taste that brings them monetary
success.
Literature, as far as fiction and all its
more profitable branches are concerned, is
not pursued with the old loving enthusiasm
that could be satisfied with an artistic tri-
umph and the praise of the few, even if
cash and fame were for a while wanting.
There have arisen two classes of writers who
are at once the curse of and blight on the
whole field of letters, and the joy and bless-
ing of the publishing houses. These are the
bookmakers and the, gamblers. Because a,
human tale can be told in ordinary speech
without special training, every person speak-
ing the language is a potential novelist. •
Because very large sums of money have been
received for successful books, fiction is one
of the best and most promising forms of
gambling. And because those least qualified
have sometimes produced best Sellers, the
temptation to take a ticket in the big lottery
is very great. On the other hand there are
the bookmakers who do not gamble. They
simply go to work with great skill and care
to produce the thing that the public demands.
Their material does not matter; there is no
pretence of honesty of purpose or fidelity to
life; the color can be imagined, the charac-
ters manufactured on a recipe, the plot
arranged out of fragments of qther plots.
- Sometimes these bookmakers get a big haul;
always they average fair winnings. On
these two classes every publishing firm in
the world can live. The earnest literary
worker who aims at taking a place in the
grand succession of those whose works defy
time and changing fashion is a risk to the
business man behind the printer’s ink. Some-
thing cheaper is far safer; and so the young
Thackeray is disappointed and confused and
gradually edged off into the ranks of the
bookmakers.
The reason for all this is- not difficult to
find. Eighty or ninety years ago there
were a few readers in England and behind
them a great mass of the illiterate and semi-
illiterate who did not read and who cer-
tainly never bought books. In the days of
Dickens a slight change became apparent.
The reading circle widened arid thousands
learned to read popular fiction in monthly or
weekly parts ; but it was not until the estab-
lishment of compulsory primary education,
in 1870, that the floodgates were really
opened. By 1880 everybody in England
could read big print, and most people could
manage to get the sense out of an ordinary
novel; and at the same time the purchasing
power of the people had increased and the
cost of printing enormously decreased. The
publishers rose to the occasiori arid exploited
the new mass of readers. At first they tried
to do this by cheap reprints of all the best
fiction; but the demand grew for new books,
and new books were supplied. The last
phase was reached when the E.S.A. took up
the running arid provided a cruder and more
highly-colored fiction in ever-increasing quan-
tity.
What applies to fiction is true in greater
or less degree of all literature. The circle
of good and critical readers is much larger,
than in 1840: but its proportion to the whole
mass of book-buyers is too small to be taken
account of either by the publisher or by his
aider and abetter, the novelist looking for
quick cash returns. What chance would
“Esmond.” “Tom Jones” or “Robinson
Crusoe” have if offered to publishers to-day?
No aspirant, however convinced -of the en-
(Continued on page 25.)


Oi
v aae
Distinctive Styles for Maids at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Certainly the woman who desires
for her daughter that well-dressed
appearance cannot leave it to chance.
Especially in the selection of Frocks,
where Style depends not only on
correctness of line but upon fabrics
which contain all the elements of
dependability and service. Among
the many on display we select these
as indicative of the daintiness and
freshness which characterise all the
modes.
FX
7FO
TX
704
FX 369—DAINTY WHITE VOILE FROCK
FOR GIRLS' WEAR, is lavishly trimmed with
VaJ. insertion arranged on the bodice in the effect
of squares, and following a similar design on the
skirt front and. back, and proceeding right round
the skirt. The sleeves are similarly trimmed and
are inset with hemstitching and a folded sash belt
ties in a bow at the back. Lengths: 33, 36 and
39 inches.
357-
Price
FX 770/40.—SMART GIRL’S FROCK IX
CHECK CREPE, has a Peter Pan Collar, scal-
loped with white, and three-quarter sleeves have
cuffs to match. Fancy pockets appear on the
skirt at each side, and a narrow belt of self
material encircles the waist. Lengths: 33, 36
and 39 inches.
Price
16/11
FX 704.—SMART AXD PRACTICAL, THIS
MAID’S FROCK IN NAVY BLUE VOILE,
with its long roll-collar of Biscuit-shaded voile.
There is a self vest and a belt of self material
stitched with Navy cablestitching. Cablestitching
in Biscuit shade appears at intervals all the way
down the skirt, and the sleeves are finished with
novel cuff effect. Lengths: 45 to 48 inches.
Price
357-
FX 182/5. —DAINTY FROCK FOR LITTLE GIRL, fashioned
of cheek cambric, has a white pique collar and vest, the latter
threaded with white cord. The inset sleeves are set into self cuffs
and a self belt marks the waistline.
SIZES 22in. 24in. 27in.
Price 9/11 9/11 12/6
FX 368.—CHARMING, FROCK OF WHITE VOILE and lace,
the latter .used to outline the square neck, and inserted in pretty
effect on the bodice, and on the skirt. It also trims edges of
sleeves, and two rows of insertion mark the waistline. Lengths:
33, 36 and 39 inches.
Price 32/6
»
FX 217/2. —A DAT XT V LITTLE FROCK IX FAXCY VOILE
of Saxe Blue shade, has a round neck bound with plain dark blue
voile, and dark blue voile is used in smart novel effect in the front
threaded through slots. The sleeves have turned-back cuffs, edged
with dark blue, and a piping of this shade appears below the waist-
line. giving the bodice a long-waisted effect. There is a self belt
of medium width. Length: 42, 45 and 48 inches.
Price 23/6
m
jiez
) w
(
fSS
LcJ&'
*5
Mb
MIS'
ft
&
r
C-<!
5 l
is
i. -
P*
C
FX
568
IK
nr
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON FASHION GOODS IN N.S.W., AND TO THE
NEAREST PORT ON INTER-STATE ORDERS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


Australian Made
m
hunt
m
main
I ! i)
m
>/■; ■
Si m
Hum
m
mm
f
o
7*
*
O'.
°7
O'
A
A
>
\J\
>
s
/
r-
v
A
X
y\
ssa
-9
O
III!
I
m
i
HIM
LI
luim
i iii ! ! 1 ! ! i / //// / ■ Hi J
L -> ■ 1 ■ ‘ 1 ' > •■ '■ ‘‘l
m
<l|
BH
AS
«3
an
i
IIUItHU
.
m
m
: ;
HI
fcvV
m
Four Reasons why you should buy Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
1. It is the best procurable.
2. It is made in Australia.
3. It costs less than the imported article.
4. By supporting local industry, you are helping to make Australia a better and bigger nation.
AGENTS—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Ply., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street,
Brisbane; Messrs. William Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston; Messrs. Clarkson, Limited, Rundle Street, Adelaide.
'•*£2s
lINSEEOOItm
m
/AECGITT L
\ PARRAMATTA
e
HEAD OFFICE ‘IjG KING ST 6’YTTOrt (^rks.Parramaiia)
HNSEedoumeM
irn
nEGGITT ■
VPieboyon. the bag
guarantees quality *
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Meal, and Specialised Stock Foods.
on the boo
guarantees quality


PINKETTIS
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ã
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
Ql/_FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian A (rents.
▼
THE FAMOUS
COD LIYERj
OIL
EMULSION
FOR ALL
o s
(-Complains
and Wasting
Disorders i
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
For the Heads
School Children’s Heads in
particular.
Bands Nursery Pomade
Most effective for keeping scalps free
from nits and other unpleasant in-
truders.
Remember the name—DANDS.
If unobtainable locally, send 1/- to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Proprietary Limited,
349 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
The DENYER Service of Surgical
Appliances and Artificial Limbs.
When a requirement of this nature becomes necessary, too much caution cannot be
exercised in securing the need. Get the advice of specialists on the subject. So
much depends upon the correct construction and reliability of the items tihat it
does not pay to have a service other than the best.
For many years the name Denver has been identified with the manufacture of
Artificial Limbs and Surgical Appliances. Anatomical accuracy and good work-
manship characterise each Denver item. Reasonableness of price is another
feature worth consideration. Get in touch with Denyer’s and have the benefit
of invaluable advice.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ä
mm
o
JL
;V'.• i'iiiViiisifij/f i
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
■water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
158 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
å
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
The New Streamline Model
is an ideal Present .
It is often so difficult to find a
present that is both useful and
ornamental —the Onoto Streamline
is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it
combines with its elegant design all the
practical utility of Onoto — the pen—
safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every
handwriting.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all pens.
Non-ferrous Metals
for
ENGINEERS.
Extruded Sections.
Brass, etc.
Rounds, from
3/1 Sin. dia.
Squares from
iin.
Hexagon,
from
•M H
oo^
A FEW EXAMPLES ONLY:
4 •
*
Bronzes.
High-tension
Bronzes.
Also
Navy Brass,
Muntz Metal,
etc.
We invite enquiries for any special sections. Extruded
sections show a great saving in machining costs. Also
ROLLED AND DRAWN BARS AND RODS,
In Copper, Brass, Bronze, etc., including Busbar Copper,
Arsenical Copper Stay Rods, Commutator Bars, etc. In
usual standard sizes.
We are Commonwealth and State Government Contractors.
MANUFACTURED BY
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; and 125 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, and Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from Geo. Kent,
Ltd., Perth; and Jones & Co., Clyde Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wild Flowers on the Plains.
Wild flowers are near the Black Clump.
The fields for far and wide
Have heard the voice of springtime
. And, lured by sun and wingtime,
Have flamed in daisies yellow
• And poppies pink and pied.
A flash of misty blueness
Proclaims wild primulas;
In seas of purple splendor
The wild peas blow, and tender
The largesse of their beauty
Beside the ant-flower stars.
And here in hidden fragrance.
Wild mignonette is born,
W’hile, glad in the gold weather,
Tall grass-blades sing together,
Decking with gems their greenness
Each night to greet the morn.
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
In Rome.
The cypress-trees were dark as death,
On that white night in Borne;
The night wind touched with quiet breath
Flowered wall and moonlit dome ;
And where dim lawns sloped ghostly grey,
There curved a singing stream
That seemed to flow and flow away
Into a land of dream.
Her lips to his were warm and sweet
(Oh, blessed moonlight dim!),
A fairer facfe no eye might meet
Amid the seraphim ;
Against his heart her bosom shook
With love, and her dark eyes *
Shone with the far and lovely look
Of stars in shadowed skies.
He kissed them and his lips found tears.
“Why do you weep?” he said.
“Because'the pain of lonely years
Still stirs and is not dead.”
Oh, he had come from weary wars,
His ships had ploughed the foam
That he might walk beneath the stars
That night in ancient Rome.
So straight was she, and sweetly tall,
A queen in heart and name,
Lithe as the swaying waterfall
Or wind-swung forest flame;
Her jet hair was a night-black mist
That hid her lover’s eyes,
Yet let him find her lips, scarce kist,
For his rich, royal prize.
'Twas Heaven they found on that white night,
Those pagan lovers true,
Where cypress-trees drank draughts of light
And warm the sea-wind blew ;
There was no earth for them, nor sky,
Nor sea with shores of foam....
My lady, was it you and I
Who loved that night in Rome?
MAOBILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Mother of All Things.
The Mother of All Things, kind and sweet,
Is touching the eyes pf her wakeful brood ;
And weary of wing and weary of feet,
Her sweetness steals through the grateful
blood :
Her gifts are many and richly-blest,
But her dearest gift is the gift of rest.
Hearken, and hear her at end of day,
As yesterday when the sun went down,
And the little children ceased their play
And the wheels grew still in the busy town,
I heard her calling her flock to bed
Ere she lit her lamps in the dome o’erhead.
“Home ! Home! to your waiting home!”
I heard the Mother of All Things cry;
And under the skies and over the foam
A wind came home with a sob and a sigh,
And fell asleep in the arms of the trees
And woke in the morning a dew-wet breeze.
Tender and gentle, and very low,
She soothed the world with her lullabies;
And rest came out of the after-glow,
And sleep slid down from the rosy skies;
And hither and thither and everywhere,
Deep slumber fell from her shadowy hair.
“Home ! Home !” And her fingers combed
The comber’s crest with a mother’s love,
As careless now of the leagues long-roamed—•
The deeps ueneath it, tne skies above —
It sank to rest ’neath her soothing hand,
White-spread on a couch ,of golden sand.
“Home ! Home !” And over the foam
A grey gull headed his way to land,
And, sunset lighting the azure ,dome,
He sank, wings tired, on the gleaming
strand.
And, lulled to rest by the sea night-long,
He woke on the morrow, keen-eyed and
strong.
“Home! Home!” And a good ship heard,
And under the skies, and over the seas,
Came . fast in the wake of the wind and
the bird,
And rested her keel at the harbor quays;
And fell asleep in a starlit trance,
And woke on the morrow to sway and dance.
“Home! Home !” And to home he drew—
A man grown weary of toil and care,
And praised his wife and her bake and brew,
And kissed their children and stroked
their hair:
And slept some hours, and awoke anon
To find toil knocking, and good night gone.
“Home ! Home !” And over the foam
The wind may blow and the bird may fly,
But a grave in the mould is the only home
Where, weary of heart, a man may hie
And find good slumber and deep content,
When toil is over and day is spent.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


■' ,
-
W
■
- *
'< ! ’% : f• '%■ ‘ r ■1 ■ 1;;’; ■ ';
' \.....
xrr
l
■
J!
m.
JM-
"V.
IP
AERIAL WIRES
AND CABLES- ~
Bare or Braided
,
§1 >* ,
—mt
<*«■•. -
■ '»«***■ r 'i
1 $£
©
w
• ■*&*?> ;
PAPER
PINIONS
Hi
’ms£-
aiiiiilii
SI
12
iFI
9
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cablea
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited,
PORT KEMBLA, N.S W.
Bare Copper Wires & Cables.
Hard or Soft Drawn ; Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
TELEPHONE WIRES
AND CABLES
INSTRUMENT WIRES
CoH-on Covered
<?d
'TrrpT'
II
k
m
TROLLEY WIRES FOR
ix TRAMWAYS
t ' %
□B
FUSE BOXES
H
ihmuuuimiu, mi f
111
18 1
INSULATED WIRES
s. AND CABLES
ri
r .fjpf-;
HPON'AOhfEY
William Adams & Company Limited
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence SI
'PHONE, CITY 912, 91UO.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Marij S*
’PHONE 160.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2176.
Till) US DAY, OCTOBER 27, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE CALL FOR PLAIN ECONOMY.
“Though it is hoped that the motion of the leader of the Country Party, Dr. Earle Page, for a reduction of the Estimates by f1, as an instruction to the Ministry to reduce
the Budget by £2,817,108, will be defeated by the casting vote of the Chairman of Committees, Federal Ministers do not feel at all confident. Many opponents of the Ministry
give it only a few more weeks to live under any circumstances.” —Political Forecast.
“Hey, there, come down to earth, or you’ll fall presently and get hurt. Your war-feathers have just about moulted, you know.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svdnev. N.S.W T ., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 16s; 6 months, 18s. 6d. : 3 months,
9s. 6d.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £2; 6
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. 6d,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communhcations to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rej used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not . acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bullf.tin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — -i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.Jj;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E C.; “The British-Australasian,” 61 High
Holborn, London, ]V.C;I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ffitl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C. ; the Boston Hat Woflis and News Co., 109 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New- York: Brentano’s. 6th Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street -
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16ozi, lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 80s., lid.; Btoz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27. 1921.
THE MASTER PLANK.
The N. S. Wales Nationalist bosses
assembled in Sydney last week and issued a
sort of declaration of faith. If there is any
intention of making the first plank of their
platform operative the others are superero-
gatory, for it runs :
Restoration of responsible government—that is,
the re-establishment of the principles of respon-
sible government in their integrity; in other words,
government by a majority, associated together on a
common platform of principles; Ministerial respon-
sibility for measures submitted to Parliament, as well
as for administration, and the free representation of
the people in Parliament by men free to vote on their
pledges and their principles.
It was appropriate that this aspiration
should have come from the quarter it did,
for it is Nationalism in N. S. Wales, no less
than in the Australian Parliament, that has
steadily fired salvoes into the representative
system during the past six years. National-
ism, in fact, has-so bettered the instructions
of the frankly class-conscious section which
invented the caucus that it stands in the
public mind at present for the most rigid
form of machine politics; for government
by rescript and proclamation; for the re-
placement of the old principle of joint Minis-
terial responsibility by a more or less irre-
sponsible dictator. In the name of National-
ism Parliament has been reduced to an
absurdity and a fraud, has created innumer-
able restrictions on the liberty of the sub-
ject, has had many of them incorporated in
the Statute law, and has built up a crush-
ingly expensive bureaucracy which is in-
creasing instead of diminishing. Not that
Nationalism’s political opponents have shown
themselves better constitutionalists where the
opportunity offered. The N.S.W. Dooley
Government is retaining the departments
inherited from the Nationalists, and creating
new ones ; and as though to show that Mr.
Hughes is not to he allowed a monopoly of
Ctesarism, Labor Minister McGikr last
week promised a deputation of railway em-
ployees that if Judge Beeby persisted in his
refusal to give them a 44-hour week, he
(McGirk) would step over the Court’s head
and do it himself. Almost simultaneously
came the ominous complaint delivered by
W. M. Hughes to a Sydney gathering: “I
am not a complete dictator. It would be
far better for you if I were.”
* * * W
What would a political party do that
really believed in responsible government—
that was not committed to the interests
of a section; that was, in short, truly
democratic? The question is of interest,
though purely speculative, no such party
having yet appeared in a British Parlia-
ment. The early English Parliaments did
not pretend to be representative. They were
oligarchies which depended for their quality
on the chance of men of ability and character
being attracted to them. Because it was
an honorable thing to be an M.P. men like
Burke and Pitt entered Parliament, and
because it could be made an extremely pro-
fitable thing men like Walpole and Gren-
ville did the same. But, though in the
United Kingdom Parliaments of this charac-
ter nominally represented nothing but the
great county and city families, they were
responsible for the arrival of industrial
unionism, the extension of the franchise,
religious freedom (the bane of Conservatism
in every age) and other democratic measures,
just as, in Australia, legislation as genu-
inely humanitarian as anything conceived
by a McGirk was put through by Houses
composed of prosperous professional and
commercial men and squatters. At a period
long antecedent to the war it became much
less honorable to belong to the House of
Commons, though Marconi scandals and the
like showed that there might still be money
in it; and it began to be something in the
nature of a disgrace to be a legislator in
Australia, though in this case also land-scan-
dal inquiries, and so forth, disclosed the
existence of compensations. It would be
absurd to put forward anv one thing as the
whole explanation of such a necessarily com-
plex phenomenon; but most people will
agree, probably, that the one thing that has
had more to do with it than any other is
the growing despotism of Ministers, which
reached its climax in the despotism of Prime
Ministers during the war. Parliament was
respected under some of the most corrupt
Administrations England ever had: there
was a general feeling that the ma jority were
honest and independent—men who, like the
fabled organist, were doing their best. Court
influences usually got the blame for their
impotence. State Parliaments in the early
days of responsible government in Australia
never earned a fraction of the disrespect that
is felt for the Commonwealth Parliament at
the present moment, though by and large
the members of both Representatives and
Senate can claim a fair average of integ-
rity and ability. Their failing is the unfor-
givable one: most of them have sold their
freedom. Thousrh elected on the widest pos-
sible franchise they are less truly represen-
tative than most of the nominees of the 18th
century boroughs. They take their orders
from a caucus or federation which is usually
the creature of one vehement autocrat of the
Hughes type, and at the most of two or
three such leaders.
* * * *
Official Nationalism has evidently no desire
to alter this dangerous state of affairs—dan-
gerous because there never was a time in
the history of this country when Parliaments
so needed to justify themselves. Its latest
rigmarole about "the free representation of
the people in Parliament by men free to vote
on their pledges and their principles” is
meaningless unless the party intends to work
for the abolition of party government. For
the party system as it has developed of late
years is a negation of freedom. The would-
be representative begins the sacrifice of his
independence when he accepts the party nomi-
nation. Arrived in Parliament he is free in
one sense only—he is free of control by his
constituents for three years or till the next
general election. During the interim he can
vote as he likes so far as those who returned
him are concerned, though never as he likes
where the party is affected. In other words,
our alleged democracy has little or no control
over the selection of candidates, and no means
of influencing the action of representatives
after they have been elected; which seems as
good a reason as anyone might want why
about 60 per cent, of the electors, instead
of exercising the franchise, stay at home and
abuse Parliamentary government. The
Initiative Referendum might do a good deal
to correct this. Cabinet initiative is in
reality an anachronism, dating from a period
when the general public was not supposed
to take an intelligent interest in the adminis-
tration of the country, and was, in fact,
mostly illiterate. It was an immense ad-
vance on the czarism of the Tudor and
Stuart sovereigns; but under modern con-
ditions it acts as an affront to the public in
the ,same way that the methods of Charles
I. affronted his Parliaments. The Initiative
Referendum offers the people that control
over their Ministerial despots which succes-
sive English Parliaments asserted over the
same sort of people on thrones. Is a given
reform in the air? The creation of an effi-
cient Australian navy, or economy as repre-
sented by the wiping-out of specified depart-
ments or jobs of a superfluous nature, or a stop-
page of public borrowing ? Then, on petition,
signed by a certain percentage of the electors,
any such issue could be taken away from
Parliament and referred to the country for
decision by referendum. Meanwhile Parlia-
ment would retain all its usefulness as a
place for the discussion of measures put for-
ward by a non-party Executive chosen by
their peers on a basis of merit, and for the
criticism of administrative acts. This is
what the average person of discrimination
means these days when responsible govern-
ment is mentioned. But on all the evidence
the professional politicians are still as
attached to the absolutism they have evolved
from the system which was invented to check
absolutism as any Stuart sovereign ever
was.
A PIECEWORK PARTY.
No political party is complete now without a
“slogan.” Not only does every party possess
the thing, which i.s generally "Economy” or
1 1 ogress or 'Decentralisation,” or some-
thing equally trite, but some individual poli-
ticians keep their own tame slogan tied
up in the back yard. Of this type is Joseph
t arrluhers, with his "A Million Farmers
on a Million Farms,” though that is too long
and draggy, and more like a boa-constrictor
than a battlecry. There are many simpler
ones lying around unused, and The Bulle-
TIN offers "Piecework” or “Back to I’iece-
work” as a likely watchword to anybody
looking for something plain and business-like.
V ertainly the industrial times are out of
joint, and some sort of change from present
methods is required. For some years past
all years with a downward tendency—loud
and unproductive persons have preached in
increasing numbers that no man is really
free unless he is remunerated, not for wliat
he does, but for the longest possible period
he can occupy in doing it. lie is "paid for
his time” as if he owned time or had made
time. The idea has never been applied
fully and logically because such a thing is
impossible. Thus bread, meat and milk
delivered at the door are paid for, even by
the most strenuous "reformer,” according to
the size and quality of the piece that arrives,
not according to the number of hours it is
w road. Not even Mrs. Pankhurst
W alsh would care to pay more for the milk
when it was late than when it arrived early.
But, so far as the scheme could be fitted in,
the Australian worker has been instructed to
shout for day-labor, the poor or stagnant
workers to set the pace, and the good ones
to have no inducement to do better, there
being nothing to gain by it.
* * * *
This day-labor idea, preached up into a
religion and applied in every place where
its application is possible, has advantages
tor the unproductive shepherds and exhorters
who manage the Labor machine, save the
worker from destruction and the fangs of the
capitalist at least twice a week, and ulti-
mately get into Parliament. It makes them
the only outstanding figures in a dead-level
army. Under the piecework system there is
a prospect for the ambitious and highly
capable worker—tjie genius in a way—with-
out joining the hated category of the em-
ployers and becoming an exploiter or keeper-
in-bondage of wage slaves like Minaiian,
M.L.A., or a raging combustible like Gar-
den, who, after a poor career as a parson
and a colorless one as a clerk, struck the
bright spot in his life as a rescuer of
allegedly-drowning fellow-creatures. Apart
from other things the expert worker may
have no turn for either of these callings. He
may, when paid for good results, climb high
enough above the ruck of- mediocrity or in-
capacity or laziness to have no earthly use
for Garden or for his revolution. Through
the rising of many like him the class of
small employers may multiply and the habit
of looking on the employer class with horror
may diminish. The outstanding feature of
the day-labor system is that the extra-capable
and -energetic worker can’t climb to any ex-
tent while remaining a worker unless he*
drags the whole clan up with him, which is
impossible and not worth attempting. So
the class of highly-capable artisans is being
discouraged out of existence. The unproduc-
tive and bellowing prophet has thus a chance
to be the leader of a whole craft instead of
leading the incompetent tail-end of it, for
it is made to be all equally tail, and if some
of it isn’t incompetent it is levelled down to
the wages of incompetence.
* * * *
When the worker is paid by results k.e is
to a great extent his own boss, overseer, fore-
man, nigger-driver—whatever it may be
called. The saving is great both in the cost
of supervision and in the resulting irrita-
tion. It is a common argument that the
method is liable to lead to “over-production”
—too many things to eat, wear and use, too
many houses to live in, too many vehicles to
travel in, possibly even too many places to
go to. But except as regards the products
of the soil or of animals that wander there-
on, such as wool, butter and wheat (especi-
ally wheat), the risk of over-production is
about 100 years ahead, and by that time all
the present Bolsheviks, I.W.W.’s, 0.8.U.’5,
revolutionists, communists and self-appointed
savei’s-of-their-fellow-mien-for - a-consideration
will be dead. They may not be as dead as
they should be, but they will be as dead as
they can be. Meanwhile it is under-produc-
tion that develops in a marvellous fashion
except as regards the few crude lines already
mentioned —wheat and butter, largely pro-
duced by independent, long-hour workers
aided often by child labor; and meat, hides
and wool, the product of lower animals that
don’t listen to the teachings of Karl Marx
or anybody else. Seven other things in-
crease in an alarming way—the unemployed,
the unemployable, strikers, strike leaders,
imports to take the place of things we could
make but don’t, loans to pay for these im-
ports, and loans to pay for jobs invented on
behalf of the workless. Despite increased
and improved machinery the quantity of
work done, so far as it can be measured, is
almost one-third less per worker than it was
a few years ago. If that result isn’t largely
due to the spread of the principle of paying,
not for things done, but for time spent or
misspent, at least no one has suggested any
better explanation. Curiously enough, those
who clamor most urgently for bigger wages,
fewer hours, less output and more stop-
pages as the only things consistent with the
dignity of free Australians don’t promise
peace and happiness as a reward. Instead,
they promise inevitable and blanky revolu-
tion ; also destruction and all sorts of annoy-
ance. So it might be worth while to found
the comprehensive Piecewortli Political
Party and try the back track. Any track
which leads back from the revolutionists
looks fairly safe.
DOUBLE DOSES OF A QUACK
MEDICINE.
An odd circumstance disturbed the harmony
of the Brisbane Labor Conference. When
the Reds were passionately demanding that
the party’s objective should be the socialisa-
tion of everything, a delegate brought them
down to earth by mildly asking what social-
isation meant, in reply he was told by r one
exuberant person that it meant production
for use and not for profit; by another that
it was the same as sovietism. A third
assured him that it was control by the whole
people; a fourth that it was control by
groups of "workers.” A fifth argued that
“a supreme economic council” marked the
point where nationalisation ended and social-
isation began. Naturally, this rich diversity
of definitions did not prevent Conference from
deciding that the nostrum which nobody un-
derstood was just the thing to save the
country. It wouldn’t have been a Labor
Conference had any such consideration
stayed its hand. But in the delirious con-
flict of opinion among the socialists it was
deemed prudent to express a lingering pre-
judice in favor of benevolent plutocrats like
Alinahan and Wren. Hence the new Labor
programme is to be a remarkable blend of
collectivism arid individualism—socialisa-
tion tempered by private ownership, so to
speak. But on one point the Brisbane dele-
gates, Premier Theodore and one or two
others excepted, were 'emphatic. They con-
demned the existing variety of, or parodv
on, socialism—State socialism—absolutely.
"State socialism,” said Scullin, of Victoria
with fine scorn—"it is only State capital-
ism !” And the Worker, which doesn’t alto-
gether approve of the Brisbane resolutions
(they were not: red enough for the A.W.C
organ), agrees. "State enterprises,” it re-
marks, “have meant no more than the trans-
fer of capitalistic functions to the Govern-
ment of the country. The workers are just
as liable to be overworked and underpaid
nor are they any less subject to the fear of
the sack. The public boss is substituted for
the private boss, and that is about all”
* * » *
No, it isn’t all; but that is not the point
1 he point is that the policy referred to with
such unmeasured contempt has been the
policy of the Labor party for five-and-twenty
years. It has been practised extensively by
every Labor Government that has held office
for any length of time. It has been effu-
sively lauded on thousands of Labor plat-
forms and in innumerable issues of Labor
newspapers—described as the one practical
method hitherto discovered of “freeing the
worker from the chains of capitalism.” On
this system hundreds of millions of borrowed
money have been spent. Through its instru-
mentality every tenth adult male has be-
come a Government employee. It has been
a fertile cause of prodigious deficits and
destructive strikes. It has been employed
as a means of brazen political bribery and
corruption—not of individuals only but of
entire electorates and States—and‘of mass-
ing huge populations of superfluous clerks
and unskilled laborers in the overgrown
cities. And now that the mischief has been
done, now that the drunken dream of State
socialism lias faded, leaving Australia with
an accumulation of bloated debts, chronic
deficits and unsaleable enterprises, and an
unwanted army of Government servants (or
masters), the people responsible for the
whole business coolly admit that it has
broken down and explain that it was a rotten
business, anyhow. They don’t exhibit the
slightest sign of penitence. On the contrary,
they* have the face to set up as prophets
again and to allege that socialisation will
be as brilliantly successful as State social-
ism was_ to have been —provided they get a
power-of-attorney and a blank cheque. The
old medicine having failed horribly, they
talk of curing the patient by giving him
double and treble doses of it and denying him
the right to change his doctor. It is a pre-
posterous proposition.
* * * #
Being wholly under the influence of im-
ported doctrinaires intent on extracting
moonshine from water-melons, Conference
did not pause to consider why State
socialism has failed in Australia. But
the reasons are not hard to find. The
Australian is an individualist, as his
ancestors were. He shares the traditional
British antipathy to the idea of an en-
croaching State. He hates the meddlesome
officialism which is the bane of compulsory
collectivism and cannot do his best work
under it. And if socialisation ever came
about, with the 0.8. U. boss installed in
place of the Government official, he would
probably hate that even worse. More con-
servative than radical, he is a constitutional-
ist by instinct, believes in White Australia
as in a religion, and takes to voluntary co-
operation when he aets the chance. But
all these facts are ignored bv the bubbly
theorists who have got the Labor party by
the wool. They are determined to make him
an imitation Muscovite in his own despite.
SAVING THE COUNTRY.
“Mr. Cooper (Tas.): It appears that an A.I.F.
pensioner, who is classed as being permanently in-
capacitated, may receive a lump-sum pension. We
recommend that lump-sum pensions be abolished
altogether, as in many cases the sum so paid is
entirely wasted. We think this lump-sum pension
is altogether unfair.
“Mr. Poster (Tas.) : We should, anyhow, have a
more equitable system for assessing the lump sum
instead of, as at present, assessing the life of a
man of 25 at four years. A man may have come
back at the age of 20, yet the Pensions Board says,
for the Defence Department, that he has only got
four more years to live.” —From report of 6th (Bris-
bane) Congress of R. S. League.
The Hughes Government had at last been
defeated (its leader simultaneously accept-
ing a peerage and £lOO,OOO entirely sub-
scribed by anonymous members of the work-
ing classes) ; Joseph Cook’s name was
being confidently mentioned yet again in
connection with the High Commissionership :
and the Pensions Board personnel had been
entirely altered for the 23rd time when my
friend Eustace Spivins, 0.8. E., was giren
his chance. Colonel Bangfester. like bis
two immediate predecessors on the Board,
had ear net? the displeasure of the Defence
Department for showing undue leniency to
incapacitated soldiers, and Major Spivins got
the job.
I first met Eustace Spivins at Camp
500, Lark Hill, where he did his bit as
adjutant from June, 1916, to January, 191 S.
before passing on to Weymouth (where he
won his 0.8. E.), and so safely home about
the middle of the following year. He was
not a popular figure at Camp 500. After
all, what really conscientious adjutant is
in any army? The rough, unsoldierly fel-
lows who drifted in from hospital with their


yvound-stripes and decorations treated him
with ill-veiled scorn during the extremely
brief period which he suffered to elapse be-
tween the date of their arrival and that on
which they were put on draft for the firing-
line. Aspersions on his legitimacy (needless
to say unfounded) were common. Doubts
were expressed, in the crude language
favored by a certain class of fighting-man, of
his valor. But at least no one questioned
his gifts as a soldier. Words of command,
presence, knowledge of the intricacies of the
drill-book —he had them all. I can see
him now putting a squad of some 20 officers,
newly discharged from hospital, through
their paces in foot-drill. “Double mark
time!” he roared in that compelling voice
of his, and they bounded sullenly up and
down, while the other ranks looked on appre-
ciatively. It takes moral courage to do that
kind of thing, and when the news was made
public that the debt-harassed Federal Gov-
ernment had chosen Spivins to reduce the
pensions-account, \ye who had been privi-
leged to serve with him realised instantly
that a winner had been struck.
1 heard of him from time to time from
T.B. sufferers, men who had been gassed,
amputation cases and so on, and always in
terms of concentrated bitterness which
augured well for the next budget. These
were essentially persons, in the circum-
stances, by whom, to employ Milton’s pun-
gent phrase, “to be dispraised were no small
praise.” Lawyers claimed that many of
his interpretations of the .Vet were prepos-
terous. But much he cared for their
theories! lie and his colleagues came to
their decisions in private; they carried them
out with military promptitude, and they
allowed no appeals. “Lawyers !” the Major
would cry in those brisk, staccato tones
which always made me think of Rorke’s
Drift, Talavera, the Charge of the Light
Brigade and the epic story of Villers-Bret-
toneux (but most of all of Camp 500)
"Lawyers! I’d clap the lot in the guard-
room if I had ’em on active service.”
But it was only when Spivins came to
Sydney that I was enabled to realise fully
the great work he was doing for Australia.
He it was who first devised an almost in-
fallible method of discovering if pensioners
were working. On conviction, however slight
and spasmodic the offence, they forfeited
everything. A close watch was kept on the
morals of the female dependants of dead sol-
diers. Under Ruling 97,016 (one of Eus-
tace’s) women in this category whose con-
duct occasioned rumors or gossip of a scan-
dalous nature automatically became disen-
titled to relief. “They should be like
Ctesar’s wives,” he said, assuming that aus-
terity of manner which used to be the terror
of defaulters in the days when he was assist-
ing to save the world for freedom.
It was his custom to take a daily consti-
tutional in the Domain, and one afternoon
he was good enough to invite me to accom-
pany him. It was a gracious day, the golden
sun shining vividly on the grass, brilliant
after a week of rain, and dappling the paths
where the trees overshadowed them. Expen-
sive motor-cars hummed smoothly past.
Lovers made in pairs for the sequestered
bowers provided for their use by sentimental
landscape gardeners who had been young
themselves once. Upon the shining bosom
of the harbor a full muster of our Navy indi-
cated that a race-meeting was in progress.
Into the midst of all this happiness and
beauty a discordant figure had obtruded.
It was that of a man in early middle age
who sat dejectedly upon a bench. One of
his legs was missing. The Major looked at
him closely. “That you, Botwell?” he
cried sharply. By way of reply the fellow
merely spat. We passed on. “It was Bot-
well,” said Spivins. “He ought to be put
under arrest for that”—and then, as though
remembering himself: “He’s one of my pen-
sion cases. You would no doubt conclude
from his mannerless action that Botwell
is annoyed with me?”
“I certainly should,” I said.
“And yet I did no more than my duty by
him.”
I hastened to demand the inevitable
story.
“Botwell,” said the Major, “came back
in 1917, after three years’ service, minus liis
right leg, blind in one eye, and with his
lungs affected. When I took over from
Colonel Bangfester he had been drawing-
on the basis that all his injuries were due
to war-service. A characteristic example
of Bangfester’s remissness! I very soon
discovered that Botwell’s chest had been
by no means strong when he enlisted, and
that he had undergone treatment for eye-
trouble while at Mena in 1914. Under 23
(a) of the Act he was clearly disentitled as
regards these troubles, and I did not hesi-
tate^ —mindful of the public interests —to
act accordingly. He came to see me, point-
ing out that under the new classification he
was unable to maintain his wife and family,
and that in the expectation that the income
he had been enjoying for the past eight or
nine years was permanent, lie had incurred
certain liabilities. Now, from the first I
have adopted a certain policy with regard to
these men. I think you will agree as to
its being a logical one. My argument is
this. If the Government is 'willing to com-
mute pensions on a four-years’ basis (as it
is), it must be desirous of doing so. And
indeed, regarded as a business proposition,
there can be no question of the soundness of
■such a principle. Now, follow me a step
further. If it is right that men should be
allowed to commute then, it is obviously the
duty of those charged with the handling of
the taxpayers’ money to persuade them to
commute. I put this theory into practice
with ( amongst others) Botwell. You have
known me only as the soldier, the autocrat.
But I can be subtle, too. It is my custom
to summon these thriftless characters to my
office and reason with them. We will say
that a man is drawing 255. per week. What,
I ask of him, is 255. per week in these days
of soaring rents and 11.C.L.? The merest
bagatelle! Then comes the appeal to his
self-respect. ‘Are we veterans of the A.I.F.?’
I inquire in ringing tones, ‘the sort to be
daunted by craven fears of the future?
Were we ever eminent in caution? Think
of those wild days and nights spent on the
Menin-road in ’l7; at Messines; in the
fatal trenches on the other side of the Ancre
during the last desperate summer of the war.
Did w r e worry about paltry annuities then?
Not we! It was all or nothing, and a cheer
SOU the hero who took a sporting chance!’
“Mv subject’s mind is usually in a recep-
tive state bv now, and I play my trump card.
‘Come, lad,’ I say. ‘What about £25 down?’
The bargaining forthwith begins, and a con-
clusion, satisfactory to both, is usually
reached when I produce a tempting sum in
ready money. Botwell was by no means
easy to handle, despite his financial difficul-
ties, and it was several weeks before I
finally compounded with him for a cash pay-
ment in respect of his missing leg of £42
ss. 6d., and gifts of a new T hat, six pairs of
military blankets and either 22 or 23 (I am
uncertain which) long beers. And now —
well, you saw for yourself the attitude the
insolent ruffian adopted towards me.”
The Major strode along in gloomy silence
for a while. Gradually the shadows passed.
He squared his massive .shoulders and flung
his head manfully back, as I have seen him
do in the past while berating some careless
orderly officer on parade. The. gesture ex-
pressed at the same time integrity, indiffer-
ence to popular hostility and a leonine
courage.
“Anyhow,” he said, “the Government ap-
preciates the work I’m doing. My screw
was raised last month to £2500: and I have
it from a very high authority indeed that my
name has gone forward on Batterby’s latest
Honors list.”
JOHN POLDING.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Disarmament Craze.
James Edmond asks us to consider the
wolves:—•
“Is war to be eternal?” Woodrow Wilson used to
ask in his impassioned League-of-Nations moments,
and sane, sober people replied with one voice: “Yes,
certainly !” The world may get cheap war, as it did
in plenty before practically every arm that it can
now be disarmed of was invented. It may have cheap
hygienic or antiseptic war, unless its medical science
is wiped out by Bolshevism or some other footless
ghost, instead of the old cheap war which was even
more contagious and septic than u Turkish hospital.
It may get back to the economical times when an
early Plantagenet king could start a campaign by
putting his jewellery up the spout. It may get
back to the time when the biggest canoe or the longest
spear and the strongest bow settled the destiny of
nations, instead of the several-million-pound steel-
clad and the land gun that is really a railway tunnel
loaded. But war will be just the same as it always
has been.
Now President Warren Gamaliel Harding of the
U.S. has taken up the dropped mantle of his prede-
cessor, and a Disarmament Conference is in prepara-
tion. Only the white man of West-European descent
promises to be there in any great force, and it is to
be hoped that that person won’t be carried away by
enthusiasm, and that he won’t disarm too recklessly
and without first searching the world for concealed
weapons. He wouldn’t secure peace even in his
own circle by , laying aside all lethal implements
save the carving-knife, axe, fence-rail, spanner, keg
of blasting-powder, poker gild such-like. But by
laying aside his supremacy in arms over colored
and mixed races, by neglecting his training, throw-
ing aside his “militarism” and discarding his mili-
tary science he might bring down on his head
something far worse than even the late war. That
war looks extra-terrible because it is so near, but
it didn’t blot out any nation or wipe any civilisa-
tion off the face of the earth. That sort of thing
was only done by Bolshevism in Russia —the Bolshe-
vism which disbanded the national army and swore
off military adventure in 1917. The nations which
stuck, to military ways at least saved their souls and
a clean change of underclothing out of the wreck.
In days not so far back our own white race
had the narrowest possible shave for its existence
through not having yet invented the weapons which
some people now propose to carelessly throw away.
Before gunpowder came to save the world, the dif-
ference between the white man and any other man
in war was a matter of strength, courage and num-
bers. In the first two respects many races were
much alike. In numbers, when the then-known
globe began to fill up, the white man found that he
was badly outnumbered. If he hadn’t turned his
superior brain from the arts of peace to the manu-
facture of horrid weapons, culminating in poison-
gas, submarines and airships, he would have dis-
appeared, along with his Bible, his libraries, his
art,, science, literature, . inventiveness (he is the
world’s only machine-maker) and all the rest that is
his. There was a time before pressure of popula-
tion set the tribes moving (as it threatens to set
Eastern Asia moving again), when the Euphrates
and .the edge of the Arabian desert were as well-
defined boundaries as Europe could show. Not only
its rule but its people extended that far. There
came another time when the Loire, well up towards
the north of France, the Danube and the Vistula
were borders which he held by a hair, and if he
hadn’t put his whole inventive soul into militarism
his next boundary, there being no New World then,
might have been the bottom of the Atlantic. It
was the blackest period in history, and the damage
has never been quite repaired, for though Spain,
Portugal, the Greek Empire in Europe and Tartar
Russia have been recovered, their people have never
got over the blood-mixture or wholly regained their
intellectual status.
Through disarming too much or through not arm-
ing enough, the white man came to the edge of
the abyss once. A very moderate amount of dis-
armament would bring him down to the Asiatic
military level again or even below it, with the
numbers as badly against him as they ever were be-
fore. If the League of Nations had a solid Govern-
ment, navy and army of its own (the only army of
Western Europe), then half-a-million men, not dis-
armed in any sense, but loaded to the teeth, should
be sufficient security. But as there are still to be
separate national armies, the idea of reducing them
to a minimum lest they should fight each other
(which the nations will do in any ease but on
cheaper lines) may simply mean, in the aggregate, the
premature disarming of civilisation. The world
hasn’t been searched for concealed weapons —not
by a long way. In Eastern Europe itself lies a vast
country, by horror haunted, relapsing fast into bar-
barism, slipping down a hundred years at a slide,
gaunt as a famished wolf through hunger born of
misgovernment, but still military above all things.
In a communistic land where all classes are rationed
the Red Army gets first pick of the victuals,
while the intellectuals—the Edisons and Pasteurs
and Newtons and Galileos and Leonardo da Vincis
—come last, where there is little or nothing, scarcely
even boiled rat. It is a land where the writing
of books has ceased, and where newspapers give
little intelligence, and that official. Also, it is
almost a closed region, though some outside news-
newspaper correspondents live in two cities and Tom
Skethill got in some distance under a false deserip-
tior;. This huge, murky mystery, which refuses to be
inspected even by foreign agents bringing gifts of
food to its starving people, can hardly attempt to
disarm again, for that would simply be to cut down
the soldiers’ rations without diminishing their power
of mischief against the Government, and would also
leave the Government at the mercy of the masses,
who might cook it for breakfast. The tie of privi-
lege and victuals makes the Ked Cabinet and the
Red Host faithful to each other. And occasional
tales of aggression and conquest from Bokhara, Persia
and elsewhere suggest that, as in the case of the
Mongols and Turks aforetime, the army is the one
efficient thing left amid otherwise universal •ineffi-
ciency. For Europe to disarm recklessly before it
has a chance to overhaul and catalogue the arsenal
of this veiled giant would be rash —possibly suicidal.
Disarmament is a great idea, but it has ruined
as many as it has saved. In fact, the number
of pacifists who have been eaten in jungles is past
counting, and the loss has been quite out of pro-
portion to the saving in gun-money.
Whoa, Fuller!
The N.S.W. National Conference met lately,
and Premier-to-be George Fuller was in
the chair. He said the Dooley Government
was doomed, and with the solemnity of that
most serious of all birds, the boiled owl, he
proceeded to declare his own financial policy:
(1) Economy in State expenditure, so as to pro-
vide for the State to live within its means.
(2) Loan expenditure to be strictly confined to
reproductive works of a permanent and necessary
character.
(3) The establishment of a sinking fund for the
redemption of the public debt, such fund to be
credited annually with a fair proportion of the
revenue derivable from our national assets—the
Crown lands.
Rushing in with unparalleled velocity,
Fuller committed himself to these matters
right off. Then, going more slowly and
picking his steps, he said that he proposed
to “enunciate at an early date” the diminu-
tion of public borrowing, and :
I am also seriously thinking of advocating the
reduction of the cost of the machinery of govern-
ment, beginning with Parliament itself, as an earnest
of sound and prudent administration.
George Fuller says things like these with
such an aspect of furious and jEliu-like
haste that the hearer is inclined to cry
“Whoa!” But, after all, the pace isn’t so
dreadful. As regards the first three propo-
sitions :
(1) It is a good thing for the State to live
within its means, but taxation may still be exorbi-
tant, and the State may not live far enough within its
means. Besides, some people think they are living
within their means when they charge everything to
loans and pay for the rest.
(2) This doesn’t make things a whit better than
they are. In fact, Fuller might live up to it and
yet be worse than Dooley. He might confine his
loan expenditure (of, say, 16 millions a year) to
reproductive works, but if the loan money cost
6 A per cent, and the reproductiveness was ss. per cent,
it would be cheaper to borrow the money at 5 per
cent, and then throw it into the sea. A year ago
N. S. Wales owned £24,000,000 worth (cost price)
of that reproductive kind of railway, and Fuller’s
party built most of it. Then he might confine his
loan expenditure (of, say, 16 millions a year) to
permanent works, and yet be worse off than ever.
Most works are permanent in the sense that traces
of them remain indefinitely unless they are deliber-
ately shifted. Babylon is a case in point; so is
Stonehenge. And all works are necessary in some-
body’s opinion, else the\’ wouldn’t be built.
(3) The allocation of a “fair proportion” of
the land revenue to a sinking fund is the sort of
guff which insults the human understanding. The
Ma State has such a sinking fund, and had it all
time that Fuller was in office, and has had it ever
since the cynical George Reid invented it. This is
how it operated during recent years—
Land Fair Proportion
Revenue thereof Applied in
Received. Reduction of Debt.
1914.. .. £1,828,887 £5632
1915.. .. 1,698,081 5688
1916.. .. 1,865,313 6504
1917.. .. 1,731,272 6868
1918.. .. 1,827,973 6819
1919.. .. 1,828,407 6833
1920.. .. 1,915,439 6976
The figures from 1916 to 1920 represent George
Fuller’s record in the past —in those days he was
half-Premier with Holman.
Taking only the four years for which
Fuller shared the responsibility, N. S.
Wales’s land receipts, as shown above, were
£7,303,091. Of this £4,206,406 was not
revenue in any sense, but money derived
from the sale of the "national asset.” In
any scheme of honest finance as distinguished
from card-sharping, all this, and more be-
sides, would have been applied to reduce
old debt and to avert new debt. Yet the
amount so applied in Fuller’s four years
was £27,496. They, were years of enor-
mously increased borrowing, revenue, expen-
diture and taxation, which aggravates the
case. There was no reason why mere State
Governments, which had no more to do with
the war than municipal or shire councils
had, should nretend it was necessary to raise
extra millions and millions, and increase
salaries all round, including their own, and
appoint new officials galore, and generally
lash all the surrounding seas into a foam,
just because the Federal people were run-
ning a war. State Governments in Canada,
the U.S., Brazil and South Africa didn’t go
mad with “blow” and “swank” like that.
Either thev had very different Ministers
from those in N.S.W. and Queensland or
they had stronger central authorities to keep
the small fry in order. Looking at Fuller’s
past, N. S. Wales has a right to demand
something much more definite from him be-
fore it feels certain that he will be much
better, financially, than even the awful
Dooley. To begin with, instead of talking
fogp'v generalities about loans and sinking
fund, he might state exactly, on his solemn
oath, that the former 'will never be more
than so much per annum, and that he will
put every penny of the land revenue, or at
the very least of the land-sale revenue, into
the latter, to accumulate at compound inter-
est till the aeot is extinguished. Even then
the sinking fund would ‘ have to be included
in the condition attached to every new loan
and every renewal loan to make the nledge
worth much. And it would have to be
vested in Federal trustees, else it might be
stolen inside five years despite all pledges
Most Australian Treasurers are as unsafe
with a sinking fund as a monkey is with a
nut.
A Foreign-trader from the North.
The House of lieps. fell heavily on the
Senate’s request for a 50-per-cent, reduction
in the duty (I'd. per lb.) on bananas, the
majority in favor of the home market being
preserved for the home grower being 31 to
13. Six of the 12 were Foreign-trade mem-
bers of the Cocky party, and their leader,
Gregory, cut a miserable figure. Fresh
back from a trip to his huge North-Western
electorate, where there is any amount of first-
class banana-land, he had unctuously assured
the House that “unless we develop and fill
our empty spaces it will be impossible to
retain them.” But when it was suggested
that the- penny duty would enable a few of
the empty spaces to be filled by banana-
growers, who are very largely returned sol-
diers —tlie sort of population most needed
in the vacant areas —he grew indignant. The
duty was “preposterously high.” It had
"absolutely astounded the people.” It would
put an end to the grand old Javanese mon-
opoly of the Westralian banana market. It
would "destroy the investments” of the
two Perth importers engaged in the trade —
they had written to the Westralian Federal
members and told them so. Extracts from
this mournful correspondence were read by
Prowse, another Dismal Jemmy of the
Foreign-country group. But it transpired
that the letters in question were six months
old. Since then, according to Burchell,
the member for Fremantle, the two import-
ing firms had decided to avenge themselves
on the ruthless destroyers of their invest-
ments by growing bananas on a large scale—
in Gregory’s electorate! Said Burchell:
Three weeks ago the people whose names have
been mentioned approached me in connection with
their scheme for growing bananas near Carnarvon,
where the State Government has granted them from
5000 to 10,000 acres. They are excellent authori-
ties and realise that the imposition of an increased
duty on bananas compels them to focus their atten-
tion on locally-grown fruit. They are getting their
plants from Queensland, and Westralia will have a
banana industry in two years if the Commonwealth
Government helps. I happen to know that Premier
Mitchell, of Westralia, is anxious to encourage
banana-growing in the North-West.
It was a facer for Gregory, and the Pro-
tectionist Reps., who have grown rather
weary of being lectured by the dogmatic little
man, thoroughly enjoyed his discomfiture.
Being a confused thinker, he promptly lost
himself in a maze of mutually-destructive
propositions. It would be a fine thing, he
blithered, if people could be “induced” to
settle in the tropical parts of Dam pier,
“which comprise big areas of very rich land
with a splendid rainfall.” But until people
could be "induced” to grow bananas in that
fertile region “Parliament should not be pre-
pared to impose a duty of a penny per pound
on this fruit.” Having uttered which pro-
found remark, the gentleman seems to have
suddenly remembered that people were being
“induced” to grow bananas in Dampier, and
by no other expedient than the hated penny
duty. Thereupon the astonished House was
informed that he "very much doubted the
wisdom of handing over Westralia’s banana
supply to those who have been endeavoring
to build up the trade. They are wholesalers
and retailers; and I don’t know whether the
people will be better off when these planta-
tions are developed than they are now.”
Verily a noble illustration of the Foreign-
trade attitude. As long as the parties re-
ferred to stuck to the importing business
and supplied the Westralian market with
foreign fruit, they were public benefactors.
But the moment they decide to cut out the
Java banana and establish the industry, with
the help of a protective duty, in their own
country—that is to say, in the least popu-
lous and most-exposed part of it—they lose
their meritorious character and are regarded
with gloomy suspicion as monopolists in the
making. To men of Gregory’s frame of
mind it is an offence to start protected in-
dustries in North Australia. They would
rather see the North remain a wilderness
than pay another penny a dozen for bananas,
even if it is for onlv a vear or two.
—♦
A “Health Week.”
A "Health Week,” with numerous well-
intentioned doctors in evidence, has been held
in Sydney. They agreed on many things,
especially the need for lots of pure air. But
nobody had the courage to be unorthodox
and shock his congregation by saying that
Sydney is itself the most notable disease that
N. S. Wales possesses, just as Melbourne is
Victoria’s disease. Any system which de-
liberately, and at vast cost in money, health
and morality, crowds 900,000 people into one
city, and by so doing leaves only 1,200,000 to
populate the other 309,300 square miles of
territory, has neither Christianity, decency
nor regard for pure air in its composition.
Sydney is made what it is through forcing
there, by a conspiracy of which the railway
map and the railway rates-book and the
time-table are sufficient evidence, trade
which has its cheap and natural outlets at
Brisbane, Coff’s Harbor, Port Stephens,
Newcastle, .Jervis Bay, Ulladulla, Twofold
Bay, Melbourne, Portland and the S. Aus.
ports. And the price that producers are
called upon to pay for needless haulage to
•make Sydney the slummy place it has be-
come is killing production. N. S. Wales,
under a sane system, should have 4,000,000
people and Sydney should have 400,000.
Also Sydney should be one of a group of
cities, and not a lonesome wen or carbuncle.
Instead, between 1910 and the late census
the population of Sydney grew by 275,410,
and that of the other 309,300 square miles
of the State by 186,133. During that period
1400 miles of new railway were opened at
vast expense in the Ma State, increasing
the total from 3643 to 5043 miles. This
was ostensibly done to promote settlement,
but it was really to pacify the unemployed,
to advertise shoddy politicians, and to further
extend the pull of the Big City octopus. The
congestion is so well maintained that the
State Statistician estimates the increase of
population between December, 1918, and Cen-
sus Day, 1921. as: Sydney, 104.940 (from
792.700 to 897.640) : the rest of the big State,
66,649. There is only one possible and per-
fectly visible explanation for this purely
Australian and entirely unwholesome phe-
nomenon, but if a single city philanthropist
has hazarded giving offence to city interests by
saying what it is his voice has been drowned
bv the roar of the tramcars and the shouting
of the pony odds. In this connection Pre-
mier Dooley took up the parable at the re-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
ASSETS EXCEED £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
pent conference of ,the Country Press Associa-
tion, and denied passionately that his Gov-
ernment fostered the city at the expense of
the country. Out of £7,500,000 which it
had spent in its brief career on public works,
only £2,400,000, he said, had been spent in
developing the already well-developed me-
tropolis (£16,107 per square mile), while
£5,100,000 (£l6 10s. per square mile) had
been spent on the undeveloped rest of the
State. But not one penny of even the £l6 10s.
was laid out to give any inhabitant a chance
to trade with the port at his own door, un-
less that port happened to be the same old
Sydney. It was all applied to force busi-
ness, wealth and population to the citv. so
it was city expenditure pure ‘and simple.
The habit of regarding a blob of congestion
anc 1 a vast province of depopulation as part
of the Heaven-appointed order of things has
become so ingrained that Dooley was able
to tell this yarn to a Country Press Associa-
tion, of all bodies in the world, without
having one bad egg sent his^way.
Literature and the Settled Poicy.
The curse of Australia’s front-rank writer:
Recent efforts of the newly-formed Australian
Authors’ Association to obtain redress of grievances
have revealed one interesting fact-—that people call-
ing themselves authors have no political pull, and
can rely upon receiving less attention than so many
bootmakers, and far less consideration than Australian
bookmakers of the other sort. Politicians will run to
pay homage to your bookmaker with the swollen
bag; they will stoop to hear and record his wishes.
He has a meaning, he represents Votes. He has the
Power to kick back if authority is a little brisk
in turning him empty away. But in addition to
sharing the contempt that attaches to that poor
outcast Australian literature, the person who
merely writes books has no force to back him in
his appeals. So the representative gentleman with
whom he is dealing has small hesitation, though he
may employ a little ambiguity of phrase, in telling
him to go to the Devil.
The A.A.A. wanted some kind of legislation that
would give Australian authors at least a small
measure of benefit from “the country’s: settled
policy,” but it has been informed tersely, and with
a definiteness always absent' in a politician’s deal-
ings with more formidable forces, that nothing can
be done in the matter of protecting the local pro-
ducer of tales and sketches from the dumping that is
carried on and has been the practice for years. Papers
here fill their pages with cheap foreign goods, pre-
cisely as the shopkeeper would fill his shelves with
the produce of underpaid foreign labor if he were
not barred by a fiscal policy. The shopkeeper is
ruthlessly forbidden to trade in the way most pro-
fitable to himself, but the newspaper owner can
buy his goods where he pleases on an absolutely
Freetrade basis. Presently his serials may be made
in Japan, and sold here at 10 yen, as I have no
doubt they will be immediately the brown man dis-
covers that the demand exists.
The procedure adopted by the Customs authorities,
when approached by the authors asking for some
sort of restriction on imported serials farmed out
by English firms, was peculiar. They immediately
put themselves in communication with the news-
paper owners, as the speculative gentleman played
“Boyne Water” to Paddy Boyle just to see if he
could stand it. Naturally the newspaper owners
would not have it at any price. With two exceptions
they cried out against it. and that was sufficient for
the Government. Against that porcine squeal all
the arguments of the writers went for nothing, all
the pious principles of “the settled policy” were
subjugated. The Government, whose members pro-
fess so noble a disdain for the brute press, immedi-
ately they w-ere asked to place themselves in direct
opposition to the newspaper panjandrums did an
ignominious scuttle. Billy- Hughes has d —d the
press again and again, with a fine pretence of indif-
ference and even contempt. His colleagues have
echoed his splendid disdain with “Who cares for
the press?” But ask them to do any reasonable and
just thing that is up against the press, and like
rats they scurry for cover.
I cannot say for certain, but I take it to be very
improbable that the Government, when asked to put
a duty on boots, or on blankets, or hats, or whisky,
ran to the importers with a respectful, almost tremu-
lous, request to be told how- the trade would take
these reforms, and let it be plainly seen that
if Messrs, the Importers manifested any heat in their
attitude of opposition, the subservient Ministry was
ready to climb down with an abject apology for its
temerity in implying that for one moment the legis-
lation hinted at was within the bounds of human
possibility.
Yet the attitude towards these recent requests
of the Australian Authors’ Association is quite in
keeping w r ith the political man’s discriminating dis-
respect for Australian letters. It is part of the
ancient contempt for the Australian thing, and Aus-
tralian letters is practically the only thing left
for which the politician dares manifest open con-
tempt at this time of day. We can only comfort
ourselves with the reflection that when the tactful
M.P. is forced to be respectful he will be infernally
respectful.
Rules to Suit the Occasion.
There is a well-known poker story of a
band of swindlers who sweep the pool at
the expense of a “mug” with a hand un-
known to the rules of the game, but recog-
nised as superior to a royal flush by their
rules. Later on the victim is dealt this hand
and bets on it to the limit, only to be told
that-—still according to their rules—it can
win only once in an evening. This is very
much the procedure which the Repatriation
Commission has adopted in the interests of
the Treasury officials in regard to incapa-
citated Diggers. Consider, for example, the
case of Private Blank, taken at random
from a sheaf of similar cases:—
Embarked 17-10-1915. Got wet repeatedly on
hospital guard, contracted severe rheumatism, and
was returned to Australia. Discharged 16-4-1916.
lie-enlisted 2-3-1917. Became ill again, and was
returned and discharged 3-7-1918. Granted full pen-
sion. Later he was sent to War Industries for nine
months on quarter pension. In October, 1920, he
was admitted lo Randwick with osteo-arthritis, hav-
ing been certified by Repatriation as suffering from
a war disability. On 5-5-1921 his pension was can-
celled, Repatriation having ruled that he was not
suffering from a war disability within the meaning
of the Act, after all, he not having actually done
front-line service. A married man with a large
family and in necessitous circumstances. Prior to
enlistment he had worked for close on 20 years in
the N'.S.W. Public Service arid never lost a day from
rheumatism.
We all remember the promises made to men
like Blank when danger threatened; and
by none louder than the Federal Govern-
ment. He was not to worry about his future
or that of his family. A grateful country
would never forget its duty to him or them.
There were no reservations, no exceptions.
The peril being at an end, the soldier found
in the first place that if he had contracted
any form of V.D. while on service he was
debarred from pension rights, and his family
with him. He had not been warned of this
rule when he enlisted. Its existence might
well have daunted many a potentially valu-
able, though incontinent, fighting-man who
MORE DIRECT ACTION.
“Wagga, Saturday.—Owing to diminishing funds the Kyeamba Shire Council found it impossible
to undertake bridge works of urgent necessity, but several ratepayers have set an example worthy of emu-
Iation, and as a result three bridges are being provided at different points in the shire.” — S. M. HERALD.
BILE WIREWHISKERD : “Hey, mister. I’m from Youipy Gully.”
MINISTER FOR SHIRKS : “Yes, well?”
BIL[?]: “Well, I called for that there bridge you promised us. Hand over the blasted
material and we’ll build the blanky thing ourselves.”
realised that the Empire was in for a long
war and who was aware (to quote from a
London Times report of an address delivered
last month by Sir James Crichton -
Browne) that “not less than 10 per cent, of
the population of all England’s large towns
acquire syphilis and a very much larger pro-
portion gonorrhea.” In due course a rule
w T as introduced by the Government’s eager
servants, the virtual effect of which wms that
anyone who had ever suffered from Y.D.
should, ipso facto, be disentitled to pension
rights. Under the latest interpretations of
the Act practically any pre-war trouble is
liable to be brought up against an incapaci-
tated man, and used to throw him, destitute,
on the community. It is absolutely certain
that Australia does not want “economy” on
these over-smart lines, bet is, on the con-
trary, revolted at the spectacle of it in opera-
tion. Members of Parliament on both s’des
of the House have voiced their disgust. And
it is hard to believe that even the Govern-
ment honestly approves of it—assuming, that
is to say, that the incessant protestations of
W. M. Hughes about his Ministry’s “Empire
loyalty” are not made in a spirit of derision.
True loyalty-—the sentiment which induces
men to risk their lives for an idea —is based
on straight dealing and the snirit of justice;
and the surest way to kill it, and with it
recruiting in any future war, is to spread
abroad an impression that the nation is no
better than a vulgar take-dowm.
The Manufacture of Criminals.
Linder the Police Offences Act Amending
Bill which has been introduced into the Vic.
Legislative Council,
Reputed thieves and suspected persons will be
more drastically dealt with. The law is to be
strengthened in reference to consorting with persons
with insufficient lawful means of support or reputed
thieves; searching places not commonly reputed to
be gaming-houses; and the selling of indecent or
suggestive post cards.
The defect of all such measures is that they
put great powers in the hands of men who
are likely too often to abuse them. The
legislator needs to remember when consider-
ing a hill of this description that the aver-
age policeman is no saint and the average
magistrate no Solon, and that both have
an astonishing faith in one another. Leg-
islation already exists which provides that
any nominally free British subject may be
gaoled without so much as a charge being
laid against him. and held in durance for
as long, practically, as the authorities wish.
Herds of suspects are rounded up under
this Act before any visitor of importance
arrives in one of the great capitals: in the
slang of the Courts, they are "ragged.” But
Vagrancy Acts are put to all sorts of other
uses. In Sydney recently a Victorian citi-
zen was run in as “an idle and disorderly
person having no means of support,” though
he had evidence of the prosperous condition
of his finances. Already for practical pur-
poses the proper definition of a vagrant is
someone whom a policeman decides to accuse
of being an undesirable character, and
it is proposed in the Victorian bill to
make things even more perilous for
the public by removing from the accuser
the onus of putting in some sort of
general proof of disorderliness. The only
requirement, henceforward, will be a state-
ment that the person in the dock has been
seen speaking to certain people who may or
may not be before the Court. Linder the
proposed rights of search it is not over-
stepping the mark to say that no one will
lie safe. It, is left to the policeman to
decide which Australian’s home
shall be his castle; and it is
the policeman, too, who will
decide between art and porno-
graphy, as happened in M.L. a
decade ago when one of
Blamibe Young’s chaste works
was banned as indecent. Ac-
cused persons who are pre-
sented in respect of these
charges do not get what the Superior
Courts consider fair trials, and the
community knows it. The proceedings
are family affairs, so to speak. The police
give their version; the accused and his wit-
nesses give theirs; the Court listens 'ab-
sently : sentence is pronounced. And all this
being so, the opportunities for blackmail are
tremendous. Of course, it is desirable to
keep a tight rein on criminals. But it is
distinctly undesirable to manufacture crimi-
nals ; and that is what so much legislation
nowadays tends to do.
The Crooked Line.
A remarkable telegram from Brisbane
has appeared in an obscure corner of
some daily papers :
Senator Fom will leave Brisbane on Friday night
by train en route to Camooweal, where he will meet
other members of the committee inquiring into the
North-South railway route... The first business to be
done will be to decide which route will be followed,
as there are two alternatives, namely, via Boulia and
Birdsville, then to Maree in S.A., and on to Adel-
aide; or via Boulia, Windorah, Eromanga, Thargo-
mindah, Hungerford and Bourke, in N.S.W., thence
on to Sydney.
Quite cut and dried apparently! Yet the
agreement on which S. Australia handed
over 523.620 square miles of good country is
for a line . (completion of the partly-built
line already in existence) extending south-
ward through the Territory and through S.
Australia to Tort Augusta and Adelaide.
There is no mention in that hard-and-fast
bargain of Camooweal. Boulia. Birdsville.
Windorah, Eromanga, Thargomindah. Hun-
gerford. Bourke or Sydney, and none of
Queensland or N. S. Wales, nor of alterna-
tive routes, nor of the committee, nor of
Senator Foll. The land grant which S.
Aus. paid was equal to about 11)0,000 acres
per mile of the' whole route —the new line
to be built and the old part already built.
Private capitalists did quite a lot of land-
grant railway-building for Australia in early,
empty days when it looked a less hopeful
business than now. They asked, as a steady
thing, 32,000 acres per mile (not 100,000).
They stuck to the route laid down. They
didn't swindle their employers by failing
to deliver the goods, nor did they conspire
with disreputable characters to deliver the
railway to the wrong parties. ' And they
didn't expect payment in advance. A good
many people in S. Australia wish now that
the State had taken Private Enterprise into
partnership instead of evasive politicians.
Touching a sinfully paltry brawl: —
Periodically the attention of the Australian Seijare
is withdrawn from the affairs of the nation and
concentrated on a pitiful domestic row about a
liftboy who lost his job. He used to work th
elevator leading to the Parliamentary refreshmeir.
room, and, finding him “careless,” “uncivil,” undis-
ciplined and “unreliable,” and having to decidv
whether he should be put off or promoted to the per-
manent staff, the secretary of the house committee
decided that the youth should go. That started it.
Master Liftboy ran for protection to De Largik,
the Government Whip, a person with a taste for small
beer and a mind painfully lacking in a sense of' pro-
portion. Having an old grudge against President
Givens, De La run: blamed that functionary, and
attacked him bitterly from his place in the House.
Givens denied the impeachment in equally vehement
language, and accused De Largik of having pursued
him with unrelenting fury because he hadn’t given
De Largie's son-in-law a job. The Whip's next
step was to secure a Select Committee on the Ques-
tion of the Position of the Officials engaged in and
about the Senate. That was the committee’s label,
but it was really concerned with the affair of the
liftboy, and 775 copies of its report were actually
issued to the world at a cost (printing and publish-
ing only) of £53. And as if enough hadn’t been
heard of the unspeakable rubbish De Lakgie returned
to the subject in the Senate the other day. For an
hour and a quarter the business of the country was
suspended while the Government Whip dredged up
the alleged facts of the wretched business and
hurled vulgar threats across the Chamber at the
unfortunate President. That badgered official pre-
served his dignity in trying circumstances, and the
other Senators, who had grown restive under the
rain of De Largican personalities, were with him
to a man. The incident made it abundantly clear
that the Government needs a new Whip and West-
ralia a new Senator. There is no room in the
National Parliament for a parish-minded nonentity
who starts a series of squalid wrangles there about
a retired liftboy. Ilis proper place is the Svdnej
City Council.
“Bu Voter" : When one comes to think it
over Lord Mayor \ Lambert’s wonderful
scheme for disfranchising the people who
pay 90 per cent, of the Sydney rates (pre-
sumably lest they should vote against him)
is simply a property suffrage after all. 'He
says with blatant pride that he seeks to
take the voting power away from property
and restrict it to flesh and blood, but that
is only stereotyped pappycock. At present
voters include: (1) People who work and
pay rates in the city; (2) people who sleep
in the city, even if they neither work nor pay
rates there. It is proposed to exclude the
former. Work and contribution to the city’s
support are nothing in the Lambert philoso-
phy. Sleep or insensibility or the horizontal
attitude are the true and only tests of good
citizenship. That is where the lodger comes
in. But the lodger, however unfinancial and
however devoid of all interest in Sydney,
must have a residential address before Lam-
bert, really a conservative at heart, would
let him use the suffrage. The address im-
plies a bed —a flea-pasture or bug-walk—
either a freehold doss or one held on long or
•short lease. So it is a case of the Bed Vote,
not the Man Vote. For the wholly unproper
tied or bedless citizen Lambert has neither
mercy nor consideration. And the lodger
who retains and pays for his room and
stretcher, or his half-room and palliasse, in
the city, can qualify under the lodger fran-
chise if he takes the trouble, even if he really
snoozes outside, while, if Lambert has his
way, the big ratepayer who keeps his seven-
storey factory in the city and snoozes out-
side can’t. It is a mixed-up situation, but
the point which stands out is the immense
and unbounded virtue of sleep, however
frowsy sleep may be. Some day, I am con-
vinced,' there will be a demand that the
really heavy sleeper shall have two Bed
V otes.


Our CAM BRAND Forged Steel Shoes and Dies
are made from a special grade of steel which experience has proved to
possess exceptional qualities of hardness and toughness.
*\*V' O
BATTERY SCREEN of best hard steel or copper wire, any mesh or size.
Rock Breakers, Ore Feeders, Grizzlies, Amalgam Plates, Quicksilver.
_ , . . Our mining engineers will Understand your requirements.
Send your enquiries to us.
GUTHRI DGE LIMITED. 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
MINING ELECTRICAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The more McGirr’s Motherhood Pauper-
isation Bill (N.S.W.) is examined the
worse it looks. It is so obviously a gigantic
vote-buying scheme that the thin pretence
of humanitarianism has practically been
abandoned. Thus its exuberant author de-
clared last week that the first payment would
be made a few months before the general
election, and flamboyantly defied the Nation-
alists and Progressives to oppose it. "It
thev did,” he boasted, “the decent mothers
of the community would drag them off their
platforms by the scruff of the neck. It
is also announced that the first year s bribe
is expected to total £1,528,000, and that
only matrons whose names are on the elec-
toral roll will get it. Mothers without votes
are no use to the crowd in office. It is pro-
bably considered premature to restrict the
six-bob-a-kid to financial members of unions
or P.L.L.’s or women who produce statutory
declarations that they voted for the Labor
candidate. But that may come.
After profound cogitation, lasting 12
months, into the causes of a bloated metro-
polis and an empty countryside, a committee
of N.S.W. Upper House says “the mam
remedy” for the latter “is to get more popu-
lation on the land.” At the same time it
recognises that “the lure of the city, as
the daily papers call it, is very strong. 1 er-
haps if it was a smaller city it w'ouldn t
lure so much; and perhaps if there were
six or eight little cities the lure would be
divided and diluted; and perhaps then the
agriculturist might die on his farm while
hesitating which lure to go to.
From an old “permanent” officer:
If there were no Union Jack in the Australian
Ensign the agitation of self-advertising loyalists
might be understood; but when such reverence is
expressed for the Jack solus, and such contempt for
it when associated with the Southern Cross, one
immediately detects the reck of party politics. Con-
stitutionally there is no British Empire. It hat is
usually known as such is the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland and its dependencies.
George Rex rules the Dominions, not George Impera-
tor. That being so, there is no Empire flag. The
Union Jack is the flag of the United Kingdom. The
present design dates only from 1800, when the St.
Patrick’s cross was added, on Ireland joining the
Union; but nothing has ever been introduced to repre-
sent the Dominions, Colonies or India. The Australian
Flag, therefore, with its star and Southern Cross, is
more symbolic of the relationship between Great
Britain and Australia, and is nearer an Imperial em-
blem, than the Jack itself. Again, in the navy and
army the Union Jaek is only flown to indicate the
presence of certain commanders or other special
matters. Even the R.A.N. vessels do not fly the
Union flag undefiled. Nor do the royal yacht clubs.
Nor does the Governor-General —his is surcharged
in the centre with a small star-shaped design. The
simple truth is that the Union Jaek, with the
Southern Cross embellishment, was granted by the
King, and its final design was the work of the
College of Heralds; and to speak of it as some of
our bogus loyalists do is rank bad manners, to say
the least. When the King grants a privilege he
expects it to be used —not ignored and abused.
George Fuller’s party isn’t the stuff that
heroes and reformers are made of. At the
N.S.W. Nationalist Conference it was re-
solved that “a special loan of £1,500.000
should be raised •to provide good roads.”
Dooley could have done no more.
At the Brisbane Labor Conference “Mr.
Ross (W.A.) said that Australia’s safety”
(he didn’t say safety from what) “lay along
the lines of the One Big Union, and they
should give the policy outlined at Melbourne
a fair trial.” Which is all very good, but
when one gives suicide a fair trial and finds
it a failure there is a difficulty about getting-
back. So a lot of folk condemn suicide un-
heard.
Power, the pacifist President of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P., invited the Brisbane Labor
Conference to pledge its members to “refuse
to participate in any war outside Aus-
tralia.” In oiw af its rare spasms of in-
telligence Conference rejected the pro-
posal, recognising that it was calling ten-
ders for trouble. Under such a policy an
enemy, knowing he would not be interrupted,
HIS MASTER’S FRIEND.
“ Jurlgo Beeby has served his turu, some Ministers say. While the cost of living was going up he
was very useful. Now he is beginning to fix a lower basic wage he is a nuisance to the Government, and
only succeeds in putting Ministers in awkward situation.”
MR. McGIRK: “Here, hold on, dammit! I only bought you to bite the other bloke.”
would take his own time to prepare his
attack, ensuring that his army was adequate
in numbers, training and munitions. He
would also select his place for landing, while
Australia, not knowing where the blow was
to fall, must disperse its forces. _ Under such
conditions whatever terms the invader dic-
tated would almost certainly have _to be
accepted. These would most likely include
a big indemnity along with unrestricted im-
migration, and it would be good-bye to snort-
hours, big wages and trades unionism. Ine
Defence Act provides that no member of the
forces can be sent abroad against his will,
which is quite a sufficient safeguard against
militarism, and is a very different thing from
binding ourselves not to go abroad.
In Victoria just now the loss to the farmer
on his surplus wheat (which is the biggest
part of liis crop in good years) through hav-
ing so many of his artisan customers in Man-
chester instead of Melbourne, is anything
np to Is. lOd. per bushel. The loss through
having so many of his artisans in Man-
chester instead of in small industrial towns
scattered over his own State is anything up to
2a. Cd. per bushel. In N.S.W., because the
land distances are longer, the loss may be a
trifle more. Tbe Vic. Wheat Growers’ Asso-
ciation has sold one lot of 20,000 tons foi
shipment to London early in 1922 at 6s lOd.
and half a farthing per bushel, and after
paving Bd. to get it on the ship and Is. lOd.
for freight and charges afterwards the grower
hopes for 4s. 4d.
The Queensland Labor Government has
struggled through another no-confidence
motion —the second this session. For once
two or three Cocky members tarried in town
to take part in the division, instead of rush-
ing away to their cow-patches according to
custom, and the Government’s majority over
the now united Opposition was a solitary
vote. The owner of that vote is the most-
sought-after man in Queensland.
Minister McGirr (N.S.W.), recommend-
ing the Motherhood Endowment Bill:
\s to administration, there would be no extra
burden on the community, because the public service
assures me it has practically Sufficient to man the
staff without any further employees.
If it is not an electioneering lie, what has
Dooley to say about this plain over-staffing
of the public service?
When siege rates were being paid for
country produce, the N. \\ tiles Hoard ot
Trade' refused to fix a rural basic wage.
Now, when the price of butter has tumbled,
and a fruit glut approaches, and there is a
huge accumulation of unsaleable wool, and.
wheat has slumped to a point at which the'
margin of profit can hardly be found with
a microscope, the Beebyised Board has de-
creed that the agricultural laborer must be
paid at least £3 6s. a week. Simultaneously
a deputation of manufacturers told Dooley,
the Premier, that Judge Beeby’s 44-hour
week was killing their industry, and Hos-
kins, the ironfounder, despairingly observed
that unless there was a sudden and decided
change for the better Lithgow would soon
be as dead as Cobar and Broken Hill, in
short, the outlook for those who produce
the things that the country gets its living
by is growing bleaker and bleaker. But pre-
sumably Dooley and Beeby will go on draw-
ing their salaries, whatever happens.
Premier Barwell, of South Aus., is doing
the Oliver Cromwell act with his Parliament
on the question of increase of salaries. Mem-
bers of both Houses are paid a poor £2OO,
unchanged from the first introduction of pay-
ment in 1887. There is on the notice-paper
of the Assembly a motion to go into com-
mittee to discuss a rise, and both parties
adopted a rise on their programme at the
last general election ; but Barwell has since
decided that the present time, when the coun-
try is being asked to economise in every
way, is not suitable. But as a good harvest
is assured —Treasurer Ritchie is figuring on
14.. bushels —strong pressure is being put on
the Premier’s stiff back.
Norman Bayles, ex-M.L.A. for Toorak, 11.
H. Smith, a City Councillor, and F. T. Hick-
ford, Grand Master of the Vic. Masons, are
out after Johnnie MeWhae’s Uppah Cham-
bah seat when he retires to take the A ic.
Agency-General. McWhae will hold on till
the end of Nov. First past the post will
win on polling-day, as there is no preferen-
tial voting system for the Council. This
fact may entice a "Labor candidate into the
field, but Labor has already had two knocks
in the province, and Crouch’s experience in
the Bendigo region a few weeks ago was
disheartening.
It is a mere, coincidence, of course, that
the Premiers’ Conference is to begin its
sittings in Melbourne the day before the
Cup. Flemington flutters naturally didn t
enter into the calculation in fixing the open-
ing date. Neither did they determine in any
way the selection of the day for the meeting
of the Australian Wheat Board (October
28). Watt has joined in the demand for
dismantling the Federal Arbitration C urts
and substituting wages boards, and Barwell
(S.A.) and Lee (Speck) will also ask for
less elaborate industrial umpiring.
Scaddau, of Westralia, used to say of his
thumping deficits that they were “all in the
pockets of the people.” And as often as not
the man from Moonta would score, for one
half of the audience would believe him and
the rest would laugh at his brazen auda-
city. Tackled in Parliament the other day
about the chronic insolvency of the railways
under his control, La'rcombe of Queens-
land offered the same explanation as Scad-
dan. At this rate £8 16s. fid. of railway
deficit is glittering in the purses or pockets
of every man, woman and child in Banana-
land. Treasurer Fi-helly ought to mention
the matter to the people on whom lie is
spending thousands a week in outdoor relief.
It would buck them up immensely.
. From the N.S.W. Gallery: —
i Minister for Feeding Bottles McGirr introduced ins
Motherhood Endowment Bill with a speech as prosy
as a prayer for rain and Opposition-leader Fuller ful-
mirated against the Bill as drearily. McGirr took his
stand mainly upon the contention (1) that there is a
moral obligation on the community to see that every
child has a reasonable chance of getting sufficient nour-
ishment, and (2) that where there are more than two
offspring in a family the basic wage will not provide
a menu for the excess infants. Fuller’s case was that
if the youngsters got MeGirr’s help the father would
be robbed of the joy of keeping the pantry stocked.
But though the two main orations were both duds,
the debate had its sparkle. Someone was declaiming
that payment of the endowment in cases of illegiti-
mancy was dangerous. It might encourage the industry.
“Should an illegitimate child not be fed?” queried
McGirr. The question stirred Jim Onslow. “Bah!”
he screamed. “It’s stud women you want —stud State
women. The Bolsheviks” The rest was swamped
in wild applause.
Little can be hoped for in a province
Whose Government is six weeks distant when
the steamer is running and six months dis-
tant when it is stopped, and the stoppage
happens twice every three months. Thus it
is related that at Vanderlin and Borroloola,
in the Territory, white settlers have been
reduced almost to a worm-and-weed diet
because the Government boat, on three suc-
cessive trips, has forgotten to bring food,
being loaded with machinery for a Federal
ice-cream factory or some irrelevance like
that. Black brother, who was always pretty
wild up there, is now extra-obstreperous be-
cause white brother grows few and far
between and white policemen are too rare
to be worth mentioning. It is just the sort
of opportunity a friendly neighbor looks for.
Some day he will step in, ostensibly to take
the place of the missing policemen —all in
the interests of humanity and good govern-
ment, of course.
The Million Farms people have discov-
ered two areas of public land in N.S.W. said
to be splendidly fitted for irrigation and
million-farming. They comprise 389,200
acres, and cut into fruit farms or flower pots
of 10 to 15 acres each they are to support
31,000 settlers and their families. One is
on the Murray, opposite Victoria’s garden
settlement of Mildura; the other near Bos-
ton. The success of Mildura is quoted as
proof that success is sure, so there is nothing
to do save float the Big Loan instanter. But
Mildura got through its early troubles when
loan money cost 3 or 81 per cent., labor was
cheaper, and strikes not one-tenth as viru-
lent. Further, Mildura is a modest 45,000
acres, not nearly all developed yet. After
34 years there are about 12,000 acres under
intense culture. And the Trust (there is
no political management) has got the debt
down to about £95,000. That patient sort
of business is no indication of the chances
of a great, roaring, brass-trumpeting, heavily-
capitalised scheme to deal with 389,200 acres
all at once.
Concerning the law and the profits—
It is nothing new lor the boisterous anti-Diggei'
gang in control of Sydney's lovely City Council to
trample on the Soldiers’ Preference Act. But there
was an element of novelty in the promotion of a
brisk young civilian, employed in the municipal
markets, over the head of the usual competent but
blacklisted warrior, inasmuch as the favored youth
was shown to have arranged a presentation, said to
have realised £l6O, for Alderman Burke, M.L.A.,
who practically got. him his new billet. The £l6O,
or whatever it was, came from municipal employees,
and the illuminated address which accompanied it
referred enthusiastically to “concessions” obtained
from the ratepayers by the worthy disinterested
Burke. There is talk of the legality of the promo-
tion being tested by the Returned Soldiers’ League.
Some other body—the Civic Reform League, for
instance —might also question the position of a
representative who obtains “concessions” for the em-
ployees of the body on which he serves —“conces-
sions” wholly at the expense of that body—and
then consents to receive a “presentation.”
THE MAJOR PROPHET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘•Mr. Hughes said the oldest book stated that a
prophet was without honor in his own country, but
that mantle had not fallen upon his undefended
shoulders with the harshness it did upon the prophets
of old He ventured to say that the fortunes oi
this countrv and its history would be written differ-
ently because of the decision he made at that time.
...'.When did a man in the history of' the world
receive a greater tribute than that i
Unroll the Book of Ages,
Search well the House of Fame!
What name, ’mong' saints or sages,
Can stand beside my name !
In Time, though I come latest,
The wise historians find
I am the chief, the greatest
Saviour of mankind.
Let Israel boast of Moses,
Of Buddha India sing ;
Let Araby strew roses
Before her Prophet-King!
“Osar!” shout Roman legions,
Athens cry “Pericles!”
To more enlightened regions
A greater comes than these.
Isaiah wrote some verses,
And Paul had things to say ;
Amos was good at curses,
But these have had their day.
More dazzling revelations,
More grateful, gladsome news
I bring to thrill the nations —
I am the Prophet Hughes 1
I won the war, I won it,
And I have won the peace ;
Yea, all alone I’ve done it;
1 filled the vacant crease
When thunderbolts were falling,
And saved this land forlorn.
The thought is too appalling—
lr I had not been born!
Thank Heaven, my Word yet flashes
To chain the claws of Fate.
I sweep the Empire’s ashes
Like brushwood from the gate.
And, when the tides are flowing,
I still sail Fortune’s sea,
To pluck the ever-growing
Ripe fruits of Victory.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


HOW MELBOURNE REGARDS IT.
à


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
TI-lOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
Sub-branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia :
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1912 .. £14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 . . 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 .. 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 . . 5,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Deserves.
June, 1915 . . 25,789 2,222
Dec., 3915 .. 50,949 53,171
June, 1916 .. ' 93,898 347,069
Dec., 1916 . . 153,072 300,141
June, 1917 . . 226,151 526,292
Dec., 1917 . . 232,659 758,951
June, 1918 .. 317,075 1,076,026
Dec., 3 918 .. 458,271 3,534,297
June, 1919 . . 388,673 1,922,970
Dec., 1919 . . 440,530 2,363,500
June, 1920 .. 392,604 2,756,104
Dec., 1920 . . 292,219 3,048,323
June, 1921 . . 403,041 3,451,364
There has never been a bank like this one.
It began in 1912 without a penny of capital;
all Denison Miller had to start with was a
temporary advance of £lO,OOO from the Com-
monwealth Treasury. It now has funds of
its own exceeding 54 millions. Besides the
visible reserves of £5,45.1.364 shown by the
table, there is a reserve of £261,357 protect-
ing 334 millions-odd of Government securi-
ties, and things will have to go very badly
indeed if the nation’s bank cannot hold oil
to that Government paper until it matures
and gives 20s. in the £. Though the
Commonwealth Bank was established in 1912
it was not until just after the war began
that sufficient profit had been made to wipe
out the deficit created by organisation and
other preliminary charges! Thus in less than
seven years the bank has piled up 34 mil-
lions of profit, giving it funds in excess of
most proprietary banks; its “capital” should
within a few years exceed even the funds of
the old Wales and Commercial of Sydney.
That is, provided the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment does not grab half of the accumula-
tion of profits: the Act stipulates that any
profits are to be equally divided between a
bank reserve fund and a redemption fund,
the former being retained by the bank, the
latter being available for repaying advances
made to the bank by the Treasurer and for
redeeming any stock or debentures issued by
the bank, and “any excess may be used for
the purposes of the redemption of any Com-
monwealth debts, or State debts taken over
by the Commonwealth.” So far the redemp-
tion reserve has not been tapped: Federal
Treasurers apparently have been well satis-
fied to let Denison Miller subscribe nearly
10 millions to new loans instead of extract-
ing a million or so to reduce old- public debt.
So to date funds have been acquired which
give every man, woman and child in the
Commonwealth a proprietary interest of
nearly 12s. in the national bank.
And that fact again moves The Bulletin
to call attention to the fact that there is no
other bank so secretive as the Commonwealth
Bank. Every proprietary bank is obliged
to call its shareholders together at least once
in every year; generally these meetings,
apart from the formal receiving of audited
accounts and the approving of divs. pro-
posed by the directors, become merely a mega-
phonic device for getting the Fatman’s view
of current events before the public. The
Commonwealth Bank cannot, of course, call
its proprietors together; but something more
is due to them than a mere balance-sheet
which has been O.lv.’d by the Auditor-Gen-
eral, and which, therefore, can be accepted
without question as exhibiting the true posi-
tion of the concern. Denison Miller and
his staff can perform much more valuable
services to the public than by storing up
vast accumulations of profit by/ capably-
handled exchange and other operations/ They
are in the position of being able to enlighten
the public, without fear of incurring the
wrath of any vested intei-ests, on the innum-
erable happenings in the financial world
which from time to time directly or in-
directly affect every citizen of the Common-
wealth'. For instance, there are very few,
even among importers and exporters, who
have thoroughly gripped the why and where-
fore of the chaotic exchanges of recent years,
and fewer still who have been fully
acquainted with the reasons for the abnor-
mal domestic conditions which have pre-
vailed. They ai*e matters on which the
banker can enlighten the public, and no other
loeal hank is better placed to undertake that
educational work than the Commonwealth’s
national bank. The Bulletin again in-
vites Denison Millei-’s consideration of the
nublieation of a regular review of finance
and trading happenings. A number of Eng-
lish and American proprietary banks nowa-
days issue very illuminating statements each
month.
'file Commonwealth Bank’s assets now
exceed 1404 millions, but 58 millions-odd of
that belong to the note-issue department,
which took over control of the Australian
notes. This shows how the general and
savings bank business has expanded:—
1915. 3920. 1921.
Deposits, etc. . . £8.547,026 £41,002,908 £34,515,485
Other liatiilities 750,328 1,673,298 7,985,466
Savings B a n k
deposits .. 7,420,647 17,982,402 36,190,389
Accumulated profits 2,222 2,756,104 3,451,364
The decline of ordinary deposits is of no con-
sequence ; the concern is now banker for
several Governments, and reduced Treasury
balances have no doubt been responsible.
Many banks disclose the extent of Govern-
ment deposits, but the Commonwealth Bank
Governor, for no apparent reason, is an
oyster on the subject. The leap of the Sav-
ings branch figures has been due chiefly to
the taking over of the Queensland State Sav-
ings Bank. Assets at the three dates have
been as follows :
1915. 1920. 1921.
Coin, bullion and
fixed deposits of
other banks .. £5,324,668 £7,321,584 £6,300,140
Australian notes 568,046 1,964,722 8,013,571
Money at short
calf in London 2,840,000 21,430,000 8,090,000
Public securi-
ties .. .. 5,479,480 17,975,463 33,304,5,16
London bills, etc. 232,614 3,319,804 7,174,3.75
Advances .. 2,147,339 13,194,693 18,657,922
Premises . . 128,576 408,447 602,382
£16,720,723 £63,414,713 £82,142,706
The features of the two tables are the in-
crease of “other liabilities” in the first and
the quadrupling of the holding of Australian
notes. There is not another bank in the
Commonwealth which would dare to present
such widely fluctuating entries in its pub-
lished accounts without proffering some ex-
planation. The people’s bank should be the
last to be silent on such matters. ,
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
' Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1908.. £17,796 £7,041 £8,094 £15,135 £13,891
1909.. 18,644 7,418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910.. 19,586 8,291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1911.. 21,165 8,737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912.. 22,389 8,144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913.. 24,070 8,996 10,202 19,198 32,509
3914.. 25,252 9,049 11,544 20,593 37,168
1915.. 25,577 9,178 9,690 18,868 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8,840 10,825 19,665 51,448
1917.. 29,290 9,785 12,859 22,644 58,094
1918.. 31,135 8,642 12,162 20,804 68,425
1919. . 34,480 12,266 12,907 25,173 77,732
1920.. 39,432 12,519 15,695 28,214 88,950
1921.. 42,996 13,384 15,522 28,906 103,040
The People’s Prudential started a quarter
of a century ago, but its figures are not
large. Originally it was mostly a “benefit”
office, and it operated principally among
people in a small way who wanted medical
and other relief for their families without
having to be initiated into, or participate
in the corroborees of, the Ancient Order of
Weeping Ziffs or other friendly societies. It
was, of course, business carrying small pre-
miums, which had to be collected on the door-
step at regular intervals, and expenses were
necessarily heavy. The Prudential, how-
ever, gradually developed other lines, and
nowadays apparently does little straight-out
medical-benefit business; though income has
considerably more than doubled during the
past 10 years, “payments to the medical pro-
fession and chemists” —and they no doubt
cover more than actual “claims” —.are no
larger. According to Government Statisti-
cian Smith the co.’s* 1919 business was made
up as follows:
Annual
Poli- Assur- Pre-
Ordinary— cies. ance. miums.
Life assurance .. .. 1568 £93,764 £3,903
Endowment assurance .. 4102 370,231 20,278
Industrial-
Life 4170 91,639 6,824
Endowment assurar.ee . , 73 1,3 80 106
Endowments .. .. 3 282 48,916 2,829
The figures do not include medical business;
but the annual premiums tot up £33,031,
leaving only £1176 of the premiums shown
by the published balance-sheet to be
accounted for. The published accounts, how-
ever. do not separate Ordinary and Indus-
trial operations, though the law should
demand that division. Costs in each branch
cannot be ascertained; but in relation to
total income expenses (including divs.) have
moved in this way over many years:--
3 919-. . £43 2 2 p.c. ] 1917*. £43 18 0 p.c.
1913 ..42 7 8 „ 1918.. 39 1 3 „
1914*. 4514 4 „ 1919.. 37 8 8 „
3935.. 37 17 9 ~ 1920*. 40 13 9 ~
3936.. 39 14 11 „ 1921.. 36 2 0 „
*Expenses include £lOOO bonus paid to
shareholders.
Not including divs. the costs rate has been :
1910, 41.88 p.c.; 1920, 35.61 p.c.; 1921.
33.77 p.c. That shows an improvement of
more than £8 of every £lOO of income, a mat-
ter of £3439 saved last year.
The Prudential is a proprietary office in
which the Dr. Otto Bohrsmann family pre-
dominates. Paid capital is £lO,OOO, and, in-
cluding the triennial bonuses, divs. have
averaged practically 10 p.c. during recent
years. Now 30 p.c. is be-ng paid each year,
and there may be a bonus on top of that
when actuary Prof. Moors makes his valua-
tion as at August 31 next. Two. years ago
he disclosed a surplus of £0304, £4200 of
which went in bonuses to policy-holders and
£lOOO to shareholders. But there is a new
factor affecting surpluses which will be
available for policy-holders and shareholders :
the N. S. Wales Government now takes
2s. 6d. in the £ of a co.’s profits instead, of
the former Is. 3d. That additional levy is
liable to affect shareholders rather than
policy-holders: there is such strenuous com-
petition in life business that a little office
like the Prudential cannot afford to curtail
its bonuses on policies to any extent in
order to continue to feed proprietors with
good divs.
Tin' £102.040 of assurance funds left after
paying the last £lOOO div. was no doubt
ample to protect policy-holders; and the
£lO,OOO of capital is further backing.
The co. owed only £135. Of the total
assets of £313.175 at August 31 mortgages
accounted for £60,894. No second mortgage
finds place amongst the co.’s securities, the
directors explain, and for many years they
have also reported that no interest was over-
due. In Government securities £25.879 had
been invested ; there was £35,608 of cash at
hand; £2988 had been advanced to policy-
holders ; and £.3806 of odds and ends
accounted for the balance of assets.
* -X- X- *
The Federal Palack Hotel, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :—•
Written To Re- Rc-
Jlily, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1908. . £2,411 10} p.c.= £1461) £B5OO £3,579
1909.. 3,040 10} „ „ 1465 1000 £575 4,154
1910.. 3,963 141 „ „ 1953 1000 1010 5,164
1911.. 4,918 14j ~ ~ 1968 2965 8,129
191-1. 0,203 21 i ~ ~ 2930 8273 11,402
1918.. 5,124 21 i 2930 2194 13,596
1914.. .4.927 21? „ .. 2930 - 1997 15,593
1915.. 2,120 Nil 2126 17.719
1916.. 3,871 21} p.c.= 2930 941 18,660
I ill 7.. 2,858 14-1 „ „ 1953 905 19,565
1918.. 3,809 21} ~ ~ 2930 879 20,444
1919.. 8,952 21} „ „ 2930 1022 21,406
1920.. 9,100 431 ~ ~ 5860 3240 24,706
1921.. 10,971 54j „ „ 7325 3646 28*352
The 54 p.c. div. is not all it looks. The Fed-
eral Palace Hotel blossomed in the mid-
’eiglitics, but all the bloom was off for many
years after the boom in the Cabbage Garden
burst. Capital at one time was £122,752 in
shares paid to 195., but 17s. per share was
reckoned to have been lost and was struck off.
A little fresh capital lias since been got in,
but the register now tots up only £3.3,493.
The co. did so well last year that dis-
closed profits gave an SO p.c. return on the
written-down capital, and equal to nearly
9 p.c. on the capital put into the float 36
years ago. Only a dozen or so years ago
there was nothing very attractive about the
co., notwithstanding all the jettisoning of
capital: its debts were almost four times its
capital and divs. slightly over 30 p.c. p.a.
were under those circumstances not very
tempting. But the plucky who bought in at
around 4s. have done handsomely. The
better dividend returns have been accom-
panied by this improvement in the position
of the co. :■ —
1903. 1913. 1919. 1921.
Liabilities.. .. £ 59,932 £39,904 £35,607 £41,302
Liquid assets . . 2,752 3,955 7,249 11,362
Excess liabilities £57,180 £35,949 £28,358 £29,940
Apparently about £6OOO lias been spent in
alterations to the hotel during the past two
years, but the co. has meantime done so well
that the excess of liabilities over liquid
assets has moved the wrong way by only
£l6OO. Of the £43.302 liabilities £36,202
is a mortgage held by the Bank of N. S.
Wales.
# * * *
Usiieb’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd.(Syd-
ney), which started with a deficit of £18,067,
made up of goodwill (£16,573) and pre-
liminary exes.:—
To Re-
Writ- rluee
ten De-
Aug., Loss. f Dividends , Off. bait. Deficit.
’14..-£921 - —£18,988
Additional goodwill items, £559 . . 19,547
’15.. 1,070 20,617
Profit.
’16.. 105 £lO5 20,512
Prefs.
(8 p.c.) Ordinary.
’17.. 5.774 -Nil Nil £l2OO 4,574 15,938
’lB. . 10,650£1320* 10 p.c.=£7775 1200 355 15.583
T9..13,256 560 10 „ ~ 7775 2400 2,521 13,062
Reserves.
’2O. .25,013 560 12J „„ 9737 1200 13,516 _ 454
♦lncluding accumulations.
Assets written up, £54,414.. .. 54,868
Depreciation reserve ( £60(10) treated
as genuine reserve .. . . . . 60,868
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £78,000 . . 17,132
Reconstruction exes., £1974.. .. 19,106
Net Prof. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
’21.. £18,605 £560 10 p.c. = £15,600 £2445 10,661
The lessons of the ’eighties and ’nineties
have been lost on some people, including the
directors of Usher’s —R. G. Fitzgerald,
M.L.C., Arthur Rickard, A. J. Taylor, H. J.
Little and “Daddy” Usher. Elsewhere on
this page is a brief record of one of the
numerous hotels —the Federal l^alace —
which Melbourne acquired in its boom days.
Subsequently shareholders agreed that they
had lost 17s. of every Ills, they had put up.
Sydney during recent years has also experi-
enced a boom m values. Perhaps it is nothing
like the wild, reckless Melbourne boom, but
we can’t be sure even about that. The Mel-
bourne boom wasn’t either wild or reckless
while it lasted : no boom ever is. And every
boomster shows that his isn’t a boom be-
cause it differs in some respect or other
from every past boom. Melbourne proved
that to its entire satisfaction, just as Syd-
ney is doing now to its satisfaction. Usher’s
Hotel was completed before city land and
building values soared, though it cost more
than had been anticipated. Besides the
£83,549 of capital ffTOUO of it got in on 8
p.c. pref. terms), the co. had to go outside
for £(,>U,OOU-odd. Capitalised on that basis
the co. was on a fairly sound footing com-
pared with its older-established competitors,
and, as the introductory table shows, it
gave handsome returns. Twelve months
ago, however, the directors, influenced no
doubt by the threat of heavy taxation of
profits. in excess of a reasonable return to
shareholders, decided to reconstruct and
capitalise the property on the basis of in-
flated land values and the higher building
costs then ruling. The £78,000 of ordinary
scrip was doubled as explained in the table.
The £OOOO in the depreciation reserve was
no longer regarded as being necessary for
the purpose for which it had been accumu-
lated; the freehold site, for which £30,000
had apparently boon paid, was written up
one-third; and the building and equipment
had £44,414 added to their former values.
The iirst lot of accounts since this re-
appraisal of assets were for the 12 months to
August 31 last. They still show handsome
results: after providing for depreciation
(amounts now unspecified) and the prefs.’
divs., disclosed profits gave 114 p.c. on the
£1.50.000 of ordinary capital. So divs. equal
to 20 p.c. on the money actually put in are
paid to shareholders. No doubt the direc-
tors will regard that performance as full
justification for the reconstruction. The
experience of a single year, or of the recent
abnormal years, is, however, no guide. When
wool, wheat and other produce were fetching
record prices this co.’s customers could well
afford to spend a few extra pence on their
city jaunts. With world’s markets sick, pro-
duction costs higher than ever, and live stock
values, for instance, only about half what
they were .six months ago, the prospects of
the high-class city pub look much less cheer-
ful. The records of such enterprises in the
past-—hotels which have been established in
the days of cheap money and low labor costs
—give innumerable instances of What depres-
sion of the primary industries means. Though
well equipped, Usher’s is severely handi-
capped, from a dividend point of view, com-
pared with its competitors who have not
issued shares against the supposed improved
values of their properties. And what guar-
antee is there that those values will persist?
Except for the harvest reaped from the war-
inflated prices for our produce, the Com-
monwealth is not much, if any, better off
than in 1914. On the other hand, it is
inflicted with a huge war debt and heavier
external obligations. For the original
holder in Usher’s the taking credit in the
books of inflated values does not matter
much; except that he may benefit by being
able to stand on velvet by trading off one of
his two £1 shares. Also his interests have
been improved in this way :
1916. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities £69,944 £60,530 £48,442
Liquid assets . . . . 4,869 22,323 24,543
Excess liabilities .. £65,075 £38,207 £23,900
Perhaps £5OOO reserved for taxation should
also be treated as a, liability; but even so
debts have been reduced very rapidly. _ But
to the outsider, who is invited to buy in at
the face value of the shares, the reconstruc-
tion matters everything, for at that price the
hotel property is given a value far in excess
of what was paid for it only a few years
ago, and which, quite possibly, will not be
its true value when normal times return.
* * * *
E. Rich axd Co., Ltd., merchants, station-
supply people, etc. (head office in Brisbane,
formerly in Sydney) :
Available for
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1908. . £10,501 5 p.c. = £9,902 £599 £6,470
1909.. 8,009 5 ~ ~ 9,902 4,577
1910. . 10,196 5 „ „ 9,902 294 4,871
1911.. 13,778 5 „,, 9,902 3876 8,747
1912.. 2,223 4 ~ ~ 7,921 3,049
1913.. 9,018 4 ~ „ 7,921 1097 4,146
1914 . 9,118 4 ~ „ 7,921 1197 5,343
1915.. 15,687 0 ~ „ 11,882 3805 9,148
June.
1916.. 15,325 6 ~ .. 8,912 6413 15,561
1917.. 18,918 8 ~ ~ 15,843 3075 18,636
1918.. 27,451 10 „ „ 19,804 7647 26,283
1919.. 16,151 8 „ „ 15,843 308 26,591
War-time Profits T,ax, £4310 .. 22,281 .
1920.. 19,258 8 p.c. = 15,843 3415 25,696
1921.. 11,918 6 „ „ 11,882 36 25,732
The div. rate goes back to 6 p.c., which is
a poor return for shareholders in these days.
Profits for the year were smaller than at any
time since the war started ; still, in view of


If your house is wired for electricity, and vou are
having trouble with your door-bell because'of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being- an no red needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
i 5 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from \\m. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * *
It is a fact of general recognition that decreased
flow in metal water-pipes is frequently caused by
corrosion, the removal of which is a heavy item of
expense. The absolutely smooth interior of Pioneer
W’ood Pipe entirely eliminates incrustation and
guarantees a permanent water supply from 15 to 20
per cent, greater than that of metal pipe. Pioneer
Wood Pipe is cheap to instal and maintain. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove. — Advt.
Patents.-T-Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Adstiiaman Patents from P. M.’ Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. Ami at Cbuliis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonweal tli and Foreign Patents
obtained. Conniso.v & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.—Advt.
Suion-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphospliate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’ —“National'’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Ocrtling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Botirke Street. Melb.— Advt.
* * . •*
Messrs. Felton, Grimwadc and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.—Advt.
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
Iron and Machinery Merchants.
Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plants Always Available.
SPECIALITY: AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS FOR MACHINERY
AND HARDWARE.
?isra
mmm
The Largest Driving Belts
in Australia.
The illustration shows portion of tli •
Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Rod Mill at Newcastle, equipped : th
three 34-inch and one 48-inch
“Pioneer” leather belts —the largest
driving belts in Australia. These were
specially manufactured for the purpose
by «T. C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street,
Sydney.
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872,
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Lire Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
the all-round slump in prices and the mar-
keting difficulties experienced by producers,
the eo. did as well as could be expected.
Also it effected substantial reductions both
of outside liabilities and of book debts :
. , 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . £54,866 £19,816 £25.114 £9,641
Freeholds, etc. . . 36.696 59,767 63,469 62,881
Book debts . . 101,244 88.681 56,997 43,147
ck • • • ■ 121,218 56,588 93,614 93,139
Shares in other cos. 2,906 2,907 1,907 2,007
Public securities.. 38,881 32,885
Cash .. .. 1,659 27,980 3,882 5,292
After payment of the final div. there were
public securities and cash £22,595 in excess
of liabilities, so the position was very snug.
And as there were reserves of £25,732 to
support the £198,037 of capital, the security
for shareholders also looked good. The co.
has, however, been a disappointment, par-
ticularly in view of the reserves assisting
capital. Rich’s was once a London-controlled
concern with a big station-supply business.
But it got tangled in droughts, and for many
years after the headquarters were moved to
Sydney, it was still struggling to shake off
old troubles. Most of the co.’s connections
are nowadays in Queensland, and except for
some of the larger pastoral c-os., its business
is with wholesalers and storekeepers. Head-
quarters are now in Brisbane.
The National of Australasia, which amal-
gamated the National and Colonial Banks
a couple of years ago, is the concern which
wants to swallow the Bank of Queensland.
The National became interested in the North-
ern State only about 12 months ago, when
it established a Brisbane branch. Now i»
has apparently decided that the acquisition
of a ready-made connection will help to
assure its position in the new field. The
Queensland Bank’s business should be at-
tractive; it is only , a few years since its
affairs —or, rather, the affairs of the two
old banks which were amalgamated, the
Bank of North Queensland and the Royal
of Queensland —were thoroughly investigated
and found to be in order, and since then the
concern has been in capable hands.
“Old Banker”: Looked at from a banking-
point of view, the Queensland loan of
£2,000,000 taken up in U.S.A. through the
agency of the Commonwealth Bank gives that
institution an enormous advantage in the
handling of American-Australian business.
For some time past it has been known that
the bank has maintained dollar accounts
with one or two of its principal agents in
the U.S., and proceeds of the bills negoti-
ated in Australia and .sent to the States for
collection were credited to its accounts there.
With these deposited funds in America the
bank was able to negotiate Uncle Sam’s
paper on the Commonwealth on profitable
lines, and also sell American drafts to Aus-
tralian customers and the public on advan-
tageous terms. Now, however, that it has
a credit balance of $10,000,000 with its
agents, and these funds will have to be
brought out gradually and placed to the
credit of the Queensland Government, it
looks highly probable that the bank will
make a clean sweep of all American exchange
business which is offering there. Also, the
Commonwealth Bank is in a most favorable
position for the issue of drafts payable in
the U.S. No wonder Denison Miller in the
columns of the press throws a bouquet or
two at the business! #
For some time Basil Low, mechanical-
engineer and brother of artist Dave, has
been perfecting a ponny-in-the-slot device
for perfumes. Numerous efforts have been
made to secure an effective automatic scent-
dispenser, but the volatile nature of the
essences has had inventors beaten, for even
the pinhole which has hitherto been neces-
sary to secure atmospheric pressure to eject
the fluids has also allowed them to escape.
Basil Low, however, believes be has over-
come the difficulty, and a £50.000 co. is pro-
posed to exploit the invention throughout the
world. To the Maoriland syndicate which
has so far handled the invention 10.000 fully-
paids are to go: the public is offered 40,000
shares on which the directors consider at
most 10s. will be required.
* * * *
Having failed to attract a market for an
issue of new shares on which there was
every prospect of regular 8 p.e. diys., the
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney) is offer-
ing £450,000 of “C” debentures carry mo- n
p.c. p.a., and repayable in December, 1926.
Back from a four-months’ flying oil-sur-
vey of the East Kimberleys and Western
Northern Territory, J. L. Strevens asserts
that this part of Aussie looks like becoming
an oil-field. In addition to traversing areas
held by the Australian Petroleum Develop-
ment Co., Strevens visited the Okes find,
elucidated the structure there, and satisfied
himself, by tests on the spot, that free
asphaltic oil existed in the shale rock over-
lying the lower limestone strata. Indica-
tions of bitumen and oil are claimed to have
been found over an area of at least 50 sq.
miles in the Negri-Ord_Rivers district, and
in north-eastern Kimberley heavy asphaltic
oil was found associated with mud springs.
The features of the permo-carboniferous
areas of the North-West, says Strevens,
point to general uniform original conditions
of deposition, and deltaic and estuarine con-
ditions are well marked in the North-East
Kimberleys. A significant feature of the
Kimberleys and western N.T., according to
Strevens, is the complete absence of any coal
or oil-shale indications, notwithstanding that
the sandstone series which are overlying the
petroliferous limestone formations up to a
thickness of 2000 ft. are much eroded. Aus-
tralian Petroleum, which holds two large
areas in the Kimberleys and five in the
N.T., is arranging for the thorough testing
of its most accessible properties by exten-
sive boring operations after Strevens has
met the Shell Oil experts now in Australia.
* * * *
S. Aus, Oihvelis, now prodding at Mouta-
jup (Vic.), where a water-driller was alleged
to have encountered oil-sands, is now giving
regular supplies of gas—some of it of the
hot-air variety. Having got down 156 ft.
the log records having gone through "20ft. of
yellow sand showing a strong Qil-film” and
“ether test proved presence of oil in sand.
Gas evident as bubbles through water and
sand.” All of which, unless accompanied
by exjjfjrt analyses, means nothing. As
further bullish inducements, “options for
prospecting have been increased.”
Thanks to assistance rendered by the
Westralian Mines Department and calls
subscribed by generous shareholders, the
Riverina South has completed 2000 ft. of
driving at the 300 ft. level. The lode aver-
ages 40in. wide for the whole 2000 ft. and
is good in places. The shoots of payable
ore, though short, average an ounce. But
underground costs are so high nowadays that
the management will be fortunate if it can
place ore in the bins at 16s. per ton, and
to this has to be added treatment charges.
However, all seems favorable for a satis-
factory, though probably short, run at River-
ina South.
All is not well at St. Ives (W.A.). Crush-
ing's from leases which some time ago were
reported to contain splendid values have
been disappointing, and an insufficient water
supply is hampering the Government mill.
It will probably be months before the
Reward's turn to crush comes, and mean-
time big wads of forfeited shares will pro-
bably be auctioned in order to keep going.
Where the 2000 due to the vendors on
December 15 is to come from is a mystery.
Mount Monger Pty. (W.A.) is putting
through 1000 tons of ore, and its controllers
are blowing a lot about prospects, particu-
larly because of some rich values reported
to have been opened up at 100 ft. The finan-
cial position of the co., however, is being
kept well in the background. There is still
due to the prospectors and promoters about
£7OOO, and there are other liabilities.
During the half-year ended June Kam-
pong Kamunting’s two dredges churned
through 940,500 c. yd. material for 371 tons,
and that was 11 ton less oxide than 914,400
c. yd. gave for the first half of 1920. But
despite the poorer grade and the tin slump
—each yard returned only 9.62 d. instead of
the 19.01 d. of 12 months ago—the co. man-
aged to squeeze a working profit of 4d. per
yd., a ha’penny of which came from getting
costs down to 5.62 d. A net profit of £10,520
resulted, just sufficient to pay divs. aggre-
gating 71 p.c. for the six months, a return
not to be sneezed at in such difficult times.
Still the average of. £lBO for metallic would
not have been possible had not the paternal
Malayan Government stepped in early in
the year and purchased all tin won at prices
in excess of £2OO per ton. For the current
half the co. will do well to average £l6O for
its product, but even at that price, and “hav-
ing regard to the grade of ground to be
treated,” the Kampong management antici-
pates “substantial profits.” Unless the mar-
ket collapses altogether the directors hope to
give shareholders a taste, even if reserves
have to be tapped to do so. At June 30
the co. owed only £1369, but on the other
side showed about £16,000 of Malayan public
securities and cash. Including the 25,000
shares in Asam Kumbang, the advance to
Ulu Yam and stores and book debts, the
co. had £82,850 of its £140,000 represented
by the surplus of more or less liquid assets
over liabilities. Of course, if Kampong
strikes trouble, so will Asam Kumbang and
Ulu Yam, though the latter is rapidly re-
paying its loan.
When Asam Kumbang (F.M.S.) got its
dredge into action at the close of 1919 there
was scrip for £751300 and debts aggregat-
ing £71,439. The chief feature of the
accounts as at June 30 last is the reduc-
tion of debt to under £6OOO. This has been
possible because in July last year Kam-
pong Kamunting exercised its option over
25,000 £1 shares at 255.-each, and because
tin returns have been good. Last half
674,750 c. yd. were treated for a recovery
of .951 b. per yd., showing, with tin at £lBO,
over 10|d. per yd. Costs were 4.84 d., giving
a working protit of 5.55 d. But £12,118 of
the £30,006 got from tin sales went in sweep-
ing the development account off the books,
reducing the book value of the mine, and
writing-down the value of the costly war-
time plant. After thus tidying the accounts
a net profit of £2414 went to swell the credit
balance to £4261. Owing to depressed condi-
tions, the second dredge which the directors
proposed to instal has not been • ordered,
but sooner or later a wad of unissued shares
will be offered to finance an additional plant.
New Deborah Beef Co. has been formed
in Bendigo to go after two saddle reefs
touched by crosscuts at 355 ft. and 435 ft.
some years ago. The lease lies between the
Northern Carden Gully and the new
Bed, \\ liite and Blue, about three-quarters
of a mile south of the railway line. The
neighborhood is thoroughbred, and it is
claimed the same fault or slide exists in
the New Deborah as in the big Blue mine,
because the latter is draining and pumping
the Deborah’s water. The crosscuts are in
wide belts of auriferous spurry country
similar to the quartz bodies on - the Blue
line. East legs have been cut, but so far
neither the caps nor the west legs. A second
shaft, 1000 ft. north of the main shaft, is
220 ft. deep and bare of crosscuts. About
a mile north on the same line the Monument
Hill mine is being worked by the Amalga-
mated Co. with good prospects.
Tasmania’s boom years ran from 1005 to
1908, when Mt. Lyell, Zeehan and the tin-
fields‘all made guod money. By 1914 the
mineral output was down to a round million
for the first time since 1897. This year is
likely to see a drop to well below that figure.
Zeehan can now be boiled down to the No.
2 and No. 6 Argent, with small tribute
parties in some of the old shows adding a
few tons of ore. Mt. Lyell is carrying on
to comply with the Arbitration Court award
and save itself from the dead loss that fol-
lows a complete shut-down. Magnet and
Bisclioff are sick, and Mt. Jasper is back to
next-to-nothing. Gold is a back number alto-
gether, and until Lindesay Clark completes
the diversion of the Biugarooma alluvial
tin returns will keep low. No inducement
exists with the metal at its present price
for men to do the hard prospecting of past
years. Badak is to have a go at the South
Esk country, but others have tried it and
wilted. Badak would do better while tin
is low to return to Malaya, where holders
are so hard-up as to talk reasonable terms
to a likely purchaser with cash.
* * # •
Several of the Speck’s silver-lead shows—
Bound Hill, North Farrell and Magnet—
talk of resuming, and are evidently only wait-
ing the decision of the Federal Court, which
next month is to hear the “Special. Mining”
case. The cos. have been encouraged by the
continuance of the relatively-high prices for
silver and lead : £23 for lead and 3s 7d. for
silver are big improvements on the pre-war
prices of £l9 and 2s. 2d. Many Speck mining
men reckon that increases in wages and
materials do not alone account for all the
difference between pre-war and present
operating conditions, and that everything
points to Australian returning charges being
excessive. In fact, ex-Minister for Mines
Ogden says pointedly that the Common-
wealth dictum of “no trade with Germany”
is at the bottom of the trouble, and he advo-
cates a return to pre-war competitive ore-
selling.
The Speck’s heart is cheered, because a
fresh start is to be made at Round Hill,
with a new man in charge,. vice John Craze,
who goes farming. His sub, Andrews,
takes over, and is promised plenty of work-
ing capital to test the show further. Hobart
was the main backer of Bound Hill, with
broker Clifford as the spokesman. The
trouble has been that enough ore could not
be found in the mine—the formation is a
patchy affair.
* * * *
With the shutting-up of Mt. Morgan,
Gympie is once again, after 37 years,
the leading Queensland gold-producer. In
1884 it was at the top of the list with a
return of about 90,0000 z., but was then
eclipsed by Charters Towers, and, later, by
Mt. Morgan. But what a falling-off there
has been ! Last month the old field, which
has now been working 54 years, produced
only 9310 z. from 1360 tons ore! The Scot-
tish Gympie is still the main prop, crushing
stuff worth sdwt. to 6dwt. There are still
rich leaders in the slates, but they are ...very
small. North Smithfield got 4loz. from
three tons, No. 1 North Columbia and Smith-
field 3470 z. from 49 tons, and No. 4 North
Phoenix 1760 z. from 32 tons.
Of the crop of mines, claims and leases
at Indooroopilly, Brisbane, only Finney’s
Hill United is doing any good at present.
Practically all the others are under exemp-
tion. Several of the larger which have made
a noise about their prospects are finding the
public reception of their propaganda rather
chilly, and exemption is their refuge while
further efforts are made to extract the
humble shilling. Finney’s is sending away
for treatment monthly an average of 25 tons
of high-grade stuff; the last lot carried 750 z.
silver and 45 p.e. lead. The question ox
erecting a concentrating plant and, later, a
small smelter is in the melting pot. Pro-
bably further development work and an
extensive sampling will be urged before any
further action is taken.
The coal-mining fields in Central Queens-
land are still mostly working very short
time, notably Blair Athol. The Bluff Col-
liery was the most active during Septem-
ber, but worked only 115 shifts; some others
worked as few as seven shifts. The output
at present is only a third of that at the
corresponding period of last year. The
State mine on the Styx is busy, and another
shaft is being sunk to connect with the pre-
sent workings. The fuel is all being taken
on the new railway to Maekay and by Rock-
hampton. The shaft has cut an Bft. seam
30ft. below the present workings. The Daw-
son Valley Colliery (Mount Morgan Co.)
is progressively increasing its output, and
last month’s output was 450 tons. About 50
men are now employed there. During the
same period the Baralaba State colliery pro-
duced only 700 tons.
* '* * *
Royalties from tributors are helping
slightly in the good work at the Vulcan'
Irvinebank (N.Q.). About 200 tons hare
so far been got by the parties working down
to the 600 ft. level, and the stuff picked out
for treatment has averaged about 8 p.e. tin.
The co. is now prospecting between the
750 ft. and 1050 ft. levels, but so far nothing
of much value has been discovered. Pros-
pects at 1050 ft. were good for a time, then
petered out.


" Serious Symptoms .
Tom Henley gfives Ireland
and tKa. Pope beans •
A Ttvedical Consultation is called .
Mamrfactur i ng
iho Cure .
Applying?
ihet. Cura *
Curc-d .
And now SoY»<&kocJy Should about "l" boiling?
Som<z.+bi rxQ to make an. in/usion J~aY Manrux .
THE NEW HOMCEOPATHY.
“The odor of some common flowers will sometimes cause illness. But science is now able to overcome this by administering an infusion prepared from
the offending object.”


1
i
1
£
2
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more,of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., 102 D s!x v H °“”’
Olderfleet, Collins Street. Me'bourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W. A.-H. Little &• Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
T. B.
LIGHT
ALE
“The drink of good taste.”
Imagine how appetising and
refreshing it would be with
luncheon or dinner to-day!
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD.,' Kent Brewery', Sydney.
$G BWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE* *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2J It. TOWNS & CO, Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Captain S. A. White, the Adelaide natural-
ist, is turning out a couple of books. One
will deal with the early history of S. Aus.
and be based on . ’
the letters and
diaries of his
grandfather. The
original White was
one of the 18M(>
settlers, took up a
station near the
Coorong, and was
enough of a natu-
ralist to devote a
lot of attention to
the bird and ani-
mal life of those
parts. The other
book will deal with
White’s own wan-
derings in Cen-
tralia, which he
knows as very few
white men do.
L. BROINOWSKI.
of the Hobart
MERCURY, one of
the Specie's best-
known press
identities.
November birthdays:—
Prof. Skeats (Melb. Uni.), 46, on Ist; Simpson
Newland (S.A.’s old-time squatter), 86, on 2nd; Tom
\V. Ileney (Brisbane Telegraph), 59, on 4th; Lance-
lot Stirling (Pres, of S.A. Leg. Council), 72, on sth;
Federal Minister Massy Greene, 47, on 6th; Prof.
AVoodhouse (Syd. Uni.), 55, ex-C'hief Justice Parker
(AA r .A.), 75, and R. H. Cambage (Sydney), 62, on
7th; A. G. Ralston, K.C., 61, on 10th; Steele Rudd,
53, Rabbi Cohen (Sydney), 59, and J. S. Battyc
(Perth Public Library), 50, on 14th; C. E. \V. Bean
Ovar correspondent, 42, on 18th; J. Lang Canip-
LeH K.G. 61, on 22nd; Willie Watt, 50, on 23rd;
y \ ® o< i* ' Q" 11111 . 52 , on 26th; Dr. W. Ramsay Smith
bL ’ 011 27th ; a»d Justice Uussen (Vic.), 62,
on 29th. ’
I' rank Mitchell, brother of Dtime Nellie
i A.. i i 1 , a mound heaped over him in the
nil RW iV eme A ery Vic.*.) last week. An
lim.,i;, > 'i!? i t i ul l grammarian, he avoided the
i i*- ba f shone about his famous sister,
>ut wherever sportsmen foregathered he was
few years ago he shared with
ms bt others Charlie and Ernest the reputa-
°* bem S, among the State’s best shots,
wattelly much of his time was given to min-
ing and engineering interests and the man-
agement ot the big cement business founded
» fu’ A n , iau with an satire absence
°£ the workers looked on him as one
or themselves; and at the funeral a graceful
testimony ot appreciation of him as an em-
iwen'va, B , a magnificent wreath sent by the
A. \V.Li. lie was only 52 when the call came
and a widow and a daughter, Mrs. Rowley
v : ! . ker ; ot Sydney, are mourning him. Dame
Aellie heard the news of his passing while
lying ill in hospital. s
The head of the table at a National Club
dinner in Sydney the other night looked like
a telephone exchange. Chairman Owen Cox
mww l f P Fn° rted by .Hughes and Carruthers,
b^ b f -A he , n u wear, ng the head-harness that
ear d runs ‘ C ncwest thius ' s iu mecha nical
Arthur Myers, Lib-
eral, M.P. for Auck-
land East since 1010,
is off to live in Lon-
don. When the Mac-
kenzie Government
followed on Ward’s
Waterloo in 3012,
Myers became Min-
ister of Finance, and
as a member of the
Coalition Cabinet dur-
ing the war looked
after munitions and
supplies. lie was the
only Minister who
dodged a public blast
on the affairs of his
Department. Auck-
land lias thanked him
as a private citizen on
many occasions for
fine gifts, including a
public park and free
kindergarten. He is
a little man, inclined
to baldness, and with
a heavy fringe below
the nose of the Race.
General IRVING,
Commandant of
Queensland.
Captain Cumberlege has resigned his job
in the Australian Navy. Arriving in
1913 he found Melbourne and Sydney—
more particularly the latter—entirely to his
liking. He attended every ball, garden-party,
tennis-party, flappers’ hop, linen tea, book
tea, racecourse lunch, and harbor, bush or
other picnic to which he was invited; and
then looked eagerly round for more. During
eight years, in the course of which the poli-
ticians let the R.A.N. sink from a show that
was accepted the world over as first-class for
its size to the jest which.it now is, Captain
Cumberlege hung on, though ambitious young
R.N. officers were getting out fast. The pro-
testations of W. M. Hughes on the subject
of the R.A.N. are as tinkling brass beside the
spectacle of this officer’s jazzing shoes being
packed away for the trip back to England.
At 70 Bruce Smith is going to publish his
magnum opus —“ Truisms of Statecraft.”
Longmans, of London, are seeing it through.
Hugh John Munro Campbell, who was an
honorary Minister in Lawson’s Cabinet for
21 years and was Glenelg’s choice in the
Assembly for 15, has gone home to
Portland for the last time. It was on the
first anniversary of his defeat for Glenelg
that the train brought his casket into his
old constituency. He had made his little
pile at storekeeping before he went into poli-
tics at 51.
Tas. University Council the other day dis-
cussed the sad case of two Tas. Rhodes
scholars, now in England, who had applied
through Agent-General Ashbolt for jobs of
some sort in their native Speck, and were
still unemployed. The Uni. Council duly
deplored the circumstance, but as no Gov-
ernment Department had an opening for a
Rhodes scholar, the councillors sorrowfully
recorded the fact that there was nothing
doing, and passed on to the next business.
The cable reports the death of Kennedy
Jones, joint founder with Harmsworth; of
London Daily Mail. This Jones will go
down in the history of criminology as the
man who did most to destroy the value of
“identification.” Shortly after the Daily
Mail was born many cruel frauds were per-
petrated on “women of a certain class.” One
Adolf Beck was arrested. Lined up amongst
14 men he was identified by 15 women .as
the man who had swindled them. Kennedy
Jones never wavered in his conviction that
Keck was innocent. Still, he had nearly
completed his sentence before a man named
1 nomas—who proved to be little like him
m appearance—admitted his guilt, and the
wronged Adolf got a “pardon” and monetary
compensation from the Government.
Alfred J. Taylor, the Speck’s veteran
librarian, who reached closing-time on
October J, after a few hours’ illness, was not
happy unless he could find a controversial
pie into which he might poke a large inky
nnger. An uncompromising opponent of
capital punishment he never failed to take
the platform whenever the gallows seemed
likely to be given a job, and he talked and
agitated to such purpose that the local hang-
man had to emigrate a quarter of a century
ago, and the island is now dependent upon
imported executioners for its very occasional
scragging. Taylor dabbled in many hobbies
mesmerism. phrenology. pyschology,
photography, sketching, painting,
ism, etc., and possessed a private museum
full of quaint exhibits. But he will be best
remembered for his fearless and energetic
agitation for a saner criminological out-
look and for his persistent claim that he had
cured hundreds of consumptives by induc-
ing them to inhale sulphur-fumes.
“A.\ .L.”; What’s in a name? William
Morris Hughes—W. M. Hughes—Billy
Hughes—Bill ’Bghes—Bilious !
R. J. M. Mcßride, the S. Aus. rich mail
who died the other day, had 11 children sur-
viving, and lived to see nearly a hundred de-
scendants.
A few days ago J. Wardley, for many
years president of the Vic. Operative
Bakers Society, ran into the Trades Hall
( ’ n what he claimed to be his 106th birth-
day. Ihe veteran is the father of 21 child*
von, of whom 17 are alive and are not child-
ren any more.
Head in Wellington (MX.), the city’s
oldest inhabitant, William White, who made
his first infant noises 106 years ago, accord-
ing to well-authenticated records, ile was
an incurable woman-hater, and the bearing
ot that fact upon his longevity is being wildlv
debated in Suburbia.
The well-sugared Knox family did not come
straight from the country of 'dour John of
that name. The founder of the C.S.li. Co.,
whose family is now represented by Chief
Justice Adrian and E. W. Knox, was born
at Elsinore, in Denmark, where the ghost of
Hamlet’s father used to walk.
J. Clifton Love, president of the Sydney
Chamber of Manufactures, who has been
belting the 44-hour week, is a son of the
late Clifford Love, a pioneer of the China
tea-trade in the days when the clippers used
to race each other with the new season’s
teas. The old man, who had six daughters,
insisted on their marrying in their order of
seniority. He brought the patriarchal
convention with him from the North of
Ireland.
An uncomfortable man to argue with at
present is one Ned Cosgrove, who has taken
to the bush near Orepuki (M.L.). An ex-
constable in the district boasted that he
would take Cosgrove single-handed, and met
his man in a small clearing. Cosgrove saw
him first —along a rifle barrel—and ordered
the ex-John to throw his revolver in the air.
Cosgrove shattered the weapon with a single
shot. He served at the front as a sniper.
Sydney ’Varsity has earned three more
cheers by appointing two Australians, F. A.
Todd and Bernard Muscio, to the Chairs of
Latin and Philosophy respectively. Both
have good student records, are hard workers
and popular men. Todd, by the way, is an
example, of what Teutonic environment will
do even in 12 months. As a travelling scholar
at Jena this bright Australian acquired a
‘heavy” manner and the knack of disguis-
ing the sense of humor his friends credit
him with.
After 34 years in the job without a break
and scarcely a holiday, George North Ash
resigns the rectory of St. Augustine’s. Neu-
tral Bay (N.S.W.). A native of Hull with
Cambridge trimmings, he was ordained in
1873, and became M.A. in 1882. He is the
recognised chaplain of the dramatic and
musical professions, and has married and
buried comedians and tragedians innumer-
able.. A .son, Egerton, has also achieved dis-
ti.netion in the Church. There isn’t a sus-
picion of bigotry or sectarianism in the
make-up of either of them.
Edmund Leolin Piesse, who is one of
Pearces bear-leaders for the Washington
Conference, has forgotten more about the
1 acifac than his chief will ever know. Since
the war, as head of the Pacific branch of the
Prime Minister’s many-twigged depart-
ment, he has put in a lot of time writing
elaborate reports, full of facts, on the his-
tory of British and Australian policy—or
the lack of it —in the Pacific; also on the
pros and cons of the Anglo-Jap alliance.
Australia’s interest in China, the question of
representation at Washington (about which
he differed from Hughes) and such things.
It doesn’t appear that Federal Ministers
ever studied these reports much, and for
months together Piesse didn’t get a chance
to see Hughes; all the same, he tried hard
to earn his screw.
HUBERT, the new Assistant Clerk of the
Bouse of Reps.
Dead, in Adelaide, Philip Le Cornu, an old
North Adelaide identity, who claimed to have
helped in the construction of the State’s first
railway-line, first telegraph-office and first
steamer. Almost simultaneously E. V. Joy-
ner (82), a partner in D. and J. Fowler
went out. Pie left over 20 descendants ; the
other, nearly 50.
Colonel W. O. Watt, whose will was
proved in Sydney the other day at £176,845,
never forgot the methodical habits he con-
tracted during his career as a military avia-
tor. For instance, when he called for his
cat, the petrol had to be withdrawn from the
tank and carefully measured. Then he entered
the quantity of petrol and the time of meas-
-111 mg in his little book. When he brought
the car back, the same process had to bo-
repeated to the minutest detail.
. Stewart Dawson has celebrated his “golden
jubilee in the jewellery trade bv buyin°-
•Sydney property to the tune of £233 000
home time ago he purchased about one-half
of the northern side of the Strand. The new
lot consists of five buildings in Pitt-street
adjoining the Strand, and the shop at 105
King-street. I-Je has held a 42 years’ lease
tor some time, and has now secured the free-
hold. The property is known as the Mof-
t, estate, and three of the owners were
Mrs. Spencer P»runton, Mrs. Marsden and
11 rs. Conroy. William Moftitt started busi-
ness m 1826 as bookbinder, engraver and
stationer at No. 8 King-street East. In
ne moved round the corner into
iitt-street, where he carried on until
his death in 1873. It is said that
when Governor Bowen assumed control of
the new colony of Queensland and found
1 ?d. in the till, Mofhtt lent him a quarter
ot a million sterling. On his death Moffitt
left the business to his manager, Mr. Yeo.
at whose demise the Penfolds came along.
THE MEN WHO DIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rece?n C t°i , n r win WaS th , e J oth anniversary of the
Burke and WHls™,! °r the of the death of
finding 'alive" of & ** £"s
eadci oi the expedition that made the discovery ”
Where now, with flashing wings and wheels,
At lightning speed we haste,
Trod, slow of foot, the pioneers,
Ihe heroes of our early years,
Who followed sun and moon and star across the
trackless waste.
As year gives place to crowded year,
Their memory sinks and wanes,
Their footprints on our history fade,
Juke those forgotten tracks they made
through saltbush, scrub and spiuifex, across the
silent plains.
1' or them, to lure them on and on,
Adventure lit his lamp;
And far from city streets and slums
They felt the calm that only comes
To those who seek the solitude of lonely track and
camp.
1' ierce days they knew of brazen skies,
And deserts bare and brown,
And eyes that ached and throats that parched,
But still they on and onward marched
Through dust and heat and burning sand to where
the sun goes down.
And times there were when Phantasy
Came, wickedly, to fool
Their noons and nights with mocking dreams;
hor oft they dreamt of gushing streams,
And oft the mirage framed for them green grove
and gracious pool.
Grim death they fought with choking throats,
By ridge and rock and dune,
Scarred, shrunken, bowed and hollow-eyed;
Of how at last they fell and died
The eagles were lone witnesses, aloft in burning
noon.
And yet, perchance, as thus they died,
They heard, through dust and heat,
Roadmakers carving rock and ridge,
And builders raising, road and bridge,’
And road and bridge resounding with the tramp
of countless feet.
To us to keep their memories green
From lonely graves they call,
Those heroes of our early years—
Dead men, yet deathless pioneers,
Who followed sun and moon and star far west and
West of all.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
SIX BOB A WEEK PER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a suit for judicial separation the wife of a
wealthy N. S. Wales squatter stated (1) that'she had
taken a baby emu to a dance; (1) that she had
hatched out six chickens by warming the eggs in
her buzzum, and (3) that she couldn’t remember
her age, though she was sure it wasn’t 50.
A kindly soul, in sooth—so compassionate and
thrifty;
She chaperoned an emu and a clutch of chickens
riz.
No Yankee dame as ever was had notions half as
nifty.
Her age she can’t remember, but she’s sure it isn’t
fifty—
No, she simply can’t be fifty, for no lady ever is.
Those half-a-dozen fowls! It’s a feat to which
Carruthers
In his rural dithyrambics may exultingly refer.
A long farewell to clucky hens and incubators,
brothers!
One sees the lady drawing, when they pension all
the mothers,
Six bob a week per chicken from Mister Mother-
hood McGirr.
K.S. W,
WODGIL.


A
n
PSTA
r J i/i.
A
i i
<fcS:
T
m
/
CAPSTAN
S=:
MAKES A SILVER LINING TO EVERY CLOUD
TOBACCO
AND
CIGARETTES
W D.k H O WILLS
CIYIC
á
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS.
OBTAINABLE
OF ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
FINEST GRAIN
BRIAR
BEST BRITISH MAKE
SOLID SILVER MOUNTS.


N
IDEAL for SUMMER DAYS
—a Peapes' li N o-Veste" Suit
of light, cool, English Mohair.
This material is of an open, porous weave that allows free access
of air.
Its biscuit shade does not readily show’ the dust, although it
launders perfectly when required. It is absolutely unshrinkable.
The suit is made entirely without lining or padding.
Coat has three detachable buttons, three patch pockets, seam only
at back. Trousers —side, hip and fob pockets, belt loops and per-
manent turn-up bottoms.
Price 72/6.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., L TD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice price*.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
Be Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Socirty
Hamer”: De Maupassant tells how the
shrewish wife of a stout man who became
bedridden put him to use by placing a set-
ting of eggs in his bed and making him
hatch out the chickens. Sydney Divorce
Court heard another story of strange chicken-
hatching lately, it being admitted that the
petitioning wife had made an incubator of
her bosom, carrying the eggs about to hatch
them. She claimed that she was actuated
by a desire to be a mother —even if only of
chickens. A wife w T hom it is impossible to
embrace for fear of breaking a clutch of eggs
must be an embarrassing possession. There
was a queer old fat woman in the Waverley
(N.S.W.) district years ago who ran a
small poultry farm, and without claiming any
strong maternal impulses, but just as a
matter of business, utilised her bed as an
incubator. The heat generated beneath the
blankets at night remained during the day,
and the queer old body was proud of having
produced 47 chickens at a single setting.
* * -* *
“Wessel”: Some of the queerest of the
many queer fish at Darwin (N.T.) are the
Greeks. There are two settlements, one
called Port Said (smells like it,
too), and the other Salonika—
both collections of galvanised-
iron and kerosene-tin humpies,
well stocked with swarthy men,
dark-eyed women—some of
Avhom Avould be good-looking if
they had a wash—and svvarms
of children. They came to the
Territory in the time of Gil-
ruth. who had a notion that the
Mediterranean races Avould be
just the thing for the place.
Some came from Port Said and
some from Salonika, but most
from the Asia Minor coast and
thereabouts. All the latter
swear they are from Greek
Islands, but those who think
they know say many are Turk-
ish subjects from the mainland.
What they live on apart from
the relief Avhich the Common-
wealth doles out at times, the
Lord only knows. Some of the
Salonika crowd worked at Vestey’s before the
meatworks closed; but they are all pretty
well barred from the chief local industries —
wharf-lumping and street-sweeping.
“Eddyson”: Six men, all Cousin Jacks,
had a tribute at the old Bonshaw, Ballarat,
and were hanging on with a pertinacity
characteristic of the miner of those days,
when every digger had a feeling that if he
gave it best he might be doing so within a
pick-stroke of fortune. But things went
from bad to Avorse with John Jacker. He
fell ill, and had to put a man on to work
his shift. Not a penny was coming in, the
family was increasing, and the supplies
diminishing. Credit was gone, and poor
Jacker fell into a condition of miserable de-
pression. Then one night Tresize, who
Avas on afternoon shift, ran to Jacker’s
home, and knocked the family up. Mrs.
Jacker, awakening, found that her husband
was not in his bed, and told Tresize so with
some concern. Tresize discovered the ab-
sentee in an old stable at the bottom of
the yard, hanging by a waist-belt, and cut
“im down in order to explain that there
had been a new make of stone on their level
Bonshaw. “An’ she be lousy wi’
it, Tresize exclaimed. Next pay-day Jacker
drew £74. He gave Tresize a fiver. “I
dunnaw that I should give ’ee so much,”
said he; “one minute more, and I’d ha’ been
in Heaven.” Tresize tapped him on the
arm. “Or in Hell, John,” he said. That
night Jacker looked up Tresize. “I do be
thinking over what you did say, Willie,”
said he, and gave him another fiver. On
the following Sunday Brother Tresize, in his
capacity as revivalist, preached at the Wes-
leyan chapel, mainly on Hell, and drew such
a lurid picture of the place of future punish-
ment that John Jacker, literally steaming
in his pew. suddenly put up an imploring-
band. “That’ll do ’ee, Willie.” he said
hoarsely. “I be willin’ to make it twenty!”
“Jaded”: Contrary to popular belief a
man’s whole life does not flash past him
when he’s heading west. In August, 1916,
at Mouquet Farni. Fritz registered a h.-e.
bull on our trench, and my share was a
souvenir in each arm and a filled-in grave.
Instead of getting a high-class moving-
picture show, my brain clearly and definitely
registered the ejaculation “Jesus Christ, I’m
dead!” followed by “Oh, well, it doesn’t
matter.” I thought the side of my face
had been shot away, whereas it wasn’t
touched. A fraction of a second later I
realised I had still a chance of winning
Tatt.’s, and I started to butt my earthen
shroud, thus attracting a cobber, who exca-
vated me. Knowing that he, too, had once
been buried I asked what his sensations had
been. He. it seems, had said “Oh, hell.
I’m dead,” and having convinced himself
didn’t argue whether it mattered or not.
* * * *
“Solomon Malaprop” : Re arterio-schlero-
sis (much mentioned lately) and the like,
it is wonderful the number of people who
die now through something with a hyphen
in it. Life grows complicated. Once in
the plain long ago there was only one dis-
ease. Either a person was possessed of a
devil or he wasn’t. (There were all sizes
of devils.) If an apostle or prophet was
near he was sent for to give the devil the
“shoot.” Failing an apostle or prophet the
medicine-man or he-witch pumped cold
water on the sufferer till he either recovered
or didn’t, mostly the latter. With the'spread
of knowledge the devil idea fell into partial
disuse. Disease was sorted out into four
distinct sections —madness, corns, fever and
dandruff. This diagnosis Answered the
simple needs of the human race for quite
a while, but then another hot fit of investi-
gation set in, and dandruff (so-called) was
proved to be really two distinct complaints—
hobnailed liver and housemaid’s knee. Later
still, eminent or haughty or faddy or exclu-
sive people began to have diseases of their
own. _ They had detached or self-contained
infirmities instead of suffering in terraces.
Thus John Bright, the Freetrade politician,
had Bright’s disease, and Addison, the essay-
ist, had Addison’s disease. After the origi-
THE MAN WHO OUGHT TO BE HAPPY.
“You ought to be very proud of your wife.
She’s a brilliant talker. I could listen
to her all night.”
“I often do.”
nal owners were done with them, or they
had done for the original owners, these dis-
orders were thrown open to the public. The
era of hyphenated fatalities began with
pleuro-pneumoria and cerebro-sninal-memn-
gitis. Arterio-schlerosis, which killed a State
Premier the other day, is newer, and so is
osteo-mylitis. I am busy inventing an
exclusive malady for Pontius Pilatus, a dis-
ease which isn’t on the market yet, but
will be as soon as the cure is perfected.
There is going to be money in this.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
“If you don't behave yourself, my lady, I’ll tell pour father to smack you when he comes
home.”
“And. you’ll find out that my father is too much of a gentleman to smack a lady.”
“Clifford Snook”: There are three people
who are bound to talk about the deceased,
yet dare not be too honest about him. One is
the graveyard signwriter, who blithely carves
on the stone that there was none like him.
A more interesting one is the runner for
the job-printer.v ghoul, who comes round try-
ing to sell cards with verses like these: —
Dearest uncle we shall miss you
Our soul no heart can tell
Your vacant place fills the homestead
And sounds like a funeral knell
Never before did you die so suddenly
To leave us all behind
We shall mourn for countless ages
An uncle so good and kind
—lnserted by his weeping sons, John, James, Jacob,
Jonah, Jim and Jack, also his deceased but affection-
ate daughter Jemima. (By request not too many
flowers.)
And the third of the trio is the cleric who is
expected to say a lot if the deceeased was
of any importance, because people love a
funeral, and he has to make the best of
things, else they would go to an opposition
shop.
* * # #
“Ali Selim”: Some Diggers had curious
notions of a good time. I once prosecuted
at court-martial a man, charged with “desert-
ing his Majesty’s service,” who had vanished
from a cushy job with Ordnance and was
not apprehended for six months. At the
trial the accused casually mentioned to me
that he had spent his period of A.W.L. fight-
ing with the S’Africans, and, sure enough,
inquiries showed that he had served with the
Springboks in several engagements, including
the ghastly business of Delville Wood. After
his acquittal he told me that, while on leave
in London, he had chummed with some
S’Africans, and, finding them good fellows, had
fitted himself out in a borrowed S.A. uniform
and gone with them to France. I know two
Diggers who cleared out of camps in Blighty
to serve in anti-submarine trawlers in the
bitter depth of a North Sea winter. In
both those cases the Judge-Advocate-General
ruled that the trawling fleet was a unit of the
Navy, and that therefore the charge of deser-
tion would not lie, but advised that the
men be charged with fraudulent enlistment
or some old thing or other. But in each case
the matter was’ allowed to drop.
“Bill o’ Costs”: Those odd parties who
buy coffins and tombstones for themselves are
not so ratty as they seem; at any rate, they
are unconsciously prudent regarding the
tombstone if they want posterity to know all
about them. Many an executor with liberal
ideas about doing the thing properly has
sanctioned a considerable outlay for a monu-
ment only to find later that the law turns
the cold eye of disfavor upon this as being
beyond his duty, which is “to bury the
deceased according to his estate.” A few
years ago the executors of a southern bache-
lor millionaire asked permission from the
Supreme Court to splash a hundred or two
in this way, and were told that money spent
in keeping the departed’s memory alive
wasn’t part of the cost of burying his body—
that, although the public erected a statue of
him in the city, his grave ought to remain
bare so far as his estate was concerned.
.1 propos, ar old-time S.A. Scotchbyterian
meenister got his own tombstone ready chis-
elled, “Sacred to 1 the Memory of the Rever-
end John , M.A.,” with a brief and
honest record of his life and a date left
blank for his subsequent death. And he
actually had it erected over his future grave-
yard home; and there for years it stood in
loneliness, for the old chap lived to pro-
nounce the doxology over many another
while his own tomb invited him in vain.
* * * *
“Whitehall” on the after-six thirst:—
A discussion in the N. S. Wales Assembly on an
assertion by Judge Scholes that “liquor was sold after
hours in the big Sydney hotels” evoked a peerless
Chadbandism from Minister for Justice McKell. In
reply to a suggestion by Dr. Arthur, he said: “I am
not going to allow any reflection on the work of the
police such as would be implied by sending- a
ANOTHER TRIANGLE.
“Im' sorry to see Jack engaged to Stella.”
“Sorry? For Jack or for Stella?”
“For myself. I wanted her.”
special detective around there.” But his department
doesn’t scruple to send plain clothes men into the
humbler class of sly-groggeries. The notorious fact
is that the law enjoining teetotalism in pubs after
6 p.m. is—like any other almost universally un-
popular law—being flouted; and most people will
probably agree with what is apparently the view of
Judge Scholes, that if the law is to be allowed to
fall into abeyance as regards one section it is unde-
sirable to enforce it against another. Meanwhile
the prize piece of fatuousness was contributed by
IVir. Doyle. “Will the Minister,” he asked know-
ingly, “also send a detective round to the various
big clubs to see if they are obeying the law?” It
would be as difficult in, say, the Union Club to
violate the liquor laws as it would be to get away
with one of the billiard-tables, and that chiefly
because the tipping of servants is barred and the
official who hands out the liquor makes no profit on
its sale. A club of this type, standing as it does
broad-based on British Respectability, is, in point
of fact, one of the few institutions where prohibition
could be made completely effective —till such time,
of course, as the place went insolvent.
(Continued on page 18.)
OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, the sky’s a-singing blue
And the birds are mating.
Trees laugh where the sun glints through.
Shyly hesitating,
\outh and Love come down the street,
Oolden as the weather.
Kaeli tears each; but, ah, 'tis sweet
Being thus together 1
Age a-palsied nods and blinks,
Doddering down the byways.
(Fortune was a merry minx
When life strode the highways.)
Age a-palsied tastes no joy;
Life that fades is tragic.
Leaping blood thrills girl and boy—
That’s the only magic.
Youth -will weep not in advance
For to-morrow’s sorrow.
Who will check the headlong dance
Misery to borrow !
Oh, the sky’s a singing blue
And the birds are mating.
Why should lovers (tell me, you!)
Still be hesitating?
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


Jmgf
Sill®
is The E/ecfric Light and Power
P/anf foryou to /nsfail
/, Because
'Mfr/i////, .. >.'\AaW\S
.C
n n n ■ n
a
DELCO-LIGHT IS AIR-COOLED: More than
4000 Delco-Light plants were used by the United
States Government in war-work. One reason
Delco-Light was specified by the Government
for this service was because it is air-cooled. There
is no water to carry—no freezing in winter—no
boiling in summer —just efficient simplicity.
DIRECT CONNECTED: The engine and gener-
ator are built as one compact unit. The engine
is direct connected to the electric generator.
SIMPLE: Delco-Light is self-starting and stops
automatically when the battery is fully charged.
There is only one place to oil. There are no grease-
cups with which to bother. No belt adjustments
A 1 2-year-old boy can care for your Delco-Light.
DURABLE: Only the highest grades of materials
are used —from the best procurable ball and roller
bearings, through every detail of manufacture—
to the crank-shaft, which is drop-forged steel.
DEPENDABLE: Delco-Light is now endorsed by
over 1 50,000 satisfied users. The plant that oper-
ated so satisfactorily during the severest tests
under war conditions —certainly may be depended
upon for every-day use in your home or bam.
EFFICIENT: Delco-Light runs on kerosene,
benzine or gas. You get four times as much
light per gallon of kerosene when used for fuel
in Delco-Light as when you burn that same fuel
in kerosene lamps.
i
I
MACHINES
m
m
a /
.
AKESNI6HT
HORESEASY
KSSSE
WM
A
X
MFW SOUTH WALES .. • • Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Kent Street, Sydney.
VITTORIA ** .Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TASMANIA . . .W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Cameron Street, Launceston.
OIIFENSLAND ..... . Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane. . , , ~
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
wrsT AUSTRALIA Gilberts, Limited, King Street, Perth.
WEST AUSTRALIA •£ D ’ Riley & ’ Qo Lambto n Quay, Wellington.
NEW ZEALAND \ Farmers’ Co-operative Association, Christchurch.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Limited, 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


K 372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
So. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
King, set Platinum
and ISct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K 444. -Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 160. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
imnTfTTnTrTTTTrn rfmiurnTriT^]T^s^S=S3r
rrm-frrrmTrtrrnna
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Prices:
Stewart Dawsok & (o<w)Ltd.
C/wo Sydney Ststablismenta :
385 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
WSTRAND CORNER -*I2 GEORGE ST.._^
K 375.—Fashionable Diamond Brooch,, set
Platinum and 15et. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129. —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
150- hive-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
The Doctor : In my locality there is one
man nobody dreams of paying while he, she
can find other use for the money, and
that is the doctor. I got annoyed' with
Blankson about an account he had owed me
?i°/,, OVe r a year ’ and bailed him up the other
<uy. Of course, you have received inv
account, Mr. Blankson,” I said—“l have
S » t ?.^ ou ? ve u ry month f °r a long while
past. Yes, I have received it,” retorted
Blankson vehemently “You call yourself a
professiona! man. Why, you are nothing but
a d —d billposter.”
* * * *
‘‘ H j^ mac ’’ : A Digger I know who had
tne reeling that he was going west just
prior to a big stunt at Passchendaele in-
fs ovember, 18, dodged any possible accident
in the coming clash. He arranged a marri-
age with his own sister, went through the
ceremony, and on production of his certi-
ficate was given a fortnight’s leave.
<( * * * *
Wymac”: To be born on a vacant allot-
ment in torrential rain was the cold wel-
come extended to one of Australia’s best
immigrants at iHillgrove (N.S.-W.) the
other day. After being refused admission
at one institution the expectant mother
staggered on towards the nearest house
but before reaching it she collapsed and
the infant arrived amidst streams of storm-
water which flowed around the prostrate
woman. A neighbor who happened along
wrapped an apron about the little one,
who with the mother was eventually carried
a° a -1 house. The doctor summoned from
Armidale, 18 miles away, subsequently re-
ported “both doing well.”
* * w #
“Bed’’; Even if Tom Mutch had money
for all the N.S.W. schools he wants he would
have great difficulty in getting male teachers
for them. lor years this has been a diffi-
culty of the Education Department—a
natural result of the pay offering. Teachers,
disgusted with the low rewards of an occu-
pation for which most of them started with
enthusiasm, got out by the score when they
saw the opportunity; and the recruits
through the training colleges did not make
good the loss. Recently-improved salaries
PLAGUED.
“Me ’usband's getting rats.”
“Ho! Boose or boobonics?”
have made the calling a little more attrac-
tive ; but the Department will not feel the
beneht of the reinforcements for a year or
two. Meantime, most of the teachers who
ent out seem to be doing very well, and
ha \e no wish to return. Of those who were
on the staff of one large suburban school
two are now town clerks, one is a land-agent,
one a lawyer, one an advertising man. one
a secretary and another a well-contented
ganger ot road works.
OIL ON TROUBLED WAITER.
“Waiter, when you serve oil like this you should briny it in a lamp!”
‘‘lnquisitor”: The Defence Dept, decides
to remove all possible, probable shadow of
doubt: —
M.O. 445 HOLIDAYS.
1921. With reference to Australian Military
Regulation 411 (3) as amended by Statutory Rule
No. 164/1920, the holidays referred to therein are
as prescribed in Statutory Rule No. 62 of 1921
promulgated in M.O. 116/1921 and amended by
Statutory Rules Nos. 169 and 178 of 1921 promul-
gated in M.O.’s 390/1921 and 414/1921 respectively.
Now you know, don’t you?
* * * *
“Ewa”: There was a commotion in our
little suburban street last Sunday morning.
Blank returned, after his third" desertion,
and for 10 minutes battered on the door’
But it remained shut, and he left, vowing to
a neighbor that he would never return again.
When he had disappeared round the corner
Mrs. Blank and the family came out of
their hiding-place. Asked why she didn’t
let him in, the lady said mournfully: “He
likes a good roast dinner on Sunday, and
we’ve only got cold corned beef in the house.”
“D.E.”: The other day a Red Page writer,
dealing with the author of “Limehouse
Nights,” declared it absurd to say that a
woman could kill a Chinaman with a pin
soaked in acontin, the active principle of
aconite. The virulent Indian bikh is a form
of aconite. It is a most potent poison, and
was the one employed by Dr. Damson, a
notorious poisoner of 1880-82. My interest
was aroused by a recollection of my youth,
when, as a boy of nine, I lived iu Bendigo.
At this period cock-fighting was still a fav-
orite sport of the miners, and Geordies
trained birds and conducted a pit in a stable
near my home. One Tynesider, with a big
red fowl, was an almost invariable winner,
and the bird became notorious as a killer. It
did not merely “out” its opponents; it killed.
The miners took it for granted that the force
of its blows was responsible for the fatali-
ties, until it was discovered that the bird’s
owner was in the habit of poisoning the
rooster’s spurs with aconite. The truth
came out when the owner got a scratch
from the doctored spurs which, my impres-
sion is, killed him.
* * *
“F. Born”: Whatever be the faults of
Ah Sin, I have always found him in matters
of meum and tuum a straight-goer. Even
when it has been matter of notoriety that
John’s cabbagee and callots and olanges
have been raided time and again by un-
scrupulous Caucasian hooligans, I have
always found him preserve the same lofty
or stolid standard of rectitude. No wonder
the cashier in foreign banks in Amoy, Hong
Kong, Macao, Singapore and Hankow is
nearly always a Chinaman: Last week,
however, my belief in his honesty received
a shock, for I found that Wong Long had
appeared before a Brisbane police court
charged with stealing galvanised wash-tubs,
pictures, hats and Heaven knows what else.
Another Chow was the victim, Hoo Lum
the chief witness. But the finale was a
triumphant vindication of Wong. “As far
as this charge is concerned, in my opinion
the defendant leaves the court without a
stam on his character,” was the verdict of
Dean, P.M., and Long grabbed his baskets
ana trotted round all that day begirt with
a halo. Did any reader of The Bulletin
ever come across a larcenous Celestial?
* * *
“Dido”: In my vicinity, in a ipetropoli-
tan suburb it would not be wise to specify,
live two maiden sisters of, perhaps, 45, who
are .reputed to be twins and fairly well-to-
do, having inherited the profits of a dairy
and much suburban property. They are
tall, gaunt women, with faces that sug-
gest old Iron castings. One night their
house was entered, the panel being cut out
of a door. The burglar eventually made
his way to the women’s bedroom, but left
without taking anything—in fact, he left
one or two tools of trade and the collected
swag behind him. The ladies explained
that on their awakening the housebreaker
rushed the house. Three weeks later
“Thumbs” Unwin was caught by the police,
and a curious detective inquired, after sen-
tence had been passed, “Come now,
‘Thumbs,’ wasn’t it you broke into the house
of. those old girls at ?” “Thumbs”
grinned. "Straight griffin,” continued the
detective, “why did you run ?” “ ’Cause I
was damn-well scared.” “How?” “Well,
you see, them two women sat up in bed.”
“Well?” “Gorstruth, they smiled at me.”
* * * *
Sr”: Notley Moore, Melbourne’s princi-
pal P.M., who puts in a good few of his
evenings on Wages Boards, struck one night
a typical cla.ss-conscious gentleman, who
opened the proceedings with an amazing-
series of workers’ demands, including part
payment during strikes. At the end of the
statement Moore asked the out-of-breath
speaker if he had heard of a recent corpse
that had been dragged from the Yarra, and
then told the story. The body remained
unidentified till a casual chap called in and
after a brief view announced that it was
his brother Bill. “Poor old Bill!” he
said. “He never had any luck. Anyhow,
I’ve got a roll and I’ll give him a slap-up
funeral.” So a motor-furferal, with oak
coffin and trimmings, was ordered. On the
day of the planting the brother went to have
a last look at. Bill. “But what’s up with
his mouth?” he asked. The undertaker
explained that Bill’s false teeth had
fallen out on the tiled floor of the
morgue and smashed. “Strike me!” 're-
marked the astonished brother. “Then it
anrt Bill. Bill had the finest set of teeth
you ever saw. And, now I look closer I’m
certain it ain’t Bill at all—you don't get
me payin’ for the funeral of a blank I never
knew.” And he picked up his hat and left
I lie undertaker gnashed his teeth and. turn-
Jll 5 on the Poor drowned one, veiled • “ V
40-guinea funeral eruelled, my best job
this year narked—all because you opened
your dashed mouth too wide!”
* * * * *
-Exul”: Recently there was installed at
the Sydney Hospital a portable X-ray set
for the investigation of badly-injured cases
whom it was difficult or dangerous to remove
to the room containing the main set. This
portable affair can be worked by the current
from the ordinary eleccric mains. Such an
apparatus mounted on a motor-car should
have a wide field of usefulness among other
patients as well. There should be a good
opening. in Sydney for some enterprising
radiologist to fit up such a car and visit
patients at their homes and in the private
hospitals. It would be a godsend to mam-
cases of fractured legs and pelvis and spinal
injuries, and would be welcomed also bv
the urologists. An English doctor brought
one of these sets—they are common in thp
Cold Country—and intended to carrv out
this work in Sydney; but before he bezan
he saw an opening elsewhere for a consult
ing radiologist and left. I haven’t heard
smCe of anyone else adopting his idea.
* * * *
“Rio”: “One of Many” (B.
takes a point that will appeal to few "in
objecting to the issue of commissions to the
parents of dead soldiers. In most house-
holds they are welcomed and placed with
the family archives. But if he classes all
commissions as useless anachronisms I agree
with him. It may have been necessarv
centuries ago for an officer to carry a docu-
ment showing who and what he was, but
in these days it is quite unnecessary. Why
does an officer of the Defence Department
need a “commission” any more than he of
the Works Department? And why does a
lieutenant get a “commission,” a sergeant-
major a “warrant,” and a sergeant nothing
at all? A document setting out an officer’s
service decorations, wounds, etc., might be
of value, but the commission does not show
such significant details. In fact, the elabo-
rately inscribed scroll is one of the useless
relics of feudiil days that Parliament might
well cut out in the interests of economy.
* * * *
“Lex”: Recently a Jew who had been
robbed of a large quantity of jewellery by
his son declined- to proceed when the case
came on at a Sydney court. The police
made no comments in view of the peculiar
circumstances. Unfortunately for that some-
what drunkqn institution, the course of jus-
tice, about two citizens out of five act as the
Hebrew did in respect of thieves, embezzlers,
burglars and others to whom they are in no
way related. Sometimes it is a matter of
sympathy for the malefactor’s innocent de-
pendants ; far oftener the motive force is the
A DIFFERENCE SOMEWHERE.
MOLLIE : “I don't know which one to choose.
I like the tall, smart one edged with
gold, but the simple plain one suits me
better.”
DOLLIE : " What, ARE you talking about, dear
husbands or hats?”
reluctance to give up a day or so to the
dreary business of hanging about a Sessions
court. I lie people who have been robbed
are in possession of their property once more,
and that is all they care about. What the
practice _ amounts to, as a Sydney police-
court stipe lately observed, is ““putting the
criminal law in motion to recover a debt.”
And it is within the bounds of probability
that one day a criminal who has been
arrested, relieved of his plunder, dragged to
court and then discharged because his victim
didn’t feel like offering evidence, will turn
round and lay an information against the
latter for compounding a felony. That is
what the practice amounts to, after all.
SUSPENSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ould that to-day were to-morrow
And the chance of an hour were gone,
Though the end were a shame and sorrow
That went crying on and on! •
The .moments eat up the ages,
hOl a heart-beat a year must pay;
And swift in the turn of the pages
To-morrow will be to-day.
To-morrow is five years’ waiting.
Ah, well, let it come and go!
Let it come with the friend’s word stating
" I have always told you so.”
To-morrow and still to-morrow!
Let me laugh at the dull suspense—
At the worst I can possibly borrow
A fugitive eighteen-pence.
Three beers in their mugs of crystal
Have magic to change the sight;
And with optic illusion can twist all
The features of wrong to right.
I shall dose my thought and forget it
In the colors the future can weave.
What the eye doesn’t see—l won’t let it—
Why—damn it!—the heart can’t grieve!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


BATTERIES
For Every Man
Who Owns a Car
Whatever make of battery you have, we believe
we can prolong its life if you give us the chance.
Come here at regular intervals and we will keep
tabs on the condition of your battery. Our policy
is to make every battery last as long as possible.
We are manned and equipped to do this.
When—and not until—you really need a new
battery, we will be glad to sell you a new Exide,
the battery of long-lasting power.
ã
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA .
NEW ZEALAND ....
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBER*
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE. '
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH
WIDOWS' FUND BUILWNO -RKV
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE
r TuE NAME
fs IMPORTAN
msii
HR I
-jmmma -^of.o
Q\JP- V
Option
At®*
&
ACio^^^CP^
L »»_
Sgs*S^
l ""r,< n££
å
WHISKY
ā
'THE TOP NOTCH’ SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
Jackeroo” : Perhaps some Abo. genius can
explain why hundreds of turtles are leaving the
Balonne River (Q.) and making- inland. At present
they are endeavoring to get through the wire-
netting give-and-take fences. During a drought it
is a common sight to see turtles alive .and dead
along a netting fence, they having tried to get to
a nver from dried-up waterholes; but saying good-
bye to the river and trekking inland is a different
“ at *f „ 1 d “ nn °> but looks as if they are fed
up of Queensland. Has the Auditor-General’s report
scared them?
“TV *„ * * *
Dan” : When all the experts have retired,
hridmi tr , 0m tho yard * here ’ s the cure for the
bndle-bieaking yarraman (B. 11/8/’2l) Get a
half-inch hempen rope about 20ft. long, and a
good snaffle bit. Pass end “A” through the bit
ling on the near side, over the colt's head, and
tasten to the ring on the off-side. End “B” works
vice versa. Secure both ropes on top of the head
to a solid strap buckled round the neck like a
throat strap. Now lead the brumby to a tall post
and tie the improvised bridle 6ft. from the ground.
When he pulls his mouth suffers, and after a few
tries he gives in. I’ve used this apparatus for
yeais, and can guarantee that a youngster broken
thus will never break a bridle.
* * * *
Ishmael : “N.T.” writes of the vagaries
of Coopers Creek (B. 22/9/’2l). Three months
ago, while on the north side of the trickle, we were
warned that a big flood was coming down. When
crossing it a month hack coming south the flood
had not arrived. Possibly Theodore and Co. have
put an embargo on it leaving Queensland. Another
enatic patch of dampness is Lake Amadeus, which
is shown on some maps as being partly in W.A
and on others as wholly in the Territory. Most
atlases, however, mark the western end with a
dotted line, which is an easy way out.
“Binnong”: The most effective remedy I
have used for the stinging-tree (B. 25/8/’2l) is
the nicotine from a pipe smeared on the part
quickly ** loCallses and deadens the pain very
* * * »
“H.W.G.” : The only sure cure that I know
for the stinging-tree (B. 25/8/’2l) is hot water, as
hot as can be borne. It will give instant relief.
MhUe I was out on patrol with native police in
N.Q one of the troopers (they were naked) fell on
a stinging-tree and he suffered so much that he
asked to be shot. It took two boys to hold him on
his horse till we reached camp. We made a big
kent an th PU t r/ 11 OUr quarts and a lar se bil ly and
kept the hot fomentations going. In about two
hours the man was able to ride, though we kept him
well covered from the cold air.
‘Truthful James”: Snakes don’t swallow
their young. The ventral scales on a female snake
aie controlled by a muscle just behind the head
Ordinarily they are horizontal, but when ma scents
anger she contracts the muscle on the back of her
neck, which immediately brings the scales to a ver-
iaw and T'th ° Pe " S * Slit Under the bottom
skin th t Same tlme looSens the abdominal
mr lit , rmU>S a poucJl ’ The youngsters dart
wi the I 1 * and lnto the P° ufch > and this is what
tominf Pe T? e t - thlnk they take refu ffe i" ma’s
Tf; dt requ “' es careful and skilled dissection
to detect the pouch, because the skin shrinks when
snake is killed. When the poison gland is re-
moved it tightens the skin under the neck, and the
snTf w t nt ° the PoUch ' In female
snake, betwen the pharynx and the gullet, there is
a peculiar, lid-like valve, and anything passing this
\alve can t possibly return.
** • *
«r“Sr*nV“ L ’. P ” <B ' e/10/ ’ 21 ' I* «
thr K? !, ? Auntie »■“» a new hen took over
the late Mrs. Robin s brood, or was the second lady
a permanent wet nurse? Neither. Robin went to
his nearest friend’s place and gave him a hiding
T hen he eloped with his friend’s missus, who was
quite willing to accompany him. There is no need
.to worry over Robin’s friend, as he would seek out -
married gentleman whom he knew he could beat one
and kneeling, and would do the same as Robin did.
in To'iSi’ :^r tiv V oUnci l ! l? rs run courts
iorres Stiait whenever the native John Hon
captures a lawbreaker. The commonest offences
are calling another man a “dog” and neglecting to
comply with island regulations. Recently, though
a visiting half-caste jeered at an islander, and, after
exasperating him, got a stone flung at him. There-
upon he sought the protection of the law- and
this was the summons issued by the head councillor:
(To) Pakine. One man, Quenit, he sermon
One m shimn/ 9 ff fr v m y ° U hit him long stone in neck-
cort shl lng Cor) sermon. To-morrow 9 o’clock
A five-bob fine squared matters.
* * * *
“Country Fed”: “H.V.E.,” writing of
parrots (B. 29/9/’2l), states that the green leek
is larely seen. If he owned an orchard in the
midland districts of Victoria, he would qualify that
statement There they are most destructive: they
wU tackle any kind of fruit, hard or soft, biting out
junks with their hard, curved beaks, and strewing the
residue on the ground. It is simply marvellous the
amount °f damage- one small flock will do between
daylight and half an hour after sunrise. But per-
haps we are not thinking of the same creature
Dr. Leach (“An Australian Bird Book”) calls our
™ sk ( I < orikeet - incidentally suggests
that the other green leek” should revert to its
earlier name, the superb parrot. There is certainly
confusion at present.
per ,f “ al that
warm day I came to a 'full ft lnterested in - One
avoid treading on a blank JU§t in time to
opened" a
THE HOPE OF AUSTRALIA.
“See that man there? Well. tens of thousunds of australian are looking to him to
enrich them and add to the pleasures of living”
“H'm an eminent politician or philanthrop is't thuagh he don't look much look at.”
“No, he is to ride the favorite for the Melbourne Cup.”
, thr ° at ‘ , They were active little creatures just
about the length of an ordinary steel knitting-
neecHe It seemed to be the only way in which the
parent could carry her young off to a safe place
when danger threatened them. And it looked as if
instinct warned them to bolt into her jaws, for she
did not reach out for them. They simply wrigrded
inside with lightning rapidity, and when the last
was aboard mamma glided off into cover, leaving me
Still gaping. &
* * •
* #
Ortimo Beale”: The best ointment for a
sting, whether of insects or plants, is a paste made
fiom the soil of an ordinary antbed, about 6in.
from the surface, and water. The soil contains the
excreta of the ants, and the paste will move a
sting in five minutes. Incidentally, snakes like ant-
beds about as much as they like ants. A little of
it round the stumps and steps of a house will
ensure sound sleep in the worst snake-infested dis-
trict.
IN DISTRESS.
VOICE FROM THE MAILBOAT: “Do you wan!
help?”
VOICE FROM THE MIDGET: “Yes! Lend us
your corkscrew for a' minute.”
Te TV hare”: Strange how birds some-
ones destroy their eggs after the nest has been
£ . Xa ? ll ? n °t handled. I recently had a white-
shatted fantail’s incubator under observation. It
contained one egg, which I did not touch. Next
T : '~ v , le fSET was found broken on the ground below,
in this instance, however, the nest was not pulled
to pieces at once, as nests sometimes are. I have
tblai w g °n en ‘^ eaSted Whistler and w iHywagt a il
(black fantail) act occasionally in a similar manner.
In one instance, a pair of cranky fans laid afresh
S: ™° n ® st after being robbed of their first
dutch although, as a rule, after they decide on
old n a "T,. neSt ’ the i con °clastic fans use the
old one as building material. It not infrequently
raven 11 ",-],- ’ S ° m ° Watchful crow or
raven discovers a nest simply by observing the
rature student near it, and, when he has departed!
proceeds to sample its contents. Once while I was
T t 0 , photo^ra P h a whipbird’s nest, with
o chicks, a Dig “go.” came into the studio and
disappeared 3l t"*”- ■ T , he chicks sh ° rt,y norwards
X/ : \ s,milar manner, a raven passing
Ha d n ; SC ° Vered 3 '"'-"'btjar’s single showy egg
(kid on the bare ground) and subsequently gobbled
*
C rabtree”: A Sydney man who owned a
fine and faithful dog introduced a new canine to
is household. All the whippings administered to
stop the old dog’s inclination tc raise Cain vvhen-
thf 1 Tw° ne WaS petted were unavailing, and
he animal became morose and sullen. At last
j en . 1 s °wner was getting the newcomer, the old
~a “ a fur y attacked the man himself and mauled
him badly Thereafter its ferocity towards the man
henever he took special notice of the other dog be-
came so pronounced that the animal had to be
tolerated * 7 “ that that Sort of thin S is
* * * *
Boi led onion poultice will
snide? 6 K? °l ??, katip0 ’ Maoril and’s poisonous
i ih, ! 6Cted Part Shol,ld also 'be bathed
boiled m Cr i ln r W t lCh the ve^eta ble has been
bo led. The treatment will relieve the pain and
reduce the discoloration in a few minuted.
* . *
‘■Gale”: Go out back for cheap marriage
and noree. Blinks strolled into Jones’s o <iice and
said: “Lend us two quid.” “What for?” asS
Jones. I want to get married.” The quids
Pockets. Eight months afterwards Blinks
landed in again with: “Lend us tvw, quid.” “No”
said Jones. “You never paid me back the last •
anyhow, what’s it for this time?” “Want to «-et
a revorce,” explained Blinks. That being the case
"T kanded over ’ and the “revorce” was granted
After the separation, Willis met Blinks and sport-
ingly asked: “Are you finished with Emily, ’cos
l d like to take her on now?” Blinks intimated that
he was quite finished with Emily. So Willis married
her, and I’ve just seen the baby.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE OLD GIVE-AND-TAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are some up the country who long for the
town,
And some in the city would rather be down
” here the country spreads out, and the days come
and go,
In the quiet old way that the bush people know;
But I’ve no time to wonder which wav I would
make,
As I mend up the gaps in the old give-and-take.
It s a crazy old fence that bestraddles the creek,
And it gives endless labor; for each time I seek
there’s a rail broken here, or a gap in the bend,
And it means dragging timber to patch up and mend ;
And I know it’s a harbor for rabbit and snake,
But I smile at the faults of the old give-and-take.
It takes in a bend and it shuts out a bog;
It is partly a dog-leg, and part chock-and-log":
wu 1S bmSh - fenCe in places > and still once again
here the timber is scared it is barb-wire and plain -
And down on the flat where the floods made a break
there are slim posts and rails in the old give-and-
take.
When the shearing comes round I have plenty to do
Away from the fence till the season is through;
And when I am ploughing a piece for the wheat
1 worry away to get back to my beat;
~, rush throu tfh the work it is all for the sake
Of the gaps that appear in the old give-and-take.
NO .JOB FOR HIM.
COW COCKY: “D’yer drink beer?”
APPLICANT FOR JOB : “Noa.”
COW COCKY: “Or whisky, perhaps?”
APPLICANT: “Noa.”
COW COCKY: “Maybe wine?”
APPLICANT : “Noa.”
COW COCKY: “Then ye'll be drinkin' milk.
I' ve no work for the likes of you.”
Then sometimes the missus and kiddies will come
;0, have dinner with me in the shade of a gum;
And as I sit smoking* the missus and I
Build some wonderful plans for the years by-and-bye,
While the little ones scamper, or finish the cake
We have P icnics galore by the old give-and-take.
And the missus and I, as the day passes on,
We get talking of times in the years that are gone:
H fllSt 1 sclected (the scrub then was
Her fence ad Came and helped me t 0 P ut up the
And we smile to each other as .memories awake,
* or he gave her to me by the old give-and-take.
I have plenty of mates as I carry and mend,
Anri +n C mU '!! arkS aV6 busy down th eve in the bend,
And the swaHows fly close, and the wrens flit around,
? hd V he maB i Pleß and minas in Plenty abound;
And the wi se kookaburras with merriment shake
As they laugh at the world by the old give-and-take.
JJf + b , l ,f fireS bmnt « in strips here and there,
The tall grass half-covered, the droughts laid it bare '
When ke , P nie from Wo,TyinB ' time and again
When the lean years were here and my toil seemed
m vain;
And though fortune may come and bring wealth in
its wake
I will stick to the last to the old give-and-take !
maobiland.
RIVERINTA.


A conversation with Hupmobile owners would convince you that the car does
stand up remarkably well. That is the reputation it has everywhere. It has
gained that reputation because it is strongly built.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
DON’T NEGLECT YOUR CHILDREN’S
MUSICAL EDUCATION.
Australians are very musical, quick to learn, and
are appreciative of good music.
You may have a budding genius in your home,
and by neglecting to provide an instrument a
great musician may be lost to the world.
Buy them a
VICTOR PIANO.
Its glorious tone quality will be an incentive to
them in their studies, and the soundness of its
construction will resist years of hard usage in
the severest climate.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
a
à
BRANCHES—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.
SYDNEY.
A small deposit will give you
immediate possession of a
Victor, and- the balance can
be paid by monthly instalments
spread over a period of years.


For thirty years Clements Tonic has maintained
its popularity. Surely such a record is sound
proof of its success in relieving the blood and nerve
ailments that afflict humanity from time to time?
Clements Tonic, Limited, Rozelle, N.S.W.
Pick : Along the banks of the ’Bidgee
(N’.S.W.) the padymelon vine has taken almost com-
plete possession of many fertile flats that once grew
elover. In drought-times the vine flourishes when
all other verdure has disappeared, and stock then
acquire a taste for it. Afterwards they hunt for
nothing else, and constant feeding upon the curse
results in pink-eye and subsequent blindness. Also
bees inoculate garden melons with pollen from the
padymelon blossom, and the crop is thereby impreg-
nated with an extreme bitterness that renders it
unfit for food. When the padymelon has about taken
over the country, someone will probably strike the
idea of enforcing its eradication.
* * * *
“Bouragi”; The fencing off of the Fijian
folk into white shee P and black, to which
MeNorth” alludes (B. 6/10/’2l), is mainly a matter
of smell. The white is not more intolerant of that
odor of smoke, sandal-oil, cocoanut and frangipanni
which is to the Pacific what garlic is to the Medi-
terranean, than colored brother is of pearl powder
and all the other artificial and natural odors of white
humanity generally.
*
“.Tacky Roo”: I agree with “Foxglove” (B.
B/9/’ZI) as to the scorpion being the worst Aus-
tralian stinger. At Eenaweena station, near Warren
(N.S.YY.), a scorpion bit a building contractor on
the neck while he was in bed. No notice was taken
of it at the time, but when the neck began to swell
he was taken to the Warren Hospital. Within three
days he was dead, and most of us' blamed the insect
and not the hospital.
“Amo” : Summer’s coming, also the fly.
so here s a tip to VY estern horsetailers who may be
wearing their ears thin listening for bells in the
early hours of daylight. Flies are always “stickiest”
just about sunrise and sundown, and at these times
horses are apt to poke away In pairs and stand
head to tail, with never a sound of the bell, just
swishing their tails to keep the pests out of their
eyes. To save miles of hunting, when on camp
at sundown build a good fire of green timber—green
gidva makes a voluminous smoke—and hold the
prads down wind of it till dark and the flies go
to roost. Next morning you might have to muster
some of them back to the smoke, but if the camp
is stopping there a few days, or after they get
used to the dodge, you can keep the blankets
pressed down till the babbling brook has breakfast
ready. Incidentally, for sore eyes through fly-
worry, and for bad hacks and hobble-chafes, send
into town to the chemist for a tin of 25 per cent
iodoform ointment, with a lard base. Not only
will this effect a cure, but it will keep flies away
if smeared on two or three times a week.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Near Cobargo (N.S.W.)
recently I came acros a dingo with a litter of
five very young pups. The mother slunk off into
the bush at my approach, but I captured the five
pups, and tied them up with a piece of thin rope,
intending to collect them the same afternoon. As 1
was returning 1 saw the mother making for the
scrub, but all that remained of the pups was some
scattered skin and bone. The mother had evidently
tried to free them, and, failing, had eaten them.
* * *
“Gympie Gympie”: “Numskull” (B.
6/10/’2l) in being rude to “Steve Hart” is also
tude to me. -As a kid in Gympie (Q.) I was stung
by the stinging-tiee and cured by the sap of it,
which a young cousin applied at once.
UNEMPLOYED.
“Eh, dad. there's a bloke outside waitin' for
the rent.”
“Tell him to call next week. Yer mother's
out of work.”
“Steve Hart”: The trouble with “Heca-
gus’s” plan for scaring off leeches (B. 6/10/’2l) is
that they don’t go on your pants; they get along
the boots and down the socks. This is the real tip:
soak your socks in strong brine and tuck pants into
socks. Then you’re safe.
* * * *
“Bendee”: I’ll back a 32.40 cal. Win-
chester against all “L.J.D.’s” cut cartridges for
killing kangaroos (B. 22/9/’2l). The 32.40 is by
far the most popular weapon among Q. ’roo-shooters,
being about the same size as a .303 service rifle, but
using black powder and a lead bullet. The next
best is a “44,” which doesn’t hit nearly so hard;
but a shotgun—’struth! they must be tame ’roos
that “L.J.D.” does business with.
Bouragi”: “Gizo” says (B. 6/10/’2l)
that unless an ordinary Winchester bullet hits a
crocodile on a certain spot, within “an area of a
e\v me cs, the chances are it will rebound with-
in A C f Usl / lg * n J' ur - v - I have shot many crocodiles in
the Mamba and Kumusi rivers, Papua, and the shoot-
ing was almost invariably done with a .32 (1892
pattern) Winchester. The hard, horny ridges on the
croc, s back will no doubt deflect a glancing bullet,
just as a twig or even human flesh will; but anv
oidmary lead bullet will penetrate the hide if fired
from a decent rifle, or even a smooth-bore at short
A LITTLE HABIT HE HAD.
THE FUNNY PORTER (to fatigued and per-
spiring one who has just missed his
train) : “Did you want to catch that
train, sir?”
THE OTHER ONE: “Catch it! No. I just
wanted, to chase the blanky thing out
of the station.”
range, for the eroc.’s covering, save on the ridged
back, is nothing like that seen on an old boar-pi°-
or scrub bull. Incidentally, I found the lead bullet
of the Winchester give better results than the .303.
because the latter, with its high veloteity and nickel
cover, hardly troubled the recipient in passing. The
.32 often went through a croc., too, but the soft
bullet tore up his innards and his corpse usually
turned up later, if he didn’t go out at once.
Apropos of the crocodile’s “tough” hide, T once
pegged out, at Tamata station, a very big old hide
inside up, well rubbed with salt. Three or four
weaning puppies got to it, and in one morning
chewed a big hole half-way across the middle of the
overcoat’s back.
Murianji : Is this a record for yarding
a mob of cattle ? At 5 a.m. five of us commenced
on 840 Sti athfield (Q.) bullocks in the railway
trucking yards. During the day we were joined by
other horsemen, until at 4 p.m. there were 12 of
us. The last beast was yarded at 5.30 p.m. ; time
ta.ven. 12-1 hours. We all had to get fresh ■ horses
at midday. Out of the 12 men only three of us
didn’t get a buster; one chap was taken to the
hospital early in the game. Any Abo. know of a
longer ?
* * * .
“Ophis”: “Wee Bobbie’s” (B. 22/9/’2l)
small, worm-like wriggler, with a small, shark-like
mouth, and a body the same thickness from head
to tail, which he unearthed in the Solomon Islands,
was a blind snake, one of the genus Typhlops, and
most probably T. aluensis. The fact that the natives
declared it to be highly venomous needn’t frighten
him, as the little snake is perfectly harmless and
absolutely non-venomous. (A native could easily pass
out from its bite, or from the bite of any other thing,
if he so made up his mind, and it would be no
earthly use trying to save him.) It is one of many
species of the blind snake distributed throughout
the world, there being 37 in Australia alone. It
lives almost entirely underground, and its food
consists of small insects. It is most often found in
white-ant nests, where it makes raids upon the eggs
and young ; therefore, he’s a snake to be encouraged.
* * * *
“Yoyang” : What is believed to be a goldeu
eagle was caught in a crow-trap at Gunning (N.S.W.)
recently. It measured only 7ft. 2in. from tip to tip
of outstretched wings. The Aquila chrysaetos of
other lands measures 9ft. in the adult female,
slightly less in the male, and gets its popular name,
golden eagle, from the rich golden red on the
neck and head, the rest of the body being mostly
blackish brown. The plumage of the young bird
is so different from that of the full-grown that it is
often thought to be a different species and named
the ring-tail.
I ick . In busk gatherings, navvy camps
and among the miners of last mid-century, ‘no dandy
considered himself fashionably attired unless his
white moleskins were adorned with blue-ribbon Vangs
fastened with well-tied bows. That will explain
to Jimsey” (B. 29/9/-21) how “towvangs” became
corrupted in its prefix.
‘•BiHy T.” : At Bootleg Flat, near Creswick
(tic) a corner of an old mining field gained the
reputation of being haunted, all through the strange
conduct of Lowther’s saddle-horse. It was Lowther
spread the idea of rne
supernatural in our midst.
He based his belief on
tlxe extraordinary beha-
vior of the horse, and he
agreed to convince us
with a sort of stance,
the old nag acting as
the medium. It certainly
did play up in a most
disconcerting way, refus-
ing' to face in the direc-
tion in which Lowther
located the supernatural
agency, snorting, rearing,
and plunging when urged
iorward, and quaking in
every limb. Popular feel-
ing at Bootleg w ent
light round in favor of
spiritual possession, till
long Tom t’obb made
his slow, nasal drawl
heard. “Ghosts, me gran’-
motlier’s cat!’’ said he.
“Three years ago that ole
neddy, when he was
owned by Thornton, be-
fore Lowther come into
this distric’, fell into the
shaft there by the track,
an’ we spent a night
haulin' him out wit li
chains. Tha’s all there
is the matter with him.
If he comes here by dark
he thinks he’s goin’ into
that ’ell ol' a ’ole agin.” The case is interesting- if
only as an instance of the survival of a bitter pre-
judice.
((T * * * *
YVarrambali: “Janus” (B. l/9/’2l)
doesn’t know the rudiments of the spud-bagging
game. He nominates three men who dug 1021 bags
between Monday morning and Saturday mid-day
working eight hours per day, as the heroes of the
most consistent performance in the profession At
Wareham, Dorset, in 1917, 50 men, four corporals
and one sergeant picked up and bagged nine bags
of spuds in one day and worked only five hours.
Of course the spuds were ploughed out by the
cockj, And the tally would have been even greater
if the sergeant hadn’t compromised by dismissing
the parade earlier than usual, owing to his inability
to conceal the “nob” after heading them nine times
running.
* * * *
“F.C.L.”Allow me to put “J.H.A.” (B.
8/9/ 21) on the right track re seedling orange-trees.
Comparing seedling and grafted trees, the former
are the winners—they pro-
duce more fruit, they are bet-
ter-shaped trees, they have
longer life and the quality of
the fruit is superior. ’* The
difficulty with seedlings is
that they take seven years to
bear, whereas grafted stock
take only four years. Prac-
tically every seedling is a
prolific bearer instead of
“J.H.A.’s’’ six out of 200.
The following citrus trees on
the market are all raised per
medium of seeds: Butt’s
Navel, Parker’s Special, Faw-
trell’s Early, Beauty of Glen
Retreat and Jacob’s Special.
These are all Australian
varieties, several of them
raised in the Maroochy Shire
(Q.). In this district there
are large orchards around
Montville, Mapleton an d
Buderim Mount, many of
which consist largely of seed-
ling trees. They are bigger
and higher than the grafted
trees, and this season I saw
25 eases picked from a seed-
ling mandarin 10 years old. They realised 17s.
a ease a very high price. Growers in these parts
estimate a grafted tree of the same age to
return £0 per tree. In Malta, the home of the
citrus tree, there are seedlings 200 years old, about
60ft. to 70ft. high and enormous bearers. The
natives reckon the older the tree the better the fruit.
“Colub”: A common belief in the bush is
that if a man is bitten by a venomous snake the
poison will sometimes remain in his body for years,
causing various disorders, generally close to the anni-
versary of the day he was bitten. A N.S.W. country
doctor once showed me a case of simple boils, and
told me that nothing would convince the sufferer
that his trouble was not the effect of a snake-
bite, four or five years old. Further, he was backed
up in his belief by every one of his' friends and rela-
tions for miles around. In another case in the same
State a man was periodically afflicted with partial
blindness, and although the actual trouble was of
an easily-diagnosed nature, he and the rest of the
community stubbornly put it down to an old bite.
e thing, of course, is impossible, for reasons of
oidinarj chemistry. Experiments show that when
a dose of snake venom not strong enough to cause
eath is administered intravenously to a guinea-pig,
the most exacting chemical or serological tests carried
out 24 hours later fail to show any traces
of' the poison in the blood. More than likely,
the phagocytic blood cells are responsible' to a
great degree for this, their function being to
attack foreign bodies; but at the same time it is
just as likely that once they have started the work
ol decomposition, other bodies carry it out, and
these may be considered as kinds of natural anti-
toxins. It is unthinkable that a protein, or a
collection of proteins like snake venom, should be
carried round and round in the blood stream with
their harmful qualities unimpaired, but in abey-
an< e, until the anniversary comes along: still, such
is the imshakeable opinion of many in Bush.
“Bendee”: Tell “To Whare” '(B. 22/9/’2l)
that I saw a big huh goanna meet a young gentle-
man lriend as he crawled out of a very dead bul-
lock in the bed of the Moonee River (Q.). In about
ten minutes she had the smaller go dead enough to
eat, and after she had nearly swallowed him about
seven times I joined in with a bullet. 1 saw another
kill later on, and have several times shot goannae
after they had eaten their brothers, and always in
the bed of a river—why ?
11. Murray": I asked an abo. how many
miles to Dingo Flat. “No mile, boss,'' he an-
swered. “Plenty good road, now.”
* * * *
“Wart”: “L.J.D” (B. 22/9/’2l) talking
about cut cartridges reminds me of an accident at
Boomers’ Bottom, up in the Speck’s Western Tiers,
a couple of years ago. A party of shooters out from
Launceston got divided, and one of them, seeing the
scrub move, fired, using a cut cartridge. He shot
one of his mates. The distance was nearly 100yds.,
hut it made a hole in his chest like that cf a b * ,r
bullet.
* * *
“Jim Curew": “Widgeon” (B. 22/9/’2l)
asks how spur-wing plovers transport their young
across water. Each parent takes a wing of the
youngster and they fly across. Judging by the
row the nipper makes during the flight it isn’t a
very happy few moments for him. I have known
plovers to move their family across the Hawkesbury,
near Sackville Reach (N.S.W.), where the river is
over 300yds. wide. Most of the removals are made
at night.
* * * *
“0.K.”; “Tangalooma,” which is in every
racing-mans mouth, is presumably an aboriginal
void, though it doesn t appear in the glossary
published by Daniel Bunce 70 years ago. Most of
the native words in their phonetic spelling are
suitable for horse nomenclature, and they run in all
shapes. “Goondaloona,” meaning eyes, is almost as
soothing as “Tangalooma,” whilst “Tomborong,”
meaning mouth, is more suggestive of tender lips and
burning eloquence than of mouth in its mere eating
capacity. E. E. Clarke had a horse called Two not long
ago. How much better to have called it Benjeroo, in the
original language of Victoria! Sometimes the father-
OBVIOUSLY UNNECESSARY.
SCARED V ISITOR : “They ought to have a
danger-notice up here."
FRIEND (who is showing him the distinct):
“ We did for some years, but no one had
an accident, so we took it down."
ship of a yearling is uncertain, but no breeder thinks
of calling it Wceuthunga, signifying dubious. Talto
(To-morrow) is a name you never hear of on a race-
course, and Jindiviek is another neglected word
which should never be out of the calendar. As soon
as one Jindiviek retires from the turf another should
take its place. It means lose.


THE WORLD’S
MOST RENOWNED
m
Of.
HIGH=CLASS
CIGARETTES.
CIGARETTES
Grades to suit all tastes but one Quality only—the Highest
VIRGINIA
No. 555
No. 333
No. 999
ASTORIAS
DE LUXE
MY DARLING
HIS MAJESTY
AU REVOIR
Absolutely Unique
in their Qualities.
High-class Cigarettes
at moderate prices.
Extra Quality
Gold Tipped.
Billiard-room Size.
Magnum Size.
Gold Tipped
for Ladies.
Cork Band
with Gold Tip.
For Travellers’ Use.
25 for 2/6
20 for 1/6
25 for 3/3
25 for 3|6
25 for 3/3
20 for 2/
25 for 4/-
50 for 7/6
•TURKISH:
No. 444
No. 1
QUO VADIS Grade
H.R.H.
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
Extra Mild
Turkish Leaf.
50
Turkish de Luxe.
Patent Silk Absorbent
Band, Gold Tipped.
25 for 3|—
25 for 3(6
20 for 3|6
20 for 316
Also Obtainable in Boxes of 10, 50 and 100.
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON.


c
Hi
PUp
FOODS
“REX” HAM PATE
IS ALL HAM!
Yes all Ham —but oh so different from the
everyday ham paste.
The choicest “Rex” Ham used in its pre-
paration is cooked ever so tenderly by a
process which keeps in all that bewitching
savor and aroma of the famous “Rex” Curing
and Smoking.
Then it is minced fine —and mixed with the
distinctive “Rex” Dressing of choicest Eastern
Spices until the piquant seasoning penetrates
every ham fibre.
Spread “Rex” Ham Pate on thin crustless
slices of fresh white bread! You’ve the
greatest Sandwich in the world.
The monotony can be varied in ever so many
ways by adding sliced Cucumber, Tomato, Beet-
root, Chopped Olive, Lettuce or Anchovy, etc.
“Rex” Ham Pate is packed in solderless
hygienic tins.
Include a few tins on your Grocery order this
week.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
F.J. 74
á
Shirts,
m
a
*
%
p
it*
m
<v>
\
mz
■
&
rj(?4-
1
I
&
8
SSSsfe. x
'//,
'&
&f>
x'
m
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials-—a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary—all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory VV ear and
Service. W
AS 61
See Hiis
brand on
each shirt
â
I
m
*
m
am '
Tr-&
mm.
m.
m
wm
s
m
m
mm
■
mm
m
BBS
HBHH
R
Hi
ssse
m
m
mwMMWMwm
IcMs
» J
Faster Work—Lower
Costs-Longer Service
Three important factors in the
Successful Machine Shop to-day.
KEMPSMITH \ UNIVERSAL MILLING
MACHINES stand for all three—fast, accurate
work, economical operation, added to strength •
and rigidity to cope with the severest strains
imposed by modern milling methods.
Sole Agents:
PARKE and LACY
CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
P.L. 202.


Purest
schn
STANDS ALONE-
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
: »
,
@ ; SS ’
O?
VA
/"
78
tow
EVERY Drop of \\
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
VV. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
I Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
during quality of the work, would offer such
books. The novelist must follow the fashion
of the time, which is dictated by the pub-
lisher ; and the publisher thinks he is meeting
the wishes of his cash patrons. The doubt
arises as to whether the publisher is right
even from the most mercenary standpoint.
The education standard must be rising a
little, if ever so slowly; why, then, is the
fiction standard falling lower and lower? Is
it not because the publisher .just misses his
public? Playing for safety, he goes a shade
worse each time; the natural call would be
for books that went just a shade better every
time. Failure to understand this is likely
to kill the publishing trade ns we know it
to-day. The natural result of the decline
in the quality of fiction will be to put it
outside the realm of literature altogether.
Very soon the novelist will lose his place;
men with no special qualifications will be
employed to write books for a weekly wage ;
the author’s name will disappear from the
title-page and be replaced by the trade-mark
of the factory; and at last, in world-scarcity
of paper, the writing of fiction will be pro-
hibited by law. It is directly towards this
conclusion that publishers without imagina-
tion and with an eye only for the gamblers
and bookmakers are moving faster every year.
C. O. M.
The Real Shakspeare
Inspired some time ago by a review on
this page of Thomas Looney’s stimulating
and epochal hook on the authorship of
“Shakspeare’s” works, I read it. For many
years—since youth, in fact—whenever I had
given the matter a thought, it had seemed
to me improbable, on numberless grounds,
that the man known to us as William Shaks-
peare, of Stratford, could have written the
plays, and still less the poems, ascribed to
him. Looney’s thesis, that Edward de Vere,
the 17th Earl of Oxford, was the real
author, is unfolded in a logical, temperate
and convincing manner in “Snakspeare Iden-
tified.” It is the work of a scholar and an
earnest student. I began it with interest
and an open mind, and rose from it a con-
vert.
This is not the place to traverse his argu-
ments, which can be read by those interested.
The only problem to all who have divested
themselves of prejudice lies in finding the
man who can fill the role. De Vere certainly
can do so without any outrage to one’s sense
of values.
When I have discussed the matter with
any of my friends who I thought might he
interested they nearly all took one or other
of two attitudes. The first, and the com-
monest, is one that I think unworthy of any
genuine lover of literature, or indeed of any
seeker after truth. They ask: “What mat-
ters it who wrote them ? We have the stuff
and don’t care who was the author.” Cvi
bono? N’importe! Mafcesh! What does
anything matter, anyhow? They have their
prototype in every clime, and every language
has their catchword. For these there is no
hope.
The other illogical and irrelevant reply
is to this effect: “All sorts of cranks have
said that Bacon and others wrote the plays,
and no one has taken them seriously but
themselves; Looney is probably just one
more.” It is characteristic of the shallow-
brained of all ages to stigmatise as “cranks”
all who first state opinions differing from
the ordinary and the orthodox. Galileo,
Newton, Einstein —all cranks !
Irritating in their inane irrelevance
though these people are, to be on sure ground
one should know something at least of the
argument for the other side. Audi alteram
partem. I therefore got Durning-Lawrence's
book, “Bacon is Shakspeare,” from a library.,
and read it with pa-in and travail. A more
unscientific piece of work there never was.
The writer begs the question throughout, in-
troduces fantastic cryptograms and ends
each chapter with the words in block capitals
“Bacon is Shakspeare.” This is not argu-
ment but bluster ; and I am inclined to
agree with my friends as to Durning-Law-
renee. He seems to m.e. after due investi-
gation. to be both unscientific and uncon-
vincing.
I next turned to an “orthodox” writer,
Frank Harris, an acute critic, and a whole-
souled worshipper at the Stratford shrine.
The book was “The Man Shakspeare,” re-
vised edition, 1911. In this Harris endea-
vors to show that the author of the 1*!
and Sonnets revealed himself and liis life-
experiences in his writings. Here, I think,
he succeeds. But, while his premises are
sound, his conclusions, to nly mind, are
far-fetched and strained. I can only in my
space quote one or two instances of his fal-
lacious reasoning.
He suggests that the underlying traits of
character in Hamlet. Biron. Macbeth, An-
tonio. Duke Vincentio, etc., are similar, and
are those of an idealist, a philosopher and a
dreamer; and that from the care with which,
besides, they are depicted, they represent the
real character of the author himself. Good.
He has reconstructed his hero as a dreamy,
unpractical young man. Now we will see
how he applies this to the Stratford player.
He goes on to speak of the “scraps of fact
and fiction which are more or less authentic’'
(italics mine); and further says: “I shall
keep close to the facts as given in his works”
(italics mine). He thus claims that recorded
“facts” when unfavorable are of doubtful
authenticity, and speaks of inferences drawn
by him from the internal evidence of the
works as being facts. This seems to me to
be, to put it mildly, a. misuse of words.
And when the inferential portrait which
Harris has drawn does not square with the
recorded facts of William Shakspeare’s life,
what does our critic do? He does not “bowl
out” W.S. as being the wrong man; nor does
he assume, as a perfectly ingenuous writer
might, that the synthetic character may be
un erroneous and merely supposititious one.
No, he rejects the unpalatable facts!
Thus he quotes: “Aubrey says lof W.S.]
that when he was a boy he exercised his
father’s calling [of butcher]; but when he
killed a ealfe he would doe it in high style
and make a speech.” Harris’s comment on
this is: “I daresay young Will flourished
about with a knife and made romantic
speeches, but I am pretty sure be never
killed a Calf.” (Italics mine.) Our com-
mentator is “pretty sure,” forsooth, because
the character of a light-hearted and practical
young slayer of calves does not harmonise
with his conception of the author’s quali-
ties as shown forth in his writings! As
effrontery this may be magnificent, but as
serious criticism it is neither convincing nor
fair.
Again, he says, from the internal evidence
of the plays, “aristocratic tastes were natural
to him.” Now, Harris is hardly put to it to
reconcile this very strong trait that emerges
from a critical examination of the plays with
the recorded facts of Shakspeare’s life.
All we know of the latter points in the oppo-
site direction. Harris’s naive explanation is
that since his man was not an aristocrat, and
the author of the Flays clearly was, the
former must have like one and tried to
behave like one, and was, in point of fact, a
snob. lie does not merely imply this; he
says it on page 380, and repeats it again and
again. He apologises for him. His god has
feet of clay—but it is such an English foible!
Shakspeare aspired to be what he was not,
and despised people of his own station of life.
This is a fault, but, great intellect that he
had, he was far from perfect. Can distor-
tion of logic go further?
No, it will not do. Mr. Harris’s pleading
is out of place. I turned to his portly volume
from a sense of fairness to see if sweet reason
had aught to offer that would support my
fast-fading faith in the Man of Avon. But
out of Mr. Harris’s own mouth he is stulti-
fied. The synthetic character, ably con-
structed, whether suiting De Vere or no, is
certainly not, on his advocate’s own show-
ing, that of the Stratford man.
If Looney’s solution of the mystery is a
bubble, let us by all means prick it: but at
any rate let it be examined with fairness.
Truth will prevail. But the earnest seeker
after it must be prepared to follow the light
of evidence even to the most unwelcome con-
clusions ; to emancipate the mind from early
prejudices; to resist the current of the de-
sires and the refracting influence of the pas-
sions ; to proportion on all ‘occasions con-
viction to evidence, and to he ready, if need
be, to exchange the calm of assurance for
all the suffering of a perplexed and disturbed
mind. To do this is very difficult and pain-
ful, but it is clearly involved in the notion of
earnest love of truth. By such methods and
such only will the problem of the real Shak-
speare, like every other mystery, be solved.
ATHOS.
Austin Dobson
When Austin Dobson died a month or so
ago, Australian newspapers noted approv-
ingly that he was a knight and an eminent
civil servant “who was for many years con-
nected with the Board of Trade” ; and if the
dead poet, critic and essayist did not stir
uneasily in his long sleep, it is evidence that
there are still some veils which the morning
paper cannot b l- ush aside.
Austin Dobson’s peaceful, leisured life is
reflected in his verse and prose, which
breathe the dried-rose-leaf essence of the
Georgian age in which he lived in spirit,
while his body slumbered in his quiet Govern-
ment office. No one has so successfully repro-
duced for us the atmosphere of powdered
hair, flowered satins, polished floors and wax
candles as this late-Victorian civil servant,
who raised his eyes from the past now and
then to watch modernity roaring by and
then went back to his books, or to spadillo
and ombre and picquet with the Ladies of St.
James’s. I never pick up my copy of his
collected verse without calling up a vision
of Chippendale cabinets shining elegantly
(precious word!) in the potpourri-scented
dusk.
But he did more than convey atmosphere
with his verse. In “A Song of Four Sea-
sons” —“When Spring comes laughing by
vale and hill” —Dobson has written one of
the best of modern English lyrics and one
that will last, while “The Ladies of St.
James’s” might have owned Herrick for
father and not blushed. “Before Sedan,”
of his more serious verse, carries a note
which will find an echo in Australian hearts
for many a long year to come:— :
Ah, if beside the dead
Slumbered the pain!
Ah, if the hearts that bled
Slept with the slain!
If-the grief died, but no —
Death will not have it so.
Yet it is for his English “Essays in Old
French Forms” that one would cherish Dob-
son’s memory most. The vogue of those
fragile and artificial forms —“muslin flowers,
sparkling with glass dewdrops,” as Lowell
said of them —has passed and, in a genera-
tion of vers libre and worse, no one remem-
bers the sense for rhyme and rhythm de-
manded of their writers. But they had a
golden hour. Swinburne, Henley, Rossetti,
Dobson, Lang and many another made music
with them. Dobson was the last high-priest
of the cult; lie lived long enough to find it
forgotten and his own name chiefly remem-
bered by his “Life of Hogarth” and his edi-
tion of John Gay’s Fables. Yet a line or two
of rondeau, ballade or triolet is still quoted
occasionally. Some of us can remember the
“Ballade of the Prodigals” with its refrain
“Give, ah, give us but yesterday,” while the
“Ballade of Queen Elizabeth” with its true
Elizabethan tang—
For Howard may get to. his Flaccns,
And Drake to his Devon again.
And Hawkins bowl bumpers to Bacchus,
For where are the galleons of Spain ?
lingers pleasantly in the memory.
And of the “Ballade of Dead Heroes” one
can say it is not unworthy to adorn that
A.I.F. cenotaph—when it is feared:
Because you passed and now are not;
Because in some remoter day
Your sacred dust from doubtful spot
Was blown of ancient airs away;
Because you perished, must men say
Your deeds were naught, and so profane
Your lives with that cold burden ? Any,
The deeds you wrought arc not in vain.
No. For while yet in tower or cot
Your story stirs the pulse’s play,
Anti men forget the sordid lot,
The sordid cares of cities grey;
While yet beset in homelier fray,
They learn from you the lesson plain,
That life, may go so honor stay— v
The deeds you wrought are not in vain.
Even if none at all of liis delicate and per-
haps not' very vital work survives, what
then? Dobson did not aim, like the Horace
whom he translated so well and loved so
much, at an enduring monument. Let him
then sing his own epitaph in his favorite
rondeau form: —
In after days when grasses high
O’ertop the stone where I shall lie,
Though ill or well the world adjust
My slender claim to honored dust,
I shall not question or reply.
I shall not see the morning sky,
I shall not hear the night wind sigh ;
I shall be mute, as all men must
In after days!
But yet, now living, fain were I
That someone then should testify,
Saying: “He held his pen in trust
To Art, not serving shame or Inst."
Will none? Then let my memory die
In .after days.
J.B.H.
A Satchel of Books
The Heart oj the School, by Eustace Boylan (\V.
Linehan, Melb.). A rattling good story of school
life in Melbourne. The drawings, which are mostly
humorous, are by Colin Colahan.
Ella Keeps House, by Jessie Champion (John
Lane). This disproves once more the legend that
women lack the comic sense. The slender plot—-
it concerns a girl who invests her savings in 12
months of luxury—-is held up by some first-rate char-
acterisation.
The Unexpected, by Fergus Hume (Odhams). A
mystery story; but the mystery is so inartistieally
ill-concealed that you can see the explanation coming
for a couple of hundred pages. The characters are
poorly drawn, and the dialogue is sloppy. But with
iiard revision the book would be no discredit to the
writer.
Commonwealth or Empire f by Ernest Law, C.B.
(Selwyn and Blount). The sort of work that makes
our professional patriots see red. Its author is in-
disputably an Empire loyalist and a “King’s man,”
but like the Prince of Wales, whom he quotes in a
foreword, he dislikes the phrase “British Empire.”
The Prince at the Mansion House in December, 1919,
preferred “British Commonwealth,” and Mr. Law
adopts that term. As he remarks, “the words ‘lm-
perialism’ and ‘lmperial’ are suspect and very un-
popular.” They have entered the category of the
polluted. In Australia the Tories have successively
ruined the words “Liberal” and “Nationalist,” and
they are now looking for a new title. In England
“Imperialist” is. associated with shady company-
promoting and Hash Hebrews: with us the word calls
to mind second-rate politicians or self-advertising
clerics. It may be that Law is'right in his view
that it has done its dash. The term “Common-
wealth.” —Barton’s “greatest and most stately of
names” —certainly has possibilities.
.1 Prince in Petrograd, by Edgar Jepson (Odhams).
The Prince is a very unusual Englishman of 48;
his palace is a basement in a fired building, camou-
flaged by the ruins of the .upper storeys and stocked
with food and fuel; his court three girls whom he
has rescued from Chiiiese executioners, disguised
Prussians and other pillars of the Soviet Repub-
lic. Going to Russia in search of a son-in-law he
is ordered to quit the country within six hours,
but remains disguised as a Red Guard —remains to
go through some hair-raising adventures and win his
freedom and that of the damsels aforesaid (two of
them fall in love with him) by capturing Lenin. It
is a fantastically improbable but perfectly thrilling
story', told with rare spirit and humor. Jepson has
never done anything better.
The Inky Way
“Baarmutha”: lie the par from G. D. Meudell
(R.P. 22/9/’2l) aneiit a verse in “The Sick Stock-
rider” which J. J. Shilling-law preserved after A. L.
Gordon had discarded it. As a horsey.man and bush
sport, Gordon was doubtless a reader of Bell’s Like
in Victoria, and in an issue of the year 1857
(January 24, I think), appeared some unsigned verse
under the title “The Stockman’s Grave.” The
authoress was Mrs. J. L. Hay (formerly Maria Gray),
the daughter of a Waterloo veteran. The piece
contained four verses, the last two lines of each
verse being the same as in the first verse. The first
verse of Maria Gray’s “The Stockman's Grave” ran:
“Be ye bushmen or not, to my story give ear,
Poor Jack’s gone at last, and no more shall we hear
The mack of his stockwhip, his steed’s lively trot.
His clear ‘Go ahead,’ or his jingling quartpot ;
He sleeps where the wattle their sweet perfume shed,
And the tall gums shadow the stockman’s last bed.”
The fourth ran: -
“But, stranger, if ever at some future day,
In search of wild cattle you happen to stray
To where, lone and forgotten, poor Jack’s bones are
laid,
Far, far from the land where in childhood he played,
Tread light when the wattles their sweet perfumes
shed, i
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s last
bed.”
“The Sick Stockrider” first appeared in the
Australasian just previous to Massina’s first edi-
tion (1870) of Gordon’s “Bush Ballads and Gallop-
ing Rhymes.”
“N.0’8.”: Alfred Buchanan (R.P. 22/9/’2l) has
fallen into the popular error of repeating as authentic
the Carlyle story that Madame Roland in her last
moments exclaimed, “Oh, Liberty, what crimes are
committed in thy name!” The testimony on this
point is most clear; and Helen Williams (her close
friend) and others who were present at the' execu-
tion all agree that the words uttered were: “Oh,
Liberty, how hast thou been duped!” So doubt
Carlyle’s sentence makes excellent declamation, but
accuracy cannot, thus be sacrificed for pietnresque-
ness.
“Vandorian” (London): Beatrice Grimshaw’s
new novel, “My South Seas Sweetheart,” is being
read round the British fireplace—which loves to hear
of wild life in cannibal isles. The writer has given
a spicy little account of her wanderings to John o’
London’s Weekly. The tall lady from Belfast first
pushed a pen as a sporting journalist on a Dublin
paper, and says she was once asked by a famous
circus to give a is a fine horse-
woman —in its arena. She declined, but won a
woman’s 24-hour bicycle race.
“F.W.S.”: I am indebted to Mr. Lofting (R.P.
29/9/’2l), who obtained the idea from Schlegel,
who in turn probably pinched it without acknow-
ledgment from some other obscure writer, for the
notion that architecture is “frozen music,” and
that there is a sti-ong echo of “Rule Britannia” in
Windsor Castle. But the idea is good, nevertheless.
Tt so beautifully explains the hitherto inexplicable.
Across the road an obese bookmaker is building a
residence. Bow windows and unnecessary unsightly
corners project as blatantly as a Hebraic nose.
Obviously “Abe, my poy” is crystallising into bricks
and mortar. And the movies with their glaring
electric lights and garish advertisements' represent
the jazz bands everyone loathes.--


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
Fibrollffe
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. Tile sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send
for full information.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
By Hook or Crook
Send your Rabbit, Fox and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane. High Prices secured
will show the benefit of taking this step.
fourJofcen
ofßemembrance
A Zenobia Christmas Greet-
ing Sachet is a dainty, ap-
propriate gift for either an
old or a new friend. Its sweet
lingering fragrance is as
natural and alluring as the
scent of an old-tvorld garden.
Made in silk and other appropriate
materials. Daintily designed in
book form with interleaves for
greetings, etc., they contain highly
concentrated reproductions of
such favourite flowers as : Lily of
the Valley, Night Scented Stock,
Sweet Pea Blossom, Wallflower,
Violet, and other delightful scents.
7ENOBIA
p —3-igqiTC | |
Zenobia Sachets are obtainable at
most High-class Chemists, Per-
fumers and Stores.
Manufacture i only by
ZENOBIA, LTD., Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agent for
Australia (whole-
sale only) : Kenneth
Buckmaster, 15
O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(wholesale only) :
Newson & Co..
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
4
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY,
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Perth
Adelaide
Brisbane
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
South Australian Asbestos
and Mining Company Limited
(To be Registered in S.A. under the Companies Act 1892).
CAPITAL: £17,500 in 17,500 Shares of £1 each,
of which
6,500 Shares, fully paid, are to be issued to the Vendor Company in payment of
Vendors’ Rights in Eight Claims, comprising 320 acres in Hundred of Bright,
near Robertstown, S.A., together with all ore at grass, etc.
NO CASH is payable to Vendor Company.
6,000 Shares are now offered for Subscription at £1 per share, payable 5/- on applica-
cation, 5/- on allotment, .5/- three months after registration, and 5/- six months
after registration.
5,000 Shares to be held in reserve and issued as required.
17,500
Company will be considered formed when 5000 shares have been applied for.
Application Forms and Prospectus may be obtained from
A. B. HARVEY, 13-14 Industrial Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide,
where the original reports of the Government Geologist and Mr. H. J. Pask, of “Tucks”
Asbestos Company, Melbourne, and samples of asbestos from the Company’s Claims may
be inspected, or
J. W. DAGNABB, 285 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
SUNB'AM
COATA L E N
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-900 h.p.
A South African Owner says: —
“• . . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C? Ltd.
Wolverhampton, England.
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : “Subeamoco,” London.
Rill
ilium
If
24 h.p. 6 cyl. SPOUTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WII/MAM® BKOS, T,TD., 823 George Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
“G.M.”: John Barleycorn, Bacchus and
Co. cost the Victorians during the year ending
June, 1921, £8,144,922, being an increase
over the previous year of £1,124,019, or 10
per cent., and those figures are for the stuff
m bulk. Higher prices and increase of
population are responsible for the big jump.
The estimated average population of Vic. was
1,519,835, very nearly half of whom were
under 21 years; so that the adults, number-
ing 700,000, drank £lO 14s. worth of whisky,
wane and beer (chiefly beer) per head.
“Domestic” beer totalled over 20 million gal-
lons, worth £5,002.270, arid spirits at £4 15s.
a gallon were worth £1,905,000. The
amount spent is a record for Vic. Adding
liquor-vendors’ profits it must approach
£10,000,000 for the year.
♦ * * *
“Variometer”: Any lad possessed of about
£lO worth of wireless gear hooked up to his
mother’s clothes-line might occasionally receive
messages from places as far distant as Vladi-
vostock, Romo, Petrograd, Paris, Berlin, Funi-
bashi (Japan) and Carnarvon (Wales). But
all the power of all Australia’s wireless
stations rolled into one would barely suffice
to send a message to (say) Cairo. 1 wonder
how 7 many people realise that Australia, the
most isolated of all lands, is the only civilised
country in the world which does not possess
a single really high-power wireless station.
Whereas we can hear the stations of almost
every country in the world, we are unable
to send with certainty even to our nearest
neighbors. The solution is increased power.
“Gale”; At least one district reckons that
the N. 8. Wales Rural Bank has justified its
existence. The Coonamble graziers spent all
their money keeping their .stock alive in the
drought, only to see them washed aw r ay by
flood. Right up against it, and with no
credit in the trading banks, they sent a depu-
tation to the Federal Treasurer to try to
borrow enough to restock and buy tucker.
The reception was so chilly that the deputa-
tionists caught the next train back. They
interviewed the State Government on the
way, but as the Sydney Treasury had no
spare cash it began to look as if a large
number of landholders, with their families,
would have to bid farewell to the old homes.
Then the Commissioners of the Savings Bank
got to hear of it, and they sent up three
officials. They opened a branch of the Rural
Bank, inquired into every case and promptly
handed out the necessary assistance. There-
upon the cloud of Gloom that had settled
over the district vanished, and the new insti-
tution takes the field with a solid phalanx of
local barrackers.
“Zanthus” : Australia has a monopoly in
monotremes and all the non-fossil marsu-
pials in the world except a few 7 strays in
America. Before the war we let the Ger-
mans run the business of dealing in these
things for us. but now 7 the Associated Zoos
of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth (Adelaide
hasn’t come in) manage the whole show.
Some day there will be a Board of Con-
trol, with complete power over the export of
wild animals and their skins- meantime the
Zoos, working with the Commonwealth, have
things pretty well in hand, though the legal
position isn’t yet defined. The Zoos are
cutting out the middleman and dealing direct
with the consumer. On Sept. 14, A. S. Le
Souef, Director of the Sydney Zoo, left for
London with 1512 Australian animals and
birds,, including 800 finches, 100 cockatoos
and 100 parrots, 70 fruit-pigeons, 50 kan-
garoos, 40 wallabies, 12 wedge-tailed eagles,
10 emus, six pythons, four lung-fish, two
echidnas and two Tasmanian devils. He
will sell them in London to European and
American Zoos, and maybe do some exchang-
ing. It will cost £3OOO to land the lot in
London, but they ought to fetch twice that.
It isn’t easy to overstock the market either.
A shipload or so went to America last year,
but the Yanks are still asking for more.
CONLY’S STORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It sprawls near the end of the township,
At the top of a gravelled ramp,
W ith the great gaunt gums behind it
And the huts where the batchers camp;
The signboard is faded and dirty
that hangs over the chalk-scribbled door,
Rut it tells us whatever we're wanting
We’U find it at Conly’s Store.
It’s the place where we call for our letters,
It’s the bank where we cash all our cheques.
And we learn there the problem of living
When prices perturb and perplex ;
It’s the club where we talk over matters.
Discussing the mine and the lode,
The' chop and the trot and the tribute,
The coach and the holes in the road.
There's' physic on sale for our horses,
And potions and lotions for men,
And if we’ve a fancy for writing
They sell us the paper and pen.
It's (only who trades as a butcher,
its ('only who bakes us our bread,
And when there is need for a coffin
It's (.'only who buries our dead.
If sometimes we go down to Quinlan’s
To drink what is stronger than tea,
And there get to folly and fighting,
We’re brought before Conly, .I.l’.
If culverts are worn-out and broken,
Or log-bridges crumble and fall,
We form as a small deputation
On Councillor Conly to call.
When the parson comes round for the service,
At the regular moonshining date,
It's Conly who meets him and greets him,
It’s Conly who takes round the plate;
And since.we’Ve no doctor who’s nearer
Than Squills in the big town afar,
If we must see his nibs in a hurry
It’s Conly that takes us by car.
It sprawls near the end of the township,
Just by the last bend in the road,
And the coach pauses there with the mail-bag,.
And the teamster drops there his load;
The windows are crowded and dusty,
And the shelves could hold little more,
For whatever we’re wanting to purchase
They stock it at Conly’s Store.
TASMANIA.
O’PIIIMERTV.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
WHEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “Three piled rifles” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
- if
1 ' ' , l
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
*
\
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


w
THOUSANDS of women suffer miserably
from periodic attacks of headache, never
dreaming that permanent relief may be
had by the simplest means. Headache nearly
always results from some disorder of the stomach,
liver or bowels. Chamberlain’s Tablets will correct
these disorders and do away with headache.
ä
in
After The Purchase Price-Dependability
Dodge Brothers have never lost sight of the
fact that dependability must be included in
the purchase price of their car.
Because of its dependability, the United
States Government officially selected this
car without solicitation, for the strenuous
service which the battlefields of France
demanded.
Dodge Brothers will continue to build their
car so well, that it will always be depend-
able and the purchase price will be as
nearly as possible the last expenditure.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
“Rechefcheur”: Nicknames for place® •
Elliminyt (Vic.) docilely answers to ”±ieii
in a minute.”
“Steve Hart” : Re big families. W- Brock,
of Gobbergumblin, near Euroa (Vic.), had
34 children. But he was married twice.
“T. 0.1.”: The Sydney Benevolent Asylum
was built by Lachlan Macquarie, Governor-,
and “opened” by him on Oct. 4, 1821, eight
weeks before he left for England. Eighty
years thereafter the See Government wiped
it out to make way for the Central Railway
Station.
“Jam”: My nomination for the Queer
Epitaph Stakes (B. 6/10/’2l) is from the
cemetery at Port Victor (S.A.), and runs:
Here lies the mother of children five,
Of whom three are dead and two are alive,
The three that are dead preferring rather
To die with the mother than live with the father.
A Mr. Jennings, who lives in South Yarra
(Vic.), deserves well of his country. He
has just celebrated his 80th birthday, and
had a photograph taken with his daughter,
grand-daughter, great grandson and great-
great-grandson—five generations. He has
eight children, 41 grand-children, 48 great-
grandchildren and two great-great-grand-
children.
One of the original moving spirits in
Henley-on-the-Yarra was the late solicitor
John Lang. His 15 years’ connection with
the dressy-sporting function dated back to
the time when a lot of people sneered at it;
and he had so much to do with the early
boosting of the annual sliivoo that the com-
mittee has hung a photo of its dead friend in
the board-room.
George P. Mountain, dead at Bay of
Islands (M.L.), made some history. In
the ’sixties he shifted from Australia to
Purerua, where he was gum-buyer and store-
keeper ; afterwards he launched the first fish-
cannery in the district, and the industry still
thrives. He married Miss H. Lethbridge,
whose mother was the first white woman
born in M.L. He went out at 84.
While the debate on the Juvenile Street-
Traders’ Bill, relating mainly to the regis-
tration of newsboys, was before the Vic.
Assembly, voices were raised against com-
pelling the kiddies to wear badges. “What
would hon. members say if they had to sport
badges?” asked an indignant tribune. Hon.
members gazed at the railway and tramway
passes on their watch-chains and chuckled.
“T. 0.1.”: That note by “Sixenate” (B.
6/ltJ/'2l) about the Tichborne claimant re-
calls that he married the chambermaid at
a Wagga boarding-house, and the parson is
still living. He is F. T. Brentnall, the only
survivor of five Methody reverends who
arrived in Sydney in 1864. Brentnall later
took up newspaper work, settled in Bris-
bane and is now heading for his 87th mile-
stone.
Sculptor Web Gilbert and painter G. W.
Lambert have been inveigled by Minister
Frank Clarke to act as two of the Govern-
ment representatives on the sub-committee
of nine which is to select the site for the
Melbourne war memorial whereon a quarter
of a million is to be spent. Of course, they
may have to contend with municipal and
commercial nominees. Still, they may con-
quer.
Adelaide Government House is earnestly
pushing the fruit-export trade. Governor
Weigall sent cases of oranges to various in-
fluential English friends in the season, and
has now started on dried fruits. His wife
offers to send “an open letter on the whole
subject to leading firms in London and the
provinces,” and Agent-General Lucas, now
on holiday in Adelaide, has gratefully
accepted the offer.
It was recently mentioned in the S. Aus.
Assembly that one of the railway bosses had,
within two years, twice approved and twice
condemned super-heated locomotives. _ He
did that, I suppose, to show his impartiality,
interjected Peter Reidy. Peter has brightened
manv a dull debate. His crisp wit and
forceful oratory won him ex-Premier Peake s
seat for Victoria. That was over six years
ago. and Peter was then a moderate Labor
man. In the present Parliament he is a
party of one.
Vic. isn’t keen on accepting for its Par-
liament ITederal members who have been
dropped or who have retired voluntarily.
Only two State members who went into the
Commonwealth Parliament have returned.
One (Arthur Robinson), who was member
for Dundas in the Assembly, went to the
Reps., and when he wasn’t wanted any longer
by his constituents got into the Leg. Council
and became Attorney-General. The other is
Agar Wynne, who gave up the Uppah Cham-
bah to enter the Reps., and then threw the
Reps to become a . member of the Assembly.
Leckie and Crouch, two other ex-M.'H.K. s,
had tries for the State Parliament, but the
numbers were against them.
It sometimes works the other . way even
with domestics. Two maiden sisters well
known to half the metropolis, which half, at
one time or another, lias been their pupils,
wanting domestic help, discovered a promis-
ing advertiser who said : ‘‘Woman wants com-
fortable home, .light duties, 14s. a week.
This suited admirably, and the new domestic
aide was immediately established in the
family circle. She proved a treasure a
good * cook, clean, and most obliging and
courteous. Then came the moment for the
paying of the first week’s wages, and the
managing sister advanced with 14s. in hand.
But the aide got in first. “Miss Blank, she
said sweetly, “here is payment for the
week’s residence, and I am very well satis-
fied, thank you.” Nobody fainted, but it was
almost a knock-out.
Premier Lawson told a yarn, borrowed
from Inspector-General Emery, of the Sav-
ings Bank, at the expense of Treasurer Mc-
Pherson over the nuts and wrine at the
McWhae feast. A member of -the Castle-
maine Old Boys’ Association asked another
who had made a pile for the loan of a fiver.
High taxation, cost of living and keeping
of mother were made the excuses for a re-
fusal A week later they met again, and
the would-be borrower said he had heard it
was a “fairv” that the other was supporting
his mater—that, in fact, the old lady couldn’t
get a bean out of him. “Well, if mother can’t
what chance have you?” asked the prosper-
ous Castlemaniac, as he turned on his heel.
It was nearly as hard, Lawson declared, for
fellow-Ministers to screw money out of Mac,
and he didn’t admire any ordinary member s
chance in the current year.


■
m
sm
m
n
m
■
an
005
1131417^*41617
'msaamm
% .t
One dtwm Necessity on a Car
Means that
a Full Equipment of
will Eventually be Installed L
Necessities
Every day motorists are completing their Stewart Equipment, after proving for themselves
the wonderful value and genuine service that Stewart Products are capable of giving.
Car-owners everywhere have come to realise that every product bearing the Stewart
trade-mark has been produced with a purpose —-to increase the efficacy and value of the
car itself.
THE t&i&i&Wib VACUUM SYSTEM ends once and for all the feed troubles that are
so common with other feed systems. Recognised as one of the greatest improvements in
the motor-car industry. Ensures perfect, never-failing feed over roughest roads and
steepest hills. Easily installed in any car, old or new.
THE s&euwit> SPEEDOMETER is the most accurate and dependable speed and
mileage recording instrument ever constructed. Its exclusive magnetic principle is the
secret of its remarkable efficiency.
THE S&ewwib SEARCHLIGHT is without an equal in design, construction, finish
and efficiency. Throws a strong, concentrated beam of light one thousand feet in any
desired direction.
&t£wum WARNING SIGNALS are the highest-grade signals on the market. Tone
volume is unequalled.
THE tfOwwib AUTOGUARD is a real safeguard for the car. It combines unusual
strength with great flexibility.
Make your Car 100% Efficient by completing that STEWART Equipment. See your dealer to-day.
STEWART PRODUCTS ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Bennett & Wood, Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., 239 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie
Street, Adelaide; Arthur Christian, Hay Street, Perth.


Luxuriant Hair Promoted
By Cuticura
Cuticura kills dandruff, stops itching,
the cause of dry, thin and falling hair.
Treatment: Gently rub Cuticura Oint-
ment with the end of the finger, on spots
of dandruff and itching. Follow next
morning with a hot shampoo of Cuticura
Soap. Repeat in two weeks. Nothing
better than these fragrant, super-creamy
emollients for all skin and scalp troubles.
Soapls-.Talcum ls.6d.,Ointment ls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
11S West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
å
AMERICAN
A flashlight that
will last
AMERICAN Flashlights have
many improvements over the
ordinary type. Their patented shock
absorber, their dual contact, their
non-short-circuiting case, all make
them superior. They will give you
long useful service.
American Flashlight Batteries,
too, last longer and give a better
light. They fit all makes.
Ask your electrical dealer to
show you the many different styles
and sizes. Always insist upon
"American”.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc
30 East 42d Street, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of Columbia Dry
Cells, Automobile Storage Batteries, Car-
bon Brushes, and Carbon Specialties
(Columbia)
F322114E
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
&
■I
ai
'iu
\gno3
If your car is equipped
throughout with
You can set out on a • cross
country trip with every
confidence
They are yc ur best assurance
against tyre trouble - - -
ASK YOUR GAR AGB
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
J
m
m
mil:
r
111
TKe A 1
ritisK
SleffiHird
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
:: the world. :: ::
2 and 4- Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKEREEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
UNSHRINKABLE TOOL STEEL
The tool-maker who has to produce
tools accurate to a fine degree—even
to the thousandth part of an inch —
will find “Kite” Brand Tool Steel the
most satisfactory material.
It is unshrinkable, retains its sharpness
and is durable.
“Kite” Brand Tool Steel
is unrivalled for Milling Cutters,
Reamers, Taps, Dies, Punches, etc.
ON ► ®
“KITE” BRAND TOOL STEEL is one of the finest alloy steels,
and the slightly higher cost is more than balanced by the
accuracy and longer life of tools made from it.
Large stocks of round bars in sizes from -jin. to 7yin. diameter. Prices, etc.,
on application to Department “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Streep SYDNEY.
266 Katrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
B. Jj. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It is a bad sign that the proportion of
geldings in training appears to be growing larger
every year. Take a little lot that mostly ran at
Caulfield, and are likely starters for the Melbourne
Cup: Purser, Tangalooma, Prince Sandy, Arch
Marella, Daarewin, The Rover, Duke Napoli and Dun-
wil all of them gelded. Time was when unsexed
horses were the exceptions in Cup fields. Seemingly
they will be the rule presently.
The only Derby winner who carried the
7st. 51b. penalty to the fore in a Melbourne Cup was
Martini Henry in 1883. After one pound had been
added to the penalty Merriwee was the first Derby
winner to do the trick, but in the meantime New-
ru Ve v, had y? n the C U P with 7st. 131 b. after taking
the blue ribbon, and Aurum, a three-year-old who
didn’t win a Derby, was placed third for the follow-
ing Cup with Bst. 61b. on his back.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Whispering Dick” fast-
ened upon the ear of Dinny O’lsaacs, not far
from the Granite Bar. “I’ve something good,
t morrow, Dinny,’’ he pleaded, “an’ I’m broke.
Let s have a fiver, and I’ll pay you back on Tuesday.”
Dinny handed over the fiver, and as Dick moved off,
said with a touch of bitterness: “I’ll lay you five to
one you don’t pay that back on Tuesday.” “Lay
me fives!” protested Dick, still backing away—
‘measley fives ? Why, there ain’t another rook in
th ring won’t lay 50’s that I never pay y’ back at
all!
* * * »
Some old friends in England:—
Spooner turned out for Lancashire lately: Durston
bowled him for 6. Also, Braund for Somerset; he
made a few runs, but did not bowl a ball. F. R.
r oster, of Warwick, has been smashed up in a
motor-bike accident, and will play no more. Craw-
ford was induced to come south from his League
Club to play for Surrey, but was out for 1, and
bowled 1 for 50. The Foster family, who used to
cause Worcester to be called “Fostershire,” are out
of the game now, all except G.N., and he plays for
Kent; R.E., the best of them all, was killed in the
war.
* * * *
S. Aus. Cricket Association—now exactly
half a century old —has re-elected Mostyn Evan its
president as a matter of course. It is about to
become an incorporated body, and has secured a
lease of the Adelaide Oval from the City Corporation
for 21 years, rent jumping from the present £lOO
to a starting £2OO and a finishing £4OO. It pro-
poses to spend £12,000 in building a new members’
stand and terracing the mounds round the ground,
and to borrow £6OOO on 8 per cent, debentures for
this purpose; the other half of the money it has
already in hand. Its lease binds it to spend all
profits on improvements.
* * * *
S.E.N. ’: In a recent London sessions a
decision was given as to whether poker was a game
of skill or of chance. Several “experts” gave evi-
dence, one of them being Dalton, the writer on
bridge, who said he had played poker for 40 years,
and that there was most certainly a “preponderating
element of skill” in it. Another witness asserted
that a 14-years’ experience had convinced him that
skill was the “governing element.” Said counsel:
Is it not all a question of getting good cards?”
Witness denied this stoutly. “What would happen,
then, if you got four aces and a king?” queried
Mr. Silk. “I should drop dead,” was the reply.
The Court decided that poker was not an “unlawfui”
game.
“Adelaide”: The figures of our local foot-
ball season (Australian code) one detail which
seems unaccountable. The lower you get on the list
of clubs the better is the shooting for goal; that
the better is the proportion of goals to behinds.
The bottom club, which never won a match, shot 85
goals and 91 behinds. The bottom but one, with a
very poor record of results, is actually the only club
with more goals fihan behinds—ll 2 to 108. Among
the premier clubs the proportions are 195 to 222
and 164 to 212. All this is just about the opposite
of what one would expect. The modern S. Aus. weak-
ness of playing to the wings instead of centring is
admitted, but should not be less prevalent, or less
fatal, among the weaker clubs. Is it that inferior
players cannot score at all unless they are in such
a good position that the centre opening can hardly
be missed? Or that the best forwards shoot when-
ever they get anywhere within range, and chance
the result? Or is it (as I personally believe) pure
coincidence in this case?
The success of the Ernest Clarke colors in
early (and late) two-.vear-old races is about the most
consistent feature of the game these times. At Caul-
field last week he ran a pair of unfancied Welkin
children in a Nursery sprint—a colt and a filly—
and*the filly, Etherian, being a better grown young-
ster than her half-brother, managed to beat the
favorite by a head. Clarke goes in for progeny of
The Welkin and, as a rule, they fail to stay.
But not all of them are squibs. Now and then
Clarke has had one in J. Scobie’s care that could
go as far as 12 furlongs in moderate company,
though the custom is for the bright two-yeaiAold to fade
out of notice. Furious, trained by Marsden in Syd-
ney, is one of the least squiblike members of the
family that E. E. D. Clarke favors. The filly gets
her tendency to stamina from the dam, and seems
quite likely to last long enough to win the V.R.C.
Derby, with Cupidon out of the way. But as a Cup
candidate she looks less likely than Honey Bee,
Harvest King, Lionel Attwill, Sister Olive, Sefton
or any other respectable three-year-old sired by one
who gets stouter stock than the Welkins have proved
themselves. On personal appearance, and on his
defeat of Lionel Attwill in the Two-vear-old Mile
at Flemington last July, the pick of the Derby
horses for Melbourne Cup-—if he gets only just
beaten in the classic event —will be Harvest King.
There seems to be a more or less considerable excuse
for the colt’s bad showing in the A.J.C. Derby, and
should he escape a penalty (without disgracing him-
self once more) his burden in the Cup—6st. 71b. —•
will give him a chance.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Get his recent half-head defeat
by Tangalooma off your mind and you can see no
reason why Eurythmic should not repeat the Carbine
feat of winning the Melbourne Cup with lOst. 51b. up.
Personally the writer doubts whether the Eudorus
horse proved himself “another Carbine” when he
beat Arch Marella and Amazonia for last Sydney
Cup, carrying 111 b. less than his handicap for the
coming event. Undoubtedly the time comparison is
not worth considering, for courses have been levelled
a lot since Carbine was on the job, and every Cup
race is faster than it was 30 years ago. Arguing on
the “another Carbine” theory the evidence against
Eurythmic is that he appeared to fail in last Mel-
bourne Cup, as a four-year-old, when his weight was
151 b. less than it will be next Tuesday week, where-
as Carbine at the same age carried lOst. into second
place, despite a tender heel and trouble with his
teeth. Still, Eurythmic’s one defeat last season may
have been due to his being somewhat out of sorts
that day. Besides, the fact that he hung on well
enough to finish fourth must be remembered in con-
junction with the fact that he was giving 321 b.
each to the second and third. And the winner,
Poitrel, carried lOst. After all, that is a strong
point in Eurythmic’s favor this year. Supposing
him to have been off color last Melbourne Cup day,
fllie 9st. 41b. horse did a great thing in beating
everything bar Poitrel and two seven-stoners, whilst
the triumph of Poitrel under lOst. was an encourage-
ment to backers of top-weights. The force of the
opposition looks to be weakening as the day
approaches, as it did in Carbine’s year, and if
Eurythmic wins the Melbourne Stakes handsomely, as
Carbine did, nothing but the allegation as to his
excellence at two-miles will be left for confirmation.
(Continued on page So.)


ā
ă
ą
saw
HIM
ss*
m
mi
*
-ss
.V JFi>
: £(ty' : /y'£M
Svr.
■V ;''/*&■£
Vi}':
£*:•• jg.y.V'*:-.
O
i,yt*
WM
m
>s&M
%m
ggfflffl
w
•5&.-.W
«
‘v s V.vj3
.5gS!
*m?4M
;m.
: Wm
zm
mm
Vvj *>j-ri-
-I%#;
' 5?
iilip
MM
w'\‘vSl3
/v V
iss
MRSMhR
'■••'" ■'%3sE3S”‘ w ’“ v
t' KJSsW -"■ .
-VSSTritB
■ . ."w*v -
'Wsr.
» j*, WP- ■
a®
>.»■'
-■• ■ .-. :■ . '
- 2&®s
*%* •*'** •$'
ggi
• *&**»
«** M
v>
r\
.*,«**>*-
I
feP'i:
&
Sai'r
y+s*
im
■HAM
: •' -> ‘ -V
JH
fe-
W^-^'iSsF.'jSSj
: '
' v f-i- v
,p;
■ ‘V;-
as*
SMI
Sga
g 3&
'Wd,
m
l
:w
:&$■
m
sfss
i
'M
&Sts%
WMM
m
m
m
m
M
!*%£s&
i&i
hr,
m
ji«S5
W
gg®
m
Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE
REMEDY FOR THE ERADICATION
OF WORMS IN CHILDREN AND
ADULTS.
W orms, by their movements and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain and uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing or biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and jet very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the anus
and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often discolored, sometimes con-
stipated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed,
w ith occasional bloody discharges, as in
djsentery. The discharge is sometimes in
shreds or flakes, which are not infrequently
mistaken for fragments of partially-digested
00 ' * s n °t uncommon for portions of
undigested food to pass with the discharges.
The appetite is exceedingly variable, in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved; one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or fetid, and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleeding
of the nostrils and disposition to grind the
teeth during sleep, are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however, often
extend beyond the alimentary canal, and
various derangements of health are experi-
enced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted
vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent in
children, and symptoms strongly resembling
“Water on the Brain” have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to re-
cognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts of
temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char--
acteristie that no mother need have any
dobuts. The best proof of worms is worms,
and if the general conduct of the child is
such as to give the slightest suspicion, an
examination of the stools (evacuation from
the bowels) will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper, and com-
plains of itching of the nose, whilst flit'
same symptoms may be very prominent in-
deed in the lower part of the bowel. An-
other point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its re-
pose being in this way of a disturbed nature.
Note also that many children who are in the
habit of wetting their beds do so by reason
of the irritation which these Worms pro-
duce in the body, the irritation extending
to the bladder and causing it involuntarily
to* part with its contents.
Tn every heap of decaying matter there is
always to be found a nest of worms. They
breed and multiply in impure matter. And
so it is in the human system. The accumu-
lation of partially-digested food in the intes-
tines, which becomes putrid when the bowels
are constipated, induces the presence of
Worms. A few doses of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose or
two of I)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will
disturb them in their nest, and drive them
out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation,
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties
which destroy the worms, but cause no
injury to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of' a confection or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill. Sydney,
N.S.W.. and Farish Street, Wellington.
N.Z. Price 3/6 per packet (6 packets 20/-)
post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.


A. Saunders’ Casserole Dish, pure Silver-plated Frame, hands
pierced and burnished, fireproof China lining, with Lid,''
£6/6/-
A, Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, 90/-
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £9/9/-
Silverplate Table Appointments
\
A
swaw
5T
A. Saunders’ Breakfast ; Combination, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quati tv,' finest English Cut Glass,
, £5/10/-
r M
iwwmy
m
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. IT’S FREE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY
A. Saunders’ pure Silver-plated Waiters, Al quality,
highly burnished, plain designs, fancy edges
10in„ £4/15/-; 12in„ £5/10/-;
14in.,. £7/10/-; 16in:, £lO/10/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, English Cut
Crystal Glass, Bowl pure Silver-plated, Mounts and
Servers, £3/15./-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set and Stand, pure Silver-
plated, Al quality, gilt-lined, Sugar and Cream, highly
burnished, £l2/10/-
in
SfeuxCT
HIBH
IQ
bourne froimdry
BELLS.
Bells as memorials. A beautiful and fitting tradition now
being revived. Lifeless marble and granite may epitomise
some great cause or event, but the voice of the Bell is a living,
speaking memoriam.
“Hear the tolling of the bells—
Iron bells!
What a world of solemn thought their monody
compels.”
We cast bells in sizes up to 36in in diameter, and weighing
half a ton. Genuine bell metal is used, producing the real
bell tone. Special bells cast for special purposes. For ordinary
use we show a selection in our showrooms, ranging in size
from 8 inches to 24 inches across the mouth, and suitable for
Churches, Schools, Fire Towers, Ships, Factories, and as
Memorial Bells.
Similar Bells have been supplied with great success to all
parts of the Commonwealth and the Pacific Islands for many
years past. Angle Steel Bell Towers supplied where belfries
are not available.
These Australian Bells save you much needless expense over
imported Bells. Specify them both for patriotism and profit.
“Learn the wisdom early of discerning true beauty in utility.”
Write or call.
JohnDanks eScNPfrL#
3 24-330 P iii Si. Sydney
391-403 Boarke Si. Melbourne SS


Amusements.
chief theatres.
S * ® J. Tt'd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
THEODORE AND CO.
CRITERION.
PADDY. THE NEXT BEST THING.
AM.AX WILKIE’S SHAKSPEAHEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
\ustralian Tour, Short Season only, from Oct. 29 to
Xov. 19. HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, PERTH.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
T II 1C A T It IC M
JM O N PICT li It
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 29,
THEATRIC ROYAL.
FIREFLY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
KING’S THEATRE.
Last Nights of JOSEPH COYNE and Comedy Co. in
WEDDING BELLS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H
OYT’S THEATRICS. MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
PE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
A New Copy of Picture which established a world’s
record,
QUO VADIS.
Also
ORA CAREW in
LOOT.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IIC.ST IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING' NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG in
HUSH.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 3.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A Complete New Company of English, American,
Continental and Oriental Artists.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, -2/- (plus tax).
Reserved Seats 6/- (plus tax).
Plan at Glen’s.
ON TOUR.
DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring South Australia.
B
BIT ANN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
m
THEATRE,
.MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
' •' ” * n and SET.ZNTCK.
Missing Friends.
Florence lyons, daughter
of Edwina Croswell, who died
at Adelaide in January,
1914, is requested to communicate
with
MILLER & MILLER,
Solicitors,
Launceston, Tasmania.
Missing: Friends.
tOHN THOMAS (known as JOHN MORGAN), son
J SON STEWARTSON, of Laverton, Victoria, are
Wales, England, brother of William Henry Thomas,
David Meyrick Thomas and Mary Thomas, last heard
of in Brisbane, Queensland, or any person knowing
his whereabouts or particulars of his death (if de-
ceased), kindly communicate with —-
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., LTD.
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
/-rvIIE NEXT OF KIN of the late HENRY HENDER-
± SON STEWARTSON, of Laverton, Victoria, are
requested to communicate with The Trustees Execu-
tors and Agency Company, Limited, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne. _________
Legal Notices.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
To JAMES ORLAN VINEY the husband of
Marjorie Jessie Viney.
W r HEREAS a Citation has been issued out of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of the said Marjorie Jessie
Viney wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
NOW' THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that within
thirty days after the Fifth day of November one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one the date ot
the last publication of this notice you are to appear
in our said Court then and there to make answer to
the said Petition which may be inspected and a
copy thereof obtained by you upon application at
the office of the Registrar at the Supreme Courtat
Hobart aforesaid AND ALSO TAKE NOTICE that
in default of your appearing to answer the said
Petition as aforesaid a Judge ot om said Couit
will proceed to hear the said charge proved in due
course of law and to pronounce sentence therein
your absence notwithstanding AND JAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
days from the said fifth day ot November one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one to attend in
person or by your Proctor at the Registry of the
Supreme Court and enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.
DATED at Hobart in Tasmania this nineteenth day
of October one thousand nine hundred and twenty-
one - W. 0. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Douglas & Collins,
Launceston,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. (he
Attorney Ger.er I, und-r the t uspices of a
Citizens’ Comm ttee.)
dell OO First Prize v lued dtllOO
€SOOSecondPiiz:va’ue £5OO
£3OO ihird Pr ze valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 2fith. Winning
numbers publisliedon 31st Mav, 19 2
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Tic.-et may pos ibly win £^7oo.
Tickets obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. throu.’n the
Stare an i Samuel T. Green, Hon 'tcretary.
Council C ambers, N.s.W
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILKG
SLOUGH. BUCKS.
a
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining - , Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZINC,
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
æ
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
1
CRAIG & AITKEN , 654 George St., Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reii Cigar Factory.
THE ROYAL BARK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited,
Head Office: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SIXTY-SEVENTH REPORT,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary Gw al Meeting on 27th October, 1921.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before hareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the Half-year ending 30th September dulv audited and certified. £5B 215 18 9
The net profits amount to .. • • • • • • • • - * *' ' * ’ *
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.: —
To pav a Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent. ; er annum
Transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £4o 000)
And to add to the amount carried forward
ss. Bd.)
fr. m last Half-year (making it £31,635
£37,500 0
20,000 0
715 18 9
By order of the Board,
£58,215 18 9
H. T. WILSON,
BALANCE SHEET for the Half-year ending 30th September, 1921.
Including London Branch figures to 30th July, 1921.
Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —-
600,000 Shares
of £4 each. . £2,400,000 0 0
~ Capital Subscribed —
390,000 Shares
of £ 4 each •• £1,560,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up—•
270,000 Shares
paid up to £ 1
120.000 Shares
paid up to £ 4
~ Reserve Fund..
„ Profit and Loss
Account
£270,000 0 0
480,000 0 0
435,000 0 0
89,135 5 8
Notes in Circulation
B 11s in Circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing In-
terest . . £42,371 1 6
Bearing Interest 870,555 711
, Other Deposits—Rebate and In-
terest accrued —•
'Not bearing In-
terest . - £2,241.517 17 4
Bearing Interest 1,439,540 17 8
£1,274,135 5
845 0
657,927 2
912,926 9
3,681,058 15
8
0
9
0
~ Contingent
contra
Liabilities as
per
£6,526,892 12 10
225,068 10 0
£6,751,961 2 1C
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian Notes
and Cash at
Bankers •. £1,359,282 18 1
~ Notes and Bills
of other Banks 4,147 8 o
„ Balances due
from other
Banks .. 19,806 6 5
~ Bills and Re-
mittances in
transit and pay-
able in London 81,803 16 0
Gov ernment,
Municipal, and
other Public
Stocks, De-
bentures and
252,630 18
1,665 4
Funds
„ Stamps
„ Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises .. • • • •
Bills Discounted and other ad-
vances exclusive of provision
for Bad and Doutful Debts . .
~ Bank Fittings, Sta-
tionery, etc.
1,719,336 11 2
154,600 0 0
4,652,206 1 8
750 0 0
£6,526,892 12 10
Liabilities and Securities of Cus-
tomers and others in respect .of
Contingent Liabilities as per conti a
225,068 10
£6.751.961 2 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
o Salaries, Rent, Income and Land
Taxes and other Charges..
~ Balance
£38,879 10
89,135 5
£128,014 16 f
.. £88,419 6 11
By Balance at 31st
March, 1921
Lens Dividend de-
clared 28th April,
1921
Transfer to Reserve
Fund
£37,500 0 0
20,000 0 0
57,500 0 0
~ Balance carried down .. • •
„ Profits for the Half-year after
deducting Interest accrued or,
Deposits and Rebate on Bills
Current, less Reserves for Bad
and Doubtful Debts
£30,919 6 11
97,095 9 6
£128,014 16 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
o Balance .. .. .. . . £435,000 0 0
£435,000 0 0
By Balance at 31st March, 1921 ..
Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account
£415,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£435,000 0 0
Wanted.
WANTED 10/12-B.H.P. Benzine
’ ’ Motor Hoist, for Mining
purposes.
Reversible preferred.
Send particulars tc
McCALLUM & CO., Charters Towers.
If anv illustration appearing in Tiie
, >uli.etin takes your fancy, write to the
vr °nmrer. who will onote you prioe for it.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Edison Amberol Records
for October.
ǽ
All musical tastes are catered for this month in a really
good variety of entertaining selections.
Lovers of song will find two excellent records in the
Royal Purple list, including the admirable “Le Reve”
(Manon).
The Blue Amberol list contains a number of the latest
song “hits” as well as good a choice of dance music and
instrumental and band selections.
You should not fail to call and hear the two Fox Trots
(’‘Amorita” and “In Sweet September”) next time you
are passing the shop of an Edison Dealer.
Royal Purple Records.
29064 —Dream Faces. Bari-
tone, orch. acc.
Thomas Chalmers. and
Chorus.
29065 —Le Reve (The Dream)
—Manon, Tenor, in
French, orch. acc.
P. A. Asselin
Blue Amberol Records.
41X1 —Homeward March.
forte by Joe Linder.
Accordion, piano-
John J. Kimmel
4131 —Wedding of the Rose —Intermezzo.
Conway s Band
4135 In Sweet September. Fox Trot, for
dancing. Green Bros. Novelty Band
4136 Chimes. Celesta.^
4137 — Amorita —Fox Trot, for dancing.
Lenzberg's Riverside Orchestra
4138 Hawaiian Twilight. -
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra
4140 Love, Here is My Heart. Tenor, orch.
acc. Reed Miller
4141 Love Nest Medley (Introducing “Mary”)
Mary. Imperial Marimba Band
4142 — Chautauqua at Pun’kin Center. Rural
stor y_ Cal Stewart
4143 I’d Like t Q Take You Away—Betty Be
Good Contralto and Baritone, orch.
acc. Helen Clark and Joseph Philips
4144—Tw0 Little Bullfinches Polka. Piccolo
and Clarinet. Pianoforte by J. F. Burck-
hardt.
Weyert A. Moor & Anthony Giammatteo
4148 — Sanctus (Holy, Holy, Holy Lord God)—
—Messe Solennelle —Ste Cecilia. Tenor
and Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
Albert Lindquest and Calvary Choir
4149 — All She’d Say Was “Umh-Huin.” Tenor,
orch. acc. • Reese Jones
4153 —Sweet Luana. Soprano and Contralto.
Hawaiian Guitar acc.
Gladys Rice and Elizabeth Lennox
4155—1 n Old Manilla. Soprano and Tenor,
orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd and Lewis James
4157 —Hungarian Rhapsody. Violoncello, piano
acc. by Dorothy Kennedy.
Lauri Kennedy
4159 — "When I Look in Your Wonderful Eyes.
Baritone, orch. acc. Edward Allen
4160 — Venetian Moon. Violin, piano acc. by
J. F. Burckhardt. Rae Eleanor Ball
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


flolejoix&fHosiery
Obtainable m
Pure Silk, Silk-faced, Fibre
(Artificial) Silk, Lusterized
Lisle.
Realise the comfort, wear and
exquisite beauty of the
HOLEPROOF SOX.
CAN YOU REALLY AFFORD TO BUY OTHER MAKES?
Wholesale Indents: Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd., 50 York Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “The Maid of the Mountains"
Koyal “Theodore and Co.”
Criterion “Paddy, the Next Best Thing”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
® orAlj “Firefly”
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera
King’s “Wedding Bells”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
Five years ago the writer left an English
hospital to go to “Theodore and Co.” Four
days ago he almost felt as if he wouldn’t
mind reversing the procedure. It was a
splendid show in London, but in spite of a
capable cast the Sydney production fails
somehow to get home. Possibly the cast
will grow into it as the season proceeds—
if it proceeds far enough. Cyril Ritchard,
quite a good actor when the part suits him,
makes a lamentable Minister for Movies,
and Field Fisher js scarcely recognisable
as an altogether inconceivable footman. On
the other hand, Maude Fane and W. S.
Percy do a tremendous amount of work, and
do it exceedingly well. Paul Plunkett, as
Lord Theodore, head of the very shady firm
of Theodore and Co., and Harry Wotton,
“the man with the blue envelope,” are two
other outstanding features. With repairs
and renewals “Theodore and Co.” may not
go into liquidation. If it continues as it
is now and still pulls through, it will be
the reputation of the players that will be
responsible.
** # *
Andre Skalski, who dropped into Sydney
unannounced, is another young man who
plucks his daily bread from the piano key-
board. He is slim and dark, with an upright
forehead, and hails from tragic Poland, so
naturally his music is heavy-weighted. His
programme on Saturday night roused an
ultra-fashionably frocked Conservatorium to
enthusiasm. He tackled the Brahms rhapso-
dies with aplomb and the Wagner items with
thunderous nonchalance, but was, perhaps,
at his best in the Liszt compositions. His
style is easy and assured, and he has the
gift of creating the romantic atmosphere.
His programmes include the moderns as well
as the ancients. There will be a second con-
cert at the Conservatorium to-night (Thurs-
day), and all the proceeds will go to help
Polish orphans.
$ $ si; $
Levitzki’s farewell to Sydney was in the
nature of a triumph. Saturday’s matinee
audience could scarcely be dislodged from
the Town Hall, so resolutely did it stand
and demand encores. Six times the young
man returned to the piano after the pro-
gramme’s final number; and then he had to
satisfy 500 hungry autograph-hunters in the
artists’ room. His programme contained a
little, bit of everything, notably a group of
Chopin, which he appeared to envelop with
more even than his usual charm.
$❖ v ❖
The arrival of a bright new show in the
next street has in nowise lessened the popu-
larity of “The Maid of the Mountains,” at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Nor has “Paddy,
the Next Best Thing,” at the Criterion, been
Constrained- to remove to fresh bogs and
pastures new.
There still are Sydneysiders who stay at
home in Melbourne Cup week, and their
reward may come in first acquaintance with
a new lot at the Tivoli. Lyric-soprano
Rosa Alba, back from her wanderings, sings
classical numbers as artistically as you would
expect her to, and a diminutive contem-
porary, Rene Eisner, appeals to the audience
equally by dainty charm and roguishness.
Other departments of vaudeville are repre-
sented by George E. Barnes (comedian),
Colin and Campbell (concertina specialists).
T.ee Chee Loon and Co. (conjurers), and
Marzon and Florence, these last a pair of
balancers of the music-hall variety, which is
a large improvement on the familiar race-
course breed
$ $
The Sydney Choral Society met with all
the accustomed acclamations for its render-
ing of "II Troyatore” on Saturday night.
Even the torrents of rain did not make a
noticeable impression on- the attendance. Of
the soloists Maude Telfer and Frank Charl-
ton won the greatest show of hands ; though
Ernest Archer’s Manrico to Maude’s Leon-
ora did not fail to gather a round or two of
applause. Eugene Boland as Azucena, was
another star that shone against the back-
ground of the chorus work. Old favorites
like “The Anvil Chorus” and the Miserere
scene kept conductor Reginald Gooud busy
bowing acknowledgments, and the work of
the Conservatorium Orchestra refused to be
overlooked.
At Sydney Crystal Palace, Alice Joyce
diverts a conviction for murder by “The
Scarab King” she wears. As Constance
Randall, .she has a rocky path to tread.
Burdened by a secret from her father’s past
lite, the defence of her sister’s happiness
and her own honor, and a murder trial —it
would break the spirit of many a girl. But
not Alice’s. She ends up by entering into
matrimonial partnership with the young-
lawyer who defended her. Same address
sees Charlie Chaplin going gay among the
palm-leafed beauties of “liula Hula Land.”
Aazimova defies a native rising and dances
on the steps of an Indian temple to save
the life of the man she loves, and inciden-
tally the whole garrison of which he is part.
“Stronger Than Death” is the name of the
exotic story that makes the Lyceum throb.
Ihe Strand and Haymarket discover “The
Cud in the Taxi.” “Appearances” is the
worry of the Globe and Haymarket, just as
it is the worry of all the world at the
moment—how to make look like six-
pence to somebody else is a problem that the
Luclids of two hemispheres are trying to
solve. A baronet, an architect and a stock-
broker and a pretty girl go into the melting-
pots to make this daily round’s rehash. On
the same street “A Wise Fool” gets a hand-
ful pf love when his pocket-book is empty.
* S: * *
Those who knew Sydney 40 years ago,
when all their world was young, have lost
pleasant memories if they have forgotten
Johnnie Wallace and his work in “Dorothy”
and “Tambour Major” and a dozen other
successes of a day that had never even
heard of a movie. Since then Johnnie Wal-
lace has somehow missed the narrow path to
the palace of financial success, so there is to
be a benefit for him early next month. Even
if an old admirer is too far north or south,
or east or west, to be present in the flesh,
there s the cheque-book and the post. War-
riors Campaign Rooms. Post Office Build-
ings, is the address of the committee Which
has the benefit in hand.
* * Ijc
A shuffle pf J.C.W. cards this week will
place “Firefly,” late of Her Majesty’s, at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday, Coyne and
Co. being moved from the Royal to the
King s to try their luck for the last five
, their season. Meantime tuneful
I irefly continues to wag its feeble tale
in the house where Melbourne first formed
opinions about it, and where the humor of
Gilbert and Sullivan will be shortly wel-
comed once more. The fleeting series of G.
and S. revivals at Her Majesty’s starts
on Derby night with “Gondoliers,”' for three
times only. Then comes “Yeomen of the
Guard” for the same period, followed by
other, operas that age cannot wither, nor
familiarity breed contempt for.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s “On Our Selection”
still holds the stage. The two farewell
nights of that unconventional money-spinner
should pave the way with merriment for five
finals of “Wedding Bells,” which will ring
the curtain down on Joseph Coyne. Holi-
day audiences which have known not Joseph
in his previous worries with womankind and
matrimony ought to find “Wedding Bells” a
more droll and profitable frivolity than the
races. There are some bright epigrams and
wise maxims concealed amidst its compli-
cations. Also, it is a very light entertain-
ment, and a cure for any but severe cases
of sadness induced by vain endeavor to
back the winner.
“PADDY . THE NENT BEST THING,”
AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Charles Courtneidge as Lawrence Blake.
At Melbourne Tivoli the turn that occu-
pies most of the space vacated by Wilkie
Bard is Claude Dampier, who has abated
nothing of his stature since his last visit
to these shores, and now appears at full
length. Hilda Attenboro ministers to his
patter needs. Lottie Collins, junior, in addi-
tion to being her mother’s daughter warbles
of how she used to love, and Stuart Barnes
is the same pleasing pessimist as when he
talked and intoned in the Annette Keller-
man co. Also Mr. and Miss Tree are highly
respectable exponents of the art of second-
sight and telepathy as practised by vaude-
ville professors. And there are others, in-
cluding Nell Flemming.
At Melbourne Town Hall the very last of
the Butt —or nearly-all-Butt— concerts is
timed for Saturday night. The N.S.W,
Orchestra, with Verbrugghen in command, is
to experiment with concerts at Melbourne
Princess’s (where the poor Girl used to take
the Wrong Turning) regularly from Novem-
ber 5 to 12, and once afterwards. If the
Cherniavskys have reconsidered their plans
for leaving Melbourne the best friends of
music will be glad, and if the loudest advo-
cates of literary drama forget to patronise
Moon and Morris as Mutt and Jeff in a
comedy dance at Sydney Tivol l.
Mermaid Play Society productions of Shaw
and Arnold Bennett, at the Playhouse this
week, the best friends of Culture will know
what to think of them,
* v * *
Flotow’s bright little opera, “Martha,”
neatly staged at Melbourne Playhouse fotlr
nights last week, indicated that the profes-
sional hand of Howett-Worster is levering
the Melba ConsetvatoriUm out of the rUts of
amateurism. Gertrude Hornal, a plump but
pleasing blonde with a well-poised light
soprano, warbled and shaped prettily as
Martha, the maid of honor masquerading as
a farm girl. More especially in the “Last
Rose of Summer” number, purloined by Flo-
tow from its composer. Louie IlilbUrn waS
songfully and dramatically interesting enough
as her flighty pal Nancy; but With both
damsels vocal artistry rather outclasses the
Voice. As the sentimental tenor, W. J. Caz-
now, handicapped by an ill-fitting green coat
and an upstanding shock of dark hiair,
atoned for a weak start by a nearly-trium-
phant finish. He uses his silvery
tenor soulfully. and his “In My Dream
She Appeared ’ was almost passionate.
Actor Howett-Worster starred heavily as
Farmer Plunkett, but he makes a deadly-
dull lover, and humor is not his strong-
suit. A. Cox scored vocally as the sheriff,
and G. Beaeham wrestled successfully with
the part of Sir Tristram. The farm wenches
in general were too saucily piquant to pro-
vide the required contrast between their (sup-
posed) bucolicism and the genteel elegance
of the masquerading Martha and Julia, The
J.C.W. firm had dressed the whole show, but
the person who upholstered Nancy in middle-
aged black brocades needed a gentle repri-
mand. The tuneful chorus was jnellow-
toned as an old violin in the grand ensemble,
which always sets one thinking of the sestet
and chorus,in “Lucia.” A detachment of
Zel man’s Symphony Orchestra, batoned by
Fritz Hart, was in fine fettle, though the
pianist seemed too anxious to make herself
heard.
* * *
Maud Grantham gives one of her rare
recitals in Melbourne next Tuesday night
(which is the Feast of St. Nag) and repeats
the deed on the following Saturday. Dick-
ens and Kipling’s “Just So” stories fill the
first bill, and the second will hold bits of
Stephen Leacock, Barrie and Hilaire Belloc.
One of the special uses of Wirths’ Circus
in Melbourne during its annual visit is to
confer a gold-mounted whip on the jockey
who does the big trick. The ceremony is to
happen on Cup Night in accordance with
ancient custom, and Philip Wirth, his chest
gilded with tributes to his early prowess on
the bare-backed steed, will present the whip,
unless he can get Hughes to do it. The
Circus advt. begs to inform country visitors
that now is their last chance of seeing it ere
the vast concern proceeds to Tassy and
Enzed. The chief performing monkey seems
to have more of a derry than ever on his pet
antagonist the terrier, and noisy beasts of
smell in the menagerie are setting a bad
example to the brown educated bear, who
goes about his business without saying a
word.
On the Melbourne Majestic screen ortho-
dox 'Murkan sentimentality gets full play
in “A Broken Doll,” Monte Blue, a noble
nature, makes a doll for the little crippled
daughter of his boss, the ranch owner, but
the doll comes to grief and his first thought
in life is to travel far to buy another one,
Itiding to the doll-shop he meets the hero-
ine (Mary Thurman) and learns of an out-
law at large, also of a huge reward on the
outlaw’s head. After which he slays the
miscreant, gets the reward and annexes the
lovely girl, At Hoyt’s and Lyceum the re-
vived “Quo Vadis” picture abounds in iUci-
dents and horrors that were more or less in-
cluded in the original novel, but didn’t figure
in Wilson Barrett’s adaptation thereof. For
instance, a picnic party of lionesses, wander-
ing towards a feed of Early Christians, was
hot presented in the “Quo Vadis” that Bar-
rett staged, whereas yotl can behold & mob
of earnest pietists praying within ease
Walking distance of the careless lions it
Hoyt’s, The meal, however, is not filmed,
Blanche Sweet repeats at the Britannia the
Unreasonable reticence she exhibited in “The
Girl ih the Web” at the Majestic last week,
and the. popular loveliness of Wallace Reid
is exploited in a lively motor-race story at
the Melbd,
* sji * *
Adelaide shows are pleasantly varied.
Allan Wilkie, hailed as an educational fored;
has had packed houses at the Royal for every
sample of the Bard he cared to produce.
Clara Butt of the Voice is as enthralling as
OVer at the Town Hall. There are hew
songs on the list, but no audience is satis-
fied till it gets “Land of Hope and Glory”
find the intimate duet concerning the Chubbs
Of Heaven. “Scandal” is just starting af the
Royal ; melodrama continues at the P. of W.,
and Fuller’s Variety at the King’s,
From an Adelaide critic:—
The latest exhibition of the Camera Club is
probably its best. An agreeable note of novelty
is introduced by inter-State exhibitors: Coulsdn, ah
official photographer in Egypt, has brought back
studies ranging from pyramids to Palestine; Tindale
shows ail influence acquired in Japan; Grenfeldi
introduces scenes of life at and about Valparaiso, The
iocal work is mostly creek and eticalyptus and
quai'ry. The old champion Wilkinson is again On
top, though closely pressed by P. H. Williams and
others. The judges make no demur about picking the
absolute dozen best in the show; Wilkinson has four
of these, and a creek-scene from the Flinders Ranges
gets the first award. The club is greatly increasing
in membership, and has arranged a series of lectures
for the seasbii;
“G.” : Gcnee, tlie Danish dancer who some
years since delighted Australia, and inci-
dentally made Bedford burst into ecstatic
song, now devotes her time and energy to
trying to foster an English school of ballet-
dancing. Gende thought the Australians
wore natural dancers, especially the girls,
though they had rarely been taught that
dancing was a serious art. and just as im-
portant as acting and singing. The Russians
have raised the ballet to an equal position
with that of the opera; in Australia
a ballet-girl means too often only the yotlhg
lady in tights who carries a flag, and has slip-
per afterwards with some baldhead.
“Dido” : A one-time well-known musician
of Melbourne—you. have heard him hundreds
of times —was in his middle age so abseht-
minded that his wife did not dare to let him
go abroad alone. On one occasion he went
to St. Arnaud. This was before the com-
pletion of the Dunolly to St. Arnaud line,
and that part of the run had to be made
per Cobb and Co. —about the last of the co.’s
drives, I imagine. Quaver was to adjudi-
cate in some local musical competitions, and
when his business was done he was bed-
ridden for a few days at the old Coach Inn,
then kept by a Mrs. Jorgensen, Mrs. Quaver
was compelled by pressure of circumstances
to return to Melbourne without her lord.
She left, enjoining upon Mrs. Publichouse to
take great care of Quaver, 1 and see that he
did not try to eat the paper at meals, while
reading the rump steak. The day came for
Quaver to depart, the coach was at the door
of the inn, and the usual crowd hung about.
Quaver appeared in a frock coat, and, carry-
ing a fiddle case, made, a dash for the coach.
A great hoy went up from the crowd ; Quaver
turned in the coach door, and bowed in
acknowledgment of the ovation. The driver
gathered the reins and flicked his leader,
and out of the house charged Mrs. Jorgen-
sen, fluttering something in her hand, which
she threw into the coach as it started. A
half-mile or so down the track the coach
was drawn up, and the two lady passengers
got out. Quaver was given three minutes to
put on his trousers.


Prospectus
of
Automatic Perfume Fountains Limited
(To le registered under the Companies Acts 1899-1918 of the State of New South Wales.)
Capital: £50,000, divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
40,000 shares to be offered for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on a otment, an e a ance
not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than one calendar month. , o T i
10,000 shares fully paid to be allotted to the Perfume Fountains, Ltd., of New Zealand, an essrs.
SO,OOO
William iienry eyres, Esq.,
Managing Director, De Merie's, Ltd.,
Sydney and Newcastle.
E. PHILPOT-CROWTHER, Esq.,
llydro-Electrical Engineer,
The Banking House, Sydney.
JAMES ERIC MAC ALI S T ER, Esq.,
Independent means,
Fetherston, New Zealand.
Provisional Directors:
EDWARD STEDMAN, Esq.,
Stedman, Henderson's Sweets, Ltd.,
Kent Street, Sydney.
IRWIN SMITH, Esq.,
incensed Surveyor, Woolwich.
BASIL C. LOW, Esq.,
Mechanical Engineer,
The Banking House, Sydney.
JAMES HENRY CHARLES WORTH, Esq.,
Bankers: Sydney Brick Works, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.
Solicitors:
JENNINGS & JENNINGS, Challis House, Sydney.
Auditors:
iVO W. KERR, F.1.C.A., B.Ec., A.C.1.5., 17 Castlerettgh Street, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office:
H. ROACH, A.LC.A., Twyford House, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE MACHINE.
‘'Some of the great fortunes of modern times were founded oil pennies, nickels and
dimes. Yet not one person in a THOUSAND knows the possibilities of pennies.
Pennies have wings—they simply FLY, and you never know where or why.”
American Magazine.
2-CONTAINER SIZE. 6-CONTAINER SIZE
The Machine Can be Made of Any Size.
Note —In order to make the Sydney test as severe as possible the smaller machine
used. PRICE OF MACHINES.
Wa
The machines used for demonstration purposes were models. A quotation for their
manufacture commercially in quantity has been obtained from a reputable firm of manu-
for the complete two-container
factoring engineers in Sydney, who quote £lO
machines similar to that used in Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
The model with two containers which has been used in the tests and one of the six
containers may be seen at No. 20 The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney. lhe
iarger machine is placed on view to demonstrate variation of capacity, and the propor-
tionate possibilities of profit in sizes.
The volatility of alcoholic essences is so great that a mere pinhole will_ allow the
liquid to escape, and as natural law necessitates pressure of air on the surface of the
liquid to ensure delivery, the problem to be overcome in inventing a perfume-vending
machine was the admission of just sufficient air to the container at each discharge to
ensure the delivery of the next. Many attempts have been made to produce perfume-
vending machines, but loss of the volatile spirit by evaporation has always been the
dlaW The k ’inventor of the PERFUME FOUNTAIN, Mr. Basil C. Low (Mechanical
Engineer)-, directed his efforts to overcome this difficulty of evaporation, and, after
many experiments, succeeded in accomplishing the delivery of volatile liquids from an
hermetically-sealed vessel. The problem of protecting the contents of the-containers
from evaporation for an indefinite period having been solved, Mr. Low then invented
mechanism to deliver the essences in measured quantities, and the ir.uri AU.
FOUNTAIN was thus produced. .. . ,
The machine is perfectly simple. A peiiny is placed in the slot, a knob is pulled, and
20 drops of perfume are at once received on the handkerchief or sat-het.
It is believed that this is the only perfect Perfume Mot Machine in the world, JLhc
fact that American magazines lately to hand show inquiries tor a perfume-vending
machine of a high-class character indicates the importance of the invention,
THE PERFUME FOUNTAIN is of handsome appearance, and can be made to
deliver from one to any number of perfumes. The outer case may be made of wood,
metal or any other suitable material, and its patented principle can be adapted to vend
spirits, wines and other beverages. This is an important aspect of its usefulness, as
the trade in beverages presents a large market for coin-released vending machines.
A full survey of the construction and the mechanical principles of the machine has
been made by Mr. Henry 11. Scotland, B.Sc.. A.M.1., Mech. E., whose report may be seen
by intending investors at the office of the Company’s Solicitors —Messrs. Jennings and
Jennings, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney. , . ,
MANUFACTURE IN AUSTRALIA.
The ultimate purpose of the Company is to manufacture the machines solely in
Australia, and subject to the Patent Laws of the various countries with which it is
jroposed to deal, and by means of agencies m other parts of the woi.ld to> lease the
Fountains to selected business concerns. It is to be noted that by confining the
Manufacture to one point the extreme*minimum of production cost wdl be leached th
returns on the invested capital being correspondingly increased. It is also inpoitant to
remember that this machine, being a monopoly, cannot be made outs.de of Austialia
without the consent of the Company, so that the whole of the world profits in the form
of annual revenue, will come to Australian shareholders. An industiy such as this,
which can be made to vie in size and importance with those of the National C ash
Register of America and the British Automatic Weighing Machine (both phenomenally
=h =£> 11Mi
up, by adding *>« «*
In its commercial aspect the machine promises most fruitful results. Ihe actual
figures vouched for by the proprietors of the concerns in which the machines have been
pfaced for demonstration, are given in another part of this 1 rospectus, and i die. U .
n,.nfir which, to sav the least, is unusual, even for a SPECLLAIIUN. iiut
ilaced tor demonstration, aie given m dwtuu ~ f vpFPT’r ATT ON But
narmn of nrofit which, to say the least, is unusual, even for aBl il.MJhAllu.v i>ut
he shares in this Company are really a sound investment, as the machines can be leased
m terms or alternatively, placed in positions prominently before the public in Refresh-
nent Rooms Drape?y and Millinery establishments, Toilet Rooms, Theatres, Pharmacies
and PleaXe Resorts, on a basis of a percentage of the returns as consideration
:or salesmen will not be necessary in the Company’s business, as the sale
if the machines is not contemplated. It is a comparatively easy matter to arrange sites
foi the machines on a profit-sharing basis and it is this business factor that the
Cnmtvmv will develon in order to ensure itself a continuing revenue. ,
The success' of th” 1 Company as a going concern is assured, as the public ha ve
•ilreadv indicated that they will patronise the Perfume Fountains freely, and as a numb i
of machines have already 'been applied for by leading firms, there is every indication that
P ., n he nlaced in good positions on favorable terms. - . , .
'* t t j s we n known that the penny-in-the-.slot weighing machines to be seen in the streets
n-iv nuite unique dividends to the fortunate shareholders, and as the 1 erfume fi ountaii
; ?he advantage that those who try it will repeat their purchases more frequently
thepeople wbo L X weighing machines will re-weigl, <*
even iietter dividends from the Perfume Fountain may be reasonably expected.
It is worthy of mention also that the scope of the Company being so wide tlieie is
little doubt that in addition to the manufacture of the machines themselves, a gieat
perfume-manufacturing industry could be created with the perfumei machine as i tS p,,rot.
It needs only a moment’s consideration to become convinced thapas a levei o ■ ■ '
perfume to the retail trade and to Department Stores the Perfume Fountain is, and wi
’•pmain, unrivalled. In the perfume departments of the great Tnd bv
Department Stores the perfume fountain could be made the centre of attiaction a d b
the facility with which it enables purchasers to sample the odors, would soon
considered an indispensable adjunct in selling perfume. , mnmDtors
made apparent in selling the Company s perfume products, especu P h
of the large establishments alluded to. who are constant v seekine fo
trade. AUCKLAND DEMONSTRATION.
A demonstration was given in Auckland. N.Z., with the undermentioned l t, oi
the first 25 days. The machine had never been heard of before, no advertising was don
and the cash return was solely dependent on the casual attention of customeis passing
through the premises. .
For a period of 25 working days the following return was shown . street
Machine (2-slot) at W. R. Cooke & Son, Ltd., Restaurateurs, Queen Stie ,
Auckland.
Lavender Water .. • • .. £1 13 4 400 pence.
Perfume Extract . . • • • • 19 o<= —->•-> „
WE CERTIFY
ruiJKTin £2 13 9 a 633 pence.
Cl) That the return of 633 pennies taken in the Perfume w t Jat
establishment on trial, is correct, and that the perfume 1 dui ; in 05
amount was legitimately purchased from the machine by t l
TOOrl/10 rr rlnvi" • -
(2) T hat * t h iliac bine ran smoothly without interruption of any kind.
W. R. Cooke and Sons, Ltd..
SYDNEY DEMONSTRATION.
After the Auckland demonstration another PERFUME FOUNTAIN of two con-
tainers delivering two varieties of perfume, was built, in order to test the earning power
in one of the large cities of the Commonwealth. The machine was placed in the
establishment of Mark Foy’s, Ltd., and the result for 2o working days—between
Wednesday 14tli September, and Saturday, loth October, 1921, was as follows:
Machine (2-slot) at Mark Foy’s, Ltd., Sydney.
Lavender Water &10 9 = 849 pence.
Perfume Extract -. . • • • • lo 111 - olb „
WE CERTIFY £l6 12 S = 3992 pence.
That the above is a true and correct statement of the total return during the
time stated, and that the pennies were legitimately put through the 1 ertunie
Fountain by the public, the machine during the whole period being under our
departmental supervision. jpOR MARK FOY’S, LTD.,
F. V. MARTIN (Managing Director.
ANALYSIS OF the DEMONSTRATIONS AND ESTIMATE OF
ANNUAL PROFITS.
The tests riven by these two machines are certainly convincing inasmuch as no
advertising of any kind was done. When run commercially, and the public told wheie
the machines are located, and other facts about them, such as the high quality of the
essences used—in short, educated to the use of expensive perfumes at a penny a time-
then the returns are reasonably expected to show still better results. lhe letuins fiom
each Fountain will be constant and more likely to increase than decrease, especially in
view of the current high price of the superfine high-grade perfumes.
The profit shown ns yMujt "
■M drops Jfi- c ?" t " inel ' IC 4
According to' quotations received from both British and Australian perfume manu-
The cost of the best Lavender Water is 65/- per gallon.
The average cost of the perfume Essences is SO/- per gallon
The Auckland test showed an average taking in 000 working days of fol/10/-
Tlie Sydney test showed an average taking in 000 working days of £199/1-/-
On Lavender the profit is £l2/15/- per gallon.
On Perfumes from the natural flowers the profit is per gw Hon.
The approximate gross profit is therefore not less than 300% on cost of perfume.
The average for these two extreme tests is therefore £ll5/12/0 per annum, equal to
7/8 (92 pennies) per day. per machine. r ,
With this detinitelv-arrived-at average of takings and profits obtained in two Capital
cities in widely-separated countries it is safe and reasonable to take it as a basis to
calculate the future profits that the proposed Company may derive from the Machine.
From present indications it is estimated that 500 Machines will be suflicient o supply
Australian and New Zealand requirements; these alone will be suflicient to provide a good
dividend on the nominal capital of the Company, as the following figures will show.
500 machines taking an average of 92 pence per day tor a .>OO-working-day yeai will
produce:—- -F r >7 812 10 0
Gross revenue per annum ••
Deduct 25% for cost of perfume
25% for site rental
15% for collection and maintenance, ofiu
and ovei head t li.ii g< s• . • * * 7 *,— o (j
£14,453 2
14.453 2
8,671 17 6
- i .. £20,234 7 0
This il equri to t 6400% upon the cost’of 500 machines and would provide a dividend
if 40% upon the nominal capital of the Company, and 80% in the event of only </0
tier share being called up as hereinbefore anticipated. r/ . . ,
It is easily seen from these figures that the Australian and New Zealand business
Mono would be suflicient to pay a handsome dividend to; the shareholders, but it will be the
ioTicv of the Compuiy to gJt as many machines built as possible, so as to tap the overseas
markets as soon as the patents are completed for other countries. It is estimated hat
Great Britain with its populous centres and great seaside resorts, will easily absoib
4(iS, maffics while France, Italy, The Argentine, Brazil, India. Java and other warm
countries will be great users of the machines It is easy to erieidate what the uhn. aG
nrofits will amount to. In Great Britain and America at least 10,UW machines will be
operating all bringing in quite the average profit obtained in our local tests, lain g
those figures as a basis, and multiplying the result from 500 machines by -0, approxi-
mate return from the two above-mentioned countries would equal a dividend ot IbOU /<
iiDoii tli (3 nominal original capitul of tlie Conipftny. T w. , .i ..
The tests have proved to the entire satisfaction of the I rovisional Directois that the
nublie approve and require the convenience and pleasure the machine affords, and a
SstantfyP increasing turn-over in the machines indicates that as the public becomes
informed'and educated about the perfume fountain the demand by the public for its
services will stculil.v increase. c()nclusl o N
That the foregoing estimates are conservative will be admitted by any competent
thl"‘Sehines placed on trial have been almost solely
onpiiflent on the machines attracting the casual attention ot customers passing through
She piemises and b“nt other business. Comparatively few knew anything about them
Second because the regular use of high-class perfumery is not at present within
the reach of everybody. It is an expensive luxury only within the reach of the nchei
class 6 at present prices, but when people know that they can get the very highest-grade
perfume essences at a penny a time even the poorest will make a habit of participating in
tIU Third 1 e because ed verv * little advertising will popularise these machines and educate
the people to the use of high-quality essences in preference to the common variety, which
so many are now compelled to use when they buy by the bottle. •
But even supposing the actual working results of the Company s operations fall shoit
of these reasonable expectations, the profit w'ould still show a good return on the capital
‘ m G MC must raiiember ‘Vat ‘the profit on the Australatdan business is but a fraction of
the profit that can be expected by the Company. Only when the W ORLD maiket is
considered can the prospects of this valuable monopoly be realised. .
Do not overlook tlie fact that the figures given in this 1 rospectus are not visionary,
but have been based on actual results determined by reliable tests.
It is the opinion of the Provisional Directors that only 7/b or 10/- per share at the
most will be required for working capital, as it is proposed to build as many new
machines as possible from revenue the first year or two. lhe sum of </6 will piovidt
sufficient capital to pay the purchase money to the \ endors pay all flotation and brokerage
chaies build 500 machines, and provide the working capital necessary to carry on with.
The machines wall be revenue producers immediately they are placed in position.
\pplications for allotment should be made on the accompanying form, and should
together with a cheque covering application money be forwarded to
The Directors PERFUME FOUNTAINS LIMITED,
A 26 The Banking House. 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\« applications for 11,000 shares have already been received, it has been decided to
close* the *subscription list at 4 p.m. on Monday, list November, 1021, and pioceed to
allotment.
28th October, 1921.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
T ”""'ffg?LIISSISS „ r
Dear Sirs, —I hereby request you to allot me Shares of £1 each in the above Company,
T > 0 accent the same, or any less number that may he allotted to me.
and lagiee to accept me sdue, j g d being two shillings and sixpence per Share on
lshares and I agree to pav two shillings and sixpence per Share on the allotment
of P the a K Shares and .the balance in such ’calls'as the Directors may determine, but not exceeding two
name on the Register of Shareholders for such number of
shires as may be allotted to me, and 1 agree to he bound by the Articles of Association of the Gompan, .
Name (in full)
Postal Address '*‘ *.'. *". *.".
Occupation
Date
• , i Signature a’n'niiVa'tioii for" Shares of £1
PERFUME ' FOUNTAINS ' LIFTED, subject to the printed conditions hi the
Application Form.


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS.
5
m
m*
SS£
When You
ask. for
Lager-
% Abbots
"The Beer
without
a Rival”
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA I
Management \
G T.Cheeseman
ill
llJilJ
&
siV«N
>3
POVERTY
POINT
[?]oet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
"Fax” : The tremendous triumph of Clara
Butt this visit may be partly attributed to
her treading on the heels of Melba. Dame
Nellie, with her guinea and half-guinea
tariff, has ever been a great assistance to
any popular singer who gave concerts soon
after her. Thousands of people who jib at
the Melba prices, or miss the opportunity to
hear her, console themselves with the pro-
test that a corning attraction is ‘‘just as
good” at a reduced figure—a bargain sale,
in fact. The most notable instance of this
rush to hear the other lady was when Dolores
came round again some years ago, not long
after the Queen of Song had cleaned out
the concert market, it was thought. Dolores-
was then on her third or fourth visit, and
the uninitiated surmised that she would
strike a frost. Yet she had the time of her
life—the most crowded series of concerts she
had ever known in Melbourne and Sydney.
After a Chernia vsky recital: —
Remarkable how the youngest of the three, Mischel,
has aged since, 13 years ago, they came in velvet
knicker suits, large collars and cravats. The theory
that a musical temperament keeps one’s hair on is
somewhat shattered by these young- men, who have
cultivated the temperament professionally from
early boyhood. Mischel, in his middle 20V, is
already more than fairly bald. His locks have
receded from the .brow backwards, whereas Jan, the
pianist, retains much of his early girlv fuzziness,
but shows a round thin patch in the forest at tin-
top. Leo sports a durable looking- crop of dark
hair, and has thickened into a thoughtful, poetic-
looking violinist, threatening to be the handsome
stout man of the trio eventually. But he is still a
strong reminder of his early youth, and Jail is even
less changed in general effect. The ’cellist is the
great surprise. The mannerism of closing- his eyes,
which he was taught to affect as a. kid, seems much
more natural (o the thin, careworn Mischel of to-
day. He sways His body a lot —the old habit of a
performer who lias not been tutored in repose before
starting a platform career—but in a middle-aged
style. They arc all confirmed in their juvenile
characteristics. Leo hunches his shoulders in an
ungainly way, and is never at rest on his feet whilst
at work. A stone-deaf person .watching him might
justly mistake him for an amateurish musi-
cian, whereas, as a matter of fact, he is a
fine artist. All three brothers are impressive solo-
ists, and their ensemble in the trios is delightful.
Playing together ail these ■ years they have matured
into a splendid combination. Canting critics, who
hint at disparaging comparisons between the emo-
tional, thrilling effects of the Gherniavskys and the
more scholastic entertainment supplied by a Ver-
brugghen quartet, have to grudgingly admit the
charm of the fraternal trio. And seeing- that they
manage to get thrills out of Handel, Bach, Beet-
hoven, Haydn and other heavyweight composers, the
attempt to decry their artistic success on account
of its passionate disposition is highly absurd. The
Cherniavskvs compel hearty applause from people
whose taste for music is natural. At many fashion-
able orchestral concerts the applause is led by cranks
whose taste was forced upon them by a narrow, pre-
tentious education, and followed by hypocritical suf-
ferers who talk “culture.”
“T. 0.1.”: Two doyens of the Australian
stage still about are George L. Goodman
(“Goody”), now in his Ttith year, and Harry
Leston. who has also reached the psalmist’s
span. On Waterloo day in 1880 Goodman first
took permanent charge of the Sydney Royal
as business manager and treasurer, and since
then he has been connected with Her
Majesty’s, The Garrick (now the Tivoli),
Gaiety, Victoria, Queen’s, Opera House,
Standard and School of Arts. He was man-
ager of the first moving-picture show in
Australia—The Lumibre—which exhibited
in a large shop in Pitt-street, not far from
Tatt.’s Hotel. Harry Leston was born in
Maoriland in 1851, and made his public
debut in 1867 in Vic. as a mesmerist. Since
then he lias appeared in almost every theatre
in the Commonwealth and Maoriland. His
job now is the training of budding mummers.
“Micawber”: The recent death of Harry
Carleton at Little Bay Hospital (Sydney)
ended a record partnership in vaudeville.
For just on 32 years Carleton and Sutton
appeared as song-and-dancists throughout
Australasia. They found the last few years
rather lean, and a little while ago Ben Fuller
in a burst of sentiment, bought them a new
wardrobe and sent them over the circuit.
But their ideas and material were those of
other days, and they didn’t do well. Sub-
sequently they returned to the precarious
“smalls.” When the final curtain fell Carle-
ton was only 48.
“Paroke”: Circus-man Mick McMahon
passed out in M.L. recently. For many
years he and brother Ted ran their own
little show throughout Australia. Later,
Mick was associated with the Ridgways,
and had just sent for his wife to join him
in what was to be a comfortable engagement,
when he went west. For over 40 of his 58
years McMahon had been associated with
sawdust and spangles.
Frank Harvey had a nasty accident in
Perth lately during the rehearsal of “The
Sign on the Door.” W. J. Kelly has to fire
a revolver at him, and somehow the wad of
the blank cartridge struck Harvey in the
chest and made an ugly wound. The modern
custom of aiming at the player’s feet has
its good points, however absurd it may look
to am observant audience.
"Norbell”: How these stage youngsters
spring up ! Dorothy Neville, who was Little
Lord Fauntleroying only the other day, is
now one of the dancing sirens of the “Town
Topics” show in Brisbane. Her pa is Gus
Neville, an experienced melodramatic juv-
enile, who wore the blameless curls of King
Charles TI. in Nellie Stewart’s movie of
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury.” Neville has
had a steady job with Allan Wilkie for
three years or so.
“Yarra Ben” : No sooner had Marie Tem-
pest told Sydney that its theatrical taste was
deplorable than Wilkie Bard chided Mel-
bourne because it didn’t applaud at the proper
time, or something. The comedian prefaced
his rebuke thus: “Look here, Melbourne, you
have got one fault, and, as I am leaving for
England in about a week’s time, I can tell
you about it.” It’s always that way. These
unselfish mummers never tell ns what’s the
matter with us till they are leaving and can’t
themselves benefit by the change.
“Ancient Prompter”: Judging by the hub-
“Paddy, the Next Best
Thing." at Sydney
Criterion.
Kay Souper as Gen-
eral Adair, owner of
a weak heart.
bub raised by the
English press dm
ing last cricket
season, Australia
is the home of
barracking. Bu t
there is one place
w- here the B ri-
tisher can beat the
Australian every
time, and that is
the theatre on a
first night. Hiss-
ing. boohing, actor-
guying and author-
baiting as carried
on in London puts
a n y cricket
“scenes” in the
shade. Even the
great Henry Irving
“got the b i rd”
when one of his
Lyceum p r o d u e-
tions failed to
please the first-
nighters. Some-
body wrote to ask
his opinion o f
such disturbances
of the piece. Irving
replied: “Should
you on any occa-
sion not approve
of the performance
of an artist who
has committed no
breach of good
taste, it were wiser
and more tender
of you to leave the
theatre and allow
others to approve,
should they see fit
to do so, than
to hiss.”
“Dido” : After the Jefferson play I won-,
dered what Bert Bailey saw in it to lead
him to think he could endear it to Austra-
lian audiences. To begin with, we are preju-
diced against English provincial persions
talking a strange dialect, and .Lancashire
humor, which is best typified in the disposi-
non ot the natives to “elag" each other, is
tar removed from the Australian taste.
Apart from the dry, bone-hard Lanky mill-
owner, there is not a character in the play
possessed of two-pen’orth of interest. "Jeffer-
son Wins Through” may appeal to Lanca-
shire •spinners to some extent; to Australians
't orfiy useful as a further demonstration
ot the advisability of our spinning our own
yarn.
Early Turn” : Bert Gilbert is returning to
Australia, this time as a vaudeville “comic”
under the Musgroyc banner. It will be Bert’s
secoud or third trip since the memorable first
Lime when he was accompanied by liis young
ai ’ ,?, a eeve - Latterly he and the second
Mrs. Gilbert have been topping the bill in
the London and provincial halls, playing
tarces from Gilbert’s own pen. These “tops”
seem to go on for ever. Little Tich, Neil Ken-
yon, Albert Whelan, Harry Tate, Will Evans
George Robey—-how long, I wonder, have
AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
MeKay and King on the Banjo.
they been at the game! Once a favorite
always a favorite in England, with the "big
money” which that means. it is different
in Australia.
“Wilfrido”: In Bland Holt’s “The Mil-
lionaire’s Daughter” there’s a scene where the
hero dashes across the stage in a motor-car
in pursuit of the villain. The thing was
produced in the days when autos were young,
and Bland hired a Ford for the occasion.
There were lots of things Bland didn’t know
about Fords, and on the first night he stalled
it in the middle of the stage, whereupon the
car’s owner, with plenty of initiative but no
artistic sense, rushed on in his shirt-sleeves
and tried to push the flivver along. The
second night Bland drove the thing into the
orchestra, and the third he played for safety
and did “White Heather.”
“Stargazer”: On rare occasions the film
version of a well-known play is an improve-
ment on the legitimate production • but “The
Great Adventure” on the screen is so
poverty-stricken a thing by comparison with
the version given by Marie Tempest that
one can understand Arnold Bennett sweat-
ing red at the very sight of it. Lionel Barry-
more, easily among the best film comedians
the U.S.A. has produced, is a naltry figure
as the artist who died by proxy, and the
character is permitted to lapse into spasms
of knockabout low comedy, while the little
Putney widow, with £4 a week in brewery
shares, becomes, in response to the absurd
Yankee clamor for perfect beauties on the
films, a very superior young person with
outstanding physical attractions. The whole
thing is banal, and gives one clearly to
understand what the alleged yearning of
Yankee producers for intellectual drama is
really worth. Give them intellectual drama,
and see them prepare it for what they call,
in their own elegant idiom, “the bug house.”
“Hamfat” : One reason for the success of
the Australian mummer abroad is probably
the wide experience that results from rapid
changes of plays and the study of new parts.
A young Englishman recently given a trial
in a piece in course of rehearsal in Australia
proved an utter failure. His record is that
he toured Britain for five years playing in
nothing but “The Sign of the Cross”;
crossed to America and toured for two years
with the same piece ; then returned to Eng-
land and spent another year with it. Eight
years in one part so spoiled him for stage-
study that he has taken a job in a Sydney
fluff emporium.
“E.T.”: A pantomime with two star
comedians in it is more difficult to “manage”
than an Italian opera co. When Wilkie
Bard, a headliner in vaudeville, was cast for
the Widow T wan key in “Aladdin” at Drury
Lane, the Abanazar was George Graves, one
of the most popular laugh-provokers in the
West End. The scenes in which the two
appeared proved not nearly so funny as they
might have been, and, in about a week, it
was a case of open warfare between the
“comics.” Arthur Collins’s secretary, who
tells the yarn, had his work cut out to put
an end to a situation which would have
meant ruination to the show. He explains
how 7 the difficulty was solved. “After sunper
that night I went to Graves’s flat and by
5 a.in. we had so re-arranged the ’script that
the two principals only met on the stage
once during the evening. Thank Heaven,
Burnand never knew what a hash had been
made of his book.” And there are people
who wonder why pantomimes are not better
written!
“C. Oekney”: The White-eyed Kaffir—
Rickards brought him to Australia —has finally
retired. Nearing three-score years and ten
(he was a member of a busking “nigger”
troupe at the age of six), Chirgwin is still
hale, and recently became the proprietor of
a pub—the Anchor, at Shepperton on the
Thames. Says the cheery veteran: “Here I
can keep myself busy and do a little bit of
fishing between whiles.”
“C. Oekney” : If D’Oyley Carte could hare
found Edward German a Gilbert, that gifted
composer w 7 ould have proved himself a Sulli-
van. The librettist of the three Savoy operas
mentioned in “Minim’s” par (B. 6/10/’2II
was the late Basil Hood, the best probably
of his time, a clever lyric writer, but lacking
Gilbert’s ingenuity in plot and stor.v-con-
struction. The other German composition.
“Tom .Tones,” likewise deserved a better
“book.” It was the work of Alex. Thomp-
son (“Dangle,” of the Clarion), a life-long
friend of Robert Courtneidge, who produced
the piece in London.
“Hamfat”: Archie Emmett Adams, who
made a little heap of money out of his songs,
“The Bells of St. Mary’s” and “God Send
You Back to Me.” is not the only member of
that Australian family to do well in the Big
Smoke. His sister, Berte, got her share of
the spotlight in “The Bing Boys” (in which
the Pounds girls also appeared) and
“Pamela.” She lately married a medico,
but is continuing her stage work, and does
some composing.
“Paroke”: I am surprised at “Leo K.”
(B. 20/10/’2l) referring to John de Lacey
as an Englishman. John always professed
to be an American, and his methods were
corroborafive evidence.
“E.L.” (London) : Queer things come out
of Russia; but nobody would exnect it to
produce a vaudeville show that makes all
other shows of the same kind look like nigger
minstrels. The “Chauve-Souris,” which the
enterprising Charles Cochrane* has brought
here, first made a sensationffei Paris at the
dainty Femina Theatre. Its *■ access depefifls
on the director, Balieff, who not only writes
little dramas, selects po(jai« and music, and
produces the most astounding color schemes
and decorative effects, out also introdaees
each number, in the cabaret manner, with
ironic humor. It is impossible to describe
the entertainment. You get tableaux taken
from old snuff-boxes; Voltaire and the fine
ladies; a Chopin mazurka, a fragment of
Rimsky-Ivorsakoff, folk songs from Central
Russia ; there are broad farces; sentimental
duets; bravura pieces with marvellous set-
tings ; a fierce Oriental drama from a
Pouehkine poem, which passes in a harem
of a Khan of the Crimea; It is a mixture of
all the arts, that blend somehow 7 , and form
a complete and perfect vaudeville entertain-
ment.
“Hed” : I heard a Rignold yarn the other
day from a man who was there. Away back
in 1885 George, while rehearsing a new
piece, watched a lady approach a perambu-
lator with a doll in it and say, “My child,
my child, how can I leave thee?” She did
it in a beautiful Sunday-school monotone.
“Oh, blank and double blank it,” Rignold
exploded. “Can’t you do better than that?
Throw your arms out —give it some feeling.”
The second try was more Sunday-schoolish
than the first. George blanked some more.
Then, swinging round to another Bernhardt
standing by, he said: “Here you, come and
have a try.” She did —and made a bigger
hash of it than the other. Rignold cast
anguished eyes to the flies. “Blankety
blank!” he fumed. “Isn’t this just hell!
The baby is the only damned actor among
the lot o’ you!”
“T. 0.1.”: They used strange theatrical
hurley in the old days. On June 16, 1851,
Malcolm, proprietor of The Amphitheatre,
York-street, Sydney, advertised: —
A horse to be given away. A chance for all
Persons who patronise the Circus. This day, Mon-
day, June 15. The celebrated Horse Sancho Panza.
Each person entering the above novel place of
amusement on this evening- will be given a ticket to
draw for said horse, and it will be left entirely with
the audience whether the highest, lowest or first
ticket drawn shall obtain the prize. The horse to
be delivered immediately to the winner.
The admission was 2s. Professor Anderson,
the “Wizard of the North,” who came to
Sydney in the late ’fifties, attracted audi-
ences by giving prizes for conundrums, the
winner of the prize to be in the house when
the decision was made.
THE MODERN JUDGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘There was the same old order—hymn, prayer,
psalm, prayer, hymn, notices, collection, hvmn, etc.
Sunday after Sunday! never anything to break the
monotony. Why shouldn’t the church have moving
pictures? Why should the world have all the music
and beauty ?’’ —Six.
Our church is on the modern plan,
Quite up to date —a place of joy,
Where every staid, grey-bearded man
May be a gay and larking boy.
Who at a merry maid may smile,
And caper with her in the aisle,
The organ playing jazz the while.
We’ve pushed the pews back to the walls ;
A picture-screen the altar hides ;
And to our weekly festive balls
The gay young fellows bring their brides.
The parson gives no sermons dread,
A queer hat cocked upon his head-
lie sings ns comic songs instead.
But still a lot of folk there are
Who with our methods don’t agree;
And thus her parents, when -young- Farr
Besought the hand of Maud McGee,
Looked on him in a hostile light:
He is ,a wild and wicked wight
tVho goes to church each Sunday night!
N'.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


1
CITROEN
Tlvc S-fca.-n.clar<Us«<i Fr Click Car
. v/v
2
Ny
r
Xr&~
Citroen double helical gears, used in back axle
transmission.
Ji
m
i
f r '~ t :
*»r .
Showing front springs fitted free from shackles
and their lubrication troubles.
•\ -• .
M
O
38
Milcs^
%
38tutlcJ 'to llic gatloru
The Economical Car.
WtllHllHlllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllll™
THE CITROEN might well be named the
Economy Car, because of its low cost of
operation, freedom from repairs, and long
life.
For low fuel consumption the Citroen has won all
contests both in Australia and abroad, 38 miles
to the gallon is conservatively claimed, but in
everyday practice the Citroen usually accomplishes
an even more remarkable average.
A thermo-syphon principle of cooling the engine
effectively prevents overheating even on the steep-
est grade; double helical gears for back axle trans-
mission, exclusive to the Citroen Car, ensure 98
per cent, efficiency, silent running, and practically
eliminate all wear in this vital part.
Features such as these give the Citroen Car the
long life for which it is noted—a long life that
costs but little to maintain.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Bradley Bros., Ltd.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Webster Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
Agents—
VICTORIA:
Preston Motor Pty., Ltd,,
Clifton Hill, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Factory Representatives: W. A. Crowle, Limited,
Christchurch.
Crowle House,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Moncrief Engineering Co.,
Light Square, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
Leyland Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIIiP & CO., LTD., Perth and O.eraldton.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder -Soap
LEWIS &WMITTy MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
m
"VALLO”
WEED,SCRDB «TREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
I
“VATjLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market, 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form —Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State: lib., 9d.; ilb. Gd. extra. Interstate : lib., 1/2; £lb., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VAMjO m Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
And at SYDNEY & BRISBANE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
At the end of last week, when Melbourne
was again sodden with
lain, the question of Vio-
loncello for the Cup
turned more than ever on
the alleged trouble with
his feet. Anyhow, soft
going suits the English
horse, cracked heel or no.
It probably accounted for
his Caulfield Cup win. Yet
it might not suit him so
well over the two miles
at Flemington, where his
burden will be the trifle
of 41b. heavier. On the
other hand, a compara-
tively slow pace would
favor a high-class heavy-
weight who certainly is
not very hard in condi-
tion. The test of staying
power in a long-distance
event is the pace they
run it at, and taking all
things i%ito consideration
the Melbourne weather
this week will seem to
have a stronger bearing
on the case of Violoncello
than on that of most in-
dividual gees.
H. BYRON MOORE,
who is still secretary
to the V.R.C.
Among the cognoscenti the prevailing opinion
Is that, Honey Bee will win the V.R.C. Derby
for certain, and thus earn what will amount
to a 91b. penalty for the Cup. In any case the
breeding of the son of Kenilworth and Busy Bee
should make the Cup course quite to his liking.
\\ hy Money Bee’s ability to beat Furious and the
best of the Victorians should be so freely pro-
claimed is not quite evident to students of the book.
Granting tlhat he is a stayer who was a trifle back-
ward in condition when he ran third to Cupidon and
Furious at Randwick, still the Victorians have to be
accounted for. Lionel Attwill's form is respectable.
His close third in the Caulfield Cup, after making
all the running - , is not to be sneezed at, and if he
can be persuaded to finish generously '.without
having been allowed to spin himself out at the head
of the field the black colt should have a real
good chance in both Derby (to begin with) and
Cup, if he misses the regulation penalty. Sefton
and Sister Olive are at least likely to stay the full
Derby and Cup journeys better than, say, Furious
and some of the other upper-class three-year-olds,
whilst Harvest King (under a market cloud at time
ot writing) has the best show on paper of any of
hem, if his rotten performance in the A.J.C.
Derby be overlooked. One bad performance doesn’t
make a bad colt, anyhow. Previous to his trip to
Sydney the form of Harvest King was encouraging.
As a two-year-old lie was green for more than 'half
the season, running three "nowheres.” In June the
handsome colt ran two seconds, and in July he won
ui J ‘- tal -old Mile at Flejnington. Lionel Att-
will, with 3)b. more to carry, was fancied bv the
stable, but the Comedy King coli, after gelling
blocked, came with a line run and pipped him. Two
months later he ran third to Eurvtlnnic and Demet-
rius in the Memsie Stakes at Caulfield, a race that
is often a likely guide to future events. He was a
poor third, but in his unripe state Harvest King
was giving 71b. to Demetrius, who subsequently won
Caulheld Guineas in a canter. ILK. is a colt with
solid pretensions, besmirched only by the fact that
he finished feebly and far behind in the A.J.C.
Derby after being nearly knocked over. Some
horses are more resentful of such rough treatment
than others. He may have been out of sorts and
ol, t °. f . I . uck ia Sydney. Cutting that performance
out of Ins record Harvest King looks not necessarily
inferior to Honey Bee.
* * * *
for the N. S. Wales contin-
gent at the approaching V.R.C. meeting was bright-
cned by the victory of Wirraway in the Moonee
f., CU- ’' i , lil ? 1 October gelding, though not
much fancied by the stable, was quite equal to
downing the Victorians easily over a mile and five
furlongs. Evidently he is a fair stayer, yet he
was not a bit fancied for Melbourne Cup as com-
pared with stable-companion Violoncello, otherwise
the owner would not have tried to earn a 71b.
penalty. Carefully considered, the win was a direct
tip for Violoncello next Tuesday, though it would
have been more encouraging had the going been
hauler and the time better. By the law of averages
the I'leinington course should be hard and fast on
Cup Day. A spell of dry weather is overdue in
Melbourne, and conditions that may have favored
both Violoncello and Wirraway in their respective
Cups will probably be wanting next week. There
was not much glory attaching to the triumph of
October’s brown offspring, of course. He beat
nothing to speak of save Tangalooma and Queen
Comedy, and the mare has been no good since she
met with a mishap a year ago. As for Tanga -
looma, his sorrowing supporters for the Cups can
only assume that he has indeed gone off within the
past three weeks. His defeat is-not necessarily an
argument against stable-companion Eurythmic/ All
the same, Tanga’s recent loss of reputation creates
misgivings re the strength of Eurythmic’s supremacy.
If he is to meet the Caulfield Cup winner in the
Melbourne Stakes the result will decide the question
of first favoritism for the Cup. Anvhow, the Cup
winner is likely to figure in the fields for the Stakes
and Derby, no matter who the winner may chance to
be in either event. Derby Day, as usual, will be
the most interesting day of the meeting, with the
two classic races, the Hotham Handicap, and the
Maribyrnong Stakes for two-year-olds, wherein Ernest
Clarke’s colors should head the procession past the
post.
* * * *
The field for the Moonee Valley Cup was
singularly small and weak, considering that the club
fives £l5OO to be battled for. The inference that
many owners like their chance of fluking a win or
place in the Melbourne Cup was obvious. Success at
the Valley meant a 71b. penalty, and they preferred to
fly at the bigger game. The impression that any-
thing may scramble into a place next Tuesday is
pretty general, for with the exception of the three
top-weights (of whom Violoncello is charged with
a crack in the heel, and Keunaquhair is an aged horse,
probably demoralised by victorious Poitrel of yore)
no candidate shows a flash of brilliancy in his record.
David has been an honest but stodgy sticker, whose
latest wins at Randwick hardly look as meritorious
as they did at the time. The change to a Mel-
bourne climate, and a wintry one at that, seems to
have disagreed with Prince Sandy and Erasmus.
Derby horses are probably no better than they were
last year, though in a fast-run race two or three
of the youngsters may keep good positions all the
way. Purser, the most reasonable of place-invest-
ments, if he remains in great nick, is no clinker, and
The Rover, who made light of a very moderate field
with 7st. 21b. up in the Australian Cup, has yet
to prove that he can carry Bst. 41b. in better com-
pany. He’s a stayer, but not much to look at.
Amazonia meets Eurythmic on 101 b. better terms
than in last Sydney Cup, but the gelding has gone
from 6 years to “aged,” whilst his conqueror went
from 4 to 5; and how did Eurythmic beat him
at Randwick, anyhow? Some good judges, however,
refuse to have Eurythmic on their minds as a pos-
sible right-out winner next Tuesday. Their views
are worth serious consideration. So the writer is
content to make a hesitating guess from among a
little lot —the 10st. 51b. top-weight, the question-
able Violoncello, sturdy David and Purser, plus Honey
Bee, Harvest King and Sister Olive. A bit on Har-
vest King at a longish price would appeal to one’s
rare sense of prudence more than a bigger bit on
one of the others at a much shorter price.
Should the A.J.C. Derby winner, Cupidon,
lift the Maoriland Derby next month he will be the
thirtieth winner of such events trained by R. J.
Mason. On this side he prepared Noetuiform, Gloam-
ing and Cupidon in the A.J.C. classic, and Biplane,
who got away with the A.J.C. and V.R.C. double.
After her easy win in the Hastings Stakes
at tlawkes Bay (M.L.T the two-year-old Absurd-
Eulogy filly Epitaph paid a Desert Gold dividend
when she repeated the trick in the Wellesley Stakes
on the first day of the Wellington J.C.’s Spring
Meeting. Another Absurd filly, April Folly, was
second. Some M.L. Cup horses were in evidence;
Sunart beat Rouen in the Wellington Handicap
(lm. 3fur.) and Affectation, a Kilbroney gelding,
easily accounted for the Shorts.
Bendigo got its full issue of casualties dur-
ing the recent Show high-jumping. This particular
circus event is the most senseless one a Government
ever subsidised. No horse can earn its oats jumping
from six to seven feet at shows year in and year out
without ruining its forelegs and sustaining other
injuries; and the result is that few if any of these
animals would have a hope of being passed hv a vet.
after performing for a season or two. To that
extent they are butchered to make a holiday
gate. In the U.K. most of them would be put out
of the ring on their blemishes alone. And in any
A BOARDING-HOUSE FAVORITE.
FACETIOUS L[? ]ER: “Co-o-me on there, Tan-
golooma—blooming well late again!"
event the high-jumping freak is useless. If the
different State Governments which pay £ for £ to
A., H. and P. shows insisted on soundness as a first
essential in all prize-winners, the public would have
a much better chance of getting a return for its
money in an improved breed of juniper—military
charger class —though there might, of course, be
a falling off in the crowd that attends the ring-
events in the expectation of seeing accidents.
The victory of Miss McKane, a shopgirl,
in the English covered-courts tennis . championships
is interesting chiefly as a social portent. The
socialistic State has introduced the municipal golf
Jinks: the vast business house the communistic
sporting club. The latter experiment has proved as
satisfactory to some of the businesses as it has
to the employees. The appearance of a champion
gives the employing firm an excellent advertise-
ment ; and a powerful Soccer XI brings a trading
concern the same prestige as it might a school or
university. Since the war but one game remains
in the undisputed possession of the rich —polo.
* # * t\t
Owing to the awful weather only one
match, the Gordon-Randwick fixture, was attempted
on Saturday in Sydney First-grade cricket Hand-
wick, who were four men shy, got no response to
their appeal for fieldsmen when they won the toss
and sent Gordon in on the Chatswood ground. Hos-
king (42), Taylor (72) and Watts (65 n. 0.) made
use of the gaps.
* * * *
L. Marx, who top-scored with 65 for the
Transvaal against the Australians on Saturday, is
the nearest thing to a Macartney, when in form,
that the Dutch have produced. lie is young, keen,
great on footwork and the possessor of strokes all
round the wicket. His biggest score in good com-
pany—247 in a club game—was made this year.
■T. W. Zuleh, who was in Australia 10 years ago, was
bowled by McDonald for 1. and Ward (the wicket-
keeper), another S’African crack, also went cheaply.
The innings closed for 173, which was better Mian
most of the English counties could do against the
tourists’ formidable bowling and fielding, though it
has to be remembered that the Australians had only
just come off the boat. The Transvaal, however, has
no top-notch bowler. F. Leroux (whom Hendry
got for 2) is the best, and the Australians were
not much troubled when they went to the wickets,
although a youngster named Nupen (he is only 19)
trundled promisingly.
* * * *
As a result of Friday’s rain only two Mel-
bourne cricket grounds were fit for use on Saturday.
Norths visited Uni., and winning the toss put the
scholars in. Freemantle opened with Porter, who
presently fell to Matthews. Three more wickets
went cheaply, and then Bailey arrived. His vigor-
ous 71 demoralised the field, and the errors in this
department did no good to the bowling. Matthews
(five for 85), who began with a perfect length,
was badly missed three times. The innings closed
for 214. Collingwood went to Essendon and col-
lapsed before the ex-second XI star Wilson (7 for
18) for a total of 01. ’Don lost their skipper, Moyes
(who made light of the tricky wicket in compiling
25), before stumps were d.awn.
I*. Ilornibrook. who showed form in
Queensland cricket last week with 0 for 73 for
Toombul v. Woollongabba, trundled very finely in
Inter-State cricket last year and also showed well
against the Englishmen and with an Australian XI
in M.L. Tall, still a youth, with an easy, care-free
action, he may be the left-hander for whom the Aus-
tralian XI of the future will be looking.
Bananaland Cricket Assoc, is making a
big effort to put life in the pastime. Besides the
usual inter-State matches with X.K.W., the S. Aus.
XI (after the Sheffield Shield match in Sydney) is
to be asked to trip northwards. Bananaland’s vision
of Sheffield Shield cricket being an All-Australian
affair is behind all this.
The R.SA.S. opened its season last Satur-
day in a snorting southerlv. The vac-ht race went
to Adelphi, 7min. (C. R.‘ Mitchell), who headed
artist Tom Ferry in Winifred off the 6min. mark by
25sec. Gumleaf, one of the restricted class yachts,
was whipper-in, and Inez, the only other craft of
this class to start, lost her stick. In the skiff event
28 started but only seven survived. Furore, on
the 15sec. mark, with Dick Fennell up, was first
home, 2min. 50see. ahead of Yalete (H. Price),
scratch. The final of the 18-footers handicap was
annexed by Sunny South (A. Boyd) off the 3min.
mark. She revelled in the thick stuff, and headed
Mississippi (R. Budnick), the honor-mark craft, by
12see. Swastika, 2min., was only ssec. further
astern.
The South African athletic team picked
to come to Australasia early next year is exception-
ally good. Sprinters J.
K. A. Oosterlaak and J.
W. Bukos (both of Trans-
vaal) and Kinsman (Natal)
are fast and consistent
even-timers (Oosterlaak
was third in this year's
English 100yds. cham-
pionship) ; and the dis-
tance men, Johnson and
Leathern, are tine half-
milers. Neither, however,
will compete in races over
a mile, which is a disap-
pointment to Australian
long-winded champions.
Cyclists G. E. Thursfield
and H. Kaltenbrun are in
the party, but their ener-
gies will be limited to
Australia. Kaltenbrun, by
the way, recently smashed
the British hour record by
covering 25m. 953yds„ an
improvement of 824yds. on
the figures of 11. G. Bram-
wc-11, of Catford Club,
England. Oscar Egg, at
Paris in 1914, put up the
world’s best figures (27
miles 870yds.).
I lie Kangaroos beat Leeds oil Wednesday
ut List week by 11 points (1 try each by Ilorder,
Burge and Blinkhorn, and a goal by Duncan Thomp-
son) to 5 points (1 try 1 goal). Stockwell and
Bacon, who toured Australia with Wagstaffe’s 1920
Woodbines, were in the Leeds team, which stood
eighth on the competition table last season and is
this year among the leaders. On Saturday Wake-
field Trinity were outed by 29 points (7 tries 4
goals) to 3 (1 try). Australasia fielded the three
Bananalanders, l’otter, Richards and Uroadfoot.
Skipper Les Cubitt, Bert Grey and Bananalander
Brown (who was injured on shipboard and who
hasn't yet played) are casualties. Cubitt’s case is
so bad that it is doubtful if he will play again in
England. Wakefield Trinity defeated the original
Kangaroos of 1908-9 by 20 points to 13, but McKiv-
att’s 1912 team walloped them by 24 points to 10.
Irinity couldn’t get nearer than 19th on last year's
Northern Union table.
Ernie Goozemnn, who lost, recently to
Spargo on a foul (this fight being his first in Aus-
tralia), met Jainito at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. it was the Filipino’s last contest in the
Commonwealth, and he went out in a blaze of glory.
He is a 100 per cent, better ringman than when he
arrived, and, if anything, fitter and more rugged.
Goozeman hit him on every vital spot permitted by
the rules, and hit him hard: it did not slow up
the colored lad; hardly seemed to even worry him.
Meantime he was beating Goozeman in the in-fighting
and spearing him with a heavy straight left. Bv
the end of the 20th round there was only one in it
Jamito. Yet the Yank is an indisputable top-
-110 to her, and is bound to score some good wins
against artists in the neighborhood of 9st. if he
stays long enough. If Jamito had not many times
demonstrated that his punches are not the" deadly
affairs tbey look from the ringside, Goozeman would
stand out as one of the most indestructible youths
that have faced a Sydney crow r d for some years.
* * * *
M The two Berts, S-pargo (Sst. 13J1b.) and
McCarthy (9st ), boxed a brisk 20 rounds at the
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, and then the
referee, his brow sicklied o’er with the pale cast
of thought, said, “Genelmen, 1 can’t separate ’em.”
It was a fair decision, as Mae had the better of the
first moiety of the scrap and Spargo of the second
and each margin just about cancelled the other. The
milling was vigorous but perfectly genteel. The
ladies thoroughly enjoyed it.
* * * «
At Brisbane (Q.) last week F. Gilmour
walked from North Quay to Southport (50 miles)
in 12hr. 3min. _ Bight started at 8 p.m., but the
second man was just on an hour behind the winner.
The previous best for the journey was 13hr. 28min.
F. G. Murdoch, formerly of S. Aus., had
has first Sydney win on Saturday, when he lifted
the Australian Golf Club’s Ellesmere Cup with 81.
P. Sydney Jones did 82.
* * * *
The bud weather lasted right through, the
National Itifie Association’s meeting at Liverpool
(N.S.W.), making the King's a very real test of
marksmanship. At the first stage (300yds., 500yds.
and 600yds.) 11. V. Hart, a Sydney pressman, did
best with 99, the “possible” at the longest range
being a very fine effort. J. Searls notched 98, and
half-a-dozen others got 97. In the second stage—-
the Mick Simmons (600yds. and 700vds) —the choppy
wind wrecked the city shooters, -and A. C. Gentle
(Mudgee) won with 95 from D. Donaldson (Mil-
thorpe) and W. Green (S. Aus.), each with 94.
Gentle got 18 bull's-eyes out of 20 shots. At the
final stage—the Le Maitre (800vds. and 900yds.)—
A. Jordan (Vic.), with 145, and C. Hill (West-
ralia), with 144, were on top. The aggregate of
the three stages left Clarrie Williams (Vic.) and
M. 11. Cutler (N.S.W.) level with 327. In the shoot-
off Williams got three bulls against Cutler’s two
bulls and an inner, and took the i £lOO. Cutler’s
share was £5O. D. H. Mitchell (Randwick), with
324, got £25. Williams had previously won the
King’s once, and Cutler twice. The Longfield aggre-
gate went to Jim Shearim (Sydney), with 248. Cutler
took the grand aggregate—King’s and Longfield.
Randwick A won the Hood (disappearing target).
Governor’s Cup (targets exposed for 30sec. at 900vds.)
and Lady Rawson (close formation), the aggregate' and
the Cooke challenge trophy for champion service team.
THE HARVEST KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fiom llouey Bee and Harvest King
The pi'ophet has to choose;
Though one to him may kudos bring,
The other moke must lose;
Kuphoniously lie would sing
■ The praises, with an easy- swing,
? Of Honey Bee and Harvest King-
let both of them may lose.
(Remembering his many slips
Twixt bygone Cups and blatant tips,
He’s shaking in his shoes.)
Eurythmic is a racer fleet
Who rarely fails to win ;
In turfy phrase, “ ’E’s ’aid to beat,
Wotever race Vs in.”
Most rivals whom his Nibs will meet
Are simply doomed to d —d defeat ;
They surely will be “done a treat,”
They have no chance to win;
And should Eurythmic take the stake
Ilis backers will an effort make
To raise a record din.
A ioloneello takes one’s eye,
And Purser does the same;
We know the wherefore and the why
Of David’s claim to fame.
But many hopes are born to die ;
In former years that flitted by
The multitude has heaved a sigh—
Will this year prove the same?
Remembrance haunts an anxious bard
Who scans the card and knows it’s hard
To guess the winner’s name.
Lord, how they thunder round the turn
And battle up the straight!
Cold grow the cheeks that erst did burn
Ere rose the starting-gate ;
For This has somehow “lorst ’is place,”
And That is blocked for want of space,
Whilst Something Else lacks pluck or pace,
Or fades beneath the weight.
What shouts, what cheers, what hearts turn sick,
When Luckless fails to do the trick
Because he came too late!
Sing Harvest King and Honey Bee,
A winsome-looking pair ;
Their names, in tender harmony,
Fall lightly on the air;
Take both to win, or 1,2, 3,
For preference the darker gee—
Make Harvest King, not Honey Bee,
Your extra-special care.
And should the reader, on the day,
Discover, to his sad dismay,
That tips in prose and verse are a
Delusion and a snare,
Why, let him seek the betting-rirg
And pay more tribute to the King
Who, summer, autumn, winter, spring,
Reaps golden Harvest there.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


WOULD YOU FIGHT or RUN?
If you can’t fight, you must run
awa'v with consequent loss of self-
respect and the shameful after-
thoughts that will haunt you like a
nightmare.
Lack of confidence more than lack of
courage, might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give vou that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will enable
you to act a man’s part should the
necessity arise.
LEARN BOXING
BY POST.
We teach vou how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
addi-ess. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it with three stamps
to cover postage, and we will send the book.
to
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
611 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
a
a
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
IHePCutiv Rafter
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Profrietoiis.
We guarantee an easy shave with the
“Plum” Razor, as, being expert Hair-
dressers ourselves, we know just the kind of edge
required to give the best result. No other razor used
in our saloon.
PRICE 12/G —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years free.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
ents that nourish and preserve the leather, it lengthens
life of footwear, in addition to imparting a bright and lasting
polish.
COLORS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, and V hite.
In tins, bottles and tubes.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger Brown
Paste, in r Tins, now on Sale.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
i CSS2£Sb i
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
à
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
A TYPE TO SUIT EVERY HULL.
Now’s the time to buy if you want your
engine this season.
m
€3
ftartOlQHltoOT
2\ to 8 H.P.
H.D. Engine.
The Engine for
the Workboat.
This Caille is a sturdy,
reliable, sing le-cyUnder
model, evolved for heavy
duty where plenty of hard
work in the most exposed
weather conditions must
be met. An ideal power-
plant for the light launch
w here engine-space is
limited. Equipped with
weatherproof igniter that
gives a certain spark in
all weathers. If you
have hard work to do you
need this Caille. Ask
prices and particulars.
We have stocks of Caille Perfection Marine Engines for
immediate delivery at the following prices.
2H.P.. . £37/10/- 4H.P. £6O
6H.P.. . £BO BH.P. £lOO
All plants complete with H.T. Magneto, Bronze Shaft,
Propeller, etc. Outboard Motors in 3 types. Other
sizes up to 14H.P. Write, phone or call.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Stree't,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
B.C. 205
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 C,.lie
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Another
Great
Reduction
c "i-K/fl - 1
"Fx & R” Rustless
Table Knives,
Half-doz, 35 / -
Dessert Knives,
Half-doz., 30/-
Our great efforts, both here and in London,
to get prices back to reason, are being re-
warded daily, and we now can announce our.
superlative rustless knives as being reduced
from 84/- to 70/- a dozen for tables, and from
75/- to 60/- a dozen for desserts.
These superlative “Fx and R” Knives are the
BEST made in Sheffield.
Each bears only a very small etched brand.
No hideous brand all over the blade.
Besides the above, also stock a fine
qualitv British Rustless Knife at 27/6 the halt
dozen' tables, and 25/- the half-dozen desserts
Our prices are the lowest in Australia, but
our qualities are the best.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
FOB SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete ; 80-h.p. Engine by TANG it.
I Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Prices' I 'and 'further particulars on application to
AIEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., ETD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
Legal Notice.
TO DANIEL BROOME, father of
James Broome, deceased, formerly of
Whangarei, New Zealand, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under ltim.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 3rd
day of October, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Count of New Zealand, you aie
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of February,
1922, your claim to the estate of James
Broome, deceased, who died at Owliango, in
New Zealand, on the 13th day of January,
1919, Intestate, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto, disregarding your claim.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington/ New Zealand.
POSSESSING exceptional lubri-
cating properties and freedom
from carbonising impurities,
Shell Lubricating Oils assure you get-
ting the very last ounce of power out
of your car.
Shell Motor Spirit
is the only spirit with a twenty (20)
years' continuous record of successes
for mileage,, purity, pace and power.
These four factors are essential
adjuncts to enjoyable motoring. The
user of Shell " Motor Spirit never
worries; he knows that wherever and
whenever purchased, he gets the same
pure, sweet spirit, the spirit adopted
as the World’s Standard.
Shell is as pure to-day as it was
twenty years ago; just as powerful;
just as dependable; just as superior.
The British Imperial
Oil Co.) Ltd.)
ALL STATES AND
NEW ZEALAND.
l&OTOR -j
IWIJLSifP
“The Oil that
weaves a smile
every mile/’
1
f
z
'A.
1
/
SHEU
\
IMepTum 1
Motor Oil
CONTINUOUS, unfailing good
service—no matter the make of
car yon possess —more miles,
greater pleasure, less expense; these
naturally follow the use of Shell
Lubricating Oils.
Shell Motor Oils
are the highest expression of scientific
lubrication. Do the mere letters of
the alphabet denote to you in any way
whatever the consistency of Lubricat-
ing Oils? "We think not. Youi car
requires an oil of either light, medium
or lieavy body, and to simplify identifi-
cation Sholl Lubricating Oils are
graded accordingly. Ask for Shell
Motor Medium—or whatever grade of
Oil our Recommendation Chart ad-
vises for your car. You’ll then get
maximum power with minimum wear
tear. Leading garages stock Shell
Oils.
Note the Patent
Swivel Pourer; it
eliminates the
i cumbersome funnel.


Empire Lamp Shades for Electric,
Gas, or ordinary oil lamps ; light but
strongly made of good quality Jap.
Silk on wi<e frame; finished with
contrasting braid on top and bottom.
Rose, blue, yellow, orange,
jink, and mahogany. Price,
17/6
Lampshades that Reflect
k taste as well as light.
NO matter what colour
schemes you have de-
cided on, it is an easy
matter to procure lamp-shades
to harmonize. Farmer’s have
an infinite variety of designs
and colours, but should stocks
not include your particular
choice it will be promptly made
in whatever effed you desire.
Farmers, Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTONS SONS , Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne,
Australia
á
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Melbourne’s truly best people either stayed
away or soon got lost in the crowd' at
Ilenley on Saturday afternoon. The Lady
Stradbroke, in white tailorings, striped with
black and a big Mower-decked black hat,
made a brief inspection of the house-boats
then surveyed the scene from the president’s
two-decker, where Mr. Hugh Strachan
hosted for Senator Fairbairn. But she
spent st of the afternoon in a launch,
with uaugnter Helena and a Rous son—
who wore a Scotch College cap—on a voyage
of inspection among the decorated craft,
ihese, by the way, were conspicuously, un-
original ; though one boatload, which sported
briar-rose parasols and hats, earned a cheer.
After the boats had been judged, Lady Strad-
broke handed out the pennant from the
Mayoress’s artistically-dressed house-boat,
and then sat down to tea with the civic
heads. Mrs. Swanson was coat-and-skirted
in fawn crepe de Chine, sported a tricky
hat wreathed with rust-red roses and
clutched a posy of roses and lilies-of-the-
valley, legroped with mauve ribbon, which
Mrs. Barry Thompson handed her. Aider-
man Jeffries’s handsome wife looked im-
posing in black trappings, and Mrs. Don
Swanson was upholstered in mole-colored
crepe de Chinery.
A touch of excitement was lent to the
proceedings by a canoe bumping into a river
pile and then deciding to sink. General
McCay’s daughter was in it with Miss
Walker, and thev took a bath in full view
of the public. Several gallants charged in,
and soon two damp and distressed damsels
had wrung themselves out and were making
for home.
Lady Stradbroke’s Day was nearly washed
off the calendar by tropical rains. Post-
ponement of the general programme was im-
possible—though the big pageant waits to
walk another day—and the women who
pluckily got to their stands and kiosks made
heroic efforts to drag the Day out of the
mud. The Women’s Hospital Committee,
headed by Mrs. Earle, had arranged a coun-
ter-lunch kiosk in Collins-street, but nobody
would swim out to the thing. The Mel-
bourne Hospital crowd had a produce stall
whereat wet matrons sold carrots and cab-
bages and bunches of mint to what buyers
happened to be fishing in the neighborhood.
A cheerful note was struck at a stall near
the Town Hall, run by boys of the various
Grammar Schools. The youngsters yelled and
implored and beat big copper boilers with
sticks in their efforts to draw baksheesh from
bedraggled wayfarers, and they managed to
rake in a tidy sum. The Chinese stall, cov-
ered with wonderful tapestries, glowed
warmly in the midst of the sloppy dreari-
ness, and then heaps of colored silks “ran”
into each other. Jumbo from the circus
didn’t mind the weather, but lumbered along
the streets and prodded reluctant givers with
his trunk. He got a fine haul. There was
a splendid cafe chantant at the Oriental,
where Lady Stradbroke drank tea and
watched the raffling. The Singola Hall
people, too, scored with an indoor show of
delightful music. But the saddest feature
of the day was a jazz-band man humping a
soggy big drum through the floods in Collins-
street. The parchment bore a horrible, like-
ness to tripe, and as he poked a finger into
it he asked of nobody in particular: “Can you
beat it?”
The supper-dance at the Esplanade on the
eve of Lady Stradbroke’s Day was a success-
ful affair. The Governor, his Countess and
a big party came along. They had promised
to look in for an hour or so, but stayed till
the end. Solicitor IJewison’s lady, who
handled the whole show, had done champion
work in organising, and the Naicest were
there in shoals. The froeking was gorgeous.
The Countess jazzed in jade-green, her gown
swathed in soft georgette of jade, and an
ostrich-feather fan of the effective green had
an amber handle. She had Aladdin’s Cave
diamonds sparkling at her throat, in her ears
and on her hair. Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s frock
was the color of sea-sand glittering with
jewels, and the band round her hair looked
like red-brown seaweed. Lady Digby dazzled
in black that was brocaded with big gold
roses. Lady Helena blossomed out in sea-
blue, with a neat little snood round her
hair. The ballroom electrics shone through
bougainvillaea shades, and a fountain of purple
glass shot up sprays of lavender-scented " ater
that cooled the tropical warmth of the crowded
room. Supper tables were set on the balcony
as w’ell as round the ballroom. Mrs*. Alex.
Landale handed in £lOO to pay for the eat-
ables. Dame Nellie Melba and" Mrs. George
Chirnside sent the table flowers, and M.ss
Kemp arranged the lot—lily-of-the-valley and
roses and stocks in fragrant shallow bowls-
ful. Just after midnight, Lady Stradbroke
was handed the first donation for her Day—
a cheque for £450, Grey-haired Billy ±4ayles
did a one-step up the ballroom and whispered
that “a lady” wished to make it up to £5OO.
The stares concentrated on Mrs. Fred Payne,
who blushed an admission of guilt.
Lesley Madden was transformed into Mrs.
Louis Nelken in girlish frocking of white
satin with georgette over-scallops and a
bodice strewn with pearls. Said bodice, by
the way, had a wispy satin tail. The bride
hid under billowy meshes of tulle and
cuddled a sheaf of lilies with one arm.
Brother Guy did the giving away, and a
handful of Madden and Nelken relatives saw
the knot tied in the Madden dame’s Cliveden
flat parlor. The party then motored to the
Alexandra Club, where benedictions wei-e
said by a platoon of intimate friends at the
cake-cutting—an operation prefaced by
music, with Walter Kirby as chief star.
The mothers of the bride and bridegroom
were supported by the Robert Harper and
Albert Miller widows, the veteran Byron
Moore and Charlie McEvoy.
The Deaf and Dumb Institution does not
benefit by Hospital Day collections. It is
making an appeal, however. On Friday,
October 28, there will be a kiosk at its
front gates in St. Kilda-road for the sale
of produce, home-made jam and cakes. The
boys of the institution began toy-making
about seven months ago, and Bucklev and
Nunn have arranged to display some of then-
work from November 7 till Saturday, 12th,
after which the goods will be on sale.
Mrs. Rupert Atkinson will be in the thick
of race doings with her usual froeky splen-
dor. She returned last week from ’ a wan-
dering in China and Japan with her pal,
Maude Gregory.
None of the crowded evening concerts of
the Butt series was more successful, than the
Dame’s one and only matinee. She handles
a matinee situation so adroitly. In the first
place she admits that her mighty self, not
less than her voice, is a consideration. Ignor-
ing the regulation afternoon garb of hex-
musical colleagues she clothes herself in
evening wear. This time she wore a mauve
charmeuse gown, with a filmy wrap of jade
georgette, outlined with delphinium blue.
Dainty jade shoes to match completed the
picture at one end, and a girlish bandeau
of gold, with pastel roses, crowned her dark,
haix-. The outfit was dead out of harmony
with the “body” coats, striped pants, etc., of
Kennerley Rumford and the violinist, but it
was just what the enthusiastic mutineers
wanted. A great cluster of aquamarines
from a long, slender chain and about half-
a-dozen rows of peai-ls adoi-ned the massive
tln-oat where the notes come from. Her ad-
mirei-s just loved Dame Clai-a in that festive
array. And they just adored her when,
after her first number, a little che-ild
advanced to the platform with a bouquet
to complete the color scheme, and the
lady lifted the little one on to the plat-
form from the floor (a good lift), kissed her
and then led her down stairs.
Tenors are scarce in the Big World, and
those that know him think there’s a place
waiting for Clifton
Iveat, pictured here-
wit h. He comes
from Christchurch
(M.L.), is only just
out of his teens, and
at present is study-
ing harmony at the
’Varsity Con. with
an eye on the three-
years’ scholarship.
Laver and Fritz
Hart are both en-
couraging the lad,
who was a protege
of Napoleon Boffard.
Keat was studying
electrical engineer-
ing in Christchurch
when Philip New-
bury discovered the
silvery quality of his voice and persuaded
him to give some study to his singing. He
sent the lad to his own old master. August
North, a veteran Maoriland musician, and
North nut in such excellent work that Iveat
was able to surprise our Con. with his train-
ing. There is a lot of hard work ahead
of the boy, but his voice has a quality that
arrests attention anywhere.
The two Rous boys, sons of Governor
Stradbroke, have flung cardinal caps upon
their honorable heads and been formally
enrolled as Scotch Collegians. They were at
the sports held in the new school grounds
the other day. and form pals describe them
as “good sorts,” even if they aren’t Aussies.
At the first night of the Cherniavsky sea-
son there were three men in dress suits
(that’s not counting the ushers), and bar
a few tired old party wraps and cloaks very
ordinary daytime clothes were sported by
the women music-lovers. Why must you
be dowdy if you are soulful? Don’t you
trunk that if the people who sigh about
musically starved Australia” would dress
up a bit when they do get music, good classi-
cal stuff would become fashionable and
draw the best-dressers as it does at Covent
Garden opera and such places where jewels
are given an airing? If it wasn’t the fashion
to dress expensively for the races, how manv
women would go?
Youthful Norman Farmer, who looks at
you from this column, is being spoken of as
a px’ospective Lemmone. Weston-Pett, one
of the 'old soldiers in
the flute-world and
an enthusiast, was
invited to hear the
young man tootle,
and so impressed was
he by Farmer’s play-
ing that he under-
took to tutor him,
with the result that
the pupil threatens
to distinguish him-
self in the near,
future. His princi-
pal asset is a sweet
but peculiarly re-
sonant tone, and
under his tutor he is
rapidly developing
technique with inter-
pretation. Amid the
droves of new musi-
oians turned out in Melbourne each year
there is seldom a wood-wind player, and
this makes young Farmer’s case the more
interesting.
The death of Mrs. Stewart Balmain spells
ft U 0 b l n W v ?2 r P° or Gool 'g e Fairbairn.
"r le ,enat °i s wife passed out recently, and
the bereaved man left for England to bo
with his sole daughter Alison, only to re-
ceive news at Suez of her death. ' Alison,
who was a lovable girl, married Captain
Stewart Balmain when he was aiding at
Government House, and they spent part of
their time abroad and part in Australia look-
mg after sheep. She owned a run on the
Mornington peninsula, a beautiful place
where the paddocks run clear down to the
ti-trees on the beaches. She leaves three
boys, George, lan and Malcolm, and a tiny
baby _ girl, _ Moira. Her death will plunge
the big I airbairn clan into deeper mourning,
and sad gaps will be noticeable in the festi-
vities of Melbourne’s spring.
The artist members of the -Lyceum Club
are having an innings this month. On Oct.
t and L 8 the rooms are to be handed over
tor them to trim with their. own pictures,
and . craft-workers are also lending their
pretties. A sketching circle has been formed
lately, and afternoon excursions are made
once a month to bayside nooks or mountain
glades. This little exhibition is expected to
encourage timid sketehers to come out into
the open and roll up to the little fresh-air
jaunts during the summer.
A programme built of duets, with a small
leaven of baritone soloing, was the novelty
served up in the Assembly Hall, Collins-
street, recently. The duettist were Alice
Slater and Ada Freeman, both Mus.B.’s.
Each had a whole grand piano to herself,
and they swapped instruments after each
rtem, so it was all quite fair and square.
You get plenty with two pianos turned on
at once, of course, but the individual has no
chance to pour out her soul to you as she
can alone. Ada Freeman is tall, very slen-
der and dark, of the serious, tragic type, and
the soft vestal white of her georgette drap-
mgs was in perfect harmony. Sweet Alice
is soft, rounded and blonde, and her person-
ality expressed itself in supple satin of baby-
blue grappled about the waist with pale rose
and blue flowers. A. C. Bartleman sand-
wiched some tuneful songs from Brahms,
Schumann and Vaughan Williams between
the double-barrelled pianoing, and Harold
Smith diligently and skilfully accompanied
on a keyboard all by himself. ’
Amy Castles is in Melbourne, tired with
touring; but after a rest she will lift her
voice again in concert work. Sister Eileen
is also here, staying with sister Dolly, who
married Dr. Finn and settled down to domes-
tic life.
The Scotch College sports were a fashion-
able function, after all. Postponed by rain
from the week before, they had glorious
Spring weather for their second try, and a
big crowd of grown-ups was spilled over
the new grounds at Ilawthorn. At the fin-
ish the trophies were presented on the quad-
rangle by the Countess.
Wilkie Bard was furiously farewelled by a
crowded Tivoli. Amy Castles was in a box
with sister Dolly and her doctor, John
Taverner and his lady were near by, and
Charlie Tait had a party, too, a farewell
fling before charging off: on a business trip
abroad. Among the presentation vegetables
that went up was a golf-stick decorated with
flowers and some club ribbons. A group of
Fisherman’s Bend golfers beaming from a box
were the obvious donors. At the finish of
the night Wilkie Bard, his wife and the
Tivoli co. joined hands with the stalled front
row and the inhabitants of the stage-level
boxes, and everybody auld lang syned and
jolly good fellotved.
A fine bit of word-spinning by Irvine,
C.-L, was the feature of the Trafalgar Day
demonstration at the week-end. He put in
the shade the Governor and Bar-leader Mit-
chell, president of the Navy League, which
was running the show. When the Iceberg
is in dead earnest on a cause and lets him-
self go he grips an audience like a magnet.
Dozens of tiny tots, mostlv in fancv frock-
mgs whirled joyously the' other night at
the Hyarns sisters’ small-pupils’ two-step in
the Toorak A.N A. Hall. And in between
whirls the kindly hostesses handed round
chocolates and ice-creams, leaving the
mothers to brood fearfully on the morrow.
Mary Harriet Irvine, who died of heart
failure last week, was the second daughter
of Hill Irvine, of Newry, in the north of
the Green Isle, and a sister of the Chief
• J « s £ ce - Sho had lived in retirement at
Hilliams-road, Toorak. The family came to
Vic. 40 years ago, after dad’s death. «
Berwick was plunged into gloom on the
morning of its flower show by the sudden pass-
ing of Miss Marion Barker, one of the oldest
and best-liked residents in the district and
the leading spirit in all its social and philan
thropic activities. Her father was a noted
Collms-street doctor of the ’sixties.
The Robins-of-the-Mint family i s breath
mg again after the excitement of daughter
Nancy’s wedding. The fuss and flurrv of
the pretty gild s trousseau-gathering had been
immense. Norman Price exchanged vows
" ’lb her at the Scawtch Church, Hawthorn
and the big wedding-party had a champagne
supper at Astolat, Hawthorn Grove The
blade wore brocade and silver butterflies and
all the usual fluflf.v trappings. Her brides-
nuuds were m rainbow colors, and her sister
e/n - d^ e Grey ' fl '°™ St. Arnnud. was a
tulle-aefeked matron of honor. Anno Wii
hams sang among the arum-lilies in the
church.
“Sweet Noll’’ Stewart is a proud grand-
mother. Daughter Nancy—Mrs. Lvnton—
came to Australia three or four months ago
in order that the little one might he a “din-
kum Aussie ’; and its name is John.
Rev. George Edwin Gamble, of St Ste-
phen s, Richmond, has induced Winifred
Jessie Bambndge to take charge of his
vicarage. The partnership was formally
witnessed and blessed by Archdeacon Hind-
iey and Ins rev. brother Schofield The
vicaress is a sister of the ’Varsity' Regis-
lflr,,and the general manager of the
Southern Union Insurance Co.
Little Fifi Irwin and her fiance. Nigel
Somerset, gent.-help to Governor Weigall
a fIL arran ? ed to be made one in March!
After a brief honeymoon in Europe they
will steam to India, where the bridegroom
will be due to join his regiment.
Adelaide encloses a note:
His Ex. and Lady Weigall tripped off to Mount
Gambler for the show and mayoral ball, taking small
Priscilla, Captain Houstoun-Boswall and Dr C J
Williams with them. A visit to Mannum and Mur-
ray Bridge was in the programme.
The Butt Dame and liennerley Rumford were put
up by their Exes, at Government House. Their
opening appearance at the Town Hall unleashed
much enthusiasm, and Dame Clara through it all
looked regal in white and silver brocade with
diamond tiara and necklace. Before singing Elgar’s
“Land of Hope and Glory” she invited the audience
to join in the chorus, and as a result of the com-
munity singing craze they nearly lifted the roof.
The Mayoress’s appeal for the Children’s Hospital
to date has brought in £13,832, and the Govern-
ment subsidy carries the total to £18,832. Another
£2OOO has still to be raised. Incidentally, the John
Hops are doing their bit, and the proceeds of their
annual amateur sports carnival on November 5 are
to be handed over to the fund.
At the Grand Central Hotel the other night there
met and dined a roomful of men who had attended
the school kept by John L. Young, first opened in
Adelaide in 1852 and closed in 1880 —many of
them past the allotted span. The first re--union
of this old boys’ association was held in 1912, when
the members arranged to raise £lOOO to found the
John L. Young Research Scholarship at the Univer-
sity, al >d at this dinner it was proudly announced
that the required cheque was now available.
The Rose Show which was , opened by her Ex.
on Friday was a riot of gorgeous blooms. The
amateur rose-grower, by the way, is becoming a
power in the floricultural world, as the prize for the
champion rose went to C. G. Rimes, a young ama-
teur of Bowden. The champion carnation, Pink
Pearl, was grown by W. D. Robinson, of Mount
Gambier.
Dora Meeson has a striking figure of a girl in
1 1 ili-century costume g-azing anxiously out of a- case-
ment. It is called “Not far from Marston Moor.”
To the painter, during the recent exhibition in Adel-
aide, came a sympathetic old lady. “My dear,” she
said, “there’s a mistake in your catalogue. No. 75
is a figure subject; and they’ve given it a landscape
title.”
Word comes that Henry Tarlton, an Adelaide man
long resident in Central Africa—he was chosen as
companion and guide for Theodore Roosevelt in the
famous shooting-expedition— has been badly mauled
by a leopard. Wounded in thick bush it doubled
back on him and got him down. He killed it eventu-
ally, and is recovering, though his left arm was
for some time in danger.


✓
'.'lit;,;,
/
m
mm
sag*
■
m
1*
I
' '
is
§€ws;
n
■ !
• '
*
B
: : d' ; -
iflfl
■
.iff!
'
*
PStg
>
IP
■;t-.
m
mm
m
*
&
sm


CIMRLES
HEIDSIEO6
Vintage .1911 (
CMWMfiFffi
HE PLUS ULTRA
ä
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY l.ifwiTED, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
“C” DEBENTURES
AUSTRALIAN GAS NEW ISSUE.
£450,000 T2Z 5 Years’ Currency
In order to meet the wishes of many Investors, the Directors have decided
that whenever so desired the Debentures
CAN' BE CONVERTED FROM BEARER DEBENTURES
INTO REGISTERED DEBENTURES.
Australian Gaslight Company,
Haymarket. Sydney.
October 14, 1921.
C. U. B. GURNETT.
Secretary.
NEEDEM
Ik NEED-EM
WATCH
POUCH.
Only slightly wider
than the ordinary
w a t c h —slips on
your belt like the
ordinary pouch—
but holds the watch
securely, so that it
cannot fall out or shake about. A double
thickness of leather protects the glaes from
breakage under the most strenuous conditions.
To see the time, simply release button and face
of watch falls right into view. Fitted with a
first-class, fully-jewelled Swiss watch—a splen-
did timekeeper. The Need-ern Watch and
Pouch, 4? /f» post free. The Need-em Pouch
only, in solid leather, 6/6 each, post free.
FINNEY’S,
BRISBANE.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
The G.-G.’s first public function in Sydney
was a wash-out: the weather behaved just
as it the thing was a master plumbers’ picnic.
Saturday was the opening of the yachting-
season, and the G.-G., as the new Commo-
dore of the R.S.Y.C., had invited Society to
a garden party in the charming grounds of
the club at Kirribilli. Suddenly, just as
Sydney was on its way muffled up to the
ears in fur coats and tailorings, the rain
ceased, and the garden smiled tantalisingly
fresh and green in spite of the cold squalls
that swept its borders. Everybody gathered
<>n the wide verandahs and lounges, and a
few enthusiasts in double-breasted nautical
clothing followed the racing. The new
Commodore was surrounded by a faithful
crew, white-capped and brass-mounted, that
included E. I*. Simpson, Walter Reeks and
deep-seamen Taylor and Goddard. Another
who wore his white cap at a quietly-raldsh
angle was old club-member Ilungerford; and
there were ramparts of Milsons, as is appro-
priate. Mrs. E. Waley, in black-and-white
check tailorings, brought her captain and a
bunch of female friend's, including Mrs.
Bracegirdle and her embroidered bag. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly wore a black close-fitting silk
velvet coat that flew the quarantine sign on
cuffs and collar, and revealed a plastron of
high-toned Orientalism about the waist-line.
Daughter Beatrice was a study in black
from her up-turned hat to her slim feet.
Mrs. Dan Taylor and her sister, Miss Saun-
ders, added their good looks to the party;
Mrs. Spencer Brunton wore a heavy-weight
of sable, and was supported by a husband
in a soft pink shirt, a suit in an indescribable
tone that fluctuated between brown and
grey, and a bowler hat that was grey and
low. And architect Burcliam Clamp wore
the only tall hat.
It has been a terrible week for the fly, not
to speak of the germ. Rooted out and har-
ried, X-rayed and spat upon, there is scarcely
a crevice left where a self-supporting microbe
may lurk and thrive. City Health-officer Dr.
Purdy and his band —it includes nearly every
woman-doctor and Queen of the Dustbins Isla
Blomfield —are out full-cry on the track of Dis-
ease. School children have been taught to
scrub their teeth 10 times up and 10 times
across, back and front, with the bristle end of
the brush instead of the handle. All corners
of the city have had juicy little lectures on
the baby, pyorrhoea, salt in the salad, the
dustbin, the value of athletics and a 30-
inch waist-line —and what “Sappho Smith”
would have said to the last goodness only
knows, for Sappho prided herself on her 18-
inch waist. Horrible examples of the mitey
atom took pride of place in shop windows;
young girls in technical colleges and other
places wore given kindly advice in the mat-
ter of keeping the powder-puff and the lip-
stick sanitary; and so strongly has baby
had its rights presented to it that it will no
longer consent to drink its milk while the
summer fly is surfing in the bottle. Inci-
dentally—and this is where we cheer —Syd-
ney already has the smallest baby death-rate
of any city in the world with a population
of over half-a-million.
Here’s a true story of a town girl w T ho
was visiting in the Riverina district. One
day she found the infant hopeful of her host-
ess industriously imbibing from a feeding-
bottle in which a very nasty fly disported
languidly. “Oh, look,” cried she to the
mother, “there’s a fly in the bottle.” Mother
took one look. “Oh, it’s all right, dear,”
she said —“it can’t come through !”
The dance at Retford Hall last Friday in
aid of the School of Industry at Petersham
was of the small and select order, though
nearly 300 tickets were sold, and they were
a guinea apiece. Mrs. Fred Waley and Mrs.
Tony Hordern received’ the guests after
Tony had collected the cards at the entrance
to the long covered-in pathway beside the
tennis-lawns. This pathway, which is a
trellis of greenery by day, was entirely en-
closed in sail-cloth, cheered up with
flags and chairs for sitting-out. More
chairs for sitting-out could be glimpsed
through the turned-back flaps of the
canvas—chairs and stars and gem-like
flashes of the harbor; and orange and crim-
son Chinese lanterns thrust into the black
heart of shrubbery were other adornments
of the only perfect Spring night of the week.
Mrs. Fred Waley trailed old-rose softness,
and Mrs. Tony Hordern combined soft black
satin and lace, and bound her brow with a
bandeau of just the right blue to tone in
with her pearls. Dame Margaret and Mrs.
Egerton looked in half-way through the even-
ing, her Ex. in pale blue brocade, and Mrs.
Egerton in very Royal blue—the drawing-
room had been banked with lilac and tulips
and roses for the background of the vice-
regal handshake.
Society spread its feathers in the interests
of the Barnardo Homes at the Wentworth the
other mght, and did it in more than one
sense. The occasion being “a head-dress
anee, Sydney got out the ostrich plumes
o yesterday, and perched them erect, at
right angles, at acute angles, and at the
eternal triangle. When bare woman and
bia\e men undulated, the scene from the bal-
cony was a cross between a Futurist funeral
where the hearse-plumes had gone gay among
ww ye ' r n' ts L, and . the vision of the Apocalypse
wheie all the strange beasts of the earth
disported together. There was a list of
/ ls lo “« as Lent, and pretty Phyllis
Pan, from Java, in a closely-fitting casque
ot woven pearls that sprouted into delicate
antennae on the crown, scored the judgment
of Ia ns whose other name is Claude Cum-
berlege and won whatever was offered for
the most original head-dress. Mrs Sep
Levy was nearly swept off her slim ankles
by the mass of sliell-pink plumage she car-
ned on her head. There was enough feather
in it to have stuffed a double-size mattress •
a 1!. 0 "'’ the , nrize f ° r the most beautiful
hea d-d less was hers. Beatrice Kelly, look-
ing as though she had peeped through into
the days of Henry V. and got her head
caught, scored for the quaintest top-piece •
Metealfe-Jaekson was ’.CE
winnei. Jimmie Osborne, in whom a bank-
in„ account has smothered a champion
names"'of oW^ SPrUik - er ’ h ? ]ped to call out the
names of the prize-takers. But it was
in the auctioning of the millinery that he
was at ns best, though the prices didn’t soar
*th hiin S - U i nea ifj < ’ ee •” burst out a sweet
to n?.*? T but they’re a tight lot here
the shonTor i' " <h "^ y f ou * Why, I’d pay that in
ine snop toi it. Not while you re mv wife f ”
auS ed h-lt aCk tbe - male voice ‘ Northcliffe’s
autoed hat was given away for £7 7s.
rb^ n w Wl d ?, nd blustering night last week
the Women Painters held their dance at
costume S ’ nr V6 n f , ew , came in carnival
waS . „,,° IIV - e Dankars fruit-stall set
I a charming idea, the girls wearino-
puffed-out skirts to represent the fruit and
gieen bodices to mark the stems—the voun-
men of the party were the paper-bags tS
hold the pippins and the peaches A nie-
turesque Minnehaha danced with her Hia-
watha, and Mary Edwards brought a little
under (mcludia §' medicated wool
unaer Per scarf because of a bad cold) and
£ P r »f Modern A?t-
Mis. Hrcy I aget wore pale pink georaette
and Miss Nock black taffetas, and Mr Fen-
bv n don°nin " ft* £ r Pf chea P est costume
Dy donning Judge Beeby’s Over All.”
The Polish Consular Earps had a tea-
drinkmg at their Edgecliff home, Highgate,
last week to welcome Andre Skalski. who
Tho r a &l -V - beeri 111 S y dne .y some little’ time.
drawing-rooms were crowded mostlv
aiso h an< f Medicine, though there whs
also a flavor of Church. Tall Miss Rosebv
of Kambala, the Segaerts and the Campanas
Olive Kelso King and Mrs. Herrick Knowfes
weie some who turned an attentive ear when
SkaJski played the Seriabin Prelude and
Chopins unpublished Nocturne and tried to
look unconscious of the jangling of an orna-
ment or a photo-frame that accompanied the
noie forceful passages of the piano. The
new Mrs. hossati (Julia Caroli) and Mrs.
Larp supplied vocal embellishments.
This is the wife of the author of the Sydney
flys worries, and, like -her husband, Dr.
Purdy, she comes
from Newcastle-on-
Tyn e. Her hus-
band’s first Austra-
lian appointment
was as health offi-
cer of Hobart. That
was in 1911, and since
then Mrs. Purdy has
travelled in Egypt,
Maoriland and Eng-
land, but prefers
Australia to “live
in.” In the inter-
vals of helping her
husband to “swat
that fly” Mr s.
Purdy mothers four
youngsters, and
takes such a keen
interest in all sports
that she is not
above dropping in at the Stadium.
Lure and Jean Drummond gave a fare-
well cheerio to Annette Kellerman at the
Wentworth one afternoon last week; but
at the last moment the guest of honor was
held back, and so couldn’t claim the Vic-
torian bow-pot that smiled blue and pink
from a mauve gauze-ruffle. It was a sudden
decision to sail next day for Maoriland that
robbed the perfect party of the perfect
woman. Old friends like Georgie Miisgrove
(who had a wonderful wax water-lily in
her hat that a small-boy friend was found
experimenting on with a box of matches)
and Mrs. Grace tried to fill the gap left by
the sea-nymph’s non-appearance with hot
buttered toast and coffee. A flock of sweet
young things; —many of them Drummond
nieces, nearly a s old as their youthful aunts
vvoie their very best millinery and brought
their very best jazz steps.
Mary Elizabeth Ralston duly married her
JJr. John Alexander Leslie Wallace at the
time and place appointed last week. St.
1a V 1 s> Rnrwood, was the trysting place,
and as Marys mother is of the Windeyer
clan and dad is the well-known K.C., there
was almost enough law scattered through the
wedding guests to upset the Ten Command-
ments. The bridegroom is senior medical-
orheer of Callan Park, and, buttressed be-
t\\ een so much of the alphabet and his heavy-
weight job, he sustained without a tremor
the chonii service, which was in charge of
1 adre Harry Bryant. The bride wore the
immemorial white satin, the only innovation
being the veil of the famous old Windeyer
family lace, which, arranged off the face,
cascaded softly into the folds of the train,
lhe veil was moored to the head by a tur-
o ue ve^ve t bandeau, in which Mrs.
Antill-hargood’s gift, a diamond star,
gleamed. Some of the family seed pearls
were the only other adornment. Tim Raine
and Phyllis Traill bridesmaided in blue taf-
teta and black picture hats; and Oliver
Latham and a brother of the bride were the
male supports. The bride’s mother and
father spread the feast at their Strathfield
nome, Kooroogama.
Let me re-introduce Llewellyn Jones; but
it you long ago bought one of his canvases
lie is an old friend,
and you haven’t
seen the color-poem
he can make out of a
twist of road, a few
gum-trees and a
shelving rock you
must take the first
tram to Anthony
Horderns’ gallery,
where the too-diffi-
dent little man hung
out his sign last
week. The Spit
clothes itself in a
glory of winter sun-
shine, “The Road to
Manly” looks more
like the road to
Arcady, and “Grey
and Green and
Gold” brings to mind half-forgotten Irish
fairy tales of a sympathetic Leprechaun who
laid the green of his cloak and spilled his pot
of gold over a world that had grown too grey.
Dr. Joyce, of Melbourne, came to Sydney
last week to claim Belle Rankin; and Belle,
putting up no opposition, became his for
keeps at St. Mary s in one of the few bursts
of sunshine the week knew. The bride’s
wedding garments were so sensible that she
might have been doing a morning’s shopping.
A tailored mole gabardine costume, a dull
sapphire satin halS and mole shoes and stock-
ings formed the visible outfit. Brother
Archie gave Belle away, and Mrs. Archie
and Belle’s sister, Mrs, Scott, were among
the front-seaters, who included Mrs. Toohey,
Miss Egan and Mrs. Ted Simpson and
daughter Helen. Good wishes and wine were
dispensed to intimates at Mrs. Toohey’s.
Mollie, the youngest daughter of Mrs. E. J.
Green, of Warren, has pi-omised to become
Mrs. R. IT. Gorman, of Mosman. R.H. is'
the only son of C.H., of the old Hardie and
Gorman firm.
Emelie Polini —in unprofessional life Mrs.
Harold Ellis —is rejoicing over a daughter,
wiio arrived at the farm-home up Rydal
way, where the apples and the cherries grow
—the cherries on the babies’ cheeks.
Streeton arrives in Melbourne this week
with his “Sunlit Suburbs of Sydney,” which
he is going to flash in the eye of Cup-week
Melbourne at the Athenaeum Hall. Emerald
and sapphire water along the shores of Cre-
morne, Mosman, Watson’s Bay and Bal-
main scintillates in the collection ; and there
are sketches of Sydney streets painted from
the mountainous heights of the T. and G.
and No. 4 Bridge-street. Streeton has been
working alongside B. E. Minns, whose easel
is taken up by a portrait of Professor Sandes,
of the Chair of Surgery in Sydney Uni.
Streeton, by the way,. gave Thea Proctor
her first encouragement when as a young-
man he went up to Bowral to judge an art
competition among school children. The
subject was a violin, and Thea’s fiddle caught
the judge's eye. Friend Lambert, who is
also busy picking up Australian guineas to
help him in his London pilgrimage, is again
painting some real Australian scenes, such
as “Weighing the Fleece.”
One of the striking features of Warriors’
Day will be the poster by Mrs. Rix Nicholas.
It represents good old Digger, not with
bayonets and swords and khaki hung about
him, but as the everyday boy that we all
know. In dungarees, with his flannel shirt
open at the throat, the eager look in
his eyes belying the nonchalant face, this
Digger asks not for charity, but for work.
Mrs. Rix Nicholas is at the moment in Mel-
bourne preparing a little art show for Cup
week.
Old teacher Roland Foster was delighted
the other day by a cable which chirruped
that Gladys Verona’s Sunday League con-
certs and the three recitals with .Mark Ham-
bourg had been something in the nature of
a triumph for the slip 0 f Australia with the
brilliant soprano notes. If grit and sticking
it out get their reward Gladys will yet be
known at Covent Garden and the Metropoli-
tan Opera House.
Forty-five Australian babies got the sur-
prise of their lives last week, when, wrapped
up in soft woolly bundles, they were motored
out from their city sparrow’s-nest in
lliomas-street and taken to the new Ren-
wick Hospital at Summer Hill. The house,
which was one time the home of Dr. Hinder.'
is surrounded with trees and hedges, and
what the jackasses chortled to each other
the morning after the invasion of the inno-
cents is still keeping the gum-trees in the
neighborhood rippling with joy.
The archbishops and the bishops have been
celebrating by a series of High Masses the
centenary of St. Mary’s; and in connection
therewith has been issued a dainty booklet
of pencil-sketches, by J. Buekland Jones, of
the Cathedra] at different stages of its exist-
ence, and of the three prelates associated with
the building of the present shrine.
Clifford Lathlean, from Adelaide, is timed
to unleash his singing bass in the small
hall of the Conservatorium on Tuesday even
ing next.
When the Freddie Shipmans left Calcutta
a few weeks ago India was seething w j t i,
preparations for the Prince’s visit. One of
the principal attractions is to be a monster
show in which Sydney girl Vera Passmore
is to play Aladdin.
The R.vde Home for Incurables is becom-
es as murmurous as a bees’ hive, busying
itself once more about the yearly sale of
work that will happen early in November,
iambs that never know a day’s freedom from
pain speed themselves over tasks infinitely
tedious and infinitely delicate—the embroid-
ery of the Home is as famous as its lace
work and its children’s garments.
, the National Club the other afternoon
the first arrangements for a Johnny Wallace
benefit were discussed. The programme pro-
mises to be most attractive, and a great roll-
up ot the veteran’s admirers is expected.
3 T 1 1 th n of ? ext month there is to be
a ball toi I urlough House, and that means
mostly to buy holidays for soldiers’ orphans
ihe chief attraction is to be a prize for the
prettiest feet and ankles. From beneath a
curtain drawn knee-high legs of fascination
will twinkle across the stage. A great
muster °f prodigals is expected for the feast
of the fatted calf.
This is the season when the sun-browned
Rush Brothers are in Sydney to give an
account of their stewardship Back of Be-
yond. It is a small band that attempts the
eig Job nowadays. Before the war there
iY ei ’ e 3n , ’ there are but five now.
tsut they have the enthusiasm of a million.
Governor Davidson showed interest in the
work last week and asked them to lunch.
And they did Government House the honor
ot accepting.
When Dr. Riley, Archbishop of Perth
dropped .over to Sydney for the Anglican
Synod his tall, good-looking son Basil came
with him. The young man has crowded
much mto the last nine of his 28 years He
was the W.A. Rhodes Scholar for 1912, and
when the Ivaiser broke loose he joined up;
his war experiences included 2 i years in the
viereld prison camp, and internment in
Holland, where he helped to bring out a
paper for the British internees. After that
he returned to New College and ran the boat
club, with some reading on the side, until
he went to Mesopotamia in 1919, and there
he has been till now, organising schools for
the young Arabs and wondering what will
become of the new constitutional monarchy
of Lmir Feisal. Feisal, by the way, was
elected at a referendum that would have
delighted W. M. Hughes—the citizens were
allowed to vote for only the one candidate.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Little Jean Trotter, who is to marry Hunter Bow-
man, has been the guest-of-honor at teas given by
Mrs. E. T. White and daughter Elma, Mrs. A. W.
Macnaughton and daughter Nancy, and Jean Love
On Thursday Mrs. Trotter held a reception at Nor-
wood, which was decorated with pink roses! and a
jazz band.
Mrs. John Hicks, whose daughter Beatrice was
married on Wednesday, was at home at the Belle
Vue a few days earlier. Mrs. Messervy (who was
Gladys Hicks) and Beatrice assisted mamma in
entertaining 200 guests.
Another early wedding is that of Alice Hobbs,
only daughter of solicitor Arthur Hobbs, to Billy
Robinson, of Toowoomba. Mrs. Dick Billington
spread a festive tea-table in the lady’s honor.
ihe Beatrice Hicks wedding took place at St.
homas’s, Toowong. Cream georgette over satin and
Mechlin lace formed the bridal garment. Pauline
Elliott (Charlie Elliott was the ’groom) and Dollv
King bridesmaided in apricot taffeta, and Doreen
Hicks, a small niece, in pale pink, held up the
bride’s train.
Our Excellency has sent out invitations for two
garden-parties, one on November 10. the other on
November 16.


w
Smart Models in
Wrist Watches.
/
Platinum and 15ct. Gold Wrist Watch, high-grade Lever movement,
mounted on Black Moire Silk Band, with Patent Snap,
£45 0 0
9ct. Gold Wrist Watch, high-grade Lever' movement,
mounted on Moire Silk Band, with Patent Gold Snap,
£2l 0 0
Hardy Bros, are constantly supplementing their
Watch stocks with new and smart models in Pocket
and Wrist Watches. The illustrations depict two
recent additions to the Company’s fine stocks.
A Splendid Range of Gem-set Wrist Watches
includes handsome models in all Diamonds,
Emeralds and Diamonds, and Onyx and Diamonds.
Selections sent on approval.
HARDY BROTHERS ■ LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
It 6-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Now is the Time
to begin photography, and the
“Box Form Ensign
Camera
(For Roll Films—Daylight Loading)
I
&
■
1
m
E
r
is an excellent
Camera for the
beginner, and is
sold at an excep-
tionally modest
price. It is
BRITISH MADE
and affords the
greatest sim-
plicity in work-
ing. The focus
is fixed, so that
the beginner can-
not fail to get
bright, sharp
pictures, and it is
practically im-
possihle for the
shutter to get out
of order. Full
instructions sup-
plied with each
camera.
No. 2% A,
Takes pictures
2 % x 2%.
Reduced from
14/6 to
12
6
No. 2 MB,
Takes pictures
2 % x 3%.
Reduced from
18/6 to
161-
Postage within each State, 9d.
Postage within each State, 1/
No. 2K,
Takes pictures
2V 2 x 4 1/4 .
Reduced from
24/- to
21|-
Postage within each State, 1/3.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland* N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, IS .Z.
The House for
Good Cameras.
TEYACO ROOFING
A Texaco Roof—Always
You can build your sheds, barns and your
warehouses with unusual care.
You know the beams must be strong and
sturdy. You know the foundations must
be firm. The labor must be painstaking.
But what about the Roof?
If it isn’t weatherproof and permanent
your labors are wasted.
Texaco Roofing protects everything
underneath.
It won’t crack and it won t peel. It will
resist all kinds of weather—always.
Its initial cost is low.
It comes in rolls of convenient size, com-
plete with cement, nails and printed
instructions. It can be easily laid by
unskilled labor.
Office Addresses of
The Texas Company (Australasia) Limited
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.—Auto House, 143-148
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE. —Carrington Chambers, Watt Street,
Newcastle.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Chancery House, 441 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRISBANE. Q’LAND. —Exton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
PERTH, W.A.—St. George’s House, St. Georges
Terrace, Perth, W.A.
LAUNCESTON, TAS. —40 St. John Street, Launces-
ton, Tas.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —23 Customs House Quay, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Ricbards-Upton Buildings. o 3
Customs Street East, Auckland, N.Z.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—South Australian Distributors —
Harris, Scarfe. Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
K' Mil
ijAND OnISE
RES/JtS
>
Rmco
RE C-u. 5. pat. or r
!lr j
u '3ct urad
WORKS
"OUT
TEMCO
X
IT
o
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
WlfcLlAro
£
%
&
CL
?old Toda
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6,
29/- and 30 -
Post free to any address in Australia.
å
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney.


You Can Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
I
I*
M
3*
quickly
and cor-
rectly by the
Weston method.
It teaches you,
without drudgery,
the essential prin-
ciples of commer-
cial art, and cul-
tivates and devel-
ops latent talent.
By means of this
simple, self-
explanatory postal
course, prepared
by Australia's fore-
most commercial
artist, Mr. Harry
J. Weston, you
study under his
personal tuition,
and follow the
rules that have
guided him in his
artistic career.
Send to-day for
Mr. Weston’s in-
teresting booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” which
describes the course
in detail, gives
examples of the
lessons and
many valuable
hints. If you
forward your name and address, with three
stamps to cover postage, we will send you
this fascinating booklet by return.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing',
84 Union House, SYDNEY.
S/Irue Ease d^Writing
BRUCE”
STEEL
SHELL
PETMS
elected and recommended by
M«James J3ruce. 'Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal,
Schools of Sydney,N.S.W o many/actured
by the celebrated Penmakers.
JOSEPH GiLLOTT & Sons, Birmingham.
(Sold by all Stationers
VMxJ esale Alex . Cowan & Sons. l?
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands,
MINIATURE MEDALS
m
m
ZFi
w
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/9;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
W. CHORLEY & CO., LTD.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
British General Electric Co. Ltd., Murray St., Perth,
HAVE FOR SALE
Large stocks of
Tangryo Centrifugal Pumps
made by the well-known firm, Messrs. Tangyes, Birmingham, England, namely:—
TYPE “A.”—Suitable for 35 feet Head, 4in. to Bin. inclusive,
£lO/2/6 to £2O/15/- each.
TYPE “B.”—Suitable for 75 feet Head, 3in. to Bin. From
£l4/17/6 to £24/15/- each.
TYPE “C.”—Suitable for 120 feet Head, 2in. to sin. From
£l9/10/- to £2l each.
STANDARD “D.”—Suitable for 50 feet Head, 3in. to sin. From
£9/12/6 to £l2/5/- each.
PRICES F.O.R. PERTH.
Motor Car Steels
Large stocks on hand of
CHROME NICKEL STEELS FOR AXLES
and other highly-stressed parts.
CHROME NICKEL and NICKEL STEELS
in bars and discs, for Gears, etc.
CHROME STEEL FOR BALL RACES.
CRANKSHAFT FORGINGS.
HIGH-CLASS ALLOYED SPRING STEEL.
Descriptive catalogue on application.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
On Hoi Summer Baije driivK
KING Of TABLE WATER?
Eirik iid rui'dfwj'
foiifam* LimpSo dahiifaa cMadneiia
Ajontr Pitf . ILid.
Vtolbourtyo, Ballarat & Si|dun]
PURVEYORS TO VICE -ROYALTY
S 3?
C*H ( ASPA
Rsß&ssa /
“tsv Y<
Wlir'.
Uliluu* Nmui W«
0
A CENTS
liu«ut rtuiiiui • **
‘‘if.
I
“Buy a Bundle
PLYWOOD.
When buying Plywood insist on
“NATIONAL” Brand and see the
trade-mark is on every .sheet. It is our
guarantee. Made from Queensland Hoop-
pine, Maple and Silky Oak, and available in
all sizes. Sanded or Unsanded. Every satis-
faction guaranteed to users.
Sold by all leading houses.
The National Plywood Co., Ltd.,
Ipswich Road, South Brisbane, Queensland.
m
wsmmmMmm.
.
■
-
BP
WMMm 1
memsl '
judges mwM&; i
> * « * « » » * • * »»•*»««««»«
tfVf,
j| ir.
■
Thf NEW PATENT PIPE
THE AUSTKAI I*JRA> 'COPIPE C?I7?
W- KAUNAS t'.lllU'JNii* SYWWV.
Perfection at last
Mo More Nicotine.
THE “NIKKO”
The Perfect, Patent Pipe. Why?
BECAUSE—
It sets up no Nicotine or Moisture in
the Bowl.
Saliva, reaching stem, is at once re-
moved by extracting tube and shaking
it.
However long in use it is Clean and
Sanitary.
There is no treacley accumulation of
Nicotine as in other pipes.
It is used and recommended by the
Medical Profession.
It is invented by an Australian.
Tobacco can be smoked to last atom,
leaving only dry ash and no moisture
in the bowl.
SMOKE A “NIKKO” and enjoy
a cool, healthy smoke.
Made in two qualities, of High-grade Briar.
Should your tobacconist' not stock the “Nikko ; ‘
pi pe, write
A. MeINTYRE,
34 U Paling’s Buildings,
Ash Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he
talcen of communications insufficiently stamped.
Aarne and address must appear on the ilSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D. Ennis: One verse is too good to waste:
W hen fencin’-wire’s not in a fence, protectin’ Cocky’s
lands,
Tt’s not and never will be Cocky’s friend,
e or when it’s loose and thrown about, been used by
careless hands,
’Twill do a heap more damage than ’twill mend.
And binder-twine is dinkum stuff w r hen used in just
the way
The mother of invention did intend,
And that’s in Cocky’s binder, binding up his sheaves
of hay.
The binder whip’s the only thing ’twill mend.
....L.N.G.: Merit in it; but it was too late....
Heldar: You get very near it.... Febrad: Doesn’t
rise to the high occasion... .Advance Aus.: The
first? Then please don’t let it be the last....
C.P.H.: Feeble little flutter... .W.L. (Toongabbie) :
Your enthusiasm is the best part of you....Bent
Stem: There’s not much “simple harmony” about
rhyming “cruel” with “fool”.... A.G.J.: One may
do.... Gertie S.: Just wobbles along and says nothing
till it reaches a final flop... .Pauline G.: Empty little
chatter which merely states that morning arrived....
E.L.S.: Nothing there... .D.S.C.: Dreadfully crude.
. ...J.S.S.: Not enough in the yarn.... Experientia
D: Too weak to stagger through... .A.F. (Geebung) :
No story there... .E.McM.: No use... .Minnie M.:
The mirth goes sadly... .C.M.A.: Doesn’t strike us
'hard enough... .Jack M.: No use for it....V.B.
(E. Malvern): Not quite.... Cyril S.: “The Snob”
is very old, and “Love Wins” has been worked a
thousand times. But “Whispering Sands” is a fine
subject and you should put better work into it....
L.O.J.: Fact that a girl was sacked from a factory
because she shut her eyes is duly noted... .Thomond:
Neither of them gets near.... J.W.H.: That sort of
thing can only move us to dangerous rage.... Olive
L. : “Enoch” is not for us.... J.A.G.: That yarn,
with variations, has reached a good old age....
Gilbert P.M.: Not blank verse; not even blanky
verse... .T.W. (St. Hilda) : Thin little thing in im-
possible clothes... .L.S.C.: “Some Women Need a
Man” is almost a miracle of heavy-weight dulness.
. .. .N.M. (Sheffield) : Poor stuff... .Albert P,: The
“Will” does not get anywhere near, in either matter
or manner... .Everybody: Two initials are not suf-
ficient for identification; even thr.ee are often
duplicated... .A.L.C.M.: Too feeble and bumpy
W.H.G.: Verse commonplace; prose unnatural....
Dorothy G.: Not up.... Tom M.: All of them well
on the way, but none quite get there.... Cecil M.:
A little bit better work and it would have scored a
goal... .W.E.L.: “Beauty” doesn’t strike us....
C.McG.: The latter part of the dainty gem is too
fine to miss:—
I hear white-crested waves a-roaring
Like a raging beast a-nawing.
And in their fury, watch them lock
' Themselves around some rugged rock.
Each wave that has a foaming tip.
Is like a snowy mountain top,
And as if touched by magic wand,
The foam is lost on the sands so blond.
And meditating here thus longer,
My thoughts retrieve to the Ships that plonder.
And the roar of the waves —I wonder—
Is it God’s toll for brave souls lost yonder?
....Frank L.: “Fort Denison” doesn’t suit us. We
don’t feel like theeing and thouing Pinchgut,...
A.H.P.: No use E.M. (New Farm): The ear
that can rhyme “law” with “before” needs tuning.
Gunner: Get another pen-name. This one is
already pegged out. Present yarn isn’t worth while.
....Francis D.: A small idea in lad verse....
Edward B.: Verse a trifle too rugged for the subject.
T.O.P.: Done too often Sylvia J.: Rather
dreary Paula: “Husky sweetness” is an over-
worked product of American fiction, not a peculiar-
ity of the swallow Gorrington (or Porrington) :
Pretty enough, but amounts to nothing... .L.O.J.:
A pointless remark in weak verse... .D.P. (Port
Pirie) : “Blarney” moves along like an 18st. publican.
... . Ray L.: There is an idea there. See if you
can’t handle it better Iiat: Astrophe... .E.J.R.:
Sorry, but you haven’t the beginning of an i lea of
writing verse. . . .A.A. (Leadville) : feeble common-
place. .. .C.T.L.: No good. . . . J.G.H.: Terrible.. ..
M.B.P.: “Twelve” not quite... .N.W.W.: It’s almost
a marvel. Few could make it so bad.... H.M.N.:
People who write do it because it is part of their
life. The man who asks how T to begin had better not
begin... .W.E.B.: The whole yarn seems mere
caprice without motive... .Walad: Not badly done,
but not for this market E.O. (North Sydney) :
The interest isn’t wide enough.... Slim Tim: “Para-
dox” moves rather ponderously... .Iota II.: Almost
unreadable and not what we want Richmond S.:
Far too long in the telling. .. .Mulwarrie: “The
Painter” is a pretty dull proposition... .L.C.R.:
The “Mates” yarn doesn’t work out well....En
Zed: The idea is all right; but the lines are prase.
. ...Jas. B.: The first line of the “improved” sestet
is a foot short; but the trouble with both sonnets
is that they have not enough in them.... W.M.M.:
Doesn’t get near... .L.M.C.: Too slight and uninter-
esting... .W.J.D.: “Paris” misses... .W.F. (Elstern-
wick) : An occasional rhyme doesn’t make verse. And
the thing is spoiled by those jolts of pretentious
piety... .C.C. (Wellington): Doesn’t appeal to us...
F.C.: “A Spring Morn” whirled us off our feet:—
It’s lifted, the pall of dawn;
The vagrant moon no more will mourn.
For morn, shy, dewy, elegantly k od,
By resplendent sun they are wed,
And honeymooning by Nature blessed.
.... E.L. (Auckland): The manner is good cheese,
but the matter is skim-milk... .H.W.S.: “Romance”
must go back.... Greasy: Try agan... .Camb: Slight
variation of old yarn.... Tickle and Giggle: Space
outruns interest.... Harlemac: All that can be has
been said about frogs in solid rocks Russ: A
couple of them have grey whiskers on their teeth.
....Jimmy .Tamtin: Varying winds at different alti-
tudes are common enough.... Lux: Jambed-up type-
writing rules it out....Joe Collins: Done before
Capitaine: Both miss; but have another shot....
Patrick: None quite up.,..En Zedder: Not worth
while opening an argument; consult a good history.
. ...W.L.: Got as far as “The frogs are croaking in
the creek which now fairly reflects the fire of the
subsiding orb” and then jibbed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M. : Bad misses H.N.W.: Feeble wit and
feebler drawing... .A.II.T.: Take a few lessons and
try again... .D.L.: Too boyish yet... .G.H.: Going
back... .Coorong: Your energy is admirable, blit no$
your art....W.D.: Not without promise... _H.G.:
Old gag badly maltreated... .A.E.: You certainly
print your name nicely.... N.McB.: Might place it
elsewhere.... S.P.: Why would that gibbet be el ected
in the desert?... .M.G.: The promise is there, but
you need tuition T.P.: About the worst of the
week. .. .S.H.: Not up.. . . G.II.M.: Where is West
End ?.... J.L.: Good in spots.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-dtr
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding. sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 2.
SONOMA.
lO,OUO Toils, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via 'BYIiON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.in., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including: —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Seeond Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail. £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
_ THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Ivt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hor. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. * * • • 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. . - •• •• £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagmt, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Ruridle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
grants drafts land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping,
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONIINLNI.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 15th DECEMBER.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA SAILS DECEMBER 15.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mall Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara 1 alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, Ist DECEMBER, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 29th DECEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply— ,
apiLilfa.
ā
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Clac~ Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC B^s l ot ? n f
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 18,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route. _
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
♦SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
♦DIOGENES 12,500 tons
♦New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting ot steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, W’att & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve r'uiul
Keserve Liability
Directors:
- £5,000,000
3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,435,000
Xlie Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Backhand. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Hubert L- Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
,di To : mce —George r 'streei WS??* W London sS,%
Hea 3s7 o ßraU G e KSS.' to Ste Australian States. New Zealand. Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout^ wor Forei lace 3 DTKKCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and eollec;ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
Commonwealth
a
Jank-Bnstalia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALU CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at nil Branches and Savings Bank Agencies at 3019 Post Offices through-
out Australia' and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
ShinDin*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
St. (Tel. 9508).
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line.
61 Pitt St.
(Tel. 7566).
I.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Ltd., cor.
Clarence & Bar-
rack Sts.
(Tel. 8213). __
FOR BRISBANE,
1 ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appii-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobavt
and rice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Co line Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic addres
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Utd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Utd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Utd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Utd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Utd.
AGENTS FOE
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Eife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
•Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. • • £44,000,000
Annual Income .. . •• •• £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Cimd
Fire insurances p „, Miw „ g stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Mafinp Ricks on Wool > Merchandise,
Marine BISKS Hu ]j s of Vessels. Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BAItTIN HAIGH. General Manager.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
SpSKSSS
Frte&iJWtttPr
(44th Inittalion, A.1.F.) with -i Pre’
With Vr uP nivei 'Sity of Melbourne.
Dd.net an Ilhlstratio »«- Ns.
Australia Economic and Political
MEREDITH ATKINSON M A
“feh fi i T, cto^, of o&L
, ;' d f , ot T t le . department of Soci-
Sert„, ge of Melbourne,
(istne! htl ° n ’ com P le tely revised,
Men and Thought in Modern His-
fessor ■ ,y n E ! l^Ef ? T SCOTT, Pro-
ofMmi illst01 ;y in the University
M Melbourne. With Portraits. 12™
J. M. KEYNES’S NEW BOOK.
A Treatise °n Probability. Bv TOfl V
o/-k r? D KE YNES, O.B.! So r
Peace!” E lBs°net Consequences of the
New Novel by the Author of
Elizabeth and her German Garden ”
VERA,
Ey the Author of “Elizabeth and her
German Garden,” etc. S S .
(Being No. 673 of Macmillan’s Empire
Library.)
A a h Verse on Infancy
WOOD 3s°m: „ e , Cl ° S ™ '*■ L - S-
- IGolden Treasury Series
Mr. Arthur Waugh ill the Daily Telf-
graph : All addition -which will be prized bv
every lover of good pojetry and sound editorship
....There is very little in the book that does
not bear the test of that true gold which it
has always been the'Treasury’s pride to offer
metal.” Shtters with the inning
The Round Table
A Quarterly Re-view of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price os. per copy, or 20s. per annum
post free to any address within the'
Empire.
Leading Contents for September:—
the imperial conference.
IRELAND.
NATIONAL PROSPERITY AND LVDUSTRIAI
THE IMPERIAL CONFERENCE FROM V
AMERICAN STANDPOINT.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zealand”
‘Lnited Kingdom,/’ “India,” “Canada” and
“South Africa.”
Macmillan’s
NEW AUSTRALIAN ATLAS.
41 Maps and 8-page Index, Manilla
cover, 2s.
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S NEW
ATLASES.
A New Edition of the
HANDY ROYAL ATLAS. 53 Maps,
with many inset Maps and Plans, and
full Geographical Index. £3 IDs. net.
WORLD-WIDE ATLAS. 128 pp .
Maps, 99 pp. Index. 15s. net.
MTTLTUM IN PAR VO ATLAS. 100
Maps and full Index. 3s. 9d. net.
(The Book that EXPLAINS the New
Map of Europe.)
Aftermath: A Geographical Study of
the Peace Terms. By M. I. NEW-
BIGIN, B.Sc. Paper covers, 3s. 6d.
net; cloth back and boards, ss. net.
The New Statesman- : “One of the most use-
ful little books recently published. It is the
book for which journalists, politicians and all
people who go into questions arising out of the
•War have been wanting.”
(W. & A. K. JOHNSTON. LTD.)
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
X
7
K 7
V
Enjoy every
mile . . .
c
HE surest way to true
• enjoyment of eve ry mile
of road travel, either on
a cycle or motor cycle is to
fit your machine with a
BROOKS
SADDLE
Let us advise you in your choice.
J. B. BROOKS & CO.. LTD.,
134 Criterion Work*, Birmingham, Eng.
T i h ji
During hot weather teeth-
ing troubles and inte tinal
disorders often occasion
grave anxiety to mothers,
especially where infants
are hand-fed. An effec-
tive safeguard is
Kruses FM
Refuse doubtful substi-
tutes. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by-
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
a
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to • The Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should rend the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn,, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ALWAYS USE M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
<( lVlade For Better Service.”
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
'’P'cial School Match 8/0
t .KB. Special 12/(j
-'Lis. Champion I^/fi
Haymarket 30/'-, 40 /-
Haymarket Special 4045/_
Haymarket Selected ...... 45 •><) /_
Haymarket Extra Special ; ’ 33/.
Spalding’s Tournament 49/0
Spalding’s Continental 55 /.
Spalding’s Gold Medal ’ 70/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27//;
Slazenger’s Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Wimbledon 30/-
Slazenger’s llcnshaw 45/_
Slazenger's Demon 55 /
Sluzenger's Whitehouse (ili/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 85/-
Slazenger’s Doherty 87 /(>
Slazenger’s Stadium <m /_
IT. C. Lee's Seneca / m
11. C. Lee’s Spartan Vo/-
II- C. Lee’s Church .. . 90/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage, on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Regulation Grev 1/4 15/-
Dunlop's Champion, 1921 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Avre’s Cyprus 2/4 27/0
Ayres Champion,'l92l ;{/- 35/-
Slazenger’s Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Davis Riseley 3/- 35/.
Haymarket Champion, 1921 2/4 27/0
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1 /. ; other States, 1/8.)
t
, >
N
I),
\
n
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37 /(j
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle \/ m
Covers 2/6,
Tennis Patehet i-
The “Grip” Thicket Press 3/6, 4/6
Packet Handle Grips 3/", .1/3 1/6
Packet Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6,’ 15/-
à
All Prices subject to market fluctuations,
without notice.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and ai e unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness
MEN’S' GLOVES. ' Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6or 8 0z... 13/6
C Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 18/6
( .8.8., napa, leather lined, fi or 8 oz. .. .. 21/- 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined', padded
wrist-band, C or S oz 2f»/- 30/-
HIGH-GRA I)E FIGHTING, napa, curled hail', leather
lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/- 40/-
r J-HE “LIGHTNING.” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended
Mr. Beg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-, other States, 1/S.)
Q . BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed 8/-
„ Leather „ „ laced palms .... . . . . 9/1
~ Tan leather „ ~ „ s Q/fi
” Tan ” » ” ” » 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 7/fi each
BOXING BOOTS, Special English Leather, extra light,
15/6, 17/6 pair.
by
40/-
vveight about 31oz. (Post 6Ld.)
MYRROHL SS TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
'J
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you m good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, lio-ht
make, for fast work 10/6 , 12/6, 17/6
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine leather, stayed
seams, very fast 1 8 /6, 22/6, 25/-
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest napa leather
welted and stayed, very fast and lively 30/-, 35/1
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially
designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and perfect
shape ; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The
finest made 45/
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 12/6 and 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/ 25/- 30 7-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected'hide"
rubber and leather fittings 30/-, 35/- 40/'
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring,’upright’ heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete ... .' /_
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pr
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 „
SPORTING REPAIRS
A
•Specialty
. Simmons ffl,
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


WHY SUFFER ? WHEN
DR. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT
BANISHES ALL PAIN.
Mr. JOHN CARRINGTON WELBY ( from, a photo).
“Since I have .bee?,i in
Australia I have from
time to time suffered
from muscular rheuma-
tism. Various treatments
from medical men and
others seemed to .afford
me no relief. Hapftening
to see an advertisement
regarding Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment, I re-
solved to try it. I have
derived an immense
amount of benefit from
its use, I have cured a
rheumatic shoulder in a
few hours with Dr. Shel-
don’s Magnetic Liniment,
enabling me to go through
my work with ease and
comfort instead of tor-
ture.
“I can recommend Dr.
Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment with the greatest
confidence; it is a won-
derful remedy.
“I remain,
“Yours faithfully,
(Sgfd.)
“JOHN CARRINGTON WELBY.”
Best for Neuralgia, Rheuma-
tism and Sore Muscles.
Pain in any form, be it Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Sore Muscles, Backache or SMff
Neck that pains if you so much as move—all these pains anti more are easily
controlled by I)r. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. Not a*i internal remedy, hut working
through the pores of the skin. Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates—goes
into the seat of pain, and banishment is the result. Apply the Liniment with the
palm of the hand —rub until the friction creates a warm glow', and the pain leaves you
as if charmed away. Life should not be spoiled by pain and suffering when Dr,
Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is ready to relieve all aches and pains.
ff
'/te/dm's
a
fifi
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
99
£.gis Te^
CJ
tMP 1
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longliurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ironclad
Oil-Break Switches.
These Oil-Break Switches are designed to stand up to
the severest working conditions met with in industrial
service, and their reliability has been proved in
numerous installations throughout Australia and in
other countries. They fully comply with the latest
factory regulations, and can be easily and safely handled
by unskilled attendants. The Switches are of the loose-
handle pattern, with drum-type contacts, and can be
supplied in either watertight, flame-proof, or explosion-
proof casing for wall or floor fixing, arid with or without
draw-out isolating features. They can be supplied
singly, as illustrated, or any number can be combined to
form a complete switchboard, with busbar chamber,
instruments, inter-connections, etc.; or they may be
combined with drum-type . starters to form self-
contained motor-control units.
Manufacturers:
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS
CO. LTD., London.
Further inquiries from:
HOMEWOOD
& O’NEILLS
Head Office and Warehouse —172-
176 William Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. I —Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2—rerrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydrey Office —375 George Street,
Sydney.
K
.BRITISH^
[ANUF/PS
The Garden of Quiet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM in love with tall trees and the bushes
that stoop between,
For they have words to say in the w 7 ind
and secret things to tell;
But the wistful, the mystical flowers I can
only guess what they mean,
Holding their cups of silence and a wonder
in star and bell.
I will go out in the white dew and under the
drip of the trees,
Where a weeping rose on a trellis will
pluck with her thorns at my sleeve;
And there will I stand and listen, with the
first of the birds and bees,
If the fringed pink open with sighing or
the large French pansies grieve.
But I know that there will be quiet, and only
the bird will sing,
Praising wings to the morning, in the
chirrup-lift of his prayer;
For the flowers are always silent with never
a whispering
Of the wistful, secret wonder of the love
that made them fair.
Surely I turn from their beauty, loveliness,
voiceless as deep.
I will go past the grey houses to the streets
and the crossing of ways,
To look at the beautiful people with never
a secret to keep,
The faces and faces all fair in the light
and the wonder of days.
I am in love with all people, with the move-
ment and lifting of eyes,
With the footsteps that make on the pave-
ment the song and the sob of the
hours —
Only they speak; and in language the beauty
and mystery dies.
How sweet were the garden of men with
the gift of the silence of flowers!
I will take ship far away; for surely my
sails shall be furled
In a port of green, beckoning trees where
always the breezes are low.
And the stars shall be there and the moon
and the uttermost joy of the world —
Walking at sunset or dawning, the peace
as of God shall I know.
For there shall the beautiful people with
movement and meaning of eyes
Pass to and fro in the garden and none
shall call them to fear,
While they speak in the language unspoken
of flowers that silence made wise,
Loving the kiss of the dew-wind and prais-
ing the lift of the year.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Sheik Laughed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~| T" NDER conditions hitherto undreamed
| of in Commander Hodger’s experi-
ence of sea-fogs and land-mists, the
R.M.S. Oodnadatta, Australia-bound, had
run aground on the African coast of the
Red Sea, where the sun-baked sands swept
back to the distant pinkish-brown hills,
whose tinge of gentle greyness over all sug-
gested a filming of the Dust of Ages.
On the first day a passing oil-steamer had
left her course and unsuccessfully tried to
tow the liner off; and although her wireless
calls had been answered by a French cruiser
off Ismailia, an Indian trooper off Aden and
a P. and O. branch-liner as near as Mocha,
three days had passed without even a Suez
tugboat appearing on the scene.
And now, on top of all, came the astound-
ing news that a horde of unclassified desert
scum, armed and impudent, had appeared on
the beach and sent out a spokesman demand-
ing immediate interview 7 with the captain.
From the well-deck, surrounded by second-
class passengers, Hodger addressed himself
to a cheerful grinning heathen in a long
shirt and a fez, who w r as standing in a boat
below 7 , rowed by four men.
“Who the devil are you?” he bellowed.
“Me th’ interpreter,” answered the other
with an even wider grin. “The Sheik him
verra sick. He want medicine, th’ good
friend, an' talk, an’ dinkum fun. He make
you the good dinner, the dinkum can-can;
good you bringa the doctor, the captain, the
ladies, and all make the dance and the
verra good time and make the
Sheik better,” he concluded in excellent
Arab-ewm-Digger that drove most of the
ladies away from the ship’s side.
“Well, of all the” commenced Hodger.
But he looked up to the promenade-deck
where the most distinguished and affluent
passengers—ipcluding Captain the Hon.
Arthur Fitztuzzle, R.N., Lady Tuomey and
the great Australian statesman, Sir Alfred
Shrews, just returned from an important
mission—stood gazing down in amazement;
and he controlled himself in time.
He turned to the Sheik’s emissary. “You
tell the Sheik to go to —er-ahem —and make
his own fun !” he roared amidst the cheers
of the second-class passengers.
Then something startling happened. The
colored gentleman in the long shirt and the red
pot-hat dropped down flat on the bottom of
the boat and the oarsmen did likewise. And
from somewhere behind a distant pinkish-
brow 7 n hill came a sharp staccato rattle fol-
lowed by a clamor like the rapping of a
hundred hammers along the iron side -of
the ship.
“Gad ! A machine-gun !” gasped Captain
the Hon. Arthur Fitztuzzle, R.N.. dropning
his monocle, while the Rt. Hon. Sir Alfred
SLiews pushed his small lean figure protect-
in gly in front of the tremendous Lady
Tuomey. “Damnable. I say! Damnable!”
he snapped authoritatively, and looked
threateningly towards the shore.
Then—just to clinch the argument—from
behind another sandhill came a muffled Pang,
and each passenger paled and instinctively
ducked his head as some invisible object
rent the air above them with a harsh, vicious
shriek, and sent up a column of water
70 yards on the other side of the ship.
At first Commander Hodger went purple
in the face, and declared he d see the good
ship blown to smithereens before he’d parley
with the swine, but the vehement opinions
of the male element in the first saloon
and the hysterical pleading of the women
made him consent to receive the long-shirted
gentleman with the‘grin in honorable con-
ference in the smoke-room in the presence
of the ship’s officers and a few of the more
portentous passengers.
Ail that the Bheik wanted, explained
Achmed Tizbah, after introducing himself,
was a little cheering society and a chat with
the doctor. Since his flight from the
Khedive’s service the Sheik had been unable
to accustom himself to the desert-outlaw
business. He was bored to death. He
hadn’t been seen to smile for two whole
months. And Achmed’s orders were to select
the most eminent and highest-caste passen-
gers on board; to personally collect and
borrow on honorable loan every stitch of
society, Court and ceremonial clothing they
possessed, and to escort them to tho Sheik’s
camp as guests, there to remain till the
Sheik laughed himself well or grew tired
of their company, or until the Sheik’s scouts
brought word of the approach of a relief
ship. “Otherwise,” added Achmed, “the
Sheik p’raps get more sick. He shoot the
gun and blow your ship to
’ell!”
“Beastly impertinent boundah!” muttered
Fitztuzzle. “A common Cairo-guide. Give
the beggah a few piastres and kick him ovah
the side!”
But the Commander consulted gravely
with the Rt. Hon. Alfred Shrews, and pre-
sently he arose. “E-r-r, gentlemen, ahem !”
he commenced. “From the weight of opinion
that has—er —persuaded me to meet this
—er-r, person, you are evidently determined
that this is a matter of life and death for
you and your women-folk” (murmurs of
eager assent), “in the settlement of which
you insist on having a voice” (hear, hear).
“I regret to say that Sir Alfred Shrews is
of the same opinion, so, at his request, I
now call upon you to appoint a committee
to arrange the details and select a party to
visit the Sheik with this —er, ahem! gentle-
man.” Whereupon Achmed Tizbah grinned
most amiably.
After a half-day’s march over sandhills, a
procession of angry Europeans was led
through smells, donkeys, camels and mat
hovels, by an escort of grinning rascals of
every shade of complexion, from ebony black
to pale, dirty bronze, to where a huge white
square pavilion of cloth stood upon a sandy
rise. All breathed more freely on perceiv-
ing an improvement in the atmosphere there-
abouts.
After a little delay they were led inside,
and at the end of what seemed a roomy,
high-ceilinged hall, hung with vivid-pat-
terned tapestries or mats, the whole sup-
ported on a towering framework of giant
bamboo-poles, they saw a portly, pallid,
pudgy-faced young man in Arabian Nights
attire squatting on a settee covered with
gaudy cushions.
“Liver!” breathed the young doctor tri-
umphantly, with dreams of dazzling recom-
pense at the hands of a wealthy Eastern
potentate in return for miraculous profes-
sional ministrations.
“The Rajah of Bhong !” giggled the Rich
Spinster, who had insisted on sacrificing
herself with the rest of the party; where-
upon Lady Tuomey turned and reproved her
severely.
Presently Achmed led in 30 dirty ruffians,
bearing on their heads much of the ship’s
crockery wrapped up in the gowns and per-
sonal clothing of his victims. Several ladies
groaned audibly as they beheld the bundles
disappear through an opening in the tapes-
tries behind the “throne,” while Achmed re-
mained, apparently giving a vivid account
of his wardrobe-raid to the Sheik,
His report finished, the long-shirted one
invited the weary band to seat itself: then
beckoning to the burly Hodger he led him,
followed by Sir Alfred, before his master.
“I speali little Engleesh,” commenced the
latter in gentle tones, folding his hands
placidly across his ample frontispiece. “If
you will announce my visitors we will feast.”
And he signalled Hodger to perform the
ceremony.
Reassured by this courteous commence-
ment. Sir Alfred Shrews bustled around
seeking to improve the occasion with faceti-
ous' remarks to the more depressed . mem-
bers of the assembly, while the Commander,
restraining his indignation, bellowed out the
names of his flock to the' Sheik, commenc-
ing with such as Lady Tuomey, Captain the
Hon. Arthur Fitztuzzle, R.N., dour Herbert
McEachran (the dyspeptic banker), Digby
Rowbayne (the famous actor), the Bishop
of Canberra, and so on, through the whole
320 celebrities, down to the eccentric Miss
Agatha Appleton (heiress), and last, but
far from least in importance, Sir Alfred
Shrew’s himself, whose elaborate bow was
received by the Sheik with the suspicion of
a smile.
Then more ragged ruffians entered with
long, low, skeleton-like tables of cane.
These were soon covered with mats and
laid with the ship’s plates, containing flat,
round cakes, oranges, dates, a glutinous-
looking lemon-colored mess something like
custard, and cups of coffee. It didn’t look
very tempting, but many of the party were
distressed and fatigued. And the young
doctor pointed out that all would be better
for some refreshment, cheerfully adding tlmt
the Lord only knew when they’d get any-
thing more.
The banquet was not a success. Be-
sides being disgusted with the cooking, most
of the guests w r ere too upset on account
of the terrible things that were happening,
and from fear of what would be next. For
the Sheik was determined that in return
for his hospitality they should amuse him
while they ate. And be kent calling on
Commander Hodger to select the performers.
The first victim was Digby Rowbayne,
the actor, who, not at all unwillingly, re-
cited a passage from “Hamlet.” Not : ng the
dejected expi-ession on the Sheik’s face and
a heavy moistness in his eyes, Achmed
stopped the proceedings hastily with the
announcement that what was demanded of
them w-as amusement. He added that unless
a jester or a conjurer or an acrohet was
forthcoming they might never see civilisation
again.
(Continued on next page.)


&
V
v
ZAM-BUK IS THE LAST WORD in healing!
This remarkable herbal balm has superseded
common ointments, and made for safety, cer-
tainty and simplicity in curing skin diseases.
Zam-Buk is the product of years of scientific search
for an ideal healer free from the danger and limitations
of old and crude skin applications, and which shall also possess stronger
healing action, whether for superficial wounds or for long-standing skin
disease. Nothing can compare with Zam-Buk for its splendid healing,
soothing and antiseptic powers.
Because of its proved reliability, its unusually high curative properties
and its handiness and inexpensiveness, Zam-
Buk is universally used for Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Scalds, Eczema, Ringworm, Piles,
Ulcers, Bad Legs and for all Poisoned Wounds
or Infected Sores. Briefly, Zam-Buk is
THE WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER
obtainable from all Chemists and Stores at
1/b and 3/6 per pot (the 3/6 size, containing) about three
times the 1/6, is very economical for family, farm and
station use), or post free from the proprietors,
C. E. Fill ford (A/sia), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Thigh Burned by
Hot Horseshoe.
Mr. .7. Hoad, blacksmith, writes
from Prospect Terrace, Kelvin
drove, Brisbane: —
“When showing a horse, the
animal suddenly pulled his leg away,
and the hot shoe coming in contact
with my thigh, it became dreadfully
inflamed. When I got home my
wife, having Zam-Buk handy, ap-
plied it to the injuries. Zam-Buk
at once took all heat from the wound.
The red-raw flesh was soon soothed and
cleansed by Zam-Buk. 1 used Zam-Buk
daily for a week or so, and the terrible
burns were completely healed.”
rnmn
n
a
COiiHws
K
M AMIMAI OIL OK TAT
gui
mn
COTS
MIN
8"^
►ills
£'■•*• H.
*> A* * fo *Uy /ffl
/ft*
po*
SOM
vvtQi/Aiieo
CJt/CMirtns
crci/srs,
r&oraAii
PIAySAS
sf»€>&rs**r/*
C£Ar£»Aliy
f+a
r »o*
ffOCA
m wim
s , Iji the horrible silence that followed
Cyril Egburton, the amiable ass of the ship,
jv as pushed forward, and he immediately
commenced to inflict one of his comic song's
upon the assembly. The effect was so ter-
rifying that he hurriedly relented, and pro-
ved a handkerchief and two half-crowns
and called upon one of the Sheik’s ragged
ruffians to assist him in a conjuring trick.
Eut the latter was a much more efficient
sleight-of-hand expert than Cyril, and pre-
sently both coins had become mislaid and
the footled out most foolishly.
~ J, V “pw the Sheik's head lay couched in
tne tolffs ot lus chin upon his chest his
heavy eyes looking up under his brows in
sullen disappointment. Whereupon Aehnied
again asserted himself as Master of Cere-
monies and reiterated that until the Sheik
evinced his enjoyment in an audible laugh
there would he no release for anyone,
f hereupon he called on dour Herbert Mc-
Eachran (banker) and Sir Robert Row-
ley (Rowley and Rowley, Ltd., importers)
to do some trick tumbling and acrobatics.
Roth gentlemen protested angrily, and on
Hodger indignantly pointing out the bank-
er s stiffness and Sir Robert’s rotunditv, the
Sheik consented to two of his followers
being placed near by to assist each of them
in Ins evolutions. But it was a questionable
success. The assistants were soon helpless
with laughter, and the banker had to he
manipulated us though lie were a large
Aoah’s-Ark figure. When Sir Robert got
stuck half-way in turning head-over-heels—
with his head doubled under the huge bulk
of his up-ended body and the back of his
neck skidding along on the slippery grass-
matting the Sheik’s followers, who lined
the walls of the big tent, howled with <|<>
light; and even the Great Man himself
smiled wanly.
Encouraged by this success, Acluned set
out to excel himself, and with an authori-
tative clap of his hands, called on Hodger
tor lus "dancing girls.”
It was a terrible moment. The Com-
mander protested to the Sheik that all the
ladies were—ahem!—-dancing girls within
limits. Ihe Sheik insisted on exercising his
preference, and with a crook of his huger
beckoned forth Mrs. Amelia Dubarton (re-
lict of the famous Du barton. K.C.) and 12
other heavyweight dowagers—and the Bishop
of Canberra!
Whether the Sheik’s fancy for adipose
femininity was misled by the Bishop’s apron
and comfortable figure none could sav. But
he callously ignored tin* reverend 'gentle-
man s protests, and had him forcible pro-
pelled through the opening into which the
fames had disappeared to dress themselves
•for the performance. Twice the unhappy
gentleman darted back, but each time was
forced to return by the Sheik’s blackguards.
And from a chorus of feminine giggles that
greeted each reappearance on the other side
of the mats it was realised that the unfor-
tunate gentleman was suffering the indignity
of being temporarily detained in a harem.
Silent and ashen of face, the remainder of
the Oodnadatta’s party watched the Sheik’s
musicians seating themselves at the foot of
his dab;.
Presently the beating of a metal drum
commenced, followed by tin l Squeaking of
pipe instruments. The grinning onlookers
started a monotonous chant in Arabic, as
™.®i “f* beh i n d the Sheik was drawn aside,
and there appeared, tearful and cowering
before the public gaze, the wives and women-
,sc!m? °t Australia’s greatest digni-
tanes their imposing upper storeys clad only
m slips and corsets, their ample lower
!1 ® . encased in flimsy harem trousers.
Mr Robert Rowley went purple with in-
dignation. "It’s an outrage, sir! An out-
rage on the Liberty of the Subject!” he bel-
tesf 01 I” tle "I protest, sir. I pro-
I>ut apparently the Sheik was rather
pleased with the fancy-undress effect; for
lie looked from the ladies to Sir Robert,
smiled and made a .signal to his guards
Several advanced, seized upon Sir Robert
and dragged him away through another open
mg in rhe mats behind the dais. A minute
later he was shot into view again—clad only
in his vest and shirt-sleeves above, and short
pink underpants and suspenders below.
Several other terrified -•members of the
ships .party were next seized upon, while
the harem guards proceeded to force the un-
fortunate dames into some semblance of a
dance.
Trying to hide themselves'Vac 1 behind the
other, their movements naturally fell into
that of the waltz; and thus they were soon
gyrating .solemnly around the great cloth
pavilion, their numbers, being augmented a t
intervals by others who had been seized re-
moved, duly dressed and evicted on to’ the
scenery again.
f'lieir host was now reclining on his dais
an ever-growing smile on his face as each
quanitl.v-garbed guest shot momentarily into
view, then eagerly merged in the human
stream that rotated before him. lie sucked
luxuriously at bis hookah, while the delighted
Aehmecl hovered near by, watching bis even-
expression, and occasionally pointing out anv
extra-ludicrous figure that loomed into sight
Presently the Sheik’s eyes chanced to rest
on the litter of the feast that .still lay in
the centre of the pavilion. They stopped
and perceived the burly form of Commander
llouger seated on one of the wicker benches
wiping the perspiration from his brow and
muttering deeply; a few yards away, the
Kt. Mon. Sir Alfred Shrews, unobtrusively
in the background, with Lady Tuoknev mak-
ing a futile effort to escape notice, by shel-
tering behind bis meagre form.
At a signal from their chief five rascals
broke through the .stream of dancers and
hauled the Commander, Lady Tuomev and
Sir Alfred forward.
By God, sir! you shall answer for this!”
thundered Hodger, standing before the Sheik,
ins huge form trembling with pent-up emo-
tion.
The Oriental looked pained. “My friend
would repay my hospitality by cheating me
of the best,” he remarked in gentle, halting
Lngusli to Acbmed ; then, pointing to Lady
1 uomey and Sir Alfred Shrewd; “Take them
away and garb them!”
And they went.
The music had settled down to a soft
rhythmic strumming, as the motley collec-
tion of sullen, ludicrous humanity kept
drifting round and round. Occasionally the
Sheik’s eyes would brighten with appreciation
at such a spectacle as the dignified Sir
-Robert Rowley, trouserless and angry, stiffly
embracing Miss Agatha Appleton, who wore
an outsize gentleman’s dress-coat and vest,
the latter almost reaching to her bony
shanks, which emerged from the folds of a
pair of check golfing knickers. Ur Captain
the Hon. Arthur Fitztuzzle, R.X., stripped
to the waist, with the widow JJubarton’s
massive bangles upon his wrists, his head
adorned • with a lady’s boudoir cap and his
own monocle, his lower limbs hobbled in a
white lawn skirt, gyrating awkwardly in the
embrace ot a short, stout Hebrew gentleman,
who was on the verge of asphyxiation from
the effects of a pair of tightly-laced corsets,
worn over one of Lady Tuomev’s billowing
pink nighties.
The Sheik rose on his elbow at the passing
ot Maisie Chirgwin, the official "vamp” of the
Oudnadatta, decked out only in a white nau-
tical cap, a lifebuoy about her middle, and
a pair of “shorts” beneath —in the arms of
the wretched Bishop of Canberra—he clad
only in his vest above and his apron and a
pair of white deck-shoes below. Something
seemed to remind the Sheik of even greater
pleasures deferred. For lie suddenly sent
a guard scurrying away to find Aclimed.
"The fat and comely damsel and the little
funny man—where are they?” he asked
when his eager henchman had appeared.
The latter fawningly explained that ow-
ing to their being late ior the dressing, there
remained but a scant variety of clothing for
them, hut that lie had done nis best and they
would presently pass before bis Excellency's
dazzling presence.
Hardly had he spoken when the Sheik was
heard to gasp—and next moment the soft
rustling that pervaded the atmo-
sphere of the chamber was pierced by peal
utter peal of fat laughter.
The music stopped suddenly; the dismal
dancers ceased to rotate; and every eye
followed the direction of the joy-drunken
Sheik’s pointing finger.
Emerging from the dressing-room behind
the throne was a lady, her upper half clothed
in a short fur jacket, her massive lower
portions encased in a pair of lemou-nnd-red
striped female nether-garments from the
comfe-soiig wardrobe of Cyril Egburton,
anti leading by the hand a small, ungainly
figure in a gaudy blue coat with absurd long
tails, the front ablaze with a mass of glit-
tering embroidery, his shrunken shanks
emerging from a concertinaed mass of shim-
mering white breeching, wearing clumsy
polished shoes with enormous gilt buckles,
and .a thin rapier-like sword that kept nosing
into the matting beneath his feet.
four jester! Oh. Sheik 1lodger!” pre-
sentl.v gasped the voice of the*Oriental chief
—"why did you not produce him earlier?”
The Commander looked, clapped his hand
to his burning head and swayed apoplecti-
cally. For he recognised Ladv Tuomey,
accompanied by the Rt. Hon. 'Sir Alfred
Shrews, in his own Windsor uniform!
< Ten minutes later the helpless but happy
Sheik was being conveyed to bis couch by
attendants, while across the sands a dismal
cavalcade wended its wav to the coast under
the dim lights of the stars.
The ghostly forms of a camel and its
rider sped past and vanished in the dark-
ness behind.
"The relief ship has come!” exclaimed
the Rt. Hon. Sir Alfred Shrews, violently
nudging the young doctor, who was tramping
glumly along beside him.
The young man remained silent. He did
not begrudge the eminent politician his suc-
cess as a liberator. Nevertheless he felt he
had been cheated of the opportunity of
offering a simple and possibly magnificently
profitable service to a Wealthy Eastern
Potentate.
TED COLLKS.
The Builder of the Sphinx.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the builder of the Sphinx who came
And talked with me the while the
fire’s flame
Burnt the dead hours of the night away
That from the ashes might arise the day.
(All, the smell of dust ami gloom and desert
sands
And the weariness of his bowed head!
Ah, the gnurls anil chips upon his twisted
hands,
Aow so feeble with the languor of the
dead!)
My child still stares across the world, said
he:
My child is crouching there and none may
know
What thoughts behind her chiselled fea-
tures go,
W'liat mysteries her eyes alone can see.
Inscrutable, aloof and darkly still,
My child lives on bewildering all men;
And who shall ever shape her like again?
My strange bewitching child whose smile is
chill!
'Twas not the cunning of my hands that set
The riddle in her eyes and in her smile 1 ,
I worked with deeper wisdom, richer guile,
1 worked with knowledge T may hot forget.
Beside the Nile I learnt my slave-girl’s heart,
1 knew her slightest impulse and het*
thought—-
These Wete the inyStie things- with which
I wrought,
These were the powers of my deathless art!
(Ah, the deep sorrow of his sad, thin mouth,
Killed so straight beneath his curved nose,
As though it parched with some unholy
dronth
Or tasted bitter dew upon the rose!)
No man had ever read such depths before,
Nor has the lesson since been truly learnt:
Here was the wisdom which within me
burnt—
T wrought the soul of woman, nothing more!
It was the builder of the Sphinx who spoke
Ere the young city from its slumber woke;
And, oh, he was still weary from his task.
Of carving one poor soul upon a mask!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


Bggsss
s#.
"1
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency. .
Chains in stock -wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office 99 Queen Street, jVle[boiirne^__
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
II you are troubledwith this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alii CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day's
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold, a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. r It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed* in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid-
liver. Wake up you. liver with
’ ® 3 Md
HBUIg
»®°Q
—ll!d IPn»S
a
a6v«.
CARTERS
I ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
ter’« Lit-
tle Liver Pill*
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
)c rm
- .Mi
Bl 1313i5¥
,-' v:
i «J t ItmiillMil^
~S
m
y
Shirley President Braces Promote Peace of Mind
For the thinker whose mind must be free from the small petty annoy-
ances of life—strict comfort of wearing apparel promotes clear-headed
deductions.
lust remember that small servant, the braces, which forms one of the
important articles of dress and conduces to the comfort and ease of the
wearer.
If your braces are SHIRLEY PRESIDENTS they are so easy and com-
fortable you aren't aware you have them on. They adjust themselves
to any position or action without strain,
Thinking nien the world over choose SHIRLEY PRESIDENTS.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label;
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
f * C-13
A Long Step (
, Forward _ I
a
Every sportsman knows what it
means to have his day's hunting
spoiled on account of his car--
trfdges becoming damp and unfit for use.
For many years cartridge manufacturers
have experimented to perfect a method of
making their shotgun cartridges impervious
to dampness under all conditions.
Remington experts have at last developed a
process —known as “WETPROOF” which has
been patented and is controlled by this company.
Our factory loaded shotgun cartridges subjected
to the “WETPROOF” treatment —as are all the
Remington UMC brands —will withstand without
damage to their shooting qualities such con-
ditions as rain, dampness, or actual immersion
jfor a considerable period of time, which are
ruinous to ordinary cartridges, and which are often
■encountered in the held.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY* Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
Words to ttie Wise
Most of us enjoying good
health and spirits are
careless of our dieti
'We eat:more and oftener than we should, foods which
sooner or later upset the stomach. Then trouble sets in,
taking the form of biliousness, indigestion, sleeplessness,
dizziness and languor. We feel ill, cross and stupid; we
become bores to our friends and to ourselves; life
becomes a thing of horror not worth living. Yet. all
this is absolutely unnecessary. Stop, think a moment.
BEECHAM’S PILLS!
4 4 The Largest Sale of Any Medicine in the World '
the standard remedy of nature; compounded from the purest drugs
of vegetable origin and free from all minerals, has been proven by
men, women and children the world over to correct all these ills, by
giving new power and tone to the stomach, liver and kidneys. Take
this wonderful remedy and the bowels work easily and regularly.
Congested organs become purified, the jaded nerves refreshed and
the whole system nourished and rejuvenated. Beecham’s Pills
Bring
Tlealth and Happiness
Sold in boxes, labelled
(original English prices.)
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Browne'S
CWorodyM
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE liKS'l' JIKDICINE TOP.
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
aiui in the Cough o£ BKONCUmS auU
CONSUMPTION.
Checka FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COIJC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
act's like A charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and S/-.
Made in England.
“The Heart of
7
the Automobile”
THE FAMOUS SCHEBLER CARBURETOR
The Vaporising Instrument which 20 years ago. set the motor world agog,
and has been a leader ever since.
1
NEW MODELSCHEBEER
CAR CARBURETOR.
Absolutely the most scien-
tific Carburetion Device on
the Market to-day.
NEW SOUTH WALES PRICES
from £5/5/- to £?.
THE NEW MODEL “A” SCHEBI/ER CARBURETOR
is a distinct advance in the science of earburetion;
There are several new features and principles of
earburetion incorporated in this instrument. It is
built around the Pitot Tube Principle, vvhieh is an
improved type* of gasoline nozzle.. This gasoline
nozzle automatically furnishes a rich mixture for
acceleration", and thins out the mixture after the
maximum motor speed has been reached.
A very economical running mixture .at all motor
speeds, together with a smooth, positive accelera-
tion, is thus assured.
There are no '“dead” or “flat” spots.
This NEW SCHEBLER CARBURETOR is made in
a number of sizes, to suit practically any car.
Here are the names of some cars and lorries to which
this Carburetor recently has been most satisfactorily
I; “Hispano-Sniza” (16-valve model), “Aus-
tin,” “Daimler.” “Ford.” Republic Trucks, Inter-
national Trucks (60 supplied in one order).
Owing to its ease of adjustment TILE SCHEBLER CARBURETOR is _ particularly
adaptable for operating on the various new’ motor-fuels now on the market. A ith. a
j benzine and i “Alkol” mixture, and Schebler equipped, you will experience a wonder-
fully powerful engine, with a delightful velvety phII.
THE NEW MODEL “A” SCHEBLER
CARBURETOR.
SPECIALLY FOR FORD CARS.
With this instrument on jour good Ford you are
assured of ridiculously easy starting. Dead slow
idling. Rapid acceleration and the elimination of a
lot of the typical Ford Fngine noise.
On American Motor Cycles The Schebler is
100% standard.
In the marine world 75% used.
INFORMATION GLADRY FURNISHED.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES. WHERE SPARE
PARTS ARE ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MODE!, FORD “A.'
N.S.W. Price: £5/15/-
SWANS LIMITED
SOLE AGENTS,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANKS & SON,
Melbourne.
CORNELLS LTD.
Adelaide.
.lAS. A. DIMMITT LTD.,
Perth.
C\NADA CYCLE CO.,
Brisbane.


m
%
sri
SS3
A
W.
L
urn
s
s.
mm*
zJ
C J&X
v>
rr
a
$
fi
n
i
9
vV
55>
ft
YA
'/A,
m
\
</
✓
A
©
X
\
man*
a
m
-c>
v
H*t »
A
ferial
/S.
1“
♦.
CfltfiCv^.
I
I
J#HI»NI£ W/vLKEN TRAVEL SERIES. NO. 21. —LIMA —PC..U.
Patriotic Citizen: “ And so I say to him: ‘What is the matter ivith the
Country ? Have we not got “ Johnnie Walker ” here ? ’ ”
'' ' ' #
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years, long
Born 1820. Still going strong ,
