

Give
Make your Gift last throughout the year
by saving your household those tiresome
steps from stove to table.
With an EDISON Toaster, you can make
the toast right at the table, and serve it
always hot, crisp and appetising.
Electric Coffee, too, bubbles from-the
EDISON Coffee Pot at your elbow, whilst
the Chops are being grilled or the eggs
poached on the EDISON Electric Grill.
These and the EDISON Electric Iron, the
convenience and economy of which need
no description, will make ideal gifts of a
distinctly useful nature.
Come in and make your choice of a
wonderful variety.
Articles purchased as
gifts will he delivered in
seasonably decorated
wrapping.
asw
Heating' and Cooßing'
Appliances.
Edison Electric
Coffee Percolator
Edison Electric Two
slice Toaster.
CsD
Edison Electric Grill with
ovenette for roasting
ft*
Aus
l
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY -
a
116 QUEETSL STREET
ME Xvß OU RNE
Phone: City 3510
Box 2517 G.P.O
Phone : Cen. 2646
Box 538 G.P.O.
AGENTS *
BRISBANE-- -The Engineering Supply Co of Au»
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C. A.) corner Edward & Charlotte Sts.
TAS.—Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co. Ltd., Currie Si
PERTH—-Charles Atkins Hi Co. (W.A.) Limited
"Niazda” House. 894 Hay Street
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2184
Thursday, December 22, 1921*
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to anv address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 643 L-ADVT.
§pp
i
.
m
MANGROVITE BELTINGS
MEAN BELTING EFFICIENCY.
The choice of experienced engineers rests with MANfiTmvmr
LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING because its great
tensile strength, toughness and excellent wearing qualities
make it supreme for service on difficult drives and its
celebrated gripping powers enable it to hold fast to the
pulleys, constantly delivering maximum power and reducing
overhead expenses.
Try it on your hardest drive.
Our service engineers will help solve your transmission
problem^.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd. 397 T.ittle
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: .John Reid & Sons, Ltd. Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle '
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co; Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
THE BOOK FOR CHRISTMAS.
FLIGHT AND ADVENTURES
OF PARER AND McINTOSH.
From
PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY.
8/6; Posted 8/9.
‘Table Talk” Office, 79 Swanston
Street, Melbourne.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
&s Iftei
SELF-FILLING
x SAFETY
m
The New Streamline Model
is an ideal Present,
It is often so difficult to find a
present that is both useful and
ornamental —the Onoto Streamline
is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it
combines with.its elegant design all the
practical utility of Onoto —the pen—
safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit everj?
handwriting.
THOMAS DE A A RUE & CO., LTD..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all pens.
AMERICAN
American Flashlights
AMERICAN Flashlights have
k many improvements, which
make them superior to all other
%shlights. Among them are:
Dual Contact —
permitting either a flash or con-
tinuous light.
Non-short-circuiting case—
insuring long battery life.
Shock absorber —
to prevent breakage from drop-
P in g*
No movable parts —
to get cut of place and cause
damage.
American Flashlight Batteries, too,
g’ve greater satisfaction—they last
nger and give a brighter light.
Insist upon ''American”. Ask
your electrical dealer.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc.
r<o East 42d Street, New York, N. Y., U.S.A.
F312114E
rm
KM
nss
am
fob
4:
m
mM
iiitnii""""'!
V,
r
The A!
ritish.
S
mi
LIGHT CAR
The Car* for the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
j; the world. :: ::
2 and 4- Seaters supplied .
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agent:
■ 1. PHIZACKEREEY, ..
1(58-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.I
MON POISONOUS POWDER <
THE GREAT INSECT OESTKOyERr
( Flies.
) Fleas*
““j &KJ3.
Moxjuitoeac
à
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. I 2
The Red Page
The Hebridean Muse
From the Hebrides, those stormy, rock-girt
isles of the North, where sea-spume and the
wild wind chauntings have ministered to the
primitive Celtic spirit since time was young,
there comes a flood of song which not even
the wonderful melodies of the Magyars, made
famous by Korbay, may rival. The songs
of the Western Isles have been collected by
Mrs. Marjorie Kennedy Fraser and sympa-
thetically harmonised by her for piano ac-
companiment, with a fine conception of that
strange-sounding, plaintive’ Celtic tonality
which is one of their chief beauties. The
composer has been fortunate in having associ-
ated with her Kenneth Macleod, the island
poet, whose knowledge of island folklore and
legend is encyclopaedic.
The songs abound in atmospheric beauty,
reflex of the relentless sea and the never-
silent winds that wrap the rocky islets in
spray. To the Hebrides, the home of fisher-
folk for the most part, the sea is an ever-
present factor in life. From the sea is won
by hard toil a livelihood; on the racing wave,
with the salt tang in sun-tanned faces, comes
that fierce, elemental joy which only those
whose life leads them into constant conflict
with the elements know; from the sea comes
the tragedy which awakens all that wealth of
passionate sorrow so potential in Celtic
nature, and which gave to the element a
personal character, something to be propiti-
ated as a god. This sorrow of the sea is
expressed in “The Seagull of the Land-under-
waves,” full of beauty and rhythmic delight
—a song of the women left lonely in the
thatched cottages on the stony shingle, to
whom the sea brings death as well as a liv-
ing. To them
Cold, cold, cold,
Cold the sea and snakish,
Cold, cold, cold
From depths to top-wave she.
Not so is she to the men. For them the
sea pipes wild, exultant melody, stirring their
blood as the salt-tang stings their faces.
Hook-o-rin-yo !
When winds do blow
Sea-reivers know the maddening music.
Ho-i-o, the winds do blow,
sings the rover of the high-seas in a song
which breathes the spirit of Norse Sagas.
The sea is a merry hunting-ground ; its perils
and buffetings their daily joy. And are there
not
On Davach low
Kine and corn and golden candles ?
Ho-i-o, the winds do blow!
As to the heroes of Odin passing to- Val-
halla, death is no cause for sorrow to the
men of the rocky isles.
Grief within my heart is nesting,
sings the w r oman.
Back to back they lie,
Lifeless lie.
Breath nor sigh from their cold lips coming,
Sea wrack their shroud
And their harps the sea’s sad crooning.
But this sorrow is cruel to the men who lie
peaceful below, in the watery Valhalla, where
“it is neither hot nor cold, but just as one
might wish, if as he wished he got,” and the
voice of the departed one cries out in agony
“Lift off me thy woe.” “Never a sigh comes
from the heart,” said a woman of Uist, “but
a drop of blood fqlls in its place,’' and hence
the dread of sorrow, which spells a double
drowning, once by the sea, and once by the
tears of the mourners :
A heavy dress: sorrow.
A heavier shroud: sorrow.
But it is in “The Death Croon,” which has
its origin in the dim period of the sixth cen-
tury evangelis ion of the Isles, that the Tor-
rent of pass i u..aie grief is felt in its fulness.
Despite the calmness and the Christian hope,
there is a spirit of deep pathos and the
awful solemnity of the majestic chords, like
the reverberations of a funeral toll, wu-ings
the heart in ecstasy of grief. “The Death
Croon” was originally sung over the dying
person by a mourner poetically named the
Soul Friend, assisted by three chanters. The
opening lines of the Soul Friend tell of the
home that awaits the passing one, on shores
where “white angels wait thee.” One of the
chanters then invokes the memory of Christ,
and by the vision charges the dying to “sleep
and put from thee every woe.” In the fol-
lowing lines sung by another chanter we
have a reference to the old superstition of
fortunate numbers, a number in this case of
Biblical tradition—“ Sleep of seven virtues
on thee, Sleep of seven moons upon thee,
Sleep of seven slumbers on thee.” The croon
finishes in chorus, “Softly to sleep, softly to
sleep,” and on this final phrase of an' ex-
quisite melody the soul is wafted heaven-
wards.
The songs already noticed have been chiefly
of an atmospheric character, but there exists,
as might be expected and as is the case in
all folk-song -literature, a large number in
which the rhythmic character is the essential
interest. To this class belong, to a large
degree, the Songs of Labor. These are relics
of the days when song and labor went hand
in hand ; singing, the toilers worked harder
and felt the labor less. There are songs
to accompany cloth waulking, others for
milking and rowing, and spinning and churn-
ing. So much were the songs a part of the
process of cloth, waulking, or shrinking, that
it became a question of not “flow long will
it take?” but “How many songs will it take?”
Kenneth Macleod gives a translation of a
beautiful example of the songs used at the
consecration of cloth, a custom now prac-
tically obsolete, which is worthy to conclude
this brief note on the rich genius of Hebri-
dean folk-song, a genius rendering in a
splendid burst of song the spirit and atmo-
sphere of its island world :
The blessings of the Lord on this cloth!
May the heroes wear it, enjoy it,
Bv» sea, by land, in the charges
Of mighty waves.
One song on it,
Two songs.
Three songs,
And may there be sewed to it never
But music, laughter of maidens.
Honev-kisses of fair ones
And singing ones—
And that sufficeth.
BASIL BURDETT.
The Printer Reminiscent
My introduction to the mysteries of a
newspaper office happened just 50 years
ago, when I was “initiated” as printer’s
devil in the Sydney Freeman’s Journal
office in York-streetv (The Central Police
Court and Fruit Market were directly oppo-
site, and the neighboring Town Hall had
only recently been built on the site of Syd-
ney’s first cemetery.) In those far-back
days of my youth I had conjured vivid
mental pictures of the wonderful super-
man who had climbed the ladder of fame
and reached the editor’s chair. Thomas
Butler, the then editor of Freeman’s and
brother of Edward the distinguished barris-
ter and politician, soon dispelled my illu-
sions. I discovered that he wrote lead-
ing articles with an immense quill pen, eter-
nally poured out clouds of Smoke from won-
derful cigars, and made w4ird nasal noises
every time he told the printer’s devil to “Go
to Hell” when asked for “copy.” But for
all Butler’s vituperative language (he could
cuss from 20 different angles in one breath)
he always relented, and kind words and en-
couragement have left pleasant memories
after a lapse of half-a-century. I remember
he convinced me that he was not an editor
—merely a man who filled his paper with
anything that came handy and that he
imagined the public would pay for.
In 1880, when The Bulletin was
founded by John Haynes and J. F. Archi-
bald, I had no misgivings about editors,
only it was difficult for a few weeks to
decide which of the two was the editor.
Archibald not only provided copy, but spent
many a day setting type, while Haynes
scribbled unintelligible characters on paper
arid sent it on to the comps as copy. But
Archibald soon settled down in the editorial
chair, and the plausible John started off in
pursuit of advertisements and cash. And
when John vacated the joint-editorial chair
the office scissors were discarded, and the
editorial department of The Bulletin has
never owned a pair since. John must have
been the pioneer story teller of the Ad.-
men’s Association. His superb gifts in that
direction so mesmerised the electors of
Mudgee that they later on sent him into
Parliament.
Archibald, in the early Bulletin days,
wrote incessantly. But I don’t remember
a half-column article from his pen. It was
all epigrammatic paragraphs, with every
superfluous word cut. He originated the
“Brief Mention,” which appeared for many
years, while he was editor. The paper was
small in those days, and every contributor’s
copy went through his mangle—he would
sub-edit the Bible remorselessly, if needed.
His was essentially destructive criticism,
and he commanded a venomous vocabulary
unexcelled; but his literary efforts w r ere
inferior to the spoken expressions of con-
tempt for those with whom he disagreed.
He was happiest when telling stories. His
personality gathered about him men of his
own temperament, and he exalted contribu-
tors like Harold Grey (of “The Devil in
Sydney” notoriety), whose matter too often
left an unpleasant odor behind it. Archi-
bald always insisted that “every man has
a story to tell,” and he was ever on the
lookout for the man and the story. To him
belongs the credit of discovering Henry
Lawson, and many of the latter’s early
efforts were turned into literary jewels by
magic strokes of pen.
From the printer’s point of view Archi-
bald was a most exasperating man. He
had no idea of system, and no printer ever
had a more difficult man to deal with. He
cut, slashed and sub-edited copy unmerci-
fully, and continued the job of mutilation
in the proofs. He had no time for recrea-
tion, and the whole staff had to keep pace
with him. Having edited and sub-edited his
copy, he was extremely reluctant to pass
it on to the composing-room. The conse-
quence was that the final rush was some-
thing to be remembered, and his irascible
temper found vent in maledictions on all
concerned because matter he wanted in
the issue had been omitted. lie had a mania
for pigeon-holing, and his desk was always
in such confusion that he could never find
the priceless thing he wanted.
My next editor was W. 11. Traill, who
tried for a while to combine the job with
that of manager. The experiment was not
a success. As a writer of logical and
.sonorous articles on economics he deserved
his reputation; but as an editor he had
his severe limitations, arid he knew nothing
about handling a staff. A huge, hairy man,
with small, slanting eyes peeping out of a
face hidden behind big eyebrows arid whis-
kers, he was never happier than when, clad
only in trousers and undershirt (purposely
open to reveal his chest), he dived into the
vitals of a cantankerous printing-machine.
This mountain of flesh produced exception-
ally neat, though heavily-written, MS. He
was so satisfied with his matter that he
never considered it necessary to revise his
copy; and the printer’s staff relished it
accordingly. He had no sense of humor,
I think, so the satirists whom his predeces-
sor had gathered as contributors forsook
him and fled. He never “edited” copy, and
seldom worried about proofs; and he never
“discovered” a writer.
Exit Traill, after a brief reign, and re-
newed association with ,T. F. Archibald
after an absence in England. More than
ever he slashed and re-wrote wherever a
bit of white paper showed on a contribution,
and hung on to treasured copy so that the
printer's staff was almost always, in a state
of rebellion. Traill was a man who “put
things into the paper”' and wrote a great
deal himself; Archibald was an editor who
kept things opt, and, especially in his later
days, hardly ever wrote even a paragraph.
Next came courteous and obliging James
Edmond. Did I want a proof urgently?
It was no trouble to him to stop writing a
leading article —for Edmond, so unlike
Traill in most things, was like him in that
he personally wrote ' all over the paper.
Did I require this, that or the other kind of
copy? He would see what he could do
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
nae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
GREAT CHRISTMAS SHOW
Only three days remain in which to
select the Gift to accompany the kindly
remembrance at Christmas.
Here is a page of appropriate suggestions
for eleventh-hour shoppers. From the
variety at Anthony Horderns’ it will be
easy to choose your Gift, particularly
when prices are so reasonable.
Pop your orders in the post NOW! All
orders will be intelligently and promptly
executed by our specially trained Mail-
order staff.
l m
BXI7A
«
r-it
8X175
6X170.
ss^
§S
8X177
BXl7s.——Upright Hair Tidy, finest
fluted cut glass, sterile: silver pnlt
lid, 7 different colors, 3iin. high 3in.
dm merer • 907 -
8X174. — Powder Jar, finest fluted
pn> o-i<ips with sterling lid
and exquisite enamel top, 7 different
colors, 3in. high, 3|in. diameter,
85/-
8X177. —Scent Bottle, finest fluted
cut glass, sterling silver, hinged lid,
gilt, in 7 different colors, Sin. high,
90/-
BXl72.—Powder Jar and Hair
Tidy, Heavy E.P. lid, heavy Ameri-
can glass, 4-Jin. diameter . . 10/-
BXO2B
0X919A
n
OXO3O/^^
CIO ON
f
8X212
mmmm
BX 070
0X065
BXO7O. —Brudenbach Caskets of
Perfume, lined with satin, 3 bottles
in caskets 9/6
BXO2B. —Wicker-covered Bottle of
Bau de Cologne: Small, 8/9;
medium, 16/6; large, 30/-
8X212,—60z. Fancy Jug of Eau
de Cologne, Sin. high, glass stop-
per 10/-
8X212A.—160z. Decanter of Per-
fume, Tin. high, glass stopper 28/-
BXO3B. —Is a Bottle of Californian
Poppy.— loz., 3/11; 6/3.
8X065. —Brudenbach Casket of
Perfume, lined with satin, 2 bottles
in casket 7/6
CX37O
CX 4-2.2
CX35*
—,
CX356
CX422. — Shaving Mug and Brush, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver with
Opal Glass lining, plain design, or with engine-turned lines.. 25/-
CX37O. — -Silver-plated Flower Stand, Scroll design, with 5 holders 78/6
CX3S4 — Jam Jar and Spoon, apple shape, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
10/6
CX3S6 — Toast Rack, Silver-plated Australian Souvenir 22/6
CX425. — Silver-plated Sugar Basin, Melon design 32/6
CX3BO. — Afternoon Tea Set, Silver-plated, plain design, set of 3 pieces,
£5/5/-
CX463. — Hot-water Kettle, Silver-plated, plain design, 2-pint size 84/-
CX32s. — Candlestick, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, oval shape, four
squat legs
Also round, in same design
CXI4O. — Biscuit Barrel, Silver-plated Mounts, floral design. ■■■■■
Others 17 / 6 ’ 25/ -’ 37 / 6 ’ 40/-
CXI73. — Pie Dish, Silver-plated, plain design
Q. 2.13
sss-
aai4- *
aaia.
aaos
Q 259
m
Q. 9.58
Q 256
264-
Q2OB. —Black Morocco Handbag,
leather lined, envelope shape, outside
pocket .... 21/-, 22/6 and 27/6.
Q 214. —Morocco-grain Handbag,
Poplin lined, nickel frame, fasten
Q 212. —Velvet Calf Handbag,
fitted with purse and mirror, Brown,
Fawn and Grey 38/6
Q 213. —Morocco-grain Handbag,
lined poplin, envelope shape, press-
button catch 14/9
Q 259. — Lady’s Companion, leather,
16/6
Q 256 — Fancy Pin Cushion, assorted
colors 5/S
Q 258. —Lady’s Companion, leather.
Others 4/-, 7/9, 9/6, 12/6, 15/-,
18/6 to 42/-
Q 264. —Brown Leather
Case
Q 263. —Walnut Inkstand,
Others, 21/-, 22/9, 30/-
42/- to 90/-
0260. —Workbox, Fittings ii
3/9, 6/6; Pearl, 11/6.
Jewel
30/-
2 bot-
.. 8/-
, 32/-,
a Bone,
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON FANCY GOODS, SILVERPLATE AND LADIES’ HANDBAGS IN N.S.W.;
TO THE NEAREST PORT ON INTER-STATE ORDERS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons LimiiecL
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


1921 —TURNING THE LEAF— I 922
Soon we will put the calendars of a
New Year upon our walls.
Now the New Year looms ahead, let us
prepare to g'ather the fruits of
1922
For the past, we thanß you for your support.
For the present, we wish a Merry Xmas to all.
For the future, Health, Happiness and Prosperity.
Our best wishes to you.
OUR COMPLETE RANGE OF
PRODUCTS ARE
Meggitt’s Genuine Raw Linseed Oil.
Meggitt’s Boiled Linseed Oil (single
and double boiled).
Meggitt’s Pale Boiled Linseed Oil.
Meggitt’s Pure Linseed Meal.
Meggitt’s Specialised Stock Foods for
all classes of stock.
Meggitt’s Tonic Meals for all classes
of stock.
Meggitt’s Medicated Salt Licks.
These products are unequalled.
We desire to thank our valued clients throughout
Australia and New Zealand for their support during
the strenuous year just closing, and are at your
service for the forthcoming year.
a.
O
GGI
UNSEEOoiim™
/■VEEGITT IT
HEAD 01-FfCE KING ST-'SYENEY (W)rks:l-kiTaniatta)
PNSEtDOllffj^
fAECGITT L’
Oheboy on the bag
guarantees quality"
AQENTSMessrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William
Adams A Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage dc Co.. Ltd., Hobart
and Launceston; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs.
Johnston A Co., Ltd.. Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.; The S.A. Farmers' Co-op.
Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
WAeJboy on the hag
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not ups at the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
á
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/- FOR a limited period.
*/ Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian A Kents.
UncleTobys
Oats
A delighfful Breakfast Food”
CLIFFORD LOVE & C? LT?
Manufacturers Sydney.
BTPOL
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER,
OIL
EMULSION
Ch ! Washing
Disorders i
AND
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Healthy Scalps
for
School Kiddies
No longer need mothers have any
worry regarding their children’s
heads. DAND’S NURSERY POMADE
effectively keeps scalps free from
nits and all troubles that school
kiddies are liable to get. Always
keep a tin in the home! Obtainable
from chemists, or direct from DUER-
DIN and SAINSBURY, PTY., LTD.,
349 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Re-
member the name —-
DAND’S NURSERY
POMADE
Your Stock Wants
Veterinary Attention!
Stock always want Veterinary attention of
some kind or other. Sometimes treatment
can be (riven on the spot, other times a Vet.
has to be called in.
Cut the Veterinary Surgeon’s visits down to
a minimum by having on hand a good eonip-
ment of easy-to-use, efficient Veterinary In-
struments. We can equip you with these—
the most dependable, up-to-date Instruments
and Appliances for stockowners’ use.
Write us to-day for our catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The DENYER
Triple Crush Emascuiator.
Scientifically constructed to serve
its purpose in the inost efficient,
humane manner. The DENYER
TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR
permits of quicker, easier and bet-
ter results. It is hand-forged
from the best steel, which as-
sures durability.
Price 60/-
Postage 9d. Extra.
fafs
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHBISTOPHEB
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
Tor quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Itazor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
mp^ 1
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
When Accuracy is Demanded
Use Kite Brand Tool Steel.
Absolute accuracy in manufacture counts for
nothing if the material shrinks. It was to meet
this condition that Kite Brand Tool Steel was in-
troduced, and to-day there is no finer steel on
this market.
For Dies, Taps, Reamers and
Milling Cutters.
Full stocks of rounds in all sizes from |in. to 6|-in.
Prices and all particulars promptly supplied.
Address Department A.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney.
266 Katrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, lialgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
.John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ktd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ktd., Newcastle.
R. 1,. Milligan, Collins Street, Hobart..
fa
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
fa
Man: this is the iron
the wife wants
—get it!
Haven’t you noticed how tired-out the wife is every ironing day—
after she has been toiling in the summer heat over hot stoves and
with old-fashioned flat-irons ?
It’s not a fair thing.
WITH A
“SPOT-REVO”
ELECTRIC
IRON
she’ll iron in cool comfort and convenience. She’ll finish her ironing
earlier. There’ll be no after-ironing tiredness; in short, ironing
will cease to be a drudgery ar.d become a pleasure.
Then there are two other things it’s worth your while considering:—
One: Dinner will always be on time on ironing day as other days—
prepared with the care she likes to give it if the minutes permit;
and, two, your shirts, etc., will be ironed even better than they
are now.
Sir—an ironmonger or electrician will supply you with a
“Spot-Revo.” Get after it to-day.
IT WILL COST
YOU ONLY
35-
AND IT’S GUARANTEED
FOR THREE YEARS.
Wholesale from :
Homewood & O’Neill Pty., Ltd.,
Head Office: 172-176 William St., Melbourne.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Child’s Song.
Somebody died in our house last night
While tne little moon looked through the
curtains white.
Somebody died that I loved so well
I am almost too frightened and sad to tell
I dug the grave in the yard myself,
With the spade that I keep on the nurserj
shelf.
Nobody knew I was out of bed,
So they don’t even guess that there’s some-
one dead.
Only my toys and my dollies know,
For they hear me sob in the darkness so ;
“No more to-morrows with six-times-three,
Now it s seven-times‘-one that is here with
me.’’
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Summer.
Along the placid afternoon
Danced Sufnmer in her golden shoon.
Her robe was girdled with delight
While warm dreams, strewn like stars at
night,
Glimmered in every fold ;
Her laughter’s maddening melodies
Fluted between the full-leaved trees
In cadences of gold.
As down the gentle aisles of Spring
Her fragrant breath went fluttering,
A tremor shook the burgeoning world—
The great green bud of earth uncurled
And flamed in full delight.
And as the Circe season laughed,
From her hot hands wild mortals quaffed
Their fill of love and light.
Oh, kind, warm witch, your cup spills bliss
To those who fearless meet your kiss—
Whose blood and brain in perfect tune
Can bear the reading of your rune
Of flame and fruit and flower!
Oh, lilt within my heart a .song
Whose measures shall, in accents strong,
Prison your joy and power!
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.
Rain.
That swelling lyric is mine which the rain-
drops sing on the street,
For there echoes within my heart the
music of driven rain ;
Mine is the song on the window ever more
strong and sweet,
And mine are the swirling rhythms and
mine is the wild refrain.
Aye, as the fierce gusts catch it, toss and
hurl it along,
The world that is lost in the rain is the
world inviting me;
And I must go out where it waits to join it
in rising song,
While walking with quickened steps and
a brain grown clear and free.
I shall look in at the windows where the
lights are dimmed and blurred;
And th<?n at the half-drowned lamps
ashine on the pavement way,
Shedding their fire in tne pools where only
the sound is heard
Of drops that splash on the wet, like
gnorhes that laugh in their play.
I shall pass swiftly along and return ere
the flood be done,
Part of the savage weather, of Earth’s
own spirit a part;
I shall let the great gusts carry me, knowing
I am their son,
And shall let the rain heat in at the open
door of my heart.
N.s.w.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.
The Magic Lake.
There is a rainbow round the moon to-night,
The spring moon at her full; but, dim and
white.
Slow mists rise up the valley, blur the trees,
And now a lake gleams, pale as opal seas,
Where once we thought the Bush was—
spreads, and fills
Green lands we knew between the vanished
hills.
Now curious islands cluster, soft with sleep.
And through the waters palms and tree-ferns
peep,
Like half-drowned trees in flood-time, but
more strange;
For trees and islands rise and grow and
change
Upon the Magic Lake... .We’ll loose our
boat,
O my Beloved, and away we’ll float
Across the silent waters, where strange
flowers
Bloom for our pleasure in the midnight hours,
And glide and glide, dreaming new dreams
of love,
The stars behind us and the moon above,
To dawn-isles, dream-isles, far away from
here,
Far from our trees and songs we hold so dear,
For more fantastic trees, for richer songs
Than Bush-birds carol on the Dandenonsrs
In these glad days of Spring. .. .Again mists
rise.
Blown by the wind across the clearing skies
They leave but veils above the valley glades.
The Magic Lake has gone, the Dreamland
fades,
The islands sink beneath the opal seas.
Here is our Bush again, with tall, thin trees,
Familiar trees, familiar hills and plains.
And here, beside, our little house remains.
Where we must live content with flowers and
.songs,
And dreams we gather on the Dandenongs.
I seek no more. The moon’s at full to-night,
And Ymi are here, and stars are shining
bright.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


Good morning, sir. You wish
to buy a safety razor?
•
One that is really safety—
And at the same time a real
razor—•
One that doesn’t require a
new blade every day—■
But oil the contrary strops
itself and keeps lts ; blades
sharp for weeks and weeks—
That doesn’t require taking
to bits every time you want
to clean it —-
That is capable of adjust-
ment according to the
nature of the beard—-
r&>
*
That never drags the
hair off—
But always leaves the
face smooth and soft—
f/ vi
r%
'Or'S
In other words you wish
to buy a—-
There is no
more acceptable
Christmas Gift
than a “Valet”
Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
Made in England.
Obtainable from all High-class
Dealers.
fa
“VALET’
Safety Razor
v
4


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2184.
THU USD AY, DECEMBER 22, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE RIVALS.
PEACE: “Too late, my friend—I’VE been looking after the stockings this year!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydnev. N.S.W 7 ., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
n months, £1 16s; 6 months, 18s. 6d.; 3 months,
9s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £2; 6
months, £1; 3 months, 10s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable .. to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
wilt be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction— i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.k;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 61 High
Holborrr, London, I V.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana Mouse, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. 5th Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co.; 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —IVhitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 12oz., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW,
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth S. H. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1921.
THE HOPE OF A SHATTERED
WORLD.
When William 111. came to the throne of
England on the last impulse of the wave of
reform that had once been Cromwellian re-
publicanism he ruled by grace of a large
and wholesome commonsense. Other kings
when in need of money to feed their armies
had levied poll-taxes, pawned the 1 Crown
jewels and adopted all sorts of doubtful ex-
pedients. William went to the merchants
of London and borrowed on the security of
the national revenues. The idea may not
have been quite new, but he w T as the pioneer
in its serious development; and his first
appeal to the worshipful fishmongers and
honorable grocers of the city was an event
almost equal in world-importance to the fall
of Rome. Out of that appeal sprang the
Bank of England and the modem system of
national and international finance. The age
of commerce is generally supposed to have
started about the time of the Tudors; but
it was a doubtful commercialism, a thing of
little markets and small pedlars, a commer-
cialism that begged leave of a landed aris-
tocracy to exist and kept its profits in an
old stocking. It was not until banking came
into vogue amd dealt both with kings’ trea-
suries and hatters’ overdrafts that money
was a real power in Europe. Then came
the true romance of trade, and snuffy men
in dingy offices had the faith of true believers
in a world’s salvation by finance. In the
Middle Ages it was possible for a village to
starve, because the harvest in its vicinity
had failed, though the barns were bursting
with plenty at the other side of the country.
Similarly, it had been possible for a mer-
chant to fail, though his assets were numer-
ous and his prospects good, because the old
stocking was empty on the day his creditors
called. Beyond the circle of his personal
friends and the occasional Jew who might
gamble on his estate at great odds, there
was no one to whom he could go for credit.
Antonio, the richest merchant in Venice,
must go to Shylock' if his ships happened
to be all at sea at one time. But with
the advent of modern banking men saw a
great security against disaster. The whole
world’s credit was thrown into a state of
fluency. A man’s credit, when the stocking
was full, aided others; their credit aided
him when the stocking was empty. With
a whole world’s assets behind the banks
there was salvation for everybody in honest
trade. No idea so universal, harmonious
and easy of accomplishment had struck the
world since the preaching of the Sermon on
the Mount.
* * * *
When the gospel of finance was first
preached in England Christianity was wander-
ing into Deism, the prototype of the still
more modern agnosticism ; but Christianity,
as it was first known in the Roman Empire,
was curiously like the commercial idealism
of the early banking days. It, too, sug-
gested universal help. “Whatsoever ye
would that men should do unto you. do ye
also unto them,” it said. This gospel of Naza-
reth, like the gospel of finance, looked good
and was good as far as it covered the human
ground ; but it took no account of the two
main lines of human thought and endeavor.
Man has in common with all the animals to
think about keeping alive and about the con-
tinuance of his race. However keen he may
be about ethical and spiritual problems, his
dinner and his child have naturally first
place in his thoughts; and any philosophy
of life that ignores these things is incom-
plete. Early Christianity did ignore them.
The fishermen were called awayyfrom their
work, the tax-collector from his desk and the
women from their homes to follow the great
Leader. To forsake all and follow was the
demand of the new religion ; and so a com-
pany of enthusiasts embraced a voluntary
beggary and preached the gospel of the poor,
while the outsiders and those who refused
to follow did the world’s work and produced
the food which the non-working reformers
ate with thankfulness.. But the vast slave
population of the Roman world understood
the food it put into its mouth no better than
the financial reformers understood the money
which they represented by figures in the
ledger. Somebody would probably keep the
world going while successive batches of con-
verts obeyed the command to preach the gos-
pel to all nations. It was only when Chris-
tianity, working through the sweltering slave
populations of the Mediterranean countries,
had made itself practical master of the em-
pire, that it was in turn reformed or de-
formed out of all resemblance to its original
shape, but in a manner that made it fit in
with the economics and politics which aimed
at keeping the nations from want and extinc-
tion. Early Christianity, if practised to the
full by the ancient world, would have meant
an early and holy death for all civilised man-
kind ; but later Christianity kept its hold
by preserving just enough of the original
theory of self-negation to create a continuous
sentiment.
When the religion of finance had passed
its first and most hopeful stage there was
just enough Christianity left in the lands
where it operated to add force to the exploi-
tation of the poor. St. Paul had told ser-
vants to obey their masters; the prayer-
books enjoined all people to order them-
selves lowly and reverently before their
betters. Those betters had once been people
with a broad axe and a long spear; now they
were people well fortified with the cash
and credit that could pay for labor. Very
soon the workers were looking back with
longing to the days of the axe and spear;
even to-day in some countries the hopeless
poor turn instinctively ■to the dying landed
aristocracies as for protection against the
wealth of the new industrial magnates. But
the very shape and make of a man generally
leads him to violently protest when things
get too bad. The big protest of the French
Revolution was against a system which ;
combined all the evils of the old and new;
but a deeper, stronger and more rational
protest slowly gathered head in Trade Union-
ism, which grew by well-marked stages into
the political Labor movement and modern
Socialism. Finance at one time appeared
all powerful; but the theory was advanced
that combined Labor must be After
a battle between the two forces lasting a
century—a battle that during the last 20
years has become too intense to last long—
the fact seems to have been fairly established
that Labor can destroy finance but cannot
save itself from ruin in that destruction.
The strength of modern Labor is in its
solidarity. It has just enough of the spirit
of primal Christianity to assert a human
brotherhood, but not quite enough to see a
brother’s face in the ranks of those who otter
opposition to its immediate demands. ■ It is
partial rather than complete in its aims, in
that it excludes from its thought so much
of human gain that is outside the direct
field of economics and that it takes no
account of the vaster and more important
labors that would be brought to a standstill
by a complete destruction of existing finan-
cial systems. , This is clearly seen wherever
Labor holds political power ; for the vastness
of existing human . machinery practically
brings socialistic propaganda to an abrupt
halt when the business of administration
must be faced in, earnest.
Thus the three systems which promised
salvation to mankind had in them possi-
bilities far beyond their achievement;
and those possibilities are far from
exhausted. Christianity did not succeed in
nineteen hundred years in abolishing war or
eliminating selfish greed ; but in all that long
period the most perfect human flowers of
devotion to the cause of humanity were
grown on-the'Christian tree; Modern finan-
cial systems did not abolish, poverty nor add
much to the happiness even of those who
received most of the benefits; but they did
alter social values and shake up old and
tyrannical customs in a way that made cer-
tain lines of real reform open to the nations.
Labor did not gain the whole fruit of its
exertions as it desired; but it did so empha-
sise the value of those who do the rough
work of the world that no statesmanship can
ever again afford to lose sight of the con-
dition of the meanest in the community.
Separately each of the three ideas has made
a tremendous contribution to human pro-
gress; viewed together they are but a con-
fused jumble of warring discords, a pot of
bitter herbs boiling to make a poisonous
broth. Yet most financiers and most
Labor men continue to call themselves,
broadly, Christian; most Christians rally
eagerly to a political party call ; and even
Labor organisations and Labor leaders, as
well as archbishops and Salvation Army
converts, are ready to grasp at any oppor-
tunity offered them by the financial system.
So while Jhe world loses driving force and
comfort and sleep and many things of beauty
and. use through a constant bitter warfare,
thereis scarcely a man even among the
extremists of party and faction who does not
in practice make a compromise with the
supposed enemy while right in front of its
guns. A pride of opinion forces loud and
partisan speech with a good flow of invective
and much assertion of a determination to see
things through; but when it comes to action
few men are as bad or as good as their
creeds.
* * *
Christianity naturally came to Australia
with the First Fleet to assist in flogging the
convicts into holy meekness; Uabor came
too, though it did its first jobs in leg-irons
and only felt a growing enthusiasm for the
land when its big financial enemy made the
strokes of the axe seem worth while; and
finance came because it saw enormous
natural credits in the virgin bush. The
tyranny of capital was little felt by the free
men of the earliest settlements; the Christian
virtues rounded themselves into a general
atmosphere of hospitality and goodwill, which
great distances and greater loneliness con-
stantly fostered; and the pound of flesh
which financial systems exacted was not
grudged in the good seasons when such meat
was going by the ton, while in times of
drought and disaster their aid was eagerly
sought to avert ruin. This state of affairs
continued pretty generally through the period
of early pastoral adventure and the boom
created by the discoveries of gold, and might
have gone on to the present day but for the
centralisation of the railway systems and
the growth of the towns. When about one-
third of the population of the continent had
centred itself in and around two cities the old
European struggle was renewed. The lack of
local industries, the habit of financing Aus-
tralian public concerns with money borrowed
abroad, with the consequent drain upon the
people for interest, accentuated all the evils.
Labor organised to destroy the financial
system rather than to remove the causes
which made that system injurious. Now
Labor has been fully heard in criticism and
fully observed while holding political power :
and on the evidence of its own words and
deeds there is no reasonable likelihood that
along present lines it can achieve anything
like a solution of Australian problems. Car-
dinals, archbishops, moderators, pastors and
evangelists still preach a variety of creeds
more or less associated with Christianity;
but though a century has passed since
Samuel Marsden modified the teaching of
the Sermon on the Mount to suit the chain-
gang and the triangles, there is no appear-
ance of any Christian movement towards a
practical millennium. Nor do our financial
institutions suggest any way out. “If work-
ing conditions were stable money would be
available for this or for that,” is the constant
statement of experts, who still fail to see
far enough beyond their ledgers to even sug-
gest a means by which working conditions
might be brought into something like equili-
brium. Yet while all this is so every
individual Australian is making in his
own life the compromises which the three
warring systems refuse to seriously consider.
The position thus reached in Australia
would be of humorous interest if it were not
so serious. The people of Australia are of
all men the most adaptable, the readiest of
resource, and with most initiative in time
of stress or perplexity. To say this is to
make no idle boast; for the great war in
which the men of all the leading nations were
tested left the Australian (which includes
the Maoriland) soldier an easy first in enter-
prise and readiness to seize opportunity.
Others were equally brave, and possibly more
zealous; but pone adapted themselves to the
great discomforts or availed themselves so
fully of minor chances as the Australian.
That a people of quick thought and ready-
action should w-aste time and energy in a
clash of warring ideas, while the work of a
continent waits to be done, seems almost in-
credible. It is just by such a people in just
such an environment that the triangular
problem should be solved ; and the clear solu-
tion of that triangular problem is to do
nationally what practically every individual
is doing privately. A compromise between
good and evil is naturally itself an evil
thing; but the compromise here demanded is
of an altogether different nature. Here are
three ideas, all good and all practicable to a
point, and all working to loss and injury
beyond, that point. In as far as they are
good they do not conflict at all; beyond that
they clash bitterly. The natural and simple
thing is to make the compromise of taking
the good that is in them all and rejecting the
rest. The primal Christian message of
brotherhood can fairly be taken and turned
into law by providing that there shall be no
want suffered in sickness or health by any
Australian, that the demand for assistance in
sickness or temporary unemployment shall
be responded to at once by the State, and
that the help thus received shall be included
in our citizen rights. Such a step goes half-
way to realise the idea of Labor Socialism;
and, given certain other things, it would be
well withn the power of the community to
carry out. But the means to do this must
turn upon sound internal finance. The
thing to be aimed at is a restoration of
finance to its first idealism. And in a country
like Australia, where resources Are almost
boundless, there is no reason at all why suc-
cess should not be written in large capitals
over the whole of the nation’s enterprise. At
present the Commonwealth is a poor country
—not a poor country by comparison with
many others, but poor measured by its ojvn
prospective wealth. By working together in
earnest we can realise this wealth; but to
do so sound finance and honest labor must
go hand in hand. Join enthusiasm in the
management with enthusiasm in the work-
shops, and both with a political enthusiasm
to get the best results, and there will be such
an increase in the national wealth as may
bridge forever the chasm between rich and
poor.
THE SINS OF THE FATHERS.
Australia suffers from a remarkable cata-
logue of needless and self-manufactured woes,
most of which can be traced back to the
borrowing habit —the most universal
acquired habit the country possesses. It
was the first substitute for productive, self--
supporting work, and it became more of a
substitute year by year. It gave the strike,
the go-slow and the short-hour-long-wage
idea something to stand upon, for it intro-
duced a class of work in which there was
no need for the value of output to bear any
relationship to the cost thereof. Naturally
leaders ot a certain rubbishy school of
thought said it was a very nice and humane
policy, and added that if the State could do
that noble sort of thing private employers,
who, inconveniently for them, were unable
to charge their losses against Posterity,
should do likewise. All manner of means
were adopted to make them do likewise, and
at the same time the State was urged to
take over all works (or as many as possible)
and put industry in general on a non-sup-
porting and non-taxpaying basis. Most Gov-
ernments, with a single eye to votes, did
marvels, but not half the marvels that were
demanded of them. The procession of fowl
that is now coming home to roost is terrify-
ing. Some of them are venomous and most
of them are ostriches.
The Repatriation business, for which the
Federal Government talks of raising an-
other £10,000,000, has given a mighty boost
to the idea that the world is, or should be,
full of jobs to which the comfortable art
or paying ±2 for something that will sell for
only £1 applies. Maddened by philanthropy
and the big new-loan possibilities, the
Hughes Ministry’s impression apparently
was that it should advertise for all the land
in Australia regardless of cost, and for all
the boards and nails in the world regardless
of price. It couldn’t live up to this speci-
fication, but it tried. The matter fell into
the hands of Ministers who weren’t appointed
for their special knowledge of this sort of
work, as might happen in the United States,
where Ministers are exclusively men outside
Parliament, so that the person who makes
Ministries (elected by the nation, but him-
self outside Parliament) has all the experts
of the nation, bar Parliamentarians, to
choose from. Out of the handful of avail-
able non-experts inside, elected by non-
experts outside, the man was found for the
house-building job, and he gave to the work
what time he could spare from his constitu-
ents and from scrimmaging in the House
to keep his precarious billet. Out of his
wealth of inexperience he appointed sub-
ordinates. Theoretically the right man can
always be got if he is paid for. In practice
the wrong man, who is much more numer-
ous, can always be captured and naid for if
the wrong man does the selecting. That is
why so many noodles sit in high places—and
in low ones. One result of all this is that
the Repatriation peoole have unused land
on their hands in large numbers of places,
and mountains of unused materials, not
always in the same places. They are
daunted by the fact that they can’t quite
see the sense of building houses, though that
is their business, if returned soldiers won’t
buy or rent them because they cost much
more than they would be worth if they were
good. At Bundaberg (Q.) an inquiry lately
revealed that 16 houses had been erected,
but as only two returned soldiers out of 500
treated the premises with anything but scorn
and only five other people could be beguiled
in by honeyed words and all other available
substances, the building officials had grown
discouraged and lost their punch. At Bris-
bane, where the Department had fallen into
disrepute by building on almost the only
morass available, it had apparently fled,
leaving' its apparatus behind it. Altogether
116 deserted soldiers’ homes were recently
identified in Queensland, in addition to those
that had never been taken up. Other States
tell much the same story. At Castlemaine
(Vic.) a preliminary yet belated group of
eight houses was blighted in infancy by the
attempt to put them all on one acre or so.
At recent advices the Department had reaped
one tenant and seven curses.
* * * *
It is all a matter of infinite jest, but it
only looks more jestful than other things
because it is bigger and more compressed in
point of time. The Federal Government has
control of shipping legislation, and has ships
lying idle, and more ships building at absurd
cost which are likely to be dead stock, yet
it can’t prevent the long expanse of Austra-
lia’s coast where railways are not from being
left almost without ships also. Complaints
are frequent from Borroloola (in the N.T.
and so under the blessing of direct Federal
administration) that the absent-minded Gov-
ernment steamer forgets to call as often as
not, and it seems to be nobody’s business if
the settlement is reduced to a diet of leaves
and bark. The Government is very
far off, and if it removes to Can-
berra it will be farther off; and
either the viceroy is the wrong sort, or
he lacks authority, or the means of enforcing
his nominal authority. It lives in a state
of suspended animation over the North-to-
South railway—a national work to which
the Commonwealth’s honor is pledged, it hav-
ing accepted the price of a land-grant line
and failed to supply the article. It seems
quite unable to resolve whether, it should, try
to find a way of subdividing Australia into
smaller States, or a real live popular Con-
vention to which the work can be delegated,
or flatly refuse to mix with the matter .at
all. It even shirks any definite expression
of opinion as to whether there is room for
improvement in a method which divides the
mainland into governing areas averaging
491,394 sq. miles each, and which remains
practically as it was 65 years ago, when half
Australia was unexplored and required no
governing. And there seems as little hope as


7%^sXzZld&7l
From the beginning of 1922 the
price of “The Bulletin” will be
ever of relief from the costly and intolerable
duplication of taxes. # *
Certainly the best results are not to be
looked for when the administrator of pig
affairs is balanced on a tight-rope, defending
his position against a rival tight-rope walker,
and expected to maintain with him a con-
stant flow of repartee. 1 hat is the posi-
tion of a Minister under Anglo-Australian
Dartv government even if lie has a better
majority than that of Hughes. But sym-
pathy is wasted, as no orthodox politician
wants to alter the system. The federal
rulers (and the State ones are the same)
were reared in a belief that there exists a
substitute for industry, decision and selt-
reliance. And they fit in not so badly with
a people brought up on a similar dope. |t
was plain borrowing at first. Gradually
repudiation, and the “social revolution, and
the plain or blanky revolution were added
when mere being in debt didn’t bring 1 aia-
dise to everybody’s door. And unfortu-
nately the struggle after the impossible may
last a long while vet, especially if it is ted
with £10,000,000 loans.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Bulletin” Back to Sixpence.
On January 5 and thereafter the price of
The Bulletin will be sixpence. Eighteen
months ago, when an advance in the price
of glazed printing paper from the old £2O
or thereabouts to £lOO and over per ton
literally forced up the price from 6d. to
9d., the promise was given that there should
be no war-profiteering—that the price should
come back to sixpence at the earliest pos-
sible moment. The price of printing paper
is still nowhere near normal: it is more than
three times the old price. But for. some
reason or other The Bulletin acquired a
very wide circle of new friends among the
Diggers during the war (one Digger wrote
that “the only two things you can be sure
of finding in a trench are mud and a bit of
The Bully”), and this new circle of friends
has been retained. The result has shown
in increased advertising revenue. This has
made it possible for The Bulletin to re-
deem its promise earlier than it would other-
wise have been able to do. Printing paper
under a more favorable contract, though
at a price still in excess of £6O a ton, will
come into use on January 5; and on that
date also The Bulletin’s readers will get
the benefit of the reduction.
The Achievement of Hughes.
When Sieyes or somebody was asked what
he had done during the Terror he replied, in
a phrase as impressive as Caesar’s bulletin,
“I lived.” So W. M. Hughes might answer
a critic who should inquire what he had
accomplished as Prime Minister in 1921.
It is the only achievement on which he can
look back with just pride, and the credit
belongs to him entirely. Stormed at by the
Labor Opposition, exposed to the caprices of
the Country party, which at one stage be-
came definitely hostile, at the mercy always
of a few dissatisfied followers, his Govern-
ment lives. Having, in the immemorial
Australian fashion, loafed in the early part
of the session and scamped its job in the
last fortnight, putting through a swarm of
ill-digested bills that will certainly have to
be “amended” next year or the year after,
it is safe for six months at least, and in all
probability till the general election. Yet
it certainiy didn’t deserve to, get into recess.
With one exception- —the stopgap Ministry
of 1916-17 —it is the weakest Common-
wealth Government that ever held office.
Apart from Hughes himself it _ hasn’t one
conspicuous figure. Poynton is a feeble
Minister for Home and, Territories; Laird
Smith a wooden Minister for the Navy.
Wise has failed to secure efficiency as Post-
master-General, and Ryrie has made no im-
provement in the Defence Department, so
long and so fluently maladministered by
Pearce. There were hopes of Massy
Greene, but he has yet to justify, them.
Beginning promisingly with the tariff, his;
resistance to the foreign-trade element weak-
ened as the session wore on, and his anti-
dumping measure was delayed so long that
serious damage was done to important Aus-
tralian industries. They could have been
adequately protected by the fiscal route, but
were told to wait till Parlmment had passed
legislation with fancy frills on it; and while
they were waiting dumping' went on whole-
sale. Hughes himself, for all his genius as
a political strategist, has committed great
faults as an administrator. As for Mil-
len’s handling of the Repatriation Depart-
ment, it has been one long catalogue of waste
and blunder. In the days before Australia
surrendered to the bigotuy of the party sys-
tem no Government could have faced Par-
liament with such a record of folly unspeak-
able and extravagance incalculable without
being sent about its business there and then.
Yet the Hughes party not only survived
the dismal apologias of Millen and
Rodgers, but doesn’t seem to have been
weakened by the disclosures. In the recent
by-elections for Wes<t Sydney and Parra-
matta, it polled more strongly, considering
the percentage of votes cast, than it did at
the general election. Apparently the majo-
rity of Australians have decided (1) that
the Country party will’ never be anything
more than a sectional group (Ballarat and
Parramatta, where the Cocky candidates
lost their deposits, have set definite limits
to its progress) ; (*2) that the Labor party,
in its present state of mind, isn’t fit to run
a fowlhouse; and (3) that, failing an accom-
modation between the Nationalists and the
Cockies, the Hughes Government, its record
notwithstanding, is the least calamitous
crowd in sight. But it is an extraordinary
situation altogether.
*
The Princely Rewards of Science.
In Sydney the other day one of the embit-
tered patriots who hold that this sport-mad
and politician-ridden country knows nothing
of its greatest men war. permited to stray
into print. The Daily Telegraph re-
ported him as follows -
An eloquent plea for the r< cognition of Australian
initiative was made by Oapti :in G. F. Taylor in a
lecture to the Royal Society. Too often were they
wont to praise men of other countries who were
really only followers on the heels of our countrymen.
He instanced Torrens, who initiated the title now
called by his name; Louis Brennan, whose torpedo
was adopted by the British Government; and
Lawrence Hargrave, who solved the problem of
flying in 1884. The control and direction of airships
by wireless waves was first carried into effect by
Alban Roberts, yet credit was given to an American
for the discovery. In 1910 Reginald Wilkinson
exhibited a device for the sending of pictures by
wireless before the United Service Institution, but
a Swede was credited years afterwards with being
the originator.
These, of course, are only a few names
selected out of a multitude to point the
moral. To publish anything like a com-
plete list of obscure or unappreciated home-
grown geniuses (it would include Farrer,
the wheat-breeder, the men who gave the
world the stripper-harvester and the Aus-
tralian ballot, and the score of brilliant
Digger inventors thrown up by the war)
would necessitate cutting down the pony-
racing and “scene in Parliament” stuff,
which is out of the question. Still it can-
not be seriously urged that Australia is
indifferent to all forms of talent. Neither
do scientists go unrewarded when their
achievements are such as appeal to the great
heart of the nation. A few days before Cap-
tain Taylor reproved his fellow-countrymen,
a public entertainment was held in honor of,
and as part of a scheme to raise £lOOO for,
a Yankee pugilist who is retiring from the
ring. Birt, M.L.A. for Sydney, presided
and extolled the superannuated bruiser as
“one of the most scientific boxers that ever
visited these shores.” Very shortly Arm-
strong, captain of the Australian XI, will
receive a “testimonial” so handsome that if
he lends it out on mortgage or invests it in
war stock he will never need to work again.
It is the tribute of a grateful country that
rewards the limbless soldier with a whole
30s. a week to “the most scientific cricketer
of his generation.” If any further evidence
is wanted, consider the priceless case quoted
in the Senate on Dec. 6 by Hon. Minister
Russell :
When we were confronted with the mice plague
the best Scientists were brought from the Old Coun-
try to help us. A man like Dr. Lefroy came from
Great Britain to assist us with all his Indian ex-
perience, and yet it was left to a South Australian,
in the person of Professor Hargreaves, to invent a
system for the destruction of wheat weevil at a cost
of less than Jd. per bushel, whereas it had cost us
from 3d. to 4d. per bushel under the old system.
Professor Hargreaves not only saved our wheat when
its destruction was threatened, but he taught us to
preserve it by the cheapest system known in the
world to-day. By following his advice to construct
silos with light frames covered with malthoid, and to
introduce gases necessary to prevent the develop-
ment of the weevil, it costs us only about id.
per bushel per annum to preserve our wheat. As
the British Government was paying us Id. per
bushel per month for this purpose, honorable Sena-
tors will see what a valuable discovery this gentle-
man made. I shall not be surprised to learn that
as a result we have saved wheat to the value of
£200,000 since 1916.
Senator Rowell: Was the scientist remunerated?
Senator Russell: I am glad to say that both the
South Aus. and Victorian Governments voted £2OO
each to this gentleman, and defrayed the cost of the
publication of his book describing experiments
made in the handling of wheat.
In short, the unobtrusive chemist who saved
the four wheat-growing States £200,000 got
a reward equivalent to the rise grabbed last
year by the Federal M.P., and £25 more
than the increase pouched by the N. S. Wales
Assemblyman. And Senator Russell is
“glad to say” it. That is what happens to
a man in Australia when he is fool enough to
become a scientific investigator instead of a
professional politician, a pugilist or ,a Test-
match cricketer.
» - ■—-
Blackguardism as a Convention.
The N. S. Wales Judges, who, with one or
two exceptions, are as closely in touch with
popular sentiment as any body of men in
the community, have been growing restive
of late over two developments. Justice Fer-
guson observed a few days ago:—
It is a matter for serious consideration whether
the Legislature should not pass legislation setting
a limit on the length cross-examination should be
allowed to go on matters which could not possibly
affect the issue between the parties.
And Justice James animadverted on the
“astonishing practices of some private detec-
tives.” In one case a couple of these de-
graded persons had broken into a suspect’s
house in search of the flagrant delit which
is the end of every French investigator’s
desire; and in another two detectives had
taken for use as exhibits —in plain English
had stolen —various articles belonging to a
man and woman who were alleged to have
been found in compromising circumstances.
Divorce Judges have issued warnings to pri-
vate detectives that if they continue on such
illegal lines they must not be surprised if
the owners of the houses they burgle or of
the property they purloin take the law into
their own hands. That their Honors did
not drop a similar hint to certain barristers
and solicitors was more a matter of judicial
etiquette, based on loyalty to the old union,
than anything else. The principle is the
same in both cases. For years it has been
as much as a citizen’s reputation is worth
to appear as a party to a suit in a Sydney
police court in opposition to a well-known
type of. attorney. Another Nelson giving
■evidence in a street-accident case would be
practicklly certain, in the hands of one of
these practitioners, to be raked fore and aft
in reference to his relations with Dady
Hamilton. And latterly the convention has
been climbing upwards till it threatens be-
fore long to establish itself even in the
High Court. The theory is, of course, that
these irrelevancies are tests of credibility.
Even when based on fact they are usually
worthless as tests for the purposes of the
issue in dispute.. Thus a man might be
living an irregular life and yet be as reliable
in the witness-box as a bishop. But more
often there is no truth whatever in the
infamies suggested by the cross-examining
lawyer. He shields himself in making them
by the claim that he has been “instructed”
as to their truth, a ceremony which, in the
eyes of the profession, entitles him to sling
all the mud at the occupant of the witness-
box that a recklessly malevolent client may
have felt disposed to spill into his brief.
The chief reason why Parliament should
follow the Judge’s advice in this matter and
severely delimit the scope of cross-examina-
tion for Ilona fides, is that the existing sys-
tem is inimical to justice. Not only do citi-
zens submit to wrongs rather than face the
courts as they are now conducted, but men
stand by and allow others to take their
chances in cases where they should come
forward. Moreover, the knowledge that the
courts are feared by many a most worthy
and upright citizen is becoming one of our
most fruitful sources of blackmail. A secon-
dary reason why the advocates should be
curbed is a matter, as in the case of the
private detectives, of their own safety.
Ruffianism is still ruffianism, whether exe-
cuted in a wig and gown or in the costume
of a park tout, and if persisted in long
enough it is bound to be countered with
violence.
«
The Big Rabble Army.
When Australia’s Labor Governments have
tottered off the stage and joined the Sydney
City Council in the vale of oblivion, it should
be a time of reformation. All institutions re-
quire a reformation now and then. It is just
as essential as a spring cleaning. The Roman
Catholic Church wanted one some centuries
ago, when occasionally three Popes reigned
at once and excommunicated each other twice
a day. The reformation came, or the church
would almost certainly have gone. The An-
glican Church was in need of repair almost as
soon as it commenced business, and the Puri-
tans set about the job. The Greek Church in
Russia was very successful in avoiding seri-
ous improvement, and was still mumbling
over its bones in an orthodox 15th-century
fashion when the 20th-century revolution
struck it. That was a case of the effect
overtaking the cause, or one of the causes,
and giving it a blow in the back. Reforma-
tion is often an effort to return to the early
purity, and that is exactly what Labor re-
quires.' There is no reason why the black-
guardism and incivility of the community
should gi'avitate to it save that so much of
those elements are there already and the rest
joins up for the sake of congenial company.
There is no reason either why what was
once a unified political state should become
a sort of federation of pony-racers and pub-
licans. Labor can’t prevent all sorts and
bad conditions of men adhering to it, as a
murderer may decide to be a Baptist in his
cell or a brigand may adopt Methodism in
his cave, but the party need not be so
hungry for followers as to recognise all
these people. Still less should it raise them
or let them raise themselves to its high
places, and give them preference or let them
give themselves preference. They should be
left to blush unseen, their virtue being its
own reward. The party gained in numbers,
but not in reputation, by taking all and
sundry publicly and officially to its bosom
provided they would shout the formula. Then
it began to lose the numbers and the rest
of the reputation. The rotten element of
the party began to push the better one out.
This was partly to prevent the reformation
which might have pushed the rotten element
out, and partly it was a case of clearing away
the tall timber so that the brambles might
have more space. No member was ever dis-
qualified out of the Caucus for conduct of
which the fathers of the party would have
violently disapproved. But old members who
had done yeoman service were shot out on
all sorts of pretexts, from adhesion to the
party’s principle of compulsory military ser-
vice down to mild criticism of some obscure
officeholders in Central Queensland. It was
a procession through a decaying house —•
the best men going out at the front and the
worst ones coming in at the back. Other
parties may have gained a little through the
men whom Labor sent over to them. They
certainly gained materially because of the
undesirables that might have been their un-
wanted hangers-on if Labor hadn’t bid high
for them. The Labor policy—in New South
Wales, at all events —consists now of almost
anything that wasn’t in the programme of
1910, when the party took office, and in-
cludes almost everything that smells of
chicanery and sharp practice. Just as in
the case of a good Mohammedan or other
orthodox person of dried belief, the creed
remains, but any rules of conduct that went
with it have ceased to matter. As long as
the devotee cordially agrees with Cardinal
Lambert and Rabbi Dooley and Mad
Mullah McTiernan that everything which
is labelled Labor is right and everything
that isn’t is wrong, any kind of character
and any kind of behavior is good enough.
The case suggests that of Gideon, who said
he had too many followers and too many
of them were the wrong sort, so he dis-
missed the majority and got on better with-
out them. What the Hebrew general had
against his discarded adherents isn’t stated,
but probably it was deafening rudeness,
greed of office and misuse of public funds.
Virtue Regarded as the Best Friend of
Vice.
Victoria’s Lawson Government continues
to refuse to adopt the tote. That would be
countenancing gambling, and hence un-
righteous. But it cannot afford to be suf-
ficiently virtuous to do without the revenue
derivable from the betting habit. And so
it has tabled an elaborate set of proposals
designed to enable its left hand to lift a
generous percentage from the bookmakers
and their patrons—more especially the
patrons —without its right hand knowing
what is going on. This is all of a piece
with the attitude taken up by our Chad-
bands in reference to practically every social
evil. They paint themselves lily-white; and
yet, somehow, when the battle is joined, they
are always to be found on the side of the
bookies, the brothel-keepers and the sly-grog
shops. The stand taken up by the prohibi-
tionists in regard to drink is identical with
that of the Lawson administration in re-
gard to betting; and the analogy is com-
plete otherwise. Just as no power on earth
will eradicate the gambling instinct from
man, so no power will eliminate man’s desire
for alcohol or his capacity to produce it.
The prohibitionist will have nothing to do
with drink reform in the same way as Mr.
Lawson will not palter with betting reform.
In the eyes of a prohibitionist street-drunks
and poisonous pubs are good propaganda. So
the prohibitionists will not help to make bad
hotels better; and because such a large sec-
tion of the community is cold, if not hostile,
on this issue, there are many more drinking
dens than there need be —vile places in
which those tragedies occur of which the
teetotallers make such effective use at their
meetings. We know by experience that pro-
hibition does not abolish drink, but only
good drink. Under it the wholesome
because regulated liquor goes, and “pinky”
takes its place. The same unpractical
people argue also for the maintenance of
the status quo as regards prostitution. They
are prepared at all times to deplore the evil,
preach at it and abuse it, but they will not
have it regulated. It has been ruining lives
since the dawn of civilisation. For hun-
dreds of years the various religions have
tried to cope with it from their pulpits, the
only effect being that it has grown to vaster
dimensions than ever. Like drink and gam-
bling it can be regulated and controlled to
the salvation of millions —many of them in-
nocents —who otherwise must be ruined. But
invariably the moralists utter the same inane
formula: —
It must be all or nothing. We cannot traffic with
sin. Be patient; pass more and more laws and
some day the world will wake up and find that
original sin has been legislated out of it.
The mediaeval artists used to paint the
Devil’s familiars as brute-like and menacing
apparitions. They did not know. Satan’s
most helpful A.D.C.’s are often mild-eyed
gentlemen wearing clerical hats, or the sober
broad-cloth of the conservative politician.
♦
A Study in Relative Values.
Recent weeks have been devoted in Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales to school “breaking-
llP” ceremonies at which Governors’ wives,
politicians and J’s.P. told the scholars what
an admirable thing our educational system
is on the whole. The newspapers agreed. No
discordant voice was raised anywhere, and
nobody said anything like this:—
It is right, of course, that some people should be
educated, but it is not fit work for the State. Edu-
cational institutions should be maintained by volun-
tary effort. What a gracious and edifying thing
it would be to see rich people pouring out their
money for the support of schools for teaching the
children of the poor the three r’s, and even a
little more if they were deserving! The rich should
be given the opportunity to perform this splendid
duty. The teachers at such places ought not to be
paid. Payment would bring degradation and loss
of caste on them. The Socialisation of Education!
What could be more pi'eposterous! No; let the
teachers give their services free of charge, and get
it back in the form of fat fees from those who are
in a position to afford to pay for their schooling
privately. The sacrifice demanded of the teachers
would not be a great one, after all: they would be
enabled to practise upon the poor and give the
benefit of the experience so gained to the com-
munity at large, and more particularly to the rich.
Lord Brougham said all that and more in
his speeches on the Education Bill a century
ago, and he carried the day against the advo-
cates of State schools -
Let the tax-gatherer but once go his rounds for
the school-rate, and I will answer for it that the
voluntary assistance of men, in themselves benevolent
and indeed munificent, instead of increasing, will
vanish away. And the adoption of such a fatal and
needless course will sweep away those establishments
which at present reflect so much honor on the com-
munity, wnich do so much good, and are calculated,
with judicious management, to do so much more.
How faithfully the arguments used against,
nationalised schools in 1821 are matched by
the arguments aimed at nationalised hospi-
tals in 1921! It is admitted that the hos-
pitals of Melbourne and Sydney are not
doing their job. They are turning away
hundreds of sick people every year (many
y>f them to die) Owing to lack of accommo-
dation. With every month that passes the
situation grows a little worse. The benevo-
lent are, as Brougham might say, vanishing
away. It is a complex affair of increased
taxation, irritation at strike foolishness and
go-slow methods on the part of employees,
and a hundred other factors of the sort.
Anyhow, the hospital committees who with
the doctors are the most resolute opponents
of nationalisation, find it harder and harder
to get money out of the wealthy for the
upkeep of institutions which are fully as
necessarv to the welfare of the nation as the
schools. If State schools are good, how can
State hospitals be bad?
The Famine in Russia.
Dear Bulletin, — I differ from “Henry
Horsecollab” re the need in Russia and
the urgency of responding to the cry for
help. The Society of Friends (Quakers)
War Victims’ Relief Committee is a non-
political organisation for reconstruction and
relief work throughout stricken Europe. The
society had workers in Russia during pre-
vious droughts of 1905 and 1891. Last
year’s drought, we know from a comparison
of reports, was the greatest since 1891. The
fertile belt of grain-growing land of the
Volga Provinces, SOO miles by 500 miles, is
parched bare: 70 per cent, of the crops
failed, the other 30 per cent, yielded
only 901 b. per acre. When I left Russia,
in September, 18,000.000 people were starv-
ing. The Government’s Health Departments
were working day and night to organise re-
sources and fight disease. An All-Russia
Commission of all shades of political thought
had been formed. Under the supervision of
Dr. Nansen and Mr. Hoover, British and
American relief was being given in geographi-
cal areas allotted to each accredited foreign
relief organisation. Of all the supplies sent
to Russia for the Society of Friends’ work
since January, 1920, less than J per cent,
had been lost or stolen. That is a big fact
in these hungry times. W T e have our own
warehouses and control of supplies. Every-
thing that is sent reaches the popple. There
is a certain amount of Russian relief, but
supplies are totally inadequate., We can
guarantee that everything sent reaches the
starving people. All efforts of Australian
organisations for famine in Europe have
been co-ordinated under the presidency of


rL
fi
Write To-day!
ONE GOOD CHRISTMAS BOX
SECURE YOUR CHiLD’S FUTURE .
Your Child’s Progress is naturally first, last and at all times one of your particular aims and ambitions.
The A.P.A. Children’s Bonus Policy will secure your child’s future, endowing a capital sum at selected age.
The Policy becomes fully paid up should the parent not survive to continue premiums, thus assuring Your Child
the Capital Sum you desired for Educational or other purposes.
Parents interested please write for particulars.
“CHILD’S ENDOWMENT” DEPT.,
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association Ltd.
Head Office : A.P.A. Building, 77 King St., Sydney.
S. P. WOOD, Governing Director.
A. E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
QUOTATIONS FOR £lOO IF DESIRED.
ANNUAL PREMIUMS for £250, £5OO, £750
or £lOOO payable at end of 10, 15 or 20 years.
Premiums may be paid Half-yearly or Quarterly.
Lady Forster, who is issuing a special
appeal to the people. Political and sec-
tarian differences are being put on one
side in this big humanitarian appeal.—
Yours truly, Margaret S. Thorp.
♦
Divorce and Disease.
From a court table:—
In N. S. Wales infection of the wife by the hus-
band or vice versa does not afford ground for sever-
ance of the holy bonds. Unless the gift of syphilis
or gonorrhoea is accompanied by failure to main-
tain, the circumstance of infection, being in the
eyes of the law mere “cruelty,” can only secure
for the aggrieved party a judicial separation. In-
fection with venereal disease is not in the eye of
the law proof of adultery, and during a very
recent case heard by Gordon, J., in Sydney several
people learned that it may not be even legal
cruelty for a man to contaminate his wife —unless
the trial Judge puts a certain interpretation upon
the word “wilful.” If, for instance, X contracted
gonorrhoea on Monday and imparted it to Madame
before the week was out, or before he knew what had
happened to him, she could not get a divorce without
proving him an adulterer, nor get a judicial separa-
tion, because he had been ignorant of his disastrous-
ness. In the ease before Justice Gordon it was the
wife who sought separation. Apparently she had
been a quite unsophisticated bride. Three months
after marriage she was infected by her husband, but
had to live a further nine months before realising
what her trouble was, and her condition was then
deplorable. The husband had, admittedly, been
badly diseased before marriage. There was no
suggestion on either side of adultery. Gordon was
satisfied there had been infection of the woman by
the husband, and said that decision would have to
turn on whether it had been done “wilfully.” The
man’s attorney met this by putting up the argu-
ment that his client, believing himself to be cured,
did not know the disease had lighted up again.
Counsel for the wife argued that the husband could
not have been mistaken ; that he had been medically
examined prior to marriage; that the facts of the
case pointed to full knowledge on his part and to
utter recklessness. Gordon said he would take time
to consider the law. The leading case on the point
raised is Browning v. Browning (1911), the judg-
ment being that of Sir Samuel Evans. In this
Evans laid it down that, prima facie, a wife estab-
lishes cruelty against her husband w'hen she shows
she is diseased, that she had been virtuous and that
her husband suffers from disease. “It is not neces-
sary,” he said, “to prove that he wilfully com-
municated the disease.... The onus is upon him to
prove that it was not communicated wilfully.”
Prior to this judgment the law had been interpreted
(Morfitt v. Morfitt) to be that the mere fact of
a wife being diseased ivas not evidence of cruelty
by the husband (also diseased), as it devolved upon
the wife to prove affirmatively that the husband
knew he had disease, was aware it was infectious
and existed in such a form as to be dangerous, and
wilfully conveyed the disease to her. This threw
the onus of proving wilful intention by the offender
upon the shoulders of the victim. Obviously it
made procedure for even such relief as separation
practically impossible and operated to keep dis-
eased couples in unholy proximity—-even to encour-
age reproduction of disease in offspring. Evans, J.,
whose judgment is now followed in English courts,
put the axe into that lunacy, holding, very pro-
perly, that it is an outrage for a wife to be in-
fected and a further piling of outrage upon her
to say she must prove the disease to have been con-
veyed wilfully. Gordon intimated that he was not
much impressed by the argument of the Sydney
man’s attorney, and would probably hold that a man
acted wilfully if he acted without reasonable pre-
caution. But whatever the finding, does not this
case cry to the Legislature the necessity for amend-
ing the law to permit of infection being made a
reason for dissolution of marriage? It looks hideous
that a young woman should be legally condemned to
celibacy because she happened to get tied by the
law and religion to disease. Likewise it seems as if
the ease gives support to the idea that a certificate
of freedom from infectious complaint should be pro-
duced along with the marriage license.
Exams.
“Hanno” examines them :—•
After 10 years’ intimate acquaintance with the
examination system in Australian Universities and
technical colleges I am forced to the opinion that as
a test of knowledge it has less than no value at all,
and, from some viewpoints, is rather a hindrance to
the average student’s learning. When a person
passes an examination it does not mean that he is
thoroughly acquainted with the subjects in which
he has been examined. A man or woman may go
through a five-year course of at least four subjects
a year, and at the end have no more knowledge of
the subjects taken in the first part of the course than
ii they had never been studied.
The tests at the end of each year’s work consist
generally of from six to ten written questions, of the
nature of half of which the candidate is in most cases
aware beforehand. These are the questions dealing
with the pet subjects of the various professors and
lecturers, some of them appearing year after year.
And by a process of elimination with which every
student is familiar, he is able to weed out the
things on which he is sure not to be examined and
those on which he is unlikely to be. So he enters
for the examination knowing about one-tenth of
what he should know and even less of what the
course of instruction is supposed to include, and yet
in most cases he passes.
England long ago abandoned the examination ideas
which prevail in Australia, and the American Uni-
versities never have had them. Probably the best
system is that which is in force in U.S.A., where
there is a weekly award of marks based on the report
of the instructors. At the end of each year, whether
a student is entitled to go on with the next part of
his course or not is decided by his marks together
with the result of an examination in the practical
part of his studies. Thus if the student doesn’t work
and learn he doesn’t get his marks and he stays
where he is until he improves.
In these days practically every teacher is a
trained man or woman. In the old day 3 it was
different. The school-teacher then was liable to be
a person who had failed in business or had broken
down in some other profession or in training for it.
Naturally his work had to be “examined.” It wasn’t
the students who had to justify themselves so much
as the teacher. Things are different now; yet the
old examination method is clung to as if there had
been no change at all,
♦
Arthur Rickard, a well-known land-agency
citizen of Sydney, back from a visit to the
United States, lately gave an informative
address to his Millions Club pals about mat-
ters there which Australia might imitate. He
observed many things, but he omitted to
note these-
The average size of a State over there is less than
ORDER REIGNS IN RUSSIA.
“Russia under the Soviet Government is in excellent order, socially and politically.... The famine
is terrible. I lost a stone in weight and saw the people eating grass and earth. Out of rushes and
clay the Russian scientists have succeeded in making an unpalatable but nutritious food.”— W. Smith,
general secretary Australian Railways’ Union, just back from the land of Bolsh.
RED GUARD (pointing to the victims ): “There's order if you like!"
HUNGRY AUSTRALIAN COMMUNIST (rather hard of hearing): “Thanks. Mine's a
cuppler pounds of rump steak."
62,000 sq. miles. Here it is over 400,000 sq.
milef.
The two biggest cities there hold 7 h per cent, of
the population. Here they hold 30J per cent.
There is no foreign debt. The U.S. believes in
lending at high interest instead of borrowing .at
ruinous interest.
The Federal Government has and has exercised
extensive powers to sub-divide over-large States.
There are no closed ports to which a childish and
jealous Big City Government denies railway com-
munication. Every place with the slightest claim
to be a port has its railway. Incidentally, there are
no real Big City Governments. In almost every
case the State capital is a minor town.
The U.S'. man believes first of all in manufactur-
ing for himself. An enormous trade created by
exporting wool in the grease in other people’s ships
for other people to make up at their own price,
and bringing back finished goods supplied by them
at their own price, strikes him as a “sucker’s”
game. He thanks God for the sucker and proceeds
to get fat out of him.
Uncle Sam’s Federal capital isn’t “in” any State,
nor is it surrounded by the ; territory of any State,
nor is it dependent upon any State, and the Federal
Government isn’t compelled to rely on any State
Government’s railways for permission to visit its
own dominions. It has an outlet by two States
and another by sea, and it makes laws for all the
railways.
U.S. State and Federal taxes don’t duplicate each
other.
If these and other matters of the first im-
portance hadn’t been left out, the tale about
how things are done in the G. Washington
country would have been “replete with in-
terest,” as all the best house-agents say.
♦ —:
Archbishop Sharp and several other
ecclesiastical dignitaries of Queensland have
been harping of late on the evil of taking
boys away from school at the age of .15,
“when they ought to remain at High School
or Grammar School until they have attained
the age of 18 at least.” But in Queensland
if a boy remains at school till he is 18 and
then goes out into the world to make a liv-
ing, he finds that in most occupations his age
cuts him out of a job. Under the awards
there is a fixed wage for 15 years, for 1
17 and 18, and employers are not going to
pay a raw boy fresh from school the high
wage due to 18 years when they can get as
good service from a boy of 15 for much less.
So the boy whose father has been self-sacri-
ficing enough to keep him at school till he:
is 18 finds that his dad’s goodness and his
own superior attainments are rewarded bv
his being thrown among the unemployed,
while father has to work double tides as a
penalty for having bountifully educated his
son. Not only is this so, but the 18-year,
boy discovers that the same idiotic system
tends to shut him out from the benefits of
apprenticeship, the 15-year-old youngster get-
ting the preference all along the line.
De Valera was probably the most exasper-
ated man in the world last week when mes-
sages such as the following began to pour in:
Settlement all your work. Con bless you. (Sgd.)
Srumas Breathnach, president Wangerooligal Self-
determination League.
Manly Beach and Ireland henceforward firm
friends. Have elected you a vice-president of our
Empire Progress Assoc. (Sgd.) Lieut.-Colonel
Horace McWhoop, V.D., sec.
Vic. Catholics’ Self-preservation Society send greet-
ings. Your name intertwined with that of Lloyd
George and Birkenhead in shining galaxy of Irish
patriotism for all time. —O’Reilly, president.
It is trying at any time for Othello to find
his occupation gone: but to be snowed under
at the moment of deprivation with fulsome
congratulations on the tragedy must be the
last word in torment.
—♦
An infuriated Labor member stood up in the
Tas. Assembly the other day and demanded
that George V. should be asked to pronounce
cue latest "amendment” of the Federal Elec-
toral Act (there is one every session) sub-
versive of the sp’rit of the Cons’tushun. And
there was reason for his rage. Since
Hughes lifted the salary to £lOOO per
annum, a job in the -Commonwealth Parlia-
ment has become an object of desire to a
swarm of State politicians. But they don’t
want to lose the pigeon in the hand while
looking for the turkey in the bush, so bills
were piloted through several local Parlia-
ments permitting them to contest Federal
seats without sacrificing their urovincial
salaries. Oddly enough they never imagined
that the £lOOO-a-year legislators would have
any feelings other than pride and gratifica-
tion at the prospect of being opposed by a
mob of hungry and ambitious persons, each
with a local following, a railway pass and
a billet to go back to if he lost. Neither
did the superior possibilities of Common-
wealth legislation occur to them in this asso-
ciation. Thus when it was hastily enacted
by the threatened jobholders that, notwith-
standing anything contained in the legisla-
tive performances of other Parliaments,
State politicians would continue to be dis-
qualified from standing as such for the
Senate or the House of Reps., there was sur-
prise and choler. in some cases hysteria and
bad language. It is a new and pretty ver-
sion of the world-old quarrel between the
haves and the have-nots, and a pleasing illus-
tration of the zeal with which Australian
politicians look after their own interests.
The public interest, of course, didn’t come
into the argument.
“Herodot” : In Australia practically any
man who possesses a degree in medicine from
a university abroad may have his name
placed on the- register and commence prac-
tising. Outside the British Dominions there
is not a country in the world which does
things that way. Should an Austra-
lian doctor wish to nail up his brass plate
in some of them he must first satisfy the
local examiners, and in others he isn’t
allowed to do even that, medicine being re-
served as a monopoly for the graduates of
the local ’varsities. Everywhere this is
looked upon as being quite as it should be.
But the Commonwealth continues to throw
open its doors to all who care to enter, not-
withstanding that the medical profession is
already uncomfortably crowded by those
graduating from our own medical schools.
This custom of admitting all and sundry is
a survival from the days when the Austra-
lian universities could not produce sufficient
doctors to meet the demand. But those times
have long since passed.
i
The curse of an old staff-officer: —
Owing to continued reductions in the Defence
estimates it is impossible to make the training
attractive to the trainees, and certain papers are
beginning to talk about “incompetent Brass-hats.”
Nothing could be more unfair than this continual
baiting of our army leaders, who are not allowed
to defend themselves. ’ Australia has a permanent
staff as competent and up-tordate as any in the
world, and if only given the chance it would make
our citizen army the most efficient and at the same
time the cheapest in existence. The officer respon-
sible for training is Brudenell White, as a staff-
officer admittedly one of the Allies’ best. His
deputy is Brig.-General Blamey, who was Monash’s
chief-of-staff, and whom the latter so eulogised
in his book. The Inspector-General is Harry
Chauvel, the man who commanded the largest
cav.alry force in history in the most successful
mounted campaign known. These are the men that
ignoramuses writing to the press have the hide to
call “incompetent.” It is Parliament that is to
blame for the unsatisfactory state of things. The
compulsory training system has never yet had a fair
deal. Inaugurated in 1911, its full development
had not been reached when war came, and it only got
going again in ,a half-hearted way last- year. Until
enough money is voted to give all trainees a period
in camp sufficient to advance them beyond the
drudgery of squad drill and other elementary work
the system cannot be made interesting enough either
to be popular with the trainees or to give our army
any fighting value. Officers, too, get no chance to
learn or practise their duties, to keep up to date or
to get into that close' touch with their commands so
necessary to discipline and esprit de corps. In fact,
officers, permanent and citizen, are “fed-up,” and
their enthusiasm for the service is fast evaporating.
The Reds are, of course, only too glad to see the
service degenerating, and rely on its present unattrac-
tiveness to obtain votes for its abolition. They at
any rate are consistent. But the Cocky and the
Nationalist members who want compulsory training
continued, yet will not vote enough to make soldier-
ing either attractive or of any value, are doing just
as much to kill the system and leave Australia
defenceless.


WICHITA
MOTOR TRUCK CHASSIS and ROAD TRACTORS
1j 1 25 2, 3| 4j 5| 6 tons.
*2~
*s=s
0°
jotors
fitU.Ttifc
INVESTIGATE AND COMPARE. YOU CAN’T DO BETTER.
NEW SHIPMENT. PER STEAMER TRELEVAN, DUE Ist JANUARY.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes is still keeping the world, the
press and his rivals (who, of course, are all
devils) in a state of curiosity regarding the
prospective Cabinet changes. For days press-
men have been chasing him for information,
but he loves mystery too well to give a clue
to his intentions. All he has done is to re-
double speculation by remarking that there
will be “surprises,” and he has given Rumor
something further to froth about by
despatching Massy Greene on a sudden mis-
sion to Adelaide. What Greene went for
may be quite unconnected with the cavity
in the Cabinet, but the announcement of his
departure, allegedly under sealed orders,
set the bloodhounds sniffing suspiciously and
wondering loudly whether Dicky Foster was
really going to join the Government, after
all. The latest lobby whisner is thht Wise,
Poynton and Laird Smith may move out and
give Pratten, Lamond and Foster a turn in
the tart-shop.
The political atmosphere in N. S. Wales
hasn’t been cleared to any extent by the
mixed proceedings of the last week, ending
in the retirement of Labor-member Hickey
from the Speaker’s chair and the return of
Danny Levy to that perch. This leaves
George Fuller with no hope of carrying on,
even if he could be sure of the support of
alhthe Progressives; so the chances are that,
as in its present state Parliament can’t, or
says it can’t, do business, it will be told
to go to the country. All the same, a truce
should be fixed up to first get rid of the
admittedly obnoxious features of the elec-
toral law.
About a year ago, when the British coal-
miners were striking for a pound an hour or
something like that, a Cardiff: (U.K.) ship-
owner stated that he had bought coal in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) and shipped it to Scan-
dinavia at a lower rate than he could land
Welsh coal there. That was when the
post-war boom was on the point of bursting.
Now that If million British workers are
drawing unemployed pay and wages have
been drastically cut (the Trade Union Coun-
cil estimates the total reductions at
£286,000,000), the tables have been turned.
Cargoes of cheap U.K. coal are beginning to
arrive in Australia, Newcastle’s export trade
is dwindling fast, and ironmasters. Railway
Commissioners and others are saying that
if the local price doesn’t come down some-
thing will break. In this situation, when
the jobs of thousands of their “comrades”
depend upon them, the union leaders have
had one of their brain-waves. Their idea
is to make coal dearer than ever by knock-
ing off five days a fortnight. One of the
peculiar defects of the slowing-down system
is that it produces a certain mental and
moral debility in those who resort to it. It
wnite-ants intellects as well as industries.
From the N.S.W. Gallery
Premier Dooley had three days’ exercise among the
Opposition with a bunch of carrots after Levy fell
out of the chair, but there were no biters —and nice
vegetables they were, too. Then, with no possible
escape from the fact that “45 all” meant a dead-
heat, he had to meet the Assembly. There were two
possible courses to publicly follow. One was to
throw in the towel; the other to propose one of
his own crowd as Speaker, take the count on the
first division and then beseech the Governor for a
dissolution.- Tactically this latter move was the
sounder, but incidental thereto was the possibility
that the Labor gentleman on whom the choice of
Dooley fell for the Speakership might stick to the
chair if the Governor refused a dissolution and thus
give Fuller a chance to carry on. Thus it became
important that there should be a Speaker who would
hop out immediately Fuller arrived, thus leaving
the Nationalists facing the perplexities that had
overwhelmed Dooley. Some day the story connected
with finding a successor to Levy will be told. Some
strange subterranean dodges were worked. The
man for whom Dooley tried to get the party support
was the one the caucus insisted on turning down.
Rightly or wrongly, caucus suspected there were
white-ants about. And so when the Assembly met
7'~".nk Burke, the Government whip, moved that
Simon Hickey should be Speaker. No one said
nay, and the swarthy Simon, one of the best de-
baters in Parliament and son-in-law of McGowen’s
old Treasurer, J. R. Dacey, stepped up. “I move the
House do now adjourn,” murmured Dooley. “No,”
veiled the Opposition. “Aye.” bawled Labor. “I
think the ayes have it, ” hazarded Simon. “The
nocs have it,” bawled Fuller. And when Simon
counted them the Government was down one. An
hour or so later Dooley had resigned and Fuller been
invited along to see the Governor. And next day he
THE BRIGHT IDEA.
“The Newcastle and Maitland miners are restive and demand a nine-day fortnight; and serious
trouble is threatened thereby in other industries.”
GO-SLOW EXPERT: "It is quite simple, comrade. When you're worked four days, you
strike, and then the whole universe stops for three days, so that you can pick
up your work just where you dropped it."
was abroad, alsd dangling carrots. Dooley’s minions
had offered the Speakership with shameless cynicism
to whoever would listen and the crocodile tears of
daily journalism were shed in headlines about
“hawking the job round.” But there were no horri-
fied phrases when Fuller started in business as a
licensed hawker.
Henry Chester Master Garling, the fourth
man in 1919, is the Ma State’s new Senator,
vice Pratten, gone to the House of Reps.
But Grant, the Labor nominee, gave him a
run. Indeed, if a Laborite hadn’t marked
his ballot-paper with a single cross instead
of the 1,2, 3 necessitated by a third candi-
dature (that of Hunt, Progressive M.L.C.),
a tie would have resulted at the combined
sitting, and by all the rules of the game
Flowers, Labor President of the Leg. Coun-
cil, would have had to give a casting vote.
And it might have been as much as his job
was worth to award it to the Nationalist.
Another legislator invalidated his Voting-
paper by putting two crosses on it. Yet
these are the gentry who wonder at the
ignorance of people who can’t get the hang
of proportional representation. Pratten
would have been a Senator till 1926, but
darling will have to face the electors next
year.
Collier, the Westralian Labor leader, has
made another attempt to get the Leg. Coun-
cil franchise reduced to household suffrage.
The ridiculous £l7 qualification seems low,
but actually it rules out thousands of miners
and timber workers who live in shacks and
hessian camps on company-held leases, and
who are about the finest type of citizen the
State possesses. Premier Mitchell fatu-
ously objected that “the bill would give a
vote to anyone campin«- in a tent or a strip
of hessian tied to a pole”—a description
that in 1914 would have fitted Harry Mur-
ray, Y.C., Larry McCarthy, WC., and Percy
Black, D.C.M., etc., the Three Musketeers
of the 16th Battalion, who covered West-
ralia with glory. This “argument” was so
impressive that the second reading of the
lvll was carried by 31 to 10, all the Nation-
alists on hand voting against their alleged
leader. But presumably the Stupid Cham-
ber will come to his assistance, as usual.
Clouds are darkening the future of West-
ralia’s skirted politician. For years it has
been the custom in her State to have more
or less gay ladies examined under the Health
Act, on anonymous information. Egged on
by most of the women’s organisations, Bill
Angwin, Labor M.L.A., moved to have the
permissive clause struck out, and struck out
it was by a single vote. Mrs. Cowan re-
solutely voted with the minority. And now
the organisations aforesaid are threatening
to lift her scalp at the next election.
“What a fool I have been in the past,”
said Carson, moralising bitterly on the Bri-
tish arrangement with Sinn Fein. “I have
been a puppet, and so has Ulster, to get
the Conservatives into power. And now
the Unionist party is dead and buried.”
That is true, anyhow. The Unionist party
was a coalition of Tories, Whig peers and
Chaxnberlainite Radicals to secure the pre-
servation of Pitt’s Union and one Parlia-
ment for the two islands. That policy
having been abandoned, the party ceases to
exist —self-slain with its own halter, as the
poet expresses it. Among the unconsidered
fruits of the Irish settlement will be some
almighty changes in British politics.
Almost before the election results of 1919
could be announced, Tas. Parliament met
and raised members’ salaries from £2OO to
£3OO a year. There was a fine crop of in-
dignation meetings throughout the State, but
despite strongly-worded resolutions against
the" “illegal and unwarranted salary-grab,”
as it was called, not one member of the 30
in the Assembly and 18 in the Council re-
frained from collecting the extra £lOO. With
the approach of the 1922 elections, there is
a Ministerial tendency to hedge a bit, and
a proposal to reduce members’ salaries by
10 pei 1 cent, is (or was) in the forefront of
the Government’s financial policy. But
when Treasurer Lewis introduced the bill
the other day a majority of members
laughed. Even Marshall, Government Whip,
denounced the proposal as “downright hypoc-
risy, ’ and the division left Ministers almost
friendless.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Arthur Rodgers, who has more energy than the
Hughes Cabinet knows what to do with, is now prac-
tically the Ministerial head of the Repat., and is
i resolved to see that both the Government and the
soldier get a fair deal. One of Rodgers’s first acts
was to restore, wherever possible, the contract
system for the War Service homes, and further
save the expense of administration by State co-
operation. He claims that the bill to the nation
has been already considerably lightened thereby,
and that a keener eye is now kept on depots to pre-
vent the constant pilfering of material which was
a scandal in the past. Also sundry commissioners
and their deputies have departed, some at the insti-
gation of the Minister, who found their methods
antique and extravagant. But the greatest reform,
is the acceptance of Ministerial responsibility,
which means in Rodgers’s case close supervision.
During the war he toiled strenuously in making a
success of an unofficial Repatriation movement in
his electorate, and he has derived sufficient wisdom
from that experience to promise well in his new
sphere of usefulness.
After the usual hurry-scurry the Vic. ses-
sion was wound up on Saturday morning.
The Labor party stonewalled the Betting
Tax Bill (1) because the rates were con-
sidered too high and (2) because it wanted
to block the Juries (Prevention of Squar-
ing) Bill, which, in its opinion, contained
provisions that went too far. In the end
the modified rates proposed by McPherson
were accepted. So Flemington hill tickets
will carry an impost of 2d., instead of 3d.,
and at country racecourses outside the 20-
mile radius the tax will be Id. instead of
2d. The Juries, University, Factories,
Noxious Weeds, Workers’ Compensation
and Milk Bills were jettisoned. The
Uppah Chainbah, which had passed the
Juries Bill and was very sweet on
it, got even with the Labor party for
blocking it by putting up enougli opposi-
tion to the Workers’ Compensation Bill,
Labor’s pet measure, to have that deferred.
It is necessary in Parliament, as well as
at level railway-crossings, to look both ways
lest you be bumped.
There was always this possible considera-
tion behind De Valera’s emphatic declara-
tion (in which he had few supporters) that
nothing less than the complete Bepublic
would do. The change from a Republic to a
Dominion would mean that one of the Dail
Eirann Cabinet had to step oown and out.
The President, who was De V alera, had to
make room for a Governor-General. And
Jonah would be less then human if he didn’t
see reasons why he shouldn’t be thrown
overboard.
If the Irish settlement helps this bit of
the Empire to drive the dragon of sectarian-
ism back into the pit, not the least thankful
of glad Australians should be Speck Senators
Keating, Bakhap and Earle, who are all
R.C.’s and Nationalists, and are due to face
the electors about a year hence. The em-
phasis with which the capable Mulcahy, the
only Nationalist R.C. in the field at last
Senate election, was dropped was hardly the
sort of thing to fill other Tasmanian R.C.
legislators with confidence.
Minister John Huxham, in getting rid of
a teacher who had been opening his mouth
too wide, remarked : “He is a surplus num-
ber —we have many surplus teachers—and
we have no longer need for his services.”
According to a very high authority in the
Queensland Public Service, that body has
25 per cent, too many on the pay-sheet. The
Railways alone have 3000 more than are
needed, yet the number of regular employees
shows no signs of diminishing. Neither does
the railway deficit of If million per annum.
If a Minister did not know of the overload-
ing he might be forgiven. But as Huxham
admits he knows, yet takes no action, what
can the taxpayer think?
Tas. Leg. Council, which seethes with a
desire for retrenchment whenever wool
prices sag, the other day ukased that the
Lee Government should chop a trifle of
£20,000 off the salaries of public servants,
and sent the Appropriation Bill back to the
Assembly for amendment. There was a
row, of course, and a big open-air meeting
of public servants, chaired by a police-
magistrate, called the Leg. Council every-
thing but a gentleman. The Government
eventually secured a conference with the
chiefs of the Fe-Fo-Fum Chamber, and
arranged a compromise to the effect that the
most recent classification, which came into
force on July 1 last, shall operate until
March 1 next. Meantime the Public Ser- '
vice Commissioner is to draw up a new
classification. One way and another it
seems likely that the Lee Government will
have to face the general elections in May
next with thie most reactionary programme
in the recent political history of Australia.
It looks like sheer suicide, but a Govern-
ment that meekly accepts dictation on finan-
cial matters from the Property Chamber
would be better dead, anyhow.
“IN THE DYING HOURS OF THE SESSION.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Session gabbles' to its close,
The closures thud with heavy shock;
Divisions brand with Ayes and N oes
Both sheep and goats of this fair flock —
Dumb, driven cattle, think you, Sir?
Heigho, alas ! Would God they were !
They talk, they wrangle, contradict,
Withdraw, apologise, explain,
Argue, assert in words ill-picked,
Call naughty names ; withdraw again;
But Hansard must be filled, and so
The wan reporters come and go.
And so they talk, reiterate,
Deny, dispute, contend, stonewall.
The empty nothings of debate
Make dreary music; through it all
With wooden faces dulled past wpe
The wan reporters come and go.
On corner benches in the gloom
Are rounded waistcoats, huddled knees;
In lounge or sly committee-room
The wise ones steal a little ease
And doze in brief and vocal spells
Till waked by hated quorum bells.
The end at last of fume and fuss:
With votes of thanks old wounds are healed.
“Three cheers—and so say all of us!’’
By mutual compliments revealed
It swims into each member’s ken
That all are honorable men!
While in the east the dawn grows red *
They joke across a final drink,
Then taxi straightway home to bed
And never, never pause to think
How wan reporters, yawning, eye
Their piles of proofs, and wish to die.
VICTORIA.
A a.m.


DECEMBER
(for The Bulletin.)
with his troop erf"
Is twin sir cl of the goldan w zys .
A harp strings ho, plays ,
As over Kill and Kollow
He. s+rev/s his lights green and gold,
And bids the young, "Hkz, g?y, the bold*
His dancing jfeet iojfollow.
And now, it is a. Water-tuna*
Ha. plays, while round Him droWsy noon
Floods beach and nz.a>.oK with splendour ;
By rocks and roots, and mossy ctuv<&s
*IHcy wind &lobg , tba. little. waves ,
“With music,5vs/a,<2jt and tender*.
..■: ■■ ■.■ •■ ' . : •' " A ' .' / ■.•■■■ ■ ■’ ■ • ' ' v ;■ . ■'*■'
And now/rom thrifling, trembling strings
Across glides he jflings
The &ortgj ojf happy thrushes ;
Tis he who summons melodies
From cic adas in gray trees
And reed-birds in lbs rushes .
WHile down IK a. miles his tenners bla^c,
As,with his troop o/ - glowing dzys
A tninstrel, cloaked in gold, he strays
With tunes that bid us follow ;
Ob * who is there so grave,so grim,
Who will not up srxd follow Kim
Across green height and hollow?.
N. S.W.
Brigalow.


Telegraphic and Cable Address :
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
TIIOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne. '
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
Sub-branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Co-operative Assurance Co. (Syd-
“ Added to
Sent.. Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Deficit.
1912 £4,441 £lO4 £16,625 £12,288 £15,288
1913.. 167 15,107 5,200 20,488
1914.. 14,370 1229 17,725 4,584 25,072
1915.. 14,282 1461 14,257 1,436 26,508
To Reduce
Deficit.
1916.. 12,370 1042 9,912 1,416 25,092
1917.. 16,520 1561 11,458 3,501 21,591
1918.. 18,075 1314 13,052 3,709 17,882
1919.. 22,415 4980 14,739 2,696 15,186
1920.. 31,588 4668 19,862 7,058 8,128
Reserves.
1921.. 35,453 3683 19,709 12,061 3,933
After 10 years the Co-operative has managed
to accumulate reserves sufficient to off-set
the £40,592 which has been spent on “foun-
dation, organisation and extension of busi-
ness.” Had the Co-op. been a purely mutual
office it would, at September 30, have been
carrying assurances exceeding £700,000 and
had funds (i.e., the surplus of tangible
assets over and above all calls on the cash-
box to that date) of £3933. But having
shareholders supporting those funits with
£73,639 of capital, triere was altogether
£77,572 for the protection of policy-holders.
Though the published accounts include a
note alongside the establishment account
directing attention to the “assurance
fund as per contra,” a more satisfactory
view of the position as at September 30 is
that the 10 years’ operations had given a
surplus of income over combined claims and
the portion of exes, charged against that in-
come by the management of £44,525. Mean-
time, though, £40,592 of the paid capital of
£73,639 bad gone in exes, not charged against
income. And while so much of shareholders’
money has become represented by nothing
more tangible than an establishment account,
no div. has been paid. Still, despite the ex-
perience of the Co-op. and other young offices
new cos, continue to make, their appearance,
us.ng as bait to get in capital the figures
of big offices which became firmly established
in the days when there were few competi-
tors in the field.
In the latest directors’ report there are
hints that shareholders may get a first taste
in the near future. T. W. Bremner, the co.’s
consulting actuary, is stated to be “thor-
oughly seized with the importance of approv-
ing the payment of bonuses to policy-holders
and dividends to shareholders, after ad-
equate provision has been made for all policy
liabilities.” Air. Bremner reports :
Provided all the interest on the assurance fund
is kept intact for policy-holders, future interest
earned on shareholders’ capital will be one of the-
sources from which dividends to shareholders can
be properly provided.
In view of the fact that the balance-sheet
shows £40,592 of the £44,525 of policy-
holders’ funds represented by the asset
“foundation, organisation and extension of
business,” there can so far be very little to
keep intact for policy-holders. However,
-whether there is to be a div. or not depends
wholly on tlie actuarial investigation which
Mr. Bremner is now conducting, and which
will not be concluded until March or April
next. September 30 last closed the second
quinquennial period, and it was marked by
a substantial improvement in the affairs of
the Co-operative. Five years ago, after hav-
ing spent £73,626, there were £219,652 of
assurances on the bookstand net funds repre-
sented by tangible assets amounting to
£31,802. 'Since 1916 £78,820 has gone in
exes., total assurances have expanded to
£702,175 and net funds to £77,572, capital
having been assisted by £16,745 of calls got
in. In the earlier period expenses, including
all establishment costs, were one-third larger
than income. During the past five years 63
p.c. of income has gone in exes. The cost
rate has lately been'got down in this way :
1919, 65.8 p.c. ; 1920, 62.9 p.c. ; 1921, 55a.
P-c. . . . .
That reduction of the expense rate is the
most cheerful of recent happenings. Costs
are, of course, still high, and the prospect of
bonuses to policy-holders and divs. to share-
holders depends on getting them very much
lower. A side-line which the co. set out
to exploit and from which good profits were
anticipated—house-purchase assurance—has
not been developed to any extent. War
troubles and prohibitive building costs inter-
fered, so in 10 years only 90 advances for
£45,684 have been made, and at Sept. 30
only £13,425 was outstanding, many policy-
holders having unloaded their properties and
repaid the loans when appreciated values
gave them opportunities to snatch profits.
From a policy-holder’s point of view, all
that can be said pending the completion of
the actuary’s investigation is that share-
holders’ capital appears to give assurance
funds adequate support to provide for all
maturing endowments and for death claims
likely to be presented if the mortality experi-
ence continues normal. Of the tangible
assets Government securities and cash repre-
sent £64,307 (72 p.c.), £13,425 is out on
mortgage, £4875 is in property, £l6lB b"
been loaned on policies, and there are odds
and ends totalling £5052.
The Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd., formerly
the Sydney Ice Skating Itink and Cold
Storage Co.: —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1911. .£10,149 12 p.c. = £6,000 £2024 £2125 £10,012
1912.. 10,507 12 „ „ 7,323 2181 1003 11,015
1913.. 14,550 1.21,,,, 8,125 2395 4030 15,045
1914.. 12,732 124,,,, 8,125 3492 1115 16,160
1915.. 10,734 10 ~ „ 7,000 3618 116 16.276
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO . . 6,276
1916.. 10,018 .10 p.c. = 7,500 7700 1,094
1917.. 13,513 124,,,, 9,375 4130 8 1,102
1918.. 13,486 12* „ „ 9,375 4105 6 1,108
1919.. 18.122 15 „ „ 11.250 4120 2752 3,860
Co. reconstructed. Visible reserves capitalised,
and assets written up by apparently £71,000
and capitalised.
1920*. 7,879 10 p.c. = 7,500 379 379
1921.. 13,466 6i „ „ 9,375 3280 811 1,190
*Six months.
The 6j p.c. div. for the past year looks mild,
but paid capital was doubled by the issue of
bonus shares 18 months ago, so a 6J p.c.
snack is as good as a p.c. feast used to
be. The co. does not make all its hand-
some profits from the produce which goes
through its stores; in winter it caters for
the ice-skater. Last season "proved a dis-
tinct success,” and, in view of the smaller
demands for refrigeration owing to a slump
in export trade, skating evidently con-
tributed a good deal to the year’s profits. A
feature of the accounts is the amount writ-
ten off for depreciation each year. On this
occasion £3280 goes into the depreciation
reserve ; but whether the whole of it will b°
required for the purpose for which it has
been set aside is not clear. The amounts
provided in the past were apparently much
more than was required for the replacement
of wasting assets. Anyhow, when the direc-
tors decided to reconstruct assets were appa-
rently written up by about £71,000. The
new valuation may, of course, have. taken
credit for portion of the appreciation of
values due to abnormal conditions; but there
is no evidence on the point. A very satis-
factory feature of the accounts is that, after
having renewed part of the plant and, per-
haps, also added something, the liquid posi-
tion has moved in this way :
1916. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets v . . £11,427 £20,120 £23,655 £17,683
Liabilities (i h e.'
divs.) .. •• 22,896 17,454 26,182 16,583
Excess liabilities. £11,469 £2,527
Surplus assets .. £2,666 £l,lOO
That shows an improvement of £12,500-odd
since 1916, At October 31 there_was £13,625
in War Loan and cash and £4058 of sundry
debtors. The co. owed £10,958 on various
accounts, and the final div. has since taken
£5625 of cash. The concern appears to be m
a very snug position.
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began in 1910 with £17,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1914.. £566 Nil £lB7 £9,497
Mar., 1915.. 195 Nil 187 9,489
Sept., 1915.. IS9 Nil IS7 9.487
Mar., 1916,. 838 Nil 1244 9,893
Sale of Manly leasehold, £566. . 9,327
Sept., 1916 . . 105 Nil 1008 10,230
Mar., 1917.. 1083 Nil 930 10,077
Sept., 1917.. 1646 —• 858 9,289
Written off capital, £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears . . 95
Mar., 1918.. 3156 10 p.c. = £1225 1292 734
Sept., 1918.. 3552 10 „ „ 1225 1307 1,754
Mar., 1919. V 3390 10 „ „ 1225 1209 2,710
Sept., 1919. . 2303 10 „ „ 1225 3,788
Loss.
Mar., 1920.. 3199 Nil 480 109
Piofit.
Sept., 1920.. 3222 Nil 3.331
Loss. Deficit.
Mar., 1921. . 9298 Nil 5,967
Profit.
Sept., 1921.. 3974 Nil 3974 1,993
This co.’s life lias been one of ups and downs,
and lately it has been making an effort to
recover from another bad bump. The float
of a dozen years ago was a very unsatisfac-
tory one: an unwarranted amount was paid
for goodwill, and the cafe business was on
unsound foundations. The two Pitt-street
eateries were in leasehold premises; one
(Baumann’s) was let slip at first oppor-
tunity owing to its having proved unprofit-
able and later the co. found it could not
renew the other lease. However. 66 p.c. had
been paid in divs. before the cold spell set
in in 1914; during the subsequent 3* years
no div. was Possible. In 1918 the
directors decided to have a clean-up,
and £10,500 of the £35,000 capital
was regarded as lost and was swept away.
The co. bad meantime got interested in the
quick light-lunch idea, and hitched to it the
high-class cake business which Miss Bishop
had developed. Having acquired that lady's
interests the co. decided in future to trade
under that title. Everything went well for
a couple of years and 10 p.c. divs. were paid
with ease. Then high costs brought a re-
verse. Having apparently recovered from
that set-back the accounts in March last un-
expectedly disclosed a loss of £9298. There-
upon chairman Ernest Ilillier made investi-
gations at the factory, and they “revealed
to him a state of affairs which accounts for
the enormous loss sustained and also explains
why the co. is not being conducted on a
profitable basis.” Mr. Ilillier continued to
keep a close eye on manufacturing, and after
three’ months reported that the losses had
been checked and ooerations were once more
on a profitable basis. According to the ac-
counts he finished up the half-year with a
profit of £3974, though no provision appears
to have been made for depreciation. Since
capital was written-down in 1918 divs. have
averaged 5 p.c. p.a., but meantime the co.’s
position has weakened by £2OBB. The P.
and L. balance is now on the wrong side of
the sheet, being in debit almost £2OO0 —so
much capital no longer represented by tan-
gible assets. The liquid position has mean-
time behaved in this way : —-
Mar., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1918. 1920. 1921. 1921.
Liquid assets .. £11,159 £24,275 £24,356 £20,847
Liabilities .. 12,330 34,413 44,038 36,640
Excess liabilities. . £1,171 £10,138 £19,682 £15,793
No wonder "the financial position has fre-
quently given rise to grave anxiety.” The
co.’s big trouble has been that compared with
four years ago about £lO,OOO more has gone
into plant and fittings to equip widened con-
nections, and larger stocks have also
been necessary. But there has been no new
capital to aid the expansion. The Max
loss therefore put the co. in a very awkward
corner. As Mr. Hillier admits, "the finan-
cial position is still acute,” but he has hopes
that careful supervision will ease the trouble.
However, debts almost half as large again
as paid capital are liable to make things un-
comfortable for the best of managements,
particularly when only £4OOO of £36,000
owing is apparently a fixed debt. The
A.B.C, has developed beyond the carrying-
capacity of its paid capital, and as there is
practically no prospect of squeezing more
funds from shareholders at present the co.
must depend on profit-earning to ease the
pressure.
The Queensland Deposit Bank and
Building Society, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
1911. . .. £334 £334 £13,210
1912.. .. 673 - 673 13,883
1913.. .. 846 846 14,729
1914.. .. 967 967 15,696
loir, 1204 1204 16,900
i9io:: :: sio - »io 17,710
1917.. .. 648 —■ 648 18,358
1918.. .. 515 5 p.c. = £2136 -- 16,737
Assets written up, £24,000 .. -• 40,737
1919.. .. 220 5 p.c. = 2136 38,818
1920.. .. 2159 7i „ „ 3204 - 37,773
1921.. .. 2616 74 „ „ 3204 37,185
This old cripple has been massaged into
activity again. It had been bound hand and
foot by an arrangement come to in 1897
with its boom-time depositors, and it was
not until early in 1918 that the last of
the load carried under that agreement was
shifted. Then the directors burst forth
with the information that the co.’s property
was worth much more than the written-
down book values, and after outside valua-
tors had given their opinions assets figuring
in the books at £13,000 or thereabouts were
written up by no less than £24,000. The
next year realisation proved so easy that
sales gave £2728 profit on the revised book
values, and last year £2120 was won in the
same way. To support the agreement with
old depositors the management set aside
£BCOO-odd of its funds in more or less gilt-
edged securities; but having unburdened the
old debt it was decided to divert those funds
into building-society channels Losses
were made on converting the bonds and
scrip into cash, and both these losses, and
the special taxation incurred by the writing-
up of assets have been deducted from the
profits as shown bv the introductory table.
This exhibits the changes which have taken
place since the revaluation of assets: —
1919. 1920. 1921.
Deposits, etc. .. •• £7,720 £13,544 £14,377
Properties 32.953 30,188 32,657
Advances 39,506 46,873 50,174
Boole debts .. .. •• 14,825 16,/99 14,0i7
Cash and liquid assets . . 8,770 8,041 5,236
Since the 1919 balance the co. has coaxed
in £6675 net of new deposits and has mean-
time increased its loans by £10,668. The
management has also dabbled in new land :
during 1920 41 acres were purchased and
subdivided, half fetching more than had been
paid for the whole. The co. had lately been
in the curious position of having unexpected
mining interests also: it held land in the
vicinity of the Indooroopilly silver-lead finds,
took up a mining lease to protect its in-
terests and secured exemption from labor
conditions. That area was recently under
offer of sale, with the exemption expiring at
an early date. The new depositors have
wide protection: the £9141 not covered by
cash assets was backed by other belongings
with a book value 10 times as large. Paid
capital is £47,377. Twenty years ago P
was £39,759, and there were deposits and
other debts totalling £50,614.
t The Tasmanian Wool-growers’ Agency
Co. (Launceston) :
Dividends and Written To-Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1909.. £2990 25 p.c.= £2231 £767 —£10,347
1910.. 3526 25 „ „ 2258 1200 £6B 10,415
1911.. 3240 25 „ „ 2231 1000 9 10,424
1912.. 2855 25 „ „ 2231 500 124 10,548
1913.. 2832 2 5 „ „ 2231 500 101 10,649
1914.. 2559 25 „ „ 2231 500 10,477
1915.. 2752 20 „ „ 1785 967 11,444
1916.. 3154 25 ~ „ 2231 500 423 11,867
1917.. 3587 25 „ „ 2231 1356 13.223
1918.. 3616 25 „ ~ 2231 1385 14,608
1919.. 3806 25 „ „ 2252 1554 16,162
1920.. 3914 25 „ „ 2252 1662 17,824
1921.. 3320 25 „ ~ 2284 1036 18,860
This little Launceston pastoral and shipping
agency co. has weathered all recent disturb-
ances very well. Last year it earned £3OO
more commissions than in the previous year,
but additional expenses reduced shareholders’
whack. Nevertheless, 25 p.c. was paid with
ease. That rate of div. is possible because
there are £18,860 of reserves assisting the
£B5OO of paid capital, the dividend thus re-
presenting less than 7f p.c. on total funds.
Five years ago the co. became more active
on the Speck’s West Coast by taking over
an old business, but it has found opera-
tions costly there, and profits have not been
helped as was anticipated. Premises, sale-
yards and plant represent £14,411 of funds,
£18,177 was in merchandise and farm sup-
plies at Sept. 30, £47,348 was owing to the
co. and £3700 was in War Loan. They are
large figures for the little co. to carry, so
besides £49.25S due to sundry creditors the
co. was leaning on the bank for £4733. The
'■‘o.’s position depends almost wholly on the
nature and health of the book debts, con-
cerning which the directors never have any-
thing to say in their published reports.
Some of general-manager Butters’s 1919
estimates of the cost of completing the Great
Lake power scheme (Tas.) have been knocked
endways by the increased cost of material
and labor and by dearer money. He figured
that £2,500,000 would take the scheme to a
stage at which 57,000h.p. could be delivered
at the coast. It is now certain that the
work will cost 25 p.c. more. Two shillings
a day advance in wages accounts for £lBO.OOO ;
cement shows an increase of £40,000 ; altera-
tions to reduce losses on the transmission line,
£50,000 ; increases in cost of tuckering em-
ployees, £50,000; increased cost of founda-
tions for the big dam (the supposedly solid
rock bottom six feet below surface developed
unexpected faults, necessitating no less than
53ft. excavations for some of the buttresses),
£60,000; difference between the anticipated
average interest of 5 p.c. and the actual
average interest of p.c., £45,000; addi-
tional cost of transformers, mains arid exten-
sions, £30,000. By next year the total capi-
tal expenditure on the scheme will have
reached £2,850,000, and by 1930 the finish
will have been accomplished at a total esti-
mated expenditure of £3,534,000. The de-
partmental heads reckon that when the whole
scheme is completed in 1930 there will be
71,50011. p. available, of which 68,000b.p. will
be in use. The Department’s expectations for
the intervening years are thus set out in a
Ministerial statement: —
Revenue. Expenditure. Loss.
1923 .. £174,500 £200,000 £25,500
1924 .. 199,200 211,000 10 800
Profit.
1925 . . 228,900 222,000 6,900
1926 . . 281,100 223,000 25,100
1927 , . 267,800 234,000 33,800
1928 .. 288,500 250,000 38,500
1929 . . 310,200 261,000 49,200
1930 . . 332,800 274,000 58,900
It is explained that anticipated results
are based on expenditure which includes
interest at 6 p.c. on the revenue-earning
portion of the plant, plus 1 p.c. on the
depreciating portion, and p.c. on non-
depreciating portion. Interest at 6 p.c. on
proportion of plant not revenue-earning is
added to the total capital expenditure year
by year. Thus in 1923 there will be £26,000
added, in 1924 the amount will be £19,100,
dropping to £12,000 in 1925, jumping up to
£41,000 in 1926, then stepping down to
£lO,OOO by 1930. In regard to the 1 p.c.
depreciation fund, which at compound inter-
est will equal war-time cost of plant in 36
years, it is reckoned that the fall in prices
during the next 20 to 40 years will enable
replacements to be made at much less than
original cost. If so, the depreciation fund
may be “reasonably anticipated” to be big
enough to pay for all replacements at the
end of 25 years. Alternatively the deprecia-
tion charge may be used to redeem some of
the 61 p.c. capital. The Minister produces
figures showing that if interest had not ex-
ceeded 5 p.c. the profits of the department,
notwithstanding the increased cost of labor
and material, would have been £2500 in
1923, and £53,000 in 1926, the high interest


Do you use soldering irons in your business?' No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires . very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarlcablv
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.—Advt. [2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt. [2
* * * *
The durability of wood pipe as a water conduit
has been proved in America as well as Australia.
There huge hydraulic and hydro-electric schemes
instal this class of pipe in preference to metal pipe.
It conveys water cheaply and efficiently over rugged
mountain ranges, across deep gorges " for domestic
purposes in the cities remote from the source of
supply. Pioneer Wood Pipe is used in Australia for
the conveyance of mine culm, brine, acids, alkalies
and fresh water for drinking purposes. Write for
our 68-page illustrated book on the subject. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Massel, , Patent Attorneys 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pinks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office, tel. Cen. 6085. And at Chullis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirtv years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.—Anvr.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing, plants ; superphosphate plants •
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc’
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co. ’Ltd ’
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
1921 Models ’ National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). —Advt. '
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, \ssav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & OertiinV*
Balances, Weights, Morgan's . Crucibles, Braun's
Sample. Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selbv & Co.'
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Ptv., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 34?
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.—Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— -Advt.
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
wgr
an
m
lie
mm
The Largest Driving Belts
in Australia.
The illustration shows portion of the
Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Rod Mill at Newcastle, equipped w : th
three 34-inch and one 48-inch
“Pioneer” leather belts —the largest
driving belts in Australia. These were
specially manufactured for the purpose
by J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street,
Sydney.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Fosses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
rate being solely resoonsible for the fact
that the actual profit-earning period, will not
commence until 1927. If it really com-
mences then the Speck will have little cause
to complain.
According to geologist Leo Jones the N. S
W ales Government did not take much risk
when, in October, 1920, it followed the lead
ot the Commonwealth Government and
offered a £lO,OOO reward to the producer of
the first 100,000 gal. of oil in the State.
Jones, in a report to the Mines Department,
now declares that the prospects of obtaining
commercial supplies in the Ala State are "by
no means bright.” In “Notes on Petroleum and
Natural Gas,” he reviews briefly the various
efforts to tap oil, and deals comprehensively
with geological factors. He frankly admits
that the structure is often all it should be
for the storage of petroleum, but in the, most
likely localities the country has been so frac-
tured and faulted that if oil or gas did at one
time exist it has had every chance to escape.
There are “possibilities,” however—“from
the tertiary marine rocks in the vicinity of
the Lower Murray, or from the fresh-water
deposits near Coorabin, if suitable geological
structures can be located.” For those in-
clined to join the oil-hunt in N. S. Wales
the Mines Department’s latest eighteen-
pennyworth of information is a gilt-edged
investment.
Moutajup has got a nasty kick from Prit-
chard, geology lecturer, who was called in
by the Moutajup Oil Wells to check up
Mines Department experts, who had a poor
opinion of the district as an oil prospect.
Pritchard isn’t equally severe in his conclu-
sions : he leaves a feather or two to fly with,
but they are so flimsy that the chances are
the show will crash. Meantime Charlton
Dod, of the S. Aus. Oil Wells, pioneering-
just alongside, crows as heartily as ever.
He plugged through pleistocene, pliocene,
mioeene and jurassic formations in 300 ft. of
boring with his No. 2 plant, and then shut
off in blue shale. He rapped down No. 1
bore to 440 ft., and now is jogging on with
No. 3 a mile away from the Moutajup Oil-
wells bore about which Pritchard talks.
Dod declares that “what has been shown
already is of great importance and gives en-
couragement for extra boring,” and that
th'e “possibility of finding a pool is good.”
Pritchard, a mile away, writes: “The pre-
sence of oily matter in the bore is no evi-
dence under existing conditions that greater
depths will show marked improvement.” As
to the supposed “discovery” of oil Mines
Minister Barnes has a say:—
The oil reported as having been obtained from
the bore was the result of the accidental inclusion
of lubricating oil as the result of insufficient pre-
cautions on the part of the drillers. So far as the
Department was aware the leader of these ventures
had not obtained geological information from the
Mines Department before commencing operations.
The Minister also passes on the opinion of
boring-engineer Hunter that “every place at
which boring operations for oil were now
being conducted in Victoria was, in his
opinion, a hopeless proposition.” As Charl-
ton Dod still hankers after more boring Tan-
tanoola way, and as the Board has still
£3500 to splash, it is on the cards that the
co. will make back to the S. Aus. south-east
again.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the sweeping condemna-
tion by the Mines Department of all bores
going down in the Cabbage Garden, Boola
Boola, at Traralgon, is out with a report
claiming that at the end of last week “a very
strong pressure of petroleum gas was met
at a depth of close on 600 ft., resulting in the
forcing of big quantities of sand up the bore.”
This is declared to be “a very favorable indi-
cation and adds considerably to the prospects
of the success” of the co. But no analysis
of the gas accompanies the report.
* * « *
Tas. Assembly was at' first disposed to
lend a willing ear to the request of the
Exploration Co. that offered to prospect the
island for oil and oil-bearing substances in
return for a concession-lease of 100 square
miles of territory. But after Treasurer and
Mines Minister Elliott had analysed
the terms of the syndicate’s offer the House
decided that it had better appoint a select
committee of inquiry before embracing the
offer. Whereupon Ernie Blyth, the Wilmot
M.H.A., representing the syndicate, huffily
announced that because of Tasmania’s evident
lack of sympathy with oil-prospectors, there
would be no work for the select committee,
as the co. had decided to shake the mud of
the island from its boots. It is presumed
that this means the abandonment of the 25
prospecting leases (80,000 acres) now held
by the co. in the Barn Bluff Mount
Pelion country. Meanwhile the co. is suing
the Speck’s Geologist, Loftus Hills, for
lishing an official report to the effect that
the co. had about as much chance of striking
payable oil in the locality prospected as it
had of striking a drayload of doubloons.
* * * *
Shareholders in Freney’s Oil Co. met in
Perth the other day and listened to glowing
tales about the future. Boring is ex-
pected to be in full swing by April or May
next. Holders of other concessions in the
West are meantime awaiting a favorable
opportunity to unleash a wide assortment of
wiid-cats.
* * * *
One of the few N. S. Wales gold-shows
attracting any attention nowadays is the
Christmas Gift, on the old Culiinga field,
near (Jootamundra. The co. last year amal-
gamated old leases which had been worked
in a primitive way for 20-odd years: stone
was raised by whip-horse and shipped for
treatment. The old hands did well, but
the various shows as worked never had a
chance to show their real worth. The co.
set out to equip the properties and get down
to see what offered for the future. Despite
previous disappointments, such as the Demo-
crat, (Jootamundra rallied round the old
field, and the Gift is now equipped with
winding s'ear, 10-hd. of stamps, two Wildeys
and other plant. Since the end of June
179040 z. bullion has been won, the stone
averaging 16dwt. That performance, how-
ever, is merely a cheering incidental: it has
borne out the anticipations of the co.’s
backers. On the strength of these returns
from a co. whose 10s. contribs are still only
paid to 3s. 6d. Pitt-street has had a flutter
with the few shares available; but the Gift
people are considering the mine and not the
market. So, though manager Boxsell reckons
that down to 200 ft. he can lay hands on
12,000 tons going an ounce, the programme
is to work the battery only one shift while
the shaft is put down another 100 ft., or per-
haps 200 ft. Funds may be insufficient to
meet all the expense of the new development
work, and in that case there will be calls.
That does not suit Pitt-street; but when
chairman Dr. Brennan made the policy clear
to shareholders in Gootamundra on Monday
his _ stethoscope could not find a faint-heart.
So it looks as though the Gift is going to get
a fair run. M. Wasley, with a quarter-cen-
tury of Charters Towers experience, is the
Gift’s managing-director.
* * * *
The little syndicate operating in new
ground at South Lucknow (N.S.W.) has
had an experience of the luck of mining. A
shaft was put down at a spot recommended
by Mines Department geologists, and a cross-
cut commenced to look for the contact
between the diorite and serpentine, where
Lucknow gave rich values in the past. But
the crosscut went in 168 ft. before the con-
tact was met. Then it was discovered that
the contact swung back practically parallel
with the crosscut and existed within sft. of
the shaft. The crosscutting had cost the
syndicate about £l2OO. A winze is now
being put down at a point where a spur joins
the contact, and as 15dwt. values have been
met the syndicate is still hopeful. Mean-
time the main shaft is to go down another
50ft. in the hope of getting into more settled
country.
* * * *
What with bumps in the gutter and jumps
in the share market, New Langi Logan,
Ararat (Vic.), has got calls running ahead
of gold without a single protest. And that
is a feat worth recording after £163,543 has
gone into working and £lB,OOO into plant
with no sign of a div. All there is to account
for it is the love of -the average Victorian for
fluttering cash in deep-lead mining, especi-
ally when under the spell of good publicity.
Work round the junction of the Cathcart
and the Langi cutters, if not quite so flashy
as six months ago, has yielded well out of
the wash drives off No. 5 rise. There, if
crosscutting is not in a bend of the
the lead has been proved 650 ft. wide. The
last 200 ft.. east was good stuff. East off No.
4 rise, farther along the gutter, is 700 ft. of
wash, all of which Toole declares is payable.
But off Nos. 3 -and 2 rises he shot into a big
bump of country rock when out east. He
now knows that the prehistoric stream ran
its course round an island there before being
sealed up by lava flows. Values aren’t
scoured out .of the lead skirting the bumpy
ground ; and, if they were, the chance would
exist of getting them lower , down the gutter.
That may account for some of the right
stuff being picked up west in the extreme
southern workings off No. 2 rise. Still the
crosscutting there is not sufficiently advanced
to swear to anything more than that some
gold has been got and that the bump in the
reef has gone out of sight, leaving the
bottom level again. The average of 415
fathoms sent to the machines was 34dwt.
The values are good enough for anything,
but a show like New Langi requires quan-
tities also; otherwise it will continue to
gulp calls. No fault can be found with the
last six months’ results, but it is well still
to remember that finance cannot change till
the mine can be adequately staffed.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has installed a
cyanide plant and made a start on moun-
tainous heaps of residues. Extraction there-
from will probably be the full extent of
gold-production until wages and costs come
down, when the burnt-out mill will no doubt
be replaced by a new one. In July ore
reserves were estimated at about 350,000
tons, but present costs allow of no profit
margin.
The Ivalgoorlie-Adelaide syndicate which
paid fbOOO for the White Hope, Hampton
i lains (W.A.), has started to get some of
its money back. So far 400 tons have been
«£a<*ed and treated at Kalgoorlie for about
zlbOO, including premium, but how much
of it is profit is not stated. About 15,000
tons are reckoned to be in sight, and the
syndicate hopes to clear £lO,OOO.
. Mt. Monger Proprietary (W.A.) has exer-
cised its option on Reid and Pilkington’s
lease, Mt. Monger, and is now busy sinking
tor water and blowing about its future pros-
<L°-’ S battery recently crushed
v, tons or and 1000 tons more are
said to be awaiting treatment. The mine
may please shareholders for a time, but it
appears to be of the class that invariably
disappoints a co. in the long run.
* * * sfe
Associated Northern (W.A.) has lately
been making inquiries at Lawlers for a new
mine. 8., M. and Co. once worked several
shows for London cos. in this locality, but
as costs went up and the pick of the shoots
did not go down they got dissatisfied and
gave up. Nevertheless parties of working
miners who came along later were content
to continue where 8., M. and Co. left off,
and so far have had no cause for regret.
Ihe Hampton Daisy, alias the Daisy Queen,
is also on this field.
Broad Arrow (W.A.)-, the scene of many
rich gold discoveries, has just been credited
with another good find. This time stone
streaked with gold has been struck at 50ft.
in tjie workings of the old Golden Arrow
mme. The find is on the line of the Hill
Lnd lode, from which in the early ’nineties
specimen stone worth many thousands of
pounds was obtained. As usual, the country
surrounding the new discovery has been
pegged as far as the eye can reach.
* * *
A further attempt is being made to re-
surrect the Gt. Pingall (W.A.). the new
crowd including two of the old tribute party
that .narrowly escaped drowning.
With all the hot air gone Chillagoe, Ltd.,
has siirunk to a very ordinary coal-mining
show. The reconstructed capital is £GUO,bI)O
m lu s- shares; but tiiere are net assets (book
value) to represent only £SS,UbO plus sundry
scraps on tne dust-heap which don’t appa-
rently amount to much. The Queensland
Government figures as a sort of fairy god-
mother: it has ladled out £12,400 to Help
Chillagoe with Mt. Mulligan, Other credi-
tors do not run to £lOOO, Under the
Northern State’s compulsory workmen’s com-
pensation insurance, the co. was not hit by
the loss of life in the recent disaster. Of
course, workings are dislocated, but manager
Watson declares that £4OOO will put things
right. Then the hunt after profits from the
big lSft. No. 2 seam will commence. Coke
ovens are ready, and there is such a demand
for fuel for the mines and smelters that if a
decent output be assured Mt. Mulligan may
yet provide a sprat or two.
* * * *
Charters Towers having ceased to count,
Townsville, with 26,000 people and meat-
work smells of its own, has started a Stock
Exchange. A. R. Keats, representing Cion-
curry mining interests, is the moving spirit;
he was once a member of the Adelaide Stock
Exchange. Like the Adelaide Stock Ex-
change, it is a limited liability co. ; 40 shares
of £5O each. J. N, Parkes, the energetic
chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, is
treasurer; S. H, Thorp, late president of
the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, is
president. Apart from the Cloncurry mines,
Townsville is head of a district about the.
size of France. The see. is H, F, Morley.
* * * *
Mount Coolon is taking a very long time
to get into its stride, if it is as good as the
Queensland Mines Minister pictured it re-
cently. Though it is about six years since
it attracted attention with some very pro-
mising crushings, there are still not more
than 50 prospectors, miners and mill-
workers on the field, and most of the ore is
coming from less than 100 ft. deep. The
Native Bear mine is raising- most of the
ore and keeps a 10hd. battery going with
about 80 tons a week. The Mount Coolon
co. is also putting up a lOhd. battery and
cyanide plant, and on completion the ore
from its claim will brighten the field’s figures
a little. The other shows are so far only
prospects, though they occasionally provide
a small crushing. Mount Coolon has taken
so long to find its stride that even its backers
have ceased to think of it as a pup of the
Charters Towers or Gympie breed.
* * * *
A proposal is on foot to get the Speck
Government to erect a customs treatmei
plant on the asbestos deposits at Beacons-
field, and also grant miners’ claims of five
acres for small parties. The plant is esti-
mated to cost £3500 and provide employ-
ment for SO men on the field. The asbestos
is worth approximately £3O per ton, and a
Sydney firm is understood to be prepared to
take ±lO,OOO worth per year. Minister for
Mines Lewis is not favorably inclined; he
prefers to boost poor old, worn-out Zeehan,
the city of dead hopes.
* * * *
Prospecting at the Lady Betty silver-mine
(Tas.) has. been satisfactory, the main for-
mation having been exposed for 300 ft. along
the strike. Reported values run from 50oz.
to 5000 z., and widths from 4in. to 14in. A
central shaft is now in hand to cut the de-
posit at about 60ft., and if the lode persists
it is proposed to instal a small crushing
plant with leaching tanks for the produc-
tion of bar silver on the mine. Experiments
are said to indicate the possibility of recov-
ering 96 p.c. of the silver by this process.
The Broken Hill Prop, had no success with
the process; but conditions may not be the
same.
The No. 14 crosscut in the Magnet mine
(Tas.) has cut the lode. It is reported to
be Bft. in width and of the usual grade, but
as the shares have slumped the grade is evi-
dently not what was expected. Development
along the course of the lode may expose
high-grade “firsts” so necessary for his
mine’s existence. No information is available
as to the zinc content, which is known to
be increasing with depth.


nwll
jr» op j :
TSL
DCA
w
n0,,-
3 U
@*
c-v?*
LUf
r^sssi
JFtSCL
jto*
*!&**#****
£J§^
Aifo
YOUNG AUSTRALIA’S CHRISTMAS.
Despite the Tariff the Australian infant is getting most of his toys from Japan this Christmas.


1
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
5 nmcnn Store C.to 102 Daking House
LdUIMJII Service V/U., Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.—H Little &• Co. 851 Hav St.. Perth
Seasonable geniality and friendship can be
wisely toasted in
K.B. LAGER
T.B. light ALE
or
WHITE HORSE ALE
You cannot do better. They’re brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
SGEWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] It. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Like his father, W. T. Stead, who
perished in the Titanic, Henry Stead,
founder of Stead’s Review, died at sea,
and was buried last week at Tahiti. Guided
by the father, the son had cultivated an
international outlook, and was a publicist of
considerable influence. Born at Durham,
he started to be an engineer; but he was
wanted in the office of the Review of
Reviews, and was soon installed as con-
fidential secretary, travelling everywhere
with his parent, and acquiring a knowledge
of foreign politics that helped him greatly
when he launched his own magazine in Mel-
bourne. One of his* special trips was to
the Hague Peace Conference in 1907;
there he and his senior issued a daily paper,
and learnt not to put much trust in the
pacific pretensions of princes and their
hangers-on. But Henry Stead was a dif-
ferent man from his father—not so great a
journalist, perhaps, but more intellectual
and less credulous. Of late he suffered from
cancer, and bore his sufferings with great
fortitude. He had been seeking medical aid
in America just before he died —at a much-
too-early 47.
The antiquary at it again:—
There were 13 portfolios in the Dooley Ministry,
and it resigned on the 13th day of the month, after
a reign of 64 days. But this isn’t a Ma State
record for brevity, Cowper’s first Government (1856)
having blown, out in 37 days and Dibbs’s second
(1889) in 50. Waddell’s Cabinet (1904) lasted 75
days, Dibbs’s first (1885) 76, and Donaldson’s (1856)
80. Dibbs was Alexander Stuart’s lieutenant, as
Dooley was Storey’s., When Stuart retired, broken
in health, 36 years ago, Dibbs formed the 21st.
N. S. Wales Ministry; it assumed office in October
and fell in December. Dooley, the 21st citizen to
become Premier, likewise took the job in October
and dropped it in December. Perhaps he will com-
plete the parallel by coming back twice, as did the
man who damned Chicago. It is possible but not
probable.
Mrs. Defence Minister Tearce is off to
the U.S.A. to prepare a mansion for her
George in N. York—at least, it looks like
that. Pearce has been a Senator since 1901
and a Minister for 11 years, and, having-
made it a habit to put by at least a third
of his salary, he is pretty well endowed. An
orchard property in South Groperland turns
him in a steady income.
By deporting Judge Bevan, H. E. Carey
and R. J. Evans in October, 1919, the Dar-
win Bolsheviks let the poor old tax-
payor in for a
pretty penny. The
Ewing Commission
cost o y e r £4OOO,
Judge Bevan got
£lOOO as compen-
sation, and now
Ca rey has just
secured £375. The
case of R. J.
Evans, who was
Government Se c-
retary, isn’t quite
settled yet. H e
agreed to cal’j it
square if he was
paid for the leave
due to him, but
his ideas and
Poynton’s on how
much that comes
to don’t quite run
through the same
quill.
Justice HOOD,
who retires from
the Vic. Supreme
Court Bench at
the end of the year.
“Rienzi”: Just-dead Arthur Pearson was
one of the first to popularise'eucalyptus in
London. Years ago in the Fog, when the
oil was first mentioned as a cure for influ-
enza, there was an outbreak of the disease,
and chemists sold the then rare liquid at
about a guinea, a drop. At the time one of
Pearson’s little weeklies was breathing
heavily and threatened to expire. To re-
vive public interest in the journal Pearson
conceived the idea of dabbing the cover of
the paper with eucalyptus and advertising
that it was the only sheet that was free
from influenza germs. It was a weird
dodge, but it worked. After nearly tooth-
combing London he discovered a chemist
who was willing to part with a drum of the
oil at a fancy price. The stuff was sprinkled
on the weekly, as per huge announcements
on a long line of sandwich-men, who created
a telling atmosphere by dolorously sniffing
hankies that had been dipped in our national
scent.
Motor-importer ’Enry ’Erbert Smith won
the Tippah Chambali seat for Melbourne Pro-
vince, beating Norman Bayles, whose friends
worked very half-heartedly, by 4329 to 2767.
Although there were scores of autocars and
tlier > had been no end of free advts. for both
candidates, only 32.73 p.c. of the electors
bothered to vote. Smith, the only one of
his clan in the Council, was sworn in and
had a day on the plush benches before the
session closed. He will have to face his
constituents before he can sit again, having
been chosen for the balance of the six years
for which McWhae was elected in 1916.
Federal Labor member Jim Page left
estate valued at £3624.
Dr. Beattie Smith, who died suddenly in
his bath in Melbourne last week, was acting
Inspector-General of Lunatic Asylums in
1592, when he had a row with Jack Murray,
the then Chief Sec. Smith got at logger-
heads with the Department over an adminis-
trative matter, and when Murray sided
against him Smith was obstinate and almost
defiant. Murray stood to his guns; Smith’s
appointment was cancelled, and he left the
service, forfeited pension rights and went to
private practice. He probably gained in a
financial way by the change, but he never
forgave Murray, all the same.
Henry Newton, who carries the episcopal
crook in Carpentaria diocese and now goes
to New Guinea to occupy the grass palace
vacated by Brisbane’s new archbish., is re-
turning to the scene of former activities.
For about 16 years before crossing to Thurs-
day Island he did missionary work in the
Anglican yard in Papua; and his book, “In
Far New Guinea,” deals graphically with
life in the outposts. Since he got the'gaiters
(which he never dons except when visiting
the conservative South') he has led a
pretty strenuous life bucketing about
Northern Australia in his Ford. He
is usually packed up with parcels for
settlers, and has never been to re-
fuse to carry anything short of a cask of
cement. Once an abo. was proud to be of
service when the car was bogged. “Me
fella speak English,” he volunteered, and
to prove it let loose a torrent of lurid blas-
phemy that threatened to ignite the benzine
supplies. As Carpentaria takes in somewhere
about 650,000 square miles of semi-deserted
country (including the N.T.), with the
Torres Strait islands and a number of abo.
mission stations, the new bish. will find his
job no sinecure. The screw is only £5OO,
and he has to be away from home about 330
days of the year.
The Liberal Union of South Aus. has
acquired D. R. Davidson for its “financial
organiser.” He has been in various Govern-
ment offices, and latterly Chairman of the
Prices Regulation Commission. He is an
expert in chemistry and in immigration mat-
ters; on the latter errand South Aus. sent
him to India. As side-lines he has been a
choir-master since boyhood, and had five
years’ military experience.
Big Bill Baillieu, unofficial leader of the
Vic. Uppah Chamber, intends to leave in
April on a trip to the Cold I and. He re-
marked at the Parliamentary send-off to
Agent-General McWhae that fie hoped to
chum up with him in the Fog about the
middle of next year. As the triennial elec-
tion for the House of Landlords is due at
the beginning of June the question arises
whether Baillieu expects to be re-elected
unopposed in his absence (like Treasurer
McPherson was) or is going to let the seat
slide.
’ The only, speech, with any grace or vim
in it that was delivered at the Parliamen-
tary send-off to Johnnie McWhae last week
was that of Donald McLeod; the octogenarian
member for Daylesford, who described the
new A.-G. as a self-made man unspoiled in
the making. McWhae, when his turn came,
went nap on the immigration of picked
settlers from the British Isles. He wasn’t
keen, he hinted, on the sort of European on
whom Uncle Sam had slammed the. gate,
and he could not share Gullett’s enthusiasm
over the coming of non-British people.
Morrison and Wilson, the two Vic. rail-
waymen who were sacked for their associ-
ation with a fiery resolution at their union
conference, may be put back in their job as
a result of the Irish settlement. The Cabinet
is inclined to listen to the representations
of politicians and other sinners and wowsers
that the pair should be reinstated. All hands
are now prepared to admit that some pretty
horrible things had happened in Ireland just
before they let off their fireworks.
Adelaide has been reviving the memory of
one of its earliest citizens, C. B. Howard,
the first official Colonial Chaplain. He
landed with Governor Ilindmarsh from the
Buffalo, just 85 years ago. His first church
was made with a
sail, which he bor-
rowed from the
ship and dragged
up seven miles
from Glenelg t o
the banks of the
Torrens. Howard
was a prominent
Oddfellow, and the
Order gave him a
tombstone in West
Terrace. But that
was in 1843. and
it has crumbled:
so the Bishop of
Adelaide and the
Oddfellows have
provided a new
monument bearing
the original in-
scription.
“JOCK”
CUNNINGHAM,
sec. of the Sea-
men's Union —the
man who holds up
the shipping, and
looks the part.
Dr. It. Granville Waddy, appointed lec-
turer in ophthalmology at Sydney ’Varsity,
is one of a number of brainy sons of Colonel
Richard Waddy (of the old Volunteer
Forces), who managed various branches of
the Commercial Bank, and a grandson of
General S r Richard Waddy, who in 1833
came to Sydney as an ensign in the 50th
Regiment and 30 years after returned in
command of the same corps. The new lec-
turer was Rhodes scholar in 1908, graduated
at Oxford and studied his specialty in Ger-
many, France and Egypt. He served for
five years in King Edward’s Horse.
This year’s M.L. Rhodes scholar, G. G.
Aitken, of Victoria College, was the captain
of the M.L. ’Var-
s i t y footballers
who met the Syd-
ney reps, last year,
skippered the
same team when
it toured Aus-
tralia recently, and
rose to the dizzy
eminence of cap-
taining the All
Blacks against the
Springboks. He is
also a crack shot,
a good cricketer,
plays tennis well
and has made a
specialty of 440yds.
hurdle-racing. A
teacher by profes-
sion, he has a
B.A. degree, a fine
research record in
economics, and
a winning per-
sonality. One
professor has de-
scribed him as the
closest thing he
knows to the. ideal
set up by Cecil
Rhodes.
Explorer DAVID
LINDEAY.
“T.R.H.”: Sir Arthur Pearson was the
“father” of the competitions which did much
to popularise Pearson’s and other “cheap”
weeklies. His “missing-word competition,”
in which competitors sent a shilling with
each guess, made thousands of pounds for
him, but led to a big law suit. Its death-
knell was a par about camphor. “When a
piece of camphor is placed in water and
lighted it will float about in a manner which
is extremely —The missing word
selected by Pearson was “unaccountable.” A
disappointed competitor brought an action
and his counsel contended that nothing could
be “ extremely unaccountable” —that it was
either accountable or unaccountable, and
that to say anything was “extremely un-
accountable” was as ridiculous as to say
that a man was “very dead.” The Judge
held that the competition was not a game of
skill but of chance, and consequently illegal.
Pearson started on the Inky Way by win-
ning several prizes for short stories in
Newnes’s Tit-Bits, and then became a mem-
ber of the staff of that paper. Later he
started Pearson’s Weekly, and was after-
wards interested in several dailies, mainly
the Express and the Evening Standard.
Dr. Carruthers, the rev. brother of
knight Joseph, has a book of 60 years’
reminiscences in the press. IL e is a Sydney
native and is climbing up to his 80th. year.
Westralian Governor Newdigate-Newde-
gate was recently offered his party’s nomina-
tion for his old House of Commons seat,
Tamworth. It is safe and easv, but he
turned it down.
Ihe Clinches of Hobart have put up an
Australasian, if not a world, record by sup-
plying two Rhodes scholars from the one
family. Allen went to represent the Speck
a few years ago, and now John is following
him. Their father looks after the mails at
Hobart when he isn’t on his farm on Bruni
Island.
For the 39th year in sqccession Adelaide
Uni. appointed veteran Frederic
Chappie Warden of the Senate —the general
body of graduates, meeting only three or four
tunes a year. Ainslie Caterer, in spite of
a long a,nd serious illness, was re-elected
“clerk,” in hope of his recovery. He has
occupied that position for 33 years.
The Zeal tradition lingers in the Vic. Uppah
Chambah. When the usually ultra-decorous
plush-bench occupants were ’ inclined to get
shirty and. tangled up on procedure during
the last night of the session, courtly presi-
dent Manifold intervened with an intima-
tion that he would leave the chair and ask
members to have “a little refreshment and
welcome Mr. Smith, the new member.”
There was not such an autocratic ring in the
Manifold tone as in that of Zeal, but it was
mandatory enough, . and the House, having
obeyed, recovered its equilibrium while it
sipped lemonade.
Justice Isaacs, the new P.C., is one of five
survivors of the first Turner Ministry which
reigned in Victoria for the record period of
four years (1894-9). The ex-Attorne.v-
General’s colleagues still on deck are Wil-
liams, Taverner, Best and Peacock.
TO A CHILD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, dear little child with your eyes of blue,
What gifts are the fairies bringing to you
From the shadowy land of Make-Believe,
Where a beautiful dream they deftly weave
From the stm-glint caught in a maiden’s hair
And the morning dew in a garden fair ;
Or the warm red blush of a rose that blows
In a lonely place where the Dream Man goes;
Where the moon is a silent silver boat
With the sail-clouds set just to idly float
On the tideless sea of the deep -blue sky,
To an island of star that lies near by?
Is it a wonderful castle they bring
Where the hidden hopes of the future ring
Like the mellow tone of a golden bell
That rises and falls on the evening swell?
Or is it a crown we call To-morrow
That brightly shines through a night of sorrow,
And lightens the heavy load of care
That one heart must carry and none may share ?
Do they mark you the road of old Romance
Where knights of the Cross and fair ladies dance;
Where the wood resounds with the clash of arms
And the night is stirred with the loud alarms
Of the ring of steel and the panting breath
Of the bowmen singing their song of Death?
Does it lead to a waste of waters wide
Where the ships put out on a rising tide
For a land in the West, where Spanish gold.
Is buried deep in a galleon’s hold,
And the men who guard it are lying there
With the brown sea-kelp in their waving’hair?
Their bright swords are rusted, the doublets worn,
The gold is encrusted, the brown sails torn;
And just at the edge of a goblet’s rim
A white skull is lying, a token grim
Of the brave old days when the wine ran red
And the soft sand pillowed a dead man’s head.
Oh, dear little child with your eyes of blue,
What songs are the fairies singing to you
From the shadowy land of Make-Believe,
Where a song of beauty their voices weave
From the mournful note of an old man’s sigh
And the lilt of birds in a summer sky ;
Or the thundering surf on the golden sand,
When the cold sea kisses the frowning land,
And a night bird calls with an eerie cry
To its nesting mate on the dark cliffs high?
Is it a song of the wind in the trees
And the drowsy hum of the golden bees
As they wing their way from their own sweet bower
To rifle the wealth of a scented flower,
Where the river winds in its reed-grown bed
From the mountain peaks where the sun is dead,
And the white snow falls on the barren land
Like the soft caress of a woman’s hand ?
Do they sing a song of the welcome rain
When the earth is parched and the ripening grain
Droops its heavy head at the hot wind’s breath
That carries the withering kiss of Death,
And brings in its wake a devouring fire
That sweeps through the bush with a mad god’s ire?
Are they singing a song of distant lands
Where the palm-trees wave on the spray-drenched
sands,
Where the coral grows on a sunken wreck,
And the sea-vines trail through the rotting deck,
As though they would hide a ghost of the night
When the storm king rides on his horses white?
I’d give all the wealth of the world to-day
Just to dream your dreams and to play your play.
Oh, treasure the gifts that the fairies bring
And the wonderful songs they softly sing;
For a long white road is winding ahead
Through a land where the dreams of Youth are shed;
Where the way is weary and years are long
And the fairies forget to sing their song!
But we follow the road as it winds and bends,
To the quiet place where the last dream ends.
h.sav.
W. J. THOMAS.


mmrnmmmmmm
m
■
m
MUi i
1
. Wwm
; y
BMWh
■mwi^M|
I ' ' < " ,
■
Ml—M | v # |H
■ :::: '
• : :' : ' : ':|:.;V:;: :: cciic: •' ,■:>;: ■■■: o-;-..:;:;'; :■
■
i
: : •; V‘v
'
1 H
HH
■ n
111
•A
msssm
Mnn
« Jf f mmk l ?jlkf 4 W 41
-v
»Mlll%j)rflM
I
l
■ ■■
Bgj£
IViHIH
an
m
;;;:;;i
19
hhui
.
I BMW
■
i* -
m
■
Hi
HAdwii
I
i i i*S§llfc IlllilllllllSiiii
■I
I
ft*
R#4'
«999
■
H
It 11-
|
civ' _ . B M
: H
«
.. . &* AAjs*
91 ■ 91 1991H999
1 RH MMHi
■I
LI
#■
m
: I
■
e j
mt 1 % s§ * f
||*| |
: V :
vlffffrfl
■ M 8 1 ffl J § I
J . Sign
r '* ; /A
■
i A
lißrai
«■:
mmm
WHHSm
&.■
■
mi
* -
mm
y
mm
'\\ 1
§H
■ : '
v': : ; ■ /'■
BF fcgf-ii
ri iff Cf
; i
r;
i
■
i
M
■
at
lillllK
#
1 HR
H*.
„ * , ..
H S
*7 v -*1
If* W- ye
Pi .* %
■ij 5
i
Hi
n
r
El! iiP
until
m
■D
Jf *£
:
■llSl
mmm
jwMiMl ■
wtitfvv m
: m : I
: 1
: : : V :.ACA' .::
IHMiBBIIiM 188
IcVV'V ■":" V : VC- V .' : 'A;'A - .V - ' ■ -/ : ■,■.//'■:■ ",'v\ V . V-VVaVV-VV
■
H I -,v : ;'"l' V; ''
: '-
«««
■ |
■
mm
M
i^pi
m
Wm I I ■ HH I ■ HI ■ IH ■. : ■ H^HHI
-A : ! - V
VC'
11 ■.
I - ►
■Hi
;:':’ -s/S-V'SveSCV ! : : C ; V:V: J-
: ■
1
y-
' ■
. -. ■. ■: ;:
■i
ƒ
f
Uni
le pansfe
Models.
¥
Obtainable
of all
Tobacconists
THE PIPE THAT GIVES
DEPENDABLE SERVICE


A HOLIDAY HAT
BY PEAPES.
This comfortable shape is made of ex-
cellent Australian Fur Felt with a
smooth finish. The colors are Grey,
Granite and Steel.
It has a medium crown, 2§in. brim,
and band with bow at side.
Bearing the “Warrigal” Trade-mark, it
is of neat and durable quality-—made
expressly for Peapes, it is a hat of
great distinction, with an adaptable
brim that is ideal for holiday wear.
Price 27/S
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
f
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
“Spare Corp”: The breed holds. Near
Villers-Bret. a shell landed on an isolated
ALL HE KNEW ABOUT A JOCKEY!
THE MAN : “ Thai’s one of the most success-
ful and intelligent riders in the country.”
THE GIRL: “You poor dear! Fancing call-
ing a simp who wears such outrageous
colors intelligent. He has positively
no taste at all.”
Lewis-gun team and killed all except two,
both of whom were wounded, one very seri-
ously. The less-wounded Digger insisted on
trying to help his mate back through a hellish
shell-fire to where he could get medical aid,
but the mate resisted. “I’m only delaying
you, and I’m done, anyway. Let me alone
and get back yourself,” he said. When his
cobber refused, he deliberately drew his
revolver and finished the job the Ilun shell
had started; and then his mate had to save
himself. Up at Camden (N.S.W.) the other
day two boys, Bob Byrne and a lad named
Swift, were swimming in the Nepean, when
Byrne got into trouble. Swift plung.d in
to help him, but he hadn’t the strength for
the job, and came pretty close to drowning
himself, although he refused to give up the
effort to save his friend. Whereupon the
friend deliberately struggled out of his
grasp and drowned ratiier than jeopardise
the life of his mate.
* * *
“Big Ack”: Four generals, eight majors,
16 staff-officers and 32 other ranks paced up
and down uneasily near the corps pigeon-
loft. No signal of any kind had been re-
ceived from the division since the hop-over,
and Jerry was barraging as he had never
barraged before. Sixty pairs of eyes
scanned the eastern horizon—all hope
centred on the receipt of a message per
wing. At last Greasy spotted a speck
among the shrapnel bursts, and three
minutes later it had developed into a beau-
tiful homer safe in the loft. All breathing
was suspended while the orderly took the
container from the bird’s leg and handed
the note to the G.5.0.l. —thank Heaven, there
was still hope ! Fingers shaking with ner-
vous excitement unfolded the paper and dis-
closed the message. It was: “I’m damned
if I’m going to carry this blanky bird any
farther.”
* * *
“A.T.L.”: I notice “Backmarker” says (B.
1/12/’2l) that “no whole consignment of
pigeons has ever been found dead on a Vic-
torian railway station.” It may be so, since
even the best of dailies is liable to err. But,
unfortunately, such occurrences are not so
rare that bird-lovers need naggle. Here is
one that came within my own personal ex-
perience. On Saturday, October 23, there
arrived in Melbourne at 2 p.m. from Larpent
two crates each containing 100 starlings.
They were consigned to the Northcote Gun
,Club. Each crate measured 4ft. x 2ft. x
Gin., and was divided into two compart-
ments. On Monday morning a friend tele-
phoned me that he had heard the birds were
dying. I arrived at the station at 2 p.m. to
find 189 dead and the rest groggy. We fed
and watered them, but, of course, the bar-
barous way in which they were confined
would have been fatal in any event. . I
communicated by ’phone with an official
of the Northcote Gun Club and he promised
to take immediate delivery. I saw the crates
again on the Tuesday morning, when .all the
birds were dead. There is no argument
against The Bulletin’s proposition that
Gun Clubs are an affront to a civilised com-
munity. For my part I go further and say
that the fact of a man having been associ-
ated with one of these loathsome institutions
should be held after their abolition to dis-
entitle him in perpetuity to own any bird or
animal.
* * * *
“Morob”: Poker has been played in
stranger places than “Magnum’s” hospital
ambulance with a coffin-lid for a table (B.
8/12/’2l). Some years ago an Australian
gaol held a man under sentence of
death for a murder committed in
circumstances that ruled out all
hope of a reprieve. He asked for
and was given a pack of cards, and
spent most of the few days that he
had left in playing poker with the
warder whose duty it was to keep
him company, the stakes being
matches, which stood for sixpence
each. The last night the warder
was winning 305., but, by playing
late, the prisoner managed to re-
duce this to 21s. They started
again at six o’clock in the morn-
ing, and right up to the last
moment the warder was still ss.
ahead ; but then the prisoner drew
three cards to a pair of queens,
secured a third queen and quickly
ran the betting up t 0.55., at which
point the warder laid his hand
down disclosing two small pairs.
Then the condemned man, with a
remark that he was square on the
game, and would not appear in the
n'ext world owing any gambling
debts, was taken in charge by the
hangman. Ten minutes later he was dead.
“D.8.J.”: The essence of a successful plea
to the “unwritten law” is that the offence
must contain an element of novelty. Early
in the war a subaltern crossed to England
from France and murdered his wife’s lover.
Sir John Simon got him an acquittal, the
comic fiction being that he had shot the be-
trayer in self-defence. Later, it became
fashionable for the divorce side to be cheated
of its co-res. in this manner; and when it
came to mere privates protecting their honor
on such lines Justice Darling spoke out and
one of them was hanged to discourage the
rest. The quaint defence put up by Max-
well in the Mildura tar-and-feathers case
was that there could have been no conspiracy
—which in law implies prearransrement —
since Hervey’s conduct had rendered the pre-
cise treatment he received inevitable. What
happens in a bush-fire? counsel inquired.
People appear, as from nowhere, with buckets
of water. And, analogously, what occurs
when Grant Hervey settles in a town? The
DISCHARGED.
“Go away—I don’t want to ever speak to you again. I saw you with a new girl twice
this week.”
“Never, darling, never! That was only one of my old ones repainted.”
answer is obvious. The natives instinc-
tively, and without a word of direction, come
together with buckets of far; block roads;
overpower policemen ; collect feathers; apply
them and disperse. These weird conclusions
were accepted by the jury and an acquittal
on the major charge resulted. And then
the Judge showed that he, too, was not im-
mune from what the Germans call “herd psy-
chology.” After expatiating on the victim’s
undesirable habits (exactly as the English
courts did in the first of the cases where
soldier husbands took the law into their'own
hands), McArthur fined those who had
pleaded guilty to the assault—a t which they
smiled —and then gave them three months
apiece, sentences to be suspended—at which
they smiled some more. What it all goes to
show is that, under given circumstances, any
crime can be committed with impunity, pro-
vided it is done in a new way. The same
immunity applies to unfamiliar offences. For
example, the first man whose innocent sister
is given a venereal disease by her husband,
and who shoots the husband,. will be practi-
cally sure of an acquittal amid the applause
of Bench and Bar. But the second will find
he is no hero, and the third will get his
“lifer” as a matter of course, together with
a stern warning from the Judce of tb°
menace to the State of the “unwritten law.”
Of a wash-up that was a wash-out; —
Empanelled at Darlinghurst Quarter Sessions to
determine an accusation that Bramston, a Sydney
alderman, was also a crook, a jury, after listening
to the evidence for the prosecution, announced that
it had heard enough and forthwith acquitted. It is not
a usual thing for a jury to make up its mind before
the defence is tendered, but in this case the pro-
ceedings in the lower court made clear what
was going to happen. The case should never have
gone beyond the preliminary investigation, for on
the evidence there was simply no chance of Bram-
ston being convicted. It was a queer case in many
ways, the only one of its kind ever heard in' N. S.
Wales. Bramston, a podgy little man, formerly a
blacksmith, is one of the Labor group in Sydney’s
City Council. Two members of the other party —
one a former Mayor, the other the present Mayor—
had certain ideas about Bramston. They engaged
a Melbourne “investigator,” and this person de-
spatched two persons to Sydney to bait a trap. They
were George Gill and Robert Griffiths. The latter
passed also by the name of Read. He described
himself as having been a mercantile broker. He had
no office. He had lived on money borrowed from
friends. Gill had once been an official of the
Colonial Mutual, and made a stir in Melbourne a
few years ago by making certain accusations. He is
an undischarged bankrupt, but earned occasional
commissions as an “agent.” The gist of their story
was that Gill, representing himself to Bramston xo
be in the timber trade and anxious to tender for
the supply of wood blocks to the city, was informed
by Bramston on the third day after meeting him
that a tender would be accepted if Gill and Griffiths
added £7OO, which would be divided by Bramston be-
tween himself and other aldermen. They submitted a
tender allegedly on these lines. It was accepted by the
council. Gill alleged that he handed over £25 to
Bramston, as part payment of the £7OO. There
were no witnesses. On this Allen Taylor, ex-Mayor,
laid a criminal charge against Bramston a week or
two before the City Council elections. The jury
heard Gill and Griffiths, but their yarn had as many
holes as a wire-netting fence. Allen Taylor was
probably a much wiser man when the case was over
than when he started on the scheme. More is going
to be heard of Bramston and Gill and Griffiths later
on. Before the case came to trial, a couple of Sydney:
dailies decorated their columns with long yarns con-
taining the story of the trap-baiters. Bramston
promptly handed in writs claiming damages for
libel. The trial having ended, the question of whose
turn it is to speak next is being considered with
much solemnity. The writs merely mention
£20,000.
LAST WORDS BEFORE THE PARTY.
MAUD'S MAMMA: “Now, dear, don't eat too
much. You know what the doctor said.”
MAUD : “Yes, mummy. But it never feels
like too much till afterwards.”
“Neen”: A few days ago a man and
woman took five good-sized youngsters to a
small suburban church in Melbourne, and
had them christened. Evidently the couple
liked the style of the church, for they called
again next day and wbre married.
OUR MOUNTAIN LOVE.
[FOR THE BU LLETIN.]
The longest ways were short ways, and easy ways
indeed,
■When Linda, o’er the ranges, our journeyings decreed ;
And time was but a trifle, of which we took no heed.
Night-time—but what was darkness? Our horses
knew the track;
How many times—how many!—had thefr been
there and back,
With Romeo a-riding, and kisses in the pack.
Rough hills—but what was roughness? Steep slopes
—but what were they?
Low boughs that threatened foreheads unless they
ducked away;
Beep ruts—but only cowards would wonder where
they lay.
The big rains, swiftly spiteful, enwrapped the
mountain-side
At times till all Bush creatures retreated, terrified.
But what was rain to lovers? “Yes, what?” our
hearts replied.
The track that led to Linda was zig-zagged through
the trees
That harped Romance’s music to every scented breeze ;
But we —we cut the corners with eagerness and ease!
The home trips—were they lonely'? And were they
cheerless trips ?
Bid spectral things assemble on ridges and in dips?
Oh, no —we still were breathing the fragrance of her
lips!
At home long after midnight—and later now it
seems! —■
Did we give way to brooding, dark hours that held
no gleams ?
Oh, no —we still were lovers, fond lovers, in our
dreams !
That track has long since faded; no more by moon
or star
Do horses’ hoofs splash sparkles from every granite
bar.
A road is cut for Linda—and Linda’s motor-car.
For Stodge, the speculator in mining ventures, came,
And bought for many thousands her father’s golden
claim;
And then, for Stodge’s profits, our sweetheart changed
her name!
x.s.w.
R. J. CASSIDY.


i"
ak, : iBM
hhhmi
2 •*
K
IS
e
IputljVkos tke I ady
?
i
H
m
m
tsm
*
■E
gfl|
r
MB
rHV
>■
I
:.-
m
1 I
ill
Hi
: •
■ . ■
■
Hi
Hi
1 i :
lift.
*1
Jsi
K: ftfPl
isyijSß&H
ilip *
■ 1
Hi
r
• ? t .
1
>:. JHbk.
■■■H * N \
I ft
Hhh H
f
ill
4 ft- tiff
ft!
? r rapßl
It M B : ■
I
• wIS
Cft
HHHnPi
I—
fti’ '
|Kfl
:■ m
m
K
'■ ■ f : . .. >'::■■■■
NMatMlNjnr
t» t ti'Y* :
&
m
wr
“W _
i
■
I
m
H Hi
a
J} -fl
i
M
KS
Ml l
. « * 1
K<
I
I H
lllllil
■
ft
f ft
■
mil
m
t-ft ■■
ft!
ms
m
i
■
■t
icaam
HH
:
Mng
»
«1
Kft .**2
■*<y,:j
«ppl
H
>=
■
m
• :JO$M
w - J
IP
V


K372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and loct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K444.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 160. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches In 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Prices:
Stewabt Dawson
J'lvo Sydney gstablisments'.
185-187 PITT ST. KEAR KIIN(G ST.,
CORKER -*I2 GEORGE ST.!^
K 375. Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129.—Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
No. 155. Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
Bluti : Among the hurdles put up to the
youngsters in my school by the examiner
this year was: “Write a brief note on the
policeman, the law courts and the Judge.”
One boy chewed the end of his pen for 10
minutes, then dealt with it this way: “The
judge s duty is to sit in a box and see which
horse wins.”
* * * *
Hobo ’: Lord Charles Douglas isn’t the
only one who read of his own death. Here
in Queenstown (Tas.) a man did it the other
day. Charles Petersen, 64, who had been
staying at a local hotel for many years
became ill and was taken to hospital. On
Sunday evening someone told the. daughter of
the hotelkeeper that Charlie had died. There-
upon Bung arranged with the undertaker to
go up and measure him next morning, and
meantime the funeral man had the news of
the death published in the Zeehan Herald.
In the morning the undertaker was in the
hospital grounds on the way to the morgue
to measure the body when he met it walking
about in the sun.
* * * *
“Snell”: Fights were being conducted in
Die old Melbourne cyclorama, and one night
Pip Morgan, of the Port, was to try con-
clusions with Darky Andrews, champion of
the gasw T orks. for the gate, winner to take
two-thirds. The two were in the ring, and
their corners were busy on the prelimi-
naries, when a thick-set young woman put in
a dramatic appearance at the ringside. Shak-
ing a fist she commanded: “You come out
of that, Morgan. Come on. out of that afore
I drag you out!” The pride of the Port
was on his feet, facing the problem. “Oh,
gart! Let a fellow pick up a quid or two,
AS REPORTED.
MA : “Evie, you stood on the porch quite a
while last night!”
EVIE: “Why, mother, I only stood there for
a second!”
MA : “Oh, but I'm sure I heard a third and
a fourth!”
can t yer ?” “Pick up a quid or two ! Pick
up a paltry thirty bob with a ’ouse like this
and me havin’ to pay five quid to have you
doctored ! Out yer come !” Pip hung back,
and a second later the lady was in the ring!
fehe bundled Mr. Morgan to the dressing-
room and the crowd, robbed of its sport,
howled dismally. Then Darky Andrews was
seen holding up a glove and appealing for
silence. ‘ Gents all,” said he, “I won’t see
you done for a go. Let the management
throw in another five quid and I’ll fight the
lady!”
, L : As an old student, I agree abso-
lutely with “Gregor” (B. l/12/ v 2l) that
Australian universities are utilitarian
institutions technical colleges, not centres
ol culture. In my time most stu-
dents were doing medicine and engineer-
H.C.L. AGAIN.
“Well, what does a good little boy say when he’s given a penny?”
“Make it tuppence, auntie."
ing, and had no concern with general ideas.
Even the Arts course was mainly for bud-
ding teachers, and there were too many
girls in the classes. Girls are seldom origi-
nal. They always agree with their teachers.
But, after all, the young men were no
better. There was
no surge of
thought, as in the
old universities of
Paris and Oxford,
no interest in
literature, no fresh
outlook on history
or politics, no
lively discus-
sions. There was
more life in the
gallery art-classes
and Marshall
Hall’s conserva-
torium. I knew of
only two young
men of talent, one
a journalist's son
who had ink in his
blood, the other
over in the medical
school, a scientist,
wit and brilliant
writer whose work
still appears i n
The Bulletin
over a queer
signature. All the other students I knew
accepted their “ideas” from the Argus. One
of them, now a leading light in politics,
thought that George Reid was a statesman.
J he professors were not altogether to blame,
though they were seldom stimulating. It
was the depressing atmosphere of the place.
Youth should have dreams of creating the
world anew; our matter-of-fact youth were
dreftming of a plate in Collins-street or a
steady job in an office.
“D. Fish”: It isn’t necessary to go to old
Norway or the Pacific Islands to find an
instance of a skull used as a drinking-cup.
Charles JVlacAlister records in his reminis-
cences that in 1847 he and George Murray
met ‘Black” Francis McArthur, then owner
of Norwood, at the crossing of the Wollon-
di% River on the road to Goulburn
fN.S.WA, and asked him to have a nip.
They bad no pannikin hardy, so offered the
liquor in a bullock-bell. McArthur said he
had tried a worse tumbler—he and another
man out on the plains with a bottle of rum
haying no pannikin, had picked up a black-
tellows skull and drunk out of that.
“Coolyak” : Recent statements on the treat-
ment of disabled soldiers
amaze me. I know a re-
turned man who lost his big
toe on Gallipoli. He draws
7s. (jd. a week pension, his
wife draws 3s. 9d., and his
two children each get a
little. Presumably every
child that he has will get a
pension. His missing toe'
makes no difference to his
earning a living, as he is a
lawyer. Incidentally, he
was runner-up for a tennis
championship in his State
last year. He cares so little
for his pension that he
mostly doesn’t trouble to
collect it for months at a
time. Yet we’re told that
some maimed soldiers are
going hungry!
Howitzer ’: On a hectic morning at
i ozieres uiy cobber Toby and I were bomb-
ing Fritz out of a communication trench,
f Hning a lull Toby said : “If I’m going west
I hope it 11 be sudden.” Not 10 minutes
later an oyster bomb, thrown by a Hun,
burst on Toby’s belt and disembowelled him.
He turned to me with a smile (though most
his entrails were on the ground), said:
budden enough, cobber,” and dropped dead
at my feet.
* * * *
“The Schoolie”: What narks me more
than M.C. or Q.C. exams is the Vic. Govern-
ment scholarship exam. The competition is
so keen that it is practically impossible for
a child in a single-teacher school to win.
We hear a lot about “intelligence tests” for
sub-normal children. Why can’t a child,
recommended by the teacher, be subjected to
an intelligence test and granted a scholar-
ship if he reaches a set standard?
* * * *
“Bouragi” tells of a banquet that wasn’t:
A recent reference to an interrupted cannibal
feast in the Solomons reminds me that old Gov-
ernor Macgregor, of Papua, was the champion canni-
bal nark. Dr. Bill’s greatest performance in this
line was on the Musa River in the middle ’nineties.
He heard that the Oollingwood Bay natives had
sent a huge expedition northwards to raid the
Musa, and followed them in the Merrie England.
Going up the Musa in his launch, the old
Ruby, he found burned villages galore, but camped
at nightfall without having overtaken the raiders.
Early in the morning he was standing on the bank,
when up the river, out of the rolling mist, came
a procession of a hundred or so canoes, each with
a crew of about a dozen. At the stem and stern of
every craft stood, stark and grim, a feathered and
painted warrior, holding upright a decorated war-
spear. One by one the canoes slipped by, and,
without taking the slightest notice of Macgregor
or his police, vanished silently into the up-river
mists. Realising that they had hidden in some
big backwater the previous day, Macgregor gave
them a start and followed in the Ruby. There
were never any more forays from Oollingwood Bay
after that. Few of the raiders ever got back, for
their canoes were captured and destroyed, while the
raiders who were not killed or captured were left
hidden in the sago swamps of the Musa, with 100
miles of enemy territory between them and home.
The canoes were packed with neat little parcels of
half-cooked Musa inhabitant, wrapped in banana-
leaf and tied with laivyer-cane strings. The en-
trails of the victims had been carefully collected,
wound into coils, and hung on sticks placed across
the canoes, gunwale to gunwale, that they might
keep fresh and well aired. It was a great killing,
but the Musa crocodiles were the onlv ones to prolit
by it.
* * * *
Gremorne”: Sydney, clerks are beginning
to relish the alterations brought about by
f ?? orts ot the Bank Officers union. Euot
or all they get their pay-envelope every fort-
night instead of every month. With a small
screw a month was a long time to look
ahead, and most screws were mortgaged be-
fore pay-day came round. Another nuis-
ance which caused ructions every day was
the hunt after a lost “balance,” nobody who
might conceivably be responsible daring to
budge until the missing Bs. lOd. was found,
f known lady-clerks miss both lunch
and dinner and wander home in a quasi-
hysterical state at 9 p.m. after a vain struggle
to locate sixpence. Now all ledgers have
to be in the strong-room under lock and
key at 6.15 p.m. whether balanced or not.
It there is anything wrong the search is re-
sumed next day in office hours, though, as a
™£tter of fact, all hours worked are now
office hours, seeing that overtime has to be
paid for.
* * *
“Exul” on a queer medical subject
“Dr. Nil” (B. 1/12/’2l) is right in saying ana-
phylaxis is much more common than “X2X’s” one
in 5,000,000 cases. Here are two more instances.
One of the R.M.O.’s at Prince Alfred Hospital, who
had an injection of serum some years previously,
grew diphtheria bacilli from his sore throat and g’ave
himself a dose of antitoxin on the spot. Within
10 minutes he was on the floor of the lab. in a col-
lapsed and semi-conscious condition. I myself also
got it within half-an-hour after the third intraven-
ous injection of typhoid bacilli, which Muir and
Ritchie say can cause it as well as serum. How-
ever, “Dr. Nil” errs in describing as anaphylaxis his
own unfortunate experience after a second injection
of serum. The characteristic feature of anaphylaxis
is that the “symptoms occur with remarkable sud-
denness” (M. and R.) and “Dr. Nil’s” did ndt
appear till the second day. His trouble was
“serum disease,” which is closely related to, but
distinct from, anaphylaxis. The symptoms of this,
which although very unpleasant is usually much less
dangerous than anaphylaxis, “usually appear shortly
after the injection, or at least within 24 hours”
(M. and R.), and consist of a rash all over the body
accompanied by swelling (as “Dr. Nil” describes)
and also by rise of temperature. Serum disease also
diffeis fi.om anaphylaxis in that while more com-
mon after a second injection it frequently follows
the first one.
* * * •
feaaedi : Capt. Blank, an English officer
who was O.C. an Australian riding-school
in Egypt, used to tell the Diggers that Aus-
tralians didn’t ride like gentlemen ; they only
stuck on. Then one day he offered to show
the troops the way to take a fence. He took
the fence all right with some feet to spare,
but his charger stayed on the near side.
Amid a roar of irreverent Digger laughter
the captain clambered to his feet spluttering
large quantities of Egyptian sand about the
landscape. “Ah, well, Captain,” drawled the
inevitable hard doer as he brushed the dust
trom the gallant warrior’s tunic, “it’s better
to fall off like a gentleman than stick on
like an Australian.”
* * * *
1 “Azrim” : I agree with “Borom” (B.
i/i"/ -1) that there is a characteristic odor
about a recent cadaver. It is very faint,
resembles the fragrance emanating from
loam after a shower of rain, is unite evan-
escent, rarely being noticed more than four
hours after death, and, in my opinion, is
due to deficient oxygenation plus the pres-
THE STRUGGLE IN THE
SLAUGHTERYARD.
THE DINER (after valiant but futile
struggle ): "It must have been a very
tender-hearted butcher who killed that
lamb.”
THE WAITER; “Yes, sir. Why, sir?”
THE DINER : “He must have hesitated three
or four years before striking the fatal
blow.”
ence of lactic acid. The odor is more marked
m those who have succumbed to pneumonia,
pulmonary oedema, pneumonic influenza or
phthisis, i.e., those diseases where there is
considerable interference with the gaseous
exchange (oxygen for carbon-dioxide) that
takes place in the lung air-cells.
“TOO RIGHT.”
[FPR THE BULLETIN.]
loo right, ’ she said. I'd said "The day is fine,
J he morning balmy and the air like wine.”
1 said, “I love to hear the wild birds sing'
Down in the stillness of yon bosky wood,
Where wildflowers throw their scent o’er everything:
I’d love to dwell there always if I could.”
1 sought to make her ihapsodise. Instead,
"Too right,” she said.
Too right.” I spoke to her of old Romance
When knight fought knight on far green fields of
France,
And youths fared forth to win their golden spurs,
And maidens, sad-eyed, waited their return;
I told her I would be a knight of hers;
lo do some valorous deed my heart did yearn.
And she just raised her eyes and moved her head.
‘‘Too right,” she said.
100 right.” I love her for her angel-face,
Her shapely limbs, her movements of such grace,
Her splendid eyes, her night-black head of hair.
And so this evening when the shadows fall,
And stars appear, I’ll ask her if she’ll share
My future life and be mine all-in-all.
But if to my solicitings she says “Too right”—•
Why’, then, my God! I’ll murder her to-night.
N.S.W.
A. D. M.


SIMON-CARVES LTD.
Manchester, England,
CONSULTING ENGINEERS and CONTRACTORS.
CORE OVEN DEPARTMENT
BY-PRODUCT COKE OVENS.
TAR DISTILLING and
BENZOL RECTIFICATION PLANTS.
WASHER DEPARTMENT
COAL WASHING PLANTS.
COAL HANDLING PLANTS.
METALLURGICAL DEPARTMENT
BLAST FURNACES, FURNACE HOISTS,
H. B. STOVES, CALCINING and
ORE HANDLING PLANTS.
STEEL FURNACES, GAS PRODUCERS,
RE-HEATING FURNACES and
SOAKING PITS, etc.
CHEMICAL PLANT DEPARTMENT
SULPHURIC ACID PLANTS,
ZINC BLEND and PYRITES BURNERS.
COMPLETE GLASS WORKS.
SUPERPHOSPHATE PLANTS.
AIR PLANT DEPARTMENT
FANS, BLOWERS and EXHAUSTERS,
HEATING and VENTILATING.
FORCED and INDUCED DRAUGHT,
FUME and STEAM REMOVAL.
FORGES and FORGE PLANTS.
MINE VENTILATION.
FERRO-CONCRETE STRUCTURES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Early inquiries are requested to ensure personal attention of an English Expert
arriving in Australia about January, 1922.
Represented by
Arthur Leplastrier ®. Co.
jti / • 'fj ... ....... ! ‘
Head Offices 79 Circular Quay, Sydney.


The Federal Mutual
i
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-860-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
f
WHISKY
ƒ
f
tH ETOPNOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“M. 8.”: In a gum-tree close to a farm-
house where I boarded a pair of peewits built a
nest and hatched a brood. When the chicks were
a few days old a mischievous boy shot the mother,
and I speculated as to the line of action the bereaved
father would pursue in the circumstances. Would
he prove a quitter and desert his helpless offspring,
or would he provide the necessary food supplies
unaided? Within a few minutes from the death
of his partner he flew rapidly towards the horizon
and disappeared. In less than an hour he returned
with partner No. 2 on his arm, as it were, and the
stepmother at once began the business of feeding
the hungry brood with a vigor that showed she
was no believer in “go slow.” When the young
ones were able to take care of themselves the lady
did not retire again into the void, but remained with
her partner apparently on the “till death do us
part” principle. Now, how did the widower know
where to find the lady? Did he induce her to prove
faithless to her lawful lord, or was she a merry
widow or a spinster, and how did he communicate
his wishes? On another occasion late one evening
the writer saw a small ring-necked hawk kill one
of a pair of leather-heads that had a nest occupied
by a brood of three. Next morning two old birds,
were attending to the commissariat department. Just
how is the trick accomplished?
* * * *
“Jad”: Whenever I hear a man bragging
of his dog I think of the yarn old Joe Burns, of
Poverty Bay (M.L.), used to tell. In the very early
days Josephus was camped beside a wide and
fairly deep river, with only his dog for company,
when a party of Maoris appeared and opened fire
upon him. Hastily clapping an empty camp-oven on
his head, he plunged into the water and proceeded
to shatter all existing records for the distance to
the opposite bank. Joe said it was all his eye
and Betty Martin about the natives being bad shots.
The way they rang up bull’s-eyes on that impromptu
tin hat of his convinced him,, anyway. But he won
safely across and plunged into the dense undergrowth.
Then he suddenly remembered Tiger, his faithful
canine. Joe thought a whole lot of Tiger, who
had figured conspicuously in quite a number of his
hair-raising escapades. The idea of leaving him
to his fate among the savage Hau-llaus was too
painful to contemplate, so he wormed his way back
to the river bank. He needn’t have worried. There
was Tiger gamely breasting the current with the
lid of the camp-oven on his head!
* * * *
“H. Murray”: A new arrival had secured
a block of scrub land on which there was some very
fine timber. With a mate he immediately started
cutting, and arranged with a bullocky to haul to
the station. “Ain’t yer goin’ to brand yer logs?”
asked the oxologist. “What!” exclaimed the pommy.
“Light a fire at each tree to heat me brands? No
good ter me!”
* * * *
“A.V.L.” : The same old sickenin’ story—
the foreign article being continually boosted along!
“Mirza” (B. 3/11/’2l) goes into details and tells
us the populating capabilities of a certain lady
at Lake Como, Italy. Then “Friday Island” hops
in with an attempt to go one better with an intri-
cate description of some Parisienne’s vigorous en-
deavors to establish a new world off her own bat.
And so on. What about something Australian? A
couple blew into Casino (N.S.W.) last Saturday
from the back country. They had been courting
for quite a long time, finally decided “they might
as well,” and returned home the next day (Sunday)
man and wife. Monday evening hubby got back
from his day’s toil in the bush, and was presented
by the lady of his choice with a fiver’s worth (full-
weight) of bouncing baby boy! Now, I reckon that
is something to crow about. The imagination soars
to dizziness when one considers the possibilities of
those two dinkum Aussies within the next 12 months.
“Hayseed”: “Caley” (B. 10/11/’2l) asks
for a cure for sore shoulders while the horses are
working. Speaking ' from 30
years’ experience I say there
isn’t any. Here is a pallia-
tive: Boil jgum-tree leavejs,
wattle-bark and soap all to-
gether, and dab it on the
sore after taking the collar
off. Before harnessing up
scrape the spot on the collar
where it chafes the shoulder, then beat it (with a
bottle for choice). In this way the sore's can be
kept down fairly well.
“Hanns” gives the biologist’s view
“Claude” (B. 17/11/’2l) is wrong when he says
the rudimentary organs of lactation in the male
have been developed from the female by means of
hereditary influences. If this were so, and as there is
nothing to show that these influences have stopped,
it is possible that some millions of years hence they
would work in other directions than .that of the
lacteal system, with the result that the male sex
would also be childbearing—which opens up a vista
of interesting possibilities. The real explanation of
the abnormal development of the breast which some-
times takes place in man is this. Originally the only
known forms of life on the globe were asexual —that
is, neither male nor female. Later, they became both
and reproduced by either sexual or asexual means,
one representative of this epoch at the present day
being Plasmodium lavernw, the causatory protozpal
organism of malaria. At a still later stage male and
female were developed from the one common sex, and
some of the secondary characteristics of each were
retained in the other. Thus woman, at the present
day, has also secondary sexual characteristics which
are more a part of the opposite sex than of her own.
That both male and female have developed from a
common unisexual state is amply evidenced by the
existence of rudimentary organs in other parts of the
body, which, like the remains of the lacteal gland
and ducts in man, are apparently without any func-
tions.
“Billy T.” : Bolitho, the agent from Criss-
cross, brought Harper home in his car. As they
stood at the slip panels talking, Kate, the maid
of many uses, passed towards the house with a
basket of washing. Kate was about 34, round and
rosy, and the owner of as fine a black eye as ever
illuminated a human countenance. Bolitho was
greatly taken; he dropped the matter in hand with-
out apology, and “Who’s she?” said he. Harper
explained. Bolitho went straight after her, and
caught up to her at the kitchen door. He took
the basket from her, and set it down. “Excuse me,”
said he, “I’m Donald Bolitho, of Crisscross. You
may have heard of me, I am a land and estate agent
there, auctioneer, and several other things. I am
doing well. I want you to marry me if there’s no
objection. Now, don’t get flustered, please; just
think it over quietly, and I’ll see you later.” He
raised his hat, bowed, and returned to his car.
About three minutes later, when he was bidding
THE ETIQUETTE OF THE BUSH.
COW COCKY (to city friend) : “Stand, Percy, stand —yer teamin' her bad ’abits."
Harper good day, Kate came down the path. “I’ve
thought it over, Mr. Bolitho,” she said, “and I’m
willin’, on’y for one thing. I’m married ! Bill left
me 12 months ago last Christmas. I’ve had me
marriage certificate seven years.’’ Then, rioting
Bolitho’s expression of disappointment, she added
eagerly: “But it hasn’t been renewed.”
“Sassafras” : Here is a cure for “Caley’s”
nag’s sore shoulders (B. 10/11/’2l). Wash well
with soap and water, then dry with a rough cloth,
again damp the sores with a strong solution of cold
water and ordinary washing-blue; whilst still wet
apply a little iodine tincture, which makes a sort
of dry film over the sore, and finally smear well over
the sore with the pure blood from the bloodwood-
tree. This treatment was kept a secret by a man
I know for over 20 years, and he told me he sold
the recipe to a veterinary surgeon for £2O and .a
draught colt. The vet. has since sold £3OOO worth
of ointment, which is no more nor less than the pure
sap of the bloodwood-tree mixed with lysol and
lard. I have cured a sore shoulder the size of the
palm, of the hand in ten days with it.
* * * *
“Hick”: Re “Jim Carew’s” 7ft. 44in black
snake (B. 24/11/’2l). The largest black wriggler
to my knowledge was handed his pass-out check
about 15 years ago, on the You Yangs (Vic.), by
Billy Hughes and Fred Jones, who were stripping
bark for Tom Hurley. He was Bft. lin. in length,
and his . skin (which was 9in. across at the centre)
was exhibited at the S'wanston-street State School,
Geelong. I happened to be the proud scholar who
told the story of the killing. P.S. —No, it isn’t
the same Billy Hughes.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Aragun’s” snake (B. 24/11/’2l)
which swam 70yds. must have been out for his
second swimming lesson. When Herbert Nicholls,
then South Coast (N.S.W.) champion oarsman, was
training on Bateman’s Bay, he once met a black
six-footer a mile from land. Nicholls gave him a
friendly pat with his scull, whereupon the squirmer
twisted around the blade and came aboard. He
coiled up complacently just for’ard of the sliding
seat, and stayed there while the sculler did his best
time for the wharf. When fishing on Corunna
Lake (N.S.W.) in the summer of ’O9, my mates and
I watched a long trail of something swimming from
the northern shore. When it neared our boat, half-
a-mile from land, we learned that it was a brown
snake 4ft. long. He might have reached the south
bank, a mile away, had he not met us.
* * * *
“A.C.R.”: In recent Bulletins I have
read numerous ways of curing bridle-breakers, but I
don’t think any come up to mine. Get a three-
bushel bag, half-fill it with sand, and tie your horse
to this. He may shift it a yard or so, but without
damage to bridle or horse. Incidentally, this is the
best way to tie a young horse when breaking-in
instead of to a post. You can drop your reins any-
where afterwards.
* * * *
“Alex”: Re “Jim Carew” (B. 29/11/’2l)
and his black wriggler. Queensland breeds
them inches longer. I shot one ,at The Springs,
Bunya Mountains, near Bell (S.Q.), which taped
Bft. sin., and then the gun had scattered 3in. of
the business end of him.
“E.N.” : John Orr, travelling dam-sinker,
had pitched his camp under a gum on the slope of
Mount Long. There was about him the usual bush
solitude permeated by the usual bush noises so
familiar to the bushman that they become part of
the hush of expectancy said to be characteristic of
the bush by night. Orr had lit his pipe with a
firestiek, but instead of returning the brand to the
flames he commenced poking the soil about with it.
The second thrust tin ned up a sovereign. Amazed, the
man continued his digging, and in the course of
ten minutes unearthed five more sovereigns, a half-
sovereign and four blackened half-crowns. Con-
tinuing the hunt he found a billy lid, some buttons
and a collar-stud. Orr now took up a flaming stick,
and started a wider investigation. On the other
side of the big gum he found the skeleton of a man.
The bones were a little scattered, as though tugged
about by animals. Orr was impressed, of course,
He took off his hat, and spoke 'a few profane words
of condolence; but human bones had no more terror
for him than the bones of a horse—he had seen a
great many bones in his time, he recollected. Pre-
sently he mentioned the matter of the seven pounds
to the skeleton. “About this here money,” said he
—“I s’poso you claim it? Well, fair’s fair, stranger,
and I’ll tell you what I’ll do —I’ll toss you for it.”
Very solemnly there in the light of the camp-fire
Johnnie Orr tossed the bones for the seven pounds
he had found. When he reported his find to the
police at Sligo, he said nothing of the money.
Having won it, it was his, and his conscience was re-
conciled. But he had used a double-headed penny!
* * * *•
“Fraoch”: Re “Pecksniff’s” bower-birds
(B. 13/10/’2l). In Queensland a few years ago
I happened on one of their playhouses, and there was
the usual miscellaneous collection —pieces of emu-
egg, shells, colored glass, nails, wire and three
bottle-necks. But, strangest of all, close by was a
circular grass nest, well formed and containing four
water-worn stones resembling eggs. As well as
being a great mimic, the bower-bird must be a bit
of a joker.
IT’S AN ILL WIND.
“How do you like living in a flat?"
“First rate, old boy. Every time my wife
has company I have to go out to make
room."
“Dr. Nil”: “Kingking” (B. 17/11/’2l >
wants to know how to stop his horse biting him.
I don’t know about his prad, but quite accidentally
I stopped a vicious chestnut mare biting me. In
the stable she caught me by the slack of my waist-
coat (there was a slack in it those times) and com-
menced to shake me up. I was never very courage-
ous, but instinctively I gave her a short-arm jab
with the right on the nose, in holds. She let go
my waistcoat and never tried to bite me afterwards.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE PIEBALD MARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How she was bred I can’t recall,
I never heard of her dam or sire;
She was “the piebald mare,’’ that’s all,
Wild as a hawk and fierce as fire.
Every week when the stockyard filled
With a circling mob of the spelled and spare,
Though our station boasted of riders skilled
Nobody asked for the piebald mare.
Someone would say with a cheery grin:
“Bucks as high as a blasted tree;
Bested old Bob when he broke her in;
None of the piebald dame for me!’’
And round she went in the rolling dust
With heels describing a circle clear,
The sour old besom that none would trust.
White in her eye and a bacldaid ear.
Then came the terrible days of drought,
When horses staggered and starved and died;
And one by one from the ranks fell out,
And less than a dozen were fit to ride.
The coach came past with a knoclced-up three,
The fourth lay dead at the Five-Milj gate;
They stood in the moonlight head to knee,
And Billy the mailman cursed at Fate.
“Lend me seme sort of a nag,” he said—-
“Anything lapped in a horse’s hide,
Wild or woolly or three-parts dead,
To pull me through to the Queensland side!”
Most of the horses were weak and thin.
There was only one that could serve his need.
The boss said: “Run him the piebald in,
For this is her chance to earn her feed! ”
Billy the mailman heard her snort,
As she cleared the yard with her lifted heels.
“Bli’me! An outlaw ? That’s the sort.
Gi’ me the kind that bucks and squeals!
“Somethin’ wi’ life in these days o’ drought,
Somethin’ that rushes an’ runs av'ay!”
He buckled the winkers and dragged her out,
And harnessed her up in his careless way.
PUSS, PUSS!
“I don’t care for men! In fact, I've said
‘no’ to several of them.”
“What were they selling, dear?”
One of us hung to her near-side ear,
One of us coupled her—Lord knows how!
We hooked her up with our strongest gear,
And Bill with his foot on the brake said “Now!”
We sprang aside and we loosed her head,
She struck at the pole and stood straight on end.
“Take my blessing!” the driver said,
“This is the sort for a mailman’s friend!”
Away they went like a streak of light,
The piebald dragging the knocked-up three,
The moon aglint on her eyeballs white
And a fleck of foam on her lifting knee.
She swung the coach to the Queensland side,
She hurled it out and she heaved it back;
Horses staggered and strained and died,
But the piebald stuck to the border track.
Winter came with the welcome rains,
The bluegrass stood like a cornfield fair,
And the best that pulled on the blacksoil plains
Was the mailman’s leader—-the piebald mare.
scorn AVI).
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Melbourne to Brisbane on a Fully-Loaded
Truck Shod with GOODRICH TYRES.
\ PECORATE you for.
honest efficient and
DISTINGUISHED
■SERVICE
■*^l'
-5S
\\\
'Z
OS
H?
c
6
m
r
m
0
Um
L\(J
ft
/ b
THE MEDAL WINNER
The International Harvester Company of Australia, Limited, sent
one of their trucks, fully loaded, on this long journey to prove the
possibilities and reliability of long-distance haulage.
The following is an extract from their letter: —
“We have had absolutely no
difficulty of any kind with the
tyres, and considering the road
from Melbourne to Sydney
they stood up remarkably
well, there being very few
cuts and very little, if any,
signs of wear.
“This is a good point, as in
a great many places on the
roads between Melbourne and
Sydney we ran for a consider-
able length of time over newly-
made roads and new metal.
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd.) C. G. HOYT.”
GOODRICH Tyres
DUVAL 8 CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
SnoHo»tafl:
■. h m
m
m
IB
«
,
WHAT MAKES A SPEEDOMETER FAMOUS?
NOTHING BUT THE SOUND, SIMPLE ELEMENTS
THAT STAND OUT SO DISTINCTLY IN THE
ƒ
niTAI ITY— In constructing STEWART Speedometers no effort has been spared to make them the
best thatcan be made. They are as high in quality as the best cars on which they can be metalled.
DlruT r-rtMCTRI IPTinN—The STEWART organisation has built and experimented with every
RIGHT CONSTRUCIIUIN has been app]ied and discarded in f of the
conceivable type of bpeedometer. H y p acknowledged by motor-engineers to be the most
STEWART Patented Magnetic—the principle that is acknowledged oy m
accurate and dependable.
ArnTPA r* Y The STEWART is the one Speedometer whose pointer remains absolutely steady at
shiWng its position instantly with slightest variance in rate of travel. Its remarkable accuracy
is not affected by changes of temperature.
I nisir I IFF— Due to the high-quality materials used in its construction the STEWART Speedometer
will outiast any car. Long-mileage records running up to nearly 300,000 miles prove that it is almost
impossible to wear out a STEWART Speedometer.
IS IT ANY WONDER THAT THE &teWa>& IS THE MOST POPULAR SPEEDOMETER IN
IS n ain i nuim MOTORDOM?
The fMeivmb Speedometer is the best investment you can make. If one has not already been installed
on your car see your dealer and have it installed to-day.
tMEwwib NECESSITIES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM LEADING WHOLESALE AND RETAIL ACCESSORY
INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING INTERSTATE SERVICE STATIONS:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney; BERRY & ROCHE PTY.,
LTD., Swanston Street, Melbourne; ARTHUR Street,
CORNELL, LTD., Pirie Street, Adelaide; MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


Naturally during the Summer months you feel languid and disinclined for work
or play. Necessarily you need a tonic—why not CLEMENTS TONIC? It infuses
energising nutriment to the blood and clears your system of fatiguing impurities.
Try CLEMENTS TONIC with soda-water or take it with water—either way you’ll
find it pleasantly invigorating. Your local chemist or store sells CLEMENTS TONIC
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W,
“Big Ack”: What’s all this twentieth-
century rot about the originator of the swing-
gate drafting race? Between Jericho and Jerusalem
there is a sheep-yard similar to any to be seen on
the average Australian run, except that it is in
stone instead of timber. It is complete with draft-
ing race and swing-gate, and on top of the granite
pillar supporting the gate is carved “JOSEPH. B.C.
570.” I remember the date well because 570 was
my regimental number. But don't ask me how
JOSEPH got to know what was going to happen
570 years later.
“Skin-diver” (Thursday Island) : “Ted
Eye’s” yarn (B. 20/10/’2l) anent Jap divers driving
skin-divers away by throwing lumps of meat over-
board to encourage sharks is on a par with many
other spiteful little untruths about Japanese divers.
Skin-divers have never cared to work in companv
with pump-boats, but that is principally on account
of the water in which salt beef has been boiled being
thrown overboard —sharks will track this up-wind for
THE ATTRACTION.
“You wouldn't think Edna would be so fond
of surfing. Cats generally hate the
water.”
“But you must remember they have nine
lives to be saved.”
miles. The Japanese have proved themselves the
best shell-divers, and with all their faults are not
given to petty little tricks. And I speak from experi-
ence. I have been on the bottom with a ten-footer
Bailing round me. Can “Ted Eye” say the same?
‘Rebus W.”: Re “Dou’s” mare (B.
17/11/’2l) that pokes her head under the shafts.
Perhaps she’s yoked a bit far back, or the shafts
ma -v be too long. Try letting the traces out another
hole or two. If this is no good fit shaft-caps with
rings and run a light strap from cap to cap. Then
it will be impossible for her to get under the sticks.
PUTTING HIM TO THE TEST.
URCUIN : “That’s a bosker dawg, missus.”
LADY ( condescending to answer): “ Yaas . he’s a darling little fellow.”
URCHIN : “ D’yer think ’e’d fetch this hunk of wood out of the water if I chucked it in?”
“Monaro”: “King-king” (B. 17/11/’2l)
asks how to cure a biting horse. I once saw a
notorious biter cured by accident. His owner had
boiled a ten-pound piece of mutton in the open.
On the way to the hut after removing it from the
pot he held it towards the horse. The vicious
snap the animal made at that red-hot piece of meat
was absolutely his last appearance in the act.
“Trochus”: The Northern nigger’s English
has the new-hand puzzled, and
particularly when he says, “I bin
killem two-fella lubra, ’ I bin
killem plenty man,” which means
that he has hit them. If he
says “Killem die,” then there is
a cadaver somewhere in the vicin-
ity. One will say, “I bin killem
kangaroo, ’ but when asked where
it is he says, “No more killem
die ; only killem little bit and he
run away.” I had four blacks
making a trench. I told them
to make it to a certain tree and
then come for rations. They
came up and I asked if they had
finished it. The leader explained
matters. “A little bit more
further close up behind.” I had
to stroll to the trench to unravel
the mystery, and found they had
gone further than when I left
and had got close to the tree, but
were yet behind it. A stranger
came to my place; he and a
blackboy rode up together at
night. I knew the blackboy. I
said good evening to the white,
and talked on, but got no answer.
He was unsaddling. The black-
boy looked round his horse v and
said, “Boss, you talk hard alonga
that man, him got stiff-fella ear-
hole.” That is one way of saying, “Talk loud—he’s
deaf.”
* * * *
“Big Bend”: Will some Abo. tell me how
many times I have to do it to convince them that
I’m in earnest? Two pairs of martins started
building 12 days ago under my verandah, and up
to date I have knocked both nests down eight times ;
and they are now on their ninth attempt. I would
like to know early, as if it’s going to be a con-
stant job I’ll put a boy on. I would not object
to the little chaps building there, but my bed
happens to be directly underneath the spot they’ve
selected.
“Billy T.” : The Rev. Thomas Hogg rode
up to Durkin's at Level Plains, and leaving his
small piebald horse tethered to the garden-fence,
went in to afternoon tea. When he came out he
found his horse still there, but without either saddle
or bridle. Search failing to bring the harness to
light, the black-boy Larry was carpeted before the
boss. “Why you bin stealum saddle, Larry?’’ “Mine
no bin stealum saddle, boss.” “Larry, you stole that
saddle!” “Boss, I no bin stealum.” “Parson he
tinkit you stealum.” “That feller parson no good,
boss.” Durkin drew attention to the piece of rope
with which the horse was tethered. “That bin your
piece ,of rope, Larry. You use-em to tie up your
pants.” Larry betrayed some excitement on the pro-
duction of this evidence. “That true, boss. That
bin my rope all right. What I tell you? That feller
parson him bin no good—him stealum my rope.”
The saddle and bridle were found wrapped in Larry’s
blanket under Larry’s bunk in Larry’s hut, and then
the black-boy cast a flood of light upon the situa-
tion. “Mine know that horse,” he cried. . “One time
las’ Chewsdee he pelong Fitzgerald circus. Plurry
cunning him. Hide that saddle himself.” He kicked
the horse in the stomach with his bare foot. “Plurry
liar!” he ejaculated. “Come long here make it
plenty trouble. Plurry liar!” And he kicked again.
* * * *
"Aorai” : A few remedies for “Dou’s” nag
(B. 17/11/’2l) that puts her neck under the shafts.
(1) Take a stout rope, and tie one end firmly round
the mare’s neck. Place the mare under any shady
tree which has a branch at right angles to the
trunk about 2ft. above the beast’s head. Throw one
end of the rope over the limb, and haul. While the
rope holds the mare cannot get her neck under the
shaft. (2) Get a sulky without shafts, (3) Get a
mare without a neck.
* * * * —-
Monaro : “Rockdale” on fighting birds
(•B. 17 /11 /’2l) reminds me of a curious coincidence
at Mooroopna (Vic.) A man was riding from the
railway station to the post office when a nesting
magpie dashed at him from the side of the road.
It cost him an eye. Seven years later—the same
man the same horse, the same spot (I can’t swear
to the mag.). This time it was the horse’s turn—the
same eye.
* * * *
I have a report to make on
S / w ith a pouch like a kangaroo’*
(B. 13/10/’2l). It was a fine tabby female, which
was suffering from a small umbilical hernia. This
is a protrusion of the abdominal contents through
a gap in the muscles of the abdominal wall, and is
known to the lay person as “starting of the navel ”
When the hernia is reduced by pressing back its
contents into the abdomen the gap in the muscles
is very obvious, and leaves a good imitation of
the marsupial pouch. The condition is well known
in puppies, and is probably also common in cats.
So that disposes of one at least of these fabulous
monsters.
Jobber ’: I’ll take nominations for the
biggest tallies in cabbage planting. Once I grew
em for a crust, and although only a novice, I one
day pulled from the beds and planted 3000. The
best tally I knew of in our district was 4000 in one
day, and that cove was reckoned the ringer. These
figures were not put up in a bar, but in the paddock,
with head down and both ears back. I should men-
tion that the planter always had a youngster—or his
missus—to drop the plants for him.
*
Monaro”: I saw a curious thing on the
Cowra-Forbes road (N.S.W.)—a perfectly blind
sheepdog' that worked and brought up the stragglers
with the best of them.
* * * *
Golub” : Abo.-liars have frequently stated
that the common black snake never shows fight and
that the only Australian variety which does so is
the tiger. Not long ago I disturbed a black
wriggler on the banks of the Goulburn (Vic.)
River, and, although I was armed with a hoe, he
ttood his ground and made a series of vicious lunges
at me until I struck him behind the place where
his ears ought to be. Another time I almost
trod on one and he also showed a disposition to
stop and argue. As there was no stick or other
weapon handy at the time, it was I who retreated.
Since then I have heard of several similar cases,
and I am now prepared to believe that so far from
porphyriacus being the coward that he is gener-
ally reputed to be, he is quite as pugnacious, when
In the mood for fight, as the tiger.
“Ophis” : “Aragun’s” sft. black snake (B.
24/11/’2l), who swam over 70yds. on the Clarence
River (N.S.IY.), didn’t put up a record. A party
of us met one in the Nepean River not far above
Penrith. We were in a boat, and the snake, a
three-footer, swam too near us and a 22cal. bullet
through its tail made it very angry. I fired a
couple of bullets into it; the second or third hit
turning it on its back, where it lay for some time.
After about 30 seconds it turned on its belly and
made for the far shore, a distance of fully 100 yards.
As we hit it with bullets several times it was badly
wounded, and its course was very erratic, but it
kept on until about 10 yards from shore, when a
shot tore up a length of its spine and it gave up the
ghost. All this excitement lasted about 10 minutes, and
the reptile must have covered more than 100 yards,
because a direct line would have measured 80-odd
yards. Knowing the black snake to be an excellent
swimmer, I a m prepared to hear other Abos. tell
of even better performances.
* * * *
“Sendee” : I claim to have had more ex-
perience of the effect of different bores, and high-
and low-velocity rifles, than “Small Bore” (B.
24/11/’2l). As a kid I shot my foot with a 12-bore
at a range of nine inches, and then walked 100yds.
and felt nothing for five minutes. Later, I stopped
a spent .32 soft bullet with my spine, and thought
I was dying for an hour afterwards, though in fact
I was hardly scratched. Again, a spent nickel
Turkish bullet on the shin made me think I’d been
hit by a sledge-hammer, and both these times anyone
could have had my scalp and hide. I saw a Digger
(he’s alive yet) shot through the brain at close
range with a machine-gun, and he ran 200yds.
without falling and then crawled the rest of the
way down to Anzac Beach. “Small Bore” might
have counted that chap as a “clean miss,” and I’ll
bet lots of his kangaroos when shot at close range
got it through the stomach, or the fleshy part of the
leg, and then galloped a mile or two before they
stopped to see what had stung them. A high-
velocity bullet gives the greatest shocking effect
at extreme range, when it only forces a difficult
passage through the flesh; but a soft-lead bullet
flattens out when it hits anything, and if it’s a
32.40 it tears a good-sized hole that will stagger
THE DOOMED ROOSTER.
“Well, I'll be axed! Chop me if that young
cockerel isn't courting my hens before
I’m dead!”
even an old scrub bull. I’ve used such a rifle as
“Small Bore” describes, and it is a handy weapon
for a sporting amateur; but the very expensive
ammunition is usually unprocurable at the country
store, where a professional shooter, who wants a
skin back for every shot fired, can get primers,
lead and powder, and load his own cartridges.
BALLADE OF BOOLIGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fierce the sun was, fierce and fell.
(Booligal and Hay and Hell!)
How we cursed the scorching day!
(Booligal and Hell and Hay!)
Drought was in the distant haze;
Not a tree to block the blaze ;
Overhead the fiery ball
Pierced us like a burning awl.
(Hell and Hay and Booiigal.)
Did we hear a distant bell?
(Booligal and Hay and Hell!)
Did we curse or did we pray ?
(Booligal and Hell and Hay!)
Westerlies had dried us brown;
Western tracks had tamed us down;
We whom nothing could appal,
We who once were lithe and tall.
(Hell and Hay and Booligal!)
Midday came. We tried a spell.
(Booligal and Hay and Hell!)
After tea we dozed away.
(Booligal and Hell and Hay!)
Gidya swimming in the glare,
Hawks that drooped in drooping air,
How the road beheld us crawl,
Blinded mules without a stall!
(Hell and Hay and Booligal!)
On the road there rose a swell.
(Booligal and Hay and Hell!)
On the swell a cottage lay.
(Booligal and Hell and Hay!)
Round it ran a garden green—
Fairer sight was never seen.
Soon it faded, fence and wall—
Damned mirage had built it all!
(Hell and Hay and Booligal!)
Prisoner in the Black Hole cel]
(Booligal and Hay and Hell!),
Brother, let they heart be gay,
Thou are not in Hell or Hay!
When the shadows round thee close,
Thine are not the deepest woes;
Many a worse may yet befal—
Thou at least canst not recall
Hell or Hay or Booligal!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


Cigarettes for Remembrance!
$r$TE (x wps
CIGARETTES
In Original Presentation Cabinets.
Gifts of Refinement
and Quality.
The highest-class cigarettes
obtainable—c igarettes
known to be the best—
packed in handsome Pre-
sentation Cabinets, make
a delightful Christmas Gift
that will be appreciated
by all discriminating
smokers.
I the connoisseur:
STATE EXPRESS CIGARETTES.
Presentation Cabinets.
Each containing 150 Cigarettes.
No. 333 Virginia - 11/3
No. 555 Virginia - 14/3
No. 999 Virginia, gold-tipped 18/9
No. 222 Virginia, gold-tipped 18/9
Astorias Virginia, Billiard-
room size 20/3
De Luxe Virginia, Magnum
size ------ 17/3
My Darling Virginia, for ladies 14/-
No. 444 Turkish Leaf - 18/-
No. 1 Turkish, extra mild - 20/3
Sole Proprietors: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., London
Britain’s Greatest High=Class Cigarette Manufacturers.


A MERRY XMAJ
fifty years ago and now.
“■of
vV/S
Si
£9|
m
m
M
m
X
w
m
m ■
U
g%
U I
■
m
i
ss
■
il.
m
m
8
**>
SSfe
m
m
M
: ■
B
-
■
HP
I
w
m
T-
-m
f
i
a
.:■: ■: ■ > ' : .
mm
mm
n
■
■
■1
mm
mm
m
mm
■ : -
a
U
%
»*£&*£
■amm.
m
n
a
mat
"f
m i
fci
■
d
flit
• SIS
nr
ii
if
m
S*v
r
MS
■
a
It
r-^rTl
u
us
fife
H
%
m
HI
H
■
S§ ; g
■
II
*1
yj
f
15
r!
S
n
ft
*«?
I
*5
■ ■;: <:
m
D
m
[sl^
©
tt
T
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
QUEENSLAND
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Kent Street, Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Cameron Street, Launceston.
Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Gilberts, Limited, King Street, Perth.
A. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington,
farmers’ Co-operative Association, Christchurch.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Limited, 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney


Tke
Purest
Spirit
ia tke
Wr»rtcL
f
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
lV °tFE's SCHN^^
“ X P STANDS ADO^'B-
SSa
v
m
%
/
N
Ct l£sr
»fio
u a<.cs
&
\ \
CROUP
M.
EVERY Drop of
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
about it at once. He was so obliging that
he cured me of the habit of wanting any-
thing. It was heartless to worry him.
Edmond was an avid student of politics;
Archibald knew more about politicians than
politics. Edmond was a human writing-
machine and an incomparable humorist;
Archibald an artist in cutting and polish-
ing. And with all his tremendous output of
original stuff Edmond could find time to
read proofs, give a greeting to visitors and
throw a kindly jest even to the printer’s
devil.
W. H. EAST.
A King of S.O.’s
From Private to Field-Marshal, by Sir
William Robertson, Bart. (Australasian Pub-
lishing Co.), describes a career which is
unique in the history of the British Army.
It would have been almost as remarkable
from a military standpoint had no world-
war come to put the finishing touch on its
romance in the form of a field-marshal’s
baton. Other rankers have risen high;
but always, like Hector Macdonald, because
of conspicuous gallantry and ability as fight-
ing soldiers. Robertson Seems to have seen
service in the face of an enemy only once
in his life. To appreciate his achievement
it is necessary to consider the British pri-
vate as he was in the seventies of last cen-
tury (which was when the future field-
marshal enlisted) and to realise his status.
Socially, in times of peace, he occupied in
many respects a position below that of a
member of the criminal classes. Respectable
girls would not be seen “walking out” with
a soldier; he was only admitted to the
lowest public-houses and to the cheapest
parts of the theatres. The War Office saw
to it that he should not get collar-proud in
barracks:—•
The brown bed-blankets were seldom if ever
washed; clean sheets were issued once a month;
and clean straw for the mattresses once every three
months. Besides the beds the only other furniture
of four benches and two deal tables. The
men polished their boots on the former, and the
latter were used for cleaning the remaining articles
of kit as well as for dining-tables. Tablecloths there
were none, and plates and basins (paid for by the
men) were the only crockery, the basin being used
in turn as a coffee-cup, teacup, beer-mug, soup-
plate, shaving-mug and receptacle for pipeclay with
which to clean gloves knd belts. The food provided
free consisted of lib. of bread and fib. of meat, and
nothing more of any kind. Groceries, vegetables
and all other requirements were paid for by the
men, who had a daily deduction of 3j)d. made from
their pay of Is. 2d. for that purpose.
The adjutant of the 16th Lancers when
Robertson joined as a lad of 17| was Lieu-
tenant Babington, who afterwards became
Chief Justice Adrian Knox’s brother-in-law
and Commandant in Maoriland. It was
against men such as Babington, born cavalry-
officers, who started soldiering with every
advantage which money, position and educa-
tion could offer, that the raw recruit had to
compete. He began inauspiciously by being
three times “crimed.” Yet he became a
full corporal before he was 20, and from
then onwards he moved relentlessly upwards.
All the time he was studying—not with any
definite object, apparently, since it seemed
hopeless to think of living on a subaltern’s
£l2O a year in the cavalry, and he dis-
dained the infantry—but because he was
born to be thorough and to work. Eventu-
ally he took the commission he was so obvi-
ously fitted for, and went to the 3rd D.G.’s
in India. He immediately began learning-
native languages. That and swordsmanship
and fencing (he seems to have been an in-
different horseman) were about the only
diversions he could afford:—
I claim no credit for pursuing these [temperate]
habits, because I had not the wherewithal to do
otherwise. Water was the only drink I could afford,
while for smoking I had to be content, with a fixed
amount of tobacco and cheroots at 2s. per 100. It
was not altogether agreeable to be seen drinking
water at mess when others were drinking champagne,
or to defer smoking till leaving the mess because
pipes were not allowed, but it had to be done.
From April, 1895, when he became a cap-
tain, he moved from one important staff job
to another. When the South African war
began he was at the War Office (in the
Intelligence branch), and, arriving in Cape-
town shortly before Magersfontein, he joined
Lord Roberts’s headquarters staff. He got
nothing but a “mention” out of this war,
and came back to London to take charge of
the Foreign Section of the Intelligence Divi-
sion and to be promoted Brevet-Lieut.-
Colonel. From being the oldest subaltern
in the army he became the youngest full
colonel.
If the ordinary routine had been followed
when the Great War arrived he would have
stayed at the War Office as Chief General
S.O. However, matters so developed that
he was made Quartermaster-General, and in
that capacity he proceeded to G.H.Q. at Le
Cateau. He reveals no secrets during his
narration of the war years; does not, in
fact, so much as hint at one. He rarely
criticises or blames, and practically never
complains, though he is evidently bitterly
disappointed at not having been allowed to
finish the war as C.I.G.S. It is in this
connection that he makes his only “kick.”
I was not surprised,” he writes in dealing
with his supersession by Sir Henry Wilson,
at the decision to remove me from the
War Office, for, as already shown, I had
been unable to agree with some of the
strategical plans the Prime Minister wished
to see. adopted, and my opposition to the
Palestine plan a few days before was the
culminating point of previous refusals to
lend my authority and name to acts which,
I was convinced, were unsound and a danger
to the Empire.” His last job was that of
Oommander-in-Chief of the British Army
of the Rhine.
, oddest feature of this book, which
breathes truth and candor and a noble con-
ception of duty in every page, is the fact
that it does not cast one ray of light upon
the author’s origin, birthplace or early life.
Such a man must have had remarkable fore-
bears on one side or the other. We are
told of the bitter grief he felt at the news
of his mother’s death, which reached him
as he was coming back from India on leave.
But she is not allowed a share in his fame
even to the extent of a mention of where
she lived. Someone, or some school, must
have educated him; or rather given him
the groundwork on which he intensively edu-
cated himself to such purpose that at 50
he was Copimandant of the Staff College.
Yet how or where he got his early schooling
is left wrapped in mystery. The greatest
of men have their weaknesses, and this sol-
dier, is indubitably great in so many
ways, shows his with naive frankness. He
dearly loves a lord, as the saying goes. With
wearisome conscientiousness he notes the
titled people, from dukes downwards, who
entertained him; details his more or less
worthless foreign orders with evident pride
(the King of Italy conferred two on him
for a fortnight’s visit to the Italian front) ;
and prints any expression of approval from
a royalty. But these are but spots on the
sun. The book reveals him, by no artifice
or intention of his own, as one of those por-
tentously solid, simple and incorruptible men
that only a master-race can produce^
J. B. D.
An Australian Elegy
Few elegies of distinction have been writ-
ten as yet in Australia; but among these
few an honorable place must be accorded to
the Elegy on an Australian Schoolboy, the
latest poem by Zora Cross (Angus and
Itobei'tson, No literary form is
more difficult than the elegy, which must
avoid a barren artificiality on the one side
and on the other mere emotionalism. A
memorial poem must be more than a human
document; it must be a work of art. In the
greatest masterpieces in English, “Lycidas”
and “Adonais,” as well as in the famous
elegies of Tennyson, Matthew Arnold and
Swinburne, the note of personal emotion is
almost lost in their elaborate and stately har-
monies. A modern poet has gone so far as
to say that art has no business with the
conveying of emotions, or what he calls the
“domestic emotions,” such as love and hate,
and that the hallmark of all bad art is that
it is emotional. Certainly we revolt against
that crude emotionalism, a kind of hysteria,
that makes an almost physical attack oh the
nerves ; but that should not be confused with
true emotion, which has always been the
source of all art and poetry. The Elegy on
an Australian Schoolboy is emotional, but
the emotion is never outside the legitimate
boundary of art. Zofa Cross has a personal,
not merely a literary, attitude to life; but
she seldom, if ever, is betrayed into rhetoric,
which is the great danger of elegiac poetry.
She is always spontaneous and sincere.
The Elegy is a longish poem, at least for
an Australian writer who seldom succeeds
except in short lyrical flights. There have
been really long poems written in Australia
by Harpur, Brunton Stephens and others,
but whether they are good or not I have no
idea, for I have never been able to read them.
But Miss Cross’s Elegy is not too long. It
flows easily, though with a delicate restraint,
through a metre that is both simple and dig-
nified. If the careless joyousness of the
early Pagan poems is gone, the charm
remains, her fresh outlook on the world,
the soft music of the verse and the felicity
of phrase.
In the remembrance of the brother-hero
there are poignant notes of both pride and
pity. Her simple and intimate pictures of
their childhood are charming: we see the
quiet landscape, the sunbrowned happy child-
ren and “the waters of the creek, where we
played Nelson’s fight.” And then there is
the bright portrait of the schoolboy, gay and
ardent, a hero of the football ground and
a lover, not really of war, hut of high deeds
and heroism. Through books and tradition
his young imagination has been fired by the
name and fame, not of his own land, which
he “held but as a child,” but of England, his
symbol of romance in action, to whom he
was willing to give everything with “a boy’s
first passion for a schoolgirl love.” We real-
ise the contrast between the romantic youth
with his simple faith in deeds and the sym-
pathetic sister who loves his ardor, but has
a clearer and deeper vision of life: —
In you and me, two children of one home,
Old dreams and new dreams met.
It was the boy who had the old dreams and
who passed away in a bright heroic act be-
fore there was time for any disillusionment.
But the girl ever distrusted the heroic-
legend :
But I, who ever with convention fought,
Long scorned the thing she told ;
And, as some wanderer, who seeks for nought
The elder teachers hold,
Bolls up his hearth and home in one brown swag
And travels farther west,
So I have journeyed....
But in the world of men she has found that
Princes and wars and woes are still their talk,
. While the young children grow
Steeped in old falsehood, as the old men walk
The wide world to and fro.
And she now asks woman to look to the
future and be wise,
Till through her mother-sweetness nations cease
To ravish and destroy.
For she has a woman’s philosophy which
sees all things in relationship not to abstract
ideas, but to human life itself.
L. E.
Mad Men I Have Met
Forty years ago, when the term Social-
ism first became known in England, it was
made a living force by a band of about a
dozen, who were all members of the middle
class. H. M. Hyndman had a slight acquaint-
ance with Karl Marx (who died before any
organisation was formed), and had a good
deal of money from the West Indies; was at
Trinity College, Cambridge, played cricket
with the Sussex XI for some years, took
to journalism, and was old enough to re-
member the Chartist days and, more dis-
tinctly, the time when Mazzini fled to Eng-
land. William Morris, the poet, was edu-
cated at Marlborough and Oxford, and
brought a large number of his cult. He
was introduced by Ernest Belfort Bax, a
rather ridiculous figure, who was educated
at Heidelberg, immensely learned in phi-
losophy, but utterly unlike the popular con-
ception of a rioter. I was also a Marl-
borough boy, and retired from the Royal
Artillery to work whole-heartedly for this
new gospel, and was elected honorary secre-
tary of the Social Democratic Federation.
James Heigh Joynes was a master at Eton
College, from which he withdrew his lank
and weedy figure to stand by the rest, hav-
ing been imprisoned in Ireland for being
Fenian, this being one of the grotesque mis-
takes for which Ireland is famous. Eleanor
Marx, the great: man’s youngest daughter,
was with us, and with her Dr. Edward Ave-
ling, who was Charles Bradlaugh’s right-
hand man, very clever,, but with his own
code of morals. These were the .people who
commenced the Socialistic movement, and
though they appeared rather quaint there is
no doubt they had amongst them brains of
a good deal of variety and vigor.
To them swarmed a curious crew, who
were not by any means the saviours of
society, and one of these was John Barlas,
who, when I first saw him, had rather a
striking figure and handsome face. He told
me he had published several books of poetry,
and that they were so full of the spirit of
revolt that he had to leave his position as
schoolmaster at Chelmsford. He declared
that he had been at New College, Oxford,
and that his name was given to his ances-
tors, sons of the Scottish heroine Kate Doug-
las, who,- in the earlier part of the 15th
century, barred the door with her arm, after
the iron bars had been removed, to prevent
the entrance of the murderers of James I.
of Scotland. For her ineffectual heroism
her name was changed from Douglas to
Barlas. At Oxford Barlas married a great-
grand-niece of Lord Nelson, and the mar-
riage proved very unhappy. He had some
private means, which came from property
his father had left him at Rangoon. I
looked through his poems and saw that they
were of little use to the movement. They
were, in fact, re-hashes of Swinburne, con-
taining all his sound and fury and very
little of his light. Just then the Socialist
movement divided into two, and the smaller
half, headed by William Morris, went off
under the name of the Socialist League, and
played the part of “the idle singers of an
empty day.”
I came to Australia in 1890 for a visit,
and on returning to London took the top
floor of 172 Strand—which, by the way, had
formed the scene of the first meeting between
“George Eliot” and George Henry Lewes.
On January 1, 1892, I saw in the paper
that the police had taken up John Barlas
for having celebrated New Year’s Day by
firing off a revolver at Saint Stephen’s
Tower of the House of Commons, and that
he on being arrested had described that act
as done “in order to show his contempt for
Parliamentary action.” This sounded a
little mad, but I determined to get him
out of his difficulties if I could. I remem-
bered that he was known to Oscar Wilde,
and thought that possibly if Wilde and I, who
were both rather notorious at the time in
London, made ourselves responsible for his
good behavior, we might get the poor fellow
off. I never had met Wilde before, but I knew
Tite-street, Chelsea, where he lived, and got
down there just as he was leaving to read
his first play, “Lady Windemere’s Fan,” to
George Alexander, the actor-manager. Wilde
at once agreed to my suggestion, and we
went to Westminster Police Station. The
magistrate allowed Barlas to go on bail, pro-
vided we both should look after him for three
months, and keep ljim under cover fbr that
period. On leaving the court Wilde dropped
the roll of manuscript and did not like the
omen, but appeared much pleased when I
suggested that the play would go rolling on.
Barlas stayed with me for three months.
His amiable delusion was- that he was des-
tined to become a sort of second Messiah.
He wrote thousands of sonnets, usually get-
ting up hurriedly from breakfast and -rush-
ing off to jot down the lines which had come
into his cloudy brain. When the three
months elapsed he went off, and darkness
covered him. Later he went up to Edin-
burgh, and, having become too eccentric in
public, was placed in the big asylum there.
With Quieter life his brain was much less
troublesome, and he wrote reams of verse,
some of it passable. He died at last, and.
as far as I could ascertain, that was the
end of that long line of the Barlases.
II. H. CHAMPION.
A Satchel of Books
. The Flight and Adventures of Parer and Mcln-
tosh (Stevens, Melbourne). The book of Parer the
airman has been seen through the press by our
trusty sister-in-ink Emily Charlwood, and many
photos help to make it interesting. One photo shows
Prime Minister Hughes gripping the bottle of Daw-
son’s whisky which the aviators had brought from
England on their ’bus, and the book itself is dedi-
cated to said Peter, in conjunction with the author’s
deceased pal and partner Mclntosh. The whisky
magnate was the financial soul of the adventure.
The book makes no theatrical points. It treats
of the incident of the aeroplane being nearly sucked
down the crater of Vesuvius as though flying across
the volcano for fun were a matter of everybody’s
everyday life. Governor Davidson writes a fore-
word. “Not in my lifetime,” says his Ex., “has
there been so careless an adventure; you would go
back to Elizabethan days to match its daring.” The
astounding temerity of it all must be pictured by
the reader. The wonder of the book lies be-
tween the lines. It relates the achievement of the
impossible without, once raising its voice. Even
the title of the volume sounds like a casual remark.
Timed to catch the Christmas-gift trade, Blackie
and Son have issued an enticing lot of books for
boys and girls of school age. The evergreen G. A.
Henty is represented by The Lion of the North and
St. George for England, and that spinner of fine
boys’ yarns, Percy F. Westerman, by Sea Scouts
Abroad and The Third Officer. There are also The
Flag of the Adventurer, by Sydney C. Grier, and
The Boys of Cailli Cliff School, by R. A. H. Good-
year ; while the girls are catered for with Margery
Finds Herself (Doris Pocock), Loyal to the School
and A Fortunate Term (Angela Brazil), The Island
of Secrets (G. G. Cowper), .4 Girl of the Pampas
(Bessie Marchant) and Their London Cousins (Lydia
Middleton). For the smaller fry Little Ones’. Annual
and Blackie’s Children’s Annual are well abreast of
last year’s standard.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
FFBUFoTITfe
The cost of a home, or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building:
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Good Old Xmas.
The Father of cheery fellowship, happy days
and jolly festivity.
We offer everyone our best wishes for
bright, merry-making times during Christ-
mas and New Year, and the top of good
fortune in 1922.
Winchcombe, Carson
Ltd*,
Sydney and Brisbane.
lour Token
ofßemembrance
A Zenobia Christmas Greet-
ing Sachet is a dainty, ap-
propriate gift for either an
old or a newfriend. Its sweet
lingering fragrance is as
natural and alluring as the
scent of an old-world garden.
Made in silk and other appropriate
materials. Daintily designed in
book form with interleaves for
greetings, etc., they contain highly
concentrated reproductions of
such favourite flowers as : Lily of
the Valley, Night Scented Stock,
Sweet Pea Blossom, Wallflower,
Violet, and other delightful scents.
7ENOBIA
p'^CLLJSTi?nrs»c«^
Zenobia Sachets are obtainable at
most High-class Chemists, Per-
fumers and Stores.
Manufacture i only by
ZENOBIA, LTD., Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agent for Sole Agents for
Australia (whole- New Zealand
sale only): Kenneth (wholesale only):
Buckmaster, 15 Newson & Co..
O’Connell Street, Ltd., P.O. Box
Sydney. 1162, Wellington,
/ft'
JW K
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
•••• • • •
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZINC.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
f
For the shop whose needs call for a machine to cut a variety of
ass
spur and bevel gears, clutches,
sprockets, etc., we offer
BROWN & SHARPE
No. 13 & 13H Automatic
Gear-Cutting
Machines
These machines are a
favorite in the average
shop because of their
_ daptability to such a
large range of work. They
will accommodate spur
and bevel gears up to
24in. in diameter, 6in.
face, which adequately
fills the ordinary de-
mands.
AUSTRALASIAN AGGKTS ;
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. “G."
The B.S.A.
12-Bore Hammerless
DucK and Pig'eon Gun
PRICE
£l5/15/-
ƒ
ƒ
ALL BRITISH.
SPECIFICATION.
BARRELS —30m. Jessop’s finest fluid pressed steel. Lumps formed solid with
barrels. Right cylinder and left choke, or both barrels choke. Chambered
for 2-1-in. or 2fin. cartridges.
ACTION —B.S.A. special (Anson & Deeley type). Body of nickel steel. Action
parts of chrome vanadium steel. Top lever. Automatic safety.
STOCK —Straight-hand or lialf-pistol grip. Nicely checkered. Medium bend.
WEIGHT —About 711 b.
BALANCE & TRIGGER PULL —Specially attended to, giving this gun the
superb handling qualities of the very best hand-made gun.
PROOF & TEST —Every gun is nitro-proved at the official proof-house and
thoroughly tested.
Manufactured throughout at the world-celebrated Birmingham Small Arms Works.
B.S.A. Hammerless Shot Guns can now be obtained from all
reputable gun-dealers throughout Australasia. Special booklets
will be sent upon application to
D. Y. RENNIE, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
Australian Representatve B.S.A. Co., Ltd.
Business, Robbery, etc.
tr : a red cedar cut years ago on
H. feauer s selection at Mulla Mulla Creek
miles from Ivempsey (N.S.W.). was not
a record it must have been very near it. It
gave 80,000 ft. of timber, and the value’was
reckoned at £BOO in the flitch at Kempsey.
“G.” : Pommy was inspecting, with view to
purchase, a small irrigation block at Shep-
paiton (Vic.), when a number of ibises
appeared on the canal banks. Trying to
suppress his eagerness, he turned to the
agent, and said with assumed indifference:
, u right, I’ll take the place—if you’ll
throw in the turkeys.”
* # *
/m^ orester ' : tlie Ta3mnnian waratah
yJ.cl/O'pcci tvuincata ) only grew its
timber would be fine cabinet-making stuff.
The heartwood is a light red, while the
outer is pinkish-white, and it is all beauti-
fully marked—something like the banksia.
But its maximum height is about 20ft. The
Victorian waratah ( T. oreades) is also a
very pretty timber and grows bigger.
* * * *
“Snooks”: “Russ” and “X.”(B. 3/11/’2l)
needn’t get sore witn the country stores
for not stocking Australian goods. Very
rarely are these businesses independent of
the wholesale importer, and imported stocks
must be used in the country when too deteri-
orated for the cities. Why, even the flour
which nearly stank Sydney into a blue fog
was sent north and still causes little unre-
corded strikes in certain sugar-mills. How
does “Russ” know his oil wasn’t local?
Street, of Cairns, had to sell his coffee m
bulk to an importer.
“Donalbain” : There is one obvious source
of revenue completely under its own con-
trol that the N.S.W. Ministry persistently
overlooks. If it revived public executions
with a reasonable charge for admission, it
could raise enough to pay the salaries of
several Ministers. In the good old days
hanging bees were very popular entertain-
ments. A glance at the old print showing
the execution of John Knatchbull at Dar-
linghurst is enough to prove that. Probably
at least 50,000 people would be willing to
pay an average of ss. a head to see or
hanged; and the picture-show rights
ought to be worth a pot of money.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Larceny runs to
queer lengths these times. A Sydney man
I know had a lawn. stolen from him the
other day. Moving into a new house, he
had got a few loads of grass sods and laid
out a lawn like a billiard-table. The
morning after he had finished the job the
sight of bare earth in his front patch stag-
gered him. Road-men working near by said
they had seen the sod-removers at work, hut
had taken them to be on a regular job. The
incident has got me nervous. I’ve just laid
a nice little asphalt side-path. Is there any
way of clamping it down to prevent it
being carried off under cover of my snores?
_ “Hamer” : The Sydney youngster who does
his bit for himself or the family by the pur-
suit of empty bottles in the public parks—
a brisk business since the introduction of
6 o’clock closing—is quite up-to-date in his
methods. On a seat near where I was sit-
ting the other evening three men arrived
with lialf-a-dozen bottles of beer. Shortly a
youngster with a collecting-bag arrived. “Do
you want to open your beer, mister?” he
asked. “I’ve got an opener.” The men told
him they possessed the. necessary implement.
“Well,” said the obliging youngster, diving
his hand into his bag, “do you want the loan
of a pannikin? It’s clean, mister—we always
clean ’em out.” This foresight gives the
youngster a lien on the bottles, while the
offer of the opener is designed to prevent
any injury which might make them unsale-
able.
* * * #
“X2X”: Possibly the trouble experienced
by the young lady in her attempts to extract
the essential perfuming-agent of boronia (R.
T/12/’2l) lies not in the boronia but in the
method she is using. Most books recommend
extraction by steam distillation which in
the case of boronia is not only wasteful but
harmful, since the chemical bodies conferring
the odor on the oil may decompose under
heat. If the lady has been using this method
she might substitute enfleurage- or purified
lard extraction, afterwards separating the
oil by shaking with a solvent, such as an
ether-petroleum-ether-benzine mixture. As
regards the smallness of the oil-content, the
source of her difficulty will probably be
found in the time of the year she gathers
the boronia, for the perfume-oil varies
according to the season. The only way to
find out the best time to gather is to take
a sample, say, every week, or even twice a
week, and determine bv analytical methods
what the oil-content is for each sample (any-
how, the importance of keeping careful re-
cords of everything done cannot be over-em-
phasised).
THE RURAL WORKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our champion worker’s name is Jim,
He’s rural as can be;
The basic wage is not for him,
No unionist is he,
But true as steel he moves the wheel
Of rural industry.
He does his bit, then does some more
The land to cultivate;
His week is not a forty-four,
It’s nearer eighty-eight;
And Saturday he takes the dray
For wood for mother’s grate.
He helps the missus to the town
When marketing she goes;
He takes the kids to see the clown
At circuses and shows,
And brings them back, while little Jack
Tells how the cowboy throws.
A ruralist by nature, born
To pinch the carrot bunch,
To grind the oats, and crack the corn,
And mix them up to munch—
A six-year-old, and good as gold,
Our Jim’s a Suffolk Punch.
N.S.W.
D. ENNIS.


pSi"-‘S
ISM&
m,js
m —
-stt
wW^C^'a
m
Fmßm
mm
m
m
r* \
-
gSi J
8S»
PORE RUBBER
GOODYEAR
95 / sin 135/635
iimmimwWJUiM*
» tlll “ >lilJ>> * 14ii * u ** uuui>ui * >UUi, ‘‘‘——^—— i
Do You Consider these Points
When Buying New Tyres ?
The experienced motorist knows that there is
only one satisfactory basis on which to buy tyres.
The conscientious manufacturer knows there
is only one basis on which to sell them.
The best tyre is the tyre that gives the lowest cost per mile.
What the motorist wants, then, is service, and he knows
that when he is buying service against price he is buying
economically. Tyre service depends on three things—mat-
erials, machines and men.
The perfect utility of Goodyear Tyres is guaranteed by the
quality of their fabric and their unrivalled construction, which
is insured and bulwarked by the expert effort of conscientious
workmen.
Branches and Agencies
All Principle Cities.
Service Stations and Dealers
Everywhere.
i*C


Biliousness
/
W HEN you have a bilious attack your liver fails
to perform its functions. You become con-
stipated. The food you eat ferments in
your stomach instead of digesting. This inflames
the stomach and causes nausea, vomiting and a
terrible headache. Take Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
will tone up your liver, clean out your stomach,
and you will soon be as well as ever. There
is nothing better for relieving biliousness than
f
f
■R E P U TAT I □ N
Back in 1914-15, thousands of
people bought Dodge Brothers
Motor Car without the slightest
first-hand knowledge of its qual-
ities. They were influenced
solely by the Reputation of its
makers.
Today the car combines its own
well earned Reputation with
that of the builders, giving more
emphatic assurance than ever
before, of lasting satisfaction.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a
Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
“Dingo”: I was discussing the proposed
repeal of the N. S. Wales Soldiers’ Prefer-
ence Act with a brother Billjim. He made
a lightning calculation on his fingers which
clearly took him from Landing to Armistice.
“ ’Strewtli!” said he, “they might at least
have stuck to it as long as we did!”
“P.G.Iv.”: All the seven sons of Admiral
King did not become parsons (B. 1/12/ 21 >
Only one did, Robert, who was the father of
the present incumbent at Camden (N.S.W.).
The remaining six, of whom the late Philip
Gidley King, of Double Bay (Sydney), was
the eidekt, had various callings, four of them
following pastoral pursuits.
“Jim Carew”: Re that good Australian
word “mate” on a tombstone (B. 8/12/’2l).
Perhaps it made its first appearance there
over GO years ago. On the old Turon dig-
gings one member of a party of three had
been killed by a fall of earth, and on a
wooden cross erected over his grave was
written: —•
BILLY HINGSTON,
Tha best mate we ever had.
“Big Bend”: I enter old Joe, of the Lower
Darling, for the Perseverance Stakes. For
21 years he had sent regularly once a fort-
night to Tatt.’s without drawing a single
prize. One afternoon recently he came to
the office to book off. “What’s the matter,
Joe —not well?” I asked. “It isn’t that, but
I’ve won Tatt.’s, and came down to tell you
I wouldn’t be at work this afternoon.” And
it was a fact, too.
The bureaucrats in Melbourne who really
rule the Northern Territory, not to speak
of Papua and the Pacific territories, simply
can’t realise that the Territory is bigger
than Surry Hills. Their latest brilliant
effort is to order the destruction of the few
trees that yield all the fruit that Alice
Springs ever sees, because there has been
citrus canker at Darwin, nearly 1000 miles
away in point of actual distance, and for all
practical purposes as handy as Timbuctoo.
“Macknade”: One public office in Sydney
has more luck than it deserves. Some
time ago a cashier on returning from the
bank was unloading his bag in a 20 x 10 room
with seven employees in it, when he dropped
his revolver. The bullet passed through an
open fanlight into the main office roof with-
out injuring anybody. Then the other day
an office-boy, fooling with a similar toy, sup-
posed to be unloaded, fired a shot through a
table in a larger room with about 30 people
in it. The staff is now pondering the law of
averages.
“Loco” : Yes, there is something in “Mon-
aro’s” idea that accidents do not come singly
(B. 24/11/’2l). If I burn my hand or arm
on a hot steam-pipe to-day, I’ll have two or
three burns within a day or two. If a
spanner slips off a check-nut and a lump of
skin from my knuckle is the result, there will
be sores on both hands very soon after. Our
old chief mechanical engineer, T. H. Wood-
roffe (Vic. Railways), had got so used to
the cycle theory that when one accident hap-
pened he always looked for more. The rea-
son? I rather think it is a case of familiar-
ity breeding over-carefulness.
“Sierra”: The Thermopylae’s record of 380
miles in 24 hours (B. l/x2/’2i; has beeu
frequently beaten by bigger ships. In light
winds the small clippers could sneak along
while the large ships boxed the compass; but
in heavy weather a good big ship could gener-
ally wallop a good little one. With her
acre-and-a-half of canvas spread to a gale
over the quarter, a monster like the Preus-
sen (5000 tons) would leave the little Ther-
mopylae dancing in her wake. The Lightning
(2000 tons), by her consistent speed in the
North Atlantic, East Indian and Australian
passages, topped off by her world record one-
day run of 436 miles, puts up a gooa claim
to be the fastest sailin?' vessel ever launched.
Gilbert White, of ‘‘The Natural History
of Selborne,” was no rolling-stone. Except
for a few years at Oriel College, Oxford, he
spent practically all his life (1720-
1793) in the parish he immortalised
and of which he was vicar for 40
years. Yet to him Selborne was a
“vast district,” with 15,000 acres or more
in it. The Australian Gilbert White’s
parishes have been a bit bigger. From 1900
till 1915 he was the first Bishop of Carpen-
taria, a diocese of 600,000-odd square miles,
and since then he has been first Bishop of
Willochra, a 300,000-square-mile patch that
takes in all of S. Aus. except the south-east
corner which holds Adelaide and most of
the population. Though he is 62 now he
still gets around the open spaces as actively
as his great-great-uncle did around his
downs and woods.
“Billy T.”: I know an instance in which
religious devotion and faith were substan-
tially rewarded. There was a squalid Chi-
nese camp left at Saddle Hill, a dozen or so
of huts camouflaged to look like heaps of
driftwood and rusty tin. This village was
perched on the creek-bank, and inhabited by
a handful of poor Mongols, too lazy or too
decrepit to leave a worked-out district. Once
a week or so the boy vandals from the
little wooden school over the hill invaded
the camp, helping themselves to any
little thing they wrnnted. One day
three lads took Ki Sim’s large pewter
god from its pedestal in the end of his
frowsy, smoke-blackened hut, and. tumbled it
into the nearest creek-hole. Ki Sim was
distracted. He chased the boys for miles
brandishing a pigsticker, and then returned
and sat by the waterhole, wailing, uttering
Chow incantations, waiting for liis god to
come up. Then he fished for him with a
hook on a pole, and finally brought him to
the surface. He was a hollow god, and was
half-full of slurry and gravel on being landed.
Ki Sim’s next public act was to peg out the
waterhole under miner’s right. He emptied
it with a syphon, then cleaned it out meticu-
lously, and put every shovelful right dowm
to the tough red clay'through tub and cradle.
That waterhole had been acting as a sort of
ripple in the creek for many years, and had
been overlooked when the dredge went
through. Ki Sim took close upon £7OO worth
of gold out of his pocket. His explanation
is extant: “Joss bling um up plospect. Me
washum, get all sem two ounce. Joss him
wellv good, welly kine, welly wise. Joss him
make poo’ Ki Sim welly lid l -” Then ie
sold Joss for one pong and left for China.


ƒ
f
The good reputation enjoyed by Hupmobiles everywhere is not due to chance.
It is the result of the painstaking care exercised over every part and operation that
enters into the car’s construction, from the making of the first drawing to the
tightening of the last nut.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
• V
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
f
Save your Flocks
from blowfly losses/
witK *• Comet I
SHEEP JETTER
£.7? X
site •'
m
)tfc
YJim
THE COMET SHEEP-JETTING OUTFIT represents a plant
developed to the highest degree of efficiency and reliability—■
the result of long experience and continued use in country
where the blowfly is thickest.
The COMET is designed to work up to 1401 b. per square inch, so
giving you a pressure for every need. The unique agitating
mechanism keeps the heavy arsenical solution constantly agitated
and evenly mixed. This feature is most important.
These two never-failing features of the COMET will keep your
sheep immune from fly attack for from two to four months—and two
men can handle 1500 sheep per day at a cost of 1-5 th penny per
sheep.
Jetting has proved the only effective method
of beating the blowfly.
Extensive tests conducted by the Queensland Government Blowfly Committee prove
jetting to be not only superior to other methods, but actually the only certain protec-
tion for the sheep. No CRUTCHING IS NEEDED. We’ll gladly send you a copy
of the report proving this. Don’t spend money on old-fashioned methods of combating
the blowfly. Get a COMET, start jetting now, and your saving in sheep will soon
repay you. Write nearest address for illustrated descriptive folder.
Sidney Williams & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
B.\V. 310.
Practically no losses from blowfly
since using a COMET.
Glenmore Downs, Clermont,
23rd July 1921.
Referring to your COMET Sheep Jetter.
I do not crutch, but use the jetter about twice
a year on all my sheep, wethers and ewes alike.
For the last two years I have had practically no
losses from fly.
The tank is always well agitated and a perfect
mixture is obtained, and the general efficiency is
all that can be desired, and so portable one
horse can take it anywhere.
(Signed) JAMES TOESON.
COMET
SHEEP
j etter
tor
Blow
fly
mia
-S'


SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors’
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Red and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
for Colonial Riding.
Conditions make it imperative that
only a bicycle of proved merit be
chosen when buying a new mount.
Start well from the beginning and
purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The reliability and
long service of bicycles con-
structed of B.S.A. Fittings make
them an investment which pays
immediately from the date of
purchase, and saves many troubles.
i
All B.S.A. Parts
are guar ante, d
interchangeable
k
A Sign of
Quality.
Send tor Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
I Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.) ,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price fdr it.
f
A
on
smoiu:
PA
PIPE
ƒ
Perfection at last
No More Nicotine.
THE AIiSH-«prut>ArrOi*!rE C?L ,r>
THE “NIKKO”
The Perfect, Patent Pipe. Why?
BECAUSE—
It sets up no Nicotine or Moisture in
the Bowl.
Saliva, reaching stem, is at once re-
moved by extracting tube and shaking
it.
However long in use it is Clean and
Sanitary,
Inhere is iid treacifiy accumulation of
Nicotine as in other pipefe.
It is used and recommended by the
Medical Profession.
It is invented by an Australian.
Tobacco can be smoked to last atom,
leaving only dry ash and no moisture
in the bowl.
SMOKE A “NIKKO” and enjoy
a cool, healthy smoke.
Made in two qualities, of High-grade Briar.
Prices: 10/- and 13/6.
Should your tobacconist not stock the “Nikko”
pipe, write a. McINTYRE,
34 n Paling’s Buildings,
Ash Street, Sydney.
y
I
£
S; A j
ISI
£
»>>■.
IT JUST
CANT LEAK!
The Colo Tube and
the Newsom Valve
form a strong combination. The valve
does not depend alone on air pressure
for its efficiency.
Exclusive devices effectively seal the
valve, and maintain a constant stan-
dard pressure .
A sic your gar ay a
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office : 5-7 Barrack St., Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St. Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street. Perth: 47 King Street
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street. Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-900 h.p.
A South African Owner says :
"• . . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C? Ltd.
Wolverhampton, England.
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco,” London.
H
m
man
mi i
i.i.w.u.w.wtii,u\\\\nu\mimn i muvuMuwyy
ill
24 h.p. 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS liltOS.., XiTD., 822 George Streetj Sydney.
Though it has a sound of Binghi about
it, according to J. H. Maiden Dorrigo was
the name of a Spaniard who found that
there was cedar up on that northern N. S.
Wales tableland.
After prolonged thought Beeby, the work-
reducing and ; rice-lowering Judge, has com-
manded that the -lb. loaf of bread must be
sold over the counter in Sydney for 4fd., no
more and no less. Farthings don’t circu-
late in Sydney, but majestic tribunals like
Beeby s are not expected to remember little
things like that.
“O.” : The Speck adds another to itl grow-
ing list of proved centenarians—=Mi@hft@i
Stevenan, 100 in November. Me has been
a Tasmanian since 1848, when the potato
famine drove him out of Ireland. For some
he worked for the Irish exile Mitchel,
Chief Justice Irvine’s famous uncle. He
has 10 great-grandchildren and still com-
mands his faculties.
“Friday Island”; Re “Anaf’s” statement
(B. 8/12/’2l) that none of the therapeutic
glandular products in use to-day has origi-
nated in the Commonwealth. The original
research into the value of pituitary gland
extract was carried out by a Sydney medico
m the Sydney ’Varsity labs., but the publi-
cation of his results was forestalled by ah
overseas investigator in a European scientific
journal. Whether it was through intrigue
or just coincidence we don’t know; but the
Australian has been a sorrowing man ever
since.
“Muggins” : The weirdest horse case I’ve
heard of occurred in Brisbane recently. A
sold B a nag. B put it in a paddock.
When he wanted it he couldn’t find it. The
police found it in C’s cart. C produced ft
receipt from D. D produced a receipt from
E. E showed how he came by the prad from
F. F could not locate a U to keep the ball
rolling, but he produced a witness who
heard him make the purchase from A. The
weary magistrate gave it to B. The joke
is that the State kept the horse six weeks
while the Law found an owner for a £5
neddy.
"Pick”: Panama and Tuscan hats seem
to have completely cut out the cabbage-tree
and Argyle. In last mid-century no N. S.
Wales dandy considered himself suitable
attired unless he had on a cabbage-tree, and
in summertime no squatter appeared in com-
pany without an Argyle, made in Goul-
burn. Built from the ribs of the fan-palm
leaf, the cabbage-tree was the most durable
headwear ever put oil the market. One
with a 3ft. rim was a specially-valued presen-
tation to Bill Beach when he won the scull-
ing championship from Hanlan in 18S4. Bill
still dons that roof when inclined for a little
exercise in the Dapto sun.
An unreported row
When the House of Heps, divided On the Electoral
Act Amendment Bill, which, notwithstanding the
enabling legislation introduced into the Ma State
Assembly, forbids State politicians to stand for the
National Parliament without resigning their Seats,
the mild Poynton was observed to be strangely
excited. He shook his fist fiercely at two Cocky
members who had crossed over to the Noes, and
words of passion broke from his mouth. “Damn
your eyes,” he hissed, "you nagged me to bring itl
this measure, and now you vote against it.” There
was no reply from the aspersed Agrarians, and the
indignant ancient calmed himself with a great
effort. But for one thrilling moment it looked as
if Black Rod would have to wipe up some berlud.
“Faathertop”: If “Gila” and “F, Born”
(B. 24/11/’2l and 27/10/’2l) were
“hunters” they would know that the
Chinese in Australia are not all lily-
white. My old friend, Ah Louey, at Carl-
ton (Vic.), on 30/7/ v o(>, for having house-
breaking implements in his possession, got
12 months; at Melbourne General Sessions
on 3/!)/’0G, on two charges of larceny, he
was handed nine months and three months,
and he also received two sentences of 18
months for breaking into dwellings. Then
there w T as Ah Lin of many aliases (Ah Lim,
Ah Ling, Ah Fang, Ah Sin and Ah Chow).
At Carlton on 16/8/’O7 he received three
months for larceny and tw'o years for being
in possession of house-breaking implements.
Ah Louey was a cook, pged 35 years, and Ah
Lin a laborer, 49. There are others, but
these will do to go on with.
“M.D.”: One of Australia’s few eminent
scientists who are native products and
whose scientific training has been wholly
acquired within the Commonwealth is Dr.
R. J. Bull, director of the bacteriological
laboratory and lecturer in bacteriology at
Melbourne ’Varsity. He entered the Medi-
cal School on an old-time scholarship, and
since then has achieved about every kind
of scientific and academic distinction pos-
sible to one man, besides having represented
Australia abroad at half-a-dozen interna-
tional conferences on pathology and bac-
teriology. Dr. Bull ranks as one of the fore-
most bacteriologists of his time, but, being
very modest, he hasn’t advertised the re-
sults of his researches, and the man in the
street isn’t familiar with his work. Still,
in these days of bubonic-plague scares, I for
one find comfort in knowing that a man of
Bull’s calibre is on deck.
“Diapason”: The blind ex-Anzac news-
seller whom “Dido” mentions is a shining
example of that brave spirit which sent 570
old newsboys to fight for a country they
didn’t own a yard of land in. Bert Prentice
was a newsboy from seven up, and was one
of the first to enlist. He lost both eyes at
Gallipoli, came back smiling, married a little
girl who had been waiting for him, and
started his new dark life on a poultry run.
His wife was to be the eyes of the new ven-
ture and Bert the keen business head. But
two babies arrived to upset their calcula-
tions, so Bert’s mind went back to his old
calling. Sometimes he goes to the races
with an old newsboy pal, who, in passing, is
now the highest newspaper agent in Aus-
tralia. One day, while a race was on. Bert
remarked, “Lend us your glasses, boy.” His
pal lent them, wondering. Prentice held the
glasses to the eyes that would never see
again, while the sight of his old mate grew
misty as he watched. After a minute or so,
with a smile, Bert handed back the field-
glasses, saying, “Maurrie, someone has
taken you down properly. I can’t see a
thing with ’em!”


How Injurious Effects cam he Corrected.
Probably there are no people who
eat to such excess as the Aus-
tralians. From early in the
morning till late at night they are
eating and drinking. Nature cannot stand such
a strain, and consequently unless help is given
injurious effects follow, too numerous to mention
here but well known to most people. You are
told to eat anything and as much as you like, so
long as you take some kind of digestive tablet
afterwards. It cannot be done : Nature can only
carry just so much and no more unless effective
assistance is given. In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a remedy is at hand that will effectively assist
Nature to carry excessive burdens, and in a natural
way assist in the digestion and assimilation of food.
No one is recommended to over-eat, but if they
do and have recourse at once to a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,then soon the digestive
system will be in perfect order, and can be kept
right if care is exercised regarding the quantity of
food and a Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pill is taken
occasionally.
7.
V2////A
D?MGRSES
Va
m
y
%
y
y
I
i
2
Hi mm.
y
y
y
liver
%
2
the
FOR
m
wm
m.
mmmm
m
T hey Make You Feel Brighter.


A. Saunders’ Hand Mirror, pure
Silver-plated, bevelled-edged.
Mirror full size, 50/-
CHRISTMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Calendar
highly burnished, plain design,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Cigarette Case,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, 217-
In solid Silver, 45/.-, 50/-,
A. Saunders’ Oak Shaving Tidy, pure
Silver Mounts, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ solid
Silver. Cigar
Holder, Gold-
mounted, in plain
Silver Case, 27/6.
Silver-mounted,
25/-
Cigarette Holder,
mm
wtm
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated,
engraved ribbon design, 60/-
Sjf fl
iFt
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, plain design, extra-
heavy, finest-quality Instruments, £5/10/-
m
m
110%*
v
~,,
imiramtßn
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush,' Mirror and Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, plain design, hand burnished, finest-quality
Bristles, bevelled-edged Mirror, £6/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Stud Box, pure
Silver-plated, satin finish, hand-pierced,
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Hair Brushes and
Comb, in Case, with Silv.er Shields, finest-
quality Bristles, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-,
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Low-pressure Steam for Economy
For Heating and Boiling Requirements
—as distinct from power purposes—practically all needs may be fully met
with steam pressures from two to ten pounds per square inch. For this class
of work a high-pressure boiler is quite unnecessary, and costs far more than
an IDEAL Low-pressure Steam Boiler of an equal heating capacity. IDEAL
Boilers are built up in sections, and may be added to when required to meet
an increased demand. They require no expensive foundation or setting, and
their slow rate of combustion, in addition to saving attendance, brings about
a remarkable economy in fuel, which is the primary reason for their rapidly
growing popularity.
IDEAL
“Premier”
Steam Boiler
with coil
for heating
storage
cylinder.
ay
IDEAL Sectional Steam Boiler.
To proprietors of Hotels and Restaurants, and to Institutional and Factory
Engineers the IDEAL Low-pressure Steam Boiler represents the cheapest
means of raising steam for a varied range of utilities. There are Baths,
Lavatories and Sinks to be supplied with large volumes of hot water; Jacketted
Pans, Vegetable Steamers, Tea Urns, Hot Presses and other Kitchen
Equipment requiring steam at from 51b. to 101 b. pressure; and also Drying
Cabinets and Washing Troughs for Laundry use.
IDEAL Steam Boilers are made in a wide range of capacities—small and
handy types to suit the most limited demand—others larger, to evaporate
1200 pounds or more of water per hour.
Write us for printed matter and prices, giving particulars of your require-
ments. We shall be pleased to give expert advice on the applicability of
the IDEAL Boiler to any given set of conditions.
s
br'%
Ci
W
00
w"\
391=403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
324=330 Pitt Street,
Sydney


Ainusi
g VI»N
y’S CHIEF THEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
NEW ROYAL:
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
PALACE:
SCANDAL.
u
NI O N
i <; i i it is
r u e a t «t t>;
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI>., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MERRIE ENGLAND.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 24.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 24.
MARIE TEMPEST and GRAHAM BROWNE in
TEA FOR THREE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOVX’S THEATRICS, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge!.
EDITH ROBERTS in
HER FIVE-FOOT HIGHNESS.
EUGENE O’BRIEN in
CLAY DOLLARS.
Prices as usual.
nX TOIR. DIRECTION LIONEL"WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS-
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Victoria.'
BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD., MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 24.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE,
BLUEBEARD.
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. Matinees Daily.
Plans at Bijou Theatre.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELISOURM
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
TEN-DOLLAR RISE.
A FROHAM PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at -2.30, Nights at 8.
RIXANNIA THEATRE. MKLiiOURNJ
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
BVI
THEATRE,
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, YITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
LLAN WILKIE’S SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
Opening THEATRE ROYAL, HOBART, MONDAY,
DECEMBER 26, to SATURDAY, JANUARY 14.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
J- MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
To WILLIAM HARRY HARRISON formerly of
Hobart in Tasmania and later of Sydney New , South
Wales glass-worker the husband of VERONA
HARRISON (formerly Verona Marino) of Hobart
in Tasmania - pianiste. -
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued out of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of the said Yerona Harrison
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground of desertion Now therefore
take notice that within thirty days after the
twenty-ninth day of December One thousand .nine
hundred and twenty-one the date fixed for the last
publication hereof you are to appear in our said
Court then and there to make answer to the said
Petition which may be inspected and a copy thereof
obtained by you upon application at the ; office of
the Registrar of the Supreme Court at Hobart afore-
said And also Take Notice that in default of your
appearing to answer the said Petition as aforesaid a
Judge of the said Court will proceed to hear the
said charge proved in due course of law and to pro-
nounce sentence therein your absence notwithstand-
ing And Take Notice, that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within thirty days from the 29th day of
December One thousand nine hundred and twenty-one
being the date of the last publication hereof to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania and to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
Dated at Hobart in Tasmania this 10th day of
December One thousand nine hundred and twenty-one.
W. O. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Edward John Lowther O’Brien, of 70 Collins Street,
Hobart, Proctor for the Petitioner.
MALTEPMIIk
ƒ
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
ft Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng
Amusements.
Humphrey bishop comedy and
OPERATIC COMPANY.
TOURING AUSTRALASIA.
SUMMER SEASON, 1921-2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S EXHIBITION GARDENS,
ADELAIDE.
Missing: Friends.
T) URNS, JOHN.—Niece in California seeks news
of JOHN BURNS, born Limerick, Ireland, about
1834 ; or of his Relatives. Write “Burns,” care
Charles Haines Advertising Agency, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
EU WARD WYKE or WIKE, for-
merly of Eaglehawk, Victoria, engine-fitter,
or who can give any information as to
whether he is alive or dead, is requested to
communicate with WATSON & JAMES,
Solicitors, Bendigo, Victoria.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with F. SAMPSON,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
Club Reil Cigars.
Yon set unvarying satisfaction with
a Club Iteil. The leaf is chosen with
extreme care, and blended in a way
that produces a satisfying mellowness
of flavor and fragrance that you will
appreciate.
Sold by all Hotels £;«!
and Tobacconists,
each
The handy pocket tin of 10 cigars as
pictured keeps cigars in perfect condition.
Ideal for week-ends or for gifts. Also sold
in tins of 50 cigars.
POST PAID PRICES.
Tins—10 Cigars, 5/6; 5C, 23/9.
Boxes—10 Cigars, 6/-; 25', 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/-
CRAIG U AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Distributors for the Club Reii
Cigar Factory.
7<W
m
sr
r
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “Mattamac’*
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Re.use any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac.''
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 OZ.
WEIGHT
n
a
EM
I©
Belted
Coats
jor
Ladies
and
Men
2 1 ioz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The “Mattarnac”is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
a
s
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Drawings
from actual Photographs , and are , conse•
quently, truthful representations of the Feather-
Weight Mattamac” Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 2l\oz. weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
21 \oz.
u
i n
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ M attamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Writetous. We will send you, post free, the “ M attamac’’ Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATT AM AC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ M attamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “ MATTAMAC ” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of 1 PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
“Mattamac” Stormproofs [ LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
The “MATTAMAC ” TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Christmas Gifts
for Him.
J
English Umbrellas.
12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 42/-,
63/-, 84/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-
Silk Knitted Ties .. 7/6 10/6 15/6 17/6 18/6
Silk Broadways . . 5/6 6/6 7/6 9/6 10/6
Batswings .. . . 4/6 5/6 6/6 7/6 10/6
Richard Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE.
2 Suction Gas Engines, with Producers, etc.,
complete; 80-h.p. Engine by TANGYE.
1 Crossley Gas Engine.
Also other surplus Engineering Plant.
Inspection invited.
Prices and further particulars on application to
MEPHAN FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ś
Soothes
& Heals
Nothing else
soothes and
heals tender,
aching, feet like
Zam-Buk. It
ends the burning
soreness, grows
1 new skin, and
gives perfect foot
comfort. Zam-Buk
is equally effective
for heat rash, sun-
burn, swellings,
bites, burns, cuts,
bruises & sprains.
Serviette
Rings,
Australian.
ŝ
Australian Silver
Napkin Rings we
make in all sizes
and weights. We
have to. The
present h eav y
Customs Duty, on
top of English
peak prices of
Solid Silver Serviette
Ring, fin. wide,
s. d.
11 6
Less 20% .. 2 3
9 3
manufacture, make most imported Rings too
costly. We, therefore, have made from Aus-
tralian Silver a fine assortment of Serviette
Rings, which we are selling at from 35 per
cent, to 50 per cent, less than English Rings.
They are of somewhat plain designs, and
hence easily cleaned. They are heavy weight
goods that carry the Anustralian characteris-
tics of sturdiness, strength, reliability. They
will last a century, and then be worth their
weight in Silver.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
I’laiu I'isrnres.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.


For Christmas Gifts
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE.
Each year thousands of mothers and daughters are delighted to receive
presents of Holeproof Silk Hose. In these days when beautiful effects
are so thoroughly appreciated it is difficult to find a more appropriate
Christmas Gift.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS EVERYWHERE.
. 1
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “The' Boy”
5° val “You’re in Love”
Criterion “Sinbad the Sailor”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOIt COMING WEEK.
: “Merrie England”
Her Majesty s “Babes in the Wood”
p™ GS *, “Tea for Three”
Hoy i s De Luxe &i Lyceuii Moving- Pictures
nf’ IC Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
In “Sinbad the Sailor,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, all the indispensable ingredients of
pantomime have been deftly assembled by
Wilmer Bentley, who had Eardley Turner’s
assistance in writing the book. Fun, color,
melody and girl are combined in the right
proportions. The principal boy’s tights are
plumply filled, the principal girl is insinuat-
ingly slender, the ballets are numerous and
refreshing to the sight, and the scene-painter
and his accomplices have provided romantic
settings for beauty not overmuch adorned.
Also, there are five comedians, two of whom
can sing. One drawback is that the stage
isn’t large enough to get the most striking-
results attainable by the display of massed
loveliness in motion. When all the girls'
The Laughter of
Fools,” at Sydney
Palace.
Rodger Barry as
Bertie Greig.
move into the pic-
ture a regrettably
large percentage
haven’t room to
fling their limbs
a bout with the
abandon so dear
to bald-headed age.
But all things con-
sidered, it is a. |
rattling good
panto, and if
Prosperity doesn’t
accompany it in
its peregrinations
round the conti-
nent, the auguries
are all wro n g.
No mistake was
mad e i n casting
Jennie Hartley,
small as she is, for
p rincipal boy.
The only notice-
ab 1 e flaw in
Jennie’s lively and
intriguing perform-
ance is , that one'
of her songs is too
close to the
knuckle. Gra c i e
Lavers uses a nice
voice with artistic
effect, and is miles
ahead of the aver-
age imported prin-
cipal girl. Mona
Thomas, , a tall
and well-nourished fairy queen, sings
better than most of her more or less un-
substantial race. Margot Lester is a
sprightly Pearl of Price, Eileen Cottey a
■bright second boy, and Rita Edmonds, with
Kelso Henderson to helo her, sees that the
dancing doesn’t flag. Phil Smith and Jack
Cannot are responsible for most of the
comedy. Cannot is more at home in his
pantaloons than is Smith in his skirts, but
when the line ceases to be unfamiliar Phil’s
dame will be good enough. Edgley and
Da we, eccentric dancers and acrobatic far-
ceurs, are strangers who justify their im-
portation. One of them exhibits a mobile
mug, a freak voice and a genius for falling-
down without hurting the floor. For the
rest Hassan is. back with his brilliant' cat
act, Robert Chisholm uplifts a manly voice
as the Caliph, Bert Nicholson is the smart
kid who disguises himself as the Old Man
of the Sea, and the eye rests approvingly on
Elva Powrie and Nancy Stewart.
“The Boy,” which is Pinero’s “The
Magistrate” done into musical comedy by
nve persons named and several unnamed
was a Cup-time show at Melbourne in
i oitrel s year. It has taken 14 months to
cross the Murray and instal itself in Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, but the management
would be entitled to forgiveness if it had
taken 14 years. An impartial survey of
the belated arrival makes it abundantly evi-
dent that there was no intention on the
part of anyone responsible for the delay
to wound Sydney’s civic pride. There is
good stuff in The Boy,” and there is poor
stult. At certain times it sparkles; at others
it is merely dull. Some of the music is
catchy, without being strikingly original,
but there is one appallingly bad parodv time
cries aloud for elimination and the intro-
duction of an irrelevant Chinese ditty that
has been hackneyed to death on the halls
is a mistake. Taken by and large, the thing
is bright and amusing, but it would be all
the better for some drastic cuts.
* * *
Arthur Stigant is Horatio Meebles, the
sportive P.M. who hits things up at a- night
club and flees in disorder when the police
arrive. It is a part with humorous possi-
bilities, and Stigant makes the most of them •
also he struggles heroically to get some fun
out ot tiie feeble lines which a misguided
lyrist now and then puts into his mouth,
lie is particularly droll in his magistrate’s
room the morning after the raid, when
the curry-livered Colonel Bagot, aptly im-
personated by Roy Redgrave, tries to tip
him the wink that Mrs. Meebles (Ethel
Morrison) and her sister Diana (Gladys
Moncrieff) have been gathered in by a vigi-
lant constabulary and are reposing in tne
cells. Lance Lister’s work as the Boy is
rather thin, and he sings and dances with-
out distinction. However, Lister is a like-
able and hard-working youngster, and will
improve. . Leslie Holland is an unremark-
able ancient with a weakness for jujubes,
H. St. A. Hilliard a sentimental
johnnie with an inoffensive baritone,
bred Coape a Dago restaurateur, Leslie
\ ictor a withered magistrate’s clerk,
and George Blunt a comic policeman.
Among the. sex which wears its skirts short
and its hair long first place is assigned to
Ethel Morrison. As the matron whose par-
donable mendacity is the cause of all the
trouble Miss Morrison is well cast and she
has never given a better account of herself.
Gladys Moncrieff sings beautifully, but the
hardness which distinguishes her acting
when the role doesn’t greatly interest her is
obtrusive. Nell Payne’s._won’t-rub-off smile
and graceful dancing atone for her vocal
imperfections. Mione Stewart is the fetch-
ing flapper who competes with Nell for
Master Lister’s affections, and the trio in
which the two impassioned spinsters wrestle
for possession of an embarrassed youth is the
song-and-dance hit of the show. Georgia
Harvey makes a brief appearance with en-
couraging results, and there is no lack of
pretty, faces, shapely limbs and revealing
frocks. And so far from objecting to the
action of the piece being interrupted by the
dancers, Jessie Sherwood, Hazel Meldrum
and Alick McPherson, the audience asks
thirstily for more.
The plan of campaign having been altered
since last week “Scandal” will be played
at the Sydney Palace on Saturday night
instead of “Smilin’ Through.” And pre-
sumably the wearisome controversy as to
whether the long-drawn-out bedroom scene
is moral or non-moral will begin again.
** * *
“You’re in Love” will be the Christmas
attraction at Sydney Royal. And very
seasonable, too.
** * #
With the departure of the Frolics and the
lay-in-wait for Wilkie Bard’s arrival on
Saturday next, the Sydney Tivoli’s pro-
gramme this week is only so-so. But Nellie
Harmston’s performing cockatoos go through
a number of surprising stunts.
v *!* -I' ,j
Sydney being full of little school-free Bills
and Jills, the panto film is having an in-
nings. The best is showing at the Strand ;
there “Alice in Wonderland” makes you
wonder why such pictures are not presented
to the nippers all the year round, instead
of the things they do get. “Jack and the
Beanstalk” is at the Empress and the King’s
Cross presents “Hop o’ My Thumb.” For
the grown-up, Thomas Meighan goes
a-crusading on the Lyceum and Lyric silver-
sheets in “Conquest of Canaan”; and at
both houses “The Princess of New York”
almost falls a prey to a super-con. man who
stacks the pack” on ocean palaces. Soprano
Grainger-Broad uplifts her voice at these
houses. Hoyt’s offer Frank Mayo, a saw-
bones run down in health, following “The
Blazing Trail” for a pick-me-up. The re-
opened Crystal Palace has an innovation in
the First National “Bits of Life”—three
short dramatic pieces and a roaring comedy.
“THE BOY,” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Magistrate Mecbles (Arthur Stigant) being
taught to be a sporty boy-ee by his
stepson (Lance Lister).
And the tired-of-the-city wage-plug, dream-
ing of green South Sea isles, waving palms
and dusky maidens, will find his heart's de-
sire at the Globe, where Frank Hurley’s
“Pearls and Savages” is all the rage.
‘ ‘Merrie England” has settled down at
Melbourne Royal with a new Queen Bess
(Pearl Ladd) dwelling amorously on the pos-
sibility of making a match with the dump-
ling Raleigh or the tall, spidery Essex. Miss
Ladd throws a smaller shadow than the pre-
vious Elizabeth (Ethel Morrison), and she
has to be sparing with her small amount of
hauteur to make it go round in a rather
proud part.
Imagination reels and language gives up
the ghost in an attempt to outline the snec-
tacle which the Firm promises in “The
Babes in the Wood” at Melbourne Majesty’s
The show is to be
1 _O,U(Ju. candle-power, and the dresses and
gills will make even that light seem dim.
"The Biibcs” is also the nursery tale which
the Fullers will present in panto, form at
the Palace on Saturday. At the Princess’s,
next door, “Bluebeard” will rage magnifi-
cently.
** * *
“Penelope,” at Melbourne King’s, is show-
ing once more how the owner of a brass-
plate may look like an ass. Dr. O’Farrell
(Graham Browne) is the quadruped in
question, and the sting of his discovery that
his wife has been well aware of his giddi-
ness is only surpassed by his horror
at her refusal to get wild at his infidelity.
Graham Browne expresses the injured pride
of the baffled Lothario in a scene which is
almost Shawian in its irony, while Marie
Tempest lends first-class assistance. The
pungency of her humor is well displayed in her
handling of the other cat, Mrs. Ferguson, in
the last act. In this part Dorothy Hamilton
would be more welcome in a more blissful
frame of mind, but a good dressmaker
enables her to picture a siren that might
tempt a doctor to neglect his practice. Ash-
ton Jarry repeats the tall, curving Professor,
and Doris Gilliam, as Mrs. Golightly, con-
tinues to philander with strange and sombre
cults and dress like the mid-Victorian era.
The only mistake in an otherwise well-cast
show is the appearance of the youthful
Frank Allanby as Davenport Barlow, a
decayed knut who confesses to being 56.
Next Saturday the bill is “Tea for Three,”
which has not hitherto been seen in Mel-
bourne.
** * *
Ella Shields, who was expected to leave
Melbourne Tivoli last week, definitely departs
amid general sorrow to-night, and presum-
ably others will pack ,up to-morrow, as sev-;
eral new Arrivals, including “The Frolics of
1921,” are to unpack on Saturday. Mean-
while Melbourne is learning to accept Ada
Cerito with enthusiasm, for Ada is a bright
little lady who never obviously labors to get
the last ounce of humor out of her Cockney
impressions. Cahill and Brooke, pianist and
singer, have made another leap in public esti-
mation ; Brooke will only have to do “Daddy”
or “The Rosary” to reach the apex of popu-
larity. The Tivoli hasn’t for a long time
heard a tenor so well produced. Nor is
Cahill’s pianism less enjoyed because it is
allowed to shine mostly in impeccable ac-
companiments on a not very toneful grand.
A new American vamp is fascinating a
large cast in "The Black Panther’s Cub,”
at Melbourne Majestic. She is a regal
beauty, with the face of a Madonna and
the heart of a Messalina, and adds a lurid
patch to the annals of crime before her wild
career is brought to a close. “The Dying
Detective,” the Majestic’s second thriller, is
after a yarn by Conan Doyle, and as it is
designed to make the blood run cold, it will
be welcome as the nights get warmer. At
Hoyt’s “Her Five-foot Highness” discovers
that an English title and a vast estate can’t
compare with the simple love of an .Ameri-
can cowboy, who teaches civilisation to bad
men with a well-filled Colt. There is an-
other delightful example of Yankee heroism
in “Clay Dollars.” He is the gifted genius,
only produced in Noo Yoik, who turns a seem-
ingly worthless lump of soil into a staggering
forchin. “The Silver Car,” racing across
the sheet at the Britannia, is throwing a
high light on Balkan intrigue, base dip-
lomats and beautiful women; while “The
Wild Goose,” travelling at the Melba, is
looking at the Infernal Triangle from a
new angle.
* si; * *
A show of farms and farm-stock :
There is the usual array of prime horseflesh in
Septimus Power’s show at the Melbourne Athenaeum.
A straining team is beaching the lifeboat in the
vast canvas which the artist will part with for 800
guineas. More of the same species, ranging from
the homely plough type to the restive kid’s pony,
arc found in smaller frames about the walls, and
the painting of them all suggests that this is the
quadruped that come 3 first in the artist’s affections.
But he also does cattle, vide the magnificent display
in “The Bullock Team,” and his dogs, noticeable in
Nos. 4 and 23, are given a certificate of perfect breed-
ing. His landscapes are distinguished by vigorous hand-
ling and warm color, but there is nothing very
poetical about them. A certain brilliance and dash
are conspicuous in his Devon and Somerset scenes,
wherein the medley of foliage, cottage gardens and
cobalt skies calls for a luxuriance of tint that is
almost tropical. Easily “West Porlock, Somerset,”
“The Village Lane” and “The Cottages at Selworthy”
are the brightest things in the exhibition. His Aus-
tralian subjects are less impetuous in treatment.
The best of them, originally hung in the Royal
Academy, is “The River Murray,” a rather pon-
derous view of tremendous gum-trees and a Murray
steamer.
$$ $ $
The Fuller melodrama at Adelaide Prince
of Wales’s worked on approved old lines for
its closing nights, catering for the casual tear
with “East Lynne” and “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” with Mabelle Harding as heroine.
The rest is good concerts, with pictures and
variety. Dampier at the Royal is prominent
in the latter, with his old “Plantagenet” and
other stunts. Good pictures of London are
an attraction at West’s, and the Pav. is
bringing “Alice in Wonderland” to life.
The 17th issue of “Australia To-Day,”
the annual published by the C.T.A., keeps
well in step with its predecessors. Full of
informative stuff about the Commonwealth
and with its plenitude of pictures it is
specially fitted for overseas consumption.
The Triad’s Christmas number has a
reproduction in color of “Hop’s” popular
old “I thought I had a stamp,” with some
appreciative remarks about the artist.
Frank Morton is a large contributor to the
letterpress of the number, but there are
plenty of others to help him make it well
worth a shilling.
“6th Brigade” finds out things:—
Dip the badge ? Certainly! Listen to this. A
friend got me a ticket for the N. S. Wales Speaker’s
Gallery so that I might hear the Dooley Government
sing its swan-song. The document brought me to
what was apparently the last defence. I was stopped
here by a stout, elderly menial in a heavily-braided
livery. “They’re ain’t no room,” he said. “Get
out.” I showed him the ticket. “It’s numbered,” I
remonstrated. “Couldn’t I push in somewhere ?”
Drawing himself up he regarded me with abhor-
rence. Where had 1 seen that manner before ? Bird-
wood at Serapeuin ? Emphatically no! Monash, in-
specting on the high ground behind Querrieu?
Nothing like it. Of course. How stupid to forget!
Old Bilbo, the pommy bombardier, who held a per-
manent job as O.C. fat-buckets under Billy Mailer
at Lark Hill! “Didn’t they learn you the first
duty of a soldier in the army ?” the attendant thun-
dered. “Didn’t they teach you the ’oly word
‘hobey.’ Ree-tire!” 1 did so removing the emblem
which had betrayed me as I went. If. as appears
to be the case, the fact of having fought with the
A.I.F. gives domestic servants the right to treat
one as a base-camp recruit, then I blame no Digger
for disguising himself as a shirker. There are incur-
able militarists about who are capable of calling a
man smartly to attention before giving him a thrip-
penny shoe-shine.
CHRI STMAS COMES BUT ONCE A YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now is the merry time of year when Bacchus man
beguiles,
When barmaids burst in bloom like flowers and don
their sweetest smiles;
The devils of the income-tax and mortgage do their
bunks
As rolling round the city come the annual Christmas
drunks.
.Each Mr. Subbubs has his day and joys again in life,
Though pockets bulge with purchased sweets (“Hie
—pacify th’ wife!”).
i The world is roseate in hue—he’s won a Christmas
goose;
We 11 have another, Jones, old boy —we got good
ex-hic-scuse !
“The ole girl won’t go wild, ole top—she’s (hie)
a good old sort!
We’ll jus’ go round th’ wine-bar (hie) an’ buy her
. real old port;
An’ while we’re there we might as well have jus’ a
glass or so
To try if wine tastes as it used —twelve solid months
ago.”
So when the mystic hour of six has tolled, from all
the bars
A weird procession wends its way to railway trains
and cars-
A thousand Mr. Subbubses lit up by rays of beer
The joyful jag their laws allow—it comes but once
a year.
N.S.W.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


*1 + ' I?
■rnmm wmmmm
- ' % 4
lliliSlßliilliilSiii
lllllllliBgllit^«
. • j
■
mmm
■
. ■ :
>*
mim
£
i
i
m
s .■
",kw
1
m
mm
: -v
■ '
' .. * :
i M
wm
■■■l
:: :
9m
:
3 3
mi mm n
n
11
; 1
.
r
. : ,\f;A ,
.
■lll
l: y • •
- *' ' j
V \ A
** ’<■ ' f xi. ,
o
t jou going i'O
Pleasant company, a good cat shod with depend-
able tyres, and what an amount of enjoyment
one can cram into a motor tour extending over a
few days! No more ideal way of spending one s
holiday exists. Variety and charm await one in
every direction. The noise of the multitude may
be left behind as one gets out amongst the gums,
or the gayer doings at the seaside may be added
to the pleasure of one’s outing. The freedom of
being able to go when and where one likes is in
itself a great legacy to motorists. ,One essential
to pleasurable touring is that you start away. on
tyres capable of withstanding hard service with-
out giving trouble. The safest thing to do is to
fit your car or motor cycle with “Railroad”
O
sLm
D
and thereby ensure immunity from roadside tyre
troubles. The quality and strength of “Railroads”
are never more apparent than under touring
conditions. Thousands of miles of travel, over
all descriptions of roads and tracks, leaves little
sign of wear on “ Railroads.” This is the service
built into every “ Dunlop” cover and tube, and
it is to be had simply by specifying “Dunlop”
when ordering tyres. The cost is no more—-in
fact, less—than most imported tyres; the dif-
ference is in the economical service they give.
Your garage can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. Ltd.
ALL STATES
AND N. Z.


A MERRY THOUGHT.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
Sparkling Muscatel,
EXTRA DRY.
Asti-Spumante
and Vermouth.
Sold by all the Leading Hotels and
Civil Service Stores.
AGENTS:
F. LUBRANO & CO., LTD.,
48 Young Street, Sydney.
Champagne
Billecart —Salmon.
AUTHENTIC VINTAGE, 1906
Noted for its delicate flavor.
Sole Representatives for Australia:
EUGENE GOSSET & CO., Box 88 G.P.0., Sydney.
Telephone: City 1904.
Hotel Sydney
MANAGEMENT E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Christmas Dinner will this year
be served at 6.30 p.m. on
Saturday (Christmas Eve).
Reservations may now be
made.
Thole & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Thorold Waters'’ as Job’s comforter: —
A round dozen or more young or partly-young Aus-
tralian musical folk have packed up for London in
the six months I have been back. They have much
to face. It was child’s-play in pre-war days com-
pared to the abnormal conditions now. Fees are
down and exes, are up. When you hear that some-
one has pocketed 15 or 20 guineas for a concert, that
doesn’t mean every concert, and it isn’t all make,
anyway. Out of it come railway fare, about 175 per
cent, above the pre-Armageddon rates, and hotel bill,
generally four times what it used to be. And those 15 or
20 guineas are not picked up in London, but in
Edinburgh, or Huddersfield, or some far place involv-
ing heavy exes., and frequently meaning a three-
days’ jaunt. The long waiting period before there
are any fees at all must not be forgotten. It is
longer now because there is less opportunity, many
formerly good patrons of music having developed a
cash shortage, or else given up old-time interests in
consequence of war beareavements. The hash-lady
has a bill three times as big as it used to be, and
certainly twice as big as it would now be in Sydney
or Melbourne. The only person who hasn’t doubled
his charges is the crack voice-gardener or other musi-
cal culturist. His charges were terrific to begin
with, and he has, kept them up, but his row is a
very hard one to hoe just now, and he is the one
person in all Britain who is a comparative philan-
thropist in that he does not ask more than he used
to get.
“Nib”: Australian actor-authors make a
pretty fair list, too —Bert Bailey, Roy Red-
grave, Tal Ordell, Eardley Turner, Leslie
Victor and Mary Marlowe. The last-named’s
third novel, “The GL.st Girl,” is just out.
“Old Timer”: Watching Alfred Frith’s
methods in “Going Up,” I was struck with
the idea that he would be an excellent Rev.
Robert Spalding if the Firm were to revive
“The Private Secretary.” With Field
“THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Frank Freeman as Chas. Vidal.
Fisher, Paul Plunket, Cyril Ritc'hards,
Millie Engler, Emma Temple, Mrs. Brough,
Leslie Victor and other good artists avail-
able, there ought to be a mint of money in
these old farces; and they might lift the
taste of youthful playgoers a bit.
' ‘Dig-haw” : I saw a film billed as “S"<met
Lavender” the other night. The story was
entirely different from Unit of the play, and
to make matters worse the cast throughout
was bad with the exception of Theodore
Roberts as “Professor” Dick Plienyll. Pre-
sumably Sir Arthur Pinero permitted this
thing to go out. If he did, then he deserves
a rap over the knuckles. The author is the
only one who can protect the public from
such perversions, and he owes it to his friends
and admirers, at any rate, to see that they
get the story which is identified with the title.
“Thorold Waters” : The passing of David
Bispham, the unique ’Murkan baritone who
toured Australia just before the Great
Clash, has gone unnoticed by the cable-
men. Bispham played a bigger international
part than any other American singer yet,
and his Beckmesser in “Die Meistersingers,”
Telramund in “Lohengrin” and Alberich in
the “Ring” excelled those of any of the
dozens of Hun artists I have heard in the
i-oles. He was likewise a fine recitalist, and
sang lieder with a tenderness quite beyond
the capacity of most hefty-voiced opera stars.
“Private Boxer”: A month or two ago a
Poverty Pointer said that William Archer,
the veteran English critic, was bom in Aus-
tralia. According to Archer himself this is
only a superstition. Says he, in answer to
various questions recently put to him and
other British literary lights by Aussie : “I
am ashamed to say that, although my family
has been long and intimately connected with
Australia, and although I myself spent a
year in Queensland so long ago as 1876-77, I
have scarcely any knowledge of Australian
literature.” The _Archers took up Grace-
mere station in 1855 —there was a great 56th
anniversary celebration within the memory
of the present generation. William was
born the year after the family acquired the
holding, and stayed behind in Scotland for
his schooling.
“Blackfi’ai-s”: Since “Merry Widow”
times Joseph
v k.v tif nas been a
hut favorite o f
mine, but I . agree
that he pulls the
dough too thin
nowadays (B.
8/12/ ! 21). It was
the limit when a
recent matinee fin-
ished at 3.55 after
beginning at 2.15,
and I had to take
the girl to half a
movie show t o
make her feel as
though she had
got on level
terms. Those
short entertain-
ments are all right
in the Smoke,
where folk dive
into a theatre as
a sort of interlude
between a hearty
late dinner and a
hefty early supper;
hut Coyne wouldn’t
dare to put on
such abbreviations
anywhere in Bid-
At Melbourne Tivoli .
Ada Cerito sings
about her black eye .
tain outside London unless lie backed them
up with some kind of curtain-raiser.
Christchurch and Dunedin simply stormed
Annette Kellerman’s show, and the sporting
bodies of both places worked overtime enter-
taining the Australian mermaid. Annette
thinks Christchurch’s playing fields are the
finest she has seen outside Paris, but can’t
understand how the Dunedinites come at
the swimming business so enthusiastically.
"Ooh! It is cold here,” she says. Sister
Marcelle still rushes around looking after
her sister’s interests, and the pair are ex-
pected back in Sydney on their way to Lon-
don and Norway in February.
J.D.”: Ordinarily Hobart City Council
elections are about as unobtrusive as a
vegetable John’s funeral on a wet Monday,
but last week’s proceedings included a ding-
dong referendum scrap on the question of
Sunday-night picture-shows. Previous pleb-
iscites on this, subject were tame, one-sided
affairs, the picture-showmen having it all
their own way. But last week R.C. Bishop
Delany joined hands with the parsons for
the first time, and made a real fight of it.
A record poll resulted, and the picture advo-
cates only 7 by the merest flicker retained
their right to set traps for the Sunday-
night thruppenees of the multitude.
“Lantana”: Grace Torrens, the fine
accompanist of the Butt-Rumford company,
upon her arrival in England will start
playing a duet—“ Till Death Us Do Part.”
“Pongo”: The news that Albert Whelan
is. returning to Australia reminds me that
his first Sydney appearance was with the
original “Belle of New York” co., in which
he understudied Oscar Girard, the elder
Bronson. Poor Girard was then, in the
last stages of consumption, and made a grim
jest of the fact by asking his audience to
excuse his voice, as “my pipes are frozen.”
\\ lieu the home-grown Whelan’s chance
came to piay the part he made such a WBn-
aerfui joo of it mat even the GhOrus was
tooled tor a time, and efily tumbled to the
lclenuty of Bronson when it was noticed
that he didh t t-tough.
"Ci Otkney”: Two comedy-character mum-
mers whose work is as well known on Aus-
tralian as English stages—Ambrose Man-
ning and Cecil -Brooking—are in the cast of
a new play at London Royalty. The
novelty is “The Education of David Brant,”
by Lechmere Won-all, paH-tiuthor of “The
Man Who Stayed at Home,” and wholly re-
sponsible for “Ann,” a eomfed.y Which Bert
Bailey brought back with him and Will Stage
about Easter.
“H.do” : i have seen the “When the Billy
Boils” film, and once more enter my heated
protest against the manner in which good,
honest Australian stuff has been treated. In
the desire to give the local thing a fighting
chance, n is the fi'ewspaper custom to be
kind, but when a worthy author is so mis-
handled that literature descends to piffle
kindness is thrown away. “While the Billy
Bods ’ is a good book, it is a bad film, and
because it is an Australian film the greater
the reason for discouraging its infirmities,
ihe familiar dramatic method is observed ia
shaping the stories into a united Whole, TWO
serious characters are taken and surrounded
with a band of low comics, whose determina-
tion to be grotesque becomes as hahseOiis fis
ones tenth consecutive meal of porridge and
treacle. The hero is alternately a noble feh
low and a crass idiot as the development of
u alleged plot demands; and never once
does the true Lawson atmosphere emanate
Irom the screen. I have a more appropriate
title for this film. I would call it “While
the Belly Boils.”
Middle Blue”: Beatrice MacDonald, the
Doubie Bay gwl pretty-well starring with
the Sydney Repertory Go. these days, walked
On professionally with the H. B. Irving Co.
side by side with Enid Bennett and Dorothy
Gummmgs. She was sitting with Enid at
lier Majesty s one matinee when another
girl burst in with: “I Bay, Enid* they’re
Hunting for you round at the office because
you look like the girl who played Modesl.v
in America,” Dorothy
I iiillips was the American gild lh question,
and now Enid runs neck and neck with her
for picture popularity,
“Dollar Mark”: Even the modern panto-
mime, a peculiarly British institution, must
be Americanised for Australian consump-
tion. This extract from a recent Sydney
oun article describing a rehearsal is illu-
minating :
'■“Ph in a screarti df
■protest, for Gawd's sake, Jennie. Not ‘Believe
™ e ,L Sa s Sleeve MUSI’” Jennie nods and
smiles. Next time she sings the sohg she inserts
Bleeve MUH! for “Believe me!” Mr, Bentley
is ravished. ”
And' well he might be 1
“T.W.”: I’ve never seen Louis Bennison,
who comes to Australia to he “The Great
Lover, but iL occurs to me as something to
be regretted that the Firm did hot secure
the famous Yiddish actor, Maurice Musco-
vitclij for the role. In George Musgrove’s
°ht; Theatre, Moscovitch put up
the finest acting seen in London since the
days of the lamented, but never fully appreci-
ated, Laurence Irving. The Firm’s pre-
liminary announcement of “The Great
I.over” says it “affords a fascinating glimpse
of the life of an operatic manager.” Singer
is meant, of course. There is never any-
thing fascinating in an operatic manager’s
life except—well, some little side-isiips,
London Hippodrome management resorted
to the simple expedient of choosing a num-
ber of its chorus girls for this year’s panto
by making them don bathing gear and
bounder about in some municipal baths. It
was found to be an excellent way of judging
their—voices.
“Lond.” : Popular-comedian George Graves
has had the unusual experience of being
hissed from the gallery. _ Authors have got
into the wa.y of sketching out a part for
him and leaving him to fill in with his own
brand of fruity humor. The cause of the
trouble was his reliance on the old English
word “guts” as a laugh-producer; and
Graves did not mend the matter by asking
twice over for someone to kick the principal
objector in the er—stomach.
“Chev”: Sarah Bernhardt, who has for
years taken her coffin about with her when
travelling, is now giving personal attention
to the planning of her tomb. Close to her
home on Belle Isle, in the Bay of Biscay,
she has bought from the French Government
for £24 a rocky islet, which she intends to
make her burial place.
“Mirza”: Pollock’s “Sign on the Door”
(B. 8/12/’2l) has already been screened
in Australia, with Norma Talmadge as the
in-no-cent wife. As in the same lady’s ver-
sion of “De Luxe Annie,” the film beats the
sunken Jammer by a furlong—according to
the publicity man, who never lies.
“E.T.”: Australia saw “Welcome
Stranger” long before it was staged in Eng-
lahtl. 'flie ’Murkan comedy was done at
the London Lyric in October, just about the
time it was done with here. The Jules Gor-
don role is taken by a newly-discovered
Jewish comedian, Harry Green, _ and the
mostly-Ilebrew first-nighters gave him a great
reception. John D. O’Hara's part was m
the hands of George Elton, a son of popular'
old Billy.
l ‘G: 5 di'hhviile Barker’s latest
hohtribhtion .to tire Sta&k ah adaptafibh
bf Sacha Ghitry’s play ‘“DuburaU,” a story
bf Pftris. ifi ,1835), just produced at th 6 am :
baSsadbr’sj Londdh: Robert Ldraine has the
BALBONT. the
tenor, now singing
“ Pagliacci ” at Mel-
bourne Majestic.
title-part, and the heroine, Marie
sis, is played by Madge Tithfel'adgd,
“Dubtifall” succeeds Loi'd Dlmsftny’S “If/*
Which surprised the Critics (and the afithOi')
by rbhhifig five hibhthh:
u O* Bliifi’ | Dali' Bari-y*s company Of
World stars, Which had appeared With uiij
barailelfed sUCCfess before the British Royal
family, W. B. Gladstone, the Mikado, etc.*
Once alighted in the village Of TwoUp to do
Dahiel’s latest masterpiece; “Three Nights
on a COw-chtCher,’’ for a gfeasori of orid
night* TwoUp was a great tomato OentrO,
and the astute manager thought that by
ai riving in the height of the seasoU he would
catch the populace with its pockets full. But
ftn eatly sumtner had ruled otherwise, and
Dab leftrnt eiiOugh about his pi-ospects to
bail a hurried meeting of the company at
the Royal Hotel* When they Were all col-
lected he said solemnly: “Ladies and gentle-
men, we must leave as quietly and unobtru-
sively as possible. I thought there WaS
Some money here. But there lias been a
mendous glut of tomatoes. In .fact, ladies
arid gentlemen, they're chuckiil ’ ’dm tiivay!”
“E.T.” : Who says 13 is hot Unlucky? 1 WaS
one of a melodrama troupe that once played
to an audience of 13 —we counted them. The
spectacle of that baker’s dozen dotted about
the front of the house broke us up. Before
the first act was through not one of the'
crowd could get his words out for laughing.
The audience didn’t tumble to the joke and
suddenly started to hiss. It pulled us up
with a round turn. But it was too late.
When the curtain fell —to the accompani-
ment of sounds of unanimous disapproval—
the 13 went out, stormed the box-office and
demanded their money back. They got it,
too.
“Segtii”: One of the most startling bits
of dressing I ever saw was in’ Brisbane,
when Tilly Dunbar, a one-time vital little
vaudeville spark, played Mother Superior
to Olive Wilton’s “Mary Latima, Nun,” in
high-heel dancing pumps.
“Dido” : I got an insight into the type of
man who swells up and fills the American
picture world from a newly-arrived Yankee
the other day. “Great .men they are, I tell
you, siree,” said he. “Genius was called
for, and she came. There’s , f’rinstans.
He was in lumber, but he sees bigger money
in the picture business, and he goes fer it.
Now that man’s one of the greatest per-
doosers in the game. A tank of raw talent
he is. Then there’s -—-. He had a shirt
fact’ry when something put him into a
sorter peep-show parlor, an’ he reached out
an’ elaborated himself. Jest a little sack of
ability ; and to-day he controls ‘pics’ coverin’
half the earth, and ’tain’t no wopder.” And
there was the God-gifted ex-keeper of a
restaurant who “took after ‘pics’ licketty
split.” His every thought, it seems, was a
brainstorm. Another great dealer in “fil-
lums” was previously manufacturer of saus-
ages for street stands, but discovered that
Heaven had ordained him to be a screen
king. In short, I was given clearly to under-
stand why it is that a series of American
pictures bears so striking a resemblance to
a chain of bolognas or a baking of buns. It’s
the same kind of -business run by the same
men.
PREPARATORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tale is told that they had played
For many years together
Fond lovers passionate or staid,
And now old Hymen’s tether
They had decided to assume.
Approached the wedding morning,
When Bletcher going to her room
Came on the couple storming.
A teacup cracked against the door;
The nose of Horace ran with gore.
Ere James, the manager, could speak
She threw another platter;
The man so late her lover meek
Then hurled the teapot at her.
The manager now backed away,
And turned a hasty story
For those who’d called. “Friends not to-day,’’
In tones propitiatory,
He said, the visitors dispersing—
“ln fact, they’re busy now— -rehearsing l”
acTonu.
STARGAZER.


BATTERIES
For Every Man
Who Owns a Car
Whatever make of battery you have, we believe
we can prolong its life if you give us the chance.
Come here at regular intervals and we will keep
tabs on the condition of your battery. Our policy
Is to make every battery last as long as possible.
We are manned and equipped to do this.
When—and not until —you really need a new
battery, we will be glad to sell you a new Exide,
the battery of long-lasting power.
i 8.
WSSS
??9
w.
m
f(j
T M
©
03
isg3>
«*s*
V
m
f jPyy\ V.
s
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND ... • • Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA . ... ... Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA . Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND ...... Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHIUr & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Rediern, Sydney.
Golclfinder Ooap
LEVIS & WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
mfe
“VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB BTREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
ś
“VALIjO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; |lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State :11b., 9d.; jib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; jib., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEG GO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches —SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
The first mutch in the Sheffield Shield
competition, between N. S. Wales and S. Australia,
was started at Adelaide on Friday, and for the first
time in the Shield’s history the teams consisted of
players practically unknown outside their own States.
Punch and Cranney have been occasional inter-State
players, and of S.A.’s lot the Richardsons, Rundell
and Pellew are about the best known. In the com-
pilation of N.S.W.’s first-innings effort of 360 Cran-
ney (70) was the only man up to Wall’s advent to
shape at all confidently. The others were reckless
and cautious in tuiip. Wall was both confident and
artistic, and showed plenty of strokes. Townsend,
SAM MORRIS.
the old-time
cricket champion,
who, although blind,
still attends all
important matches
in Melbourne. He
represented Vic.
in many a
famous match.
A. Richardson and
Williams did most of
the bowling, and the
former (5 for 60)
always r looked difficult.
Pellew was very smart
in the field, and
Ambler has lost none
of his last season’s
skill behind the sticks.
Wall backed up his
batting by sticking
some of the enemy up
with the ball. He got
7 for 132, but never
troubled Pellew (77)
or Pritchard (100). In
their first knock S.
Aus. totalled 376.
When Achurch and Asher \vent to the wickets
again for N. S. Wales the “pitch was as flaw-
less as though it 'hadn’t had a run made on it;
and the same might have been 'said. of it at the
end of the day when the visitors had compiled
375 for five. Cranney contributed a faultless 144,
and Love’s 71, (n. 0.), though on the cautious side,
was pretty cricket all through. Msrgan (75) was
the other heavy scorer. Russell strained himself
on Saturday so badly that he had to hand over to
Rock. There is a chalice that his cricket is over
for the season.
« • * »
Harold Ciranney, who got the fine double
of 70 and 144 for N.S.W. v. S. Aus., is still young
enough to be eligible for bigger cricket. He was
in the N.S.W. XI in 1914-15, and averaged 33 in
three innings; then the war hung up cricket, and
at its revival he failed to get in the eye of the
selectors. In grade cricket, playing for Central
Cumberland, he has been very consistent, and in
1911-12 topped the premiership aggregates with 831,
averaging 59.35, which had only been exceeded five
times in the previous 19 years. Last season he
headed C.O. averages with 56.83, and his aggregate
was 682, being second to A. Punch (804). He is the
eldest of four brothers who pull on flannels in Syd-
ney premiership cricket.
* * * *
D. Pritchard (5.A..),, who started the
season’s • crop of centuries with 100 v. N.S.W., got
almost as many in the innings as he made in two
previous seasons. Last year he got 44 in four inn-
ings, and 125 in six whacks in 1919-20. And ytc
the stylish batsman has done consistently well in
club cricket.
If no batsman or bowler (Hogue’s hat-,
trick excepted) did anything out of the ordinary
in' Sydney grade-cricket dn Saturday, wicket-keepers
put in a good day. Jagelman (’Varsity) cut four
Sundowners’ lives short, Watsford (Cumberland) dis-
missed six Balmainiacs, and Green (Manly), Campbell
(Mosman) and Savage- (Waverley) all did things
behind the batsmen’s backs they couldn’t do to
their faces. In the Paddington-North Sydney match
it looked all over with Noble’s team, but the ninth-
wicket partnership was worth 75. Barnes, a new-
comer, helped himself to 52, and Norths have 204
to face. Hogue, who always takes a few wickets, got
them all at once this time. Norths should have no
difficulty in staying at the head of affairs. Rand-
wick (311) put up the best score for the afternoon,
most of the batsmen getting among the runs. Mer-
chant (83) lashed out lustily and was well sup-
ported by Phillips (76). who played a more sub-
dued game. Mosman and Manly each had a knock
on a none-too-perfect pitch at Mosman, and the
home team have a slight lead. Neighbor A. Ander-
son (6 for 46) and the Mosman bowler Hooker (4
for 32) obtained somewhat glorified averages. The first
half-dozen Gordon bats whaled into the Sydney bowl-
ing, more especially Hosking (52). Watts got 49 and
Gerdes 54. Bad fielding helped to demoralise the
Cumberland bowling against Balmain. Coogan suf-
fered most. Wheatley (52) played another good inn-
ings for the Snail’s Bayites, and Storey (54 n. 0.)
hit freely towards the end. Fitzgibbon got the aver-
age—3 for 47. C.C.. 3 down for 26, are up against
it. Surrounded by the best ’Varsity fielding, Fair-
fax, of Wests, did well to get 96. He was the only
player to negotiate Sturt (6 for 117). Petersham
kept Glebe in the field all the afternoon for 277 for
nine. O. S. Smith (77) and Emery (42) completely
got the fieldsmen down. Crane and Long carried on
the work. The bowlers suffered. Kelleway (3 for
65) met with most success. St. George and Marrick-
ville promise to have a close game.
Adelaide cricket this season has consisted
mainly of a wet Saturday followed by a fine one,
making the results fluky. East Torrens is at the
top, as usual, but only by a point from Port, with
Sturt , a good third and the rest nowhere. The good
bowling performances have come mostly from the
same veterans who can’t keep a N.S.W. or Vic.
innings below 500 ; and the S.A. colts got a bad
showing up in a recent trial in Melbourne. For the
first inter-State match of the season, S.A. had a
pull in having only one man away with the Aus-
tralian XI —Pellew. Townsend had fairly
bowled his way into the State XI, being also
a mighty smiter. Other certainties were Rundell,
the two Richardsons, Andy Smith, and John Murray
of the A.I.F. team. Of the several good wicket-
keepers available. Ambler was chosen, and Pritchard
is a sound left-handed bat. On the experimental' list
are the bowlers Williams, Bravbrook and Gray, with
Geoff Harris, who batted well against England last
March.
* * * *
The, chief school cricket-match in Adelaide
ended in a win for St. Peter’s —the third running.
They won by some fine bowling following a first-
innings score of 366 (Bednall 137, Lee 63, Moor-
house 54). Then Pridmore took six Prince Alfred
wickets for 49, and the side was out for 128.
Saints, declining to take the shadow of a risk,
exercised their option against a follow-on, and
played a very moderate second innings of 162 (Lee
50). Princes played doggedly to the finish, Krantz
carrying his bat right through for 40 n. 0., and
McKay making 55. But they were out for 182.
Morally they lost by an innings, but not actually.
Governor Weigall told Saints later that their not
going for the innings win was not quite cricket.
Another Hill, grandson of John and nephew of
Clem, made a first appearance for the losers, scoring
23 in the first innings.
University cricket, going on just across the road
from the school match in Adelaide, drew only a
handful. Adelaide won comfortably from Melbourne.
The main feature was that L. V. Pellew got back
into form, scored 58 and 109, and regained his place
in the South Aus. XI.
■* * * *
’Roy showed the best form in Melbourne
district cricket on Saturday. Playing against Saints
they hammered up 312 for 5 wickets off bowling
that was mostly spiritless. The veteran Kier-nan
got 123 for ’Rov, and 90 came from Cody before he
was run out. North, weakened by the absence of
the old international Matthews, were kept busy by
the : strong P’ran team, who registered 261 for 5,
Blake being- 69 n. 0., Ellis 54, and Thomson and
Willis 44 each. Hawthorn-East, against Richmond,
started off in Dead March time; but Braid (78)
and Rimington (68 n. 0.) wakened up the game,
and Hawthorn-East reached the bell with 271 and
two wickets in hand. Clem Sindrey was Rich-
mond’s most dangerous bowler (6 for 99). Carlton,
with 3 for 77, in reply to University’s modes'., 94,
for which the good bowling of Truman (5 for 26)
and Bowes (3 for 12) was most responsible, are
within sight of a first-innings victory, and may,
with luck or good judgment, snatch an outright
win. Melbourne shaoed none too comfortably against
Northcote, whose slow bowler, Woodbury, had even
Ransford meditating. Melbourne totalled 199
(Rogerson 51 and Lemann 41), the wreckers being
Carroll (4 for 36) and Woodbury (4 for 66). ’Cote
are now 2 for 20, and have lest good bats in Carroll
and Gill. There was nothing glittering in South’s
241 against ’Wocd. The saddest feature was Park’s
failure to keep his end up. He retired, l.b.w. to
Keating, for one.
* * * *
In anticipation that the Australian XI
will be back in tinie, the V.C.A. has included Arm-
strong, Mayne, McDonald, Park and Ryder in the
XI to play N.S.W. at Melbourne next week. A. E.
Hartkopf is the only picked player who was not in
last year’s XI, and he got a Sheffield Shield blazer
in 1919-20.
A noted figure in Australian boxing went
out when Reg Midwood was electrocuted accident-
ally at Hobart last week. In his day, Midwood won
the Australian amateur middleweight title three times
between 1907-1909. Four years later he opened up
a gymnasium in Hobart, and had filled the role of
boxing teacher there since.
* * * *
By their superior bladework and greater
NAT McDONALD.
the well-known
N.S.W. sculling
umpire.
weight and strength
Mercantile won the
champion fours on the
Lower Yarra on Satur-
day. Mercs., however,
didn’t have it all their
own way, for the
lighter Wendouree
■ crew, though rowing
the first part of the
race in choppier
water, gradually re-
duced a three lengths’
lead at the start, and
were only three-quar-
ters of a length astern
when the Mercs, got
over the line. Albert;
Park, Banks and Civil
Service never eveti
threatened the other
two crews. The best
of them was Albert
Park, and there was
almost enough water
to swing a liner be-
tween their boat and
Wendouree’s.
Mosman Rowing Club took its business
very seriously, ,and is having its reward: its eight
is easily the. best thing in a boat on Sydney Harbor
season. It followed a win at home a week
earlier by beating Leichhardt and ’Varsity by four
lengths" in the senior eights at the Parramatta
River regatta on Saturday, Callaghan, the stroke,
outgeneralling Lewis, the Leichhardt man. But A.
G. Bull, of Leichhardt, took the handicap sculls
from 2sec. behind.
D. W. Ripley (challenger) bad his return
match with Billy McDevitt (holder) for the N.S.W.
sculling championship on the Parramatta on Satur-
day. McDevitt won the toss, and took the southern
shore —a poor choice. But, anyhow, he had no
hope. Ripley led at the mile by six lengths; at
Putney by 15; at the end by nearly quarter of a
mile. Time, 24min. McDevitt sculled as though
Anno Domini was beginning to impose its blighting
hand on him. Ripley’s backers now intend to match
him with Jim Paddon ior the Australian title.
* * * *
The Kangaroos went down to Lancashire
at Warrington last week —their sixth defeat this
tour. The game was played in drizzling rain, with
the leather greasy and the going heavy. For the
Aussies Pearce was replaced by Prentice as rake;
Burge stood down for Latta; and Watkins, Horder
and Caples were non-starters, while, to cap the lot,
Johnson commenced operations working the pack,
with Duncan Thompson as stand-off half. At one
stage the Lancastrian custodian Bentham caused a
mild sensation by scoring a try—unconverted. Price
and Cunliffe (who were here with the last English
tburists) and Cartwright did great work for Lan-
cashire, and the game fended B—6 in the county’s
favor. On Saturday the wanderers met Dewsbury,
one of the strongest Yorkshire clubs, and crashed
again, this time by 13 points to 6. Spells were
taken by Duncan Thompson and Fraser from the
rearguard, and Schultz from the ruck. Horder re-
appeared on the wing. Caples played five-eighth
with Pearce, and Burge was again in the van. In
the second spasm Pearce, colliding with Burge, badly
damaged his shin.
* * * *
N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Assoc, re-
cently added a clause to its rules regarding the
reinstatement of swimmers who had infringed the
amateur status, and who wished to return to the
fold. The, gist of it was that, notwithstanding any
previous rule to the contrary, any application for
reinstatement as an amateur from any person who
engaged in active service prior to June 28, 1919, and
who since that date has not committed any act of
professionalism, shall be received without prejudice.
Harold Hardwick —erstwhile amateur champion
swimmer of the British Empire, Australia, Eng-
land and N. S. Wales, Olympic swimming rep.,
champion amateur boxer of the British Empire, and
winner of the cup presented at the liter-Allied
Games to the, competitor displaying the best sports-
manship—boxed as a professional for about 11
months. He applied, under the new clause, to be
whitewashed. Last week the N.S.W.A.S.A., after
considering his application, turned it down. The
voting, although in his favor (20 to 17), did not
show the necessary three-fourths majority. Now
the Swimming Assoc., the Rugby Union and Boxing
and Wrestling Assoc., are members ‘of the Aipateur
Sporting Federation, and subscribers to an 'agree-
ment insisting that no person who has infringed his
amateur status in any sport controlled by a body
affiliated with the Federation, shall be reinstated or
permitted to compete in any sport until reinstated by
the body controlling the sport in which he com-
mitted such infringement. Despite this agreement,
and despite the fact that the Rugby Union still
refuses to recognise Rugby League footballers as
amateur footballers, whether they have received
money for their services or not, the Swimming Assoc,
has reinstated all Rugby League footballers making
the necessary declaration that they are amateurs.
If the Assoc, can swallow an ex-Leagueite who hasn’t
been to the war, why need it strain at an ex-boxer
who has?
* * * *
It was Bert Spargo all the way at Sydnev
Stadium on Saturday night. The canvas upon which
he flung his masterly picture of the impotence of
mere strength and gameness against skill was Ernie
Goozeman, of America. Goozeman is one of the
several boxers now operating in the front rank of
the profession in Australia who are handicapped
by the Queensbury rules. His spiritual home is
back in the period when pugilists used to toss each
other in the air and rely on the demoralising eriects
of the bump. He fouled Spargo as badly on this
occasion as when they last met. However, the blow
was not harmful, as Spargo demonstrated by nearly
outing the wrong-doer a few seconds later. Morally,
Goozeman is no more to blame for bis fouls than
the small boy who throws a stone at a passing dog
and stuns a relative; be just lets the blows go and
trusts to luck. The crowd showed its understanding
of this fine point of the game by giving him a fare-
well that was almost as hearty as that accorded to
the winner.
* *■ * *
Aftei; their strenuous 20-rounder at the
Sydney Stadium on Dec. 10, Jamito and Ernie
S'ymonds rushed over to Melbourne and put tlieir
turn on a week later. Again Jammy was the winner
on points. But this sort of encore is a mistake.
The W.A. Derby, to be run at Perth on
Boxing Day, looks like being a match between
Easingwold, who has come good again, and Lionel
Attwill. And whether Easingwold wins or loses the
Derby he will take no end of beating with Bst. 31b.
in the 10-furlong Railway Stakes, set down for deci-
sion on December 28. In the two-mile Perth Cup
(Dec. 31) Easingwold has 7st. 71b., Lionel Attwill
7st. 131 b., Earl of Seafield (runner-up last year)
7st. 41b., Daarewin Bst. 21b. and Queen Comedy the
same poundage. All five are fancied. But nothing
looks better at the weights than Gold Digger (7st.
lib.), and with a strong jockey aboard the English
horse Lustroso (7st. 21b.) would be a dangerous
candidate.
* * * *
On Saturday at Canterbury Park Jimmy
Munro, apprentice, steered four winners in six rides.
Nothing succeeds like success, of course, and James
gets so many offers nowadays that he is able to
exercise a certain amount of selection. Still, the
lad is probably the most accomplished horseman
now riding at Sydney meetings, over short and
middle distances. Horses seem to run more gener-
ously for him than for most. A matter of “hands,”
no doubt.
* * * *
Recent racing and track work impart
much mystery to the A.J.C. Villiers Stakes, eight
furlongs, to be run on Saturday. It is a race that
is often won by an unexpected animal. Greenstead
appears to be so well loaded that to win he would
need to be an even greater horse than is generally
imagined. Jack Findlay, a uuperlatively good
mile:-; should, with-all his weight, he in the vicinitv
of Greenstead at the end. But over six furlongs at
Canterbury Park on Saturday, after starting a red-hot
favorite, he could only struggle into third place.
The Bananalander Hopetoun is a very fit horse just
now, and there is at least a possibility he may have
something to say about the Yilliers. This page also
has a suspicion that old Biplane and the diminutive
Jack Marsh may be within range of vision when the
proceedings begin to terminate.
* * * *
Campbell Munro, aged 15, knocked all
previous schoolboy records endways last week by
swimming 100yds. in Sydney All-Schools’ cham-
pionship in 62jsec. The previous best was 63 2-ssec.
M. Campbell, aged 13, won his age championship,
50yds., in 29sec. Previous best, 30 2-ssec. At
Manly Alan Penfold, aged 16, cut out 100yds.
in 60 4-ssec., which is Australia junior’s best.
Charlton, also of the Village, aged 14, swam
1320yds. in the wonderful time of 19min. 37sec.
Harold Hardwick introduced Colin McKenzie, a 17-
year-old Hunter River lad, who carried off the
100yds. breast-stroke championship of the Royal
Life Saving Society in the fine time of lmin. 22
2-ssec. It was the first race McKenzie had ever
contested.
* * * *
Newman, the Melbourne Grammar ped.
who is now with St. Stephen’s Harriers, drew fur-
ther attention to himself on Saturday by winning the
half-mile championship in the Vic. Amateur Athletic
tournament. Carroll, of Carlton Harriers, had the
lead in the last 200yds., but Newman, with that
final rush which distinguishes his running, shot past
Carroll when they were about a couple of yards
from the tape. J. E. Bunning, runner-up in the
100yds. and 440yds. championships, had a sensa-
tional win over Gale in the 220yds., just eclipsing
the former champion by inches in a fraction under
Vic. standard time. Another feature of the meeting
was the ruin of the Vic. javelin-throwing record,
established by the late Kaarlo J. Naukler with a
heave of 144 ft. sin. Hunt, of Y.M.C.A., beat that
by five inches, and followed with 148 ft. sin. and
149 ft, ?in. The last, however, was not allowed to
stand. West, of Carlton, who had previously shaped
indifferently, held the trophy and the record by
swinging tire missile 151 ft. sin.
*' * * *
Inez, piloted by veteran Fred Doran, re-
gistered her second win in three starts in Sydney
Yacht Squadron’s 21ft. restricted-class event last
Saturday. Alderton’s Gumleaf, which wore a head-
sail like a bag in consequence of her gear jambing
before the start, was second, and the vice-regal
Corella, with Don Taylor on the bridge, third.
* * * *
C. W. A. Korner had rotten luck lately in
an attempt on the motor-cyele-with-side-car record
from Adelaide to Melbourne. He was practically
home, well ahead of the figures, when he ran into a
fence outside Melbourne and was unable to finish.
He has now been successful, starting from the
G.P.0., Adelaide, at 1 a.m., and reaching the other
G.P.O. at 8.24 the same evening. Allowing the
half-hour between the times of S.A. and Victoria,
this makes 18hr. 54min. A passenger was carried.
Conditions were good, barring some fog through the
Coorong.
* # * *
Les Munro won Queensland half-mile
amateur cycling championship on Saturday in 67see.
from L. Vowles and W. Muir. That made three
titles won by him in a week.
* * * *
J. H. Kirkwood leaves for America early
in the New Year, A. W. East has resigned from
Concord to follow him, and there is a rumor that
D. G. Soutar is also going. The lure is the Yankee
dollar, which is poured out in bucketfuls at the
feet of front-rank pros. Money doesn’t matter in
some of the so-called country clubs. There’s one
near New York, restricted to under 200 members,
which has iced watter laid on round the) course.
That littl° ‘ervice alone probably runs each member
into 500 dollars a year.
REINCARNATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I were given wishes three
To settle I what I’d like to be
When this good life is ended,
I’d '.noose to be a coal-black steed
Of breadth and heiglit and ancient breed
In strength and beauty blended.
To follow hounds at racing pace,
To join the long, mad steeplechase
Throughout the winter weather,
To heedless fly the bitter rains
When hot blood surges through my veins
And pulses sing together.
To follow, follow, follow on,
O’er hill and dale where hounds have gone
And fresh green turf is springing,
To fly and fly the ditches deep,
To bird-like soar the hedges steep
When tally-ho is ringing.
And I would ask a horseman’s seat
To move with me as one complete,
And hand as light as feather,
With muscles rippling all in tune,
As night meets day and morning noon,
To move as one together.
And through the summer long I’d roam
’Mid bush and scrub and scents of home.
Among my friends and brothers,
And, dozing there beneath the trees,
Or swathed in grasses to our knees,
We’d yarn —I and the others.
Oh, this I’d wish of wishes three,
When life is finished presently ;
And then, should Heaven send it,
Swift as a swallow in my prime,
A glorious race, a leap sublime,
A sudden crash to end it!
VICTORIA.
L. LUCAS.


<’;♦ ’•
>;• %
m
1
pi
■ .
lIS
■
pa ■ .■ • • ■
m
■
m
8
migM
Mj
V-V-'-J!
fct-K S
■
111
H
!—.V\
sms
H
i )&
at k
;
'Mfcl
44©
1C
■A
PI
£Ss
irs
s
m «5
'
l rK' £ *-* ,v'
0
a
! : J > \i
CO.
D
/"%
lato
•j#
i
; rs ,
CJ ! \
CITY COMFORTS- —’WAY OUTBACK
THERE was a time when the country-dweller
had to forego most of the comforts and
conveniences that the city provided. How
different to-day! By means of Western Electric
Power and Light that dweller in the wide, open
spaces, miles from any town, can command all
those conveniences and compensations that
make city life so attractive.
Clean, clear, odorless electric light—in any
place—unaffected by wind or rain, is one boon.
Electric Power is another. Here, under ready
and instant control, you have current that over-
comes the drudgery of household work in a
moment. It makes possible the use of a dish-
washing machine, clothes-washer, electric iron,
electric fans, vacuum cleaner, electric sewing
machine, and many other wonderful appliances.
ENGINE Power is the third service— 3\ h.p.
ample for operating the pump, chaffcutter,
sawbench, etc. Self-denial is every man s
privilege. He can deny himself all these advan-
tages and comforts and go on in the old toil-
some, comfortless way. But should he deny
them to his womenfolk?
WESTERN ELECTRIC POWER AND LIGHT
lives up to every claim for it, because it is big and
strong, with a Battery Capacity of 288 Ampere
Hours, twice the size of nearly all other batteries in
lighting plants. Write to-day to nearest of the follow-
ing addresses for 20-page Illustrated Book (post free).
Western Electric Company
(Australia) L fd.
SYDNEY: 192 Castlereagli Street. MELBOURNE: C. R.
FOSTER, 262 Flinders Lane. BRISBANE: T. TONES, Eliza-
beth Street. ADELAIDE: NEWTON McLAREN, LTD., Leigh
Street. PERTH: WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 33 King Street.
HOBART: MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., Argyle Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: A. D. RILEY & CO., LTD., Lambton
Quay; also at Christcliui-ch, Auckland and Dunedin.
[W.E.653


" c ßack-to-normal ” Ualue.
Farmer’s High-grade Walking 21
mm
m
UAl—Men’s Black and Tan high-grade
Walking Boots; made on comfortable-fitting
last, yet preserving an attractive appearance;
light, welted soles. This model is finished
throughout with infinite care the interior
finishings receiving the same conscientious
supervision in construction as that O"I /
apparent in external details. Price, j£fJL/ mm
Farmer % Sydney.
"The Store for Men. 3 *
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or Irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Double-Geared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given).
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
months.
Send for Free Catalogue.
ŝ
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS,
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne. Australia
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Mrs. Swanson, the Mayoress, has put out
a feeler for a wedding gift from “the people
of Victoria” for King George’s daughter
Mary. “From Is. upwards” is the suggestion.
Pointedly or accidentally, the Akgus put
the Mayoress’s letter alongside the Aid for
Stricken Children (Yooralla Hospital-
School) Appeal. It was, therefore, open
to the people with something to spare to
look on this picture and on that.
The jazzing Countess went to the supper-
dance at Carlyon’s, in aid of the Foundlings,
last week, and didn’t dance. It was a aad
blow to the committee —each woman with a
brand-new gown, and each husband more
than willing to offer himself as a partner.
Some Wallington must have murmured
“Better not.” The guinea-a-head invita-
tions had not been so carefully sifted as in
the case of the big Stradbroke Day supper-
dance, when the cream of the cream had
special parties and the Countess jazzed till
the milk came home.
At this jazz there was a sprinkling of
the Naicest and a big crowd of the Merely
Rich. Dancing was interrupted for half-
an-hour while Ella Shields auctioned a bul-
bous Christmas stocking. Dressed in bon-
fire red and showing very slim red-silk ankles
she stood on a table. It was a small table,
and the lady saved her precarious balance
at intervals by clutching the bald head of
a johnny who stood below. It was a con-
tinuous auction, and the money was pelted
in as each rise offered. Three dear little
Foundling Hospital nurses raced round
picking up the silver and notes. The Coun-
tess. in black velvet, was an animated
bidder. Eventually a rich pie-shop man
shouldered the monstrous thing and pre-
sented it to Lady Stradbroke; then, after
Ella had received a special pat on the back
from the Countess, the vice-regal party de-
parted with God Save and the stocking, and
jazz broke out again and remained epidemic
till two in the morning.
Mollie Griffith, the little Western District
girl who has scored many victories on Cold
Country links, has now entered for a matri-
monial twosome with Hugh lleppel, captain
in an English line regiment. Miss Mollie
and her four sisters (the younger two are
nearly as expert at putting as herself) were
convoyed to the Fog many years ago by
their parents. Dad is the Rev. William
Griffith, and mum was one of the woolly
Western District Macpherson heiresses and
sister of Mrs. Ernie Austin. This year the
Rev. William brought daughter Mollie back
for a brief survey of her native gum-tree.
Jack Bridges, only son of the late wealthy
wool-growing admiral, signals from across
seas that he has booked for an orange-
blossom event with an English damsel, Mar-
garet Fort, whose people live in Dunster,
where the father of John’s brother-in-law,
Geoffrey Luttrell, owns an aged castle. The
Bridges family, with one exception, have all
married and settled across seas; and last
year Mrs. Bridges (who was a Wilson and
niece of the late red-headed knight), with
her unmarried daughter, decided to spend
their Aussie gold in the Cold Country. The
about-to-be-married son, a good-looking
young man, was gassed early in the war
while in the uniform of a British officer.
Dozens of joyous kiddies, some blind and
others the children of the blind, romped over
the Institute grounds in Friday afternoon’s
sunshine, and were then lined up in a palpita-
ting parade to meet Father Christmas—a
short, solemn of the old chap, who
loaded them with gifts and colored balloons
from a monster Christmas-tree. Then came
ice-cream—and tea. St. Hilda’s mayor and
mayoress sat among the audience with Mrs.
Ernest Cox and another matron, all three
ladies hugging presentation bouquets. Super-
intendent Hedger and the matron of the
Institute were responsible for the frivol,
which was enjoyed just as much by the
blind kiddies as by their more fortunate
playmates.
Christ Church, St. Kilda, was crowded on
Sunday afternoon when General Gellibrand
unveiled the fresco memorial to St. Hilda’s
150 Billjims who went wesl; in the war. The
wall-painting is a beautiful thing from the
brush of George Daneey, who has produced
nothing better than this Archangel Michael,
clad in snowy robes and gleaming armor, slay-
ing a crouching Evil. In his dedication of
the work to the glorious dead Vicar Sexton
of IJawksburn, an old St. Peter’s (Adelaide)
collegian, spoke with the impressive sincerity
of a man who spent the war years at the
battle-front. Norman Peebles is responsible
for the Gothic moulding enclosing the
Dancey picture, which is 12ft. by 9ft., and
is flanked by two side-panels bearing the
names of the dead.
Artist Dennis Connelly faced the matri-
monial music last week at St. Paul’s,Cathe-
dral with a charming English widow. .The
wedding party clustered in a small heap of
bright color in the vast edifice. The bride wore
lace draperies over pale pink and a very
wide pink hat. Mrs. Harry Peters, Den-
nis’s mother, was a picture in fuchsia colors.
Uncle. Bill Aitkin was there, bestowing a
bachelor’s blessing; also Aunt Hall and
her Colonel. The party got away in cars
decorated with delphiniums, and ran along
to the Harry Peters hoipe in South Yarra,
where the bride and her cavalier had a
stirrup-cup before headihg for Mt. Martha.
At the Dennis Connelly-Adams wedding
the bride’s son gave his mother away, it
is just what an almost-grown-up son would
do.
Avoca, a fine South Yarra estate, has just
passed under the hammpr, so its days as a
private residential property are presumablv
numbered. The house is said to be the
oldest in the suburb : it was built TO years
ago by the late George Kirk, who bequeathed
it to his daughter, the late Mrs. Walter Rus-
sell Hall. She in her turn left it to her
nieces, the Misses Whipple, for life. But
the latter, after having sheltered there for
many years, lately decided to end the life-
tenancy of the ancient family acreage and
settle in Toorak. The oldest South Yarra
inhabitants get chills down the spine at the
thought of builders defiling _ the
spot, where numberless wild birds find sanc-
tuary in the old trees scattered over the 10
acres.
Professor Ileloise Abel, from U.S.A., is
prowling round Australia just now collecting
stray bits of history for three volumes on
Anglo-Saxon colonisation. In Melbourne the
Lyceum Club did her well at a petticoated
dinner with ’Varsity women packed as
densely as flankers at a picture-show. Pro.
Abel is tall, hazel-eyed and unaffected, with
a “roomy” smile and a very American-
flavored 'accent. She put up at the Bage
home in St. Kildn, and was shown tlie sights
bv any graduates available who were not
too busy playing bulldog at the intermedi-
ate exams.
The summer residence of tlie squatter
Campbells is now almost finished. It is a
massive two-storeyed affair and. stands along-
side the homes of other social lights and sta-
tion-owners who make Lome their . hot-
weather centre. Elaborate in design
£12.000 was splashed up on it—the great
pile easily makes the other fashionable Lome
places look like shacks.
The Stock Exchange gave a send-off to
former chairman John McWhae the other
day, and orophesied that he would make
good as Agent-General. Premier Lawson
(who said he felt like Daniel in the lions
den) and Treasurer McPherson were pre-
sent, although it was their busy .morning.
They were ’cute enough to recognise, when
thev got the invitation, that the Exchange
might be “too busy” some. morning when
they wanted its assistance if they did not
accept.
Bertha Bennet Burleigh, whose name has
been often in The Bulletin lately, is a
daughter of war-correspondent Bennet Bur-
leigh, who had seen
almost every battle
for four decades,
but died just before
the first shots of
1914. Apart from
the personal loss,
her father’s death
was a great blow to
the girl, because he
had promised t o
take her to “do”
the next war with
him. However, she
proposed to attend
the big scrimmage
for her dad’s old
paper, the Daily
Telegraph, but, get-
ting no encourage-
me n t from that
quarter, transferred to The Queen, which
duly found her work in Belgium, often
within range of the German guns. In the first
critical August days she wrote up the tra-
gedies of Louvain,' Antwerp, Malines and
Aerschot, and she was in Brussels without
a passport during the German occupation.
Her experiences were later on turned into a
lecture, which, under the title of “Twice
Through the German Lines,” was delivered
with success all over Britain. 'After doing
propaganda work for the British Govern-
ment. Bertha Burleigh came to Westralia,
where she commenced to contribute to The
Bulletin. A liking for black-and-white had
been intermittently encouraged at the Lam-
beth Art School in pre-war days, but it was
not until she reached the Commonwealth
that the old zest fastened her permanently
to a drawing-beard. Sickness in her famiiv
has now compelled her to go back to Eng-
land, but she will continue her work with
pen and pencil for The Bulletin while she
is away.
Mrs. Pearce, the capable better half of
the Senator, left last week to join her hus-
band at Washington. “Probably,” said the
lady, “I shall get
there in time to find
George with his coat
over his arm ready
to cpme home.” So
much has been done
in a month. Her
friends attempted to
arrange crowds of
farewell parties, but
the very practical
lady turned them
down. “Come and
help me mark linen
or pack my valuables
for storage, and we
can talk over well-
earned tea,” she
said. Mrs. Pearce is
an authority on old
china, and has a
wonderful collection very well cabineted..
She is a real general in her home depart-
ment, and is one of the most capable of Aus-
tralian women in household matters. When
a Mary Ann decamps, in the sudden way
Mary Anps have, this lady doesn’t sit«down
and wail to her neighbors, but makes an
early-morning sortie —attacks “the wash”
unawares, and has it routed by the hour the
average Sassiet v woman is yawning over her
morning tea. And this notwithstanding that,
as the popular wife of a front-rank Cabinet
Minister, she has a heavy list of social en-
gagements. The comfortable old home in
Soutliey-street has been put into holland
covers, and the caretaker given explicit direc-
tions about the chooks and the garden and
the cow. One daughter was recently mar-
ried, and flapper Marjorie is off on a round
of social visits, while the two sons have their
vacation carefully marked out, right up till
the time they are to pack back to boarding-
school. This visit to the U.S.A. cuts out
a usual summer vacation trip to Westralia,
where George F. still has an orchard and a
cottage by the sea.
The Institute of Arts and Literature is
full of bright young enthusiasm. A book-
shop, a music-shop and an exchange are
little side-lines airily said to be afoot; am;
a drove of artists is reported to be pourin'*
in masterpieces to the Institute’s young col-
lection. The staging of local playlets, musi-
cal recitals by the composers themselves, liter-
ary stances and meetings galore are on the
ambitious list of activities; and luncheon
and club rooms are being arranged as the
solid basis for the menagerie of many de-
partments.
Something new for Melbourne:—
The art of the lithograph, as expounded by Then
Proctor and others at the Fine Art Society’s Gal-
leries, isn’t getting very much attention. Yet
many of the illustrations are beautiful, the quartette
of animal studies by E. Henderson alone being
worth the visit, Henderson is a brilliant draughts-
man. The grace of his lion and lioness, in an atti-
tude of watchful waiting, is depicted with great
success. The use of high lights and shadows in
exposing the anatomy of a jaguar at dinner is an-
other clever performance. Thea Proctor’s 10 efforts
are generally marked by sound drawing, but there
is no denying an affection for attitudinising figures
and distraught color-schemes, ’fhe group in “The
Tame Bird” seems frozen; and the meretricious
juggling with the primary colors in “The Flower
Shop” and “The Hat Shop” makes one blink. Yet
the artist capable of those designs is the author of
the pleasing* “Toilet” and the delightful portrait
of Mrs. G. W. Lambert and son! F. Ernest Jack-
son sends six examples, two of them representing
Litvinoff, the Bolshevik emissary in London, and
Festing Jones,. the friend and biographer of Samuel
Butler; whilst a quaint colored item, “The Re-
lease,” is the record of.= a vague lilac lady, holding
up pale hands to a background of stencilled trees.
As a colorist, Dorothy Hutton is the most adroit
of the lot. Her “Kensington Palace” and “From
San Giorgio, Venice,” are quite unreal, but the eye
is captured by their harmony. C. Lawrenson hasn’t
the suavity of the other exhibitors. In fact, it is
doubtfui if he has realised in any drawing his
artistic intention. Marion Ellis’s “The Forest” pre-
sents a couple of dancing deer, but it looks like a
suggestion for a linoleum or a carpet. Louis Thomp-
son’s “Allegory” is rather banal, but his “Theatre
Scene” is a capital vision of an interior, where
every shadow pleases and the ballet is a dream.
Reciter Charlotte Hemming has been joy-
ously welcoming her sister, Mrs. Shephard,
who, with her husband and two very attrac-
tive daughters, has blown in from Buenos
Aires by way of the Gold Country to spend
,a few month’s in her native Australia.
Little Billy Percy was practically adopted
by the late J. C Williamson as a small boy
and got his earliest training as a comedian
with the Pollard company. In his spare
hours he works away at water-colors, with
no small degree of success, and now the
whisper goes forth that lie will hold an exhi-
bition all on his osvn when he gets to Syd-
ney. With that end in view he is_ taking
along dozens ’n’ dozens of his efforts in Eng-
lish landscape.
John Blank is a sober, hard-working
master-baker, with but one indelible blot in
his book of life —his desertion in England
eight years ago of the unwise choice of his
bosom, a dame who dedicated herself to
Bacchus. Leaving his bakery in Melbourne the
other evening, he plodded towards his lodfir-
ings, head in air, mind preoccupied. A bash at
his shins, a meteoric rush through space, and
violent contact with the pavement whisked
him back to realities. The cause of his
disaster was a coffin which had violently
leaped at-him from a flying cart. _ When
the panting driver of the vehicle arrived he
explained that “the blasted oP ’oss bolted.”
Blank lent them a hand to re-ship the coffin,
and an accidental remark revealed to him
the staggering fact that it was for Mrs.
Blank.
Dr. N. Hamilton Fairley, who has been
appointed Professor of Clinical Medicine
and Therapy at the Bombay Tropical School
of Medicine, is an old Melbourne Scotch
College boy, and made his start as a disease-
investigator with some researches regarding
cerebro-spinal meningitis, which earned him
an M.D. at Melbourne Uni. In 1916 he
went to Egypt and No. 14 General Hospital,
where he became interested in Nile worm,
and discovered a new blood test which is
now the standard for S’Africa and the Nile
Valley. After the war he moved on to Eng-
land, where he collected an F.R.C.S. and
the diploma of tropical medicine and
hygiene at Cambridge. The doctor, who is
only 30, was selected for his new job by
the* tropical section of the Royal Society.
Carlyon’s is going to have a real aero-
plane in the ballroom on Christmas Eve, with
a Santa Claus in the cab. There is a big
social booking for the dinner. The ’plane is
to be hauled up to the roof later, and will
stay there during the dog days. They pro-
pose using the propeller as a huge fan, so
that insatiable summer jazzers may not
faint.
Adelaide drops a line: —
His Ex. “opened” - Hevwood Park, Unley, in the
presence of 3000 kiddies and a competition between
school-bands for a challenge cup presented by Mayor
Richards. Incidentally, an energetic councillor ran
a sports programme, and every urchin received an
Unley jubilee medal.
Adelaide lost a popular medico when H. A.
Sweetapple passed out at Parkside a few days ago.
During the war he put in a good deal of military
work. A widow, son and daughter are mourning.
About 2000 people turned up at Port Noarlunga
to see a new jetty opened by his Ex., who was accom-
panied by Lady Weigall and Priscilla. After cut-
ting the ribbon that was stretched across the en-
trance to the pier the Governor addressed the crowd
from the top of a sandhill—a kind of sermon on
the mound; —-and then when Lady Weigall had pre-
sented Miss Waclie with a war medal the official
party were fed in the jetty pavilion.
Pinaroo had a day out when Dr. B. H. Morris (In-
spector-General of Hospitals) laid the foundation-stone
of the-local Memorial Hospital. Boy Scouts supplied
a guard of honor, arid the president of the ladies’
committee (Mrs. A. B. Jones) presented the stone-
laying doctor with a gorgeous trowel. Mclntosh,
M.P., made such an appeal for funds that £B3O was
handed in, .and this, with the Government subsidy,
will enable the building to be opened free of debt.
A buckjumpinff show in the afternoon and dance
in the evening rounded off the day.
At the moment of writing Adelaide is threatened
with an avalanche of inter-State bowlers and their
female A.D.C.’s. Easter is the usual time for the
invasion, but this year there is a preference for a
higher temperature. The Mayor and Mayoress are
entertaining them cn the morning of their arrival,
and the ensuing week is to be a wild razzle of bowls
for the men and picnics, teas and garden-parties
for the women.
Much sympathy. is felt for that talented young
violinist, Erica Chaplin, who, after working for and
winning an overseas scholarship, has been compelled
through ill-health. to resign all idea of it. The
Board of the Royal College of Music has written ex-
pressing regret.
There is mourning for Father Healy, of Thebarton.
He was 69, had labored 40 years in that suburb,
and by his geniality and broad-mindedness had
made himself markedly popular with people of all
denominations.
S. Aus. has been raving about towels. The steal-
ing of them from railway carriages got altogether
beyond the odds—l3o went in one w'eek —and the
supply was stopped. Whereupon infuriated passen-
gers waved their hands in the air and in the face
of the Commissioner till he capitulated and handed
out the wipes once more.
A feature of the ’Varsity graduate-list this year
was the number of successful women students. They
took the special prizes in Latin, Greek, classics in
general and local historical research, the only honors
degree in arts, and two of the four honors in science.
Two girls, Miss Somerville and Miss Ingleby,
became lawyers, to join the only one (Miss Kitson)
now at the S.A. Bar. Miss Ingleby has a legal father
and a K.C. of the’ past for grandfather. But the
year’s list adds none to the handful of women doctors
in Adelaide.


•v.
1
E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
s
Great
iortamee
PEDAL TOUCH
as applied to the Player Piano
until you have Actually Played
the
GULBRANSEN
Z^uc^onceHb
(The player with a soul).
When you hear this wonderful player piano
you will recognise a very great improvement
to other players; but—when you have actually
played it yourself, you will be astounded at
the ease with which you obtain hitherto un-
heard of results.
For durability of piano construction and tonal
perfection —coupled with amazing simplicity
of player control—the Gulbransen has never
had an equal.
The wonderful easy
pedal touch of the Gul-
bransen Player Piano
made possible this
childhood incident.
15
If through sentiment you would not care to part with your
own piano, we will convert it into an 88-note Duo Concerto
Player-Piano containing all the latest improvements.
Being nationally priced the Gulbransen means a tremendous
saving. Send for Catalogue B and Price List (Posted Free).
Cash or Terms.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
V
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET). TEE: CITY 10751 & 10753.
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PUOPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart- —Launceston.
Hillicrs
Chocolates
The Ever-Welcome
Christmas Present
f A
y
WWW
m
jr: V.
■
ttiilt
p
m
\ A
mi
,
w
~y #
\ w
1
A
-v
Hi : I '
mm
AAI:
mm
wm :
&s
Wm
£b
y\
ff§lgm
Packed in Boxes.
3/-, 5/0, 7/6, 12/6, £1
and £l/10/-
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
Mailed to you on the
day they are made.
162 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
iSS^r
£55
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex’*
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”—a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM IT with a knife —“Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.


Charles
HEIDSIECI6
Vintage 1911
CMfIRW
HE PLUS ULTRA
f
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
MONKEY BRAND
///wont wash clothes
7,
mi
v
ALU GROCERS, J } k
M3
-but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
ś
A Specially Good “
RIDING BOOT—
The Stockman
18|11
Eg |J.
It’s a solid Tweed Seamless Emperor, light
in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the
patent strin on elastic.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LTD.,
BRISBANE.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Princess Mary, who is already loaded
down _ with gifts as an apple-tree with blos-
som in the Spring, must have a present
from the women of N. S. Wales. At the
meeting in the vestibule of the Town Hall
to discuss this weighty matter, Margaret
YVindeyer’s sensible suggestion that we en-
dow some hospital beds in Mary’s name was
turned down in cold silence; but the lady
who had the scheme for sending a table.of
beautiful Australian woods with carved emu
legs and kangaroo tails got quite a hearing-
till she went on to elaborate the scheme into
carved hearts skewered by a Cupid’s dart,
hands across the sea, a few coo-ees, .and a
crusting of precious gems over the whole.
After that had been counted out, the nature
of the present was left to the future, and
meantime collection-cards were decided on
contributions to be restricted to a shilling a
head. Cady Davidson presided at the meet-
ing but leaned not a feather’s weight more
m favor of one scheme than another; and
Mayor-to-be McEllione’s wife had her first
sip of the municipal brew.
Frank de Yere Lamb has shaken off the
last shred of the frill that made him such a
gentle cutlet in the days when he was chief
gent.-in-waiting to the vice-regals. He is
now organising secretary to St. Luke’s, and
is chasing £20,000 of the elusive. At the
a f. nUaI J mee , ting of tlli3 Anglican hospital the
other day he lost the strained £ s. d. look
which seems to belong to the eyes of all
organising secretaries. It was a glad
moment when announcement was made of
Mrs. Hugh Denison’s splendid offer for £2400
of the property adjoining the hospital, for
which she had lust paid £4BOO. Then the
Retford Hall Fete cheque smiled a £7OO-odd
greeting, while the Cremorne and Strathfield
centres rained a few more hundreds.
Rose Bay natives were reminded of the
1 rince s visit early in the week, when the
lingira hung out all its electrics in sign
ot the Christmas cheerio the captain and offi-
cers were giving their friends. The Rose
Bay pier was the linking-up point of guests
and launches, and after a swift passage
through a night-scene that would make the
Bay of Naples or a Venetian nocturne look
like tuppence ha’penny, the reluctant voya?
left his barque to climb into the usual jungle
of flags, colored lights and full backs. Mrs
Hare, the Commander’s wife, who had turned
her pet room into a sitting-out nook, dressed
herself in gold-embroidered blue panne ; gold
tissue and black lace stood between Commo-
dore Edwards’s wife and the sea breeze; Mrs.
Brand and Mrs. Starr were other officers’
wives who carried a heavy equipment of
gold; Mrs. Egerton wore bunches of floral
taffeta over lace, and Mrs. Sep Levy’s dress-
ing looked like a clipping of the veivet-black
night. Queensland was represented by Doro-
thea Collins and Mary Grant. The new
Mrs. Denis Fildes, who until the other week
was Marjorie Mackay, was in trousseau
shades of pink and blue ; and tall Mrs. A. E.
Hughes wore a lace rig-out that suggested
oxidised silver.
Talking about the Navy and its flutters
reminds one of the story that went spinning
around the picturesque-looking Claude Cum-
berlege at the last war-boat party he attend'd
in Sydney Harbor. In between dances he
and two other men steered their way towards
one of the dark, romantic-looking spots on
the deck. As they drew near a voice from
the shade breathed fervently : “Sweetheart!”
Claude held up a finger. “Is somebody
‘paging’ me?” he asked.
The Presswomen’s Matinee for the soldiers’
kiddies at Matraville was the success it de-
served to be, and there was an impressive
string of motors outside the Palace while
their sleekly-clad owners handed out applause
to the regulars on the bill, and to the two
or three generous ones who filled the gaps
made in the programme as ; late as 2.30 by
inconsiderate artists who had been given
two or three chances to withdraw from the
programme before it was printed. Freddie
Shipman and Jack Griffiths declare it one
of the best matinees they have ever attended.
The Palace staff, front of'the house and back
of the stage, behaved like angels. And this
Letter takes the opportunity of thanking the
Firm for lending the theatne, Paling’s for
providing tickets, piano ana booking, Svd
Day for printing the programmes and the
raffle tickets, and the many firms and friends
who dropped cheques into the hat.
The proceeds of the kiddies’ party at the
Wentworth the other afternoon go ito hang-
ing such blooms as dolls and prams and
boats and things on the Christmas tree
for the sick youngsters in Sydney Hospital.
Church Hill was thick with limousines, from
which hundreds of small gilds and boys de-
scended and swayed through the cafd open-
ing. The little girls were mostly white
muslin and colored ribbons, though here
and there a pale-pink or a pale-blue fairy
firmly declined to leave the bran dip while
mother or nurse had a shilling left. One
little brown-eyed beauty was in pale-pink
taffeta frills with shoulder-straps of baby-
pink rosebuds and a chaplet of the same
perched on her curls. Mrs. Willie Collins,
in black, had a cluster of high-toned youth
with her, the. Davidsons among them.
French Consul Campana’s lady, in yellow
broche, and the wife of the manager of the
French Bank, with a heavy plume of henna
feathers in her hat, brought a merry com-
pany of youngsters. Mrs. Albert Littlejohn,
who wore a dress that was a lattice work
of taffeta above the waist-line and accordeon-
pleated georgette below, buckled together by
a narrow strip of patent leather, looked
after her offspring. Innumerable nurses saw
that the small charges got enough to eat,
and the Christmas tree in the pavilion in
the pocket-hanky garden was irresistible —
it wasn’t till the very last present was gone
from its boughs and the last surprise drawn
from the dip that the well-cared-for midgets
could be induced to depart and let the room
undergo its transformation for the flappers’
ball at night.
Mrs. Rix Nicholas came with a party of
Polar bears to help entertain shy little ones.
They were out of a job most of the after-
noon —shyness is a thing of the past: four-
year-old stuck to ’her own party, jazzed
with the small boy at her own table and
never as much as said “Hello!” to a little
outsider. There was a Father Christmas
with a fox’s face who only “took in” one
small toddler. A little girl from Potts
Point explained it afterwards. ' “He was
only dressed up as Father Christmas. His
nose was too sharp. Besides, I saw Father
Christmas yesterday-—he’s at Grace Bro-
thers’ !”
The Flappers’ Ball, also for the hospital,
was a bit of a misnomer. When the “under
IS” jazz contest was announced, not even- 1
one couple responded, so the competition
had to be changed to a spot dance.
Is there a girl left who looks forward with
a thrill to “coming out”? All the year the
flappers’ dance has cropped up at various
points, and with the last few weeks Sydney
has burst out into a perfect epidemic of
them. The Merioola affair on Friday night
was attended by the young people of our very
naicest. Cranbrook staged another in its
Assembly Hall in aid of its sports ground.
The wives of the members of the school
council engineered this one, .and many Soci-
ety names figured on the committee list. The
Hordern girls in blue and pink taffeta,
Marcia Allen, Kathleen Yero Read, Joan
Ludowici in pale yellow, and Penelope Cay
in green were a few of the young things
who revived memories of other days in the
old Government House.
The other night, to a crowded Conserva-
torium, Ella Gormley, who is the Education
Department’s supervisor of physical culture
and has just returned from the United
States with all sorts of ideas on the har-
mony of motion, gave a demonstration of
how her theories
were working among
the depart mental
teachers, and the
older High School
girls. For two and
a half hours to quick
and slow music the
young women kept
going, portraying all
the correct actions
in such pastimes as
basket-ball, swim-
ming, archery, and
(good for Austra-
lia!) wood-chopping.
Then, changing the
cream jerseys, skirts
and white boots, they
got into what is
popularly believed to
be the Grecian tunic, and, bare-legged and
bare-footed, marched and did studies in
Plastics and this is where
the High School lass shone with special radi-
ance. Of all those countless young women
who marched grandly or solemnly, kangaroo-
hopped or flew kites, the only one who
carried herself badly was Ella Gormley!
Perhaps she was far too busy to think about
it. Or perhaps she iust wanted to show
the result of not having been caught as
young and given such a training as she is
giving others.
All the week the Women Handierafters
held their show in the Education Gallery.
A poor show in quantity, though the quality
in the needlework and pottery sections was
well up to standard. A snowy heap of table
damask just inside the door riveted the eye,
while the baby clothes were exquisite
masses of soft muslin and lace and fine
stitchery. The Hay lady, from Crow’s
Nest; Mrs. Robertson, of Strathfield; and
Mrs. A. A. Cocks are among the fairy god-
mothers of the association, which now num-
bers 200 members.
In handing over the colors presented by
the King to the 55tli Militia Battalion at
Erskineville Oval last Sunday, the State
Governor performed a first-in-Australia cere-
mony, and, incidentally, appeared in the
character of historian. His Ex. recounted
at _ length the doings of the original bat-
talion in the Great War, and when he men-
tioned the trying march from Tel-el-Kebir
to Moascar, the 250 lads sweltering in their
heavy khaki in the sun could sympathise a
little with their elder brothers of the A.I.F.
Eieut. W. E. Brown, who added a V.C. to
his D.C.M. when he was a corporal in
1918, received the colors on behalf of the
battalion.
This is compo-er Alfred Hill’s daughter
[solda, whose soprano
voice first caught the
attention of Sydney
in Sterndale Ben-
nett’s operetta, “The
May Queen,” and
held it again last
week when she suc-
cessfully circumnavi-
gated a group of
new songs at the
concert given by the
teaching staff of the
Conserva torium.
Isolda was born in
Sydney, but grew up
in Maoriland. A
few years ago she
returned to Austra-
lia, and studied sing-
ing with Mary
Campbell at the Melbourne Conservatorium,
winning the Syme scholarship. She is ex-
pected to appear next year in one of dad’s
operas.
Henry Stead, W.T.’s . son, who was for
years his father’s private secretary, had
numerous relations in Sydney—including
cousin Alec Jobson, who wrote an “appre-
ciation” of him for the Telegraph. It was
Stead, with his natural bias towards paci-
fism, who won David Low from Tile Bul-
letin for the Cadbury press, in London.
But “young Stead” always did things so
nicely that there was no ill-feeling, and he
was the only outsider invited to the dinner
at which The Bulletin staff said good-bye
to its old colleague.
Botany has been doing itself honor by
honoring Miss Annie Bonsfield, just retired
after many years in the Education Depart-
ment. She’s a slender little lady of the
lace and lavender type, and much beloved
by many big soldiers who as small boys were
her pupils. A travelling-bag, a wallet of
notes and a writing-desk were handed to her
at successive functions at which she played
the star part. It was characteristic of her
that with the notes she wished to provide the
children of Botany with a Christmas-tree,
but the citizens forestalled her.
Consular circles have been bitten by the
domestic problem. Mrs. Lindquist, wife of
the ’■ Swedish Consul, has returned to her
home-country with the children owing to her
inability to get help for the great house in
Pymble in which she and her brood had
settled with the household gods they had
brought with them. The Teppema lady is
in Melbourne with her parents, the Del-
prats—her husband, the Dutch Consul, has
had to go to Java. And the climate of those
parts isn’t very allurinv at this time of year.
Mrs. Ted Norris, her children and her
sister-in-law, Irene Norris, returned last
week from a nine months’ trip to England
and Prance. They report, amongst other
things, that nearly everyone is wearing-
black, and that at the seaside stockings are
not seen by day, the feet being more or
less encased in sandals. The taxes are the
safest thing to talk about anywhere. Europe
is creeping back to the old window-tax,
and as the wheels of one’s automobile are
levied upon three-wheel cars were a big
feature at the last motor show in Paris.
Miss Olliver, of the Anglican Mission in
New Guinea, arrived in Sydney by the
Morinda. After. 20 years of strenuous work
amongst brown brother and sister, she is
just as delicately rose-tinted as ever. Her
masses of silvery hair have not fallen out,
and her eyes are clear and unfaltering as
a little child’s. When she joined the Mission
all those years ago, someone named her
“Dresden China,” and it still suits. She
has rushed on to reach relations in the
West before Christmas.
Muriel, one of the good-looking daughters
of Captain Brownlow, who are features of
Sydney’s Naval set, made the old tryst for
better or worse with Percy Hope Davis at
St. Mark’s, Darling Point. The wedding
finery was a froth of ivory silk crepe, tulle
and old lace, and bride’s sister Florence at-
tended her in apple-green georgette wrap-
pings. Dr. Stewart Ziele supported the
bridegroom, and the Maso.nic Hall, Double
Bay, provided the usual indigestion tor
over 100 guests, among whom the mother oi
the bride scintillated in a heavyweight ot
black sequins.
Three old Australian families were linked
up by Hymen last month. At Armidale
Cathedral Bishop Wentworth Shields tied
the knot for E. R. Hickson, son of E. A. M.
Merewether, of The Ridge, Merewether, New-
castle, and Hope, only daughter of Thomas
Docker, of the Commercial Bank, Armidale ;
and at All Saints’, Woollahra, Canon Wal-
lace Mort did a similar kindness for R. D.
Hickson Merewether and Olive
daughter of Arthur Mort, of Franklyn Vale,
Grandchester, Queensland.
Sydney still remembers the pretty and
beautifully-dressed Madame Shimizu, whose
husband was Consul-General for Japan in
Australia during most of the war-period ; so
the news that her husband has been made
Plenipotentiary for Japan at Peru will send
a pile of congratulations to the doll-like lady.
Mrs. Shimizu’s English was excellent, but
now and again our idioms beat her, as when
she was describing an outfit which had
caught her eye at Randwick : “The hat and
the frock were beautiful, but the shoes and
stockings—ough, they were naughty ! She
only meant they were in violent contrast.
A Sydney suburban registrar recently
effected four birth-registrations, the sur-
names reading consecutively Coates, Vest,
Shift and Shirt.
A note or two from London: —
Met the Mackins the other day. He is the widely-
travelled medico from Wellington (M.L.) and one
of the finest of camera-men. Every four or five
years the doctor and his wife pack up and wander.
This time they’ve touched China, Java, France, Bel-
gium, Italy, Vienna and Budapest, and put on extra
wraps to climb the Rockies. But it isn’t all sight-
seeing and photo-play. For months the doctor has
been doing post-graduate work in London hospitals.
They leave in November for home via Panama.
Frederick Dutton, formerly of Australia, has a
handsome country-house not far from the pretty
Surrey hamlet with the staggering name of Updown
Hill. Lady Dutton (the knighthood was acquired
not so long ago) interests herself in village move-
ments. She turned up the other afternoon to a
Women’s Institute meeting that wanted to revive
glove-making as a home industry.
The top-hat, which was apparently buried in the
ruins of the Great War, shows signs of resurrection.
It is again frequent, though not inevitable, in the
West End. But there is one place in which it has
never failed to appear at funerals and marriages.
The South of England Hodge who could not sport a
“plug” hat on such occasions would be barred from
taking a prominent part in the ceremonies. Met a
recent village funeral while walking through Surrey
hedgerows. Eight villagers, clad in top-hats, black
frock-coats and baggy black breeches, carried the
bier. Posies of flowers that looked as if a child’s
hand had plucked them —-short-stalked, fragrant and
glowing with color —-were placed round, but not on,
the coffin. Behind walked the chief mourners a
few weeping women and two or three more Hodges
in the same garb as the pall-bearers.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Sister Connie Keys, M.Mi, R.R.C., was married
to her original Anzac, Lionel Pennefather, of Mel-
bourne, standing under the big flag that was given
to her aboard the Themistoeles. Hugh Keys gave
the lady away, Lorna Keys was bridesmaid, and J.
McGuckin shepherded the ’groom. The breakfast
was eaten at the bride’s home, at tables decked with
maidenhair (sent by the soldiers at Broadmount Con-
valescent Homes) and roses.
To our disgrace a fund has had to be organised
to relieve distressed Diggers at this season of good-
will. So many of the men for whom “nothing” was too
good find that they have received it. There are 699
unemployed on the R.S.S.I.L. list, and over 360 of
them are married. A Diggers’ Christmas Relief
Committee wants to raise £lOOO to tide these men
over the season.
The Johnsonian Club as one man brushed its
hair over the bald spot last Friday, and for the first
time in eight years threw the club-rooms open to
women. His Ex. was received by president Percy Hart
and his wife. Flame-flowers, gerberas and palms de-
corated the staircases and the reception-rooms, a
frivolous jazz band tumpty-tumped, and a small con-
cert programme was gone through. The ladies urged
that it must be an annual affair, but a grim look
in the eyes of some older members seemed to imply
that if they had their way Anyhow, it was
a very nice party.
Claire Lloyd and Billy Maloney, two artists who
help to make John N. McCallum’s show at Cre-
morne a success, made a one and only appearance
at St. Stephen’s Cathedral, and said “I will” in
front of a large, pushful and interested audience.
After the show . bride and ’groom were mobbed,
and Father Lane (who tied the knot) had to join
the male wedding guests in shoving a path through
the dense mass of rubber-necks.
Neal Macrossan, youngest son of the late J. M.
Macrossan, was married to Eileen Beirne, third
daughter of T. C, Bierne, at the private chapel, Dara,
on Wednesday night. Archbishop Duhig, assisted by
Fathers Lane and Jordon, officiated. Stella Beirne
and the pretty Yon Ploennies child (her mother
was a Macrossan) were bridesmaids, and Vincent
Macrossan and Frank Fitzgerald were aides to the
’groom. The wedding tour is to take in Java.


s
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
FOR LADIES
Sapphire and
Diamond
Pendant, on
Platinum
Chain,
£llO.
Diamond and Platinum
Pendant, on Platinum
Chain,
Sapphire and
Diamond
Pendant, on
Platinum
Chain,
£7O.
s
Platinum and
Gold Circle
Brooch set
Diamond,
' £l5.
Pleonaste and Diamond Cluster, on 15ct.
Gold Bar,
£9 9 0
s
Pear] and Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch,
£3C.
Platinum and 18ct. Gold Wrist Watch, set fine-quality Diamonds,
high-grade Lever movement, mounted on Moire Silk Band, with
Platinum and Gold Snap,
£llO.
HARDY BROTHERS • LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
A
A HARRINGTON CAMERA.
The Ideal Christmas Gift.
If you give a CAMERA you are sure to please.
A wonderful amount of pleasure may be derived from a Camera, whether it be a
British-made Box-form Ensign at 12/6, or an Autographic Kodak Special at £2O.
Photography is not an expensive pastime. Rolls of 6-exposure films cost from
Bd. to 2/3, according to size of camera, and the films may be developed and
printed by any amateur after one demonstration.
Harringtons Ltd. carry a larger range of Cameras than any other house' in
Australasia.
We quote the following lines:—
DAYLIGHT LOADING ROLL-FILM CAMERAS.
VEST POCKET.
Ensignettes £3/5/- to £lO/10/-
Anscos . . £2/7/6 „ £l2
Kodaks. . £2/7/6 „ £5/7/6
FOLDING.
Ensign .. £2/5/- to £l2/5/-
Anscos . . £2/10/- ~£l4/15/
Kodaks . £2/12/6,, £2O
BOX FORM.
Ensigns, Buster Browns, Brownies 12/6 to 29/6
Our Booklet, “The Solution of the Gift Problem,” is free.
May we sendyou a copy?
US
The House for
Good Cameras.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
3 DAYS TO CHRISTMAS
BUT WE CAN STILL MAKE
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY,
What CHRISTMAS GIFT could bring greater
happiness to your whole family than a
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONE?
The gift of one of these pleasure-bringers will
carry Christmas joy and happiness throughout
the year.
Grown-ups are not the only ones who find a
perpetual source of enjoyment—there are records
specially made for the children—songs, stories
and nursery rhymes that will delight them.
PRICES from 11 to 85 Guineas.
Sold for Cash or Easy Terms.
Itl
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY. 11 rii.iini.ni.iHi
o
w
u
a
I
K
mt
m
Ki
ax
MBBi
\y
m
■
HI
m
1


Learn to Draw
b-vV
ar
M
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.” ,
The
above is
the title
of our book-'
let, which
tells about the
possibilities of
Drawing, both as
a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing-Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It . explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Western tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing, *
97 Union-House, Cr. George & Crosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
SLTrue Ease i^Wri/ting'
W 'iTHE BRUCE”
Q’T'ICTTI
STEEL
SHELL
PENS
03elected and recommended by
MrJames JBruce ."Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal,
Schools of Sydney, NSW. o manu/actured
by the celebrated Penmakers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
<Solct by all Stationers
-AIJ£X ■ COWAN & SONS. L TD
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
ś
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled,- double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 45/-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
rr
□
A
-
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from Ji-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.”
Learn the art of Boxing from Reg.
h. (“Snowy”) Baker, and be ready to
hold your own against the bully and
the tough.
The points of ringcraft are easily
mastered by our simple series of
illustrated
POSTAL
LESSONS.
In all parts of Australia successful pupils have
quickly learned the hits, moves and counters that
make a scientific boxer. Each lesson is based on
“Snowy” Baker’s personal experience in the ring.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, enclose three stamps for postage, and we will
forward “Snowy” Baker’s book, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which tells all about the course and
gives examples of the lessons.
J|t§
\
m
*#&
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
654 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Day lite Air-Gas M achines
For CODNTRY HOMES.
LigHting <k Heating.
f
••
ft
FULL PARTICULARS FREE.
395 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
£2700 for lI-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecondPrize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 1922.
II- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2 —Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State ana Samuel T. Green, Hon. secretary.
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W
ELEY
AMMUNITION
cc Always Reliable
For Shot-gun cartridges in all
gauges, loaded with high grade powders.
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to :
ALBERT
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
ŝ
ADAMS
SYDNEY
/
* 4
St
Utf(f
WheiteverYbuDrink
order a glass of
"KING OF TABLE WATER _
Pure,Refreshiruj and Inviqoral max
Ricn IN CURATIVES - CONTAINS LIME, 9
} SODA.LITHIA & MAGNESIA.
AGENTS "ROWLANDS PIT L”
MELBOURNE . BALLARAT
AND SYDNEY -
t
V Purveyors to Vice -RotjalHj ~
That u jllst“Out-of-the-box , *
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
ş
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Outback: Of course, many a good un-
trained woman does valuable midwifery work in
the Outback for humanity’s sake. And The B.
doesn’t propose to stop her; it only proposes to
require her to be licensed if she makes a business
of it....Echo: Put it into eight or ten lines and
it might get through J.F.S.: Thanks, but the
list is too incomplete.... Cooac: Waste of time —
almost as much a waste of time as writing anony-
mous letters, which don’t get further than the boy
who opens the mail.... Cambronne: Previously
answered by letter. Sorry unsuitable. .. .T.W.B.:
“Romance” has some nice stanzas, but it tails off
at the end both in workmanship and idea
W.E.N.: Not enough in the yarn; but there’s a lot
of promise.... T.OiB.: The verse gets to nothing.
.... J.O’N.: The flowers withered at a glance....
E. : “The Quarrel” doesn’t strike us....Ecce:
Not well enough told. .. . Mollie C.: Too slight....
Hesperian: Very lumpy.... Cecil M.: “Slow Tor-
ture” not popular here... .Loris N.: The idea
is too print-worn. .. .T.G.M.: Doesn’t say any-
thing. ... L.M. A.: Those poppies are becoming a
literary plague. .. .Merlin: “Awakening” misses....
K.G.F.: Ponderous and painful fooling continued
to inordinate length. .. .A.T. (Te Arai) : Doesn’t say
anything.... Witlow: You can’t rhyme “Gawd”
with “Lord” in this paper.... Beryl W.: Dreadful.
. . . .Sam T.: Dreary narration in bad verse. . . .
W.E.B.: Don’t care for the revised “Woman-Hater”...
J.S.B.: Terrible verse....En Zed: That bush J.P.
business has been done so often that it needs a
better yarn to carry it. .. .Leviticus: It contains
about six libels but no other joke... .Sylvia S.:
No use to us.... C.B. (Reseville): They haven’t
enough point or skill.... L.L. (Burwjood) : The
starling who steals the sky out of various colored
cherries is too difficult.... Steve H.: You don’t make
a yarn of it....M.K.: “Cenotaph” verse is good
only in patches. .. .A.D.M.: “The Wee Dog” doesn’t
wag his tail hard enough to win a place.... Frank
F. : Wobble and bump, wobble and bump!....
A.A.R.: Not up....Alys: No feeling there....
D. : Commonplace.... David L.: “The Ideal’’
doesn’t reach high enough. .. .B.M.N.Z.: Not the
necessary substance in “Insolence”.... Oliver B.:
“Ugly Man’s Compition” is a fine bit of realism: —•
Now just look at this for a country town—
It takes a lot of beating this lot;
No more to be found, not even a clown,
To cause such an excitement, I doubt not.
It caused the biggest fun out,
As the numbers kept soaring higher;
Some said the Doctor, I had my doubts,
For there were some a little uglier.
But, anyhow, they kept getting- worse,
Wilkins going strong for a good second;
Then someone emptied their purse;
Even then it was not the end.
Then the day of reckoning came;
Only another hour or so ;
Then the number will name
The ugliest man we know.
Up goes the board! O Gawd !
“Who, who is it?” someone sung out.
The crowd jamming close to the board;
“Willfie Jones, Willfie Jones, the ugliest man
out.”
. ...N.G.: The “Teller” misses. .. .Tyro: Not nearly
enough in the incident. .. .L.L.: A sonnet must be
very good to carry four rhymes to the octave ; yours
is only middling. .. .H.C.D.S.: Wordy and extrava-
gant. . . .F.B.T.: Not nearly. . . .Sailor: Pretentious
and insipid. .. .J.J.H.: Write about something you
know and avoid words you’re not sure of. . . . J.O.N.:
Rubbish. ... Alex: That yarn with minor variations
is told once a month.... Mab W.: The tale has no
freshness Of handling or imagination; the verse is
pretty bad. .. .E.C.H.: The verses are not improved
by the decorative designs. .. .R.O.W.: The idea in
the last stanza is good. See if you can’t improve
the rest.... Lily S.: The sonnet is bad in form, out
of scansion in several places and weak in idea; the
other verse is very poor. . . . J.C.T.: Not enough in
“Feeding Sheep”. .. .D. C.B.: Doesn’t get near....
Deirdre: Still on the border-line, with not quite
enough strength to drag itself over. .. .Frew T.:
Too drowsy. .. .L.H.: That climax was used in a
Harold Lindsay yarn a while ago. . . .Kinehen: You
strain too hard. About every third word you use is
an adjective. .. .Lynden It.: Listen to your “Christ-
mas Bells” :—
United do we feel ourselves
Unto the awesome Trinity
We feel ourselves become as one
With splendrous Majesty.
We wander back with noble Dickens
Unto old Scrooge’s hearth,
Across our minds soft comes the vision
Of miserness down-laughed.
There is more music in a pound of cheese. ... D.
Ennis: Rather too close on the heels of the other
lady.... F.L.Y.: Possibilities in that, but the cameo
isn’t well enough cut... . P.W.S.: Suspect that your
Pegasus is an unbroken brumby. ... .W.H.K.: Good
man! Come in. . . .Coram P.: You “can’t help writing
verse” —sample submitted. Perhaps you wear your
hair long. In that case see a barber.... Marjorie
C.: Got very close up, but its length swung the
verdict against it. You beat it out too thin..,.
R.F.G.: “Delilah’s” trimmings are all right; but
the lady herself is a light-weight... .Bread-line: But
that yarn in the S.M.H. about there being 48,000
doctors in Australia was all wrong. It is doubtful
if there are more than 6000. Five years ago 2200
were registered in N. S. Wales, and if a thousand
more have been added probably a third as many
have died... .Ii.S.Y.: A study of mathematics would
perhaps do you most good. It might put some
order and method into your writing.... Lurcher:
Your ear is all wrong... .Bi: That particular wowser
died of old age years ago. . . .Arjage: Space outruns
interest.... Mo: An honest but too-juvenile effort....
G.P.M.: Those advts. have lost their novelty....
P.K.S.: Interest merely local Coot: Try cutting
it in halves.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.H.: You’ve got to learn drawing yet....G.W.:
None of them up....G.H.: The worst horse’s head
that was ever foaled... .A. J.: Too amateurish....
Monty: Some promise, but below par yet. .. .J.W.S.:
No use for fashion-plate heads.... J.W.: Might use
as suggestion. .. .C.O’B.: Been done before....
A.T.J.: Too stiff... .K.L.G.M.: Microscopic sketch
and feeble gag going back....Tag: Suspiciously un-
even work. .. .K.U.F.: Very wobbly drawing....
E. : Misses; but try again... .J.W. K.: Why not
have a shot at real women?... .W.H.S.: Off the
target. .. .R.H.B.: No draftsmanship. .. . A.B.: Not
up....N.T.: Your missiles are frozen in the air.,..
E.N.: The bottom of the class.


fihlpDine.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. City 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
4947 ’ ’ t r>
iho. Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 4, 1922,
SONOMA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
beautiful Tweed river.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
■S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Hanking:, Public Companies. &c.
THE "
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £400,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES : E. H
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1S63.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up . / . . . . 799,077 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C, Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ,. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, O.B.E., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarvvood, F.O.P.A. ;
George F. Todsian ; Hon. F. Jago.Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ii.
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:.
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other
at Interest for
fixpd periods, and
usual Banking business.
Shipping, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA, 12th JANUARY, 1922, 11 a .m.
NIAGARA, 16th FEBRUARY.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
. smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu,
R.M.S. MAKURA, JANUARY 12.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, FEBRUARY 16.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 29th DECEMBER, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 2nd FEBRUARY, 1922.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
I
If
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3J TO 44 WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
White Star Line
Only One Clacr, Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
AISO cictimcia at ric^uuii/
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
15,000 tons
11,250 tons
11,250 tons
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
EURIPIDES
THEMISTOCEES
DEMOSTHENES
SOPHOCLES
DIOGENES
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particular's of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Iteserve Fund
IJeserve Liability
s
s
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
- 5,000,000
£13,500,000
Directors;
The Hon. Sir Charles IC. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
iiobert L. Paittifull. Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buclcland; Esq. -
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —39 Thread needle Street. E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
s
3M of ßustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking- Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain) ; London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3si% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
°Xu|au[i{s
Huddart ParkerLliH
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter. -
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaid.e,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
oj|jousn ess
Use a simple and effi-
cient corrective that
is mildly aperient and
safe in its action
The ideal medicine is
Kruses
fluid
Magnesia
But lbs sure arid get f'
genuine, which is m; de
by Felton, Grimwade ce
Co. Pty.Ltd., Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should lead the Biutisu Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia aud news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Beading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell S' Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ś


r~>
AuST^ 7 eC
‘ 13 r0N © l ’-
SYLMMIfY
CRM’HIKE'i
SYDNEY
CIIRPHIRET
Anti-friction Metal.
We make the largest range of Anti-
friction Metal in Australia.
THE BEST BEARING METAL ON
THE MARKET IS
GRAPHINE No. t
(Tin Base)
Designed for the heaviest loads and high-speed
work. Six qualities of Graphine are made, either
nickel or copper hardened, to cover practically
every requirement.
Plastic Metal
A plastic self-tinning alloy which has now dis-
placed all foreign makes. Supplied in 1 lb.
sticks and ingots.
Austral Navy Bronze
A high-grade white metal for Tail Shaft Bear-
ings, Bilge Pipes, etc. The very best results are
obtained by the adoption of these high-class
bearing metals. Stocked by merchants all over
Australia. Send for descriptive booklet and
particulars to
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
Selling Agents:
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY) Ltd., 115 Clarence St., Sydney, and 125
Adelaide St., Brisbane. (MELBOURNE) Pty., Ltd.,
499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne, and Darling Building,
Adelaide. Also from Geo. Kent, Ltd., Perth, W.A.;
and Jones and Co., Ltd., Clyde Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
s
ś
ŝ
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2? Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J4 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
D. U W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Edison Amberol Records
for December.
ş
This Christmas many thousands of people will be the
happier for the music and song contained in the records
for December.
These comprise probably the finest selections offered dur-
ing the year, including fine dance records—a Waltz, a
Olie-step and three Fox Trots. Frieda nempel is heard to
advantage in “Long, Long Ago” {a Royal Purple Record),
as is Albert Spalding’s violin in “Serenade” (Schubert).
Then you’ll certainly want to hear “Bonnie Brier .Bush”
March and the songs; they are all worth hearing at your
Edison dealer’s—worth including in your collection, ' too.
Royal Purple Records.
29069—L0ng, Long Ago.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Frieda Hempel
29070—Serenade,
Violin, piano acc. by
Andre Benoist.
Albert Spalding
Blue Amberol Records.
4154—Bonnie Brier Bush March.
Conway’s Band
4162 —Curro Cuohares March (The Bull
Fighter). Accordion. P. Frosini
4175 —Aloha Oe—Paraphrase.
Sodero’s Band
4182 —Avalon —Fox Trot, for dancing.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra
4186 — Crocodile, The.
Imperial Marimba* Band
4187 Tarentelle Siciliana. Accordion, Clari-
net and; Guitar. The Three Vagrants
4190 — -Speed—One Step, for Dancing.
f Lenzberg’s Riverside Orchestra
4191 — Pickaninny Rose. Soprano orch. acc.
Margaret A. Freer
4192 — Life Insurance Policy.
Billy Golden and Joe Hughes
4193—Jene Sais Pa-Pa—Fox Trot (I Do Not
Know), for dancing.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra
4194 Haste to the Wedding—Medley of Irish
Jigs. Accordion, piano acc. by Joe Linder.
John J. Kimmei
4196 —Sudan—Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Green Bros. Novelty Band
4198 —Sweet Hour of Prayer. Mixed Voices,
orch. acc. Metropolitan Quartet
4201 — Sighing, Male Voices, orch. acc. >
Crescent Trio
4202 — Lassie o’ Mine. Tenor, orch acc.
Albert Lindquest
4203 — Romance —Waltz, for Dancing.
Max Fell’s Della Robbia Orchestra
4205—La Chanson des Nids —Eantaise—Polka,
Clarinets, orch acc.
Anthony Giammatteo & Fred J. Brisset
4208—Garden Sf Roses. Tenor, orch. acc.
Lewis Jamei
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
s
.Dependable Guns
I
r
>C ,-aj
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
m
_ -Vi'* '
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
820. -The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.1i. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. £5/ 12/0
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £O/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNSg RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
ś
RlB. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib. weight about 7ilb. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations!
prices Here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
r;.
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogati nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high
grip, chambered Jor 2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Alb.
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid
file-cut rib, pistol
£.16/16/-
ŝ
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight l g )| /g /
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£.151151-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
ş
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 2S-inch _ steel
barrels, both choke, D. &E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jib Freight pa ,
£l4/14/-
MYRROHL Sica. TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys r>us • whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
š
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in or 32in
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun - bS Ejector, 65/- Freight paid,
Illustrated sportsman’s guide post free to amy address.
r/fic£ Simmons fH,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
M RRANHHES —
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Mr. PHIL SMITH
“In a Rexona Shave.”
Mr. PHIL SMITH (from a photo by Buchner).
“What about me for a
‘Rexona Boy’? Every blessed
day of my life I use Rexona
Shaving Soap, and not for
worlds would I use any other
You can take it from me there
is nothing like the Rexona
Triangular Stick when you want
to shave in a hurry in the
morning. It lathers fine, and
makes that beard of mine as
soft as swan’s down. That is
saying a lot, so when I tell you
there is nothing like Rexona
Shaving Soap, I mean it. So
here’s Good Luck to Rexona. .
“The original ‘Rexona Boy.’
“(Sgd.) PHIL SMITH,
“Her Majesty’s Theatre,
“Sydney.”
REXONA SHAVING SOAP—
The Triangular Stick.
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers
the skin against wind and bad weather.
It will be found the most economical Shaving Stick on the market, but care should
be exercised not to dip the stick in the water, but wet the face and apply the,
Shaving Soap dry. A few applications with the shaving brush will quickly produce
a thick, creamy lather, which lasts, and thoroughly softens the beard, leaving the
»kin in a healthy condition after the shave.
Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for Shaving, for, after going over the face
with the razor and removing the beard, the skin needs a protection from the germs
carried by the dust which everyone has to face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is the highest standard of Shaving Soap that it is possible
to produce, and a good Shaving Soap means everything to a shave, for if the beard
is properly lathered a shave is a delight, but if the beard is
not properly lathered, but is stiff and harsh, it is not only
severe on the user but hard on the razor.
SHAVING STICK
Rexona—The Triangular Stick —l/6.
This
-*-r Shirts
See
Hi
brand
on
each
shir
m
a
&
%
m
<3
-7?
p
<v.
<>n
r
Mar*
\
m.
S
1 0
w
AS 61
IS
1
l
to
A
n?o
W.
e
,v
dm
m
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials—a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary—all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory vV ear and
Service.
The Stinking Whaler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
moon is sick within the night
And twelve such moons have passed
JL away
Since last I saw to my delight
His Stinking Whaler in the bay.
Now there at anchor see her ride
Stern-on to every blubbering tide.
Aboard my Captain of the Storm
Peers through the gloom. Perchance he
sees
Through his red eyes a woman-form
With loving arms and amorous knees,
And the vague thing against the wall —
A black shape huddled in a shawl!
The stars are out, the grass is wet,
The little owls are winging wide;
Old thoughts are here; could I forget
My white man filled with lust and pride
Who, after moons of doubt, has come
Breathing the red and odorous rum?
He comes with tomahawk and gun,
He comes with powder and with lead,
He comes to murder sire and son,
And laugh and love when they are dead;
And I must whet such knives as kill
In his strong hand with sudden skill.
The strong hold power; the law is just—
They have and hold; it is their lot.
Swift as devouring flame is lust,
As cannon ball and pistol shot:
The rover-captains love at will,
All heedless of the blood they spill.
Yet often as his sails uprise
The old-time passion comes and grips
The yearning breast where my heart lies,
A-clamor for his bearded lips;
Hoav have I longed by night and day
For that foul Avhaler in the bay !
How have I longed at evening time
When Kuias gossiped round the fire
To be his slave in love and crime,
And wind and flame to his desire;
To kill that watcher by the wall —
The brown beast huddled in his shawl!
“You are a daughter of a chief” —
I speak not who am wise in guile;
“Nor may you marry a white thief” —
I sing our ancient songs and smile.
When winds arise the sails are filled ;
When love awakes much love is spilled.
They set their eel-traps in the creek,
Their crayfish pots along the shore ;
The wind was warm upon my cheek,
I wove my flat mat by the door;
I heard a shot, a snarl, a cry,
And noises men make as they die.
What need to count the useless dead,
To number things that have no speech?
They lie with darkening blots of red
And out-thrust arms that strain to reach,
Beyond the Avarm and smoking sod,
The promised utu of their God.
Another moon, another night!
Now let the croaking gossips say
“Just on the break of morning light
The Stinking Whaler left the bay.”
And huddled up against the wall
A dead man grins beneath his shawl!
MAOEILANP.
DARIUS.
He Who Hesitates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HARTLEY saw her first on the stretch
of beach that fronted the untidy
store. A dinghy had grounded,
and she, as the smooth wave that bore it in
receded, sprang clear. She was bareheaded
and tall; as she turned in the sunlight he
saw her hair, knotted back, shine yellow. A
Fijian girl was in the boat in a scarlet pina-
fore slipped down over one brown shoulder.
They seemed in difficulties; the fair-skinned
girl was tugging vigorously. Hartley was
swift to offer assistance.
Nearer she was a very comely girl; her
throat and her bared arms were beautiful.
In the sunlight she seemed to glow golden.
But the South showed unmistakably—in the
soft, dark eyes, and the red, rather full lips
and the somewhat generous moulding of her.
At the most she would be 19, or perhaps a
year younger.
She turned with soft-spoken thanks when
they had pulled the light boat well up the
beach. She looked at him with lingering
eyes, frankly approving. But Suga, the
native girl, giggled and said something in
Fijian too quick for Hartley even to follow.
The fair girl flushed, but there was laughter
in her eyes.
That was the beginning.
Hartley was new in Fiji—at any rate, in
this scattering of outer islands where life
seemed casual and interesting and monoto-
nous and colorful all at once. That was
how he found it. He had been only a few
months in Suva and Levuka —it was there
he had acquired a smattering of Fijian which
as yet had mostly landed him in difficulties.
But Suva and Levuka were different; it was
in these out-of-the-way islands that he had
come more closely to the real Fiji. Some-
thing in his own nature responded to the
free-and-easy life —he thought the place
“jolly,” and even the untidy store, to which
he had come as accountant and assistant,
held a queer charm of its own for him.
To begin Avith, he hadn’t struck any other
store like it. It Avas a long, narrow build-
ing, so high on its piles that it rather gave
the appearance of being on stilts. But the
roof was someAvhat low, which made it hell-
hot at times, especially if you went in after
it had been closed a while. Flamboyant
sulus and gaily-patterned kimonos and vivid
silk handkerchiefs were displayed along one
Avail. There were three counters and many
glass cases, beneath which mouth-organs and
bottles of scent and tins of face-poAyder and
ornamental combs and assorted jewellery
kept incongruous company. There were rolls
of bright muslins and prints and braids,
and above them tinned meats and fruits
and jams and biscuits. In fact, a general
mixture —you could buy anything at all you
didn’t happen to need. There was usually
a lounging cluster of Fijian youths gathered
there. Or Fijian girls gazing rapturously
at some article too-highly priced for posses-
sion. They even penetrated the little side-
office sometimes, where there was liable to
be a jumble of packing-cases and strewn
straw. And almost always a tanoa half-full
of yaqona. ready for any thirsty native
trader. And underneath the store there were
always native children playing—you couldn’t
keep them away or the countless dogs they
gathered about them.
From the back door of the store you looked
out on the town lying picturesquely among
its trees. Looked, in fact, right upon the
bure of old Moga, the mother of Wiliami,
who, resplendent in a white shirt and sulu,
waited behind the grocery counter. Old
Moga kept pigs—there nearly always seemed
to be a venerable sow grunting its content
in the dust at her door, and little ginger and
black piglets running in and out at random.
Then there was Miller, who managed the
untidy store. A big, leisurely man was
Miller, well into his comfortable forties,
florid and fleshy, with an unregretted past
that matched his complexion. Rarely—in
the mornings, at any rate —was he to be
met with fully dressed; he was usually in
blue- and red-striped pyjamas and a green
sun helmet, with his fat pink feet bulging
in odd sandshoes.
He was on the store verandah bargaining
with a wily and enormous Tongan for a sack
of turtle-shell as Hartley came up from the
beach. He turned as. Hartley mounted the
steps.
“Trust you young chaps to find a pretty
girl,” he chuckled.
“Who is she?” Hartley asked.
“Rew r a Conway, old Conway’s girl,” Miller
said, and turned again to the unwieldy
Tongan with “Sa vinaka, Malaki!” so mak-
ing the deal.
The Conway homestead stood back within
a dilapidated reed-fence. It was a tumble-
down place haunted by many dogs and start-
lingly colored Fijian fowls and natives. Over
the unsteady verandah there were roses and
honeysuckle, and a great clump of frangi-
pani grew by the kitchen that had some-
what the air of a forlorn little island thrust
away from the house itself. Fat yellow
ducklings ran in and out over the broken
cement floor, and a one-eyed hideous cat was
almost always lying across the threshold.
It was a sociable kitchen. Natives drifted
in at all hours from the neighboring town
or squatted down in the sunlight and gos-
siped endlessly, while the girl Rewa went
on bare feet to and fro.
Hartley got into the habit of drop-
ping in frequently. It was still a novelty
to him, that kitchen; so were the free-and-
easy folk who thronged it; so, too, was
Rewa herself in her shapeless blue dress
made loose from the yoke like any Fijian
girl’s.
That was it. For all her white blood she
was very like a native girl. She thought
and spoke more in Fijian than she did in
English. Fijian had come first from her
island mother, and though English was in
a way natural enough to her she often used
even as she spoke to Hartley some native
word or phrase unconsciously.
For that was mainly her life. Matted
floors and the cool twilight in reeded bures,
wading knee-deep over brown scorching reefs
when the green tide was low, or trailing
nets along the shining shallows stretching
out from the beach silver in the moonlight.
It was like being -two people, because there
Avas another, more unreal, side to her life —-
“being European,” she termed it. For her
father she had a tolerant affection and an
unbounded respect, because he was white—
as white as the magistrate—and when he
had any European visitors she put on her
gayest dress and her new high-heeled shoes
and helped to entertain them. She wound
up the gramophone for them, and sat and
listened placidly while they spoke of things
she didn’t understand or want to understand.
When her father was not as sober as he
might have been and began to drowse in
his chair, and there was the stale smell of
whisky tainting the air and mingling with'
the heavy fragrance of the lilies drooping
in the vases, they tried to kiss her, these
casual white men who passed through occa-
sionally by an odd cutter or the monthly
steamer. She liked that, just as she liked
being told she was pretty—it made her
dimple with delight. Drunkenness she
accepted as a matter of course —unpleasant
at times, but she supposed all men drank
more or less. A pity, too, because they
usually dropped off into unbeautiful sleep
just as they began to say really funny things
that made her giggle helplessly. She would
honestly have wondered if any one had pitied
her.
Hartley never forgot the first night he
stayed, on her invitation, to dinner. Old
Conway, sober for once,, beamed on him from
the head of the table as if he had been
already on the standing of accepted suitor —
which made Hartley feel decidedly awkward.
And Rewa’s mother, the big threequarters-
native woman, had actually struggled
into size-seven shoes in honor of the event.
Also she wore her latest, most vividly pat-
terned silk wrapper and a gold chain about
her strong brown throat. Her English was
limited, but she made a valiant show, never-
theless, of appearing as though she under-
stood all that passed. It was rather touch-
ing, the pleasure in her eyes, as she looked
fi;om Rewa to him. He did not at all enjoy
that evening in the impossible room with
its curtains too bright and its gaudy cushions
and the crude-colored supplements tacked
unevenly to the walls. There had been comic
selections, too, from the inevitable gramo-
phone, which had the place of distinction on
a high stand.
After Rewa came with him to the creak-
ing gate and away from the choking house
she was suddenly fair and desirable. Moon-
light and the scent of the sinu flowers! He
had her hands, and she did not draw back,
but looked at him with dark, alluring. eyes
and a trembling smile curving her soft lips.
He kissed her, and she kissed back passion-
ately, and yielded gladly to his arms. He
Avent home, his head reeling, and she stayed
alone aAvliile with the moonlight and the
sinu flowers, dreaming her own dreams,
Avhich were more matter-of-fact than might
have been imagined. She would be like a
(Continued on next page.)


The Charm of a Clear Complexion
ftp s .
» .l&IB l
M
verb.
<LSk*J # o °
93
u?o
?§s%
is Derived from this Oxygen Cream.
A LL the charm and beauty of a clear
complexion are assured from the
regular use of Ven=Yusa. This novel Oxy=
gen Face Cream purifies and rejuvenates
the skin in a way and to an extent of which no ordinary face
cream is at all capable, because none but Ven=Yusa can give
the skin a real “oxygen bath,” which is a valuable discovery.
Even the most neglected and disappointing skin will
readily respond to Ven=Yusa if it is used regularly. Just
a few touches of Ven=Yusa morning, noon and night, or
again after any extra exertion or a trying day, will refresh
your skin and revive your complexion in a surprising way.
Ven=Yusa is pure and wholesome, and is a toilet aid
and beauty preserver of charming fragrance and refinement.
It is a most perfect complex ion=maker.
2/- per jar, of all Chemists and High-class Drapers,
or post free from C. E. Fulford (A/sia), Ltd., Sydney.
The Oxygen Face Cream
VEN-YUSA
SOAP.
The purest and daintiest
of complexion soap s—
wonderfully soothing and
demulcent in use. 9d. per
cake, or 2/- per box of
3 cakes, from all Chemists,
or post free from C. E. Ful-
ford (A/sia), Ltd., Sydney.
VEN-YUSA
SHAMPOOS.
The new wet shampoo,
delightfully refreshing and
beneficial to scalp and
hair. 3d. each, or box of
7 shampoos 1/6; of all
Chemists, or direct from
C. E. Fulford (A/sia),
Ltd., Sydney.
real white woman at last, and she would go
back with Hartley to Melbourne and dress
like, the women in the last magazine that
had drifted her remote way. Then, since it
was already late and to-morrow was wash-
ing day, she went like a sensible girl to bed.
There was Miller when he got home to
the house they shared adjoining the store.
Miller very drunk and in the reminiscent,
moralising mood that not infrequently
affected him in that state. He related color-
ful episodes, all of them more happily for-
gotten. Also he wept and plaintively asked
Hartley to pass him the empty bottle. He
said it was his only friend. Hartley got him
to bed, where he sang Samoan songs and
eventually siept and snored like a trombone.
About 11 it was the next day when Hart-
ley. strolled down to Conway’s; there never
was a rush of work at the casual store
except on “steamer day.” Rewa was at
the other side of the house: he heard her
vehemently abusing old Tomasi, the cook,
who came ambling indifferently into sight
a few moments later. He was a bland,
oily individual, Tomasi, amiable and easy-
going. He enjoyed life.
Rewa was squatted on the grass at the
back of the house, among the tubs and
kometis. Her arms were bare, and she had
a big black sulu girded round her loose
dress like an enveloping apron. Her bare
feet were flecked with mud. Sugu was
there and another, a rather pretty, soft-
eyed Tongan girl. There was a muscular
half-caste youth with them, and they were
all laughing in the sunlight. As Hartley
came up unseen the half-caste stooped down,
swung Rewa up and kissed her. Hartley
rather sickened at that.
“Damn you !” he said, and they saw him
then, and the half-caste made speed to dis-
appear.
“Eli, what’s a kiss?” Rewa said perplexed
at his sudden anger. “I’ve known Joe all
my life. But I won’t if you don’t like it.
You are particular.”
But Hartley flung off in an odd mingling
of emotions —flaming anger and a queer pity
for himself and her and a desire to break
the half-caste’s black neck. For he knew
now. Wanton or innocent —whatever she
might be, he desired her as he had desired
no other woman. As if he was snared in
a spell. He couldn’t sleep for thinking of
her. It was damnable. He called himself
a confounded maniac; but he couldn’t help
it. A half-native girl the one woman ! God
only knew what she was ! She’d let anyone
kiss her. And coo her frank pleasure for
any flattery. His thoughts were something
like that.
It was about four o’clock that he came
with the temper of a fiend out of the
little side-office into the store. She was
there, talking and laughing with Miller;
but he guessed she had come with overtures
of peace. She was in the green muslin he
had praised, and that indeed suited her
clear coloring. As she turned away to look
at some silken handkerchiefs Miller pinched
her prettv chin. She drew away dimpling,
but Hartley saw a tide of color make her
fair skin beautiful. She saw him then and
smiled shyly, but his face frightened her.
She went out.
Never very cool-headed, it was the last
straw. He had a wordy passage-at-arms
with Miller, who was still in a surly day-
after mood, which came almost to fists. It
ended in Hartley throwing up his billet
and running the gaping Wiliami down the
store steps and depositing him in a shaken
heap among the startled dogs, which brought
old Moga with her pail of long-standing pig-
food rioting into actibn. Matters were fairlv
exciting.
Hartley left next week in the first cutter
for Levuka. He did not see Rewa at all;
he thought miserably she didn’t care—after
all, she was little more than a native. No-
thing mattered.
But Rewa herself had not dreamed he
would go so soon.
He went on to Suva and stayed there a
month or so. But the zest had gone out of
everything. He was hard hit. He hadn’t
imagined one girl, though he put her down
bitterly as worthless, could matter so much.
He thought of her all the time—her soft,
dark eyes and her funny gurgling laugh
and the golden glow of her flesh. It was
no good fighting against it. He caught the
island steamer back. He felt a fool, but
he was unreasonably glad when Suva lay
mistily away on the horizon.
“The Conways?” said the new store-
assistant, who happened to be the first per-
son he met on the rotting wharf. “Oh,
Miller-—you know Miller —married their girl
Rewa a fortnight ago. Took her to Samoa
for the honeymoon.”
A. SMITH.
Red Rust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRIGADIER-GENERAL BOXON, one
of the A.I.F. artillery chiefs, was
arch-priest of the cult of Spit and
Polish, worshipping a burnished set of har-
ness as a Buddhist does his idols. To him
the in excelsis was not the battery
that could lob a dozen shots from each gun
on a mark note in a Hun Kommandant’s
breeches pocket, but the battery that could
employ its stirrup-irons as mirrors for its
morning shave.
Once, it is told, the brave and fiery Boxon
rode his charger into the horse-lines of one
of the batteries. Everything seemed in ex-
cellent condition. The ground round the
horses was clean and dry. The drainage
system was worthy of a shire engineer. The
feed-house was a model of care. All these
Smith, O.C. waggon-lines, knew were OK,
but he trembled when he thought of the
harness. His drivers had had some hard
work transporting ammunition to the guns,
and as a humane O.C. he had eased up on
the harness-polishing stunt. But he knew
that such a lame excuse would not wash
with Boxon. Consequently he was much re-
lieved when, following on Boxon’s heels, he
found that eminent warrior visiblv pleased
with the outfit. Smith reckoned he had a
good lot of boys till Boxon passed before
the penultimate set belonging to the wheel-
driver of F sub’s gun-team. To the un-
trained eye the set was in excellent order.
Seemingly every link was rustless.
But the Archpriest of Spit and Polish
had never left a battery's waggon-lines satis-
fied that everything was sufficiently bur-
nished to win the war. Lower he bent over
the harness belong to the wheel-driver of F
sub’s gun-team. More intent he peered. He
fingered link after link of the steelwork.
Suddenly he stiffened like a pointer at his
bird. The white moustache bristled. To
a staring eye was lifted the monocle that
Boxon affected. His nose quivered. His
cheeks purpled. Then it came:
“Mr. Smith,” he roared, and the startled
0.0. waggon-lines came forward at the
double.
“I can’t understand you officers,” con-
tinued the now thoroughly aroused Boxon.
“Look at this, man! Look!” He pointed
to an innermost link. There was a minute
speck of rust —the offending mote in Boxon’s
eye.
“Rust, red rust!” he roared. “Filthy har-
ness !. How do you expect us to win the
war if we don’t have clean harness? Turn
your men in on harness-cleaning for the rest
of the day.” And snorting like an enraged
beast of the wilds, Boxon hurled himself on
his charger and spurred himself on to an-
other red-rust campaign.
To all and sundry, from swanky battery
commander to humblest of babbling brooks’
offsiders, Boxon exchanged the name of his
fathers for the more eloquent title of Red
Rust.
Artillery brigade commanders employed as
much secrecy in their plans for a descent on
horse-lines as a divisional commander for a
raid on Fritz. But Boxon’s adjutant was a
former X Battery man, and when Boxon in-
formed him that he would inspect X Battery
in a week’s time Major Tom Wanley, 0.C.,
knew almost as soon as Boxon had formu-
lated his plans.
Commenced a strenuous week for X
Battery drivers. From reveille to after-
noon stables it was polish and sweep, soft-
soap, spit, sand, burnishers, saddle-soap,
emery-paper, and the vilest of language every
day. The old hands grew rebellious and the
reinstoushments became enlightened as to
the methods of taming the fiery Hun. But
relentlessly they were kept at it, and it was
with a sigh of relief that Major Tom made
a final inspection of his harness, his ammuni-
tion limbers and his horse-lines on the eve
of Boxon’s great offensive. Everything was
in top-notch order, and his glow of satisfac-
tion was only dampened by the knowledge
that his drivers were in a rebellious mood.
Every little knot of them had only one topic
-—-“that old Red Rust.” And one little
knot in particular determined to quench the
spit and polish ardor of Boxon.
“Aren’t they beauts?” asked one of this
group, No. 0240, Driver Bill Borrow, original
A.I.F. and sometime bullocky, dangling a pair
of rusty stirrup-irons aloft. “They ain’t
been cleaned since we left Aussie.”
At 10 a.m. Boxon made his apparently un-
expected call. But Major Tom Wanley’s
outposts had passed the whisper, and when
Boxon headed his charger t°wards the har-
ness-skeds W aniey’s sharp b g
his men to the "stand fast.” , :
“Carry on, Major,” said Boxon, returm g
the Major’s salute. "Just a sutprise cau
to have a look at your waggon-lines, Majoi.
“Verv good, sir,” answered Hanley.
Boxon dismounted, his brilliantly-polished
nickel stirrups flashing like mirrors in the
sun. He handed the reins ot his mount to
his groom. The Major winked solemnly at the
Adjutant as they fell into_ step the
corpulent ligure of the C.O.
jake, Dick,” whispered Wanley, and the Ad-
jutant griuned. . ,
While Boxon and his retinue were tramp-
ing up and down the horse lines, Jones, Ins
groom, remained near the cookhouse. Snowy
Forbes, the cook, and Bill Borrow s closest
cobber, shouted out to Jones: “Like a cuppa
tCci Uig.
Jones eyed the dixie of tea thirstily but
regretfully. “Can’t, mate,” he replied. e
old man’d roar hell outer me if 1 left the
neddies.” . .. .. .... ~
“Aw ” suggested Snowy, wait till the old
blanker gets into the ’arness sheds and then
you can tie ’em up ter the feed- ouse. They
won’t run away.”
“Righto,” Jones agreed.
As soon as Boxon and his young army had
disappeared into the harness-sheds, Jones
nipped across and tied the horses to the back
of the feed-house. Snowy had a steaming
cup of tea for him, and it took him ail his
time to swallow it before Boxon was out
again. He didn’t even have time to notice
Snowy Forbes’s grin as he saw someone
dodging around the Brig.’s charger.
Jones handed over the reins to Boxon,
who was just as annoyed as if he had found
every set of harness red with rust. That
was the old Brig, all over. If there was
rust he’d roar because there was, and if
there wasn’t he’d roar just the same because
of his disappointment.
Boxon stumped across to his charger, un-
aware that ev.ery pair of eyes was concen-
trated on him. He grasped the reins in
his left hand and reached for the stirrup
with his right, his left foot raised to place in
the stirrup. And then like a man petrified
he stood on one leg. He glared at his stirrup-
iron with bulging eyes, his face distorted,
his whole body quivering.
The stirrup was red with rust —deeply-
bitten rust.
While Boxon stood like an overfed crane
on a river bank, there came a guffaw from
every man in X Battery. It was more
than a guffaw. It was a mad. triumphant
shriek of ridicule that even the Major, nearly
convulsed himself, could not restrain.
Boxon’s left foot came to earth again.
He half-turned to deal with the rebellious
laughter from the harness-sheds, but flung
himself jnto the saddle and spurred his horse
savagely.
Bill Borrow grinned reflectively as he
stared at a near-by duck-pond.
“They were bonzer nickel stirrup-irons,”
he mused, “but I think they’re safer down
at the bottom of that than if I still ’ad them.
Anyway, I bet the old blanker never men-
tions red rust again.”
WILL WERNON.


1 '
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 FeatherBton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
'ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up yos> liver with
Small Pill-
Small
Dose —
Small
Pricey
C.'■* rter’s Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
CARTERS
V ITTLE
0 IVER
H PILLS
*7
l/P-
-3^)
s
q hirley President Braces Are Worn
All Over the World
There are ten pairs of SHIRLEY PRESI DENT BRACES
sold over the civilized globe every minute year in and
year out.
This means both to the user and to the Shirley President
works that the honesty, integrity and comfort that are
worked into every pair of SHIRLEY PRESIDENT
BRACES are thoroughly appreciated
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT"
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
SO York Street, Sydney.
is
85
s
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the ~22 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber —ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
s
A Splendid Rabbit Rifle !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
D 6
s
for your own
health's sake
the one remedy you may take)
and feel safe —safe that the good
expected or promised will be accomplished—-
Safe that will spit you. Beecham’s Pills meet the
Universal need for a safe and speedy medicine to relieve
the headaches, low spirits, restless nights, bad
dreams, bitter taste, mental
dullness, muscular
. n
fatigue
caused
by indi-
gestion.
Beecham's
Pills have proved beyond
cavil or doubt their beneficent power
to correct defective or irregular action of the
stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels. The very first dose
will make you feel better and with judicious use as
occasion requires there will come to you
a buoyant feeling of health and
strength: In body, brain,
blood and nerves a trial
will show you what a splen-
did change for the better
Beecham’s Pills can make
Said in boxes, labelled
pm
(original English price,.)
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
5V
Cv
to
S'
3UYTHIS.BAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that, shave after shave of satin s m ooth-
users sf The PLUM RAZOR.
[Guaranteed
[in order for two years free.
I3SHS!
s
CRAIG &
m
d
.THE NEW MODEL
m
SCHEBLER CARBURETOR
FOR ALL. CARS.
1000 Miles Victorian Reliability Trial.
“ITALA”
Ist /In whole Contest for
3rd \ RELIABILITY & PETROL CONSUMPTION COMBINED.
Ist in Owner-driver’s Class.
Each machine equipped with
The Famous Schebler Carburetor
and we believe were the only machines in the Con-
test so equipped.
THE HIGHEST TON MILEAGE.
Mr. J. W. Flood’s “Itala,” weighing, with load,
about 3Scwt., averaged OVER 29 ACTUAL ItOAU
MILES TO THE GALLON.
The Model Carburetor used in this Contest was
The New Model “A” Schebler,
which is years in advance of any other Carburetion
device at present on the market.
The New Model Schebler
Carburetor, special for
Dodge Cars.
You can buy similar instruments to those which
so distinguished themselves in this exacting trial,
as they were not specially-prepared fancy models,
but actually bought out of our stock in the
ordinary way of business.
Outstanding features of this new model are:—
2 ADJUSTABLE JETS (1 Main Jet, 1 Idle).
INDEPENDENT ADJUSTMENTS can be made
by the driver, both on the Air and Benzine, while
running. This refinement makes it possible for
the Car Owner to successfully cope with any class
of Fuel put in his tank, despite any variation that
might be of Specific Gravity.
Thus, too, the owner driver is enabled to success-
fully experiment with any new fuel without having
to dismantle the whole show, fixing new Jets or
Chokes.
EXTRAORDINARY SLOW IDLING, RAPID ACCELERATION,
WONDERFUL POWER AND SPLENDID ECONOMY
soon manifest themselves when once this Car-
buretor is installed.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES.
d
The New Model Schebler
Carburetor, special. for
Ford Cars.
AND FULL INFORMATION.
ASK FOR LITERATURE
SWANS, LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Sole Representatives for Australasia.
Victorian Agents:
JOHN DANKS & SON LTD.,
Melbourne.
South Australian
Agrents;
CORNELLS LTD.,
Adelaide.
West Australian Agents:
JAS. A. DIMMITT LTD.,
Perth.
Queensland Agents:
CANADA CYCLE AND
MOTOR CO.,
Brisbane.


f
WHISKY
The Spirit of
AMITY
Life without amity would
be as barren as a library
without books. For no
man can live in this
world without friendship
and know happiness. The
sunshine of laughter, the
pleasure of song and the
comfort of sympathy—all
these things spring from
amity. And their joys are
ever made the greater by
\
Bctoar's
