

We can’t all take
a Holiday—-
tr^fTir,
Y
’,CI>
-S'
*
x
Si
a
K
m
u
u
m
1/
/
IT PUTS TMf’VITM
WTO VITALITY,
«4«s>
m
For sluggish liver and
biliousness take
FLETCHER’S PILLS.
They’re sold wherever
you buy CLEMENTS
TONIC, and taken in con-
junction with the tonic
:the y promote vigor,
strength and health.
uuj
}nOSW
Just when we feel the need of a holiday many of us
find that business or home duties demand attention.
If you cannot get away for a change and rest the
next best thing to do is to take a reliable tonic —take
CLEMENTS TONIC. This excellent Australian
remedy has won the appreciation of thousands.
One city business woman recently wrote:—
“I really believe that Clements Tonic has been
more beneficial to me than a month’s holiday I
recently spent at the seaside.”
Such are the unsolicited tributes to CLEMENTS
TONIC, which (while not claiming to be a cure all)
will undoubtedly prove a positive tonic to sufferers
of weak nerves, lassitude, insomnia, anaemia, and
similar ailments. Buy a bottle of CLEMENTS
TONIC now and take it for your health’s sake.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2145
Thursday, March 24, 1921*
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,-LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
I
22
it
fount-Pen
Economical of effort, time and
ink; possessing the simplest
lever self-filling action, and un-
precedented ink capacity; per-
fectly finished, attractive in
appearance, correctly balanced,
The Whytwarth Fount Pen
merits the distinction—THE Pen
of Pens.
14 ct. Iridium tipped gold nib; all points;
Entirely British and guaranteed.
17/6 Everywhere.
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company, Ltd.,
218-226 Claience St., Sydney.
“The Early Brush Catches the Germ.”
BRUSH EARLY
WITH
Euihymol
TOOTH/PASTg
KILLS DENTAL DECAY GERMS WITHIN 30 SECONDS.
n
iMANGROVITE
LEATHER
!: ®Era;iltl
EXPERIENCED MANUFACTURERS
recognise the fact that Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting running side by side, afid doing
the same work, outlasts all other types of belting and gives maximum service all through.
Ordinary beltings come and go in relays, but when you select Mangrovite you get' the benefit
of over 40 years of experience in transmission problems—this means absolute steadfastness
under the most severe conditions, and consistent conservation of power.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co. Ltd., Fremantle.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
Victoria & Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Melbourne.
*j2utCe\&c
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney 8 Liver Derangements.
Ail Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
m
WatdrmarTis
mkr
Fountain Pen
Makes letter-writing easy.
Waterman’s Ideal is a positive boon
to letter writers. It is ready at a
moment’s notice and never gives
the slightest trouble for it is the
most perfect Fountain Pen made.
As a GIFT it is ideal.
Three Types —“ Self - Filling,” “ Safety ” and
“ Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., ZlyflktL Comer
Kingsway, London, Eng-
ustralia: Harold D. Dixon,
tos, Clarence Street, Sydney.
nm
&
<^
HOUSE FtIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF,
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
n
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
The Red Page
The Old Gods
The link between Saturn and the French
Devolution does not at first glance look a
particularly close one; yet around the fait
of the Titans and the rise of European
democracy the fancy of many poets played.
Perhaps Saturn himself did not matter, but
Prometheus and Hyperion did. They stood
for man against the all-powerful freakish-
ness of the Olympians; and behind them was
the dim myth of a Golden Age—a Golden
Age which might come back if men forgot
the prejudices and follies of 10 900 years
and began to live in simple earnest. The
old gods had formed a background for much
of the poetic thought of Greece ; though there
it was probably the picturesque and infinitely
tragic that appealed, rather than any feeling
for the moral values of the deposed deities.
Yet both the Attic poets ancl those of the
early nineteenth century took the legend of
Olympians and Titans as pure religious tra-
dition or pure myth; and in neither age was
.there any attempt to get behind the legend
and discover its historical value.
A comparison of the gods and god-stories
of several lands goes to show that there are
always deposed and defeated deities some-
where in the picture. Ancient European
religion is best seen in the gods of the
Greeks and the Celts; and in each case
the old gods have been defeated, deprived of
their rule and forced to acknowledge the
sovereignty ,of the conqueror, though not
despised nor given over to hatred and con-
tempt, Going eastward the defeated deities
turn into devils—Satan of the Hebrews,
Tiamat of the Babylonians, Aliriman of the
Iranians —but the story of war in Heaven
is pretty constant. The Teutonic account
of things supports the theory of the non-
European origin of the German race ; for with
them the tale resembles a ruder telling of
the Asiatic story, and has no sort of affinity
to the myths of Olympians and Titans, or
Danaans and Fomorians. Of the Fomo-
rians. who very closely resemble the Titans,
there are uo traces outside Ireland : but the
names of the Danaan deities are left here and
there in Europe, from Italy to Northern
England, and from Holland to the Bay of
Biscay. So it may fairly be concluded that
a moderately uniform set of god-stories was
once current from Cyprus and Crete right
through to the Atlantic seaboard, while a
different set had a hearing in the wilder
forests of Germany and northward into Scan-
dinavia.
Leaving out the Asiatic and German ac-
counts of things, the European myths open
the way for large conjecture. Other Greek
myths-—notably those concerning the mino-
taur and the siege of Troy—have been proved
to have historical value; and a simple ex-
planation of the tale of the Titans readily
presents itself. The Hellenic peoples were
not the original possessors of the soil of
Greece. Some of the Pelasgians had main-
tained themselves in distinct villages, still
unmixed with the Grecian conquerors, as
late as the time of Herodotus. Similarly
in the west the Celts were in no case the
aboriginal inhabitants. In Gaul, Spain,
northern Italy and Ireland there were
people settled before they came. The con-
quest of one race of gods by another may
be taken almost certainly to mean the con-
quest of one race of people by another.
All those early Europeans were intensely
religious; their lives and actions were bound
up in their deities; their own victories
would be instantly ascribed to the gods who
led them into battle. Where the Hellenic
phalanx met the Pelasgian column they saw
Zeus in the clouds above hurling his thunders
at Saturn; and in the Pelasgian defeat
they saw an Olympian triumph.
Following the, same line of reasoning, the
fact that both Titan and Fomorian con-
tinued prominent in popular story without
being regarded as evil spirits proves that in
neither case did a war of extermination fol-
low the original victory. Thus we get
some notion of the character of the early
European warrior ; and up to this point the
stories are uniform. But there is. a clear
divergence in the relation of Saturn to Zeus.
The conqueror is the son of the conquered.
So the Greeks must have been a branch of
the race which, after having evolved or
adopted new deities, they overthrew. In
Ireland the Fomorian had no relation to the
Danaan; the conquered were not of their
race—'a fact about Which ethnologists and
archaeologists are sufficiently agreed.
But the difference goes farther. In Ire-
land the people, conquered and conquerors
alike, gloried in the splendors of the Danaans.
The Fomorians could never hold power again;
nobody wished for their return. The evi-
dence, therefore, is that in Ireland the Celtic
conquerors inspired respect and love—a re-
spect and love which passed on to their
gods. In Greece, on the other hand, there
was always' deep down in the hearts of the
common people a desire for Saturn’s return,
the hope of the restoration of a. Golden Age.
Again the inference is clear. The Hellenic
conqueror was an oppressor; his gods stood
in the eyes of the conquered—who were, still
the bulk of the slave and inferior village
populations—for hard dealing, cruelty and a
system which had departed from the simple
sweetness of older times.
• All this is merely conjecture, but it is
conjecture in a field which may yet bear rich
harvest. History has reached its backward
limit, as far as it rests on documentary evi-
dence; but much still remains.. The spade
of the archaeologist, assisted by logical reason-
ing from known facts, may yet take us into
strange places; and the history Stliteady
written may contain the germ of much
comparatively sure information beyond the
fringe of history. The myths of the old
gods give us something. It may be much
or little; but the more we can glean about
the European of 4000 years ago the better
we can guess about the Australian of 4000
years hence.
D.M.W.
The Man Who Discovered Time
Uttering a howl of despair Juliet let go her hold
and fell back into time. Her apartment was ar
future century high with attics on top. She landed
with a sickening crash that broke most of her bones
on the floor of the Present. The badly fitting join
where two years met gave way under the impact of
her body and she dropped through into the Past,
where her blood was spattered among the crusades.
It all began with Albert Einstein, the
Swiss who was professor of mathematics and
sundries at Berlin' University and whose
great discoveries were tested and demon-
strated during the sun eclipse of 1919. Einstein
tracked the Fourth Dimension to its residence
and was the first Sherlock to find it at home.
In the first place he discovered that there
are no straight lines and that even a ray
of light goes in an imperceptible curve.
Therefore if allowed sufficient leisure it wili
come back to the point of starting, instead
of being lost in the infinity of space. From
this it is inferred that there is no such infinity
and that the ray comes back because it can’t
go further forward, there being no more for-
ward to go. The end of space isn’t a wall
or anything perceptible—it is just an im-
palpable rebound or impossibility. No one
can get there, for it isn’t there when one
arrives, yet this stoppage or rebound is the
secret of most things previously hidden
and exercises an incalculable influence on
life. Everything moves in circles because
everything is a circle. Euclid’s axiom that
two parallel lines will never meet went over-
board in the confusion. However parallel
they may be they either meet at last or
spread apart or do both, but not both simul-
taneously except under more unusual cir-
cumstances than usual.
Following this line of thought it was
proved that time was as much a dimension
as length, breadth and thickness, and that
neither space nor anything else could exist
without it. The idea that, say, a table in
a room couldn’t be unless there was time
as well as the room for it to be in struck
people as new, but on Consideration it was
generally accepted as reasonable. Similarly
a moving object requires time as well as
space to move in. Time mixed with space
causes gravitation, or, rather, they are
gravitation. Time dragging at the heels
of space or else space hanging on to
the tail of time causes the circular orbit of
the planets, and light for the same, reason
is circular in its motion, though its orbit is
larger—as large in fact as space will allow.
From all this arose the question whether
time is the same everywhere or whether it is
elastic like other things. Thus on a bulky,
solid planet the same sort of object is heavier
than, on a small, light one, and there is no
reason why time should not be larger also,
which is the only way it can be heavier—-
say that an hour, though the same length in
Jupiter as in Mercury, should not occupy a
month in passing, just as one man may pass
a given point faster than another, though
they are of the same size. It isn’t the
length of a day that makes time, but the
speed with which it goes. Which is another
way of saying that life is motion and that
motion is the whole show. Every world is
moving, both in a circle and on its axis,
therefore everything moves from birth to
death, and also after death. On a world
which didn’t move there would be no time,
from which it appears that Eternity is
stoppage and nothing more. And there
being no time in Eternity there is no space
either, which explains why people who are
alive and live in time can’t locate either
Heaven or Hell. However immense they
may be they measure nothing at all except
to the dead people who measure nothing
also.
One of the world’s hackneyed proverbs is
“Everything comes to the man who waits.”
In other words, “Everything comes in time.”
There is nothing else that it could come in.
Therefore time is a container and a dimen-
sion. The man who devised that proverb
was ahead of Einstein without knowing it.
The discovery as Einstein left it after the
eclipse of 1919 was a mere academical curi-
osity. But other people laid themselves
out to meddle with it, and though the re-
sults are only beginning to appear., fears of
a cataclysm are already entertained. First
of all, improvements in aircraft enabled men
to ascend three times as high as the previous
record. In consequence, they reached a
stratum where the flight of time slowed
down and the calendar fell behind. Even at
90,000 feet it was discovered, when people
stayed up long enough, that *a p.n. at one
month took three months to mature. There
are hopes that at some greater height it
will never mature at all—in other words,
that at that height, whatever it may be, it
is always the same day. Large rewards
have been offered to the man who first gets
up to the region where it is always the
same day and finds out what day it is. No
one knows yet what will be the value of the
discovery, but some use wall be found for it,
and, pending that, it will be of great price
as a curiosity.
Another feature of the case is more im-
portant. Time has been proved to be as
palpable, essential and movable as length,
breadth and thickness—a dimension like
them and inseparable from them. It has also
been demonstrated that there are no straight
lines, only curves; consequently everything
comes full circle at last and then starts out
afresh from the old spot on the old journey.
So time will also come full circle and all
history will start afresh, but whether it will
be the same history or not remains to be
seen. If it is the same, then everything
will happen over again, and man, happening
over again, will probably make as great a
mess of the record as he did before. Assum-
ing that civilisation keeps progressing till
the close of the circle the jolt back into the
cave period will be sudden and considerable,
but probably culture will decay gradually,
and the end will melt into the beginning
without any perceptible join. A theory pro-
pounded by professors of the more advanced
school is that we are already/doing at least
a second lap through purely historical days.
The old events we read about in early Scrip-
ture are happening again before our eyes,
but they were so badly reported in the first
place that we fail to recognise them. The
very newest branch of this school (so far
advanced as to be quite out of sight) holds
on the other hand that the reporting was
(Continued on page 25.)


Vi
nee
i m
r 5
£5
m
m
m
<
:ivf’
Hmst
m
u
m
m
i
gm
m
m
V-}
m
am
IV"
m
ret
s«
tt*s
«<;•
a*??
JMtaiS
&
'Vi?<
■V
V
N
x
9V)-
r
v
£$
i
ft
o<x
■'~w
ffi
1 jtSt Man and Boy"
Anthony Horderns’ aim is to give satisfaction to
every customer, through the medium of their
sustained policy of offering quality goods in selec-
tions of wide diversity at prices representing
unsurpassed values.
The position of leadership gained and held by
Anthony Horderns’ decisively demonstrates the
success attending this policy.
Write for Catalogue, “Men’s Matters.” It brings
our Service closer to you.
Smart Suits for Men
THE “PALACE” SUIT, as illustrated, coat cut with
2-buttoned front, slightly rounded corners, outside
breast pocket, inside breast and ticket pocket, centre
seam, no vent, roll collar. Vest has medium opening.
4 pockets. Trousers fashioned plain or cuff bottoms,
side, cross and hip pockets.
AUSTRALIAN TWEEDS (all wool), newest shades of
Brown and Grey—
PRICES tO/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
ALL-WOOL WORSTED, neat designs—
-126/-, 147/-, 150/-, 168/-
POX'S ROUGH SERGE (Indigo dye).. 113/-, 147/-, 168/-
Serviceable Overcoats for Men
THE ALTCAR, as illustrated, double breasted, belt
back, skirt of generous proportions, patch pockets,
strap cuffs. New colorings in Grey and Brown mixed
Tweeds.
PRICES 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 146/-, 168/-
THE RAGLAN, the ideal garment for all occasions,
Raglan shoulders, turn-back or strap cuffs, patch
pockets. Dark shades in Grey English and Australian
Tweeds.
PRICES 60/-, 65/-, 75/-, 84/-. 95/- to 147/-
Service-giving Boys’ Suits
THE DURHAM SUIT, as illustrated, ideal for school
wear, to fit boys 7 to 15 years. Coat lias four patch
pockets, yoke and stitched-down belt, plain knickers.
SMART ENGLISH AND AUSTRALIAN TWEEDS, neat
designs— ,
PRICES So/-, 37/6, 43/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-
Pancy Worsted, all wool 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, ,90/-
NAVY SERGE, Pox’s Rough 63/6, 64/-. 66/-
NAVY SERGE. PINE RIB 66/6, 68/6. 93/6
Band and Button Knickers 1/6 extra
THE PARISIAN SUIT, as illustrated, to fit boys 3 to
8 years, coats designed with pleated fronts, stitched-
down belt at back, full skirt; Grey and Brown Tweeds
in new shades.
PRICES 39/6, 33/6, 35/-, 43/-
Smart Overcoats for Boys
THE BANGOR, in mixed Tweeds, is buttoned to neck,
4in. belted-back or plain back.
PRICES 11/6, 14/6, 16/6, 38/6, 35/-, 43/-
THE RAGLAN, in Mixed Tweeds, slip-on sleeves, loose
skirt, straps on cuffs.
PRICES 33/6, 35/-, 43/-, 45/-
Smart Apparel for Men
TRENCH COAT, as illustrated, cut with full skirt, belt,
all round, convertible collar, vertical pockets.
IN FANCY TWEEDS, neat design—
PRICES 105/-, -126/-, 147/-
FAWN GABARDINE, lined wool check—
PRICES 105/-, .147/-
Men’s Knitted Coat Sweaters
These Cosy Coats, as illustrated, are the newest produc-
tions of the season, finished in accordance with Anthony
Horderns’ usual standard of excellence.
KNITTED WOOL, Ysliaped neck, medium weight:
colors of Grey. Brown, Heather—
Chest 32 34 36 38 40 inches
PRICES: 23/-, 26/-: 23/-, 26/-; 23/6, 27/-; 38/-; 24/6, 28/-
KNITTED ALL-WOOL, in heavy rib finish; colors Mid -
Grey Shades—
Chest 32 34 36
V-Neck 25/6 25/6 25/6
Polo Collor 26/6 26/6 26/6
Men’s Knitted Wool Waistcoats,
pockets. V-front, in grey only—
Size 36in., PRICE 24/-; Size 40in., PRICE 25/-
38 40 42 in.
28/- 30/6 33/6
28/6 31/- 34/-
without sleeves, 2
m.
wm
m
Si
1
Wm^
Travellers’ & Holiday Makers’ Needs
tr UNKS, as illustrated, in regulation sizes for the Cat&n.
with bentwood battens, sliding locks, well lined, fitted with tray.
Sizes 30in. 33in. 36in.
PRICES: 90/- 100/- 110/-
LEAXHER SUIT CASES, as illustrated, selected Cowhide,
strongly sewn and riveted. Two sliding locks, leather handles!
Sizes 22in. 24in. 26in.
PRICES: 55/-, 65/- 60/-, 70/- 65/-. 75/-
Travelling Rugs
OOL , TRAVEUUING RUGS, as illustrated, in attractive
and colorings.
iCES 30/-, 35/-, 45/-, 65/-, 84/-
Mail Order Service.
To shop by Mail at
Anthony Horderns’ means
that you benefit by the
same expert painstaking
service as is extended to
personal shoppers. Orders
are expeditiously executed
by a trained staff.
Write for Catalogues
When writing state the
kind of goods you are
interested in; then a
Catalogue will be posted
you free. By doing this
you benefit by the advan-
tages which our Service
provides.
We pay carriage on Men’s
Wear in N.S.W., and to
the nearest port on Inter-
state and Island Orders.
/ .7:
mi §
7
/ if* '/‘A
sSS
Men’s Golf Shirts
Made in our own workrooms from carefully selected and reliable
British fabrics.
CAMBRIC GOLF SHIRTS, soft double cuffs and dressed neck-
bands. In smart stripes of Black or Blue on White grounds.
PRICE 8/6 each
Superior quality Cambric, with collar to match jo/9
Men’s Pyjama Suits
‘‘PALACE” PYJAMA SUITS ensure comfort to the wearer and
long service. Made in our workrooms, of dependable British
Fabrics expertly cut. correctly made, perfectly finished.
IN FANCY STRIPED FLANNELETTE, heavy weight—
PRICE 14/9 and 18/9 each
IN FANCY STRIPED FLANNELETTE, medium weight, 19/6
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
lelephone: City 9440.


Get a
KODAK
for
Easter
3
\
111
m
m
m
t
'■ ■ • *
fz
x
It will add to all your pleasures at the time and save them for future
enjoyment.
During the Easter Holidays your Kodak will never be idle. There are
the Show and Races, with their interesting incidents, trips to the country
and seaside, picnics, fishing, boating, swimming and other sports.
A No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior will be a splendid companion. It is compact, light
and most efficient. For pictures 2\ x I>\ inches. Price 98/% Other Kodaks from
54/6 to £2O/15/% Brownies from 14/6 to £5/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers, and
(Australasia)
LTD
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner," corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
the ideal Easter Gift to the family.
The Studio Grand, a superb Instru-
ment, giving a truly “human”
reproduction. As perfect in tone
as it is handsome in appearance.
In Mahogany 39 guineas
In Oak ; . . . . 37 guineas
In Mission 37 guineas
Long winter nights are coming—only a few more weeks and
the evenings will find the family gathered round the fireside.
Will “His Master’s Voice” be there to cheer, to amuse, to
delight?
“His Master’s Voice” provides a wealth of music in keeping
with every occasion.
Here, for instance, is a selection from the wide range of
glorious Easter Music available on “His Master’s Voice.”
>34013—Crucifix . * Caruso and Journet
02472—Ave Maria Caruso and Elman (Violin)
02470—Agnus Dei Caruso
03069—Ave Maria Melba
03269—O Best in the Lord Kirkby Lunn
}
02816—(a) Recit.: Ye people rend your hearts,
(b) Aria: If with all your hearts
Walter Hyde
02267—Lead, Kindly Light
02274—Cujus anima “Stabat Mater”
Evan Williams
01075 —The Crucifix Evan Williams and Robert Radford
02451 —The Palms Robert Radford
5-2032—Ave Verum Ben Millet
02817—Ecce Panis Angelorum Ben Millet
02787—Pie Jesu Ben Millet
Phyllis Lett
0-1146 —“Elijah”—Memories, Part 2 1
04148—“Elijah”—Memories, Part 3 V
01149—“Elijah”—Memories, Part 4 J
Nora D’Argel, Edna Thornton,
Walter Hyde, Robert Radford
C.444—Ave Maria (with Violin Obligato). Easter Hymn, “Cavalleria
Rustieana” Perceval Allen with Westminster Cathedral Choir
C.93o—Hallelujah Chorus, “The Messiah.” The Bells of St. Michael’s Tower.
The Sheffield Choir
B.loo7—The King of Love My Shepherd Is. The Day of Resurrection.
Charles Hopkins (Celeste)
8.378—0 God, Our Help. Christ the Lord is Risen To-day.
Choir of St. Andrew’s Church, Wells Street. W., London
To hear the world’s greatest music at its best, play “His Master’s Voice”
Records with an “His Master’s Voice” Needle on an “His Master’s Voice”
Instrument.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
M
The Tasman, a beautiful portable
model, distinguished by all those
merits that are inseparable from
“His Master’s Voice.’’
In Mahogany .... 26 Yz guineas
In Oak 25 guineas
■ i
His Master's Voice
Look for this famous trade-mark
on every Instrument, Record or
Box of Needles you buy—it is the
symbol of supremacy.
“His Master’s Voice,”
Read. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-marl;.


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
ine Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
See it working at
The Royal Easter Show,
Stall 30, Industrial Hall.
bend a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
m
n
safety "hmSAb comfort
Flannelettes*^
gsssa
ussm
mn
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre. Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4}4 Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
m
n
mn
m
n
Why be older
than you
needf
Become
young again
by transform-
ing your grey
hair to the
y o u t h f u 1
color of wal-
nut. Abso-
lutely harm-
less, perma-
nent and
waterproof.
H
A
»
n
Get some to-day and look
younger to-morrow! Obtain-
able all chemists.
MEXICAN
Tooth Paste
Choose the
Right Dentifrice.
If you value your health, guard your
teeth by using a safe, reliable denti-
frice night and morning. Eudenta is
pure, antiseptic and wholesome. Tt
keeps the teeth free from germs
whilst it cleans and -whitens >
them.
It is interesting to
note that the price
is, as always, 1/-.
ALL
CHEMISTS
You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, CORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
ouj
IS
SCR!
eed
Tree
K
i,
°»R*C
. 1 ;i |ob LECCO
CO
•minmi
Manufactured in Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has elfectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs.,
10/6; 1 lb., 2/-; $-lb., 1/3.
Postage: Within the State. 1 lb.. 9d.: £-lb., 6d.
extra. Interstate, 1 lb., 1/2; i-lb., Bd. extra.
Ghoos
-•-y •
GUI
and g'et in line for
smoKe-satisfaction
The line is clear for a cool,
sweet smoke when you’ve
got a GBD. Made of
thoroughly matured
French Briarwood, shaped
by experts, and well fin-
ished in every detail.
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thirty.
I saw the exquisiteness of youth
Like petal on a girl s cheeß blown,
And by the joy it gave, in truth,
I knew the bloom had left mine own.
Because I could not turn mine eyes
From throat and chin’s young symmetry,
But ever gazed enchanted-wise,
I knew that youth had gone from me!
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
At Dawntide.
1 have been watching a long, long hour
Things taking shape in the morn mist
cold,
And now the dawn, like a ripened flower,
Spreads splendid petals of rose and gold.
Cliffs, crags, night-hidden, grow plain again,
Again I know them, green palm and tree!
This glory, meant for a thousand men,
Alone, of that thousand men 1 see.
For some lie sleeping, and some, dull-eyed.
Stretch scorched by fever and racked by
pains;
And some toss groaning, from side to side,.
Like chained things striving to break their
chains.
For no soul’s sake is this grace bestowed,
These banners of light in the east un-
furled,
Else where was man when the first dawn
glowed, /
And beauty flowed on a lifeless world.
Perturbed by nothing—man’s wars, man's
rage,
That smoke and smoulder, and pass and
die,
This pageant, deathless from age to age
Still fills with splendor the sea and sky.
For beauty, needing no witness, burns
And flowers for ever for its own sake;
It shines, unfailing, as this earth turns,
Though man, unseeing it, sleep or wake.
I have been watching a long, long hour
The pomp and splendor and grace of dawn,
While crag and headland and tree and flower
Watch too, no more in the mist with-
drawn.
As one who, given a magic cup,
Drinks deep of a strange, enchanted wine,
I, watching the east, am lifted up
To heights that pulse with a light divine.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Red Blood.
To awake with the dawn and a sense of new
pleasures awaiting;
To capture again the exuberant joy of a
child;
To delight with the birds in the keen, sing-
ing rapture of mating,
To respond with a thrill to the life-giving
call of the wild.
To glory anew in the velvety dusk of the
gloaming,
To revel in riots of color that glow till
they burn;
To cry out with the cry of the swift-winging
bird that is homing,
To be joyously' careless of time or of tide
or of turn.
To recapture the exquisite rapturous flavor
of living,
To know once again the ecstatic fulfilment
o£ love;
To be filled with a catholic passion for whole-
hearted giving,
To be conscious of swift-blooded Nature
around and above.
To feel the soul melt in the poignant abysses
of feeling,
To lose every sense in a languorous!
fusion of all;
To be hazily conscious of all the vast uni-
verse reeling.
To look wild-eyed about with the stunned,
sullen shock of a fall.
Would I know thee again to be young if
Life asked me to-morrow?
Would I leave all the calm and the diffi-
cult knowledge of years?
Yea! Though a blood-crimson sunset, swift-
falling, brought oceans of sorrow.
And a life came to wreck in the swift-
running torrent of tears!
VICTORIA.
ANTHONY FOULKES.
Arclights.
Within the darkness that their souls desire,
The arclights stare and blink with brazen
glance.
Weaving gold circlets where frail night-
moths dance
With maddened eyes and gauze wings breath-
ing fire.
Each night these vampires of the dusk aspire
Some new-born coquetry, some fresh
romance
Torn from the stones that pave the streets
of Chance
Or rescued from the roadway and its mire.
Yet have we set them, burning in the gloom,
To slay our self-made visions of the night,
Like frightened children, in a darkened
. r00m,..
Whose feverish hands a broken match
would light....
We drown so bravely in their golden doom,
With eyes so dazzled they have no more
sight.
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.


\
a
iP
■ S
y
w
$
iM
mi
-=t
m
M
t<m.
¥
I
ZZZ
fW^
~k
iMMvv;
■■
iimiinuHiimf
iHlHIlllillllllf
VO
5
Qj
<4
si
o
U
5
r>
lllllillltllllllii(
mn
HE, LINCOLN is Australia’s perfect car. The history of its construction is
as romantic as a novel by Locke, and that story one day soon will be given to
the public. Every part was studiously considered here in Australia, and
each design and each modelled part was thoroughly tested before one order
was placed for its manufacture.
The illustration above gives but a poor idea of the elegance in design of the Lincoln,
and of the strength and purpose of its finish. Three years have passed since the design
was decided upon as a perfect car at a fair price. Much spade work had to be done. Last
year 80 cars were sold, and in later advertisements these purchasers will speak in terms
of high praise of how they appreciate their car.
Price £725*
The manufacturers claim—and will stand behind their claim—-that at its price of £725
the Lincoln stands in a class by itself., The low price is possible—and of course was aimed
at because there are no commissions to distributors and no commissions to selling
agents. Also every part required is purchased straight from the manufacturers, and
the assembling and construction are done by the manufacturers, who themselves sell
straight to the public.
Before buying a car inspect the Lincoln, which will be at the Royal Agricultural
Show.
THE PARTS.
Following are a few points that make the Lincoln perfect in design and finish.
The Engine is a Red Seal Continental Six-cylinder,
25-40 horse-power, made by the Continental Motors
Company, whose huge organisation specialises in
engines only, and whose engineers have aimed to build
up to the very limit of human knowledge.
The Electrical Equipment is the Auto-lite 2-unit system,
third brush generator; Bendix drive starter (self),
simple in operation, accessible and of absolute dependa-
bility—the lighting is on the single-point principle.
The Zenith Carburetter was chosen. There is no better
The Axles are Timken make—front and rear taper
noller bearings; spiral bevel crown wheel and pinion.
These axles are used in the Hudson, Cadallac, Liberty
and Packard. X
Hayes wire wheels, with demountable rim, used by all
the best American cars.
Transmission is made by the Detroit Gear and Machine
Co., which is of ample strength and silent at any speed.
Clutch.—Borg and Beck—dry plate—simple, silent and
holds under hardest strain.
The Universal is of the ball-bearing principle, universal
at both ends, and transmits the power effectively at any
angle.
The Radiator is made for Australian conditions, giving
a maximum of cooling surface, and is so designed to give
very fine body lines.
The Steering Gear is of Gemmer manufacture, and is
set. at a rakish angle to give maximum comfort from
driver’s seat.
The Body Lines.—The Lincoln is beautifully modelled
on streamer lines. The frame-work is solid maple; the
panelling is oxy-welded; best of leather used; equipped
with full set of tools.
The average owner-driver can handle the Lincoln with confidence anywhere.
LINCOLN MOTOR CAR CO., George Street, Redfern, Sydney.
SYDNEY
IfffiilllSj
Australia


The Bulletin
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 42.—(N0. 2145.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1921.
Price 9d.
PUSHED OFF.
“Anyone would think they owned the place."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by Wiwjam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.-
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week fbr a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £% per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 icords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings, All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly undkrstand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Blaak and White.
Anyone supplying to Tup Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid fbr same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —vMU be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h ;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/ljt Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; San Francisco News Co., 7)7
Howard Street, San Francisco ; J. Roland liay Co., 181)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., Vt West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington. U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, Jj2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. _ ,
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
' Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each "packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 3(os. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
'z!2efx/n.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1921.
THE PRECARIOUS NATURE OF
CIVILISATION.
That shrewd observer whom Australia
knew as Signaller Skeyhill has been to
Russia inquiring into the latest phases of
Bolshevism; and, according to a cable from
London, he concludes that even if the pre-
sent counter-revolution is successful it will
“only mean that Russia ns out of the frying-
pan into the fire-, because the Whites are
as incapable as the Reds of constructive
government.” Apparently the whole trouble
is that Russia has fallen into the hands of
men who, though differing about many
things, are agreed upon this, that fierce
revolutionary principles and intense bitter-
ness are substitutes for knowledge. The
death-rate of Petrograd when the last count
was made wais 81 per 1000 per annum, or
about four times the pre-war figure,' and
eight times the Australian average. The
birth-rate was 15 per 1000, or half the pre-
war average, so the community was “going
west” at a rate which threatened early ex-
tinction. It was a place of terror where
every tenth person was, or was imagined to
be, a Government spy, and conspiracy
against the new State was difficult, because
everybody feared to broach the subject to
his neighbor, lest his neighbor should be an
informer, or should mistake him for one.
Abdul Hamid ran Turkey for 30 years
under the same system, and even if the
Government’s intentions are better than
they look things have probably come to a
pass at which no other method is possible,
for the time at least, unless worse chaos is
to supervene and the last semblance of
coherence to go by the board. Yet the Rus-
sian is working long hours under military
compulsion, working as hard under com-
pulsion as his ill-fed condition will allow,
working without holidays , and for little pay,
going where he is sent and doing what he is
bid. It is a change from the time when
almost every saint’s day was a jesta, and
saints (now abolished) were as plentiful as
dukes, and when there was a rough plenty
except in famine years, especially plenty of
bad liquor.
It can’t be supposed that the arrogant
heads of the State, however mad they were
originally, desire this desolation. They have
got to the end of their wars, for the time
at least, and in their last stages they weren’t
very serious wars. They have got rid of
their alleged enemies—the nobility, the land-
lords, mine-owners, factory-owners, bond-
holders, industrial organisers, people sus-
pected of so much intelligence that they
might not’support the new order, and the
rest. Naturally it would be a pleasing
advertisement if they could now evolve an
earthly paradise out of their system. The
desperate effort to increase production by
compulsory labor, which suggests the slave
system of old Rome, shows an earnest desire
to cope with the scarcity of food and com-
forts. The results suggest that there is
something wrong with the axiom, or delu-
sion, that labor —meaning manual labor —is
the source of all wealth. Rather the ration
served out in Russia suggests that labor in
its crude form produces about 20 per cent,
of the output and that the other 80 per
cent, comes from knowing how. The poor
condition of many industrious but unintelli-
gent or ill-equipped aborigines bears out the
theory. So does the notorious poverty of
the often famine-stricken Chinaman, who
isn’t an aboriginal in the nude sense of the
term, but a person whose development
stopped some 2000 years ago, so that he
remains an intensely industrious hand-
worker to this day. He owns a vast area of
fertile country, and, despite the overcrowded
coastal spots which strike the eye of the
traveller, the best estimates put the average
population of the empire or republic at 80
per square mile, or about a third that of
rocky Switzerland. India, another place of
small proprietors, industrious hand
workers, comparatively thin population
(about two-thirds that of Switzerland) and
few industrial capitalists, is also a dis-
couraging example. Russia, which was
developing to some extent, has reverted to
the condition that Australia’s One Big
Union aims at. It has lost its civilisation,
though imported German organisers, brought
in as a counsel of despair, keep a few things
going. Whether it will find the vanished
article again, and if so, how, remains to be
seen. A Napoleon may turn up to rebuild
everything on a better scale than before.
On the other hand, the country, for want
of a rare Napoleon, may stop short, as
China did for 2000 years or for ever, but
in a vastly more savage state than China
was in when its clock ran down.
* *. * *
Exactly how firm a hold man has on his
civilisation is a mystery, and only fools would
experiment with it to find out. It has often
been lost in parts, but the luck so far has
been that, partly for lack of means of com-
munication, it has never, in historical times,
been all lost at once. When most of Europe,
during those centuries called the Dark Ages,
mislaid most of the matters which distinguish
man from the lower creation, the obliteration
wasn’t complete, and there were seeds left for
a replanting. Considering the very extensive
lapse of Asia and Africa from their once
high estate, it is just possible that culture was
dying out like the dinosaurs when the dis-
covery of America and Australasia gave it a
new field for expansion, and if, like the dino-
saurs, it had left not even an egg from which
a successor could be hatched, it might never
have resumed, though in 19,000 or a million
years something else might have arisen.
'Highly-intelligent-loobing fossils have been
found, which suggest that careless folk have
had civilisation before and let it drop; and
cromlechs, dolmens and Central American
cities with forests on top point the same way.
In this country the struggle between the men-
folk who want to construct and the ape-folk
who believe in destruction goes on as in other
places. The former are represented by per-
sons like Monash ? the engineer, and Del-
prat, of the great iron and steel works. The
latter find expression in Ministers who pro-
vide five years’ penal servitude in 15 different
ways for people who are found doing things;
in the horde of strike-leaders and work-
stoppers, and the 0.8. U., with its schemes
for the destruction of the whole social order,
after which something is to be built on the
ruins, or else the site is to be left desolate
like Palmyra. The conquest of Russia has
put great heart into the people who want to
make the world like Palmyra—want to do so
apparently for the pleasure of looking at the
ruins, just as a Roman person wanted to
behead all the globe at once, because he
thought the body might be amusing. And no
one can positively swear that the scheme
won’t come off. Those respectable-looking
fossils with high Caucasian brows hint that
in the past it has come off. possibly because
enough of the fossils didn’t realise the
danger in time.
THE BREACH THAT WON’T BE
HEALED.
Nine years ago the Labor party carried
Westralia by the greatest majority ever
known in the history of that State—it actu-
ally had 34 seats in a House of 50 members.
Since 1916 the party which gained that
sweeping victory has been reduced to im-
potence. At the Federal election of 1917
it failed to win a seat; at that of 1919 it
regained Kalgoorlie, but lost it when the
expelled Mahon went before his constituents.
At the 1917 State election the party that,
three years before, bad been 34 strong was
reduced to 15, and after another three years
of perfunctory and uninspiring Nationalist
administration it could find only 17 con-
stituencies willing to chance another Labor
regime, and even then it had a lot of luck.
When disaster first smote Labor, it was con-
fidently attributed to “war-madness,” but
that theory won’t hold- water any longer,
the war having been over for two years and
four months. .Vain is it also to assert, as
parrot-headed Laborites are in the habit of
doing, that the Westralian electors are the
victims of “a capitalist conspiracy,” or have
been “blinded by the dust thrown in their
eyes by the agents of the profiteers. It is
time these d.smal essays in the art which
Burke repudiated, that of drawing up an
indictment against a whole people, were
dropped for good and all. Mhen a once-
powerful party has been violently rejected
at four elections it ought to give up the
luxury of pitying an obtuse electorate and
have a good look at itself. It is a case for
profound thought and earnest introspection,
and the urgency of it is emphasised by
figures like the following:—
Kalgoorlie.
J. Boyland (Nat. La-or) .. 1831
*A. E. Green (Labor) .. 1626
National Labor majority .. 205
Guildford.
*J. T. Davies (Nat. Labor) .. 2819
W. D. Johnson (Labor) .. 2512
National Labor majority .. 307
*Ketiring member.
• # » *
Both these Labor defeats —and in this
lies their special significance—were brought
about by unionist votes. The big railway
workshops are included in Guildford, and the
bulk of the electors are railway-men and
their wives. • Between 19U6 and 1916, when
W. D. Johnson was member, It was as safe
a Labor seat as any in the Commonwealth;
and Johnson has held high office in two
Labor Governments, besides which there is
no shrewder campaigner in the Western
States. Yet in 1921, as in 1917, Johnson
was soundly beaten, and that by a rather
dreary person who is Tom Walsh’s bete
noir, a “pommy Englishman”; and he was
beaten because the proceedings of his party
since 1916 have alienated a large body of
Guildford unionists who used to vote Labor
every time. In Kalgoorlie, likewise, there
is a preponderance of unionists employed in
and about the mines. It was the large anti-
Labor majority in the Kalgoorlie subdivision
that caused Hugh Mahon s downfall at the
late Federal by-election, and on this occasion
Kalgoorlie dismissed its State Labor member,
an amiable individual with revolutionary
tendencies, in favor of the uncompromising
conscriptionist who led the secession move-
ment among the goldfields miners when politi-
cal unionism split in twain. Yet Kalgoorlie,
like Guildford, used to be a gift for Labor;
in fact, the 12 goldfields seats were in the
Labor party’s pocket between 1911 and 1916.
* # * *
When men were expelled from the party
for exercising the light of private judgment
on the conscription issue Labor lost its pre-
dominance in the West. There were few
actual expulsions—conscriptionists like
Angwin and Walker, M’s.L,A., were
allowed to remain in the caucus, and the
danger of union breakaways was averted by
the regulation of the Arbitration Court
which says that there must be only one
organisation in an industry—but the perse-
cution of men because of their opinions in-
furiated a large body of sympathisers in
every union, and the ballot-box felt the
weight of their resentment. And time hasn’t
moderated their feelings to any extent. In
the ordinary course of events it would have
done so, and, as the bitterness of the con-
scription controversy abated, the malcon-
tents might have been reconciled to the
main body by the exercise of a little tact.
But the violent proceedings of union bosses
who were loudest in the cry for expulsions
have postponed reconciliation indefinitely.
These men have used the power of the junta
to commit their organisations to the sup-
port of Bolshevism, Sinn Fein and other
foreign policies, which have nothing what-
ever to do with Australian unionism, and
are utterly abhorrent to many unionists. They
have also laid it down that no unionist who
advocated conscription can become a Federal
or eastern-State Labor member, and the
bosses of at least two powerful unions want
to extend the interdict to Freemasons. The
same gentry are animated by a fierce, un-
reasoning hatred of the returned soldier.
The dull bigotry and overweening arro-
gance of these mostly-imported persons is
chiefly responsible for the persistence of the
Labor split. Their unconscionable insolence
and intolerance has given new strength to
the National Labor group and condemned
Philip Collier’s faction, which deserved a
kinder fate (it is now entirely composed of
moderates, its two red-rag incubuses having
lost their seats), to hopeless insignificance
for another three years. And the hostility
these brawling fanatics have excited is by no
means confined to Westralia. It exists all
over the Commonwealth, and until the
cause of it is removed thousands of good
unionists will keep on voting for colorless
Nationalist Governments, as the lesser of
two evils. Under existing conditions Labor
may fluke an election, as in N. S. Wales
last year, or scramble into office, as in
Queensland, over a litter of gerrymandered
electorates and stuffed rolls, but until it
delivers itself from the imported cranks who
infest its councils —the plague of Bolshies,
bigots, job-controllers and coat-trailing paci-
fists—it will never amount to much. The
reunion of the party can be effected at a
price, but the price is a return to legitimate
trades-unionism, which has no concern with
the hullabaloos of Moscow or Wicklow, or
to the political unionism of 1914.
BIG ESTATES THAT ARE, AND
BIGGER ONES THAT AREN’T.
Bumping against the ghost of Loughlin’s
Large Holdings Bill at every turn in Lon-
don, and falling over it at every crossing,
possibly John Storey wishes by now that
his talented but flashy colleague had never
been born. London seems to take the matter
more seriously every day, and there isn’t
even the satisfaction of knowing that there
was any real need for the disastrous roar
which the Minister made when bp nearly hlpw
his head off, and gave his lifelike imitation
of Samson slaying a beetle. The noise
was to some extent about a non-existent
evil, and so far as the evil does exist
it could be cured without no : se. So
the craving for advertisement was wholly
unfortunate. In publishing at the top of
his voice a scheme which, on the face of it,
amounted to confiscation of almost half the
land values dealt with, confiscation of all im-
provements from 1920 onwards, prohibition of
sales for an indeunite period, cancellation of
small leaseholders’ and share-farmers’ in-
terests, etc., the clumsy showman presumably
appealed to the local voter in the absurd hope
that the London money-lender wouldn’t hear
about it. Unluckily, while the proceedings
aroused no visible enthusiasm in N. S. Wales,
London did hear of it, and began to ask
if a Government which proposed to steal half
the value of a land-title issued over its own
or a predecessor’s signature would put any
more value on a bond or debenture similarly
signed. And the clamor (for local consump-
tion only) was so impressive that London
probably imagined N. S. Wales to be much
more a land of big estates than it is, and
became extra-excited and extra-hostile to the
inevitable loan in consequence. At the
same time, Lougiilin, floundering about at
large, may get into difficulties through being
expected to cut up more desirable and acces-
sible big properties than he can find. N. S.
Wales isn’t really the home of monster land
grabs that loose oratory represents it. The
State Statistician divides the holdings
into five groups, dealing only with those
of one acre and more used or in-
tended to be used for growing things
either vegetable or animal, so that his
figures take no account of pocket-hand-
kerchief city and town allotments. In the
coastal district (Eastern Division) in 1919
the average freehold was 191 acres. Even
with an average of 83 acres of State lands
held on lease, which have nothing to do
with the resumption business, the ordinary
coastal estate, all the way from the Tweed
down to the Victorian border, was only 274
acres. There were big properties of a sort, but
there vvas no room for very many. Estates
measuring over 10,000 acres numbered 47
and averaged 19,973 acres apiece, which
would be considered nothing extraordinary
even in crowded little Britain. In fact,
Britain owns at least one property whose
acreage runs well into the second million.
Also there were, in the coastal district, 1388
properties in the 1000- to 10,000-acre class-
average, 2201 acres. The other 47,059 free-
holds in the division averaged from one to
1000 acres, no less than 43,781 being under
400. The farms measuring from 30 to 400
acres occupied the biggest area. As 584 per
cent, of the coastal belt still belongs to the
State, the door isn’t quite shut against set-
tlement even, without confiscation, but the
lack of railway communication with good
local ports, and the ruinous and enormous
distances from the North and South to Syd-
ney, make much of the 554 per cent, quite
useless. Congestion and not big estates is
the principal curse.
On the tableland, where distances grow
longer and the rainfall less, the average free-
hold consists of 599 acres, and even that
isn’t enormous. There are 149 big estates
averaging 18,150 acres each, but half the
alienated area is in lots of between one and
10,000 acres, the average being about
2500. Of the tableland also the bulk (55
per cent.) is still State property, but the mad-
ness of crooked railways and One Big City
congestion makes it almost as useless as land
on the Macdonnell Ranges or in the Vale of
Timbuctoo. Thus to get from Inverell to
Glen Innes, which is 42 miles east and on the
straight road to a port, the railway route is
90 miles west, then 158 miles south-east, and
then 168 miles north. To the port, 152 miles
east of Inverell, the railway distance,
west, south-east and finally north, is 625
miles, or will be about that when the line is
finished, so the trade goes to Sydney, distant
509 miles. The Ma State is full of hideous,
expensive jests like that. And all the confis-
catory howling that the voice of man can
howl concerning big estates can't make small
estates pay under such conditions.
* * *
On the Western slopes there are 172 free-
holds in the category 0 f 10,000-acres-and-up-
wards—average 20,000 acres. But smaller
properties are the rule, the average freehold
being 843 acres, and 40 per cent, of the land
is still unsold. In the Central Plains and
Western Itiverina —the plains round “Hay,
Hell and Booligal”—the average freehold is
2089 acres, and that hardly constitutes a
living area. That is the top record. For all
the State the average agricultural or pas-
toral freehold stands at 610 acres, which isn’t
exactly a huge territory in the old Roman-
empire sense. A notable sign of the pro-
gress of subdivision is the breaking up of the
sheep flocks, for the sheep men have always
been the big land occupiers and land-grabbers.
Nothing less than 1000 acres is much good to
them. In 1891 there were 73 wool-kings
with flocks of over 100,000 each. In 1901
there were 12; in 1911 only six; in 1919
only three. In fact, for a good many years,
and especially since the establishment of the
Commonwealth, things have been *going the
small man’s way. They would go much
faster but for railways like the three-parts-
of-a-circle affairs from Inverell to Glen Innes
and Inverell to Grafton, which make life
difficult for the big, rich man with a motor-
car, and impossible for the small man who
depends on a cart and old Dobbin. What-
ever is required to accelerate the breaking-up
process—apart from the breaking-up of N.
S. Wales itself, which is the first essential,
and the making of a few railways that won’t
be an insult to decency and common sense—
could have been accomplished with a quiet
little bill which wouldn't have blown a
trumpet in anybody’s ear, nor filled the
money market with an odor of robbery. But
the first purpose in view was plain roar.
McTiernan had roared with his Profiteer-
ing scheme, and McGirr with his baby-pen-
sion device, and it was time for Lands Min-
ister Lougiilin to roar or else take a back
seat. The second reason of the business was
bunkum—habitual, imported, stereotyped
and ill-assimilated bunkum about the great
landlord and the oppressed tenant and the
downtrodden peasantry—the sort of thing
which makes a Premier with 24 times the
wage of a European Pres’dent lament about
the profiteer, and a Minister who owns al-
most a whole country town feel profoundly
shocked at the capitalist. Then Mr.
Loughlin was probably actuated in part by
the desire, which is second nature, to get
square with the Saxon for the 700 years’
tragedy of Ireland. Almost anybody is a


Saxon for that purpose. And, on top of all,
the Government was, and is, and ever will
be, desperately hard-up, for it is the kind of
Government which could get through the pile
of old Crcesus inside three months, oo the
idea of buying land at half its value and
leaving posterity to pay for it 38 years hence,
and selling it for cash or oashojt tevmshad
an appeal in it. But with £oo 000.000 of
old debts falling due shortly and a craving
to borrow as much more, it is a bad time
for a Ministry to try to look a worse pirate
than it is.
AMERICAN ASPIRATIONS AND
AUSTRALIAN APES.
We were apt to regard as a mere jape the
accusation hurled against Americans that
they place the almighty dollar in a niche
next the sun, if, indeed, they do not accept
the sun itself as a particularly resplendent,
new four-dollar gold piece; but in the last
few years we have been given opportunity
of laying our ear next the great American
heart, and some of us lift up our heads satis-
fied that the beating of that organ cannot be
distinguished from the rattle of the dollar
and the jingle of the dime. It is “the pic-
tures” that have given us this chance of
studying Uncle Sam and all his little
nephews at close quarters; and they must be
in a sense “living pictures” of our Yankee
relations, since they issue from Yankee heads
and represent Yankee hearts. They are not
merely things of the moment; their produc-
tion has extended over years, they represent
American taste, and give us to know what
the American soul craves. Long experi-
ence of them results in a conviction that the
dollar is the apex of all values in the United
States, and stands there for everything that
is admirable.
What is the American romance? What is
the Yankee quest of the Golden Grail? Who
are the American Crusaders? The Ameri-
can Crusaders are all on Wall-street, the
Golden Grail is a silver dollar, and Yankee
romance is the art of investing with heart-
thrills and soul-interest the delirious business
of piling up money. Consider your true
Yankee hero. He is an adorable man, tall,
refined, grave, courteous, and inspired with
a glorious resolution to live rich and die
richer. Incidentally, he loves a beautiful
woman of exquisite charm, which charm
demands for its maintenance the annual ex-
penditure of a fortune. Hence the winning
of the dame is bound up with the winning of
the dollars. The American young man in
the American story for the American young
person must succeed in his life’s glorious
mission; carrying his “Excelsior” banner he
battles up the mount, sending back ever and
anon, fainter echoes, his inspiring watch-
word, till at length triumph crowns his
efforts, he reaches the land of abounding
dollars and fills his waggon, the waggon he
originally hitched to a star.
It is unmistakably true that “Millionaire”
has become a title of nobility in America,
and to the extent that we become American-
ised each year our Australian respect for a
million increases. The picture-play is the
most powerful agent in introducing this sor-
did quality into our character. We appre-
ciated money, we knew its value, but we did
not idealise the money-maker until the Ameri-
can film was drawn over our eyes, and we
perceived an American man with a million
embodying the triumph of life.
The outcry against the living picture, that
it is contaminating our youthful morals, is
the trifling complaint of people blind to the
real mischief. The American picture is
contaminating our youthful minds. The
American picture is giving us ideas destruc-
tive to sweetness and light. Behind much
of our industrial unrest is the greed for the
pampered ease of the American heroine and
her dog, and a longing for the egregious
luxury of the Yankee millionaire’s home,
plastered with dollars and other family por-
traits.
The popular Yankee novel is very like the
popular Yankee film. If the hero is by any
chance an artist of sorts his achievement is
not so much the production of a masterpiece
of painting, sculpture, prose or poetry as
the making of a million, and thereby the at-
tainment of the girl inaccessible to any but
millionaires. In American fiction the ex-
pensive girl is the desirable one. It is the
glorious aim of the hero to be able to afford
her. Even where the girl makes some pre-
tence of being-content with love in a cot-
tage. no right-thinking American author
would dream of leaving her there, or would
dare to forsake his hero still oppressed wflth
the necessity of making his own living.
The iteration of all this is damnable.
Plainly the million-dollar picture, represent-
ing the million-dollar man’s crusade after
the million-dollar miss, never loses zest in
America ; so it continually flows this W’ay, and
our working-class youth is being poisoned
with the stuff. Not the salacious but the
opulent picture is the most dangerous picture.
Here filthy lucre is indeed foul. What chance
to breed a generation content to look for the
rewards of honest effort at 'the farm, the
forge or the bench, while night after night
the youngsters of the towns and hamlets from
one end of Australia to the other are in-
stucted to regard speculation as the main
source of affluence and happiness, and in-
structed therein through a medium more
effective than even free, secular, compulsory
education ?
And to add to the pity of it. the effect of
American example is so powerful that when
Australia attempts to cast her own shadow
on the screen we too often get a silhouette of
the American millionaire bloated with dollars.
E.D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Punishment Without Trial.
The habit of boiling with indignation at
union meetings about the wrongs of Ireland
and Russia—interesting subjects, no doubt,
but entirely irrelevant to the purpose of
Australian unionism—is at the bottom of the
latest Victorian railway rumpus. At a con-
ference of delegates to the Victorian .Rail-
ways Union the following resolution was
adopted:—
That this conference assembled in Melbourne from
the whole of Victoria desires to place on record its
sympathy with the friends and relatives of the
railway employees who were murdered by the hired
assassins of the British Government in the execution
of their duty at Mallow, Ireland, and enters this
vigorous protest against the inhuman practices
existing at present in that country.
According to the Melbourne morning papers
A. C. Morrison, representative of the works
and signal division, moved the resolution,
and T. B. Wilson, delegate from the elec-
trical engineers, seconded it. Hounded on
by the sheets in question, which declared
that the text of the motion and the names
of mover and seconder had been supplied to
them by the official conference reporter, the
Lawson Government inquired of Wilson
and Morrison whether they had done the
deed. Morrison’s reply was a curt “No.
Wilson’s note was more civil —ffle begged to
“respectfully acknowledge receipt of your
communication” and remained "respectfully
yours”—but he also answered “No.” Reject-
ing these denials, and being informed by the
Crown Law Department that the language
of the resolution was seditious, the Gov-
ernment directed the Railway Commis-
sioners to dismiss the pair of them. Where-
upon a violent person named Smith, general
secretary of the Australian Railways Union,
and a great 0.8. U. man, announced that he
was “astonished and disgusted” (individuals
like Smith have an illimitable capacity for
being astonished and disgusted), and pointed
out that if the railwaymen would only obey
the letter of “every law and regulation that
governed them, both in and out of the Rail-
way Department, the trains would cease to
run.” In other words, it was advisable to
make the Victorian public suffer for an
administrative decision in which it had no
part or voice, and which a powerful section
of it would strongly reprobate—a fine ex-
ample of rough justice of the put-in-the-boot
variety, and a hearty incentive to unionists
in general to join the 0.8. U.! Punishing
men for their opinions has become fairly
common in Australia since union bosses of
the Smith variety set the example four
years ago. That doesn’t alter the fact that
it is an utterly abominable practice. A rail-
way employee, or any other public servant,
is eiititled to hold opinions about the pro-
ceedings of the British Government in Ire-
land or anywhere else, and has a right to
express them. If, in the publication of his
opinions, he goes beyond the bounds of free
speech as defined by law, he can be brought
to book and punished. But there is a
proper way of doing it, and it isn’t
the Lawson way. In the proper way
the accused is represented by counsel
and tried by jury; or if the case is dealt
with by a magistrate, and a conviction re-
corded, he can appeal to a higher Court.
In the affair of Wilson and Morrison
the Lawson Cabinet constituted itself
prosecutor, judge, jury and final Court of
Appeal. It decided the matter on the
secondary evidence of reporters, who were
not present at the union conference, against
the express denials of the accused persons,
who were present. The two men were not
asked to attend their trial, nor was any-
one allowed to appear, or give evidence, in
their behalf. They were found guilty in
their absence and ordered to be deprived of
their livelihood, which was the severest
punishment that could be imposed. It is a
monstrous abuse of authority, and a miser-
able surrender to a reactionary press. And
it will be a lasting blot on the reputation
of Lawson and his Government —there is
still time for them to think better of it—if
the sentence is carried out. For the unions
the lesson that emerges from the lamentable
business is that the Irish question should be
dropped from their discussions. Australian
unionists are hopelessly divided on that sub-
ject, and nothing is gained by ignoring the fact.
Union officials have a right to express their
personal views of Irish politics, but to drag
their unions into the argument without ex-
press authority, to commit their organisa-
tions to opinions which the latter have not
sanctioned, and to which a large proportion
of them are violently opposed, is an imperti-
nence and a source of wrath.
The Country Party—or Group.
The Country party has done well in recent
elections, and is feeling its oats. In Queens-
land it is the strongest group opposed to the
Theodore Government, in Westralia it is
the most powerful force behind the Mit-
chell Government, and in the House of
Representatives it holds —or will soon hold
—the balance of power. For W. M. Flem-
ing’s defection leaves Hughes without a
majority on the floor, and it is pretty cer-
tain that other fed-up Nationalists will fol-
low Fleming’s example—two or three back-
country representatives and maybe a Senator
or two. There is a danger that the converts
will be too numerous to be convenient, and
that the embarrassed party will be intrigued
into taking office. This temptation will have
to be resisted, for a Government of fresh
young colts and tired old hacks, representing
a hopeless minority of the House, would
strike trouble early and crash suddenly. No
worse misfortune could overtake a new party
than to be thrust into office before it is
ready; and the Country party is demon-
strably unready: it hasn’t evolved a policy
for the Commonwealth; it doesn’t even know
its own members very well. The Federal
branch of it, if it is wise, will drop all
thoughts of office for 18 months at least and
devote the intervening period to digging up
somebody who looks like a leader (the in-
effectual McWilliams doesn’t, and the wasp-
ish Gregory is little better), acquiring an
Australian instead of a merely provincial
outlook and firmly suppressing the Freetrade
fanatics who dream of abolishing the tariff.
Above all, it will have to stand for something
more than sectionalism, or it won’t last very
long. And the State Country parties will also
require to lift their vision beyond the pig-
paddock and Strawberry in the lucerne
pateh, for man does not live by bacon and
butter alone. Broadly considered the Cocky
movement is a more or less coherent protest
against the demented centralisation wlueh,
for the last 20 years, has been taking popu-
lation from the interior parts of Australia
and herding it in six bloated capital cities.
To that extent it is entitled to respect. If
it goes in for real decentralisation and
develops a true Australian spirit and aims
at the welfare of the whole people, and not
only that of the minority, however impor-
tant, which earns its living on the land, it
will deserve support—and get it. But thus
far it isn’t so much a party as a loose asso-
ciation of sectional groups.
An Episcopal Warning.
A perceptive cleric is Bishop O’Farrell, of
Bathurst (N.S.W.), and a piece which he
recently spoke at Orange was full of merit:
We here in Australia are supposed to have, fiscal
freedom and also political freedom, but have we it
in reality? There are big influences at work to-day,
financial and others, determined to exploit this
country and bring it to a little less than a Crown
colony The liberties of out people are being
crippled by financial combines.
It is all true. Financial combines do
threaten democratic rule in Australia. They
threaten to stay away. The great combines
—the only ones with any lien on us worth
mentioning—are declining to come here to
look for us, as of old. Instead, Australian
politicians go in droves to London to look
for them and try to drag them here by the
reluctant ear. John Storey is there
now, and Theodore was there lately, ana
the language which the latter used when the
combine which he had marked down refused
point blank to conspire against Queensland
to the extent of another £9,000,000, was
almost actionable. As a matter of fact,
some of the “big influences” that are at
work seem to wish now that they had kept
out of the business altogether, and then-
further conspiracy against our freedom
looks, so much do they hesitate, rather like
a concession to keep the dubious debtor afloat
and a hoping against hope. J. Bull still
conspires in a small way at a far lower price
than the impossible figures which the
United States quotes. He does it with
manifest reluctance, hut no one else will
conspire at any price. If the bishop or any-
one else can unearth a capitalist or group
or “financial interest” in England that is
trying to undermine this country by getting
a further lien on its resources, his find will
be welcomed right warmly in certain quar-
ters, for the struggle to sell or pawn our
resources —to “bring in foreign > capital to
develop the country” and so on —is unending.
Australia is always advertising for con-
spirators and finding them more and more
difficult to come by; and if the worst
calamity df all happened and the supply
suddenly dried up it might be faced with
the necessity of repudiating its debts, as
many another country of boundless natural
resources has done. In that event the
bishop’s gloomy forecast would undoubtedly
come true, and the Commonwealth sink to “a
little less than a Crown colony.”
♦
A Cage of the Creator’s First
Experiments.
Up to a certain point a prisoner or his
lawyer is allowed to object to the jury, which
is only right. He or she ought also to be
allowed to challenge the audience. In a
sensational case like that of Mrs. Mort, at
Sydney, there is as much audience as can
cram into the stuffy court, and it isn’t nice
to look on. This was a daily paper’s
description:—
Loose, slack mouths and lips thick and shapeless;
terrible mouths; thin, wide mouths, like the mouths
of frogn. Eyes that are furtive; bleary eyes; small,
round, pig-like eyes that twinkle and gleam; eyes
that stare dully like glass marbles; and eyes whose
lids are almost fallen, so that they seem though are
not asleep. Faces whose whole expression seems
to gloat; faces with as much expression as a blob
of putty; faces that are merely brutal or frightened ;
amorphous faces; wicked faces like old scars. Heads
that are too email and heads that are misshapen—
but, indeed, they are nearly all misshapen. You
would think a cage of the Creator’s first experiments
had broken loose.
For some inscrutable reason all these misfits,
unfinished specimens and missing links are
allowed to crowd round, affright, breathe on
and afflict with their accumulated odors a
woman who is neither friend, relation nor
acquaintance, and who never did them any
harm. The crowd isn’t helping her or the
cause of justice in any way. It is loafing
and keeping down production and cultivating
idleness, which should be an offence. It is
looking just like its ugly, malignant self,
which is an offence —against art, grace, ele-
gance and decency. The public has long
since lost its inalienable right to attend
hangings and floggings. It has lost the right
to visit prisons promiscuously, and poke
straws at the convicts through the bars. The
right to attend trials without the accused’s
consent is a final relic of barbarism, and
should go with the rest. The defendant
should be allowed to object personally or per
lawyer to mere sightseers, either individually
or en masse, by name if the name is. known,
or, when it is not known, simply by pointing
a finger and stating that the person with
the face like a buried crime should go out
along with the woman who suggests a baby
murderer and is badlv in need of a wash.
■ 4
The Union Bosses Vote for the Sack.
A recent happening before the Arbitration
Court in Brisbane illustrates finely how deep
the principles of brotherhood have struck root
in the new Australian unionism. During
the hearing of the application of the A.W.U.
for the new basic wage, it was pointed out
by the industrial representative of the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board that the
granting of the claim would cost an extra
£12,000 pen annum, and that this would
compel the* Board to discharge a corres-
ponding number of hands. It was then put
briefly to the union bosses present whether
they would prefer a higher rate of pay and
less hands or a continuance of the present
rate with no reduction- of hands. The union
representatives promptly asked for higher
rates and less hands. On this the basic
wage was adopted. This means that the
Government will have a few dozen more
unemployed on its back in a day or two;
and as applications for the new basic wage
are coming in from all round, and as the
A.W.U. will probably take the same stand in
every case, the net result must be a big
increase in the burden. Considering that
the A.W.U. put in the Theodore Govern-
ment in order to get rid of the unemploy-
ment difficulty (among other things), the
present development is a grim commentary
■on union policy. But the truth is the new-
style union representative is an arrant Tory
and a moral coward. He was elected to
“barrack” for higher wages all the time.
When industry was on the up-grade that
was all very well, but now that many indus-
tries are on the down-grade the policy is
ruinous. The union rep. before the Court
knows this, but he does not dare face the
odium that attaches to the charge of having
voted against an increase of pay. Therefore,
when faced with the alternative of voting
either “More wages and more sack” or “No
increased wages and no more sack,” he votes
for the former. Such being the case, it would
be well if A.W.U. orators abandoned their
ancient twaddle about Liberty, Equality and
Fraternity, about comradeship and mateship
and brotherhood, and frankly avowed that
“Devil take the hindmost” is now the
guiding principle of the battling unions. But
before they become confirmed in this policy,
they might at least reflect that Labor organi-
sations run on such lines are going to breed
unemployment just as surely as did unfet-
tered capitalistic competition in the days
gone by. And what shall it profit Bill
Jones, out of work, to know that as a com-
pensation for his and other men’s dismissal
wages within the limits of the employed
unionists have gone up 5 pek cent?
The North-South Line.
From: a Northern cattle-man: —
In the effort to persuade the Commonwealth to brean.
its agreement with S. Australia the South is supplied
with some wonderful misinformation. Lately, for in-
stance, Sydney Telegraph got on to the subject, and
to show what a small matter the deviation into
Queensland would, be, after all, it said that the dis-
tance from Urandangie (Q.) to Newcastle Waters
(N.T.) is only 90 miles. Actually the stock route
from Urandangie to Newcastle Waters measures just
on 450 miles, and even a direct air-line would be at
least 350 miles long. If the Telegraph was stranded
90 miles west of Urandangie it would find itself in
the middle of the 70-mile -desert —and 240 miles
east of the overland telegraph line.
The only line the Commonwealth should ever con-
sider building is the North-South line, from the
Katherine to Oodnadatta. Let Queensland and N. S.
Wales link up their dead-end lines afterwards, as
they proposed to do before the great repudiation was
talked of. Queensland’s original scheme was to
extend the Quilpie line west to Tobermorey; Winton
to Springvale, linking with Tobermorey; Spring-vale
on to Dajarra; thence to Camooweal. After the
Territory’s North-South line was constructed, a line
could be thrown across the Barkly Tableland from
Newcastle Waters, via Tangee Egce, Broad River,
Anthony’s Lagoons and Brunette Downs, to connect
with Camooweal. The distance from Newcastle to
the ’Weal by this route would be approximately
360 miles. Only a small portion of the Territory
(which is already occupied by stations) .would be
made available by the suggested Eastern line —a strip
350 miles wide by about 700 miles long. On the
other hand, the North-South line would open practi-
cally the whole of the available country, as it would
traverse the centre of the Territory.
Those in favor of the deviation into Queensland
make capital out of the fact that drovers always make
their easting into Queensland. This is quite natural,
as the market for the Territory’s store cattle is in
that State; none of the mobs that trek into Queens-
land are being overlanded to Adelaide, Sydney or
Melbourne. If Victoria or South Australia was the
market for store stock you would find that all cattle
west of Bundara would travel south via the Over-
land Telegraph route. I’ll admit that there are some
fairly long dry stages on that track, but so there are
on the Queensland route —Armstrong River to Yellow
Waterholes, 25 miles; thence to Murranji, 48 miles;
to the Bucket, 45 miles; to Newcastle, 25 miles.
This is a total of 143 miles with water at only three
places in a good time, and at other times one is
lucky to get one good drink for the mob. From
Newcastle Waters to Urandangie there are seven
stages of from 28 to 38 miles without water. In
1918 the number of cattle that crossed from the N.T.
into Queensland at Lake Nash was 46,328. Of this
number only 3848 came from farther west than
Anthony’s Lagoons. One lot of 2848 from Hall’s
Creek were bought to be delivered at Urandangie.
This proves conclusively that only on the eastern side
of the telegraph line do the pastoralists make their
easting into Queensland.
I know what I am talking about, as I have over-
landed a mob of Ord River pikers into Queensland,
besides other lots, and I repeat (loudly) that there
is only one line that should be built by the Common-
wealth, and that is the Katherine to Oodnadatta.
Let each State link up with it afterwards —at its
own expense.
A New Aspect of the Domestic Servant
Question.
“The manager’s wife with colored servants is in
a very different position from the poor immigrant
woman; but it is the feeling of the latter which will
largely control future close white settlement in the
Northern Territory.”— Griffith Taylor in “The
Australian Environment.”
The imagination which can put the wealthy
wife with her retinue of blacks and the poor
immigrant woman side by side in Australia
is a dangerous gift. In point of fact
colored domestics may be said, for practical
purposes, to be non-existent in the Common-
wealth, whether in the Territory or else-
where. The consideration most likely to
influence women-settlers (not to mention
their husbands) is whether or no the climate
is going to preclude the survival of their
offspring. It is a truism that no other
factor sways civilised people so strongly.
-Now vital statistics show that the infantile
death-rate in Australia is lowest in the
settled tropics. For all six States the Com-
monwealth Statistician records the average
infantile death-rate per 1000 births for the
period 1913 to 1919, and the following table
shows the highest and lowest rates in any
one of the seven years:—
Highest Lowest
per 1000. per 1000.
New South Wales .. 77.78 56.93
Victoria .. . . 78.27 56.82 *
Queensland . . .. 71.88 53.87
South Australia . . 75.79 51.25
West Australia .. 70.30 57.09
Tasmania .. . . 74.97 52.27
Commonwealth .. ,72.21 55.91
The figures for Queensland and West Aus-
tralia, the two tropical States, are particu-
larly edifying, but if we look up the Edge-
combe and Rockingham districts of Queens-
land, where the real sugar-growing white
people are settled, we get the average in-
fant'le death-rate of 55.57 and 55.40 respec-
tively. over the same period. Later on.
when the infa.u,.s become children, we find
according to the evidence of scientists
and statistics that they are strong, wiry


Ti e Farmers’& Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
and mentally alert, and later still
when they come under the severe medical
test of fitness for military training the
tropical youths show 7 less disabilities
than those in the military areas of
the temperate climate. But Avhat, it
may be asked, shall it profit the
poor immigrant or other woman, harassed
by the shortage of colored servants, that her
children should wax strong if she herself
wilts and dies? It is against the despond-
ent theories of the advocates of piebaldism
that statistics, so far as they go, prove that
the white woman, poor aud otherwise, is
less inclined to die in the tropics than in
the rest of Australia. Throughout the
Commonwealth the death-rate amongst
females is lower than that of the males, but
in the case of the two tropical States —
Queensland and West Australia —the rate
is usually the lowest of the lot. Here is
Mr. Knibbs on the subject of female death-
rates per 1000 of the mean population -
1017. 1918. 1019.
New South Wales .. 7.98 8.19 11.31
Victoria .. . . 8.96 9.56 11.80
Queensland . . . . 7.03 8.27 10.18
South Australia .. 8.49 8.27 10.58
West Australia .. 6.45 6.99 8.14
Tasmania .. .. 8.46 8.33 9.88
The fact is the white woman suffers in the
tropics neither from the heat nor the lack
of servants, but rather from bad housing
and the conditions which accompany that
state of affairs. This was made plain
enough by medical men, long resident in
North Queensland, who gave evidence be-
fore the Commonwealth Interstate Com-
mission, when it was inquiring into the
sugar business. Loneliness and a lack of
life’s little amenities such as is often found
even in the non-tropical backblocks —those
are her real problems, and it is futile to
substitute for them disabilities which so far
as she is concerned simply don’t exist.
♦
Chickens Coming Home to Roost:
Also Fowls, and Even Bustards.
Dear Bulletin,—You are right (B.
24/2/’2l) in your contention that “the War
Service Homes scheme has degenerated into
a modern variety of chaos.” But the existing
chaos aud the disappointment ahead are not
so much due to the Hughes Government’s
inability to foresee that the returning soldiers
would require homes (after all every man
requires a good home if he can get one cheap),
but rather to the fact that the great vote-
snaring scheme was ever started. A com-
mon type of citizen upon winning a Tatter-
sail’s Sweep or making any other unexpected
punch goes, as the phrase is, gay. He buys
a motor-car, pays £2 a bottle for champagne,
and basks in the sunlight of the world’s
smiles—while the money lasts. W. M.
Hughes and his fellow-revellers, buoyed up
and in a sense blinded by the war
legislation still in force, are only just
beginning to realise, apparently, that a
devastating peace is on. In the same
casual spirit as it plunged into the Soldiers’
Homes venture the Government put
£10,000,000 worth of borrowed money into
its shipping scheme. Allowing nothing for
depreciation this involves an interest bill
of £600,000. And while the Commonwealth’s
ships are being turned out at £3O a ton
(chiefly owing to strikes, it may be admitted,
but there the thing is all the same)
ships of equal quality can now be had from
England at £lO a ton. At Cockatoo Island
(Sydney) at the end of last week 2000 men
were dismissed. Urgent telegrams of protest
were sent to the Prime Minister and the Navy
Minister, concluding : “Cannot this be stopped ?
Unemployment is rampant in Sydney just
now.” A profound silence ensued. The
calamity could not be stopped, and for the
same reason that the spendthrift finds him-
self, at the end of his jazz, unable to foot his
garage account. The Federal fleet at least
earned good money luring the fevered war
period (Treasurer Cook' estimates the total
amount at £2.000,000), and the assembling
of warships at Cockatoo Island stood any-
how for those beginnings in naval construc-
tion which every nation must sometime face.
The War Service Homes scheme, and the
Soldiers’ Settlement Acts of the various
States stood for nothing much except votes:
they are not reproductive to any extent worth
mentioning; and they are up against the
same brick wall which is blocking the rest of
Hughes’s grandiose war-time dreams. There
is no money to keep them going. Last week
the Victorian branch of the R. S. and S.
Imperial League waited on Minister for
Lands Oman, and urged “the raising of a
loan sufficient to settle the 6000 A.I.F. men
who held qualification certificates.” Mr.
Oman, after mentioning that the State had
already settled 2054 men, admitted in effect
that shortage of cash was his trouble, and
that for the present he could do nothing.
The N. S. Wales Soldiers’ Settlement Act
passed by the Holman Government is as
dead as David Hall’s Housing Scheme.
There are many thousands of Digger towns-
men waiting for Hughes’s £SOO houses, and
other thousands of Digger settlers loojiing
for land of the value of £2500, plus £625 for
improvements. If these men were frankly
told that the vast majority of them can
never be served : that those who were lucky
(or unlucky) enough to get in first have
absorbed all the cash t hat the Government is
ever likely to be able to raise for the pur-
poses of ex-soldiers’ homes, and that the best
thing they can do for themselves and the
country is, to butt in to make homes on their
own account —if this course was taken the
Diggers, being mostly reasonable lads, would
bite the bullet and do as requested. The
appointment of a'Royal Commission headed
by the interminable and imperishable General
McCay to inquire into the Homes and other
shortages is only adding injury to insult. The
cost of the Commission will represent so
many homes the less. And it. won’t tell
either the aspirants for homes or most mem-
bers of the public a single important detail of
which they are ignorant at present. Yours,
etc. —11. Singemoinls.
The Queensland Railway Bosses.
Another chicken has come home to roost
in Queensland. Some four years ago the
Labor Government decided to put its Rail-
way Department under the Arbitration
Court —not for any good and, virtuous rea-
son. but simply to escape responsibility.
From that date to this the position of the
railway servant has steadily “improved,”
while the railway finances have gone to the
dogs, notwithstanding that fares and freights
BILLY LOSING HIS PUNCH?
THE SUPER-LORD: “ Fourteen curses! How the devil can a man do this part justice
without the proper musical accompaniment!"
have been bumped up in a staggering
fashion. In the last two years the State’s
railway employees have received increases
and concessions that run into a million and
a half, and now they are approaching the
Arbitration Court agitin. This time Justice
McCawley’s fixing of the basic wage at
£4 ss. forms the pretext of a fresh applica-
tion for rises, which will probably, if granted,
add 10 per cent, to the Department’s wages
hill. The Theodore Government is vehe-
mently contesting this claim, and asserts, as
it has done previously, that the revenue
of the State cannot stand the new extrava-
gance. But. Justice McCawley will in all
probability reply, as he has done before, that
he has nothing whatever to do with such
considerations —that it is no business of his
wffiere the money is to come from. Mean-
time Theodore and his Ministers have the
comfort of knowing that it was they wffio
put the railway men under the Court, and
that the present impossible position is sim :
ply one of their own begetting. But there
is no salvation in that; not until Queens-
land withdraws its’public servants fi'om the
jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court and
reinstates Responsible Government will there
be any hope of solvency. At present the
Court is the Government, and the Govern-
ment has to be content with drawing its
salary. The great misfortune is that appa-
rently it doesn’t really mind.
—
The rift in the Hibernian lute was very
obvious at the St. Patrick’s Day celebra-
tion in Sydney. Attorney-General McTier-
nan was the orator of the moment, and he
lauded the Sinn Fein movement to the skies,
and at the same time side-stepped thus: —
He refused to concede that Ireland was not en-
titled to the same measure of autonomy as we
possessed here, including fiscal independence and
representation on the League of Nations if she
desired it.
Ireland could get all that (aud it isn’t
much to ask), and yet leave Mr. McTiernan
what he is now—a British subject, qualified
to be a voter, member of Parliament and
highly-paid Attorney-General in a land which,
when the last word is said, is still not
free from the base and infamous Saxon in
London. But Sinn Fein means more than
that —a lot more. It means absolute inde-
pendence—and why shouldn’t Ireland be in-
dependent? It is for that reason that De
Valera is President of the Irish republic,
with the support of the vast mass of the
nation. To go back to mere autonomy
would make De Valera a rebel or a fraud.
The establishment of the republic would
greatly alter the status of the person of
Irish birth or parentage abroad, turning him
into an alien without voting power or the
right to sit in Parliament unless he became
naturalised and cut adrift from bis own
country, as a Frenchman or Spaniard would
have to do in the same circumstances. All
that would take time, and naturalisation.
might be refused, which would make the alien
position permanent. McTiernan and many
others show no desire to take the risk and
make the sacrifice. They talk enthusiastic
Sinn Feinism and find it a good advertise-
ment, but when they get down to details
what they demand for Ireland is a safe, cau-
tious, half-hearted compromise that Sinn
Fein mocks at. Are they thinking most, of
Ireland or of themseh*es ?
Everything is being done by a grateful
country to induce politicians who may be
cold or tepid on the subject to take an
interest in Canberra. Certainly the dead-
headism which springs eternal in the legis-
lative breast has not been forgotten. With-
in three miles of the city in which, not
long ago, 60 drays were employed in “level-
ling out” a boulevard that nature had
made nearly as level as a billiard-table, is
a station with a fine old homestead, now the
property of the Commonwealth. Here a
small staff of servants is maintained, and
it has been given out that (1) a Senator or
M.H.R., (2) his wife and (3) his daughter
may be boarded and lodged for one week at
their country’s cost. And there is no hard-
and-tast rule apropos the daughter. If the
gentleman hasn’t got a daughter he, or
rather his wife—it is necessary to have a
wife unless the patriot is manifestly single,
in which case he must acquire a mother or
a sist e r--~-m a .v bring- along a lady friend. Not
all the 111 h ederal politicians have availed
themselves of the privilege, but a good man:-
have, and bj all accounts the cooking and
the service are excellent. And the interest
m Canberra is growing visibly.
Cuzbnos’ : Say that the pastoral produc-
tion of Queensland is annually worth
£5,000,000; well, that amount could be easily
doubled. It might even be trebled. But
the earth-hungry pastoralist makes either no
effort to increase the carrying capacity of
his land, or only the very poorest. effort.
Above all, his rents must be kept down. To
that end his main business is to come into
the Land Court and cry stinking fish. When
the Commissioner swears that a holding is
worth 30s. a mile, the lessee must swear ; t
is worth only 15s. It is time that better
ideals were introduced. In many parts of
Australia the agriculturist has been educated
by means of experimental farms. Something
of the same sort should be done for th<'
pastoralist. Encouragement should be given
to a man who endeavors to increase the
carrying-capacity of his holding. Bonuses
should be offered for experiments in water
and fodder conservation. There is no doubt
that the quality and quantity of the pasture
could be improved by scarifying or disc-
harrowing at certain times of the year. In
some seasons fodder crops could be grown.
At present Western pastoralists would rather
import fodder from Victoria at 6d. per lb
than produce it themselves for 6d. per cwl.
It seems to be taken for granted that at each
dry period there must be a loss of 5 or (5 per
cent, of stock. In very dry periods there
m no particular alarm if the losses go up to
>•* or 20 per cent. The failure of the pas-
torahsts reacts on the whole country. The*’
men should therefore be made alive to their
responsibilities. They should be required to
furnish correct accounts of their losses;
those who show gross carelessness should bo
called to account for their lapses, and the
efforts of good men should lie fittingly recog-
w 20 , t)er . cent - the grass of
" astern Queensland is turned to commercial
account The other 80 per cent, is let
shamefully go to waste. What would be
thought of a sugar-farmer who harvested 2ft
per cent, of his cane and tramped down all
the rest m the dirt? We want more economv
and more production, and in the pastoral iri-
dnstry of one State these things could be
effected without great difficulty to the extent
ot perhaps five or six million pounds a year.
•-
“Bihai” on a small Papuan difficulty:—
Judge Murray, of Papua, at the recent Science
Congresr, m Melbourne, spoke of the necessity of
thinking black,” or, rather, in the Papuan ease, of
thinking brown,” in an endeavor to get the point
o* view of a native race, and thereby help to
Simphfy the governing of it. He said a Government
Anthropologist was being appointed in Papua to push
along this idea. But before one can start “think-
ing brown” one must be able to “speak brown,”
and, unfortunately, the Papuan languages and dia-
lects are multitudinous. In the territory there are
one or two persons who have mastered one or other
ot the main languages, but these people are unlikelv
to be of assistance, as they have not sufficient interest
in the study of the science to accept a petition
as anthropologist, even in the unlikely event of their
being offered it. Furthermore, their knowledge is
purely local, and they know nothing of the anthro-
pology of other black or brown race;, and thus could
derive no benefit from comparative ethnology.
Ihe Motu-speaking people, when they went on their
first hiri (trading voyage) to the west, on passing Cape
Possession came in contact with the people speaking
the Toaripi language and its variations, Uaripi, Veve-
npi. etc. Finding themselves unable to learn this
difficult language, they had to teach the other people
. le " language. To speak Motu correctlv one must
be born to it or have made it a lifelong study, so it
was impossible to teach Motu in its puritv to the
oaripis. A bastard Motu was therefore" evolved,
i.uovin once as Trade Motu, and now more commonly
called Police Motu, as the constabulary, who are
recruited from here, there and everywhere in the
territory, use it as their common tongue. Again,
the Motu traders, not knowing the names of the places
th ? v V ? Slt , ed ’ with 110 re B' arti to the feelings of the
inhabitants proceeded to give them other names ; con-
sequently, when the Motu people came in contact
with whites, and were used as guides and interpreters,
they gave as the names of places the ones they them-
selves, had adopted. Now these incorrect names are
on the map, and are likely to remain. Such are the
pitfalls which await the anthropologist, especially one
unacquainted with even the Motu language. English
is the official language in Papua, and officials are in-
structed to use it whenever possible. In many other
similar services promotion and extra pay reward the
ability to speak the native language, while in some
it is regarded as essential; but in Papua it is dis-
couraged, and thus is lost to us much knowledge
that would, as Judge Murray suggests, prove valu-
able in governing these interesting people.


m
!
i
ft
z rjhe Centre
Qtvg Lrfgandr 0 j
2Uf
Hi!
©
o
©
mn
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
SYDNEY.
New Tariff —Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
( <Z6e
t'Stfa/siralta'"
WLttier Carden
7*
II
POLITICAL
POINTS
Four or five years ago the construction
of new lines was taken out of the hands of
the N.S.W. Works Department—a body
that does many jobs and specialises in none,
and which is under the control of any tailor
or property-agent who gets sufficient votes
and catches the Caucus eye. The work was
given to the Railway Commissioners, who
are at least specialists. Some people thought
the Commissioners should also be allowed
to decide on new lines, being experts with
no constituents to grind axes on their door-
steps, and only interested in making the
system pay. Instead it is proposed to revert
to the old plan of construction by Minister
Estell’s department. (Estell is a most
respectable ex-coalminer.) They do hate
to let any fragment of power and patronage
slip out of their hands.
Uncle Sam is sending another lot of mas-
sive battleships and swift destroyers on a
cruise which may take in Australia and Maori-
land, and it may not go back to the north
Atlantic as the 1908 fleet did. It is more
likely to remain in the Pacific. For, among
other things, Samuel has just remembered
that in December, 1914, the Japanese battle-
ship Asama went aground on the Lower
California (Mexico) coast in the neighbor-
hood of an admirable coaling-station, and
that in the absence of U.S. scouting vessels
(they were nearly all on the Atlantic side)
it was months before he knew she was there.
In fact, a regular squadron of Japanese
warships had arrived to salve the Asama
before Uncle was aware that an accident
had occurred so near his back door. He
naturally desires to be on hand to help
should anything of that sort happen again.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Though Fleming has deserted the Nationalists, and
two or three others threaten to follow him, for the
alleged purpose of hammering the tariff, Hughes and
his colleagues are really not losing any more sleep
than usual. There should be sufficient Protectionists
in the House to keep the tariff intact; but if any
trouble should develop the little man or his under-
study will work for a dissolution and go to the
country on a winning issue.
There has been a cry of “Shame!” at the
Commonwealth “National” Government for
throwing more than a thousand men out of
work at the Cockatoo Island (Sydney) naval
yards. But the State Labor Government
does worse than that. There are powder
and gelatine factories in Australia ; but the
explosives used on the Storey Government’s
railway and other works come from S. Africa,
and are made by cheap black labor. In
other words, to “save” a penny or two a
ton the N. S. Wales Labor Government is
employing Kaffirs, while white Australians
are on relief rations.
The Lawson Cabinet has ordered
the sacking of A. C. Morrison and T. B. Wil-
son, the two Vic. Railway Union delegates
held responsible for the “hired assassins”
resolution relative to the shooting of railway-
men at Mallow, Ireland. A cynical feature
of the business is that the Railway Union
has been helping to keep Lawson in office.
Hoping to get through a bill to have a few
thousand casual employees placed on the per-
manent staff, it used its influence with
Labor members to save the Lawson team
when the Cocky party had it nearly licked
in the Assembly four months ago. Put not
your trust in politicians!
Neither the danger of a railway strike in
Queensland nor the ruinous record the
Queensland railways since Ryan and Theo-
dore arrived prevented Larcombe, the Min-
ister, from crossing the continent, at his
country’s cost, to give Westralia the benefit
of his' advice on Westralian politics. No-
body asked for Larcombe’s advice and no-
body seems to have taken it, but the un-
wanted immigrant let loose a flood of ex-
pensive eloquence and headed for home again.
It’s a way they have in the Queensland Min-
istry, and it all helps to bloat the annual de-
ficit. which was three-quarters of a million,
or thereabouts, at latest advices, and still
bloating.
Westralia’s first “National” Ministry (it
went out of business two years ago) was
composed of Lefroy, Premier; Robinson,
Minister of Mines ; George, Works; Gardiner,
Treasurer ; Hudson, Attorney-General: Cole-
bateh, State Secretary; Baxter and Willmott,
lionoraries. Gardiner has retired from poli-
tics, and Colebatch and Baxter did not go
up for re-election on March 12, being M’s.L.O.
The others did, and it was a frightful mass-
acre, Lefroy, Robinson Hudson and Willmott
being scalped in demoniac fashion, with
.Tacky Hardwick, their Whip, to keep them
company. That’s the worst of these parties
that are mostly bluff and shoddy. When the
glitter wears off, the public, dazzled no
longer, goes looking for gore.
Everywhere in AusSralian politics the
Country party gains numbers, and it doesn’t
know what to do with them when it gets
them. It should aim at cutting up the big-
political estates, and it should recognise
that, in a land with a shade over 5,000,000
THE MAN WHO WON'T FACE THE FACTS.
THE MINISTER-IN-CHARGE: “Have a little patience, comrades— we're expecting a nice
new loan soon.”
THE UNEMPLOYED: “But what are we goin' to to do while we’re waiting?”
THE MINISTER: “Er-er — let's sing a verse of ‘Solidarity.’ ”
people, places like Greater Sydney and
Greater Melbourne, which have 828,000 and
743,000 people respectively, should be com-
mercial States by themselves —possibly with
an added area to bring them up to a million
apiece. Then there would be a chance for
the Country party to establish some coun-
try States with country or farming capitals
like Pretoria and Bloemfontein in S.
Africa. Unless this is done the wheat and
cattle and sheep and butter businesses will
still be run by linen-drapers and financial
agents and trades-union secretaries who
think that wheat grows up a tree, and that
sheep ripen in the spring, and that the cow
is turned upside down and the milk extracted
from her with a elothes-peg. What does a
party gain by calling itself “Country” if
its members’ only ambition is to be sent to
the city to struggle for recognition?
Nominations for the South Aus. general
elections on April 9 are on a scale of mag-
nificence never equalled since the numbing
two-party system came in. They recall the
old days when an election was more or less
a popularity-contest, and any enthusiast
might throw his hat into the ring for the
fun of a fight. (The forfeiture-of-deposit
principle never found favor in S.A.) For
10 Leg. Council seats there are 22 candi-
dates, for 46 Assembly seats 105. Two in
each House, Liberals in every case, get in
unopposed; but East To<rrens has nine men
going for three seats, Sturt has 10, and
most of the others from six to eight. The
so-called Progressive Country Party—mostly
the old Nationalists —has mominated heavily,
although the Farmers ancP Settlers’ Associa-
tion has broken with it. Thus there are
three complete “tickets” in various cases.
Besides, running as entirely Independent
are old politicians David James and Alfred
von Doussa, both well knojvvn from their con-
nection with racing; also' F. S. Wallis, an
old-fashioned pillar of La(bor, and old John
Verran, the Moonta miner, formerly a Labor
Premier but now turned down by his party
—though his son has a isafe seat at Port
Adelaide. There is not a woman nominated
in the whole crowd. There are only three
lawyers—which is most imlike old days.
Of these, Barwell is now Premier; Denny
was Attorney-General under Verran, and J.
H. Vaughan under his brother Crawford.
Six months or more ago The Bulletin
reported that a plague of■rats threatened to
depopulate Lord Howe I fcland, as a similar
plague has depopulated olther Pacific specks
which have had the bifcd luck to wreck
rat-haunted vessels. Nothing was done about
those rats; but they haven’t been entirely
forgotten. It is proposed! now that a party
of N. S. Wales politieiajus shall make an
excursion to Lord Howe Island, “to inquire
into the matter.” It is a poor rat that
can’t make a picnic for a! politician.
Every Australian who gofes ashore, even for
an hour in passing, at itoa United States
possessions in Hawaii or the\ Philippines has
to pay about £3, which is £l5l for a family of
four including the baby. If he proposes to
stay he has to pay also; in fact, he has to
pay very considerably. Other people, of
course, are treated in the> same way. The
U.S. folk say they are but helpless, as
the charge is fixed by lawAand. of course, the
law can’t be altered. It was suggested to the
flickering Hughes Goverfament that a similar
levy here would bring irft a little revenue and
that imitation is the siacerest form of flat-
tery. But the Minister if or Home anql Terri-
tories said, in the voice Of a wet rag, that lie
“thought it desirable Ho encourage friendly
relations” between Australia and UncH bam,
and to “promote freer intercourse. ’ lucre
are very few points a'jbout intercourse»which
is free only one way; und if Uncle Sam. j&vould
become unfriendly because we copied his law
then he is no sport and should be taugat to
be one. The Minister for Home and Terri-
tories should take a note that the worm is -The
most polite and least aggressive beast on
earth, desiring to lj£ve on good terns with all,
and everybody eitbjer eats him or treads on
him. The hen, am unlettered creature 'rtrtn
no chin and a retreating forehead, does both.
Three one-day Strikes happened/'in a week
at a Newcastle (N.S.W.d mine, one because
of a discussion about a horse, ane because
somebody spoke out of his turto, and an
probably because wages are high t*nd (as tne
Scripture has it) “Jeshurun waxrtd tat ana
kicked.” In disgust the officers aHm com-
mittee of the lodge resigned, and. fas others
refused to be elected to -the thankl gss job OX
keening order, thaft littlfc industrial republic?
was suspended. If thefc vast industrial re-
public which the 0.8. U. foreshadows goes
the same way, what sort of chaos will Aus-
tralia degenerate into?
The bloat of Sydney continues. Last year
the increase of population within the metro-
politan area was 28,400 and the total on
December 31 was 857,100. It will take only
another five increases at that rate to make
Lambert’s successor fat-headedly proud ol
being mayor of a million-people city a
million-people city in a State of two
millions. Already N. S. Wales is such
a tadpole State that 42 p.c. of the people are
huddled into one city, whereas London has
only 12 p.c. of the population of England,
Paris 7 p.d. of the population of France,
Madrid 3 p.c. of the Spanish, and Home
less than 2 p.c. of the Italians who continue
to eat their spaghetti at home.
Andrew Fisher says: “Germany is unable
to pay the indemnity demanded, as the coun-
try is too poor.” This has doubtless been
freely wired to Fritz by way of encouraging
the contumacy of his Government. It is
“What, the Australian High Commissioner
says!” Thus Andrew Fisher’s late position
in London gives to his empty utterance a
face value which any well-informed Aus-
tralian knows to be false. Fisher as a pro-
phet of Germany’s future is really an absurd
proposition. The indemnity demanded of the
country which impoverished Europe, and cost
Australia more money than it troubles to
think of, is spread over deca'des of years.
Where does the gifted financier get his cal-
culations as to what Germany will be able to
rib a quarter of a century hence?
N. S. Wales Minister Mclvell, who super-
vises prisons among other things, reports the
interesting discovery that all the gaolbirds
under 25 that lie has been able to find are
men who never learned trades. As the
school age ends at 14 these represent the
accumulated results of (1) 11 years of an
extra-strenuous loan policy, for in the main
loans give employment and en-
couragement to the rough toiler
with very little expert knowledge
to dispose of; (2) 11 years of hard
restriction on the number of appren-
tices and learners; and (3) 11
years of a policy which places the
inexpert youth as near as possible
to the wage-level of the adult. The
drift into evil ways didn’t
11 years ago, but the 25-year
age limit suggests that it became
aggravated in 1910 —the year when
the first State Labor Ministry took
office —and that the population then
left off learning trades to an
unusual extent. It has al-
ways been noted that the
criminal class is mostly re-
cruited from men withcmt
trades, but it is unusual for
it to be wholly recruited in
that way. To the revolution-
ary crowd which preaches
Direct Action and wants to
upset all existing institutions
in a red fury of fools, the re-
sult is wholly satisfactory.
It shows that the army is
being got ready. But it isn t
satisfactory to anybody else.
The man who wrote the manifesto for the
workmen’s revolt at Petrograd against Lenin
and his Communists had the journalistic
merit of brevity. He put the pith of the
matter into the last line: “Life under the
Communists is more terrible than cleatn.
The whole thing was in 68 words.
NiS.W. Works Director Oakeshott told
the Federal Public Works Inquiry Commit-
tee that the site of the Sydney G.P.O. was
originally bought for £5O and a hogshead of
brandv, and was first occupied by a police-
station. That explains it —the grogginess
of Wise’s department is a birthstain.
Atkinson, Bell, Mackay and Corser are
the Nationalists who are suspected of strong
friendship for the Cocky party in the Federal
Parliament. Atkinson is the most noticeable
of the four, though he contributes little to a
debate but a flow of platitudes. Bell is a
returned Digger from Tasmania, and Mac-
kav and Corser are back-benchers from
Bananaland, who so far have hardly been
noticed by Hansard at all.
“Topo” :* I had a chance to place a brainy
13-vear-old youngster (Vic.) in a first-class
trade, under a skilled man, a splendid boss,
who promised special care in the five jeais
apprenticeship; 12s. 6d. weekly for a start.
The local schoolmaster guaranteed a Min-
isterial exemption from school-attendance,
and promised free instruction in his evening
class But the father, who was then tackled,
treated the offer with contempt. “I’m taking
him on mv job, where he’ll get three quid a
week and in three months 13s. bd. a day,
he said. The boy, with a dozen like him, is
now shovelling stuff into a dray. What s to
become of our trades? What of the f u t ure
of these extravagantly-paid nippers? Above
all, bqjv about poor Austral:*.?
ON TIORET-OF-LEAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Turks are to have another chance.” — Cable.
“Go back and be a better boy,”
The victor nations said;
And Abdul’s heart was full of joy,
Although his dreams were red.
This 1 happened, 1 regret to state,
Last century, in ’78....
And village gutters ran a flood
Of Christian Asiatic blood!
“Go back and be a better boy!”
Again the high decree
Was heard with dull and holy joy
When Abdul ceased to flee
From Grecian guns and Bulgar spears,
And stood refreshed with Europe’s cheers
To join his foe, and mock his friend.
And prove a traitor to the end.
“Go back and be a better boy!.”
The wearisome refrain
That fills the Ottoman with joy
Gives other lands a pain.
He’s preached so often on that text,
Men wonder whom he’ll murder next;
And wondering ask if those so kind
To Abdul are his kin in mind.
N.B.W.
F.O.M.


AN EASTER OFFERING.
“The Archbishop of Sydney (Dr. Wright) has protested in vain against the holding of the Royal Show on Good Friday.”
Carnwta as
Counter ? Run on ®
lines it ougkt io mo.sot.
}K«- closing) iown o/_fta R.A-S
m Time .


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER.
ZINC DUST.
Also of LITHARGE— (Assay and Industrial!. BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-DEAD ORES, BEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE. COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works : Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
3 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and ' Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES, Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
“AUSTRAL”
REGISTERED BRANDS
B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
SECOND only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once Relieve himself of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
which has had over thirty-four years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet,
83 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The February returns show that the Fed-
eral Government is still manufacturing that
very remarkable bogus currency—bogus be-
cause it is currency which isn’t current —the
£lOOO-notes. These aren’t necessary even for
“exchange purposes between banks,” as the
polite fiction has it, for the banks got on well
enough) without them until they were invented
as a war-finance scheme and sold compul-
sorily to the institutions. And certainly the
banks don’t want £22,892,000 of dead money
to settle small sums owing one to the other.
The £lOOO-notes are not allowed to circulate
even if they would circulate, and they repre-
sent a forced loan or forced robbery without
interest. It was thought that they would be
gradually redeemed when the war was over,
but instead they have increased by £4,854,000
inside two months, which suggests that the
Government has been paying some of its bills
in useless stationery. The situation has
altered in this way:—
Dec., 1920. Feb., 1921.
Gold reserve .. .. £23,712,480 £23,852,197
Bogus circulation, which
should be immediately
redeemed .. .. 19,538,000 22,892,000
Reserve * against legitimate
circulation .. .. £4,174,480 £960,197
This signifies that, apart from the money
raised by the sale of superfluous paper to
people who couldn’t well help themselves,
the Commonwealth has £960,197 gold reserve
to protect a legitimate paper currency of
£35,985,698, equal to between 2 and 3 p.c.,
though the nominal reserve is 404 p.c. It
is clumsy finance; also it is several other
things. Australia has a legitimate use for
about £7 of paper money per inhabitant; the
other £4 10s. is wild cat and shiftlessness.
* * * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney):—
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1911-. £150,250 £73,844 £27,774 £6087 £42,545
1912.. 166,049 61,070 30,482 7005 67,492
1913.. 184,834 75,991 30,708 6862 71,273
1914.. 207,565 83,967 33,521 8863 81,214
1915.. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9029 80,770
1916.. 253,963 108,811 36,145 3000 106,007
1917.. 282,008 142,900 41,105 2271 95,732
1918.. 339,743 149,279 51,456 681 138,427
1919.. 392,530 150,216 55,829 6466 180.019
1920.-464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
The City Mutual has had a remarkably
favorable year—the £234,793 excess of in-
come over outgoings was more than the total
lay-by for the three years 1913-14-15. But
the Society has expanded very rapidly during
the past five years: gross income for the
latest 12 months was more than double that
for 1915 ; in other words, in those five years
the concern has grown twice as large as it
was when it had been going 37 years. The
way in which new policy-holders have rolled
in is shown in this comparison of each year’s
new assurances written :
1915.. £804,814 | 1918.. £1,437,275
1916.. 816,767 j 1919.. 1,607,940
1917.. 1,065,852 | 1920.. 1,998,906
Though the premiums on these new policies
have been chiefly responsible for the rapid
growth of income, revenue has also been
helped considerably by the interest from ac-
cumulated funds invested, and the return
from that source is now much more hand-
some than in pre-war days. Investments
last year contributed £94,427 of interest, com-
pared with £48,441 in 1915. In addition,
income as shown in the first table is en-
larged by the amount of the previous year’s
cash bonuses, which were left with the
society to purchase further insurance. For
1919, for instance, cash bonuses amounting
to £73,372 were declared and made available
for policy-holders, but no less than £70,145
was left with the society to be “applied in
purchase of reversionary bonuses” —a strik-
ing testimony, by the way, of constituents’
faith in the society, and evidence also that
almost all policy-holders are anxious to in-
crease the savings which will some day
go to their beneficiaries or lighten the load
of their old age.
The past year’s record revenue was made
up in this way: Renewal premiums,
£215,103 ; first premiums, £84,772 ; interest.
£94,427; re-invested bonuses, £70,145; and
annuities £750; a total of £465,197, from
which £lllB refunded premiums has to
be deducted. To secure this increased in-
come necessitated larger expenditure, of
course; but' notwithstanding the heavy pro-
portion of new business —always costly to
write —the City Mutual’s total expenses last
year represented only 15.1 p.c. of total in-
come. It is impossible to distribute out-
goings accurately over the various items of
income, but assuming that the renewal busi-
ness cost 7 p.c. and single-premium business
3 p.c., then the £84.772 of first premiums
cost approximately £55,055, or less than 65
p.c. That is a good performance; in many
life offices —not all of them youngsters,
either —the new-business rate is very heavy,
and in some cases the whole of the first-year
premiums and something more besides is
swallowed by the cost of writing new poli-
cies.
In the introductory table cash bonuses de-
clared are included with claims, and the
increase of these distributions throws the
actual claims rate out' of perspective. The
mortality rate last year was very light, as is
shown by this comparison of claims through
death :
1915 .. £36,451 | 1918 .. £55,534
1916 .. 30,801 I 1919 .. 43,973
1917 .. 61,333 I 1920 . i 34,692
Last year’s death-losses were thus smaller
than those of five years ago, though there
were nearly 12,000 more policy-holders. As
a result of this favorable rate, the fact that
the crop of endowment assurances which
matured was not unusually large, and in
consequence of a moderate expense rate, the
society put up a remarkable performance:
the year’s surplus exceeded all outgoings, the
addition to funds representing 50.6 p.c. of
the year’s total income. As a result of this
record contribution to funds, the surplus dis-
closed by the actuarial investigation was
also a record. Twelve months ago the
actuaries, estimating liabilities on the con-
servative basis that funds will in future earn
only 3-i p.c. p.a., disclosed a surplus of!
of which the £73,372 already men-
tioned was distributed. After their latest
examination the actuaries declared that the
£1,580,014 of funds exceeded the amount re-
quired to provide for liabilities by £140,000,
an amount equal to no less than 46 p.c. of
the year’s premium income—“a record
probably never before approached by any
life office in the world,” says managing-
director George Crowley. Of this £140,000
surplus £90,000 is to be distributed in
bonuses, leaving £50,000 for reference at a
later date. The following shows the bonuses
distributed by the City Mutual for recent
years:—
1914 .. £28,317 1918 .. £51,126
1915 .. 33,687 1919 .. 62,116
1916 .. 38,472 1920 .. 73,372
1917 . . 44,167 1921 . . 90,000
The society was one of the few life offices
in the world which, during the war, was
able to maintain its bonuses on a pre-war
scale. City Mutual funds, however, earn
more than those of most life offices. Last
year interest, dividends and rent returned
6.4 p.c. on average funds. The nature of
the investments helps to explain :
1913. p.c. 1920. p.c.
Public securities ..£111,825 15.6 £334,130 20.0
Mortgages . . . . 309,445 43.2 823,678 49.3
Loans on policies .. 103,279 14.4 156,174 9.3
Properties . . . . 111.026 15.5 258,099 15.4
Shares & debentures, etc. 36,798 5.1 35,440 2.1
Cash & sundries . . 44,737 6.2 64,645 3.9
£717,110 £1,672,166
Practically one-half of total assets are thus
mortgages, a satisfactory class of investment
for a life office so long as the management
gives close attention to its margins. In
the table above the holding of public securi-
ties is given at £334,130; actually, however,
£459,589 is held, but £105,460 is still not
paid for, the City Mutual having taken up
War Loan on the instalment plan, and is
leaning on the banks for £105,000-odd. After
distributing the latest bonus, according to the
actuaries there remained £50,000 of dis-
tributable surplus; but besides that visible
reserve there are internal reserves protecting
policies, for, as mentioned above, the
£1,440.000 at which the actuaries assessed
liabilities was on the basis of funds earning
only 3| p.c. p.a. in future, whereas the
present investment return is almost three
points higher. There is also a reserve of
£36,000, not included with funds, set aside
for contingencies.
* * * *
Huddart, Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the time when, as the prospectus put
it, the co. had “reached dimensions too large
for it to be continued as a proprietary”:—
/ Dividends. >, To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £, £, £,
1912.. 93,016 28,125 7 p.c.= 33,125 31,766 28.201
1913.. 63,058 30,000 54 „ „ 27.500 5,558 33,759
1914.. 60,460 30,000 5 „ ~ 25,000 5,460 39,219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
ferred from contingency account, 14,136 63,355
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7 p.c.= 35.000 25,634 78,989
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. .140,645 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 60.645 176,774
1918. .220.747 30,000 11 ~ „ 55,000135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55.000 204,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ ~ 70,000 99,212 616,120
There is a wide disparity between the profits
shown above and those given by the direc-
tors. They report that “the net profits on
the (year’s trading amounts to £112,715.”
But large amounts were dropped into the
reserve fund which did not pass through the
Profit and Loss account. That fund “was
augmented by „ the transfer of certain pro-
visions accumulated in previous years and
not fully drawn upon when finally adjusted.”
Apparently £57,061 was dropped into re-
serves in this way. Huddart Parker’s carries
some of its own insurances, and £29,436 went
into that reserve last year. These two
amounts added to the £112,715 give the
£199,212 profits shown in the table, which
do not, in view of the directors’ statement,
represent the agtual net earnings for the
year, but, rather, the balance-sheet improve-
ment over the 12 months now that certain
contingencies, which had been specifically
provided for in previous years, have evapo-
rated. But even the £199,212 may not re-
present the full extent of the improvement.
In addition to the general reserve and in-
surance fund there is an accumulation,
amounting to no less than one-third of capi-
tal, for “contingencies, taxation, deprecia-
tion, repairs and maintenance, boilers and
renewals, superannuation fund, etc.” The
aggregate of this mixture moved ahead
£37.891 during the past. 12 months, the in-
crease, the directors explaining, representing
a set-off against the depreciation of public
securities. Possibly that £37.891 could reason-
ably be regarded as so much profit earned dur-
ing the year and then written off. Reserves
in the introductory table do not include the
provision for assorted contingencies, though
there is little doubt there is a good deal in
the huge pile that could be regarded as
genuine reserves. How it has grown is
shown hereunder: —
1914 .. . . £36,185 Increase £5,678
1915 . . . . 63,812 „ 27,627
1916 . . . . 123,117 „ 59,305
1917 . . . . 131,239 „ 8,122
1918 .. .. 262,089 130,850
1919 . . . . 292,494 ~ 30,405
1920 .. .. 330,385 „ 37,891
It is inconceivable that “contingencies”
could have arisen during the past three years
which would require the protection of almost
£200,600.
There is, however, a considerable amount
of “profit,” both disclosed and up-the-sleeve,
that lias not come from ordinary trading.
During the boom in shipping, Huddart Par-
ker’s sold several steamships at prices greatly
exceeding book-values, and these surpluses
have helped to swell the figures in the intro-
ductory table. No doubt, much of the in-
crease of the contingency reserve can be
accounted for in the same way. To what
extent the surpluses on sales will prove to
be true profits depends on the cost of re-
placing the tonnages sold. If, for example,
the management discovers that to replace the
old s.s. Victoria by a vessel of the same ton-
nage, etc., a similar amount to what was
realised has to be expended, then the “pro-
fit” made from the sale would prove to be
illusory, and the transaction would finally
amount to nothing more than a writing-up of
assets. Shipbuilding has slumped recently,
and there are evidences of a tumble of con-
struction costs, so there are indications that
a handsome proportion of the surpluses from
realisations will prove to be profit. But
whatever may eventuate in this respect, it
is very obvious that Huddart Parker’s had an
excellent run during the war years, and that
it has contrived to do well for shareholders
since then, despite strikes and other dis-
turbances. During its early years as a
public co. —it took over from a proprietary
in 1911 —results were somewhat disappoint-
ing, and just prior to the war the ordinaries’
div. got down to 5 p.c. Now, with a smaller
fleet, and with no year complete without a
maritime strike, the directors are able to
produce net earnings which easily provide
14 p.c. for shareholders. Nevertheless, the
directors will have their joke. “Restrictions
placed upon the earning capacity of Aus-
tralian-owned shipping since the outbreak of
war,” they declared a year ago. “have
practically debarred your directors from in-
vesting the co.’s depreciation and reserves in
new ships owing to the impossibility of
securing a return on present costs.”
Huddart Parker interests are not confined
to shipping. It has holdings in other cos.,
amongst which the Hebburn colliery is pro-
bably the most important. Lately the
Metropolitan Coal Co. of Sydney Ltd.
which runs a colliery at Helensburgh
(N.S.W. South Coast) was taken over, and
a separate co. is to,be formed to work it.
Notwithstanding considerable sales, the
book-value of fixed assets now stands at
£716,856, compared with £922,576 in 1915.
Whether some of the accumulations in the
reserves for “contingencies, depreciation,
etc., should be set off against the preesnt
book value of these assets The Bulletin
does not know. But an examination of the
liquid position makes the strength of the co.
very apparent:—
is 15. 1919. 1920.
Assets apart from
fixer) assets .. £348,517 £1,390,045 £1,612,675
Liabilities .. .. 93,291 271,021 328,024
Surplus liquid assets £255,226 £1,119,024 £1,284.651
Paid capital is a million—half in 6 p.c. prefs.,
the other half ordinaries. Thus surplus
liquid assets not only cover the whole of the
pref. capital, but in addition provide 31s. to
represent each £1 of ordinary capital. Be-
sides which the ordinaries have the fleet,
interest in collieries and all other belongings
of a book value equal to nearly another 28s.
Bd. Comparing that with the 275. of net
assets shown to represent each £1 of the
ordinaries five years ago, and taking into
consideration that during that period they
have had an amount exceeding half their
money back in divs., The Bulletin finds it
impossible to squeeze a tear for the poor
shipowners who have been so harassed by
the restrictions imposed upon them by Prime
Minister Hughes, of the £30,000 gift.
* * * *
Went to registration quietly in Sydney
the other day, the Bankers and Traders’
Insurance Co., Ltd., with a nominal capital
of a million and a heavyweight backing.
Three of the four directors come from the
Queensland Insurance Co.’s board-room —ship-
owner James Burns and P. G. Black and
general-manager Alex. McVernon. Thos. It.
Whitley, London manager of the Royal Bank of
Canada, is the fourth director. The Bankers
and Traders’ Insurance is a new develop-
ment of the energetic Queensland Insurance.
Some years ago that enterprising office
established agencies in North America, and
has been represented by the Montreal Trust;
which is really the Royal Bank of Canada.
Good business has flowed to the Australian
co.. but long-sighted general-manager McVer-
non saw that big opportunities existed in
the field for a co. working in conjunction
with the Queensland, particularly one which
would give Canadian interests a holding.
Such an arrangement would also guarantee
the Queensland Insurance a permanent grip
on the field, besides further assisting its
business. For a start, 100,000 shares, to
be paid to 10s„ are being put out and taken
up mostly by the Queensland Insurance,
Burns-l’hilp and the Montreal Trust.
Queensland Insurance assistant-manager
and inspector Cuthbert Ilawkes is to be the
manager of the new co., which will be housed
in the parent’s Sydney headquarters.
Domara River Plantations, Ltd. (estate
in Papua, office in Melbourne), from the time
the accumulated deficit of £BlB4 was charged
to development:—
- To Nominal
Dec. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919 .. £892 —• £892 £892
1920 . . 689 689 1581
Domara started life in the rubber boom of a
dozen years ago. When rubber was at
9s. per lb., this co. was formed to take over
2000 acres of 99-years’ leasehold on the S.E.
coast of Papua, between Samarai and Mores-
by, 0000 fully-paid £1 shares being passed
over to the vendor. Later on the concern
took up a further 1000 acres, and, besides
rubber, cocoanuts, cocoa and vanilla were to
be on the programme. But though the pro-
moters did not estimate probable results on
rubber at anything like the phenomenal 9s.
—they figured, instead, on prices coming
down to 2s. 6d. —things have not worked out
as scheduled. Development ran away with
much more than had been anticipated, or,
rather, funds available planted a smaller
acreage than had been reckoned on. There
have been other troubles, too; this co. had
a collection of nationalities on its share
register, and the war dislocated the directors’
calling powers on a number of shares; also
a run of bad seasons interfered with plant-
ing. At Dec. 31 last £29,641 of the nominal
capital of £30,000 had been got in, £9520 re-
presenting 8 p.c. cum. prefs. issued in 1913,
which are to share point for point with the
ordinaries in any div. over 8 p.c. The
whole of paid capital has gone in purchasing,
developing and equipping the estate; yet of
the total of 3000 acres only 250 are planted
with rubber and 460 with nuts, though 100
acres more are being cleared. However, if
the dreams of 10 years ago have not
materialised, the cost has been less than
many others have had to face: each acre
brought to bearing has run into £35, includ-
ing buildings, machinery and plant. It is
not unusual for the cost to exceed £5O.
Rubber-tapping began in 1917, and pro-
duction has worked out this way: 1918,
14,1181 b.; 1919, 27,8451 b.; 1920, 43,4211 b.
Last year 13 tons copra were harvested; the
yield for the current year is estimated at
about 35 tons. But though Domara has
thus got beyond the teething stage, it is at
present in distress, like all other island pro-
duce cos. not possessing cash resources.
Things were going merrily during the early
part of the past financial year: with rubber
fetching an average of more than 2s. per lb.
and all-in costs just over Is.. Domara had
visions even of dividends. But, suddenly,
owing to world-wide financial troubles, the
market collapsed, and there are probably
few rubber cos. in the world which can pro-
duce the commodity to show a margin of
profit with present market prices. But even
the low prices ruling have been purely
nominal so far as Domara has been con-
cerned, for it has had no market whatever


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6 {
New Zealand.. 4}d.
Week-end.
fid. (minimum
16/-, 20 words)
Canada
U.5.A...
om I/O j 7d. (minimum
•• “ / L ‘ z \ 11/8,20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Xel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILW \RD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Do you üße soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The Q.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs Jyut little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.—Advt. [2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co.',' Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt. [2
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Tanks are made in all sizes and
types from 500 to 100,000 gallons for the storage of
water, oil or any other liquid. Special tanks can
be furnished to meet the special requirements of
any manufacturing or industrial process. These
tanks combine strength and lightness with dura-
bility. All inquiries to The Australian Wood Pipe,
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove; and At
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company. —Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassei, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildiugs, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
♦ ♦ * •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson ft Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.-— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphurio-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1&21 Models”*—-“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier ft Co., Circular Quay (East).
—AdVT.
* * » •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s ft Qertling’«
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selbv ft Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
Berry's Patent Foolproof
Ironclad Fuse Switch Gear.
Get particulars now.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
’Phone, Central 4031. Box 1303 G.P.0., Melb.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION,
PIONEER. Leather Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI <£t SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
... ESTABLISHED IN 1868.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
nm
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
available. At present the co. is holding
stocks of unsold rubber almost as large as
last year’s total production. When the
plantation accounts were made up (Oct. 31
last) there were 24,9551 b. on hand, taken
credit for at Is. 2d. per lb., and on that
basis the £689 of nrofit was produced. It
is questionable whether the co. will average
that price, and therefore doubtful whether a
loss will not displace the small book profit
shown. Having no cash available to finance
continued production, in January the direc-
tors decided to issue £5OOO of 10 p.c. de-
bentures. To date something over £3OOO has
been subscribed, and difficulties have tem-
porarily eased. The future is quite uncer-
tain, but a recovery in prices of rubber should
occur sooner or later. The world’s planta-
tions simply cannot survive with a continu-
ance of present prices. But the fact that
the big crop of cos. formed 10 years or so
ago are now swelling the world’s rubber sup-
plies does not favor an early return of hand-
some prices, even when relief from financial
worries restores the rubber-manufacturing-
industry to normal.
Last year 1500 acres of Domara’s estate
were floated into a separate co. —Baramata
Plantations, Ltd. —but apparently that con-
cern, which in August last seemed assured
of flotation, has not made a start. Anyhow,
the 5000 fully-paids which Baramata was
to have handed Dornara do not show up in
the latter’s accounts as at Dec. 31.
* * * *
Australian Chalks and Crayons, Ltd.
—This little co. (nominal capital, £10,000)
is being formed to manufacture all varieties
of chalks, crayons and pastels; but chalks
are to be the principal line for a start. The
Commonwealth draws its supplies mostly
from ’Murka, though the Jap also partici-
pated for a time until the quality of the
Nippon product lost it the market. The
promoters of Australian Chalks and Crayons
reckon that, from raw materials handy to
Sydney, the co. can turn out a product at
least equal to the Pennsylvanian article, and
that the saving of freights, duty, exchange,
etc., will enable the local product to be sold
for 25 p.c. less than the imported. The co.
is to take over a going concern, the Aus-
tralian Crayon Co., which gets 2500 £1 fully-
paids in the float, 500 of which are passed
over to the inventor of a process for manu-
facturing school chalks. Of the cash to be
subscribed —2500 £1 shares are offered—£Gso
is also to go to this inventor. About £50.000
worth of chalks are imported into the Com-
monwealth each year, and the promoters
reckon that if only one-sixth of this trade is
captured handsome profits can be made.
* * * '
H. McKenzie, Ltd., the Sydney timber
concern, is out after fresh capital. Its Maori-
land areas have practically cut out and, owing
to Government export restrictions, felling
operations in the Shivery Isles will probably
be abandoned. Three years ago managing-
director H. McKenzie took up, as a private
investment, 10,000 acres at Praser Island,
near Maryborough (Q.), erected three mills
and a wharf, and laid down an eight-mile
tramway. The directors, after investigation,
recommend the taking over of this area, and
also the acquisition of a 10-acre Balmain
(Sydney) freehold which has a 600 ft. water
frontage (another of Mr. McKenzie’s per-
sonal investments), which will assure a per-
manent centre for the business —the present
yards at Glebe Island are leasehold, with
about two years to run. The purchase price
of the two properties is £105,000, and share-
holders —presumably after inquiry—have en-
dorsed the deal. To finance it 110,817 new
£1 shares are offered, to be paid in 20 Is. in-
stalments. Incidentally, a separate co. with
a nominal capital of £150,000 is to be
formed in Queensland to take over a pine
forest acquired by H. McKenzie, Ltd., in
that State two years ago, but the whole of
the 105,000 £1 shares to be issued will be
held by the parent co. To make sure of
bottoms, McKenzie’s has acquired an interest
in the Patrick Shipping Co., Ltd.
* * * *
The Australian Gas Light Co. is seeking
£150,000 of new capital. In accordance with
the Act, the 25,000 new £6 shares are to be
offered at auction in Sydney on April 6. As
the amended Gas Act more or less assures
an 8 p.c. div. —or, rather, if it cannot earn that
rate the management can ask the Court to
adjust the price of gas so that it can, pro-
vided that electric competition will let it —
the issue should find considerable support.
* * * *
A report presented to the Federal Gov-
ernment the other day by the representative
of the Anglo-Persian co. confirmed the
“Wild Cat’s” statement of some weeks ago
that the oil-hunt in Papua has so far given
little more than “good prospects.” The big
oil co.’s experts have made a general survey
of the Gulf district, from Yule Island to
the Vailala River, but none of the areas
has been considered good enough to justify
a drilling programme, and geological work
is to proceed further afield. The best pros-
pects to date are in the Popo district, where
the structure of the country is favorable
and the likelihood of oil in quantity is “re-
garded as decidedly good.” The Anglo-
Persian crowd is going to put down a test-
well there, but nothing else has turned up
to give work for the other drilling plant in
hand. The old Vailala region is now defi-
nitely declared to be insuificiently promising.
Wallaroo and Moonta lost £39,000 w’hen
copper averaged £lOO 15s. per ton, so it must
have had a sick time with the metal at £B9,
which was the run of the market during the
second half of 1920. And what is the posi-
tion now the metal is down to £6B? A wind-
fall in the shape of £3S,OSB refunded by the
Federal Taxation Department, representing
an overcharge on account of war-time profits
assessment, checked the drift of the liquid
surplus:—
June, ’2O. Dec., ’2O.
Securities .. .. .. £100,558 £93,500
Surplus on sales .. .. 40,388
Copper and products .. .. 78,944 100,320
Stores 117,036 122,380
Sundry debtors, etc. .. .. 9,926 13,230
£346,852 £329,430
Liabilities .. .. .. 79,652 84,105
Surplus assets . . . . £267,200 £245,325
So the cash position shrank by £20,000 in
the half-year, though the bank overdralt
moved from £35,267 to £63,090. There were
no stoppages during the latest half, so 27,985
tons were smelted for 2977 tons copper. The
output for the previous 12 months was only
2302 tons, because of the long drawn-out
shipping and coal troubles. Nearly all the
opening-up work done of late has been in
hunting after fresh shoots off the Young,
Elder and Stirling shafts —in the first-named
at 2670 ft. and in the latter at 240 ft. Some
ore has been got worth from 3 to 4£ p.e., a
bit above the run-of-the-mine material. Adel-
aide is anxiously waiting for chairman Stir-
ling to declare how long the present strain
can be borne.
* # * #
The aggregate value of minerals won in
N. S. Wales now exceeds 321 J millions. The
256 million tons coal mined have contributed
£105,867,621. The gold yield now exceeds
14f million ounces (fine) of a total value
of £62.855,933. Silver-lead ores have con-
tributed £101,449,303; copper, £15,256,078;
tin, £12.342,297 ; iron, £4,859,836 ; limestone,
£6,933,359.
* * * •
Notwithstanding the Broken Hill strike,
which cut more than 1£ million off the value
of N. S. Wales’s silver-lead-zinc crop last
year, the State’s total mineral output was
worth more than 1919’5. Coal showed re-
cords both for tonnage and value; the
10,715,999 tons mined beat the 1919 produc-
tion by more than two million tons and
bettered the previous best (1913) by 300,000
tons. Value was easily a record —£7,723.355,
compared with £5,422,846 for the previous
year. The State’s total mineral harvest for
1920 was £11.411.462. and coal was respon-
sible for all but £3,688,000 of it. Gold gave
£207.746; silver-lead-zinc, £372,937 (com-
pared with more than 5$ millions for 1918) ;
copper, £127.978; tin, £413,794; iron ore,
£645.720; limestone. £719,435; oilshale,
£46,082: bismuth, £33,886: silica, £29,768;
opal, £23,600; platinum, £16,672.
* * * *■
A bore put down for water in 1915 at
Coorabin, on The Rock-Oaklands railway,
about 400 miles south-west of Sydney, met
a coal seam at 200 ft. A co. was formed to
test a workable area, and numerous bores
have been sunk, reaching the seam at from
200 ft. to 300 ft. The seam has been proved to
be from 20ft. to 30ft. thick, and with the
average Newcastle product compares in this
way:—
Volatile Fixed.
Moisture. Matter. Carbon. Ash.
Newcastle 2.01 p.c. 36.01 p.c. 53.27 p.e. 8.71 p.c.
Coorabin 12.00 p.c. 24.00 p.c. 47.00 p.c. 17.00 p.c.
The Coorabin seam has now been proved by
bores over an area of about five sq. miles,
and there would appear to be a future for
it if a market can be found. It will cer-
tainly prove a valuable national asset when
the Commonwealth begins to use pulverised
coal. Unlike other coal measures in N. S.
Wales, the Coorabin deposit is of recent
geological age, and consequently is very
friable and watery. On exposure to the
atmosphere it disintegrates, whilst its high
moisture content is, at present, a big draw-
back both as regards freighting and heating
efficiency.
* * w *
The N. S. Wales gold yield continues to
dwindle. Last year 48,9070 z. (fine) worth
£207,746 were won, a decrease of 16,9320 z.
and £71,920 in value compared with the pre-
vious year. English-owned Mt. Boppy, of
which very little is heard, is still the main-
stay ; last year it gave £44,745, or more than
one-fifth of the State’s total. Since 1901 it
has turned out over If million’s worth.
Along the Araluen Valley over £60,000 worth
was won last year. Old Hill End, around
which most of the year’s market gambling
centred, weighed in with only £12,704.
Though during recent years the Mines De-
partment geologists have given considerable
attention to old fields, results so far have been
practically negligible. The Forbes-Parkes
field, Hillgrove, Yalwal, Kiandra, Drake,
Cargo, Adelong, Wyalong, Hill End and
Lucknow have all had surveys and reports,
but it doesn’t look as if the old-time miner
missed much that would pay. In some cases,
though, the advice of the geologist has not
been followed at all; in others, only to a
limited extent. There is still a good deal of
ground which the geologists consider worth
attention, and with no new fields turning up,
apparently the only hope of reviving the in-
dustry is to induce the genuine mining in-
vestor to concentrate on the most likely areas
and for the Mines Department to show its
confidence in its own officers by supporting
any crowd willing to risk its money in
following the geologists’ recommendations.
4 * * *
A lot of stone crushed by Bendigo Amal-
gamated last month was only 4dwt. stuff,
and Carlisle, with a average, topped
the list. Constellation dropped to Sdwt., as
most of the slopes have gone poor, occa-
sional patches of rich gold alone helping to
ease the swift decline of grade. The staff
is now at work back from the northern face
at 622 ft. on a fair-sized shoot which is to
be scraped over to see if colors will show.
Prospects at the Unity are dismal; 1916
tons averaged only 3fdwt. The Carlisle’s
Victory stopes, next door, not only supplied
pay dirt, but work 'south towards the Unity
at 1264 ft. gives a chance of opening up
another fair block of quartz there. The
worst disappointment of all has been at the
Monument shaft, where the outlook of late
makes it doubtful if a new shoot of value
exists there. Then, at the big make of
quartz cut in the Nelson, everything broken
so far is low-grade, so nothing seems to be
maturing to help mining sufficiently to
deter Dyason from pushing ahead with his
rubber enterprise.
* * * *
The past six months’ sluicing campaign at
Cock’s Pioneer (Vic.) ran smoothlv but was
unsatisfactory in gold results. Drift treated
totalled 503,000 c. yd., or double that of the
April term, but the gold grade at 6.531 d.
per c. yd. was 2d. less than in the previous
half-year, and the tin 2.41 d. per yd. against
5.23 d. Only two floors have been available
for work, and in this portion of the lead
the gold has been scoured out by old rapids.
The dredge has now worked almost out of
the disturbed area, and as the bores ahead
are tip-top, the former grade of ground will
soon be under attack. As the yardage was
big costs were cut, but to what extent the
management does not say. Of the profit of
£6558, a Is. div. has been passed out, mak-
ing the return to shareholders £55,000
against a paid capital of £lOO,OOO in £1
shares, of which.a wad went to the old co.
before Collins House took up the job of
equipping the claim properly. The co. has
a surplus of £20,000 of liquid assets and
good ground ahead.
* * * *
Girofla, Bamford (N.Q.), is one of the
larger North Queensland mines closed down
by the recent stoppage of the Chillagoe
smelting works. It contains a very big body
of low-grade sulphide ore, and above the
100 ft. level there have been smaller bodies
of carbonates carrying high values. Crush-
mgs sent to Chillagoe in 1913 showed 4oz.
to 6oz. silver, 9 p.c. to 17 p.c. lead and 5 p.c.
to 9 p.c. zinc. When operations ceased the
management was stoping a face over 12ft.
thick in No. 3 open cut, carrying 12 p.c.
lead and 12oz. silver. Most of the old work-
ings below 100 ft. are under water, but un-
questionably when metal values recover this
mine should have a future as a big producer
of lead-zinc concentrates and silver. The
stoppage at Chillagoe nipped in the bud an
extension of development in the lower levels.
* 4 4 *
The exceptionally rich tin ores of the
Kangaroo Hills field (Q.) have kept the
Ewan battery stamping at full pressure,
though the drop in the price of the metal has
squeezed most other producers out. It has
been working the three shifts for the past
four months in order to cope with the pub-
lic ore. The battery is now being enlarged
and improved and a dynamo is being in-
stalled, while extra wilfleys, slime tables
and classifiers are. to be added.
Arbouin tin, Stannary Hills (N.Q.),went
under during the month to the continued low
price of tin. Considerable development
work during the past few months had placed
the manager in a position to handle much
larger quantities of ore. The tunnel pass
was widened, and the winze from No. 1
tunnel was being sunk to connect with the
prospecting drive. It will be handy
when the market recovers. The co was
stoping a shoot of ore 55ft. by 15ft., carry-
ing nearly 1£ p.c. tin. The last crushing
produced 11 tons of oxide from 720 tons ore.
The Rocky Bluffs mill, the only one at the
Hills crushing continuously of late, has
also shut down.
* • * t
The Gordon is about the best tin-mine at
Irvmebank (N.Q.) at present, the old Vul-
can s future being still uncertain. The
owners, McGill and Carroll, have been rais-
ing dirt for the past three or four months
going from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. metal. At
present they have a 70-ton paddock of rich
ore, and the show is tipped to be one of the
leading producers on the field in the near
future.
* * * *
The approaching completion of the Kid-
ston (C.) State battery may help to
brighten that old field again. A number of
small shows there have had some difficulty in
getting their ore crushed. The returns from
the batteries on the field are averaging only
4 to 5 dwt., but returns are often sweetened
by veins carrying good gold. Thompson’s
Oaks struck some of these in its last
crushing, which averaged On the other
hand, the neighboring Oaks recently put
through 600 tons, which panned out at only
11s. per ton.
* * * *
Recent developments at the old No. 6
Argent mine, Zeehan (Tas.), have been re-
garded as highly satisfactory lately, the main
lode drive having proved a good run of ore
over a width of 6ft. for 70ft. Consideration
is to be given to the sinking of another lift
to make available the ore going underfoot in
this level. Heavy water and power costs,
and the slump in metal prices are handi-
capping the syndicate.
* * * *
Mt. Lindsay (Tas.) drags on its weary
way on a fast diminishing calling power, and
with present tin prices it is a decidedly un-
payable proposition. The lode is about 12ft.
in width, with occasional rich shoots in it,
mostly of a gossanous nature, though lately
pyritic ore has been encountered. The re-
covery for the past half-year was 1$ p.c.
tin per ton, but the absence of any extensive
development, coupled with poor crushing and
saving appliances and inaccessibility of
locality, makes the show a poor affair with
tin at £l6O per ton.


ONE MAN’S GREETING IS ANOTHER MAN’S SNUB.
“The Prime Minister despatched a wireless message to Senator Millen, welcoming him hack to Australia on behalf of the Ministry. The message stated: 'Veil have done well, and Australia has reason to he proud of you.' " Ace.


n
TmA
A
JfK
ABBOTS
IAGER,
h firrv- fai
£3
7)rinf{for W
allfrue Sjporlsmen
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
mn
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
From the Federal lobbies: —
No doubt behind the agitation in Federal political
circles there is a genuine desire to get rid of
Hughes. Always personally unpopular, and encour-
aged in his autocratic ways by the grue-
some docility of his mediocre Cabinet, he
has made many enemies in his party who
would throw him out at once if it were pos-
sible to do it without losing the Nationalists’ divine
right to govern. But apart from the personal ele-
ment, the growing hatred for his hot-headed and
expensive administration is developing a storm, and
therein Willie Watt may be the chief thunderbolt.
Watt is still remaining carefully in the background,
but a suspectedly-inspired statement to the effect
that he might be induced to lead a coalition of
Cookies and disaffected Nationalists suggests that he
is watching the Federal drama very closely. Still,
knowing Hughes’s undeniable ability as a tactician,
Watt will hang back until the situation looks good
enough for him to come out and play a leading
hand. That he will take advantage of any move
for the overthrow of Hughes can be regarded as
certain. Watt never entered the Reps, to be a
mere private. With him, a 3 with Hughes, it is
field-marshal or nothing.
“P. Plain” : Struck a batch of old-timers
who were together 35 years ago on the
onee-famous Teetulpa (S.A.) rush. This
remarkable field, away up in the arid areas
beyond Goyder’s line, produced about
£300,000 worth of gold in the 12 months it
lasted, and all the metal was remarkably
coarse and in
unusually shal-
low g ronn d.
That by the
way. One morn-
ing a digger on
the field found
another man in
possession of his
show. After fail-
ing to shift him
by argument,
the rightful
owner invited
the usurper to
come up and
fight it out. He
did. The right-
ful owner won
and took pos-
session. Said
owner was
afterwards Ad-
miral Creswell,
knight.
Captain C. M.
KEPPEL-
PALMER,
A.D.C. to new
Vic. Governor
Stradbroke.
After 19 years’ absence artist George
Lambert has come home, but not to stay.
During the Palestine campaign he held the
rank of major, and did some spirited pic-
tures for the Australian War Museum, and
it is in connection with these that he is
making the trip. Technically (Lambert’s
equipment is equal to that of any portrait-
painter in England, and if he had possessed
greater gifts as a social butterfly he might
have been an R.A. long ago. As it is he is
more of an “artists’ artist” than a popular
painter. There is a touch of "Jimmy
Whistler in his personality, and such men
rarely commend themselves to the dear old
souls of the Royal Academy.
Some men are never too old to get pro-
motion. At a time (he is 63) -when other
civil servants would be thinking of retiring,
G. H. Knibbs, the statistician, has been made
Director of that intangible sort of concern,
the Bureau of Science and Industry, at
£2OOO a year. During his absences in
Europe and on Royal Commissions it was
demonstrated that his assistants at the
Statist’s Department got on very well,
wherefore it will not be such a wrench to
him to part with them and go to a better
job. So many have been given £2OOO a year
lately for Federal work that Garran must
be feeling that, after all, he isn’t anybody in
particular to be drawing that amount.
Little legal-manager Arthur Carroll,’"of Mel-
bourne, who went over at his own wish the
other day because of trouble about his Malayan
tin shows, was up against Badak all through
the boom, and his woes probably began in the
bull-jump over that wretched show. His end-
ing hit several brokers badly, one ceasing to
be a member.
Experiment Farm, near Parramatta
(N.S.W.), alienated by Governor Phillip to
James Ruse and sold by him to the first
John Harris, has
again changed
hands. Ruse was a
First Fleeter, com-
ing from Bodmin,
Cornwall, in July,
1782. He had but
18 months of his
seven years as a
“guest” to serve
when he arrived in
Port Jackson, and
was a free man
when he got the 30-
acre grant which
forms the Harris
Park of to-day.
Here he grew the
first grain, as is
quaintly told on
his tombstone in
Cam p b e 111 own
cemetery. The old
chap died in 1837,
after passing his
77th milestone.
HENRY STEAD,
of Stead’s Review,
who dabbles in
international
politics between
dances.
Returned-soldier candidates polled strongly
at the Westralian elections. J. S. Denton,
who beat ex-Premier Lefroy for Moore, was
a major in the lltli Battalion at the Galli-
poli landing and got the D.S.O. for his work
that day. Lionel Carter, the elect of Leeder-
ville, was a captain in the 48th Battalion
(he had been a parson before that), and re-
turned blind in one eye. Jock Thomson, who
captured Claremont, suggested the Miners’
Corps to Defence Minister Pearce, and accom-
panied it to France as a lieutenant, though
well over 50. He is the Jock who put
Yampi Sound on the map and sold part of
his iron-ore concession to the Queensland
Government. And E. W. Cor.boy, the
youthful Digger who tried to fill Bigjohn
Forrest’s shoes in the House of Reps., re-
turns to politics as M.L.A. for Yilgarn. He
will find it easier to hold than he did Swan.
That something was brewing in regard
to Col. James Walker, Commissioner for
War Service Homes, had been wiiispered for
some time, and the chatter became louder
when it was formally announced that he
had been granted seven days’ leave. Yet the
blunt Gazette announcement that his £l5OO
a year appointment had been declared null
and void on the ground that he, for a speci-
fied reason, was incapable of holding the
job, made people sit up with surprise.
Walker’s solicitor is seeing what can be done
for him in the matter.
Australian art has had a big loss
in the death at Adelaide of Gustave
Barnes, aged 42. He touched it on
all sides. His father ran one of
those plastering and modelling businesses
which are art or mere housebuilding, accord-
ing to the genius of the worker. Gustave
was able to go to England as a youth to
study the violin, but there he switched off
to architecture, figure-drawing and (in the
Doulton-ware factory) to painting. He got
as far as acceptance at the Royal Academy
before he had to return to Adelaide to take
up the family business at his father’s death.
The S. Aus. Art Gallery soon found his
worth. He classified and catalogued its big
collection of black-and-whites, and eventually
became curator, besides giving skilled advice
on the purchase of new works. His best
individual production was landscape with
gums, in the school of Heysen, and the
Gallery has three of his works. Sowden,
president of the Board, pronounced his best
epitaph: “Professionally, I have never
known any other artist endowed with so
much versatility. It is hardly an exaggera-
tion to say that he could do everything in
connection with art, in its fullest sense, and
do it well.”
On an unusual kind of M.L.A.: —
Jack Boylarid, who defeated “Texas” Green for the
Kalgoorlie seat in the Westralian Assembly and thereby
won a notable triumph for the National Labor group,
led the malcontents who seceded from the Golden Mile
miners’ union after the conscription split. Refused
registration as a separate union, Boyland and his men
revived the moribund Coolgardie branch of the parent
organisation and ran it on pro-ally and anti-Bolshevik
principles, and all efforts to crush them have failed.
Moral suasion was tried, then objurgation and finally
physical force —an attempt was made to run them off
the mining leases —but Boyland’s miners have stub-
bornly held their ground. Their leader’s spirit
sustained them even when he had to give up the fight
and enter the Wooroloo sanatorium for a term. Aus-
tralia has scores of weak-kneed politicians who
wouldn’t refuse a complimentary race-ticket on the
score of principle, but Boylands are rare.
On Monday what is left of the original
Lawson team (Vic.) celebrated its third anni-
versary. Sam Barnes, McWhae and McPher-
son hold their original posts. The others
have changed about. Lawson, a sort of jaclc-
of-all-trades, has held, besides the Premier-
ship, the two Law portfolios, Labor, Lands,
Agriculture and Water Supply, and is acting
for the second time for McPherson at the
Treasury. The casualties have been up to
the average for a three-year-old Ministry.
Bowser, Andy Robertson, KendelL Hutchin-
son, Mackinnon, Campbell and Pennington
have dropped out, and Baird, Hicks, Peacock,
Angus and Livingston have come in. Hutch-
inson, Campbell and Mackinnon lost not only
their portfolios but their Parliamentary seats
as well.
A. B. Kyd, the London detective who
knew all the inner history of the .Tack-the-
Ripper case, did not find in Australia the
health'he came in search, of several years ago.
He had quiet office billets in Vic. and S.A.
in turn, and he died in Adelaide last week,
aged 53.
The Massey Government lost an ardent
supporter when W. I). Powdrell died at
Wellington the other day. He was a virile
prohibitionist, and with the help of the Tea-
pot was returned at the top of the poll for
Patea in 1919. He was a native of Ilawkes
Bay, an expert in cockying, and only 49.
To pacify J. G. McLaren, assistant secre-
tary, over whose head Percy Deane was
made permanent head of the Prime Minis-
ter’s Department, he has been given the post
of secretary of Home and Territories
vacated by Atlee Hunt. McLaren was elec-
toral officer in Sydney up till about a year
ago. He rises now from £BOO to £llOO a
year, and is therefore quite as well off as
Percival.
Adelaide University has news of the death
in Ireland of F. W. Pennefather, LL.D. A
Cambridge man, called to the Bar first in
England and then in Ireland, he came this
way in the ’eighties, as private sec. to Gov-
ernors, first in South Aus. and then in Maori-
land. When Adelaide Uni. elevated its law
lectureship into a professorship he was the
first, holder of it; but he retired long ago
while Still quite young.
J. B. Holme, deputy-president of the N. S.
Wales Board of Trade, has something more
than his training as a lawyer to help him
in his inquiry into the cost of producing
milk. After he had been in practice in
Sydney for some years, Holme tired of
legal twists and turns and went growing
lucerne, cows and other vegetables on the
Upper Hunter. He was still doing it when
Holman, considering his varied experience,
picked him as the man to organise the new
Department of Labor and Industry.
Vic. Public Service Commissioner George
Morrison will not seek to be re-appointed
when his present term of seven years is up.
Had he thrown over the service 35 years ago
and gone into trade he would have flown
higher than £l2OO a year. He had a steady
but not too hard climb from the time he left
his dad’s manse in his youth. He was suc-
cessively' clerk of courts, private sec. to
Shiels (when that fragile comet was Pre-
mier and Attorney-General), police magis-
trate, coroner, permanent head of the Chief
Sec.’s Department, and then Public Service
Commissioner. When he retires a pension
of £BOO goes his way.
Adelaide has arranged to keep alive the
memory of H. P. Gill, for many years
Director of Technical Art. He was a fair
painter himself, and a first-class teacher
and critic. The big purchase of pictures
in Europe about 1898, which doubled the
value of the Adelaide Art Gallery and
made a new housing for it necessary, was
entrusted almost entirely to him. A Gill
Medal of bronze, with a small cash prize,
is to be given each year to a technical-
school student. “Competitors will submit
one or more examples of applied art, which
may be carried out by any process and in
any material; but the design must be based
on an Australian motive.” The first award
has been divided between two girls.
THE TOURISTS.
GERTRUDE : “ Isn’t it wonderful to think that
the first explorers passed over the moun-
tains at this very spot?”
PERCEVAL: “Why? This is the only bally
road, isn’t it?”
A. R. Outtrim, who left off being father
of Vic. Parliament a,t the last election, was
snowed under with messages when he cel-
ebrated his golden wedding a few days ago.
Simon Matheson, recently dead in Adel-
aide, was for many years manager of Buck-
land Park, the finest pastoral property within
easy reach of the city. King George had a
shooting party there in 1001, with buckjump-
ing as a side-line; and the Waterloo Cup
meetings were always held at the Park in
Matheson’s time.
H. A. Pitt, manager of the Australian
Wheat Board, will get the A 1 status as
accountant of the Victorian Treasury. W. P.
Heathershaw was tried at the job, but did not
cotton to it. He returned to his old depart-
ment, the Chief Sec.’s, as chief clerk, and
finds that post more congenial than preparing
Budgets.
Herbert Ross, who has been appointed to
the Federal Capital Board, vice the Ameri-
can architect Walter Burley Griffin, is a son
of Colin Ross, whose name is indelibly written
on the history of Inverell (N.S.W.). A
tony part of Inverell is called Ross Hill,
after Herbert’s progenitor, but its aristo-
cratic associations are recent; it was origin-
ally a pig-paddock. Another brother is Chis-
holm Ross, one of the greatest alienists in
Australia.
G. F. Dicker, the new governor of Pent-
ridge (Vic.), ought to know something about
penal administration. He has served in the
central office under Evans, Connor, Callaway.
Freeman and Melver, and has been sec. of
the Indeterminate Sentences Board (Topp,
Anderson and Mauger) since its start. Some-
what dour, but just, he is in his 50th year.
Having been late in arriving at the respon-
sible post, it is probable he will carry on the
Callaway tradition. His wife, who was a
Miss Henderson, is a singer of some note.
Written his last copy, Eric Oscar Balfe,
editor of the Launceston Weekly Courier.
Born at Franklin, 61 years ago, he was the
son of John Donellan Balfe, one of the
Speck’s earliest politicians, and he stepped
on to the Inky Way over the doormat of
the Hobart Tribune. Later, he went to
the Bendigo Independent and the Launces-
ton Examiner, then took to the stage, and
played juvenile lead with Dion Boucicault,
Sheridan, Taylor-Carrington and others.
Thirty-three years ago he again joined the
Launceston Examiner, and he edited the
Weekly Courier from its birth, a score of
years back. In ’B9 he formed “The Muffs,”
and for 20 years kept them the best amateur
theatrical team in Australia. Darryl Vin-
cent, Charlie Hammond, Max Maxwell and
others who afterwards joined the pros, owed
much to Balfe’s coaching. One of his sons,
Harold, is Federal roundsman for Melbourne
Herald.
A yarn concerning Fleming, who has just
forsaken Hughes for a cool retreat in the
Country party. The M.11.R. was among
those present at a gubernatorial play-about.
when he was introduced to the young wife of
a well-known doctor. “I did not quite catch
your name,” said the lady a few minutes
later. “Fleming,” said the statesman.
“M.H.R., you know, for Robertson, New
South Wales.” “Ah, yes,” sighed the young
dame; “I wonder if those are the Robertsons
I know.”
THE WATCHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a star in the sky
That winked eye for eye
With Julius Caesar;
He looks down to-day
Seeming to say
“Wonder who these are!” •
Small ant-like men
With a tongue or a pen
Making their flutter ;
In the view of the star
They do little but mar
The flow of time’s gutter.
Yet ’twixt doom and doom
There is space and room
For great deeds and great seeking;
And the star that glistens
Listens and listens
For a full man’s speaking.
High up in the sky
He winks that old eye
Whenever he sees us:
“Wonder who these are —
More Casca than Csesar,
More Judas than Jesus!”
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


m
S' >
EASTER, to men, means the beginning of the Autumn-
Winter period. Appropriately enough, just at Easter we
are showing a wide and varied range of the new Autumn
and Winter Suitings—English and Australian Tweeds, Serges,
Worsteds and Cheviots —in the latest weaves and textures,
patterns and weights.
visit of inspection to our showrooms will be found interesting
its indication of the style tendencies for the coming season.
“Austral” Sac Suits, to measure,
£5, £6. £6/15|-. £7/15/-. £9/9/-. £lO/10/-. £ll/11/-
COWING BR“ LTB
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
486-494 George Street; 1 to 17 Royal Arcade.
Branch Store at 304-306 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
Even if not in immediate need
of a new “Austral ” Suit, it is
advisable for any visitor to
Sydney to have his measure-
ments taken. He can, then, at
any time, choose a pattern and
order with a minimum of trouble.
To any address throughout Aus-
tralia we send patterns, to-
gether with tape-measure and
forms for self-measurement free
on request.
ORDERS DELIVERED
FREE IN CITY, SUBURBS
AND COUNTRY.
f
1
K
*
'
■ •;
m
■■■ ; -


English Tweed Golf Coats
Many sportsmen like to wear cream or grpy flannel trousers
with a Tweed Golf Coat.
Catering for this preference, Peapes’ provide a smart Sports
Coat in English Fawn Herringbone Tweed, moderate in
weight, finished with real leather buttons.
Three-button front, four outside patch pockets, yoke back,
half-belt and vent, combining good appearance, strength
and ease.
Made with comfortable loose back for free shoulder move-
ment.
Peapes’ competitive price:
84/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest and waist measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mn
nm
ñm
0 BOOBD&SOh
FINEST DRY GIN
OLD TOM
n
Swift & Company Ltd.. A»slrnla«ian AsrentK. 26 30 Clarence St..
Sydney"!] l
BOSTOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap,
and maintains their original perfect black.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
AoupAs ‘-axi saHsnod s<>iooxsos
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
* * * *
“Ric. Toe”: “Centurion’s” Light Horse
major who made a target of a taube
(B. 10/3/’2l) reminds me of one we picked
A MATRIMONIAL MOVE.
"Poor girl — it's a bit of a come-down for
her to marry a man like that, isn't it?”
"Yes, yes, so it is—a come down from the
shelf.”
up in France. He was of the “stand no non-
sense from anyone” type, and he had per-
sonal objections to Von Richtofen’s variety
of that same. One day the von did a beauti-
ful piece of work near Noreuil Valley—
downed two balloons and a ’plane in quick
time, and his little red-bellied machine came
very low in the accomplishment. Everybody
in range grabbed a rifle or Lewis-gun and
opened fire, and Richtofen made a duel of it.
He came over our battery and gave us half
a drum, which incensed the Major so greatly
that he unshipped a Colt which was his in-
separable companion, took steady aim and
fired six shots at the ’plane. Then he paused,
expectant, waiting for it to crash. When it
didn’t his discomfiture turned to admiration.
“Damn him !” he said. “I hope he gets away.
He deserves to. I missed him!”
* * * *
“Dan de Non”: House nomenclature,
like the christening of racehorses, produces
grotesque results. The desire to label the
family humpy with an original title has pro-
duced countless atrocities in the way of re-
versed proper names, “Emoh Ruo” being
easily first as an awful example. I re-
cently investigated several choice specimens
and discovered their inside history. In an
eastern Melbourne suburb there is a mansion
called Lucky Hit, and a villa Wait-a-bit.
These commemorate racing coups. W ith the
unique word Ilovada one suburban house-
holder surely protests against the .irony
of fate—his wife’s name is Mabel. Inquir-
ing as to the meaning of a name, Manhareda,
at Coburg, I was smilingly told that the
house was a birthday present from the lady's
father, and the name was compounded of
the first letters of “Many happy returns day.
The m-.ze freak-name, however, is over the
door of ex-Digger Newlywed. “Qwertyuiop,
inscribed between the Union Jack and In-
color, seemed suggestive, I thought, of some
obscure battlefield. “No chance!” said the
proud owner. “You see, me and the missus
first met at a business college, learnin
touch-typin’ together. We had to memorise
the keyboard, and that name is the top row
of letters on a typewriter.”
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: Blank had lived in Beefwood
all his life. Blink was but a newcomer,
having secured a selection a few miles out
only a few weeks back. Both were hope-
less stutterers. And now for the first Time
in her married life Mrs. B-link needed the
doctor. Hubby dashed away on horseback,
and, as luck would have it, the first man he
encountered upon entering the town was
Blank. “S-s-say, w-where's the d-d-doctor.
asked Blink, stammering ail the more on
account of his excitement. Blank looked
dazed. Then, seeing the man was in a
hurry, he gasped, “S-s-struth ! Yer c-c-could
b-b-be there b-b-before I c-c-could t-t-tell
yer.”
• * * *
“Red Hussar”: “Snell’s” story (B.
24/2/’2l) of the ancient Londoner who
sought shelter from Hun bombs under a
faded gingham was droll enough, but any-
one who has been under fire will admit that
the old ’un obeyed a perfectly natural im-
pulse, however absurd it may* seem. It was
a common thing in France to fix a water-
proof sheet across the top of a section of
trench in wet weather, as a means of
escaping the dampness. It was absolutely
no protection from any sort of ironmongery
—and very little from rain—-but any Digger
will bear me out when I say that a few
shrapnel bursts would send men crouching
under the waterproof. There they would
have an illusory sense df security unknown
in an uncovered trench.
* * * •
“Zabut”: One of the most extraordinary
sights I saw in Cairo was during an eclipse
i of the sun. I was dozing over a book, when
» i W as awakened by a deafeninv commotion.
I rushed to the window and saw thousands
of natives making the horrible dm.
Some were banging drums, some
beating tum-tums, some crashing
together pots and pans, others ring-
ing bells or blowing horns, whistles
and trumpets. All were facing the
already-darkened sun and yelling at
it. As the veil of the eclipse with-
drew, the unholy din gave way to
claps and cheers, and the mob re-
covered and dispersed. My native
orderly expressed great surprise at
my ignorance when I asked the
meaning of the commotion. He
explained that the sun rested on
the horns of the sacred bull. At
times the bull got drowsy, and then
the sun was seen to gradually dis-
appear from sight as it slipped off
his horns. At such times the only
thing to do to retain the light of
th,e sun for the earth was to make
as much noise as possible, and so awaken
the nodding beast with a start that would
jerk the sun back into position on his horns.
Was it any wonder there was a bit of a
noise?
* * * *
“Dido”: The leaves of the Victoria Regia
at the Melbourne Botanical Gardens are sft.
in diameter. Looking upon them I realise
that Eve, in choosing the fig-leaf, displayed
that wise restraint in dress inherited in so
marked a degree by her daughters of to-day.
* * * *
“Plumtree”; Australia has got the divorce
habit in an aggravated form. There are
almost as many divorce cases nowadays as
there are Royal Commissions. But whereas
the latter are uniformly and portentously
dull, sometimes a gleam of humor lights up
the artless narratives of the unsuitably-mated.
Take, for instance, the lady who accounted
for the possession of a bouncing infant, to
the husband who had been abroad for years,
with the cheerful explanation that “it just
blew along.” A brazen adm : ss : on. but one
finds it difficult to be angry with the wench.
Even her aggrieved partner grinned as he
repeated the conversation, and so did another
injured husband who confided to the Coimt
that he “useter take the wife tea an’ toast
in bed —tea an’ toast, mmdyer—and then
she wouldn’t stick to me.” In such cases, the
facts being undisputed, the Judge’s task is
simple; it is only a matter of giving legal
effect to the severance of the tie that didn’t
bind. But N. S. Wales Full Court
struggled with an unusual problem last week.
A Grafton woman, married to a Brisbane
church organist, got hold of some passionate
love-letters in her husband’s handwriting. The
billets-doux were in Latin, and were ad-
dressed to no one in particular, but a fair
school-teacher was suspected. Mr. Organ-
PERSONAL SECURITY.
“I wouldn't lose you for a hundred thousand golden sovs.”
“Then I'm good for an overdraft of twenty quid straight away, ain't I, darling ?”
grinder admitted knowing the school-teacher,
admitted even that he had been courteous to
her, but denied that he had been too cour-
teous, his explanation being that the mis-
sives in question were harmless translations
from Cicero’s letters to his wife. The
Court reserved its decision for 24 hours —pre-
sumably to look up Cicero—and then rudely
called the Latinist a libertine.
# * * *
“Audio”: Mrs. Jackson was a widow, and
all her life on the farm had been an end-
less drudgery. Her only son, Dave, d.d well
at school, and this gave her the idea of send-
ing him away from Boggy Creek, in the hope
that his future lot would be cast in more
pleasant places. But the call of the cow
was not to be resisted, and he was home
inside a year, having turned his back on
higher education. But the widow’s ambi-
tion was dormant, not dead. One afternoon
when I called I inquired after her son. “Oh,
he’s doin’ fine now,” she said • “he’s a banker
at Tullawong,” and she explained the influ-
ence she had used to get Dave this social
rise. Some months later I was surprised
to see Dave with his head against the ab-
domen of a cow. “I see Dave’s back.” I
remarked. “Yes,” said Mrs. Jackson, “you
see he had to groom the manager’s horse,
clean the buggy, look after the garden, milk
the cow, do the bankin’ all day. and then
go to dances and socials every night. They
have to do it to keep up the position,” she
explained. “It was too much for Dave. He
had to give up and come home. He couldn’t
stand the life.”
## * #
“P.X.”: The Triad appealed to the N. S.
Wales Full Court against the verdict of the
jury which gave Philip Newbury £5OO for a
criticism of one of his singing performances;
and the Court said the verdict must stand.
It was admitted that there was no obligation
on the critic to convince the jury that his
judgment of the performance was right;
but, splitting a hair deftly, the Court held
that it was not open to a critic to say or sug-
gest that a rotten performance was due to a
rotten equipment—unless, presumably, he
was willing and able to show that the equip-
ment teas rotten. One can, it seems, say
that on a given occasion a singer sang like a
trussed turkey; but he must be careful not
to suggest that he sang that way because he
could s’ng in no other. Tlrs is all very well
so long as the critic is entitled to success-
fully plead that that is his opinion of a singer’s
voice. and that the ouimon is within the
bounds of reason. But he dare not first convey
the suggestion that a singer is of the trussed-
turkey persuasion, and then amiably admit
that, as a rule, the singer is a very good
singer indeed. In the same wav. apparently,
you may affirm that a particular judgment
of a Judge is horrible; but if you suggest
that it was horrible because the Judge is
built that way,, you must not be inveigled
into admitting that, as a rule, his Honor
isn’t a bad sort of Judge at all. For the
critic the lesson of the Full Court judgment
seems to be “Don’t generalise” ; for the news-
paper publisher hit with a libel action the
moral seems to be the old one, “No amiable
admissions!” Yet if he doesn’t admit what
is obviously a fair thing, a jury is liable to
turn a sour eye his way when damages are
being considered.
“Australia Jane”: That cheery divine
Bishop i'rodsham used to tell the story of a
gaiters who was travelling in Western Q.
At one township there was a “banquet,”
and after a hearty feed chunks of water-
melon were handed round for dessert. The
strange bish. clutched his bit helplessly and
gazed round for a plate on which to deposit
the pips. The local Mrs. Public House,
noticing this, jerked him in the ribs with
her elbow and whispered hoarsely, “Spit ’em
on the floor, me lord.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Barnes had been fishing for
half-an-hour before he noticed a man sitting
in the stream with his back to the big, pro-
jecting boulder on which the former was
perched. The man’s head was resting
against the granite, and he appeared to be
asleep. “Hello I” cried Barnes—“what’s the
game?” There was no reply. “You know,
I can’t expect to catch fish with you hang-
ing round like this,” complained Barnes.
The other looked up. “I wuz ’ere fust,” said
he. “I bin here since mornin’.” “Well,
what are you doing?” “I’m committin’ sui-
cide, if you want to know,” was the reply.
“Don’t be a d—d fool!” snorted the fisher-
MISTAKEN.
THE LADY (to applicant for situation):
“Yes, your reference seems all right.
Are you married?"
THE OTHER: “No, ma’am; I ran into a
door.”
man; “there’s not water enough to drown a
blind kitten.” “Oh, that’s all ri\” com-
mented the man in the stream. “Me corns
said it was goin’ to rain—l can wait for the
flood!” Barnes moved up-stream. When he
returned the would-be suicide sat fast asleep,
still waiting.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE DAYS THAT WERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Uncle Joe, with eye aglint,
In spite of years grown sere and cold,
Tells tales that could not stand in print
About the whirling days of old;
Of women frail and flowing cups,
When gay old dogs were skittish pups.
He conquered with a glance, and stayed
No time before the kiss he stole
That, with the young romantic maid,
Is key to reach her loving soul.
In these loose days of careless fun
Scarce any maid’s so lightly won!
Yet when Aunt Jane her tale narrates,
The world she shows is chaste and cold.
She talks as though the change she hates
That made all modem manners bold;
Then maids, though meek, with modest grace
Kept man’s presumption in its place.
It seems that cats were kittens then,
Skittish perhaps, but still demure;
And they were matched by courteous men,
Whose gallantry was always pure.
And Uncle Joseph had to woo
In manner mild and proper, too.
I don’t know, sweetheart, which is right;
Maybe ’tis man’s and woman’s way,
And I our memories of delight
Will treasure, when I’m old and grey,
In purple panoply of sin,
With red-lipped passion set therein.
Whilst you, like sweet Aunt Jane, may close
The gate of memory to thought
Of passion blooming like a rose
When love its self-willed pleasure wrought;
And with a calm, defiant eye
Give my remembrances the lie.
x.s.w.
HAMER.


✓
w
•-9
IT
iiiffi
5^3
<3
&Tr.
f\ i
U>
4
i*
CTZxZQ;
Sfi
some evenings we are content just to sit and listen. The soft, rich tones of our Vocation seem to voice the very sfnrit
of the night—the sweet mystery of fiurfiJe shadows and silver moon, of velvet-fingered breeze and scent of growing things.
Aeolian VOCALION
THE PHONOGRAPH OF SUPREME MUSICAL ATTAINMENT.
BECAUSE we are accustomed to it, we
( kave lost tke sense of wonder tkat suck
an instrument as tke Aeolian—Vocation
really exists. And yet wkat could ke more
wonderful ?
Picture tke scene akove. Wltk mood softened
ky tke beauty of a summer mgkt and attuned
to music, all tke best music of tke world is at
command.
Now a great, rick-voiced operatic soprano, like
Rosa Raisa, sings for us some immortal ana —
now Maurice Dambois’ wonderful bow makes
our very keart-strings vibrate witk tke strings
of kis cello.
Nfow tke Peerless (Quartette sings Sakara
Rose and tke ligkt beauty of tke popular
favorite quickens our pulses—now Ferrera and
Kaile carry our spirits to wave-lapped Hawaiian
strands witk tke sigkmg beauty of guitar and
ukulele.
The Phonograph is a wonderful instrument.
And the Pianola Company has done much to
earn the world’s gratitude hy giving it such a
perfect phonograph as the Aeolian-Vocalion.
These special features of the Vocalion are
what have won for it the distinction of being
the phonograph of supreme musical attainment—
Tone —Due to its advanced and scientific construction,
tke Vocalion produces rick, deep, beautiful and natural tones.
Tone Control —Tke Graduola, tke artistic and exclu-
sive tone-controlling feature of tke Vocalion, enables anyone
to give voice to bis own /musical ideas and to prevent
monotony by slight changes in tke record s stereotyped
expression.
Appearance —In both outline and finish tke Vocalion
establishes an entirely new standard of beauty for tke
phonograph.
Universal Tone Arm —This great feature provides
tke means by which every make of record can be ftlayed
ufon the Vocalion.
Prices from 9 Guineas: Graduola Models from 30 Guineas
Moderate Monthly Payments Arranged
SOLE MAKERS:
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
Trade TTark AEOLIAN
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
252 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE 436 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
58 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE
POST COUPON FOR CATALOG.
Kindly send me tke Illustrated Catalog and
Price List of tke Aeolian Vocation.
Name
Address
1036


Italian Wines.
o
r
*
Extra Dry Sparkling
Asti-Spumante
and
Vermouth.
Diploma of Honor
Gold Medals,
I, on don and
other
exhibitions.
Sole Agents
for Australia:
F. LUBRANO
& CO. Limited,
48 Young Street,
SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
HIT WFI T DRILLING PLANTS,
UIL/ ft Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. [2
STAG
LAGER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Gee”: There is a very bright lift attend-
ant somewhere in Melbourne. Bill had
been down to see the sights, and was back
again at Briar Flat. “Well,” said the old
man, "have a good timeV” “Oh, yairs,”
said Bill, “I seen everything—the Wax-
works and the Cole’s Book Arcade; but, by
eripes” (here Bill suddenly burst into life),
“them high buildin’s does well, an’ are
up to date all right, showin’ people round.
I went into one, and a bloke in a cage they
calls a lift says to me, ‘Goin’ up?’ ‘Yairs,’
says I, an’ I steps in an’ he takes me up to
the sixth floor and down again.” “Go on!”
said Dad. “Drove you up and then down
again?” ‘>Yairs,” said Bill, “an’ only
charged me two bob for the trip.”
* * * *
A minor tragedy of the drunks’ express
The last train from Flinders-street to the Williams-
town Naval DepSt leaves at 11.50 p.m. It is pre-
ceded one minute earlier from the same platform by
the last to Coburg. Many's the sportive naval officer
who has caught the Coburg express and hail a 13-mile
walk across-country to Williamstown, to become the
joke of an unsympathetic mess, and especially of the
high and mighty brass-hat Bilkinson. “I wouldn’t
walk, damme, sir. Not while stray horses roamed
the country!” Thus spake Bilkinson,
Came a night when Bilkinson himself alighted at
Coburg. Unperturbed he proceeded to put the great
plan into action. Half a mile from the station he
caught a docile stray, slung his, braces through its
jaws in lieu of reins, put the helm amidships and set
a course for Williamstown. “Walking be damned!”
mused Bilkinson. “Some silly asses have no initia-
tive !”
The ambling motion of his steed and the after-
effects of gin pvoduced a soporific effect. Bilkinson
dozed contentedly. He was awakened by a nasty jar
as Carbine footfaulted near the mile peg. “Damme!
Torpedoed!” muttered Bilky as he picked himself up
out of the dust. The clatter of hoofs in the night
told him whither Carbine was travelling—with liis
braces.
A dusty and hectic brass-hat hobbled into the
ENTIRELY.
“What does Jack do the course in?”
“Depends on whether he or his opponent
keeps the score.”
Naval Depot at 5 a.m. He didn’t return the sentry’s
salute. In defiance of all naval regulations in that
ease made and provided, he kept both hands in his
trousers’ pockets.
* * * *
“Friday Island” recalls a blue-pill patri-
arch :
Some quaint old medical curiosities were dug up
during the war. The oddest of all was a patriarch
called “lodine Jack”— a cognomen acquired on board
11.M.T.5. Fantoddy in the tropics. Approaching the
sick bay one morning he found all the ship’s com-
pany off watch awaiting him. “What the ”
roared Jack, and the answer came in a dozen voices.
“Prickly heat, sir!” “To Hell with you!” replied
Jack. “I can’t cure myself of it. Go forrard and
scratch yourselves to death!”
Three mornings later the rash had turned to
pimples, and lodine Jack prepared for a great
A QUESTION OF THE HOUR.
THE CAR (with musical alarm) : “Ting-ting-ting-ting!”
DEAF OLD GENT: “I wonder what’s the time? There’s something striking now!”
offensive. The crew were mastered on the well deck.
Stripped to the waist they filed past Jack, who had
a billycan of iodine in his left hand and a paint-
brush in the right. As the last man received “treat-
ment” the executive officer, who had dined ashore
overnight, arrived cn deck. “Good God!” he yelled,
“the ship has been boarded and captured by spotted
dogs.”
lodine Jack’s advice for all complaints was “Don’t
smoke, don’t drink; eat onions and paint with
iodine.” To a cheeky young signal-boy who reported
sick with a cold the m.o. delivered a homily the
gist of which was: "A cold, my lad ? A healthy boy
like you! Harden yourself, my lad. Take a bath
every morning!” “But I do, sir,” protested Bunting.
“I takes me cold bath every morning,” Like a shell-
burst came lodine's reply: “Cold bath be damned!
Who mentioned cold bath? Take a hot onel”
Post-captains and cooks’ mates, they were all one
to Jack. He feared nobody; he would have sailed
into Hades if he thought Britain would benefit—and
blistered Satan’s tail with iodine at the same time.
And with all his gruff manner he was kind-hearted.
He would stick like glue to a poor devil down on
his luck. When peace came he retired from the
Navy, but as sure as sunrise he will reappear when
the war-drums throb again.
* * * *
“Audio”: Towards the end of the war
life in London was a constant scramble to
avoid the aggressively amorous attentions of
widows, grass-widows and aspirants for
widows’ weeds. Midway in 1918 I ran into
an old pal I hadn’t seen for years. My
last visit to Blighty had been in 1916
when things were quiet, but Sam had
convalesced there quite a long time.
We made several futile attempts to
find a quiet place for a drink and a
chat about old times, but a Pitt-street
rag store in the afternoon is empty of
women compared with the bars we
tried. “Come on,” said Sam at last,
“there’s a quiet little joint I used to
go to last year.” After much ’bus and
tube travelling we reached the pro-
mised place of repose. We went into
the parlor labelled “Ladies Only” and
found it deserted, but our beers had
scarcely been pulled when a glad
female shriek smote us through the
partition: “Lorlummee! It’s Sam.
Come an’ meet ole Sam, girls.” Before
we could budge half-a-dozen exces-
sively friendly females had rushed
in from the public bar and ordered
drinks at our expense. A few days
later I ran against Sam leaning on
the War Chest Club. “What are you
doing here?” I asked. “It’ll •do me
for the rest of my leave,” he replied.
“It’s tire only blanky place in London where
a man can get peace and quiet.”
* * * *
“St. Quentin”: After a scrap on the
Somme in August, 1918, Sergeant Blank, of
the Umpteenth Battalion, A.1.F., was buried
by his pals, who also erected a cross bearing
his number, rank, name and unit. Weeks
afterwards the sergeant’s name appeared in
a list received from Germany of prisoners
recently captured. He eventually returned
to Australia. Being rather anxious to have
a photo of his own grave, he made applica-
tion in writing to the Records Department,
with the following result:—
I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 28th February, asking for a photograph of
your own g ave, but could not comply with your.
request, as nothing appears on the records of this
office to indicate that you were ever buried, although
you were once killed in action. As regards the latter
report, you are of course fully aware of the surround-
ing circumstances which led to this information being-
sent to us from the field. If you have any definite
information as to your last resting place and can
supply us with its source, further investigations will
be made with a view, if possible, to complving with
your request.
* » » *
“Sixenate” : Melbourne Divorce Court has
considered a new feminine phase. A hus-
band’s case was built on passionate letters,
talking lovingly of many improprieties, which
he had found in his wife’s possession. They
were all typewritten and addressed from a
suburban post-office. Hubby’s solicitor dis-
covered in the suburb a man bearmg the
name attached to the epistles, and named
him as co-re. This unfortunate protested
that he didn’t even know the woman. The
wife’s defence was that she had written the
letters to herself with the idea of rousing
the jealousy of her husband, who, she said,
had become indifferent; and she produced a
girl friend, whose typewriter she had used,
to .support her statement. She remarked
viciously that her reason for letting the case
go to court without offering an explana-
tion was to give her husband a lesson. I
left the court with the Judge wondering
what lesson the Woman ought to get, and
what would be the best sort of stick to teach
it with.
* * * *
“P.P.”: About all the things that could
happen to a man with whom Fate desires
to joke happened to a I’icton (N.S.W.) man
recently. A bull, seeing him in a field, gave
chase; and a bull-terrier, released by the
bull’s owner with an idea of tackling the
animal, fastened to the trousers of the man
instead. The bull tossed them both, hurling
the man into a clump of prickly bush, from
which he dared not move, because the bull-
terrier was wrathfully waiting to tackle him
again. He suffered his tortures for an hour
or so, while the farmer was driving the bull
to the pen ; and, when the dog was at last
called off, he emerged with nothing on his
lower person but a few flapping rags. While
making for home he nearly bumped into some
ladies who knew him, and, ashamed of his
nakedness, dashed into some bushes, loosed
an overhanging bank and fell into a slimy
pool. The ladies, who had seen him,
thought him mad ; and before he reached his
home policemen from the town arrived on
bicycles, fell upon him, threw him, and made
him. captive. It took him half-an-hour to
straighten things out. With all his grievance
he has no claim against the farmer or the bull
or the pool, because actually he was tres-
passing when the cyclone of" trouble struck
him.
* * * «
Communication from Callan Park :
I regret to find that among half-a-dozen new
teachers appointed the other day the Uni vena ty of
Sydney didn’t include a Professor of Spring Onions.
None is more urgently needed. It is mainly because
we haven’t a Professor of Spring Onions, and
because a course in eottage-giardening isn’t in-
cluded in the primary-school curriculum, that
Sydney has anything from 12 to 20 thousand
unemployed and a strike 10 times a week.
Half the strikes we have are due to the fact that the
strikers have nothing- else to look forward to. If
you could get Brown interested in beating the
cauliflower which Smith grew last season, the trifles
that now send him off the job in anger wouldn’t
grow to the neceosary colossal size. His mind
would dwell on his champion cabbage and the
Brussels sprouts with which he is going to astonish
Johnson. A census ought to be taken of the Bol-
shevik bosses of Australia, with special reference
to their back yards, and l will bet my largest
pumpkin to a radish that it would be found they,
don’t grow a dozen lettuces a year among them.
This, of course, leads back to the curse of con-
gestion, which is behind nearly all our other curses.
It isn’t easy to grow even a turnip in a window-
garden in Woolloomooloo, and for want of a turnip
to brood over, the ’Loo is liable to spend too much
of its time drinking bad economics, instead of the
bad beer which it could get when the pubs Were
open, and which really did it and the country k-ss
harm.
“Orwell”: She was not pretty, and sus-
tained tearfulness had by no means improved
her looks. After temporarily turning off
the lachrymal supply, she explained that she
had called for a breach of promise, and looked
around the office as if in search of it. A
week ago he had taken a room at the Blank
Hotel, where she was housemaid. His name
was Algernon Archibald Fitzmaurice Car-
negie, but these names were nothing compared
with those he had invented for her during
hours of idle dalliance in the corridors of
the hotel. Then he had made a proposal of
marriage. “You couldn’t blame a pore girl
acceptin’ the brother of a lord?” she sobbed..
She had drawn her savings from the bank and
confided them to Algernon, and now he had
gone. “But the worst of it is,” she con-
tinued, “Jim’s > out sooner than I expected.
He says he’ll break me neck if don’t get the
money. He didn’t mind me gettin’ married,
but he counted on havin’ that money When
he got out.”
* * * *
“Country Fed.”: The other day my dis-
trict inspector paid me a visit. About the
first thing he looked at was the number of
qualifying and merit certificates gained last
year. Then he glanced at the retardation
—the number of pupils in grades below their
ages—and urged me to push them on, to Cut
out non-essentials and cram (he didn’t say
that, though he meant it) until they can
pass rapidly into the higher grades. Of
course when I get them into the sixth grade
I’ll have to cram them for their Q.-C.’s, and
in the eighth grade cram them some more
for their M.C.’s. If I don’t, down will
drop the D.l.’s estimation of my teaching—
and promotion will be further off than ever.
No wonder teachers rejoice when a dull child
gets transferred, or even develops ’a hroken
leg or a long illness. Instead of doing the
best for every child, smart, average and
dull, the examination system now in vogue
concentrates on the first two classes, and a
SAFETY FIRST.
EUGENIC MOTHER: "Now, Billy, kiss the
lady good-bye.”
EUGENIC SON ( nervously ): “Must I, ma?
She don’t look properly scalded ,
y’know.”
teacher risks his chance of promotion if he
breaks the rule. It is time an alteration
was made. Education should aim at tu’rn-
ing out good citizens. Praise plus promo-
tion should be given to the teacher who does
his best for the dull, as well as the average
and smart scholars, instead of to the mere
crammer.
STRIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Trees, tall trees, and green, luxuriant weed,
With coiling creepers linking limb to limb,
Like squirming snakes. Grey, chattering apes—
the breed
That live by cunning—in the forest dim.
They basely trick each other, unashamed,
Steal from the person, sneak the coy young wife
The dullard cannot hold, and breed unblamed.
So craft outwits crude strength in apish strife.
Streets, straight streets, tall houses mile on mile.
And whirring tramears clanging. Here are seen
Spruce, wicked little men, all tilled with guile,
With thin lank hair, who count each other “green,”
Though ripe, for picking in the slim, smooth way
Permitted by the rules. A sallow priest
Throws over all his cloak for trifling pay—
To hide the barndoor fowl, and Bacchus’ feast.
Graves, trim graves, and headstones row on row;
Fond lies chipped deeply in the passive rock—
See, tongue in cheek, the black-clad mourners go.
With bulging paunch, War’s foetid carrion-stock
Strut, proud in purple robes. Inured to shame,
Men cringe before the altar-fires of Wealth.
O God! Give back our tails, and make us game
To cheat right openly, and not by stealth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.
THE DELUDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let me kiss you once,” he said,
“Just to prove there’s no ill-feeling:
Half-loaf’s better than no bread,
Let me kiss you once!” he said.
Ah, the kiss went to her head,
Kiss on kiss sent Prudence reeling.
“Let me kiss you once,” he said,
“Just to prove there’s no ill-feeling!”
sr.s.w.
JOSEPHUS Q. H.


Paste - Liquid ~ Powdered
PREPARED
X'"" rhk
m-
FOR
C*‘
mmmm
FOR
FURNITURE
HpHE easy, practical way to
X polish and preserve finished
surfaces is with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and a cloth.
You don’t need brushes, sprays
or mops of any kind.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax pol-
ishes perfectly over any finish
varnish, shellac or oil. It
forms a thin, protecting coat
over the varnish, similar to the
service rendered by a piece of
plate glass over a desk, table
or dresser top.
Your dealer has “ Johnson’s ”
don’t accept a substitute.
A
i
« P »»*«**
1 * ’ w m m m
Iff flftMK
4 r
K
pI
;? * ls‘
4 P ■
FOR
DESKS
)’w
f/
’n.-
JS
'OT? TART F 4^
FOR
AUTOMOBILES
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a
beautiful, artistic lustre of great beauty
and durability. It gives a 1'iard, dry,
velvety polish which will not collect
dust or show finger prints. It cleans
and preserves the varnish —prevents
checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is
the proper polish for floors of all kinds
— wood, tile, marble, composition and
linoleum. It does not show scratches
or heel marks and floors polished with it
can easily be kept in perfect condition.
Worn spots can be rewaxed without
going over the entire surface.
Use Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid for polishing your furniture,
leather goods, woodwork and automobiles. It polishes instantly with
but very little grubbing. Does not gather dust or show finger prints.
For a Perfect Dancing Surface
JuSt sprinkle Johnson’s Powdered Wax over any floor. The feet of
the. dancers will spread the w r ax, polishing the floor, and immediately
put it in perfect condition for' dancing. Johnson’s Powdered Wax is
conveniently put up in shaker top cans.
Unusual care and skill are used in the manufacture of the Johnson
Products as all of our employees have, for several years, been our
partners and share in the profits of the business.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, 379 Kent Street, Sydney.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWORto
EXTRA HIGH GRADE/-*
READYRUBBfO
3] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents,
CCSCMA
Here’s the certain way of
overcoming’ the suffering of
ECZEMA and ALL SKIN
TROUBLES I Numbers are
constantly testifying to its
miraculous powers. Recom-
mended by eminent doctors.
Send NOW for sample (as
below) to LIGMOLLIENE CO.,
Malyons, Sturt St., Ballarat.
Tin
CUT OUT THIS
! & SEND WITH HS
FOR SPECIAL SAMPLI
wmsnssr
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Boomerang”: In the casual old days a
Broken Hill magistrate was suddenly summoned to
Pooncarie to adjudicate in a police-court case in
which two neighboring wives were charged with
too luridly describing each other’s ancestors. When
the court opened the visible half of the magistrate
on the bench was seen to be coatless and clad in
a soft, open-necked shirt, with sleeves rolled back.
His appearance was accounted for by the fact that
THE BORN INCOMPATIBLE.
THE GIRL : “Does the climate agree with
your wife?"
THE GRASS WIDOWER: "My dear, that's
more than I could expect from any cli-
mate."
the mercury was soaring about the 114° mark. One
of the lady defendants was rather deaf, and repeatedly
missed the magistrate’s remarks. “I’ll come closer,
y Worship," she said, and started to go around to
the side of the bench. But to the Court’s aston-
ishment the magistrate yelled: “Don’t come round
here! Stay down there!” The perspiration began
to stand out on his forehead. In her deafness she
failed to catch his meaning, and continued on her
way with a mere “Yes, y’Worship.” But when she
rounded the corner of the bench she screamed and
rushed back to the body of the court. As I have
said, it was a hot day—a very hot day. The shirt
was the magistrate’s only' article of attire.
“1.H.M.” “Botiragi” (B. 10/2/’2l) speaks
of the black ladies of Papua keeping down the vital
statistics. On Lloyd's Island, North Queensland,
the gins used to take similar steps. They used the
stem of a creeper growing ori some of the low
bushes on the island. Portions eut from near the
root were placed in a pot full of water, and this
was allowed to simmer on the edge of a fire for
24 hours, then was placed on one side for another
three days. At the end of this time the liquid was
poured off and the gin got ori the of about
two pints of the concoction. A w£ek later the dose
had done its work and the grin would be seen about
the camp all smiles.
* * » *
“Globe”: The ends of a crescent moon
pointing upwards (B. 20/l/’2l) are no indication
of rain. I’ve heard of the superstition many times,
but invariably from people who think the shape of
the lighted part of the moon a mere accident.
As a matter of fact, the crescent moon with its
ends pointing upward comes regularly, and we
should thus be able to foretell the breaking of the
drought centuries ahead. During six years on troop-
ships I saw thousands of troops sleeping in the bright
tropical moonlight, and I have yet to hear of any-
one being moonstruck. An aunt of mine cuts a
little off her hair every new moon to improve the
quality. If it does improve it I’d be sorry for her
if she didn’t do it. Anyhow, I turn my money over
every new moon, and I still find it necessary to pick
five or six winners every Saturday.
"Steelo’ : “Alulgar” (B. 6/l/’2l) cannot
credit “S.S.’s” statement of the winner of a chop-
ping contest using hot water to dip his axe in, and
alleges it would ruin any axe on such a job in
lOscc. The temperature of the axe, if used on
hard wood, would be a lot over the hot water, and
to dip it in cold water would be as silly as
Mulga’s” version of an axe being gapped through
being dipped in hot water. As a matter of fact
dipping the implement in hot water would cool it
down a little, and also lubricate it. Did, “Mulga”
ever see a barber gap a razor through dipping it
in hot water—a cold razor at that? And the hair-
cutting chunk of steel is harder and keener than
the wood-cutting variety.
“Caly”: Should “T.E.A.” get scoffed at
over the Warenda light (B. 27/l/’2l) he may
exult a little to read this: Last October an elderly
Goulburn Valley historian told a family of us that
30 years ago he and < others used to see a queer,
wafting light in Kyabram East (.Vic.). I listened
to his yarn very absently, for which I wanted to
bite myself in difficult places when I read “T.E.A.’s”
par. Yesterday, however, the historian unexpectedly
called on us, and I made him read about “T.E.A.’s”
Warenda light, then asked questions. Briefly, here
is his story: A farmer in Kyabram East, up before
daybreak in the harvest-time,
reeled to see one of the stooks in
the paddock about to burst into
flames. He lost no time in get-
ting there with a bucket of water.
As he did so a ball of light left
the stock and drifted away out of
sight among the surrounding scrub.
When the cocky uilpetrifled him-
self he stuttered to the neighbors
a tale none believed until a party
of five, returning from a barn-
dance, suddenly froze on the road
at meeting what seemed to be a
floating lantern. They were near
stampeding-point when it appeared
to see what it was colliding with,
for it veered and vanished into the
scrub. After that the neighborhood
started to hound it down. It was
stealthily lain in wait for, sprang
out upon and pursued; but it
evaded capture in a cool imper-
turbable way that put the wind
up Ivyabram East. Its appearance
was irregular and unconflned, and
the only consistency about its
travels was that it came from the
scrub to the open spaces, and when
approached returned to the scrub.
My informant had no explanation
to offer of the thing. He often
saw it at close range, and de-
clared it was a floating ball of
light, reflective and brilliant, not
glowing dully like phosphorus. Its
haunt was dry scrub country, so
it was not a luminous gas. But
supposing it were, how about its
sensitiveness? For, as in the Warenda instance,
it could detect and defeat approach, could sense and
halt to a lurking danger, and if chased, go like
the Devil.
* * * »
“Beer King” : I stagger in to inform “Some
Fish” (B. 17/2/’2l) that his cateh is a river lam-
prey. This worm is quite common in the Bass River
(where presumably it was caught), but have not
heard of it being hooked. “Some Fish” omits to
mention that it hangs on by suction of the mouth
with the tenacity of a mortgage on a dairy farm.
In the case of the salt-water species, if not the river
kind, the lamprey hangs on to a live fish and rasps
away the flesh with its teeth, finally establishing
itself inside its victim, which it consurnos entirely—
with the exception of the outer skin. It will be
remembered that an English king died as the result
of a gorge of this fish. Evidently beer wasn’t
invented in those days, or the pleasure-seeking
monarch would have adopted a more joyful, if
plebeian, form of exit.
“Ragar”: Re weird lights seen in the
bush at night, “T.E.A.'s” illumination (B. 27/1/ 21)
has a duplicate on Steven island in Torres Strait. The
light appears only at certain seasons, and only
on the north-east side of the island. The natives
believe it to bo the spirit of a white man who
was washed up there from a wreck about 50 years
THE LUCKY DOG!
THE ROCKCHOPPER'S WIFE: "Ye want, yer tay, do ye! Ah, it's well to be you — strollin'
in from yer job in a nice cool sewer, an ’ me sweatin' and slavin' all day in the
heat up here!"
ag-o, and welcomed with a club which put an end
to his troubles on the spot. The last time I was
there 1 saw a wavering suggestion of light moving
along the beach under the overhanging wangai-
trees, but could form no idea as to what it was.
No islander will go near the spot while the show
is going on, and though the business was nearing
closing-time when 1 saw it 1 could get no native
to come along and act as showman. They declare
that the light is bright, “all same kelesene,” when
at its strongest. The entire population resides on
the opposite side of the island, though they visit the
reef facing the “devil place” when searching for
troehus-shell.
* * * *
“XXX” : One lambing season on a far-
west (N.S.W.) station I saw two eaglehawks make,
a big hare put up a 100yds’. record for the safety
of a wire fence, where he jambed himself hard
against a post under the bottom wire. During
pursuit in the open the hawks held all the trumps,
but now the hare’s position rendered service of
wings and claws practically nil. The hunters
perched on posts 12ft. apart; then three re-
inforcements arrived, and a council of war ensued.
The newcomers landed; but on the ground puss had
little to fear when eluding their clumsy bumble-
footed attacks, accompanied by much flapping and
shrill screaming. He kept plumb under the wire
and flashed from post to post, slipping round each
base like the flick of a snake’s tongue. The screen
of seven wires saved him from all aerial attacks. Thus
for 300yds. the hunt continued, till at last five
sadly disgruntled birds relinquished it.
* * » *
“Kosciusko”: Bonnie was certainly the
most intelligent sheep-dog I have ever known.We were
hustling a big mob along the Warrego through a
very scrubby belt, and for three days no count was
possible. When we checked, 17 sheep were missing.
Bonnie was sent back to look up the stragglers,
while the main body moved on. A week later 10
foot-sore and weary jumbucks tailed into camp late
one evening escorted by the faithful Bonnie, who
was carrying the skin of the remaining one, which
he had been compelled to use for rations. Yes,
Bonnie was all right.
* * * *
“Lincoln”: Re “Jim Carew’s ” query (B.
6/l/’2l), Can kangaroos swim? Years ago, when
'roos were plentiful on Eyre’s Peninsula (S.A.), the
old men used frequently to take to the water in
Sleaford Mere to escape from the dogs. After we’d
called the dogs off for fear the ’roos would drown
them by holding them under in three or four feet of
water, the old bucks would generally swim out,
describe a half-circle and finally land two or three
hundred yards from where they entered the water.
Some, oh the other hand, would strike out manfully
for the opposite shore, about a mile across, as a
rule. Only remember seeing two get drowned. They
threw their arms us as a man does, and went to the
bottom.
‘Delhi : Came across a swamp-wallaby
the other day who, on hearing my approach, tried
to make off, but in his first effort he hit a tree and
then a stump, so I brained him with a stick. On
examining him I found that both his eyes had been
apparently picked out. As be stood' 3ft. 6in. I
would like to know what did the trick
“Bihai”: Papuan pawpaws must be of a
different variety from those grown in Queensland,
mentioned by “Rag'ar" (B. 23/12,/’2O). North
Queensland meat may be tough, but, compared
with hornbill, it is as tender as chicken, yet cue
,off the breast of that same leathery bird, wrap it
in pawpaw leaves and beat it with the rolling-pin,
and it is a grill fit for a profiteer’s banquet. The
bruising of the leaves on to the meat and leaving
it for a couple of hours may be an essential feature
of the process omitted by “Ragar,” whom I advise
to try again. As to the unhealthiness of the
vicinity of the pawpaw tree, my fowlhouse is sur-
rounded by them, and the flowers and fallen fruit,
are greedily devoured by the hens, whose systems
seem to be invigorated thereby, for they have been
laying continuously since last May.
AFTER DEATH—
WHAT?
THE PUP: “Gam, I
could eat yer in two
Fites!”
THE GODANNA: “So you might. But what a
time you'd have digestin' me!"
“Jim Carew”: If this isn’t a record it
should be. A N.S.W. South Coast cocky friend, of mine
has a shorthorn cow which has up to date calved
four times. Each time she has presented her owner
with twins, and each time the twins have been of
opposite sexes. All the calves have been normal and
healthy, and all have been reared.
(Continued on page 22.)
TO ENCOURAGE THE OTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It has been found that poultry respond readily
to music, and more than one farmer testifies that
the output of eggs from his hens has been notably
increased by the playing- of a mechanical organ in
the mornings.”
To Hangman’s, which is on the Rope,
Came Carlo Smith, a singing man.
Deprived of operatic hope,
To farm the chickens was his plan,
And down the creek he set his pens,
And loosed his roosters and his hens.
Thereafter on the Rope we found
A newer, gayer atmosphere;
Where only crows had cawed around
There swelled a music high and clear.
A “Mignon” solo ravished me ; ‘
“Killarney” always followed tea.
And after lunch the “Solveg Song”
Is ringing through the odorous gums ;
A mellow cadence sweet and strong
“Down in the Forest” to me comes,
Or ’tis “The Gentle Lark” that steals
Across the ti-tree after meals.
I get the “Faust” songs as I fence,
And blithely plough the grateful soil,
Or with a pathos most intense
“The Minstrel Boy” relieves my toil.
Sweet strains make bright our poor bush dens —
The tenor singing to his hens 1
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


STEELE RUDD’S
SELECTION STORIES.
Fifteen Splendid Novels by the Author of
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Our New Selection
Dad in Politics
Stocking Our Selection
From Selection to City
Back at Our Selection
Sandy’s Selection
Book of Dan
Grandpa’s Selection
Duncan McClure
Memoirs of Corporal
Keeley
The Old Homestead
On an Australian Farm
The Dashwoods
The Poor Parson
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great New Novel:
“A ROUGH PASSAGE.”
All Bookstalls and Booksellers.
1/3 (1/4* posted).
The Famous Dean Case.
Hon. R. D. MEAGHER tells the story of his
“TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ BATTLE”
to secure re-admission to the Courts.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Shirts
m
fa
w
4
'M
/&
f
u
r;
£
-
*
m
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them —in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
See Hiis
on each
brand
shirt
%
sL
m
piasfs
Leviathan Suits
Smarten Your
Appearance.
The
Quality Suit
£8)186
Made to Measure.
Isn’t it wonderful how a well-
cut Suit will improve a man’s
appearance? The Leviathan
llltra-Stylish Cut, coat fash-
ioned with one or two buttons,
as preferred. Materials feature
Genuine Indigo Serge and All-
Wool Tweeds.
Enquire about your Winter
Suit To-day!
Leviathan Style Experts are
men of keen insight.
WRITE FOR SELF-
MEASUREMENT FORM,
CHART AND TAPE.
A Perfect-Fitting Suit
Guaranteed.
RETURNED
ALLOWED 10% DISCOUNT.
IV.
m
m
am
m
mm
m
m
m
mak
is
m
wm
BiMU
MU
m
nm
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE,
hEfIATHAH
PTY.
LTD.,
Comer
Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
AS
r, S(Vf»
LI
I-
The Standard Razor
of the World.
In every country, among all rates, the
Gillette
has proved itself first favorite with
men of every type.
No stropping—no honing—no setting.
A simple turn of the handle adjusts it
to the beard of the individual user.
The Gillette shaves a light or heavy
growth with the same smooth, quick,
even cleanness.
Standard Set in neat leather case, 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE RAZOR COMPANY OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal. Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Brisbane. Adelaide.
MADE IS
CANADA.
nm
-KNOWN THE
nm


Brewed at Home
er*
2
If it aiit,
Ite Better
A Tin of “BE VARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/C PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. 0R POSTAGE "HAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
ASSURED WATER SUPPLIES
for Homesteads, Stock or irrigation by using
“Alston’s”
Patent Enclosed
Bouble-Gsared
Windmills
(Immediate Deliveries Can Be Given)
These Mills are now replacing
other makes on account of their
Absolute Reliability. They are
fitted with Machine-cut Gears, Automatic Lubri-
cation and Speed Regulator, making a Silent,
Unwearable, Storm-proof Mill. All working
parts are enclosed in a dust-proof case and run
in an oil-bath, keeping the mill lubricated for
mouths.
Send for Free Catalogue.
n
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS, Queen's Bridge, Metboume.lWilia
DEAFNESS
n
mn
nm
n
Perfect hearing is now
being restored in every
condition of deafness
or defective hearing
from causes such as
Catarrhal Deafness,
Relaxed or Sunken
Dru m s, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and
Hissing Sounds, Per-
forated. Wholly or
Partially Destroyed
Dru m s, Discharge from Ears. etc.
WILSON COMMON-SENSE EAR DRUMS
“Little Wireless ’Phones for the Ears,” re-
quire no medicine, but effectively replace
what is lacking or defective in the natural
ear drums. They are simple devices, which
the wearer easily fits into the ears, where
they are invisible. Soft, safe and comfort-
able. Write to-day for booklet, or order now.
The price is 21/-
H. WILKINSON (Wilson Ear Drum Co.),
Ist Floor, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Mention this paper.)
“Imbaga” : “Boomerang” and others have
been blaming the Japs and Germans for introducing
fake dogs’-teeth to the simple savages of New
Guinea. Britons can claim any credit there is going
for a much more ingenious forgery than that. Every
Western Pacific trader knows sapi-sapi, the shell-
money which is better currency than gold from the
New Hebrides to New Ireland —tiny disks of pinkish
brown shell, strung on “fathom” lengths of split
lawyer-cane. Two New Guinea traders in the
’nineties had a brain wave and sent samples
to Birmingham. In clue course they received a con-
signment of sapi-sapi that defied all tests they put it
to. The crook currency went magnificently until
one clay a leading native financier dropped a fathom
of it on the cement floor of a store. It broke into
dust, and as the genuine sapi-sapi is as tough as
Randolph’s Bedford’s faith in Queensland's finances,
the game went up in smoke, to say nothing of
Papu-Melanesian blasphemy.
* * * *
“Kalboonga” : We have fish in the waters
below Mt,. Spec, Townsville’s proposed sanatorium,
that are worth a little publicity. When a cow
mooches into a waterhole, these mountain trout, as
THE UNIVERSAL FIRE INSURANCE
PREMIUM.
" Hee, see—I got a shillun, an’ you on’y got
threepence."
"Oh, well, mine’s better than yours, my
mother says, because it goes to church
oftener
they are locally known, clean every tick of any size
oft' her quick and lively. The old cows, who know
the game, walk in, turn around, and, with only
head, neck and backbone out of water, stand con-
tentedly chewing their cud, while large numbers of
the fish scramble for their grub.
“Ragar”: “Bouragi’s” suspicion (B.
10/2/’2l) that the cultivated croton is responsible
for the declining birth-rate in Papua is unfounded.
The Papuan ladies of many of the tribes, especially
in the western division, declare they are not going
to run the house, do the chores, cultivate the garden,
and then bear and rear children. Their methods are
simple, if crude. A heap of grass is made, in the
centre of which is strewn a handful of leaves from
-a certain bush. The grass is set on fire, and, being
green, sends up dense volumes of thick smoke which
the lady breathes and swallows till she rolls over,
missing total asphyxiation by a short head. The
desired effect is certain, and is said to be due to the
HALL-MARKED.
“ Cripes, he’s a savage cow! But how do you know he’s a champion?"
"A champion! Why, he can fight any other bull, in the district!"
fumes of the burning leaves, rather than to the
choking effects of the grass smoke. The secret of
the leaves is held by the women only. The trailing,
convolvulus-like vine that grows along the tropical
beaches, and always heads towards the sea, is said
to be used as an abortifacient by the coastal tribes.
The stem is pounded; the pulp mixed with sea
water, and the resultant decoction gulped down by
the gallon. The virtue is only supposed to exist in
this drug when made from a flowering vine.
* * * *
“Montalex” (B. 27/l/’2l) is
wrong about the name of the adder found in Aus-
tralia. The correct name is “death-adder” (Acan-
t.hopis an tare He a). This snake is rarely over 2ft.
long, and is in no way aggressive. Unlike other
Australian snakes it has a hollow fang instead of
a grooved one. The death-adder can bite through
thick clothing and still have its deadly effect, as
the poison passes down the centre of the fang and is
ejected at the tip. The poison is formed in the
parotid gland, just beneath the eye, and is conveyed
to the fang by the poison duet.
* * «• *
“Kismet” : Years ago when Hugh Milman
was Government Resident of Thursday Island and
the surrounding empire whole islands of natives
began to die out. It was found that the women
used to migrate to Red Island, where grew a medi-
cine that relieved them of Eve’s burden. In his
wise old way he made it an indictable offence for
any woman to be found on the island; and made
doubly sure by taking over a boatload of water-
police boys to eradicate, the plant. Also,
there’s a weed—a round-leaved creeper grow-
ing all about the beaches of Port Moresby and
other parts of Papua that the natives use
similarly. Leaves and stalks are boiled down
for a couple of hours until the extract be-
comes concentrated, and about a cupful is
taken on an empty stomach. This is also
said to be a cure for dysentery. Whilst on the
subject of obstetrics, the woman of the beaches
—“salt-water woman” —immediately after
the birth of her child, wades into the sea
up to her waist and stays there until every-
thing is right. In 16 years of the islands I
never came across a case of septicemia. When
questioned about birth-control the women
simply say, “Piccaninny too much humbug.
No can walk [gad] about; all the time look
out along him.” Nellie, who used to be em-
ployed at Somerset, the Jardine homestead
(and is probably there still), represents
one of the most remarkable surgical cases
known. For days she lay in torment till
her old native mother could stand it no
longer. So she took a piece of hoop-iron and sharpened
it well, and with it performed a Cssarian operation.
I his done she sewed Nellie’s abdomen up with a
packing-needle and string. The scar is somewhere
about a foot long. The young Caesar is still alive. And
Nellie is none the worse.
“Ragar”: Among the inland tribes that
live in the swamps of Papua there is a custom
which I think is unique. When about to build a
new house the man takes a dog, which must be
entirely black, and ties it up against a tree close to
where the new house is to be built. The postholes are
dug, and when the time comes for setting up the
first post the dog is taken and tied to the post at
the bottom of the hole, which is then quickly filled
in, burying the dog alive. The idea is that the
spirit of the dog will become the guardian of the
house, and that should any enemy approach during
the night the dog will give warning by howling in
a peculiar way.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: In Haddon’s paddock at
Cardigan were two large quarry-holes in which we
used to swim as boys, and returning to the haunts
of my youth recently I decided to go for a walk
in the paddocks and refresh my . memories. The
same hill, the same bit of a creek meandering past,
the same cows precisely, the same humdrum locusts
whirring in the warm air, and the same old water-
holes. In one of these latter a man sitting up to
his neck in the none-too-clean water. There was
nothing peculiar about the act of taking a hath
even at Cardigan, but this bather was sitting with
his hat on, holding an open umbrella over his head
and reading. I reclined on the rock from which
I had taken many a rib-bender in boyhood’s days,
and the bather discovered me, and said it was a
fine day. I rehearsed the familiar astronomical
fact, and then said: “Excuse m’e, but you take it
easy bathing.” "I’m not bathing,” he replied with
a touch of scorn. “Then what are you doing?”
“I’m fishin’.” “Fishing?” “Yes, fisbin’,” saying
which he arose, plucked about 20 leeches off his
legs and deposited them in a pickle-bottle. Then
he resumed his seat and his reading.
"Mullygrub”: “Jimsey” (B. 6/l/’2l)
cites a spring on the Hawkesbury which flows only
at night, producing a modest 30 gallons of drinking
water per diem. I know an intermittent spring at
Goroke (Vic.), which compares with that spring as
whisky to water. It irrigates five or 10 acres of
vegetables each night with unfailing regularity. It
merely seeps up through the porous sandy soil evenly
over the whole garden, and gives the' roots of the
vegetables a drink. The rise and fall each 24 hours,
as tested in a well in the garden, is usually about
two feet. The garden is situated near the edge of
the Little Desert.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: Anglers for Murray-cod
have the best bait obtainable at their hand in the
form of the white wood-grub, yet it is seldom used.
It haunts the dampness under logs and moss-grown
tree-trunks. A friend of mine collects all his wood-
chips and throws them into a hole in the garden.
He waters the plot nightly, and when in need of
cod-bait just digs here and is invariably rewarded
with a good supply of wood-grubs.
* * * ft
“Koel”: Let “Eurah,” who asks how to
make a syrup from sugar-beet (B. 20/1 /’2l), take
about 71b. of the beet, slice very thin, lay on a
sieve or piece of net stretched over a crockery or
enamel basin, and[ allow to drain thoroughly; boil
the liquid slowly in an enamel pan till it is as
thick as thin c-ream, put in jars or tins and fasten
down when cold.. Should fermentation set in a
gentle boil will put things right.
* * E- #
“Billy T.”: We had a wonderful natural
barometer on the Fly-By-Night mine at Pinafore,
Tasmania, in the shape of Macmichael’s head of hair.
Macmichael was an engine-driver, and he had a
shock of true auburn hair which waved, crimped or
curled, according to the temperature. When Mack's
wool curled up close, like that of a retriever dog,
we knew rain was imminent; when it began to let
out, dry weather was a cert.; by the time it reached
a mere wave, we knew that 96° in the shade had
been reached. At 105° Mack’s locks were as straight
as nails. It was the engine-driver’s hair that pre-
dicted the flood of 1890, and led to the diversion of
the creek that / saved nine mines from inunda-
tion. Marik’s curls were so tight that week they
nearly pulled themselves up by the roots.
* * * *
“Mag”: Unlike “Jimsey’s” spring (B.
6/l/’2l), a small rock standing a foot above the
mainland beach at Poona, 30 or 40 miles S.E.
from Maryborough (Q.), has from the dim past,
during stress of drought, been an unfailing supply
of fresh water to man and beast. The water issues
freely from a hole as wide as a man’s hand in the
centre of the rock. To insure a small permanency,
the lock has been gouged out on top to the capacity
of about two or three gallons, and the hole when
emptied quickly re-fills. Unfortunately it is only
accessible at low-tide, and in drought time it is
a common thing to see cattle up to their flanks in
the sea waiting to get a drink. No doubt the
supply comes unaer the bed of the ocean from
I raser Island opposite, which in itself is a reservoir
capable of permanently supplying all the Pussyfoots
in America.
* * * «
Pick” ; \\ ill someone tell me if Binghi’s
tribal surgeons had any skill in setting a broken
limb, or did they, as an ancient Wallaga (N.S.W.)
nig. once assured me, when one of their mob made
himself an encumbrance with a broken leg, “knock
plurry pfeller ’longa head, and leavem behind?” On
the sandbar of Mystery Bay, where Lamont Young’s
party did the disappearing act many years ago, my
fishing mate and I discovered a human thigh-bone
with the plain fissure of a perfectly-mended old
fracture diagonally across it. An old blackfellow
boneyard was some distance further along the shore,*
but to me the likelihood appeared that it was the
sea giving up a relic of the old-time mystery.
*** ’ *
“D.F.”; Like the wattle the eucalypt is
often very tenacious of its rights. On the Ragged Tier
in the Sorell (Tas.) district a paddock had been
cleared for nearly half a century and in cultivation,
off and on, all the time. All the gum-trees there-
about.: were killed oft when the land was cleared,
for the last few years the paddock has been down
in grass and a healthy crop of young blue-gums has
been springing up all over it. If left alone the
land would soon go hack to forest.
* * * *
“W-A H.” : I have an old Orpington hen
that devours her own eggs on sight. She is a well-
bred bird and a good mother, so I don’t want to
introduce her to the axe. Is there any other remedy?
»** * *
A.X. ’; Two big red cedars were lowered
on N.S.W. North Coast recently. One, downed at
Mulla Mulla Creek, was 60ft. to the first limb, and
cut out 80,000 ft. of sound timber ; the other, felled
near Lismore, was 10ft. in diameter, and contained
30,000 ft. Big red cedars are scarce near the mills ;
but when the portable benches get into the dense
forests, there will be millions of feet to satisfy the
hungry market. White cedar, however, is more
plentiful, and has to take the place of the red
brothel'.
“Eddyson”: “Picture a man,” said Farmer,
“buried up to his shoulders by a fall of earth o»i
a hillside miles from anywhere. He had beer,
sitting like that through one night, and he had
a bright prospect of sitting so for a. week. With
the fall that buried him came a boulder that nar
rowly escaped dashing his brains out, but it had
him now by the leg in so tight a pressure that
hours of agonised struggling at length convinced
him of the utter hopelessness of his attempts to
free himself. With the new day tire stin poured
AN IMPOSSIBLE CONDITION.
"The man I marry must have common sense."
“Ur-r-r, then he won’t marry you, that’s
certain."
molten lead upon his defenceless face and head, and
the ants began to get in their devilish work. He
realised he was doomed to a lingering death with
torture. Then at about 10 o’clock he heard a
rush of feet, and caught a glimpse of a big kangaroo-
dog rushing towards him in pursuit of a rabbit. The
poor devil summoned all his strength and yelled
for dear life. The dog heard, ami curiosity brought
him to a full stop. He approached the buried
man warily, sniffing. He crept nearer still, sniffing-,'
and just as a new horror began to steal into Bill’s
soul, the dog began to dig-. He dug furiously,
throwing the dirt behind him like a machine, and in
about seven minutes Bill’s legs were bare. Then
the shower stopped, and Bill, looking up, beheld a
small, whiskered, sullen-looking bushman. ‘For
God’s sake!’ cried Bill, ‘roll that rock away.'
The man snorted. ‘Dunno as I will,’ he replied.
‘lf it hadn’t a-bin fer you he’d a cot that rabbit!’ ”
Then Farmer concluded. “It isn’t surprising that
I’m so familiar with the details—Pm the bloke
that eras buried.”
HENRY PLEADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Polly, I’m a bashful cove w’en it comes to makin'
love,
W’en skirts come round 1 set out for me life.
But I love you so alarmin’ I'm all mixed up in me
farmin’,
So, dinktim oil, dear, will you be me wife?
Ninety.cows pass through me hails. I've a spring wot
x never fails,
An’ butter-fat is hound to rise this year,
An’ the price of corn an’ pigs makes me feel like
dancin’ jigs—
Won’t you love me, then, a little, Polly dear ?
Them bold knights of chivalry wot you throws -up so
at me
By bashin’ pore blokes’ ’eads could win renown,
But I’ll bet no old Sir John wif his shirt of iron on
At milkin’ scrubber cows could take me down ;
I'm just common ’uraan clay, one wot works an’
pays ’is way,
But wif love I fairly shiver w’en you’re near,
An’ you wouldn’t down a cobber ’cos he ain’t no
meat-tinned robber —
Say you’ll love me, then, a little, Polly dear !
1 struck no romantic bits them three years I
sparred with Fritz,
Only mud an’ blood an’ noise an’ shells an'
smells;
Heavin’ bombs, too, ain’t such fun w’en the other
side drops one
An’ the toss-up’s more like grave than weddin'-
bells;
But I’ll be your dilly knight if you’ll love me, an’
I'll fight
That John ’Op, Tongs, who’s always callin’ ’ere;
I could stoush ’im in one round, spread ’ini out upon
the ground,
If you’d love me just a little, Polly dear.
But I’ll fight to win your praise in a metal ’at an’
stays
(There’s lots of benzine-tins around me place) ;
An’, for lute, me old banjo I can play on as I go,
While me maul of ironbark can be me mace ;
An’ I’ll ride to William Tongs, chantin’ lays an’
such cronlc songs,
An’ I’ll smite that pop-eyed John ’Op on the ear;
Though it should mean six months’ ’ard, I shall out
’im on the sward —
Will you love me then a little, Polly dear?
N.S.W.
N. GRAHAME.


•rnmnis
. > i.
•■ ■ . «' ' ' . ...V ' '
, s , •' ■,
r
■M:
?*«2
W
vr
r
■33
SfW«S)«
! -x* • - ,•
«S3»>S
-r.:
; mm.
BMMHP* •»*' ' » ••*„“'• '•« sr'l
msmr^g
ffl
. ; . f .
W. - K > '^J
; :::- . - . - , *
mm
i r
• 1 *\
. .. ;.;, ‘ff ▼
. .-• , * < "•• ■* '■• -W~"-
y f
ivm
%
t
A
sfcSlSli
MB'S
mlw
«'i-Vil-;
I\.<CSG
•‘£:%
, '/
h#**.' '\ m
*
•;*r-
.
. . . .
um
■iCV,
r
'-I
■
:■ -. ' . I
S*i'
ms
m
UmiMimi*' ■ iijwi*w<—f 11011
••*.6 .
*— i—*«
m
vl
m
* -JR*’
■ 8
l;
”>*-»-> JU ■
**T
a
;#
!' V :
i ;
. - •. ' .
•- . ■:. 4
'
fete*
: '
i
: -;A
wmmmmmmima
V
■t« »i
When motorists year after year use the one
make of tyre you can be certain that they
are satisfied. A glance at the tyres on the
cars of your friends-or those on the roadside
—indicates in no uncertain manner what a
large proportion of motorists use Dunlop
“Railroads.” In fact* you can see that
are easily the most popular with motorists.
Why? Here's the reason! It takes continued
absolute superiority before any tyre becomes
an established favorite with motorists. It
must be better-and keep on being better-
than its competitors. An isolated case of
big mileage is not enough to maintain its
popularity. It is the general average, consis-
tent long and dependable service, that wins
and holds the patronage of motorists. To
do this calls for extra mileage and value
ahead of other makes. “Railroads” un-
questionably ensure these essentials to
economical motoring, and every “Railroad”
can be confidently bought with the cer-
tainty of obtaining thousands of free-from-
trouble miles. All garages can supply
in beaded edge and straight-sided types. \
Use “Dunlops.” r It pays!
* ★ *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.
ALL STATES


■/A
2
ft
A’ 1
*
1
m
l
l
£:
E*
sO- ?
S3
Sv»
m
ss
*53
iv£
.-■<
.tV
E
£►*
rr.
-
i
V-
•v*.
]N
•-»
?
•5
rK
ifi
fe
r.
t
Kf
:
a. : i/»
St
3
m
UrrrfWU"' 1
Comox gives to the
Village Blacksmith
a wonderful new power
SURGERY seems a curious word to use for a
blacksmith’s shop and yet it is hardly a misuse
of the term. There is, nowadays, as remarkable
a success in the repair of injuries to inanimate things as of
those to the human frame. Science has done that.
In former days, when a man was badly injured, he received
the crude ministralions of well-meaning but unskilful prac-
titioners. If he was hurt beyond the narrow limits of their aid,
usually he died—eliminated because of the ignorance of the
times. Science progressed and now the surgeon can reclaim
a sufferer maimed or mutilated almost beyond belief.
Science has reached a similar goal in the case of colossal or infinitesimal
pieces of metal which happen to break or become worn. Formerly a
crack or break in metal parts, tools or utensils meant the end of their
life unless fire welding or riveting could give them a small extension of
usefulness. But to-day, a Comox Welding Plant in the hands of an
operator possessing no greater technical skill than the Village Blacksmith
provides the means for repairing all broken metal parts and appliances—
quickly and more cheaply than is possible by the old methods.
Oxy Acetylene Welding is effected by fusing the cracked or broken area
or part to be joined by means of intense heat. The weld is a per ect
fusion of the metal to be “ healed,” and the metal becomes as strong at
the join as at any other part.
Any household metal utensil or appliance—any metal part of a motor car, such
as gear or crank case, differenial housing, channel frame—can be repaired
for a trifle compared with the cost of replacement, likewise any broken pa f fs of
farm implements, while in general engineering practice, shipbuilding, steel and iron
work and mining operations Oxy-Acetylene (Comox) Welding is firmly established
as a tremendous power for economy.
For particulars of ycur nearest Comox welding station—for details and cost of
Comox welding and cutting plants write to nearest of the firms shown below.
Commonwealth Oxgyen & Accessories Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY
AGENTS:
FYV1E & STEWART, 362 Collins St.. Melbourne. EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 St Eri.han*
GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD., Grenfell St., Ade 'de. GEO. WILLS & CO. LTD., Murray St Perth
HARRISON BROS. & CO. LTD., 20 Patterson St„ Launceston. BROWN & JOSKE, Suva, Fiji.
NQIIVIS
DNIQTM
XOWO3
>


The
Purest
Spirit
in the
World.
-r
‘-.-S'
f
SCHNAP^
: ">
I
I
iJ 1
V-
■O >
m
1
Jmand
{"CONTRACTORS —Builders —Shire and County
Councils favour this 2 ton type of Lorry. The
side tipping is a feature of great convenience enabl-
ing the Lorry to be driven straight into confined
spaces and the load tipped exactly where required.
W/
m
r r
- ?
this Tip. Let it
be a Ley land''
LEYLAND LOGIC
Lev land Tin Lorries are remark-
able not only jor the service then
give but /or the variety of types
which are offeied. Steam or
Petrol driven—Rear or Side Tip —
Hand or Hydraulic tipping Me-
chanism-Spoke or Disc v\ heels—
and to pull loads of varying
weights up to 5 tons. The
Chassis is Ley land standard in
every case and built to pull extra
loads i n trailers.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
FROM STOCK
LEVLANB MOTORS LTIL,
London Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pts'., Ltd.. High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
"THOMPSON'S'
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAM STOWN. VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
* %
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
.MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Anst. Ltd,
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
G. Kinks & Co. Ltd,
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd
PEKTp:
Brown * Bureau Etd
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
correct then and is correct now. The reason
assigned for the discrepancy is that an event
doesn’t exist in itself but in the minds of
the spectators, and that if the orbit of time
isn’t a true circle but has the slightest
deviation into the form of an ellipse, then
the same happening will present itself to a
different audience with different views.
Therefore the Melbourne Cup might be the
taking of Jericho over again and both
descriptions be perfectly accurate.
But Einstein’s great find really began
to affect the lives of the people when Bunn,
the famous analyst, discovered how to
separate time and space. His success was
not really complete, for he didn’t contrive
to get space without time. That is left for
the future, and it is assumed that it will
mean immortality. But he got time in cer-
tain quantities without space. Many houses
are still built in space and occupy a lot
of room after the old fashion, but some are
built in time (which in a sense they always
have been, and in consequence of the accumu-
lated sins of bricklayers it was often a
mighty long time). The latter occupy no
room at all. which is a convenience in
crowded cities, and they save ground-rent,
though being constructed of one dimension
only and not ballasted with the other three
they lack something in durability. When
Bunn supplies more material they will pro-
bably become more numerous. The ground
floor is in the present and the cellars, of
which there are sometimes many tiers, are in
the past, while the superstructure is in the
future. Conservatives, antiquaries and
archaeologists live below, while above are
dreamers, prophets, cubists, futurists and the
like. No building more than a century high
has yet been erected owing to the instability
of the materials, but even at that height a
great many coming events are visible, and
violent reformers in the attics often go mad
either wondering how to avert them or how
to turn them to profit. In fact, what with
burrowing in the past and looking into the
future, and speculating as to what day it is
and has always been 900,000 ft. up, where it
is always the same day, all the world is a
trifle mad by reason of Albert Einstein’s
discovery, which was confirmed by the eclipse
of 1919. And it may become madder at any
moment. There are schemes afoot for mak-
ing time liquid So that it can be seen rolling
cm, and for weighing it to see why it hangs
heavy on the hands.
The fate of Juliet, mentioned above, is
merely an episode in tbe new order of thiners.
People who fall back into space mixed with
time still die as usual, and are buried in the
usual way, but those who fall into pure
time have queer endings.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Everlasting New Art
There has always been a New Art. Pos-
sibly the traditional first pictorial expres-
sion of a charcoal-outline of a cave-woman’s
profile lasted as "art” for a couple of years;
but at the end of that time a youfiger school
probably rose up to say that all that was
out of date; tnat since the imagination
was conscious of the other eye both eyes
should be drawn in, albeit the posing was
profile; and that, to get the effect of a
sudden glance at the lady, her nose should
be placed over her two ears, the whole being
strictly out of drawing in detail and in
mass. The leader of the younger school,
being a good talker with a mysteriously
impressive way of wearing a bearskin, a
good many people listened to him, and for-
got the brainy man’s dislike of mastodon-
drives and the more strenuous forms of
butchery and food-getting. He never became
vieux jeu, because he didn’t last long
enough; another school superseded him witli
the dictum that the best way to get a por-
trait of the lady was not to draw her at
ail, but to let the memory imagine her face
on the wall.
In Phoenicia and Assyria similar schools
objected strongly to the arbitrary habit of
painting a brown slave with a red loincloth
in such a way as to recall the actual slave
to the eyes of children, emperors and other
uneducated people—at least, I can’t think
that those strong civilisations managed to
carry on without some rebels to keep them
alive. And in Greece and Rome it is almost
certain that some wineshops found the tech-
nique of sculpture a long-winded nuisance
to acquire, and started out (late in the
afternoon) to prove that Venus was more
artistically presented to the imagination in
a rough-hewn square block of marble than
in the conventional jumble of curves and
lines hitherto supposed to represent the
human body.
The essence of the thing is revolt —honest,
if possible, but revolt. Guido of Siena
revolted honestly against the gorgeous but
formal Byzantine decorations in 1220, as
the over-colored Byzantium had earlier
rebelled against the cold classicism of Greece
and Rome. Giotto revolted in 1300 against
the solemn treatment of the monk-inspired
subjects of his day’s “convention”; to the
horror of the cardinals he painted the every-
day scene and incident, and to their sur-
prise got a simple, every-day piety into it.
Bellini, Titian and Giorgione followed Lippi
and Perugino, the million worlds of "style”
came into being, and there was considerable
“atmosphere” talk ; until Da Vinci, Michael
Angelo and Raphael came, blowing the talk
and the busy little worlds out of being on
the wind of their overwhelming revolt.
Earlier and farther north Jan Van Eyck
had started, and Memlinc and Vander Goes
had carried on a school of del’cate pseudo-
conventionality rather rigid in form if flex-
ible and romantic in color and treatment:
and Plans Holbein submitted a respectful
rebellion embodied in sundry portraits of
people showing truly and unromantically
what the sitters looked like.
At the passing of the 16th and for the
first half of the 17th centuries a general
revolution was carried on, the new Natural-
isti doing their best to drive the old Eclectics
out of business. The Eclectics fought for
the preservation of the old stiff manner, and
the Naturalisti for an independent style
“based on the indiscriminate imitation of
common life treated in a bold and lively
manner.” Salvator Rosa, the strongest of
the Naturalisti, had later in his career a
little revolution of his own typified by his
infusion of poetic thought into his “indis-
criminate imitation, etc.” Velasquez and
Murillo joined up as supernumeraries from
Spain, Velasquez’s weapons being kings who
looked like men on horseback —like kings
riding down the street, in fact —and not like
gods on Olympian clouds. Murillo’s share
in the lawlessness was even worse; his saints
and angels laughed, and his St. John the
Baptist was only an ordinary little boy in
the bloom of childhood, not at all like a
little boy who was going to be a great con-
ventional saint, and other regrettably life-
like things.
But all that is from the point of view of
honest revolt—honest endeavor to make more
flexible some fibrous patches in conventional
expression. A possibly rigid cow was still a
cow, but a more human, more moving cow,
so to speak. But Matisse, Wyndham Lewis,
Cezanne, Hamilton, don’t put up a fair
thing. They don’t even use the prehistoric
painter’s happy method of not painting at
all; they paint the invisible —the Fourth
Dimension —the thoughts and aspirations of
the cow, the dreams of a man putting on his
boots, and so on. Acknowledging that one
art’s view of another is necessarily preju-
diced. I think the thing is, at best, rubbish,
and at worst, plain dishonesty. For my
sins I know some of the men in the crowd:
and as a crowd it is about equally fools and
cheats.
As thus. The terms of vision were laid
down by God some time ago. To our know-
ledge they have been evident in pictorial
reproduction for about 60 centuries. Within
the limits of finite judgment (which includes
even Wyndham Lewis and Matisse j it is
impossible that those 6000 years can be wrong
in their estimate of what they could see
and not see. For example, a good part of
humanity’s time has been spent in looking
at humanity, quickly and slowly and medium :
to the end that a man’s eyes are on either
side of his nose, that his mouth is under his
nose, and that his forehead and hair are on
top. That is rigid. No .speed of glance,
actual or in memory (other than in ill-
health) can alter it. No twist of thought,
attempted pungency or over-burdening of
expression’s poss’hilities can put a man’s
two eyes on one side of his nose or his ear
where his mouth should be. No one in
health can see them that way by the circum-
stantial evidence of 6000 years of looking.
The vision of Wyndham Lewis is not keener
than that of Norman Lindsay or of Joe
Wolinski: but neither Wolinski nor Lindsay
can see the thought-radiations which Lewis
naints; and not Lewis himself will remem-
ber in 20 years’ time which color of radia-
tion meant depression and which exultation.
A spinning whorl of fire is that and that
only to a man looking at it; to a man think-
ing of it itr'inay be the soul of a dervish or
a child’s top, according to his mood—which
means that pictorial! v its indefiniteness
makes it nothincr. From the viewpoint of
honest rubbish —and keeping an eye on one
art’s mistrust of another —the expression of
the inexpressible is a fascinating will o’ the
wisp, but it begins and ends obviously in
fascinating rubbish. j
The dishonesty-half is not less obvious.
The chances in cults manufactured to catch
the above honest fools are legion. The
“weird” fashionable decorations and the
consulting-fees you can charge the furni-
ture-artists insisting that six inches from
the floor is the most comfortable and beauti-
ful height for a chair-seat and getting away
with a sale of 1000 before they are found,
out; the Cubist and Futurist architects,
glaziers, house-painters, linen designers and
manufacturers, milliners, drapers, tailors
and haberdashers —all these have a beautiful
time. But the. only thing they express is
that they are good business men—very good:
their advertising is free in the shape of a
running fire of publicity from Cdzanne and
co. And getting something for nothing is
one of the oldest games, however insistently
you call it a New Art.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
The Tnisti, Servant., by G. V. McFadden. A man
is hung- for a murder he didn't commit; is 'pre-
maturely cut down so as not to offend the eyes
oi a royal visitor, revives, minus his memory, when
a sculptor lias bptujht the “body,” and, after a
full issue of misery, is nearly hung again for another
murder he didn’t commit. Even the love interest
tails to relieve the gloom df the storv, which s
not badly written.
The Dippers, by Ben Travers. A professional
dancing couple are engaged to entertain the week-
end party of a. brand-new pursy, peer. The husband
gets mislaid on the way, and an absent-minded
lawyer, abysmally ignorant of any sort of jazz,
finds himself, by a weird series of misunderstandings,
posing as the dancy hubby—and his own best girl
is one of the week-end guests. A chucklesome bit
of impossible nonsense.
Art in Australia. The eighth number keeps well
in step with tile one iiext ahead. The editors
of this admirable periodical can be marked down as
Good Australians, who are doing a distinct sendee
to their country. Besides keeping their readers
abreast of local art, they are showing their own
people and outsiders that a thoroughly artistic
production, with flawless color work, is possible
south as well as north of the Line. Among the
colored reproductions in this number are pictures
by James Quinn, Max Meldrum, John D. Moore, A.
H. Fullwood, J. Llewellyn Jones, Lionel Lindsay,
Tom Roberts, Jas. R. Jackson and Albert Collins.
There are also some of Ernest Finlay’s pottery,
shown in color, a couple of Sid Long’s aquatints, and
about a dozen well-selected blaek-and-whites from
various pencils. An appetising artistic spread.
On the literary side Lionel Lindsay, Bertram Stevens,
Hardy Wilson and Howard Ashton supply some
illuminating notes on various brushmen; and
James Macdonald has a word to say for “smooth”
painting. In addition, Dr. Archibald Strong enters
a strong plea for an Australian national theatre, and
Hardy Wilson, a little unnecessarily, tells on several
pages how he came to throw overboard his perfectly
good Christian name of William. The number
means regrets for those who failed to secure Art
in A. from the beginning.


A BRIGHT SIGN IN A BLACK
OUTLOOK.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd*
WOOLBROKERS,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
Send Your Wool
mu
to
m
DICK’S
TRADE
■ i
' - '
MARK
For Abnormal
Drives.
If you have a drive in your plant that, demands
a belt which must withstand abnormal condi-
tions of dust, dirt, heat, steam, excessive cold,
fumes or splashing water, Dick’s Balata Belting
will transmit all the power at the lowest possible
cost. It will do its work easily, without racking
vibration and without strain.
Write for Free Catalogue “B’’
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
681-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
and enjoy cycling.
There is no anxiety or trouble
with Bicycles built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings, they have been
famous for theirsound construction
and excellent service for over half
a century. For town and country
riding, alone or with companions,
under all conditions they are in-
valuable, and will by their relia-
bility and the small amount of
attention required, prove a conve-
nience, economy, and a constant
source of pleasure. See you get
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
mn
A
B.S.A.
4 Sign ol
Quality.
Send for Catalogue and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
{.Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
mJMfiRMHiMN
mm
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
0. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
m
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the British Board of Trade.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
n
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-nlling mechanism is
part of the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfacto y srlf-fillin'? pen like the Onoto, so be
sure to g tan Ono'o and not an oid-fashioned squirt-fit ed pen.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C, 1.
Managin'? Agents :
KORMAN BAKER & LONGBURST
Sydney a nd Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-Be t for all Pens
m
The All
mn
\Brit isK
LIGHT CAR.
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The most reliable and ever-
ready Car is the Standard—
that is the opinion of Owner-
Drivers all over the world.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agents :
1. PHIZ A CKE KLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
mm
mm
SE
C
m
A Perfect
Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
m
nm
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
* ¥r * - *
Love is not always blind. Extract from a
letter received by a Sydney physical cuiturist
from a “patient” in the champion cow district
of Maoriland: —
Now I want you to get out an exercise, something
useful for my young lady friend, Miss Blank.
Following are particulars of her case: Weak eyes,
can’t read for long, wears glasses, left eye weaker
than the right; chest too fiat; no shape; the whole
frame a bit on the small side; wants a little more
flesh. She does not sleep too well at night; head-
ache at times; 24 years of age. P.S. —Don’t for-
get Miss Blank is my intended wife if result of
exercises can show improvement.
* * * *
“Audio”: A builder in my neighborhood
bought a number of 40ft. building blocks.
By reducing the frontages to 30ft. he gained
a block on every three. As the row of jerry-
built houses he erected forms a street, the
vqlue of each 30ft. block is considerably
more than he paid for one of 40ft. My land-
lord became possessor of one of the houses
for £lOO deposit, “balance as rent” at 355.
a week. I live in the house and pay £2 2s.
a week. My landlord, therefore, receives
109 per cent, on his £lOO. In time I shall
have paid this back to him, besides making
him a present of the cottage. Unfortunately
we have five children; otherwise we could
let the front room to summer visitors at £2
a week.
* * * * *
“Toxicologist”: “Gregorius’s” remark (B.
17/2/’2l) that a detective with two grains of
cocaine in his blood stream would be the
most animated ’tec in the force reveals a
lamentable ignorance of sleuths and toxi-
cology. Unless the crook-catcher possessed
more lives than a cat he would soon be
awaiting the arrival of the cadaver cart. Sir
William Osier states that half a grain of the
drug is a border-line dose in those unaccus-
tomed to its use. And such authorities as
Peterson and Haines quote numerous cases
where 1 to 14 grain caused the recipient to
throw a seven. In fact, the great toxicity
of cocaine—eight times that of novocain—
has caused the drug to fall into disrepute as
a local anmsthetic for minor operations.
-*■' *■**
“Pro-Pessimist”: “Australia’s great
future.” “Our wonderful progress?” Well,
I dunno. I live-—have lived for 10 years—in
a Melbourne suburb, and the progress I re-
mark is in the nature of the fabled crab’s—
backwards. Ten years ago letters from Syd-
ney were delivered in our locality in the
afternoon of the day following their despatch ;
nowadays we are lucky if we get them within
two days. Ten years ago mails from Eng-
land arrived punctually once a week; nowa-
days—well, Heaven only knows when they
come, or how. Milk was delivered twice
daily 10 years ago. not once, as at present.
One could get a ‘prescription made up at a
chemist’s up till 8 o’clock at night 10 years
ago; now it is an impossibility after 6. A
decent meal was served in restaurants at Is.
10 years ago; now the food and the service
are alike indecent and double the price. In
short, a decade ago Australia was a young,
happy, flourishing country. A decade hence?
Perhaps we shall have to spell it “decaved.”
* * f *
Some satirical gentlemen adorn the com-
mittee that manages the Melbourne Hospital.
After congratulating themselves on having
obtained the services, as X-ray manipulator,
of one who “possessed special qualifications
for the position, whose knowledge of the
work placed him in a class by himself.” they
placidly fixed his dole —one can hardly call
it a wage—at £4 10s. per week. On one
member interjecting that the yardman got
as much he was told he was- quite wrong;
the yardman got only £3 15s.
THE BALLAD OF THE DEMON GAS-METER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No man more frugal would you find
Than Bron in his well-ordered cot.
One thing there was distressed his mind,
One thing prevailed. Contrive and plot
As Edward might, the meter stiH
Would have its reckless, iron will,
And daily with his small estate
It played the ruthless profligate.
Bron wrote the co. a fierce attack,
A workman came and peered about,
lie said: “The register is slack!”
They sent another meter out.
This time it was a new machine,
Methodical, precise and clean.
You heard it tick within the can,
You saw it rocking as it ran.
Bron’s bills for oven and for light
They filled his bosom with amaze,
lie felt the meter’s click at night,
And could not sleep. So after days
He built himself a house to fit.
No openings for gas had it.
He lit with oil, and wood burnt he,
And Bron rejoiced that he was free.
One day some lads bestowed an old
And battered meter in his yard.
A fierce collector then they told.
He found it there, and, breathing hard,
Made out a bill which plainly showed
That seven pounds poor Edward owed.
Bron raved a twelvemonth and a day.
The Court then ordered him to pay.
Meanwhile that meter old he’d thrown
Into the river near at hand,
One night when he passed there alone
He heard a patter on the sand.
A toddle then of tiny feet
Went after Edward down the street.
And, like a curious, oblong gnome,
A meter followed Edward home.
Next morning out upon the mat,
All dented in and grimed with clay,
A squat, infernal meter sat,
And grinned, and would not go away.
Bron chased the thirg with sticks and stones,
With curse® and with hollow groans;
He sooled his dog upon it, too,
It stayed, whatever he might do.
One midnight came a fellow fat,
A demon gasman, dour and grim,
Who read the meter on the mat,
Wrote out a bill, and gave it him,
A bill for thousands. Out at New
Poor Bron runs mad. A meter new
That follows, registers by card
A million feet to every yard.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


m
ing
tropP
fter
edge
sa&Z.
You know
experience
that shaving dulls a razor edge. Do you realise that the
only way of renewing that edge is by stropping ? Unless
you are prepared to discard a blade after a few shaves
you must strop it every time it is used.
' Valet blades have the finest shaving edge yet produced,
and built right into the razor is an automatic stropping device
which is unobtrusive, which cannot go wrong, and which
renews that perfect edge with every shave.
It takes just ten seconds to strop the “ Valet ” Auto Strop
Safety Razor, and you can’t strop it wrongly.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
THE STANDARD SET (No. 1) consists of heavily silver-plated, self-stropping “Valet”
Auto Strop safety razor, twelve tested “Valet” blades, and genuine “ Valet ,r —* _ .
strop, complete in handsome case lined velvet and satin - - Price # /6
Price in N.Z., 30/-
Of all high-class dealers throughout Australasia.
Managing Agents for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
DENISON HOUSE, SYDNEY.
The word " Valet" on
Razor*. Strops, and
Blades indicates the
Pennine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor
Co., Ltd., V.n-m, City
Road, London, England.
m
.
AT
Strops itself
and saves
Expense for blades.
s
m
M
POWER
a
m
m
i
The
4USTER Engine
WITH ENGLISH MAGNETO ANO TANK COMPLETE
Tt>e Auster will supply the
power to do every farm and
station job, from driving the
pump head to driving the saw
spindle. It starts On benzine
and runs on kerosene. No
blow lamp is needed. It con-
sumes only i-pint kerosene per
b.h.p. per hour.
Its lubrication is internal and
automatic.
The Auster is built in two sizes:—
Single Cylinder (3 2 h.p.) £75
Twin Cylinder (6-8 h.p.) £135
The Auster is equipped with a reliable British High-Tension
Magneto, and is complete with tank and case.
Spare parts are always available. Immediate delivery.
See it at the Royal Easter Show —it is working at Stand 33.
There you may also see the WADE One-Man Drag Saw —a
most interesting proposition to the man on the land.
W. G. Watson & Co. Ltd
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers,
279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
ROAD-MAKING
All Australian Made.
MACHINERY.
Kyvyotx
m.
m
0
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
<
with
ELEVATOR .ad TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT”
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION.
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE
“C.”
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE {“-5993
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


was
nndfi
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
ENUS
PENCILS
n
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere!!
CHATEAU
TAMJNEA
Standard £? Hospital
BffltKNBV
v/^.
, I
■m
fsOLJ.
'-ir
■ .» ■
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
& Co., Ltd., Sydney
Rotastrop
mn
mn
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Oissatlefied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/-
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., 8YDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
This is the BEST
Way to Mark
all Linen
ZED
<7
NAMES'
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH'S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices—l 2 doz.7/6—6 doz. 5/*—3doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH
PTY.
LTD.
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND. VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic —BB per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—
Up to 96%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE, VICTORIA.
IL SPIRIT
' \ /
be
o
r»i
I
rr
%
Of course I use Plume
Plume is giving satisfaction to
thousands of motorists who appre-
ciate its punch, its uniformity, and
its cleanliness.
Plume is a powerful driving
force ; it is rich in heat units and of
great energy ; steep hills only serve
to prove how good it is.
Plume also gives that extra mile-
age that makes such a difference to
the petrol bill ; motorists say it gives
them a greater run for their money.
Plume is the spirit of accom-
plishment-ready for its work, day
in and day out, the year round.
If you don’t know that Motor
Spirits are not all the same, turn in
at the dealer who displays a Plume
sign, and join the great army of
satisfied Plume users.
Just ask for Plume
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
P 11 A
ns
a
S
a
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
m
s ...
am-
•i*zirr
Bin. Wood Pipe connected to flange of pump.
is so easily and expeditiously
handled that, when the
whistle blow’s and the day’s
work is over, you can note
with both pride and satis-
faction that your pipe layers
have kept pace with the ex-
cavation work and are just
behind the trenching' machine.
Expensive labor and equip-
ment. are entirely eliminated
by the installation of
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe, which
can be laid either above or
beneath the ground, is dur-
able, efficient, remarkably
economical and conveys
clear, sparkling water all
the time.
Send for our interesting
Descriptive Booklet,
which also deals with the
manufacture of our famous
WOOD TANKS.
All inquiries to
The Australian
Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd.»
Burns Bay Road,
LANE COVE
(Ferry to Fig Tree);
and at Footscray, Vic.
BALLADE OF BABES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I entered in the married state —
Of course there was a handsome lure.
A year had gone. I and my mate,
Our satisfaction to assure,.
Desired addition to secure —
With two we were not well content:
Three’s company that will endure,
And little babes are Heaven-sent.
There came to me one evening late
A squeaking son. With rapture put'
1 hugged him, and another straight
t ame puling—me in miniature.
A third then offered, most demure.
To stay the rush with argument
The doctor-man I did adjure,
But, babes, they say, are Heaven-sent.
They came from Glory. ’Twas my Lite
To be the victim past all cure.
'Hie angel at the drafting-gate
Slipped two too many, I endure
Residing in a town obscure
From that my darling ones frequent.
They’ve lost the Heavenly choir, I’m sure,
If little babes are Heaven-sent.
Envoi'.
I'm satisfied with portraiture;
The dears are sweet in banishment.
That Paradise may still allure,
The babes are all from Heaven sent!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
Holford Ilighlord Wettenhall, who was in
the Vic. Dreary House from ISB2 till 1886,
and who faded out in October, left £10,600,
most of it personal property, to his widow
and children. One of the beneficiaries
is a unit of the Farmers’ Union Party in
Vic. Assembly.
■‘Medic”: Re “Chota’s” collection of
appropriate names (B. 20/l/’2l). I invite
him to come to our suburb (Vic.) where
he will find in the main street this notice:
“ Baptist Church. All are cordially
invited. Next Sunday, the Rev. Mr. Bore-
ham will preach.”
“If Silesia is taken from Germany it will
be ruinous” is the weepful reason which the
Hun advances for permission to retain the
old Polish province which Frederick the In-
grate stole. Many another burglar has
been ruined by having the swag taken from
him, and it will be so until swag is extinct.
“Audio”: In early youth he was enamored
of a girl named Molly. To show the per-
manence of the attachment he had tattooed
on each forearm “I love Molly.” It is
years since he married Amy, but even now
he is careful to keep his sleeves down during
periods of domestic low pressure. It is then
that his wife says these proofs of an earlier
affection are like a millstone round her neck.
“Doctor lodine”: Artie Mills, Professor of
Medicine, is the wittiest man at Sydney
’Varsity. During an examination years ago
Mills handed a lung to a student, and the
following dialogue ensued:—
Mills: “What side?"
Student (facetiously): “Inside!”
Mills (pointing to the door): “Outside!”
But the humor of it was lost on the student
as he departed to study for re-examination
next year.
J. T. Jenkin, who follows Henry Howard
at Pirie-street Church, the Methodist “cathe-
dral” of Adelaide, is a Victorian by birth,
but best known in Westralia. After doing
good work up the Murray and at Broken
Hill, he got across to the Western goldfields
in 1897, and all over that State he has been
nearly ever since. Ilis effective platform
speaking was most in evidence in war-time.
Meanwhile there is some talk in Adelaide
of Henry Howard being asked, on his pre-
sent visit to London, to accept the pulpit of
Spurgeon’s Tabernacle as a permanent job.
The indiscretion of a P’ran delegate at the
A.N.A. conference at Colac nearly wrecked
the peace of that assemblage and woke
several politicians out of their sleep. The
P’ran man bad merely suggested that the
High Commissioner in London shouldn’t hold
his billet as a reward for political services,
but the proposal was too revolutionary for
the Board of Directors, which altered the
motion to read that the man chosen “should
be experienced in politics.” No doubt this
amendment was tactfully introduced to please
Wise and other politicians who could be ex-
pected to defend the practice of making
official billets political plums. All the same, the
careful avoidance of a subject that promised
some fruitful argument tends to weaken the
notion that the A.N.A. has remained a pro-
gressive institution.
A .tarn of a rejected inheritance: —
He was a pale youth, with a look of settled melan-
choly. I knew him rather well. Although his
father was very rich he lived in a single room on
what he could earn as a clerk.
One day I visited his father’s home and found the
family hospitable, comfortable and genial. The old
man regaled me with some very good stories after
tea. Looking at his kindly old face, I could not
understand my young friend’s voluntary exile. He
satisfied my curiosity when next I saw him.
“Been out to see the old man?” he asked.
I admitted it.
“Did he tell you any funny yarns?” he inquired.
I again admitted it.
“Good yarns, those,” he went on, “but they are
the only ones he knows. I knew them all when I
was six and listened to them till I was 18. Then
I went to the war for safety. Could have lived at
home on a thousand a year when I came back, the
old man was so proud of me. But he told me the
same old yarns the first night I was home, so I
took to work.
“Life’s a cow, isn’t it?” he sighed.
“Doctor lodine”: Navy methods may be
efficient but they are perplexing to the new
recruit. In the tropics the ship’s butcher
serves out the limejuice and cocoa, the navi-
gator (“pilot”) is responsible for the water-
tanks. the carpenter issues the blankets and
mosquito-nets, and Neil-Robertson stretchers
for lifting injured stokers from the devil’s
pit are “on charge” to the bos’n and not to
the surgeon, who generally acts as honorary
wine caterer. As I’m wanting poison to
kill the three million cockroaches whose
habitat is my cabin I suppose I’ll have to
apply to the torpedo-lieutenant. If he's
not the one, I’ll borrow an engineer’s spanner
from the chaplain and brain the brutes in-
dividually—leaving it to our pious flag-
captain to read the burial service over the
bodies, which the Yeoman of Signals will
have pronounced extinct in the absence o*
the P.M.0., stock-taking in the wine-cellar!


STORAGE
BATTERY
m
n
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation doesn’t
protect a battery against
abuse any more than a
check book protects you
against the cost of living.
But it unfailingly guards
against need for re-insu-
lation during the battery’s
life, and that is a thing
that never can be truth-
fully said about ordinary
insulation.
m
mm
*
a
*
V
*
o


Suffered Greatly
From Rash On Back
Cuticura Heals
“I was a great sufferer from a rash
which broke out all over my back. The
\\
body. The skin was red
and inflamed and the pain
would nearly drive me mad.
I could not sleep at night for
the itching and burning.
“I suffered over six months before
using Cuticura when I sent for a free
sample. After using for about two
weeks I began to get relief so I bought
more Soap and Ointment and I was
healed.” (Signed) Mrs. J. R. Suther-
land, 93 Scotts Parade, Ballarat East,
Vic. ' ,
When used for every-day toilet pur-
poses, Cuticura Soap not only clean-
ses, purifies and beautifies, but it pre-
vents many little skin troubles if
assisted by occasional use cf Cuticura
Ointment to the first signs of skin
troubles.
For sample each address: “R. Town* &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap ahaves without muf.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
/
dsecees
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia N : ght-Scented Stock
• —a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, LIMITED.
Loughborough. Leicestershire.England
Agent for Australia :
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soli.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
mn
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy* write to the
Manager,, who will quote you price for it.
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WITH CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
IT WILL GAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
GREY, with light binding,
Fro “ 35/=
m
S.
tit
3&i£imri3innt &C«
m
“Some Say
Advertising did it”
Certainly, there is a measure of truth in
the assertion, for the STETSON re-
ceived the kind of advertising that is
always effective—the voluntary praise
of thousands of discriminating, well-
dressed men.
Consider your personal
pride—the satisfaction—
and the impression a
STETSON creates—not
the price, and your
choice will be a
STETSON
«' k.‘
WC> fedCA
m
EH
te=s
FE
m
■:A
4M
£
f/
tr
z
8,
m i mi m mu nm
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEATHER & COY. LTD., Sydney. N.S.W
In the Matter of
COBAR LIMITED.
Sir Arthur F. Whinney, K.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William Horner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South M ales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager m
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for tee
purchase of the following assets, namely: —
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tool.
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill.
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing aj
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Ban*
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and LeasehoM'
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, loob.
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak* c ° UI ?v'
Robinson, and at Lithgow, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak and Lithgow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Lithgow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. ( 2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and torins
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to: —
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydne.
Mr. W. H. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow. , .„
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver
the case of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Local Receiver for ten •-
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be m the hands ot the Beceive-
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day ot June.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First day of February, 1921.
Equitably Bmldmg, gydney Local Receiver a nd Manager in New South Wales.
nm
“Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Kazor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
*G»ST£*4>.
Price 10/6 of
representatives,
all stores. If unable to procure send postal note *
, Norman Baker & 5O ><»*
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“S.”: A record? At a recent meeting of
the Rockhampton Jockey Club, first division race,
only one ticket was taken on the tote, and that one
was on the winner Clancolla. The divvy was 4s. 6d.,
so the investor lost sixpence, through picking the
winner. The attendance numbered fully 500, and
included 11 bookmakers.
Berribee, in Fred Burn’s stable, shapes
very like a National winner in his steeplechasing
thus far. Berribee is a five-year-old, and the old
stagers he met at the recent V.R.C. meeting
were easy victims. He outpaced and outjumped them
in a two-miles steeple. Although the winner ran a
bit wild he was much toned down since his previous
performance over the same jumps.
“Sarto”: Cabler Wilson has a cheerful wit
anyhow. Speaking at Albury after the English-
men’s match with the town team, he said that the
reception was the best the XI had received, and
“he was an expert on receptions.” But he asked if
it wasn’t rubbing it in a little when, after being
called a liar in Sydney, he should be given ginger-
beer made by Phibbs in Albury.
* * * *
Every year the number of respectable
jumpers in training during the warm months seems
to diminish. For the Autumn Steeplechase (3 miles
1 furlong), at the V.R.C. Autumn Meeting, only six
started, and two of those were quoted at “any
price.” In such company Grand Fleet carried the
top weight, and won as he liked. Grand Fleet, a
son of St. Alwyne, was a warm fancy once upou a
time for an Australian Cup.
By winning the Ascot Vale Stakes at the
recent V.R.C. Autumn Meeting, Isa brought trainer
James Scobie’s record of wins in that event to 10.
Previous winners trained by him were Malster, Haut-
villers, Emir, Charles Stuart, Wolowa, Two, Deneb,
Thrice and Midilli. Four of the winners are by
The Welkin, and three of these, Isa, Deneb and
Thrice, are full-blooded relations, being out of
Teppo. That wonderful brood mare, by the way,
is by Ladas (son of Hampton) from Dam Dum, by
Carbine.
* * * *
Idol though he is, many M.L. racegoers
would not be sorry to see Gloaming go down before
the unlucky Warplane in the Manawatu Stakes or the
Awapunl Gold Cup'next month. The Martian horse
is only a four-year-old, and has beaten Miss Mimic,
Royal Stag, Amythas and other cracks, and made
a race of it with Desert Gold. Moreover, he has
only been out of a place once in his career —in the
Flying at Hawera last month —when he finished
very Tame, and was thereby prevented from meeting
and probably beating Gloaming in the Hawera Stakes
on the following day.
Jack Higgins, who has been appointed one
of the stipendiary stewards of the A.J.0., has for-
feited £750 a year to return to his native land.
The Royal Calcutta ■ Turf Club was paying him
£l5OO a year, but climatic conditions were respon-
sible for his resignation. Higgins lias had wide
experience of racing, having acted as stipe in the
Western District of N.S.W. and in the Newcastle
area prior to going to India. His capacity may be
gauged from the rueful opinion of a N.S.W, jockey,
recently reinstated. “Mr. Higgins,” he said, “knows
as well what you’re doing on a horse as you do
yourself.”
* * * *
First-grade cricketers J. C. Ives, of Gor-
don, and W. Ives, of Waverley, have a unique record
as two-stringers. J.C. (Clarrie) plays Rugby
League with North Sydney, and has represented
the State both at Rugby Union and Rugby League.
W. (Billy) represented the. State at cricket last
season, and has just finished a tour with a N. S.
Wales team in Queensland. He played Rugby
League football with Glebe first 13 last year, and
will appear with Easts during the coming- season.
Both are in the vicinity of 6ft. high and weigh
about 14st. A younger brother, aged 14 years,
already weighs lOst. 121 b. He represented the
City Schools against Northern Schools at Rugby
League football last year, and is a member of his
school’s first 11 at cricket.*
* * * *
“0.5.”: The success of Gloaming (B.
10/3/’2l) will always be a tribute to the foresight of
John Dalv, for many years handicapper to the A.J.C.,
and a tveights-adjuster guilty of fewer bloomers than
most of the makers of handicaps in the Commonwealth.
Gloaming, a maiden three-year-old, was entered at
Randwiek for a race of the novice class. He had
not been seen in public, and when the weights were
issued John giave him pride of place. He was
subjected to much adverse criticism, but he knew
the track work Mason’s charge was doing, and calmly
waited developments. Mason pulled Gloaming out
of this race and spun him for the Chelmsford Stakes,
in which he made the classy opposition look foolish.
John’s smile was particularly complacent on that
occasion.
* * * *
Ten crews lined up for the Vic. Eight-
Oar Championship on the lower Yarra on March 12,
and the fleet occupied the full width of the drain.
As it happened, the scarcity of space brought about
a small collision and a fresh start, and about a
minute afterwards Richmond and Civil Service be-
came entangled, but managed to get clear without
losing much water. At the first bend Mercantile
shoved a nose in front, but Civil Service, Albert Park
and Ballarat were so close that the advantage was
very small. Afterwards Albert Park and Civil
Service crept ahead only to be displaced by
Mercs, again, but in the final tussle Civil Service
just had enough steam to carry them three feet
ahead of Mercs, with Corio Bay, four lengths away,
third. The Champion Sculls, rowed earlier in the
afternoon, provided another win for Barton, of
Richmond, who cleverly extricated himself from a
bad position and dawdled home six lengths to the
good. Dawson (Barwon) and Jorgensen (Yarra
Yarra) were second and third.
# * * ■»
“Linesman”: With all the experience he
has gained after his first battle with Tildem at
Wimbledon, Gerald Patterson is still a spectacle of
uneducated force, with flashes of superlative skill
occasionally brightening a careless or dispirited
game. Yet after all that Tilden has said and
revealed about his backhand, Gerald still loops them up
in high-trajeotory shots that are gifts to an active
man who is strong in both hands. Also he will
capriciously slice a ball and send it on a high arc
to a punishing volleyer, whereas by hard driving he
should score a frequent ace. But Patterson’s driv-
ing is unreliable and his work in other depart-
ments is so smitten by the wilting confidence of one
worried by two different intentions, that he puts
up a performance—especially in doubles—that de-
mands an heroic partner to save him. Even in that
exulting smash, which is an effusive display of
crude wallop for the benefit of the largely female
populace, he is ever the victim of his own impulsive-
ness. One has only to see him fed with half-court
lobs to realise Patterson in his worst phase of de-
monstrative futility. In the final of the doubles in
the M.C.C. tournament in Melbourne he started his
brainless pounding of soaring returns, which would
have been magnificent if the net were out of the
way. As for his famous service, it has inevitably
failed to maintain him in a position of unapproach-
able superiority. As a matter of fact, it has been
cheapened by inaccuracy and has become the play-
thing of several who have forgotten his reputation.
Normally he will r.et 75 per cent, of his first serves,
whilst those that get over can be taken by
Thomas, of Adelaide, like a seal swallowing fish—a
result that will dash the server to the extent of
extending his tally of double faults. Taking him
altogether, Gerald Patterson is a tennis freak. A
man of such amazing blunders and brilliancies cannot
he classified in any other way.
(Continued on page 38.)


'mm?*
jjij
7
t
/
■
Easy
Move
From
CuE
CuE
r
xW *
CuEs up Branches ~=f
■i
M I-
Pumps WaFer
3111.11'. II . , ~"11 1 1L
THE “WEE MacGREGOR” PORTABLE PETROL DRAG SAW
will cut ten times as much wood as two men by hand.
Invaluable to Farmers clearing land, and can be used for other power purposes, pumping, feed
cutting, grinding, running circular saw and other similar work.
CONSTRUCTION.— Frame built of hardwood, the cross
members being mortised into side frames to prevent wear
and keep the working parts in rigid position. The frame is
of three-point suspension, two points on the log, one on the
ground. All working parts of this machine, including engine,
are placed on the frame in such a manner that no part extends
below the bottom of the frame, which allows the machine to
be slid over logs or loaded into waggons without danger of
breaking any of these parts.
POWER.— The motor is a 4-h.p. water-cooled type, two-cycle,
3jin. bore by 4in. stroke. Remarkably simple and easy to
start. Equipped with water-proof magneto. The engine has
self-oiling connecting rod, and crank case is cast in one piece
and reamed to standard size.
IMPORTANT.—AII parts are machined to .standard size and
Interchangeable.
SAW HOLDER.—The saw holder is used exclusively on our
machine, and is a real time saver, and is superior to anything
yet devised for this purpose. No time lost in fixing; simply
place saw against saw-holder, tighten saw-hooli bolt, and you
are ready for operation. This feature is exclusive with the
“Wee MacGregor."
OPERATION.—The illustration shows the “Wee MacGregor"
on the log ready for operation. The saw is adaptable to any
position, and makes a true cut, no whether log is on
a side hill or on level ground. One man operates and moves
it from cut to cut in the log while two men carry it anywhere.
87
f )>
5*
*
m
>
II
t|[/QWAG^Ey
Feed the “ Wee MacGregor ” with
petrol, water and oil, and it will keep
up its work hour after hour, day after
day, and never get that tired feeling.
The “ Wee MacGregor ” carries our guarantee,
and is manufactured in Australia.
PARKE & LACY CP lIP
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Full particulars from
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
-
kr?
( LiA
u strollers
i •*
c /VTSI
imndmill
was erected m rsus on the Appin Road, near the old
town of Campbelltown. It was built of dressed stone,
with centre shaft, gear wheel and pinion, made of hard-
wood. One hundred years ago the old Mill ground the
grain sown in the district into flour for the needs of
the pioneers. What a contrast to the scientifically-
constructed
“BILLABONG” Mill
of to-day, made from steel and iron, with steel ball-
bearings, silent in action and regulating its speed to any
breeze by its own combined Speed Regulator and
Governor! This patented contrivance prevents racing,
adapts the speed of the wheel to the wind, and automati-
cally pulls it out of the gale when it is dangerous to
pump.
The “Billabong” is built stronger and more massive
than is actually necessary; the future as well as the
present is provided for by the makers. Other points are:
massive main castings, automatic lubrication, centre lift,
and split bearings which can be renewed without removing
any gear. Duplicate parts at low cost. The quality
Mill at a moderate price.
stjM PiaosTrs^*
For information and quotations
for Mills, Pumps or Troughing,
write to Danks’, Sydney or
Melbourne.
o
DANKS’ •
John. Danks Cson PkyU:*
'ID
324-330 Pi Mr • PAJIENJBES • 391-403BourkeSr
AIANIfACTOfcEI>S • MELBOURNE I
m
5
&
MAKE YOUR CREEK WORK
BWva NHor
That water running to waste day and
night may be saved for soil, man or beast,
and with the aid of a
Banks’
Hydraulic Ram
be made the power for lifting itself up
the hill to th } e tanks. . All that is required
is a slight fall or head of water from
creek or dam, even as low as three feet.
Ihe falling water works the ram; no hand, engine or wind power required.
Mention the fall, height and distance to which water is to be delivered, and
quantity per day required when writing. Full particulars for the above —write
to-day.
Billabong Centrifugal Pumps
for power, volume and compactness. The best rotary for general
pumping or for raising water in volume for irrigation; 75 per cent.
efficient on independent tests. Stocked in high-
and low-duty patterns, and in sizes from 1 in. to
Bin. Supplied in gunmetal for use where
chemiital action would corrode iron.
G
N
mm
Capacity
and price list
per return
for your
address.
SYDNEY
n
mn


A. Saunders' Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Bar Brooch, loot. Gold. £35.
Larger Diamonds. £35.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Brooch,
loot. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Finest Quality Double-cut
Diamond Bar Brooch. 15ct. Gold. £B5.
A. Saunders'
Three-stone
Double-cut
Diamond Ring-.
1 Set. (told. £2O.
t; Sc
jdfl
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond Trefoil
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold.
£l5.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders'
Gent.’s Single
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold. £25.
ri'ißW?
mLAv
w'
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring.
18et. Gold. £25.
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond Ring.
18et. Gold. £lO.
A. Saunders ? DcmMe-eut Diiunond Cluster Brace-
let, loot. Gold, £l5. Larger diamonds, £25., £35.
A. Saunders’
Crescent and
Circle Dia-
mond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch. 15ct.
Gold. £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Links, set flue
Double-cut Diamond,
£4. Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-
m
(
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Double-cut
Diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full
Jewelled lever movement, compensation balance.
*2O. Larger diamonds, £25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Gold
Hunting, Keyless Lever, £l2/10/-
Waltham, High-grade Lever, £l5,
£2O, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond
Cluster Neck-
let, *3O.
A. Sat iitiers’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set 2 Double-cut
Diamonds, £6/10/-
Smaller Diamonds,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Cluster
and Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold. £75.
gs@ & $
A. Saunders’ Pine Double-cut Diamond
Knife-edge Bar Brooch. 15ct. Gold, £3O,
£io, £5O.
A. Saunders’ Douuie-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Double-
cut Diamond
Ring. ISct. Gold,
£5O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, f 25,
£3O, mo.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, ISct.
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £l2/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring. 18ct.
Gold. £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamouu Ring,
18ct. Gold. £2O.
A. Saunders' Double-cut Diamond Boat-shape
Bracelet 15ct. Gold, £3O.
m
H ©jnasia
PIO
m
Be Sure to Inspect the Display of
“Champion” Road Construction
and Maintenance Machinery
on STAND No. 21 (Corner of Martin Place 8 Brandis St.)
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW, SYDNEY.
This is a display of the most reliable and successful Road Machinery it is possible to manufac-
ture. The implements are specially constructed for Australian conditions and include: —
“Big Champion” Steel Reversible Road Grading Machine, Bft. Blade.
"Little Champion" Steel Reversible Road Grading Machine, 6ft. Blade.
"Baby Champion” Steel Reversible Road Grading Machine, 5 ft. Blade.
"Champion” Wiard Steel-Beam Road and Contractors’ Plows. Models 64,
65, 66, 67, 68 and 69.
"Champion” Road Drags. Models, "Climax” and "Indiana.”
"Champion” Pressed-steel Bowl Wheel Scoops, fitted with Patent shafts.
Size 3. Capacity 1 7 cub. ft.
"Champion” Pressed-steel Bowl Wheel Scoop, fitted with Patent Pole
Support for relieving strain on horses’ necks. Size 2. Capacity
1 3 cub. ft.
"Champion” Pressed-steel Bowl Drag Scoops, with Runners. Sizes: 5,7,
1 0 and 1 3 cub. ft.
"Aldred" Silt Scoop, for cleaning out Stock Tanks. Size: 2\ cub. yards.
"Champion” Portable Power Batch Concrete Mixer. With 4-b.h.p. Engine.
Capacity per batch: 8 cub. ft.
"Champion” Portable Power Batch Concrete Mixer, with 1 Engine.
Capacity per batch: 4 cub. ft.
Champion' Hand-power Batch Concrete Mixer, on wheels, with Patent
Loading Hopper. Model 1. Capacity per batch: 4 cub. ft.
Portable Elevator (Power Driven). Sizes: 16 and 20 ft.
"Champion” Tubular Steel Wheelbarrows. Sizes: 4, 5 and 10.
Steel Tray Concrete Wheelbarrows, and Concrete Dump Carts.
"Champion” Broun Delver, for Bore Drains, etc.
"Champion” Agricultural Drain Excavator.
MEMBERS AND OFFICIALS OF SHIRE AND MUNICIPAL COUNCILS ARE
SPECIALLY INVITED TO INSPECT THE ABOVE EXHIBITS.
'll
■
I
Unioi i House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins House,
MELBOURNE.
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE.


Notices.
N THE district court of
QUEENSLAND.
Held at Brisbane. The Minister of State
for Home and Territories Applicant
Richard Henry Oldfield Respondent.
To Richard Henry Oldfield of Oxley, Queens-
land, and Alexander Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that an application by
the Minister of State for Home and Terri-
tories pursuant to Section 39 of the Lands
Acquisition Act 1906-1916 to determine
the amount of compensation payable in
respect of the compulsory acquisition by the
Commonwealth of Australia of Resubdivi-
sions 125, 126, 127, 12S, 129, 130, 131, 132,
142, 143, 147 and 14S of Subdivision 3 of
Portion 374. Parish of Enoggera, County of
Stanley, State of Queensland, of which land
you were at the time of the said acquisition
the registered proprietor will be heard at
the District Court at Brisbane in the State
of Queensland on Monday the ninth day of
May 1921 at ten of the clock in the forenoon.
DATED this 2nd day of March, 1921.
W. 11. CARVOSSO. Registrar.
CHAMBERS, McNAB & McNAB, Solici-
tors, 139 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Agents
for Gordon Harwood Castle, Commonwealth
Crown Solicitor, Melbourne. ___
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
In the matter of an action wherein ARTHUR
HENRY EVA of corner of Water and Rogers streets
Brisbane Storekeeper is Plaintiff and WILLIAM
DENIS RUSSELL of Brisbane late Storekeeper is
defendant and numbered 104 of 1921.
TO WILLIAM DENIS RUSSELL the abovenamed
defendant.
• TAKE NOTICE that on the twenty-fourth day of
February 1921 a Writ of Summons was issued in
the above action which claimed the rescission of an
agreement made between the Plaintiff and yourself
on the fourteenth day of January 1921 and/or the
rescission of a Bill of Sale made by the Plaintiff in
favor of yourself and registered number 74 of 1921
the execution of the said agreement and/or Bill of
Sale having been induced by the false and fraudu-
lent misrepresentation of yourself and for Five Hun-
dred Pounds for damages for such false and fraudu-
lent misrepresentation or in the alternative for 1 ive
Hundred Pounds for breach of Warranty contained in
the said agreement of 14th January 1921 and for a
declaration that the Plaintiff' is entitled to set up
the said breach of warranty in diminution or extinc-
tion of any moneys due by the Plaintiff to you under
the said agreement and/or Bill of Sale AND TAivE
NOTICE that by an Order of this Honorable Court
dated the twenty-fifth day of February 1921 it was
ordered that substituted service of the above-men-
tioned Writ of Summons be effected by serving a
copy of same together with a copy of the Order
on Joseph Russell your father and on George Storer
of Brisbane Solicitor and that Notice of the said
Writ and of the said Order be published twice in
the Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published at
Sydney in the State of New South Wales and that
after the expiration of seven days from the date of
the last publication of the said Notice in the said
Newspaper the Writ of Summons herein shall be
deemed to be served in Queensland AND TAKE
NOTICE that in default of your causing an appear-
ance to be entered for you at tbe Registry of the
Supreme Court at Brisbane within fifteen days after
the last of such advertisements the Plaintiff may
proceed in the said action and judgment may be
given against vou in your absence.
Dated this Seventh day of March 1921.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
DANIEL 3. O’MARA, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Federal Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
TITO THE WIFE AND CHILDREN of
X CHEONG PAH (also known as PAH
CHEONG, also known as K WAN CHUNG
PAK), late of Auckland. New Zealand,
Settler, deceased, and to LI WAH, bi’Otlier
of the said deceased, and to HA AM CIIUL
(also known as GEORGY GHEE, aso
known as LAU KIN IvWONG), and sup-
posed to be in Sydney, Australia, nephew of
the said deceased, and to all persons claim-
ing by, through or under them.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 29th
day of January, 1921, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of July, 1921,
your claim to the estate of CHEONG I AH,
the above-named deceased, who died intes-
tate at Auckland aforesaid, on the 25th day
of Julv. 1913, failing which the estate will
be distributed among those entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JAMES MANSON, father of Thomas
MANSON, deceased, and formerly of
Palmerston North, New Zealand, and to
all persons claiming by, through or under
him. „ , _ ~
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
29th day of January, 1921, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of June,
1921, your claim to the estate of the above-
named Thomas Manson, deceased, who died
intestate at Rongomai, New Zealand, on
the 11th day of August, 1919. failing which
the estate will be distributed among those
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921. G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO BRIDGET NEARY, Sister of John
Neary, late of Grove Bush, in the
Provincial District of Otago, in New Zea-
land, Ploughman, deceased, and all persons
claiming by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
29th day of January, 1921, by the Chief
Justice of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the first day of September, 1921,
your claim to the estate of John Neary, who
died intestate at Invercargill, in New Zea-
land, on the 17th day of June, 1917, failing
which the estate will be distributed among
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington this Ist day of
February, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Amusements.
T 1 VOI, 1 THEAT It B. BYBNE Y.
Direction J. C. Williamson, Ltd., by arrange-
ment with Hugh D. Mclntosh.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 26.
Harry G. Musgrove presents ,
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
DANGEROUS BUSINESS;
also
THE RIVER’S END.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD IN PHOTO-PLAYS.
DAY AND NIGHT SESSIONS. Plan at Paling’s.
SY DN E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY'S.
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
CRITERION.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
PALACE.
HIS LADY FRIENDS.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LID.
Commencing
EASTER SATURDAY, MARCH 26,
AT THE MATINEE.
MatinCes daily throughout Easter Week.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd,,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER- SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
w
I R T H BROS. C
Sole proprietors: WIRTH BROS.,
I R C U S.
LIMITED.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTH S’ NEW HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
Matinfies Wednesday, Saturday and all Holidays,
Adlan wilkie shakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
Australasian IT prrscicaive: RUG D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
UNI O N PIC TUK IS TiIKAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLDS FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOME. LYRIC. EM Pit ESS.
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST'S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
J.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
BABY BUNTING.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
KING'S Til EAT It IS. MEIIIOC It N E.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 26.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES GORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
ov'Fs theatres, » mei,ism;km:
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
Beaumont Smith’s Supreme Australian Photo-play,
THE BETRAYER,
and
FRANK MAYO in
THE MARRIAGE PIT.
Prices as usual.
|y|.\,IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SESSUE HAYAKAWA in
LI TING LANG.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|VI ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PAIIIE,
WORLD and SKI./SH 'K.
gKITANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
TIIE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PIC'I I’ltl'.S.
Continuous Sessions.
Public Notices.
QUEENSLAND.
IT is hereby notified for public
information that from the Ist
April, 1921, the banking business
of the Queensland Government
will be conducted by the COM-
MONWEALTH BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA, instead of the Queens-
land National Bank Limited as
formerly.
G. L. HEAL,
Under Secretary.
The Treasury, Brisbane,
March, 1921.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DIiEHGING CO. N.L.
vr OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that it
J3I has been decided not to pay the usual
Quarterly Dividend in April this year. Tins
action has been brought about owing to the
reduction in the price of tin, coupled with
the fact that just now two of the Company s
Dredgers are being moved into the Bang Tao
Property, and consequently little tin can be
expected to be produced at the present time.
By order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, 9th March, 1921.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
ROBERT CONDRON late of Tauranga
in the Provincial District of Auckland in
New Zealand, Laborer.
ALFRED CRACKNELL (a nephew of
the said Robert Condron) formerly of Bun-
dara, Australia, and more recently a member
of The Australian Imperial Force, is re-
; quested to communicate with the Public
i Trustee, Wellington, New Zealand, relative
I to his claim to share in the distribution of
the estate of the said Robert Condron.
Shave w “ h “Plum”
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
nm
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
An Edison
Amberola
will
charm you
with its endless variety of
entertainment.
mil
It plays any kind of music—ragtime, jazz, or quiet melodies
on single instruments, orchestras or bands. It brings great
singers and humorists to your home to entertain you, your
family and friends.
Remember, there are no bothersome needles to change in the Edison
Amberola, as it is fitted with the famous Diamond Stylus Reproducer.
Call at the nearest Edison dealer and hear the Edison Amberola played,
or write for literature, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
n
ABBEY
SHOES
Emphatically the acknowledged style
leaders.
There is an exclusiveness about Abbey
footwear that makes it particularly desir-
able for those requiring styles of the
moment. Its comfort and wearing quali-
ties are unsurpassed.
We illustrate a particularly smart Box
Calf Bal., with good stout sole and leather
lined. In full sizes, C, D and E fittings.
PRICE 47/6
In tan calf, leather lined,
57/6
Postage extra. Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Tlsed since 1596. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FAILING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England,
insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
We Desire
to Buy
mn
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
CENSUS
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
4th APRIL, 1921
A CENSUS will be taken of ALL
PERSONS in the Commonwealth on
the NIGHT BETWEEN SUNDAY,
3rd April, and MONDAY, 4th April,
1921.
A Collector will deliver the Census
Slips at every Dwelling, but any
person who has not received the
necessary Slip before Sunday, 3rd
April, is required to immediately
report to the nearest Post Office
or Police Station.
PENALTY for Refusing to Supply
the Required Information - £lO
For Wilfully Untrue Statement * £5O
G. H. KNIBBS,
Commonwealth Statistician.
Missing Friends.
JAMES SEARJLE, DECEASED.
PERSONS claiming to be next of kin of
JAMES SEARLE, late of Tambo,
Queensland, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned.
E. W. HUGHES, Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
TN the estate of ERNEST FRANCIS TURNER, late
of Forest Vale Farm, via Coudobolin, N.S.W.,
Paymaster and Bookkeeper (died Ist February, 1919),
Any solicitor or other person able to furnish informa-
tion regarding the whereabouts of a will of the
abovenamed deceased is requested to communicate
with the undersigned- T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castle*
reagh Street, Sydney. 15th March, 1921.


*" yM***«»(.».t*.'-!::, : mi
itmum
frivaiS®
jf
i
***c
*».* xr'i :0 ft V*.' i * .
KlTd
i
!K«S
s&
a&v
ft
iiiimmmii
/
own
>
y
y
It’s Connie Talmadge’s Funniest.
The peppiest picture First National’s Exclusive Star has ever made.
Double-Bed Dialogue.
A real
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE TIVOLI, COMMENCING MARCH 26.
By arrangement with Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
Released by First National Exhibitors of Australia, Rtd., Auto House,
Sydney; also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Humpty Dumpty”
Criterion “The Lilac Domino”
Palace “His Lady Friends”
Tivoli Moving: Pictures
Grand Opera House >.. “Chu Chin Chow”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome i Wirtlis’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Baby Bunting”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
King's “Welcome Stranger”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
♦
John D. O’Hara came back to his own
at Sydney Palace on Saturday night as
“Lightnin-.” He told how lie coached Buf-
falo Bill, and lie taught some of the bee-
keepers in town for the Show more about
bees than they had ever known before. Ilis
famous “I used to be in the bee business”
speech brought an epic roar of laughter from
the house, followed by the usual lump in
the throat when the very lonely old man was
driven from the only home he knew, amid
the tribe of fascinating Keno divorcees.
Ethel Morrison as Margaret Havis, the grass
widow, with the sob in her voice, deserved
to win her case and her old judge in record
time. Lizette Parkes made a charming
Mildred Buckley, and Margaret Sutcliffe’s
“Mrs. Jones” was at her best in the court
scene, where she decides not to get a divorce
from her Bill. The other members of the
cast left the Pitt-street Palace without a
stain on their character —which is more
than can be said for a lot of other people
who have left a lot of other Palaces.
At 7.48 nightly and at 1.43 on Wednes-
days and Saturdays, testy-looking ancients
and protesting urchins have been seen quit-
ting Her Majesty’s, Sydney. From which
it is augured that all goes well with
“Humpty Dumpty,” from the box-office
viewpoint, anyhow. And in these days of
brotherly love and Art for Art’s sake that
is what counts.
It has taken four months to discover that
the Sydney Tivoli hasn’t sufficient “stage
space and stage facilities” (blessed word!)
to show off “The Lilac Domino” at its deco-
rative best. So the “Domino” has changed
its address to the Criterion, where the space
is unimpeachable and the facilities are of
unblemished character. This is one of the
momentous results of the recent amalgama-
tion.
** * *
Joseph Coyne, who is American by birth
and English by adoption, has been enter-
taining “His Lady Friends” and numerous
perfect strangers at Sydney Criterion. Cir-
cumstances over which Mr. Coyne has no
control have compelled him to move to
another fashionable establishment-—the
Palace, to wit —where he will continue to
supply the lightest and brightest fare at
more or less popular prices. Vacancies for
a limited number of paying guests.
* * .I* *
Nazimova is the only star that sinks in
tragedy amid the film constellations of the
week in Sydney. As Joan, the rebel among
the “War Brides” in a southern State in
Germany, she tells the All Highest to his
teeth what a mere woman thinks of him and
his method of providing more men for his
armies. Then she
shoots herself to
save the uniformed
official the trouble.
Hoyt’s and the
Australian show
the picture. At the
Strand William
Farnum sets to sea
in a cargo boat
that “The Scutt-
lers” have perfor-
ated. However,
William and the
girl come out on
top, so all is well.
On the same eheet
the famous Dolly
sisters look as
amazingly alike as
two new-minted
pennies and give a
Rajah in his New
York harem some-
thing to think
about, while dis-
playing their mil-
lion-dollar charms
in a series of leg
movements that
are a perfect eye-
tonic. “The Dead-
lier S e x,” a t
Lyceum and Crys-
tal Palace, teaches
the difficulty* of con-
solidating women
and railroads by
than the plain gold
“His Lady ,Friends,”
at Sydney Criterion.
Emma Temple as
Hilda the cook.
any other method
circle. Further, Lucy
Cotton makes a welter of “Blind Love” at
the Crystal Palace, evidently on the theory
that those who live in glass houses see most
of the game; and at the Lyceum Earle Wil-
liams decodes "The Purple Cipher.”
Wirtli Bros.’ Circus is still exchanging
thrills for silver at Sydney Hippodrome.
If Melbourne; retains any old craving for
drama —the drama that isn’t ghostly and
noiseless—it could only be satisfied of late
by an occasional pilgrimage to the Play-
house, where Shakspeare happens now and
then. Last Friday the Shakspearean
Players, with the blessing of the Education
Department, played “As You Like It” in
the afternoon, and “Hamlet” at night. As
a corrective to Melbourne’s rush of panto,
and musical comedy to the head, these deal-
ings with the Immortal Bard are a credit
to the Education Department and a reminder
that capable mummers of the non-musical
order are abiding in Melbourne’s midst.
But these Hitting seasons of classic
drama _ must be watched for. Incau-
tious highbrows, dropping into the Play-
house on Saturday, found the All Diggers
co. repeating “Mademoiselle Mimi.” The
All Diggers, with their leading lady imper-
sonator, had shifted from the King’s for one
night only, in order to let “Princess Ida”
have a farewell there whilst the First National
pictures were being inaugurated at the
Tivoli, where “Princess Ida” had been
appearing in the afternoon. Two shows
moved to another place and a new show
came to the Tivoli on the one evening.
Arthur Greenaway’s Shakspearean Co.
staged “Hamlet” for two or three nights at
Melbourne Playhouse last week. Arthur did
the hero in a scholarly style that was
occasionally varied by effective flashes of
melancholy. He was probably at his best
in the play episode, wherein Bob Inman’s
portentous diction as the King remained
fruity and unruffled in the violence that fol-
lowed. Norma Campbell was a passable
Queen and Adele Inman’s Ophelia would
have been more appealing if she had given
a touch of unearthly sweetness to her final
scene. But the prize for the best sustained
character should go to Edwin Landor, whose
Polonius, seen previously in Melbourne, was
a capital conception of an ancient Court
driveller stuffed with the pomp and wisdom
of a suburban mayor. Geo. Bryant was the
Ghost, and his large bass filled the air
with tragedy and alarm. In fact, his first
word to his sorrowing son almost shook the
battlements of Elsinore.
Dot Brunton continues to frisk and show
stunning profiles in “Baby Bunting” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, and Frith finds constant
solace in a lemon. Likewise Madge Elliott
still talks cynically, but fails to look wicked
behind a cigarette, while Hetty Hartley
tumbles on Frith and Green and almost
leaves a dent on their personalities. Hetty
has grown no more winning since the opening
night, but in this part she can be overwhelm-
ing by simply falling down.
At Melbourne King’s they are preparing
for the advent of “Welcome Stranger” on
Saturday next. After remaining in an un-
settled state for some weeks, the theatre in
Russell-street will be glad to get a pro-
gramme that promises to take root and be-
come acclimatised.
At Melbourne Princess’s a revival of
“Tambour Major” is threatened, now that
the “Cinderella” panto, has reluctantly
dragged itself away. Meantime a burst of
sacred song is billed for Good Friday, and
Walter Kirby, who was farewelled some
weeks ago, will suddenly return from
Europe, or elsewhere, to star on the sacred
occasion.
Of “Maid of the Mountain,” at Melbourne
Royal, there is nothing to say this week
except that when Stigant sits on the edge
°f the little pond, where the bogus water-
lilies grow, he continues to be bitten to
death by gold-fish.
This week Hoyt’s (Melb.) give first place
to Beaumont Smith’s seven-reeler, “The Be-
trayer,” dealing with the emotions of a little
Maori girl. The film is packed with Sydney
and Maoriland scenery, and some of the
Rotorua effects are more interesting than the
rather crude story. “The Marriage Pit.”
emphasising Frank Mayo as hero, is a tale
of two tangled weddings from which the god
of one and the angel of the other escape to
start a fresh arrangement. The Majestic is
screening “The Vice of Fools,” a troubled
study of two who burn for canoodles from
females who apparently haven’t any to spare.
“The Country Fair,” at the same address, con-
tains a mortgage, a horse-race and a little
jock named Tim, and it ends, after bashing
the mortgagee, in a tumultuous riot of happi-
ness.
* * :I: *
Melbourne’s newest picture-show:—
William Rowell’s exhibition at the Athenaeum suf-
fers from an overflow of scenery in rather dingy
weather, but his studies are worth noting for their
honest realisation of light and shade. Also Rowell
is not fastidious in his choice of subjects, and would
as soon paint a dog-box without the dog as get up
on a damp morning and catch a pale dawn that in-
numerable painters had done before him. All the
same, he includes several early mornings that promise
anything from bronchitis to a deep thirst and sun-
The Shakspearean
Players (Melb.), in
“Hamlet,” under the
direction of the Vic.
Education Depart-
ment.
George Bryant as the
Gravedigger.
burn later on in the
day; but whatever he
paints he gives every
object its true value
in color, and a humpy
or a cow is not em-
phasised pictorially to
the disadvantage of
the sky and vegeta-
tion. Some of this
kind of painting seems
low-pitched and photo-
graphic when compared
with the brilliant
splash-work of part
of the decorative
school. Yet almost
every canvas contains
some quality or exalts
some truth in the
simple, enduring art
whereof Corot was a.
humble exemplar.
There is no need to
pick out any of
Rowell’s canvases for
special praise. Though
they vary in merit, the
general effect is very
pleasing. But the por-
trait of a spectacled
old lady engaged in
sewing demands a
word. The balance
between half-tone,
light and shadow is
maintained with a
dexterity that invests
the picture with sur-
prising force and real-
ity. Edward Kimp-
ton, evidently another
young colt from the Meldrum stable, occupies half
a wall of Rowell’s display, and is beginning io
respond very well to his training.
*
Thus this paper’s Melbourne art critic:—
In my note on the Coates-Meeson exhibition (B.
10/3/’2l) I ascribed certain “Thames-side studies” to
Coates instead of to his wife, Dora Meeson. lam
sorry to deprive Mrs. Coates of her share of the glory,
but the careless inclusion of her pictures under her
husband’s name was solely responsible for the
bloomer. Which reminds one to lodge a protest
against the reckless cataloguing of pictures in Mel-
bourne. In some of the smaller displays pictures
bearing the same number, or carrying no number at
all, are constant worries, and there is also the occa-
sional nuisance of a canvas getting a number like
172 b or 123 c, and still remaining unknown to the
programme. This doesn’t apply to the Decoration
or Fine Art Society shows, where meticulous cata-
loguing makes the critic’s job a comparative pleasure.
* * *
“Chu Chin” is completing a too-brief sea-
son at Adelaide Royal. It has the unusual
quality of being more enjoyable on a second
visit than on a first. The eye, stunned the first
time with blaze of color and lavishness of
spectacle, knows better what to look for in
the second innings. The music, too, grows
on the ear. There is remarkable, unusual
dancing, but some of the action is mere
dress parade. The clever, eccentric dancing
of Preston and Perrin has been added to the
Vogues and Vanities at Austral Gardens; but
the’end of these open-air shows is in sight.
The Prince of Wales is to begin again with
“Cinderella” for Easter, and big changes are
foreshadowed at the Majestic. Pictures are
varied. The much knocked-out Bombardier
Wells is the hero of a sporting drama at the
Pav. At West’s H. B. Warner figures in
“One Hour Before Dawn,” a neat compound
of murder, mystery and hypnotism. Won-
dergraph, on the other hand, has a light and
jolly bill. Enid Bennett, in “Hairpins,”
shows how a wife can lose her husband by
careless get-up, and haul him back by re-
versing the gear. Charles Ray scores heavily
as a callow youth who makes a hit in his
home town, and a delightful bunch of youth-
fulness romps through “Kids is Kids.”
“Film Up” : It is weird to sit in the dark
and watch the spooks of the screen. Conan
Doyle’s spirit-photographs are not in it.
rriiono’c . , , , , r,,.
Thomas b r n wrf 1 rUD °i‘ f, m late J? r T' o .l l X e
Thomas, Gabys Deslys and others, all in their
last pictures. A movie contract appears to
be the only one that death doesn t cancel.
“S.” : Somebody wonders if Julius Knight
retains his passion for knitting I have
authority for stating that he abandoned the
needles before kavmg Australia. He gave
a good and sufficient reason. I had gone
to take afternoon-tea at the house of Mrs.
j and found myself the only male pre-
sent, except G himself, who was deaf
and impossible. I was sitting well back,
nursing a cup, and feeling wholly out of it.
when a motherly person reached over, tapped
my knee with her lorgnette, and said: ‘Ah,
Mr. Knight, why didn’t you bring your
knitting?”’
‘‘Tipster”: I raise a gloomy finger and
point it at the pantomimes of to-day. People
are getting fed-up of their yearly Dame with-
her fourth husband and of Sinbad and the
others. So are the kids. But the kids are
also getting tired of too much dress and
color and too little pantomime. The pantos
have become too full of all kinds of things
except the one thing necessary in a panto
—the real story. In the modern yearly ex-
travaganza the young ’uns can hardly find any
trace of the yarn, so submerged is it under
leg-shows, promenades, ballets and other
alleged gorgeousness. The kids get more
excitement at the pictures, and the grown-
ups are dragging themselves along to the
pantos rather grudgingly. In a couple of
years they won’t be dragged along at all—
unless they are given something different.
“Fax”: I am quite prepared to accept the
correction that Amy Roselle did play Lady
Macbeth with Irving at the Lyceum, though
Austin Brerton’s long-winded Life of Henry
Irving, with all its dull details, forgets to
mention the incident of Ellen Terry’s illness
and Amy Roselle’s acting in her place. But I
can’t let “Smike’s” reference to Edmund
Gwenn pass. “Smike” remarks that Gwenn
is remembered in Australia “for his throaty
Lord Jeffreys in the first production of
‘Sweet Nell.’ ” He is confusing Gwenn with
Gran—Albert Gran —an alleged Dutchman
with a roll in his elocution, who used to wear
cold cream on his countenance in private life.
Gran played many parts besides Judge
Jeffreys, but he never sounded quite true to
the English characters. Clever Edmund Gwenn
is, perhaps, best remembered in Australia by
his performances with the Janet Waldorf
Co. He was a supremely effective clown in
“Twelfth Night,” an excellent Touchstone in
“As You Like It,” and a droll Verges to the
Dogberry of Atholwood. The part he played
oftenest, though, was the cockney burglar in
“Sherlock Holmes.” Gwenn appeared in
other plays with the late Cuyler Hastings
and was always good—in “If I Were King,”
for instance, and as the old earl in “The
Admirable Crichton.” As an actor the little
fellow could run rings round big guttural
Gran, who played Jeffreys.
Moses Baritz discourses on music in the
Cold Country, and dreams about an or-
chestra :
The Beecham season collapsed, so for the nine
wedks we should have had at Manchester we are
getting nothing except what the Carl Rosas are
giving us. And notwithstanding all the lustre of
the past, Williamson’s Opera Co. could give that
combination spades and a beating. The only out-
standing feature of the company here is Doris
Woodal, the incomparable Carmen, Ortrud, Amneris
and Delilah. As for the chorus—well, the Wil-
liamson crowd did sing, and intelligently, too. I
have had a rude awakening about comparisons
between Australia and England. I used to attend
the theatres in Melbourne live nights a week. I
cannot stand a solitary musical comedy here. They
are like Martin-place at 4 o’clock on Sunday morn-
ing. Minnie Everett would cause a revolution
here. You have my word, Australia is not outlandish
at all —it’s alive. You are more fortunate in the
large cities than we are outside London. Where
we have the advantage is that we can get more con-
cert artists. But, without Beecham, we are under
greater stress than Geelong and Bathurst.
Musically, England is in sore straits. The critics
are all complaining about the dearth of capable
conductors and competent orchestras. Hamil-
ton Harty, conductor of the Halle Orchestra in
Manchester, has stepped into the position of Eng-
land’s premier conductor. His recent visit to Lon-
don caused a sensation both with the critics and
the orchestra over which he presided. The players
were elated at the new and virile interpretation be
gave of the “Pathetique” Symphony, and the musical
critic of Truth used up a column and a quarter
about the virtues of the man from Manchester.
All seem agreed that in London orchestral
work is in a bad state. They are crying for new
blood. And this brings me to suggest, in all serious-
ness, that the N. S. Wales Government should send
the Verbrugghen Orchestra over for a season. Ver-
brugghen’s reputation alone would command a great
following, apart from the orchestra, which must be
by now equal to anything—except perhaps the Halle
Orchestra. The fact of the orchestra coming from
Australia would in itself help to make a success so
far as attendance is concerned. If the arrangements
were put into the hands of a good agent, I feel
sure that the tour would be a success, and there
would be a small profit at the end. But I am
assuming the passages of the members of the orches-
tra would be paid, and not be a charge upon the
receipts. The Australian Governments could well
afford that, for it would be an advertisement reach-
ing astounding dimensions. Then there is the possi-
bility of a French, Belgian and Italian tour, besides
concerts in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Cairo.
They might come to England via the U.S.A.; a
tour through the States would pay expenses. People
in Australia don’t realise what they possess in the
Verbrugghen Orchestra.


High-grade Wateli in Fine Leather
Case; Morocco, Crocodile, Russian, etc.;
30-day movement, £6/6/-; 8-day move-
ment, £8 and £lO.
FANCY CLOCKS.
HE Firms selection of Fancy Clocks is an
exceptionally large and exclusive one, and
embodies many beautiful and exquisite designs
. in Enamel, Inlaid Tortoiseshell, Silver, Gilt and
high-grade in Morocco, Crocodile, Lizard and
Russian Leather Cases. The movements in every instance
are the finest productions of the world s best makers.
This selection affords unusual scope for choosing a
really serviceable gift, the beauty and excellence of which
will meet with instant appreciation, and the wide range
of prices ensures the satisfaction of every individual
requirement.
lilm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE
SOUTHERN UNION
General Insurance Company
of Australasia Limited.
Head Offices:
Chancery House, 440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Branches and Agencies to be established through-
out the Commonwealth of Australia and the
Dominion of New Zealand.
DIRECTORS:
MELBOURNE • R J BURCHELL, Esq., M.H.R., Chairman; GEO. ABBOTT.
Esq .■ WALTER HOADLEY, Esq.; Senator The Hon. WILLIAM PLAIN.
SYDNEY: A. E. DALWOOD, Esq.; The Hon. G. R. W. MCDONALD, Esq.
PERTH - Dr A J WRIGHT, L.D.S.. R.C.S. (Eng.). D.M.D., D.D.S., F.R.S.A.
(Lond.)’;' WILLIAM NAIRN, Esq., M.L.A.; G. F. PITCHFORD, Esq.
ADELAIDE: A. J. McLACIILAN, Esq.
General Manager: Secretary:
11. N. BAINBRIDGE, F.A.1.1. R. J. DONOVAN, A.1.C.A., A.C.I.S.
Solicitors:
BLAKE & RIGGALL, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
ARTHUR B. WILSON, F.A.1.1., Manager.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BRANCH:
C.T.A. Buildings, 69 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
G. L. BOWMAN. A.A.1.1., Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH:
16 Currie Street, Adelaide.
SMEDLEY PALMER, F.A.1.1., Manager.
All classes of Fire, Marine and Accident Business transacted.
Lowest Rates. Prompt Settlements.
STRONG - AUSTRALASIAN-PROGRESSIVE
m
VISIT
PALING’S
AT EASTER.
n
mn
m
During your Easter visit to Sydney it will be a
pleasure to show you our immense stock of.
PLAYER PIANOS, GRAMOPHONES,
PIANOS S MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
Even if you do not wish to purchase we shall be
just as pleased to play over on our Player Pianos
your favorite song, and at the same time you can
hear the world’s most famous artists on the
gramophone.
n
X/
\=
A SMALL DEPOSIT
will place any of Paling’s famous instruments in
your home, and the balance by moderate monthly
payments spread over a period of years.
ASK FOR CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS.
mn
338 George St., SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
u.
I
niiimmiLUUHHljfcg:


N-S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74? Si-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
m
nm
n
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
llimummuuil
imiiitlllil!!
frjxkjjf 215-17 Swanston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane. ~ '
29Jing St,HewcastJe. St., s 159 Georqe St. West. Svdnev.
IIfH’JA qco so/'
OOO’OOZT? 'TVTTJVn
General
‘Phone City 932 5
''anajgrer.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Jeune Premier”: George Titheradge was
the only star mummer I ever played with,
male or female, .who had a distaste for
applause. One night in a Victorian town
he was appearing as “The Village Priest,”
a favorite part. A “round” unexpectedly
came in the middle of a scene and upset
him. It was enormously entertaining to
those near him on the stage to see the vener-
able white-haired priest looking up towards
Heaven with a rapt expression on his fea-
tures and at the same time hear him mutter
under his breath, “You d—d provincials!”
“0.K.”: What purpose was served by
those flat denials
of the truth con-
cerning Tivoli
Theatres, commonly
known as Mcln-
tosh’s, but in which
Mrs. Rickards, pre-
sumably, is largely
interested? In the
early part of Feb-
ruary the theatres
were said to be
about to pass into
the hands of a pic-
ture-combine ; and
then in the middle
of February there
was an official
denial of the story.
Hugh D. Mclntosh
declared in Sydney
that there was “not
the slightest founda-
tion for the rumor,”
Aydon, his manager
in Melbourne,
begged to confirm
what the boss had
said, and George
Musgrove, junior,
on behalf of the pic-
t u r e-s y n d ic a te,
issued a prompt
denial of the allega-
tion. In short, there
was the usual
theatrical conspir-
acy to make a fool
of the daily press,
and the daily press
had not a kick
about it when it
The Shakspearean
Players (Melb.), in
“Hamlet,” under the
direction of the Vic.
Education Depart-
ment.
Arthur Greenaway as
Hamlet.
was presently announced that all the denials
were essentially false.
“75” (London) : Australia’s old friend
Rose Edouin. who has just celebrated
her 76th birthday, is the oldest actress
appearing regularly on the London stage,
her present part being that of a nurse in
“Paddy, the Next Best I'hing,” which is
enjoying a boom at the Savoy. Her first
appearance was made at the old Strand, 70
years ago, when she was starred as the
“Marionette Grimaldi.” Grimaldi the clown
was then at the height of his Drury Lane
fame, and the show in which Rose appeared
was a pantomime in which the leads were
taken by youngsters. Brother Willie was
the harlequin, and another brother and sister
were in the cast. Later Rose played Puck
in a Sadler’s Wells production of the
“Dream.” She went to Australia with a
stock company when only 13, and played
Juliet there at 15.
“Glen H.” (London) : Nevin Tait has
secured “The Beggar’s Opera” for Australia.
He frankly regards it as a risky proposition
so far as the Commonwealth is concerned,
but thinks it a risk worth taking. Gay’s
old opera is about to celebrate its 30 f th
performance at the Hammersmith Lyric,
which, until a syndicate, of which Arnold
Bennett and Nigel Playfair are the moving
spirits, took it over, was known as the
“Blood Hole”—a shabby little playhouse
hannted by fourth-rate companies presenting
“How Typists Are Brought to Ruin” and
“The Mystery of the Bloodstained Petti-
coat” The new management renovated the
theatre, put on plays of merit, and has had
a remarkable run of successes. Every night
the smellful lanes and crowded open-air
market which form the approaches to the
Lyric are packed with motor-cars from the
West End, and there is no sign of the boom
coming to an end. “The Beggar’s Opera”
was the artistic grandparent of the Savoy
series. All the Gilbertian satire is there,
and in addition a strain of naughtiness
which the Victorian librettist would never
have permitted himself. The cast at the
Lyric is almost perfect, and it is to be
hoped that the Combine will not spoil a
good show by falling to do the fair thing
in this respect in Australia. Otherwise the
production is delightfully inexpensive, re-
quiring no scenery worth mentioning and
only a small orchestra.
“Old Pot”: J.C.W., Ltd., has snapped up
Philip Leslie, a clever light comedian who was
a member of the Brough-Flemming co. some
years ago. He did distinctive work with
that show, one of his successes being the
buoyant Duff in “Dr. Wake’s Patient.” Les-
lie recently appeared in the London produc-
tion of “Scandal,” and as this is one of the
Firm’s attractions his happening into Mel-
bourne from the Cold Land was in the nick
of time. He has war service also to his
credit; he first enlisted but his health broke
down, and he then went to France in charge
of one of the Australian Y.M.C.A. tents. He
says his main object in coming south was to
meet some of his war-time pals.
“Old Pot” : Lottie Sargent, of the “Chu
Chin Chow” co., made her first stage appear-
ance in Irving’s production of “Faust.” Her
uncle was Irving’s assistant stage-manager,
which accounts for some milk in the cocoa-
nut. Irving had re-introduced the Brocken
scene, which he did in a magnificent manner,
and Lottie was one of the Blue Devils ballet.
She was eight years with Irving, and was
also associated with Ada Rehan and John
Drew, the stars of Augustin Daly’s company.
Farcical comedy, panto and musical comedy
all came Lottie’s way, and she is well remem-
bered for her clever work in “The King of
Cadonia” in Sydney some years ago.
“Fax”: More than a dozen people who
figured as principals in first productions of
one or more of the Gilbert and Sullivan
operas at the Savoy were afterwards im-
ported to Australia. The following names
are recorded in published editions of Gil-
bert’s plays: Marion Hood, Kate Chard,
Alice Barnett, Hsnry Bracy, Durward My
(who came here as a concert singer only).
Charles Ryley, Leonora Braham (the original
Dorothy in Australia). Wallace Brownlow,
Courtice Pounds, W. H. Denny (a Shaks-
pearean actor in Australia). Decima Moore,
Charles Kenningham and Florence Perry.
Of that little lot Kate Chard and
Bracy (the first Ililarion in “Princess
Ida” at the Savoy) were known in Aus-
tralia before they had to do with Gilbert and
Sullivan opera in England, and five of them
—Bracy, Kate Chard, Lely, Ryley and Leon-
ora Braham—were originals in “Princess
Ida” 37 years ago.
“Chelsea” (London) : Bert Bailey will be
3ue back in Australia a few weeks after the
arrival of this. He did not make a fortune
out of “On Our Selection” in London or the
provinces, but is well content, having real-
ised his ambition to appear at a West End
theatre, and having had his own perform-
ance treated by the London critics with the
sort of respect which many a well-known
English actor has been trying for years to
earn. Bailey is taking with him several
plays and the goodwill of the theatrical
people in these parts. Most of the English
actors who have visited the Commonwealth
in the last few years turned up at a fare-
well luncheon, and all spoke enthusiastically
of the land which (from this part of the
world) seems to have a monopoly of sun-
shine.
i “Dido”: I find a growing change in the
: significance to be attached to the clapping
i of hands in a theatre. Very often when an
! audience is distinctly annoyed it claps. This
attitude is particularly noticeable in picture-
; theatres about Melbourne, and when an audi-
ence is more than usually demonstrative with
i its hands the agitated manager darts out
i to see what is wrong. Obnoxious adver-
■ tisements, especially those done in moving-
pictures, are always greeted with a noisy
: clap. The fact is audiences are now denied
any other form of expression but apprecia-
tive ones in our theatres, most of which
retain a hired assassin to deal with people
who want to manifest disapproval, so
patrons are driven to mock applause, and
I see the time coming when the sensitive
actor will as soon be smitten with an over-
i due tomato as be greeted with a clapping of
hands.
“S.S.”: The circus matinee had gone
slowly in the heat of the afternoon, and we
had come to Mddle. Groquat’s marvellous,
death-defying ride on the black stallion Nei’o.
The young person, very plump in her pink
tights and white ham-bone frill, was defying
death in a leisurely way, the horse’s hoofs
beating a sort of lullaby. The stallion Nero
proved to be very fiat, and the pad on his
back was wide enough for a building site.
The man next me had been breathing bad
words. Finally he got up, and addressed the
ringmaster. “What’s this stuff yer givin’
usV” he said defiantly. “That ain’t a horse
she’s roosting on; it’s a double-bed, and you
don’t get me stayin’ if she’s goin’ to turn
in without her blankets.” Then he left.
Repertory Theatres continue to topple.
The latest and about the biggest to go is
Miss ILorniman’s, in Manchester. The lady
says she has lost as much as she can afford
in the cause of culture, and has sold out to
a picture-theatre.
“Fluff”: These dress displays are becom-
ing wearisome. The theatres nowadays need
neither plot nor play, it seems, the managers
“His Lady Friends,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Beryl Bryant as
Catherine Smith, the
thrifty wife.
preferring to turn
the stage into an
over - elaborated
drapery showroom.
In fact, there’s no
reason why the odd
comedians should
talk at all, so much
a feature have the
dresses become.
“Baby Bunting,” at
Melbourne Majes-
ty’s, is suffering
from this disease.
The show is held up
at one point while
girls in the maddest
to-date costumes
move like lost souls
across stage. The
hats are yards in
width, and the de-
signs have no pos-
sible excuse for ever
having been de-
signed at all. The
whole thing has
about as much re-
lationship to the
show as a lobster
would have to a
painting if it
crawled over one.
I filled in the inter-
vals gazing at the
models of clothes
in the theatre shop-
windows in front
of Her Majesty’s,
and then came to
the conclusion that
I’m tired of paying
to help manage-
ments turn their
theatres into glorified drapery emporiums.
“S.T.S.”: It seems to be the business of
a comic song to suggest wickedness that
must not find expression. So Jennie Hart-
ley, in the pantomime, tells how r she was
asked to pose as Venus and declined, saying
sturdily, “I know jolly well how she lost
both her arms; and I’m not that kind of a
girl l” The truth, of course, is that just one
solitary statue of Venus, out of thousands,
has lost its arms, and nobody has any idea
how that happened; it was dug up in the
island of Milo (or Melos) without them.
But the song gets the suggestion of deep and
obscure villainy just the same.
"C. Ockney”: Obviously if Amy Roselle
once played Lady Macbeth when “Ellen
Terry fell ill,” as “Norbell” says (B.
17/3/21), Irving must have engaged the
lady as an understudy, Macbeth’s better —or
worse —half not being a character one can
jump into at a moment’s notice. Which
is very different from saying that the long-
deceased actress “was Lady Mac. to Irving’s
Thane at the London Lyceum; and the
critics gave her high praise.” I saw Amy
Roselle in her prime in many parts in Eng-
land, and certainly she was never associ-
ated with Henry Irving in my recollection.
That is nothing against her. Very many
good mummers were never engaged by the
Lyceum chief. Miss Roselle was an excel-
lent and prepossessing artist who never
realised her ambition of stardom in London.
That is all. Let her rest.
CONFIDENCES.
“Mary tells me that you told her about
Fred. After you said you wouldn't."
" Oh , the mean cat! And she told me she
wouldn't tell you."
“Well, I told her I wouldn't tell you she
told, me; so don't tell her I did."
“Alwyn”: It was not correct to say (B.
17/3/’2l) that "Julius Caesar” had not been
clone in Sydney since George Rignold’s com-
pany disbanded 27 years ago. Oscar Asche
and Lily Brayton put on this play both at
the Criterion and at the Town Hall, with
velvet hangings in lieu of the orthodox
scenery. In the cast were Herbert Grim-
wood (a splendid lago in "Othello”)., J.
Fritz Russell, Reginald lan Penny, H.
Tripp Edgar, Gerald Kay Souper, Con-
stance Robertson, Elfrida Clement and
Caleb Porter.
“Norbell”: In the dead long ago I was the
villain of the piece with a touring dramatic
crowd, and “Rienzi” (B. 10/3/’2l) reminds
me of a horrible experience. I was Danella,
the Dago heavy, in “Mr. Barnes of New
York,” and one night at Dimboola (Vic.)
had been duly stabbed and was out to it in
full view of the audience. As I lay there I
was aware of an outsize in hairy spiders com-
ing my way. Though a mere corpse I was
the most interested person in the house, or
in the whole mallee zone. The shaggy horror
deliberately climbed on to me, strolled over
my white dress-shirt bosom, paused a
moment under my chin, and then actually
crawled across my face. I took acting
seriously in those days, and never budged
till the curtain fell; but then it took three
stiff whiskies and the entire strength of the
co. to coax me back to normal.
SOMETHING LIKE A “PROP."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A dish of spaghetti helps Mr. to provide
some of the comedy of ‘The Maid of the Mountains.’ ”
I’ve used many “props” at various times to help me
in mirth provoking—
Not even the best of comedy mimes disdain such aids
to their joking—
Red nose, ditto wig, old hats and odd boots, and
trousering antediluvian—
All these and lots more in his cornic pursuits help
the stage funny man and the “movie” ’un,
And though I’ll admit each one of them scores, the
laughter evoked I call petty
Compared with the roars that are easily yours
when you toy with a dish of spaghetti!
Whenever the farceur sits down to eat from the
“gods” there is always a snigger,
Though he tackles the food in a manner discreet the
guffaws grow louder and bigger,
When it’s seen that it’s real —a genuine “prop”—
say, steaming hot liver and bacon—<
You’d think that the merriment never would stop,
with laughter the whole house is shakeii,
That triumph is mine and my salary’s “rfz,” and
now any comic, you’ll bet he
Will copy my biz (and swear that it’s his) in my
scene with a dish of spaghetti!
'ln carving a duck there’s a whole heap of fun, and
gnawing a bone brings a shriek, too;
With a plateful of soup, oh, the laughs I have won—
by legitimate means and unique, too!
But the helping that helps—what a gift! What a
cert! —a "property” age will not wither,
With which for some minutes a comic can flirt, is
the dish that’s all wriggle and slither!
At my pantomime antics the "highbrows” may grunt
—I own they are marionetty—
But most folks in front approve of the stunt when
I juggle with Dago spaghetti!
VICTORIA.
E. T.
A BALLADE OF FAILURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis thirty years now since I sighed
For early fame upon the stage.
My talent was my mother’s pride—
She knew I’d be a personage
If managers would but engage
Her Henry for the acting staff.
See how I grace the equipage—
I am the camel’s hinder half.
My reputation is not wide
Nor high. At fifty years of age
As Hamlet chances are denied,
Though once I figured as a page
At smaller than a laborer’s wage.
For weeks a drink I do not quaff
My poignant longing to assuage.
I am the camel’s hinder half.
One thing can never be denied—
I’m conscientious. In my cage
Of metal rite how well I hide
My own identity! Though sage
Young critics here will often gage
An actor so, no paragraph
Of praise is my poor heritage.
I am the camel’s hinder half.
Envoy.
I have the hump, an appanage
I must abide. My epitaph:
“Here buried talents mutely rage.”
I am the camel’s hinder half.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


I.TOI'W
..
Will Be
Showing
at the
Royal
Sydney
Easter
Show.
Be Sure
You See
Them.
in
f.
S*
■
§
9
9
8
“One of the Best Tyres on Earth.**
“Supreme for Safety.”
That is how prominent Australian motorists sum up VACUUM CUP TYRES. Positively they will NOT skid
—you get a guarantee of that. Such an unusual evidence of confidence will surely beget the thought “These
are unusually good tyres.”
VACUUM CUP TYRES last the longest, look the best, and are remarkably free from all tyre troubles.
THEY ARE NOT HIGH-PRICED.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LIMITED,
Sole Agents in N. S. Wales,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELIZA TINSLEY PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Victoria and Tasmania,
644 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WHITTY
HITTY , ai* /);/?
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
\ T^
yssf
D r£
"Wowd/Best
r MoToi^Q>!Pjr
Gs od
ir\ Cdus % tr&jCj& .
Dftmsn itiPemAL on.cor. uu. *u jtatcs vnz.
WINCHESTER RIFLES.
MODEL THUMB TRIGGER, Bolt action. 47/6
MODEL 1902, fires 22 short, long, extra long,
fires 22 short, long, long rifle,
REPEATER MODEL 1906, fires short, long,
long rifle, £6/17/6. ,
AUTOMATIC MODEL 1903, for quick action,
MODEL° , 92? // 25/20, 32, 38, 44 cal. Repeaters,
£B/10/-; Carbines, £7/17/6.
REMMINGTON 22 REPEATER, hammerless,
£7/10/- ,
B.S.A. 22 Bolt action, 200 yards range, 95/-
CADET RIFLES, fitted with new
Barrels. Fire 297/230 Cartridges. Price
55/-; Cartridges, 5/- 100- ,
All sizes and makes of Metallic Cartilages
always in stock.
C/u*
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Most horseowners are born unlucky, some
achieve luck, a few have it thrust upon them. The
friends of Tom Oekerby, a Westrnlian miller, are
undecided whether to place
him in the second or third
categories. Knowing
nothing of breeding, and
having never owned a racer
before, Oekerby bought a
colt that caught his eye at
the Sydney sales a year
ago—a fine, upstanding
youngster by Eaton Lad,
a little-known sire. He
paid £230 for the baby
and handed him over to a
Perth trainer, philosophi-
cally expecting to be told,
in due season—it is the
familiar experience of
“mug” owners—that he
had purchased a dud. But
the big colt turned out a
smasher, made a procession
of every race he started
in, and had returned his
owner 10 times the pur-
chase money before he was
retired to the paddock to
mature for his three-year-
old career. He is
Easingwold, whom the
Westralians rate a finer
colt than Eurythmic was
at the same age, and
Oekerby was recently asked
if 4000 guineas would
tempt him. He said it
wouldn’t.
MAJOR WILLIAM
McCulloch, a
well-known Victorian
owner.
There was some capital racing at Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.) on Saturday, but it threw little light
on the big Easter events. In the six-furlong Flying
Handicap the three-to-one chance Wish Wynne, with
an advantage of 2st. lllb., beat the favorite Green-
stead (lOst. 21b.) handily, and the big horse had only-
lib. more than his Doncaster weight. But the sharp
turns at Hawkesbury suit the Cooltrim filly better
than they do Greenstead, and the latter was beaten
once or twice at suburban courses before he won
the Epsom with 9st. 61b. Maltgilla (9st. 51b.) wak
finishing well in third place, and this honest mare
will have 81b. off her back in the Doncaster. Braille
(Bst. 31b.) was favorite for the Autumn Handicap, a
mile and three furlongs, but the best he could do
was to run third to the Comedy King four-year-old
King of the Forest (7st. lllb.), a 12 to 1 shot, and
the rank outsider Glen Branter. Salitros (Bst. 101 b.)
was backed at 9 to 2, and Kennaquhair (10st.)
at 6 to 1, and both finislhed close up without ever
being dangerous. King of the Forest has '6s(. 121 b.
in the Sydney Gup. The mile Highweight Handicap
went to the useful Battlewrac-k (9st. 311).), by Malster
-—Toisana, and the black horse started favorite at 9
to 2. Syce Knight was prominent in the early
stages, but faded out in the run home.
Since winning at Rosehill Beauford (Bst.
lllb.) has been the boom horse for the Doncaster,
which is to be run at Randwick on Saturday. His
Rosehill effort was a conspicuously good Doncaster
trial and he is an uncommonly swift horse. But his light
appearance didn’t impress the touts when he worked
at Randwick a week ago, and on Saturday Swift Shot
beat him by four lengths in a six-furlong gallop. In
any ease the big autumn mile is, as a rule, disastrous
to favorites. In the last six Doneasters a long-priced
rough-’un has rolled home four times, the actual
favorite only once. Much depends on position at the
barrier and speed in moving off. With reasonable
luck in these particulars, Elfaere (Bst. lllb.) and
King’s Word (Bst. 61b.) among the top-weights ought
to be dangerous at the right end, and if the lightly-
burdened lot are in the final picture perhaps Olympic
(7st. 31b.), Solar Rays (7st. 31b.) and Lilting (6st.
71b.) will be thereabouts. Of the lot Elt'acre for pre-
ference, as he looks a champion, and at the moment
of writing is thoroughly fit.
* * * *
Like the Doncaster the 'Sydney Cup has fre-
quently been annexed by something' unexpected. But
this year’s field, apart from Kennaquhair (9st. 121 b.),
Eurythmic (9st. 81b.), Richmond Main (9st. 81b.)
and a few others, is of mediocre quality. Each of the
three heavily-burdened animals lias a nmnei'ous band
of admirers, but Richmond Main will require to be as
great as John Brown believes him and Eur.vthmie
better over a long journey than is generally suspected,
to down Kennaquhair at the weights. And there is
Erasmus (Bst. 31b.). Second to Poitrel in the Mel-
bourne Cup, the three-year-old should run out the
distance without difficulty, and trainer Harry Robinson
is fairly confident. In a spirit of mild hopefulness
this page expects to hear of Kennaquhair, Richmond
Main and Erasmus being in the fighting line when the
stayers are separated from the stoppers, with a linger-
ing prejudice in favor of Erasmus.
# * » •
Although The Rover scored a very easy
win in the Australian Cup, his chance of winning
Sydney Cup with another 191 b. on his back is not
necessarily bright. There Was little to beat in the
2i event at Flemington. Millteme (9st.) was the
only representative of “class,” and just when Mil-
Kerne looked most dangerous he broke a bone in his
leg. The Rover carried only 7st. 21b., and of the
half-dozen horses that finished nearest to him, three
were giving him up to 51b., while the other three re-
ceived from two to six pounds. It was a battle of
light-weights, of no particular account up to then.
In such company, on such terms, The Rover was a
very different proposition from what lie will be at
Randwick, with Bst. 71b. up. He is a somewhat
mean-looking fellow, with no striking qualifications
as a weight-carrier. If Wren starts Dumvil for the
Doncaster he will probably swear by that horse
as he swore by The Rover for the mile race last
year, but nothing can be known for certain about that
somewhat “dark” candidate, except that time is on
the wing, and the present is a fine opportunity for
him to prove himself. One can’t see Dumvil proving
himself a Doncaster winner, anyway, unless the draw
for positions favors him.
Clive Leonard’s improving Almissa nag
Mufti (7st.) did Israel a good turn by landing the
handsomely-endowed St. Hilda Cup, at Caulfield on
Saturday, from the unlucky Accrington (Bst. 131 b.)
and King of the Sea (Bst. 131 b). The winner, who
went out at 14 to 1, is not engaged in the Sydney
Cup. W. 11. James’s cast-off Amazonia (Bst. 51b.)
was favorite, hut failed to finish , in the first five.
* * # *
Just-dead Rev. Ilowell-Price, of Sydney,
was an ardent lover of the trotting horse, and up
to a few years ago frequently drove his own entries
at the shows.. He was a good reinsman and was an
encyclopedia on trotting pedigrees. The best horse
he ever owned was the stallion Claredo, who had a
record of 2min. 18sec.
* * * *
Australasia, which has been drawn to
meet Canada in the first tie for the Davis Cup, will
probably forfeit. Patterson announced a while back
that he wouldn’t be available, and now O’Hara Wood
feels that he must drop the racquet and attend to his
job. Brookes, sole selector of the team, is therefore
left with the possibility of taking Heath and Thomas
(S.A.) as his main suits, and filling up the . other
vacancies from either Vic. or N.S.W. colts. Though
Thomas is sound and experienced, he and the fading
Brookes, with the help of Heath and Anderson or
Hawkes, would quite possibly not survive the first
round. In the circumstances they will probably stay
at home and save the money.
* * * *
Clarence Todd again had a hand in the
City of Sydney tennis championships last week.
He partnered veteran left-hander Horace Rice, and
defeated Frank and Norman Peach (holders) in the
doubles, in a clinking five-set match. With two
sets each and 23 games all, a great deciding set was
expected; but Todd and Rice arose like giants and
won by six—love. In the mixed doubles Todd
and Mrs. Fuller met Frank Peach and Miss Lance
in the final, and won 2—6, 6—4, 6—4. The losers
showed the best form in the early stages, but the
whipcord condition of Todd again pulled him through.
Miss Lance did best in the ladies’ matches, winning
the singles (7 —4, 6 —14) from Miss Halley, and
those two partnered and defeated Miss St. George and
Mrs. Fuller in the doubles (9 —7, 6 —2).
The latest N. S. Wales bowls champion is
A. Marshall, of Cessnock, who defeated J. Blackburn
(City) by 31 —15 at Randwick last week. Up to
the 15tli head it was an even tussle; but at the
24th Marshall led by 23—15, and that was the
end of the metropolitan representative. The semi-
finals were better matches, Marshall defeating Allsop
(Wollongong) by 31-—29, the latter coming with a
rattle when the board showed 26—14 against him ;
and Blackburn wrecked the consistent Woodhouse b.v
31—25. Marshall, who is a returned Digger, learned
the game only four years ago.
Dencio, the Filipino featherweight, whose
connections had so exalted an opinion of him that
before they were induced to moderate their trans-
ports they demanded lavish expenses and £lOOO
a fight, showed his paces at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night against the dour French poilu,
Criqui. The Manilaman proved a game and tough
bit of stuff, with a solid punch in either hand. He
forced continually, had Criqui worried from the
start, and in the fifth round landed a right that
made France rock like the Manly boat between
North and South Heads, and might have toppled
him over for the count had Dencio moved in at
once and waled at the swaying Frenchman for all
he was worth. But the brown vouth is a slow
thinker, and when he took in the situation the
white man’s brain had cleared and the dangerous
moment was gone. For 13 rounds it was a willing
and exciting fight, with Criqui receiving most of
the punishment, but in the fourteenth the grim Gaul
got home a succession of solid punches and Dencio went
down and out, to be carried to his dressing-room
feet first. An attack of neuralgia is blamed for
his sudden exit, but another and more convincing
explanation is that it was due to the weight of the
Frenchman’s fist. He gave a promising exhibition,
at all events, and is worthy of a return match. But
when Australia abandons its unfortunate predilec-
tion for the sort of boxer who is merely a clever
tapper and can neither give a punch nor take one it
will cease to regard Criqui and Dencio as champions,
which decidedly they are not.
DENCIO, the tough feather from the
Philippines.
“0.K.”: The appointment of various
Advisory Boards in connection with athletic sports
is the next move to be expected of some Labor Gov-
ernment. Cricket and tennis might be bracketed
with a few salaried advisers to deal with, and
endo’ed-track racing' on foot or wheel might be
classed with swimming oajrnivals. Football, of
course, calls for a Director-General and Board of
Advice on its own. And boxing! Is the sport of
scrapping to flourish everywhere without giving poli-
tical patronage and jobbery a look in?
Stawell (Vic.) is the only town in Aus-
tralia that has remained consistently faithful to the
professional ped. The Stawell Easter Gift is to
the man-sprinter what the Newmarket Handicap is in
the horsey world, and every year you will see lean,
greyhound-like youths, from all parts of the Common-
wealth, each with his backer and a generous supply
of chewing-gum, in the old mining camp b.v
Pleasant Creek. For the 1921 Gift there are 125
nominations, and every State is represented.
* * # *
So many wheelmen thought they could win
the Grand Prix of Sydney at the Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday that nine heats
and three semi-finals had to be run off. The
winners of the semi-finals raced for the A final, the
seconds for the B, and the thirds for the C. In the
A final Hans Ohrt (America), with a great sprint,
defeated Alf Grenda and ex-amateur Gerald Halpin
in 2min. 46sec. ; Bill Erskine was too good for C. L.
Papworth and Ken Ross in the B final in 2min. 34see.
and H. Horder downed Jackie Clark and F. Wells
in the C final in 2min. 45 1-5 sec. Horder also
took the five-mile scratch race from Grenda and
Wells in lOmin. 26sec. The youthful Horder, who
is the most improved rider in Sydney, is off to
scramble for the cash, on the American circuit
next season.
* • # *
Sydney yachtsmen are preparing to hiber-
nate. On Saturday th® Amateur Sailing Club held
its final race of the season in a fluky sou’-easter.
The winner turned up in Seabird (IV. L. Dendy), off
the honor mark, with Athene, smin. (D. Garment)
lfmin. astern, second, and the consistent Waitangi,
lmin. (H. L. Carter), 24sec. further away, third.
Commodore R. 11. C. Down presented the winning
crew with a club burgee and ensign, second and third
craft receiving burgees. Sydney Flying Squadron
also submitted its closing programme, an 18ft.
handicap, two heats and a final, over the short course,
Mascotte, scr. (W. C. Duncan), annexed the first
heat, and Hero 2jmin. (Geo. Degan) the second.
Ten boats faced the starter in the final, and Hero,
capably handled by Degan, soon had the race in
hand. It was a fine struggle for places, Duncan
just managing to poke Mascotte’s bumpkin over the
line’ 6sec. in front of Advance, which headed Moyana
in the last few yards. By the two clubs catering for
18-footers, the prize-money disbursed during the
season amounted to £1057. Mascotte gathered in
£B7. Kismet £74, Pastime £64, Britannia £57,
Desdemona £56, Mississippi £54, Advance £53,
Vision, Bananaland, Moyana and H. C. Press £5O
each ’ * /
Jim Paddon (N.S.W.) and Billy McDevitt
(Tas.) have signed up to row for the Aus-
tralian championship, at Woodburn (N.S.W.), on
April 30. Paddon is the holder of the title, and
the winner will speak authoritatively to Dick Arnst,
who claims the world’s championship by default from
Barry. Arnst has accepted Maoriland champion Han-
nan’s challenge, and gradually the muddled world-
championship business promises to straighten itself
out.
The “river” oarsmen seem to have got the
measure of the city rowers in South Aus. Since
the war nobody had cared to oppose Murray Bridge
till this month, and then, in the race for the State
champion eights, they came home alone. The S.A.
Bowing Association realises that it is no good trying
to get a better boat by mixing the styles, and the
same Murray Bridge eight will represent the State
in Tasmania in the Commonwealth championship.
* * * *
The end of the English Xl’s final match,
against S.A., was singularly like that of their first
meeting on the same ground. With Pellew and
other good men away, S.A. went cheaply, Fender
doing most of the damage. Then the weak local
bowling was again pasted in all directions, Rhodes
hitting up 210, Russell 201 (his three centuries in
Australia have been made on the Adelaide Oval)
and Douglas 106: total 627. As in November the
local men, mostly colts, put up a fine second innings.
Uundell made a chanceless 121, and others did well;
but the chief find made was a youngster named Harris
from Port Adelaide, who scored 40 and 84 on
his first appearance. England won by an innings
and 63, Fender helping considerably by taking 12
wickets in the match for 184. The moral is that
it is time for South •Aus. to import a bowler
again, or possibly two. (SI. Peter’s school tried
to engage Rhodes as a coach, but nothing came of it.)
There is abundant precedent for such a move. A
bowler such as McDonald, or Howell if obtainable,
would hearten the local attack immensely.
* * * #
The Australian XI in Maoriland continues
its victorious tramp. In recent matches it defeated
Wanganui by an innings and 33 runs. Minor Associ-
ations went down by an innings and six, and Canter-
bury was defeated by seven wickets. Hornibrook took
8 for 27 v. Wanganui, and 7 for 06 v. Minor Associ-
ations ; and Ironmonger took 10 for 125 v. Canter-
bury. In the latter match Vernon Hansford rattled
up 117 not out, and V. Richardson smote a vigorous
97 v. Minor Associations. Generally, the form of
the Maoriland players is found much below the
Australian standard.
■* * » *
Sydney grade cricket on Saturday pro-
duced nothing startling. No three-figure contributor
came forward, and no bowler got more than five
wickets. Middle Harbor, for a change, took root
for the afternoon, and Glebe, with Kelleway absent,
had to use all hands to dig them out for 287. Baker
(84) was top scorer, and Gray bowled best for
Glebe. Sydney (226) have set Norths a moderate
task for Saturday week. The leading club showed
indifferent form against Norths’ weak bowling,
Jenkins (59) being least blameworthy. ’Varsity
(180) again exhibited a lamentable tail. After Rock
(64), Bardsley (31) and Boyce (23) had scored
rapidly and with apparent ease, the remainder could
do nothing with O’Keeffe (3 for 80) and O’Brien (5
for 51). Paddington appear “home and dfy,” with
no wickets down and 62 runs in hand. The con-
sistent Cranney (78) and Cox (58) made most of
C. Cumberland’s score (189) against Waverley. The
former, who gets his runs by unorthodox strokes, is,
unfortunately, only at his best in club cricket. For
Waverley Pite took 6 for 70 and Comber 5
for 57; and, with three down for 112, the team
shoidd hold C.C. safe. Folkard (5 for 73) and
Dr. Campling (4 for 76) were responsible for Wests
being outed for 157. The only sound spot in the
innings was Lane and Wall’s partnership for 74.
’Main have 4 down for 125, to which the versatile
Folkard has contributed 35 (n. 0.) and McCoy 45.
Against Petersham Gordon compiled 181, of which
Diamond, showing some of his old-time form, handed
in 49. Petersham have 4 out for 74.
* * * *
Ethelda Bleibtrey was first iu two more
swimming championships last week-. At Melbourne
the 220yds. Victorian title went to the fair and
frank young Yankee maiden, in 2min. 58 3-ssec.,
from Lily Beaurepaire (3min. 24 4-ssec.) and J.
Shimmin (3min. 27sec.). At Manly Miss Bleibtrey
won the 800yds. championship in 4inin. 7sec.,
Mina Wylie again being second, 25yds. away, and
Thea Cavill third. Ethelda’s time was 4sec. below
Fanny Durack’s world’s record for the distance.
* * * *
Mina Wylie added N.S.W. 150yds. swim-
ming championship to her long list of trophies at
Ooogee (Sydney) last week, in lmin. 59 l-ssec.,
after a great tussle with L. Robertson and Thea
Oavill. These two are many years junior to the
champion, and their form suggests that next year
they may not be content to fill minor positions.
Mina’s tune was 6 l-ssee worse than Fanny Durack’s
record, put up at Domain Baths in - 1916. The same
trio provided the titbit at the same baths in a
100yds. scratch race, and Miss Wylie won in
70 4-ssec.
Thea Cavill, the shapely 15-year-old daughter of the
old champion, R. Cavill, carried off the ladies’ diving
competition at Manly on Saturday. Thea has
now twice defeated Ella Smith since the latter was
adjudged winner of the State championship. There
is talk of Dick Cavill migrating to Yankeeland with
Thea and the rest of the family.
• # * *
In the absence of top-notchers, Moss
Christie (Drummoyne) won the N. S. Wales mile
swimming championship at Sydney, in 25min.
33 3-ssec. Only three started, and Christie defeated
16-year-old E. Jones (Westralia) by three yards.
Christie deserved success, since this year he has
finished third in both the mile and 1320yds. Aus-
tralian championships, and was fifth in N. S. Wales
half-mile championship. He is only 18, and has
plenty of time to improve his already fine staying
powers.
* * * *
Eudy Langer and Pau Kealoha gave New-
castle a sample of their quality on Saturday.
Langer swam 300 metres in 3min. 56 2-ssec., which
is 1 3-ssec. better than Ross’s 3min. 58sec. in the
Domain (Sydney) bath last season. Ross, however,
covered the distance in 3min. 45 2-ssec. at Brisbane
on January 17, 1920. This notwithstanding, Langers
time is hailed as a world’s best. Kealoha, m the
100yds. Invitation Scratch Race, headed Harry Haj
(Manly) and Sid Beck (Sydney) by 2yds. m
56 4-ssec.
* * * *
Oscar Dickman keeps on winning N.S.W.
professional swimming championships. Recently n
won the 220yds. title at Leichhardt (Sydney) in 2nnn.
45sec. —a long way behind his own world s record
of 2min. 32sec., put up at Abbotsford in 1912; and
last week he took the quarter-mile at Domain Baths in
6min. lsec. Diekman’s form this year has peen
splendid, but the record-book has been saved from
alteration owing to the inability of opponents to
nnsh him.
THE ETERNAL QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the St. Patrick’s Day concert in Brisbane Mr.
was down to give a step-dance. He advanced
to the footlights and delivered a passionate attack on
‘the bloody Black and Tans.’ ’’—Daily paper.
’Twas Easter, and the Randwick course
Was black with worshippers of Horse.
Expectancy was in the air:
The ring was dumb ; the totes were bare.
For all the wagers had been laid
And over was the Cup parade.
“Line up!” the starter yelled, and all
Obeyed excepting Mike McCall,
Who rode the favorite, Disgrace.
“Not me!” said Mike. “Pos’pawn th’ r-race,
Oi wawnt ter tell th’ people phwat
Oi t’irik av Car-rson an’ his lot!”
A surging, swearing, jostling crowd
The Stadium thronged, when Pat O’Dowd,
The Queensland champ., was billed to box
The Colored Marvel, Sambo Fox.
A flash of teeth in simian jaws
And Sam arrived. (Subdued applause.)
Wild cheering for the K. O. King
Announced that Pat was in the ring.
But, waving with his trusty right,
He spoke: “Dere’ll be no fight ter-night,
But wait an’ I’ll expound me views
Of Mannix an’ dat blayguard Hughes.”
They still in football circles tell
How, forty seconds from the bell,
With two behind and three to win,
The ball was passed to Larry Finn.
The need was great, the path was clear,
And ’twas the game of all the year.
Excitement boiled in every soul,
But, near the unprotected goal,
Finn halted, and with gestures crude,
Harangued the raving multitude.
Fierce curses mingled in the breeze
On Larry and the R.l.C.’s.
N.S.W.
WODGIL.


Are You SELF-CONFIDENT?
mn
Can you face your fellows fortified by the knowledge that you have
the mental and physical fitness to be successful?
You cannot do so unless your body is working in harmony, as
Nature intended it to. The man who has the mental alertness that
enables him to tackle a task and win is the man who is
physically fit.
The Baker
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture
is a series of simple, enjoyable lessons, perfected by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker from his wide experience, that
builds up the whole system and strengthens and fortifies
the nerves and muscles that control the vital organs. Tiius
the body is able to perform its functions in perfect har-
mony, and throw off the poisons that clog and weaken the
system.
You will be thoroughly interested in “Snowy” Baker’s
valuable booklet, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture,”
which tells all about the course and fees, and gives many
useful hints. All you have to do to obtain it is to cut
this advertisement out, write your name and address across
it, and send it to us with three penny stamps to cover
postage. The book will be sent by return.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
449 Municipal Euildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Watch
Bracelets
Are the Rage.
m
n
Reliable fully-jewelled
Lever Gold Watch, on
Expanding Gold Brace-
let, from £B/8/-
We have sold thousands of these Watches, and
the demand grows daily.
WHY ?
Every watch we sell is guaranteed for 15
years.
Every watch is tested before delivery.
Every watch is known as reliable and accu-
rate. or thrown out of our stock.
Prices, too, are the lowest in Australia for
high-grade goods.
We carry an immense range of designs in
Gold and Platinum, both plain and set with
jewels.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
po
n
A
WRITE. FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion BooK
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
ELCAR-SIX.
A BEAUTIFUL CAR AT A MODERATE PRICE.
Continental
It is a strictly high-class production, embodying such famous components
Engine, Borg & Beck Clutch, Muncie Gear Box and Salisbury Axles. Inspection will at once
indicate to you the wonderful value we are offering.
THE NEW BRISCOE.
This is the Lightweight Economy Car, and its design and construction will be a revelation to
you—we have fitted the chasses with most attractive bodies.
You will like the New Briscoe. Price £595.
BROWN & HELLICAR, LTD.,
74 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
ELCAR-SIX, BRISCOE, WAVERLEY, A.C., METZ.
if**!!?’
I
fm
Douglas
The latest post-war models of the famous British “Douglas” Motor-cycle can now be
delivered immediately -
4-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear, clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
2J-H.P. MODEL, with 3-speed gear (as illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards.
2J-H.P. SPECIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
The “patented” horizontally opposed “Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to all
“Douglas” Motor-cycles, is so well and favorably know that it needs little explanation. The
horizontal twin engine is the most suitable for motor-cycle practice. It certainly gives less
vibration than any engine with less than four cylinders. Douglas Motors Ltd. have so perfected
this type of engine that it has become universally popular.
The “DOUGLAS” is exceptionally easy to learn to control in congested city traffic, or oyer
rough, hilly, muddy, sandy or bush roads, or across paddocks. It is very economical, giving
90 to 100 miles to the gallon, exceptionally light on transmission, chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result of the even, steady pull of the engine.
Frame, wheels, etc., are exceptionally strong and reliable.
The new designed front forks are “the last word” in comfort and strength, and being adjust-
able to wear, are almost everlasting.
The “DOUGLAS” has ample power to take you where any motor-cycle will. It will stand
any amount of hard work, and depreciates less in value from hard riding than any other make.
More “DOUGLASES” were used in the Great War than any other make. They have won
more reliability and speed contests than any other British motor-cycles, and hold many world’s
records.
In justice to yourself you should get full particulars of the “DOUGLAS” before you decide
which motor-cycle to buy.
MANUFACTURED BY
DOUGLAS MOTORS LTD., Kingswood, Bristol, England.
Sole Agents—
New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., LTD., 213, 215, 217 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria and Tasmania: ACME CYCLE CO., 355-357 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia: GUARD BROS., 21-23 Gouger Street, ADELAIDE.
Oueensland: WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO., Temporary address: 245 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Magnesia
for Indigestion*
mn
m
SPORTING
BALLISTITE
Field 8 Match
CARTRIDGES
OTP
\u
:?'jv
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The Overcoat You
Need—NOW
The Dexter
Raglan.
A good shower-proof coat of this type
is a necessity at this season of change-
able weather.
The “DEXTER,” as here shown, will
meet your requirements to the letter.
Light, yet sufficiently warm for pre-
sent needs—smart and distinctive in
style (featuring the correct Raglan,
with “step” collar or lapel), with
workmanship so flawlessly perfect as
to pay a high tribute to “LINCOLN-
STUART” TAILORING —this is the
coat that claims the preference of all
gentlemen.
It is obtainable in GABARDINE of
the first quality, in tasteful shades of
GREY, FAWN and BROWN—
material guaranteed to give years of
service without losing its smartness
or protective value.
Our price for this perfect garment is
n
Freight
Paid.
At this figure, considering it is an
absolutely high-grade coat, the value
is really remarkable.
If you want to know what overcoat
satisfaction is—buy a “Dexter” Rag-
lan to-day.
CALL—OR
POST YOUR ORDER.
ñ
LINCOLN, STUART & CO
PTY. LTD.,
SPECIALISTS IN MEN’S WEAR,
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


SUEDE-FINISHED
RIDING TROUSERS, 21/-
RTl —Fawn or Olive Suede - finished Drill
Riding Trousers. Price, 21/-
RT2 —Bush Twill Riding Trousers, in fawn,
drab, and dark olive; also a neat herringbone
pattern in medium olive shade. Price, 21/-
RT3 —Extra Strong Khaki Drill Trousers, ser-
viceable for farm or station w_rk. Price, 18/6
RT4 —Farmer’s u-ual serviceable fawn canton
mole Trousers, 22/6. Better quality, .. 25/-
RT5 —Summer weight Plain and Twill Gabar-
ette Riding Trousers in medium and dark rawn,
closely woven, give splendid wear. Price, 25/-
RT6 —Medium we ght cotton Riding Twist in
fawn only. Price, per pair, . . .. 2//6
RT7—Superior qualify Wool and Cotton Rid-
ing Twist in drab, medium and dark fawn. 45/- :i
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
•fti
ife
&
c
!!:
BOND’S-
r
Australian-made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
A
Made in
Artificial
Sik Smart,
/ Comfortable a-d
/ Guaranteed to give
/ satisfactory Service ;
'’Yellow Diamond 11 which
sells at a very low price
Stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
W. ChorleytfCo.Ltd.
a m
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
S
LADIES’ 8
CENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPCRES
*
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
Andy Fisher had nothing to complain
about in his home-coming. Tories, Liberals,
Coekies and Labor joined hands in welooming
him in Melbourne, and he felt fairly lifted.
He may come to the conclusion, after all,
that Australia is more to his taste than the
Cold Country, and stop here. If he could
get a seat he might be an acceptable compro-
mise and form a link between the groups in
the Federal Labor Party that support Tudor
and Ryan respectively.
Interest in the returned Hennessys
centres in curiosity .as to whether S’David
will walk around with the Order of the
Commander of the Court of Belgium on his
chest, while his wife sports the medal of the
Queen of Belgium on a chain. The associa-
tion of Gaud Mayoralty with war funds
explains these baubles, and when one thinks
of all the honor and glory the war brought
to David, there’s no wonder he was indignant
at being dragged out of the chair a year before
the Armistice came. No previous Mayor of
Melbourne gave away such sums of
public money as he did, and no successor is
likely to get the chance of lasting so long in
office, even though another war clothed him
with an air of indispensability. David will
go down to history as a champion long-
distance Chief Magistrate, and his lady as
the mayoress who most mattered. Nowa-
days the Town Hall monarchs just come and
go like shadows. Caesar one November, and
great Caesar’s ghost the next. They don’t
even last long enough to be knighted.
The only show element about dancer
Maggie Dickinson’s knot-tying with Syd
Culverliouse was the riotous army of women
sightseers who, regardless of all decency,
charged past the blue-coated bobbies into
Christ Church, St. Kilda, and sacrilegiously
swarmed atop of the pews. A few of the
charlady variety removed their headgear.
Finally, when it was rumored that Syd and
Maggie had eloped, after signing the register,
by a side door, the women frantically tally-
hoed across the top aisle at full speed. The
parson broke off in the middle of “I, Syd,
take thee, Maggie,” in a vain attempt to
silence the din. As Maggie (or “Margot” as
her friends know her) floated up the aisle
on the arm of brother Carl and under the
real lace veil presented her by Ivy Shilling,
she was a shimmer of white and silver dra-
peries, blue eyes and dimples. Her long
train was held from the dust by t(vo tiny
nieces, Pat Wenman and Morn Dickinson,
both looking ducky in blue frocks and white
floating veils. Singer Pauline Bindley
bridesmaided picturesquely in blue silk ehif-
fonery, with hat to match, and clutched a
pink and blue posy.
Later on the bridal party and a few guests
fed at the Cafe Denat. At the bridal table
sat Charlie Wenman and his wife, the latter
wearing a J.C.W. Mode’s creation —white
chiffonery decorated with a lattice-work of
patent leather and silk-embroidered roses
—-and a dinky little black toque. Hugh
Mclntosh proposed the health of George
Rex, and Phil Finkelstein toasted the
newly-weds. Dot Brunton, Gladys Mon-
crieff, Nell Payne, the bride’s mother in black
and silver, and a handful of Dickinsons
Avere among the also-present. Finally, the
’groom bore off his smiling little bride (in
henna-colored tailorings topped by an ermine
and tissue toque) amid a hailstorm of con-
fetti hurled by the gallery girls who had
lined up on the side-walk.
Piloted by Bill Everard, M.L.A., the Earl-
Governor visited liingwood at the week-end
to open the horticultural show and see the
orchards which grew the exhibits. His Ex.
had hardly made the acquaintance of Vic-
torian soil before Everard got him to book
this as his first out-of-town appointment.
Probably he mentioned that he Avas the son
of an old-time legislator xvho had helped to
put the State on its feet before Stradbroke
was box-n.
The Gee-Gee and Lady Forster took as
little risk as possible when they visited the Zoo
last Friday. They had the Le Souefs to lun-
cheon (to meet Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Fisher)
before going with them to the place at Royal
Park where the lions roar o’ nights and
the elephants carry their trunks. Nothing
in the way of an escaped man-eater was
likely to be prowling around when Mr. Le
Soeuf had their Excellencies in tow.
Lady Helena Rous, the Stradbrokes’
solemn-looking blue-eyed flapper, has no han-
kering for the social whirl. Her two dearest
possessions are her embroidery frame and her
water-color paint-box. She uses her brush with
rather more than ordinary amateur skill and
plies her needle as deftly as great-grand-
mother did in the bad old days when woman
had precious little else to do.
Margaret Baskerville has been busy on
two Nurse Caved commissions. One, a marble
statue, is to stand in St. as a
tribute from returned Diggers. The other is a
very classical bronze tablet which the Aus-
tral Salon has presented to St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral. This is a finely modelled head, with
the cross of the nurses on the breast, and an
inscription in old Roman lettering, and it is
to have a special niche in the Cathedral.
Stanley fought shy of the Masonic craft
in Melbourne, but Stradbroke has been
gathered in already. At the installation of
F. T. Hickford as G.M. last week h s Ex.
was the principal exhibit. The Masonic
Hall, at the top of Colfins-street, was found
plenty big enough for the ceremony, but it
is probable that the Town Hall or Exhibi-
tion Building will be needed when the Earl-
Gov.’s own turn comes. As there is such a
fine prospect of bagging Stradbroke as G.M.
for the rest of his term from March next
year, Hickford may get a quiet hint to
keep off the sectarian grass.
Nobody knows yet whether Alfred Hos-
pital is to get £5OOO or £5OO from Sol
Green. Accoiding to the terms of h.s offer,
March subscriptions have to tpt up to £12.000
before the committee can claim the £.5000.
Otherwise the Sol’s beneficence will go no
further than three figures. These
offers ought to be stimulating, but they are
quite illogical, when one comes to think of
it. Because the poor old Alfred wants an
awful lot of money the principal contributor
will give only a tenth of his maximum dona-
tion if the world in general disappoints the
hospital bitterly. The old adage about
greasing the fat pig recurs to mind. With
the Alfred Hospital Fund nothing wall suc-
ceed like success, so the Goddess of Charity,
being a perfect lady, appeals to everybody
in general to help make up £12,000 by March
31.
Acting-Archbishop Ilindley recently made
an appeal for poor children —those who are
ordered a change of air but whose people
can’t pay for such a luxury. Critchiey
Parker and his wife came along with £3OOO,
and sponsored a cottage and six acres of
ground at Mornington, on the lovely Penin-
sula. Mrs. Andrew Kerr also made a sub-
stantial donation, and other donors have
added £5OO to the funds. The home was set
in order last week, and the Archbishop and
Mr. Parker went down on Saturday to give
it an opening. The home will be called The
Andrew Kerr Memorial. Andrew, who was
killed early in the war, was Mrs. Parker’s
brother. The home is to be extended
into little nests spread all about the
six acres. There will be no question of reli-
gous creed or parentage or fuss of any
kind. It is just necessary for a doctor or
any helpful district visitor to point out a
sick baby, and the youngster will be picked
up and carried off.
The bright girl smiling in the adjoining
picture is Amy Rochelle, who burst last
Christmas on Melbourne’s vision as principal
boy in “Cinderella”
and was largely re-
sponsible for the
panto outliving its
most successful rival
by two or three
weeks. Her fine voice
came as a dramatic
surprise after a long
line of imported
“boys” who had no
singing among their
panto assets. Amy’s
strong and far-
reaching soprano be-
came a popular
curiosity, and Lieut.-
Governor Irvine and
other notables started
to drop in qttietly
and hear her warble.
It was an unexpected success for the Aus-
tralian girl, and she is now convinced her
voice deserves to be known in better company.
At present she has her eye on the musical-
comedy field, and failing a chance in the
Commonwealth she will light out for Eng-
land or America and gain some training and
experience. Amy, who is Sydney-born, had
hen voice polished by the N.S.W. Conserva-
torium and Roland Foster, but she owes a lot
also to the advice of Antonia Dolores.
The Women’s Automobile Club’s jazz
dinner at the Oriental was a wonder of vim
and go in a slow old town. Crowds that
tried to book tables at the eleventh hour
were shut out of the giddy paradise, and the
W.A.C. cheerfully promises to give another
spree later as a consolation stakes. The Club
wants the money to fall back on in its
entertainment of invalid soldier men.
The dining-rooms and winter-gardens were
packed with jovial little parties, with the
women club-members going brisk errands of
mercy and -introducing shy men to pretty
girls. There were too many men-partners —
a heaven for the crazy jazzing girl. J-he frocks
were gorgeous and jazz-influenced. One
woman had a few straight ostrich feathers
glued here and there on to black tulle.
Another wore pointed transparent skirts to
her knees and lace stockings. Then she put
diamond anklets above her stilts of black
satin heels, and did almost as much damage
with them as spurs could have done. Mrs.
Russell Gabb wore some scraps of tulle put
together by inspiration and bound her thick
fair hair in silk roses. Mrs. Tom White
hung strips of fur on blue transparencies and
some silver tissue, and Mrs. Thompson
made the scene gorgeous with blue and sil-
ver brocade. Mrs. Pannifex, of the lovely
ginger hair, was considerate of the price of
brocade. Her green-blue-gold turquoise
frock only needed a yard or so of the gor-
geous material. It was wrapped round Lke
a lava-lava, with a few inches of belt above
—but you know the lovely tone of skin that
goes with ginger hair. There were no com-
plaints. Secretary Mrs. Lambert h .d black
chiffon hung over white satin. Mrs. Wright
was in lovely undress of amber satin, and
Mrs. Halford struck a good contrasting note
in all black. A Honolulu-like belle wore
strings of velvet hibiscus holding up a skirt.
The Bleibtrey swimming champion girl
swirled in with Norman Lee. She had
vivid cerise glac6 showing up the mahogany
of her sun-tanned shoulders and the ash
blonde of her hair. Her touring pal, Miss
Dowd, made things gay by a Venet an red
dress like a lampshade. Miss McCrae put
on a special menu for the giddy crew.
The owner of the keen young face pic-
tured herewith is Esmonde M. Higgins,
B.A., son of the J. Higginses of Ardmore,
Kew, and nephew of
the dour gentleman
who wears judicial
horse-hair and talks
of resigning his job
in the Federal
Arbitration Court.
Esmonde is just
finishing a rather
brilliant course at
Oxford, and sits for
his schools in June.
He enlisted in 1918
and trained as a
signaller, but was
not long on the
other side when the
Taubes ceased from
troubling and the
whiz-bangs were at
rest; so he went off
to Oxford to study political science. Be-
tween whiles, in vacations, he has made tours
of investigation and filled voluminous note-
books in Ireland, Norway. Sweden and
Russia. Later on he intends returning to
take up academic work in his own land, and
those who have watched his career so far
predict big things for him. One of Esmonde’s
sisters is Mrs. Vance Palmer.
Queen’s College, at the ’Varsity, is grow-
ing a Memorial Chapel, a Sugden Tower and
a George Sweet Wing. All the extensions
have been started, but about £5OOO more/ is
needed in the building funds. There was
a carnival last week to help. The Governor
and his wife went. The Countess looked
the sweetest thing in a soft foulard frock
and had a great time with a silver trowel.
She did quite a lot of bricklaying. A fea-
ture of the carnival was that any visitor
might lay a brick for ten shillings, and the
idea was 'rushed.
Lord Moulton, who died in London a few
days ago, was a cousin of Melbourne barris-
ter Fred Eggleston. He was a tremendously
learned lawyer, and left a wonderful library.
Jennie Brenan got back to Australia last
week after dancing her way through Paris,
London and New York, and Sassiety jazzers
are following like a Pied Piper’s army to get
the newest steps. A new waltz is raging in
Paris, and the Paso Doble and the Scotch
Espanol are two new brands of jazz. The
craze for Tam o’ Shanter jazz hats probably
fits in with the Seotch-Spanish twirl.
Jennie was also at Monte Carlo, and she
says she never before saw such exqu'site
dancing as she found there. She and her
sister jazzed a bit with' the most famous
professors, and with Dugue, the dancer who
is the rage in Paris. Fox-trotting is as
popular as ever, new steps being added now
and again. Dresses, she says, are shorter
and lower than ever, but a good head-cover-
ing is an offset to other nakedness.
Hal Elvins and Violet Somerset gave a.
programme of Maurice Ravel works at the
Music Club last week, and an artistic crowd
listened raptly. Just-returned George
Coates and his wife, Dora Meeson, were the
guests of honor.
Francie Alda developed some sort of a
caprice which tangled the carefully-planned
dates of her Australian visit. The Tait
people are holding their temper tight in one
hand and clawing the cable with the other.
The soulful lady suddenly insisted on appear-
ing before another noted artist, or got a
craving for a passage in another boat or some-
thing. Anyhow, in the long-distance dia-
logue that followed the song-bird’s plumage
was ruffled, and a fortune is going in cables
to smooth it out again.
The wail of the Bleibtrey mermaid, when
going aboard the express for Sydney after a
little “carnival” rumpus in Melbourne, was
only an echo of what Annette Kellerman said
to an Australian friend in London some
years ago. “I am tired of swimming, and
will be glad when I am back in my little
home town of New York,” moaned Ethelda
iiie.btiey, With an unuttered intimation
that she thought Noo Yark as near Elysium
as you can get. Annette Kellerman ex-
pressed no particular preference for any
portion of dry land, but she was strong on
the point that any land is better than
water. “I loathe the water,” said Annette.
She has swum, and dived, and posed at the
bottom of a tank until the business is an
abomination to her very soul. The idea of
anyone wanting to surf for pleasure is a
marvel to the lady who has passed so much
of her life in a frockless condition. Annette
can’t remember the time when the life of a wet
water-nymph appealed to her, yet fate gave her
an energetic father who brought her up to
be a professional swimmer, and boosted her
into a position from which there was no
escape.
Mrs. Edith Cowan, who beat Attorney-
General Draper for the West Perth seat
(W.A.), has a long way to climb to reach
the eminence of Mrs. Ellen Ralph Smith,
one of the six members returned for Van-
couver. Mrs.' Smith, a few weeks ago,
accepted the Education portfolio in the
British Columbia Provincial Government.
Not since he moved the resolution in the
Assembly expelling Ted Findley over the
Tocsin article on Edward VII. has Alec
Peacock looked so uncomfortable as he did
last week after the Cabinet decided to sack
Morrison and Wilson, the two railway em-
ployees for their alleged association with the
"hired assassins” resolution. Clearly he
hated the whole business, but apparently
took the line of least resistance.
Adelaide passes on a little gossip:—
S.A.’s French godchild, the village of Dernan-
CGurt, will have moss growing over its ruins before
we give it a start. Collections taken up at the
March Show, by permission of the R. A. and 11.
Society, brought in only £25 on Friday and £lB on
Saturday. So far we could just about repair the
village pump.
Mrs. A. Shannon, Eileen Shannon and Florence
Kelly left by the Omar for Sydney. The marriage
of Eileen to Norman Jackson is to take place in
the Harbor city, although both bride and ’groom
are Adelaideans. The lady wants her brother, resi-
dent in Sydney, to give her away, and, as he
couldn’t spare the time to come over, she trans-
planted the wedding party.
Sammy Lunn, who is off on a trip to the Cold
Country, was given a public farewell one evening
last week in the Adelaide Town Hall. During the
war Sammy collected about £BOOO in small silver
and coppers, by singing to the concertina and making
humorous appeals to the crowd. Every returned Bill-
jim got ss. from Sammy. The farewell took the
form of a presentation of a cheque for £425, sub-
scribed by bis well-wishers, and a letter was read
from his Ex., sayii-g “Hooray!”
Another festive evening was held at the Cheer-up
Hut, when the school in connection with the Girl
Guides was opened by the Mayoress. Frank Moulden,
the Mayor, seems to have retired from the job of
opener in favor of his wife. The Butler lady, presi-
dent of the G.G.’s, said the main object was to
produce the perfect woman! William Sowden sug-
gested an amalgamation with the Boy Scouts. The
Guides presumably would keep a motherly eye on
the youthful warriors.
His Ex., Lady Weigall and little Priscilla enter-
tained the children of the Norton’s Summit, Cherry -
ville and Basket Ranges schools at Marble Hill on
Wednesday of last week, and the kiddies had a great
time. The invitation to the Norton’s Summit school
brought about a strike. Head-teacher Osbourne had
asked the Education Department to grant a full
instead of a half holiday for the occasion, pointing
out that most of the children had a three-mile
walk to school; but the Department was obdurate.
So young Australia took the matter in hand, and
only one little girl answered the roll-call on Wednes-
day morning.
The Adelaide Girls' Club, an offshoot of the
Y.W.C.A., has been opened—another job for Mrs.
Mayor. Formerly a billiard-saloon, much had to be
done with paint and paper to fit it for its present
innocent occupants, but a cosy club has resulted,
where shop, factory or business girl can get lunch
or tea at cheaper rates than anywhere else, and have
the run of comfy rooms. Miss Tulloch is the lady-
in charge.
The March meeting of the Port Racing Club went
well. The ladies’ half-crown tote was used for the
first time—with enthusiasm. The president’s wife
(Mrs. Benson) lunched the Mayoress and the wives of
the committee.
Chief Rabbi Joseph Hertz has arrived here, with
Albert Woolf and A. H. Valentine, after touring
S’Africa since October. Their mission is to unite
Anglo-Jewish communities throughout the Dominions,
and esta’lish a Jewish war memorial, “not in cold
marble, but in living and inspired teaching. Modern
conditions have to be met with modern thought, in
order to conduct education efficiently.” Adelaide has
given them a hearty welcome, the Governor and tht
Mayor setting the example.


THE BEALE
COMBINED in the Beale Player-Piano are the true
attributes of perfect playing, viz, faultless technique and
superb interpretive control. The instrument’s technical
perfection we will not unduly stress. It is perfect, but we take
it that mere brilliancy of execution is as soulless a thing in a
self-playing Piano as in a ten-fingered human player. Even
Schumann deemed technical adroitness valuable only when it
served a higher purpose.
And that higher purpose ? It is undoubtedly to reach and
express the soul of music. This is what the Beale Player-Piano
does. Not because of its stupendous technical ability, but be-
cause the nine expression controls enable one to reveal the
inner beauty of every musical composition. The controls are
the reason for 'Beale’ superiority.
There are also superior features of construction which can be
made intelligible only by an inspection. These we shall be
pleased to explain any time.
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE LITERATURE
$
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Beale.
HEAD OFFICE and
SHOWROOMS :
333 GEORGE STREEI
SYDNEY
1 BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
T
FACTORIES:
47 TRAFALGAR ST
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES S.W .. Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Vic.: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros.,Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
S.A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: J. A.Thompson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
9 0 . g2 Queen St.,Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


Under
Royal
Warrant
mn
mn
CHAMPAGNE (
CWesHeidsieck
RAISES
'iariesHeicfcieCk
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
pHulnll
The CHARM of LIGHT EFFECTS
on Polished Floors adds greatly to the
beauty and character of your rooms.
USE
m
m
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agenda throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
u
Enchanting
Easter
festivities
at the
Wentworth
Cafe.
Tea Dances
every after-
noon from
3.30 to 5.30.
Dinner Dances
every even-
ing from 7
to 11.30.
SPECIAL
DINNERS
Thursdays &
Saturdays
(open till
midnight).
The most perfect cuisine in Sydney, the best
dancing floor and the merriest jazz band.
Telephone 9931.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
Catalogue
Now that the last days of Lent are upon
us every woman is trying to cause a ripple
on the stagnant pool that stands in front of
Easter week by wondering audibly what
the time of repentance has done to improve
the morals of her better-looking neighbor—
hoping that .the higher tone of morality may
go hand-in-hand with a lowered knowledge of
dress values and a consequent shrinkage in
powers of attraction. Which reminds one of
a young matron at one of the fashionable
Points who always heralds the approach of
a new admirer by excessive attention to her
manicuring and her devotions. By the de-
gree of polish on her finger-nails and the
baggy condition of her skirts around the
knees her women-friends can tell to a nicety
the degree of fervor at which the admirer
has arrived.
On the afternoon of the 17th of March
there was no busier spot in Sydney than the
Town Hall. It hummed and buzzed —in the
vestibule the Prince Alfred Hospital Auxili-
ary was holding its theatrical gift-afternoon;
in the cloakroom the committee of the
Women’s War Memorial added up its pennies
towards the erection of the “statue of a
woman with a cross over one shoulder and
a dove on the other and the rising sun at her
feet,” for which tenders are to be called
later when the necessary £2OOO is raised;
the city organ was pouring out its soul in
rehearsal for the evening’s concert; and the
front steps, the enclosure, and the George-
street pavements were thronged with un-
employed. Women, nearly all hugging
babies, stood about aimlessly, hoping up to
the very last for the food-rations that some-
body or other had promised. There was some-
thing gigantic about the stolid patience of
that' crowd. Yet once or twice, in a sudden
burst of fatigue hysteria, a woman’s voice
broke out in high, unsteady tones. For the
most part the men did not look at the
women. In some cases', perhaps, they didn’t
care. But there were surely other cases in
which they didn’t dare.
The Prince Alfred Auxiliary had a moun-
tain of gifts to count after its party in the
vestibule, where Vernon Sellars, Adelaide
Van Staveren and Henri Verbrugghen
helped the afternoon to pass harmoniously.
The Auxiliary is working hard to make
its refreshment-rooms at the Show a mon-
ster success, and brother and sister from
the Never-Never will have a chance to
sample the cafeteria business they have
read so much about, for the P.A. Auxiliary
is running its pavilion on the American help-
yourself plan. By the way, little Mrs. Gore-
Jones, one of the hospital’s hardest workers,
is just recovering from a severe break-down.
Society is beginning to make up for the
languid, interest it first displayed in the
Industrial Blind appeal. At a King’s Cross
matin6e last week there was a thick layer
of Sydney’s upper crust (do you remember
the little working girl in the O. Henry story
who remarked about the stew into which
the artistic girl had thrown the prize potato
and the. rich young man the Spanish onion
■ —“but it’s us, somehow, who always supply
the meat!”?), and Darlinghurst-road was
almost blocked with limousines and the hired
red cars that look like the pumpkin-coach
of Cinderella. There wasn’t an empty seat
in the house, and ices, sweets and pro-
grammes were sold out in a mad rush.
Torzillo’s orchestra made beautiful music,
and Ivy Shilling danced a tango. Gordon
Lavers played brilliantly, Ray de Vere and
Leah Friedman were facets on a programme
that scintillated with George Gee. Cyril
Monk, Arthur Meani and what sounded like
an entire grand opera but was really Jamie-
son Dods doing a lone voice-flight.
All the newest little French models, some
with a Paris but most with an Edgecliff or
Darlinghurst accent, sat in the front rows.
Good-looking Mrs. Kenna was at the party ;
and the Moreau girls, Melanie Collins and
Mrs. Sep Levy (in a little affair in sage
green) were in one another’s neighborhood.
Mrs. Stuart MacPhail helped to put the
topdressing of smartness to the success
which the capable hands of her mother had
helped to build; Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne
carried a mole-colored embossed-satin cloak
heavy with fringe ; and Miss Cook brought
her kind heart, which, though not so obvious.
is (they say) more than coronets or hundred-
guinea models.
The Town Hall was indeed the far green
fields of Ireland on St. Pat’s night. The big
attraction was the singing of Walter Ivirby,
but the packed audience really let itself go
when the old songs were sung, and most of
all it enjoyed the opening hymn to St.
Patrick.
There is a wild rumor that the Union Club
Ball is to be cancelled on account of the
unemployed unrest. Somebody says that
it’s the result of the sympathy of some of the
leading club-men for brother out-of-works.
Daphne Mayo, Brisbane sculptress, is the
only woman at present in the Royal Academy
Sculpture School in England. The late God-
frey Rivers was responsible for putting the
cunning into this lady’s slim little hands, at
the Brisbane Technical College. Two Wattle
Day scholarships fell an easy prey to her, and
enabled her to pack a trunk and a couple of
hat-boxes for Fogland. The other day she
picked up the Royal Academy Landseer
scholarship. Hats and frocks and other
feminine incidentals have sorely taxed her
finances, but Queensland’s Wattle Day
League is going to break open its money-box
to help her along. Her “Last Supper,” a
beautiful bit of work, is in St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral, Ipswich (Q.).
Good-looking Ina Cornish, only bud of the
Tom Cornishes, of Lillingstbhe, Woollahra,
married her Englishman, Guy Lucas, very
quietly at St. Stephen’s on Wednesday of
last week. Her frock was of deep-cream
georgette and silk, the skirt accordeon-
pleated, and her hat was of sapphire-blue vel-
vet, lined with the shade of georgette that
helped to form her frock. ■ There were no
bridesmaids, but there was 4 next-best man,
Cyril Williams, who, like the bridegroom, is
an ex-soldier. Between 20 and 30 old friends
ate the wedding lunch at the Cornish home.
The Lucas domicile is to be in Tasmania,
where Guy is “a young man on the land.”
Another Easter engagement arousing con-
gratulations in Bathurst is that of Alice
Antill, second daughter of the Harley An-
tills. She is displaying Ranald Suttor’s
diamond title-deed on the usual finger of
the left hand. Ranald is offspring of the
Herbert Suttors, of Brucedale, Bathurst.
Margaret Gibbs, whose dad and youthful
stepmother live in Manar, the Macleay-
street flats with the harbor views, will soon
be coming back to her home town, and that’s
of interest to old Ascham and Ivambala girls.
Margaret has been studying music in Eng-
land for some years.
Sid Long, one of the most popular of Aus-
tralian artists in London—Australia will
always remember him for his flamingoes if
for nothing else —is on his way home; and
there’s many an old pupil ready to welcome
him. His last considerable commission in
London was an out-of-the-way job. Those
enterprising people for whom Miss Crichton-
Imrie is introducing Australian food-products
to London have just taken the old Dudley
Galleries, in Piccadilly, where the. Australian
goods may be sampled ; and Sid Long’s job
was to paint the tables! Now while he eats
our tinned pineapple the Londoner can
watch a brolga or listen to a laughing-jack
safely caged beneath a sheet of bevelled glass.
There was a jolly and unexpected meeting
between the Freddie Shipmans and Mary
Laing Meason in Calcutta the other day. The
Freddies are touring Nina Gordon, a clever
London entertainer, first through “the East”
and then through Australia. They had cabled
Mary to pilot their star, but that energetic
young woman was already in the thick of an
engagement with Eastern Tours. Ltd. Mary
speaks of meeting Grace Palotta, now run-
ning a beautifully upholstered hat shop in
Ceylon, herself “a little greyer, a little hand-
somer and as full of charm as ever.”
Tootles Williamson is still well in the
limelight on the other side. ■ London Daily
Mail’s front cover had the photos, of three
ladies to illustrate “Fashions at the
Riviera.” Tootles was one of the three in
a smart navy suit and Frenchy little toque.
Away up in her studio on tlje heights of
North Sydney sculptor Theo Cowan is work-
ing at what promises to be her master-
piece, and, fittingly, it is a memorial to the
Anzacs. It is a poetic conception depicting
the new-born babe on the knee of
Fate, the swaddling-veils falling till in the
last of the folds lies the form of a young,
dead soldier—typically Australian in face
and figure—while like, a song of triumph the
erect form of the Angel of Life and Death,
his wings sweeping protectingly about the
group, holds aloft the torch of immortality,
which typifies the soul of Anzac. The sweep
of the angel wings alone would place this
piece of sculpture in a very high rank. Car-
ried out in bronze it would live an everlast-
ing and worthy monument to Australia’s
dead.
Opera-singer Loder, writing from New
York, paints a vivid picture of Nelson Illing-
worth’s conquest of that city. The long,
lean Sydney singer is quite the vogue. He
is to be tile hero of Drinkwater’s opera,
“Abraham Lincoln,” and the morning after
the evening papers had hailed him as Lin-
coin's double an impressive movie producer
was waiting on the doormat to implore the
ascetic young man act lead in a scenario
built around America s Father Abraham.
Sweet singer Stella Power has just finished
a tour of England with the International
Concert Party, under the direction of Lionel
Powell, who handles stars like Melba, Clara
Butt and Kubelik. Stella’s English itinerary
sounds like a geography lesson on the
woollen, cotton, pottery and smelting centres
of England. She has sung five times at the
Albert Hall —three times in two months—and
by this date she is unloading her Australian
notes on a fascinated Norway that will forever
after disbelieve the statement that Australia
is running short of currency. She is sing-
ing three times in Christiania and once m
Bergen, and the King of Norway has
promised to lead the applause for one night
at any rate. Stella being the only soloist
of the party, the tour is expected to be an
unruffled success. And in the heart of all
his pride and joy in his gifted wife’s sue-
cess. William F. O’Rourke finds himself long-
ing for a real surf beach and “a good old hot
Anta-rnli-ir. dnv” »
y '
These pretty creatures are Lena and Mag-
gie Chisholm of Lismore. Lena, the
violinist, is the winner of the gold medal
presented by the Maharajah of Tagore for
the most brilliant student at the Royal Col-
lege for 1920, and Lena lias been summoned
to the Royal Palace to be presented with
the “Tagore” medal by the Prince of Wales
next May. She also won the prize at the
Royal College for the best string player for
the year 1920. Before leaving Australia at
m years she was a pupil of Sister Mary
Stanislaus of the Parramatta Convent of
Mercy, and from that school she won a
scholarship tenable at the Royal College,
London, where she studied under Signor
Rivarde. Dark-haired sister Maggie, before
lpflVin* for Tjrvnrlnn wns n rmnil nf T TTmrh
and undk taition wm
the Emmeline Woolley scholarship, whiob
carried with it a small annuity and three
years’ free tuition at the Royal College, Lon-
don. While at the college Maggie won
several further scholarships and appeared as
solo pianist with the college orchestra on
many occasions. During the war the two
girls helped wounded Aussies to pass many
a cheerful afternoon under the spell of their
music. They have had successful appear-
ances at the Empire, and at present are at
the Palladium splitting 100 guineas a week
between them. C. P. Inspector Chisholm,
of Lismore, has another pretty daughter
named Kitty, but before Lena and Maggie
see her again she will have changed her
nhme, for Stanley Hosie, of Mosman, claims
her for his own early next month. They
met when Stanley was surveying up in the
Orange district.
From a fiddler in England:—
Australian singers are doing remarkably well at
the moment, both in opera and concert work. Rosina
Buekman was substituted for Calv 6 in London, and
she raised the roof at a Quinlan concert. She has
since appeared in Manchester in a concert perform-
ance of “Cavalleria Rusticana,” and sent the audi-
ence crazy. Elsa Stralia is doing extraordinarily
well, and is a great favorite. At a recent Halle con-
cert in Manchester England’s most critical audience
gave her a fine reception. Her work wap from
“Tannhauser” and “Tristan.” Beatrice Miranda has
been very successful in opera with the Carl Rosa
company, but she has been working too hard, and
needs a rest.
Conan Doyle’s fellow-passengers by the
Naldera might have suspected spooks when,
two or three days out from Fremantle, they
were given a picture show of the departure,
of the ship from Melbourne —a long film in
which many of them discovered themselves
playing parts. Though one .Doyle had a hand'
in the business it wasn’t Conan. Other
passengers included Gibson and Doyle, of the
Union Theatres, and the film of their em-
barkation, taken in Melbourne, had caught
them at Fremantle. But the crowded ship’s
company seemed much more grateful for the
Shackleton pictures that were thrown at
them in the hottest of the tropic weather.
Two figures in the public life of Sydney
are drawing into retirement —Mrs. Bogufl
Luffman and Rose Scott. The Feminist Club
is laying out the knives and forks for a
luncheon to the indomitable Miss Scott.
Even the invisible chaperone can make a
situation quite respectable. There’s a pretty
grass-widow and a handsome young man, he
adoring; she —well, at least receptive. When-
ever a third party steers within earshot the
lady invariably murmurs something about
the dear children, and he returns the ball
with something concerning “my wife.” You
see, the invisible chaperonage of the w r ife and
the children must obviously ensure perfect
respectability.
Here’s a story of a sweet little thing wh<>
had flung herself into Comforts Funds work
during the war. When the boys began to
come back one by one to the home town she
still buzzed about like a happy little bee
arranging entertainments to present them
with all sorts of things, from a set of “Bal-
zac” to a collapsible go-cart. Her last effort
to get up the usual benefit met with unex-
pected coldness. Her friends pointed out to
her severally and collectively that the young
man had not seen Active service, that he was
neither sick nor wounded, and that he didn’t
need the money. “Well,” she replied, “it was
not his fault he was not sent to France. And
though it is true he has not seen so much
active service as I could have wished, having
only taken horses to Thursday Island, still he
is a returned soldier.” She won her argu-
ment, and the young man reaped the benefit.
At a Sydney suburban court last week the
S.P.C.A. tried to have a man punished for
dragging disabled sheep from the saleyards
on a sheet of tin with a horse in front of it,
instead of heaving them into a cart and
carrying them to slaughter that way. There
was a flood of evidence to prove that the tin
sledge was as humane as the cart; and the
little effort cost the S.P.C.A. five or six
pounds. But nobody said a word about the
practice which disables the poor brutes in
the first place. They may have got down and
had their legs broken as far out as Dubbo,
and for a couple of hundred miles thereafter
have been jolted and trodden on. It is one
of the minor mysteries of Australia that
woman, who becomes hysterical when a
brutal carter kicks his horse, doesn’t give a
thought apparently to our savage system of
trucking beasts intended for slaughter. New
York brings some of its milk—even its
highly-perishable milk —500 miles in fast
cold-storage trains. We, instead of killing in
the cc. jntry and bringing carcases to the city
and the port, bump and bruise the live beasts
over hundreds of miles of trad, in sweltering
heat to kill them at the end of their journey.
Dame Margaret has promised to be at the
movie matinee at King’s Cross on the 31st in
aid of Furlough House —the happy holiday-
home for soldiers’ wives and children at
Narrabeen. There are 100 names on the
waiting. guest-list, and the committee hopes
the.matinee will raise the necessary funds to
give them all the time of their lives.
Are you a Mason? If not, why not? That’s
the newest one this age of problems has got
on to women. The Feminists gathered in
great force to hear a lecture on “Women as
Masons” by Mrs. Rodney St. John, and after
the lecture two of them proudly proclaimed
themselves sister-masons. Of course, the men
keep something back for themselves, and
women aren’t allowed even yet into the
Holy of Holies; but the great idea is to get
your foot across the threshold. Besides, how
beautifully the Brotherhood cloaks would do
for evening wraps! And a clever woman need
never be dowdy in her millinery while she
had one of the gorgeous scarves in the house.
The Sydney Hospital Auxiliary is making
a corner in pretty Voluntary Aids for Show
week. The 90 x4O pavilion in Suttor-
avenue is having a bonzer jazz-floor laid
down. Everything in the way of refresh-
ments and smokes will be on hand, and Bend-
rodt’s jazz band will syncopate every even-
ing.
The tickets for the Cinderellas to be held
in aid of Havilah are to run out at ss. each,
but if you are a careful Prince you can have
your jazz at a discount. A season ticket for
the seven dances will cost yon 30s. Mrs.
Murray Campbell and Rose Merivale are
the secretaries.


m
PEANUT BRITTLE
sfCfto/ceM/t Cox/ecfioiL
■>" ....
W&h
packed in I*-
/lirlighl Tins.
5/0 EACH
POSTAGE 6*EXTRA
Sent to any address in /lustrafia.
m
On/y Address
162 Ht St. SYDNEY
BUCKLEY’S,
"THE SHRINE OF FASHION ”
DAINTY and INEXPENSIVE AUTUMN STYLES
FOR TOWN and COUNTRY WEAR.
Trustworthy in every way and stamped with that excellence of cut,
style and material which hall-marks everything from Buckley’s, these
beautiful fashions, which are true representations of the actual
garments, are the final word in utility, durability and all-round value.
*T
VC 51
VCSJ
VCS
m
YCSA-
Yos4.—Smartly cut Coat
and Skirt, in Fine All-Wool
Navy Twill. The coat has
tailored collar and revers,
belted style and pockets
with bone button finish-
ing. The skirt has panel
eff™t in front, finished
buttons.
Frice_ £6/12/6
YCsl.—Fine Navy Twill Coat Frock,
long-waisted style, collar, cuffs and
strappings piped with satin. Skirt
stitched with Hernia shade.
Price, £7/17/6
YCs2.—Coat and Skirt, in Light and
Dark Grey Tweed, long roll collar, novel
pocket and belt finishing. Skirt plain,
well eased at waist. Sizes, S.W., W.
and O.S. Price, 4£ g ns .
YCs3.—Navy Serge Coat Frock, round
neck, sleeves and front of bodice stitched
wool in Green, Fawn and Purple, plain
skirt, with bone button finishings.
Price, 55 /_
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON
ALL DRAPERY GOODS.
BUCKLEY’S,
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN LTD.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
AN INVESTMENT of 51-
Most companies are floated for the benefit of and to attract only those with
money to play with. Hitherto there has been no concern offering shares
at 5/- each in which the man or woman with limited means may invest to
the extent of one share and be absolutely assured of
Dividends up to £5OOO.
Read the following abridged prospectus of the
CO-OPERATIVE PERPETUAL INVESTMENT CO.
(Incorporated in S.A. under “The -Companies Act 1892”).
CAPITAL £1,000,000
Divided into 4,000,000
Shares of 5/» each.
1000,000 shares are now offered for subscription, payable together with the
premium of 1/3 per share on application to defray the cost of brokerage
and other flotation expenses, as hereinafter mentioned.
3,000,000 shares to be held in reserve and issued in sections of one million each.
4,000,000
John West, Hindley Street, Adelaide.
A. H. Humphries, 80 Queen’s Bridge Street,
Melbourne.
E. F. Gryst, Hindley Street, Adelaide.
SOLICITORS:
Povey, Blackburn and Waterhouse, Victoria
Square, Adelaide.
DIRECTORS:
W. E. Brice, East End Market, Adelaide.
H. G. DeGruchy (Messrs. Ford, Aspinwall
and DeGruchy), 128 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
AUDITORS:
Kay and Powell, National Bank Chambers,
King William Street, Adelaide.
BANKERS:
English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Adelaide.
BROKER: SECRETARY:
Phil. M. Muir, Stock Exchange Buildings, F. M. Hardy, Alfred Place, Currie Street,
Collins Street, Melbourne. Adelaide.
OBJECTS.
The objects for which the Company is being formed are (inter alia)
(a) To raise money by the issue of shares, the investment thereof in Govern-
ment securities, advances to shareholders and others on approved
security. . •
(b) To carry on the business of investors and/or financiers and/or bankers
and/or money-lenders, and any other business which may be authorised
by the Company’s Memorandum of Association.
(c) To distribute the interest, income and profits to be derived from the
Company’s investments and business among the shareholders in such
shares, at such times and in such manner and subject to such stipula-
tions as the Directors think fit, but so that in the final result there shall
be no discrimination between or preferential treatment of shareholders in
the distribution of interest, income or profits, but the order of time, in
which shareholders participate shall be decided in the absolute discretion
of the Directors and not otherwi
If the capital is fully subscribed the interest calculated on the basis of its
being invested at only FIVE PER CENT, per annum would produce xo ,
yearly. This, would be allocated to such shareholders and in such order ol
priority and in such sums as may be decided by the Directors in their absolute
discretion. The shareholder who in this allotment receives the first or maximum
sum would be incapable of further participation in subsequent allotments until
each and every shareholder had received a sum or sums equal to such first or
maximum sum. He would, however, retain his capital share, and when all share-
holders had received the sum or sums equal to the amount first allotted to him
he would be eligible to participate again in the future allotments of the Company
and so on indefinitely. Every shareholder, therefore, must ultimately receive an
amount equivalent to the maximum sum allotted, and when all shareholders have
been equally treated the procedure is repeated and the distribution of the revenue
from the Company’s investments takes place, as before. Assuming the net annual
income to be £50,000, the quarterly income of £l2 500 could be distributed amongst
such of the shareholders as might be nominated by the Directors, in order of
priority, as under :—•
the sum of
the sum of
the sum of
the supi of
6th, the sum of
7th, the sum of
2nd,
3rd,
4th,
sth,
Ist, THE MAXIMUM
OR SUM OF
£2 AX)
I*ooo
800
700
600
500
£5OOO
Bth, the sum of
9th, the sum of
10th, nine sums of £lOO ea.
11th, thirty sums of £lO ea
12th, forty sums of £5 ea.
Total ..
. £3OO
. 200
900
300
. 200
£12,500
The Company will go to allotment as soon as 200,000 shares are applied for.
No distribution of income will take place until the expiration of 12 months from
the date of allotment. In case applications for 200.000 shares are not received
within six months from the date hereof, the sum of 5/- in respect of each share
applied for will be returned to applicants.
It is intended to appoint Agents for the Company throughout the Common-
wealth and N.Z.
Forms o"f application for shares and full prospectus may be had at the Office
of the Secretary (pro tem.) or the Brokers, and should be sent to the offices of
the Brokers, Stock Exchange Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne, or any duly
authorised Agents of the Brokers.
Stacey, West and Co., 114 Bindley Street, Adelaide, South Australian Sole Agents.
AGENTS
with fidelity bonds required throughout the Commonwealth
and N.Z. Full particulars and terms, Phil. M. Muir, Stock
Exchange Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
nm
for complete prospectus and share
application forms.
NOTE.—AII applications and correspon-
dence by post must be accompanied by
addressed stamped envelope.


y
r*-t -i/i
nt
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critica
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street,
Sydney
fr
\^**ff*\
(M
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
LEARN
HOWTO
DRAW
quickly and easily"
by eliminating ail
drudgery.
If you can write
you can draw, and
the Weston method
teaches you how to
place the lines cor-
rectly in a series
of simple, enjoy-
able lessons.
The Weston Postal
Course of Drawing
is under tile per-
sonal direction of
Mr. Harry .J. Wes
ton, the noted
Australian artist,
and each student
has the benefit of
his kindly helpful
criticism.
By following' this
fascinating series
of lessons you are
soon able to make
free, bold sketches,
and place yourself
in a position to
earn money by uti-
lising y o-u r
knowledge in
the . field of
commercial and
poster art. The
demand for this class of work is never failing.
\ou have latent ability 1 Why not develop it?
Send to-day for Mr. Weston’s interesting book-
let, “There’s Money in the Pen.’’ It tells you
all about the course, fees, etc., and gives
examples of the lessons. Forward your name,
address and three penny stamps to cover postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
38 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
SMYTHS v
ORIGINAL
BALBRICGAN
HEAL
HOSIERY
ESTABLISHED 1780
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
HALLETT, PATERSON C Co.
"penfold mouse”
116 Queen Street Melbourne.
GOSSARO
CORSETS
WORN BY WOMEN OF DISTINCTION
THE WORLD OVER
H. IV. Gossard Co.
Chicago NcwYori London Toronto Sydney Buenos Aires
n
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
te wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Galle
S. Antonio, S. G'crvasio, Barcelona, Spain.
“WINTON.
We will be at the
EASTER SHOW
WITH ALL THE BIG FAVORITES.
The Perfect “Winton”
The “Longreach”
The “Boulia”
The “Kemp”
AND MANY OTHERS.
BE SERE AND SEE THEM.
THE “HINTON” is our most success-
ful stock saddle and one that Is mak-
ing a big saddle reputation for us,
especially in Queensland, where good
saddles are appreciated. Note how
the flap is sewn direct on to the seat,
doing away with the Usual skirt and
giving a narrow, non-chafing grip.
Fitted with folded girth, bevelled
leathers and nickel stirrups.
£l5/10
'
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any
Port or Railway Station
in N.S.W.
Write for our Fine Saddlery Catalogue.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THEY come as a boon and a blessing to men,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
m
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but relined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 20. Post
Free, direct from —
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
I i
ml
-yi.
-Joyce
AN AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
LOOK FOR THIS COVER ON THE BOOKSTALLS
THE AUTUMN NUMBER OF
The HOME
ON SALE NOW AT PRINCIPAL BOOKSTALLS & BOOKSHOPS
Exclusive of Lady
Loughborough, Mrs. Philip Morton,
Mrs. Anthony Hordern, Miss Marie
Tempest, Mrs. Henry Hill Osborne,
Julian Ashton, Notable Australian
Women in London. The a Np r w
oAutumn Fashions—-Illustrated.
Beautiful Australian Homes. rr The
Cjreen Hills (Windsor, N.S.W.f-
by J. H. M. Abbott. Interviews
'with c Prince Obolensky and SMiss
FMollie Griffiths. "Paderewski-
cAn Intimate Study of the FMan. ”
rr The Futurist Home.” "London
Sketches”by F. S. c ßurnell. "Inde-
fatigable Aunt Imogen,” byJ.B.D.
"English Furniture,”by J. F. Bruce.
An Australians Impressions of Ma-
laya. "The Ideal Australian House”
by J. L. Berry. Many other features.
COPY
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION
(Including Postage throughout the Commonwealth)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except 0/ a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xante and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. , will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
I\D.( \; Can’t be done, .unless you give
approximate date CwT.A.: The jocularity of it
threatens to collapse at anv moment from overstrain.
Burke: Few new points, and far too much
space taken to make them Cas.: “Do and Undo”
falls out in the last verse. . . .At. I\.J.: Thanks: hut
one shot on either side in that Irish-in-battfe light
is enough.... Wallaby: Glad to hear, though the
ground you cover this time has been well raked.
... .Bled not: Pleive send name and address.... Ilex
1!.: “Bandscape” fair verse, but not very interest-
ing. ... 11. R.M.: Well enough done; but you van see
that, final embrace from too far off W.lv.K.: Seem
to have had that idea before Chip C.: “Pearl”
too thin, too thin R.11.M.: “Dealer” very close
up \thol: “Hobby’’ is done pretty well, but takes
100 long to get there Tom' 1).: Not bad verse of
its sort, but not enough in it. .. . H.G.C.: If it’s for
“A Photo Album of Seaside Views,” why send it
here 1... . Absent; Horrible thing hurled 0ut....
•las. W 7: Poor stuff Bogie River: Beads like some-
thing written “in bed inside an hour"; in fact, it
might have been written in a pub outside a beer. ...
Ralph G. : “My Books” just states commonplaces in a
commonplace way.... It.L.T.: Nothing there
A.8.F.: Not woijth while. . . .F.\ ,E.: .Much better work
has been done on the same idea . .. .Sadie o.': Noose.
....Iota: “New Weapon” limps painfully amt says
nothing .Topo: Bumpy and mirthless.... H.P.
(Bathurst): Ihe fact has- been previou lv noted
that seeds sometimes grow after rain. .. .Richard:
Shocking N.N.T.: Thought that dead cat was
buried long ago... . Y.X.Y.: Compression needed....
H.J.S.: Must take their chance with the rest....
Flea: No bite in you. . . .Thelma : Idea old. . . .F.A.F.:
Keep it down Splinter: “'Neighbor” not up
H.S.T.: Length outruns merit Garnet F.: Not up.
• .. . D.B. (Casino) : Not much in that. .. .Cynthia IB :
Don’t care for “Prayer” and “Security” F.A. 11.:
A sort of commonplace of cheap fiction in unattractive
venae... .H. 8.11.: No use submitting stuff not in-
tended for publication. It’s very ordinary, harmless
and without grace Nellmns: That sort, of thing is
too easy.... Lester: Rubbish J.M.S.Y.: The verses
run quite evenly, but have no other- merit. . . .R.A.P.:
B-LP P.A. (Milson’s Point): “Gleam” rhymes
truly enough with “(supreme” ; but “dawn” and
“morn” are simply an insult to any ear that can
appreciate rhyme at all. Even good rhymes would
not save the verses. . . .0.M.A.: The original wan was
probably caused by the fury engendered through so
much bad verse entitled “Peace.” Charles' F.:
Doesn’t get anywhere near. . . .Ida O.: Might be much
worse—also a good deal better. ... L.A.M.: Don’t:
like it. . . .Mary CV: Without rhi tlmi or rhyme. . . .
Mary G. F.: The verse is fair, , but doesn’t get to
grips with real things T.E.S,: No use to ns
Garnor: “Midnight” won’t do. .Ti 0. V.P.: Verse and
prose both fail.... Olio: The verse hardly carries it.
....f'carper: Pretention*, and about nothing in par-
ticulav. . . .A.M.8.: “Memories” is lumpy and thin ;
“Joseph Realston” not worth while. ." .Adair W.:
Jumble in a horrible parody of typewriting Inn led
into the outer darkness... .Lee S.: P00r.... Hope:
Has all the wobbles and weaknesses to which verse
suffering from infant paralysis -is liable. ... Duncan
Cooee: No use. . . ,G.E.: “The Butterfly” is a colorless
animal. . . .R.A.D.: Rejected with enthusiasm. .. .
Frank H.: Not up.... Oliver B.: “Married on the
Quiet” thrills us to the last, smallest whisker:—
They were on the river boating,
Not far from the old wooden bridge;
Jim and Tim were not joking,
Then- said they were to row to Murrie’s bridge.
No one knew why they were going,
As things were kept well in the dark;
But they kept on rowing, and rowing,
Till all thought it was just lor.a lark.
It was a great lark for Jim and Tim,
To have kept them well in the dark;
~“What will they say when we get back, Jim
n hen they see us with our tarts ?”
“Gorstruth! to tell them the truth,
That’s easy as falling off a log;
1 can say we beat them once in our youth;
But they’ll call us all sorts of dirty dogs.”
"Not When they see our dear little queens
That will settle it all, Tim.
And oa rowing back, and them between,
Looking- so spick and span and trim.
“All they can do now is wish us success
And, that we haven’t made a mess;
To have many a pleasant time at rowing,
On the river from whence they saw us going,”
••.Kilby: There s promise there, but you haven’t
quite found the road yet. . . .G.K. (North Sydney):
Not. by some distance. . ..Merle S.: Not for us.! . .
A.i-.Il.: As joyous as a hunch of withered carrots.
. .t.N.C.M.: The wind alone, without human assist-
ance or interest, does not get exciting Rawiri:
Too tliiri. .. . M.C.P.: The verse just fumbles along
saying the old things. Get some freshness and
originality into it H.B. (MeKinla.v) : Not up
12123: Pretty crude. .. .S.M.C.: Moves a bit heavily.
... .M.C. (Adelaide) : Don’t care for them. . . .Ibex:
Yery thin stuff Wanda D. : The handling is fairly
good, but the thought is old and thin and of very
little consequence R.U.D.: “Who has not heard
the ocean roar?” Who has not heard the verse-
maker rage in print-worn commonplaces? 1.K.8.:
Not good enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
4B: Dead gag dug up and re-murdered... .
A.11.L.G.: No hope. . . .P.T.: Admire your energy ;
but your drawing ! S.T.: Zoological mon-
strosity- gone hence. .. .C. 8.: Gag too elderly ; draw-
ing too youthful F.Y.C.: Bad liken.-s of an old
friend N.F.: Don't do it again.... Andria : Not
up A.D.: Terrible A.S.P.: All miss
Pauline: Not interested in Copies.... S.T.: Wooden.
C.K.: Long way to go yet W.F.M.: Drawing
pretty shaky... .D.E.: Some promise, but a good
way short.
"Randolph B.”: As if Australia didn’t
export enough money in the ordinary or
crooked ways of respectable business, in
the last few months it has been asked
to put up money for (1) the restora-
tion of Westminster Abbey: (2) the Colonial
Institute—a dreary collection of nobodies
like Sydney Millions Club; (3) vacuum-
cleaning a chapel at Windsor (Eng.), arid
(4) establishing a new harbor somewhere
m England, to be used for "Dominions
trade.” If Australia countered that propo-
sition with a scheme for building, at British
expense, a new railway to. carry wool and
meat to an Australian port exclusively for
British consumption, there would be a roar
like that of two menageries stirred up with
poles.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabincs-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
p-ivate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 424 G, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48to! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 30,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking-, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000,
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. II
MACARTNEY; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane,
Sydney Office: 2i>3 George Street,
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L •C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
tV. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. RAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital- ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . £20O;OOO
Directors ; Herbert R. Eysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Dcncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD'OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E, P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Qileen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H, Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYISYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.1
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600.000
£ 1,2250000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 625.000
£TJSOTOOQ.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that. State.'
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTI NEXT:
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 7tli APRIL, :5 p.m.
R.M.S. MAKURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 2nd JUNE.
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (Ni)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti)*
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to an.v part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the Journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. MAR AM A, 25th April.
And every 28 days thereafter.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
nm
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENE BY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for
BANK OF NEW SOUT
Established 1817.
H WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,958.260
3,350,000
- 4,938,260
£13,266.530
The Hon, Sir Charles K. MacKellar, • K.C.M.G..
President.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Charles Bfnnie. Ksq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.1..C.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. i.ondon Office—23 Thread needle Street. E.C.
350 Branches arid Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made .to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable thromrlmlit the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up .. £2,500.000
Reserve Fund ..£2,220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220.000
n
Directors:
G. J. Cohen. Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses. M.L.C.
J. \V. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Bond on Branch: 18 Rirchin Bane. E.C.
Westminster
anil
Bondon Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about • • • • • •
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ••
Annual Income nearly £6,uoo,uuu
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
mn
EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
mn
Huddart Parker L
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice, versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUK A,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “I.evuka'’ is fiLtcd with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald.
Hamilton & Co., 460 Collins Street.
Melbourne, dr Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: S SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHiLP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Montblv Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—-All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For ail particulars, apply
BURNS, PITILP AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland .Meat .Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime* Co. (at. Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (.Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. tat Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart. Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents far-Queensland Line of. Steamers, London
.to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough. Bttndaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Hoad Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through—never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
I j eta^ns t^ie tastes and predilictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
SCOTCH
M - ]
ittrt
HHillh
-H8
itr+liiri
iiL
I
A
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
Stocks we hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.”
Whisky.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch—Everywhere !
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW.
MOSAWq
m
n
More & Better Work
There Is “An Kagle on a Globe” Circular Saw for every class of
work. No matter whether you are handling light or heavy timber
or x'OUgb firewood.
Write, call or telephone (City 7819) for prices, etc.
The Eagle (Si Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
'373-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
26G Latrobe Street, Mcibourn n.
46 Boulder Road, ftatgroorfte.
48 Cliff Street. Fromantle.
Paul & Cray Ltd.,
Scott Stveet, Newcastle.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte St., Brisbane
R. L. Milligan* tioliins Street, Hobart.
[hlQTr
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
Draws Out the Poisons.
Impurities. in the h lood produce many ailments, including boils, ulcers, carbuncle,
bad legs, certain forms of eczema and rheumatism. Albert’s Grasshopper
Ointment does no); drive these poisons back into the system, where they would
be likely to attac k the lungs, heart, liver or other' organs. Owing to its
powerful absorpti ye properties it draws the impurities absolutely out of the
system. this re stores the blood and skin to a pure, healthy state, and causes the
boils, ulcers, pin) pies, eczema, carbuncle, etc., to heal up and disappear. The
Proprietors of C irasshopper Ointment, having perfect confidence in its efficacy
urge_ its use in treating all maladies due to poisoned and diseased blood. The
written testimor ,y of a countless number of persons who, during the past half-
century, have u sed the Ointment with beneficial result, renders it impossible to
doubt its surpaf ;sing value in treating all blood and skin diseases. The Ointment
harmless and contains no injurious ingredients. PLEASE
BEWARE 01 ? SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
As a ton ; c , liver medicine, blood purifier, and for those who suffer from
headaches, thf
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally ell eet ive. Do not be persuaded to purchase any substitute preparations.
GRASSHOF PE B OINTMENT AND PILLS are sold bv all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
ALB ERT 1 & CO., 73 Farringdon Street, London, ENGLAND.
s
s&r
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
mn
mn
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot liifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round sieel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Jlb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
2(6/-
m
“Simple and extra strong in construction. '
1110. Winchester Single-shot liiile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim tire cartridges, 211 n. heavy round steel bnrrei.
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front Sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid.
60/-
nm
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b, Fitted with plain V-baelc sight 33/-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
n
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
820. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot. 20in. round taperetf barrel, take down, weight 6}lb., muzzle velocity,
2, c ooft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l4 14 /
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
■ '•
“Shoots icith guaranteed accuracy
1113. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, IC-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger. || - -
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges.; weight, about £o/17/0
r*
swai
827. New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fir-shot detach-
able magazine, barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weight about 7ilb. Freight paid
mn
“A cheap and reliable weapon
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-lmrdened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(.Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
m
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine bolds 15 cartridges. Weight sjll>. f /
Freight paid, JLvJ/*
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
—a-.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or half
magazine, &4in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
{Vith Round Barrel Freight paid, £B/15/-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
810. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel, weight about 531 b .Freight paid, *="■' •/'*«/ v
Illustrated Firearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any address
. Tmcfc Siminons ffl,
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.


- - ':
:
" * ' "'
m
■ , • :•
mmmgm
m
■
Mr. HARRY G. SCHEMER (from a photo.).
Shaving in the Bush with
Rexona Shaving Soap.
I enclose you a picture of myself taken on a recent trip of mine in
the hush. I never travel without a stick of Rexona Shaving Soap, for
I think there is absolutely nothing like it.
This picture was taken at Nar-Be-Thong, Victoria, and I always
recommend Rexona Shaving Soap to all my friends, and have been sur-
prised to see how many of them now use it.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) H. G. SCHUMER.
Mr. H. G. Sehumer, well known throughout Australia as a Press and Art Photographer.
Rexona—the Triangular Shaving SticK.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so as to
produce a t thick creamy lather, which will soften the beard and improve the skin
at the same time. It is delicately perfumed and medicated, on the same principles
as Kexona, and not only produces a lasting: lather, but purifies and leaves the skin
m perfect condition. Being: an Antiseptic, Medicated Soap it has a tendency to
quicKiy neat any out you may nave tne lmstortune to
get, and if troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind
will daily tend to improve them.
Rexona Shaving Stick, Price 1/6.
nm
SHAVING STICK
!>
k
n
VARIETY IS THE
SPICE OF THE
SANDWICH LUNCH
Folk who perforce have to take their lunch to
work will welcome a change in the shape of
“REX” CAMP PIE
This tasty compounded meat with its refreshing
wholesome flavor is always relished. It saves
your ■ time because it is all ready cooked. It
saves money for the same reason you will find
it cheaper than fresh meat.
BUY A TIN TO-DAY
Always keep a tin in the house.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
1
ggggDiliJlilliirTTTTTTTl
5T S
ham
bac
ON
VE
an
T P ng
If
jtitf
IN
The Hill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WENT one day of days that pass
To seek the house called ‘‘Home,
And there was only green grass
And Heaven’s high dome.
I went one day to seek the place
That, dreaming, calls me still,
And there was only the calm face
Of a low, long hill.
Nor roof was there, nor sign where leapt
A hearthstone’s friendly flame;
The very sod had long been swept
Of grief and all blame.
The little plot of garden grace
Where balm of beauty blew
Was a forlorn, forgotten place,
Where no flower grew.
The tasselled maize that Summer woke
To broken murmurings
Of strange, pathetic tongues that spoke
Of dumb far things;
The pear-tree like a poplar tall,
Whose trembling branches threw
Quaint shadows with the secret call
The child-soul knew;
The rose that nodded by the door,
Or, swept with wind, anon
Flung its loose petals on the floor—
Gone, all were gone!
Nor fence, nor rail, nor any bound
The olden borders kept ;
Only afar the river wound
By green willows swept.
Sun-jewels on his breast of blue
Danced, as in years of old
I watched the angels dancing too
On long waves of gold,
When that old tale they told to me
At holy Easter-tide,
That once for little children He,
God’s own Son, died.
It is as well no shadow flits
O’er sill and lintel now;
It is as well no ruin sits
Oh the green hill’s brow;
It is as well the winding ways
Are hid with kindly grass,
Else I had seen old tired days
And bowed griefs pass.
As well that o’er a green hillside
God’s own good sun spills free,
Old orchard trees more ghosts might hide,
Than I dared see.
The hill is green to Heaven’s host,
And smooth as bleachbd bone.
Nor chimney stands, nor lintel-post,
Nor stone on grey stone.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust!
New griefs old griefs upon.
The olden faith, the olden trust
Are all gone—gone !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Young Man from Oxford.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Brian Og O’Rourke was at Oxford when his
father was beheaded. He made his way home
through Scotland, organised his Breffney men and
reconquered his father’s possessions. He was the
hero of the battle of Curlew Mountains, where his
axemen showed a stern discipline and amazing valor.
His 160 men, thrown into the fight at the critical
moment, turned the tide of victory and completely
destroyed the large army of the Lord President of
Connaught.]
Time : The reign of Elizabeth,
Act I.
A lane between rows of well set up leathern
tents. On the left a great, tree. There is a
noise of voices at a little distance and a
clatter of arms and dishes. Heavy rain is
falling.
A Voice : Stirabout and sweet cow’s milk !
Stirabout and sweet cow’s milk!
Red Hugh comes between the tents fol-
lowed by Mac Dermot.
Red Hugh : The devil take the rain that is
spoiling a good plan, and the men at their
full breakfast ready to walk through
laughing to Dublin Castle itself.
Mac Dermot :Is the plan spoiled ? There
was many a good battle fought in the wet
rain.
Red Hugh : Would we be going to meet it
and the place of the world for a fight
ready for them to walk into and be killed?
Clifford will not come on through the rain.
There will be no battle this day.
A horseman is heard cantering up and dis-
mounting.
Mac Dermot : Well, there is news come from
the hills and we will soon be knowing.
MacSweeny conies in hastily, He is
splashed with mud from head to foot.
Red Hugh: What w r ord?
MacSweeny : They are coming on in three
divisions. The first of them will be near
the barricades by now.
Red Hugh : The devil take late rising. Where
is the young man from Oxford? He has a
hundred and sixty big men with axes ; but
I doubt he would like better to see them
shining in the sun than getting a full meal
of man meat.
Mac Dermot : He is the son of Brian of the
Ramparts and the pride of him maybe the
same.
Red Hugh : He is the son of a woman that
keeps a shop in Sligo, and her dressing the
window the way he dresses his battle-axes.
'' e will set the young man from Oxford
at the back of the fighting for fear he
would run away and take the rest with
him.
Mac Dermot : I doubt it is in the front of
fighting he will be, and him knowing
.“ 1S father’s head with tar on it is
sitting on the spike of a Sassenach gate.
ked Hugh ( suddenly speaking in a voice
of command) : Mac Dermot, take six stand-
ards of foot and hold them in the wood.
Let the gunmen stand in the front and
let Brian of Oxford hold the back of the
wood. It is the feast day of the Holy
Mother of God and a good day for a
victory.
Brian Og comes in. He is a tail, athletic
young man, the acknoicledged chief of the
O'Rourkes, though illegitimate; and both in
armor and hearing he seems different from
those about him. He is taller and stouter
than Red Hugh, who is three or four years
his senior. As he comes up he does not
speak, but raises his right hand in greeting.
Red Hugh: Your Sassenach friends are
coming to tyid you the fair day.
Brian Og : A man might have a worse
friend than Conyers Clifford.
Red Hugh : Maybe if you spoke him fair he
would say a word for you to the Earl of
Essex and him to the Queen.
Brian Og : Maybe there is to be fighting
this day, and you with the charge of the
battle.
Red Hugh : There will be fighting if you get
near enough to see it. Mac Dermot will
give them the greeting and you will stand
back to hear the sound of it.
Brian Og : It was for fighting I came and
not for looking on. We have as good
words as yours in Breffney, and maybe
less rain. {He turns on his heel.)
Mac Dermot: There will be good fighting,
Brian. I have the orders.
Brian {turning back) : Is it fighting or me
for the road home to Breffney, Red Hugh?
Red Huoii : If we stand here idle there will
be fighting at the doors of our tents. Have
all the fighting you want if you have the
stomach for it. Gunmen under Mac De-
rmot to the front in the woods; axemen
under O’Rourke on the hill behind. You
have your orders.
Brian takes a step forward as if to speak,
then turns and follows Mac Dermot out.
There is a sound of horns blowing and the
gathering of armed men.
MacSweeny: It is near he is to the pride
of his father.
Red Hugh : I doubt the want of pride of
his mother might take him over to Clif-
ford if Mac Dermot could not stop them.
MacSweeny : He has good axemen.
Red Hugh : They make a brave sight, them
and the bits of crests they wear to show
the Sassenach style he was learning at
Oxford.
MacSweeny : Many a Sassenach with a
bit of gold on his coat could give a blow
that was enough for me.
Red Hugh : We will watch that young man
from Oxford. He has seen stage-plays
and knows the way of them. Maybe the
axes are made of wood; maybe they will
be red with the wrong blood. {He draivs
his cloak about him, his long red hair
flaming over the dark collar.) The Devil
take the wet rain!
Act 11.
A place behind the wood. In front are
sounds of fighting and occasional shots fired.
There is a blowing of tripes, and a bard rides
past straining his eyes to catch glimpses of
the battle through the trees. Brian Og and
an axeman come in.
Axeman : There is good fighting in front
of the trees.
Brian Og : Is it good fighting or bad fight-
ing? Will the Queen’s soldiers break
through? It is poor looking on and seeing
nothing.
Axeman : There were some came running
back, but when they looked at our axes
they thought it was maybe better to face
a Sassenach than a Breffney man.
Brian Og : Turn them back, turn them
back! If they will not let us fight, it is
right that we keep them to the work they
took from us. Go through the trees now
and tell me how the battle is going.
The axeman goes out. Brian sits down
on a stone and takes a letter from his breast.
He reads it slowly. Suddenly from the wood
comes a rush of fugitives.
First Fugitive: The battle is lost. They
are after us and the horses coming fast.
Second Fugitive: They have half the gun-
men killed, and more of them coming as
far as you can look over the bog road.
Brian Og leaps to his feet and grasps his
long axe. As he does so he thrusts the
letter into his breast. He moves forward
and it flutters to the ground.
Brian Og: Stand there! Back to your
fighting! Will I let a man pass? By
Hugh’s red head I will cut any man down
that comes out of that wood.
They cower before his axe and he follows
them back till he is lost to sight in the trees.
The noise of the fighting increases. Horns
are blown; and the bard rides past shouting
“Shame on the cowards! Break the Sas-
senach !” Red Hugh, MacSweeny and O’Gal-
lagher come in.
O’Gallagher : Mac Dermot’s men are giving
way; they are too many for us.
Red Hugh : They are hard put to it, but
they will stand yet awhile. The horses
will not help them in the wood.
There is another rush of fugitives. The
three chieftains bare their sivords and drive
them back. There is shouting and cursing.
One man rushes blindly at Red Hugh and
falls, the blood streaming from his breast.
MacSweeny : A battle is not lost till it is
won.
Red Hugh (breathing hard) : No, nor won
till it is lost. Where is the young man
from Oxford?
O’Gallagher: His men were standing like
stone pillars round the hill an hour ago.
Red Hugh : It was less than an hour ago
that we were winning the fight. Where is
he now with the tide turning?
MacSweeny : He would be taking his
orders from Mac Dermot. Maybe his axes
are in the front of'the wood now.
Red Hugh : It would be well to know which
way their faces are turned.
O’Gallagher: Would he do a thing like
that?
The clamor of the battle becomes louder
than ever. The bugles of the President's
army arp heard through the screaming of
the pipes. There is the clash of steel on
steel, and cries for mercy rise.
(Continued on next page.)


WORRIES
Life to-day brings many worries, and worrying is apt to bring on kidney
troubles, so the medical men say.
Its easy, of course, to say, “Don’t worry,” but it can’t be helped when
things go wrong constantly. However, make it a rule never to worry over
trifles, and when there is reason to suspect kidney weakness, help the
kidneys betore anything more serious can happen.
Kidney weakness usually shows itself in backache, pains when stooping or
lifting, or lameness in the morning, headache, dizzy spells and urinary
disorders.
To strengthen weak kidneys, use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This is a
reliable, safe remedy that acts on the kidneys only. It can’t hurt sound
kidneys, and it does help sick kidneys. SYDNEY people say so. Two
interesting cases are published here.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
LASTING CURE OF THREE YEARS.
Mrs. A. Hughes, 63 Angel Street. Newtown,
s; h vs r : > “My husband says he is convinced
that Do a n s Backache Kidney PJls stand ahead of
any kidney remedy he knows of. and he speaks from
experience. For a long time he was troubled with
nagging pains across the small of his back, and they
often nearly crippled him. as he could not stoop
or turn without suffering positive agony. lie
took remedies of all kinds, but it was' left to
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills to effect a cure,
i his medicine acted on the kidneys very quickly
giving him relief in a day or so, and eventuallv
curing him completely. They not only drove the
ache from his back, but strengthened and toned up
80 tho ™«*Wy. that he has had no
return of the complaint since, a period of over
three years His general health also improved
very much.” F
CURED SEVEN YEARS AGO
AND STILL WELL.
Mr. Lewis Williams. (502 Botany Road, Botany,
Sydney, says:—“l was a great sufferer with my back,
and the pain was at times so bad that I have had to
leave my work and go home. I also had to walk
about m a bent position, and could not straighten
without increased suffering. I used various
preparations, but only got slight relief. Reading
ot cures effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
I decided to try them. One bottle eased the pain
and the second completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about seven years ago. and
I have had no sign of backache all that time, so it
is not mere temporary relief, but a perfect cure.
I am always advising my friends to use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, .and take this opportunity
to publicly recommend them.”
e:
%
c
c
r
I
'Every
Picture-
Tills a
\Stonr”
BE SURE YOU ASK
FOR DOAN’S.
pr
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, t at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Red Hugh: It is the top of the tide—win or
lose. What paper is this?
lie picks up the letter Brian 0<) had
dropped and turns it over in his hands.
MacSweeny ( glancing at flu: paper) : It
is in English it is written. Who would
have the English here?
Red Hugh ( euyerly ) : Now we have it. It
is the young man from Oxford, surely.
What man among us can read this?
MacSweeny : Master White of I.imeriek
put some of that language into mv memory
with a good stick. Maybe I Van turn
some of it into Irish.
He takes the letter.
O’Gallagher: Now would you read it?
Would it be a decent thing to read a word
that was maybe from a man’s sweetheart?
Red Hugh : Would you stop in the middle
of a battle to ask if it was a decent thing
to find out what plans a traitor was mak-
ing? Read the letter, MacSweeny.
MacSweeny ( reading ) : “To my wild Irish-
man in his far country” '
O’Gallagiier : It is from his sweetheart,
surely
Red Hugh (angrily) : Read the letter.
MacSweeny : “This letter which ife to reach
you through the very great kindness of a
gentleman who goes to join my brother and
my Lord Essex in Ireland is to give you as-
surance of my constant friendship and good-
will. There are many things that I would
say to you when you have set your estates
in due order and return to England, but it
is not well that these should be com-
mitted to writing. The June days have
been bright with sunshine, and many
have stayed in our house for refreshment
and to see how we did in my brother’s
absence. Twice have I been to London
Town, where Her Grace did look upon
me with favor. My cousin hath returned
to Oxford, but he saith he Ls quite discon-
solate missing you rowing upon the river
and to share his studies, at the which he
saith he is ever more and more of a dunce.
There hath been a letter from Ireland
which was much disconcerting to my
mother, who knew the Lady Mary Wal-
singham in her youth and has fears for her
in the midst of all that turmoil. When
you shall see my brother he will have for
you in safe keeping the little packet
which I could not send because of vour
sudden departure through Scotland. Never
doth a day pass but I think of you, my
wild Irishman. I trust that my brother
will have returned to us before Christmas
and you also with him. We shall have
great rejoicing when these wars are over
and the work of Her Grace in Ireland is
settled.”
Red Hugh : It will never be settled by Clif-
ford and Essex. What is the name at
the end of the traitor’s letter?
MacSweeny: Is it treason or what? She
who wrote it is Alice Clifford.
Red Hugh: It was in the look of the man.
Where is the young man from Oxford
now? Which way are his axes turned?
MacDebmou: There are no more coming
this way, and the sound of the fighting is
good.
Red Hugh : Maybe the axes are onlj
painted, for all they went over to the
Sassenach.
The noise of fighting suddenly increases.
I here is a great shout from somewhere in
the field. MacDcrmot comes in. His urmoi
is battered, and there is blood on his hands.
MacDebmot : Was there ever such scorn.ng
of death since the green world saw a blow
Struck V
Red Hugh : Are they turned?
MacDebmot : Turned is it? They are
broken ! 'Twas like the thrashing of corn ;
and the Breffney men breaking the horses
in the bog like thorn twigs. Holy Mother
of God. what a day to live!
Red Hugh : Well, tell us. man.
MacDebmot : It was more than we could do
to hold them, and them 10 to our one.
They were here in the wood and making
great pushing and hacking. What more
could a man do?' 1 was back here .to this
place looking for a word from yourself
and maybe a new order, when Brian Og
came down to me ramping like the bull of
the world and driving them that would
ruu back into the light. I called to him
for the love of mercy to stop the murder.
Red Hugh (holding the letter) : Did he
laugh in your beard?
MacDebmot : Laugh! There was a light
on him like the glory of God or maybe the
Devil. It was the axes, the axes! How
they came down the world like a wind in
straight trees!
.1 great shoiit is again heard. A gunman
n ith his head bandaged staggers in.
Red Hugh : What shout is that?
Ihe Gunman : Ilow would a man know?
It is maybe the world breaking in halves.
He sinks on the ground.
MacSweeny : It is a sore head makes
strange talk.
THE Gunman : Strange talk, is it? I saw
t he four archangels and all the Red Branch
walking with axes and breaking the Sas-
senach off their horses.
MacDebmot: It is a true word. There was
never a tight in Ireland like it before.
Two Breffney men come in carrying be-
tween them a bundle in a cloak. Their long
ares are red and they carry them over their
shoulders walking with even step to Red
Hugh.
First Breffney Man: It is. the gift of
Brian Og to Red Hugh.
Second Breffney Man: He has said the
word of his own country to the Sassenach.
They open the cloak and show the bleed-
ing head of Sir Conyers Clifford, the Lord
President of Connaught.
MacDebmot: The President! That was
the shouting then.
Red Hugh (as if waking from a trance) :
The young man from Oxford—but the
letter? (He puts lcis hand to his head
in a puzzled wonder.) Where is Brian
Og?
First Breffney Man : Where would he be
but in the last of the lighting?
MacDebmot : I hear no more shouting.
Red Hugh : It is a great day. Let us go
through the trees and meet the great man
coming back.
Brian Og staggers in supported by two
Breffnep men. Red Hugh extends his hand,
hut Brian passes it by.
Brian Og : I have finished the fighting.
There was a letter I lost. (He slips to
the ground. One of the Breffnep men sup-
ports his head.) But no matter. I have
lost too much to-day to think about the
losing of one thing more.
MacSweeny : Is he gone, and him making
a name that will be remembered always?
Mac Dermot : He is breathing still.
Red Hugh : Carry him back to the tent.
The man from Oxford. The great man
from Oxford ! I will lay the letter in his
band.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Irony.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T> UT, niy dear sir”
[j The little clergyman was naturally
resentful that he should be called
away from his Saturday evening medita-
tions to travel across a suburb to tm rry two
strangers.
“It is several days,” he protested, “since
you made your preliminary declarations.
Could you not now wait until a more rea-
sonable day—hour?”
“I’ve been shying off!” was the bitter
retort of the caller. "But there’s a child
coming—pretty soon. Miss —er —my fiancee
—its mother—insists. ‘Must have a name,’
and all that sort of thing, you know.”
The clergyman said no more. Snatching
up hat, coat and ever-read.v surplice bag
he joined his impatient companion.
"The right thing—the manly thing,” he
ventured complacently as they struck out
through the darkness for their destination.
“Everything will come out all right. I’m
sure—you’ll never regret”
“Oh. cut out that rot!” snapped the
other. Then he apologised. “You don’t
understand. My God, padre, do you think
I'd do it but for the child? Poor little devil!
Regret—no regret, you say ■!” He laughed.
“Tied for life for a passing whim —a mere
holiday frivolity; and to a stranger, an
incompatible even—when all the time there’s
someone else—someone else—the only one !
God, man, it’s Hell!”
There were three in the room when the
two men reached their journey’s end ; a doc-
tor. looking bored with the boredom of much
experience and anticipation of a several
hours’ wait; an alert, motherly-looking per-
son in nurse’s garb; and the* bride. The
last, a young, fierce-eyed brunette in a
kimono, leaned over the big central table
of the room, the knuckles of her bony hands
showing white as she gripped tensely the
table corners. Her dark hair hung ‘ in a
thick tangled plait over one shoulder, and
black eyes glared at the new-comers fever-
ishly out of a white, half-angry, half-
anguished face.
"Why—why—-why,” stammered the
clergyman, faintly, “the poor thing’s
already” 1
"Don’t talk !” snapped the bride, hoarsely.
"Start—quick, and cut it short. I can’t
keep up much lunger!”
"But, my dear child,” twittered the little
parson, "why add to your distress? The
child can be—er—legitimatised afterwards!”
An expression of hope, of relief, flashed
into the bridegroom’s features—to be driven
back by the bride’s sneer. “Afterwards? Do
you think 1 could bring myself to marry him
if it wasn’t for the thought of the child?”
she said, jerkily. “Afterwards!” she snig-
gered in turn. “I’d want at any rate to
marry a man! Make a start, do! A-a-ah!”
A shudder ran through her slim frame
and her grip on the table corners tightened
till it seemed the sharp knuckles would
burst the stretched akin. Still clinging
fiercely she began slowly to crumple and
sink down.
"You’ll—have—to—wait—a—bit!” she
gasped.
The nurse ran to her assistance; and.
struggling on the carpet beneath the table,
the bride battled through a paroxysm.
“This is awful!” The clergyman wiped his
brow with a shaking hand. The doctor mut-
tered something which sounded like “damned
nonsense.” The bridegroom glowered stolidly
at the nurse’s ample print-slieathed form
as she leaned Over her patient.
The throe over, the girl dragged herself
up again to the table end and at her speech-
less signal the ceremony began.
“Bah! Cut out the frills!” barked the
bridegroom as the agitated parson fumbled
at the start. “Get it over!”
Despite the “cutting” there were nerve-
racking interruptions.
“Oh, give up, dearie; give up!” begged the
nurse. “He’ll marry you all right after!”
“Never !” shuddered the bride. “Go on!
Go on !” she panted, "I won’t bring a name-
less child into the world for him to sneer
at!”
The bridegroom said nothing.
It was completed at last—none could say
whether in an hour or an era. The bride
was carried to an adjoining room, and bride-
groom and clergyman were hustled out upon
the house verandah.
The parson stayed, thinking he might per-
haps be able to comfort or assuage; but the
groom was taciturn, and the pair smoked
gloomily, in a dark silence broken only by
the inevitable noises of the occasion indoors.
Dawn was. breaking when at last the doc-
tor emerged softly upon the verandah.
“Ah.” breathed the little parson, “and how
is the poor thing?”
“Splendid. Normal—healthy—strong—and
plucky ! By Harry, she’s plucky all right!
She’ll mother a dozen young Anzacs yet!”
The bridegroom and father cut* in im-
patiently.
“And the child?”
“Boy,” said the doctor, shortly. Then he
permitted his boredom a hint of a grim
smile. “Stillborn," he added, drily, and
swung down the short garden path.
COPABELLA.


, rf .
m
v.
. ---s
tf -'■'S- -:T t ? "■
........
I e|P|fc v -
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
ORLICKS
MALTED
-m(lk
I
*hdtr»
-
OR MB*
maITCI *
needed.
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never 1
becomes stale or loses I
any of its admirable ,
qualities. It is madei
in a moment, any-J
where. Only water/
In hot climates it i*i
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb SnppLr—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world. '
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated ; paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
-■
This little Phonograph
is as clear
in reproduction as the large
and costly Instruments which
must always be left at
home. The Decca you
can take with you wherever
you go.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
No case required; ready to play
any make and size of Record
immediately opened.
3 Models —Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. II 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music-dealers.
STANLEY E.
GREEN, LTD.,
Australian
Aqtntt
mn
As the whiffle-tree regulates the
strain for a double horse team, so
the Shirley President distributes
and regulates the strain to the body
as each member of the person in
movement calls for additional use.
The extreme comfort is given by the metal tubes mounted on
adjustable swivels—every extra strain automatically supplied by
the adjustability of this wonderful brace construction. When
you buy look for “Shirley President” on the buckles—this is your
guarantee.
tor Sale By Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., tJ.S.A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO m„ LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Be Wise In Time
Everybody needs a little medicine now and then to keep the stomach right,
the liver active and the bowels in healthy working order. Experience
has proved the wonderful value of Beecham’s Pills as a tonic for the
stomach, a corrective for the liver and a perfect aperient. No remedy
has won a higher place in the public esteem than this old and well-tried
medicine. You will be well advised to
Take The Rational Remedy
—Beecham’s Pills—when you need a little medicine. A timely dose when
you are feeling “below par” will work wonders. Beecham’s Pills
relieve headache, restore the appetite, remove constipation, purify the
blood and thus conduce to good spirits and a cheerful outlook. The good
effects which follow a course of Beecham’s Pills are unmistakeable and
enduring. They will help you in your work and make your seasons of
recreation times of real pleasure. For general health purposes at all
times and seasons there is no medicine so useful as—
Beecham’s Pills
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ihg of ease and coinfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we xt;m
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You c
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’*
Little Liver Pills, for j
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prlee.
GENUINE must
bear signature
m
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
ating e
While the Greatest Selling' factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity.' Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied- upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGC & SINCLAIR. LTD.,
Alliance Building. 91 Pitt Street, Sydney. £?«£* SSf’XESS
Brisbane«
»d, N.Z.
nm
ZZ Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
TWENTY-TWO calibre rifles are more universally used than any
other. It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot—the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting—it is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
for Shooting Right)
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating and single shot models,
together with much interesting information on
shooting, will be sent you, post free, upon request.
n
Wi*
m
•V
WM
m
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. I). Bryant., Australian Representative,, Box 686, G.F.0., Melbourne.
mn
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
lightness and excellence oi the
Dreadnought is lully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


SlFB@il|l
Pip
jwgQ
E
1
sxi infffflK
i^jWrfftHffl
iln
IJIIWU
inniiiniiiiiiiiiimuimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiminnimHiN
/A
ir
mßßsatwm
-y,
I
; ‘o,
CV« S %
E >
I
I
m
IP
s»s|
f=
R
i
m i-
£
E '.
I
£ - ?
:
-7
1
<7;
XNV'
m
fp
m
-
m
SIW".
Ssu,
'»\\w
*1
•jxM
la
nr
fnutw!
lIMI
br
P"'WWi
\:K
E
%
Wt
a
Wa
m
'a
E
S:-
33
tr.
%
k:
D
m
SSSs
I
m
i
1
1
n
‘•S&L
E ?
is
m
Ik
a,i, u.i u..i,.i
iiiiiiiiiiiiniuimiiniinMmnnnnininnimiimniiiiiniiiiuniutiiiimmuiiniiiiiiimiiiiiiiin/ 11 !
ii)iii)iiiiHinm>lHjitiminiuiwn/iiiiiminnniiM(niu{(nuiiuinn(in((/iiniin(iiin(iii(((f|[iiniM(/i
i
mm tunmiitin mniKumiKiliiiUlHiurin
umu
imiii tlt1 | l flll|l|>t,< * hhhuuui {m m n iitin urn imu inn n mimtinn
rr«g3K.nn^ESSj
i.iih)hiiiiitomi
&
v» 37 o'.
Wr JW'* •'■
1 ’WjV
Maturity. Age ever did command respect. In Dewar's to-day is to be found all the experience of many
generations in the arts of blending and distillation, which has for its end the production of a Whisky—always
ripely matured—worthy of its universal designation as ——
THE SUPREME SPIRIT.
