

CITY Brightness and Convenience
in the COUNTRY
■ ■
■. ■'$
m
mmm®
:
m
mm
U
The approach of Winter, with fewer hours of daylight, brings a realisation
of the fact that artificial light must be used more during this period than
in Summer, to allow of the same amount of work being done.
In cities, the problem is overcome with electricity. Light of any desired
brilliancy may be had by simply pressing a switch.
This convenience can now be enjoyed by everybody,
irrespective of locality, by use of the
G-E Home
Power Unit.
Consisting of a powerful, compact 3 kerosene
engine, direct coupled to an electric generator, and com-
plete with a storage battery, the G-E Light and Power Unit
offers country residents efficient electric service. In addition
to supplying electric light and power for home comforts
-—toasters, irons, vacuum cleaners, etc. —machinery can
be driven direct from the engine by means of a
pulley mounted on the main shaft.
Full Particulars will be gladly furnished on request
Write to-day.
32 volt
Storage Battery
of 16 cells
lilt | il|l"<UWJLUAi|| 1/uiiim.i ii
a 4IUUHI
m
' m
:
4
35-45 WENTWORTH tWEN UE
SYDNEY
116 QUEE1SC STREET,
.M.E TfSOUR-TSlE-
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, S.A. Charles Atkins SC Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins Sc Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,’'
BRISBANE, O.-—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd. Ha X Street
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets TASMANIA--Oliver HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND—-The National Electrical Sc Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON
The Bulletin
Vo!. 42.—No. 2148
Thursday, April 14, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


HAVE vou had a copy of the new library-
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Advt.
17/6 Everywhere
Fills itself in a second with
the simplest lever action.
GTC
"v-
/Bunt-Pen V '
Scientifically
Unleakable
THE Pen of Pens is scientifical y
sealed, scientifically unleakable
Steady, even flow of ink ; great
ink capacity; 14-ct iridium tip-
ped acid n b Entirely British
made; guaranteed.
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company, Ltd.,
Clarence St., Sydney.
“The Early Brush Catches the Germ.”
BRUSH EARLY
WITH
Eutfaymol
tooth/paste
KILLS DENTAL DECAY GERMS WITHIN 30 SECONDS.
A SAMPJ.K TT'BK KIJKE, DEPARTMENT H.
ngroviteJ
LEATHER
LTI
Is Renowned for its $nper-FrictionaI Grip.
One of the greatest problems of manufacturers is the acquisition of a belt that will not slip.
Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide is such a belting, and has an established reputation. It, resists
abrasion, has a strong frictional grip, and sets up new records in the machinery room. Belting
repairs carried out during week-ends, or at any time to suit your convenience, by our staff of
belting and transmission experts.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWiCI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney. South Australia : John Reid & Sons Ltd . Adelaide.
W. Australia: Gibbs. Bright &Go Ltd., Fremantle. Victoria & Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co., Melbourne.
THE YANDOO.
THE 7th F.A.B. Magazine (vol. 3), 200
pages. 270 photos of exceptional interest,
reproductions of journals printed in the
three big, four-colored maps of Northern France
battlefields. Price 5/-, postage 6d. extra.
No Aussie Artilleryman should be without it.
VAX 1)00 MANAGEMENT, c/o Sil Rohu,
110 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
Stute wishes, and write t.o: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Efficient in every
A good /reputation is the result
of a concensus of favourable
opinions. Owners all ’over the
world testify that the Sunbeam
is unsurpassed for efficiency,
reliability, comfort and elegance.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co. Ltd.
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover
Square, London, England.
Cable Address - - “Subeamdcd,” London.
Head Office - - Wolverhampton. England.
SUNBEAM-
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT-
ENGINES.
24 h.p. 6-cyl.
Touring dModel.
THE
SUPREME
N
for New South Wales: FRASER & WITJLSFOKD. 822 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man. beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
[MUSTDIE.
NON PQUONOU3 POWDER.
THE6RWT IN
!'.“V
i
Mosquuaek
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.O..
Sydney. [3
The Red Page
The Faculty of Wonder
One of the most arresting pages in “Henry
R.yeeroit” is that in which Hissing confesses
his "hatred and fear" of science. "I see it
destroying all simplicity and gentleness .if
lite; I sec it restoring barbarism under a
mask of civilisation ; 1 see it darkening men’s
mind* and hardening their hearts; I see it
bringing a time of vast conflicts, which....
will whelm all the laborious advances of man-
kind in blood-drenched chaos.” In these
passionate and hopeless accents we hear the
familiar plaint of the artist-soul robbed per-
force of the faculty of wonder. Recently, and
in a more complacent frame of mind, \V. L.
George has advanced the scope ot these im-
plications a step further. Since the future
lies with science, the arts are bound to
degenerate, he thinks, into mere “little stimu-
lants... .little songs that will be heard less
and less amid the roar of the spinning world.”
Yet, I suppose, the "scientific spirit ’ lias
been largely responsible for everything in
modern art that shows signs of enduring.
From the hour of its dawning in post-mediae-
val Italy to that in which the aged Goethe
wrote the last luminous sentence in “Faust,”
the men of the Renaissance were inspired
with that consuming and noble curiosity
which flames in the soul of artist and
scientist alike. And, in fact, I have never
understood just when the Renaissance period
is supposed to have flickered out. Its con-
tinuity is unbroken to this day. it seems to
me. There lma, of course, been a gradual
and inevitable conversion from the Sixteenth-
Century attitude of simple staring wonder to
the knowing and rather blast* front with
which we face the universe to-day. And cer-
tain features of the efflorescence have from
time to time become clouded over, as in the
Eighteenth Century. But surely Nietzsche
and Darwin (to name an artist and a
scientist) belong to the great tradition of
Renaissance adventurers. Nietzsche’s will-
to-power idea is merely a Teutonic reading
of the Darwin theory; and although I have
always regarded that theory as tin* crest of
the Renaissance wave, I am still open to be
convinced that Spiritualism or Theosophy or
some such psychical sequel to the theory is
the real crest.
But I want you to consider how radically
changed is the spirit in which we approach,
life-and-destiny problems nowadays. Cast
back for a moment to the frame of mind in
which tin* .men of the Renaissance period
read the travels of William do Rubruquis or
Marco Polo.. This frame of mind (epitomised
in the miraculous “Ivubla Ivhan” of Cole-
ridge) was really a sort of inspired ignorance.
Most, of us have known this condition as
children ; and if my own experience is typical,
we are not likely ever to forget .certain
moments of surpassing insight, when we saw
into the heart of things: a. story, a picture in
the fire, some “wandering air of the unsaid”
lurking behind a commonplace uttered at the
dinner-table, a passing effect of light in the
evening trees—such trifles as these wen-
capable (and are capable even now. when
recalled) of conveying more than a hint of
the “incommunicable thrill of things” which
is the essence.of poetry.
Now. it was with this magnanimous, child-
like (and perhaps fundamentally mistaken)
conception of life as an affair of pre-eminently
Wonderful occasions that the young Mar-
lowe sat down in tin* sixteen-eighties to
write bis ever-glorious “Tamburlaine the
Great.” So vital and heady was the faculty
of wonder in this shoemaker’s son that no-
where. unless in some of Shakspeare’s incom-
parable trumpet-bursts, will you find such
pomp and sheer marching magnificence of
language. Open where you will, soaring and
impassioned braggadocio of this description
greets the eye : —
The chiefest God. first mover of that sphere,
Enchased with thousands ever-shining lamps.
Will sooner burn the glorious frame of -heaven.
That it should so conspire nty overthrow.
Hut, villain! thou that wishes* this to me,
Kail prostrate on the low disdainful earth
And be the footstool of great Tamburlaine,
That I may rise into my royal throne.
Not infrequently this towering speech topples
over into the explosive bathos parodied in
Pistol the blatherskite: and then again ;t
will rise on sweeping wings to kiss; the
heaven. There was in Marlowe’s psycho-
logical composition an extraordinary vigor
and insolence, tempered with a certain infidel
reverence before the altar of beauty. He had.
for all his bombastic atheism, an abiding
sense of the wonder of the-world; and he has
filled “Tamburlaine.” as no other piece of
dramatic writing is filled, with .the unattain-
able aspirations of youthful genius.
Move along now to the early seventeenth
century, when “The Tempest” was written.
Here, in V this superlative utterance of a
divine dramatic poet, we find this same
faculty of wonder, expressed not so much in
words, one almost feels, as in the fluid ele-
ments themselves. Here speaks
the prophetic soul
Of the wide world, dreaming on tilings to come.
And here, again, see bow tin* wonder-faculty
irradiates the. abysmal mind of , the man.
until his “still-vex’d Bermoothes” is resolved
from a solid geographical fact into a chimeri-
cal isle—.a rainbow-mist of scents and sounds
rind flying visions, a dream-mirage haunted
by monsters and magicians. In 1(512 the
scientific spirit and the element of wonder
were not yet divorced in hien’s minds. And the
return of the mariner ‘‘whose beard had been
'shaken by many n tempest.” far from dis-
pelling the calling lure o£ shadowy lands and
faery seas forlorn, actually inflamed the
imagination of tin* stay-at-liome dramatist
and filled him, - for all his 4D years, with
dreams even more extravagant and miracle-
haunted than those of the* young Marlowe
whom he had .lamented in "As You Like It.”
Half a century later we find in John Mil-
ton yet another great spirit confessing to the
thrall cast upon his imagination by the
glamor of lands then remote and all but
fabulous. “Paradise Lost” is gorgeously
strewn with fascinating vignettes of Cathay
and Tartary.. Afric, Ind, Araby and other
places alluring in poetry, whatever they may
be in fact. In Marco Polo there is an
account (any blood-and-tlmndor swallowing
schoolboy would rejoice iu it) of the terrible
desert of Lop; v
There dwell many spirits in this wilderness, which
cause great and marvellous illusions to trayeini
anti make them perish, for if any stay behind, any
cannot see his company, lie shall hi* called by ni>
name, and so going out oi the way. m lost. In tne
night thev hear as it were tin- noise ot a compain,
which taking to he theirs they perish likewise. Con-
certs of imisic-instruinertts are heard in the an,
wise (Iriifns and noise of armies.
Clearly Milton lias dallied awhile in this
ghastly region, listening to
Voices calling iu the dead of night.
Ami airy tongues that syllable mens names
On sands and shores and desert wildernesses.
But with tin* passing of Milton Lnglis i
literature entered upon a century-long
stretch of knowing and prosaic verse taut
was never t<> betray by a bint or gestuie
that attitude of thirsting for tin* infinite
characteristic of tin* Elizabethans. H“n«’-
fortli Man (and preferably the 1 all Mall
coffee-house type or man at that) was to be
the proper study of mankind. 1 he ironical
thing is chat we have now to rely upon
Defoe, a man of somewhat material and
mechanical imaginative quality, end upon
Swift, a genius of blasting satirical powei,
for the continuance of this tradition ot
child-like wonder. Shut out from verse,
this frame of mind must express itself in
prose. But "Crusoe” and “Gulliver" were
tin* last Odyssey-tales to In* read by a naive
public. The discovery of Australasia, while
opening up a pew geographical route, hud
before long definitely closed the last airy
channel along which the adventurous fancy
of (lie make-believe romancer could set sail.
\Ye speak of tin* advent of the Coleridge-
Wordsworth school as a “Renascence of
Wonder." It is true that in “The Ancient
Mariner” and "Kublu Khan" —both derived
from the old books of travel —this intense
magical light leaps forth again. But a mob
of matter-of-fact globe-trotters had by this
time traversed the South and poked into the
remotest corners of the East ; and they had
written plain accounts of their travels for
all the world to read. The naively credu-
lous spirit of Elizabethan adventure was
no longer possible. The wonder-attitude ot
Coleridge ami his readers is thus a deli-
berately assumed, knowing, aesthetic atti-
tude. Science has finally scotched the thrill-
ing possibility that "gorgous and hydras
and ohimaeras dire” may, after all, trium-
phantly exist out there, somewhere beyond
the dim horizon of tin* world. And seeing
that we arc not immediately likely to be-
come “as little children” again, there
appears the above-lamented possibility that
tin* poetic genius of mankind —or wlmt I
have called the faculty of wonder—is threat-
ened with extinction.
ADRIAN LAWLOR
Rhoda Broughton
'iue lady s name catches me back much
further than the span of the years—to an
order of reading which seems so old that it
is surely almost forgotten. On Sunday after-
noons and in "leisure'’ hours we read enter-
taining romances, nice, comfortable romances
putting no strain on our -minds or our
morals. These ended happily, and as far
from life as possible, so that we should be
sure they were romances. The tales were
ingenious, engaging, tender—anything on the
safe side of the violence of truth. The
squire, parson and doctor; a young man, a
young lady, and a number of ladies -not so
young; a croquet-lawn, a garden-party and
a ball : the whole force of the countryside
directed to the consummation of a reserved
love affair; various subordinate characters
whose raison d'etre was that they stuck
happily and firmly “in their places,” and
wedding-bells clashing gaily and reverently
at the end, the whole company being on
hand to hear them as the curtain came down
—these were the bones of the books. The
flesh was sentimental conversation, the dis-
creet encounters of the "leading youngs,
and the commonplace adventures of persons
without need to work, other than in the cure
of souls or bodies.
It was all very deplorable, of course ; but.
speaking personally, we liked it. Reading
was a thing apart from life and the truth of
life, a recreation, an amusement for fallow,
languid hours; the less strain of thought in
it the better. Even the giants. Thackeray
and Dickens, George Eliot and Reade, despite
their touching us up a bit occasionally, came
into the Sabbath circle with the countersign
of Slumbrous palliation of the truth. If
they spoke pretty freely of the seamy side
of London or the country, or of the unat-
tractive qualities of aristocratic people, we
were safe in our poppied tradition of romance
—Thackeray was a cynic, and Dickens a
good man obsessed by his magnified view of
the poor. We were wrong, no doubt; but
we were quite happy.
One of the most prolific and satisfactory
of the contributors to our happiness was
Rhoda Broughton. Looking back. I think
the base of her satisfactoriness was a per-
sistent quality of ardent youth which almost
lifted her stories into reality, the reality
which could get to even the Mid-Victorian
reader. Between her first book and her last
more than 50 years went by; and that
quality of youth seemed never to fail her
up to the end. In the half-century she
watched the change from one mode of
thought and manners to another so different
that it was another world to her eyes. But
she wrote steadily on. adding, as the change
deepened, a satiric smile to her armory,
a friendly mockery of the bygone gods, but
not relinquishing her standby of perpetual
voutli ; it. is as strong in her last book.
“A Fool in Her Folly.” as it is in "Cometh
Fp as a Flower.” Thereby we liked her
well in the old days. If now we see more
clearly, then she had a pleasant glass in
her hand, roseate with youth and the cer-
tainty of ultimate good, and gilded lightly
with the bantering tenderness of youth to
youth. In that, for her period and its
limitations she filled a good place. The
limitations were there; Rhoda Broughtons
happy pictures of them were breezy, healthy
spots of color for the “leisured.” peaceful
hours between dinner and supper on Sunday.
(Continued on pone 28.)


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FINE FURS.
The House of Economy has earned its tit.e
by sheer force of its exceptional value-giving
policy. This policy is decisively demon-
strated in every offering that emanates from
Anthony Horderns’.
"-v
m
1 '))
"0
\~S >
Ik
628
Ml
r
IX 708
I X £;
/'J
X
a
O
w /
-T'
fir.
'V
• X
301
V
IA 7611
V ~N.
\ Kt/M
IX
These examples of fine furs reflect the supreme
values Anthony Horderns’ maintain. Note-
worthy for elegance, distinction and correct
style, these smart new creations will surely
win your admiration.
1X028. —Stir ijjh ' Stole
of Natural ‘.V-:nk.
Consisting of - aoti-
inllv match i\ .vl.n.s.
I rod \v t*i ' Tger
( ,>-• > (i.> li "
1’rieo -4 7 guineas.
1X301.—T tv n-S k i n
Black Australian Fox
Tango. Finished with
two heads and brushes,
and lined with Black
Silk. This Fur has a
very rich appearance,
and' is indeed moder-
ated priced.
Price 5 guineas.
Also Single Skins.
From 55/-
1X708. — Natural Skunk Cape. A magnificent
wrap, built on liberal proportions, with a big,
cosy collar nestling up to the throat. It is
edged with matching dark Brown Squirrel
tails, and is lined with Nigger shade soft
Satin. Price 80 guineas.
1X5. —Rich and luxurious, with style and com-
fort in ever;.' line of this Cape Coatee in
Black Rabbit, composed of very fine, glossy
skins. It has a long roll collar that
snuggles up to the throat, there is a belt
that fastens in front, and the sides clip
together to form sleeves. Pockets are set
into the front, and bright floral sateen serves
to line it. Price 15 guineas. .
Furs Not Illustrated.
1X6.—Black Australian Fox Stole, fashioned
from four fine Skins and lined with Black Jap
Silk. Trimmed two pockets and finished with
four full brushes. Price 10 % guineas.
Same Style, fashioned with eight skins.
Price 15 guineas.
1X701. —Black Australian Fox Necklet, made
from two good skins, giving Cape effect on
shoulders and lined with Black Silk. Finished
with head and brush. Price 90/-
1X601. —Black Rabbit Cape, with roll collar of
Natural American Opossum, and finished with
self button and loop. Price 87/6.
Natural Fitch Four-skin Necklet, lined Brown
Satin to match, and trimmed heads and self
tails. Price 9 guineas.
Natural Grey Goat Tango Necklet, lined Grey
Sateen to match. Price 29/6.
1X281. — Blue Goat Stole, very fine skin, about
21 yards in length. Price 5 guineas.
Also in Black Bear Goat. Price (»!£ guineas.
Write for the Fashion
Book.
It will be posted Free. Every page
has a message of absorbing interest
—presenting am authoritative guide
to newest styles, and a demonstra-
tion of what constitutes real eco-
nomy.
Mail Order Service.
It is a satisfaction to know that your
needs can be supplied as satisfac-
torily through this service, as by
shopping in person.
We Pay Carriage
on Fashion Goods and Family
Drapery to any part of N.S.W., and
to the nearest port on inter-State
and Island Orders.
1X7011.—A Splendid Dutch Pitch Cape.
This luxurious Fur is indeed beautiful, with
its warm brown tones underlaid with rich
deep cream. Fifteen picked skins were used
in this garment, which has a fringe of natural
tails and paws. Lined soft Nigger Brown
Satin. Price 40 guineas.
1X314.—Straight Stole in Glossy Black
Rabbit. Twelve tine skins went to the
making of this attractive wrap, that is lined
with soft silk. May also be had in brown.
Price 90/-
Furs Not Illustrated.
Black Skunk Stole, four skins wide at back, nar-
rowing towards the front to two skins wide.
Finished with Black Squirrel tails and lined
with Black Crepe de Chine.
Price 39 guineas.
Straight Stole in Skunk Opossum, beautiful
skins of highest grade, joined with perfect
workmanship. Finished with Squirrel tails
and lined with corded Silk to tone.
Price 26 guineas.
Straight Stole in Skunk Opossum, finished
with Squirrel tails and lined with Nigger
Moire. Price 18 guineas.
Skunk Stoles, fashioned from perfect skins. 12
skins in length. Price 06 guineas.
16 skins in length. Price 77 guineas.
Three skins wide, and over 21 yards in length,
smartly designed with pockets outside, and
lined with Nigger Silk. Price 75 guineas.
Black Skunk Stole, three skins wide. Perfect
Skins have been used, being over yards
long; has pockets inlet in the Nigger Brown
Merv. Silk Lining, and possesses convenient
shoulder bands of the same material.
Price 60 guineas.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


CONDITION TELLS.
V
XI
•l
o nN -
m
\
m
w
w
/'
i
*
@
h
n
/'
«
y
LOW
HORSES DIGEST THE
EASILY DIGESTIBLE FEED.
Horses in constant work require a large amount of nitrogenous material in their food. This should be supplied in a palatable and
easily digestible form.
Chaff and oats alone will not suffice.
Rations should be strong in digestible nutrients, as they repair the waste of muscular tissue.
Because of its high proportion of digestible nutrients Horse Food, the correctly-balanced concentrate, will supply all the
necessary ingredients for real work, and can be fed with any form of roughage.
Horse Food maintains stamina and staying power.
The inclusion of 21b. to 41b., three times daily, with chaff will produce vim, snap and energy.
BY RESULTS— © Foods for Horses, Cattle, Pigs, Calves and Poultry—ARE CHEAPER.
AGENTS — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourlce Street, Melbourne. Messrs. R. S. Exton d Co., Ltd., Queen Street ,
Brisbane. Messrs. William Adams d Co., Ltd., King Street. Perth. Messrs F. W. Heritage d Co., Ltd. Hobart and
Launceston. Messrs. Johnston d Co., Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AEGGITT L TO
FWARAMATTA
43
cSi/ted&itt jCimUeci
HEAD OFFICE 2G KING ST SYTMuY(^rks:Pamraatta)
Ofaboyonthebag
guarantees quality ”
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal, Specialised Stock Foods and Tonic Meals.
aecgittlt*
fwramatu
°!Ae boy on the boo
guarantees qualify


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
“Q
■£J
Heavy Solid Silver Manicure Set, with All-
Steel Scissors <2/6
Less 20 per cent, discount 14/6
58/-
WEDDINGS EVER
WITH US.
They will many. We cannot help it, and
would not if we could. Indeed, we do all we
can to encourage them. We cater for them.
We study them.
We spend thousands a year to provide presents
for them. We cull from the world’s best pro-
ductions to please prospective couples.
We send our best buyers the world over to
select the beautiful, the utilitarian, the de-
pendable at the lowest possible prices.
Then, too, we manufacture in Australia many
of the indispensable table requisites, and so in
every way we cater for wedding presents.
Our large capital and huge output enable us
to get and to give the best possible values and
variety.
Visitors are invited to inspect our great dis-
play.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
raih on!v res - 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Cl
7?
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure —you don’t feel them going. It is a
speed3' cure —four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure —no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 8d. in stamps to
DUERDIN & SAIN8BURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
" Half-a-
Teaspoonful.”
fcuschen
icontamim aclive princjE!^*
teaspoonful of this
lid be taken |J
ischen Salt is a remedf
''suffering from
Mipation. Liver and n
nldbe' taken for a
,assure its full effe
jv
MS HUOHgJja
England.
A healthy man shouldn't
know he has a liver.
Do you?
Do you feel heavy, sluggish, depressed, without dash
in your actions or spring in your step ? Do you
get up in the morning with clogged brain and a vile
taste in your mouth ? Do you go about all day with
dejected face, lack-lustre eye and muddy skin' If
you exhibit these symptoms (or some of them) you
can diagnose your trouble at once--LlvhK!
And it isn’t only the temporary unpleasantness that
you should fear - the nausea and gloom and the
lethargy that make you unfit for work or play. A
liver in need of help is a storm-centre from which
all sorts of ailments —acute or chronic emanate.
Australia is particularly hard on the liver. But the
remedy is easy and cheap. A regular, daily draught
of Kruschen Salts will keep the <.rj; n healthy and
efficient.
Kruse
V MAKERS ESTAE
ENTIRELY BR
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
FNTIPELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists 2/6 per bottle
Enough for two months
Check up the evils that come from a disordered liver. Lumbago,
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica and body - destroying, soul - killing
Constipation. And yet the price to pay for absolute immunity from
these vultures of ill-health is trifling. It calls only for the exeicise
of a little thought (the monetary outlay is small). Think to take
Kruschen Salts every morning — only half-a-teaspoonful — and
exchange the shackles of ill-health for the clear skin, bright eye and
swinging stride that mark the possession of a sound body—wholesome
and poison-free.
Kruschen Salts is now sold in the New Dry Powder form. This is a
great improvement on the Crystals. The new style allows the dosage
to be measured better. This means greater exactness, better results
and—the Salts go farther.
Australia: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. & W. Grear, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, also at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct Indents executed by the
manufacturers through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
Fairbaim Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington, Auckland
and Dunedin.
NOTE: —Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes Ltd., established 1756, in the reign of
George the Second.
701a
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Color.
So many lives are starved of color. Here
Is too much clinging dust, too many old
Dull cobwebs at tne windows. Brown and
gray ,
Prevail, if lightning flamed across the way
With vivid, blinding splendor, red and gold,
IIow it would fire and change the quiet year.
Thus would I choose for very tired eyes:
The tender blush pink of the dewy rose
That shyly opens in the early dawn,
And soft, sweet primrose that the frosty lawn
Sees smiling at the evening’s scented close,
Between the murmurous pines, in winter
skies.
And I would search where rippling water
gleams
’Neath willow boughs for new awakened
green
Of cool young reeds, and soft-voiced amethyst,
And blue as faint as far-off morning mist
Among the distant sapphire mountains
seen.
When early sunlight sheds its amber beams.
When, with the joy of so much loveliness,
Both tired heart and eyes were glad and
healed,
I would throw wide the palace doors of light,
To show the glory of the day and night,
Till all their wondrous beauty stood
revealed
From dawn’s wide gate to evening’s starred
recess.
Behold! Rich purple, emerald, crimson, deep
And glowing, orange like a joyous shout
Each pulsing with a sense of beating wings.
So in the mountains when the dawn wind
sings,
The rising sun his glory casts about,
And jacinth, garnet, topaz gild the steep,
Oh, drink deep draughts of color then, of
wine,
I’earl, amber, sapphire, coral, mauve and rose .
Drink deep at morn and noon and evening’s
close.
Till care and pain and sadness you forget,
And life is rosy-lit with light divine.
Look up! Be light of heart, imperious,
strong!
Bid every glowing hue come hand in hand,
Flower garlanded, to compass you about
With singing, shutting grey-robed sorrow out.
In light’s enchanted armor you will stand,
Within the walls impregnable of song.
VICTORIA.
GRACE ETHEL MARTYR.
Parting.
The gate is shut. Behind that moss-grown
wall
In the unweeded garden you remain;
But here to me the sunlit beaches call
To take life’s pleasures gladly; and again
My soul is young, untrammelled, free to
stray....
And yet without the just-closed gate I stay.
In our contentment long ago we dwelt
Within this garden, then alive with Spring
Whose harmony our love-fired spirits felt;
But ev’ry tree whose youthful blossoming
Gladdened ’ our souls, unpruned, unchecked
has grown,
And everywhere their sombre shades are
thrown.
It is a garden full of cold regret,
Darkened with shadows, where the sun-
light creeps
Like some poor wanderer whom all forget
In his old haunts. Here all old sorrows
weep,
And mildews grow which the bright touch of
j-y
Can never reach, their evil to destroy.
Those who are wise have pruned the ranker
leaf,
Torn out the weeds, and kept their gardens
clear;
The riot of accumulated grief.
Fed by your careful tears, has triumphed
here,
Making a tomb for vengeful memories
Where sad winds moan their dirges in the
trees.
Whilst still the gate was open, I have shown,
Or tried to show, to you the warm delight
The sunshine on the outer w T orld has thrown —
A world that sings with life and colors
bright.
I begged you share this brighter kingdom, but
You cling to all your griefs... .The gate is
shut.
The warm, sweet beaches where the small
waves break
In rippled laughter soft; the lazy sea
Dozing in green and blue: all things that
make
Dife’s spacious pleasures —these are calling
me.
These are all mine And yet I hesitate
Grieving for you behind the fast-closed gate.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
Senorita.
I think the night is like a Spanish maid
With wide-brimmed eyes of soft and sombre
shade; -
Neck, brow and breast their beauteous lines
enshroud
Within the dim mantilla of a cloud.
Yet lest lost loveliness should cause regret,
To please her vanity the gay coquette,
There, where her ringlets w’reathe a rich
festoon.
Slips for a silver comb the crescent moon.
QUEEN SLAN D.
A. GORE JONES.


"3»
t
97
%
7
£3
V/.
w
yyy
%
/>
SK
ia
'u. %
*$•
0
%mrnmm.
m
*4
*
5A
N
9
!/-
i%
t> .
S r
m
\a \
i|i iii®
Mmwm
&K
IS
IS 5
£&<«
£3*
aa
m
'MfM
S&
w •%•■.■ ■>
Tik
As
Li
:§?55Ra«
K»
i i i l i M 't
i'-i'-l
n i
■a- Y
Y B Y
; ,t>
Vi Wit
W-'i
.-15
f&ai
filYfffM
vVfc-h iii
m
uu
a!
i Mi 1 £
W
IlflJ
? £ f l
isa&i
s/*; &H!
iiixirt
LuL
tsxss^**
mm
*=sr
S^3
- < r p-^i
r -* ,i
ay
©ft
(f*
Ifev
n
\
\
2*
)
7
r
\
\
w
X
I
1
m
ffi
PA
Wmm
m
.//
INSTRUCTION.
HE growth of the output of the A.D.F.A. during the past
“ few years has been enormous. This is not unnatural.
■■■■■MB
Their dried fruits —currants, raisins, sultanas and lexias are
second to none in the world’s markets, and the housewives of
Australasia have finely rallied to the products of the inland settlers
of Sunraysia,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1921.
Price 9d.
Yol. 42. —No. 2148.
THE OLD GAG.
FREETRADE DEVIL: “Now, if all those factories were in foreign countries they'd be able to mate things so much cheaper for you.”
COCKY: “Yes, and make my wheat cheaper still. As it is. your cheap foreign factories make me sell it for less than I can get for It here.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Only.)
For £ 1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you, every week for a
year, to any addiiEss in Austiialasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed , and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage/.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers .■ The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid lot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions ivill be received a >e those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.-’ij
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jj) I Hastings Street,
Vancouver, It.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, B.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary. Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., 7) West Madison Street. Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 119 Market Street, Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club, 1)1 N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco: Wheatley News C6., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle: Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, 5th Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, )2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City. Los Angeles, Chas.
Olson, Pershing Square News Stand , Los Angeles;
George Hussey, Central News Stand, 103 East 5th
Street, Los Angeles.
Honolulu. — Fisher- News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn Je Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiie Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ); Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lid.; 8loz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 12oz., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffie'ZBxxlZejfc/ri,
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 1921.
IPS AND ANS—AND HARD FACTS.
“If the N. S. Wales Labor Conference did nothing
more than pass the resolution that organised Labor
would not take part in any future wars outside Aus-
tralia, the convening of that Conference would have
been w--U worth while. If all the workers of the
world took up a similar attitude the ‘one per cent.
of scoundrels’ who make wars would be powerless for
evil.” — Large News.
“Comrades, we seamen could make it impossible
for the international capitalist to again deluge the
world witli blood. By refusing to man their ships
we could stop their depredations and save the world
from war, and insure that for the future the ships,
the seamen and their labor shall be used in the
interest of the working class.”— Tom Walsh.
The task of the Churches would be easy
if the world found no difficulty about pre-
mises. It is the impossibility of believing
some fundamental, in itself small, that makes
agnostics. How simple and obvious to be-
come a Mohammedan, given clear proof that
the epileptic Arab who offered the world a
new religion 1200 years ago, and in his old
age broke most of its precepts, was a Gon-
inspired prophet! Life would be much plea-
santer, less complicated and cheaper if we
could so much as believe in one another.
There would be no need for Dolice, scrutineers
at elections, ticket-inspectors, divorce, leases,
locks, bank strong-rooms, burglary insurances
or countless other precautionary devices
which at present absorb a great deal of
time and money. Suppose the editor of the
Laboii News said to Tom Walsh : "Cease
to believe in the existence of swindlers. If
a stranger offers you a gold brick, buy it.
If you are told of the existence of a Wealthy
Spanish prisoner ®r Fiji uncle, advance
whatever cash you have on the security.”
If the editor were to give Walsh such mis-
guided advice he would be rebuked, the pre-
mise that those in urgent need are invari-
ably to be trusted being inadmissible. Yet
both of them ask Australians to believe that
a relationship is practicable as between the
Commonwealth and foreign nations —whose
sentiments in regard to it vary between in-
difference and lively dislike —which they
know to be fantastically impossible as be-
tween nationals of the same race and class.
* * * *
The crux of the coming struggle over
the London Conference table, so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, will be the formula in-
sisted on by the Japanese delegates in Paris,
viz., “There shall be no distinction, either
in law or in fact, against Japanese immi-
grants on account of their race or nation-
ality.” The Japanese need, if not Australia,
at least a share in it, quite as urgently as
any hard-up soldier of fortune needs a por-
tion of Tom Walsh’s salary as general presi-
dent of the Seamen’s Union. “My coun-
try is very small,” remarked the new Japan-
ese Vice-Consul to a Sydney Telegraph
interviewer, “and the population of
60,000,000 must rely upon outside supplies.
Korea is tod small to supply us. She can-
not even satisfy her own home-market.” He
might have said a great deal more. Japan
was full enough for comfort two centuries
ago when there was a population of under
20,000,000. Since the introduction of
Western ideas and Western industrialism —
and more particularly since the war made
Japan rich —the rate of increase of the
population has been tremendous. It pro-
bably amounts now to nearly a million per
annum. The poorer Japanese have to get
out or starve; the richer must get them
out or face a revolution. In China they
cannot live, for much the same reason that
an Australian unionist could not live in
Japan. The Chinese coolie can work longer
hours and eat less while doing it than any
Japanese. The coal concessions which the
Japanese hold in China are priceless to the
great shipyards and ironworks, but they do
not begin to solve the nation’s social pro-
blem. Its solution is to be most easily
found in one of those countries which are
now held by whites. Australia, with its
temperate climate, its proximity to Japan
and its one white inhabitant to the square
mile, is probably even more attractive than
British Columbia or. California.
* * # #
Meanwhile the pacifists of the ‘ Labor
party ask Australia to believe that Japan
will accept permanently a number of pro-
positions which these same pacifists are con-
tinually denouncing in another connection.
One is the principle on which Capitalism
is founded. The Commonwealth, as it
stands to-day, is one of the most tremendous
examples of Capitalism in the world. Aus-
tralia is the chief monopolist; the para-
dise of high wages and short hours; the
home of spdrt and leisure; the possessor of
more “verboten” signs directed at the out-
ride world than any other part of the
Empire. We have as much right to say
that the minerals and fertile lands of this
continent are our inheritance, to be used or
hot as we think fit, as the English dukes or
Australian squatters have to make the same
claims in reference to their estates, but no
more. Is there force and justice in the
argument oh behalf of a living wage? Is
it wrong that parents should be sweated
and children reared in sordid and unhealthy
surroundings? If so the Japanese would
he justified in calling our attention to these
i-emarks uttered recently to the Australian
Board of Missions by one E. R. Harrison
under authority from the Bishop of South
Tokio: —•
Go down into the vast new industrial suburbs of
Tokio, with family after • family living in single
rooms 6 x 6 or 6 x 9 feet. See the men and women
working 12 to 16 hours a day in wretched work-
shops and factories.
Is it reasonable to suppose that the Japan-
ese will agree in perpetuity to the conten-
tion that "The Song of the Shirt” has no
application to the colored races? The idea
is too absurd for argument, aqd yet on it
rests the white case for Internationalism. The
workers of Japan will only combine with the
workers of Australia who refuse to work with
them, associate with them, or have them in
their country when they develop into some-
thing very different from the pugnacious and
arrogant little people they are and have been
throughout their history.
* * * *
So that in time the Japanese will fight
someone for what, if there is anything in the
views of mhn like Walsh, they are justified
in considering their rights. Suppose it is
Austral,a. Australia, amidst applause from
the pacifists, has abandoned its career as a
builder of war-vessels, and it does not possess
facilities for docking one modern capital ship.
Japan has four naval dockyards in full work
(Kure, Yokosuka, Maidzura and Saseho) ;
and to deal with the enormous 1921 pro-
gramme many private shipyards have been
requisitioned. The battleship Nagato (38,000-
tons), which has just been fitted out, could
blow to pieces, while itself remaining miles
out of the danger-zone, anything that has yet
been seen in Australian waters. The notion
of the Labor Conference is that Australia
should wait for the arrival of such monsters —
a reversal of the established practice of carry-
ing the fight into the enemy’s country where
possible. Any Digger who saw, say, the last
bombardment of Bailleul will appreciate the
result of such a policy. The coastal cities,
with the vast wealth which they represent,
could be methodically destroyed by an enemy.
as invisible as if he were in another
hemisphere. In short, this fine-sounding
scheme of defending Australia nowhere else
than in Australia is the antithesis of patriot-
ism. It amounts to national suicide. It is
not democracy. Democracy aims at the great-
est good of the greatest number, and no
country is going to achieve that by announcing
that it will decline in any circumstances to
lower itself by getting its blow in first, and
that regardless of its women, children, old
people and invalids it proposes to imike a
specialty of being invaded. Vote-snaring
bunkum apart, there is only one attitude for
Australia to take if it proposes to remain
white and free. It must not only say through
W. M. Hughes in the next few months) that
it is prepared to pay its share of the white
man’s defence bill, but that, in the last resort,
it will co-operate with the rest of the
Dominions as readily as it did during the
late war. There are no other terms on which
it could ask Britain to fight for that White
Australia doctrine which without British
support would collapse to-morrow.
NEW POPES FOR OLD.
When the record of the Australian Labor
Party Conference of 1921 is written
in full it will contain the same out-
standing feature as its predecessors.
Like them —in fact, worse than them
—it had its fits and its starts, its
stoppages, its bursts of unreasoning passion,
its fights and squalls and calumnies. It
issued impossible orders like that to poor
John Storey in London to hunt up the King
and see about the removal of the British
troops from Ireland, it had spells of aboli-
tion, particularly the abolition of all forms of
defence. It had bursts of exaltation in which
members explained how their crowd possessed
all the virtues and some more, while every-
body outside the coterie neve): nau and never
could have a redeeming spot in his character.
And it had blasts of special and stereotyped
denunciation for the capitalist, not meaning
thereby a man with much money (economical
John Storey with his ±2445 a year is on the
road to the possession of much money), but
the individual, even if he is practically bank-
rupt and keeps his show going by agile
finance, who produces things, and possibly in-
vents better means of production, and pays
union wages to white Australian unionists,
and helps by production to restrict the im-
portation of nigger goods.
* * * • *
The Conference did all these things and
more. But it left no record of any desire to
promote art, science, invention, literature
(except the Karl Marx kind) or the other
things which make up civilisation. All that
sort of work is left to the “cdpitalistic” class
now earmarked for destruction. And this
raises the question how long it would take a
world ruled strictly on Conference lines to
drop in the social scale until the knowledge
of how to make fire alone renjained out of all
it has learned since its ancestor and an-
cestress came down from the tree-tons and
began to keep house. Russia after a mere
three or four year? of Conference methods got
so far that even the art of repairing the loco-
motives, which the bad old order bequeathed
to Bolshevism, had fallen into desuetuue. So
four-fifths of the rolling-stock was out of
commission and the other fifth was following
fast. Now the Government, having sworn off
the whole Conference business and become
such a brisk tyranny that the old Czars were
futile by comparison, is here and there firm-
ing out the rebuilding of civilisation to Pri-
vate Enterprise. It is a concern that does
nothing by halves, and the whole-heartedness
of its move to absolute communism is only
matched by the whole-heartedness of its move
back again. Lands, mines, etc., which were
given to the people by edict are being taken
back the same way so that the private capi-
talist may have a shot at them—not the
Russian capitalist, who is mostly dead or
ruined, but foreign ones with their own Gov-
ernments behind them and prepared to stand
no nonsense. A whole province in Eastern
Siberia has been leased to a Yankee syndicate,
and Japan is fussing about the matter. This
sort of “peaceful penetration” may make the
district, which is almost within gunshot of
the U.S. territory in Alaska (once Russian
America), a permanent U.S. possession later
on. Nearly one-third of the U.S. proper was
acquired in somewhat similar ways. Also in
Siberia, but. nearer to Europe, a district
nearly as big as Germany has been “con-
ceded” to German millionaires, with forests,
mineral, water, agricultural, pastoral and
railway-building rights. Amid the rush of
big things A.L.P. Conferences in Russia are
apparently “off.”
* » * •
There is pathos in these attempts to repair
a broken civilisation (a poor one. but pro-
gressive in a way until the great set back)
by renting the ruins to capable foreign
financial tyrants. Still, it may be better than
letting the debris slither into a final abyss.
But the interesting point is that if red, raw
Bolshevism, as it was in Russia and as the
One Big Union wants it to be in Australia,
had had its aggressive way, it would have
spread over the world and there would have
been no nucleus of a fresh civilisation left.
All the fires being out there would have been
no place to relight the torch, and it would
have to be rekindled by some primitive flint-
and-steel process extending over perhaps 1000
years, if rekindled at all. It is difficult to
think of civilisation as a brittle, fragflt, lose-
able thing which may he mislaid, but it was
nearly mislaid once when the world was
narrower. Even the steam-engine and the
telescope and the knowledge that our planet
was a revolving globe, and gravitation, and
the first forms of printing were blotted out
for a millennium ; but Euclid and the calendar
were saved from the wreck. The great
museum, college and library founded at Alex-
andria by Ptolemy Sotor, the king who
came from Greece, was the centre of the
world’s learning. The library accumulated
to 700,000 volumes, and the students at one
time numbered 1400. From the college
originated more knowledge about medicine,
surgery, astronomy, mechanics, mathematics —
in fact, about almost everything save theology,
which wasn’t invented—than the world was
ever to know again till the other dav. It
wasn’t till about the year 1800 that it began
to seriously recapture the lost ground. And
it did so then chiefly because the destruction,
though very wide, wasn’t complete. Had the
school of Alexandria and its smaller con-
temporaries and offshoots not been inter-
rupted just when they were getting into their
stride, the railway, the telegfaph and the air-
ship might have been common in King
Arthur’s time if Arthur ever existed.
* * * *
But Pones of all sorts arosp. and bar-
barians like the Huns, Avars, Turks, Bul-
garians. Tartars and TV
were the most disastrous. Those at -Alex-
andria, once the greatest of all. were wined
out of the scheme of things before thaw
theology did much damage, though they slew
some philosophers in passing. Those at
Byzantium weren’t independent, and. <some at
least of the emperors refused to wholly saeri-
fice knowledge, though the barbarians did
most of the destruction which the emperors
left undone. But tiie independent Pontiff at
Rome was a mighty institution, and at the
same time he had in his own creed a hard
master to serve. He inherited the master,
wherefore the early Clnircn nad to put its
foot down on astronomy, Genesis having
treated the sun, moon and stars as mere
adjuncts and servants of the earth, not even
made till the fourth day. The idea of a
round, revolving pianet had to be sac-
rificed because it was the sun and
moon, not the earth, that Joshua
stopped. Geological research died be-
cause, the earth having been made in
six days and being exactly so many known
years old, the question must not be re-opened.
Medicine and surgery languished because the
curing of disease became the business of
saints, the healings of the Scripture being of
the miraculous, not the scientific, order.
When medicine died in orthodox lands, ex-
cept such as was preserved by surreptitious
Jews, hygiene died also. Chemistry, having
nothing particular left to do under the new
regime, became a back number. The new
study of theology took up so much time that
there was little left for other matters. The
new power of working miracles by holiness
made the working or miracles by machinery
so superfluous that it amounted to trespass
and breach of copyright. Research of all
kinds suggested doubt, and doubt suggested
arrest. There was really little to write about
except theology that didn’t suggest doubt, so
very little was written. Liberal-minded Popes
lavishly encouraged painting and architecture
because these were almost the only safe lines
to go upon.
* * * *
The new lay Popes are as discouraging to
the pursuit of knowledge and as retrogressive
as these old ones, only with a difference
which isn’t an improvement. They exalt
the unskilled laborer much as earlier men
did the unskilled hermit. Any attempt to
keep the wheels of progress moving raises
a dark suspicion of heresy, which is now
called “capitalism.” The necessary quali-
fications qf a Parliamentary ruler are just
the same as those of a bishop in the Very
Dark x\ges—neither industry, honesty, extra
intelligence, nor the knowledge of any pro-
ductive art, but strict, orthodoxy and push.
The remarks of Bryce-'in his new book,
“Modern Democracies,” on the low educa-
tional standard of the new school of Aus-
tralian Parliamentarians might have been
made quite as justly about the priesthood
when it first became a ruling caste. The
new Popes are just as uncivil to suspected
unbelievers as the worst of the old onps, and
quite as unwilling to listen to argument. If
the political machine isn’t as well and Avidely
organised as the clerical one when at its
best, it hopes to be. Its most earnest mani-
pulators believe as firmly iu confining all
activities to the State—their ideal State —
or under its direct control as the Church
ever did, and its view of the independent
producer, organiser, investigator or theorist
is the same as the Church once held of the
free-lance theologian. When it got control,
as in Russia, it had as brief a way with
heretics as any orthodox Government ever
had with Moors, Jews or Huguenots, but it
proved a great deal less able to get oil with-
out its heretics. If the O.B.U. gets control
of Australia and wipes out, as it threatens
to do, the heretical capitalist (thereby mean-
ing the employer and organiser, whether he
has capital or not), the same results may
be looked for. The new cult lives on the
promise of Heaven just like the old one. and
in each case no living man ever gets there.
With the new cult no dead man gets there
either, and that, is one of the few places
where the parallel goes wrong.
ELIMINATING BILL SMITH.
Consider the case of Bill Smith, a Plain
Man! Bill lives in a cottage—which he has
nearly paid for. His wife is a cheery soul
who makes life pretty smooth for Bill ; and
there are a couple (or is it three?) vigorous
young Australians who make Bill feel
proud when they call him Dad. Perhaps these
facts are enough to show exactly the kind of
man Bill is. But it seems worth while to
elaborate. Because Bin. has worked hard
all his life he hasn’t had time to acquire
the trick of expressing abstract ideas with
fluency aid well-drilled logic. He can. if
pressed, reel off a few disconnected aphor-
isms which do duty with him for a creed.
His ethic is contained in the categorical im-
perative “Be a sport!” but this simple com-
mand he invests with a content every bit
as far-reaching as that of the moralist’s
sum mum bonum. Its salient features are,
however, such old-fashioned principles as
honesty, truth, generosity.
It is not necessary to say much about
Bill’s religion, for it does not differ in
any practical sense from his ethic. Such
as it is, however, it satisfies him, for he is
pure pragmatist.
Bill’s economics are at first sight rather
dreadful. He believes that “a man has to
battle for himself,” and that “a man has
to keep what he’s got and get a bit more
if he can.” But these beliefs, fragmentary
and incoherent as they are, still convey
enough meaning to enable us to place Bill.
He is an individualist, as far as any modern
man is capable of being an individualist.
He believes in competition, except in cases
where it can he proved that co-operation
will reduce productive costs, and will not
endanger the quality of service rendered.
He believes in the individual’s right to pro-
fits, provided that those profits are not dis-
proportionate to the service rendered to the
community. This perhaps may be considered
an over-free interpretation of Bill’s eco-
nomic creed. But if it were put up to him
he would certainly agree to it.
Now Bill —he lives, by the way, in New
South Wales —is one of a sovereign people,
and he wants to be just as much sovereign
as the next man. Until a few years ago
this was not difficult. There was then in
existence a Liberal Party which, with all its
faults, was, nevertheless, an honest trustee
of the beliefs Bill holds. In its legislation
that Party sincerely tried to do the fair
thing to the community. Perhaps it was
Conservative, perhaps it was stick-in-the-
mud, perhaps it was over-scornful of mental


enterprise. But it certainly possessed a
merit in its sincerity and
honesty "of purpose. Bill could vote Liberal
the 6 war b the Liberal Party merged
into a something called a National Psjrty,
which speedily showed itself possessed of
all the weaknesses of a half-breed. To this
alliance the Liberal Party contributed its
reputation for sound administration, for
honesty of purpose and for statesmanship as
opposed to mere politics. From the other
side the alliance received, not the high ideal-
ism of the Labor Party, not the warm
humanity which makes a Labor programme
attractive— jt received only a few brilliant
examples in opportunism, lessons which re-
sulted in a loosening of the moral fibre and
a blunting of the fine instinct which the
Liberal Party possessed. This curious hybrid
—the National Party—has thrown away the
great asset of the Liberal Party in that it
has squandered the trust, the confidence, the
faith of Bill Smith and a few hundred
thousand voters like him. If more definite
reasons for Bill’s discontent are wanted it
is only too easy to give them. Royal Com-
missions have shown at least two National
administrators to be negligent and incom-
petent. National finance continued all the
slipshod methods of Labor finance, the prin-
ciple of which was to buy support with loan
money: in other words, to make posterity
pay for its electioneering. Nationalism, in
a word, failed to defend the economic prin-
ciples of Liberalism when confronted with
the abnormal phenomenon known as pro-
fiteering. Bill Smith suffered from profiteer-
ing, and, moreover, he had the horse-sense
necessary to understand that one profiteer
did more harm to his economic creed than a
thousand socialist tracts. All things con-
sidered, Bill doesn’t want to vote for the
Nationalist Party any more.
A little while ago he thought he might
possibly give Labor a show—not that he
really believed in the truth of Labor ideals,
but simply because he didn’t think that
party could do much more damage than its
opponents. Recent events have proved that
even this partial trust was entirely mis-
placed. The Labor Party has shown itself
to be riddled with intrigue, as soTdid and as
cynical in its disregard of anything but per-
sonal ambition as the mind of politician has
yet devised. Moreover, the recent elections
for the A.L.P. executive have put into power
the narrowest and most bigoted of Labor’s
“class-conscious” extremists. To increase
the opportunities for misch'ef already pos-
sessed by these people would, Bill sees, be
merely to cut off his nose to spite his face.
Now let us face Bill’s posit'on squarely.
He wants to help govern his country for his
own sake and for the country’s sake, too.
Yet the only two instruments of government
which exist are in the hands of men who,
Bill feels, are inferior to himself in such
little matters as honesty and sanity. Two
oligarchies of little mean men have captured
the machinery whi'-h nreduces Governments.
For the moment they have eliminated Bill
as a factor in democratic government. For
the moment he is impotent.
But Bill represents the real worth of
this country, and it is to be presumed that
he will shortly get busy. At present, lie is
out looking for a politician who will prize
foresight above opportunism, honesty above
intrigue, principle above the stunts of the
vote-catcher. When that leader appears he
will get the chance to govern. Bill will see
to that; so will Mrs. Bill and a few hun-
dred thousand of their friends.
J.W.C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dread of the Golden Mean.
“Some people do not seem to be able to distinguish
between prohibition and regulation. It is useless
arguing with them. Regulation seems reasonable
to sensible people. Prohibition does not.” —Perth
Anglican archbishop.
Half the world’s troubles, and most of Hell’s
joys, are due to the maximalists. They always
claim to be actuated by the highest prin-
ciples, and the more noise they make on
the subject the more damage they do. The
tragedy now proceeding in Ireland was
started by a revolt against evolution, as
embodied in the 1914 Home Rule Bill, when
the Ulstermen under Carson paraded with
their German rifles and machine-guns in Bel-
fast. It is being continued —still as a pro-
test against evolution —by the people who
originally favored the 1914 Bill, a measure
whose general principles the Carsonites now
favor. The leaders on both sides may love
Ireland, but they hate each other more; with
the result that no middle course is accept-
able and thousands suffer who might be
prosperous ' and contented. The men who
allowed the British coalmines to become
flooded last week could have protested
against de-control by methods less disastrous
from the standpoint of the people of their
own class who never did them any harm.
But they were in no mood to listen to
reason. They wanted to go on profiteer-
ing. Most of them had read —with envy,
no doubt —of maximalists like J. and P.
Coats, whose net profit on a reel of cotton
increased during the worst years of the
war by 168 per cent., representing a profit
in 1919 of £4,900,000 as against £2,600,000
in the combine’s best pre-w r ar year. Every
industry is suffering more or less to-day
because yesterday a few industries refused
to be satisfied with a fair thing. In N. S.
Wales the prohibitionists are still demand-
ing the whole hog and nothing but the hog
in the matter of the referendum to which
the Holmanites committed the present Gov-
ernment. That is to say, they are asking
the Government to undertake to raise
£12,600,000 to enforce a policy which, even
if it were endorsed at the polls, could only
be so by a small majority. Failing prohibi-
tion, the anti-drink enthusiasts will do no-
thing to lessen the scandal of the mean pub
and the undesirable wine-bar, these places
representing their best arguments. It has
never been established that total abstinence
is a good thing. Its loudest advocates « r e
poor advertisements of the practice, both
physically and mentally, as a rule. Britain,
France, Germany and Italy, which have led
the world in art, science and literature for
centuries, have been heavy consumers of
alcohol all the time. The Moslem races
have steadily declined in almost every attri-
bute that commands the respect of civilised
humanity smce they became teetotallers,
even assuming prohibition is in itself a good
thing, it is not one or those reforms wmcb
can be accomplished by a stroke of the
pen. The American experiment proves that,
if it proves notmng else. iNo recent visitor
to the U.S.A. claims that the people who
really want drink are prohibited from get-
ting it. It is the law-abiding and the mod-
erate drinkers who are prohibited. In other
words, members of that immense class to
whom alcohol is no more harmrul than to-
bacco. The Victorian Licenses Reduction
Board showed such excellent results that
when the same system was proposed for
N. S. Wales it was opposed by most of the
prohibitionists. It is likely to be opposed
wherever, in a hard-drinking community, an
attempt is made to introduce it, and simi-
larly with every other attempt to regulate
the trade so that the thousands who never
exceed may not be penalised in the inter-
ests of the tens who do. “Regulation,
“reform” —these words have the same bane-
ful sound in the ears of the prohibition agi-
tators as “palliatives” has in the ears ot
the maximalists who would start a revolu-
tion over a wages dispute in a teashop.
Obscurantism in Australia.
One of the many disastrous moral effects of the
war has been the blow struck by it at the
principle of human freedom. Those who fought
were told that their sufferings would end mili-
tarism, whereas many institutions remain
militarised which six years ago were as free
as air. The disturbance in Sydney over
Professor Goode’s lecture on Russia is one
of many signs of the times. “Will the Uni-
versity authorities,” wrote one Prussianised
daily paper correspondent, “explain their
motives in allowing this agitator to address
the students? We do not pay fees to the
University for such poisonous instruction.
If people of this sort had their way the
censorship system to which the war intro-
duced most of the world would be made a
permanent inflijption. So far as Bolshevism
is concerned, there is this to be said: either
it is a good thing or it is a bad thing and
doomed to extinction for that reason. The
more the cabined and confined nations which
have just won the war for freedom have been
permitted by their elected masters to see
of the new doctrine, the more unfitted it
appears for any race above the cultural level
of xtussians. Giolitti, the Italian Prime
Minister, was faced recently with the most
serious revolutionary menace that has ap-
peared in any of the victorious. countries.
His method was to let the proletariat reform-
ers who seized the factories have the run
of them for a while, and see what they could
do without capital and expert management.
In a speech defending this policy in the
Deputies at the time —a policy which proved
entirely successful from the Government
standpoint—he said : —
European Governments were all wrong in not
allowing free intercourse with Russia. He regretted
the Socialists did not go and see for themselves what
Russian Bolshevism was. They would, when they
returned, hold saner ideas. .
The general policy hitherto has been to repre-
sent Russia as all blood, all robbery, all
insanity, while blanketing impartial investi-
gation and comment wherever possible, w r ith
the inevitable result that the world _ has
grown suspicious. No man or thing is all
bad. The effect of preventing people from
hearing about the mitigating features of Bol-
shevism is to produce an impression that
there must be a dangerously large number
of them. For various reasons the practice
followed during the war of only letting the
people hear what a few officials considered
fit has a firm hold on Australia in peace. The
Commonwealth has in its Prime Minister
the typical Prussian drill-sergeant, and be-
hind him are numbers of Conservatives who
demand that everyone shall think, as they
do themselves, according to formula. Bol-
shevik-murderer ; Irishman-traitor; working-
man-revoiutionary —such are the conventions
to which all must bow or be classed as malig-
nants and threatened with punishment under
the War Precautions Repeal Act. In Eng-
land they order things much better. Pro-
fessor Gilbert Murray, of Oxford, has just
published a book on the Versailles Treaty
(“The Problem of Foreign Policy”) which
might well get him excluded from Australia
as a disloyalist. Lord Grey, Lord Henry
Bentinck, H. G. Wells, Sir Herbert
Samuel and scores of others are daily say-
ing things about the Lloyd Gtorge Govern-
ment’s actions in Ireland which make the
deed of the Queensland newspaper editor
who was menaced by Mr. Hughes for pub-
lishing an Irish advertisement look harm-
less. The information which Professor
Goode supplied to the Sydney University
students could have been circulated in any
British University without arousing hostile
comment. In short, so far as discussion is
concerned, England has become more or less
what it was before the war. It is time Aus-
tralia followed suit.
John Bull’s Tariff.
The British Government has introduced a
measure imposing per cent, duties on a
large number of articles, and has done it not
under any pretence of raising revenue but to
prevent diimping. In other words, the duties
are Protection, naked and unashamed. So
the false propuet Cobden may turn in liis
grave if he feels like it, and nobody will care
even if he whirls like a teetotum. The new
taxes are fixed for five years, but they will
probablv be made permanent, with many
more duties added, for it is the bitter com-
plaint of Freetraders that Protection is like
the Arabian camel, inasmuch as when it gets
its head in for a minute the whole body
follows and stays a century. It crawls in, but
it doesn’t crawl out again because the com-
munity won’t part with it. This defection
on the part of J. Bull leaves our own Bruce
Smith the world’s one surviving Freetrader,
which is a good reason why he should be
embalmed out of loan money after death.
Even Sydney Telegraph has lucid fiscal
intervals now. whence remarks like this in its
leading columns: —
Nations are to-dav damping their mirnlits in
countries foolish enough to allow themselves to be
made a dumping ground. Great Britain has been
traditionally generous or foolish regarding her open
ports, but the dumping of foreign goods in England
is doing more than reducing prices....It is causing
unemployment among British workers) and this can-
not be suffered.
The old paper still sits up with a start now
and then and dashes off a few of the old
shoddyisms, but it has to remember to be
Freetrade now, and it remembers with more
and more difficulty. This serious tottering of
the joss on his pedestal adds a new complica-
tion to the Irish question. The £106,000,000
of money which Britain advanced to Ireland
at nominal interest in the years just before
the war wherewith to buy out the landlords
(who were compelled to sell cheaply! turned
the nation into one of small, independent
farmers, and that made a mighty boom in the
Most Favored Isle. In 1918 the island, with
4,400,000 people, sold goods outside to the
value of £152,902,984, while Australia, with a
larger population (5,000,000), exported only
£100,795,615 worth. The Insn exports
almost all went to England (wholly free of
dutv), and in return Ireland bought only
£126,000,000 worth (also free of duty), so
the trade was profitable. But if the island
gets its independence and the Protectionist
tariff of its one big customer begins to apply
to it, there may be a change. And if it be-
comes a foreign country to which exports of
coal are stopped whenever Britain has a
shortage, there may be more change. And if
it becomes a hostile foreign country with
which trade is sometimes stopped owing to
unfriendly acts committed towards British
subjects, there may be a mighty change. Cer-
tainly if Britain is going to turn Protectionist
it is time for Ireland to sell a few banshees
and leprechauns and buy accountants and
political economists with the money, for the
situation will require sizing up.
— »
The Peril of the Political General.
The divisional generals under the new mili-
tary training scheme have been appointed.
Their active-service records speak tor their
capacity as soldiers, but they now hold posi-
tions in which discretion is very much the
better part of valor. That being so, Major-
General Rosenthal hardly promises to be
a happy choice for the 2nd Division. Since
his return from abroad he has bourgeoned
forth as a militant anti-Labor politician. He
has competed with sectarian agitators such
as Henley, M.L.A., in their chosen line, and
has displayed fair proficiency in the hate-
fomenting game at which they are experts.
More recently he has become secretary
of the N. $. Wales King and Empire league,
which exists chiefly to denounce its political
opponents as disloyalists and empire-bursters,
even as the British Empire League once de-
nounced such men as Hughes and Holman.
Major-General Rosenthal owed his suc-
cess during the five years he was with the
A.I.F. in part, at any rate, to the fact tha.t
he kept whatever political, racial or reli-
gious prejudices he may have had to him-
self. His prospects of success would have
been slight had he not done so. When the
Empire’s existence was threatened by a
rival Empire, he did not sow dissension in
his battery, or brigade, or division, by making
provocative speeches on class or racial ques-
tions. In and out of season the Diggers were
urged by their leaders to leave such pestilen-
tial nonsense to the politicians, and pull to-
gether for the common good. The story of
the A.I.F. —probably the most successful and
certainly the most glorious institution Aus-
tralia has evolved to date —is one long series
of episodes based on devotion to that prin-
ciple. If the C.M.F. is to show results, if it
is even to remain in existence, it will have to
develop the same homogeneity as the A.I.F.
did. The men must feel that whatever venom
is spat outside —whether in muddy-minded
sincerity or with the cynical object of attract-
ing votes—the army is free of it; and, above
all, its senior officers. Major-General Rosen-
thal’s business in the years ahead is to be
either a fighting politician or a pacific
general. He cannot combine to any good pur-
pose the truculent class-consciousness of the
ideal Empire League official with the broad-
minded tolerance which is a first requisite in
a general officer. And the Government should
see to it that neither he nor any other soldier
is allowed to attempt the dangerous experi-
ment.
On the Struggle to Get a Gallon Out
of a Quart-pot.
The position at Australia’s two great
copper shows, Mount Morgan (Q.) and
Mount Lyell (Tas.), each of whicn has a
town dependent on it, is difficult. The em-
ployees are ottered reduced wages wti.cn,
however, still represent tne full value of the
output with the use of all the machinery
thrown in, so grievously has the copper mar-
ket slumped, xina mere is no iiumeu.ate
sign of improvement in the market, which
even now is higher than in most pre-war
days. For some little time the miners have
been getting more than the full product of
their labor. At Mount Lyell _the company
has been losing as much as £15 a ton, while
the other Mount has made no profit for a
long time, and is now also on the losing side.
There is a tendency to refuse to work at
any reduction, though the proposed drop in
wages is only about half that which has taken
place in the United States. The reason
assigned is that there has been no sufficient
reduction in the high cost of living, and
Labor bosses, in the off-handedness of their
ignorance, have ukased that the li.C.L. must
fail first, and fall at least as much as wages
do. Unhappily ail the off-handedness in the
world can’t quite bring that about in a luck-
less country which (unlike the U.S. ) imports
the bulk of its manufactured goods from the
other end of the world. Prices have fallen
in Europe, bwt the unprecedented mass of
imports which have lately been pouring in
were neoessarily ordered six or 12 months
before the drop, and it will be six or 12
months before great quantities of low-priced
goods arrive. When the sheep’s fluff is taken
direct to a local factory and made into pants
next dav the benefit of a fall in wool is felt
before the end of the week. Australian
sheep-covering is offering cheaply enough in
England now, and is hard to sell even then,
but the pants that Australia covers its ex-
tremities with are the product of the 'dear
wool of previous times, and the reduction in
the cost of living hasn’t reached them yet,.
In fact, the sheep repje.sents. a dead jhorse
to be worked off. Something drastic may be
suggested at the two Mounts —either taking
over” by the Government or by the workers
themselves, and the probable result would
be to make the fall in the value of production
more like 75 per cent, than 20 per cent, by
less expert new management. This being
the only country which lives habitually on
loans in peace and war time alike, there is
always a difficulty in explaining the true in-
wardness of a situation like the present. A
feeling is in the air that a reserve fund
exists somewhere and that it is possible to
pay 20s. for 10s. worth of production if the
State is in charge of the production. And it
is possible, provided the State isn’t in charge
of too many things. But the stock of pauper
enterprises grows alarmingly, and every time
the Government takes over some big private
job it makes one land- and incorhe-tax payer
the less. Indeed, if the really “advanced”
crowd had its way the present taxpaying
people would disappear altogether, and then
the only way for even the State to pay 20s.
for 10s. worth of production would be by
borrowing, if a fool could be found to lend.
More Mannix Than Mannix Himself.
Dear Bulletin, —I have no wish to make •
trouble with anybody, and my desire to live
at peace with all and sundry amounts to a
disease. But there are limits, and the Right
Rev. Dr. Mannix is one of the limits. J
allude principally to a recent deliverance of
his reported per cable :—
The Irish will accept only one thing, namely, an
acknowledgment of their right to decide their own
destiny. Any arrangements to safeguard the Empire
are possible once this is admitted... .A majority
of the people of the Dominions is favorable to Ire-
land, but the Governments are Conservative. I as
a free man claim the right to land anywhere l
please. But, instead, I could not even visit certain
sites in England.
Dr. Mannix is subject to the law of the
country he lives in just as I am, though he
seems strangely unaware of the fact. There-
fore he isn’t free. Neither a freemun (if
such a person existed) nor a bondman has
“the right to land anywhere I please.” Only
a slave country can be compelled to admit
everybody, whether a stowaway or an arch-
bishop, and only a slave man is compelled to
admit all and sundry to his house, which is
the Same thing in a more limited sense. Many
of the great countries of the world shut out
the stranger as a matter of course unless he
has a document showing that he has satisfied
the country’s representative at the point of
departure about quite a number of things.
Getting into Bolshevik Russia is a fine
so many are the restrictions. Australia shuts
out, by various devices, most of the world’s
population and most of the population of the
British Empire. Like all countries it is
rather particular about hostile foreigners, and
the Irish Republic says it is foreign and
makes no disguise about being hostile. There-
fore Dr. Mannix should be excluded as a
hostile foreigner, and especially as one who
denies Australia’s inalienable right to ex-
clude whom it pleases. The latter is the
main point, for on his own showing he can’t
be admitted unless Australia abdicates its
rights. Like many other people I have been
turned back at various border lines in the
British Empire, and it never occurred to me
to make a fuss about it. It especially hap-
pened in war-time and this is war-time. No
Irishman of Dr. Mannix’s views would
admit the contrary. As to the people of the
Dominions being of Mannix’s opinion while
their Governments are the opposite, the
people of Australia are the supreme Govern-
ment in the fullest sense of the term, and any
attempt to provoke dissension, which may
lead to insurrection, between the allegedly
pro-Irish nation and the allegedly conserva-
tive and anti-Irish Parliament should be
called sedition and be another reason for
exclusion. Also the contention is ridiculous,
as the A.L.P., which is hostile to the Federal
Government, has declared against war outside
the Commonwealth on behalf of Ireland or,
any other place. Some day probably a party
will arise which will finally and definitely
refuse self-determination to Ireland —which
will put it out of the Empire whether it will
or not, and thus make the Irish people inside
the Empire aliens. Ireland’s right to decide
that it will remain inside the Empire is no
greater than Dr. Mannix’s right to remain
in Australia. It would mean great changes,
yet I believe they will come about. Even
England must acquire commonsense some
day. Still, the hope of them makes Dr.
Mannix no more desirable in Australia dur-
ing these anxious times. —Yours, etc., J.E.
The Mania for Operations.
A layman rises in rebellion :—
Rare is the husband married for any length of
time who has escaped the. dismal experience of
hanging about a hospital while an enthusiastic
surgeon (in most cases a general practitioner, for
there are comparatively few gynecological special-
ists in Australia) operates on the insensible partner
in his pleasures and sorrows for some uterine
trouble, real or supposed. Doubts as to the necessity
and efficacy of a large proportion of these operations
have clouded the lay mind for years, but in view
of Dr. A.’s systematic refusal to admit in the hear-
ing of-secular witnesses that Dr. B. is a clumsy ass
or that Dr. C.’s method of treatment is all wrong,
the average man, who doesn't read medical news-
papers, has had no means of arriving at an intelli-
gent judgment.
But the infallibility which the profession assumes
in its relations with the general public by no means
extends to its own press. An editorial in the cur-
rent Medical Journal op Australia shows that
there is sound warrant for the popular suspicion
that the craze for curetting has been overdone.
According to the Journal, curettage of the uterus,
“a very common expedient in the treatment of
gynaecological diseases” (in other words, the surgical
operation most frequently performed on women),
has been subjected to “the most trenchant criticism
by men of good judgment and ripe experience.” A
more elaborate statement is subjoined:—•
The uterine curette, devised by Marion Sims more
than half a century ago, has been described as the
most popular of all surgical instruments. At its
first introduction no less an authority than Dr. T. A.
Emmet remarked that the ingenuity of man had
never devised..an instrument capable of doing more
injury. The curette survived that onslaught and
fast gathered in its disciples. Of recent years a
-more determined and strategic attack has been made.
Drs. A. Heineberg, J. O. Polar, W. A. Lincoln
and J. Wesley Bovee ha've within the last year or
two condemned uterine curettage as practised by the
majoritv of members of the profession. Dr. Bovee
recalls "with deep humiliation” the practice of


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £250,000
ASSETS EXCEED £500,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD. Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time, and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
curetting for indications in his opinion long since
discredited, and makes the accusation that the “most
slovenly and ignorant physician” resorts unhesitat-
ingly to the curette for real and imaginary diseases
of the uterus and even of the appendages. Drs.
Heixkberg and Bovee decry the generally accepted
practice of curetting for incomplete abortion and
as a procedure preliminary to plastic operations on
the abdominal and other sections. All condemn the
operation for the treatment of endometritis, which
is gravely suspected of being more a figment of the
imagination than a definite pathological process.
It is uncomfortable reading for the women who
have undergone these operations for “real or imagin-
ary diseases,” and for the men who have paid laTge
sums of money to have them performed. And Pro-
fessor Fothergill, of Manchester University, the
■'writer of what the Journal calls “an admirable
article” in the Lancet on “the dangers and proved
advantages of the curette,” says nothing to restore
faith in the abounding amateurs of gynecological
surgery. The Professor declares that curettage is
serviceable in certain hemorrhages and infections
after birth and in diagnosing the beginnings of
cancer in the female genital organs. On the other
hand it is valueless in leuchorrhcea, spasmodic or
congestive dysmenorrhoea and menorrhagia, and the
dangers incident to its use or abuse include the
'carriage of infection into one part, laceration “from
hasty or unskilful dilatation” of another part, and
perforation of the body. Perforation, one learns, is
a much more common occurrence than is generally
supposed,
It would be instructive to know how many Aus-
tralian women above ground have been made chronic
invalids by this barbarous surgery, but this is out
of the question. Neither is it possible to estimate
with any approach to accuracy the number unneces-
sarily operated on for imaginary diseases or condi-
tions in which curettage is as useless as, and far
more dangerous than, incantation. There is a free-
masonry among medical frauds, and licensed
butchers of humanity keep their own secrets. What
is certain is that thousands of these curetting opera-
tions arc performed annually. What is feasible is
that in a fair percentage of cases the surgeor.
bungles his job (the medical profession being short
of specialists and no more exempt from fools and
botchers than any other), and that in a much
larger percentage the operation is unnecessary, often
harmful and sometimes disastrous.
There are few subjects so urgently in need ol
honest inquiry and frank discussion. Among a cer-
tain order of doctors and a certain order of patients
there is a veritable mania for the knife. The exist-
ence Of many young married women, particularly
in the cities, is simply a hectic interval between
operations. And from this unnatural way of living
arise neurotieism and sterility and disordered house-
holds and ceaseless worry, and with it is associated
that frenzied love of costly finery and irrational
pleasure which, imitated as it is by the healthy
but feather-headed flapper, is one of the curses of
modern life. The man who makes two blades of
grass grow where one grew before has had his
meed of praise. I am reserving my blessing for the
medico who will give us a healthier and happier
Australian womanhood by making one operation
suffice where ten are performed at present.
- —
The Drift of the Trades Unions.
The latest notable appearance of Tom
Walsh, president of the Federated Sea-
men’s Union, was reported in the papers ol
April 8. It was in connection tvith the pro-
posed amalgamation of the Australian
Workers’ Union and his own union in order
to make a big’, dominant body before which
the liberties and self-governing rights of the
Australian people will not amount to much.
To this end the A.W.U., which has little
enough regard for any liberties save its own,
is invited to fall in line with the Seamen’s
Federation, which it appears from Walsh’s
description has none at all and has related
into pure savagery. The main points of dif-
ference appear to be these: —
Walsh's union will have nothing to do with
politics. At the best politics stand for patriotism,
love of country, the struggle to do the best possible
for the country and the promotion of its progress and
happiness. At the worst they include quite different
things: still, they are indispensable to civilisation.
Walsh's union, it seems, is purely revolutionary,
destructive, and, in consequence, criminal, as those
who are revolutionists and nothing else have to be.
Its members “will not have arbitration, as they
maintain there is nothing to arbitrate about.” In other
words, it believes in plain club law and in taking
whatever it wants, and is an enemy of peaceful law
and of the self-governing rights of the people.
It refuses to be bound by any agreement it may
make, and is proud of being a liar and utterly
faithless. Whatever it signs is only meant to de-
ceive.
It admits no one to office who has ever been asso-
ciated with the army, navy or even the police. To
have had any connection with the defehce of the
land which is our land but not Walsh's is the
unforgivable sin.
But though it draws the line at these it doesn’t
draw it at colored aliens. “If 2000 Chinese applied
bona fide for admission to his union he would accept
them as members.” Presumably, if there is no
objection to the admission of Chinese to the union
there would be no objection to their admission to
Australia, so that they might join the union, and
in that case the revolutionary movement will abolish
the White Australia- theory along with all other
decent things. The Bolshevik Government put up a
! record by bringing Chinese troops to Europe, where
they were useful in slaughtering white Russian work-
ers who demanded that Parliament should be called
together. The usefulness of Chinese seems to appeal
to a certain type of revolutionist.
Influential parties are already planning a
Soviet Government for Australia, with a
Grand Council at the head of affairs. Its
constituents are to be the 600,000-odd
mostly male and mostly able-bodied trades
unionists, the other 2,200,009 or 2.800.000
electors being excluded. When it has absorbed
all real power the disfranchisement of the
great bulk of the nation will be complete
in fact though not in name—that is, unless
it is suppressed in infancy on the ground
that the people’s Parliament is the only
legislative body permitted. The crowd with
which the A.W.U. is more or less identified
has gone a long Way. The scheme for an
amalgamation of two powerful unions on a
basis of pure savagery, violence and dis-
regard of all agreements and all law is a
step further. The question is, Do the rank
and file know whither the Walsues— their
supposedly-chosen representatives—are lead-
ing them? Do they realise, the horrors to
which they are being committed?
♦
You can get an idea of what our flood of
paper money is really worth by noting what
our gold is fetching. In the old days, when
we didn’t have a forced paper currency, if
you were leaving the country you could take
a bag full of sovereigns with you if you had
the paper-money to buy them with at the rate
of one pound-note
for one sovereign. To-
day if you produce
.vour foreign boat-
ticket vou mav. if von
are luckv. get 10 sov-
ereigns, but no more.
The only export of
gold permittod is
through the G. old
Prod u c e r s’ Asso-
THE BODY-SNATCHER.
ciation, and then it must- be new gold.
This bodv has been carrying on since early in
1919, and in 23 months the gold for which in
old days it would have got 7,824,854 notes
actually procured 10,214,951 notes. That is
to say, the Association exported the gold, and
£2,890,097 was the premium it received in a
roundabout way for accepting paper which is
good in this country but not outside it.
-»
Observations of the deceased’s friend:—
The Dorothy Mort murder trial in Sydney was a
lesson in the disadvantage of being dead. 1111011 you
are dead you have no status in Court. No one may
appear to defend the honor you held dear in life.
You are as safe to attack as a worm. Such must
have been the sentiments of those who had known
Claude Tozer and read the turgid moralisings of
counsel on his conduct. It suited the books of both
the prosecution and the defence, as the case shaped,
to paint him as cur and roue combined. Counsel may
have believed what no one who ever knew Tozer is
likely to believe. Or, again, they may have regarded
their attacks on one who could not answer as a
loathsome duty to client or Crown, as the case might
be. In the latter event it is easy to imagine one
of them appearing for the doctor in another juris-
diction —say, if Mrs. Mort had failed to kill him
and he was made co-re. in a divorce suit brought
by her husband. The attention of the Court would
have been drawn first to his letters —letters from
which no jury in the world would deduce misconduct.
There remain her profuse confessions. In a normal
woman they would end the business. She writes to
the doctor’s mother and to her own mother about
her affair; boasts that she is expecting a child by
the doctor; and, again, that they have decided to
die together. But when she is medically examined
it is found that she is not pregnant, and after per-
sisting in the last story for a while she admits it
is a concoction. The fact is, Mrs. Mort is that
commonest of sexual perverts, the woman who be-
lieves what she would like to have had happen, and
accuses some totally innocent man of it. Juries
in the Criminal Courts are acquitting men of such
charges every day of the week during term-time.
But Mrs. Mort was something more and worse
than this. Zola has immortalised the type in “La
Bete llumaine.” De Sade wrote a book on her
trouble, which Napoleon had burned by the public
executioner. Krafft-Ebing, Lombroso, Havelock
Ellis —every alienist In Europe has met thousands of
such abnormal creatures. She was not, as the lawyers
painted her, a poor, frail creature, distraught with love,
who had been seduced by a rake. She was a middle-
aged nymphomaniac dealing with a youngster who
had gone straight from his University to the war.
The impulse to kill him did not overwhelm her be-
cause he had wronged her or because he hadn’t;
because he was engaged to someone else, or because
he was not; because he threatened to break with
her, or for any other reason in the world but one.
Readers of Zola’s book —carefully documented, like
all his works—will remember that the central figure
never wanted to kill any but women who aroused
his desire; and this idiosyncrasy is common. Ap-
plied to the Mort crime, it provides an infinitely
more likely explanation than the balderdash which
was talked of the woman’s “wrongs.”
Against Tozer’s three harmless letters a Divorce
Court would be asked to set a stainless reputation
in the army and in civilian life; and there would
be little doubt, about the verdict. That is to say,
if he were alive, and so in a position to face a
Court. But he is dead and in the eye of the law
the old “de mortuis ’’ axiom is not considered busi-
ness.
■
Conan Doyle got one back on us in his
recent talk to a London newspaper inter-
viewer. Listen to him ;—
The telephones, telegraphs, railways and post office
al‘e very bad. This is not due to national slackness,
because the few things that still remain in. private
hands are extremely good. The real reason is that
employees can apply pressure to the Labor Govern-
ments. All these Labor problems are rather dan-
gerous.
What Doyle said was under the mark rather
than over it. Even with a non-Labor Gov-
ernment in nower Labor-party organisation,
or civil-service unionism, suffices to make
the dismissal of an incompetent engine-
greaser or letter-sorter a matter for ques-
tions in Parliament and deputations to the
Minister. The sooner the particular bad-
ness of our telephones, telegraphs, railways,
and post office is recognised as a reflection
on our political development the sooner will
well-meaning ignorance cease to cry for
nationalisation of all industry. Oddly enough
Conan Doyle’s thrust came to Australia on
the day that a report of the Economies Com-
mission was tabled in the House of Reps.
These are some of its conclusions:—
The position in regard to telephone developments,
especially in the city of Sydney, is very grave.
Only a monopoly could have existed so long with
such ramshackle methods, but the necessity for
expansion has brought about a position in which
even the most inefficient service cannot be main-
tained and extended.
The report omits the word “Government”
in front of “monopoly.” Another kind of
monopoly, such as a metropolitan gas com-
pany, can at least have some public pressure
brought to bear on it through the Govern-
ment; but when the monopoly is the Gov-
ernment’s very own concern the only press-
ure that ever worries it is applied in the
interests of inefficient employees.
.—4
People who imagine that we ought to ex-
tend the franchise to infants of 18 should
read a Nineteenth Century article on
“The Disease of Bolshevism” :—
Bolshevism, as we saw it, was largely a disease
of youth; a large proportion of its leaders were
certainly under 25 years of age. Their cruelty was
that of children who pull the legs and wings off
flies : it was the lust of power, the inability of in-
experience to understand proportion, the egotism
of youth ignoring the pain of others. It was sug-
gested to a girl of 10, already authorised to make
propagandist speeches 'in public places, that she
should use the influence of a pleasing,- almost child-
like, appearance in the cause of clemency. “What
matter,” she exclaimed indignantly, “whether We
kill a hundred or-a thousand men! Is it not a
world-revolution?” Much of the strength of Bol-
shevism lies in the youthfulness of its adherent's.
These young people have grown up in. a period of
upheaval and reaction. The greatest force they
know is that of destruction; of construction or crea-
tion they know nothing.
This evil of allowing babes and sucklings to
decide most important public questions is
not singular to Russia. It is weU known in
Brisbane union circles that the general sti'ike
resolution which followed on the tramway
strike in 1912 was moved and seconded in the
local Trades Hall by a couple of youngsters
of 18 years of age or less. Much of the reck-
less legislation of the past five years in
Bananaland has only been possible because
the majority of the Government’s supporters
in the Assembly have been youngish men en-
dowed with profound enthusiasms and blessed
with little experience and less real education.
The raw juvenile who mounts and spouts on
a soapbox and springs from this coign of
vantage into Parliament is in himself a
lamentable epitome of all the things a legisla-
tor ought not to be, and his wol'ks, legislative,
administrative and otherwise, are wofthv of
their origin. And the fact that the Theo-
dore Government wanted to enfranchise
hobbledehoys and flappers of 18 years is
about the most conclusive proof possible of Its
degradation.
A lot of hysterical nonsense is foaming into
print over the sale of Australian wheat to
Germany. With various degrees of moral in-
dignation it is affirmed (1) that Australia
shouldn’t sell wheat to Germany, which is
absurd; (2) that the wheat Australia is sell-
ing- to Germany provides Hohenstein, of
Hamburg, with a cheaper loaf than GurphY
munches at Port Melbourne, which is still
more absurd, and (8) that not only the Aus-
tralian consumer is thereby robbed, but also
—and this is fantastic —the Australian
farmer. The foamers, of whom Melbourne
Age is chief, should have left the farmer out
of the argument. They didn’t foam to any
extent when his wheat was commandeered
in 1910 and 1917 and sold locally at less than
the cost of production. They didn't lash
themselves into fury when he was getting
4s. a bushel and the U.S.A. farmer 9s. 2d.,
or w hen the Australian price was 7s. Sd. and
the London price 16s., or when thousands of
eorn-coaxers gave up wheat-growing and
millions of acres went out of cultivation be-
cause Cocky was coldly plundered during
the war years. But now that Cocky
looks like getting a bit of his own
back (although he is still waiting for a
final settlement in respect of his 1916-17-18-
and 19 wheat), the thought that he is being
robbed in the interest of the German con-
sumer and is a party to robbing the Aus-
tralian consumer (mutually destructive pro-
positions which are urged with great
vehemence) is causing the Age to weep tears
of blood. The fact is that the price of wheat
has slumped in foreign markets along with
those of wool and butter. Before the slump
came the Australian Wheat Board had sold
the greater part of the 1920-21 harvest, to
Germany among other foreign buyers, at
9s. 3d. a bushel f.o.b.. which is 3d. a bushel
above the fixed price in Australia. So if the
consumer is paying a little more at present
he has been paying less than the foreign
buyer has shelled out on the whole. And
if he recalls the price at which he got his
war-bread, and considers what that and the
long drought meant to the men who grew
the wheat, and decides that it is up to him
to give the underpaid and drought-stricken
agriculturist a square deal, and the soldier-
settler who has put his first lot of wheat
into the pool a decent start —well, he won’t
boggle at paying the little more, even if the
Age does.
4.
Queensland Arbitration Court._ which re-
cently enacted a basic-wage of £4 5s. to apply
to all industries “in a state of average
prosperity,” bumps against awkward ques-
tions in its tortuous career. On the
heels of its Mount Morgan decision
came an application for increases from
the Public Service Association and the
professional officers of the Government rail-
ways, and the Court granted for the bulk of
the applicants a £10 p.a. rise. But Queens-
land has a large deficit, and the railways have
been going to the bad at the rate of over a
million per annum. Apparently the Court
considers both institutions to be in “a state of
average prosperity.” Whether or not. it
would remove a great deal of perplexity by
explaining what the elusive phrase means.
Mount Morgan pleads it is not in such a
state, inasmuch as it is running at a loss.
M't. Morgan is forthwith cut out of the
order. The Railway Department, which is
worse off than Mt. Morgan, pleads the same
thing and the Court calmly ignores the plea
and grants increases. What sense, what
logic, is there in such a procedure?


The “CARD” Ore Concentrator.
An impression having got abroad that, owing to the success
of our Patent Curvilinear Concentrator, we have discon-
tinued building the “Card,” we desire to say that such is not
the case.
The “Card” has so many friends that it may still be
preferred for treating coarse, heavy material in large
quantities.
We make also Concentrators having a Riffled Deck of the most approved Wilfley or Deister type, mounted on suitable under-gear
for such purpose.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY.
Mining, Electrical and General Engineers.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Concerning a Gunn that misfired : —
South Aus. lias once more intimated that it has
no use, except in Opposition, tor the kind of Labor
party that has sprung up since 1916. Starting
with 11 safe seats and needing only 13 more to
get a majority (judging by the N. S. Wales experi-
ence 12 would have sufficed), Labor had high hopes
of winning the election, especially as its opponents
in most of the multiple electorates were fighting
among themselves. Vote-splitting presented John
Gunn’s party with two seats in North Adelaide
and one in East Torrens. But for this lucky chance
it would have fared ingloriously. At the moment
of writing it looks as if Gunn will luive 15 fol-
lowers in a House of 16 members. But he had 16
in the last Parliament; and if the Barwell Gov-
ernment had waited to pass a Preferential Voting
Act, its victory would have been even more decisive
than it was. This is the third State election at
which the Labor party has gone down heavily within
a few months, in two other States it holds office
with microscopic majorities, having fluked in on
minority votes. Some day it may dawn upon the
controllers of the party that there is something
radically wrong with it, and that it requires a
new conscience and a new outlook. Meantime it
will go on losing elections.
“You might as well try to drown a pickle-
bottle cork by hitting it with your fist as try
to get rid of Hughes in this House,” said an
old Parliamentary hand as the Welsh wizard
again mesmerised the Heaven-knows-how-
many parties on the right of the Speaker.
The most cynical members when dealing with
this subject generally add something about
that extra £400 a year.
Australia has made great sacrifices and in-
curred immense risks for the sake of the
White Australia policy, which is largely a
white trade-union policy. The passing of a
Navigation Act, designed to preserve the
coasting trade for the Australian mercantile
marine and to prevent Australian seamen
being swamped by cheap colored labor, has
added to the sacrifices and the risks. And
the other day one Walsh, the imported presi-
dent of the Seamen’s Union, said among
other vain and foolish things that he and his
deluded followers attached no value, and felt
no gratitude for, these enormous concessions,
that they “would not stand for any race ex-
clusion.” that they wouldn’t affiliate with the
A.W.U. if the A.W.IJ. didn’t open its portals
to negroes and Asiatics, and that “if 2000
Chinese applied bona fide for admission to
our union I would accept them as members
—we have never refused them.” This comes
of allowing imported fanatics who have
neither pride of race nor love of country to
do Labor’s thinking for it. Time was when
Labor did its own thinking and thought on
honest Australian lines.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Interjections and speeches by Country members
on the Tariff show that practically none of them can
see the force of Protection in its national aspects.
To them Protection is only a bounty to local manu-
facturers who make the poor farmer pay dearer for
things which he says he can get cheaper abroad.
Cocky never considers the Freetrade alternative,
which would leave him in the grip of the foreigner
once the market was captured. And therein lies the
strangest delusion of the weird economists who
perch in the Corner. Most, if hot all, of them are
prepared to regard the Australian manufacturer as
a robber, whilst accepting the foreigner’s alleged
low prices as evidence of a benevolent and angelic
nature. The fatuity of this reasoning was never
better disclosed than in a fine Protectionist oration
by Tomjo Ryan in the Reps, last week. But all
Ryan’s attempts to educate the political infants
were doomed to failure. Indeed, all he got for his
trouble was the banal taunt of Prowse (W.A.) that
he was putting in a good word for the capitalist.
The fact that Ryan was also making out a strong-
case for more work and workers never dawned on
the horrible member for Swan. Nothing strikes the
Prowse type of politician but the necessity of assist-
ing his own class regardless of the rest of the popu-
lation. And he won’t even assist his own class if he
has to throw away a worm to catch a snapper. He
can’t see a thing beyond the worm-.
Senator Pearce explained the Air Defence
Bill on Friday. The A.D.F. is to have its
H.Q. in Victoria, and the personnel will be
150 officers and 1000 other ranks (perma-
nent) and 36 officers and 300 other ranks
(C.M.F.), that ratio to be maintained as the
force expands. To add to the English gift-
’planes and a number of obsolete machines,
the Government has on order 12 seanlanes
and nine flying-boats. Compared with (say)
the Japanese air effort ours is paltry. The
U.S.A. Director of Naval Aviation (Captain
Craven) recently told the Senate Naval
Committee that the brown empire “is now
having constructed in Europe the greatest
fleet of war aeroplanes ever assembled.” Most
of them have a folding underbody which per-
mits them to rise easily from battleships, and
the best European instructors have been
retained. The most that can be said for the
Australian Air Force is that it reDresents a
beginning. Had there been a vote or two in
it it would have been begun 12 months ago.
Talking ostensibly to the Chamber of
Agriculture in Sydney, N.S.W. Acting-
THE ECONOMISTS.
“We will pull through comfortably, provided we cut out luxuries. The Government is now
getting down to a loan expenditure of approximately £2,000,000 per .annum, which in a very fine
achievement." —John Fihclly, Queensland Treasurer.
THEOPOHE: “Wonderful (hie) way we're economising, Jack."
FIHELLY: "Yes (hie), Ted. We’ve cut out the (hie) soda."
Premier Dooley held out the usual carrot
in front of the Labor ass that is carrying
him. “There - w 7 ould never be a revolution
in Australia so long as the ruling forces —-
the Government, the business men, the manu-
facturers and employers generally—realised
at all times that the people with whom they
were dealing were human beings like them-
selves.” Thus Dooley throws the respon-
sibility for the revolutionary talk upon
“business men, the manufacturers and em-
ployers generally,” these being the “ruling
forces.” And the truth is that in Australia
at this day these are not the rulers but the
ruled, and so completely the ruled that in
Dooley’s Ministry there isn’t a single repre-
sentative of any one of these classes.
A hundred times Thf. Bulletin’s Wild
Cat warned Maoriland that it was making
trouble for itself by allowing trustee cos.
and any other concern with enough money
to buy a brass-plate to accept the people’s
deposits. The foretold trouble pushed its
nose around the corner the other morning,
and to prevent a very nasty crisis the
Government hurried a bill through providing
for a moratorium. Which means that the
keepers of the sepulchres can now meet
the depositors with the old smile and assure
them that, though they can’t have their
money, the corpses inside are quite all right.
“Nitchaivo” in defence of an appointment:
There is nothing wrong with the nomination of
Edward S. Little as Commonwealth Trade Commis-
sioner in China (B. 31/3/’21). The writer has
known Little for 10 years. He is not only an
efficient business man with a vast knowledge of China
and things Chinese, gained through 30 years’ experi-
ence in the Celestial Republic, but he is an ex-
cellent Chinese scholar. It was he who made peace
between the Manchus and the revolutionaries when
the Old Empire went down; the negotiations were
conducted at his residence. He has been behind the
scenes in Chinese political affairs for over 20 years
and there is no foreigner more honored in the whole
Republic. Besides, he is a finished platform-speaker
in both English and Chinese. He built up the
Brunner-Mond organisation in China, which should be
a guarantee of his ability to push trade.
Item from the report of the A.L.P. Con-
ference in Sydney
A pitiful scene occurred outside the hall at about
9 o’clock. About a dozen women with babies in their
arms demanded that they should be permitted to
address the Conference. They stated that they were
in need of food and clothing. They did not succeed
in gaining admission.
Yet that same body had just ordered John
Storey, by cable, to personally see the King
and the members of the British Government
about removing the British troops from Ire-
land !
The Reps, had hardly settled down on the
resumption of business last week when Jim
Page gave notice of a motion requesting
that, at the end of the session, Parliament
should move bodily to Canberra and there
pretend in a hastily run-up shack that it
was enjoying all the comforts of civilisa-
tion. Page’s suggestion was received with a
roar of laughter, but the old battler intends
to continue the agitation—with the fullest
hope, probably, that his wishes will never
be realised.
The Theodore Government is appointing
commissioners to rearrange the Queensland
electoral boundaries under the 1!)10 Act,
which specifies, like the Commonwealth meas-
ure, that the quota got by dividing the num-
ber of electors by the number of seats is not
to be departed from to the extent of more
than one-fifth. It is a good start in the
direction of honesty, for Parliament is only
a few months old and the Government won
the general election on a minority vote. But
the real test of Theodore’s sincerity wili
come when the commissioners’ scheme reaches
the Assembly and the soreheaded wire-pullers
whose seats are threatened get in their evil
work. This happens every time a Redistri-
bution of Seats Bill is before Parliament
and in every State. And in the result redis-
tribution of seats is nearly always a putrid
confidence-trick.
It is like plunging into the last century to
read that a Labor candidate lost his deposit,
but that happened a week or two ago in Roc-
bourne (W.A.). And the seat used to be
.held by a Labor candidate; in fact, it would
be a fairly soft thing for Labor if Labor,
like Saturn and the French Revolution, hadn t
devoured its own children.
The Easter conference of the Victorian
Labor party plunged its attitude towards
liquor into even deeper murkiness than it was
before. First one branch wanted all refer-
endums to be decided by a simple majority,
and then, someone having discovered that
the platform advocated “nationalisation of the
liquor traffic with a view to prohibition,” it
was proposed to delete the last five words.
Conference said “No.” Whereupon another
branch proposed to go bald-headed for prohi-
bition. Again the conference said “No.”
After that, everything being in a tangle ami
nobody seeming certain where anybody stood,
everybody was satisfied. Certainly Bung is.
The brisk young fellows who ambitiously
call themselves the Australian Legion opened
fire in Melbourne Town Hall last week. They
are boisterously enthusiastic and optimistic
after the manner of youth. One speaker
talked hopefully of capturing the Federal
Parliament in two years. Other remarks
were rather sloppy, and ran to adjectives.
But thousands of people who don’t expect
to get into Parliament on the Australian
Legion ticket will subscribe to Charles
Gavan Duffy’s motion that “the peace, pros-
perity and happiness of this country depend
on the growth in its public affairs of a
spirit as definitely Australian as that shown
by the A.I.F.” If the Legion sticks to that
sentiment and works on those lines it will
compel even the Abgus to admit that it has
arrived.
As a man whose capacity for the inoppor-
tune amounts to genius Constantine of
Greece, aided by his Hohehzollern wife, puts
up new records. He had a chance to tighi
his old enemy the Turk with France, Italy
and the whole British Empire to help him. He
backed the wrong horses, Germany and Aus-
tria, but didn’t back them enough to do any
good. Now he has taken it into his alleged
head to fight Abdul Fez single-handed ; and
Abdul Fez. as ever, will probably be too
much for Greece single-handed. In the days
of the Lost Opportunity findings were keep-
ings when anything was taken from the Turk.
Now Tino doesn’t seem likely to find any-
thing except perhaps himself out of a job
again.
H. A. Pitt, manager of the Australian
Wheat Board, has been appointed' accountant
of the Vic. Treasury, and H. J. Baker,
manager of the Vie. Wheat Commission, is
to be senior clerk of the administrative
branch of the same department. These
arrangements for reinstating lent officers are
regarded as a pretty clear indication of the
State Government’s view that there should
be no more pool either backed or burdened
by Commonwealth and State.
For purposes of instruction a dummy re-
turn appeared on the back of the census-
paper. It purported to be filled in by Smith
of Prahan (Vic.), bricklayer’s laborer.
Thereupon an almost extinct creature (homo
parochialis ) raged in the Sydney press about
the overweening influence, the arrogance and
the usurping ways of the Cabbage Garden.
There was a grievance, but the extinct one
missed it. It doesn’t matter about being
Smith, for the case of Lord Carrington
showed that being Smith isn’t incurable. It
is no disgrace to live in Victoria, and, be-
sides, that can be cured. But if a man
gets past middle age and is still only a brick-
layer’s laborer there is no remedy for him,
and if the elderly married bricklayer’s
laborer is the typical Australian it is a poor
lookout for Australia.
Vic. pulpiteers, who have been clamoring
for years for a chance to teacli religion in
State schools in ordinary school hours, mav
find themselves “cursed with the burden of
an answered prayer.” Led by Dr. Leeper
the Council of Education has gone bald-
headed for an amendment of the Education
Act to provide for competent teachers enter-
ing the schools to conduct classes. Consent
of parents is made a condition, and the
State’s secular teachers are excluded from
the roster. “This will be a challenge to the
churches,” said Tate, Director of Education,
in supporting Leeper; and Father Sullivan,
of Xavier College, voted with the doctor. Pea-
cock is to put the proposal for amending
the law favorably before the Cabinet. If
the Act is altered the churches will have to
muster a heap of competent teachers, as it
lias been made clear that any old things
won’t do. Zealots who would maltreat the
• King's English, for instance, will be ruled
out.
MORAL SUPPORT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If Ireland owned England, and Irishmen burned
down London, lie would side with the English.”
Fervent declaration oi .John Fihelly, Queensland
Treasurer.
This conies of getting pally with a prince,
This sentiment as touching as it’s rare.
It springs from knocking round, a twelvemonth
since,
With gay Mountbatten and with George’s heir.
In other days the English were to Jack
A subject for objurgatory damns,
But something happens to the stiffest back
When Labor lions frisk with royal lambs.
Now let the stream of British boodle run
As strongly as it did when Denham ruled,
Let Bowen’s airy steelworks be begun,
And let the land be railed and bridged and
schooled.
And should it come to pass (a truce to jape)
That arson’s flames encircle London old,
G. Windsor, shinning down the fire-escape,
Will think of Jack’s remarks and be consoled.
N.s.w.
WODOIL


NSW. WmiiWs wara "Orpc+cd' by U*bor °® o«a- yb*»
, TV sa.»d t+vat- while PakvWament \r> ree-e ss
.+t»a Mthi$+arS were • ——
Ir\ reality our MTT-.r-fc-Va.rs a»r« ov«r-work«<j c.rowd.
M**' Dooley .
Frequently obliged +o
aKtertakir* the unemployed
W»tf> & song »r>ol d»nce
on h*fc doorstep,
or. /VK Attorney General who
Sixers 4Kc discomfort of having To carry
round a gallows Jbec.au Sc of
election cry.
Mccirr (Motherhood) might appear
to have an easy tima , but let
fA r Lambert change places with
him for a day.
Mr M c Kell with a warm
Spot for the prisoners in his charge,
Pa**, self-im posed Social obligations
wWich must, at times, be a
si 4enable Tax on
his nerves ,
M»” Lang (Treasure*)
with an empty Treasury To refill
docs not find the 'accursed
Capital an
easy mark.
They- a*-e a*. 11 2k har-d pr-e SSed,
and an ovar-abu5<rd
Sect ion of the com munity — even
the. .La b or Conjfera-nce suspends its
.family Squabble'S to throw
brick bat's IKevn -
PITY THE POOR MINISTERS


CLEAR,COOL. SPARKLING
KING OF TABLE WATERS
jCohlams Limp.Sodd.Lilhid & Magnesia
AGENTS /«>
EJ&OWLANI)?.P4 v "Lid
Melbourne Balldrai fr Sycano vj'
10 VICE ROYALTY.
/
«rv
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobet
SamBoime
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon. Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MTTCHELL ROAD. ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :—
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- , to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ >■ £ £ £ £■
1907.. 3,08G,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,6(0
1908.. 3,184,488 1,781,750 2S5.804 40,714 1,070,220
1909.. 3.337,426 1.875,516 290,585 30,947 1,134,378
1910.. 3,492.096 1.841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911.. 3,676,105 1.986.708 322,047 22,823 1,344.527
1912.. 3,855,890 2,075,701 338.306 31.029 1,410,854
1913.. 3,990.266 2.179,021 345.680 27,342 1,438.223
1914.. 4,190.018 2,312,728 367,601 33,568 1,476,121
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374.595
1916.. 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 1,366,664
1917.. 4,863,710 3,436.591 434,986 37,566 964,567
1918.. 5.078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43.096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097.941 477,688 60.471 1,555,287
1920.. 5,634,§97 2.688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
Twelve months ago the big A.M.P. tor the
first time showed an annual surplus of in-
come over outgoings exceeding 1 jt million;
and it would have been much more but for
a quarter-million of ’flu losses and £00,000-
odd of war claims settled during the term.
Life-office managements might reasonably
have anticipated improved results for the
past year, but only an optimist of the most
brilliant dye would have forecasted such a
run as was actually experienced. A.M.P.
claims were smaller than for any year since
1015, though there were nearly 50.000 more
risks and 221 millions more assurances at
stake. I.osses-by-death were, in fact, less
than for 1015, the larger volume of matured
endowments accounting for the increased
payments to policy-holders. Last year’s
claims represented 47.7 p.c. compared with
59.7 p.c. for 1010 and 55.2 p.c. for 1014.
The improvement in the claims rate com-
pared with 1019 meant that almost £676.200
more income remained with the Society;
and had last year’s experience been as favor-
able only as that for the year preceding
the war the A.M.P. would have had to pay
away £422,625 more than it did. So, not-
withstanding a further heavy increase in
costs, last year’s surplus soared very close
to the 2J-million mark, or almost half as
much again as the record performance for
the previous year.
Favorable loss experience is, of course,
only one factor in producing the surplus.
Improved interest earnings have greatly
assisted: on the other hand heavier costs
haven’t. At Dec. 31 last there were seven
millions or so more funds than five years
previously ; and £539,000 more was flowing
in from investments. This shows the im-
nroved interest earnings p.c. of average
funds:—
Interest Realised on Average Fends.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. 1916..£4 17 5 p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8 „ 1917.. 4 19 4 „
1912. . 4 10 5 „ 1918. .519,,
1913.. 4 11 8 „ 1919., 5 1 5 „
1914. . 4 12 10 „ 1920.. 5 4 10 „
Even that 3s. 5d. improvement on 12 months
ago means an additional £69,000 p.a. earned
by present funds, while the improvement in
the interest return since the war began
means nearly a quarter of a million. But
exes, have been moving ahead, too. Salaries,
postages, taxes and the cost of all insurance
necessaries have increased, resulting in this
movement of the expense rate :—•
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1915.. £8 9 7 p.c.
1910. . 8 7 1,, 1916. . 8 16 3 „
1911.. 8 12 2 „ 1917.. 8 18 10 .,
1912.. 8 15 5 „ 1918.. 8 10 8 „
1913.. 8 13 3 „ 1919.. 9 4 0 „
1914.. 8 15 5 „ 1920.. 9 17 3 „
Business is now 21s. lOd. p.c. more costly
to handle than in 1914; or, put another way,
about £61,500 more of last year’s income
went in exes, than if the expense rate of
six years ago had prevailed. Set that against
the quarter-million improvement in interest
earnings, and it becomes very obvious that,
though abnormal conditions have resulted
in heavier costs, the A.M.P. has been com-
pensated several times over by the higher
earnings of investments.
The increase in the expense rate last year
was very heavy; but that no doubt was due
to the record lot of new policies written.
Just over one-third of a milTon of premiums
came from new business: 28,600 new poli-
cies assuring 104 millions were written.
New business is costly to hardie in
times; but apparently last year the A.M.P.’s
crop was the most expensive lot the b'g
concern has gathered in for half a century
or so. Applying The Bulletin’s method
of estimaung the cost of old business at 7
p.c. of piennums and taking sing.e-prennum
costs at 3 p.c. and then charging the bal-
ance of the year’s expenses agamst new pre-
miums, this result is got over many years:
Renewal Ntw Ex- A’tw lius>i-
Piemiums. Premiums, penses. ness t ost.
1877 .. £363,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c.
1887 .. 837,104 103,094 131,591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105.788 179,215 87.4 „
1910 .. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1914 .. 2,421,995 219,570 367,601 89.6 „
1915 .. 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 .,
1916 .. 2,634,290 276,803 408,350 80.6 „
1917 .. 2,777,533 261,363 434,986 91.7 „
1918 .. 2,836,991 332,635 433,514 70.4 „
1919 .. 2,906,091 319,998 477,688 85.6 „
1920 . . 3,153,682 334,682 555,863 99.9 „
If that calculation is a fair guide, then
practically the whole of the first-year pre-
miums went in putting the new poncies on
the books.
The 24-million surplus shown in the first
table was, of course, not profit. Out of
that provision had to be made for future
claims. But since last year’s mortality was
omy 53 p.c. of what had been provided for,
it is not surprising that actuary C. A. Elliott
was able to dig out a record surplus of funds
over estimated liabilities. Valuing polices
on the same conservatve basis as in previous
years (that is, calculating that invested funds
will in future earn only 34 p.c., though they
are now actually earning almost half as
much again) he unearthed a surplus of close
upon 1 £ million. But advantage has been
taken of the very favorable year to
strengthen the Society’s pos'tion still further
by valuing whole-life participating policies
issued between 1891-1900 on the assumption
that interest earnings will be only 3 p.c.
instead of 34 -pc. as formerly allowed.
This re-adjustment lias called for the set-
ting aside of an additional £285,485, the
funds now required by the actuary being
almost on the 40-million mark. However,
after this additional strengthening of re-
serves. there remained a divisible surplus of
£1.452.193, of which £1.324,193 is to be dis-
tributed, provid'ng reversionary bonuses of
approximately £2,273,000. This cash bonus
represents 38.31 p.c. of the total premiums
received last year, and 38.83 p.c. of total
participating premiums, very little below the
pre-war performance and within cooee of
the d ; stributions in the boom days of the
’nineties: —•
188S-1893 (boom veais) .. 40.3 p.c. of premiums.
1893-1S9S .. .. 34.1 „ „
1898-1903 .. .. 34.8 „
1903-190S .. .. 36.0 „
1908-1913 .. .. 38.2 „
1914 39.2 „
1915 30.8 „
1916 30.1 „
1917 18.6 „
1918 32.6 „
1919 38
1920 38.8 „
During its 71 years the A.M.r. has distri-
buted more than 254 millions of bonuses.
Progress made by the Industrial depart-
ment is shown next: —
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. 1 unds.
1909.. £77,723 £2,821 £43,488 £31,414
1910.. 105,438 4,189 51,639 49,010
1911.. 140,560 5,775 67,555 67,230
1912.. 187,912 6,677 74,998 106,237
1913.. 230,388 8,829 86,776 134,783
1914.. 275,118 9,589 90,558 174,971
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1910.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 235,452
1917.. 432,038 29,635 127,432 274,971
1918.. 503,360 35,140 145,262 322,958
1919.. 593.859 30,850 181,379 381,630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420,270
The past year's expense rate worked out at
30.9 p.c. of total income, compared with 30.5
p.c. for 1919 and 28.8 p.c. for 1918. Still,
that is much lighter than was experienced in
earlier years. But the 30.9 p.c. of total in-
come which goes in exes., compared with
under 10 p.c. shown by the Ord.nary branch,
indicates very clearly where the policy-
holder should place his insurances if he can
scrape together a quarterly premium instead
of paying a collector to pursue his small pre-
miums every fortnight or so. Comparatively
poor results must be expected from an Indus-
try 1 department which has to pay away one-
fifth more income than the Ordinary. The
heavier claims last year, by the way, were
due to a large batch of endowments matur-
ing. Industrial funds at Dec. 31 were
£2,420,974. and £54274 more than actuary
Elliott estimated was required (again cal-
culating on a 34 p.c. basis). Of this sufplus
£39,834 is to be distributed, providing rever-
sionary bonuses of about £54,000.
The A.M.P.’s balance-sheet total is now
£44.706.404, and considerably more than half
of it is in Government securities. The
changes in the disposition of funds over
many years are shown in this comparison:—
1905. 1915. 1919. 1920.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p c.
Loans on mortgage.. 43 5 36.7 25.4 22.9
Public securities .. 26.7 41.3 56.6 59.3
Premise’s .. ... 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.7
Foreclosures .. 2.9 .1 .1 .1
Loins on policies .. 20 5 16.3 13 2 13 2
Other assets.. .. 4.6 3.8 2.9 2.8
“Properties acquired by foreclosure” are
gradua.ly d„nnnisiung. They now represent
only sLghtly over 4 P-c. of all assets; but
in the comparison above the item has been
shown at the nearest decimal.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, hardware
merchants and general importers, at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1910.. £8,387 10 p.c. — £7,468 £124 £795 £6,619
1911.. 7,551 10 „ „ 7,408 — 83 6,7 02
Premiums 'on new shal l s .. 1,330 8.032
1912.. 12,876 10 p.c. = 8,000 — 4,876 12,908
1913.. 12,747 10 „ „ 9,306 — 3,441 16,349
Premiums on new shares .. 122 10.471
1914.. 13,417 10 p.c. = 11,580 — 1,837 18,308
1915.. 21,890 15 „ „ 18,000 — 3,890 22,198
1916.. 25,021 15 „ „ 18,000 — 7,021 29,219
1917.. 23,342 15 „ „ 18,000 — 10,342 39,561
Transferred to capital . . 30,000 9,561
1918.. 28,980 15 p.c.= 22,500 — 6,480 16,041
1919.. 30,071 10 „ ,, 15,000 — 15,071 31,112
Transferred to capital .. 25,000 6,112
Co. re-constructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £65,000 and seven £l fully-paids in
new co. issued for e\ery four in old.
Net To Reduce
Profit. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920.. £32,279 10 p.e.= £ 17,575 1
(6 mos.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 > £5,704 £59,290
Employees’ bonus, 3,000 j
Twelve months ago the directors decided to
capitalise £25,000 of accumulated profits,
issuing 50,000 new £1 oidinar.es paid to 10s.
Buc, apparently, they shortly afterwards
came to the conclusion that this capitalisa-
tion would not be wholly effective in side-
stepping legislation wh.ch N- S. Wales
Attorney-General Ivid McTiernan and the
Federal Treasury were alleged to be hatch-
ing ; sv in .July the management. decided to
put the old co. out of business and sell its
assets to a new concern. As usual the
track between the two cos. is not clearly
defined. After the capitalisation of the
£25,000 there remained only £6112 of visible
reserves in the old co., but in addition there
was £15,900 set aside for taxation, apparently
also a true reserve, since current taxes had
been provided for otherwise. Paid Capital at
Dec., 1919, stcod at £150,000, but 10s. was
called on the 50,000 new shares when allotted,
taking paid capital to £200,000. For every
four £1 shares in the old concern seven were
issued in the new, taking the register to
£350,000. £150,000 of which represented new
bonus shares. Apparently an additional
1500 shares have since been issued for cash.
The £150.000 of gift scrip was evidently pro-
vided in this way: (1) introducing goodwill
(£65.000) into the new co.’s books: (2)
capitalising visible reserves (approximately
£23,300) ; while the balance of £61.700 was
apparently accounted for by capitalising the
profits for the half-year to June last (accounts
for which were not produced) and by writing
up the value of belongings, chiefly property,
wlrch is now shown at £112,307, compared
with £56.153 12 months ago, though certain
constructional work in progress when the
1919 accounts closed no doubt had some
effect. The directors report that the revision
of property values was effected on figurings
by leading valuators.
The latest balance-sheet figures compare
with those of 12 months ago in th's way:
1919. 1920.
Capital £160,000 £351,500
Reserves (inc. taxation) 55,813 32,2 79
Liabilities . . .. 82.400 233,956
Premises, plant, etc. 62,715 138,593
Stock .. . . 163,779 316,470
Book debts .. . . 53,091 70,485
Cash, etc. .... .. 8,623 27,187
Goodwill .... — 65,000
Other factors besides the revaluation of
assets have affected the figures; a new branch
opened at Port Adelaide had to be stocked,
but, besides, higher duties and more costly
supplies expanded the stock item to almost
double its dimensions of a year ago. How-
ever, “the closest scrutiny is being given to
these heavy stocks,” the directors say, and “an
early adjustment may be expected.” No doubt
Paul and Gray, Ltd., is in a position to unload
its large accumulations more successfully
than most traders. The latest profit-earning
performance Was very fat; the £32,279 net
earnings for the six months to Dec. last ex-
ceeded those of any previous 12 months,
though as previously pointed out a substantial
bit (allegedly for taxation) was going up the
sleeve during recent years. The latest hand-
some profit has enabled the directors to pass
out divs. at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. on the
enlarged capital with the greatest ease. And,
since of the present total register of £351,500
bonus additions represent £205.000, that 10
p.c. div. represents a return of almost 40 p.c.
on the money put in by shareholders.
Whether the co. can continue to do so well
The Bulletin dees not know. No doubt the
ship-chandlery business has had abnormal
opportunities such as have been experienced
by its clients. It certainly seems too much
to expect that profits can be suddenly doubled
and maintained at that h'gh level with the
assistance of only about £26.500 of new cash
capital got in. The co. has, of course, been very
successful in the past: during the five years lo
1919. for instance, bes'des paying divs. mostly
at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a., a balance-sheet im-
provement of £60,000-odd was effected. But
the investor has x.ow to recollect that no
longer are shares wholly represented ij
tangible assets. After payment of the latest
divs. only £292.204 of the paid capital ot
£351,500 had the backing of substantial
assets, assuming that the new property values
are maintained and that the large stocks will
net their full book value. To Day a
regular 10 p.c. on the enlarged capital is
going to call for £35.1o0 p.a., which exceeds
the average net profits disclosed over recent
abnormal years. But whether the disclosure
was complete this paper doesn’t know.
» * * *
B. II. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
p rt .{. To Re- Re-
Dec., Prefits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1911.. 23,497 1793 10p.c.= 5,510 17,194 23,590
1912.. 24,429 Div. & Bonus 7,615 16,814 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 28,017
1913.. 28,477 1200 llip.c.= 8,847 18,430 40,447
1914.. 23,409 1200 10 „ „ 7,998 14,271 60,718
Transferred to capital £40,000 .. 20,718
1915.. 20.368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27,886
1910. . 20,394 1200 10 „ ,,12,000 7,194 35,080
1917.. 30,405 1200 111,', ,,13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 . . 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
( 33,096 1200 15 „ ,,21,000 10,890 49,727
1919.. ■! Voted to staff fund, £2000 .. 47,727
(Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
(Internal reserves disclosed and "i
I other additions to reserves, I
i09n ' £ 32,721. V 5014
1920.. < p eserveg capitalised, £30,000 j
29,206 120o 124 p.c. 27,000 1060
\ Staff provident fund, £500
The latest entry in the first column does not
represent the full measure of the year’s pro-
fits. i’revious entries included, besides the
net profits as shown by the directors, unex-
plained additions to reserves, which have
varied widely: — IT ...
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Doc., Account). Reserves.
1910 . • • - £12,924 £4,709
1911 . ,. .. 14,996 8,501
1912 16,830 8,599
1913 .. .. .. 16,860 12,027
1914 . . . . . . 10,141 8,328
1915 .. .. •• 16,111 6,257
1910 . . .. . . 15,133 5,201
1917 15,895 14.571
1918 . . .. • • 22,644 7,542
1919 . . . . • • 26,132 6,904
1920 29,266 ?
The amount dropped into reserves on this
occasion is not ascertainable, because a
month prior to balancing there was a further
capitalisation of accumulated profits which
has obscured the movements of the reserve
account. After the final div. for 1919 was
pa.d there were total visible reserves of
£47,727, but £40,000 of that was extracted
to provide an issue of 40,000 bonus ordi-
naries. Though that left only a visible
£7727 in hand, in November last a further
£36,000 of reserves was capitalised, this
amount being provided, the directors explain,
in this way : general reserve, £14,181; War
Loan interest reserve, £1273; book debts
insurance, accumulated between 1915-19,
£20,540. Apparently portion of the past
year’s profits transferred to reserves before
the issue of accounts aided the capital-
isation. Precisely where the bad debts in-
surance reserve has been accumulating is not
clear, in view of the fact that the sundry
debtors item is nearly £17,000 less than 12
months ago. Possibly the reserve has been
set off against the item “stock on hand and
on hire agi’eements.” However, the directors
remark that “no asset of the co. has been
written up in value”; also, that “due
provision has been made for possible depre-
ciation.”
This recent disclosure of hidden profits
makes it obvious that R. H. Gordon’s has
done very much better than the handsome
profits shown in the table have indicated,
Onlj r eight years ago paid capital was
£82.000, in 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. and 62,000
ordinaries. Paid capital is now £236,000, in
the same number of prefs., 180,000 £1
ordinaries and 72,000 £1 ordinaries paid to
10s., the last representing the newest bonus
issue. The precise amount capitalised dui’-
ing the period is not clear, but at least
£148,393 of the £154,000 increase of capital
represents bonus distributions. Shareholders
have thus done magnificently: a 12£ p.c. div.
represents more than 40 p.c. on the money
they put in. Last year’s interim, by the
way, was at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a. on the
old capital; the final was at the rate of I2f
p.c. p.a. on the enlarged register; but in
the table the div. rate from the year is cal-
culated on the full capital.
Gordon’s has made handsome profits out of
cash-orders ; it issues “orders” to its clients,
enabling them to pay “cash” at numerous
retailers’, Gordon’s collecting principal and in-
terest and also securing a commission from
the retailers for feeding them with custom.
Interest charges are very heavy, but the princi-
pal advanced in each case is so small and the
repayment instalments so trifling that the
client does not realise the extent of the
accommodation charges. But though the


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the '-oot. of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. Tt costs but. little for current, and re
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may he grasped close to 1he tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulhuru
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little foilin':
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. f2
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
There are many remarkable instances of the
length of life of woodpipe as a water conduit. A
case in point was the recent unearthing of wood
pipe that has been in use for one hundred and thirty
years and was still sound. “Pioneer" Wood Pipe
costs only a fraction of the price of metal pipe and
conveys from 15 to 20 per cent, more water. Send
for our interesting booklet. The Australian Wood
Pipe Company Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove
(Perry to Pig Tree) ; and at Footscray, Vic.—
Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & liassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagii
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• * * «
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained, Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd, (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants:
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models” —“National" suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. II. B. Selby Ji Co.,
Ltd.. 2C5 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
oppned a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany', Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery'. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
A.M.P. SOCIETY. Election of Directors
VOTE FOR
ALEX. JOBSON.
W. M. VINDIN.
VOTE NOW.
BALLOT CLOSES 5 p.m.. APRIL 18.
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI <D. SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. W. High-speed Milling Cutters
for ACCURACY, ENDURANCE and CUTTING POWERS.
Manufactured by
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.,
Manchester, England.
Stocks carried in all States of all sizes in ROUGHING,
FINISHING, SLOTTING. SLITTING, SIDE and FACE,
CONVEX, etc.
GILBERT LODGE &. CO. Ltd.,
IIS Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 59S Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
' AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Fosses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, AVorkmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Fowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CFAIA1S PROMPTFYAXD EQITTABFYSETTFED. .■
AGENTS IN' AFF PRINCIPAF COUNTRY TOAVNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD tOPE, General Manager.
cash-order is poor business for anybody who
can run a savings-bank account, the system
may be of great-service to. the improvident.
Besides its cash-orders Gordon’s also does a
big house-furnishing business, much of it
also on the t.-p. plan. In addition it has
considerable outside investments: according
to the directors these earned £9000 last year.
Previous published accounts have grouped all
assets under two heads: sundry debtors have
been shown separately and all other belong-
ings packed in one portmanteau. The latest
balamce-sheet, however, gives details. Pro-
perties and plant are shown at £2S.399;
stock and hire-agreements, £72,090; sundry
debtors (Icsx reserve), -.£82,887 ; shares, de-
bentures and short loans, £02,813 ; mortgages,
£43,445 ; War Loan and cash, £20,095. The co.
has had such a magnificent time that after
paying the latest divs. there was a surplus of
outside investments over all liabilities almost
equal to the ordinary capital put up by share-
holders. Put another way, the £163,000-odd.
of property, stock and book-debts represents
practically ... gift to old holders. Whether
the co. can continue to do nearly so well as
it has in the past depends chiefly on whether
the system it stands for escapes the often-
threatened legislative attention.
The Natalite Motor Spirit Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., was registered on August 7
last to manufacture within the Common-
wealth a spirit from odds and ends —prickly-
pear, cane trash, and so on. The capital
authorised was £250,000 in £1 shares, and
50,000 were to go in payment for patent
rights: but only 85,164 of those offered to
the public were allotted, “which is less than
the number applied for when the co. went
to registration, viz., lOO.OOO” —one large
applicant withdrew. Not being so sure that
it would be very profitable to work on odds
and ends, the co. at once, paid £5000 for
concessions in Papua to supply raw material,
and this and preliminary exes. (£3951) have
made a bit of a hole in the co.’s cash. On
Feb. 28 it had £36.878 in hand, and owed
£3800, and it can call the unpaid 10s. per
share on 85,155 shares. Meantime it has
“decided to have the plans drawn in Eng-
land,” has sent its technical adviser (II. G.
A. Harding. F.C.S.) there lo inquire about
a new process of malting “which is under-
stood to be the very latest improvement in
distilling,” and expects machinery to pro-
duce. between six and seven million gallons
of spirit p.a. to be erected about the, end of
this year. It is all very vague so far—even
the most cheerful item in the report, which
is to the effect that the proposed output has
been increased considerably on that men-
tioned in the prospectus on account of
“a pending contract for 3,000,000 gallons
per annum.” This “pending contract” seems
to be one suggested by the syndicate which
has the option over the manufacturing
rights in Maoriland. Apparently the idea
is that, instead of putting up. plant, the
M.L. co. shall take up 50,000 shares in the
Australian co., and in return have the hand-
ling of 3,000,000 gallons a year. But the
M.L. co. isn’t floated yet.
The West . Australian Portland Cement
Co. has begun its important job and says that
“everything is up to anticipation.” De-
liveries from the works commenced on the
31th inst,
* * •* «
John Brandon’s co., which owns the Round
Hill claim, near Broken Hill, has £2500 to
go on with, and cannot make up its mind
whether to throw up the show and pay a
fractional div. or hold on till some boring-
can be done. In the old days Captain Mat-
thews worked into the hill till everybody got
tired. The only hope for the.co. is that the
new r er theories about Broken Hill ore occur-
rences may prove to be right. But proof
can only be got by boring, and as the co.
was formed to carry out the job, why not
hold on to the cash till the clouds roll by?
Cooper and Nephews, the sheep-dip people,
have pushed ahead with the development of the
Ottery arsenic mines, Emmaville (N.S.W.).
A large shaft has been sunk, and drives put
in on the lodes, which are improving as they
open up. A huge stack and furnaces have
Deen built, and collecting houses containing
133 chambers and a rennerv have also been
constructed. Ore is now being treated and
refined arsenic obtained of splendid quality,
going 96.6 p.c. The ore averages about one
ton arsenic to seven tons- of stone. The
lode carries also a considerable quantity of
tin, and it is intended to erect a battery
later on to win this metal, too. The re-
opening of th-is old mine has been a great
boon to the district, as the works are em-
ploying a large number of men who, through
the slump in the tin market, would otherwise
have been amongst the unemployed.
* ■* * *
The Agnes silver-lead mine at Silver Val-
ley, Herberton district. (Q.), temporarily
closed down last month, owing to a combina-
tion of low prices, high freights.and the diffi-
culty of.getting the ore treated since CMllagoe
State works shut down. But it will come
again. There are three parallel lodes on the
property, each averaging about three feet,
and on one a shaft is down 150ft. and tne
show looks promising at depth. The returns
so far from the lodes have run: Silver, .26
to 60 ox. ; copper, up to 4 p.c.; lead, anything
up to 56 p.c/, but averaging about 25. p.c.
It is a good show, but while the price
. of silver and lead fell, the cost of
getting the ore to Chillagoe (£3 a ton) did
not. The co. has been agitating for a branch
railway from Kalunga to Silver Valley, but
so far without success.
* * * *
An important discovery of high-grade iron
ore has recently been made on the Wild
River, Herberton district (Q.). The deposit is
not far from the Mt. Ruby iron lode, which it
overshadows in both grade and s±ze. The out-
crops run for over a mile, and the surface
indications are favorable for a big tonnage.
Several Government assays have been made,
showing metallic iron, ranging from 65 to
70 p.c., while it is very low in phosphorus
and sulphur. That ore composition should
make it eminently suitable for the basic open-
hearth process. Although no boring has yet
been done, the Department of Mines, with an
eye to the future, reckons it good enough to
declare the area a .State iron-ore reserve. It
is about 16 miles from the nearest railway.
* * » *
About £2000 has been spent on the Three
Castles tin-mines at Waverlev. Kangaroo
Hills (Q.), by Castles and Son. Water is the
difficulty, as it is a sluicing proposition, and
most of the money has gone in building
reservoirs and in pipe-lines. Previous
attempts to work the ground without water
have not been a success, as blocking out is
impossible owing to the soft nature of the
formation. There is plenty of good tin ore
there, and the owners reckon there is a bed
40ft. thick which should be amenable to
sluicing. The money spent so far has not
completed the necessary preparatory work,
so an indulgent State Government is being
asked to assist with a subsidy.
* * * *
W. E. Cameron, Queensland State Geolo-
gist, left Brisbane last week by the Montoro
to take up his new job in the Malay States.
Cameron was chairman of the Roma Oil
Advisory Board, and the Government has not
yet announced the appointment of another
geologist to take his place. The impeding
tool has so far not been cleared from the
bore, and the question for the Government
now seems to be the picking of a site for a
new stab. Considering the evidence of great
oil accumulation there, and its lrgh petrol
content, the State can hardly neglect Roma
because of this unfortunate experience.
» ■* w *
Prospecting work is still being continued
at the Styx River (Q.) State coalfield, and
the output is meantime being increased.
Rockhampton district is getting all its re-
quirements from there instead of Blair Athol,
while the railways absorb the balance. It is
about the best combined steam-and-gas. coal
in Queensland, and is very clean, the ash
varying from 5 to 9 p.c.
* * * *
Finney’s Hill United Silver Mines, Ltd.,
holding the original G.O.M. ground at Indoo-
roopilly, Brisbane, seems to have about the
best block so fat opened up on the new field.
The country around is still being extensively
prospected. Finney’s is stripping rich
carbonate ore from the upper levels, but the
shaft at 120ft. is in lower-grade galena.
This stuff will probably not stand the high
freights to Cockle Creek, so a concentrating
plant has been bought, and- soon it is pro-
bable the co. will send only firsts and seconds
south. A wharf site has been secured on the
Brisbane River, about 500-yards from the
mine. Barnes ad t. which is in ground in-
cluded with the original claims in the amal-
gamation, is now 20ft. deep and appears to
be on the edge of the ore body, as the schist
country is showing good carbonates and
galena.
* * * *
Stannary Hills (N.Q.), like most of the
northern tin-fields, barring Kangaroo Hills,
is dead owing to the metal slump. Derek’s
has been do ng a little in development and
erection of plant, but production in the d:s-
trict practically ceased when the lower-grade
Arbouin put up the shutters recently.
Anxious inquirers (and there are many)
will be interested to learn that Kanowna
Red Hill has been let on tribute. Develop-
ment failed to establish any continuity be-
tween the rich ore found at the 160ft. level
and the shoot of gold worked by the prospec-
tors in higher ground. It also proved that
there is too much poor stuff between the
patches of coarse gold, and that as a com-,
pany venture the mine is unpayable under
the high-cost conditions now prevailing.
Boulder Perseverance’s liquidator Bell
gave an account of his stewardship to share-
holders in London recently. He said that
since December, 1918, the co. had treated
88,872 tons of tributors’ ore for £526 209, of
which it annexed £115,873 and handed tri-
butors £212.690. The balance went in haul-
age and other exes. An offer to purchase
the mine for £50,000 had been received, but
after consulting the largest shareholders he
had decided not to sell. Bell may, however,
have cause to regret this decision as, accord-
ing to his Kalgoorlie agent, the provisions
of the Amended Mining Act, which has just
come into force, make it difficult if not im-
possible for tributing to be carried on.
More gush goes on over the little Devon
at Linden than over Herbert J. Daly’s
White Hope. On the strength of getting
487oz. bullion worth £1489, plans w'ent on
to put up a roaster, taken over from Kauf-
inann’s derelict Merton’s. Now, a battery
extension is to provide more concentrates for
the roaster and for the cyanide plant.
Nothing is said about getting a new' shoot of
ore to provide the battery with stone. In
the face of the fact that the present battery
has kept well ahead of the shoots worked.
Collins-street murmurs: “We feel that it will
not be long before the mine will prove itself
one of the best and give good returns. We
have every confidence it will do so.” This is
a lot to build on manager Leverington’s re-
mark : “I now have more confidence in the
future of the mine.”
•fc * * *
A few people are trying to work up a
boom in connection with diamond-drill bor-
ing on the edge of the lake country, south
of the Boulder mines at Kalgoorlie. This
work, it is said, is going to demonstrate that
the Boulder-Ivanhoe-Ilorseshoe ore channels
continue through the country now being
prodded and far beyond. In fact, some opti-
mists claim that the values got at 1060ft.
or so in the first bore prove this theory be-
yond doubt. But anyone who knows the
history of bore-hole developments, genuine
and otherwise, at Kalgoorlie will want some-
thing more than a small piece of ore or
an assay certificate. An interesting novel of
more than one volume could be written
about rich drill-strikes which when looked
for were never found.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is
still shut down, and so far the Board has
not made any move to replace the plant
recently destroyed by fire. Like some other
passive resisters among the Westralian gold-
mining cos., the Gwalia will probably re-
main idle as long ns it can in the hope of
inducing tin* workers to agree to a variation
of Judge Burnside’s award. Only one or
tw’o big mines in the State can, according
to the generally unreliable Chamber of
Mines, be worked at a profit under this
award. Perhaps under existing conditions
this may be true, but why not buy up some
of the scores of second-hand mills for sale
at about the price of old iron, enlarge present
plants, and go in for ore treatment on a
bigger scale? Unfortunately, the Chamber
policy is to carry on with as few men as
possible, on the off-chance of the unem-
ployed coming forward with a proposal to
work for smaller wages.
Bowes Kelly and George Swinburne, both
men well supplied with the milk of human
kindness, want to meet the Mt. Lyell union
leaders again. But they don’t want to go
before Higgins or Powers, who have de-
clared that if an industry cannot pay the
award wage it had better pass out. Com-
rade Grayndler has been doing the usual
frothing; but he couldn’t have a better
crowd of Fatmen to deal with than these at
Lyell. The top dogs there are sympathetic
with the men. They offer a fair wage with-
out profit to the shareholder, instead of shut-
ting down like scores of other copper claims
have done. If Queenstown is not to be a
deserted hole, the workers will have to give
as well as take.
Mara gold (Tas.), which has an erratic
deposition and necessarily finds operations
costly, is being reconstructed. Since the pre-
sent co. started 1166. tons ore milled have
given 1265oz. gold, with 5dwt. in the tails.
The new co. intends to put in a cyanide
plant.
* * * *
A new copper lode has been discovered on
the Arthur River, near Marrawah (Tas.), and
a co. is being formed to open up the deposit.
The lode is said to be 10ft. wide, showing
15 p.c. copper, loz. silver, and gold up to
3dwt. No deposits have been opened up in
this district previously, so possibilities are
unknown.
Production at the Magnet (Tas.) has
ceased, the Staff being reduced to a gang of
35 employed on development, repair and un-
watering work. Low market prices have, of
course, adversely affected the value of the out-
put, but the mine has been heavily handi-
capped for the last few years in installing the
large storage dam and electric-power scheme,
under pressure from the Mines Department,
which demands that steam be withdrawn
from all mines. The £30,000 netted between
Nos. 11 and 12 levels has all gone into this
pow ? er scheme, and many other thousands be-
sides. The No. 13 level stopes, the present
bottom of the mine, are not looking too well,
and an increasing impregnation of zinc with
depth is causing worry. No. 14 level is to
be opened up shortly, when the proof or
otherwise of the reported shortening in length
of the ore shoot with depth can be accurately
ascertained. Since discovery the mine has
absorbed £35.000 of capital and over a million
of revenue, and shareholders have had onlv
£28,000.
The first annual meeting of the Vandyke
(Tas.) discloses the usual shortage of cash
and a tunnel in hard rock which is expected
to reach the lode in another 20ft. or so. Sur-
face indications were reported fair, but it is
a habit in the Speck not to put enough cash
into a show to make a decent-sized hole, and
many prospeetB similar to this never get a
chance. , .
P. Nesbitt, who has been acting general-
manager for the British Imperial Gil Co.
during Wagstaff’s absence abroad, left on
the Omar and expects to be away a year.
He was farewelled at a dinner at the Savoy
(Melb.) by J. L. Strevens and Arthur Pear-
son. Nesbitt takes with him the beginnings
of a scheme for systematic oil investigation
here, which Strevens hopes to bring to matu-
rity in London later in the year.


CRACKING THE WHIP.
“All the threats against the Hughes Government hare vanished In hot air. Mr. Hughes's control of Parliament Is as strong as ever it was."


JACKET SWEATERS
Originally Introduced by Peapes*.
The Jacket Sweater was first introduced to Australia by
Peapes’.
Every year since that time they have endeavored further
to perfect it in shape and finish.
The result of this aim is agreeably apparent in this season’s
new stocks. Peapes’ Jacket Sweaters conform comfortably
to the figure—they give perfect ease and ample warmth—
their appearance sets a standard.
Men’s. O.S. X.O.S.
In grey or white wool, with V neck.. 23/6 25/- 26/6
Heavier make in Lovat, Navy or Sand
shade 50/- 52/6 55/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Brewed at Home
m
Q
If itisnt.
It£ Better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
si., piest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Aie and Stout. The Finest }n Aus-
tralia—BAR NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
tralia. 0R POSTAGE PAID FROM
Mi R. GREEN. Carlton, Victoria.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This .Modern and most Elegant ly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management * <•’ Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America ( r the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Caly”: Opportunity never has to knock
twice at the door of Young Australia. He
was a Melbourne telegraph messenger the
size of sixpence. He delivered a telegram to
a Chow shopkeeper in the Chinese quarter.
Ah Duck got him to read it for him. He did
so, thus: “Charlie Loo here. Wire fare.
Meet Saturday. Gi\’e boy some ginger.” He
got a pocketful.
SLOW PROGRESS.
"Yon don't seem very happy after your mar-
riage. 'Double your joys,' you know."
"Yes, hut the wife hasn't gut through the
'Share yam troubles' part yet"
“H.S.”: The Artarmon (N.S.W.) Pro-
gress Association has asked the Willoughby
Council to join in a movement for one-class
trains. Artarmon is far from being a work-
ing-class suburb: it is inhabited by that
proudest section of all, the £500 per annum
millionaires. This type of suburbanite is
willing, nay, eager, to buy a first-class
ticket provided he is given value for the
thing. That is to say, somewhere to sit.
sufficient space to read the paper and a
certain amount of quiet. On most lines at
certain hours the carriages are so packed
with both first- and second-class ticket-
holders that, from the aspect of comfort,
the traveller might be as happy on the roof.
“Why not.” you will say, “get a second-
class ticket?” Here you touch on a psyeho-
logical peculiarity common alike to Artar-
mon and iAerowra, to Scrathfaeld and Rock-
dale. It is against the unwritten law of
Suburbia to travel second-class. It is
almost the equivalent of go.ng without boots.
But if everyone had to travel second-class,
as on the trams, then all slurs would d.sap-
pear, together with the feeling of out age
experienced when one is trodden on and
smoked over by a person wuooe c.cket coot
2s. 9d. less than the one in the victim’s
trousers-pocket. Unfortunately the Govern-
ment, which battens on frailties, knows all
about this, and is not likely to sacrifice
revenue by making a change.
“L.B.F.”: What about a paternity allow-
ance? Listen to this, vouched for by a
Maoriland magistrate. A pakeha paid a
visit to a well-known Maori settlement in
the backblocks of Gisborne,
and while there became ex-
tremely familiar w*th a
Maori belle. Some time after
the pakeha’s return to Gis-
borne the Big Chief sent
word that the girl had given
birth to twins, t’.:at young
Pakeha was adjudged the
father, and that according
to the law he must make
some payment towards the
expenses incurred ard for
the future maintenance of
the children. The Maoris
were perfectly friendly, but
insisted that he should go
back to the girl to make the
desired financial arrange-
ments. He went, and as his
income was extremely limited
he resorted to subterfuge.
“The law also holds,” he
said, “that I can have cus-
tody of the children and I
intend to take them.” At
this the Maoris were over-
come with grief, and the
chief said, “By gorry, no. We
come t’ like the little childs.
How much you take?” The
young white man said he
would take £25 a piece—and
was the most surprised per-
son in Maoriland when the
money w»s eagerly handed
over to him!
“H.M.”: “The luck of a Chow” has
obtruded itself at farkes (N.S.w.t. Tne
Chinaman was attacked by a Syrian with a
tomahawk, and struck on the head. At the
hospital Ins mjur.es were found to be sur-
prisinglv l.ght, considering that., according to
the rules of the game, he ought to be dead.
A local sport, deciding that “Chow’s luck”
was worth sharing, halved a Tatt.’s ticket
with !nm. The pair drew a horse in the
Doncaster.
* * * *
“Swan”: To be an employer is sometimes
very like being a worm. Lately the manager
of a big Perth hotel discharged a girl for
“refusing duty.” The sack from a hotel in
a world that is full of hotels and so short
of serving girls doesn’t seem much to make
an upheaval about, but the union demanded
that the lady sflouid be restored to ner King-
dom, and not carrying its point called out
the whole staff and victimised the pub.
To have an absolutely host Is wP’e in the
house is a burden. A hostile daughter caused
Lear to make remarks that are now histori-
cal. But to be burdened with a triumphant
servant-girl who has been restored. Lke
Louis XVIII., by a foreign army, and is con-
sequently so strongly entrenched that she
can do as she pleases, would almost drive
some people to put arsenic in their d'nner.
* * * *
About a young man whose luck is out: —
Osmonde Esmond’s bad luck accompanied him back
to Canada. During the voyage across the Pacific
some pickpurse or cabin-thief deprived him of £ 200,
or its equivalent in American money, and the
wretched youth arrived at Vancouver with £3 in
his pocket and bitterness in his heart. The Cana-
dian authorities exacted a pledge that he w'ould
hasten across the continent and re-embark at an
Atlantic port with his £3, or what was left of it,
before they would allow him to land. But when
lie found himself at liberty his tumultuous emo-
tions overflowed in a frenzied attack on the British
Government, and an. unromantic J. Hop ran him in.
The Irish-envoy business isn’t what it used to be,
or perhaps it is the envoys that aren’t what they
used to be. Anything less like the Redmonds and
Joe Devlin than the supercilious and unimpressive
youth who paced the decks of the Makura in Syd-
ney Harbor, affording mild amusement to trippers,
could hardly be imagined. Held up as Esmond was,
a man like Devlin —if one can conceive of his get-
ting into such a scrape—would have made things
more awkward for the Government than a score of
Father Jergers. He would have exploited the situa-
tion to the best possible advantage of himself, the
interesting martyr and his persecuted country. But
the egregious Esmond only succeeded in making
himself ridiculous, and ridicule is a thing the Sinn
Fein leaders can’t afford to be associated with; it
is more dangerous to- their cause than all the armed
forces of the Crown. -If they had ransacked Britain
for an agent to send to the Commonwealth, or com-
missioned Dr. Leeper or Tom Enley to pick one for
them, they couldn’t have selected a person so desper-
ately unsuitable as Esmond.
There may be countries in which a solemn and
rather priggish young dandy with a monocle might
be considered as a tolerable imitation of a martyred
patriot, but in Australia —never !
“Whitehall”: The appointment of Lord
Edmund Talbot as Viceroy in Ireland should
have a useful educational effect on the Tom
’Enley class of Australian. Their simple
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
"No, Billy, I wouldn't marry you if you were
the only man left in Australia.”
“If I were they wouldn't let me."
faith being that the movement for Irish self-
government is a Pop.sh plot, they are un-
aware that the fiercest Unionists have always
been the English Roman Catholics —the
Butes, Norfolks, Stourtons, Stonors, Stapyl-
ton-Brethertons, Southwells, Denb.ghs, i)e
Traffords and countless others. Members of
these powerful R.C. families are scandalised
at every fresh demand made by Irish Nation-
alism, because they are English and rich.
English-speaking pr'ests have a way of being
Home Rulers or STnn Feiners because they
are usually Irish and poor. Where they aie
not Ir.sh they are mostly at heart as'Union-
ist as Anglicans. It is safe to say that Lord
Edmund Talbot will be as unpopular as any
other fifth-rate Tory party hack the Govern-
ment could have chosen. The Viceroy
acceptable to the pr’ests and other despera-
does whom Mr. ’Enley dreams about after
a heavy meat-tea would be a liberal Pro-
testant —for preference a Congregationalist
H.C.L. EITHER WAY.
“Your arming frocks ought to cost less nowa-
days."
“Yes, but there's more complexion to cost
more.”
like Asquith. That failing, a statesmnn
and an honest man such as Lord Grey would
do, or a sren'us like Wells, or a Jew, so long
as he wasn’t a Tory Jew. In short, the
Irish prob’em is rac'al, not Romish; pol'ti-
cal. not re’igious. The Pope has as much
relation to it as he has to the very similar-
problem in Korea.
“Sir Spen”: An elderly lady churchgoer
attracted the parson’s attention on many
different occasions by bowing her head when-
ever reference was made from the pulnit to
his Satanic Majesty. The cleric’s curiosity
got the upper hand oue day, and he asked the
reason of the strange habit. Unhestitatingly
she informed him : “You see, sir, civility costs
nothing, and.” she added in softened tones.
‘'you never know."
* * * »
"Boomerang”: They still quote Old Jack,
a typical Cornishman, who, years ago, was
a shift-boss on the Broken Hill Proprietary.
Once he had some men grafting below him.
on construction work. “How manv of ’ee
down the-ah?” bawled Jack from ud above.
“Three!” cried one of the men. “Three!”
he roared back. “Too many altogether. Half
of ’ee come up here!”
* * * *
"Boorara” : Many of us who had formed
our ideas of the black man from Binghi and
the Gyppo were surprised to learn how well-
educated the British West Indian troops
were. In Palestine I met several who were
solicitors, architects or other professional
me.n in Jamaica; and all of them spoke Eng-
lish well. Once a sergeant with whom I was
riding, from the superior height of his
camel addressed a nigger sentry with “Sieda.
Sambo!” but he seemed to develop a pain
in the midriff when the Jamaican replied:
“Not so much of the Sicda, and cut the
Sambo right out, please. Good morning, ser-
geant.”
« •* « *
“Orwell”: The last day of the year Cas-
sidy, Mick and I, about the only single males
left at Ileedy Flat, sat in Mrs. Tucker’s bar
parlor playing crib. Three mouths before
Mick, who had been overdoing it, had bet
Cassidy £10 he wouldn’t take another drink
for the rest of the year; and it was pitiful
this New Year’s Eve, as we had whisky
after whisky, to see Michael’s eyes greedily
fastened on our glasses and the grimaces he
made as he guiped down his lemonades,
10 of them, just to keep us company.
Every few minutes he glanced at the
clock over the mantelpiece, and each
minute must have seemed an hour.
At last the old clock ticked off the
end of the year. Cassidy sprang to his feet,
and grabbing Mick’s hand gave it a hearty
shake. “You’ve won, old man,” he said,
“and I’ve never been so damn glad to lose a
bet.” Mrs. Tucker appeared from the bar with
a bottle on a tray. Mick poured himself out a
fairly stiff one. “A Happy New Year!”
we cried in chorus, and drained our glasses.
Presently Mick turned white as a sheet and
slipped to the floor helpless. We took an end
each and carted him off to his hut, surprised
at the effect of one whisky, even though it
w r as on an unaccustomed stomach. Next day
I met Mick at the pub a picture of misery.
“No, thanks,” he replied, “never go ! n’ to
take no more.” “S’pose the one you had last
night was too severe?” I said. “No, it
wasn’t that,” he answered. “It was the
10 gins I had before. I never could mix
gin and whisky.”
* « * *
“Orwell”: The car-conductor told me of
the care that has to be exercised bv gentle-
men in his profession. They make the
acquaintance of so many ladies during the
day’s work that a man has to use his nut to
know where he stands. It was even worse
when the war was on. “One
real .good-looker lo’d me she
was a w.dow and invited me
to her house,” he related.
“We got pretty friendly and
I used to go there three
times a week regular. This
had been going on a year
when I meets a si range
bloke there. I ain’t jealous,
but when she introduced me
as her cousin I began to
smell a rat. I gets him out-
side,” my friend continued,
“and puts it to him straight
to give me the strength of
the tart. ‘She’s married,’
he says, ‘and her husband’s
coining home from the war
next week.’ ” “What did
you do then?” I asked. “Kept c’ear,” he
replied. “You didn’t want to become a co-
re.?” I suggested. “Not for mine,” he
answered. “xind, besides, I believe in a
fair o'o. I’m a married man myself.”
“Hatana”: In the grip of t.b. I have spent
the last year recumbent in a military sana-
torium, but, even so, have raked a smile or
two out of the ashes. The C.O. was showing
some dainty pieces of fluff around the san.
the other d«»y, -"d, no’nt’nr fo a "luster of
shelters, said, “We have a few officers over
there.” Quoth one small fluff in consterna-
tion, “Oh, Colonel! Do officers get it too?”
SURFING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When morning over the sea’s rim
Leaps with a shout of delight made gold,
When blue sweep the waves that the galls skim
And the surf on the beach creams fold on fold,
Hey, for the sun and the wind’s sting!
Let’s back to the days when our dreams ran
Free! Ah, the light and the world’s swing,
That bring hot life to the heart of a man!
Sweet is the breeze with the salt tang,
Honey-soft is the sun’s kiss;
Glad is the sea as when she sprang
Naked for joy in a dawn like this.
Mother of Loves, hear our hearts’ cry
Praise of your mouth while your arms cling I
Oh, for the throb of your fluttering sigh
While sense laughs and our dreams sing 1
On to the beach see the waves green
Smash... .Hear the hiss of the backward swirl!
Sweet as desire is the sly sheen
Of sun on the white sleek legs of a girl.
Ankles that tease, and demure feet
White, and soft eyes in which dreams sigh,
Skies that smile clear to youth’s heartbeat,
Clouds that arc gay as they dance by.
When morning over the sea’s rim
Leaps, in a splendor of new gold,
When blue are the waves that our eyes skim
As we thrash through the surf that comes fold on
fold,
Hey, for the sun and the wind’s sting....
Here’s to Boy Love and the gods’ plan!
Ho, for white arms while red lip's cling
And joy gives a girl to the heart of a man !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


No. 158.—AH Diamonds, £13/10/-
No. 144. All Dia-
monds, £17/10/-
No. 131.—
Exquisite des'gn,
Diamond set,
£17/10/-
No. 157.—Single Diamond, £7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson & (qcwoLtd.
J Two Sydneif fosfablismerits :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST.
I
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, fl7/lo/-
o. 1-10.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 148.—All
Diamonds,
£16/10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond, £9/10/-
A lawyer's reflections: —
The Mort case was badly bungled by the Sydney
police. It is axiomatic that all such tragedies pro-
duce- imitators (one was reported even while the
trial was in progress), and the more advertisement
they get the deadlier their effects are on the un-
balanced. In the Mort affair the police had one
duty and one only—to prove that the accused
was a murderess who knew/what she was about at
the time she eommitteu her crime. One
course only was open to the defence; to establish
that she was mad. Circumstantial evidence apart,
the police had the amplest proof of Mrs. Mort’s guilt.
She had confessed it to half-a-dozen people. Yet
by all the means at their command they proceeded
to make a thrilling crime pa:sionnel of .t. Swh
tactics might be understandable in the defence. In
order to establish insanity and get the sympathy of
the jurors, ,thc defence would do well to present a
picture of a woman driven distraught by her wrongs.
But what place had the police in such a galley ?
The result of their conduct was that the case for
Mrs. Mort was put from two side3. The police
gratuitously provided evidence from which insanity
might be deduced) and the defence argued on the
facts.
If the police bad behaved with more discretion;
if they had not babbled of the sensational letters they
held; if they had not passed on their hideous photo-
graphs to the press; and, above all, if they had
satisfied themselves with proving murder and nothing
else, not only would justice have been done, but the
public would have been saved disclosures which are
bound to have their reactions.
As it is, the handling of the business leaves a
bad taste in the mouth. A few weeks ago a woman
in a different position from Mrs. Mort was charged
with murdering the man who had lived on her earn-
ings from the streets, and had treated her in a way
calculated to drive any woman mad. This wretched
creature was not housed luxuriously in a gaol hos-
pital ; she was not given an arm-chair in court;
no wardress fanned her assiduously or held up a
shield between her and the weapon with which she
had killed her victim. The police contented them-
selves with the plain performance of their job, and
the unfortunate from the underworld went to gaol.
They did so much more than their job in the Mort
case as to suggest that murder is likely to be con-
doned where the assassin’s social position is high,
regardless of the public interests involved, which
demand not only that guilt shall be punished, but
that the proceedings shall he invested—at any rate
by the Crown —with as little false pathos, eroticism
and melodrama as possible.
* * * *
“Smike”: The loan of public land to Mel-
bourne Grammar 8cho >i lor er.eket and
football brings up an old suspicion that un-
BLESS YOU. MY BOY, BLESS YOU!
SUITOR: "Sir, I ask for your daughter's
hand."
PA: “ Certainly. certainly. Take the one
that' s always in my pocket.”
due importance is attached to games in our
public schools. As a small boy I went to
Grammar and got my first astonishment
when I was stung for a sports fee. which
mostly went in helping to provide the most
muscular youths with cricketing implement'',
footballs, and so forth. Next I was knocked
out by the habit of ukasing half-holidays for
various sporting combats with other schools,
and we kids bad to tramp off and bariack
for our side, regardless of our personal
wishes in the matter. But tbe terrible
seriousness of the whole business was only
borne in upon me when I was promoted to
A COMPLETE CHANGE.
"But are you taking your husband away with you on your trip?”
“Oh, yes. The doctor says I must have a complete change."
the Upper Fourth or “Shell,” as it was
called, and I sat beside a mounta n of flesh
whose notorious obtuseness was to erated be-
cause he was a star footballer and pulled a
splendid oar in the eight. This lad was
ever lightly admonished for bis soiriest
bloomers, but I and other unpromising sports
were invariably roared at wnen we ia..<.d
at our Greek and took the dreary language
of Latin too lightly. Headmasters still
vigorously deny the over-encouragement of
the sporting spirit to the detriment of les-
sons, but the huge area recently acquired
by Scotch College, coupled with Giainmar
borrowing a b.t of the Domain wnen t ie
school has already some acres of playing
grounds, is evidence of a strong tendency in
that direction, anyhow.
“B.M.”: Apropos the Irisher’s love of a
fight for its own sake. A Maoriland Digger
with an “O” stind'ng to attention before bis
surname was on leave from
France when the rebell on broke
out in Dublin in 1916. The
crack of rifle-fire ind eating a
fight, was music to the ears of
the Irish-Colonial, ai d. rushing
to the spot, he fourd himself
among the Sinn Feineis. He was
assisted off with his M.L. uni-
form, donned that of his new-
found brothers, and fought,
shoulder to shoulder with them
aeairst the Woodbines. But in
the midst of the fun he found
that his leave was up, so insin-
uating himself into his Digger
habiliments he went forth and
wired to his headquarters for
an extension of his leave on the
ground of “urgent and pressing
business.” This was granted,
he returned to lrs Sinn Fein
comrades, and “did lrs bit” till the curtain
was rung down on the rebellion, whereupon
he changed over and returned to France to
smite the Hun.
* * * *
“O.K.”: Memories of Red Cross button-
days and other modes of wide and easy
appeal are stirred up by the news that the
Defence Department is going to close a sol-
diers’ hospital at Caulfield (Melb.) and put
the remaining patients into the Alfred, wh ch
is busy raising funds for reconstruction and
extension. Now, the residue of Red Cross
funds on hand amounts to hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds, collected on behalf of
wounded and maimed soldiers, and a splen-
did endowment for tbe Caulfie.d military hos-
pital would be one fit and proper way of
disposing of this balance. But, seemingly,
the old Red Cross committee will do any-
thing, or leave anything undone, except wind
up the business and put an end to committee
meetings. Committeeing has become a habit
the dames and their gentlemen fiiends can’t
break themselves of. Anyhow, pooix broken
fel.ows still in residence at Caulfield are to
be shifted, much against their inclination, to
the overcrowded Alfred; and that shouldn’t
be. The money was meant for soldiers, and
as much of it as is n it neecn d y ov
supporting military hospitals in comparative
luxury ought to be handed over to Govern-
ment and funded in readiness for Red Cross
requirements in the next war.
* * * *
“Doodit”: That mail-carrying device men-
tioned by ex-l'.M.G. Webster recently which
turned out such a failure at the £80.000
parcels-post building in Central Square, Syd-
ney, was not the on.y one of our experience.
Twenty-odd years agone there was installed
a much-boomed Yankee “mail carrier” con-
sisting of outsize steel tubes running under-
ground from the G.P.O. to the P.O. at the
Royal Exchange. Ins'de this line of piping
was fitted a small truck which was loaded
with letters and small parcels, and then
pneumatically persuaded to the G.P.O. mail-
room. The truck required new wheels about
every five minutes; and then it was per-
suaded so violently on occasions that several
times it went close to torpedoing those who
had to arrest it on arrival. But the real
reason for the blowing out of the scheme
was the discovery of the fact that a nipper
could walk to the Exchange and return to
the G.P.O. with the mail quicker than an
attendant could load the pneumatic contrap-
tion, which cost the country about £12,000.
# * # #
The day after he got away from it. Tom
Skeyhill—the one-time b'inded signaller of
Gallinoli —painted this picture of Petrograd
for The Bulletin :—
Petrograd, once so gay with cloth of gold and
other trappings of an imperial city, is struggling in
its death agonies; or should I say in its travail
pains, for during the last three years it has madly
tried to give birth to a monstrosity misnamed
Liberty. The shops are all closed and rotting, and
the streets are deserted. The few peonle who still
walk about never sing, or smile, or laugh, but go
their way like animated mummies pulled on strings.
Often they pass friends without recognising them,
so emaciated are all. Transportation has broken
down, production is tottering,. food is scarce and
indigestible, the water-supply is irregular, the light-
ing is dim, the sewerage conditions are desperate.
Everything wooden has been burnt, and still there
is a fuel famine, and the temperature is below zero.
The holy candles which burn in the chamber of
death gleam not more ghostly than the street lamps
on Nevsky Prospect; and the organs of the corpse
are scarcely more immobile than those of the city.
Cold, miserable, starving, sick, not living but merely
existing, its label of sunshine and voluptuousness
smudged and torn, its glass shattered and broken —
a thing to be pitied: such is Petrograd to-day.
Skeyhill went to Russia to prepare a series
of lectures for the U.S.A. bureau with which
he is now connected.
* * * *
“Gagi”; Wit in ’Varsity exams, is not
confined to the professor. A med. student,
son of a doctor friend of mine, was under
oral examination. “And what steps would
you take,” asked the prof., “if, instead of
so-and-so” (a mild astringent), “you
administered blank-and-blank” (a noison
very like it in appearance). “Well,” he
prompted, as no answer forthcame, “don’t
know, eh?” “Oh, yes!” came the cheerful
declaration. “I know all right, but I don’t
think dad'd like me telling. You see, sir,”
he continued in a cautious whisper, “ it’s a
trade secret .” Naturally he thudded.
* * * *
“Furphy”: If disregard of the orders of a
subaltern be mutiny, then mutiny took place
in practically every big stunt in which the
Aussies were engaged. If a sub. was looked
upon by the men under him as inefficient,
they absolutely ignored his presence in a hop-
over, and in that extraordinary team-work
for which the A.I.F. was tamous they acted
together by common impulse without any
orders. I went over the top as a private on
Sept. 20, ’17, and I can say with certainty
that our platoon regarded the futile sub. who
nominally commanded us as a useless encum-
brance. There was no mutiny that time, be-
cause the sub. didn’t dare to mutiny.
* * * *
“T. "Weed”: I claim a record, having seen
nine separate murder charges disposed of in
one morning. In no case was there an
acquittal, and yet no sentence passed was
more than nine months. It occurred in
Papua in 1905. The prisoners were all
natives who had not been brought closely
into contact with the white man’s ways.
Judge Murray presided and there was no
jury. The evidence for the prosecution was
generally eagerly backed up by the accused.
Exhibited in court were the weapons with
which the murders had been committed.
When an accused’s turn to speak came he
would grab one of these and illustrate clearly
and succinctly the manner in which he had
polished off his victim. In one case he
used a native policeman as an imaginary vic-
tim. Pointing to the local John Hop’s
temple he made a terrific swipe at it to
show how the deed was done. The dusky
John ducked and fled, while the demonstra-
tor was awarded three months. Later, by
NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
“Wave you painted anything that mil live
after you hare gone?”
“No. What I'm striving for is something
that will enable me to live while Pm
here.”
the way, I heard Judge Murray sentence a
white man to death for the murder of a
native boy. Again there was no jury. It
was on the Merrie England, and Governor
Barton, who was aboard, signed the respite
within half an hour of the hearing.
* * * *
THE SLAVE.
[For The Bulletin'. 1
When we kissed I never thought
I should be your slave. Vet, hold me
l’n your thrall. Oh, I was caught
When we kissed! I never thought
All my pride would come to naught
When your lip? consoled, controlled me.
When we kissed, I never thought
I should be your slave. Yet, hold me!
K.s.w. JOSEPHUS Q. H.
JENNIE IN THE RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jennie in her macintosh,
Tripping to the train,
Makes my heart go splash and splosh—
Jennie in her macintosh,
Tripping through the rain.
She who powders neck and nose
Finds her labor vain.
Jennie wears a real rose
On her cheek, but not her nose,
Splashing through the rain.
Laughing raindrops patter down
Water on the brain.
Liquid seas enough to drown
Laughter ripple down and down,
Bushing towards the train.
Jennie in her macintosh
Walks with fine disdain.
All our hearts go splash and splosh—
Jennie in her macintosh,
Laughing through the rain!
K.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.


THE
UnionTrustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K.. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.B.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner. James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay. R. M. Pitt. Duncan Sinclair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.I.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
m
&
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., 102 D &e V House '
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 200 Hiszh St.. Christchurch
W A.-H, Little £r Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL "WELL.—Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS.—Loco Type Tubular. 20-30
H.P.
ENGINES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR.—S te a m-d riven
... capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL. “[1
$GEWO%
EXTRA HIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco
this style.
of
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
COMMODORE C.T. HARDY. C.B.E.,
First Naval Member in the absence of
Rear Admirol Grant.
On a- Judge who has given up his job
John Rooth, one of Westralia’s two elderly bachelor-
judges, is quitting the position he has held for 15
years, and Attorney-General Draper, whom Mrs. Cowan
defeated last month, will succeed him. In 1902, weary
of the violent personal and sectarian feuds which dis-
rupted the local Bar, the Westralian Government sent
to England for a Judge, and had the luck to get
McMillan. He was (and is) so conspicuously success-
ful that, four years later, when another vacancy
occurred, the experiment was repeated and Rooth
arrived. But the newcomer failed to impress the
public as his predecessor had quickly done. On the
contrary, some of his early judgments were so amaz-
ing, and so many of them were upset by the High
Court, that the queer story was started (it was
entirely apocryphal, of course) that he owed his
appointment to a confusion of names, the letter of
notification having been sent to the wrong Rooth. As
he got more used to Australian conditions the
quality of his work improved, and the storm of
criticism died away. Rather unexpectedly he proved
himself an acute and discriminating President of the
Arbitration Court, although he made no secret of his
opinion that industrial arbitration wasn’t a Judge’s
job. In his hours of ease Rooth golfed and punted,
but gave up the gee-gees during the war. Returning
to the turf after the peace he was rewarded for his
long abstention by striking a healthy double. His
retirement was hastened by the effects of an unlucky
street accident, a misfortune borne in the same spirit
of quiet fortitude with which he abandoned horse-
racing and resisted the most persistent efforts to drag
him into the married state.
Twice at least within the memory of
people not more than 50 years old has a
Lord Chelmsford been retired from an official
position of the gravest responsibility. One
Chelmsford, reputed to be the most efficient
of officers in theory, was recalled from com-
mand of the British troops in S’Africa after
the Zulus had ambushed some thousands of
them, and the French Prince Imperial had
been assegaied in a casual way at a place
where no Zulus were supposed to be dodg-
ing around. His military failure is said to
have broken that Lord Chelmsford’s heart.
Last week another Chelmsford —this one his
former Excellency of Queensland and N. S.
Males—“snowed great emotion” when Lord
Heading arrived at Bombay to take over his
job as Viceroy of India. Apparently it was
a case of “Three cheers for the new Gov-
ernor, and dead silence for the old one,” as
in “The Maid of the Mountains” opera. A
line system of privileged class rule it is that
accounts for two lairds Chelmsford being
found wanting “at the pinch” in such posi-
tions as Commander-in-Chief and Viceroy of
India!
Surgeon Henry Michael O’Hara, whose
pulse ceased to beat last week, provided Mel-
bourne with a day’s sensation in the early
’nineties by stoushing J. L. Purves, leader of
the Vic Bar, as he was striding along Collins-
street at 10 in the morning. The pair had
met in court earlier in the week, II.M. as
witness and J.L. as cross-examiner for the
defendant. Purves was sneery regarding the
high fees charged by O’Hara, and made sin
insinuation that aroused strong resentment
in the doctor. When they met in the street,
after some wordy thunder II.M. struck
Purves and grazed his eyebrow or touched
his cheekbone lightly. J.L.’s silk-topper
rolled ini'- the gutter. Purves hit back and
claimed that he planted one where it hurt,
but O’Hara scoffed at the claim subsequently.
Cool witnesses averred that before the two
were separated the scrap had only assumed
the dimensions of a sparring match. But.
anyway, Purves had to buy a new hat.
O’Hara won eminence when he was 30. He
was only 07 when he left, but he had a grand
innings.
Drake-Brockman, the new Judge of ex-
German New Guinea, is an old Rhodes
scholar of Westralia, and twice a winner
of the Tennyson medal for English litera-
ture in Adelaide Uni. exams, (that was
before Perth had a ’Varsity of its own).
He is the youngest brother of the brilliant
lady who married first Winthrop Hackett, of
Perth, and afterwards Frank Moulden, Adel-
aide’s present Mayor.
John Higgins gets £10,000 a year for being
chairman of the pool, nominally a co., which
is handling the Commonwealth’s wool; and
five or six years ago John Higgins knew no
more about wool than that you can use it to
stuff heads with. The war has been very
good to Higgins. Soon after it started he
offered his services to the Government as a
man who, having a good deal of money and
not being in urgent need of more, might be of
use to Hughes in “solving the metal pro-
blem” —'pulling up upas-trees and so on. He
had been a metallurgist—at Dry Creek
(S.A.) and elsewhere —and Hughes put him
in charge of the metal-handling business.
Then, though he confessedly knew nothing
about wool, he became Chairman of the Cen-
tral Wool Committee as a side-line, and
passed on naturally to the presept £10,(X)0-a-
year job. Many a patriot has wound up with
less, but few. have been more industrious.
Arthur Feez, K.C., father of the Banana-
land Bar. who has just been put on the
N. S. Wales roll, was already linked up with
the legal life of the Ma State. Grandfather
Callaghan and great-grandfather Milford
both in bygone times sat in judgment Upon
evildoers by the PI arbor-side.
H. S. Power, Maoriland-born, Melbourne-
educated, who spent his first five years of
manhood and production in Adelaide and lias
been in Europe ever since, is just back from
London with a lot of war-pictures, which lie
will exhibit, starting in Melbourne. Among
them are the three big ones commissioned for
the Australian War Museum, and three more
which have been shown at the Royal
Academy. A commission for India (for
the mess of the Bengal Cavalry) is to be
carried out whenever he can find time.
Power has had to put aside for the present
the portrait-painting of favorite horses and
dogs which first brought him fame; but he
consoles himself by getting as many animals
as possible into his battle pictures.
A.S. ADAMS, Maorilond's latest Judge, has
probably been called a wowser more
times than only other lawyer in the
Shivery Isles. Legal adviser to the M.L.
Temperance Alliance since its inception,
he has slumped that country (or years
advocating the annihilation of Hung.
He hails from Dunedin, and finds an a.
hr other-Judge on the Bench his old time
legal partner. Stringer, J.
Dr. S. T. Knaggs, who passed out at Syd-
ney the other day, was at one time surgeon
on a ship carrying 200 Chinese coolies to
South Africa under engagement to mining
companies. Some days out the Chinese re-
volted and, armed with knives and other
offensive things, swarmed on to the poop with
the object of having it out with the skipper.
The ship was running w’ell before the wind
at the time. Knaggs. who was standing be-
side the captain, advised a change of course.
The Old Man jumped at the idea, and the
vessel was soon rolling so fiercely that every
Chong became seasick and helpless. They
were all disarmed and battened down, and
the ship completed her voyage in an atmo-
sphere of peace and imprisoned Chow.
Jim Fowler, the grim Scotsman who is
the Government’s alleged majo-
rity in the House of Heps., has
been 30 years in Australia and
20 in the National Parliament.
His aversion to the Priminister
began long before he penned
“Statesman or Mountebank,” a
copy of which he posted to every
Nationalist M.H.R. outside the
Ministry with the suggestion
that the recipient should read
it instead of going to the party
meeting. He was an anti-
Hughesite in Chris Watson’s
time, and helped to thwart
Billy’s ambitions when Fisher
was made leader ; in fact, his un-
conquerable distrust of the supple
William was one of the reasons
which impelled him to leave the
Labor Party in 1909. Fowler
has some fine qualities, and
would have reached Ministerial
rank long ago if he hadn’t been
such a good hater. That kind
of thing helps a man with his
constituents but heavily handi-
caps him in the race for office.
Adelaide is paying Governor Weigall a
kind of compliment in laying out a new
suburb, close to Keswick barracks, for sol-
diers’ homes.- It is to be called Horncastle,
the name of the electorate in England for
which his Ex. sat before coming here; and
the streets are to be Archibald, Grace and
Priscilla. But these compliments fade with
time. One of Adelaide’s once best-kno\vn
suburban pubs, on the South-road, was''
politely called the Lady Macdonnell, in
honor of a Governor’s lady of the ’fifties.
But modern sign-painters have turned it
into “Macdonald.”
“Jack” Sheils, who drops into the job of
Investigation Officer of the N.S.W. Profiteer-
ing Court, forsook art to become a civil
servant. There are some of his drawings in
old files of The Bulletin. But, besides be-
ing an artist, he was secretary of the En-
more P.L.L. and of the election committee
which got D. R. Hall into Parliament on the
second ballot, after he had nearly finished
his chances on the first by alienating
the liquor vote. Sheils was given a clerical
job when the Wheat Board was formed, and
has since worked in various Government
departments. His new job carries a salary
of £525 p.a., and many an older civil ser-
vant is wondering how he managed it.
Frank Madden, Vic.’s former Speaker, left
£10,464, which goes to his widow.
Ernest Ayers, lately dead in Adelaide, was
the youngest son of Henry, one of the city's
biggest men of half a century ago. They have
not been a long-lived family; the other sons
have long been dead, and this one was an
invalid for years.
G. A. Waterhouse, the new president of
the Linnean Society (N.S.W.), is a son of
G. J. Waterhouse, of Woodford, and grand-
son of parson J. B. Waterhouse and of
the late Ebenezer Vickery. One of his great-
grandfathers was the Rev. John Water-
house, an early superintendent of Metho-
dists in Australia. The new head takes a
special interest in butterflies, and he has
the finest collection in Australasia.
Charles Leonard Gavan Duffy, son of
the High Court Judge and grandson of
Charles Gavan Duffy, one-time Premier of
Vic., was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar by
Cullen, G.J., last week. He looks back on
five years with the A.I.F. Grandfather was
a barrister, admitted in Dublin in 1845 and
in Victoria in 1856, but was without briefs.
Dad, who was admitted in Victoria in 1874.
is accounted the Father of the Vic. Bar.
From the Federal Gallery:—
As anticipated, F. L. Clapin has captured the
Clerk Assistant’s job in the Reps., lately vacated by
the elderly Woollard, but E. T. Hubert, who was
strong in the running for Sergeant-at-Arms, has
vaulted into the revived post of Second Clerk Assist-
ant and will sit to the left of the Chairman when
the House is in committee. Hubert’s fitness for the
post is probably not so much responsible for his
elevation as a desire to give a well-deserved lift to
J. R. McGregor, who in the ordinary course of pro-
motion would have taken over Hubert’s old billet of
Clerk of Papers. But F. Clifton Green, M.C., a
returned warrior and official of the Speck Assem-
bly, has dropped into Hubert’s chair, thus leaving
McGregor free to get into the decorative unifonn
of Sergoant-at-Arms. McGregor should at least em-
bellish the new part. .
A worse fizzle than Fowler’s in the Reps,
occurred 26 years ago in the Vic. Assembly.
Higgins, J., of the High Court, then member
for Geelong, gave notice of a motion of no-
confidence in the McLean Government, and
spoke from his place on the back Ministerial
bench. The Opposition, which was led by
George Turner, decided to walk out when the
bells were rung for a division if Higgins per-
sisted with his motion. Higgins on hearing
this withdrew his motion, and explained that
he had been misled iby a member of the Age
ELECTION ITEM FROM MOONTA.
LADY INTERIECTOR: "Give us figgers, figgers
we want figgers!"
COUSIN JACK CANDIDNTE: "Madam, the less
what you and me do say about figgers
the better."
staff, who told him he could rely ou sufficient
support or something to that effect. Neither
before nor after this did Higgins hold office
in a Vic. Government, but he helped Labor
out of a difficulty by becoming Attorney-
General under J. C. Watson in a Federal
Ministry.
(Continued on patje IS.)
GIOVANETTA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Park and tlie pines and the river; face of a flower!
Eight of the love that has made you, born in-an hour —
Born in an hour or a minute’s report of our bliss ;
l.ove that could think you and make you out of a kiss.
Splendor of flesh of the man and the woman craving
new life,
Lyric of sunlight sung by the clinging lips of the
wife;
Lyric of lover homing to lover in the cool dusk,
Heavy with scent of the stock and the rose and the
musk.
Youth and its beauty to link the twin lives that in
youth
Gat, thee and gave to the world new life and new
truth;
Lips of the rose in September; sweet flesh that sings
Of their raid upon Heaven to steal you when love
gave them wings.
Hair of spun corn-tassels aureoled gold in the sun,
Crown of youth’s loveliness, gladdening life nearly
run;
Halo of beauty (by dogma ascribed to the saint),
Face with the flush of a rose without tarnish or taint.
Child that makes infidels thank God for bettering
earth,
Bringing new hope to the world with the hope of new
birth ;
Flower in the grass by the river to make Autumn
Spring,
Causing the old heart to joy, and the old voice to
sing.
Park and the pjnes and the river; face of a flower;
Light of the love that has made you, born in an
hour—•
Born in an hour or a minute’s report of our bliss ;
Love that could think you and make you out of a kiss.
qUMCXSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


a
it
0
NS5
M
>
£
O
W J>
&
t
/»
J>
&
//
1%
K
&
e
<r
L»
Ns^v
$
*r
0
f
y*
S3
a
y
w
>
MM
A V&ntented fonHnenh
All over Aus-
tralia Pipe-smokers
can NOW buy
their favourite
mixture in
2oz. AIRTIGHT TINS <
THREE STRENGTHS—MILD . MEDIUM • FULL
t7-*J3
CIVIC
LONDON
MADE
THE PIPE THAT
STANDS THE TEST
OF TIME
AND CONSTANT USE


Australian-made
Implements and Engin e s.
3 HP l\\
SUNDIESEL SIX.
Starts from cold on Kerosene. No Lamp.
No Magneto. No Plug. Unrivalled for Low
Fuel Consumption in Chaff cutting, Pump-
ing, Sawing, etc. Water Cooled.
Stationary or Portable.
Ask for Illustrated Catalogues (free and post free) of
SUNSHINE ENGINES and FARM IMPLEMENTS.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Tom Graham, third member of the Vic.
Licenses Reduction. Board, will throw up
his job in July. He was a solicitor at Wan-
garatta when his friend Bowser offered him
the £800 a year.
Murtagh Murphy, who entered the Vic.
Service as a telegraph-messenger and is now
Deputy-Commissioner of Land Tax, has been
given another step up. lie has been raised
from the first class to class 1A, which makes
him equal to some of the permanent heads.
Fame! In a new and otherwise well-in-
formed book, “The New Japanese Peril,” the
author, Sidney Osborne, refers with evident
admiration to the “loud and vigorous protest-
ing voice” raised against Japanese proposals
at the Peace Conference in Paris by “Mr.
Charles Hughes, the Premier of Australia.”
Scrawled on the wall of the dark cell at
Port Arthur convict settlement (Tas.) is the
name of Syd Day. He was the first to test
the road from Hobart to Port Arthur with a
car, and the guide to the ruins tells the
tourists of the excitement of Carnarvon—
“Port Arthur” is taboo nowadays—when the
breezy theatrical printer awakened it with a
blast of his motor-horn. Most of the vil-
lagers had never seen a car before.
"Tocsee'': Apropos names that suit the jobs
of the men who do them, a Vic. telegraph
office lately hesitated to accept a wire
addressed to “Miles, contractor, Tntura
(Vic.).” sent by “Inches, architect, Mel-
bourne.” It was quite a job to convince the
counter official that the case was genuine.
Penrith (N.S.W.) claims close association
with two political notables. In 1838 Tommy
Bent was born there; his father was em-
ployed at the time on John Jamison’s Regent-
ville estate. In 1847 the family migrated to
Brighton (Vic.), where the elder Bent started
a market-garden before Ah Chow invaded the
industry. Young Tom entered the Vic. Par-
liament in 1871, by defeating George Higin-
botham for the Brighton seat. Henry Parkes
in 1839 worked as “a common laborer” on
the Regentville estate, and got 10s. a week
for it, with a ration and a half of food, and
a hut to live in. He stood it for six months,
then won a Customs job, but lost it through
writing for the newspapers. After that
he started the Empire as another stepping-
stone to Parliament,
A shabby little person carrying a red
neckerchief boarded a Norwegian schooner in
an Australian port, and announced that he
was the new cook. Half-an-hour later, when
the schooner left the wharf, he was making a
great clatter with the pots and pans, just iO
show how much at home he felt. If the store
tucker had lasted
to the next (port
all would have
been well; but he
had to bake some
bread —and he did
it with cough-mix-
ture instead of
yeast. The vision
of that crew of
hungry and hairy
Norwegians r e-
mains w i t li him
y e t. But he
dodged them until
lie was near
enough to take a
flying leap for the
wharf, and thus
escaped with his
life and his little
reel neckerchief. If
he hadn’t we would
never have won the
war, for W. M.
II u g h e s alleges
that he was that
sen-cook.
W.C. MAC-
GREGOR. K.C.,
Solicitor-General.
Maoriland.
During the centenary celebrations at Yass
(N.S.W.) there was on view the powder
horn of Michael Dwyer, the Wicklow chief,
who was mixed up in the Irish rebellion of
'07 and with Robert Emmet in 1803. With
a price of £1000 on his head Dwyer gave him-
self up to a magistrate named Hume, bar-
gaining for safe transit to America, which
Ilume promised him. “The Castle,” however,
broke the promise, and Dwyer and some
followers later on found themselves in Aus-
tralia. Andrew Hume, a connection of the
Irish magistrate and father of the explorer, is
said to have befriended Dwyer, though some
of the latter’s followers murdered the Wick-
low Hurtle after the deportation. Dwyer was
accompanied to Australia by his wife (Mary
Doyle) in 1803, and after his recall from Nor-
folk Island in 1809 he was given a grant of
100 acres at Cabramatta. His descendants
are fairly numerous in the X. S. Wales
southern districts, and so are Hume’s.
“Doctor Iodine”: The late Dr. Chas. Mc-
Carthy—sculptor, musician and Grand Old
Man of Australian surgery—was the first
in Sydney to tackle the removal of growths
with cocaine as a local anaesthetic. The
novelty of the experiment drew- a large
professional audience to the operating theatre.
The subject was a fat commercial traveller
with a small skin tumor on the back. A
needleful of cocaine was injected and the
growth seized with forceps preparatory to
snipping it off; but. as the time of action
of the drug was then unknown, apparently
the procedure was premature, for with a howl
the patient jumped off the operating table
and rushed through the hospital, with the
surgeon holding on astern and pleading in his
kindly Irish brogue: “Shtay, friend, shtay!”
At the front door they parted company,
leaving McCarthy in possession of the forceps
and the tumor. The scantily-clad patient
hailed a cab and disappeared in the direction
of his homo.
“Veronal”: In the little Kameruka
churchyard (N.S.W. South Const) lie the
remains of Major French, father of John
Russell French, of the Bank of New South
Wales. The Kameruka church owes its
existence chiefly to Frederick Tooth, brother
of Robert, the late brewer-baronet. It was
just a chance word from T. S. Mort that
made the Tooths hold on to die Kent brew-
ery, instead of selling out and investing in
Queensland squattnges. Since then the con-
cern has made more fortunes than theirs.
Cenotaphs stand on the Kameruka estate
to the memory of Selwyn and Douglas
Tooth, who fell in France. But for a special
provision of the Legislature the estate, which
passed quickly from brother to brother,
would have paid probate duty two or
three times over —and the value must
run into well over £100,000. In very early
days, it is said, the progenitor of the Bad-
gory family occupied Kameruka as a sheep-
run, but the country proved unsuited for the
jumbuck, who eventually gave place to
Strawberry.
“Jonah”: The Territory has still some
fine examples of the old battling pioneer class,
men and women who landed here in the early
’seventies, mostly from South Aus., and in
many cases have never been away since.
“Dad” Ruthven (S2) still does odd car-
penter's jobs. Scrutton, of Booroolooloo (S3),
owns two small cattle-stations, and re-
cently took a mob of his own fats across to
Queensland. Louis Perrium (79) still lives
ou the site of the Territory’s one attempt at
sugar-growing, abandoned when the German
owner inherited a fortune. Jack Clancy (72),
for years Darwin’s only white teamster.
now door-keeps at
the only picture-
show in the Terri-
tory ; a n d there
a r e M r s. Aston
(82), of Pine
Creek : Mrs. Mans-
field (77), a Bal-
larat native, now
in Darwin Hospi-
tal with a dislo-
cated thigh, through
being caught in a
willy-willy while
taking in the wash-
i n g ; and Mr s.
Tuck well (84).
grandmother o r
great - grandmother
of half the Terri-
tory ’ s children.
All of them have
bright, clear heads,
and, unlike some
recent arrivals,
have never had
their names on a
ration-list.
CAPTAIN F.
ANSON, M.C.,
A.D.C. to new
Vic. Governor
St rail broke.
“Ragar” introduces Law and Order: —
Old Spia. the Darnley Islander who piloted the
Herald over to Murray Island when Capt. Frank
Hurley was “doing” Torres Strait, has for years
taken pride in being a “Gummunt man.” He is
sergeant of police on Darnley Island, and is in
charge of the entire force of one constable, an
ancient like himself, known officially as No. 2.
Spia’s father was the notorious head-hunter Dauba,
King of Parama Island, who came to an untimely
end while visiting Steven Island. lie is said to
have been hit by a stone thrown by a myde-man
(witch-doctor) while asleep, and awaking next morn-
ing very weak in the legs he decided to
die, which he did within 24 hours. Dauba was
fiendishly cruel, and on one occasion when Spia, at
the age of eight, didn't move quickly enough, Dauba
snatched a burning piece of wood from the fire and
jambed it into the boy's back. Spia bears the sear
of that paternal correction to this day, and he's
the “oldest inhabitant” in Torres Strait. In spite
of his age, there is no man more nimble on his feet
in the dance. He ran outlast the best of them, and
in his paint and feathers is -something worth going
far to see. Spia was mate of the first mission
boat in Torres Strait, and was with McFarlane and
Murray when they first started showing the T. S.
islanders the error of their ways. He is a mine of
information regarding old customs, both of New
Guinea and the islands up North.
MEO VOTU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our steeds no longer plunge and prance;
Their bones lie bleached and bare
'Neath alien waves of heat that dance
Above the desert glare,
Where once I watched my mate advance
To shoot his dying- mare-—
Before the . kindling stars were seen
Bed bills had picked her carcase clear..
What time the haze of blind distrust
With dew of peace is laid,
The dusty sheath conceals the rust
That eats the tempered blade.
No more our strong arms cut and thrust,
No more the fusillade
Assails my gelding’s tardy stride—
The war is gone; the world is wide.
Around me lisp the leaves that grace
Tall trees of portly girth.
A pilgrim of my goodly race,
1 quaff my native mirth,
Which twitters from its hiding-place
Across the waking earth;
So why recall the darker past,
Whose wrath once held the world aghast?
Why dwell on deeds of bitter hours,
Grim nights, long days of woe,
While through my native grass and flowers
The fragrant breezes blow ?
Defeated are the hostile powers,
And crippled is the foe!
Our dead?... .Their sacrifice was great,
So let me drive my furrow straight.
God help me build again, where strife
Has left a ruin stark |
Oh, help .me soothe and heal, while life
With knowledge floods the dark !
The ploughshare and the pruning-knil'e
The better way shall mark ;
And when remembrance comes, 1 pray
No wrath consume the perfect day.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


m
Cj
wo
0
0
m
• s
w.
i
n
/
fill
r
mw
ll! 1
it
R
mm
TIMM a
M f
/
\\
m
WATSONS
/5k
<T| 0 10^
-rr
HD SCOTCH
%
iff/,?..-, .
•'M
frit '12a
m*
% KJr-W/t
b^Tn
i
a
a
rn>
cii
liCTOfl
C
a
%& Oiii>l!|\/(imw
1. v,-t .Jr
a
,fc
W5W,
: Sfkifidee
fn i
LHtf
rROOUCS or SCOTtANH
The ”R» oc 'R'e-r*
v) o h n "P Cfei v i.S •
Gentlemen.
ihe
gallalion!


MOTOR CAR
Strength and sturdiness and power, combined
with lightness that avoids repairs, make Dodge
Brothers Motor Car a good traveller on the
roughest roads.
It stands up. It invites constant use. With a little
care it will stay in commission continuously.
Dodge Brothers have a world-wide reputa-
tion for reliability. This reputation is reflected in
the splendid performance of their motor car.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
(a
V
%
/
r\\»,~^
V
3k
r;
\\/ u
Canada Cycle £ Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.,
iirifebane.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Wiuterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
CALLENDER
CAB TYRE SHEATHED
ELECTRIC CABLES
■'V
“To be bent—not to be broken
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing can be sup-
plied to any type of rubber-insulated
conductor. :
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is water-
proof, and protects insulated cable from
corrosive moisture, alkalis, oils, and all
climatic conditions.
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing will stand
plenty of rough usage, resists vibration,
and will not easily cut or fray.
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is tough,
light, and extremely flexible.
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing is specially
suited for use underground in collieries,
and in yards of shipbuilding and engi-
neering works.
“Callender” Cab Tyre Sheathing, when
damaged, can immediately be repaired
by means of our special electric vul-
caniser.
“Callender” Cab Tyre Flexibles may be used
in all premises, such as Butchers, Con-
fectioners, Fish and Fruit Shops, Stables,
Hide and Tallow Stores,' Public Dining-
rooms, Kitchens, wherever flexible con-
ductors are likely to be exposed to the
action of flies or other insects.
We are carrying large stocks of Insulated Wires, Cables and Flexibles, made by Callender s
Cable and Construction Co., Ltd., England, and can quote for every type of cable called for
in modern practice. Send your enquiries now.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney, and Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499=501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Darling
Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R, W. Gardam, Perth.
The Faith of Albert Glint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
barqucutiue Golden Gate, bound
from Bluff to Sydney with timber,
was three days out, wallowing along
before a three-knot breeze. As Thomas
Dallymore, her mate, was wont to say,
"She’s gettin’ too stiff to climb the waves
—she just slugs through ’em.” To all in-
tents and purposes she had finished her sea
career years before and was ending her days
as a disreputable coal hulk when the demand
for tonnage came. An enterprising firm
took her over, put a swarm of workmen on
her, and in due course she entered the timber
trade to resume her battles with the sea.
Her first two trips were uneventful;
but the third made ample amends for these.
Just before she cleared the Bluff the Old
Man had rushed aboard and tripped over the
cook’s cat —a tailless wall-eyed animal
performing its ablutions at bis cabin door.
Kicking it on to the fore hatch he went in
search of the cook and ordered him to put
the thing ashore.
Now, Albert Gliut. ship's cook, had one
great superstition. If he put to sea without
his cat he need never hope to touch land
again. lie had (nice told the mate that
when his eat died In 1 would take up a shore
berth. Ho it was with muttered curses of
leaving the ship for good that he slouched
down the gangway, a basket under one arm.
When he returned the basket was empty.
Dallymore made sure of that; after which
he offered to wager half his month’s pay
against half of Browne’s, the second mate’s,
that before Sydney was reached Glint would
be cured of his superstition. Browne, being
a sport, accepted the wager, arguing that
"it "was soaked clean through the cork.”
“Shouldn’t be surprised,” he added, “if he
tries to poison the Old Man, or something,
for maltin’ him put the mongrel ashore.
Anyhow, I wouldn’t care to count on him
too much in a tight corner this trip.”
For three days the weather was perfect.
The Golden Gate did all that could be
expected of her—which wasn’t much. The
third night a squall struck her with tropi-
cal suddenness, heeling her over and pitch-
ing half the deck cargo into the sea. Barely
had she righted herself when the main-
mast snapped off, killing a seaman and
stunning the captain in its fall. The mate
yelled to his men, put half to clearing the
wreckage, and led the rest aloft himself.
The first to follow him was Glint, work-
ing as coolly as if he were among his pots
and pans instead of swaying ’twixt sky and
sea. “Hasn’t lost heart over his cat, any-
how,” the mate muttered as he attacked the
singing ropes.
When the Golden Gate was plunging along
under bare poles with the wreckage cleared
away, the mate fought his way aft, followed
by Browne. The squall had settled down
into a snoring, purposeful gale, and the ris-
ing waves lifted the Golden Gate till her
masts seemed to rake the low, driving clouds.
“Keep a look out and I’ll see bow the Old
Man is,” Dallymore yelled to his companion.
He went below. The captain lay as he had
been put half an hour before—one leg
twisted, in a way that showed it was broken.
As the mate finished setting the leg a heavy
sea staggered the vessel. A scream of terror
sounded from above, followed by a hoarse
yell from the man at the wheel. The mate
rushed on deck. “My God, he’s gone,” the
man chattered; "it came aboard three feet
high an’ took him over the side."
Dallymore went to the rail, but he knew
it was idle to look for anything in that toss-
ing waste. “The wager won’t trouble Browne
any more,” he thought rather irrelevantly.
As he turned away the carpenter touched
him on the arm. “She’s takin’ water for-
’ard,” he bellowed; “that mast must ha’
holed her when it snapped.”
Dallymore followed the carpenter, a
thought flashing through his mind: what if
there were something in Glint’s supersti-
tion, after all?
The carpenter was speaking, but half his
words were bitten off by the roaring wind—
“an’ th’ cook’s workin’ like half th’ crew
rolled into one. He’s makin’ that big pump
sing.”
Dallymore saw Glint at that moment. He
was stripped to the waist, his back bent
over his work, the muscles on his great
shoulders writhing like angry snakes, his set
face covered with sweat mingled with blood
from a gash in his cheek. “Come on.” he
yelled to his companions, “pump, I tell y’—
t,h’ damn old tub couldn’t sink if she had
lead in her holds ’stead o’ timber!”
Twelve days later the Golden Gate limped
wearily into Sydney Harbor. The captain
was still confined to his berth.
“Well, Glint,” the mate hailed the cook
as he emerged from his galley, “we’ve won
through. And I don’t mind telling you that
when I expected you to quit you’ve done
the work of a dozen men. Your old super-
stition's busted, eh?”
Glint cast a look at the captain’s cabin '
and shook his huge bead. “No, it ain’t, sir,”
he grunted.
“Rot, man,” the other said—“after what
we’ve pulled through.” Then like a flash
a doubt came to his mind.
“That basket was empty when you came
aboard?” he said. . -
The cook grinned awkwardly yet tri-
umphantly.
“An’ so it. was when it went ashore,”
LLEDNOC.


'/([
f,1lv
•m
S? Vi
I
nm
m
fill
imf
jiiiS
I
If
I 11
mill
(iii.:
min vi i in i
Lil
'<"11
in
a.
V*““
Q
1
IU
ii
w
a
Q
<
Q
IIKVffflll
-
a
ILI
afO
a
-ii
a
ErJ
fiiFTRl
0
#
II
mu
□TQ
i
w
-m
nr
Ml
Mi
I
il 7
I
/iMIll
k
i
CC3
LU
I
IS
mm
w§
■Til
O o
£ 00) =
Uc£
UjUi
ora
1||
WAV////
•////////// ,/
UUUhliNA
Hi
OTQ
T IT
wiiiiiiiiniuniM
!f
Paint your home
—and protect it!
The house protected with Berger’s
Paint is a house fortified against the
weather--a house secure against
decay. Woodwork needs protection.
Repairs cost so much now that it
becomes essential to keep them
down to an absolute minimum.
Berger’s Paint will effectually protect woodwork from
heat and moisture. It provides an elastic film of pure
White Lead and Zinc Oxide—a protective covering
that will not chalk, peel, or blister, if properly applied.
“B.P.” is the most economical paint you could use.
Every drop in every can is uniform in quality, and
ready to apply, so that no time is lost in mixing.
The painter is as sure of his progress as he is
of the result —a perfect finish, without waste.
Specify Bergers “B.P.”
Manufactured at Rhodes, near Sydney, by
Lewis Berger & Sons, (Aust.) Ltd.
SOLD BY BERGER AGENTS IN ALL
CITIES. SUBURBS and COUNTRY TOWNS.
MR. BEPCER.


•=SSP« S|W
j'%
si sm
ok
mst-s a
SiLf r --.iia*: ■^B>_\v
.iMifi; ~B._V
' 1 mm ii
8
w
m&* m
, '&■ J. ..■ — - ||i"i el
&:''& *i»
ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING
From the mightiest transmission to the lightest drive,
DICK’S Original Balata Belting gives exceptionally effi-
cient and economical service under all conditions—but
MOST exceptional under abnormal conditions.
DICK’S powerful belts are everywhere solving the “brute
strength” and durability problems on heavy service and great
main drives. Equally so in light transmission where speed
is terrific, accuracy essential and vibration must be reduced
to a minimum ; and on individual motor-drives, involving small
pulley diameters and severe fluctuation of load.
BELT USERS. —If you have belts causing expense or trouble
by reason of exposure to excessive heat or cold, dust, dirt,
steam, acid fumes, grit, oil; because of stretching, warping,
slipping under load, or inability to resist hard wear —we will
undertake to correct that trouble with DICK’S ORIGINAL
BALATA BELTING. Write for Catalogue.
JAMES HARME 8 COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
York and Wynyard 581-3 Little Collins 30 Currie Street.
Streets. Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
‘i
/
Gillette
—used for his first
shave becomes
his razor for life!
No stropping—no honing.
Standard set, in neat leather case 28/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors: S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
MADE IN
CANADA.
*NOWN THE
WORLD OVER
A Self-contained Staff.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
d \ KOIiGE ALBURY, sternly avoiding
1 ~JT the blandishments of old friends,
walked along the streets at that
hour when the sale of intoxicants is yet
legal—which is to say, just before such time
as the traffic halts for a moment to begin
again as trading within prohibited hours.
“Come on,” said the closest of the old
friends; “a spot in time saves nine.”
“Or means nine,” replied Albury, halting
just long enough to show that he must go.
"I will quote you—‘My son, when sinners
invite thee consent thou nor.' Also, old man,
I’ve married a wife less than a year ago.”
“We heard you were dead, George, and
it’s true.”
“Knowing that, you won’t be surprised
if 1 at once go to heaven.”
“On your record, yes, George; but death’s
a great reformer —go to your heaven.”
“I will. She’s waiting.”
“So long, George. Almost thou persuadest
me to be a married man. But I hate gaol
and double irons.”
“And I hate solitary confinement. That’s
why I go home. Bless thee, Bill! So long.”
He continued northerly, saying to him-
self: “And if I’d married before I did I’d
be a richer man than I am.”
In a great sandstone building of the city
was George Albury’s heaven, wherein one
girl represented all the angels. She was
George’s girl; signed, sealed and delivered,
to have and to hold, transferred by contract,
the consideration being mutual love and
affection.
A tramcar, quite mad, emerged and fell
down a steep place towards the sea as
George opened the gate and ascended by the
elevator to the seventh heaven ; which was
so because it was on the seventh floor, and
because George’s girl was there. She had
kept dinner back exactly one minute and
a half, and it had seemed one and a half
years. George went to kiss her, but she
said, still bride enough to be scandalised
at his pace: “Not before the staff, George!
Come into the boudoir.”
George, muttering something very disre-
spectful to the staff, followed. Once clear
of the open door she stopped and waited to
be kissed. This waiting was not so long
as the waiting for dinner; so, being a busy
man with plenty of time for that sort of
business, George kissed her again.
She stopped him, smilingly : “George ! One
of the staff may be passing!”
“Look here, Kit.” said the man who had died
and gone to heaven, “I'm sick of the staff!
It’s too big for two people. Why can’t we
be alone with each other? It’s the curse
of this pretentious, luxurious life we lead—
chauffeur, lady’s help, butler, house-boy,
cook, all the maids, the laundress and my
valet. There’s too many for the size of the
place. I can’t go anywhere without falling
over one of them. And I can’t kiss my own
wife in my own dining-room because one
of the dashed staff is waiting round.”
“You’re a good, boy, and you came home
only a minute late, and after 1 dinner is
served all the staff can go off duty, and
we’ll be on our very lonely own all the
evening,” she answered.
“Good-oh ! Tell you the truth, I’m full
of them and all their duties. Separating us
—that’s what they do.”
“Their duties have to be done, George,
to make the home pretty for the mate.”
“Well, we don’t want a whole zoo to
make the nest right for the bird. Come on
to dinner.”
“Did you see any of the old friends who
used to keep you out late before we were
married ?”
'Yes —half-a-dozen of them.”
“And did they still press you to go into
that shocking place where all the women
drink cocktails V”
“Yes—and one of the best in the world
didn’t want to take no for an answer to-
day. When I told him I was married he
said he heard I was dead.”
“Oh. the nasty fellow! And what did
you say?”
“I told him that I am dead, and that I
was going home to heaven.”
“Pretty, pretty! But why didn’t you
have a drink with a man you liked so
much ?”
“I couldn’t afford it.”
“Afford what?”
“The time —time is money.”
“Brilliant boy ! Now you go to the din-
ing-room, and as soon as the staff has
brought in the dinner I'll pack them off for
the evening. The house-boy can go to see his
sick aunt who lives at the movies, and the
butler can take all the maids to the pictures
—at his own expense, of course.”
“And tell the chauffeur to take a tram ride
and the laundress to starch and iron herself,
and we’ll all be happy.”
The butler and the maids brought in the
dinner, and George's girl dismissed them all
and took the seat she fancied when they
were alone; not as chatelaine facing her
husband, but next to him, as close as she
could make it without spilling the soup.
They went through the meal in luxurious
leisure; soup, grill, fruit and coffee. And
George, being in a very pleasant mood, said
even a good word for the cook, and one for
the laundress for the immaculate napery.
and yet another for the butler for the glass
and cutlery.
“Which reminds me,” said he. “that to-
night I have to make the return for the
census.”
“What do you put in it?”
“The name and condition of every person
who sleeps under my roof to-night.”
“And must you tell the truth?”
“Bad citizen ! Yes. I must.”
“Then everybody will know about —about
the staff?”
“No fear! How important do you think
we are? We are a few people in all the mil-
lions of Australians—five and three-quarter
millions it is, and I hope it will prove to be
six. Nobody will ever see our names except
as mere numerals in the sum. Nobody will
ever know how many of a staff we have —or
how few.”
“That’s all right then. But we really
couldn't do without the maids, and the cook
and the houseboy.”
“We couldn’t do without one of them. But
the chauffeur and the butler and the lady’s
help”
“I won't have one of them go.” she replied,
firmly, turning from him and walking away
a little, and opening the double windows as
she spoke, explaining the action by saying:
“I must give poor Felix a little air.”
"I’ll come into the conservatory, too,”
said George.
At that moment with the opening of the
windows the sound-proof house became proof
to all but sound. A mad electric tram roared
along the street and repeated its Gadarene-
swine act with the noise of a thousand tons
of scrap-iron thrown over a cliff. Two cab-
horses galloped along the reverberant
asphalt, with the sound of the galloping
of horses simulated by the property-man of
a theatre wearing cocoanut-shells on his
hands.
“The birds in the Club garden are quiet,”
said George’s girl, listening to the silence of
the little street, scheduled to imitate the
noises of a boiler-factory every four minutes
when an electric-tram hurled itself in at one
end and out at the other.
“Only at daylight and dusk he sings.
Traffic silences him. When he sings over
there he’s trying to pretend he’s still in the
bush.”
“I know, George—he's a good fellow. But
his wife’s a climber and makes him live in a
Hat. That’s why he sings in A sharp.”
“You’re a great kid! I thank God for
every remembrance of thee.”
“And poor Felix should be in the bush,
too. I try to be a good mummy to him ; he
gets the morning sun and I darken his room
in the afternoon and he has plenty of water.
And talking of water, that laundryman—I
had to part with the laundress ; she couldn’t
keep on at the work—and that laundryman
I send out to is a thief, and he spoils things.”
“Now Barabbas was a steam laundry,”
said George. “Well, we’ll sack him and get
a new thief. And is that all the news of the
day? Then come along and I’ll finish the
work I brought home, and after that we’ll
fill in the census paper—we two alone—
before the staff comes back.”
“I’ll bring in Felix, too. The night air
is all right for him, but the early-morning
sweeping-machines fill his lungs with dust.”
They removed to George’s girl’s little sit-
ting room, and George, with an ambitious
stack of paper before him—big enough for
the work of forty days and forty nights—
took a score of sheets and began. He re-
ferred often to a field notebook and twice he
rose and consulted plans and sections;
but except for these self-interruptions he
worked steadily, the other little breaks being
for refilling his pipe, and lighting his pipe,
and letting it go out until there were little
heaps of spent matches around him. his
usual wastefulness of matches being exag-
gerated by the fact that these were Japan-
ese matches. Thus George smoked and
wrote and consulted the field notebook and
the plans and sections, and George’s girl
sat beside him and sewed intimate little
garments that looked like clothes for a doll
and were not; and occasionally they made
the house a home by looking up at one
another and smiling, each in quiet joy of
the presence of the other, circled by full
trust and measureless content.
Every four minutes and true to schedule
they heard the noise—now muffled by the
double windows —of the electric tram hurl-
ing itself into the street and out again; and
then the intervals grew longer, and George’s
girl put her work away and sat back in the
chair very quietly so as not to disturb
George’s writing. But when he pushed the
papers away and reached for another box
of matches as the hour chimed from the
G.P.O. she said:
“Wait. George. Count—if only the trams
will stop long enough to let you.”
They counted together—nine, ten, eleven,
tw “Oh. it’s midnight and you haven’t
done the census yet!”
“Won’t take long,” said George. “S'pose
all the staff's in V”
“All home, dear —and all glad to be home,
or they should be.”
The Head of the Household spread the
forms of the census return before him and the
lady of the house bent over him as he wrote.
“I'll put it on a bit of scribbling paper
first, so as not to make mistakes on the form:
Albury, George, Male (of course), aged 30,
married (too true), architect; Albury, Kitty,
female, aged 23, married woman (look at
the dignity of her). Home duties.”
"Now the stall'.”
“I’ll fill in the names after;
Chauffeur.
Butler.
Lady’s Help.
Cook.
Parlormaid.
Chambermaid.
llouseboy.
Valet.”
“It’s late. George. I'm run out of change.
Give me sixpence and I’ll put out the milk
jug.”
When she returned lie had the draft of the
list complete:
GEORGE ALBURY, Architect.
GEORGE ALBURY, Chauffeur.
GEORGE ALBURY, Butler.
GEORGE ALBURY, Lady’s Help.
KITTY ALBURY, Home Duties.
KITTY ALBURY, Ilousebov.
KITTY ALBURY, Cook.
KITTY ALBURY, Parlormaid.
KITTY ALfifljTRY, Chambermaid.
KITTY ALBURY. Valet.
“But you haven’t put Felix in, George.
It says all persons living under this roof
this night, and poor Felix is living.”
“All right, he can go on the draft, anyhow.”
And the head of (he house wrote: “Felix
the Fern, in six-inch pot, age one year,
bachelor ; occupation : being green and curly.”
“That’s right, and the staff hasn’t been
paid all its wages to-day.”
George kissed 50 per cent, of the self-
contained staff and asked for a receipt on
behalf of the other 50 per cent.
The last tram crashed into the street and
out again.
Dulce domum , self-contained, while it lasts
—Love that makes Time pass away as Time
makes Love pass away, when no more a
Feast of Lucullus is the Dinner of Herbs.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


cnMiceJ
Vj.
%
l
mm
3
&
V
,,,, ,-.kA
r>
o
N
mm
#.*
■;r. ;
:
I
i
!ls
. • ■
m
m
0
■
3*
LS
:
»►
•• :■
m
m
m
§i
mm
>■■
**»«
■
saw-*®
r
□
THERE t' BACK
0
BOOMERANG TYRES


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
i:>9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
300-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET. ADELAIDE.
Why suffer with
BARCOO
when you can be cured?
Send for booklet telling how.
Barkura Remedy Co.,
522 George Street, Sydney.
King George IV
11IIW m WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“T.P.”: The other day a dog, owned by
A. T. Thomson, State Land Valuer, N.-12. Victoria,
chased a snake into a duck-yard, and great was
the commotion therein. Next night 'a terrified
quacker laid an egg, and a perfectly-formed snake,
2in. long, was embossed on the shell. I formed
one of a score of sceptics who had their supercilious
smiles rubbed off when they examined the freak.
THE BEST OF FRIENDS.
“Have yon and Bill had a row? You used
to he such great mates.”
“Yes, Bill and I was such good cobbers Unit
we was always scrapping, so we agreed
not to speak for fear we might have a
row.”
“Jobber”: Roughriders? Permit me to
introduce Mick Kearnan, who was breaking on Kenil-
worth station (Q.) about 12 years ago. Most
Bananalanders will know him; and the horse was
never foaled that could throw him. He was under
10st. when I knew him, and knock-kneed; no man
could look less like a horseman—when he was not
in the saddle. In addition to buckjumping compe-
titions, Kearnan won many races at country meetings.
In this he resembled Clarrie Lancaster. By the
way, “Fenstanton” (B. 3/3/’21) puts Lancaster
among the ancients of 40 to 50 years ago. The
man is not yet 50 years of age, and now keeps a
pub at Little River (Vic.). How many old-timers
remember Peter Leslie, one of the finest rough-
riders Queensland ever produced ? I saw him in
Pitt-street (Sydney) recently, old and grey.
“Recoil”: “Bonragi” (B. 17/3/’21) passes
on some incorrect information to “Cudgewa” concern-
ing “fishing” with explosives when he says that
“gelignite with its slow-rending action is much less
effective than dynamite.” Dynamite, gelignite, gela-
tine dynamite and blasting gelatine are nitro-
glycerine compounds, and classed as “kicking"
explosives, and the vigor of their "kick” is in the
order given. Dynamite contains about 70 p.c. nitro-
glycerine, and the remainder is a non-explosive
absorbent, whereas its more aristocratic relations
have a higher percentage of the liquid absorbed into
stuff which is, mainly, of a highly explosive nature
and compounded to add to the violence of the
explosion. Gelignite is not slower than dynamite,
and won’t “rend” \yorth an election speech. Try
it in soft ground and see. While on the subject
let me say that the dynamite family strikes equally
in all directions and not “down." as is commonly
supposed. As an angler I’m glad "it must he
dynamite.” That dictum cuts out most of Aus-
tralia’s would-be law-breakers. The smelly stuff
practically disappeared from our markets about 20
years ago.
“.Sir Spen”: Tell "Mulga” (B. 3/3/’21)
I said tlie cattle-throwing contest at Moree was
for the championship of Australia because it was
so advertised throughout the Commonwealth. As
no set rules for such a competition were at the
time in force, rules in accordance with those laid
down for championships in other lines of sport were
formulated, and the biggest prize-money ever offered
in Australia for cattle-throwing was put up.
"Mulga'’ may be right in saying there are experts
at the game in outback Queensland; but if they
don’t think it worth while defending their laurel*
in open competition, how is the champion to be
found? Evidently the Moree contest was recognised
to he of significance, in some parts, at least, al
the P. and A. Society was recently asked for sug-
gestions from far-away Rockhampton (Q.), where a
similar joll-oh is to be held.
* » » •
“Parry O.”: 1 claim that Dickie West,
of Auburn station, Burnett district (Q-), is Aus-
tralia’s champion at tying and throwing a beast
against time. Jacky Bond (abo.), who won the
championship of Australasia at Moree (N.S.W.)
lately, worked on Auburn and Hawkwood stations
for years, but, although competing, never had a
look in at any Gayndah (Q.) carnival where cracks
like Carver, Munro and the Wests compete
annually at one of the best camp-drafting and bull-
tossing shows in Australasia. West lias won the
“tossing” three years in succession there, and as
the Burnett is a large cattle- and horse-breeding
district it takes a good man (and tiorse) to win at
Gayndah, where there are often 20 or 30 starters
in an event.
* * * *
• “Tix” : A word in the ear of those whose
lambs are being attacked by eagles: always carry
a pea-rifle on the rounds to gather the scalps after
poisoning. Eagles take poison readily, but as soon
as they feel it operating they jazz, loop the loop
and cut all sorts of capers to dislodge the bait.
Many succeed in throwing it up, and although very
sick for a few hours get well again. I couldn’t
understand why I was getting such poor results, see-
ing that the eagles were so thick and that they were
cleaning up the carcases poisoned for their benefit,
so decided to be on the spot before daylight. I took
cover close to the poisoned ’roo. and at one period
saw 34 eagles wrangling for first-cut of fillet. Then
their coppers got hot, and you never saw such a
tornado. Some turned it in without much of a
struggle, but others kept whirling and somersaulting
until they threw up their breakfast, and after a
while were able to fly a short distance. Then the
.22 spoke, and the bag numbered 28, but had I not
been there the total from poison alone would have
been only 12.
* * •* »
“Mug”: While travelling in S.-W. Queens-
land recently I was caught in a whirlwind, and
in the middle of it a shower of water fell. Both
horses got wet, and about four gallons fell in the
buggy. The nearest water was about a mile and
a half away.
“Xamilc”: Strange, the power of habit.
I‘d got soaked by a sudden storm, and turned into
the first place I came to with the idea of getting
dry. As soon as he stepped off the verandah I
knew it was Dale. I hadn’t seen him for years—
didn’t know where he was, in fact. He was in the
act of measuring the rain when I accosted him.
“Gripes, but I’m glad to see yer!” he shouted.
“Wait till I measure this an’ I’ll be with yer.”
He poured the water from the gauge-bottle into
the measuring-glass to a string of delighted remi-
niscence. “How long is it? Not since that night
at Hogan’s pub after old Harry got married!
Struth! It’s like old times! Weli, here’s luck, old
son !” and before I could stop him he had swallowed
the whole blessed 43 points.
* * * v *
“Bean-Stalk”: I was lately shown by a
Queensland timber-cutter the halves of a 5ft. brown
snake that had been bitten clean in two, ar.d a
dead gohanna lying near it. The man had seen
the fight on the day before. The big go. had the
snake gripped near the middle and did not let go
till he had him chewed through, the snake striking
him fiercely till near the end. The go. then moved
slowly toward a nearby waterhole, probably to drink,
but on seeing the man he turned and tried to climb a
tree.. The venom had evidently got in its work, for
he fell back after climbing a few feet and died where
he lay.
THE HALLMARK OF THE HERO.
SKIRTS : "Do you think loug-hoired men ore unnusm
TROUSERS: "Dunno about geniuses. But any man that can do into a hairdrexser't and
ask for a shave ana refute a haircut i s a hern."
“A.M.C.”: I wonder if “Dean” (B.
17/3/’21) expects us to take seriously his statement
that a black gin cured a shearer of gonorrhea within
10 days. 1 was in the A.M.C., and spent over 18 months
at Bedford, and even there, under ideal conditions,
a cure seldom took less than three weeks, and then
only in the very mildest cases. Indeed, it is still
doubtful whether gonorrhoea can be completely cured.
If there was such a cure as “Dean” mentions, prac-
tically every' doctor in Australia would be in Queens-
land trying to find the weed and - an enormous for-
tune. Why is it, if the abos. are conversant with
this wonderful “cure,” nearly 50 per cent, of them
are Buffering from gonorrhoea ?
“Cudgewa”: In Western Vie. there are
cow-cockies who always graze a few goats among
the cows. One informed me that it prevented abort
tion in the cattle. He didn't know for certain, but
he thought the goats’ special titbit on their menu
was some plant which caused the ailment among
his cows. Anything in it—or is it another country
superstition ?
ANTIPATED.
PARSON : "Billy, I'll conic round aml baptise
that veir piccaninny of your s"
BILLY: "Him plenty plurry baptise already."
PARSON : “Who performed the ceremony?"
BILLY: "Him been fall in the plurry creek."
“Zabs”: An old familiar war-word has
been the salvation of some Digger post-splitters
midway between Yenda and Binya, Griffith line
(N.S.W.). Travellers constantly left gates open,
until in desperation the Diggers posted this notice:--
“Be a and leave this gate open.”
* * * #
“Bersaglieri”: Re “Doc. Iodine’s” par (B.
17/3/’21) on liquid consumption, my experience is
somewhat different. Three of us—sailor, soldier and
scribe —ordered a bottle of beer apiece plus straws
one north-wind Friday; last to finish to pay the
night’s expenses. My straw kinked early, and in
the middle of the race between the other two I
suddenly lost interest and went outside. I was soon
joined by the Senior and Junior Service represen-
tatives—none too soon either. I have never seen
the full bottle of beer drunk through a straw yet—
not even in Bananaland.
* * » *
“Merlin” If “Sir Spen” (B. 17/3/’21) will
go to any museum he will find the exhibits of snakes
labelled variously “oviparous,” “viviparous.” Most
reptiles lay eggs, but some snakes have departed from
the fashion and produce living young. The tiger,
black and copperhead are all viviparous, but the
brown, which is also venomous, lays eggs. As for
as I know, all non-venomous snakes lay eggs, but, as
in the case of the carpet-snake, they are often far
advanced in incubation before being laid. The eggs
need moisture but no considerable heat for hatching.
If they get too dry they shrivel up and die.
“Aragun” : Has any Abo. writer ever seen
a dog tackle a death-adder ? On dozens of occasions
I've known tried snake-killers baulk at them. The
worm invariably catches the dog's eye, but the dog
will stand rooted to the spot, growling and making
no attempt to attack. Is it the power of the eye
that cows Bluey, or does some instinct warm him
that the eye’s owner carries a surer punch than his
scaly brethren ?
“Briseus Govrianawa”: Re the Warenda
light and scornful commentary on same by “Wasp”
(B. 3/3/’21). I worked on Lucknow (adjoining
Warenda) in 1917 and 1918, and saw this light
many a time. “Facts are chiels that winna ding.”
and I can swear to this one, any way.
“Stumpy”: I don’t know what a ’roo will
do with a damaged rudder (B. 10/3/’21), but I once
caught a paddj'-melon in a log and lopped his off.
He went without any trouble over the first 20yds..
which were clear of obstacles. But at the first
hurdle, a myall log, he lost control and crashed
badly.
(Continued on page 26.)
DREWHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A ship in the east goes southward
’Neath a pallid, waning moon.
And the black swans cry, as they rise and fly
O’er the silent, still lagoon.
Long Reef to the northward glimmers,
Fringed around with foam and sj ray ;
On its rocks ore light in the lone midnight,
Where a fisherman waits for day.
From the sea a wind comes straying
Through the sleepy swamp-oak trees ;
And their wailings sound in the dusk around
Like the dirge of haunted seas.
And down on the long beach falling,
The waves seek rest to win,
As the moon drifts on, a spectre wan,
And the midnight tide comes in.
The fisherman’s light burns redly
’Neath the pallid, waning moon ;
And the black swans rest, head sunk on breast,
On the silent, still lagoon.
As vain as the hopes of mortals
Is the rest the waves beseech,
As they croon and call, and break and fall.
On the sands of Deewhv beach.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


A. Saunders" Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set Pearls, 15/-
loet., 25/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Links. 20/-;
heavier, 25/-, 30/-.
15ct. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarine, £2/10/-
k. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade,
open-face Keyless Lever, £2.
Higher grades, £8/10/-* £3.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
a
moud King. ISct.
Gout. tio. uaiger
Diamond, £15.
£20.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring. ISct. Gold,
£10.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£2/10/-, £4, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Rubies, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement,
compensation balance, £8/10/-. Others £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £10, £12/10/-, £15, £20. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap
and Joint Bracelet, £3. Heavier. £3/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £12/10/-. 15ct. Gold, extra
jewelled, £17/10/-, £20. Guaranteed three years.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
We send all Orders, per Registered Post, Free
throughout Australia .
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
LI
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls, £3.
A. Saunders’
fine Diamond
Crossover King,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-
over King. lSet.
Gold. £1/10
£7.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Ring.
ISct. Gold,
£1/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders' Oct.
Gold Circle Brooch,
set Aquamarine,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, extra heavy plain
design, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
15et. Gold. £2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled
U'altiiuui Lever, 10-year case,
£5/10/'-; 20-year. £7/10/-; extra
jewelled, £8/10/-, £10, £12/10/-, £15.
A. Saunders' lnct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Yellow Sapphire, *2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25/-
A Lifetime of Musical Enjoyment
'll’
*
\ V •<
tf
s r
'//riMHf'.t,
r.
v-
A visit to our Showrooms will
not commit you to the slightest
degree of purchasing, but we
will appreciate the opportunity
of letting you test this magni-
ficent instrument.
When you buy a BEHNING PLAYER
PIANO you get more than a musical
instrument, you really endow your home
with a perpetual, inexhaustible fund of
finest entertainment.
The BEHNING PLAYER PIANO makes
even the novice able to play difficult or
simple piece's with ease and understand-
ing. It gives pleasure and inspiration, not
only to his listeners, but to himself as he
plays.
You can buy a “BEHNING” on terms to suit you. A
small payment puts the instrument in your home at once,
and you can pay the balance over a period of years.
Your present piano can be taken in exchange.
Send for Catalogue
and
Price List To-day.
%
o*2
<b°.
AMD AT
B R I50flrtt. rttWCflJTUt.
U.TMORt.


Restful Sleep from dusk to dawn
m
w.
* ft
Don’t lay awako
at 2 a.m.
can be yours. Don’t toss restlessly night after night. Don't
let overwork or worry upset your nerves. Calm them,
nourish them by taking an occasional dose of CLEMENTS
TONIC, the thirty-year-old blood and nerve medicine.
Childlike, healthy slumber will be your nightly enjoyment.
Clements Tonic ensures
Purchase a bottle from your chemist or storekeeper. Give it
a trial. You will be pleased with its almost immediate
curative effects!
“Silas”: T was out with a small party
from Gembrook during the Easter holiday, arid made
a picnic camp by a creek pool, where our mild
festivities were disturbed by howling and yapping
near by. A search revealed a small black-and-tan
sheepdog secured to a log with a leather belt. Me
was almost starved. An hour later a man carrying
a swag came whistling through the trees, lie was
footsore and covered with the fine yellow dust of the
local tracks. “Anybody here seen a dog?” he asked
We directed him, and he said : “I’m obliged to you
for feedin’ him. Fact is, 1 tied him up there day
afore yesterday an’ I was tight and forgot him. 1
went to Melbourne by train and when I sobered up
I was broke. Then I recollected me dog, and I had to
start back.” lie had walked every foot of the way,
40 miles, and was hungrier than his friend.
“Jim Carew” : Lias any Abo. noticed the
two different cries of the sentinel-bird of a flock of
cockatoos? When he wants to warn the flock of
any danger he lets out one loud, harsh “squak” and
the flock immediately makes itself scarce. The other
call is when he gets tired of doing sentry work and
wants to be relieved. This time he utters two loild,
shrill notes, and immediately another bird comes and
takes his place, lie never has to call twice. Who
arranges the reliefs?
“Weasel” : When I used to . take my daily
swim at Darwin (N.T.) 1 became very good friends
with the walking or hopping fish of those parts, a
little greyish spotted fellow about two inches long,
who dances about out of water with the help of his
breast tins. If I were lying quiet, for any time, in
the shallows it was odds-on~ that one of the fish would
climb up on my exposed shoulders and meander
round. There were usually several of them at high
tide skipping on the shores just above the water-line.
“Hagai’”: Let any flea-bitten Abo. who
seeks relief try this: Two ounces, of pure turps, one
ounce pure methylated spirit, and a piece of camphor
about the size of a marble, put together in a bottle,
shake well, and left to stand till the camphor is
dissolved. A few drops of this mixture sprinkled
about the bluey and in the bunk will ensure a
night undisturbed by even the hungriest flea or
other marauder. The stuff has a pleasant and
fresh smell, wherein it differs from the so-called
insecticides, which generally carry the deuce of a
stink, and do no good.
PROBABLY.
"Yes; it's all very Sad. But I wonder why
they buried him in Victoria?"
"Oh. I suppose it was because he was dead."
“Euro”: If the crows are bothering you
and are too cunning for the shotgun, try this.
When you kill your next mutton or beef, fill a
jam-tin with gore; dissolve a pinch of strychnine
in a little vinegar, and mix it well with the blood ;
fasten the tin to the top of some convenient post—
and then muster all hands to help you count the
casualties.
“Malua” (Fiji) : “Hagai - ” (B. 13/1/’21)
is correct when he states that the Fijians have some
wonderful herbal poisons and remedies, but he errs
when he says they will not divulge the secrets of
them. I have used several of them for the planta-
tion labor very often, and found them quicker cures
than the usual stock remedies. The best of them
are those used for cika (sandy blight), made from
the bark of a tree, and for dysentery, made by
pounding two barks into a pulp, which is mixed with
water and strained off. Their chief poison is the
juice of a vine which grows along the seashore.
The only remedy I have known them to be reticent
ALL OLD ISAAC NEWTONS FAULT.
THE CRANK: "A Aislocaton of some-er-comples-er-part of the-er-machinery.
I presume?"
THE AVIATOR: "You presume wrong. It's all through the blanky law of gracitatian."
about is a root that produces abortion, and, inci-
dentally, leaves the woman barren evermore. The
leaves of a wild fern and the leaves of one of our
native trees, when pounded and mixed with water,
make a dope that docs away with any necessity
for chloroform or twilight sleep during childbirth.
Some years ago a visitor from Australia took
samples away with the object of placing them on
the market, but no way of preserving the medicines
could be discovered, and so nothing came of it.
I can tell “Ragar” where he can see a notebook
almost full of these native remedies, and , can also
give him the name of a qualified medical practitioner
in these parts who lias used them (or some of
them, at least) and got splendid results. During
the ’flu epidemic, in many of the outlying district's,
we could not get quinine, but got just as good
results from the inside bark of the common puzzle-
nut, and I can assure “Ragar” that its efficacy was
made kppwn to us bv the natives.
“T.II.M.” : When Bishop Nixon made a
cruise of the Bass Strait Islands in the early ’fifties
he planted cabbages on New Year Island, a speck
of about 150 acres, a few miles west of King Island
and frequented chiefly by mutton-birds, and snakes.
Seventy years have passed, and descendants of these
cabbages now raise the eyebrows of visitors. There
is about an acre of them, and they vary in height
from a modest couple of feet to no less than 12ft.
6in., the top carrying a more or less orthodox cab-
bage and the extensive stems a fine array of sprouts.
Since November 16 last a couple of returned soldiers
have been living on the island, around which fish,
etc., abound, and until they were joined by a third
man two months ago their tally of snakes was 771.
It is now (March 21) 1050, and still there’s no
apparent reduction in the supply. There is only
one kind of snake on the island—an apparent cross
between a tiger and black snake; jet black on back,
yellowish for first 6in. to 9in. of belly, then whitish
to the tail.
“Itetsof” : “Coringa” (B. 17/2/’21) says
that ticks fasten on to the most anaemic horse in a
mob. P’raps so; but has color anything to do with
it? When I was on the Lachlan during the ’90
drought I noticed that if a house got “chatty” 99
times out of 100 it was a grey.
“3528”: Wliat is the usual method of pro-
cedure when a gohanua dines off eggs? I have sur-
prised a go’ amidst a nest of eggs, four or five of
which were sucked clean through a neat hole in the
end. And now I’m laughed at by some know-alls
who aver that he invariably takes them whole.
“The Lizard”: As one who has travelled
the greater part of the Kimberley's, I say “Caris-
brook” (B. 4/11 ,/‘20) is wrong in his estimate of
the natives in those parts. From Derby to Hall's
Creek, thence north to t'oekburn Range, thence west
via Mt. Deborah to Derby, the numbeivwould not
exceed 4000. Almost every one of these has seen
me. I reckon there are not 15,000 in the rest of
the country, and under 500 of these have failed to
see “white pfeller.” I struck a mob of 32 near
the Caroline range, about the centre of the country
described by “Carisbrook,” and was surprised to find
only four who could not understand plain Australian.
From Mt. Casuarina* to Port Warrender, and along
the Drysdale River, the nig. is the most plentiful.
The most untrustworthy can be found along the King
Edward River. I quite agree that the nigger is
dying out. Murder and a little surgical operation
favored by the abo. is the cause. What number
of adults to every juvenile did “C.” see in any mob
he came across? I failed to find more than one
kid to 16 adults. My grand-kids will not bo very
old when the abos. pass away to better hunting lands.
About 1883, when McDonald Bros, took up Fossil
Downs station, on the Margaret River, the number
of natives ran into hundreds. There are not 40 now.
In the whole of the Fitzroy district there are not
more than 2000; 32 years ago, on very reliable
authority, there were 11,000. I quite agree with
“C.” as to the roughness of the country; but the
travelling is not so bad when one knows the good
places. He should keep away from the rivers, stick-
ing to the tablelands, and use mules for transport.
“Big Acli” : How’s this for tt mixed team V
It was composed of 34 mules, donks, camels, horses
and bullocks, and 1
saw it pull a load of
wheat into Pt. Augusta
(S.A.) the other day.
Runny part of it was
that the animals were
not paired off accord-
ing to kind. In the
lead were a camel and
a mule ; next were two
donks and a horse;
then a mule, a camel,
and a bullock- —and so
on in threes back to a
bullock and a donk on
the pole. All were
quite at home with
the exception of the
steers, for whom the
pace seemed a trifle
warm. An equally mis-
cellaneous jumble
hauled another load
200 yards behind.
Following this up
again were 30-odd
loose spare-parts, in-
cluding goats, dogs
and a Shetland pony,
in addition to all the
kinds of animals in the
teams. When changing
the personnel of a
team the conductor has
to resort to pencil and
paper to calculate
whether or not he has
enough steam up. He
reckons 10 bags per horse, eight per camel, six per
mule or bullock, four per donk, and so on.
“J.R.D.” : The bump of locality must dis-
appear with the growth of mental activity, and 1
suspect that many famous explorers would get hope-
lessly bushed without their instruments: I remember
when a boy on Tamrookum station (Q.) hearing
wild yells one night in the calf-paddock near the
homestead. A search-party found William Lands-
borough, the explorer, who was hopelessly befogged
in the 300-acre enclosure. He had visited Tam-
rookum often before, too, but never at night.
“Te W : No fishes, I think, have queerer
breeding arrangements than the sea-horses, or pipe-
fishes. 1 ho male has a small pouch at the end
of his tail, and in this Mrs. Sea-horse deposits her
eggs. The old man then carries them about until
they' incubate. After hatching out, the young sea-
horses are said to have been seen to return tem-
porarily to tlie pouch for protection, much as the
kangaroo joey does. There are many species of these
strange marine animals, on which, by the way, sea-
eagles feed. One kind, a zostera pipe-fish, which
I picked up on a N.S.W. South Coast beach, was
quite fresh when found, and of a delicate rosy-
pink color; but the bright tint soon faded to a
uniform pale-brown. This pipe-fish was long and
straight in body and very slender, blit other kinds
are stouter and more curving in shape. The zostera,
as the name implies, commonly abides in the great
fields of marine vegetation known by the same name.
“Ficus”: Not only men are forced far
afield in search of sustenance in hard times. I came
across a Moreton Bay fig in the scrub at Glastonbury
(Q.) with a root which goes 317ft. from the butt
before it enters the ground. The stony soil doubt-
less prevented its intrusion earlier.
* * # *
“H.V.E.”: The centipede-like “alligator-
worm” which homes in the mudflats of tidal lakes
and estuaries has an annoying habit of splitting
itself up into small sections when handled, thus
cheating the line-fisher of a fine bream or whiting
bait. Writer has often collected a tin of these
marine squirmers, and subsequently found their
number greatly increased by this process of sub-
division. Another small red worm, usually plenti-
ful about the mouths of creeks which debouch into
the sea, and frequenting heaps of stranded and
decaying kelp, is an irresistible bait for mullet.
1 have taken nearly 30 sea- and sand-mullet with
these worms in less than an hour, mullet, when on
the feed, being merry biters.
“Werrimee”: A rare animal nowadays is
the bilby, or rabbit bandicoot, a burrowing hopper
with a beautiful, soft, blue-grey fur, which was one
time very plentiful in Central Australia and the
Murray River country. It was greatly sought by
Minghi; besides being excellent food, tbe white tail tips
were used for loin girdles, and in ornamental dress-
ing for State occasions. Some of Bifighi’s coverings
contained over a hundred tips, all neatly sewn to-
gether with sinews or cord.
“Silas Snell”: Militant unionists would
have no patience with the horse Tommy I met at
Gembrook (Vie.) recently. lie is a big-boned
bay, as strong as one and a half, llis business is
snagging logs for the mill, and lie will work like a
tiger on anything he can shift, but jibs when put
to a butt his instinct tells him he cannot budge, lie
casts the eye of an expert over the job, and, if it
strikes him as unreasonable he just sits down to it,
and all the king’s men couldn’t get him to pull
an ounce. On the other hand, he is a furiously-
jealous neddy, and if his driver takes another horse
to his work he rushes the substitute, open-mouthed,
and kicks and bites with fury. Throw loose his
rival and hook Tommy up to the job, and he is
instantly tractable and happy again.
THE INCONSIDERATENESS OF
WOOD-CARTERS.
THE WASDERWOMAN'S HUSBAND: "'Ow the
dence yer expect a bloke's missus ter
out up wood like that?"
‘‘Chips”: I was experting in a shed last
year in S.-W. Queensland when W. Harrison shore
51 sheep before breakfast without changing' his comb
or cutter. In the same Shed I saw two men press
by hand-power 83 bales of wool in 11 hours. Records?
GETTING DOWN TO IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old lzzie Flohm lie boards with me
At Mrs. Canty’s place.
And lately 1 have noticed he
Grows hollow in the face.
He eats so little, 1 should say
That Flohm is fading quite away.
The vest that or.ce was tight and gimp
Where lzzie was most thick
Now hangs upon him loose and limp,
A sack upon a stick.
“I. Flohm” is he who runs a neat
Old-clothing shop in Chapel-street.
Said I: ‘‘My friend, your trouble tell.
You’re sinking fast indeed.”
He answered me: “It vill not sell,
Dot suit of yellow tweed;
It cannot rot upon the shelf —•
To fit it I take in myself.”
VICTORIA.
15ILLY T.


mi
xx
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
,. Bader New Tariff, a
'/%xc&e£'
c
-7
s
$
s 0/.
S'
vJ'
s>
c\P.
o
«r>_<s>
m umrnm ahww rowrofl


TKc
Purest
Spirit
intke
World.
(
<3
i * n
>r.
Fife's schnap^
lrty§A
7 //
n
-■•>■
/ x/
CROUP
A Plain
Fact!
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
' Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne&Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY. '
M,
They touched only the surface of things, it
is true; but the period in the main went po
deeper, Rhoda .Broughton’s best books are
a fair record of at least the shape of the
period’s thought.
These best are not many. Forty years
ago she had a large public to whom, in the
wash of contemporary V ictonan siusn, Her
name was good enough. And she was con-
sequently in too great a hurry getting them
out to put much time and thought iuto the
details of her books. Miss Broughton’s work
seems to be curiously conscious in her later
stories of this badness of her earlier ones;
between the lines one feels her laughter at
them and their carelessness. Style has no-
thing to do with this comparison; Rhoda
Broughton had no style, early or late. But
she had for her purpose a better thing—
the inestimable quality of comedy, which is
untouched by the passing ages of thought.
As the mush of Victorian sentiment made way
for the hard keenness of Georgian thought,
so Rhoda Broughton’s manner changed
—not in style, as I say, but in viewpoint—
her gift of laughter bestowing and keeping
inviolate her other gift of youth. She
descended from the best-seller class of the
’seventies to an ever-narrowing circle of
the faithful; and as the family grew smaller
the laughter grew better and more intimate.
She characterised firmly and well, but hardly
ever with any delicacy or polish. Most of
her books have the seed of excellent ideas
worked out carelessly and hurriedly, as most
of them have isolated convincing scenes
which in their degree are on the level of
inspiration. Her people, the squires, doc-
tors and parsons, were an open book to
her; easily and carelessly she threw them
on her paper as faeilely yesterday as half
a century ago: Here and there her throw-
ing was accurate enough to stand the test
of the years; “Foes-in-Law” is as good as
its title; “Lavinia” is an excellent yarn,
fresh and bright, clever and wholesome. The
people of the feeble, futile “country set”
walk in and out of the too-many books; their
deeds and thoughts may be as meaningless
as the dark ages they lived in, but there
they are for better, for worse, pickled in a
solution of gentle laughter which takes away
their futility.
“A Fool in Her Folly,” written by the
old lady waiting for death coming nearer,
contains all the best qualities of the Rhoda
Broughton fiction. She goes back through
her faithful memory to the Victorian setting
of long ago; and it stands out of the pages
alive, muffled and antimacassared, cushioned
deep in its airless afternoon. The Fool has
a mission—the telling in fiery words the
truth of the passion of Love; for this she
has as yet no data. Soon she gets the data,
and is sorry and terror-stricken. She burns
the world-shaking novel, and creeps back in
bewildered contrition to her home. After
her mother’s death a good working theory
of the fiery passion takes its place in her
life, and the wedding-bells ring to the echoes
of all the other wedding-bells. In Charlotte,
the Fool, the dewy youth is alive, as here-
tofore ; the casual tenderness makes one
really sorry for the silly illusions disappear-
ing one by one so certainly ; and the faith
in the ultimate good is as strong as always.
And under it the old lady’s laughter beams
and bubbles, as sane and healthy as the
dewy youth. Soon all the books will be
forgotten, good and bad; but in the mean-
time. for a year or so perhaps, and here
and there, some grown-ups will remember
the Sabbath evenings of the past, and the
stories which made them bearable.
DENIS MAHON.
The White Man’s Track
According to the terms of history as it is
written, Australia is a country of barbarians.
The original barbarians were those who stam-
mered in speaking the Greek language; and
the word had no reference to a greater or
smaller degree of culture. To the Greeks of
Southern Italy, the Homans were just as
much barbarians as the wild tribes in the
forests north of Dacia; all the science and
art of the Etruscans did not save them from
being held in the same regard. But there
seems to be no very good reason why great
nations of men, organised, disciplined, skilled
in crafts and famous in war, should be called
barbarians by the modern historian. The
plain fact is that civilisation in ancient times
has been judged by its memorials in stone and
almost by these alone. Had it not been for
the conquest of Europe by Christianity the
Jew would have been described as a bar-
barian. lie had no art, no science, built no-
thing of great beauty or endurance, did not
rise to very great power; but he did evolve
a moral philosophy of a kind differing from
all others. His view of God was an achieve-
ment equalled by individuals and little groups
in far scattered ages, but never accepted by
a whole people in any other land. Yet the
fact would have been entirely forgotten' had
not Christianity preserved his ancient litera-
ture as the Old Testament.
The truth is that a people can be far ad-
vanced in all the things that make life worth
living without even possessing the art of
writing. The greatest epic poem in the world
came down bv word of mouth for generations
before it was placed on paper, and the Incas
of South America governed a country thou-
sands of miles in extent with the most minute
attention co detail, keeping their records with
knotted string. The idea that civilisation was
born in Egypt and gradually spread to the
Euphrates and Greece within tlie space of
some 5000 years is hardly true. Northern
peoples had developed what was probably
just as good a mode of life quite independ-
ently at a period infinitely remote. The
bronze age was very long; and the proof that
bronze first came from the east is by no
means satisfactory. Copper is found native
in small quantities in many lands, and it is
not at all certain that a knowledge of it radi-
ated from a single centre. Iron—a much more
notable discovery—may have first come from
lands which the historian-still calls barbarian.
But a good and even highly cultured human
life was possible even without a knowledge of
metals; for, as a test, a workman in Den-
mark, using a stone axe for the first time, in
TO hours cut down and converted into logs
26 pine-trees eight inches in diameter: and a*
mechanic using only stone tools built a house
in 81 days. The late stone age, just before
the introduction of bronze, was not so unlike
our own as might be imagined. Stonehenge
belongs to that period, in the view of modern
archaeologists; and close to the great stone
ruins is to be clearly traced the ancient race-
course. Weaving, pottery and some skill in
the management of boats belong to the time
in Europe when men still carved their meat
with a flint knife. The houses were made of
timber or of clay and wattle; but that does
not prove that the buildings were particularly
rude or devoid of ornament. Plenty of
modern men in Australasia occupy buildings
inferior to those of the late stone age and re-
main thoughtful and capable citizens, in
every way as civilised as those who live m
houses whose remains would pass muster
with the historian a thousand years hence as
non-barbarian.
Our information is pretty scanty about the
civilised life of countries which, enter most
into the historical review; and of the other
countries a little less in the limelight we
know hardly anything. Still, there are facts
preserved which startle us. Britain before
the coming of Julius Caesar was the centre
of the craft of enamelling on gold and silver;
Gaul before its Roman conquest had public
schools in every town ; a light chariot built of
materials only found in Europe exists in a
very ancient Egyptian tomb; wheeled
vehicles are probably an invention of races in
Central Europe during the early bronze age;
sword hilts found near the Danube show
Greek designs enormously improved upon by
Celtic artists; the Roman castra follows to
the last detail the design of the late lake-
dwellers’ villages in the valley of the Po; one
village of the lake-dwellers in Switzerland
can still be traced by the 50,000 piles remain-
ing of those on which the houses were built;
Gaul was a network of roads and bridges in
pre-Roman times. The list could be ex-
tended indefinitely; and it gives some idea of
what the western and northern barbarians
were like through long ages now sealed to the
historian.
With such a basis, consider the possi-
bilities. Poetry and oratory we know were
highly considered; athletic amusements,
dancing and everything connected with the
horse filled a big place. There are marvellous
cave-drawings in Spain and France dated by
guesswork anywhere from 15,000 to 50,000
n.c. Scarcely any Greek paintings have been
preserved ; what do we know of the pictorial
art of barbarian Europe? These people
might have excelled above all others in paint-
ing and have left no trace of it. The fact
that they excelled in designs on gold and
bronze might be taken as pointing in that
direction. They bred dogs and loved the
chase; they played draughts and chess; they
had a passion for music. Put all these thing's
together, and there is the foundation of
citizen life as good in every way as that lived
in Greece or Rome.
The height of mental dignity to which a
race has attained is generally supposed to be
indicated by its attitude to woman. Among
the greater barbarian tribes of ancient
Europe the woman stood on an exact
equality with the man—her position being
every way better in Gaul than in Athens
or Rome.
Is it not about time that we considered
the birth of civilisation in Europe without’
regard to its indebtedness to the Orient?
Greece owes much to Asia, more to Egypt;
Rome after a certain point owes almost all
to Greece and the peoples of Asia and Africa.
But Europe—the real Europe—grew up to a
thoughtful manhood without such aid. Apply
the true European tests. William Tell is
far more humanly important than Thutmose
III. Magna Charta is a more vital thing
than the great lighthouse of Pharos, sky-
scraping to a height of 370 feet. “Hamlet”
is a grander achievement than the Great
Pyramid. The Orient and its pupil peoples
did some great things in the European way;
but except during a couple of centuries in
Athens those things were not appreciated
in the European sense. What Europe itself
was doing they were not sufficiently interest-
ed to learn. The barbarian was beyond the
pale and the modern historian would keep
him there ; yet it is from the so-called Euro-
pean barbarian that we . must learn our
own possibilities. The history of the slave-
supported luxury of the Orient is not the
history of the white man.
D.M.W.
Ancient Shipping
Some strange things can be proved by a
comparison of the works, of modern his-
torians. The contradictions"are very many;
but it is when the authors launch out on
descriptions based upon what they believe to
be the surest information that the results
become most interesting. Let us take two
notes on ancient shipping which lead to
astonishing conclusions.
Here is Dr. RieeHolmes in “Caesar’s Con-
quest of Gaul”: —
Ships, clumsy indeed, but larger than any that
were seen on the Mediterranean, braved the storms
of the Bay of Biscay and carried cargoes between the
ports of Brittany and the coast of Britain.
At once the reader asks how big those
ships actually were; for the size or a ship
may be as good a measure of the height of
civilisation attained as a pyramid or a group
of marble figures. Dr. Rice Holmes does
• not ' reply ;» but Professor Breasted. docs..
Here is the statement about Alexandria from
his “Ancient Times” :—
From the deck of a great merchant ship of over
four thousand tons the incoming traveller might look
citywards beyond the lighthouse and behold the
great fleet of the Ptolemies outlined against the green
masses of the magnificent royal gardens.
So the ships at that time on the Mediter-
ranean were over 4000 tons, and those of
Gaul were “clumsy indeed, but larger”!
The truth seems to be badly mislaid some-
where. Rice Holmes’s statement is based
on a Roman writer’s expression of wonder
and surprise at the size of the Gallic ships
and towns; but the guess that his surprise
was due to the fact that the ships were
bigger than any he had seen before is carry-
ing the thing too far. On the other hand,
4000 tons may or may not be too great; for
an estimate of oared galleys by tons is rather
misleading. The number of rowers in an
ancienj: trireme, with three banks of oars,
was 170; and an octoreme, with eight banks
of oars, is recorded as having 1000. In the
days of the Ptolemies some shins were built
with as many as 40 banks of oars, which
in a similar proportion must have meant at
least 10,000 men to supply the motive-power.
What the tonnage of a ship with human
engines of this extent, all requiring to be
fed, lashed and bedded, may have been, is
too difficult to guess. And Ptolemy II. is
reported to have kept 15,000 warships for
the defence of Egypt!
Here the imagination begins to ache;
nevertheless, we go on wondering what sort
of Gallic vessels they were that could amaze
a Roman!
C.O.M.
A Satchel of Books
Problems of a New World, by J. A. Hobson (Geo.
Allen and Unwin). Mr. Hobson, the Ishmael of
English economists, is destructive rather than con-
structive. “A mere transfer of management from
private company to State bureaucracy would not lead
to more efficient labor, probably to less,” lie suggests.
And if he knew Australia he would also know that a
tendency to make the labor it employs less effi-
cient is only one of the ills of State bureaucracy:
a greater is the demoralisation of the electorate
and the submersion of democratic ideals. Certainlv,
without knowing what has happened in Australia, Mr.
Hobson recognises the danger ahead; and he there-
fore affirms that the inevitable experiment of State
ownership “must assume a directly moral character,
viz., the discovery and application of incentives
which shall feed the individual worker with a sense
of social duty, and shall enforce a discipline by
methods the validity of which he shall freely recog-
nise.” Existing governmental methods, ' as he
assumes and as we have proved, “will not evoke suffi-
cient sense of social service to run these industries
with the desired efficiency.” He hopes for a “revolu-
tion by consent”: —
“It may be taken for granted that industrial recon-
struction in this country will not proceed on the
lines of this wholesale conversion [i.e., an attempt
suddenly to eliminate selfish interest as an economic
motive and to substitute a sentiment of social wel-
fare] .... Most profit goes as an unearned gratuity to
the shareholders for the supply of capital which was
in most cases obtainable at the ordinary market rate.
Profit as at present made and apportioned involves
a great waste of economic incentive.”
But as usual with these book-making economists,
either Mr. Hobson’s proposals for putting his theories
into practice are vague and unsatisfactory, or there
are no proposals at all. Certainly he suggests some
form of occupational representation on the ground
mainly that Labor cannot command the Parlia-
ment and Executives of the “capitalist State” as
at present constituted. But Labor has got control
in every Australian State and in the Commonwealth ;
and, according to Laborites themselves, the old ills
still afflict the worker. The poor may not have
grown poorer, but many of the rich have grown
richer, because, for one thing, Labor Governments,
in order to secure what looked like prosperity for
the moment, have been prepared to mortgage the
future, and the rich are the mortgagees. Occupa-
pational or any other form of representation would
produce exactly the same results if the Government
were in the hands of short-sighted men. So we
come in the last resort to education and independent
thinking. Without the former, democracy must be
a succession of errors and disappointments; without
the latter it must be a delusion and capable of being
a very dangerous one.
The Story of the 1st Cape Corps (1915-19). A
generously-illustrated record of the doings of a dusky
regiment in Africa and Palestine. John X. Merriman,
P.C., in a foreword writes of the value of Colored
Brother at the end of a gun. Compiled primarily
for ex-members of the corps, the book is over-loaded
with detail for outsiders.
The Etchings of Sydney Ure Smith. A copiously
illustrated catalogue of the works in Smith’s best
medium, published by Akt in Australia. There are
16 pasted-in reproductions arid upwards of 50 others,
all flawlessly printed. The book, to which Bertram
Stevens supplies a foreword, not only is a charming
artistic record, but has an historical value, because
Smith has set down so much of old Sydney and
fast-disappearing relics of the “Colonial” days. It
is unfortunate that in four or five instances the
plate numbers in the text and under the illustra-
tions are somewhat tangled.
Linda Condon, by Joseph Hergesheimer (William
Heinemann, London). Those who have read this
singular novelist’s previous efforts, “The Java
Head” and “The Three Black Pennys,” will
find “Linda Condon” a lot less satisfying in structure
and craftsmanship. The idealism of the tale seems
tame and half-hearted, and the delicate character-
drawing, which leaves Linda’s rorty mamma a fes-
tive shadow of the semi -demi-mondaine, approaches an
analytical fineness that occasionally provides a
whoie treatise on a common emotion. But the
Hergesheimer writing is excellent. It is a fruit-
salad after the thin gruel of many second-raters..
Inky Way
“Yovang”: Beatrice Chase, of whom “S.T.S.” wrote
in the Inky Way (B. 24/2/’2I), is a unique and
fascinating woman. People in Central Devon either
fall madlv in love with her or think she’s a crank
—-mostly the former. Shortly before the war she
and John Oxenham began the White Knights’ crusade,
which made great headway when the Guarding Ladies
were added to the scheme. During the* war her
little chapel at Widdiconibe, Devon, was a sanctuary
to many harassed soldiers and sailors. Her books
about the White Knights and their Guarding Ladies
are written under her own name, Olive Kathenne
Parr; those about Dartmoor (her “Heart of the
Moor” and her “Window” books are the best known)
under her nom-de-plume, “Beatrice Chase.” A letter
from her tells me she netted AlOSo from The
Heart of the Moor” in nine months at Is. per
copv. Her Dartmoor books make a great appeal to
exiles from Devonshire. She understands what they
feel for, as she wrote to me, “I was an exile till I
proceeded to die of it, and then they brought me
back in despair and planted me here till death
shall flee away.”
“P. Pawnticket”: The ancient yarn of the gushing
girl who, in trying to show a young man that she
knew the works of Walter Scott, said she thought
Scott's Emulsion the best of the lot. is not over-
drawn. At a suburban parti' the other night I heard
a girl tell a voting man who had mentioned Russian
literature that she thought one of the most powerful
books she ev-er read was Tolstoi’s “Goodbye. A
littb* later another girleen declared that, while she
supposed Thackeray’s “Vanity Fail” was very good,
she nev-ev cared to read his fishing notes, in the
Sydney I papeijc. ....


o
Articles (^Quality
t
c
i't
5*5sg|
i!^
US
■' v ■.
*1 y < i
<4
3?
f
v. as
'! X
#
rf/
/ CoolitAd
3ootKir\g —
WO
isepric
Heals
%
mourn
Giauiuim^Ti
-a—^
oruirwiwi ruti , , , wui jtj v»
ftxj ley *Ehr»y <y~Inwth oil W»»vJt oh
Sole Proprutho^S
l REXONA PROPRIE.TARY COMPANY PP
MMi
ill
II c
ye
X / 1
tJ/ mam
, ' A
mi
I
If 1 1
III If
mss i
m
<1
%
inml
in
ill
J\e*cma
Shaving Soap
'the triangular Stick
tjou wlill \vish tjouhad used it before
Ob
m
9> put3
m
m
¥1
■ 1/
\ \ \ \
M' l f I %IiY'S
• V
. \
Ut
V-
*0-1
w \
• V
i- \/
t3heClris
i "
ii
TRY THE REXONA PRODUCTS.
They consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer, Rexona Skin and Facial Soap, and Rexona, the
Triangular Shaving Stick, all universal favorites. The wonderful healing powers of Rexona have
made it a password in nearly every home in Australia. For Cuts, Burns, Scalds or Skin Diseases
and Eruptions of any kind Rexona is unequalled, being cooling and soothing.
Rexona Soap is the best preservative for the skin and hair that is obtainable, and leaves the hair
soft, fluffy and luxuriant. Shampoo your hair with Rexona Soap, and you will be delighted with the result.
Rexona the Triangular Shaving Stick makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving; it produces a
thick, creamy lather, and keeps the skin in perfect condition.
Q
THE RAPID HEALER


g-j b ro iif6
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
For Exterior and Interior
Walls and Ceilings.
— ■ *»
For Interior Walls and Ceilings Hardie’s
“FIBROLITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets cost less
than lath and plaster, steel or lining-boards.
For Exterior Walls “FIBROLITE” costs less
than weatherboard.
If you are building, write to-day for a free
copy of our Illustrated Catalogue for “i’ibro-
lite.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“ASBESTOS HOUSE,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Send Your Wool
to
WinchcombeCarson
A BRIGHT SIGN IN A BLACK
OUTLOOK.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
WOOLBROKERS,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MACNIVEN icCAMERON L D -
11 QOLEEN’WATTLE’'
' " ' EDINBURGH; -
MADE BY
- MACN1VEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
a
LfflJ
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes and styles
from J-2-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last’s lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 Q.P.O.) Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15rt6. FOR Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES. WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.
n
n
<■>
TiHE
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto
Pen is a British Institution.
Like the Pillar Box, it is British-
made, perfectly simple to use,
and always ready for your letters.
When you take the cap off,
you find the ink in the nil) fresh
and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once.
And by a twist of the head you
can regulate the ink-flow to suit
your handwriting—fast or slow,
light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest
pen to use. It fills itself in a
flash from any ink supply cleans
itself in filling, and CANNOT
LEAK.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London.
Australasian Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Ask tor Onoto Ink—Best lor all Pens
miiim
r*
A Perfect Drillmg Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
Description.
Greatest height of drill
Greatest distance from spindle to base
Greatest distance from table to spindle
Distance, column to centre of spindle
Diameter of column
Vertical feed of spindle .. • • '
Diameter of table..
Spindle fitted for Morse taper ..
Size of largest cone pulley
Size of smallest cone pulley
Tight and loose pulleys
Revolutions of driving pulleys..
Floor space «•
69in.
394m.
24in.
10|in.
o|in.
9iin.
loiin.
No. 3
Din. x 2in.
4in.x 2in.
I Sin. x 2fin.
I 250 R.P.M.
I 40 in. x lGin.
Call or write for further particulars.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
According to the evidence. Tomayeff, the
man who hit and killed Brookfield, M.L.A.,
■while “shooting up” creation generally on
Riverton (S.A.) platform, now says he
wasn't mad or devil-haunted, but had received
£100 for the deed of blood. It seems a lot
of money to give an inefficient homicide for
the killing of a mere kind-hearted talking-
machine who never had any money and never
was really dangerous to anybody. Possibly
Tomayeff jumped to the conclusion that
demented creatures are*scragged here as off-
handedly as in his own country, and hoped
to implicate a grand duke in his doings, not
knowing that we possess no grand dukes and
are even short of baronets.
At a meeting of London theatre-managers,
with the Prince of Wales in the chair, to
support Haig’s unemployed-soldiers’ fund,
the chief music-hall representative claimed
front rank for his crowd. “The legitimate
stage is suffering from old age. The cinema
is in its infancy. The Variety stage is the
representative of lusty manhood.” On which
the old discussion on the best possible Variety
programme was revived. (It first cropped up
in 1912, when King George had a “command”
performance at the Palace Theatre.) Allow-
ing for a dozen turns, a list that has found
favor is George Robey, Marie Lloyd, Cheva-
lier, Lauder, Florence Smithson. Crock. Kar-
savina. Bransby Williams, Prince, R. A.
Roberts, Ella Retford and Iletty King.
The Il.A.N. is indebted to the Merchant
Service for the early training of two of its
commanders —both named W. B. Wilkinson.
The volatile Wilkinson was hydrographic,
adviser in the construction of Cockburn
Sound (W.A.) Naval Base, while his more
serious-visaged namesake commands the
training-ship Tingira. The latter’s strictness
on one regulation has led the facetious lower-
deck to christen him “The Zeppelin”—on
account of his fondness for ’air raids. It is
said the Williamstown (Vic.) barbers donned
mourning when he was promoted from the
job of O.C. of the Naval Depot there to
II.M.A.S. Una, of the New Guinea patrol.
Keenness for work has not prevented either
W.B.W. from achieving a reputation as an
ideal host at ports of call.
“Stargazer” : It is not politics that makes
strange bedfellows, it is histrionics. When
Blueskin was showing with an ill-assorted
company (as all companies are) he struck
a part of Maorilaud overflowing with race-
goers, and had to share his small room at
the hotel with a bucolic person who presently
began to blow the most abominable snore
Blueskin ever heard. Blueskin stood it till
o in the morning; then over-burdened
nature gave way, and he uttered a groan
of mortal agony. “God forgive me!” he ex-
plained to the startled man in the adjacent
bed, “but you are certainly the very worst
snoi er I've ever heard.” “Oh, well,” the other
answered cheerfully, “that makes us quits—
you are the worst actor I’ve ever seen.” And
he turned over and snored again.
An impression wliicji had grown up iu
Queensland that Larcombe, Minister of
Railways, had been buried under the debris
of the enormous railway deficit was dispelled
last week by his reappearance in the place
where the deficit is manufactured. The re-
turned wanderer explained that he had been
over to Perth, where he “replied to grossly
misleading and unfair criticisms of the
Queensland Government.” On his way back
he saw the Nullarbor Plains and the dingoes
that lightly caper there, and feasted his
eyes on the new lakes that have sprung up
between Tarcoola and Port Augusta and
the water-fowl that frolic in the unac-
customed dampness. Then, like a Titan re-
freshed, he left the train at xVdelaide and
bogged into some, more detractors of the
great Theodore Administration, arriving back
home so bright and healthy that he put off
150 men from the railway workshops on the
strength of it. The necessity of travelling
several thousand miles (the salary and the
deficit going on all the time) to reply to the
aspersions of obscure individuals who are
neither taxpayers nor bondholders is about
as patent as invisible air and imperceptible
water, and in any case the critics could be
replied to by post. But no excuse is too
thin for a holiday when an Australian Min-
ister feels like taking one at the country’s
cost.
“Karee” on a man with two convictions:
When Charles F. Belcher (third son of J. F.
Belcher, M.L.C. for the South-West Province of
Victoria in the early ’eighties), then joint-editor of
the Euu, launched some years ago his “Birds of
Geelong” he was preening his wings for a rather
notable flight. He is now M.A., LL.B., barrister-at-
law (Gray’s Inn), Attorney-General and Member of
the Legislative and Executive Councils of the Nyassa-
land Protectorate. He is also a Judge, and owns an
M.B.E., earned for his work as intelligence-officer to
the Uganda Volunteers and interpreter in French, Ger-
man, Italian, Danish, Luganda. Kiswahili, Chinyanga
and other colored atrocities —all at the age of 45.
He had a meteoric career at Geelong Grammar School
and Trinity College. He ran neck and neck all
through the classical curriculum with (Judge) II.
C. Winneke, and finally beat him on the post by
a short head. Next year the Shakspeare Scholarship
fell to him. He rowed \n inter-collegiate and inter-
’Varsity races, ran with the hare and hounds (win-
ning the inter-coll. 150, 440, half-mile and mile
for Trinity v. Ormond, for several years) and swam
for the Geelong Club. He practised law in turn
with Taylor, Buckland and Gates, of Geelong, and
Harwood and Pincott, and Frank Grey Smith, of
Melbourne. Then he started off scratch in Kyabram.
In 1907 he went to Blighty, where he read for a
year in Sir Hugh Frazer’s Chambers. He was called
at Gray’s Inn, Trinity term, 1909, fourth on the
list out of several hundreds, and took various prizes
in the meantime (including a wife, daughter of Dr.
Harman Visger). Then he practised in the city
until the winters drove him back to Geelong; but
1913 saw him on his brother Archie’s Argentine
estaneia, and later he revisited the Cold Country,
whence he left the day after Hell broke loose to
act as legal adviser to the Uganda Lands Depart-
ment. Custodian of Fritz property in 1915. magis-
trate and volunteer the following year, Assistant-
Judge at Zanzi in 1920, then Appeal-Court Judge
of Kenya Colony, he was finally appointed Attorney-
General of Nvassaland, M.L.C., and Member of the
Executive Council. The only stains on his other-
wise blameless escutcheon (which will descend to a
son and daughter, aged 9 and 12) are two convic-
tions, one in 1898 for riding on the footpath at
Princes’ Park, and another for non-vaccination in
1913.


jrfustra/ia's
Perfect
Semi-elliptical springs fitted to
absorb road-shocks, giving utmost
ease, comfort and agreeability.
Gemmer steering gear. Wheel jset
at rakish angle to give driver
special comfort—dashboard com-
plete with all necessary devices
for control of engine and lighting
equipment.
Tlie engine is a Red Seal Continental
six-cylinder 25-JO horse-power made by
the Continental Motors Co. Compact-
ness and ease of access to parts are
two essential features. When deliver-
ing full liorse-power no vibration is
experienced. Zenith Carburetter—
Uendix self-starter—electric lighting
effected by single-point system with
autolite, 2-unit, third-brush generator
firmly mounted' on engine.
The LINCOLN is noted for
Comfort, Economy,
Endurance and Distinction.
The Lincoln is fashioned on
beautiful lines, but neither speed,
power nor strength has been sacrificed
to beauty and style. It is free and
roomy, designed with the purpose of
long-distance riding comfort. The
seats are so upholstered that the
longest journey can be made with
little or no fatigue, and the separate
parts have been constructed to be in
advance of motor-car fashions, and to
carry out the general symmetry of the
car.
In few words, the AUSTRALIAN-
MADE LINCOLN is the last word in
motor-car construction, and at its
price of £725 is the Perfect Car.
The Lincoln has sold well, and the
best evidence of its value is the praise
given by dozens of present users
whose testimonials will appear in the
next “Bulletin” advertisement.
ALL PARTICULARS—
Lincoln Motor Car Co.
Offices and Works:
George Street, Redfern, Sydney.
Side front view showing specially
constructed radiator, to give maxi-
mum cooling surface, which adds
to the fine body lines. Electric
head and side lights fitted rigidly
to the body to throw powerful
beam of light on the road for
night driving.
Upholstery carried out in finest of
leather and cloths, and designed
to give maximum riding comfort
at any speed.
r
»
0
Rear axle of Timken manufacture
—taper roller bearings, spiral
bevelled crown wheel and pinion
—brake bands of ample size to
permit of quick and easy stopping.
W
»
$
W A
*
VV
«W
iW
*?
I
M
III! Ill
lllllllli
w,#
V.
1
The clean, graceful appearance of the Lincoln has
made its grateful possessors proud.


PARSONS
PETROL.
KEROSENE
ENGINES
Stationary & Marine
Portable
Air-Compressor
Plant
incorporating
14-H.P. PARSONS
ENGINE.
Output 50 cubic feet
at 1001b. Press.
Robert Grant,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
rk
OSTER Power-
Screwing Machine
No. 300B is driven
by a fh.p. Motor,
direct connected
—ample power
and speed for all
classes of work.
Furnished com-
plete with Motor,
screws, pipe, nip-
ples and bolts.
Screwing range—pipe
:}in. to 2in.. bolts
7-16iu. to l|in. A rapid production,
small, powerful outfit.
DISTRIBUTORS j
('has. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Clias, Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.. Sydney.
John Banks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Serutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney,
l’redc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
1'. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering; Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
All
the comforts
of a smoke
are possible to the man with
good tobacco and a GBD.
With this pipe of pipes the
smoker puffs contentedly and
realises his ideal of pipe-
satisfaction.
Made of thoroughly matured
French Briarwood, shaped by
experts, and perfectly finished
in every detail, the GBD is the
best pipe at a moderate price.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
GBn
THE. PERFECT PI PC
The Making of Manon
BY “ESTELLE.”
I HAD a note from Manon this morning,
asking me round to spend the after-
noon at her microscopic flat.
I went. I am fond of Manon, although
I consider her unnecessarily good-looking.
Her features are not extraordinarily fine,
but the whole effect is dangerously charm-
ing. I looked forward to seeing her arming
for conquest.
By 4 o’clock we were in her little bed-
room. ‘‘Sit down, there’s a dear,” she said,
“and while you are finishing that sash I
will reveal to you my' horrid secrets.”
While she was examining herself criti-
cally in the glass, I had time to observe
she was not looking hot best. She looked
pale, and little lines were visible round the
eyes and mouth. V.A.I). work is tiring,
and it had left its mark on her. There were
two little blackheads on her chin, her hair
was lank and straight, and her hands .and
nails needed attention.
“Yes, I am ugly, am I not?” she said gaily,
as if in answer to my unspoken thoughts.
"Do you think Sidney will get an awful
fright when he sees me?”
“It doesn’t seem to worry you, anyway,”
I said, biting off a thread.
“It doesn’t,” she said, “because I am going
to make myself pretty here and now.”
“Paint and powder,” 1 said acidly, “will
not banish those spots on your face. If you
don’t want to frighten your fiance you’d
better take a few days’ rest and keep severely
to yourself.”
“You dear old puss!” said Manon, who
was washing.
“You don’t use soap on your face!” I
exclaimed, as she rubbed a creamy lather
into her skin.
“Not ordinary soap,” she explained, as
she rinsed and dried it. “Pilentn. You
wouldn’t call my skin so bad, would you? I
can't use anything but a neutral soap, and
my chemist tells me this is the nearest to-
neutral you can get.”
Her next movement interested me. Be-
fore her skin was quite dry she rubbed some
white stuff, like rather solid cold cream,
on her face and neck, and then wiped it off
with a clean towel. “What’s that?” I
asked.
“Mereolised Wax,” said Manon ; “I never
use cold creams: they clog your skin up
and make it muddy. Whenever 1 get tired
of my old skin I just put some of this on,
which removes the outer cuticle, leaving a
nice new skin underneath. No, you can’t
see it peeling, silly! Look!” I examined
her closely, and certainly her skin looked
wonderfully fresh and clear, and there was
no sign of roughness.
While she was brushing her hair I re-
marked, “Aren’t you going to have any
sleeves at all in this frock?”
“Of course not; it would ruin it. One
must have one decent dance frock.”
“But, Manon,” I expostulated. She smiled.
“I’ll tell you another little secret. Pheminol
for removing superfluous hair —is sold in
powder form at any decent chemist’s, and
you mix it with water yourself so as to
make a paste. It’s simply wonderful, and
the process isn’t a bit painful, and doesn’t
leave any red marks or irritation.”
Manon was still brushing her thick and
pretty hair. It is fairly ordinary in color,
darkest brown, but there are soft lights in
it, and it is beautifully glossy. “You wash
your hair with stallax, don’t you?” she
asked tne. I replied in the negative.
"Oh, but, my dear, you should; there’s
nothing like it. I washed mine last night.”
“Good gracious!” said I. “I could never
do mine up properly so soon after a sham-
poo.”
She smiled absently. Now she was brush-
ing a few drops of some liquid into her hair
and fussing about with a comb. When I
saw her clearly two deep and becoming
waves were visible over her forehead.
“All done by kindness and silmerine,”
she laughed.
“If I’d put it on last night my hair would
have been a mass of curls to-day. But it
doesn’t suit me so, and I just comb a little
in before I do it up.” And she nodded a
charmingly dressed head at my reflection
in the glass.
"Hot to-night,” I remarked.
“Very,” she said.' “If I don’t put some
eleminite on I shall be a pink aad shiny
fright by the end of the first dance.” She
was covering her face with some lotion.
“Practically home-made,” she said. “Most
chemists keep eleminite, and you make it
up at home. Don’t you think the effects
rather good ?”
It was. There was a soft bloom on her
face and neck which had no look of “make-
up,” but which had removed all unbecoming
“shine.” “And the beauty of it is,” said
she, “I am sure of looking the same all the
evening. No rushes for a looking-glass and
a powder-puff for me. I say, Estelle, I’m
rather pale, though. Just for once!” She
rubbed a trifle of powdered colliandum on
her cheeks. It gave her a tiny soft flush
which was most becoming, and brought out
the color of her eyes.
“What glorious eyelashes you have!” I
sighed enviously. “Don’t you ever touch
them up?”
“Never,” sin* said. “I rub a little menna-
line in now and then to make them grow, but
that’s all. Now give me my frock, there’s a
dear. Where’s my nail polish? Liquid, you see :
saves a lot of trouble, and looks twice as
nice. I’ve run out of bicrolium jelly, sol
my hands look a bit rough. Still. I must
have some proofs to show Sid how hard I
work. Oh. there’s a taxi ! I’m sure that’s
Sid. My gloves and cloak, there’s a dear.”
She brushed her lips with a stick of prolac-
tum, leaving them w r ith a soft tint that was
healthy but not too bright.
“Am I pretty?” with an enchanting smile.
“Horribly,” I said, with a pang of jeal-
ousy.
“By-bye, Estelle. Toll you some more
another day.”
And she was gone. —Ann - .
P. C. Rodda, who left the Age a couple
of years ago to try to find a place for his
pen in Xoo Yoik, has a congenial post on
the Yankee’s great musical publication.
Musical America. Rodda is a musician
of considerable ability, who when he was in
Melbourne haunted concerts and grand-opera
performances, and during the Rigo opera
season at the Princess’s became the boss’s pub-
licity man just to get nearer to his favorite
vice.
When the N.S.W. Government gets its
"marketing” scheme afloat and the miser-
able farmer isn’t allowed to sell anything
except through somebody whose qualification
is that he was a defeated candidate at last
election, and when it has created an
Advisory Racing Board which will gradu-
ally develop into a department and make
racing a public institution, the Ma State
will probably reach the point at which it
will have to import civil servants. Either
that or some earnest supporters will have
to collect two salaries.
“Jomae”: There’s a grim caprice about
Fate sometimes. A Mt. Morgan widower
recently took his three children a few
miles into the bush for a day’s outing. He
left them comfortably enjoying themselves,
and sauntered off with a pea-rifle, looking
for easy shooting. He hadn’t gone far when
a bull cnnle at him at top speed. Instead of
shooting the bull he bashed it across the
head with the stock of the rifle, evidently
sprung the trigger and shot himself through
the stomach. His dog returned in time to
keep the bull away from him while he
crawled back to his kiddies to say good-
bye.
No Australian can leave for Uncle Sum’s
country without interviewing Uncle’s consul
and paying a fee. Going ashore for a minute at
one of his ports involves a heavy fee. Land-
ing on arrival involves a fee. In trading with
us he believes in selling much and in taking
little or nothing save our gold in exchange.
In 1918-111 he sold us -7 millions’ worth of
goods, took nine millions’ worth, and held out a
hand slightly stained with tobacco-juice for
IS millions of coin. That same hand was held
out for an average of seven millions in each
of the two preceding years, so the situation
grows worse. The urgent lack of coin in this
country is mainly caused by Uncle, and would
be much alleviated if he were abolished. Now
he has prohibited the importation of our
potatoes, and proposes to prohibit wool, hides,
meat and butter —not merely to put extra
duty on them, but to shut them out absolutely
for the benefit of his farthers. That may be
reasonable enough, but unless this country
is a worm it will hunt round very earnestly
for some means—differential tariff, most-
favored nation treatment, most ill-favored
nation treatment and other things—to put the
business on a fairer basis. Of all the coun-
tries that Australia trades with the U.S. is
the only one that it can’t afford to trade with.
The luxury is too costly for a poor nation
like this. A system which puts France and
Belgium on no better footing is an outrage.
It isn’t a matter of likes or dislikes: it is
simply a matter of business.
“Aee-E” gives the wigged point of view:—
References are often made to the iniquity of
leading counsel in accepting fees on briefs and sub-
sequently failing to appear at the hearing. There
is one aspect of this matter well enough known to
counsel but apparently not considered by their
critics. Court lists have an unhappy knack of
“cracking up,” and a case which reasonably seems
to be due for hearing some days ahead may come on
unexpectedly through the adjournment or settle-
ment of cases higher up the list. Thus a busy
counsel often finds cases clashing, and he is
wanted in two courts at once. Someone has to
suffer. Nevertheless, if counsel has acquired an
intimate knowledge of the case he can, even at the
eleventh- hour, do more good by imparting that
knowledge to his junior than by returning his
brief, in which latter event fflother counsel has to
start de novo on the case at the last minute. For
the time expended in making first himself and later
his junior acquainted with the case, counsel is
certainly entitled to some remuneration. It is a
cheap and easy gibe that counsel do not read their
briefs before going into court. Those who don't
soon find their literature confined to law reports,
text-books and calendars on the wall. The Bar is
an arduous profession and the nights of busy
counsel are mortgaged for the perusal of briefs, and
their days for the pleading of cases and confer-
ences. An intimate acquaintance with any leading
counsel will verify this. Solicitors know the lazy
men at the Bar and walk past their doors when
they have briefs for deliver}-. Counsel undertakes to
do no more than his best in all circumstances which
may arise. A doctor does the same, and if he is
called away urgently there is no outcry if his
patients are visited by a locum.
Bowen (Q.) is the City of Blighted Hopes.
Founded some 60 years, its prospects, owing
to its fine position and magnificent harbor,
should have been the brightest, but a rival
arose in Townsville, which had no harbor
but any amount of push, and hustled aside
little modest Bowen. A few years ago, how-
ever. luck seemed to smile again, for a big
coalfield was discovered some 70 miles away.
Talk immediately arose of a connecting rail-
way and an opening-up of overseas trade
and of Bowen supplying all Northern
Queensland with coal. Then came along the
good Ryan-Theodore Government, which dis-
covered that Bowen (till then a seat with
strong tendencies towards Toryism) was
just the place for steel and iron works, to
cost roughly three millions. Immediately
Bowen developed a faith in the Ryan-Theo-
dore Government that was big enough to
move mountains, and no Liberal or National
had any chance of ousting Collins, the Gov-
ernment’s nominee, while this glittering lure
was waving in the air. A few level-headed
local men sniffed, but Bowen speedily put
the extinguisher on them. Now the intelli-
gence has reached Port Denison that Theodore
is stone-broke, that the work on the coal-
fields connection can’t go on, and that the
steel works vision is dropping into limbo.
The real old Conservative Bowenite with
frost in his hair can’t help susnecting that
Townsville, as of old, has put Bowen’s pot
on, but the average citizen realises grimly
that he has been done brown by guileless
Communists. Bowen has been bagged quietly
and effectively for the last three elections—
and Bowen knows it.


X
X
•ix
MS**
Mmm&i
f"t|:S
'
V
■
■
1 /5?
u •
lai
V. . '; >;
al
M!n t »'* *
f*-?;«n 8* *? *
SMw
*Ik? H$ # i t*
ewfPP
mmtaW 1 1 5 Oa »w»w w ,-wmm
‘ ‘ ; * > 4_~ :.- - *<■
RdELCO-LIGHTM
iffm**Co- _■' » *M
, <:
-
.•
ft » M »
» - % a
|n uPy®-™*
' i. V»
W$mmS>
t w Ti
■HMHHli
't-J
i»aip|HppipM
.
i, *5
t <■
2:000 IN
* *
:'•' ■'
i
H
ae s
®S
A.*-' r< >,
sd
m
; ; -5?
<mTi»
!U>\
».■<£'■?
lltel*#?* ’ - V" « :
* * :-v, «»r,
?IW ;
titSliis - §8
Delco- Light pays for Itself
Delco-Light will positively save you money. Not only does
it provide the conveniences made possible by the use of elec-
tricity, but it supplies them at extremely low cost. For ex-
ample, Delco-Light produces electric light at one-forth the
cost in fuel of the old oil lamp. This result, amply proved
in exhaustive tests,at the Delco Laboratories, is absolutely
guaranteed by the manufacturer.
Delco-Light brings city comforts to.the man on the land, and also
supplies the power to operate milking machines* pumps and num-
berless other labour and wage saving devices. Defco-Light soon pays
for itself and then goes right on earning money for its owners.
Delco-Light may be seen in operation at any of the undermentioned
addresses, where full particulars and literature may be obtained.
&£sk the man who owns one--there s a satisfied owner near you
i
mm
m
■y
SSH
AGENTS
m
c o
X.S.W.:
WAR BURTON. FRANKI, Utd
Kent Street. SYDNEY.
Victoria:
WABBURTON, FRAXKI, Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Queensland:
SMDLLIE & CO., LTD.,
BRISBANE.
South (Australia:
PARSONS & RfOBERTSON; lAil.,
Grenfell Stl eet, Adelaide.
• -i..
West Australia:
GEO. WILES & CO.,
PERTH.
Tasmania:
W. F. & Ei A. STEWART,
Cameron Street, Eaunceston.
Xew Zealand:
A. D. RILEY & CO
Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON
FARMERS’ CO-OP. ASSOC.j
Chrl istchurcli.
distributors L™
161-163 St Sxjdney •
m
/
*
e°
m


and
o
Treatment for pimples and blackheads:
At night smear them with Cuticura Oint-
ment. Wash off in five minutes with
Cuticura Soap and hot water and continue
bathing a few moments.
Treatment for dandruff and itching:
On retiring rub Cuticura Ointment into
partings all over scalp. The next morning
shampoo with Cuticura Soap and hot
water- Repeat in two weeks if needed.
For sample each address: *'R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
I9HT Cuticura Soap shaves without mus.
Swap. 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & HA-
8
Sh
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland.
7EN0BIA
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenob'a Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent far Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
A n y Address
by tlie Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc,,
118 West 31st Street.
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
Personal Attention.
Office —
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“CAPITAL”
Parallel Drill Socket.
Where drills of |in. diameter or smaller are used, the “Capital”
Parallel Drill Socket, if continuously employed, effects
A SAVING OF 30 PER CENT.
Externally it is made to fit into Morse
Taper Sockets.
Internally the dimensions are parallel, so
that Straight Shank Drills may be used.
These are less expensive in small
diameters than drills with Taper
Shanks.
Can’t get out of order,
AND THE GRIP IS POSITIVE.
Let us tell you how you can use up broken
drills.
Write to Department “A” for particulars.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
204 Eatrolie Street. MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road, KALdOORLIE.
Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
.1 oliit Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Uhurles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE,
l'aul & Cray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
©
Ruptured Persons
—Wear a Truss.
When Rupture first becomes evident there is no
doubting the wisdom of immediately wearing a Truss.
A good Truss otters a necessary support to the rup-
tured part, and prevents the trouble from assuming
a more serious character.
Among all safeguards DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS
stands out with a great reputation. It offers to
ruptured persons all the necessary features of a Good
Truss, with the addition Of being extremely comfort-
able. The soft elastic bands do not pinch or irri-
tate the body. The wearer has the utmost freedom
of action, and all the time knowing that his Truss
is functioning properly. Get this Special Elastic
Truss of Denyer’s, and have the great satisfaction it
yields.
SINGLE, 35/-; DOUBLE, 47/6
Send for a copy of our E’rec Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
TRUSS SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY
IT IN YOUR
BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBS S” AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of a.11 Grocers, Chem ists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRIS TOPHE It
.JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.
.^sre*
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Rich, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 2~>. Tost
Free, direct from —
CRAIC & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J£ inches;
Weight 021b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from C to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £38/10/-
Corrospondonee invited.
P. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
HOUSES IN THE RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fifty miles of horses
In a weary train !
Running round the courses,
Fifty miles of horses,
Fifty miles of rain!
Could we help hut listen,
Listen in thg^train?
Dripping trees might glisten ;
Could we help but listen,
Helpless in the train?
He had had his flutter,
Lost his cash again.
1 n dejection utter
Still we heard the flutter
Of his language vain.
Fifty miles of horses,
Fifty miles of rain!
There we sat like corses.
It was raining horses
In that weary train.
Various are our blunders.
Deeds we hold in eh eel:.
II 'under still of wonders.
Chief of all our blunders,
.Vo one serened Iris neck.
N.S.W,
CURSE O' MOSES.
“E.P.”: The dashed good fellow used to
keep a keg. Now he keeps a ear.
“Self-determination” is one of the new shib-
boleths of the Labor party, and Lord Mayor
Lambert, president of the A.L.P., knows
what it means. A question having arisen
as to whether a certain delegate to the
A.L.I*. Conference was eligible, the presi-
dent ruled that he wasn’t, and when the
president’s ruling was challenged lie ruled
that there could be no dissent from his rul-
ing. So the obnoxious delegate went out
and the glorious principle of self-determina-
tion was triumphantly upheld.
“Dido” : What the girl in the bar does not
know of men the chambermaid may tell you.
“Ida D.” (Argentine) : I should think
this estancia could run the Tower of Babel
pretty close: Manager. Australian; major-
domo, Scotch ; book-keeper, Irish ; assistant
book-keeper, Argentino ; mechanic, Brazilian;
carpenter, Russian-Pole; wool-elasser, Nor-
wegian (froflT llaminerfest) ; staff-cock,
Spanish ; wife of staff-cook, French ; gar-
dener, Italian; aprendiz, (i.e., learner,
jackeroo), English father, Egyptian
mother born in Bombay; cook, Belgian.
All these have been born in the countries
indicated. The peones (i.e., workmen) ait'
Chilians, Argentinos, Indians or a mixture.
Fortunately, they all speak Spanish.
Osmiridium now stands at £30 per ounce,
with an uncertain market, and the diggers
are much in doubt whether to sell or hold.
Repeated attempts to secure advice from the
Speck Government have failed. It is evident
that the high price which has been ruling
has forced competitors to combine ; but, any
how, the fall may be expected to continue be-
cause of the world’s inability to pay fancy
prices. Despite reports to the contrary, the
Tas. osmiridium deposits are not rich or ex-
tensive, and a fall to £20 per ounce will stop
production over nine-tenths of the area.
Wood’s Burnt Spur, the big claim on the
diggings, has not come near expectations.
Of the novelties in the new Oxford (Lon-
don) revue, “The League of Notions,” one is
a cynical sketch dealing with the house-
famine. Husband and wife are dragging
from flat to flat their two children and all
their worldly belongings. Every caretaker
turns them down at sight of the “encum-
brances” ; so at last father just shoots the
two kids and cheerfully goes in to get his lease
signed. The other more horrible novelty will
certainly be copied in all the world’s theatres.
To a “rat-tat-tat” song there is a reckless
tambourine accompaniment, and then dozens
of tambos are distributed among the audi-
ence, with a cordial invitation to make a row.
As a rule, the audience just lets itself go.
“Ex-Dig.”: Among the tales of casual
Diggers confided to me by their relations,
this one deserves some distinction. It was
the Digger’s mother who told it. When he
was returning to Australia he wrote to her
asking if he could live at her home, to which
she responded “Yes” with alacrity ; but she
was amazed when, besides himself, his wife
and three infants arrived on the doorstep.
“What, didn’t I tell you?” said the Digger.
“I thought I had; but I must have for-
gotten.” Since then he has had another tit
of forgetfulness—in fact, he has forgotten
to come home. But he will prdbably turn up
later, for the mother remembers that the
first intimation they had about his enlist-
; ment was a letter written shortly after the
evacuation of Gallipoli.
“Peg”: Though Sumatra is rich in
minerals, it has so far not been prospected
: to any extent. The Dutch Government
policy is to try to get the cream for its own
nationals, and if there is the slightest sus-
picion that coal, oil or tin may be found, no
.prospecting license will be granted to others,
jin fact, the Government, by sending out en-
jgineers with little or no experience of pros-
' jrecting, locks up areas against the private
enterprise of uitlandcrs. Were it not for
’this policy Australian miners with small
capital could do quite well working the allu-
vial ground and small reefs. Notwithstand-
ing the various difficulties, several Austra-
lians have been concerned in the development
of Sumatra’s minerals. Eight years or so
ago South Australian Burton-Corbin opened
up the Equator mine; Maorilander .Jack
Swindler, once well known in the Thames
(M.L.) district, was developing the Kinan-
dam, but was burned to death by the explosion
of a tin of benzine; II. R. Harris followed
at the Kiqandam for a time; W. A. Staee
has opened up the Soengei Pagoe. a silver-
lead proposition which promises well ; and
Harry Philp was underground boss of the
Paleleh (North Celebes), and later of the
Redjang Lebong.


WHY PAY MORE
THAN 75 1-
for your Winter Ready-to-wear Sac
Suit? You won’t when you see
what David Jones’ are offering at
this price. It is made from good-
quality Australian Tweed, brown or
grey, splendidly finished, and bears
that distinctive appearance associ-
ated with all men’s wear offered by
David Jones’. Call and inspect
them—the department is to be found
on the ground floor.
buys an “Orient” Golf Shirt of good-
quality Zephyr, for which only a
little time ago you were paying
16/6. Stripe designs are in blue,
black and helio. They’re splendid
value. Mail orders welcomed for
both above lines.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
s'
David clones'
Opp. G. P. O.
for Service
SYD N EY
Tel. City 6336.
ABBEY
SHOES.
There’s an Abbey Shoe for you I
The wide range of smart styles we
show makes selection so easy.
Repeat orders from satisfied customers
are convincing proof of the service and
satisfaction given by all Abbey footwear.
Here is a particularly natty Shoe in fine
velour calf Derby, that takes a high
polish. It is made in full sizes, in
narrow and medium styles.
PRICES:
Velour Calf 47/6
Glace Kid 57/6
Tan Calf 55/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 Georg'e Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
pposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
'j=;
a
JI (5k
?ii}
£
PLANT.
/
Easu
Move
From
CuE
CuE
THE “WEE MacGREGOR” PORTABLE PETROL DRAG SAW
will cut ten times as much wood as two men by hand.
Invaluable to Farmers clearing land, and can be used for other power purposes, pumping, feed
cutting, grinding, running circular saw and other similar work.
M
Cub up Branches
LaiLLiJUi
~rr — -yi ■ 1 i
=—'Pumps Wafer =•
CONSTRUCTION.—Prarne built of hardwood, the cross
members being mortised into side frames to prevent wear
and keep the working parts in rigid position. The frame is
of three-point suspension, two points on the log, one on the
ground. All working parts of this machine, including engine,
are placed on the frame in such a manner that no part extends
below the bottom of the frame, which allows the machine to
be slid over logs or loaded into waggons without danger of
breaking any of these parts.
POWER.—The motor is a 4-h.p. water-cooled type, two-cycle.
3jin. bore by 4in. stroke. Remarkably simple and easy to
start. Equipped with water-proof magneto. The engine has
self-oiling connecting rod, and crank case is cast in one piece
and reamed to standard size.
IMPORTANT. —All parts are machined to standard size and
interchangeable.
SAW HOLDER. —The saw holder is used exclusively on our
machine, and is a real time saver, and is superior to anything
yet devised for this purpose. No time lost in fixing; simply
place saw against saw-holder, tighten saw-hook bolt, and you
are ready for operation. This feature is exclusive with tlife
“Wee MacGregor."
OPERATION. —The illustration shows the “Wee MacGregor”
on the log ready for operation. The saw is adaptable to any
position, and makes a true cut, no matter whether log is on
a side hill or on level ground. One man operates and moves
it from cut to cut in the log while two men carry it any where.
Feed the “Wee MacGregor” with
petrol, water and oil, and it will keep
up its work hour after hour, day after
day, and never get that tired feeling.
The “ Wee MacGregor ” carries our guarantee,
and is manufactured in Australia.
S'
■%
()}
M
2
i
PARKE & LACY CP IIP
60 Clarence Street. SYDNEY
Full particulars from
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.


Many people who have never had
anything the matter with them in
their lives make it a practice to
take a dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills on Saturday night. It
is a sound idea, and accounts for
their keeping in good health.
Impurities collect in the system of the healthiest
people, germs that might develop into something
serious are swept away, and the whole system put
right for the week to come. A habit of this kind is
the secret of Good Health among thousands who
make it a rule to look after themselves and who
do not allow their health to be undermined by
carelessness or neglect of one of Nature’s most
important functions.
R
Morses
I
I
> 7 7/7 7 ?
Warn
%
m
FOR
LIVER
TOTTIT
They Make You Feel Brighter.


v\
v>
ot
o
£
I
YA
£
m
w
<9
v\
\
;
<$
//,
fri\
p^
/
V
r2
•5^
%
05
O'
*
r1
5*
*■«
%
\\<s
4<
»v
ru
a
Heartburn?
'Professor Livektap"
HEARTBURN with loss of appetite and a
severe gnawing or burning sensation in
the upper part of the abdomen is a warning
that your digestive organs are out of order.
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver are just the
thing to relieve in all cases of heartburn. They are an exceptional
remedy for all troubles arising from the stomach, liver and bowels.
Chamberlain's Tablets
FOR THE STOMACHankLIVER
JKBBSk -*.•••••■• ■••••••..• • ". - .. .••.’•■.•.••. '! ’■ii.vrwAi
..: • ■•• \. -*•.'.•• ..•.•••• *-.;•• • .■ ••*..••
--r^^dSHP
•- '• . . ••..;•>
•r. .’•/
Br-WSMT
tEw'.v • ’ -'; Sv^
HKduV • - • •*>.
V»v # Iv'^i
► • * _ *
Vy:I ; . • * • • * V?3
¥»?-••.' v”sv£»8
*=-•:' • - l/ :^§
p-.-.v • •
sc?*«. • •. t • %**33
!ftV \ *• ••; *
o,.
JV...
JB§!' r v *
jgSm*h> .
•• . .. > >>V'u4aH
: '.%••'? ffi&as3Sa|8B^
A
v
y;.
REEL
r.V # '• ■**«
ffHPMfflm-yriVr j i‘-‘ 7 -*■ -t *' •'* •* • / *** •* k^*«*i ';•’
Aii “• i i^TriiPrarniiMinWH
vNjSS
Well Known
Letters
which are the hallmark of the highest quality
and accuracy in the manufacture of Ball Bear-
ings.
If you instal SKF Ball Bearings in your
Line-shafting and Machinery, you obtain the
best results.
You save money by turning Friction into'
Power—and by reducing your Lubrication,
Attention and Maintenance expenses to a mini-
mum.
Now is the time to instal 5KF Ball Bearings.
Coal is scarce and wages are high.
Write for our pamphlet: /
“Save Money; Turn Friction Into Power.”
An expert direct from the Home factory is
now located in Australia, and his advice is
at your disposal.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.
Head Office: 381 City Road, South Melbonrne.
Distributing Centres:
MELBOURNE: 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 323 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 123 Currie Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone, 31 King Street,
HOBART; The Medhurst Electrical Works & Telephone Co.
Ltd., 15 Argyle Street. 3 W.Tt.L.
4-967-
Our President.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR colony of New Australia was iu
the throes of dissolution. King Billy
had been tried, had failed and had
been ejected, taking with him his sympa-
thisers.' A new President had been elected
who had tried to please everybody, lie had
come an awful cropper and had washed his
hands of the whole business.
The main trouble was getting the single
men to see eye to eye with the married man
who owned half-a-dozen children. The single
men asked: “Why should we work for an-
other man’s kids 7” The married re-
plied: “Why not? The kids will have to
keep you when you are limping round with
sciatica instead of galloping about maslnng
the native girls.” But it wouldn’t wash, so
they agreed to disagree. The majority
hankered to go on their own, have their own
plots of land, and sink or swim according a>
the time they got up o' mornings and the
amount of elbow-grease they put into it. So
they wanted to get the terms of the concession
altered. The land had been granted to them as
an association, “each for each, and all for
all.” That had fizzled out. Why? Who
knows? 1 don’t. King Billy tried all
ways to make it work —even with a revolver;
and still it wouldn’t go. Then came again tlie
need of a President, someone to convey the
wishes of the majority to the Minister of the
Interior and to interview any big bugs that
happened round to see what wo were up to.
The crowd looked at one another. Each
thought the other fellow would make a jolly
fine President. The other fellow thought other-
wise. It happened that Syd the Poet was not
present and therefore was defenceless; so a
committee was appointed to convey the
wishes of the majority to him. By the votes
of his fellow-colonists he had been unani-
mously elected President, and it was a proud
man he ought to be, lie was told. But he
wasn’t proud. “I’d sooner run a stun in
Paddy’s Market than look after this mob,”
he said. The committee told him it Vas all
right. He wouldn’t have to boss anybody—•
they’d like to see him trying it: he had only
to do as he was bally well told, and stick a
rubber stamp on when he signed official docu-
ments. So Syd succumbed, with the proviso
that if they told him to do anything he didn’t
want to do there would be nothing doing.
The President’s first official job was to go
to Asuncion to see the Minister about the
land. Syd had a little Spanish, the Minister
land.
They had a whip-round to collect the exes,
and the President started off with a pocketful
of ten-cent dollars, a rubber stamp and
strict orders not to get on the booze. But
“that,” said the President, “is where my pro-
viso comes in.”
When he got to the river it was a banker,
but falling; so, being in no hurry, he camped
in a native shack, where the girls talked
Spanish. lie evanted a little practice, any-
how ; and, besides, he was not going to spoil
bis best clothes by getting them soaked.
He put in a week in Asuncion, and that
wad of dollars had nearly vanished before
he could wring even the promise of a con-
cession out of the Minister. They were getting
full-up of New Australians. Deposed King
Billy had been worrying their lives out for
another concession for himself and his
seceders, and had said nasty things when they
would not give him the pick of the basket.
Syd explained ToTlie Hon. Gentleman that his
lot, the genuine originals, did not want more;
they only wanted permission to break up
what they had into little lots so that each
man might he monarch of all he surveyed—
as far as his wire fence ran. “Very good,”
said the Minister, “you shall have the con-
cession. But you must not hurry us.” So
Syd had to trek back with a promise only.
However, that really didn’t matter —the Min-
ister would be coming out himself shortly, in
about a month, and he would bring the revised
concession and explain the conditions. The
committee was, for all that, not pleased with
the President. It reckoned he had not pushed
things properly ; the amount of time and hard
cash that he had expended should have
brought more definite results. The President
merely said, "Ruts! Go up and push the thing
for yourselves,” and proceeded to compose
another poem.
On the strength of the Minister’s promise
some of them selected their homestead sites
and got busy, doing more work in a month
on their own than they had done in three
while working collectively. But this yarn’s
about our President, not socialism.
Syd had got a rough shack put up, some
fencing to enclose his prospective chaera
finished, and was busy well-sinking. The
committee called round at intervals to ask
questions as to when that Minister was com-
ing along. Syd threw mud at them, and at
last they thought they had better leave him
alone: he might chuck up the job.
One day when he was down about twelve
feet working in mud, he heard someone talk-
ing to the missus, who was manipulating the
bucket—we had women’s rights on New Aus-
tralia. “Yes. that’s him down there,” said Mrs.
Syd, and called the President.
Syd came up looking more like a mudlark
than a potentate. He was clad in a coat of
red slush, a pair of abbreviated pants and a
broad smile—a good working rig, but hardly
suitable for receiving distinguished visitors.
The Minister was accompanied by his secre-
tary and a guard of four soldiers: good people
are scarce in Paraguay and need well looking
after. His Excellency looked inquiringly at
Svd. "El Presidente?” he said doubtfully.
He did not recognise Syd in his undress.
"Sure thing.” said the President: “sorry I
can t shake hands. Just dismount under the
orange-trees and I’ll get the crowd together.”
Three blasts on the cowhorn meant “Gather
round the President.”
}\hilst the boys were gathering up and the
Mimster and his escort were scoffing oranges,
Syd made himself presentable. Then he in-
rroduced the gentleman, who told them that
- j Government had granted their request,
and he. had much pleasure in handing the
concession to their President, And now. as
he had a long way to go, he would wish them
adios, and the best of luck.
a^ter Syd resigned. He did not
like being called President. He was afraid it
V _ s " c head and affect his poetry.
CQLOXIA NUEVA AUSTRALIA.
T. MARTYN


ftaiS
w^tSliirts
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims cal.
for.
Neatness of patterns —a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary —all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at ali times.
,See this
brand on
each shirt
mM
%
a
£
&
MaTO
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory Wear and
Service.
AS 61
<
f
1
m
1
V\
'/k
=What the
MULT/ERAPH
Does
It prints —from type and
electrotype forms, in two
or more colors if needed, your
letterheads, invoices, envelopes,
sales department and works forms and
other business stationery.
It prints —at half the cost,
in half the time: without,
delays or inconveniences, in the
quantity desired, just when you want it.
It prints —without going
outside your office to get
the work done and with absolute privacy
when necessary.
It prints clear cut, clean
typewritten letters just like a
typewriter, but a whole page
at a time, up to 4800 an hour. It enables
you to do things the modern way. It
saves time, money, labor and increases
efficiency in your organization.
We shall be glad to give you complete detailed information,
Stott & Underwood
70 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
iMSM
Vi''
'
Business, Robbery, etc.
The same old complaint from London :—
We got; a shipment of Yanco peaches, lliis hrand,
sent out under the eye of and thus guaranteed by the
Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission. Per-
fectly lovely fruit it is, but the grading is so bad
that the consignees have cabled to the Commission
that the goods in this condition are unsaleable. An
expert opinion was got by the Agent-General for
N. S. Wales, and it was more unfavorable than that
of the consignees. This kind of thing is helping every
country but Australia to get this market.
* * * *
“Billy T.” meets a salesman : —
II" came to Cobbet carrying two battered glad-
stone-bags. lie was a large man with truculent eye-
brows and a bad mouth that scented to lie always
wanting to bite someone. It was Saturday after-
noon, and as there was a raffle in the sun-blistered
little wooden Bethel a congregation sat along the
rail-fence and blinked at Hudson as he approached,
lie seemed to resent this, the sun being hot and
the way hard and dry, and he wheeled round on
the spectators with a sudden ferocity. “I'll fight
any nun on the fence,’’ said he. “You, you,
you, you”—lie dotted them off with a stubbing fore-
finger. “Well, any man on the grass." lie stabbed at the
row of startled residents doing honey-pols with their
blades to the fence. Ryder had a bad “neuralgy, ’Crone’s
rheumatics crippled him, Johns said he wouldn’t
mind a few round's, but his old hurt was a trouble.
Billson had a bad cold, and Wells was lame
where the cow kicked him. “And you—what’s the
matter with you?” Hudson pointed to Catts, the
biggest man in the crowd. Catts had backache.
His wife, he said, would corroborate him. Dingle’s
indigestion was worse than ever, and ’Barton had
not got over his bad sprain. They all had suffi-
cient the matter with them to bar participation in
hostilities. “Ah, very well, gentlemen,” said Hud-
son in an amicable tone, “I am fortunate in being
able to ameliorate the sufferings of this unhappy
township.” He opened his two bags. “1 have
here D.\ Blondel's Balm, the justly-celebrated cure
which rubbed in is an infallible salve for coughs,
colds, lumbago, bronchitis, pains, aches, bruises,
sprains, neuritis, iritis, rheumatism, indigestion,
corns, gout and all kindred, allied and detached ail-
ments ; and only two shillings a pot. You, sir”—
he assailed Ryder—“need suffer no more from neural-
gia. Here is the sovereign remedy.” Ryder reluc-
tantly fished out two shillings. Hudson went for
Johns. “I don’t know the nature of that old hurt,
sir, but 1 do knew the cure; Dr. Blondel’s justly-
celebrated Analgesic Balm never fails.” Ho went
down the line with his wonderful remedy for each
man’s specialty and sold 18 pots. Hudson was a
great and gifted salesman.
“Aragun” : Old McGuiness was the mean -
est ruan in the district, and the richest. 1
bet a friend, who was collecting for a sol-
diers’ memorial that he couldn’t get a dona-
tion from him. When accosted Mac said,
“Well, as it is for a good cause, I’ll give a
heifer.” The cow was promptly put up for
auction, but the police sergeant found that
she was suffering from tuberculosis, and it
cost my friend 15s. to have her destroyed.
Meeting McGuiness next day he said, “I say,
Mr. Mac, that heifer you sent along was dis-
eased.” “I thot she was,” said Mac, and
walked off. l’.S. —Who wins the bet?
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The fact that he may get
Macgillicuddy Fine Old Scotch Whisky that
has come all the way from Japan has long
been known to the whisky drinker; and it is
not surprising that it should be so, since the
publican has to pay 35s. per gallon for
Scotch and can get the painful imitation at
a quarter of the price. What is surprising is
that the revenue authorities take no action.
The only man who inquires about the stand-
ard of whisky as an official of the State is
merely concerned about the alcoholic stand-
ard ; and, to protect themselves, live agents of
Scotch distilleries employ a man especially fo
visit the pnbberies and endeavor to check the
fraud. It’s a nice job; but it should be a
governmental one. For one thing the whisky
sellers and the whisky drinkers are both big
suppliers of revenue and deserve protection.
Apart from that, the fraudulent publican
who sells 8s. whisky under the disguise of
‘15s. stuff gets away with a mass of money
which should go into the revenue, and which
the drinker, honest patriot, thinks is going
there.
* * * *
“Copabellu”: History is repeating itself,
after the lapse of about 50 years, in the case
of a Riverina station recently cut up for sol-
dier settlement. A squattage from the be-
ginning of things, it suffered when free-
selection became law an influx of speculators
and selectors who spread over it on their
1280-acre blocks, taking slices out of the best
station paddocks and badly breaking up the
run. The station joined in the flow, muster-
ing sons, brothers, grandsons, uncles, aunts
and cousins, and even a trusty employee or
two as dummies. One trusty employee ob-
tained his start iu life through winning the
homestead block in the ballot and forcing
the squatter to buy him out. Selections
were fenced, orchards were planted, settlers’
homes built. A few years passed; the inde-
pendent (not dummy) selectors, realising the
impossibility of making good on small blocks
of rough country a hundred miles from town
or rail, gave selection best and were glad to
sell out —for almost anything they could get.
The patient pastoralist reached out and
gathered them all in again. When I was
there. 15 years ago, gaunt chimneys, stand-
ing in a tangle of wild-grown garden and
orchard, marked where the homes had been,
but not a selector was left—the station was
station again. Now comes word of pur-
chase and subdivision : the subdivisions tak-
ing the lines of the old selection boundaries.
It is reconstruction in a sense of which
reconstructors never dreamed.
* * * *
“Alquoholl”: The American petroleum
Institute has issued a statement estimating
the number of motor-vehicles in the United
States in 1020 at 9.984,000, and the oil pro-
duction at 402.62G.000 barrels, or about
17,000,000,000 gallons. The U.S. and
Mexico now produce 85 p.c. of the world’s oil
supply, and though new wells are being
drilled on an extraordinary scale, supply has
not overtaken the demand. So the transition
from coal to oil fuel on locomotives and
steamships will most probably he checked
by want of crude oil. In any case, the
extraction of oil and spirit from black and
brown coal must receive a powerful stimulus.
«■ * * *
“A Spanner” makes a few remarks: —
While the newspapers can find vast areas of space
for any old blither the jdaff men turn in or shifty
politicians turn out concerning “the failure of
shipbuilding in Australia,” it needs a high-powered
microscope to discover even a line to suggest that
Australian workshops are producing work that repre-
sents the highest forms of mechanical achievement.
Wherefore very few people are aware that an Aus-
tralian laboratory, engaged in research requiring the
most delicate response from the mechanism employed,
has been supplied with all the necessary equipment
by Australian artisans out of Australian materials.
And there is no finer equipment of its kind in the
world. The fact that Australia possesses a research
laboratory fitted with the most sensitive paraphernalia
in existence, and that this was all made on the pre-
mises, looks like a news item of at least as much
industrial significance as the collapse of demented
schemes for building ships and jerry-building cot-
tages devised by Hughes and Millen. Another item
that didn’t assail the public eye while war raged
was that, bad Australian engineers been unequal to
tackling a job presenting the gravest difficulties,
sugar-growing in the Commonwealth would have re-
ceived a serious jolt. When the refining of sugar
reaches the granulation stage success turns wholly
upon securing an even swing and rotation of the
containers. Even a suspicion of “chatter” in the
mechanism means disaster. It took engineers a long
time to perfect the gear, but at last someone hit
upon the ball-race on a centrifugal shaft and solved
the problem. In Australian refineries the machinery
(imp.) had always been renewed with parts from the
other end of the world. With the supply of these
cut off there was a rush in search of someone who
could produce ball-bearings —on a specification requir-
ing a degree of ease-hardening of steel never before
asked for in the Commonwealth, and demanding that
the variation from absolute precision should not exceed
one ten-thousandth part of an inch. Simultaneously
a cry came down from Java, where the Dutch re-
finers, tut off from German workshops, were pawing
the air and demanding to know whether there was
enough ingenuity left on earth to keep their mills
going. The call on Australian shops to turn out
highly specialised work of this kind was pretty
sudden, so to speak. Men who can work to mea-
surements such as was required are not numerous
anywhere. The instruments are costly, delicate and
scarce. The hardening processes seemed to offer in-
superable difficulties. But the University men did
something, a big pastoralist with a passion for
mechanics backed an engineer's brains, men of
super-skill at their trade were discovered, and in
the refineries of Australia and Java the frictionless
swing of tire granulating machinery went on with-
out interruption.
"Hamer” : Union principles have got their
grip upon young Australia. My two kids,
one seven, the other eight, waited upon me
the other day, and demanded that their
pocket-money should be increased from six-
pence to ninepence per week. They even
hinted that if I proved a soulless parent they
might go on strike and refuse to accept six-
pence. "You know, daddy,” said the eight-
year-old. “you gave ns sixpence a week when
we lived at Bondi, and the cost of living has
gone up since then.” There was no strike.
* * * *
“Orwell” : Near the river-side and in full
view of Brisbane’s principal shipping offices
is a spreading tree. There, at any time of
the day, if you’re able to dodge the constant
traffic of heavy vehicles around it, you can
witness the great national industry of two-
up in progress. It goes on all day, and the
police take no notice. They can’t do any-
thing else, because a Court in this queer
land decided that the area under a tree is
“not a place within the meaning of the Act.”
“Yarrmn”: Years ago a man in a N. S.
Wales coal-mining district was offered 60
acres of land at £1 per acre. The land was
barren and rocky, and grew nothing but
bandicoots and cobblers’ pegs; but the far-
seeing party, who had got rich, chanced it.
and clapped down the GO sovs. For five
years the bandies and other vermin had the
run of tjie place. Then an astute friend
came along and said “1 fancy, Mr. .
the company has got over on your bit of
land.” Surveyors . were set to work, and
they reported that thousands of tons of coal
had been removed. Asked what it was going
to do about the matter, the co. decided to
purchase at the price asked —£200 an acre.
It would be called profiteering nowadays.
* * * *
“Fax” : In Victoria the needy parents of
State-school children are suffering from an
imposition long practised, more or less, at
petty private academies for “young ladies
and gentlemen”—the too-frequent changing
of school books. In small private schools
every new text-book represents a profit for
the person who overcharges for it in the
bill, but in the case of State schools the too-
frequent change of educational mediums—
often faked up from previous productions of
the sort —means taxation. Every change of
doubtful necessity ou£ht to be viewed with
suspicion, and noses sharpened with a view
to the discovery of a commission dropped
somewhere.
THE CIUCMSTANCE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is useless to taunt the N. S. Wales Labor
Party with failure lo reduce the State debt. That
was certainly Labor’s policy. .. .but circumstances
have arisen... .An effort to reduce the burden of
debt will be made directly the time is opportune.”—-
A.L.P. delegate.
I cannot pay the debts I owe;
Indeed, they mount. But taunt me not!
Last Friday I resolved to go
To-day to settle all the lot.
Alas! That resolution's past—
My horse on Saturday ran last!
Bui, still resolved to do my best
(AVhat use to pay off bit by bit?),
I'll give the thing another test,
And make one great big swoop of it:
My debts on Monday I shall shed —-
Unless my horse again runs dead!
The big Futurity event
Is on the programme of To-day :
And, gamblers to our latest cent,
Idly the politicians play.
Still Reckless Finance wins the race,
Whilst Debt Reduction gets no place.
x.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


THOROUGHLY BRITISH
It
/a
THESE TRADE-MARKS
are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries
the “Three Piled Rifles” and
the letters B.S.A. They
are a guarantee of highest
quality, material, workman-
ship and finish.
TRADE MARKS
A
D
FITTINGS
BUILD the PERFECT BICYCLE
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings is guaranteed to give long and efficient
service. For over sixty years the B.S.A. Co. has maintained a world-wide
reputation for quality of materials and workmanship, and to-day thousands of
experienced riders in many countries testify to the reliable, trouble-free service
which is now expected from B.S.A. machines.
How many out-of-the-way places of beauty and interest have you planned
“some day” to visit, but continually put off on account of the time taken to
get there? With a bicycle backed by a reputation such as the B.S.A. you
can depend upon a speedy and comfortable journey without any of the uncertainty
felt when riding a cheap and unreliable machine. The pleasures of your outing
commence from the moment you mount your bicycle, instead of from when
you actually arrive at your destination. Should you, through accident, break
or lose any part vour B.S.A. bicycle the rigid system of interchangeability
ensures you obtaining a new component in the shortest possible time and with
a minimum of inconvenience.
Send for illustrated handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Cycles Ltd., Birmingham),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.


THE
oNAL ***«
i'J
r .*
3@5S=
Jt-Ti
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 185S.
Authorised Capital .. £5 J 000,000 Directors: — SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve of
Proprietors
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
£4,028,000
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq,, Vice-Chairman.
3. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. II. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office 60 Pitt; St. Manager ; R. S. GREGSON. Sub-Manager: L. C. McCONNAN.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager; j. a. g. hadley.
Branches, in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South„Wales. .. .
Brisbane— Manager; -WM. TIVEY. LONDON OFFICE: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - - - Accepted from I/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS - Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
INTEREST - -. - Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £500, and
at 3\ per cent, on any
excess up to £1000.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
The Edge of the Orient
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the year 10,012, Chinese calendar. Hor-
roeks and the narrator boarded the once-a-
week Plum Creek express, being minded
to shoot black buffalo of the swamps and
angle for alligator in his native stream. The
French priest was not of our party, nor we
of his race or creed. But his politeness
atoned for these shortcomings, and it seemed
that, within the limits of his ecclesiastical
boundary-pegs, he belonged to the order of
them that played the game.
As our composite train pulled reluctantly
away from the corrugated outskirts Pf the
Port, her engine buffers leading the way
south at an even speed of seven miles an
hour, the French priest and Hdrrocks ignited
tobacco from the same Japanese match and
acquainted themselves. This ceremony com-
pleted, I was indicated as the Visiting Writer
by Ilorrocks, he being- Worshipful Master of
the Free and Accepted Lodge of Oldest In-
habitants and Knight Templar of the Most
Ancient Chapter of Croweaters. Whereat the
French priest, in the manner of all men and
women I met in that northern country, pro-
ceeded to burden me with his grievance. Dis-
sension between tin' Brahmin who ruled the
Territory and its inhabitants had become
chronic. The appointment of the Brahmin
had been prc-evidently unwise. In the first
place, his nose was too long. Secondly, his
vision was too short. Thirdly, he was
not of the order of them that play
the game. In instance whereof Ilor-
rocks, after exchanging passwords, told
me an incident. But as Ilorrocks was a
Templar and myself little more than a
novice, I might not pursue the matter to
verification. Ilowbeit, I trusted the word
of Ilorrocks, even as the word of my own
brother.
As the express chug-chugged her heated
way through tropical cane-grasses, maero-
zamias and bamboos, the French priest told
me another incident. Upon which I delivered
myself of judgment. “Verily,” I said, “this
Brahmin is as the ass in the lion’s skin ! Be-
hold the day cometli when he will be kneaded
[between the upper and the nether millstones,
■ so that the rags and the bones and the ass
hairs of him will be no more than a noisome
mess.”
“Yea,” said the leathern-faced Ilorrocks,
reaching for a bundle in the rack overhead,
“but who’s going to clean up the mess?”
Which is the metaphysics of the story.
*
Come now to its actualities. At. the
Twenty-seven-mile, having wished the French
priest deliverance from whatever devils he
most dreaded, we alighted and removed our
accoutrements. After we had drunk bottled
beer of Nagasaki with engineer and fireman,
the continental lurched forward and was lost
to view in long cane grass. As her string of
empty trucks glided rustily past, two faces
grinned goodbye from the windows of the
carriage behind them. One was the face of
the French priest, darkly bearded, fat and
good-humored. The other was the face of Sam
Chee, likewise fat and jovial, but the color of
very rich pastry, and without beard.
As we turned, Gunster, the buffalo-shooter,
materialised and greeted us. Being one of
those whose heart that mysterious northland
had netted, as the rattan in her jungles winds
around smooth bark and holds it tight for
ever, Gunster was of slow and dreamy speech.
A man of perhaps five-feet-six, naked to the
waist, barefooted and covered only in battered
pandanus hat and faded dungarees, among
screw palms, bamboos and cane-grass he was
as harmonious as a Beethoven played by Ver-
brugglien on a Cremona. Behind him equa-
toi’ial sunlight gleamed on the greasy naked
blackness of his aboriginal retinue. Burned
by hundreds of equatorial suns his own skin,
from the waist up. was almost as black as
theirs, but its velvet lacked the sheen of the
others’ skin.
Having shouldered the white man’s burdens,
Gunster’s boys loped leanly ahead, while we
three overlords, carrying rifles only, followed,
beguiling the way with conversation and
tobacco. Being remote from books and men
of his kind. Gunster thirsted for gossip of the
Port which is the one village of more than a
hundred inhabitants in 800,000 square miles
of the Territory—whether because of Capri-
cornian suns or foolish southern brains is
hard to determine. But gleaning from the
conversation of Ilorrocks and Gunster I har-
vested certain grains of conclusion. Likewise
much corn of local information filled with
protein of scandal.
For example, I learned that the business of
the Port was now gone almost entirely into
the hands of Chinese. Since the estab-
lishment of a Chinese Republic race questions
were aggravated, the Oriental claiming
superiority of government and better demo-
cracy.
Further, there was trouble at the gaol.
The Javanese cook, who had been sentenced
to twelve months’ for selling opium to abo-
riginals, had threatened to go back under the
Dutch flag when released. But Plugson of
the pub, whose temporary Chinese chef was
retiring at the month’s end with a com-
petence, threatened to close his establishment
altogether if the Javanese did not return co
his employ. As Plugson’s place was the only
joint where life was at all supportable for
sweating officials, this was “King Lear” and
“Hamlet” without the comic relief. But Ilor-
rocks said Plugson was sure to win. The
gaol people would try to keep the-Javanese
his full time, because he was an excellent
cook; and as for the authorities trying to
stop the sale of opium by Orientals to
aboriginals that was still another error of
Government. What looked very improper in
Collins-street was merely incidental to an
equatorial territory. Why, they had to give
natives opium at night in the gaol, otherwise
the whole system, warders, murderers and
prisoners, would be bereft of sleep through
the incessant howling thereof. It was all the
result of trying to graft gooseberries on to
guavas. There would be much wiring be-
tween tlie Brahmin and the Sacred Clerk in
charge of Informal Affairs at Confusion, but
in the end Plugson would win. There would
be no more prosecutions of good cooks for
anything short of aggravated and unjustifi-
able homicide of a white person. Better the
wrath of a hundred Brahmins than the loss
of one equatorial cook.
Ilorrocks reported that officials from the
outskirts of Confusion were still arriving in
batches by each boat. Some were of ordinary
intelligence, but more were stuffed speci-
mens from departmental museums, lured
away from the ice-chest by prospect of higher
salary.
Two new nurses from Confusion had
arrived at the hospital. They came, they
saw, they concluded to remain until the next-
boat going south —unless matrimony offered.
News had come in from Katrina, which
is the last pub south for a thousand miles,
that “Spider” Smith had gone bush after
a spree of many thrilling incidents, includ-
ing the coaxing of a Director of Tropical
Growths (from Tasmania) to lie on the top
rail of a fence while he jumped his horse
over him, the coaxing being successful by
reason of “Spider” Smith’s revolver, loaded
in six visibly-oiled chambers. The Director
had come back to the Port with signs of
apprehens : on still upon him. and reported
this playfulness to the police, who were
greatly harassed, having no staff to spare
for the game of needle and haystack. But
this director, through the Brahmin, had a
pull with the Sacred Clerk, who had the
ear of the Minister, so it was wise to make
pretext of search for “Spider” Smith, the
country adjacent to Confusion paying all
expenses and taxes. Thus was one more
added to the lengthening list of fruitless
expeditions.
From Bitter Waters had come news of a
fight to a finish between' Mosquito and
Trooper Finnegan—quite another story.
Since Mosquito speared a prospector on his
way to Alligator River rush —speared him
in the back and through the heart as he
was stooping to unbuckle hobbles —there had
been uneasiness in the south-west. For
the prospector’s black boy. hidden in the
bamboos by the creek, had seen Mosquito
go bush mounted on the boss’s horse with
the boss’s Winchester and 200 rounds of
ammunition among the spoil of the pack-
bags. Having allowed a certain number of
suns to rise and set. so that the elated
and confident Mosquito would discharge a
large quantity of plundered ammunition,
such being a way of the festive savage on
these successful occasions, Constable Michael
Patrick Finnegan began a little expedition
of 400 miles towards the interior. The
trail was old, inasmuch ns Billycan, sole
witness of the murder, find had to work his
way through hostile tribal country. When
at last he reached his own people Billycan
had interested himself in a matrimonial pro-
ject, and for a time find forgotten to report
the incident. Now Billycan was entrusted
with a Snider —the confidence o f Finnegan
did not extend to cartridges until final stages
of the journey. Having at last found by
position and surroundings of the pros-
pector’s remains that Billycan was truth-
ful, if not reliable, cartridges were added
to the latter’s equipment, and he was posted
to overlook a possible line of retreat while
Trooper Finnegan followed a fresh trail
towards its expected conclusion. It was
not that Finnegan desired to go alone;
there was no other company within a hun-
dred or so miles, and no other way to go.
Mo«ouito’s initial mistake lav in putting
one of his last two dozen Winchester bullets
through Finnegan's hat instead of his head,
when he unexpectedly opened fire on the
descendant of O’Finnegan from behind a
clump of ironwoods. Thereat Finnegan
dropped like a stone about 2ft. north of
a magnetic anthill. Mosquito, foolishly be-
lieving this to be a result of his marksman-
ship, incautiously withdrew himself no more
than a man’s width from the ironwoods for
better observation, and a second shot if
needful. Whereupon there was a convulsive
movement of Finnegan’s body, which brought
the anthill between it and the outlaw's line
of vision, and simultaneously there came a
discharge of firearms which tore away a
section of Mosquito's jaw and left his flanks
open. This painful surprise caused a
wounded caveman to crawl into cover with
quick cunning. Thence he fired wrathfully
at an unreplying anthill.
Michael Patrick lay very close to the
ground, taking no chances, grimly speculat-
ing what Billycan would do when the noise
of combat reached him. lie was not long
left in doubt. From a dangerous angle, the
user being unsophisticated, Billycan sud-
denly loosed his battery in the direction of
Mosquito. Simultaneously the stillness of
Central Australia was rent by a shrill cry
of “Gib-it-hell, Finnegan!”
Mosquito was dying game. He worked
the lever of his stolen Winchester rapidly,
directing lead on two points of the com-
pass. Finnegan lay doggo, encouraging
him to waste ammunition by emptying a
chamber of his own revolver now and then
without breaking cover. Once when the
fire slackened lie cautiously pushed his hat
round the anthill, and Mosquito promptly
drilled another neat hole through it with
his plundered .38. Incidents crowded one
another like movements of a cinema story.
Billycan brought the climax. Reloading his
Snider with difficulty and caution, lie worked
round on Mosquito’s flank and delivered an-
other long-range consignment of official lead
into' occupied territory. In shifting cover
at. this Mosquito gave the expectant Finne-
gan-his awaited opportunity. A sharp crack
from a police rifle, the thud of a bullet gone
home, and Mosquito lay in a dusky heap
which became immediately attractive to
adjacent ants, and. presently, occasioned a
sardonic crow the liveliest interest.
Finnegan and Billycan, smoking placidly,
rode over the skyline a couple of hours later.
And having assembled several of his asso-
ciates in black dinner-jackets, the crow de-
livered a long, impressive funeral oration
from contiguous ironwoods. After which
silence reigned over the Heart of the Con-
tinent.
» * * *
We made early camp in a shade of screw-
palms slightly removed from the edge of a
long billabong whereon water-lilies floated like
rose gondolas. Scarlet-legged panas tripped
over the flat, floating leaves. From oppo-
site banks one caught iridescent glitter of
wild ducks’ wings, and in overhanging tea-
trees magpie-geese kept unsteady balance.
A sky of china-blue flaring into opal pre-
sently ; a heavy, vapor-laden atmosphere;
spiced scent of tropical growths—all these
betokened the Edge of the Orient.
On the same billabong, 150 yards away,
another outfit had come to camp * for the
night. In a land where there are no cara-
vanserais (lie night camp offers assemblage
and fellowship, gossip, debate and sometimes
discord. It is the Great Inn of the Open
Air, whose signboards are familiar and dear
to them who travel the unfeneed trails of a
spacious North.
This was the outfit of Jim Chee, a heavy
ox-cart drawn by a' black ghee-buffalo of
Indian stock. The loading was buffalo hides,
briny and odorous. Jim Chee, a willow-
pattern replica of Sam Chee his brother and
partner, rode a scrawny Timor pony, feet
brushing the long grass, Oriental paunch,
overhanging the saddle and a face like a
saffron-cake ornamented by “hundreds and
thousands’’ in pock-marks. Two aborigines
acted as driver and advance-agent. One, a
lean native of unusual height—drawn out
by northern suns, no doubt —strode ahead,
naked except for a loin cloth. He carried
a bundle of liunting-spears and wore a clay
dr.deen with a stem about an inch long in
a corner of his cavernous mouth. The
other, a shiny, good-tempered town black-
fellow, drove the solemn ghee-buffalo.
Now came dayfall with buffalo-steak,
grilled over open coals, tinned cake, black
tea. damper and tobacco. Sunset turned
western expanses into an Australasian Art
Society’s exhibition, and showed Ah Street-
ers. Hong Heysens, Chong Full woods and
Lee Longstaffs by the cosmic acre. The
quantities of Oriental gold, peacock-blue and
carmine used in their pictures would have
brought charges of sin and shamelessness
from those Scawtch trustees of Melbourne
Art Gallery who excluded Fremiet’s “Go-
rilla” from their ( haste collection a few T years
ago. and solemnly proposed on one occasion
to dotin' Circe with a kilt.
If Jim Cliee's ancestors belonged to those
old Mongolian colonists who travelled as
far along the road to artistic perfection
with their paint-boxes as the sculptors of
Athens with their chisels, he could not have
assumed a more placid proprietary interest
in the skyward exhibition. Sitting cross-
legged the other side of our camp-smoke,
puffing a scented Asian tobacco, listening
rather than talking, his fat face turned west-
ward and lit by its reflected Oriental glow,
he glistened like a benevolent yellow god.
“Saw your brother to-day, Jim,” l f orrocks
observed presently. “He’s going to the
Katrina !”
Jim Chee blew two jets of smoke from his
nose softly downward.
“Him glo Ivatlin Libber?” lie said as if
a piece of news had just reached him.
"Buyin’ hides,” suggested Gunster.
The Chinaman shook his head. “No ’ide,”
he said.
Iiorrocks seemed to be turning something
over in his mind. He was watching the
Chinaman narrowly. “Say, Jim,” he said
presently, “whaffor you make out wot savee
what Sam Chee go south for?”
Jim Chee blew more smoke through his
nostrils. “Maybe get mally,” he grinned,
with a half-deprecatory, half-assertive grin;
then added: “Him catchee pl’n’ money now.
Him wantehee mally seT down all-li.”
“Sara Chee getting married,” interposed
Gunster, whom the gossip was interesting.
“What fella lubra Sam takin’ on?”
“No pieeee lubra,” replied Jim, compla-
cently. “Alice same white pieeee. Missee
Maly MacBeen, me tink.”
“What! Old Scotty MacBeen's girl!” cried
Gunster. “The one that was down at the
Port last winter?”
The saffron face grinned. “Alice-same
pieeee!”
Iiorrocks whistled softly. “Well, I’m
damned,” said Gunster.
The Chintiman chuckled over the impres-
sion he had made All the world loves to be
a bearer of startling news.
Jim Chee, apparently concluding that can-
dor would be most appreciated, now allow’ed
himself to be pumped on a subject which
could not long be kept secret —a subject of
certain local interest. His brother n:as going
to marry a white girl, or a girl at least two-
thirds white. Her father was rich in beef
cattle, rough of speech, an uncouth, untamed
northern pioneer, who had gone out into the
wilderness with a she-camel and a fifty of
flour, and had conquered it in the course of
years with snider and stockwhip, and lived
then and now the life of rough independence
that, suited him. Still, that even the uncouth,
illiterate MaeBoen should permit liis daugh-
ter to marry a Chinaman, albeit the richest
Chinaman in the Far North, at first appeared
incredible to Iiorrocks and Gunster. They
put the acid on Jim Chee in liberal doses, and
Jim Chee remained bland, cheerful and con-
sistent.
The story was evidently true. Further,
the bridegroom-elect just as evidently in-
tended that it should become immediately
current, otherwise Jim Chee had not spoken.
After the latter had gone back to bis own
camp to turn in, from the recesses of the
cheese-cloth which covered my own stretcher
I heard Gunster and Iiorrocks discussing
and debating this latest revelation with a
piquant interest which dwellers in more
settled places can hardly appreciate. There
seemed to be no definite conclusions in it.
so they told one another they would go to bed.
It beat cockfighting. They were damned, they
were double-damned, they were completely and
utterly damned if they could understand it.
Having agreed on this head, they were about
separating for the night, when Gunster sud-
denly turned round and faced Iiorrocks
across the dwindling firelight. There was
inspiration in his face, and the satisfaction
of a naturalist who has captured an elusive
specimen which has evffded him for a long
time.
“Say. Iiorrocks,” he suggested, “the cove
Mosquito outed, that prospector chap—
wasn’t he working for MacBeen for a good
while before that Alligator rush started?”
“By Christopher!” exlaimed Iiorrocks:
“a guinea to a gooseberry—that’s it.”
“Knew there’d be no end of talk. So puts
himself right with whatever gods may be—
whichever social gods he still adheres unto."
“And, further, don't you forget it, Chow
or not. this Chow is the richest man in the
Territory.”
“So Scotty punishes the girl—up to a cer-
tain point—and don’t hurt his own cheque-
book, an’ it’s a way put of an awkward
scandal —and the sequel”
“Anyhow, it’s going to be a sacramental
alliance; that's why the French priest was
going south to-day.”
“A rise in Oriental stock. Mr. Writer-
man.” he added, passing my shelter —“have
you brushed out your anopheles? Isn’t this
a damned queer country?”
“It is elemental,” I murmured, “somehow
mixed, somewhat different, very diffi-
cult”—
Iiorrocks was moving off into shadow.
“Fancy sending a half-baked juggins to
govern and develop this country!” he
chuckled.
PETER PANDANUS.


Making: the Best Engine Better
-r“
&
r A
6 H P. Z
■sr v
10 H.P. ‘Z’
10 & 15 H. P.
"Z” ENGINES-Portable
X
with BOSCH Magneto
THE “Z” was always famous as the world’s best Farm Engine at the
price. Over 250,000 endorsed THAT opinion. But now its makers
have gone one better, made the only improvement possible! They
have equipped the Z with the American Bosch High-Tension Magneto.
The big, hot, high-tension spark makes the “Z” start at the first turn
of the handle, and run without a hitch as long as the fuel lasts. When the
full significance of this development is realised very few farmers will fail to
have a look at the new Z.
Besides having Bosch Magneto, the new “Z” retains the mechanical
features that made the “Z” famous: Throttling Governor, Speed Regulator,
Suction Fuel Feed, Water-jacketed Valves, Renewable Bearing Liners and
Standardised Parts. ,
You’ll be interested in the full details of the “Z.” Why not write
to us now for illustrated catalogue?
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 16-18 Young Street, Sydney.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 586-588 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
FOUR GOOD PUMPS.
Suitability for their special class of work, strength, wearing capacity over long periods, and moderate price, are the feature, o
Billabone rumps.
m
Tie “Billabong” Double
Acting Piston Pump.
This pump is especially adapted to meet the
demand for a medium-priced pump for use
with kerosene or petrol engines or other belt
power. It. combines ample power and large
capacity in a most compact, form, delivering
from 300 to 5800 gallons per hour, accord-
ing to size. The piston is made of high-
grade carbon steel, and brass-cased Gears
and Pinions are machine-cut from the solid.
The Cylinder is brass-lined, and the rubber
valves are seated on brass. Bucket leathers
are cup-shaped. Suction may be taken from
either side, and delivery in four different
directions.. . ,
We fit this pump up at a moderate price as a
Sheep-spray Outfit,
complete with suction and delivery hose,
valve. Pump will exert a pressure of
particulars.
footvalve. lever spray nozzles and safety
751b. to the square inch. Write for
The "KEROTIN
Spray Pump
is an inexpensive Spray Pump for use in small orchards or
gardens. It tits to an ordinary bucket or petrol tin. and
will deliver a bucket of emulsion as a fine mist for fifteen
minutes, or may be used as a jet pump for lime-washing 01
washing down vehicles and windows. Strongly made from
brass, it lasts—nothing to corrode; very much cheaper than
imported pumps of similar make; sold complete with iron
foot-rest, hose and graduating spray.
-OHM DANKS
Make Your Creek Work.
That water running to waste day and night
may be saved for soil, man or beast, and with
the aid of a
DANK S’
HYDRAULIC RAM
be made the power for lifting itself up the
hill to the tanks. All that is required is a
slight fall or head of water from creek or dam,
even as low as three feet.
The falling water works the Ram, no hand-, engine- or
Mention the fall, height and distance to which water is
quantity per day required, when writing.
Full particulars for the above —write to-night.
wind-power required,
to be delivered, and
“BILLABONG” CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
for power, volume and compactness. Very suitable for
general pumping, or for raising water in large quantities
for irrigation, 75% efficient on independent tests. Stocked
in high- and low-duty patterns, and in sizes from lin. to
Sin. Supplied in gunmetal, for use where chemical action
makes the use of iron unsuitable.
Printed mat-
ter and price
lists per return
for your
address.
324=330 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
[3 ?///////
0
z
o
*
(/)
<o
* Piy. Ltd;.
391=403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.


THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOB THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
A
\Jor the Summer Camp
Abbots
THE BEER V/fTHOUTA RIVAL^
Ti
tvst*
iisal
JEJS
W. ChorleySCo.Ltd.
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
**
LADIES’ 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPCRES
&
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FUR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Lilac Domino”
Criterion “The Sign on the Door”
Palace "Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hovt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirtlis’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Irene”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
King’s “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hovt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic -Moving Pictures
Melua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
"Nightie Night,” at Sydney Palace, may
be a popular success, but it isn’t a good
play. Depending for its laughs on a lady
in a pair of fascinating pyjamas playing a
mad game of hide-and-seek between tne two
bedrooms of her gentleman friend before
marriage (his and hers), his jealous wife,
her jealous husband (he has an inborn ten-
dency to shoot on sight when anybody
annoys him), a baby off-stage who provides
jokes so old that they are almost rancid —-
there you have the complete idea, hot and
cold turned on. When the play opens, Billy
Moffat, a newly-married man, is on the train
to New York, and there meets an old pre-
marriage friend, Trixie Lorraine, of whom
his new wife is insanely jealous. Trixie is
running away from the husband sue has
just married because of his rage when he
discovered she had been married before. In
her hurry she has foi-gotten to tell him that
in addition to being a wife she is a mother.
Trixie's new husband turns out to be Billy’s
oldest friend, and Billy undertakes to make
everything right.. Complications arise that
very night ivhen, Billy and his wife being
at the theatre, Billy’s cub brother-in-law
sub-lets the flat to Trixie, who is looking
for an apartment, and decides to take imme-
diate possession, sending the only dress she
has with her to the dry-cleaner’s around
the corner. This is the excuse for the great
pyjama act next morning # and the title of
the play.
* * * •
Joseph Coyne as Billy Moffat rackets
through his part on a high note that is
sustained till the final curtain, Marjorie
Bennett is well cast as the spitfire little
wife, Rubi Trelease as Billy’s divorcee
sister Ernestine wears her clothes well, and
Marie La Varre rollicks through her part and
deserves a special mention for her acrobatic
turn with the hearthrug. But Cecil Spong.
as Norah the movie-mad maid, is funny
on quite an individual note. Sidney Stirling
as Trixie’s husband, who wanders about with
a tiger raging in him, amd Philip Burston.
Billy’s young brother-in-law, help to swell
the noise.
5k * # *
"The Lilac Domino,” musical comedy’s
"The Welcome
Stranger," at
Melbourne King’s.
Edwin Lester us a
man not in favor of
Jews.
Ancient Mariner,
will make yet
another journey
this week, setting
sail from the
stage-entrance of
Sydney Criterion
on or about Friday
(wind and weather
permitting) and
proceeding along
the uncharted
wastes of Pitt-
street to Her
Majesty’s. “T h e
Lilac Domino” has
been cruising
around Sydney
in this manner for
136 nights off and
on.
* * * *
‘‘The Sign on
the Door” will be
made available for
public inspection
at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday
night. It is a
dramatic gripper
of the strangle-
hold type, con-
structed through-
out in the U.S.A.
Wall-street brokers
have choked at the
sight of it, and
Chicago packers
admitted that
much of it is
stronger than their own wares. Maude
Hannaford provides the bulk of the agony,
assisted by William J. Kelly and a gifted
company.
“Chu Chin Chow” is still giving hundreds
of people their first inside view of the Syd-
ney Opera House; and lots of them wonder
why they didn’t get acquainted long ago.
But they wouldn’t have found a “Chu Chin
Chow” if they had.
Sydney Tivoli, in its new role, serves up
a sandwich —the silent drama wrapped
around song and dance. Current this week
is Annette Kelieiman in the breathless hurry
labelled “What Every Woman Loves.” , Not
. money, not frocks, not even a limousine.
Just a boy who can make the other fellow’s
nose bleed. Aiso, there’s Olive Thomas in
“Darling Mine”; and, reaching at last the
meat, a tableau of beach sirens displaying
well-developed limbs. Also, Mel B. Ward,
as a blithe old boy, and Maie Baird, as a
beach vamp, contribute an entertaining
dance.
* * * *
“Homespun Folks,” a picture with a
bucolic setting at Sydney Lyceum, intro-
duces Joel Webster, who prefers Costs to
cows, and so becomes District Attorney. In
that capacity he saves a local editor, falsely
accused of murder, and in payment collects
the editor’s daughter. The accompanying
him is the familiar “Hearts Are Trumps.”
Crystal Palace is picturing “Uncharted
Channels,” which hits at the revolutionary
crank, and eulogises the wage-plug who plods
Mabel Normand at the Strand is
the “Slim Princess” in a make-believe king-
dom where only ladies with double chins and
a 40-inch waist-line are “eligible.” Prin-
cess Ivalora dons a rubber suit, has it in-
flated, and glides airily around until a cac-
tus plant asserts itself. Additional is Larry
Semon as “The Sportsman” who converts
“HUMPTY
DUMPTY,"
at Sydney
MAJESTY'S.
Beatrice Allen singing of "Swance,"
little birds into orphans. Close-ups of Bill
Hart’s hard dial and the corpulent Roscoe
Iv. Arbuckle are features at the Globe.
V V *
Masefield’s tragedy of “Nan” needs a more
sensitive appreciation of its drama and char-
acter than the Mermaid Play Society showed
in the production of the piece at Melbourne
Playhouse last week. Most of the company
were plainly troubled by the dialect, which
came satisfactorily only from the tongue of
T. Skewes, cast as the ponderous Mr. Par-
getter. Evidently Alan Murray had also
rehearsed the deranged vowels of his dia-
logue, but he sounded fruity and exalted for
the expression of Dick Gurvil’s treachery.
Eileen O’Keefe was Mrs. Pargetter. but occa-
sionally her accent wandered and her shrew-
ishness seemed tame and underdone. Isabel
Handley never had Jenny ent'rely in her
grip, nor was W. T. Southwell supremely
fetching in the maunderings of Gaffer Pearce.
Rose Quong, as Nan, was rather misplaced.
Talking in a velvet voice which obviously
toiled for soft, eerie effects, she was most
concerned with the elocution of the part.
Admittedly her elocution was almost mus'c
at times, but it made Nan more mystical and
faraway than the author intended. The
principal item of the evening was preceded
by A. A. Milne’s one-aeter, “Wurzel Flum-
mery.” which satirises in a pawky manner
the Engl'sh middle-class readiness to d<5
anything for money. Mrs. Frank Apperly.
the general producer ard inspiring force of
the Mermaid Society, brought her delicate
brogue to bear on a slioht girlish character
in the comedv. whilst Mary Curtain. Helton
Daniell. A. Howett-Worster and C. H. Mc-
Adam shared the rest of the conversation.
Of a ciuiet Melbourne show:—
R. McCann, who is exhibiting 106 canvases at
the Melbourne Athenaeum, is apparently using his
old Gallery training to temper the aggressive natu-
ralism which he has presumably acquired from
Meldrum. The res'.’lt is not altogether successful,
and there are one or two canvases where the artist
seems to be alternately swayed by two different
intentions. The palette employed in some seaside
subjects would gladden the eye of Bernard Hall,
whereas other canvases of grim trees and depressed
haystacks, with a sky ready to weep for the Metho-
dist landscape below, confess that Meldrum’s prin-
ciples have generally prevailed. Many of the land-
scapes in the Meldrum manner are sincerely handled,
but the yearning for simplicity robs some of his
smaller works oi any pictorial appeal.
* * *
In “Irene,” the moderately musical comedy
which arrived at Melbourne Majesty’s last
week, the heroine
is a Cinderella of
the Bowery, intro-
duced under Peg-
o’-My-Ileart condi-
tions. She comes
o n upholstering
business to the
home of a coior-
1 e s s millionaire
baohelor, her chief
attractions being
an intensely ’Mur-
kan accent and
an artless loqua-
city. In a tete-a-
tete with the capi-
talist Irene pro-
pounds the ques-
tionable doctrine
that fine feathers
make bewitching
girls, whereupon
tne susceptible man
with money to
burn arranges that
Irene and two
other Bowery gals
shall be dressed up
to kill. They are
supposed to assume
an air of social
culture with the'.r
new outfits: there-
fore the prince
marries the
Bowery maid in
spite of the com-
bative demeanor of
the maiden’s
mother. This
romantic conclu-
"The Welcome
Stranger" at
Melbourne King's
Jimmy Atholwood us
the coon.
sion necessitates the obliteration of the
hero’s own mother and a young lady
friend who had helped to fill in time earlier
in the story. For that matter, the only
people who cut any ice in the proceedings
are the hero, the heroine and her two chums,
the little dressmaker man who dolls them
up. and the wild Irish mother who is mostly
bullying Irene from the open window of
their Bowery tenement. The story appeals
to all young womanhood that earns its liv-
ing by hard toil, and the dialogue contains
many popular home truths, as well as some
forcible philosophy which ought to be truer
than it is. Also the music, though conven-
tional, is mostly pleasing both in song and
dance items.
* * * *
Dorothy South owes some of her success
in the name-part to a mellow, mezzo vo:ce—
the best voice in a weak singing company—
and a happy air of naturalism; but most of
her success is due to the exceeding fatness
and adaptability of her part. Her make-up,
like that of her Bowery friends, is painfully
artificial, and, after giving her all her due,
the fact remains that a monotone loses in-
terest when it grows monotonous. Of
the two g'rl fr-’ends. alluded
to as flappers, Peggy Maloney shows more
“pep” than Marion Earle, though her alleged
unsophistication is flatly contradicted by her
rich yellow thatch. vMiss Beaumont Collins
is artistically appalling as Irene’s mother,
whereas the other Bowery mother is an exag-
geration. The two lad p« in mPte society
matter hardly at all. Miss Hinkle, to be
sure, s’ngs a couple of ditt : es with chorus
background, one of them being almost a
record-breaker for speed, but these happen be-
fore the story starts and are forgotten by
10.45 p.m. Pier enunciation gives little idea
of what the whirlwind song is all about. The
performances of the men range from poor to
fairly good. Clute, as the man-dressmaker, ?s
nimble and pungent, but not a well-chosen
type f or the part. Paunceforte is also fairly
good in an unimportant manner, while
Robert Jewett is chief offender because his
part is so prominent and himself so unsuited
to it.
“Ma’d of the Mountains” touched its 00th
performance at Melbourne Royal last Satur-
day night, and the evenings and (he matinees
of future weeks will go on adding to the
score.
❖ t- * *
If there he a Society for the Improvement
of Jewish RenutaPon. an instalment of its
bonus to ban-ackers is due to Ju’eg Jordan
and John O’Hara at Melbourne King’s. No
reasonable oerson can deuv the gentleness
goodness of the eoufidmg Hebrew in
“We’eome Stranger.” He’s a PgM to l-'ghten
the Gent-les. Had Prov-dence made him a
pawnbroker he would have d ; ed of insol-
vency through lending money to the widow
and the fatherless on. no security whatever.
As it vs, he would have been ruined by a
tire but tor the forethought of a white-haired
Christian who paid his insurance for him.
At Melbourne Princess’s, where the tra-
ced? of ‘Tambour Major” was lately
enacted, Fullers’ Dramatic Players will
shortly resume their exciting duties. With
Neilie Bramley and Austin Milroy at the
head of the column, the co. will present
' Tommy’s French Wife” on the 23rd.
v
At Melbourne Tivoli the Musgrove mixed
programme is this week on the up-grade.
The orchestra, impressively disclosed to
view by slowly-parting curtains, does better
than before, Peggy Peat sings quite charm-
ingly, and the “Phantom Butler,” which
puts safe-breaking and thief-taking on the
screen, and presents one more study in lovely
woman’s dark American pencilling under the
ej r es and over the eyelids, i3 a lot more
interesting than the Tivoli Gazette that deals
with dull doings in a distant land. The
second part of the bill comprises Stewart
and Moore duets, followed by the screen
story of “Dinty.”
5ji :Jc ij:
The outstanding features of “Irene” at
Adelaide Royal continue to be the jolly blit
reminiscent music (“Little Grey Home,”
“My Hero,” “Going Up” and others all laid
under contribution), and the acting of
two women. Dorothy South realises so com-
pletely the essentially-commou heroine of the
author’s imagining that many patrons pay
the actress the highest compliment of imag-
ining that she could play nothing else. And
Beaumont Collins (who is, as a fact, the
wife of the bailiff-butler of “Tilly of Blooms-
bury”) is a kind of Maggie Moore, whose
deep voice and resolute air have caused some
bets in the audience as to the sex of the
player. Dorothy Brunton is now on the
doorstep, so to speak. “Cinderella” at the
Prince of Wales has dissolved at last, many
of the players staying on to start a Fuller
season of variety at that house, the Majes-
tic bemg now under Musgrove direction as
a picture-theatre.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic:—
An unusual one-man show is that of the paintings
of Gustave Barnes, got together in the Society
of Arts gallery within two or three weeks of his
death. He had hardly had time to gain much
repute outside his own State, but the Art Gallery
of Adelaide already has three samples (the maximum
possible by its rules) of his work. Of those able
to give expression to their visions, nobody has so
fully appreciated the beauty of the Adelaide hills,
and he shows them in all shapes and shades. While
getting a few years’ training in England, he worked
much in water-color, and this medium is well re-
presented in the show. There are good etchings,
too. Among his best things are two studies of a
local hedge-lined road with brilliant splashes of
"THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE," AT
SYDNEY PLAYHOUSE.
Gregen MeMahon as George Booth.
sunlight. Possibly the best of all is “Pipes 61
Pan.” Figures were not Barnes’s strong point—he
tended to conventionalise them —but here the figures
arc statuary in a wood, and his style just suited
them. Young gums are in the foreground; at the
back mysterious light gleams through pines in a
way that suggests magic woods. They have DorS's
grip without his gloom. Sydney and Melbourne will
have to see a selected 50 or so of Barnes’s pictures
to learn what genius Australia has lost. Heysen
gave great help in arranging the Adelaide show,
and it was opened by Governor AVeigall. But the
sales were not great. Prices have been most injudi-
ciously marked up, and will need cutting in halves
before the public is likely to risk that practical
sympathy which it really wants to give.


The Sound Reason for
the All-Weather Tread
THE next time you see a motor car skid,
notice just what happens. You will see
that the wheels do not slip at right angles
to the course of the car. They slip diagonally.
This is the whole reason for the non-skid
buttons of the Goodyear All-Weather Tread.
They are a long diamond shape, so that the
edges are diagonal.
This is scientifically correct. The greatest
breadth of each stud is always in line with the
likely direction of skidding.
A.W T. Tyres save because of the tremendous mileage
they deliver. But they save in one other important
way— economy of petrol. The grip of the tread trans-
lates every atom of power into forward motion.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Pure
Rubber Tourist Tubes and Tyre-
Saver Accessories from the
Goodyear Service Station. There
is one in your locality.
Illustration shows Bczr*3
Head Rock, Blue MouZn
tains, N.S.W.
<?
u
A
£
n
ts,
$
y
m
&«s
H,|^0
IW
$S
i?rw
m
m
)iVh'j4&fi
m
a*
O'' 1
Bw
P0»
i\v /
»
»
llv
Kffl
Jfp
><fl
k' ,x
[ftl
\W.O
//a
H\'
>W
j®
•i //to
\l I -=^
\\W//
fjV'
lltV\\
PM
«S8
SBi
ini
••V
r
ft
i
m
\i
w\
V
ill
M
\W
w
a
• l = r llll''' r Sd\\V
—SS/H
Mr mam
&X y


Hotel de Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3001, 3002. Apply Manager.
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney 8 Liver Derangements.
All Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
v Hutchinson & Co.,
Jamieson St., Sydney _
In sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
Ltd., 26 I
'.NSW. //
emists
&
<»
HORLICK’5
MALTED MILKC*.
SLOUGH. BUCKS,
ENG-
•Si
mtlMn
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“O.Iv.” looks back 40 years and more:—
Revivals of “Tambour Major” under Johnny
Wallace recall that a catch-line which fell to
him in 40-year-old productions of the French
opera is among the few from bygone operas
that have survived. You may still hear a
man answer a call from his friend with “I am
here, dear Duke.” The humor of short-sighted Duke
Harwood and prancing Bambini Wallace is a tradition
that lives in this quotation. Almost as old is the
saying “I’ve called about a hat,” which is Australia’s
sole remaining souvenir of Phil Day, the Daniel
Jaikes in the first J.C.W. production of “Silver
King.” What other operas, bar the perennial Gil-
bert and Sullivan series, have left something in
public use to remember them by? Not many. At
the moment I can only think of the title of “Mas-
cotte,” “Look at this and look at that” and the line
from “Ma Mie Rosette” —“other side, please”—
which the one-eyed, one-armed, one-eared old warrior
is always saying to Corisande when they converse to-
gether. Characters that Frank Thornton played have
left their tongue-prints on the sands of conversation,
such as “Oh, fancy 1” and “Do you kno-o-w?” from
“The Private Secretary”: also “If you are discovered
you are lost.” And since the first days of “Charley’s
Aunt” it has been a rule with the easily-amused
to speak of Brazil as “the place where the nuts
come from.” Gaiety burlesque seems to have come
and gone without leaving any souvenir save “A jolly
little chap all-round,” Nellie Farren’s best ditty.
But the old-style music-hall was a cradle of familiar
expressions. A stout, motherly-looking woman is
still “good old Mary Ann,” though 30 or 40 years
have happened since Slade Murray brought the song
into vogue. Ever since I was a boy Tommy has
continued to make room for his uncle. From the
very earliest days of the English music-hall dates the
term “Champagne Charlie,” applied to a type of
young man that George Leybourne set the fashion
for. It was in last century that Charles Godfrey,
most forcible and artistic of all music-hall songsters,
sang “Their heads nestled closer together,” but the
remark is still made of loving couples in the gloam-
ing. The contemptuous “ ’E dunno where ’e are”
will continue to be apt long after the name of
Rickards is faded out of recollection. Nor is “Up
I came with my little lot,” another ol' ’Airy’s, likely
to be obsolete yet awhile. Paraphrases of “ ’Ow
d’yer fancy ’Awkins for yer uver name?” are in
high favor in circles where the name of Albert
Chevalier has never been properly pronounced. As
fox “Everything in the garden’s lovely,” its popu-
larity grows, whilst that of Marie Lloyd, the song’s
godmother, is declining into years. Lines with a
lasting bite in them are not many. The law of
natural selection in such matters forbids even five
years of popularity for stuff of the “Baby Doll” and
“You Made Me Love You” order. It is the rage of
a. factory-girl’s holiday. But the craze for any
particular ballad of lachrymose sentimentality will
pass away, whilst the abiding apropoeitv of certain
catch-lines is appealing to the grandchildren of their
first utterers.
“Pongo” : “Extra Turn” (B. 7/4/’21) in-
quires for the screws of yesteryear, and says
lie doubts if any manager in Australia would
dream: of paying people the money ’Arry
Rickards used to cheerfully disburse to
oversea stars. Then he quotes some hefty
figures as having been paid by Rickards
to Little Tich and others. “Extra Turn”
evidently doesn’t know that in ’Arry’s day
most mummers were provided with two con-
tracts —the real one and the one the artist
exhibited to disbelieving acquaintances.
Here are the approximate moneys lifted by
the artists “Extra Turn” mentions, and
the information is from the inside: Little
Tich, £120 per week home and back;
“The Virginian Judge,” £110: Hacken-
schmidt, £05; Chung lung Soo, £300. Paul
Cinquevalli, instead of the supposed £300
per week, got about £80. Even the figures
quoted by me were not net, as the agents
responsible for the artists’ engagements had
to be paid their commissions. All the same,
’Arry did pay for a good turn, and, as
“E.T.” says, didn’t lose money in conse-
quence.
“T. D. Emdee”: In his review of the Lee
family (B. 7/4/’21), “C. Ockney” omitted
reference to Jennie Lee’s sister,
Ada, who came to Australia as
a member of Charles Arnold’s
second company, and with
Sallie Booth fell a victim to the
plague. Ada was cast in the
same mould as her better-
known sister, and her extremely
clever acting was one of the
features of the Arnold season in
Sydney. Sallie Booth was one
of the best “old women” we
have seen in the Common-
wealth. The untimely end of
these two was a great loss to
the stage even at a time when good artistes
were more numerous than they are to-day.
“E.T.”: Talking of vaudeville salaries, it
is announced that George Formby, an Eng-
lish music-hall pet, who died recently, got
£3 a week for his first comic-singing job in
London, 15 years ago. His last contract, so
his agent affirms, was for £320.
“Hamfat”: Probably the first film pro-
duction in Australasia w T as the work of a
couple of photographers in Wellington
(M.L.), who got a special camera from
America. It was away back in 1003, at a
time when “The Message from Mars” was
a booru. The idea of the film-makers was
that they could work on the boom by taking
a picture of the play to the “smalls,’’ which
it did not pay Hawtrey to visit. The pro-
duction was got up regardless of expense—
as long as the expense did not exceed £10 or
thereabouts —and, as only about half a
dozen Thespians were engaged, there had to
be a lot of “doubling.” I was one of the
half-dozen; and tne nlm was "produced” in
two days in the back yard of premises in
Cuba-street, Wellington. I don’t know how
the smalls enjoyed the show; but as the
cmema was mostly flicker and black-out in
those days they'd hardly be able to judge
whether it was good, bad or anything at all.
“Rienzi”: As a P.S. to “Old Pot’s” par
on Haudon Chambers (B. 7/4/’2l! let me
add that Tree didn’t immediately acceot
“Captain Swift” after hearing the last two
acts in the Turkish bath. And then Cham-
bers had to wait some time to get the piece
presented. Comyns Carr, Tree’s literary
adviser, and Hastings, his stage manager,
damned it enthusiastically in the presence
of the author. Chambers was so stirred that
he afterwards saw Carr and sarcastically
asked him if he thought the piece wasn’t
“safe” for the English public. “Safe? Of
course it is.” answered Carr genially. “In
fact, I should call it safe —and sound!” The
point of the gibe lay in the fact that Carr
regarded the piece as too “loud” for Tree.
“Peter”: Evidence of the “careful” policy
now alleged against the Tait-Williamson
combine was shown in the six nights’ re-
appearance of “So Long. Letty,” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s. On the first night Field
Fisher, in trying Dorothy Brunton’s scones,
banged the tucker on a saucer and left a
heap of broken china. Evidently such ruin-
ous damage couldn’t be allowed for a mere
revival. Anyhow, on subsequent nights
Fisher had to test the breaking strain of the
diet on enamelled metal that looked as if it
had escaped from a navvy’s camp.
“O.K.”: A new Hamlet who came to Lon-
"Humpty Dumpty,"
ut Sydney Majesty's
Kitty Elliott in
"Tom Tiddler."
don lately is cast
in Hebrew mould,
and shows more
nose than previous
Melancholy Danes.
Henry Baynton,
the Chosen mum-
mer in question,
was understudy to
the late H. B.
Irving in the char-
acter, but never
had the pleasure
of seeing H.B. too
indisposed to
appear. Baynton
c h a r a c e r i s-
tically receives the
Ghost’s story on
the battlements of
Elsinore with a
hysterical burst of
sobbing. An y
Hebrew is likely
to cry like a child
whilst the shop is
on fire and blazing
cheerily, and then
again when he col-
lects the insurance
m o n e y. Hamlet,
Prince of Den-
mark, was not a
Jew, however.
Nor does it seem
natural for a
horror- stricken
Dane to weep boisterously in presence of
a spook. Tears never stream from staring
eyes. Even a child forgets to howl when
scared out of his young life.
“Ancient Prompter”: “O.Iv.” forgets to
include (B. 7/4/’21) “The Saving Grace”
among H addon Chambers’s pieces staged
in Australia. I rather think he should
have also added “John-a-Dreams” to the
list, but am not sure. The first-named
was played only last October in Sydney
by the Courtneidge “Man from Toronto”
company. I don’t think it was done in Mel-
bourne. Re the “whisper” that Chambers
had a “ghost” for “The Tyranny of Tears,”
it was a very loud one in London at the
time. Wilde was spoken of as the real
author. On top of that the young play-
wright who wrote “The Mollusc” (Hubert
Henry Davies) accused Chambers of crib-
bing the idea from his comedy, and even
plagiarising some of the situations. Both
pieces are published and make interesting
reading. They are certainly the best plays
of their respective authors.
“Old Pot”: H. R. Hignett, who supported
Oscar Asche in his Australian production of
“Kismet,” and Gordon Bailey, who was with
Nellie Stewart when she first staged “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury,” were in the “Macbeth”
lately- done by the American James K.
Hackett at the London Aldwych. In Aus-
tralia Hignett’s figure was finer than his
acting, but. he appears to have done well as
Banquo. Bailey was the lover in “Sweet
Nell,” but his work was undistinguished.
had a great admirer in the late
J. C. Williamson, who wanted him for an
Australian season, but the negotiations came
to nothing.
“75” (London 1 : If the Benda masks which
have been introduced in “The League of
"The voysey Inheri-
tance," at Sydney
Playhouse.
H. Thring Phipson as
the gentle-voiced
Major Booth Voysey.
Nations,” at the
Oxford, should ever
be available at rea-
sonable prices,
“producers” o f
musical shows will
no longer have to
worry about the
beauty of the
chorus, but will be
able to select its
members on their
voices, provided
their figures are
not altogether im-
possible. These
masks, designed by
a N'York artist,
are the most re-
markably life-like
things of the kind
yet produced. By
wearing the m a
danc e r appears
successively as an
Oriental girl, a
Japanese doll and
a modern flapper.
They are made of
paper and moulded
to fit the face of
the wearer. There
are no eye-slits:
carefully painted
representations of
the human eye
form part of the
design. The masks
suggest wonderful
possibilities, but the
fact that they are
alleged to cost £500 each will prevent the
average theatrical producer rushing to obtain
a few dozen.
Violinist Cecile Stevens, daughter of the late
J. M. Stevens, musical composer, of Syd-
ney, who won a R.A.M. (Lond.) scholarship
of four years, is professionally touring
Maoriland. She is a native of Sydney, re-
ceived her early training at the Parramatta
Convent, was gold medallist R.A.M. 1010-
1011, and went to the Cold Country on her
scholarship in 1012. Father and mother
died in London, brother Jack (R.F.C.) went
out to wounds in France, and eldest sister
Mary, wife of Lt. Millier CM.L.), died last
month—all within 4J years.
“Private Boxer”: Said—by tho author
himself—that Bernard Shaw’s newest con-
tribution to the stage is his magnum opus.
The piece is in five acts and is entitled
“Back to Methuselah.” Can it be a pan-
tomime?
“Peter”: Though John D. O’Hara obvi-
ously plays second fiddle to Jules Jordan in
“Welcome Stranger” at Melbourne King’s,
Lightnin’ gets priority of puff from the pub-
licity man and is also starred in the advts.
In fact, the advts. ascribe the alleged suc-
cess of the show to O’Hara and Jordan in
that order, never the other way about, the
Yiddish comedian, who holds the stage all
night, being regarded as comparatively un-
important beside the very occasional old
gentleman who talks In a loitering voice of
electrical science. No doubt O’Hara owes
his prominence to the usual contract
arrangement stipulating that he must have
the top perch among the advertised list of
artists, regardless of the work he is doing
for his salary. Most imported mummers
are very keen on this right, because, what-
ever the size of their failures abroad, they
can alwavs eo home with a press-book of
advts. speaking of their genius in glowing
terms.
“Peter”: IL G. Wells is about to make his
debut as a dramatist in London, collaborating
with St. John Erviue in “The Wonderful
Visit.” Presumably Wells supplies the story
and Ervine the stage-craft, for the latter i's
recognised as a playmaker of remarkable
ability. A while back he wrote a North of
Ireland drama that, despite its intellectual
duality, had an extraordinary run in New
York, and similar success was registered in
England.
“Private Boxer”: Sarah Bernhardt’s
grand-daughter is shortly to be married to
Louis Verneuil, a young author whose
“Daniel” was staged by the wonderful Sarah
in Paris last year, she nlaying at 75 the
“leading man.” Louisiane Bernhardt, the
hride-to-be. is herself a bit of a writer, and
has published a volume of noems. The
“Daniel” aforesaid has. in its English guise,
just finished a run at London St. James’s,
where the hero was played by a mere man :
and a new play from Verneuil’s nen is an-
nounced as Marie Lohr’s next production at
the Globe.
MRS, BEEL'S CAREER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bell took her from the groaning boards when she
was twenty-two,
And married her, which was, it seems, a foolish thing
to do,
For presently he lay awake one-half the night to
hear
How by his selfishness the wretch had ruined her
career.
A baby came, but once again fell Bell’s hopes to
the ground—
His wife refused to settle to the dull domestic
round ;
And if the nipper cried at night ’twas Bell who
stilled its rage,
While Annie wept for what she’d lost by giving up
the stage.
She bad been with the chorus-girls, and once sin-
spoke a line,
Which meant that she was framed to be a genius
divine ;
And while she peeled the onions, or swept the parlor
floor.
Her folly in accepting Bell she ever must deplore.
"You wretch!” she wailed, “you took me from the
path of glory there,
And set me blacking kitchen stoves.” She sobbed,
and raked her hair.
"To have me make you Irish stew, and fill the
pickle-jars,
And mend a baby’s petticoats, you plucked me from
the stars!
“I linger here, a hopeless frump, in dull, suburban
ways,
Who should be pleasing royalties, and gathering the
hays.
Behold I fry the mutton-chops, and wash a husband’s
socks,
Who should be playing Juliet! Thus Fate my
talent mocks!”
And all this time the tilted nose of pretty Mrs. Bell
Was red with constant wee >ing. Oft the story she
would tell
Of diamonds she might hav. had from doting dukes
and earls,
And luck that came to sundry other little singing
girls.
Now, Bell had grown full wear}', and he cut the lady
loose.
“Go, act," he said, “since life for you has got no
other use.”
She played the. nurse in “Romeo,” and very soon,
’tis said,
The audience began to spill its venom on her head.
It roared at her stiff actions. E’en the stalls pre-
sumed to scoff.
The pit threw out some terse advice. It warbled
“Take her off!”
And when at length the gods arose their senti-
ments to tell,
The most vociferous howler was the cunning rascal
Bell.
He led the fearful uproar in a hunch of whiskers hid,
And because of this disturbance such a wicked thing
they did—
They stopped the scene, they led Ann out, they sent
her forth to roam.
Her William met her at the door, and sadly she
went home.
ATTENDING TO DETAILS.
"Flo has decided to forgive him-she's at
home now making up."
"What, her mind?"
"No, her face, of course."
iSlio was a pale and patient wife, she kissed her baby
then,
And Bell he was most silent, as he was most wise
of men.
At home next evening she was bent above a simple
book.
‘It's my new part,” she whispered, and it’s name
was “How to Cook.”
VICTORIA,
EDWARD DYSON.


, V * '
•f- ■ ~«ar
THE CALL-WHAT IS IT?
BLACK AND WHITE
WHISKY


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PH1XP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern. Sydney.
Goidfinder Good
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
#-5
n
MALT
PURE
m
§|g==; PRO PR it TO«S .:==
?H|feSRAUAN DlSTIUEB*
E rnELBOURnt
*-?*C A
THE SPIRIT
of /Australia
(2nd dustm/rds
Best Spirit
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED, BUT ALSO BOTTLED
UNDER GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Sydney hope to beat or draw with Waver-
loy as :r result of last Saturday’s round, which was
the beginning of the end of the competition. Waver-
ley, having been sent in, stayed for the afternoon,
and ran up 191, Caswell making a plucky 83. Smith
bowled all his live wickets. O’Connor opened well,
but went to pieces. Paddy Lane, ’keeper for Wests,
whipped the bails oft' for three of P. W. Docker’s
seven wickets against ’Varsity. Uni. caved in for
109, while Wests are doing better proportionately—
7 down for 92. Emery played the right game for
Petersham v. Paddington, but one got past him at
41. Smith (25) and Wenbolz (26) were on a much
lower plane. The consistent Winning got 7 tor ->i.
Morgan made 50 for Glebe against Norths. The
latter had not an over-keen enemy on the day’s
play, and the match may end there." Balmain’s 299
against C. Cumberland was the best of the after-
noon, F. Storey getting a brilliant 109. Coogan’s
ligures 7 tor 92<—were creditable in the cireuin-
stances. Randall, going on rather late for Middle
Harbor against Gordon, caused them to dissemble
lor 138. Hosking, being a left-hander and having
the slow bowler at a disadvantage, was the only,
batsman to look like one. Middle Harbor, with
somebody to stay with Gee, may scrape home.
* * * *
P’ran had to tackle Melbourne in the semi-
finals of Melbourne district cricket on Saturday.
Ureat interest was aroused in the struggle, inas-
much as if Melbourne win they will be reinforced
lor the final by Ransford and ironmonger, who are
on the way home from Maoriland. On the other
hand, a victory to P’ran would give them the chance
of including Lampard, another tourist who has been
putting a glow into his batting and bowling aver-
se! 5 - Melbourne, who had the first go at the
wicket, have totalled 298, and P’ran have just begun
with no wickets for 2. Onyons (96), Herring
(69) and Vaughan (60) contributed the purple
patches to Melbourne’s innings, which included three
duck-eggs and a pair of ••IV Grimmett, P’ran’s
slow break-bowler, was the principal annoyance
to tor 98). The other argument, St. Hilda v.
Northcote, is so far heavily in favor of the former.
Cohen and Hotchin made a great first-wicket stand
and the tally is now 4 for ' 306 (Cohen 122 and
Hotchin 162, n.o.).
* * * * «-
“W.E.F.”: Australia has sent to Eng-
t?, n , a cricketing XV which even England tips as
likely to annex the ashes, and most of them are
Sydney men. Also, a N. S. Wales XX (which was
really a Sydney one) out-played Douglas’s team
twice. Yet' grade cricket in Sydney is the reverse
of classy. It is doubtful if one grade side could
stand up successfully against a leading English
county XI. There are already 12 teams competing
in the first grade, and it is now proposed to pro-
mote four from the second grade (Marrickville, Mos-
man, Randwick and St. George),"instead of reduc-
ing in rank at least as many first-eraders. As a
matter of ' fact, half the present number of first-
grade teams would suffice. Club cricket so improved
would be worth watching. The public would not
have the spectacle of 16 clubs escaping third-grade
standard by the merit of one or two outstanding
men. And the proposed arrangement would place no
ban on young and promising men, as is often claimed.
Young and p-omising men will come to the top how-
ever the clubs are constituted.
* * * #
The cricket revival has put N.S.W. Cr ; cket
Association on a solid financial footing. A couple of
years ago the Association was seriouslv talking about
passing round the hat; but the "”"h tfto
lishmen brought a gross gate of £23,973, of which
£9051 is profit, whereas on;y £3148 was gatne e 1
in when Warner’s XI came in 1911-12. With a credit
balance of £10,744 the Association has invested
£5000 in Government securities, and talks of estab-
lishing a cricketers’ club.
* * # *
N. S. Wales G.P.S. cricket provided three
“finds” this season. E. W. Newman (Newington),
playing his last match with the college, smote 229 v.
Sydney High—the best individual effort of the year.
Boazman (C.E. Grammar) knocked up 210 against
the same unlucky bowlers earlier in the season. Both
were in the G.P.S. rep. XT last vear. The all-
rounder of the season is Camnbelf-Jones (Sydney
Grammar), who got 143 (including five sixers) and
took five for 10 v. C.E. Grammar.
Yarraman and Koralgin cricket clubs are
claiming a Queensland one-day-match record. Alto-
gether 613 runs went up for the fall of 37 wickets.
J. McDanniell was the biggest disturber of the day
with 201 (11 sixers) in 95 minutes.
* * * *
Reggie Allan, lawyer and member of the
A.J.C. committee, has dispersed his South Wambo
stud, near Singleton (N.S.W.). The place will in
future be run as a dairy farm on the share system
by his late employees. Only one of the staliions,
Allegory, by Chaucer from Scylla, found a buyer.
The Rouse brothers, of Biraganbil, Gulgong (one of
whom, Leslie, is keeper of the Stud Book for the
A.J.C.), took him. Scylla, the dam of Allegory, is
by Eager, sire of Light, dam of Gloaming. William
Booth, the Rosehill trainer, picked up for 130
guineas the dam of the Doncaster Handicap winner
Speciality. She is stinted to Charlemagne II. It
was a bargain.
*• # * *
Sain Hordern made a bad bargain when
he imported Bronzino, one of the best accredited stal-
lions that ever left England. He is said to have
paid £8000 for the Marco horse, and he cheerfully
parted with him last week at auction for 180
guineas. Bronzino’s best son was Bronzetti, who
won a Caulfield Cup. Flippant, a half-brother of
Bronzino by Marcovil, is getting some winners.
* * * *
At the last yearling sales in Sydney
97,057 guineas were paid for 483 prads, representing
the record average of 202 guineas each. The pre-
vious best was in 1910, when 583 averaged 193
guineas.
# * * #
“Old Sport” : Eurythmic may be “another
Carbine,” as “O.K.” states (B. 7/4/’21), but, again,
he may not. In assessing the form of Carbine most
people seem to forget his undefeated two-year-old
career in M.L. With the exception of Poitrel,
Eurythmic has never in his life met anything of
the class opposed to Carbine. But the most falla-
cious comparison of all has reference to the winnings
of the two champs. Carbine, with stakes at Present
values, would have won nearer £50,000 than £29,676.
In the Pacific Handicap, the new 6fur. race
for youngsters instituted by the Wellington (M.L.)
.Tockey Club, The Hawk (Martian-Sparrowhawk)
beat Stead’s Absurdum by a head, with Rational (the
youngster that ran Gloaming so close in the Kel-
burn Plate at Trentham) third. The Trentham Gold
Cup (2m. w.f.a.) saw game old SasanOf go under,
after a great race, by a head. The winner was the
tliree-year-old Demosthenes colt Duo, to whom he was
giving 161b.
* * * '**' *
Last Saturday, at Albion Park (Q.),
the ancient Flavinius mare Flavenore again beat
the favorite Dexol in the Second Division Handicap.
She, however, was not equal to further effort in the
Purse, the last race. Onizown (Bernard-Morning
Mist) was the only favorite to help' punters, and he
was well clear of Nod at the finish of the Plate
Sydney Damsel’s half-brother, The Wlnlan. downed
another favorite in Bernie’s Lad in the First Div.
Handicap.
* • • *
Sydney Stadium served up another foul on
Saturday night. Jimmy -dabby handed the familiar
JIMMY CLABBY.
old bird to his com-
patriot Shade in the
13th round. Wallis,
M.O., had already
cautioned James five
times for similar offer-
ings, so the most criti
cal could hardly deny
that the veteran was
a trier in at least one
sense. Clabby boxed
well, otherwise. The
fact is, he can’t box
any other way. He
entered the arena in
rotten condition,
Shade’s supporters in-
dicating with delight
the pale streaks of fat
which nestled round
his waistline. H i s
opponent, contrariwise,
was in perfect nick,
and from his actions
it was clear that he
had donned his freshly-
laundered silk greys
for the sole purpose
of being the first
human being to k.o.
Clabby. And yet the
latter was winning
when he lost, so to
speak. Shade, who
improves with every
fight, gave a taking
display against the
ageing master. He
looked the saddest
man in the building
when Wallis crowned
him victor, being con-
vineed evidently that he could have won outright,
given the opportunity.
* * * •
“Marinoa”: What all-powerful influence is
it that prevents the introduction of the totalisator
into Victoria ? A majority of members in the Stare
Parliament favor the machine, and several Ministers
are of the same mind. Even McPherson, a good
Presbyterian, said boldly that past Ministries have
been inconsistent in their attitude towards gambling.
Yet no opportunity lias ever been given for the
proper discussion of the question, and many motions
for leave to introduce totalisator bills have been
jettisoned. There was talk lately of a new cam-
paign, to be led by the V.R.O., with the object of
forcing Parliament to take action, but since the
semi-official statement was made by Honorary Minis-
ter Pennington that if the tote came in the books
would have to go out, there has teen a strange
silence. While Victoria lags behind all other
States in this direction, it has the doubtful honor
of being something of a sanctuary for unregistered
bookmakers, whose agents are found in every Govern-
ment department, in hotel and club bars, in lifts
and on street comers. But, of course, the Ministry
knows nothing of this, and the police are too busy
chasing lesser criminals to mention it in their
report;:.
The world will believe in the Carnentier-
Dempsey meeting-—scheduled at latest for July 2,
with New York State as the venue—when the men
enter the ring. Even then one of them may remem-
ber pressing business elsewhere, for there is little
doubt that one has cold teet and the otuer is atraia.
Not fearful, of course, of the extremely mild hiding
which is the worst physical result of a contest be-
tween champions in proper training, but of the loss
of reproductive prestige which must be the fate
of one or other of the parties to the clash. Both
are earning big sums at theatrical work at present
—more especially that born actor and publicity
expert, Carper.tier—and : f the public would only
allow them to go on defying one another across
footlights which are separated by the Atlantic
Ocean they and their manager's would ask no more
of life. It is the sporting world’s growing weari-
ness of this situation which brings the long-dis-
cussed meeting within the realms of possibility.
Meanwhile Jack Munro has cabled Carpentier an
offer of £ 20,000 to come to Australia and despatch
Billy Shade, Albert Lloyd and Cook. “Despatch”
since, assuming Carpertier is within miles of being
a real world s champion—one of the glittering line
represented by such names as Fitzsimmons, Johnson
and Sullivan —our fourth-rate heavies and second-
rate middles will not live with him for a round.
J.B. GRUT, President of the Vic.
Bowling Association.
Harry Wills, the nigger heavyweight,
whom Jack Dempsey seems to Oe eluding, is an ex-
jocfeey. Back.,..in 1906 he was quite a good rider
and went under the name of Eddie Barnum. Nowa-
days he stands 6ft. in his socks and weighs nearly
16 .stone.
» * » #
The U.S. tennis genius W. M. Tilden,
who - won the Singles Championship at Wimbledon last
year, is starting for the same event in June, but
wants to drop the English practice of keeping out
of the fray until the final round. The Ameri-
can’s ambition to beat all comers for every battle
he enters has driven him to assail one of the most
jealously-guarded rules of the All-England Tennis
Club. Probably Tilden won’t be successful —Wild-
ing and others have tried before him—but he will
set the British authorities thinking again of the
absurdity of making the winner of one year tackle,'
without any preliminaries in the following season,
the limn who has played several hard matches to meet
him. The rule has never been adopted in America
and Australia, but the age of it has made it almost
holy in Britain.
* * * *
“15-30”: As Brookes. Patterson and
O’Hara Wood are not available for the Davis Cup
this year, Australia has had to fall back on Jack
Hawkes (Vic.), and Todd, Anderson and Peach
(N.S.W.). This lot will hardly make the Americans
lose any sleep. However, the colts should get some
invaluable experience and learn the methods of men
whom one or more of them may be called upon to
meet next year. On his recent performances Todd
looks the strongest of the four, but if Hawkes is
in good trim and Anderson and Peach reveal any-
thing like the form they have shown on thrfir visits
to Melbourne, Australia should have a big chance
of beating Canada in the first round. Anderson and
Peach have both walloped Brookes in singles—Peach
in a specially brilliant t attle wherein he made a
remarkable 'recovery. Hawkes did likewise in a
couple of pennant struggles last winter. But Hawkes
has not yet proved his capacity to stay five sets, if
need be, in the best company, nor lias his game
retained the quantity of aces it disclosed to a
charmed public a couple of years back. He has the
left-hander’s fault of looping the ball in getting the
spin on his service, and his drives suffer from ner-
vous tension if he starts off with more than an
average collection of errors.
* # * «
“Linesman”: It. Wertheim, of Melbourne,
probably the tallest Australian playing first-class
tennis, would have been considered for this Davis
Cup if he had maintained the promise he showed
two or three years ago. Though still a formidable
player, educated in everything from the lightest
half-volley to a lightning drive, he has the bad
habit of wilting at the very top of a threatened
triumph. But his failures are not so much a matter
of temperament or nerves as the lack of concentra-
tion and the will for hard practice. Wertheim is
rich enough to devote his whole time to tennis,
but he hasn’t Brookes’s enthusiasm for the game.
* * * *
Ivo Whitton, in winning the Manly
(N.S.W.) autumn medal record on Saturday, put in
the best card ,’n the history of the event. He went
round in 71—five up on “bogey”—which equalled
the amateur record for the course. Eric Apperley
(74) and 0. H. Wines (75) also beat “the colonel.”
“A.W.”: The statement (B. 10/3/21)
that Sid Beck is Australia’s best all-round wa*er-
man revives the claims of A'iec Wickham, conceding
first that Wickham was only an Australian by-
adoption. Here are some of his chief stunts:
(1) Walking in deep water. After raising himself
till he is submerged only from hips downwards, he
can walk a distance of 20 yards; (2) Taking a
standard lifebuoy to a depth of 20ft. and keeping it
there for about 30sec. This is a feat of sheer
swimming strength; (3) A jump from the spring-
board without submerging the head. Log rolling on
the bottom of the baths, running along the bottom
for 50yds., the trudgeon, Australian crawl, American
crawl, Wickham breast and corkscrew strokes,
motor-boat, touch bottom, going through the bot-
tom, porpoise, windmill and fountain are some more
of his stunts. His list of dives orthodox and fancy
would make a paragraph alone At water polo he
was a champion. His 50yds. sprint and breast-stroke
times are history'. And he recently took the Aus-
tralian Cup, which is the highest degree in life-
saving. The added fact that he is the man who re-
volutionised the swimming world by introducing
the crawl stroke should be emphasised.
* * * *
Ludy Langer, the Hawaiian swimmer,
opened his Maoriiand tour last Saturday by annexing
the 100 metres in 60 3-5sec. and the 600 metres
at Auckland in the alleged time of 6min. 58sec.
There is certainly some mistake here, for Ludy’s
world’s record for 600 metres, put up on Jan. 29
this year at Fletcher’s Dock, Adelaide, is 6min.
56 3-5sec.
* * # #
On Saturday Moss Christie, the pride of
Drummoyne (Sydney) and one-mile N.S.W. swim-
ming champion, annexed the 880yds. championship
of the Western Suburbs, heading S. Black and ti.
Proudfoot, of Pyrmont, by 40yds. in the slow time
of 12min. 30 2-5sec. Moss earlier in the week cap-
tured the 440yds. championship of his club. Sid
Beck took Sydney Club’s 440yds. championship in
5min. 49sec.
* * • *
Frank Springfield (Brisbane) added the
three-quarter mile Queensland swimming champion-
ship to the family sideboard at Toowoomba last
week, winning from R. Mullins (Ipswich) in 19inin.
lusec. Earlier in the season he beat his brother
Frank in the quarter-mile in 6min. 54 l-5sec.
* * # *
Polo is booming again in South Aus. The
team of the moment is the Mid-North, with head-
quarters at the Burra. Its crack four consists of
three Murrays and an Angas, and has proved a bit
too good for Adelaide, for whom veteran Frank
Downer is still prominent. Strathal yn, an old
home of the game, has not been heard from since
the. war, but other teams are being formed.
* * r- # *
Sydney Rugby League is putting on so
many big matches this winter that the premiership
will be curtailed to one round and the Citv Cup.
The triangular fixtures between N.S.W., Q. and
M. will bid for the gate, and as the team for Eng-
land will be chosen on these games, there’s likely to
be plenty of ginger in them. Annandale has been
dropped from the clubs, and St. George will fill the
gap. It contains several Western Suburbs veterans
and the local colts.
Nine Union clubs will strip in premiership
matches; and the big fixtures will be between
N. S’Afriea and the Maoris. M.L. ’Varsity
will also cross the Tasman, lhe Union intends to
play its principal matches on the ’Varsity Oval and
the vacated “Agri.,” the League going to the
Sports Ground.
Eight N.S.W. Soccer XI’s will battle for the pre-
miership. Vigorous propaganda on behalf of the
code is to te undertaken in the coal-mining dis-
tricts of Newcastle, Maitland, Lithgow and the
South Coast in view of the probable visit of an
English team next season.
Dick Arnst shifted to Maoriiand last week.
He will row Paddy Hannan for the world’s scull-
ing championship on the Wairau next month. First
deposits are in, and £500 stake goes with the race.
Meanwhile, Barry and his supporters in England
are also promoting a race for the world’s title, though
Barry’s failure to comply with the previous world’s
sculling conditions has put him out of court. Unless,
of course, the good old sport has gone Bolshevik
since the war;
* * * *
All the Australian States will have repre-
sentative crews in the Australian eight-oar cham-
pionship at Launceston (Tas.) on April 25. The
N.S.W., Vic., W.A. and Tasmanian crews have been
chosen from club members ; but South Aus. is rely-
ing on the Murray Bridge crew and Queensland on
the Wide Bay lot, who recently won the State
championship.
* * * »
From the Olympic Press (London) comes
the March issue of Sports axd Sportsmen - . It is
a beautifully got-up publication which covers all
sorts of diversions, from racing to salmon-fishing.
The photographs which illustrate the articles are
numerous and good.
* * * *
Maoriiand inter-’Varsity championships at
Christchurch altered three book-records. L. A.
Tracey’s 220yds. in 22 4-5sec. lopped 4-5sec. off
his own figures in the same event last year. The
Wellington rep. also won the 100yds. (io l-5sec.)
and 440yds. (52sec.). A Jackson, hurdler, took
both the 120yds. and 440yds. (01 l-5sec. —4-5ths im-
provement). And M. R. Grierson did the half-mile in
2min. 3sec., which splintered l-6sec. off the pre-
vious best.
* * * ■»
“0. Smith”: At Buninyong (Yic.) races
recently the favorite was winning easilv, and a
panic-stricken mob of bookies were at their wits’
end to know what-to do to save paying out. One
of them had a brain-wave. The judges’ box was
a tin-dray. The ring charged it just as Blossom
was coming past the post. Up went the dray ani
out went the judges. No decision was given for the
race and all bets were called off.
* * * #
“Emdee”: The half-crown tote wa9 tried
at Randwick when the machine was first introduced,
but it proved a failure, business being insufficient
to pay the eXes. It is not likely to be revived at
Randwick, whatever the result in S. Aus.
THE BREAKING-POINT!.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When 1 lost to Felton my dog was the only one
who would take any notice of me.” —Ernest JSarry
in Austialia.
“Ernest Barry now has a pet goose which follows
him about like a clog.”— London news ucm.
When his fortunes veered, and his best friends
sneered
(As mere humans mostly do
If a man goes down), I ignored their frown,
And adhered to him like glue.
For a decent dog doesn’t act the hog
When his master takes the knock.
Love, the canine gift, is as hard 10 shift
As a quarryful of rock.-.
Still there is a stage where resentful rage
Intrudes , upon kennelled peaoe.
Let me cite the case, as absurd as base,
Of tlie sport who took to geese.
And I now remark that the shameless nark
Who walks for the world to see,
With a hide of steel and a goose at heel,
Will never be trailed by me.
S.S.W.
10-2-4.


Would You Turn and Run?
Would vou turn tail and “go for your
life” if'a bully or a blusterer threat-
ened to gi\e you a “hiding”?
If you couldn’t box you probably
would, for no man likes to get "tue
father of a hiding.” But if you
LEARN BOXING
BY POST
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
dfflS
vou have the assurance of power that will mako you
laugh at threats and sneers, and hold your own in
any mix-up.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, the noted champion,
teaches you every hit, guard and counter oi the
game in a series of interesting lessons, based on the
knowledge of the methods of world s champions, and
each one is clearly illustrated by photographs and
diagrams. It is the simplest and most effective set
of boxing lessons you can have.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and send it, with three stamps to cover
postage, for a copy of “Snowy” Baker s booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which te.ls ail
about the course, gives examples of the lessons and
contains many valuable hints and facts about the
art of self-defence.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS, cvnWCV
462 Municipal Oxford Street, SYDINtY.
&SS
%
%
is
3C
"WoMDirBESr
r KoTOP»Q>iPvir
(s&sed
in Cdus*tr&jCj&.
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COT U-TD.. all JtATCJ V /V Z.
J.egal Notice
T
0 ALLAN KENNETH FRASER ROSS formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania Assistant Surveyor but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
twenty-fifth day of February one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-one was issued out of tne
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of MARY KOoo ot
Launceston in Tasmania Pianist praying for a dis-
solution of her Marriage with you on the ground
that without just cause or excuse you deserted her
and without any such just cause or excuse you have
left her continuously deserted during two years ana
upwards.
IN default of your appearing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and you will
not be allowed to address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within three calendar months
from the date of the Second publication of tnis
advertisement to attend in person or by your Proctor
at the said Registry and there to eiaer an appear-
W. O. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
ALBERT EDWARD RICHARDSON, 76 Collins
Street, Hobart, Proctor for the Petitioner.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Special Alloyed Tool Steels.
BRANDS “R” & “O.”
For Roll Turning Tools, Exact Finishing Tools, etc.
Stocked in Square and Flat Sections only.
BRANDS “S.P.” & “S.S.T.”
For all kinds of Milling Cutters, Reamers, Drills, Taps, etc.
Will not Warp in Hardening.
Stocked in Round Bars only.
BRAND “N.”
For Pneumatic Snaps, Punches, Chisels, etc.
Stocked in Round and Oval Sections only.
PRICES ON APPLICATION. INQUIRIES promptly attended to.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY,
BEWARE OF
CHILLS
caused by these sudden changes of
weather. Chills result in so many dan-
gerous throat and chest complaints, when
not attended to. At the first sign of
shivering or feverishness get a bottle of
Greathead’s Mixture
In so many cases the use of this old and
valued remedy has prevented chills from
developing into influenza. Greathead s
is a sure cure for all colds, coughs and
sore throats. It will cure you, as it has
thousands of others. Sold in good-sized
bottles.
Get a Bottle from
Store or Grocer.
THE SPOT
In this iron the
heating device is of
particular strength and
b patina duality. The “Spot
iron executes beautiful work,
even on the most delicate fabrics,
„nd is superior to others at higher
prices.
A perfect boon during the summer months— -ready
to use in a minute, and fits any lamp socket.
SPOT ELECTRIC
IRON
u
S5I-
including cord
and fitting.
All Electricians & Ironmongers.
Wholesale:
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY. LTD.,
172-178 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Offlce: 375 George Street.
ELCAR-SIX.
A BEAUTIFUL CAR AT A MODERATE PRICE.
It is a strictly high-class production, embodying such famous components as Continental
Engine, Borg k Beck Clutch, Muncie Gear Box and Salisbury Axles. Inspection will at once
indicate to you the wonderful value we aie offering.
THE NEW BRISCOE.
This is the Lightweight Economy Car, and its design and construction will ne a revelation to
you—we hare fitted the chasses with most attractive bodies.
You will like the New Briscoe. Price £595.
BROWN & HELLICAR, LTD.,
74 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
ELCAR-SIX, BRISCOE, WAVERLEY, A.C., METZ.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SIGN OF
A(jOOL> SHIN*-
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before™
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefoi'e
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock’s Dress-
ings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian=made).
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
Gin. centres x 6ft. bed; l£in. Hollow Spindle; Swing in Gap,
20in. dia. x wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller—*
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for specifications and complete particulars to
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


Farmer’s New SMotor
THIS is an entirely new style that will at once appeal on account of its simplicity
and smartness. It is close fitting and comfortable and will retain its position
no matter at what spaed one may be travelling. Made of soft chenille-finish
Moufflon Straw, with a brim that can be turned down at side, if required. Of navy
shade trimmed with band of henna ribbon and ornamented with bow at back;
finished with a long, flowing veil of navy ninon. May also be had in shades r 9 //"
of putty, lemon, vieux rose, saxe blue, and black. Price jA/O
We Pay Carriage. FARMER’S, Sydney.
‘Box 497, G.P.O.
BOND’S
Australian-made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
Made in
Artificial
Silk — Smart,
Comfortable and
Guaranteed to give
/ satisfactory Service ;
/'Yellow Diamond* which
sells at a very low price
■
stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
There was genuine regret when the news
spread that the Walter Manifold dame had
(‘eased to be. Only the previous day was any
public announcement made that she was ill.
She had .become better known since her hus-
band succeeded John Davies as President
of the Council, and her old-fashioned
courtesy at functions was exquisite. As
they were childless the President will now be
a lonely man, but he can be counted on to
perform his public duties with his habitual
conscientiousness. However conservative in
his political views he has ever been the gentle-
man. No provocation or bitter party feeling
could change him. That is why the sym-
pathy for him among public men is so real.
The Governor and his Countess will give
garden-parties on April .14 and 15. The
division of guests has been made on alpha-
betical lines.
Premier Lawson is taking a fortnight’s
spell in the Mountains or tbejeabouts to
get into form for the coming session. Mean-
while Peacock is looming larger in the public
eye. As Education Minister he is touring
country and suburban districts and winning
back some of the popularity he lost at the
end of 1917. Should Lawson get tired of
the leadership Alec would now certainly
succeed him.
Brigadier-General Coxeu, who took the
first Aussie gunners to France, has been
appointed hon. A.D.C. to George Rex, an
honor previously conferred on only one Aus-
tralian —General Brudenell White. The lat-
ter has automatically vacated the position
with his step in rank, just as Coxen will
now lay off the job of first hon. A.D.C. to
the G.-G. The Royal A.D.C.-sbip, which
carries with it certain duties and privileges,
was not altogether a surprise packet, but
the lecipient did sit up and take notice
quite fiercely when he first learned of his
appointment from a newspaper par. wherein
the announcement was merely an appendage
to the news that General Foote had been
made A.D.C. to the G.-G. The Cox m
warrior, who was educated at Brisbane
Grammar School, originally embarked on a
civil-engineering career.
Federal Parliament House, rather in need
of embellishments for its long, uninteresting
terrace, is to have Mackennal’s “Victory”
erected thereabouts. The sculptor presented
this statue to the Commonwealth fully a
year ago, but for some reason or other
after its arrival “Victory” was removed to
a cellar at Parliament House, as though
out of respect to local German feeling, and
there the valuable work of art might have
remained for ages had not Dr. Maloney
and a few other members become inquisitive
about it. Questioned last week, Mr. Speaker
said that Mr. Shepherd, late secretary to
the Prime Minister’s Department, had asked
him to allow a number of cases to
remain in a cellar on the premises, and
then Mir. Shepherd had gone away to his new
job in London and forgotten to remind the
Speaker—if he ever knew —that one of those
cases contained the Mackennal statue.
People talk of Surgeon Henry O’Hara as
an operatic subject and declare that he was
born to shine in the Theatre proper, as well
as that other theatre where limbs are cut off
and appendixes removed. The doctor’s fine
baritone warble and stage appearance are
traditions in middle-aged circles, even as his
racing speculations of former days are re-
membered by old sports. The last of his
several dashes on the stage was at the
Princess’s, when a mixed company of ama-
teurs and professionals played “Pinafore,”
and the tall, handsome surgeon was Captain
Corcoran. Clive, one of Dr. O’Hara’s sons by
the first of his three wives, became a handy
conjurer, and travelled away from Australia :
and Nan O’Hara (now Mrs. Hill, of N.S.W.)
once went on the stage at Melbourne Tivoli
to win a wager. She sang a verse in a coon-
song competition, or something.
The Argus Mackinnon knight, after hir-
ing a castle amid the heather, has evidently
decided not to end hjs days in the Cold
Country. He has packed up his kilt, and,
with his dame and two daughters, is coming
back to Melbourne sunshine.
Tom Murdoch, of the Speck’s Ports and
Harbors, has been decorated by Albert of
Belgium. He is now a chevalier. Mrs.
Murdoch, a sprightly small dame who
worked very hard during the war, has also
received a decorative disc from Brussels,
where the sprouts come from.
Foreign decorations are, in fact, falling on
Australia much faster than loans these days.
Something extra-impressive has just come
from Japan for Brudenell White, the most
brilliant Chief of Staff the A.I.F. produced.
George Swinburne and Statistician Knibbs
have been prowling around the Apple Island,
Hobart sizzled when it saw the two hob-
nobbing with Speaker Evans and the Clerk
of the Court in the Imperial tea-room. It
made the frivolous sippery suddenly serious
and important.
Frank Stapley, who Gaud-Mayored for a
year, succeeds Weedon as an alderman of
Melbourne City Council. In future, if he is
elected at all, it will be by fellow-members of
the corporation instead of by the ratepayers,
unless Prendergast’s Aldermen Abolition Bill
is pushed through by the State Parliament.
Melbourne and Geelong Councils, which work
under a musty Act, are the only two that
have aldermen.
The stage has now been set for the Lund-
gren-O’Brien breach-of-promise suit. Of
course there have been more preliminaries
and battles of tactics in court. In these the
fascinating plaintiff (who only recently
divorced her husband in Belgium! had things
all her own way at first; hut latterly Captain
Garrett O’Brien, the defendant, has evened
things up, or rather his lawyers have. Wit-
nesses from Sydney are to be called to show
why the defendant now wears the iciness of
the freezing-house instead of the glow of the
furnace.
As a memorial to E. H. Lascelles. who did
so much to open up the Mallee, a wing is to
be added to Gordon Technical College, Gee-
long. It will cost about £7000 and be used
as a science laboratory. Of the total wanted
£3000 was raised by admirers and the Gov-
ernment agreed to find £2000. The State
and a few wealthy folk will probably throw
in the other £2000. If Vic. had owned 20
more men like Lascelles the bulk of the
population would not be huddled in Mel-
bourne and the decentralisation idea need
never have been born.
Bishop Cranswick has become a right wor-
shipful as well as a right reverend, for he has
been installed as Master of the Gippsland
Masonic Lodge. Now that the Earl-Governor
is mixing with the craft, there is a revival of
interest in aprons, cuffs and gold-fringe
collars.
By the Orsova—timed to arrive in Mel-
bourne at the end of the month —come Alex-
ander Watson and his wife with new material
for recital purposes. It includes many new
Dickens programmes, and some Shakspeareari
scenes not yet given in this country by Wat-
son. It will be July before he passes on to
Sydney.
This profile by Talma represents Winifred
Moverley, a blithe young elocutionist who
simply looted the prize-list at the Ballarat
competitions two or
three vears ago. She
has, however, long
since passed the
South-street standard
of perfection, and at
the Athenaeum next
Saturday will demon-
strate her powers in
an all-Australian pro-
gramme of verse oy
Mary Gilmore, Den-
nis, Ogilvie, E. J.
Bradv and others.
Dennis’s item will be
“The Man Who
Missed the ’Bus,”
abridged by the poet
for this entertain-
ment. Also she will
do a one-acter. “His
Second Chance,” written by the returned
exile William Moore, for the purpose of
revealing her qualities as an actress. At
Ballarat she astonished the iudge. Lawrence
Campbell, bv the vividness of her work in
several stage characters, and Gregan Mc-
Mahon was equally impressed by her Chorus
in,his production of “Trojan Women.” The
promising artist owes much of her success to
her hard training and study during the war.
She recited at over 700 concerts for the Red
Cross.
James Murray (R.N. retired) married
one of the Hobart Grants. They have been
away for some time, but have lately settled
down in the Speck, and Murray is now
running the Hobart links as hon. sec. He
is making a wonderful job of it. He mixes
up the Very Best families in tournaments
irrespective of long-cherished feuds, and
people whose families have not bowed to
each other for a generation are playing the
most friendly games together.
Stanley Kingsbury, who threw up his job
as news editor of the Hekald and is return-
ing to the U.S.A., was given send-offs by the
comps, (who got in first), the copy-boys and
the scribes. There is no question as to the
quantity of goodwill Kingsbury carried away
with him. As he sails from Sydney on April
15 he will not have time to drop into Brisbane,
his birthplace, to see his dad. who is the
Crown Prosecutor there.
The Bulletin’s Melbourne cartoonist.
Dennis Connelly, announces his engagement
to Mrs. G. M. Adams, widow of the late
S. T. Adams, of Holybourne, Hampshire.
Mrs. Adams is closely related to the Byng
family, several members of which have
figured in Britain’s fighting history. General
Byng, her cousin, was one of Haig's Army
Commanders in France.
William Murdoch, the dashing Australian
pianist now sojourning in England, didn't
take long to get into double harness again.
No. 1 wife died six months ago. and a cable
reports that he has now taken unto himself
another, this time choosing from the ranks of
his admirers a widow, Mrs. Dorothy Landale.
The first Mrs. Willie was known in the
musical world as Ellen Tuckfield. and as late
as September last he wrote to say he had
booked passages to Australia in order to
show her his ain country.
D. G. Macdougall, pictured here by Hum-
phrey, was a familiar figure during the war
as financial organiser for the Y.M.C.A. He
was largely respon-
sible for the raising
of £518,000 for Y.
Emma’s war-work.
As a pressman who
got some of his early
tutelage under Whis-
kers Ward on Bris-
bane Courier, the
tall Bendigonian
maintained for three
years a service to
over 700 Australian
publications in the
interests of the Y.M.
Last year he planned
the push to raise big
money for urgent ex-
tensions to the Alfred
Hospital, and in
spite of strikes and
other adversities about £83.000 is now in
sight. Notwithstanding this strenuous work,
Macdougall still makes a frequent appear-
ance on the Inky Way.
The fund for the projected Women’s Col-
lege derived a little sustenance frpm the Mer-
maid Society’s productions of “Nan” and
“Wurzel Flummery” at the Playhouse. On
the opening night some dash was put into a
scheme to touch the audience’s pocket by
means of bouquets, each one bearing a raffle
ticket for a huge box of chocolates. Either
the crowd was absurdly sweet-toothed or pre-
ternaturally benevolent, for the beauteous
maidens who trotted round with the trays of
vegetables weren't called upon to overwork
themselves. Generosity was the order of the
night. Some of the congregation contributed
to the company’s wardrobe, a notable gift
being a green velvet coat in which Rose
Quong could defy the frosty reception at
Uncle Pargetter’s farm.
Bereaved mothers and others belonging to
the Wives and Mothers’ Friendly Union are
to be fed and amused in the vice-regal ball-
room on Anzac Day. The president, Mrs.
Chauvel, will act as hostess in place of
Lady Forster. But isn’t it a rather unhappy
idea to have a frivol for soldiers’ widows and
mothers on such an anniversary? If it
isn’t, why the cry of anguish against race
meetings on Anzac Day?
Mrs. William Green and Miss Florrie fol-
lowed their usual charitable practice this
year, and as a result the Blind Appeal gets
£30, the Y-Emma furnishing fund £30, and
the Hebrew Ladies’ Benevolent Society and
St. Vincent’s Hospital £30 apiece. The whole
£120 was raised by the sale of balcony
tickets at the Green fancy-dress ball.
Adelina Leon, with her ’cello, and Mrs.
Weigall, at the piano, had a most
successful recital at the Assembly Hall a
few days ago. Miss Leon played some of
the voluptuous Tenaglia music; also, some
Davidoff and Popper items. The Countess
was in the audience, and liigh-browed Sas-
siety followed her lead. Adelina afterwards
skipped over to Sydney to play at two orches-
tral concerts with Verbrugghen. She re-
turns to appear with the Liedertafel Society
at the Town Hall on April 18, but was forced
to refuse an invitation to play at Govern-
ment House on the 14th. Dates are inexor-
able things.
Flemington will be famous in the future
not only for its racecourse and its show-
ground but for its model State School.
Education Minister Peacock has decided to
buy five acres of the Henry Madden (Tre-
vancore) estate, and, according to a bunch of
city councillors who serenaded Peacock, the
site is beau-ti-ful. A building en suite is to
be reared on the five acres, and the kiddies
will have a playground that will be the envy
of all other suburbs. At present their school
is one of the worst. It was erected from
plans borrowed by the dozen from the English
Board of Education away in the dark ages,
and is so near the tram track that the peda-
gogues need to bellow like the bull of Bashan
to make themselves heard.
Dot Brunton sacrificed her lunch one day
last week to sell tickets for a Blind Appeal
raffle. She raked in £10 in the hour. The
shop was almost mobbed. Clarence and
Harold on their way from lunch to the Lane
and the banks hurried in to buy two tickets
apiece and get a smile from the vendor
Meanwhile, the Blind Orchestra played and
a tenor- sang softly. The committee
of the Linen Chest raffle had spread a gor-
geous lunch at the Francatelli in the inter-
ests of the same appeal. This “chest” is a
wonderful affair on show at Buckley and
Nunn’s. The Stradbroke lady spent a fiver
in shilling tickets to help it along.
J he Mayoress and a small company of
women are arranging a cafe chantant for
April 21 and a card-party for the middle of
May to finish the appeal for the Florence
Young Memorial Theatre at the Alfred Hos-
pital. Buckley and Nunn are lending their
tea-room for the two events. The commit-
tee has also bought six of the Pasquinelli-
Boffa tinted marbles to raffle for the cause
and these are displayed in Buckley ami
Nunn windows and at the Mia Mia. The
big collection of the marbles is still on view
at Queen’s Hall. Boffa is giving the Alfred
Hospital appeal a percentage on his gate
money and the sale of catalogues.
The Alfred Hospital effort is being wound
up to let the Blind Appeal have its chance.
And quite time, for already there have been
some small clashes, muffled but exciting, be-
tween the organisers of the latter and the
workers for the Alfred.
The modern young man is cold-bloodedly
canny in his love affairs. One of the specie's
has been playing gallant to a fair, who is in
that no-man’s-land which lies between the
decrees nisi and absolute. Her husband is
moving the court in the matter of alimony
on the ground that her behavior in the wait-
ing-time has not been above suspicion—and
the young man finds himself hauled into
the case. “But they cannot catch me,” he
chortles. “I’ve kept a diary and can prove
what I have done every day and night since
I knew her!” The unco’ careful youth
meticulously listed the names of guests or
friends who joined them at dinner or supper
■ on various frivolous occasions, and he dares
anyone to prove he has been alone with the
lady.
After a witching hour:—
Some more graceful drawings by Ida Rentoul
Outhwaite are on view at the Fine Art Society’s
rooms. The pictures deal with the familiar kiddies,
iairies and bears, but they still disclose a weakness
for formal blackgiounds with an occasional patch
of silhouetted saplings faintly relieving the dark-
ness around. This drawback gives extra emphasis
to the foreground figures, and dissipates the feel-
ing of elfin wonderment and beauty which the illus-
trator is trying- to create. “The Proposal” is an
example of this class of work, and the night is
spread around the “Dear Old Friend,” which happens
to be a well-drawn tree. Mrs. Outhwaite’s art
shows best in “The River of Dreams,” a small
boatful of wide-eyed kiddies coming down a bubbly
stream. The artist’s designs in color are fonder
of the daylight and display a more cheerful every-
day spirit.
Adelaide passes on a word or two: —
The town seems eager to jazz, and a big crowd did
it at the opening of the Palais Royal. There were
Oriental decorations this time, and 26 new pens for
the elite, separating the sheep from the goats. The
Mayor and Mayoress were there, and they brought
along the mayoral Faulkners of South Brisbane.
After Mrs. Moulden had declared the hall open she
whirled off with Gilson G. Blake, the new American
Consul, who sings, dances and is full of vim. As
to the rest of the crowd, one of the dailies called it
“select and vivacious.”
The Elder Conservatorium opened business for the
year on the same night, when Chamber music was
made by Gerald Walenn, Nora Kyffin Thomas, Sylvia
M hitington, Harold Parsons and George Pearce. His
1.x. was present, and there was a sprinkling of Pro-
fessors with a lot of new and soulful students.
'File other afternoon a welcome was tendered to
l’:e Holder widow, back from the W.C.T.U. World’s
Convention in the Cold Country. She said the Eng-
lish people were even less enthusiastic about prohi-
bition than tlie Australians, and they don’t exactly
plump for the water-waggon.
Artist H. S. Power, accompanied by his wife,
arrived by the Orvieto on a visit. They are the
guests of Mrs. Butterworth, North Adelaide, the
mother of Mrs. Power.
When Captain .T. Medlyn, of Adelaide, was up at
Renmark recently, he noticed a returned soldier
looking at the name on his bag. “Why,” exclaimed
the Digger, “I have a wristlet watch, engraved ‘Pre-
sented to E. L. Medlyn by his brother officers at
the Islington Workshops, 1915.’ ” The son, Cap-
tain E. L. Medlyn, lost the watch at Gallipoli, and
it found its way to France, where it was taken from
a German prisoner by the Australian soldier, who
now promptly handed it over to the owner’s dad.
Dr. Cockburn has written from London to Langdon
Bonython, saying that Queen Mary has found a
brooch which formerly belonged to Queen Adelaide,
and which she wants forwarded to Adelaide to be
added to the collection of Queen Adelaide relics
possessed by our City Council.
To encourage the little bird that can warble and
won t, Community singing is being boomed. It
started last year when the general public was asked
to drop into the 1 .M.C.A. during lunch-hour, and
tune up ; and now the scheme has received the title
of “Municipal community singing” with the Mayor
as president. The first conductor will he Dr. Harold
Davies, and Elsie Bruce the first song leader.


- '
-'•'A
I
n\ n
I /
.V
I®
im
m
$
m
m
• ’
ii*!3
rfS^-'V
f tt •' '*'*$
f' mnm$.
MiflDINfJ.
“These are Pelaco Shirts, sir,—
and guaranteed by the makers!
OU’LL find Pelaco Shirts
■» a perfectly safe “buy.”
The guarantee protects you
fully. Every Pelaco Shirt is
warranted to be correct
in cut, make and finish.
A new shirt free if it isn’t.
Ask your mercer,
specifically, for —-
as
58
n
SHIRTS
“They Fit/*


ClMRlB
Vintage 1911
CMPIPM
ttt PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT ft COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
%Lg
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
I
uiunnnnii
Floors that reflect credit
on the Householder!
Modernise your home by
introducing
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Suoerfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Sold and Recommended by all Leading
Stores
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
The Count and Countess van Limburg-
Stirum, the retiring Excellencies of the
Dutch East Indies, who are returning to
Holland via Australia and America, are stay-
ing a week with the Davidsons. They made
several new' departures when they reigned in
Jawa. Among other things, they got lost. In
their early days at Buitzenzorg, instead of en-
joying their usual siesta, their Exes, one after-
noon decided to go and explore the native
village. All these villages are like a maze,
and the two new arrivals were soon bushed.
Night falls quickly in those parts and they
could not speak Malay to help themselves out.
After floundering about in the dark for a
while they decided to buy candles and
matches. Then they discovered they had no
money, and the native takes no risk—he
wasn’t going to part with his goods to any
strange moneyless pair. By this time the
servants at the Palace had raised an alarm,
and soon search-parties were out looking for
the babes in the wood and finding them.
Have you noticed small groups of impor-
tant-looking girls and boys walking about
with opera scores under their arms, order-
ing large dishes of spaghetti in the restau-
rants, and looking temperamental when the
Theda Bara in charge of the table drawls
over their heads that “Spaghetti’s off - ’? Well,
these are the nucleus of Australia’s newest
grand-opera company. All of them earnest
students, many of them with some years of
Continental and London training behind
them. The little company, under the man-
agement of Count Filippini, who camped
here after the Italian Grand Opera had dis-
banded, sets forth on its venture at the end
of the month. It will commence its tour
by doing the rounds of the new picture
theatres at Enmore. Balmain and Drum-
moyne. This is a special engagement, and
the cast will include Cacialli, who, how-
ever, does not go further afield with the com-
pany. First performances will be “II Pag-
liacci” and “Cavalleria” and “Rigoletto.”
Jean Drummond is to be soprano lead, and
tenor Balboni will pour the frankincense
and myrrh of his notes in conjunction with
her vocal fireworks. Jean, with her fair
hair, pink cheeks and pretty ankles, should
make an ideal Gilda. After the Sydney
appearance the company, with a chorus of
60 strong and carrying its own orchestra,
sets out for Lismore and Brisbane and other
musical places, Filippini and his wife are
anxious that this should be the corner-stone
in the building of a permanent opera in
Australia. Lute Drummond goes with the
company as pianist, poster-designer and gen-
eral helper. The posters, by the way, are
eye-arresting things in Italy’s colors. Lute
has made only one stipulation—she is not
to be asked to be the bill-sticker.
The Clerical Women War-workers have
issued their final report and balance-sheet.
These wizard-financiers worked for five
years, collected £2033, and their expenses
for the whole period were £17. In addition
over 7250 articles were knitted for the sol-
diers, 1000 garments sent to various patriotic
funds, and nearly 200,000 envelopes typed
for different patriotic organisations. And
when you realise that this was all done after
a hard day’s office work it makes you think
about the distribution of O.B.E.’s and such
trinkets.
Crown-street isn’t the most cheerful part
of the city, but inside the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital there is an atmosphere
of hope and eternal youth, and to the women
patients who seek it for the birth of the
most wonderful baby in the world it is often
the happiest and cheeriest place they have
known for weary months. The Hospital
held its annual meeting in the rain of last
week, when Governor Davidson and Presi-
dent Judge Backhouse were the chief spokes-
men. (In spite of his mutton-chop sideGevers
the Judge always makes you think of the
nicest of newly-bathed and -powdered
babies.) It has been such a record year for
Young Australia that even the nurses have
had to give up their dining-room that an-
other ward might be provided. There must
be more wards and more beds ; but how can
the new wing spread itself to cuddle the
chicks the stork has dropped if every month
is as the month of January, when expendi-
ture amounted to £1377 and the great-
hearted public subscribed £70? Pass the
hat, please.
Cecil Dailey, who was at one time Engi-
neer-in-Chief for Public Works in X. S.
Wales and president of the Metropolitan
Water Board away back in ’92, but who has
for many years been living in London, is
paying Sydney a visit. He is a brother of
the late Chief Justice, and his wife is a
daughter of the late Alex. Campbell, of the
Uppah Chambah.
From an Australian in London: —
A great Diana is Mrs. Wardell, and at her
place near Melton Mowbray she and husband No. 3
are to be seen with the pack three or four times
a week. Starting life as the daughter of Daniel
Cooper, of N. S. Wales, she made a stir by becoming'
Lord Northland’s bride. Widowed by the Huns, she
was consoled by the Hon. Mills, a brother of the
late Lord Hillingdon. Again constrained to wear
weeds, her mourning was east off for Captain War-
dell. Her mother, Harriet Lady Cooper, has lately
been included in the house-party.
Mrs. Morgan Baker, wife of the head-
master of King’s School, left for England on
Saturday to visit her mother. The boys gave
her an Australian black opal when she was
saying good-bye.
Remember the monument in the Corso at
Manly commemorating the bravery of F. C.
Smalpage in an attempted rescue from the
breakers? One of his family—they are con-
nected with the Victorian Ilentys—has just
put up the remarkable record of becoming
an F.It.C.S. at the astonishing age of 25.
lie was a Sydney graduate, and made his
first baby-noises at Broken Hill.
Le Gay Brereton’s place as librarian of
Sydney Uni. has been filled by appointing
H. M. Green, M.A., who for a dozen years
has been doing book-reviews and other jobs
for the Telegraph. He is a barrister, but
was much too gentle and shy to push into
that hurly-burly. His wife was a Sydney
’Varsity girl, too.
The middies’ room at the Seamen’s Insti-
tute saw strange visitors on Saturday night,
when Mrs. Arthur Scrivener entertained her
girls of the St. Andrew’s Guild. During their
little leader’s absence they have kept the
entertainments for the seamen going ih great
form. So Saturday night’s party was a
thank-you to everybody, as .well as an invita-
tion to the wedding of Miss C. Gull and Mr.
Albert Ross. Leading questions as to the
behavior of the bride and bridegroom, their
mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers, were
put to each guest, and every question had its
answer in the name of a bird. It would have
taken a graduate (with honors) of the Gould
League of Bird Lovers to fill in all the an-
swers. One girl, driven to desperation
by the question: “What did the bride
ask the bridegroom to do?” replied “Carrier
pigeon,” and to “What did the bridegroom
do just before the ceremony?” her answer was
“Woodpecker.” About supper-time a group
of rosy-cheeked middies appeared suddenly
and helped to dispose of the cakes in the
broadest Gloucester and Dorset accents.
This is a Bernice
Agar photograph of
Margaret Arnott, the
capable young
woman who is in
charge of the life
classes in the
Society o f Women
Painters. This
week, at the Educa-
tion Buildings,
the Society opened
its cabinet and loan
exhibition, whic h
set out with the vice-
regal blessing.
Mrs. Scrivener, who
is just back from
visiting her 25-year-old son at Meerut, has
an interesting collection of “dolls” —colored
models in baked clay of her boy’s entire
household staff, done by an old native in the
local bazaar. That boy, by the way, left
Australia a private in the guns to gr> to
Gallipoli, and when she met him again last
year she found him a captain in a military
station in India. He’s about to be married
to the Queen Alexandra nurse who pulled
him through an attack of the ’flu.
Sydney mermaids rolled up in force at St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, on Saturday to hear
Ethel Shoppee say her "I will,” for Ethel is
one of the most popular of local swimming
girls, has for six years been sec. of the
Metropolitan Ladies’ Club and is at present.,
with Fanny Durack, timekeeper of the
Ladies’ Amateur Swimming Association. The
other party was Walter Bain, a well-known
city bagman. Ethel took the plunge in a
gown of ivory satin, with long court train
from the shoulders, trimmed with T.L.K.’s
and roses of silver tissue. Sisters. Ida and
Dorothy Shoppee and Dorothy Cox were
bridesmaids. The knot was tied by Canon
Beck, with full cnoral accompaniment. The
reception was held at the Marlborough.
One little bride who refused to be washed
away by the rain was Nance Scriven, who
married Thomas Major Thompson at St.
Mary’s during the floods of last week. Nance
is the second daughter of Mrs. J. E. Scriven,
of Wirrah, Mungindi, and she scintillated
like a mermaid in a complete armor _ of
opalescent sequins. A foam of tulle veiling
and several metres of ivory satin train were
the end of a perfect wedding outfit. Green
under a mist of tulle made Nance’s brides-
maid look like a water sprite. The party
hung itself up to dry at the Wentworth,
and then the doves flew off to Ararat (Vic.).
The outstanding features of the 6th Im-
perial Bushmen’s dinner on Saturday night
were the enthusiastic reception they gave
their old colonel, Major-General Kenneth
Mackay, and the cheers with which the name
of his * wife was greeted. After more years
than some of them care to remember, they
hadn’t forgotten that true friend.
Ethelda Bleibtrey, the American wonder-
swimmer over sprint distances, couldn’t lower
our Fanny Durack’s times over longer ones.
Eventually, after her failure to accomplish
the task under the most favorable conditions
at Coogee the night before she departed, she
cheerfully owned that Fanny’s times were
“too hard to break.” The pair, by the way,
were th'e best of chums during the American
girl’s visit; when Ethelda wasn’t in the
water she was often in Fanny’s car.
Capable Ruth Beale comes back to Syd-
ney in the Makura towards the end of the
month.
In Dr. Knaggs—“Old Sam,” as some
younger members of his proression anec-
tionately called him —Sydney has lost a re-
markable personality. Quiet-mannered,
kindly and utterly devoid of affectation, lie
never obtruded either his consummate know-
ledge of the world or his distinguished pro-
fessional status. The psychological side of
pathology was his favorite subject of investi-
gation, and he had attained to an absolutely
uncanny power of divining what the patient
was thinking of. He was a man of four
Universities, of multifarious activities and
inexhaustible energies. And he had a heart
of gold.
Julia Caroli, who before her days in Italy
was Julia Davis, lifted her voice in the Con-
servatorium on two nights of last week. At
the first recital, in spite of an atmosphere
compounded of rubbers and macintoshes,
the Singing girl’s lyric soprano rose light as
a lark on the wing, and notes as round and
comfortable as her own self filled the audi-
ence with a sense of comfort and well-being.
On the Friday night, when the clouds rolled
by, Julia’s voice rose as triumphant as the
stars set high above the spreading blackness
of the tree before the Conservatoripm door,
Julia’s enunciation is just about perfect, so
that the ordinary listener begins to feel that
it would be as easy to learn Italian as to
swallow spaghetti; and she made her last
encore, Gounod’s Ave Maria, really sound
like a prayer. But she met her Donnybrook
when she attempted “Ballymore Fair,” one
of John McCormack’s little gems. Somehow
Julia’s collben “with the cordial eye” seemed
only cousin 40 times removed to the roguish
wind-blown lass that John sings about. And
if violinist Henri Staell had been an importa-
tion he’d have received half a column in the
dailies for the divine flame that ran through
his playing of Pugnani’s “Prelude and
Allegro.”
“The Voysey Inheritance” filled the Play-
house on Thursday in spite of a drenching
rain, and ih recompense Gregan McMahon’s
Players were better than their usual good.
The play—by Granville Barker—is even
more talky than most in the Repertory cata-
logue. Nobody does anything but sit around
and discuss the mental attitude of the hero
towards the morality of dishonesty in busi-
ness. The idea that any commercial piracy
is dishonest strikes the entire Voysey family
as so novel that it provides discussion for
four acts, till black looks white and white
black, and the hero who is set on acting up
to his lofty principles appears a neutral grey
figure who fails to be heroic even though in
pursuit of his ideal he is running himself
into 10 years’ hard if found out. Bea Mac-
donald as Mrs. Hugh Voysey was the best-
turned-out of the family, although her hus-
band is the poorest of the brothers, and she
herself earns her trimmings by novel-writ-
ing—“best sellers” judged by the black
panne from which Bea’s fine shoulders
emerged triumphant and unrestrained in the
last act. Eleanor Ross, as the faded little
daughter of the family, and Deepa Owen, as
the gentle deaf old mother who wouldn’t give
a penny of her settlements to clear her dead
spouse’s defalcations, were also excellent. The
red velvet front seats, which, by the way,
end flush with the palms on brackets on the
wall, were filled with Sydney’s best in their
second-best undress —most of the women in
black. The Knoxes were front-seated, and
so were Rosamund Lumsdaine and the
Moreau girls. Mrs. Holdship and sister Isla
Blomfield came together, Commander
Edwards’s attractive-looking wife was with
a _ little group of naval people, Dowell
O’Reilly and his wife were in from Wat-
son’s Bay, and swelling the audience was
one little lady who had so many trimmings
that a mere brute murmured that she’d left
nothing at home but the bathroom blind.
Mrs. Edjth Childe, who looked after the
music in David Jones’s tea-rooms till the
middle of last year, writes from New York,
where she pluckily trekked with her two
young daughters last winter, that, through
a letter of Mr. Verbrugghen’s, she stepped
straight into a job as accompanist and asso-
ciate-leader to singing-master Louis Sim-
monds, one of the best-known men in the
big city’s musical world. She met pianist
Mischa Levitszki, soon to arrive here with
his brother, who is a civil engineer. She
reports them modest, agreeable, rich and un-
married, and Mayer, their manager, is an
interesting, wealthy widower. What a trio!
On April 29 the Musical Association is
biting the bun of welcome with Jascha
Heifetz (it sounds like the opening of a
Turkish casement), the Russian youngster
violinist. There is a story that when Jascha
was making his New York ddbut Mischa
Elman and Josef Hofman, the pianist, sat
together in a box listening to a performance
that was raising a tidal wave of enthusiasm.
Elman turned to Hofman in the midst of
an outburst of applause and said, “Pretti-
hot, isn’t it?” Hofman smiled. “Not for
pianists,” he answered.
This is Countess
Filippini, who before
her Italian alliance
was Nance MePhar-
land, B.A., of Sydney
University, and one
of St. Vincent’s most
promising musical
pupils. She is going
to wave the baton
during the tour of
the new Italian
Opera Company
which her husband
is shepherding.
Dorothy Ilelmrich
writes of some fellow
Australians doing well in London. First
among them is Florence Fawaz. the Mel-
bourne soprano, who last week made a most
successful debut at a Wagnerian concert in
the Albert Hall. Florence, who is profes-
sionally Florence Austral, is an outsize girl,
in the vicinity of 15 stone, portly, but im-
mensely popular, and has been engaged to
sing at Covent Garden during the forthcom-
ing season. Another Australian doing well is
Harold Williams, a young Sydney baritone
who was a member of the A.I.F. Dorothy
considers him to possess the finest baritone
she has yet heard in London. His recent
recital was a great success and netted him
some good engagements. Another very
successful Australian is May Brahe, a Vic-
torian, the composer of many popular songs,
the best known being “I Passed by Your
Window” and “Down Here.” May Brahe is a
widow now. having lost her husband in a
motor accident last August. Dorothy herself
is keeping her foothold, having again appeared
at the Promenade and Sunday concerts at
the Palladium, where she got the loudest
hand for her singing of May Brahe’s new
song, “Hawthorn.”
“Kiss like an Australian,” says the gentle-
man in charge of his sea-lions at the
Palladium show in London. And they
obediently osculate. But how can you tell an
Australian’s kiss —in the dark of course?
The Choral Society is going to show Syd-
ney what it can do in the wav of filling the
Town Hall on Saturday, the 23rd. Its
800 voice-power chorus will be backed by
soloists such as Cacialli, Adelaide Van
Staveren and Julia Caroli, and Lemmone and
Laurence Godfrey Smith are also in the con-
spiracy.
Good-looking Isabel Ramsay’s portrait
helped to beautify the latest Paris Salon. A
full-length study in oils by Alphonse Perron
was hung on the line. Isabel is remembered
in Sydney as a penwoman with melting brown
eyes and a magnolia skin.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The Hon. Mrs. Lawrence Brodriek and her daugh-
ter, who have been wandering over the Darting
Downs, are now staying at Government House. The
vice-regal party were boxed at the theatre one
night to see Allan Wilkie in “Hamlet.”
Teddy Cahill and George Brooke intend to give
a series of concerts in Brisbane and in some of the
country towns before packing up for another over-
seas trip. They have been lucky enough to get
little Pauline Bindley as their she-vocalist.
Lady des Vceux, who was May Seymour, a Bris-
bane girl, is in India with her daughter. Mrs. Gerald
Moran, a chic little Queenslander, is to join them
shortly. Another of the Seymour girls, Laura, who
is Mrs. Hugh Herdon, also lives in India.
The marriage of Jessie Munro, of Toowoomba, to
Lieut. Alan Raff, a Queenslander who is now in the
Indian arm}-, took place in Bombay a few days ago.
IV. D. Boyce, head of the Chicago eo. which issues
the Daily Ledger and other papers, dropped into
Brisbane on the western mail from Cunnamulla. His
son, who was with the 1st Div. of the A.E.F., and
Merlin Taylor, a newspaper man, are with him. Mr.
Boyce, who is after reliable information about Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, has already “done” Maoriland,
N.S.W., Vic. and Tasmania. He is going to visit
the McConnels on their station, Miss McConnel hav-
ing met him in Chicago when she was studying
music.


ESTB
I = »
!■»
1853
Tea & Coffee Service
Suitable for Presentation.
■_j3i
SfiW
Four-piece Tea and Coffee Service, in Highest-quality Silver
Plate, Teapot holds 1* pints.
£23 0 0
A variety of Tea and Coffee Services in handsome designs
available for selection.
A Special Discount is allowed for Presentations,
and Committees are invited to inspect the display.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
U6-IJ8 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
London,
Harringtons Ltd
[(
Harringtons Ltd.
TAKE AN ANSCOM
No matter where you go at the week-end you will see
something of which you would like to have a permanent
record. To him who, in the love of Nature, turns to the
great out-of-doors for rest and recreation, nothing will
contribute more lasting enjoyment than a
3a FOLDING ANSCO at £8/18/6
These cameras are made of Aluminium, covered with
best Seal Grain, with Leather Bellows, heavily Nickel-plated
Fittings, and Reversible Brilliant View Finder. They
accommodate either roll films or plates, and take photos
3? x inches.
LT?
“The House for GOOD Cameras*
Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington* N.Z.
HARRINGTONS’ SELL KODAKS.
BUCKLEY’S
HIGH-GRADE SUITS
at 10 Guineas.
We have just completed a special purchase of High-
grade Imported Suitings consisting of newest season s
designs in real Scotch Tweeds, West of England Cash-
meres and fine Worsteds in Stripes, Checks, Diagonals,
Herringbones and various other suitable designs for
Autumn and Winter Wear, also Indigo Blue Serges in
rough and fine Twill Effects.
We are offering these High-grade Winter Suitings at the
special price of
10 Guineas.
These Suits will be hand-
tailored, and the trimmings
will be in keeping with the
high-grade materials, which
are from the looms of the best
Scottish and English manufac-
turers.
This is an example of what
the public may gain by taking
advantage of the selling policy
at Buckley’s.
Write for patterns and self-
measurement form. Sent post
free.
4V
R
4SI
a
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR PORT
IN AUSTRALIA
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY t NUNN LTD. BOURSE ST. MELBOURNE
PEANUT BRITTLE
stf Choice M/f Co/r/ecfioir
|JacKea in i -
/lirlight Tins,
5/6 EACH
POSTAGE 6?EXTRA
Sent to any address in dustraf/a.
On/y Address
. SYDNEY.


■M-
.i' ■»
4
• *,
KJ
iprihJ
'Y'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose-* such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
"Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. ♦ 50 York Street.
Sydney
You Can Study Art
ifes
i
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
at li o ni e,
and apply
your tal-
ent in a profit-'
able field if ,
you take up the
Weston
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
The lessons are
simple and easy to
follow. Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
premier poster de-
signer and com-
mercial artist, has
already turned out
hundreds of suc-
cessful pupils, and
you have the ad-
vantage of his
personal help in
each lesson.
The Weston course
develops your tal-
ent for the pursuit
of a fascinating
h o b h y and a
money-making re-
creation.
Mr. Weston’s in-
teresting booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” will be
sent on receipt of
three stamps
to cover post-
age and your
name and ad-
dress. It tells all about the lessons, fees, etc.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
43 UNION HOUSE, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PIT'S K RUBBER
Missing Friends.
IF the wife or any descendant or relation
of THOMAS FREDERICK HENRY
TATE, alias HENRY MARTIN, of Bristol,
England, who went to Queensland about the
year 1890 and died in Queensland as the
result of an accident, will communicate with
the undersigned they will hear something to
their advantage.
SYMON, BROWNE & SYMON. Solicitors,
Gladstone Chambers.
Pirie Street. Adelaide.
KOBERT LOUIS YEITCH.—If this
) advertisement should be seen by the
above, or by anyone who can give informa-
tion as to him, whether living or dead, he or
his family (if any) will hear of something
to his or their advantage. Robert Louis
Veiteh is believed to have left England for
Australia in 1891 or 1892. Communicate
with PERCY UMNEY and SCORER, Soli-
citors, 18 The Green, Richmond. Surrey.
England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.
WE ARE CANDIDATES FOR RE-ELECTION, AND ASK ALL MEMBERS TO RECORD
THEIR -VOTES IN OUR FAVOR.
We have occupied the positions of CHAIRMAN and DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN respectively for the
last fifteen vears, and during the time we have been on the Board the Policies in force have
increased from 94,098 to 359,528. The Funds have risen from £8,900,000 to £44,000,000, and
the Annual Cash Bonuses from £426,000 to £1,300,000, which figures show the success of the
Society during our administration.
A. YV. MEEKS.
J. T. WALKER.
NOTE. —Policy-holders can vote now. Last day of voting, 18th April.
THE WONBAH MOLYBDENITE MINING CO. LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION),
* QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIMITED, LIQUIDATOR.
TENDERS will be received on or before the 1st DAY OF JUNE, 1921, by the Liquidator for
the purchase as a going concern of the Mineral Lease and Molybdenite Alining Property
situated at Wondah, Mount Perry, Queensland.
THE HIGHEST OR ANY TENDER NOT NECESSARILY ACCEPTED.
Fullest particulars and orders to inspect obtainable from the Liquidator,
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED, 395 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
THE MINE comprises Mineral Lease No. 61, 10 acres, with water right, pumping reserve, pipe line
and machine area.
MAIN SHAFT 235ft., No. 1 Level at 73ft., No. 2 Level at 162ft., No. 3 Level at 235ft., poppett legs,
brace platform, safety cage, and all necessary attachments.
MINE ENGINE-HOUSE, 26 x 25 x 134, 16h.p., underfired Colonial-type Boiler complete, Worthington
Duplex feed pump, tanks and connections, winding engine, ropes, buckets, etc.
BUILDING, 18 x 16, with stone-crusher and accessories, belt conveyor to mill hoppers.
BUILDING, 31 x 16, with single-cylinder lOh.p. Steam Engine and Parker Dynamo complete.
BUILDING, 81 x 40, with Suction-Gas Plant, Crossle.v Gas Engine 33 b.h.p., Bosch Magneto, tanks and
pipe complete.
STAMPER BATTERY'. 10-head, Sand Elevator, Conical Spits, De Bavay’s Flotation Machine, Slime
Elevator, Concentrates Y'ats.
ROBEY'i SEMI-PORTABLE ENGINE AND BOILER, 16h.p. double-cylinder Worthington Duplex Boiler,
Feed Pump complete. Saw Bench. Steel Roller Feed Rails and Trucks and Belting.
DORR ’THICKENER AND GEAR. Charcoal Retort, Blacksmith’s Forge, Bellows, Tools, Fitter’s Bench
and Vyce, geared Winch.
WATER SUPPLY COMPLETE YVITH SNOW DUPLEX PUMP. Pumping plant from 30ft. well (40,000
gallons per day). Colonial Boiler, 12h.p.; lj mile 44in. black piping on blocks.
OFFICE BUILDING and Store-room, Telephone, Manager’s Residence, Change-room 18 x 10 x 8, hot and
cold-water service. SKILLION 61 x 15. Skillion 38 x 15.
BRICK AND CEMENT. STORAGE PITS (wet and dry), and all other necessary accessories for the com-
plete working equipment of the mine. 5000 tons Tailings on hand. 100 tons Ore in hoppers,
40 tons grass. 40 tons below. , Competent Engineer in charge, and full inspection can be arranged.
The Mine is about half-a-mile from Wonbah Railway-station on Mount Perry line.
APPLY: TO LIQUIDATOR. QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED, for further particulars for order for
inspection, working plans of mine and for copies of Government Geologist’s Reports.
You can be saved a lot of annoy-
ances by wearing Shirley President
Braces.
It means never giving way when
you least expect it.
A “Shirley President” Brace made
for every purpose, whether for play
or work.
Care has been exercised in the
making.
Guaranteed by the makers.
Millions of satisfied wearers the
world over.
Look for the name “Shirley Presi-
dent” on the buckles.
Sold by Good Dealers Everywhere.
'HO**'
vjt
V
N
r
/
Shirley, Mass., C.S.A.
Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PXY,, LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
z?»4g
The NEW
EDISON
The New Edison brings the charm
of perfect music to your home.
It Re-Creates just as though the
melody was leaving the singer’s
throat, or instrument, just as if
you were personally listening to
the master artist.
The New Edison brings enjoy-
ment to every member of the
family and appreciated enter-
tainment to your guests.
A New Edison will make your home a wel-
come place for your cherished friends to
gather, and you a most popular host.
Learn all about this wonderful instrument —
send for illustrated literature, now, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
.Xame and address must appear on the MSS. A’o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Hatana : Better luck ! Send claims for pars
printed to the accountant... .V.M.: Your point has
got bushed in a maze of ponderous words.... Adam:
Weak as it was, your original put up a better yarn
than that. .. .Tom M.: A bit thin... .P.P.: Hopeless.
....Red: Full of interest, but only as a study in
undecipherable writing.... L.M.: Too attenuated....
Toots: Ideas there; but they’ve terribly tangled....
Townall: We don’t want the hair, horn and hides.
Send us the gravy.... Skyrider: The Oldest Inhabi-
tant has a mortgage on those old pubs.... Manitoba:
The lines rhyme, certainly. So does the dictionary
if you read on far enough... .Kosmos.: Come down
off those stilts... .Elonera: Doesn’t quite do it....
E.J.G.: “The Race” gets pretty close... .M.B.S.:
Poor stuff....Ida O.: Not up... .R.D.F.: “Gale”
misses... .C.M.A.: No, thanks M.S.M.: It must
go back.... X. Y.Z.: Very poor.... N.II.J.: Why do
you merely string words together without a thought?
Clematis doesn’t bloom in May; and all the singing
the birds do in that month wouldn’t drown the music
of a Jew’s harp... .Wild Toby: Not up.... Arthur
D.: Wild effort at mirth fails... .Gumleaves: Hardly
enough in it; jet there is promise... .Connie F.:
The calamitous occurrence noted. After all, it isn't
as bad as the verse.... A.F.H.: Doesn’t strike us....
J.R. (Geelong): Very lame... .K.L.S.: Not even
sweet seventeen is an excuse. .. ..T.A.A.: Find some-
thing to write about. It’s the easiest thing in the
world to go on stringing lines together; and one of
the hardest to make them saj' something worth while.
. .. .F.A. (North Sydney) : Not for us... .Tibb.v: Very
uneven... .A.D.R.: As far as we can read it it is no
good. ... P.R.F.: Too many words... .Ferntop : Not
up A.T.N.: A story ought to be about something.
Yours rambles on into a wilderness.... Frank N.:
That sort of thing is neither prose nor verse. ...
Mary L.: The old “dawn”-“morn” rhyme at the
very start. What sort of an ear have you got?....
White Rose: Too flimsy... .A.V.V.: You guessed
wrongly; the basket got it P.R.N.: The weather
is far too wet for us to take kindly to that slush.. ..
Maori Hen: Nothing there Ruth II.: Advice as
to getting a book published is about as difficult as
telling you how to write. Send the copy to a pub-
lisher who issues similar stuff and trust to luck....
J.F.M.: Well enough told, but don’t care for it....
Bcllerive: Fine little picture from real life:—
With a line of brooms I sauntered
Upon a Monday morn.
House to house I entered .
Till wearied and forlorn.
Doors were closed upon me,
And civil folks did say,
“Shut the gate behind you
And call another daj\”
House to house I entered
Till the busy hour of one
Wiien I rested on a corner
And dined upon a bun.
In the afternoon I wended
On my dreary way,
And got a lot of invites
To call another day.
....Will Iv.: “Watchin’” doesn’t catch the interest.
. . . . W.L.D.S.: “Nocturne” won’t do; but try us
with something else W.D. (Gisborne): That ram-
bling stuff is no use En Zed: Good material, but
wants far better banfiling. ... Pom II.: It’s an absurd
yarn; but j'ou could write a better one. ...Leo K.;
Horrible thing ; doesn’t make a story... .Lithe: They
are pretty crude R.E.T.: Won't do Mooch :
Doesn’t get anywhere near P.G.ll.: Not enough
in the incident to make a jam Spartas: Not
nearly up A.R.N.: The mirth must have been
mislaid; we can’t find it .T..T. (New Farm): No
us e R.N.D.: Wobble and bump, wobble and
bump!... .F.D. (Parkville) : Sorrowful rubbish....
Eric F.: “The Hero” may have a chance Philip
A.: \ou just gather up old, well-used phrases and
string them together without a trace of intimate
feeling... .Xenon : Nothing in it. .. .Sesdy: Of course,
work can be made to “go round.” But if you cut
a loaf into eight slices instead, of six, you can’t
expect the eight to be each as big as the six were.
> E.W.M.: Wouldn’t advise you to touch them if
jou proposed to do it merely on the strength of the
past four years’ record. A trading co. couldn’t help
making money on a rising market. But the market
isn’t vising any more.. .Epi: The Bulletin merely says
the Jap is different. It isn’t necessaiy to -saj- that
he is inferior in order to make out a case for exclu-
sion M.S.T.: Altogether futile R.T.O.: It hung
on the edge, and fell the wrong way—wasn’t quite
distinctive enough. .. .Credo: Dear lady, be as hand-
some as you can, but make your prose plain. There
is no beauty in obscuritj'.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Wash: Wash-out... .Andria: Drawing has a famili-
arlj' foreign look about it. Those coats and spats
don’t grow hereabouts... .G.M.: Go and sin no more.
E.C.P.: Nowhere near it W.F.M.: Bad draw-
ing J.R.: Nothing in it... .Caccho: First of all,
learn drawing W.W.: Who told you that was
humorous? R.H.: Not a hope T.D:: That
lunatic joke is much older than j-ou A.S.L.: Shows
some promise K.G.S.: Not up D.H.: Blotty
little scrap; no use G.B.: Going home
T.E.P.: Counted out... .E.S.L.: No interest in copies.
.... J.K.: Drawing wobbly.
“Dr. Nil”; “Toxicologist” (B. 24/3/’21)
criticises some remarks about cocaine by
' Gregorius.” I didn’t see the remarks, but
ii there were any serious suggestion that
even a detective could go on detecting with
“two grains of cocaine in his blood-stream,”
then I rise to support “Toxicologist.” Any-
one who gets half a grain in him will, unless
lie is a “dope fiend,” wish he hadn’t—if lie
lives long enough to wish anything. I
know, because I done it meself. Many years
ago, when pure cocaine was still used by
t be ignorant, I bad a devil-tooth. I wanted
to .play tennis, and so I injected half a
grain of cocaine into my ..head to stop the
pain. It did so. Also, it stopped my radial
pulse in 10 minutes, and by the time I got
to the local chemist’s it bad nearly stopped
me. He lived next the pub, fortunately, and
I prescribed 8oz. of Jamaica rum, which he
got and which I swallowed. That chemist
was a friend of mine and a teetotaller, and
the look on his face when he saw me absorb
that dose nearly made me laugh. But it
wasn t any too much, nor too soon.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabincs-de-
Lu-re. Staterooms with bedsteads anti
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For ali information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
'hi. City 1240. 2. 4. (i Spring Street.
_ ' JSft Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. Al’UIL 27.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt anil Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
1“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.rn.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in-Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for (lie comfort
of passengers of these Steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars applv :—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 8 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHII.P
& CO., LTD.
Banking. Public Companies. &c,
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. II.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHII.P, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Gf.xeral Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head OfFiee: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . . . . . 300,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Depcdl Stock 3,091,609 4 a
All new business since 1S!>3 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. I.uya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. . . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. . . £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todjian ; lion. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. II. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. -Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Thveadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund k Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc..
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN” AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, THURSDAYS 3tli MAY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JUIA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ran he seen on the Journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara tails, etc.
SAILING PROM WELLINGTON:
MARAMA, 20th APRIL.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 21 st April.
SAILINGS FR0I\l SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 20th MAY.
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars,
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
.MEI)It' 13,000 tons
SUF.VIC 13,500 tons
PERSIC 13,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route. ,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,350 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11.350 tons
MII.TIADES 8.000 tons
MARATHON 8.000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting or steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
trom £110 to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class, passengers only. Fares
from £40 to £48 to England. From £21 to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, cLe., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & C’o., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
raid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£1,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
£13,260,520
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.T..C., President.
Thomas Bnckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Hubert L. Faitlifull, Esq.,
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John liussell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —Oeorge Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
•Wilts and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
&nk»BiKtraIia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain)London (2).
Savings Bank Department
nt all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £1,000.
3°/ Interest on Amounts over £1,000 up to £t,30O.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Jan. 1st. 1921. Governor,
Shipping:.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
( Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstaiices perinitting.)
Foil MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Jiunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma). MACKAY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bnnda-
M'arries 1st, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
(Carries 1st and 2nd Class Passengers.
♦Carries 1st and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parked^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND — Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YU5EN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO TI1E EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly-vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS. PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia;
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address.
“Macdonald Hamilton." ‘‘Iroquois,
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Liipltecj.
1'itzro.v Estates Limited,
Itlaekheath Collieries Ltd,
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co,
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Svdnev).
p y. o. g u Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle),
Messageries Maritimes' Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line.'(Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane/.
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart. Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney', Suva (Fiji), -Mary-
borough, Rundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest ami Most Successful
Mutual Life Ofiice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 191-9 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
G
EORGE HOTEL-,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.


Amusements.
SIDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
CRITERION.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 1C.
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Evenings at 7.4r>. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
. Hugh D. McIntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production .£20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
WI R T H BROS. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS., LIMITED.
EYERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME. HAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
MatinC-es Wednesday and Saturday.
ULAN W ILK I E SHA KSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
N 1 O N P 1 C T U It E T II K A T It K .*»
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in tlie Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an. intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THE BIG THREE—
THE BREATH OF THE GODS.
THE DAUGHTER PAYS.
HITCHIN’ POST.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. M E L B O U It N E.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
|y| ELBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, V1TAGRAPH, PATI1E,
WOULD and SICLZNICK.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
|y|A.1KSTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
A PERFECT WOMAN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
K1TANN1A THEATRE, MElAIOt'..NK.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
GOSSARD
Flint Latlnt
CORSETS
WORN BY WOMEIN OF DISTINCTION
THE WORLD OVER
H. IV. Gossard Co.
Chicago New York London Toronto Sydney Buenos Aires
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
S3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds nnd other
Hue Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, ETD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Baby should grow
in weight daily.
The weekly progress should
be easily measured. A stand-
still in weight is usually the
first sign of unsuitable food.
If it is thought that the
breast milk is not sufficiently
nourishing (mothers feel the
strain of nursing at such
times ) feed partially on
Benger’s Food.
r
Food
so easily supplements the
child’s natural food that it is
usually ' he one Food Dootors
recommend for partial feed-
ing. For the same reason
Infants hand-reared of
necessity thrive on Benger’s.
NOTE.—Benger’s is always pre-
pared with fresh new milk (or
miik and water) which it modifies
exactly for infants, and greatly
enriches for growing children.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most
helpful to mothers, post free, from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER. England
Bil
nil
ll mS:
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian A tj tilts
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Full, rich tune, clear reproduction
Ready to play iimnediately opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag.
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
soldiers — in trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
amongst whom are many Diggers, ’
with musical entertainment wher-
ever they may be.
3 Mpdels:
Leather Cloth. £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. II 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
FROM ALL
MUSIC-DEALERS.
Try Us First for All Sport Equipment
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special 7/6
M.S. National ..' 15/6
•Service 27 / 0
Peerless 30/-
Haymarket 30/-. 40/-
llaymarket Special 40/-. 45/-
Maymarket Selected 4o/-> 50/-
Haymarket Extra Special 63/-
Spalding’s Tournament 48/6
Spalding’s Continental 55/-
Spalding’s Gold Medal 07 /6
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger's Demon 55 / -
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 65 / -
Slazenger’s E.G.M 78/6
Slazenger’s Doherty 85 / -
Slazenger’s Stadium 87 / 6
Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 92/6
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-
H. C. Lee’s Church 90/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on
cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d. : other States, X/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/({ 5/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1 /X 15/-
Ounlop’s Champion, 1921 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Slazenger Champion, 1921 , 3/- 35/-
Haymarket Champion, 1921 2/4 27/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
Specialists
in all kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
‘SmwSmf
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, ' full size,
85/-, 40/-, 50/-, 55/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair ....... 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/G
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip" Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1 /-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 15/-
All Prices subject to market fluctuations, without notice.
SEASON 1921. <
Special Quotation to Clubs for Quantities.
4 .
As usual we are to the front with an unequalled
display of new season’s requisites.
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls Fitted with Best Quality Bladders.
RUGBY MATCH.
Nicholson’s Royal 7/6
Nicholson’s Royal, hand sewn,
9/6, 10/6
Nicholson’s Royal, selected. . 15/6
Nicholson’s Royal, special. . . 16/6
Nicholson’s International ... 17/6
Nicholson’s A.N.A., special . . 21/-
Nieholson’s Sample, special. . 22/6
Nicholson’s Chrome, special. 25/-
Ford’s Interstate 20/-
Gilbert’s Best English 32/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 6d.; other States, 8d.)
SOCCER MATCH-
special 8/6, 10/6
Rival, buttonless 12/6
Albion, buttonless 15/6
Haymarket, w’proof, 8-piece. 22/6
lord's Interstate 25/-
M.S. Special Capless 27/6
■uert, migiish Chrome 35/-
Cert Chrome, w’proof, 13-piece 35/-
Official League, 13-piece. . . . 25/-
Sykes’ Swift Tuphine, 12-piece 42/6
(Postage: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
MEN’S ENCLISH COTTON JERSEYS
Price 13/9 each.
Extra Heavy Make—All Colors.
Postage 6d. extra.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly Add Sufficient to Cover Cost of Carriage.)
Pair.
Shin Guards, no straps .... 2/-, 3/3
Shin Guards, continuous straps,
2/6, 3/s 3/3
Shin Guards, gold cape,
3/9, 6/6, 7/6
Ankle Guards, blocked leather, 3/6
Ear Caps each 2/3, 3/6, 3/9
M.S. Rugger Boots, special.. 17/6
M.S. Soccer Boots, spec., 18/6, 25/-
Dally M. Rugby Boots 21/6
Elastic Bandages, knee & ankle, 13/6
Each.
Best Bladders, Match II., No. 5 27-
Football Inflators, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Football Pump Adaptors -/9
Referees’ Whistles, 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6
Lacing Awls -/9
Books on Football 1/6
Bladder Solution, tube -/9
Stout Web Belts 3/6
Enseptol Training Oil, bottle. . 1/6
SPORTING REPAIRS Specialty
ac
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers,
Headquarters: 720B HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Will Make Your Kidneys
Strong and Healthy.
sills
w*
piaijg
Mrs. J. S. WOOD HIDE (from a photo.).
Many times when I have
read what other women
think of your “Gin
Pills” I thought of
writing to tell you my
opinion of them, which is
that there is nothing in
the world like them for
women. I have been a
constant user of them for
many years, and consider
that my present line
health and strength is
due to their beneficial
effects. They clear the
head and the kidneys,
and are invaluable for the
many ills women are
prone to suffer. I send
you my photograph, and
give you my full permis-
sion to make public what
I say about Gin I'ills.
My advice to all women
is, take a Gin Pill now
and then—there is no-
thing so good; they prove
all a woman can look for.
This sounds a big thing
to say, but it’s true.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.)
JESSIE S: WOODSIDE,
Craigielee,
Craigend Street,
Darlinghurst.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeline/ begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble,
because as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble relieve the worst cases,
because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them Alter out all the poisonous waste matters
and uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles causing rheumatism. They
soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique remedy,
entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to com-
pare with them. No matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered, the
very principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible
to take them Into the human system without obtaining results.
D* Sheldon's
BANISHES
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARY TROUBLES
if
RIU
kku
■ ■
Sb
:i:n
Baaialviaiiaiii
WHEN APPETITES
NEED TEMPTING!
Serve “ Rex ” Camp Pie —enough in each
tin for five adults. No cooking or warm-
ing up wanted. It is made of the choicest
meats compounded, cooked and seasoned
in the tastiest manner.
Serve it with salad —there is nothing more
appetizing or trouble saving.
All grocers sell it.
PACKED BY-
FOG GITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1885
%
ill
to
I
a
flu
m
i mi
•mm
A Song of Three Cities.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
long thoughts fade
I Into the light they made;
Athenian moods
Are one with the lost wind in Attic woods.
Dead Pericles
Is less than leaves and seas;
Yet, wonder town,
Not all the years shall dim your violet crown.
In pilgrim dreams
Athene's helmet gleams
And white suns kiss
The marble ways of the Acropolis.
We have gone far,
Sailing by star and star;
Yet the mind's will
Looks on to Athens calling, calling still.
II.
Asia with hope and fear
Gazed into the setting sun ;
And the dreams of the desert came here
One by one —
The East, with great thoughts opprest,
Looking west.
Foremost tent of the wandering Shem,
Jerusalem, Jerusalem —
A blossom fades on the oldest stem
In a garden of gold that great feet trod.
Has the ephod of faith a healing hem?
Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
Lingering on with the scent of God !
Ancient olive-trees
Whisper in the breeze,
Saying very slowly,
Reverently, lowly :
Abraham , Mclchizedek. Dariil King of Israel.
Light between the cherubim, water in the
well;
The ages come and pass with a whisper on
the grass ,
But the grey dust’s minor prophets hare an
ageless tale to tell.
Judah weeps by the wall,
Men dream of three crosses:
And the city from fall to fall
Crumbles on into glory,
Building and building a story
In the gain of new losses.
III.
Trumpets of light blown from the morning,
Smoke from the altar-hearths of home:
The eagle sun with a great scorning
For night repulsed at the gates of Rome.
Great Rome waking on seven hill spaces—
Little houses and vines and trees —
And a grand look upon freemen’s faces,
Like the glory of summer on far seas.
Rude stone walls and a grey quern turning—
Of a good heart look and laugh aloud !
Rome of the pit and Rome of the burning,
These shall come on the thunder-cloud.
Empire and triumph and Caesar’s dome
Are but the fall of a freeman’s home
In the eagle nest of the vines that was
Rome.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Stiffness of Shorty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PRIVATE SHORTY WILKS, original
Anzac, sloshed through the rich mud
into the semi-detached combination
of barn and pigsty in which No. 13 section
were lying about in blissful idleness, and
hurled his pack to where the floor should
have been, to the accompaniment of a per-
fect flow of ad jectives. “Seven magenta days’
pay and seven days’ vermilion fatigue,” he
roared, “because a crimson train runs late
and misses the boat-express. A day over
leave, an’ when I’m hauled up and start
telling the Major the dinkum truth, ’e shuts
me up like a book, gives me seven days and
says the next man that tells him the same
tale’ll get a month !”
“Any rate, you oughter known you’d come
a thud putting in that tale,” said Bluey
Smith' —“it. was played out early in the last
war.”
Short\ - jumped round like a scalded cat.
“Why, spare me scarlet days,” he yelled,
“it’s true; it’s as true as—don’t all sit
grinnin’ at a man like a lot of cardinal
hyenas! Don’t trains run late sometimes?
Too true they do, and it’s me that knows
it. ’Aven’t they been a Jonah to me all me
life? If one of the cows only runs late
once a year it’s the time I’m on it. Ain’t
I lost good jobs, done in good cash and even
joined up this ragtime army, ter crawl round
in the mud and sleep with the pigs, just
because the indigo trains don’t keep up to
their time!”
Here Shorty stopped for want of breath,
and to relieve his pent-up feelings scooped
a couple of pounds of mud from his foot
and hurled it with deadly accuracy at a
nose which protruded through a crack in the
partition. The nose snorted indignantly and
withdrew, while Shorty, slightly calmer, sat
down and commenced to remove the clinging
soil of France from his lower ends until
the shape of a pair of military boots became
almost recognisable.
The melodious voice of Bluey broke the
short silence. “Say, Shorty,” he said,
“we’ve heard plenty of excuses for joining the
A.I.F., but I never heard a train blamed
for it before. ’Ere, ’ave a woodbine and
let’s hear the tale.”
Shorty accepted two fags with profane
thanks, set fire to one and emitted a young
smoke-screen through his nose. Then after
informing us that we could go elsewhere if
we didn’t believe him, delivered himself of
his story.
“Before the war I useter be a billiard-
marker at a pub at Caulfield, and being a
fair player gotter know most of the big
racin’ heads through teacliin’ them shots an’
showin’ tnem how they could improve their
game. Well, one night I was playin’ old
Steve Sims —him that won the Cup double
—and the talk happenin’ to get round to
racin’, he asks me if I ever do any betting.
I told him I ’ad a few bob on now an’ then.
'Well, Shorty,’ ’e says, ‘the Grand National
weights '11 be out to-morrow. Take The
Clown and Peter Pan in all the doubles you
can get, an’ I don’t think you’ll be sorry.’
Next day the weights was published, with
the two he’d told me down near the mini-
mum, and in a few days I’d got ’em in
18 shilling doubles, and was standing to win
180 quid. Then I goes mad and puts on
a coupler quid with old Jacobs at 250 to
1. All me cobbers reckoned I was off me
head and should ha’ give the money to the
’ospital; and to tell the gorstruth I didn’t
think much of me chance meself till Hurdle
Day came an’ The Clown, startin’ at 50 to
1, wins easy and gives me a leg-iu. Then
the crowd wakes up that Peter Pan, in the
same stable, is showin’ good form, an’ his
price drops. I could ha’ laid off me bets
without trouble and showed a profit, but I
hung on to them. Spare me days, that
was the worst week I ever put in in me life.
Every mornin’ I was up with the sparrers
to watch the ’orses at work; every night
I’d count me tickets up a dozen times, an’
dream. ’Struth, I’d see the race 20 times
in a night; sometimes Peter Pan ’d win,
but mostly ’e’d fall over every fence an’
kill ’imsolf.
“Saturday comes at last, und I’m down
at the course a coupler hours too soon. But
at last the big race comes round, an’ like
a man in a dopey dream I watches the
’orses leave the barrier. Peter's pink jacket
is easy to foller: ’is jockey is keepin’ ’im
well to the rear of the field as they race at
the first fence. I watched the first ’orses
go over like deers; but just when Peter’s
about to rise at the jump I shuts me eyes
tigiit till I ’ear the crowd yell ‘All over.’
Then 1 opens ’em again, and this time
manages to watch the whole field take the
second fence. Spare me days, if Peter
didn’t gain a length on ’em all in the jump !
He does the same at the next one, and all
the crowd starts to tell each other about it,
but I’m as dumb as a howl with excitement.
Next the field is out of sight round the back,
but by the roars from the stands it’s easy
to tell that some are toppling, and me ’eart’s
in me mouth till they comes into sight again,
an’ I see the pink jacket well up as they
race along the straight at the treble.
“The post-and-rail brings down two, three
more fall at the logs and leaves Peter run-
ning third, with the favorite six lengths out
in front. As they go over the wall in front
of me Peter jumps clean away from the other
horse and is running second as they go out
of sight round the back.
“Next to me there’s a bloke standing on a
box watching through a pair of glasses an’
roarin’ like ’ell. ‘The favorite ’ll win in
a canter,’ ’e yells. ‘She’s out six lengths
in front and only one fence to go!’
“Then a row like a Fritz barrage
comes from the stand. The bloke on the
box starts to yell an’ swear louder’n ever,
AVhat’s the thing in pink?’ ’e yells. ‘Gor-
blime, what price the thing in pink?’ I
loses me block altogether, grabs ’old of ’is
coat an’ scrambles up pn to the box with
’im. I’m just in time to see the leaders rise
to the last jump, an’, spare me days, if old
Peter didn’t pass the favorite in the air and
land in front! The jockey on the mare pulls
out ’is whip an’ starts to ride for ’is life,
but the boy on Peter ’ardly moves in ’is
saddle. Up the long straight they come,
the crowds roaring like scarlet ’ell. The
boy on Peter starts to ride all out. As
they pass us I see the pink jacket still in
front. Then our box collapses an’ we go
down in a tangle. I fights me way to me
feet. The race is over and I see No. 17
up. Gawd! Me ’eart stops beatin’. I’ve
won 700 quid.”
Here Shorty paused, partly for the sake
of effect, partly to hurl another couple of
pounds at the inquisitive pink nose of the
lady-pig next door.
“I don't know if any of you blokes ’as
ever tumbled into a fortune,” he continued.
“If you ’aven’t, you don’t know what I’m
feelin’ like when I’m collectin’ me winnin’s
—all except 10 quid from a coot I’ve never
seen since. Course, I resigns me job an’
opens a bank account like any other toff. A
few days later I goes to town, an’ after
’aving a few lemonades with friends, finds
meself in the ’orse bazaar in Bourke-street.
How it ’appened I don’t know ter this day,
but in a few minutes I’d run the biddin’ up
and bought a ’orse for 220 guineas, an’ in
another few seconds a bloke ’ad talked me
into insuring it for 200 quid and payin’ him
the first year’s premium. Next morning I
woke with a big ’ead an’ a dim idea that I’d
been dreamin’ about buyin’ ’orses or some-
thing, but goin’ through me pockets I finds
the receipts for the ’orse and ’is insurance.
Before I can quite make it out the post
brings a letter asking me where I want
the ’or.se sent. Now, I knew as much about
’erses as that there pig knows of eight-hours
day, so I goes across to Bert Stubbs the
trainer and gives ’im the strength of things.
He agrees to train the ’orse for three quid
a Week and 10 per cent, of wins, so we gets
Savager—that was ’is name —sent out.
“Bert seemed quite pleased when ’e seen
the colt —said ’e looked well, and ’ad a good
pedigree, till I'could see meself leadin’ ’im
in after winnin’ the Melbourne Cup. I
went up to pat ’im, and the cow bit the
shoulder out of me coat.
“The first time we started ’im was in a
race down the line, and Bert tells me I can
get a good win on im’ as there was only five
starters and they’d fixed it up that Savager
was to win. The day of the race I goes to
the bank to draw some cash and misses the
first race-special. I catches the other, and
a wheel runs ’ot or something, which ’olds us
up for an hour. When I arrives the race is
over, an’ Savager ’as won a little stake that
’ardly paid ’is fare down. Course I must
go puntin’ on the other races, and finishes
up losing about 60 quid.
(Continued on next page.)


E
ALIN
TOUCH
OF ZAM-BUK.
Australasia’s ideal Home First-Aid
IT’S a true saying that daily mishaps make
Zam-Buk a daily need. The wife at home
in her cooking and other household duties
is constantly happening Cuts, Burns, Scalds or
Bruises. Children are ever “in the wars,” and
father at work is always liable to sustain nasty
cuts and flesh wounds. Such injuries are
safely and best treated with Zam-Buk. It
saves pounds in doctors’ bills and prevents
needless worry and suffering.
Zam-Buk is pure and wholly medicinal,
and its powerful combination of soothing,
healing and antiseptic qualities make it ideal as a “first-aid”
for sores, wounds and all manner of injuries.
Besides soothing away pain, irritation and inflammation,
Zam-Buk kills and excludes disease germs and ensures speedy,
clean healing. Further, Zam-Buk being so highly concen-
trated and refined, retains its medicinal power indefinitely.
No matter how long you keep a box of Zam-Buk, it never
turns rancid like ordinary ointments and salves, made up of
animal fats and mineral drugs.
-Buk
am
A
wm ■
0
S3
I
Lj
■H«
i
j/j
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
You cannot afford to be without Zam-Buk, the healer which safe-
guards your everyday injuries against Festering and Blood-poison. Zam-
Buk is also invaluable for Eczema, Bad Legs, Piles, Ringworm, Children s
Sores and Rashes, Boils, and similar skin affections. 1/6 and 3/6. of
all Chemists and Stores, or at same prices from C. Fulford (A/sia), Ltd.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Cornin’ ’ome in the train I was feelin'
pretty sore, but Bert was in a good ’umor,
’avin’ won a nice bet. lie told me Savager
was lucky to win, even though the others
waited for ’ini. He said the eolt kicked
every other ’or.se near ’ini. walked all round
the barrier on 'is ’ind legs, and then got.
away ’alf a dozen lengths behind the Held.
“We didn’t race 'im again ter a coupler
months, an’ then we enters him in a purse
down the line again. This time I arrived
good and early and backed ’im to win a
fair lump. The Cow nearly bit the starter’s
arm off, and then ran last. We gives ’im
two more runs and ’e runs second-last both
times, and then a note from the bank wakes
me up to the fact that I’ve gone broke and
can’t even pay ’is trainin’ fees. Bert tells
me ’e can’t afford to keep the colt fer nothing,
but knows a bloke who'll take ’im on what
’e calls the 75 basis, ’im to lease the colt
fer nothing and give me 25 per cent, of
any wins. Being broke I sign a sort of con-
tract for six months and ’and ’im over.
“Well, at the end of six months ’e ’a.sn’t
won any races, but ’as smashed up two
stables, crippled a boy, and sprained ’is own
fetlock or something, so I gets a letter tollin'
me to fake ’im away at once. I’m
etceteraed if 1 knew what to do. 1 hadn’t
been able to get a job—just managed to pay
me board by makin’ a few bob now an’ then
in the billiard-room. I tried to sell ’im. but
only got laughed at, and me 'air’s turnin’
grey when an old cobber of mine that ’ad
gone to live up at Dandonong tells me I can
’ave a lend of ’is paddock up there by the
railway line. 1 grabs the chance, and puts
in a day leadin’ the colt up there.
“When 1 gets back there’s a letter waitin’
for me from the insurance company warn-
ing me that the policy on the colt expires at
4.30 p.m. on the 31st day of August, 1014,
and asking for favor of renewal. Think in’
what a fool I muster been to do in all me
cash in less than a year I shoved the thing
in me pocket and forgot all about it.
“A few nights later I’m sittin’ in the
billiard-room wonderin’ if I could get a few
pound fer the colt when ’is foot gets better,
when a boy comes in askin’ fer me and ’ands
me a telegram. Wondering what the ’ell it
can be, I tears it open; reads it. an' flops
back onter the seat.
“Three or four of me cobbers comes
across.
“‘Bad news, Shorty?’ they asks me.
“I ’anded it over without a word, and
Sammy White reads it out: ‘Colt smashed
fence this afternoon, (lot on to line and
was killed by Gippsland up express. See
you to-night. Smithy.’ ‘You poor angel.'
says Sammy. ‘You’re the stillest bloke ever
I knew. Come an’ ’ave a drink.’ •
“I went along and was ’avin’ a stiff
whisky when Sammy ’appened to remember
and mentioned that it was exacktl.v a year
since I bought the colt. Me whisky fell all
over the floor. ‘What’s the date?’ I said.
They all looked at me as if I'd gone mad.
‘Thirty-first August.’ says Sammy. I grabs
'im by the coat. ‘Quick.’ I yells, ‘what lime
does that up Gippsland come through Dando-
nong?’ Sammy flacks away from me, scared-
lookin’. ‘Why/ ’e ses, ‘it comes through ’ere
at 3.57; it'd go through Dandy about 'alt-
past three.’
“Leavin’ ’em thinkin’ I was stone mad I
dashes out to the smokin’-room and gets the
time-table. Sure enough ’e was right to a
few minutes. After divin’ in all me pockets
1 found me notice from the insurance
crowd and reads it again—"4.30 p.m. on the
31st day of August.’
“Rushin’ back into the bar 1 ’auds it to
Sammy. ‘Read that!’ I yells. ‘Read it!'
Still thinkin’ I’m mad he reads it through.
‘Don’t yer see. Sammy,’ I yells—‘4.30. it
says there!’ He jerries like lightning and
grabs fer me dook. ‘Good'on yer. Shorty,
old man.’ ’e ses. Yer win by a ——’our.
Strewth ! 200 quid !’
“Everybody wants to shout for me at once
now, and we’re standing at the bar celebratin'
when the door opens, and Smithy fimn
Dandenong walks in. 'E seems a bit puzzled
when ’e sees me.
“‘Did you get me wire. Shorty?’ V ask<.
1 nodded me 'ead. ' ’Sruth, old man,’ ’e
said, ‘I'm dead sorry about it. The colt
kicked a panel clean out of the fence, and
jumped in front of the engine.'
“ ‘Don't worry about the colt. Smithy.' I
says, ‘ 'ave a drink —I 'ad ’im insured for
200 quid.’
“Smithy fell back into a chair and
swallowed someone’s whisky.
“ ‘Well, I’ll go to 'Ealesvillc.' 'e says.
‘ 'Era's me been cursing the railway 'eads all
day for runnin’ crook engines, an’ I oughter
been takin’ me ’at off to ’em.’
" ‘Sure thing you should,’ 1 says. ‘What
was up with tin? old engine, anyway?'
“ ‘Why,’ ’e says, ‘it broke down near
Warragul. _ That’s where yer good luck came
in. It' she’d been on time she wouldn’t 'ave
cashed your policy.’
“ ‘Arr,’ I ses slowly. ‘Sin* was late?"
“Smithy nods. A cold shiver starts to
climb inter me stummick.
“ ‘How much was she late?’ I asks.
“Smithy grins like a mad hyena. ‘Why. yer
lucky cow,’ 'e ses. ‘she was well over two
hours behind when she went through Dandy.’ ’’
A silence fell as Shorty finished, broken
by himself. “Now.’’ he said, “you can see
how 1 came to get into this A. I. magenta
F.”
The sergeant poked his head in the door-
way.
“Private Wilks.”
“Wot the”—began Shorty.
But the sergeant cut him short. “Report
to orderly-room at once,” he said.
.Muttering to himself Shorty put on his
lid and departed.
“Strewth, sergeant,” said Bluey. “that
bloke's the stiffest cow in the army.”
“Yes, oh yes, he's stiff all right.” said the
sergeant.
“What’s ’e been sent for?” asked Bluey.
The sergeant grinned faintly.
“Why,” lie said, “there’s-18 of us in this
company original Anzaes. They put us all
in a hat and drew one. Wilks was the one.”
“Gorblime!” said Bluey. “Something
dangerous?”
“Well,” said the sarj, “I don’t suppose
‘e'll ever come back.”
“Struth." said Bluey. “'poor, stiff old
Shorty !’’
The sergeant moved away. ‘“Yes,” ho said,
“‘poor, stilt' cow ! Leave to Aussie has come
through. Six months in Aussie —one man
from each company. Shorty Wilks has been
drawn in tins one. l’oor stiff cow. i don't
think !"
TIN MAT.
The Seaside Burglar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
¥TT HEX Joseph Appelbv bought Mon
% » Iiepos. Beach-road. Carragool, lie
went straight to his friend Briggs
to get 'it fully insured. He was that sort
of man. "Against fire, yes," said Briggs.
"Though the premium is stiff for seaside
weatherboards. But against burglary! My
dear, dear fellow ! Not on your life!” Argu-
ment proved useless. A man, said Briggs,
who bought a week-ender which lie con-
fessedly didn't intend to inhabit for more than
four months of the year, and then expected
reputable insurance companies to guarantee
him against the loss of linen, cutlery and so
forth, which were things the locals made an
absolute hobby of collecting—why. with all
deference and no desire to offend, such a
man was too pure and simple altogether !
Joseph told his wife of the pusillanimity of
Briggs. “There’s only one thing for it.” lie
said. 1 shall take the affair into my own
hands. We can expect no help iroin the
policeman, who. si> iar as 1 can see. isn i
near our part of the beach for weeks at a
time.
Joseph returned from town next day with
a complicated electrical apparatus. A switch
in the bedroom produced a dazzling glare in
the neighborhood of the sitting-room writing-
desk. The desk was near the front door-—
as, for that matter, was every other article
of furniture in the tiny room. The next
day ho brought back a revolver and a quan-
tity of rope, which he put under the bed. “I
rather fancy,” he remarked, "that if one of
our criminal friends comes along he will get
a hot reception.”
Carragool will never forget the first night
of the Great Storm for several reasons. One
was that the lorry containing the luggage of
the Rev. Silas Glyrnmo and family went into
the lake, the othoi But this is to antici-
pate.
Joseph and his wife had battened down
Mon Repos to the best of their ability,
though the rain, whipped by the screaming
gale off the sea, <• nmnued to drift through
the defective French windows, and to drip
from large dark spots on the ceiling. From
time to time the front door, which had to
sustain the full force of the blast, sprung ils
cable and flew open with a crash, where-
upon every other door in the place banged,
the edifice shuddered from truck to keelson,
and most of the ornaments and pictures were
hurled, to the deck. It is difficult to avoid
the use of nautical imagery, since life at
Mon Repos during a gale resembled in nearly
every respect one on the ocean wave. IV
visiting '"general,” her work done, had
plunged into the howling blackness outside
and the front door had been dashed to after
her and fortified by an arm-chair. It was
!» p.m. Jpsepn and nis wife walked eight fwj
from where they were sitting on either side
of the-dining-table and were in the bedroom.
It might have been an hour, it might have
been thiee hours, later that there came t
them above, the ever-rising blast the sound
of someone moving. He was on the veran-
dah. lie had stumbled. Silence, save for
the wailing of the wind as it worked up for
a fresh outburst. At that moment the horri-
fied pair distinctly heard a knock.
“The jemmy,” whispered Joseph, 'ilt
must be trying the windows. Pass tie-
revolver.”
As the trembling woman did so the gale
roared up afresh from the beach and with
a crash the front door flew open and a tall
figure, in oilskins, dazzlmgly visible m de-
light which Joseph had switched on. half
fell and was half blown into the room.
“Put your hands up,” shouted Joseph.
‘‘I've got you covered with a loaded re-
volver.”
The malefactor opened his mouth as
though to speak, not forgetting, however, to
hold his drenched and shaking hands high
above his head.
“Not a word. Give the alarm to your
mates and you’re a dead man.”
The intruder, as sullen and dirty-looking
a villain ns could be imagined, was dearly
cowed.
Again Joseph spoke from tin* darkness of
the bedroom. “I’m coming out,” he said, ‘‘to
tie you up. I am passing the revolver over
to my wife. If you call out, attempt to
resist, or make any sound whatsoever she
will shoot. Remain exactly as you are.”
The quaking intruder did not see the small
pyjama -clad figure which advanced upon
him. He was facing west, as at the time
of his entrance, while Joseph approached
from a northerly direction. " Lower your
hands level with your chin.” The other
obeyed. Joseph cast a slip-knot over them
and pulled tight. Attaching the end of the
rope temporarily to the leg of the desk, he
next tied bis captive’s legs at the ankles.
Stepping back, he surveyed his work with
approval, lit* then took a hitch round the
man’s left knee and gave it, a smart pull.
Like some tall tower, the other crashed to
the floor, bringing down a shower of books
and other movables. “A Reixero throw,”
said Joseph over his shoulder to liis wife.
“The Mexicans make use of it with cattle.”
“Can I put down the revolverV” she asked.
“My arm’s aching terribly and I’m afraid of
it.”
“Give it; to me,” he said, as he lashed
his victim to the dining-table on the one
hand and the desk on the other. “I fane\
he should be safe here till the morning.”
“Can 1 speak now?” came in tones oi
strangled culture from the floor.
“Speak on.” said Joseph austerely.
“I’m Mr. Glymrne, the clergyman from
over the way. My wife sent me over to
borrow a drop of kerosene.”
J.B.D.


w.
i
mmm, -
\
a m
-r
, ..
as.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—03-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—90 Queen Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE J
A. FREE TRIAL.
li you are troubled with this complaint, write
us 'and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stiuc
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote* you price for it.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.CoHis 8rotfnels
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
BRAIN WAVES
If vou want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
CARTER'S
■f ITTLE
IVER
PIUS
r
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meal*. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
uuti ill tlie CoiiKii of ISKONCIil'JTS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks fr'liVEltiSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLTC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS likb a
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
The COGNOMINAL PREFIX “YANKEE”
is a recognised trade name, and when attached to Small Hand fools such as
Breast Drills, Haad Drills, Ratchet Screwdrivers,
denotes very highest quality.
These highly-prized "Yankee” Tools are made by The
North Bros. Manufacturing Co., of America, whose
productions have always been noted for
UNIFORMITY OF QUALITY
and SUPERIOR FINISH.
Particulars of a Pew:
“YANKEE” BREAST DRILLS.
No, 550—Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
Jin. Right- and Left-hand Ratchet, 51/-
No. 1550 —Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
-Jin. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 51/-
No. 1555 (as illustrated) —Double-speed 3-jaw Chuck,
holding drills to Jin. Right-hand and Left-hand
Ratchet, 61/- ~
No. 555 —Double-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
Jin. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 61/-
“YANKEE” HAND DRILLS.
No. 1510 (as illustrated)— Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck,
holding drills to gin. Right-hand and Left-hand
Ratchet, 43/6.
No. 1545—Double-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
gin. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 53/9.
No. 540—Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
fin. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 43/6.
No. 1530—Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
3/Kiin. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 35/-
No. 14 1 5—Double-speed 3-jaw Chuck, holding drills to
§in. Right-hand and Left-hand Ratchet, 35/-
No. 445—Double-speed 3-jaw Chuck,
holding drills to fin. Right-hand
and Left-hand Ratchet, 357-
No. 1430—Single-speed 3-jaw Chuck,
holding drills to 3/lttin. Right-hand
and Left-hand Ratchet. 19/6.
No. 11—“Yankee” Ratchet Screw-
drivers. L engtli of Blade, exclud-
ing handle, 2in.. 3/6; 3in., 4/3; 4in.,
4/6; Sill., 5/-; Sill., 6/6; 10in., 7/6;
12iu., 8/3 each.
No. 15—“Yankee” Ratchet Screw-
drivers. Length of Blade, exclud-
ing Handle, 2in., 3/9; 3in., 4/-; 4in.,
4/3 each.
No. 90—“Yankee” Plain Screwdrivers.
The fastening of Blade and Handle
is such that they cannot become
loosened by use, or even by the
usual abuse. Length of Blade, ex-
cluding Handle, 2in., 1/8; 3in.,
1/10 i; 5in., 2/8; Gin., 3/-; Sin., 4/-;
9in.. 4/3 each.
1
m
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
BEECrIAMS PILLS
%
c
a
3
b\
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austraj asian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High t Holborn, London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street,. Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Soppi-t—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shave w “ h “Plum’*
THOUSANDS SWEAR BY IT.
The “Plum” Razor has an unsullied reputation of
over 30 years’ satisfactory service behind it. Its
finely-tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest
beard. Requires but little stropping.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
S ingle Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case ..... 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
<
Demin
A- UM\
38&44 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop”
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater —38-40 and 44 calibre-r-is invaluable
for general use. _ Accurate up to 300 yards.
far Shooting Right
Inquireof your dealer; who
can order for you. Cat-;
alogues free upon request.'
C-l
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
Box
G.P.O.,


Miss Stewart Custom hilt savs
‘The dleuxab Trade-mark is the ‘Service’
Guarantee on a Motor Necessity!”
Every K3i£UIXfflb article has been designed by the Stewart Engineers to
definitely increase the service of your Car. Nothing has been overlooked
either in “quality of construction” or quality of material and workman-
ship that will ensure long years of good, constant service, and last, but not
least, STEWART SERVICE STATIONS have been established in every
State in Australia, to see that Stewart “Custombilt” Motor necessities give
the true Service which they are capable of giving.
on an accessory is conclusive proof that the
The Name
article is largely a “Motor Necessity,” and the Stewart Trade-mark has more
than proved to be a guarantee to the Motoring Public that any article so
branded will give everlasting satisfaction. More than 95 per cent, of all
Cars manufactured to-day are equipped by the Makers themselves with
one or more Stewart necessities. No other line of Motor Equipment has
ever become so universally used.
_ Products are the result of years of scientific research, of
skilled workmanship, and of progressive and up-to-date methods, backed
by the world s largest manufacturers of Motor Equipment.
If you would increase your Car’s Efficiency
and Performance, enhance its appear-
ance and add to your own Motoring
PI ensures —have it
equipped throughout.
Complete Your Car!
EQUIP IT.
0 0 5
4*6
PRODUCTS
are obtainable from all leading
Accessory Distributors throughout
Australia.
Your Garage or Accessory Dealer can secure
supplies promptly from any wholesale Accessory Dis-
tributor, including the following Interstate Stewart Service
Stations:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney;
Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., 239 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros., 299 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; Cornell Ltd., 122 Pirie Street,
Adelaide; Arthur Christian, 806 Hay Street, Perth.
Si
