

Electric
m
mm
■ :
Ea
V :
S 2
&
a»>
«?*
IP?
fl
df
irv tKe
r
>s
Wa
Un.it,.
Illustration,
below* shows
battery of
sixteen, cells.
fi>jiainH».t|{/1 lyifcHW
Uidi'.'huTi
im m
M'il
m
-
i •
Hi
prill
Lack of the necessary generating equipment, coupled with the high cost of
erecting transmission lines, has prohibited electric power being extended
into sparsely populated areas. In such places a complete electric service
can, however, be obtained by means of the
G E.Home Light and Power Unit
This plant is compact, economical, safe and easy to operate, and will provide
electric light and power for every need in the Lome. A special feature is
the pulley mounted on the main shaft of the 3 1 / 4 h.p. engine, to which can be
belted either direct or by overhead shafting the many machines that are neces-
sary on a farm. We will gladly furnish full particulars on request. Write to-day.
Ai
m
35*45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY
m
116 QUEET* STREET,
JVLELB.OUR.TsIE,
AGENTS:
BRISBANE, Q.— -The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
• (E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—OIiver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE, S.A.—-Charles Atkins 8C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
PERTH, W.A.- Charles Atkins 6C Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street , ,
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical 8C Engineering Co. Ltd.,
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2158
Thursday, June 23, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1021? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOOK’S KOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6421.— Advt,
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
If not, write to
ol
TOOTH
PASTE
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
H
Mi
SRSUHRR
KRKRSHMS
w
ri
MANGROVITE BELTING
ENSURES MAXIMUM OUTPUT
Every manufacturer knows that production is materially
affected by the class of'belting used.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is tough and durable, and withstands the strain of long-
continued service. The special Mangrovite tanning treat-
ment is a process that impregnates the leather with that
famous gripping quality that has identified the name
“Mangrovite” with efficient, practical and econoirfical power-
transmission.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOW'CI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Victoria : Corbett. Derham &Co., 397 Little Collins St . Melb.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Wester n Australia : Cibbs, Bright & en . Fremantle.
Tasmania: Henry Clark & Co. Ltd., Collins St, Hobart.
Onoto—Pen
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-filling mechanism is
part of the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfacto y s< If-fillin" pen !ik: the Onoto, so be
sure to g t an Onoto anii not an o!d-fashioned squirt-til ed p-n.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTO.,
Bunhill Row, London. E.C, 1.
Managing Agents :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST
Sydney and Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK— Be t for all Pens
5^
L
s
■'
W j hL*
*’
Shirley President Braces Are Worn
All Over the World
There are ten pairs of SHI RLE Y PRES I DENT BRACES
sold over the civilized globe every minute year in and
year out.
This means both to the user and to the Shirley President
works that the honesty, integrity and comfort that are
worked into every pair of SHIRLEY PRESIDENT
BRACES are thoroughly appreciated.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
Ccmfamt/
lithid
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
In 1870 5 Cable Address: President
WKES
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and t*
Prevention of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Australian Universities
In the jargon of Australian Universities
there is a verb which the average student
makes use of to signify that he is attending
or has attended a course of lectures or in-
struction. It is the übiquitous infin-
itive “to do,” and one who comes much
in contact with the Australian undergradu-
ate cau hardly fail to be struck with the
signilicance which it holds in the higher
educational system of the Commonwealth.
Owing to the. looseness with which the
majority of courses are arranged, and the
large scope there is for the student to choose
the subjects in which to attend lectures and
subsequently be examined for a degree,
especially in the more academic Faculties,
such as Arts, .one has come of late years to
hear the verb to the verge of nausea. Stu-
dents talk of hardly anything, in connection
with the courses which they attend, but of the
lecture-subjects which they have "done,” are
"doing,” or intend to “do,” until it would
-seem that these courses are not a system
of study spread over a minimum of years,
with a degree at the end as a sort of official
recognition of what they have learned, but a
competition in which the winner has “done”
the greatest number of subjects and finally
struggled through a series of test questions,
which have been asked for so long a time
that every possible variation of them has
been exhausted, arid, the candidate who has
to answer them knows beforehand what they
will be.
It is, perhaps, in the departments of
Economics and Political Science that the
greatest incongruities are offered and
the greatest danger exists. It is there
that one is confronted with the spec-
tacle of youths, but one stage removed from
the Knickerbocker period of adolescence, and
girls with prematurely-put-up hair, ticking off
on their fingers the sociology, political his-
tory, economies and logic which they have
“done.” Mere children, whose cerebral lobes
have hardly reached their fullest normal
development, quaff great draughts from the
fountain of Aristotelian reasoning; youths
who are ignorant of the primary principles
of finance involved in the operation of
changing a United States five-dollar piece
into Australian coinage, delve into the mys-
teries of the bimetallic standard; others, to
whom the electoral procedure of the Com-
monwealth is a closed and sealed book, cover
themselves with classroom honors in the
study of the works of Bentham and Maine.
At almost breakneck speed they rush through
the “Critique of Fure Reason” and the radi-
cal empiricism of James, and, having
“passed” in these, “subjects” and thrown
them to one side, they continue the race
through the next series on their pro-
grammes.
The danger to Australia from such an edu-
cational system as ours is the double one
of the community’s literati developing into
a collection of intellectual prigs, as they have
already done to a certain extent, and the
thrusting-out from the Universities of num-
bers of half-wise, half-ignorant and intellec-
tually-cramped young men and women. When
it is reflected that more than half of these
are destined to be the teachers of the nation,
the peril, is emphasised. Were we to be
wholly dependent on them for the passing
on of knowledge and learning, the culture
of the country would be in danger of
becoming extinct before very long. One
almost shudders to think of the confused and
congested state in which, their minds must
•be, cluttered up with all kinds of academic
odds and ends, the flotsam and jetsam of
the sea of learning, which they have man-
•igM to snatch at and salvage.
To guard against this exemplification of
a. little knowledge being a dangerous thing,
the founders of the English arid Continental
Universities laid down a system fur educa-
tion arid examination. Part of this system
is the presentation of theses, it being in-
tended that so far from candidates for de-
grees being required to “do” a large num-
ber of subjects, they should do two or three
only, but do them well. Hence the Latin
hexameters which are such a feature of the
Oxford undergraduate’s course. To be able
to write » poem in Latin verse necessitates a
good deal more chewing-over of that lan-
guage than falls to the lot of an Australian
student, who usually skims through such pro-
scribed poets as Horace and Virgil, with the
assistance of the aids to clasical study
devised by one Kelly of immortal memory.
Australian University authorities might
make a start by turning their attention to
the advisability of raising the minimum
age at which students may enter upon a
course of studies. At present, at most of
our Universities, it is 16. an age at which
the mind of a hoy or girl is insufficiently
developed to follow any but the routine
methods of the schools from which they are
fresh; Lacking tlio.analytical qualities whieh
come with more advanced years, they are
unable to approach matters in such a way
that they may gain an internal rather than a
superficial view of them. The absence of
breadth of mind, which is usually not an
attribute of 16. lends them to consider all
things in terms of the absolute, rather than
of the comparative. The result is that at
about the age at which their minds have
been develoned to a stage at wbV-h they
misrht benefit from a course of University
study, thev are emerging from the institu-
tion. for the most part in a state of mental
befuddlement.
GREGOR.
A Revolutionary Testifies
M. Philip Price’s My Reminiscences of the
Russian Revolution (Allen and Unwin) in-
spires the melancholy reflection that there
can be no new fashion in these affairs. It
is the cost that varies most. In Russia, for
n number of reasons, it was unprecedented.
The workers learned to hold flesh and Mood
cheap in the da vs when they went into action,
on the East German front against TTinden-
b.urg’s crack divisions, armed witli rakes.
forks and other agricultural implements, be-
cause the money that should have been spent
on their equipment had gone into the bank-
ing accounts of high officials; and when
their turn came they were not squeamish.
However, the Red Terror did not arrive at
once. The first effect of the downfall of
the tragic fools on and around the throne
was to draw the warring classes together.
It was as though all—baryn and moujik,
city capitalist and operative—felt subcon-
sciously that the old system was so rotten
that its destroyers had a right to be proud.
The early days of the great upheaval must
have been truly edifying. The wild beast
which is in every crowd was still asleep;
and each class imagined that it was some-
how responsible for the beneficent change,
and should accordingly be advantaged by it.
The workers told each other that they would
have more wages and more leisure, a mod-
erate estimate being that work ought to be
halved and pay doubled : and the middle and
upper classes believed that with the Court
and its predatory hangers-on gone there
should be less taxation. There were as yet
no Left or Right wings in the Socialist
party. Bolsheviks, Mensheviks and Socialist
revolutionaries were all internationalists to-
gether. They did not even hate their enemies,
the Germans. The first wate of disillusion
came with the First (March) Coalition Gov-
ernment. Of course, it was the workers who
were disillusioned, the middle-class, office-men
having captured the instruments of admin-
istration. The collapse of Russia’s armies
in the summer of 1917 doomed the wordy
and over-civilised Kerensky, though in any
event he would presently have had to go.
The times called for the dictator who was
soon to. appear. The author gives an unfor-
gettable portrait,of Lenin, the thickset little
man with round bald head and small Tartar
eyes gesturing with his short arms at the
First All-Russian Soviet Congress. No one
will ever surely know whether he arrived
from Switzerland in the pay of Germany or
as a pure-soulcd patriot eager to serve his
suffering country. He certainly did Ger-
many’s work at first, to the best of
his considerable ability, by helping to
persuade the men at the Front that
the invading Teutons were . brothers, and
should be fraternised with as such. When,
inevitably, he took charge of the vast amor-
phous nation—inevitably because no one else
combined the same genius, energy and fero-
city—he became as anti-German as any
Cadet. But converts are often like that.
Whatever he' may have been at any previous
period, from the “robber peace,” of Brest-
Litovsk onwards Lenin was all-Russian.
The Red Terror which is inseparable from
every attempt to institute Communism began
while Lenin was lying dangerously wounded
in Moscow and Trotsky was fighting for his
life on the South-Eastern front. Propertied
Russians who had been mad enough to stay
in their native land ; writers and Speakers
who had opposed the revolution in the past;
other writers and speakers who were sus-
pected of disaffection ; citizens who had never
expressed opinions on anything, but who
were said to be well-disposed to the old
regime—all these, were sought out and indus-
triously slaughtered. Mr. Price states on
the authority of the Izvestia (the official
organ of the reformers) that “just oyer 6000
were executed during the last four mouths
of 1918, and 9641 in the course of 1919.”
But these represented only the victims of
the Extraordinary Commission for the Fight
with the Counter-Revolution, and the figures
applied chiefly to Petrograd arid Moscow.
Other thousands fell, more or less unofficially,
throughout (lie countrv .districts, arid the’
violent death-rate amongst reputedly Conser-
vative foreigners was tremendous. As a
salve to. all these.horrors Russia now had a
purely democratic form of government. There
were soviets everywhere. But they could
not talk the people into either working or
obeying the laws. A struggle began between
the Judd faction and the Ryrie faction—the
Jnddites being all for trust in the foreigner
and absence of any sort of constraint at
home, the Ryrie, or militarist, section f icor-
ing disciplinary measures for the nation’s
good. Naturally, the militarists won. They
carry all the weapons at this stage of every
revolution. Said the victorious military
loader Trotsky at the Ninth Congress of the
Communist" party—
The masses must be shown our economic plan of
campaign on the basis on which our party and the
Soviet apparatus proposes to undertake this mohilisa-
tion. We cannot wait till each peasant man and
woman understands; we must compel each citizen to
take his place. The masses must be saturated through
and through with the iron will of our party. ■
In short, the controlling forces of the Red
Armies had decided on industrial conscrip-
tion ; and it was so. The citizens of Russia
had passed from serfdom under the Roman-
offs to serfdom under a handful of Jew adven-
turers.
Mr. "Price is a warm friend of the Soviet
Government, and as the keynote of his book
he quotes Fox’s “How much is it [the
French Revolution.) by far the greatest and
the best thing that ever happened in the his-
tory of the world!” Yet he presents the
architects of the Russian change as a bloody-
minded set of scoundrels, without tme redeem-
ing quality save ruthlessness and organising
ability. He leaves the subject of his study
starving, bankrupt, a pariah in the eyes of
the nations on whom it depends for life on
a civilised basis; no more internationalist
in its outlook than Ireland ; more militarist
than France: less free socially and indus-
trially than it was under Catherine. Nor
does he suggest a solitary avenue of efccnoe
from these horrors. His is a fascinating
work in its conscientiousness ;* in the sym-
pathetic pictures it gives of a lovable people;
and in its vivid style, which makes the
Volga banks and the village in some, far pro-
vince. or a political discussion in a city,
seem very near to us. But no Greek tra-
gedian has managed to leave a more pervad-
ing sense of gloom and hopelessness.
J. B. D.
(Continued on page 25.)


nae
/' N
U
L
\
w
H
13
ii
7X707
\ mm?
m\
Wv
V TK/QQCf
1X036
IXo36.—Rich Skunk Stole,
fashioned of 24 perfect skins. It
is 21 yards long and 20 inches
wide—-a most luxurious wrap.
There are pockets on the outside
of stole, and it is lined with
heavy s : lk to tone.
Originally 7"> Guineas.
NOW 66 Guineas.
IXl6o9.—Luxurious Mole
Coney Goat, in fashionable “peg-
top” shape, fashioned of per-
fectly-toned skin, arianged to
give striped effect. The coat
is beautifully lined with rich
French Silk, having grey ground
embossed in floral tones.
PRICE 54 Guineas.
<r*
L
\
•U
>
MrT
i
IPS
m
V
■0273
t
277287
Hb*.
D 4-23
Dl2Bl. —A Distinguished-looking Coat Kobe, developed in fine
Navy Coating, designed with panel back and front, enriched with
Black Silk Military Braid, and colored stitching* in contrasting tones.
Originally ‘ *l°/™/-
1)218. This Kmart and Serviceable Costume, in Fawn Cheviot,
features shaped* empieceinents at both sides nj the smartly-cut coat. A
box-pleated panel appears at back of the skirt.
1)428. A Charming Model Coat Kobe, in Mole Gabardine, smartly
fashioned with knife-pleated skirt, enriched .Tade Silk Stitehings, bodice
with V-shaped yoke, outlined black and white patent leather strappings.
Jade Georgette peeps through .small openings which are- outlined with
tiny steel buttons. Cuffs open slightly to show Jade Georgette lining.
NOW £l2/12/-
TX7o7.—Very Handsome Skunk
Ca’»e, lias a cosy collar, snug-
gling up to the throat, and is
edged all round with brown
squirrel tails to match the rich
skunk fur. Satin to tone is used
■for the lining. „ .
Org'nally .... 72 Guineas.
NOW 05 Guineas.
Country Customers
experience complete
satisfaction in the
knowledge that their
requirements are ex-
pertly attended to by
our competent Mail
Order Staff.
We Pay Carriage on
Fashion Goods, Family
Drapery, and Foot-
wear to any part of
N.S.W. to the nearest
port on Interstate
Orders.
nr'IIE HOUSE
OF ECONOMY.
Anthony Horderns’.
The test of actual com-
parison reveals with abso-
lute precision the worthi-
ness of a store.
THE HOUSE OF
ECONOMY
proves by the excellence
of its service the relia-
bility of quality in the
goods it sells, and the
moderateness of its prices,
the superiority of its ser-
vice.
Reduced Prices
Make Fine Goods
Very Attractive at
Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony Horderns’ prices
are always lowest accord-
ing to quality and the
current market. To-day
various goods are selling
for lower prices than
hitherto was possible—
and The House of Eco-
nomy is giving you full
benefit of every reduced
cost. Until now the com-
parative prices have not
been shown—but here
are various
EXAMPLES TYPICAL
OF MANY
for your guidance. They
point the way to real
economy, which includes
quality, too.
Reduced Prices
in Smart Dress
at Anthony Horderns’
Value-giving is Anthony Horderns’
fixed policy. This is decisively demon-
strated in this period of lower retail
prices at The House of Economy.
Comparative Prices in fashionable
dress and accessories are detailed
here, typical examples of money-
saving opportunities at Anthony
Horderns’.
Keenest Values in
Women’s Footwear
The prices featured in this
offering reveal the ability of
Anthony Horderns’ to sell fash-
ionable footwear for less than
prices ruling elsewhere. Here
are smart styles, selected with
an unerring eye for commend-
able quality, distinction in style
and comfort in fit.
&281. —Women’s Black Glace
Kid Court Shoes, sewn soles,
and smart shape, Cuban heels.
Originally 25/-
NOIV 21/-
&138. —Women’s Black Kid
Lace Shoes, sewn soles, leather.
Cuban heels, smart taper toes .
Originally 21/-
NOW 17/6
&636. —Women’s Tan Yearling
Lace Shoes, welted soles and
leather Cuban heels. A rich
color of tan.
Originally 27/6
NOW 22/6
&31. —Smart Model in Women’s
Brown Willow Calf Brogue
Shoe, welted soles and leather
Cuban heels.
Originally 37/6
NOW 30/-
&21. —Women’s Nigger Brown
Calf Lace Shoes, smart ex-
tended model, welted soles and
leather Cuban heels. Special
value .
Originally 35/-
NOW 30/-
&648. —Nigger Brown Calf
Derby-cut Lace Shoes, sewn
soles, comfortable broad toes.
Sizes for children, 7 to 10.
Originally 15/6
NOW ... 13/9
Sizes for Girls, 11 to 1.
Originally 17/6
NOW 15/6
Sizes for Maids, 2.
Originally .. 18/6
NOW 16/6
Maids’ Sizes, 3 to 6.
Originally 21/-
NOW 19/6
& 2.81
& 138
& 636
& 31
& 21
9.648,
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


As a perfect blood purifier Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have a
world-wide reputation, and thousands of instances
are on record of their efficacy to overcome blood
disorders. Pimples, boils and blotches are signs of
impure blood, which should not be neglected.
When the blood is in an unhealthy state other
ailments are more or less present, for unless-the
blood is pure it is lacking in that energy by which
the organs of the body perform their functions.
External remedies, powders, ointments, lotions,
only alleviate; they do not get at the cause.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills get at the cause by
removing the disease from the blood. They cleanse
the system by stimulating the liver and strengthen-
ing the kidneys, which filter the blood and throw off
the impure matter through the regular channels.
MORSES
p
Mg
m
V,
I
I
m
rs,
P
%
%
NS
FOR
THE
liver
. M'Z-
Tn
They Make You Fee/ Brighter.


PINKETTES
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your hver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
I /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
*
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 complete. 'trsr
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
. Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
in
a
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hr*. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from yi-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
vV
7"
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
•that remedy is ACOIiN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure —it kills them. It is a painless
cure—-you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure —no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets. 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Use the Most Modern Instruments.
PRICE 60/-
Postage 9d.
Interstate 1/2.
The Denyer Eclipse Triple Crush Emascu-
lator is the most modern instrument for its
purpose yet introduced by veterinary science.
With its' use hemorrhage is impossible. its
immense advantages are recognised by stock-
owners who value time and efficiency. it has
proved the most popular type of Emasculator
on the market to-day. Hand-forged from the
best steel, it excels in durability. include a
Denyer Triple Crush Emasculator in your
'equipment. ,
Send for our Veterinary Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
The Veterinary House of Australia,
281 GEORGE, STREET, SYDNEY.
JLndt
COLO
If your car is equipped
throughout with
You can set out on a cross
country trip with every
confidence
They are Y( ur best assurance
against tyre trouble - •» -
ASK YOUR GARAGE
the: colonial rubber co. ltd.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Koyal Court, Scott Si.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide:
Perth: 47
Auckland:
4 Twin Street.
King: Street.
Albert & Swanson Streets.
Motor Car Steel.
i.E ON ►
Long, continuous service is the best proof of
the dependability of
“Aft Eagle on a Globe” Steel
Immediate delivery from fresh shipments can
be given.
S.D. 21 Chrome Vanadium Steel for axles, in round
bars %in. to 2M in. diameter inclusive.
S.D. 16 Nickel Steel for Gears (to case harden),
in round bars Min. to 9Min. diameter inclusive.
S.D. 16 Nickel Steel Discs for Gears (to case
harden). All sizes 6Min. to 12Min. diameter by
various thicknesses.
Address your request to Department “A for prompt
attention.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
261 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.. ADELAIDE.
Caul & Cray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street,, Hobart,
TASMANIA.
sdf
a
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with sol'd Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft. 7ft. Bft. Oft. 10ft. 12ft.
8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6 each.
12-plait •• 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait .. 15/- 17/6 10/6 22/6 25/6 30/- ~
Mailed free-all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victor.
She goes down to the dust.
And f can stretch my arms and see
The blood that is blue beneath my skin
Running warmly and easily
When 1 look in the mirror I find the mouth
That hungers still tor our passionate horns*
While she turns no more to your cold caress
Quiescent in her flowers.
She-'goes down to the dust.
And you only see her thin, white taco
And the toil-worn hands and the wedding
ring, .
Covered with earth in a quiet place.
And I, who robbed her of all in life,
Stake my love-warm breasts for your love
in vain. , , /.. ,
The dice that she threw was loaded I >eath.
And it gave you to her again.
QUKEN SLANO.
M. FORREST.
Birthday Message.
Beloved, have you never a dream at all
Of the years that have vanished, and ceased
to be; .
Of the golden sands by the temple strewn
And the sweep and dip of the oars in tune,
When the galleys swung to the open sea?
Of the call that shrilled to the worshippers.
O’er courts of laurel, and rose and niusk,
When the night came down on the dreaming
sea,
And the music sang like a soul made tre‘-
Do you dream of it ever in summer dusk :
Oh, the past is dead, and the future veiled,
But ever 1 pray for you :
God set your feet in the shining ways
Of nights unshadowed and golden days,
Where love made perfect is perfect praise,
And grant that the dream of your dreams
come true.
N.S.W.
N. A. EVANS.
In Nostalgia for Beauty.
O Columbine, my Colombine!
The lights are out, thy tent away.
Yet must I follow, ever thine.
Thou art my bread and all my wine.
Thou art the glamor of the play,
O Colombine, my Colombine!
Far in the night the fixed stars shine— .
And thou the light that will not stay!
Yet must I follow-, ever thine.
Sometimes I dream thy lips touch mine
Who would kiss thee but never may,
O Colombine, my Colombine!
I, who have hungered, still must pine:
My heart is broken every day;
Yet must I follow, ever thine.
Ah! Though I feed among the swine
Who may not at love’s altar pray,
O Colombine, my Colombine,
Yet must I follow, ever thine!
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
The Cision.
I think this place was folded in the hean
Of a tall boy who dreamed to quietness
When all the woods and ways were as a pan
Of August’s green caress.
Old garden and grey wall and happy wood
And yellowing meadow called tar down
the world,
Where Surrey stooped to Sussex and th*
good
Blue cottage smokes were curled.
And in and out, a dusty winding thread,
The long road crept between the hedges
grey :
The high sun-freckled elms above his head
Linked arms across the way. .
Always through sudden breaks of pleasant
green
A beckoning hollow or a golden hill
Caught the familiar moment and the sheeD
Of a boy’s wondering will.
For every distant light and shadow made
A story of himself that years should tell
To happy days when the new summers- paid
Bright looks for deeds done well.
All lands, all ages clustered in the folds
Of those broad ancient sweeps of August
land—
Some treasure of that day a heart still
holds— «
Did those fields understand?
Did those great trees that scarcely shook
their green.
Those deep-mossed boles and roots. that
grasped the dust,
Know that his open, dreaming eyes had seen
What far years held in trust?
A stranger forest in a stranger land,
A cottage shining in a whiter sun
And a great peace that like a kind, soft
hand •
Smoothed out the hard thing done.
Ah, Surrey woods and hedgerows far away,
Once when your August with hot steps
went by
A boy’s heart walked with you a golden day
And heard your elm-trees sigh!
And in that sigh was the dear wind that
falls
Lower and lower by this quiet place
Dying in roses all about my-walls
And all about love’s face.
X.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


0
=(2!- in £,) AT LEAST
OFF ALL LOWE’S
Overcoats
July 30
ism
Notwithstanding Lowe's recent Big Reductions on Overcoats for Men
and Boys, to meet the “Drop-in-the-Market” we now announce FURTHER
BIG SLASHES in Prices —10 c =(2/- in £)off all Overcoats, which really
gives you a DOUBLE DISCOUNT, equalling 33 per cent, off Original
Prices. This is an exceptional opportunity to buy Overcoats at a big
sacrifice, just when the Winter is at its coldest; DON'T MISS IT!
Men’s Plain Parian Tweed Overcoats
75/- All-Wool Australian
Tweed S.B. Raglans
in Grey Checks.
NOW 59/6 less 10%
53/7
£5/10/- H eav >rweight-li ne< i
Fawn Covert
Coats, S.B. style.
NOW £4/17/6 less 10%
87/9
ffi/fi/- Lightweight Fawn or Grey
English Tweed,
Single or
Double-breasted
NOW £5/5/- less 10%
£411416
fjr ' '
Medium Grey and Brown English
Tweed, Single-
breasted.
NOW £7/7/- less 10%
£6/1214
SPECIAL VALUES.
£5/10/- Heavyweight Brown
Double-breasted
style, with half-
f hafK
Now £4/15/- less 10%
Tweed,
£4 56
£6/6/- Lightweight English Tweed in Dark
Grey, Double-
breasted, with
pleated back.
NOW £4/19/6 less 10%
9/7.
Men’s Belted Gabardine Raincoats
757-
Fawn Single-breasted
belted Raglans.
NOW 65/- less 10%
58/6
£7/10/- Fawn Covert
Coats, full-belted,
Single-breasted.
NOW £5/10/- less 10%
£4!!9|-
£B/8/- Light and Dark Fawn
Gabardines, Single-
breasted and full-
belted.
NOW £6/19/6 less 10%
Woollen
£6/5/7
Youths’ Overcoats. To fit Youths 14 to 20.
63/- Dark Grey All-Wool Aus-
tralian Tweed, Single-
breasted style.
NOW 52/6 less 10%
47/3
50/- Fawn Gabardine, Single-
breasted Raglan.
NOW 35/- less 10%
51/6
Belted Tweed Raglan Overcoats.
S 4- English Medium-weight
Tweed, in Dark Brown
and Grey. Single-breasted,
half- or full-belted.
NOW 63/- less 10%
56/8
£5/5/- Brown English Tweed in
good Winter - weight,
Single-breasted, fly front,
full-belted.
NOW £4/4/- less 10%
75/7
£5/10/- Dark Grey S.B. Raglan Tweed
Overcoats, ful 1-
belted style.
NOW £4/15/- less 10%
£4/5/6
£5/10/- Medium - weight
Brown English
Tweed, . Double-
breasted.
NOW £4/17/6 less 10%
£47/9
£6/6/'- Heavyweight Grey Herringbone
English Tweed in Medium Grey,
Fawn and Brown.
Single - breasted,
full-belted.
NOW £4/19/6 less 10%
£4/9)7
£7/7/- English Heavy-
weight Navy Frieze,
full-belted style.
NOW £6/6/- less 10%
£5/13/5
£7/15/- Heather Mixture Tweeds in Double-
breasted style.
NOW £7/7/- less 10%
£6/12/4
Tweed and Gabardine Overcoats.
For Boys 12 Months to 7 Years.
18/11 Medium-weight Dark Grey
Striped Tweeds, Double-
r»ypn nfp a]
NOW 12/11 less 10%
11/8
27/6 Medium Grey Diagonal
Striped Tweeds.
NOW 19/11 less 10%
17/11
25/6 Dark Fawn Gabardine
Double-breasted, wit
half-belt back.
NOW 17/11 less 10%
tr »
1612
9
f
Four Big Stores in SYDNEY
-one in NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
who have LOWE’S Winter Catalog may
deduct 10% off Prices of Men’s and
Boys’ Overcoats when ordering.
Please state Chest and inside Sleeve
Measures. Address Mail Orders to
“Dept. B.’’
LOWE’S PAY CARRIAGE ALL
OVER AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, HAW, Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a .>e*wr.
Vo.. 42.—N0. 2158.
T 111! RSDA-Y. JUNE 23, 1921.
Price 9d.
OUR ADOPTED ENFANT TERRIBLE.
HON ANGELA LONDON: “Deah me! What an amazing child! I suppose he was brought up in the—aw —backbloeks.”
MISS AUSTRALIA: “Heavens, no! —in Wales."


THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. H. Trior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
The Bulletin
THF NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mnsgravc and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydner. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 208 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For x, 1 Ills, per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage!.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejusel.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will caref .lly read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or. sag,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return ii will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable, Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Till? Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilnck and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient, merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs, (Jordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, llolerlh Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” fit High
Uolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban : and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Vt! Hastings
Street. Vancouver. B.C. : the Boston Hat Works and
News Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, We't Calvary. Al.be ta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co., IGI East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New-York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, Neiv York City; Quaker News Co,,
912 North Fmiu.Un Select, i u.mo,o<.y,„a. , d..u.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn A- Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong.— Brewer and Co.. Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and' Co., Merchants,
Singanore.
Ceylon. —TF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, S"ra ; Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. Woz., Id.; United Kingdom., All Sea lloute,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet■ — otherwise: Soz., lid.: Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; Woz. to 120 z., 3id.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 1921.
AN EXAMPLE WHICH AUSTRALIA
CANNOT AFFORD TO FOLLOW.
According to a recent Montreal cable, “the
Canadian Prime Minister at the Imperial
Conference will point out that Canada’s finan-
cial position prohibits it from embarking
on any substantial naval programme at pre-
sent.” Canada always has felt like that.
When Australia was paying its miserable
subsidy towards the upkeep of a few R.N.
ships, Canada was refusing to follow suit
on an alleged point of nationalist principle.
At about the time when Australian opinion
began to set solidly in the direction of a
local fleet. Sir Wilfrid Laurier intimated
that Canada could not afford anything of
that sort. Yet if Australia was in a posi-
tion to take such a step, then Canada obvi-
ously was, too. According to the “Journal
of the Royal Statistical Society” (July,
1919), the national capital of Canada in
1914 was 2285 millions sterling against Aus-
tralia’s 1530 millions. Incidentally, the
figures for Japan, which was already a first-
class naval as well as military Power, were
but 2400 millions. Two factors operate to
induce Canada to be bund to its duty in the
Pacific. One is, of course, the Alonroe Doc-
trine ; the other is an argument commonly
used by the country’s Jingoes, and eagerly
adopted by all those who fear taxation —that
effect.ng Canadian defence is a step towards
separation from the Empire. It is the cry
which was raised by the Tories here against
the Australian Navy; which was used by
the same section in England against the
Campbell-Bannerman Government's scheme
of giving South Africa the status of a
dominion: which, meeting with success in
the case of Ireland, has created the Repub-
lican Army and one of tiie most perilous
situations Britain was ever called on to face.
In pre-war days the British taxpayers
cou.d affoid the luxury of do.ng free po.iee
work ior a lioide of Dom.mons whose rich
men, every time it was suggested that they
should take a hand in supporting the Mother
Country’s “too vast orb,” replied either that
they were not sufficiently affluent yet, or
that it offended them national pride. But
since that halcyon period the United King-
dom has incurred the world’s record national
debt. Four thousand million pounds sterl-
ing are owed to America alone. This yeuGs
naval estimates amounted to £82,479,000 net,
though the number of cap.tal ships in com-
mission is only 10 as against 28 in 1914.
The Washington correspondent of the well-
informed New York Herald stated last
April that “the Japanese are fleet-lmilding
against time: their navy will be strength-
ened 50 per cent, by 1924 and 100 per cent,
by 1927.” The U.S.A. has no intention of
being left behind in this field of effort, and
Britain cannot afford to be. The slender
chance of the ruinous competition coming to
an end is a matter of the Japanese suddenly
deciding to abandon their financial policies
in China and their territorial ambitions
elsewhere and starve peaceably in a land
which has long been too small for them.
As an indication- of what Britain’s naval
figures mean, even at a time when the
personnel of the fleet has been halved and
there is not one capital ship under con-
struction, it is enough to say that the expen-
diture for 1914, when the R.N. undisputedly
ruled the blue water, was only £48,809,000.
The pie-war Army was a shadow compared
with the present one, which was calculated
in the last supplementary estimates to in-
volve an increased outlay of £48,000,000 over
the sum snent last year. Mesopotamia and
the “Middle East” will cost £49,000.000
alone, and Ireland possibly twice as much.
Simultaneously the people who did most to
win the war are demanding to bo recom-
pensed. The British housing problem is
going to cost an incredible sum before it: is
solved. It was stated’ a while back in t’’e.
House of Commons that in Scotland 39.3
of the population live in two-room houses
arid 8.4 in one-room houses —“many of both
classes of houses having neither sculleries,
sam'tary conveniences nor water.” It is not
a state of affairs that a democracy which
has just won a war for civilisation is going
to nut tin with, and it represents only one
of the scores of huge commitments for which
the monev must eventual'" '-■>« found by the
hard-pressed taxpayers of Britain.
* * * *
There are two schools in Australia which
will more or less welcome Canada’s policy
in regaid to naval defence, and urge that it
should be good enough for the Common-
wealth. The I.YV.W. believe, as the mem-
beis of the Manchester School did haif a
century ago, that the best way to keep unde-
sirable things out of a country—whether
sweated goods or the coolies who make them
—is to cast down all the barriers. These
wild-eyed pacifists do not want to help
Britain to arm, because they consider it
wrong that anyone should fight. Our ultra-
imperialists are cold on the Australian naval
defence issue for reasons which are vastly
different and not half so creditable. In the
first place many of them are terrified at the
prospect of having to pay. a fifth share in
the maintenance of a Pacific Fleet. They
know, furthermore, that the Commonwealth
quota will have to be Australian, not only
in name but in personnel, and this brings
them to their second objection. It is the
idea which was at the back of the Dread-
nought movement —the idea that impelled
Joseph Cook to announce that “the guns
of the Australian Navy were intended for
use on the ships of Britain” ; and it is bound
to bring Mr. Meighen moral support when he
makes Canada’s excuses before the Imperial
Conference in a few days’ time. Australia’s
opportunity to escape present loss of self-
respect ar.d do the right thing by the United
Kingdom lies, therefore, with the intermedi-
ate section which waves neither a Union
Jack nor a Red Flag when it talks politics.
This section will remember when the ques-
tion of Australia’s share of the- Empire’s
defence bill comes up for consideration in
London that, in the first place, it is not
loyalty to pole any longer on a nation which
is already hard put to it to make both ends
meet. As a matter of fact, so heartily tired
are many Britishers gett ; ng of the practice
that amongst Laborites like J. H. Thomas,
and Liberals such as C. F. G. Masterman
(Financial Secretary to the British Trea-
sury from 1912 to 1914. and coolly dismissed
by our own Joseph Cook last week as a
negligible quantity in the political sphere),
a feeling of distaste for the Dqm'nions is
growing up comparable to that which was
prevalent in the middle qf last century..
Canada can afford to watch such develop-
ments with equanimity, more or less: if the
BriCsU *>vpr fa : l them the U.S.A. must auto-
matically step into the breach. It may have
been in recognition of this fact that Admiral
.Tellicof. did not troub’e to allocate Canada
any part whatever in his proposed Pacific
Fleet the other day, not even the 20th share
of the wh’ch wn« .assessed *>s o fa'r
thing for Maor'land. But Anstrah'a has no
alternative to the British connection as the
Powers are balanced at present. Tf it does
rot stand with the United Kingdom as a
free, wh’te community, it must immediately
fall and become a subject semi-Asiatic one.
And that, after all. is the master argument
for the nssumpUon b" the Commonwealth of
the fullest measure of sea-defence in reason:
for it is nn expression of the law of self-
preservation.
THE RIGHT TO KNOW HOW TO
WORK.
A Board of Trade which meant well but
lacked the full courage of its convictions has
made a pronouncement on the suicidal policy
whereby the number of trained and skilled
Australian workers is . strictly limited, while
to the output of human waste and mere two-
legged animals of but den there is no limit
whatever. In N. S. Wales it has been the
practice for the past 20 years (beginning
with the Apprentices Act of 1901) to allow
each employer no more than one learner
to three adults. As he can t have half a
boy or a boy and a naif me average nas
been much less tnan one to tnree. There
is a furtuer tendency to limit tne number
of learners in any one establishment to
seven, so in ai place winch empioys 12 adults
there has been no more than one-sixth taat
number of youths growing up to replace
those who die or drop out, and to supply
more wotkmen to meet the needs of an in-
creasing population. The typical family is
supposed to consist of a father and mother
ana three, (always three) cmldren or under,
but getting on towards the apprenticeship
age. This would mean nine boys and nine
gills to six fathers. Of the boys it has
worked out that, only two have been allowed
to learn their fathers’ or some other fathers’
trade, seven being destined to be laborers,
loafers, odd-jobbers, piTrcel-deliverers; race-
course touts, hangers-on of the Government,
petty traders, clerks, persons who live by
their wits in offices and sundries. If the
professional bosses who steer the Gabor ship
had a clear and definite purpose in view it
could only have been to divide the working
community into two sections. Their object
(if they had one) must have been to create
a small, select body of skilled workers, and
probably a diminishing body save for immi-
gration. And they achieved it: already the
force of trained artisans in the country is
hopelessly insufficient to supply the needs of
the community as it exists to-day, where-
fore it lias to import .enormous quantities
of goods, far in excess of its capacity to buy
except with the aid of loans, including nigger
and non-union and cheap-labor goods of all
sorts. But, unfortunately, side by side with
the small, select body, so strongly entrenched
in its monopoly of skilled employment that
it can almost afford to be too insolent to
work, there has grown up a very large sec-
tion of the unskilled, the casual, the odd-
jobber, the unemployable, the stuff that re-
volutions are made of if unproductive people
such as Garden or Tom Walsh or Harold
Nelson, the union boss of Darwin, should
happen to feel like revolution.
Moreover, in recent years there has been
and still is all over Australia a strenuous
effort to encourage the partially-unemploy-
able and the more or less waste product by
giving him a man’s wage while he was still
little more than a boy. In other words,
there is a tendency to put the unskilled
youth who starts work with all the know-
ledge he ever means to acquire ahead of
the one who aims at better things and who
isn’t full blown until he is out of his “time.”
The untrained man is of a lower type—if
not born lower 'he becomes lower-r-rthan the
trained one, because he has no craft to be
proud of and no future except that which
comes by growing older and less valuable:
also because he doesn't compete with artists,
but with horses, oxen, camels and steam-
cranes. His children start on the lower
plane because they are born to it. There
is a poor prospect before any nation in which
the industrial element consists of a small,
puffed-up close corporation of valuable work-
ers arid a huge army of semi-dependants or
pariahs. And from one point of view the
prospect is worst of all in a country which
has one man one vote and other democratic
institutions; for in that case the unskilled,
the casual and the unemployable, because of
their dependence,, are an asset to the baser
sort of politician, whose idea of running a
country lies in the purchase of votes and
the distribution of doles. They are an asset
to this type of politician, that is to say, as
long as the money can be found to buy their
gratitude; while that lasts the skilled and
high-wage person who is above the receipt
of charity is of less nolitical value than’the
least desirable element in the population.
The Board of Trade already mentioned
proposes as an improvement that the State
should abandon the principle of limiting the
number of apprentices taken by one employer
(which makes the nominal one learner to
three complete workmen really .one to a
great but indefinite number), and have only
“a general limitation of the number found
necessary from time to time to meet the
present needs and to provide for the future
expansion of industry.” It proposes various
amendments in detail, such as the removal
of ago limitations to entering apprentice-
ship so that the untaught worker may re-
form and make a new start even at a late
hour: compulsory attendance by the young
apprentice at a trade or continuation school ;
better wages to put the youth who is train*
ing for a trade more on a. level with the
one who is training for nothing definite
except assiduous attendance at the pony
races; and other matters. But it does not
quite suggest that it would be well to
make the number of learners as unlimited as
the number of babies ; still less to make the
study of some trade, profession «■ definite
occupation compulsory, like the study of
reading, writing and arithmetic. Nor does
it propose that all unions should be open to
white citizens who can prove good character
and qualifications, as the legal and medical
unions are. Yet there is logic about the
idea of compulsory education in the art of
earning an honest livelihood. Civilised folk
have got past the barbarous idea of limiting
thehnumber of persons who know how to
read and write and figure and are acquainted
with history and mathematics, lest the
knowledge market should be overstocked and
competition become intense. The equally
barbarous idea of l’miting the number who
know how to make cloth or houses or engines
should go with it. A curious view prevails
that in a nation which contains a million
canaille male adults with their d°nendarrts
there isn’t room for a million capable work-
ers. It is neld that if the whole million
are let loose their competition will force
down wages. Apart from the circumstance
that the producer is also the consumer
this view ignores the fact that Aus-
tralia now contains a perfect maze of
legal machinery for keeping: up wages * and
nnless it is quite useless and all the indus-
trial legislation of years is a fraud and a
sham, rlie old crude methods of restricting
education are obsolete. There is no reason
to tear that the unskilled and semi-animal
occupations will languish for lack of work-
ers unless a large proportion of the peonle
are carefully reared as semi-animals to fill
them. It might as well be imagined that
the supply of criminals will cease, to the
detriment of a deserving police and detective
force, unless a percentage of the rising gen-
eration is set apart for law-breaking pur-
poses, as it is now set apart for load-earrv-
ing purposes. The failures will always
supply as many load-carriers and thugs and
forgers as are necessary without ear-mark
any special class for the purpose. The Rj»ht
to Work is a recognised and hackneyed ex-
pression. The Right to Know How to Work
should be hackneyed also.
GENERAL “POMPEY” ELLIOTT’S
REFLECTIONS ON THE WAR.
Senator Elliott— General ‘Pompey" to
tho Diggers—discusses the war and the men
who fought it: —
1 regret that The Bulletin should consider that
my statements are in the nature of anti-British propu
ganda (B. 9/6/’2l). I assure you they are not
intended as such. .The letter from which you quote
was written in reply to the assertions of one Crax-
bourne, who had taken the Australians to task in
the Melbourne Aoe, accusing them of being the Bill
Adamses of the Empire.
Now I have found, as General Monash found,
that it is no use taking these things lying down.
On assuming command of tho A.I.F. General Mon ash
protested against the continual slurs thrown by
British writers and officers on Australian soldiers’
discipline and conduct, and a great change at once
took place. We had no longer General Orders issued
to us calling attention to our slackness in saluting
and other alleged deficiencies of discipline, and so
far has the British mind progressed that you find a
high staff-officer eulogising our battle discipline as
perfect.
My account of the Chemin des Dames affair \vu
based on a conversation I had with a French officer
in 1918. He was present at the battle, was wounded
there, and was distinctly peevish on the subject. 1
made some rough notes immediately after lie had
left me, and the date was fixed by the words “simul-
taneously with the British attack further north."
When writing to the Age I inadvertently took thi>
to refer to the first Somme battle. For the rest I
refer you to Captain P. E. Wright's book, “At the
Supreme War Council” :
Our Arrr«v battle of the spring, 1917, which was
successful, corresponded with a French attack at
the Chemin des Dames, when Nivelle’s Arnu'e de
Rupture failed in a determined attempt to break the
German line. After this .failure a great body of
French troops revolted at Soissons, and Focir and
Pktain gave them a rest from big battles during
that year. But NivelleV casualties had only been
107,000. The cry of the French mutineers was “A
ban la guerre! plus dn boucherie.”
My French comrade-asserted that of this 107,000
some 40,000 were killed; that the French troops
were forced to charge unbroken wire, and that, at
any rate in the part where he was, no sufficient
artillery preparation had been made. As for
Nivf.lle, I also refer you to Wright, e.g. : “In 1917
Mr. Lloyd George made Nivelle Supreme Com-
mander.” It, is true that after the Chemins des
Dames defeat Nivelle was superseded by Petaix,
who beeame Commander-in-Chief in his stead, but at
the same time Foch was made Chief of the French
General Staff. In fact, Nivelle was superseded by
both PET a in and Focit.
Tiie Bulletin assumes that by my so-called ani-
mosity towards General Birdwood I was led to make
unfair comments on a circular issued by him. That
circular does not read to you as it does to me. To
me it conveys the plain accusation that we Austra-
lians, in order to. boert our own doing 3 and actions
in the war, were deliberately running down our own
kith and kin, the British troops. My personal griev
ance against General Birdwood dates from a period
subsequent to this circular, namely from the time
when, at the end of May or the beginning of Juno,
1918, he took General Gellibhaxd from the cushy
job which he had been occupying for some 12
months in England (whereas I had not lost a single
day through all the dreadful fighting of Polygon
Wood, Passehendaele, etc., and had even been guilty
of producing the so-called “brilliant idea” for the
recapture of Villers-Bretonneux), and placed him
over my head, in punishment for my having dealt
with a British officer in the only manner which I
considered open to me.
The circular was received by me before I had any
idea that my supereession was even contemplated.
On receipt of it I vehemently protested against its
terms to Generals Birdwood and White, statins
that in view of the constant criticisms which had
been made by the British against ourselves it was
an insult to issue such a circular. I obtained per-
mission to modify its terms by the issue of a cover-
ing circular.
We were one and all very sore at this time in
consequence of the continual gibes made against our
discipline and conduct in the British papers and in
Army Orders. No doubt that was one of the occa-
sions upon which, as General White reminded In -
in a letter, though my courage and capacity
were undoubted, I had failed to keep my judgment
under perfect control. In other words, I had failed
to do the kow-tow act with -sufficient humility. But
to show that I am not animated purely bv host.lit.'
to General White and General Birdwood, I refer
you to Philip Gibbs's book, “The Realities of W ar.
in which it is said, among other things, that “the
whole time-table of the Battle of Loos was
fatally wrong”; that “our Staff College had
been hopelessly inefficient in its system of training’ :
that “specimens produced by it had the brains of
canaries and the manners of Potsdam. and that
“there was a close corporation among the officers of
the Regular Army, so that they took the lion’s share
of staff appointments, thus keeping out brilliant
young men of the New Armies. Here and there.
Gibbs adds, “where the unprofessional soldier
obtained a chance of high command, or staff autho-
rity, he proved the value’ of the business mind
applied to war, and this was soon seen very clearly—
blindingly—in the able generalship of the Australian
Corps, in which most of the commanders, like Geiv
erals MoxasH, Hop.bs and others, were men in civil
life before the war.”
General Monash, writing of Bullecourt, attributes
the failure of the tanks “partly to the inexperience
of the tank crews, partly to indifferent staff arrange-


ments.” For these staff arrangements General Bird-
wood and General White were responsible. It was
Captain Jacka’s report which exposed these indif-
ferent staff arrangements and led to his subsequent
disgraceful treatment.
Regarding Colonel Margolin, the notes I send
you were received from the historian of the 14th
Battalion. I examined a considerable number of
officers and men of the Battalion, and their evidence
confirmed whatever is supplied by the historian. As
to the statements of General Drake Brockman and
General Monash, neither of these gave me quite a
square deal. I bad never mentioned Margolin’s
name in the matter, but Brockman did, and the
fact remains that Margolin, whatever his virtues,
was never afterwards employed in any capacity in
the A.I.F. He was for all practical purposes “Stellen-
bosched” bv being given command of. a battalion
of Jewish soldiers raised in London for purely garrison
purposes in Jerusalem. Never to my knowledge have
I even seen Margolin, so that the charge of personal
him in his case fails also.
What I was emphasising was the unfortunate
tendency which Generals Birdwood and \\ iiite both
had of appearing to seek for senior commands in
the Australian Forces anybody but Australians.
However fine Margolin’s record may have been it
was far inferior to that of Captain Jacka. At
Passehemlaele Jacka, who was twice wounded, saved
the day for the Australians. General Mac lagan
gave, in consequence, a direct order to General
Brand to recommend him for the D.S.O. Brand
obeyed the order, but Jacka received not even a
mention in despatches for his magnificent work on
that occasion. Jacka’s ease is only one of many,
and something must be done to right their griev-
ances. When a proper appreciation of General Bird-
wood's character is possible it will be found that lie
was a mere painted lath of a soldier.
I have had many conversations with General Bird-
wood, and the impression he gave me was that he
was utterly incapable of understanding the simplest
tactical problems. To take one example only. I
commanded the advance guard of the sth Division
during the operations beyond Baupaume in March and
April, 1917. The area allotted to be covered was
defined by lines ruled on the map, more or loss
parallel. Just: outside my boundary .on my right
was a small hill, on which stood the village of
Bertincourt. I cleared the neighborhood and soon
penetrated into the enemy’s country some miles
in advance of the troops on either side. (I may
say that my orders were afterwards taken as an
example for the conduct of advance guards in open
warfare, and were adopted by the Senior Officers’
School at Aldershot.) However, Bertincourt, which
was just outside my boundary, was occupied by
a body of German troops, and it was obvious that
if I advanced past it we would suffer heavily from
their fire. So after dark I sent a company round to
the rear of the village and stampeded the garrison.
I reported the capture, and requested that the troops
on my right be requested to push forward and take
over the garrisoning of it from my men, as I
needed them all. In place of receiving any prajse
I was, soundly reprimanded by General Birdwood,
who refused to listen to any reasons for my act.
I obeyed bis orders and withdrew my troops, and
the village was promptly re-occupied by the enemy,
causing losses to my troops. 1 was obliged to re-
capture it again in the same manner, and thereafter
held it without making any further report on the
matter until the British troops came forward and
took ,it over.
I would have been content to let these mat-
ters rest with the historian, but when T find that
the prestige gained by Generals White and BtRDWOOD
in the war is being used now to impose on us the
British Army Act, I feel bound to break the spell.
On which The Bulletin observes: —
(1) Senator Elliott represented Nivelle as an
utter incompetent who hurled 200,000 French sol-
diers against a desperately formidable part of the
German line “without artillery preparation,” the
result being- that 40,000 fell dead “in a few terrible
moments.” He now cites two authorities, but both
let, him down: Captain Wrigi-iV as to the losses
(“only 107,000” all told, although the battle lasted
for- weeks and the French took 29,000 prisoners) ;
the French officer as to the artillery preparation.
Compared with the unsustained charge that Nivelle
was guilty of maniacal folly, it, hardly matters
whether he led: an army group or the whole embattled
French nation, but actually lie was Commander of
the Northern and North-Eastern Armies, in which
position he was succeeded by Pf.tain, who had been
Chief of the General Staff. And Foch succeeded
Petain.
(2) Concerning Margolin, it is idle to plead that
there was no mention of names. When' Senator
Elliott referred to the man as “an illiterate Polish
Jew.” and spoke contemptuously of his conduct as
C.C. of the 14th Battalion, it would have been
supererogatory to -say more. The mischief had. been
done: the identification was complete. According to
Monash, Drake Brockman and his old companions-
in-arms Of the IGth Battalion, Margolin was not
only a skilful and devoted officer, but accom-
plished in other respects. The Bulletin prefers
the testimony of those who know the man to that
of Mr. Elliott, who now confesses that he doesn’t.
(3) Undoubtedly gross blunders were committed
during the war, in the direction of both British and
Australian forces. The public heard nothing about
them at the time, and it has a right to expect that
they will be impartially dealt with in the official
histories; also, that in the future working of the
Australian Army the facts thus revealed will be
turned to good account. It is certain, moreover,
that any attempt to perpetuate the war-powers of
the brass-hats will meet the same fate as the pro-
posed introduction of the British Army Act, in
the defeat of which Senator Elliott had so splendid
a share'. All the same, men in General Elliott’s
position should not let their feelings run awav with
their judgment when discussing the war. Individual
soldiers (Jacka, for instance) may be championed
without the depreciation of others (such as Mar-
golin), for that sort of thing leaves a bitter taste
in the mouth. If an occasional whipster in Fleet-
street or Etaples sneered at the A.1.F., the h ame
should not be recklessly imputed to the whole body
of British officers and newspapers. Ha-tv general-
isations and injurious comparisons can only produce
anger and bitterness of spirit, both in Austra l: a
and Britain, while adding enormously to the diffi-
culties of those who are fighting the venomous anti-
English (and, therefore, anti-Australian) campaign
in the U.S.A.
A MEAL IX RUSSIA.
It was my first meal in Petrograd, and half-
a-pound of black bread, a piece of smoked
herring and a glass of tea made up the fare.
The bread was composed of bark and husks
of grain ; the fish was in the last stage of
putrefaction. M.v palate absolutely refused
to pass a mouthful, and after several efforts,
for I was very-hungry, I was compelled
to unconditionally surrender. And there I
sat, helpless and nauseated. I looked at
my Russian friends; they were attacking
the food with av.dity, if not with relish.
Then I looked at Max, the French-Rou-
manian journalist who entered Russia with
me. His face was the embodiment of
despair.
"Uuspodine, you are neglecting your food.
You are not hungry?” inquired our Retro-
grad host.
"Hungry!” I answered. "Why, lam that
hungry i thought 1 couid eat anything; but
1 Stmply cannot stomach tins bread and
fish.”
-Ah, Forma Yakovicii, you will get
used to them by and bye. At nrst we, too,
thought we wou.d' never be able to accustom
ourselves to such rations, but it was a ease
of eat or starve, and life is sweet. We all
suffered ciueily the first month, and there
are people wao still complain of ulcerated
stomacns ; but, yuspodtne, nunger is a good
sauce.”
I looked al his face as he spoke. It was
grey and emaciated. Then I turned to tne
two girls; they were still in their teens, but
the bioom had left their cheeks, and tne
withered petals of premature old age were
showing instead. And I knew as I sat
there that this was only a miniature of a
scene which embodied all the Cities of Russia.
At last Max broke the sileifee. "But
surely we can get food somewhere. We have
money, American and British gold : take as
much of it as you will need-, and let tae
girls go and buy a store of provision.”
"My friend, my good friend,” answered
our host, “you speak of things that are not.
There are no grocers nor bakers; no butchers’
shops are open in Retrograd, nor in Russ.a.
They are all closed.”
“Closed! Why?” we asked.
“Why”—ho seemed to weigh each word
before uttering it—“those who rule Russia
do not believe in capital; and stores where
you can buy food mean capital. Under com-
munism everybody works for the Govern-
ment ; and the Government is the distribu-
tor.”
He plunged his hand into an inside pocket
of his coat and produced a small khaki-
covered book, which he handed across the
table to me. It was not unlike a Savings-
bank pass-book.
“That is a work-book,” lie continued.
“Each day the Commissar under whom we
happen to be working stamps in it the num-
ber of hours to our credit, after which we
present it at the communist supply depots
and draw our rations. At least, we are then
entitled to draw rations; but very often the
supply is short or exhausted, and we get
only half or quarter allowance, or none at
all. For the peasants put in only enough
grain for their own consumption, or eise
hide the surplus,' because the Government
takes all in excess of their own needs, pay-
ing for it with nearly worthless paper money.
The same with the fishermen and the other
producers. And then, on account of a dearth
of spare parts and lubricants, phis a fuel
famine, transportation has almost broken
down. So even when they have the food-
stuffs the Government is only able to move
it into the cilies irregularly.”
“Then how do you manage to live at all?”
I asked. -
“Some of us do not live. Some still have
money or valuables with which to buy food
on the quiet from the speculators or pea-
sants. Some members of the Communist
party are favored and get served first. They
get the cream and we the skimmed milk
or the empty can.”
There was bitterness in his voice now for
the first time.
Here the eldest sou, who worked as a clerk
under Zinovief, joined in the conversation.
“Yes,” he said, “and very often the factory
workers have special arrangements; they are
allowed to send - committees out into the
country to collect food. I heard only the
other day that workers at one of the big
factories in Moscow refused to repair some
locomotives until they were first promised
that they could have the locomotives for a
week to go and 'search for food.”
“Ah,” resumed our friend, “the theory and
the practice are so different. The Govern-
ment has dvided the population into what
we call food categories. The soldiers and
sailors are in the first class; the ‘legitimate’
members of the Communist party in the
second ; manual laborers in the third ; clerks
and office hands in the fourth; technical ex-
perts in the fifth ; and so on. We were capi-
talists before the war, and so we are still
looked upon with susp'cion, and, being cata-
logued as ‘little bourgeoisie ,’ we get only scant
rations. Of course, there are exceptions.
Some of the famous artists, who are too
popular to be molested, refuse to perform
unless they get certain foods: the University
professors and other mobilisers of public
op'nion are often well fed, provided they
champion communism. In addition, we ail
get our hous'ng. light, water-supply, sewerage
and theatre tickets free, or practically free ;
and when things get brighter we are promised
clothes, med cal necessities and household
goods. But we have been promised and
disappointed for so long that we have lost
heart. If we are judged fit and do not
work, we”
“D'e.” The son finished the sentence for
the old man.
I looked at my Russian friends around the
table; 1 took in their starved and pinched
faces, their shabby clothes; then I looked
around the bare room until my eyes rested
. upon the ikons hanging on the wall. Even
as they did so, Marie crossed herself, whether
through superstit'on or fear of the future I
could not tell. Drawing some gold pieces out
of my wallet I handed them to one of the
boys, and asked him if lie could not arrange
secretly with the peasants to bring daily
supnUes to the house.
“Forma Yakovicii, we will go to-night
and make the arrangements,” he answered.
“Yes,” sa'd Max, “and we will bring back
an isvostchik full of eggs and butter and
poultry and grain.” .
The eldest son smiled. “If we were to
drive an isvostchik down the streets of Retro-
grad, the people would seize the horse and
eat it,” he said. “Yes, I tell you the' simple
truth.”
TOM SKEYHILL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Proposed Fooling with the Senate.
The census, as far as it has got, shows that
N. S. Wales contains 88 per cent, of the Com-
monwealth’s population, and if the figures
prove correct it is entitled to another mem-
ber in tne House of Representatives. That
would gwe it 81 per cent, of the total mem-
bership when the two Houses are added up.
Victoria, with nearly 28j> per cent, of tne
population, will have 2d per cent, of the
Pari.amentary membership. These States
are the two which, for the time be.ng, lose a
tr.fle of their fair share of power under the
Federal bargain—their fair share, that is
to say, if numbers are the only consideration
and if there i$ nothing in the idea that the
almost empty spaces, which from the national
po.nt of view may be more important than
the congested ones, require some special
consideration. The gainers by the present
system are Queensland, S. Aus., Tasmania
and Westralia. There is really no serious
discrepancy except in the Senate, which is
the House of less authority, whereas the
United States Senate, built on the same
plan of equal membership for big Siates and
small, is the House of more authority. The
injustice, if it is such, is hardly any greater
than it was 21 years ago when the idea of
equal State representation in the Upper
Chamber was accepted with open eyes. The
principle is practically universal among
Federations, the only notable exceptions be-
ing Canada, where the Upper House consists
of nominees for life, and the deceased un-
lamented German Federal Empire, in which
armed Prussia practically annexed the other
States, and its bunch of nominees dominated
the Senate and drove the whole show to
destruction. In addition to being the only
principle which has stood the test of long
experience this equality of representation
was the only one under'which union was
possible. The idea of two Houses both based
on population figures only would have meant
that N. S. Wales and Victoria, the former
especially, asked their neighbors to kindly
come and be annexed, and on that basis there
was no business doing. The one thing which
would wreck the Commonwealth for certain
-by civil war if it couldn’t wreck it other-
wise—would be an attempt to break faith
on this matter and create a Senate on the
Prusso-llun model, dominated by a big
master with a big stick. Still, there is in-
cessant. grumbling by such papers as the
Sydney Telegraph about the “inequality”
of the present system and a demand for the
kind of strict “justice” by which Sydney
would outvote the western two-thirds of the
continent, and city rule would be absolute.
The “inequality” could be got over without
any violation of the solemn bargain on
Which the Commonwealth was built if there
was a much-needed subdivision of States.
Thus what is now N. S. Wales, as three
States, would have, quite legally and reason-
ably, -46 members instead of 34, and as four
Stater, it might have f»2. If it is merely a
-question of doing justice to the people, a
plea for subdivision, which is provided for
by the Constitution, would be mithh simpler
than a proposal to tear up .the Constitution
in a way which would assuredly tear up
the Commonwealth also. But if the idea is
to provide that vastly larger batches of
Senators shall be created and manipulated
by the political machines at Sydney and Mel-
bourne, then it is a choice between ending
the Commonwealth and milking the best of
the discrepancy.
Dives Town and Lazarusville.
The New Settlers’ League of Australia is
hereby offered a t.p. By the mere fact ol
placing State capitals 'in them the counties
of Bourke (Vic.) and Cumberland (X.S.W.)
secured 300 or 400 or more people to the
square mile, though Melbourne is a second-
rate port even in its own State, while Sydney
has the drawback of being quite unfit for
sh.pbuild.ng, and of having very little good
land in its neighborhood. On the other
hand Normandy (Vic.), which includes the
harbor of Portland, and Auckland (X.S.W.),
which includes Twofold Bay, have about five
persons to the square mile and are losing
them, though they are surrounded by fertile
country. An inference i,s that if a new
capital is made (which involves a new State),
and if there is* a Government or* the spot
to see that railways and roads connect it
with the hinterland, population comes with-
out any Settlers’ League. And a thing wh'ch
is more than an inference is that when the
Government is a selfish stepmother a long
way off, a dozen Settlers’ Leagues make no
difference. Dives Town, the capital, may
think it means well, like the fat and horrid
man it is named after, but Lazarusville, the
outport, only gets crumbs all the same, and
Dives thinks it is mighty good of him to allow
even that. Anybody can prove by logic,
geometry, mathematics and the Shorter
Catechism that this gathering of population
around State 1 capitals is a Wrong Tiling, and
shouldn’t happen. But it does happen, and
no one has shown how to prevent it. The
best way out is fo make friends with the
mammon of unrighteousness and fight the
Devil with lrs own weapons by having
enough capitals to make the evil cure itself.
In the British Isles, which are less than
half the-size of N. S. Wales, the making
of new ports and the spread of population
have been brought about by having about
25 - cap’tals. In other words, there are
that number of separate and independent
railway headquarters, which is the real
matter at issue. It isn’t so much in its
capacity as a law-making and loan-rais : ng
centre that the overgrown city keeps eating
up population while country towns perish,
though these things help. It is as the
cenjre of railway and-harbor control that
it has become the unwholesome curse it is.
With small States, each home-ruling its own
railways, and ports under the supervision of
the Commonwealth, Australia would make a
new start in life, and the New Settlers’
League would be a superfluity and an empty
vessel, and a vain reperition, and an outworn
convention and other things which there is
no space to mention.
New Converts for Canberra.
It is alleged that the recent jaunt to Can-
berra, given to politicians at the public ex-
pense, has brought two new converts to the
’Berra fold, and Austin Chapman is elated
thereat. If they had bdhn given free trips
to a dozen other possible sites they might
have been converted away from Chapman’s
metropolis instead of to it, just as the Pirate
apprentice of Penzance was converted from
his confidence in the supreme beauty of grey-
haired Ruth when he saw some other girls.
Canberra really looks as Woolloomooloo and
Paddington did before the houses were built,
save that it lacks the harbor. Lots of
places with grass and cows and atmosphere
look like that, before the view is built out.
St'll the question isn’t how the site looks
now, but whether the capital of a continent
(1) should be in one corner, on a by-line,
and in two pieces 140 miles apart; (2)
should be over 2000 miles from the big
Federal territoVy of 500,000 square miles
which the Commonwealth has to develop;
'-'■l should complete the process of putting
all Australia’s seats of Government in a
huddle down south and amount to a per-
manent and definite declaration that tropical
Australia, the possible whiteness of which
we must prove or perish, isn’t fit for white
legislators and must be ruled from the cold
outside, like India; (4) should be without
minerals, water-power or special fertility;
(5) should be on a site not chosen by referen-
dum or according to any rule laid down by
t he people’s elected constitution-makers;
ill) should be surrounded by the territory
of one State, which can denv the people
access to their owr. city. With these and
other matters involved, it is a kind of
parish-pump politie : an who is convinced, by a
free trip, with food, liquors and cigars, and
be influenced because a guide takes him
round and shows lrm the grazing.
♦
•Justice in Peace and War.
General Gellibband is adhering to the
policy of his predecessor as regards the legal
training of the Victorian police. Under this
admirable system every young policeman is
compelled to do a seven-weeks’ law school.
The Police Regulations Act is not a very
complicated measure, so the lecturers
are able in the time at their disposal to
provide the students with a smattering of
the rules of evidence and procedure, and a
general idea of the working of the Justices
Act, in addition to the more obviously neces-
sary information. No doubt, by far the
greatest part of most policemen’s activities
calls for no particular legal knowledge. But
every now and then an excepfonal case
arises in which the citizen is liable to be
prejudiced by ignorance on the part of the
guardian of the law; and so General Gelli-
bband is found endorsing Major Steward’s
view that it is better for many hundreds of
police to be instructed, even at considerable
expense, than that one civilian should be
prejudiced in the matter of his rights. Better-
paid and more highly-placed officials than
constables are liable to err even on compara-
tively simple legal issues, with disastrous
results. Thus only a week or two ago, in
Sydney, a woman who had been committed
to Long Bay Penitentiary for contempt was
released at the order of a Supreme Court
Judge. The Coroner had erroneously caused
her to be locked up under a general commit-
ment warrant, whereas the Justices Act only
authorised him to commit her for seven days.
Such is the meticulous concern shown for
every Brit'sh national as a civilian. Com-
pare it with the attitude adopted towards
the same national when he goes on active
Empty Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Problem shirked, evaded, funked and
feared
By them whose words are to the echo cheered.
Who seeks to solve it? Who the task pur-
sues i.
Of dealing with essential facts? Not
Hughes,
Nor Ryan; no, nor Watt!
Maybe they suffer visions in their sleep
Of Freedom crushed and Folly forced to
weep ;
Maybe they stare o’ night, with closed eyes,
At workers driven forth from Paradise
To toil, and sweat, and curse in futile,rage,
A deadly future on a living wage
Whereof the l.mit that new laws allow
Will be one-thii’d of what men snort at now.
Yea, as they lie asleep,
It may be that the Hugheses ai.d the Cooks
In horror gaze at swarms of sullen spooks
Who, in the service of a foreign foe,
Must expiate the sin of going slow.
But not when wide awake.
Does Hughes confess the fears that fools
alone
Are free from? In the same loud, raucous
tone
That rang in doubting British ears of yore,
Whilst he was spouting How to Win the War
And manage Europe’s business, with an air
sublime
Of stamning footprints on the sands of time,
He’s talking now. He pours opinions forth
Re most things save Austral a’s empty North.
For in no cause was William’s breath e’er
spent
That gained no votes, nor bold advertisement.
The Problem rests.
His country’s peril troubles not his tongue;
It offers him no means to gull the young
Or charm the old. Avaunt, thou ugly thing!
And since ’t's certain Time is on the wing,
And Hughes and Cook and all of us must
die,
Why worry as to racial struggles, why
Concern ourselves and sit with aching head
Guessing at what will he when we are dead
For babes unborn?
The subtle art of government distracts
Men’s best attention from the gravest facts
That touch ’Twas ever thus :
Posterity has nothing done for us.
Fnouvh for every day the work thereof—
The job. the bluff, the trick, the gibe, the
seofi
Keep rmlling strings, each schemer for him-
self.
And for the Problem—leave it on the shelf!
VICTORIA.
O. K.


TRUTH
and falsehood
speak the same
language, and
at first sight it
is difficult to
discriminate be-
tween the two.
But keeping
promises
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES, INC.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
Established 1884.
San Francisco and Challis House, Sydney.
“Not the same as others.’
TALKS
a language that
there is no mis-
taking.
MALTHOID
has earned—
and kept—its
reputation by-
fulfilling every
promise we
make for it.
service. General Gellibrand is then no
longer a Government official: he is a G.O.C.
In that capacity he. endorses the appoint-
ment of military police. These men are
given no seven-weeks’ law course, nor are
they chosen for legal knowledge. The basis,
of preferment usually is that they are not
wanted by their units. The Courts-martial
—Field, General and District—begin. These
Courts do not concern themselves with a few
simple measures such as the Justices Act,
though even these, as has been shown above,
are complicated enough to trip experts.
Courts-martial handle every crime in the
civilian calendar, and many hundreds of
military crimes as well. General Gelli-
brand. as G.0.C., creates the judges who
preside over them. As in the case of the mili-
tary police, legal knowledge or experience has
little or nothing to do with the mafter. The
Court, in accordance wftli the custom pre-
valent in C-Esak’s time, is constituted with
an eye to military seniority. One who as
a civilian would have the right to be tried
for his life before a Judge who had quali-
fied for the job by a lifetime devoted to a
study of England’s gigantic criminal code,
might as a so’dier appear before a Court-
martial President who was a grocer when
there was no war on. By virtue of this
demented arrangement many a member of
the A.I.F. got his 10 or 15 years from
Courts which had no other qualification to
try him than the fact that the ; r senior mem-
bers had made a hobby of Saturday-after-
noon soldiering instead of surfing or foot-
ball. All that is needed in future wars to
rectify this state of affairs is that senior
officers, such as General Gfxubrand, who
have the ear of the Government, should lay
down the principle that the man in khaki
possesses the same right to have his liberty
and name tenderly cherished by the State
as the man in “civvies.”
The Feminist Friends of V.D.
At a recent meeting of the M.L. Women’s
National Council the representative of the
local Society for the Protection of Women
and Children condemned Maoriland's Health
Bill, with particular reference to its V.D.
provisions:—•
Mrs. Atkinson alluded to the fact that the same
unfortunate provisions had been incorporated in the
Australian Act, with the result that no less than
40 cases —all women —had been notified, and the
victims compulsorily examined. All had been found
perfectly healthy.
Let it be assumed that there i.s an “Aus-
tralian Act” under which people can be
compulsorily examined for V.D. Does it
affect the argument for notification in any
way whatever V The liberty of the subject is
a priceless thing, but if it is not curtailed
freely there can be no true liberty for any-
one. The current isue of the medical
Journal of Australia prints a list of 24
infective diseases which were notified in the
Commonwealth during 1920. There were
IS, 182 diphtheria notifications alone. No
one speaking ki the alleged interests of
women and children argued that because
there were faulty diagnoses of scarlatina or
pulmonary tuberculosis the notification of
such diseases should be discontinued. It is
a legal truism that every new law creates,
not only a good deal of inconvenience for
those whom it touches, but several fresh
avenues for crime. Conscription produced
the draft-evader, who is still being sought
out and punished in the U.S.A. The modern
divorce laws have encouraged perjury and the
breaeh-of-promise laws a form of genteel
blackmail. Without any doubt certain
criminally-disposed persons will attempt to
exploit the penal provisions of every V.D.
Act for the purpose either of revenge or of
something worse. But there are remedies.
Judge Edmunds, of N. S. Wales, laid
down a rule for the guidance of the
State Railway Commissioners last week,
which would bear so hardly on a
purely malicious ebmplainant in a case
of V.D. infection that it ought to make
legislation on the subject almost venom-
proof. It was that anyone making a charge
(in this case against a railway employee)
must take the responsibility of coming into
the daylight in support of it. But, even
if it were imaginable that many virtuous
citizens, male and female, could be unjustly
accused of disease, and compelled to suffer in
consequence, while no imaginable means
existed of discouraging their slanderers, yet
it still remains difficult to understand why
a society which devotes itself to the protec-
tion of women and children should be the
first to object. It is women and children
who are the most tragic victims of V.D.
Children are being born to lifelong misery
every day of the year, and ignorant girls and
innocent wives are peine- contaminated to the
permanent ruin of their health, for no other
reason than that the medheval-churcli view
of V.L>. as a judgment of God which must
not be attacked still persists. The attitude
of a society which was genuinely concerned
with the interests of women (not merely
prostitutes, but women in the mass) and
children would lie uncompromising. Such
a body would not count the cost as regards
present suffering, much less present incon-
venience. It would not whine about the
alleged mistakes made in 40 cases —or 40,000
cases —in the face of a preventable calamity
which is ruining the happiness of millions.
The Emigrating Immigrant.
Sydney last week had its annual fit of
enthusiasm for immigration, and decided
with the customary unanimity that Some-
thing would have to be Done. Something is
being done. That is to say, stranded new-
comers are being fed and lodged in Sydney
at the Commonwealth’s expense. Also, while
the president of the Millions Club was urg-'
ing people to be Up and Doing, immigrants
were go.ng back to Britain by the Ormonde.
Very angrily Acting-Prime Minister Cook
denied that there was anything in the way
of wholesale emigration by that vessel;
but almost every Australian in England has
met the infuriated returned emigrant, so that
so much fuss about one shipload is hardly
worth making. It is the old miserable story
of jealousy between the Commonwealth and
the States. Hughes has appointed a horde
THE UNEVEN STILTS.
LABOR: “Yes. one leg's broken off, but I'm not going to cut down the other to match it.
I’d rather fall and break me neck.”
of expensive officials to beat up settlers in
Britain, and these tunes they are easy to get.
But the State Governments are supposed to
run the business at tins end, and it is against
all the traditions of State Frights to work
in with the Commonwealth. So when
Hughes’s protege arrives with a suit-case
in one hand and a bundle of immigration
pamphlets in the other, he is treated with
either moody hostility or chilLng indiffer-
ence. And whether the poor devil sinks
to the soup-kitchen stage of existence or
scrapes up enough for a return passage, he
writes home to the paper at Higglefechan
or Mudton-on-the-Zouch and gives Australia
a rotten naffie. Westralia, which is standing
out of tiie Hughes scheme, is exempted from
these observations. It is running things dif-
ferently. It is doing its best, not only to
get immigrants, hut to look after them when
they arrive. A recent British ship landed
at Fremantle 900, mostly Tommy soldiers of
a good type, and within a week or two work
had been found for the lot. Moreover, a
start has been made with group settlement
for land-hungry “Woodbines,” but some
acquaintance with farming or bushwork is
a preliminary condition. In short, though
the position in Victoria is not altogether bad,
Westralia is the one State which quite real-
ises its responsibility in the matter of the
immigration we want, and the immigrants, we
actual!v get, and is honestly attempting to
do its duty; and if the Commonwealth can’t
make better arrangements with the other
State Governments its immigration expendi-
ture, for the time being, at any rate, will
have to be concentrated on Westralia. It
would be one way of bringing Queensland
and N. S. Wales to their senses.
The A.A.A.
Edward Dyson writes a birth notice: —
The inaugural meeting of the Australian Authors'
Association, to work in conjunction or affiliation
with the Australian Journalists’ Association, was
held in Melbourne on the 11th, and presented all
the symptoms of a healthy offspring of the parent
body. The assembled authors were too numerous
for the accommodation provided. It is as well to
mention, however, that we didn’t meet in the Exhi-
bition Building. Twenty-odd writers of both genders
who had arrived at the dignity of at least one book
gave the proceedings a convincing tone, and several
others sent apologies and the intimation, “I’m with you
in everything you do.” Altogether the new associa-
tion comes into being on a more business-like foot-
mg and with a more hopeful outlook than any other
of the kind with which I have been associated, .and
the crying need of such a union of arts has been
manifested 1 by the number of hitherto futile attempts
on the part of bookmakers to get together and take
steps for the betterment of the position of the Aus-
tralian producer in the literary field.
The Authors’ Association states its intentions very
definitely: “To secure from newspaper and magazine
proprietors within the Commonwealth preference for
the work of Australian writers... .To minimise the
importation into the country of cheap serial and
short-story matter....To secure adequate payment
and cash on acceptance .To ensure adequate re-
views for Australian books in Australian papers....
To induce booksellers to display the books of Aus-
tralian authors.... To establish an agency for the
distribution of story-matter.... ” It is the outcome
of a deliberate action from within the A.J.A., and
the new body is, to have behind it all the weight
the parent association can put into the movement.
That power has been sufficient to vastly improve
the status, ircrease the earnings and strengthen the
position of the Australian newspaper man. The
power is recognised by newspaper proprietaries
throughout the Commonwealth, who give at least
respectful attention to any proposal the A.J.A. may
make; consequently authors reasonably expect that
an adequate means of expressing themselves is now
within their reach. The hundred and one com-
plaints they have bottled within their arid bosoms
need no longer die with them because of their
inability to get at the particular ear into which it
is desirable to dump a tale of woe.
Authors in Sydney and the centres of the other
States are being invited to come toother to join
forces with the Melbourne men, and as there is pro-
bably not a man among them without a substantial
grievance that cannot be rectified without concerted
action, it is highly probable that these will respond
with the enthusiasm that self-interest inspires. The
arms at present are purely mercenary, as "they
should be, since the weaker side of the Australian
author is the one he presents to the men with whom
he has business dealings. Individually he lack| the
capacity or the courage to open a wide mouth. The
association, it is believed, will at least provide him
with a .maw that will not appear absolutely ridicu-
lous compared with that of the average publisher.
The Doped Watchdog,
Concerning a body that has gone wrong:—
The Sydney publicity expert who supplies The
Soldier with its articles sticks to his strange con-
tention that whoever criticises the wisdom of having
militant party politicians on a Returned Soldiers’
League executive is ipso facto hostile to the League
itself, and presumably to the soldiers. But such
nonsense is hardly likely to go down with sensible
Diggers. Either a league can function for the benefit
of the soldiers (meaning in general the whole
body of returned men, irrespective of class or creed ;
and, in particular, the ones who are “up against
it”), or it can serve the ends of a handful of ambi
tious warriors who are quite capable of battling
along without extraneous assistance. It cannot meet
the requirements of both classes. Conceive, for
the sake of argument, that instead of Mr. McDonald
and Generals Rosenthal and Herring, the N. S.
Wales executive contained three fervent Labor sym-
pathisers. Would a Labor Government be in
danger of attack from such a source, and would it
not be able to rely with confidence on the League’s
official support in any quasi-political stunt its sup-
porters thought fit to engineer? The anomalous spec-
tacle of League members who had offered the Empire
their lives demonstrating that they were loyal to
it was presented recently in the Sydney Domain, rot
because any .sane person doubts the loyalty of the
Diggers, but because the creation of a new anti-Labor
issue was considered good Nationalist business at the
time. While the N. S. Wales executive was spend-
ing hundreds of pounds furthering this political
move, and simultaneously setting Labor Diggers
against Nationalist Diggers all over the country,
many duties were being left unattended to which
come within the true scope of the League’s activities.
Some hundreds of them were cited by M’s.P., from
every State, in the Representatives recently, in the
form of ex-soldiers who, though wholly or partly
incapaeitated, are having their pensions reduced or
token away altogether. The League did not block
the Repatriation Commission from sending 20 A.I.F.
mental c-ases to public lunatic-asylums. -It has
made no effective move in the scandalous matter of
home-service men being awarded tiie same medals
as c ombatants by their friends of the Defence De-
partment. If the N. S. Wales branch of the League
has spent in the assistance of unemployed Digger".
as much as, say, the Chinese of Sydney, or half
as much as was squandered over the aforesaid
supererogatory “loyalty” demonstration, the public
has yet to hear the details. As the official body repre-
senting the soldiers the League should have immense
powers. And so it would if it were so dissociated
from the political touch that it could be relied on to
tear wholeheartedly into any Government or party,
Labor or anti-Labo>’, which let down so much as
one Digger. As things are it wields about as much
real influence as the Labor R.S. League or the Roman
Catholic R.S. League. And that i« Tiie Bulletin’s
whole objection to it.
Sydney’s Labor-bossed City Council con-
tinues to furnish it with food for deep
thought. This was among a week’s supply:
(1) The Council paid £20,000 for a pub in
William-street, intending to demolish it immediately
for street-widening purposes. That was three years
ago, but the caravanserai still stands; in fact, it
has charged hands five times since the Council
acquired it. And a brewer claiming compensation
for loss of trade, it has been tied to him till 1934.
There is talk of £2OOO or £3OOO being paid for
ingoing and of the rent being £lO or £l2 a week.
But all the Council is getting is £62 a year.
(2) When the Town Clerk attends a council or
committee meeting in tile evening he draws £1 an
hour overtime. All the other officials are paid over-
time, too.
(3) The municipal Labor party has dragged £4OO
from the corporation employees to pay its election
expenses, and there is a lot more to follow. So-
called A.L.P. bonds are issued, and the laborer is
requested to hand over the equivalent in currency.
What will happen if he doesn’t isn’t stated, but he
is at liberty to guess.
(4) A £125,000 contract for the supply of petro-
leum asphalt was bludgeoned through at the la.sr
meeting. There were no competitive tenders before
the Council nor any report from the City Surveyor,
and it was stated (and not denied) that the contrac-
tors’ profit would be £7 a ton—the contract price
is £l2.
More and more Sydney municipal politics
grow like those of New York in its worst
days. Indeed, there are already so many
points of identity that if a “History of Tam-
many” is included in the municipal library
that is nowadays closed on Saturdays so that
the staff may go to the races, it should cer-
tainly be concealed till a'fter the November
elections, or burnt.


af
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
%
0£
s&*
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Raker & Longhurst. 50 York Street. Sydney.
THE SHALE PETROL OIL COMPANY LIMITED.
-vfOTICE is hereby given that the undermentioned Scrip Certificates in the above Company have been
A either lost or stolen: —
Scrip Certificate No. 1
in the name of Horace K. Duncan of Adelaide. Scrip Certificate No. 54.3, Share Nos. 041 to 090 for 50
shares in the mime of Hannah .1. Duncan of Adelaide. , , . , orf .
If the abovementioned certificates are not presented to the Company s office on or before the 2.ith
dav of June 19°1 it is the intention of the Board to issue duplicate certificates m lieu thereof, and if
original' cmiicoteo «. *cr*„„.
Mutual Life Chambers, 44 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MINING DRILL STEEL
Specially suitable for Australian working
conditions. Stocked in sizes fin. to
Octagon.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Cabled that Moighen, Priminister of Cana-
da, is opposed to the renewal of the Anglo-
.Tapanese alliance and that Lloyd George is
lukewarm. The arrangement nominally ex-
pires on July 13, hut either party desiring to
get out of it has to give the other 12 months
notice, and that certainly hasn’t been done
up to the present. Japan is so anxious to
get it renewal that she recently sent her
Crown Prince on a mission to Britain, there-
by breaking a custom of centuries. But in
view of the universal suspicion excited by
her present militarist programme and her
aggressive policy in China and Siberia, she
will have to he’ content with a considerable
modification of the 1911 treaty—particularly
in the direction of having it made quite
plain that no written pact with Asia can
over-ride the unwritten pact with the U.S.A.
From the Federal gallery :
The slackness of the House of Reps, impresses
every stranger who sees it for the first time. During
the Tariff discussion the attendance has frequently
fallen to a dozen, and of that number only four or
five could show that they had been sedulously
attending to public business. Many others have
succumbed to the easy life provided by the pairing
system, and the result is that some have developed
a weakness for staying away for long periods
allegedly on urgent private affaire. There are men
who have been called off on urgent private affair,,
and there are sick men; but there are also those
loafers who too often regard the House as a eluo
and fill in intervals between divisions with heavy
work at cards, billiards or the bar. Pressmen are
familiar with the spectacle of a member becKomng
another out of the ( hamber, and they discover that
in many instances the beckoner needs anothei hanc.
at poker or wants his pal to interview a dog. Hogs
are very popular in the l?eps.
Last week the Federal Country party
eclipsed all its previous records. Harry
Gregory was moving a reduction of duty on
hayrakes, mowers, reapers and binders, and
had a right to expect that his pals in the
Corner would back him up in the cause ot
Cobclen. Actually only one cocky, Gibson,
member for Coraugamite (Aim), arose to
support bis chief, and when it came to a
vote Gregory faced a gibing House alone.
Whereupon the Argus chided two or three
members by name, and asked them where
they were. Most likely they were home
warming their feet.
Since the census disclosed that \ ictoria is
over-represented by one in the Reps., there
has been gloom in the Country party. Almost
inevitably one of the Vic. rural constituen-
cies will have to be divided among its neigh-
bors, and it is considered that sheep-king
.Towett is the likeliest to lose his billet, his
electorate of the Grampians being divided
between Ballarat and Bendigo, with results
that may unfavorably affect David McGrath,
who now represents the former city.- X. 8.
Wales, which gets another seat, will have 28
to Victoria’s 20, and the extra member has
already been acclaimed by Riley, M.H.R., as
another vote, if not for Labor, at least for
Canberra, Sydney and Canberra being
apparently synonymous terms.
Although they had three weeks to do it
in the Queensland Labor beads didn’t hold
TRUE TO THE OLD LOVE.
“Joseph Cook, who has lately been preaching economy, is contemplating a new loan."
Miss Extravagance: “Ah, dear man! Although you talked of liking that plain-faced
creature I knew you never meant to leave me,"
a selection ballot for the Maranoa vacancy.
Xeither did they ask the Maranoa Labor
bodies to choose a candidate, nor suggest
that qualified men might be endorsed and
the electors could take their pick according
to ' preferential voting rules. Instead, the
matter was fixed up, without reference to
the. constituency, in a Brisbane office. The
business was arranged at a nice quiet little
family party, the only jarring note being in-
troduced by Tom Lonsdale, of the Transport
Workers, who raced to the Toowoomba tele-
graph-office and withdrew his candidature
with some insulting observations about “star
chambers.” A union official got the nomina-
tion, of course. In these matters it is 10
to 1 on the union official always.
In their search for the backslider who re-
commended Ben Fuller for a knighthood, the
Labor stalwarts have fixed the blame on
Premier Storey (N.S.W.), and John is
promised a hot time when he returns. The
argument is that if the grand old principle
of equality is to be sacrificed, the party
funds should benefit, as in Britain, where
£20.000 is paid for a baronetcy, £lO,OOO for
a K.C.M.G., and so on. Fuller got his
label for a mere shilling subscription to a
suburban Labor league—that and a few con-
tributions to “charity.” Meantime, in order
to turn the pending wrath from the absent
chief, faithful friends are going round whis-
pering into the ears of the disaffected that
most recent knighthoods have been recom-
mended merely to nark the old pure mennoes
who got the distinction in other days, and to
cheapen the “honor. ’
The outstanding disappointment of the
preliminary census returns is Westralia. It
has the smallest total increase of population,
barring Tasmania, which is comparatively
full and not much more than one-fortieth tin-
size. It is the only State which gained
less new people (50 .per cent, less) in the
last 10 years than in the 10 between 1901
and 191 i. Its percentage of increase is far
below the average. Yet it has added far
more per head to its debt than any other
State. So, apparently, borrowing isn’t the
golden device.
It was casually mentioned last week, as
if it didn't matter a dump, that one of tin-
numerous royal commissions at present
pervading X. S. Wales had already cost
£14,750. This is the tribunal that is “inves-
tigating'’ the 1917 railway strike and whose
proceedings were interrupted the other (lay
liy a stormy argument between two union
officials, each of whom wants to be a Railway
Commissioner, and who have therefore
fallen out. At the current rate of progress
this Royal Commission’s “investigations’
should easily last until the next strike. And
then it can be set to work to “investigate
that too.
Unanimity seems to have been reached on
the point that the X. Territory should be
represented in the Federal Parliament, and
nobody suggests anything better than the
successful plan adopted by the United States
with its Territories —that there should la-
one or more members to speak, expound
grievances and explain local needs, but that
they shouldn’t have votes until the place has
an appreciable population and becomes a
State. The necessary short Act could In-
passed in a spare moment while the Tariff
is having a rest, and thereby a lot of disturb-
ance and possibly a comic-opera revolution
might be averted. Yet the matter will
doubtless be hung up till Hughes comes back,
because the little man would rage and wag
his ears if even a riot was prevented in his
absence,
A matter which shocked Federal Minister
Pearce up north was the discovery that loaf-
ing has become a virtue and a gospel there,
and that the best man is the one who does
least. At Bowen he saw adults, professedly
wharf-laborers, carrying at a slow pace half-
cases of fruit (four big toilers to a case)
that one healthy boy could have shifted. This
is presumably one result of the teaching of
the new bosses of the Australian Lurkers’
Union and .such-like bodies —the kind who
got control during the war. It would be
interesting to know what remedy Pearce pro-
poses. One simple proposition would he the
repeal of that law under which certain
unionists are compelled to buy poisonous stop-
work and go-slow literature—the clause by
virtue of which union men are dragged before
the courts if they object to pay for a paper
they don’t want. It isn't suggested that
anything should be done to limit the freedom
of print, but it is suggested that the enslaved
subscriber should also be set free. If Pearce,
having discovered the evil, isn’t going to do
anything, what does he get his salary for, and
how much better is he than the lumpers at
Bowen ?
A new Federal “peace loan" is fore-
shadowed. Australia had war loans so long
as the war lasted; now it seems as if it is to
have peace loans as long as the peace lasts.
If someone could invent an intermediate stage
there would be loans for that too.
A strenuous element in the United States
Federation of Labor, with some backing out-
side, hopes to stampede Congress into
(1) The recognition of the Irish Republic.
(2) A demand for the withdrawal of British
troops from Erin’s Isle.
(3) A demand that Britain shall immediately pay
the nine thousand million dollars (between fifteen
hundred and two thousand million pounds) which
it owes to Uncle Samuel.
Perhaps an urgent cablegram might induce
the same crowd to recognise the New State
in X. S. Wales's Northern Rivers, and the
Kiverina State, and the Central and North
Queensland States, and thus do the thing
handsomely. After that the local Labor
Governments would almost have to say some-
thing.
Nearly two years ago Staniforth Smith,
who was Administrator for a while at the
top of the Australian map, wrote what
seems to lie a valuable report about the
things I Ini! should be done with that lmlf-
million square miles of national estate. But
so little did anybody carer about such a trifle*
as half-a-million square* miles e>f national
estate, seeing that it was out of sight of
Melbourne and Canberra, that, until the*
other day, apparently no Minister had even
seriously studied the report. Perhaps if Aus-
tralia adopted the United States and Swiss
system, under which Ministers are shut out
of Parliament to prevent them talking, they
might do business for want of anything else
to do.
The screw is being put on Lawson by the
Vi<*. Police Association to restore the pen-
sions which Shiels induced Iceberg Irvine
to discontinue in respect of men who entered
after 1902. The Premier, being also a per-
son who lives by votes,-says he’d like to do
it, but he is faced with a prospect next year
of having ail his work cut out to avoid clap-
ping on extra taxes or heavier railway
charges. Of course it is a contributory
superannuation scheme that is advocated, but
Lawson knows by experience that the con-
tribution won’t bo within coo-ee of require-
ments: also he knows that the State will
have to pay the contribution, as there is bound
to bo an agitation for an increase of pay to
the extent at least of the percentage re-
quired. Incidentally, Vic. civil-service pen-
sions were abolished 40 years ago, but the
bill is still close on £400,000 a year.
Decentralisation is a great thing when one
gets the hang of it. In N. S. Wales, where
it is part of the Government policy, work has
commenced on the Oberon-Tarana railway,
though the first sod was turned only a few
days ago. It lies a few’ miles w 7 est from
Sydney, and the trade will come to the big
city. On the other hand, an application for
a short cross-country line from Tallong to
Port Kombla, so that ore and other things
from tlu* South might save many miles of need-
less and costly haulage round by Sydney, was
met by the Government with the fiat state-
ment that no money is available. And while
the lines back from Twofold Bay and Goff’s
Harbor are as non-existent as ever, Estoll,
the Minister in charge of these things, has
gone into raptures over the idea of building
a line to connect North Sydney and suburban
Narrabeen; for it isn’t so easy as you might
think to find excuses for giving jobs to men
who insist on having them alongside the
city pubs and picture-palaces.
Because there* had been a few shooting
cases in Pyrmont and other suburbs the Syd-
ney Government weighed in last year with
an amended Gun Act. Under this intelligent
measure the settler w 7 ho wants to buy a
weapon- to pot crows or rabbits w 7 ith can’t
get one unless he produces a license, and for
that he has to make personal application at a
police-station. Often the nearest police-
station is 50 or 100 miles away, and if the
bush dweller calls in December he is ordered
to return next month and repeat the cere-
mony, licenses being dated from January 1
to December 31. The same formalities apply
to the would-,be purchaser of a revolver for
the protection of his household property. But
there is nothing to .stop people getting fire-
arms from Victoria and Queensland, where no
such restrictions obtain, and that is what is
happening. The fool-law 7 penalises N. S.
Wales gun merchants and outbaekers and tin*
sort of suburban householder who would
rather be without a revolver than go to such
a lot of fuss about buying one: but crooks
and other lawbreakers simply laugh at it..
This is one of the disadvantages of being-
governed by city-bred politicians who have
hardly ever been out of Balmain.
AN ALLEGORY OF BLUPIL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For centuries the men of Bluph
Had lived contentedly enough
Within the Gryph Confederation,
Till came a war that shook the nation.
Then factions —call them A and B
Agreed that they would not agree.
The A's, a stubborn crowd and stiff,
W ere all for cleaving fast to Grvph:
A small, dissevered Bluph, said they.
Could not maintain itself a day.
The B's a Bluph Republic craved,
Insisted that they were enslaved
And lied (believing it at last)
About, the glorious Bluphic past.
And so the wordy war was waged,
Each party growing more enraged,
Till both by means of bulky mails
Communicated with 1 crsailles.
It’s there the Wise Men sit in state
The world's affairs to regulate,
And put in force, by hook or crook,
The maxims of the copybook.
And, huge petitions having read
From A and B, the Wise Men said:
“A plebiscite is what you need;
A plebiscite is now decreed.”
The things that fell in that campaign !
Their like may not occur again.
The streets of Bluph were t-cencs of strife;
Assault and homicide were rife;
And rare the cit. who got to bed
Without a damaged leg or head.
The wards and surgeries were full
Of patients swathed in cotton-wool
And rags—for early in the bout
The bandages had given out.
On every side were trailing coals,
And swarms of corpses cast their votes,
And every burgher clutched a gun
The day that B the ballot won.
And how did A the verdict take?
With one tumultuous roar of “Fake"!
A fierce, insulting yell of glee
(,'oincidently broke from B.
Then both together howled for gore,
And each into the other tore. •
The fights that followed beat the band,
For civil war convulsed the land.
The Wise Men, caught upon the hop,
Decided that the tiling- must stop.
So troops were rushed across the border
To keep the combatants in order.
But complications now arose,
For Gryph and Bryph were ancient iocs,
And when the Brvphers landed they
Assii-ted B to wallop A.
This naturally loosed the tie
’Twist Bryph and Gluph. its old ally,
And soon were borne upon the breeze
The sounds of .Gluphers bashing B's;
And thereupon, as history shows,
Brvphers anti Gluphers came to blows,
And, reckoning their .strife a sin,
Ten other peoples butted in.
And thus an ancient pact was smashed,
And “reconstructed Europe” crashed,
Because some ass in some oration
Invented “Self-determination.”
x.s.w.
WODGIL.


BUCKING HIM UP.
“Don’t give way, Dad. I can’t bear to see you cry. Remember, I’ve still got to come to you for money."


The Leading Power Transmitter Since 1858.
«m
m
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.
Pioneer Tanners and Belting Makers,
117 York Street, Sydney.
INTERSTATE STOCKISTS
Victoria: J. & R. E. Madder. Melbourne.
S.A.: .John McKell. Port Adelaide.
W.A.: Horace Summers, Perth.
Queensland: Hoey, Fry & Co.,
Townsville: Borns. Philp &
Tasmania: Chas. Davis, Ltd.
Brisbane.
Co.
, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dy
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification.
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome \ anadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of e very description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank :
Dividends Writ- To
Mar Profits. (8 p.e.). ten off. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £140,099 £78.789 £lO,OOO £.)6,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(91 p.c.)
1921.. 886,610 190,000 20.000 126,610 1,376,625
*Six months.
The National now issues a balance-sheet
only once each year, so in the table previous
half-yearly results have been grouped for
purposes of comparison. \\ hen the ac-
counts closed on March 31 2A years had
passed since the old National and Colonial
banks amalgamated. But that period has
been so abnormal that it has been impossible
for the outsider to estimate the extent to
which the old banks have benefited by the
fusion. No doubt a good saving has re-
sulted by combining forces in the score* or
so of centres in Which the two old concerns
were competing. With the exception ot
one leasehold all superfluous properties have
now been unloaded —at a substantial profit
on book values—and that has released funds
for establishing new branches where neither
of the old banks was in business. Ihe
more important branches have been
in Brisbane, in the N. S. Wales North Coast
towns, and in Sydney’s softgoods centre. It
is a big, impressive bank which is now seek-
ing business in the new fields: it ranks fifth
amongst proprietary banks operating in the
Commonwealth —and two ol the* five are
mainly English-owned. Though the fruits of
the amalgamation are not directly visible, noth
shareholders and clients have every reason
to be satisfied with development. Share-
holders in both old concerns were receiving
regular 7 p.c. divs., but the amalgamated
bank started with an 8 p.c., and for the first
half of the past year the div. rate was lifted
a point, and for the final half to 10 p.o. p.a.
There are two classes ol shares—o2,ooo ilu
prefs. fully paid and 270,000 £■''' ordinaries
paid to £5, giving a total paid capital of
two millions. In the introductory table the
divs. on the two classes of shares are not
shown separately. The amalgamation
arrangement provided that after the profs,
had had six consecutive half-yearly divs. at
the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. they would automati-
cally lose their preference rights. Five
such divs. have been distributed, and, all
going well, in November next both classes
of shares will rank alike in every respect.
Capital will probably then be consolidated
and tin 1 shares brought to the same denomi-
nation.
The National has apparently had its full
share of the exceptional profits which have
been available for Australian banks lately.
Notwithstanding that salary increases alone
added £BO,OOO to the year’s outgoings profits
were so handsome that, though shareholders
got £30,000 more than for the previous .year,
the profit visibly laid by was also £OlOO
more. But the handsome profits disclosed
did not represent the full extent of net earn-
ings which could have been shown had the
management been less cautious. Chairman
John Grice recently stated the managements
policy in this way : —•
Fortunately the policy of : your Board for many
years has been not only to make general provision
for the proverbial “rainy day,” but also as soon as
any loan account, from the above causes [slump in
prices, disturbed contracts and, unsettled exchanges],
bad seasons or other reasons, shows signs of weakness,
it has been our custom to put awaj foi its Pjotec
tion such an amount as appears ample to meet adverse
contingencies. This sound policy is being continued,
and the directors have the assurance of the manage-
ment and of the shareholders’ watch-dogs—-the audi-
tors —that there is at present no doubtful account on
the bank’s books which is not adequately protected
by special reserves.
Of course, the outsider can obtain no idea
of the amount of profit which has been put
to sleep in those internal reserves. but
after making provision for contingencies the
National has had such a magnificent run
that whereas the two old banks together
disclosed a net profit of £2i:>.><>o for IJIS,
the amalgamated concern shows £i2rf,in»u
more for the past 12 months. Exchange
operations in connection with high-priced
products and manufactures have assisted
earnings considerably, of course, and par-
ticularly during the recent period of abnor-
mal imports. This comparison (in which
the 1918 figures of the old National and
Golonial hanks have been combined) shows
how banking has become more profitable in
other ways
Liabilities.
1918. 1920. 1921.
v ntPS £5O, 067 £49,809 £49,524
Bills, etc! .. 1,689,320 962,908 1,724,29 l
Free deposits. .. 8.333,880 11,926,167 IU-869,34S
Fixed deposits . . 10.253.320 11,472,03 a 13,32-2,183
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 9,276,189 13,194,160 10,448,363
Advances .. 13,503.709 13,903,139 18,3a2,610
Premises, etc. .. 586,367 643,63 b 640,994
At March 31 the National held £5,600,000
more deposits than the two old banks had
three years previously. But while liquid
assets ' had meantime expanded by only
£1,172,000, no less than £4,849,000 more had
been lent to clients, who are now also called
upon to pay higher rates for accommoda-
tion.
From the point of view of the depositor
and other creditors, the National at March
31 showed assets with a book value ot
£29,441,972 to protect £25,965,347 in its
care. Owing to the strain put upon the
bank to finance clients, the proportion ot
liabilities held liquid has been considerably
reduced : 12 months ago no less than o 4 p.c.
of all liabilities were within easy reach ; at
the latest balance slightly more than 40 p.c.
To meet the 151 millions-odd in the bank s
care not covered by liquid assets, there were
18i millions of “adequately protected
advances, besides all the bank properties,
the value of which has been steadily written
down—£so,ooo has been carved from the
premises account since the amalgamation.
Sun Newspapf.rs, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914. . £10,066 91 p.c. = £B,OOO { « - j 42
Written off, £6OOO 1 ’’
Premiums on new shares, £6237 11,379
1915.. 12,836 8 p.c. = 8.624 1 7 354
Written off, £8237 J ’
1910.. 12.760 8 p.c. = 10,080 2680 10.034
1917.. 13,959 7 ~ ~ 13.860 99 10,133
1918.. 15,110 7 „ „ 14,745 376 10,004
1919.. 24.520 124,, ~23,750 776 11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £245,633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued for every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
245,633
Add new eo.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 10 p.c. = 50,576 6334 242,347
That table presents the extraordinary pro-
gress made by this Sydney newspaper co.
since it paid its first dividend. It began in
4910 under exceptionally favorable condi-
tions; when the old Australian Star had
apparently languished beyond hope of a suc-
cessful revival, the energetic new crowd
secured the plant and organisation at a bar-
gain price. The £28,000 paid included no
consideration for goodwill, and that is gener-
ally the expensive item in newspaper
acquisition; on the other hand, the price was
declared to be £3OOO-odd less than the actual
value of the tangible assets taken over The
old Star was soon displaced by The Sun,
which, burnished by Monty Grover and a
handful of the best men from the Melbourne
Argus, and freed from the shackles of party
politics, rapidly found a circulation. Also
chairman 11. 11. Denison had successfully in-
augurated a cable service outside the combine,
and not long afterwards, when the war be-
gan, that independent service proved to be
of greater value to the co. than its direc-
tors had ever imagined it would be. At the
close of the co.’s first year (1910) the daily
circulation was 24,500; four years later it
exceeded 67,000. Then new plant was in-
stalled, and modern premises were built.
The war further assisted circulation and in
1017 daily sales had moved to 88,000; but
they continued to expand even when the
war ended and are now approximately
155,000. In addition, the eo.’s Sunday paper
has an issue of 174,000 copies weekly. In
those figures lies the success of the co., for
though the increasing circulation itself pro-
bably did not directly help profits to any
extent (perhaps not at all when newsprint
was at almost prohibitive prices) it assisted
advertising income tremendously. Ten years
ago total revenue amounted to £89,000, and
£85,000 of that went in exes.; for the past
12 months the figures had expanded to
£511,000 and £452,000 respectively.
Twelve months ago the co. was found to
be doing so handsomely that the directors
apparently decided that the profits in rela-
tion to the capital of the co. were liable to
be misunderstood, so, instead of publishing
a balance-sheet for the year, it was decided
to reconstruct and take into account the
goodwill value which had resulted from the
10 years’ successful operations. To begin
with, assets were revalued, but the precise
extent to which they were written up is not
ascertainable from the published accounts,
though apparently it was in the neighbor-
hood of £BO,OOO. Whatever the new values
are the chairman recently assured share-
holders that they “may be taken as conserva-
tive,’’ since machinery and plant could not
be replaced for the amounts at which they
are shown in the books. Having written up
book values, the directors assessed goodwill
at £245,033, that apparently being the dit-
ference between the total of the new valu-
ations of tangible assets and the_ then current
market price of the £1 shares, 525. Od. rjn
each old share three £1 shares paid to < s -
Od. were issued in the new co. The recon-
structed concern also amalgamated the co.
which had been formed to run the Newcastle
(formerly the Northern Times),
whose circulation has been trebled m a
couple of years. The Sydney co. held a con-
trolling interest in the Newcastle venture,
but last year acquired all the shares. 1 he
writing-up of assets and amalgamation ol
Northern interests have effected these changes
in the balance-sheet figures:—
1916. 1919. 1921.
Paid capital ..£122.050 £196,910 £051,16a
Liabilities . . 27,490 37,197 150,927
Premise' . . . . 61,370 125.910
Plant, etc. .. 01,552 79,784 129,860
Stocks • • 39,252 86,703 131,603
Book debts.. 14,110 34,347 84,206
Cash, etc 5,962 13,443 18,907
Newcastle Sun shares
Goodwill .. 24a,633
The profits shown for the past year were
“after making provision for all necessary
depreciation,” taxes, etc. They allowed 10
p c to be paid with ease on the enlarged
capital, giving a very handsome return on
the money put into the co. by shareholders.
Altogether it has been a fine achievement,
though abnormal conditions certainly helped
the enterprising people who purchased the
bones of the old Star. Whether the assess-
ment of goodwill at almost a quarter oi a
million is a fair load for the business to
carry only the future can tell —conditions
are still no more normal in newspaper pro-
duction than in almost any other business.
All that can be said definitely is that the
market, by quoting the shares at two or
three shillings above par, is prepared to pay
even more for goodwill , than the diroctois
valuation.
* • * * *
Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd., which runs the Hotel Sydney :
Loss. Deficit. Profit. Deficit.
Apl., ’14.. £ll5l £3089 Oct., 17.. £176 £7,833
Oct., -14.. 1473 4562 Apl., 18. . 2546 5,287
Apl, ’15.. 1072 5634 Oct., ’lB.. 2623 2,664
oft., ’15.. 1844 7478 Apl., ’19.. 1447 1,217
Apl ’l6. . 584 81)62 Reserves.
Oct., ’16.. 831 8893 Oct., ’19.. 7297 6,080
Profit. Apl., ’20.. 8027 14,1.0/
Apl., ’17.. 884 8009 Oct., ’20.. 7374 31.481
Arrears of prof. divs. met.
, —Dividends—,,
Pref. Old. To Re- Re-
Profit lOp.e. 8 p.e. serves, serves.
Apl-,’21.. £9057 £2619 £6OO £5838 1
Re-imbursement to vendors, £2524 j £ 1
Additional divs. to ordinaries, £3200 J
The affairs of this co. are no longer of much
interest to investors outside the group who
follow the Rickard ventures. Its paid capi-
tal is £54,905,' in 39,906.8 p.c. prefs. and
15,000 ordinaries ; and a number of the prefs.
and all the ordinaries used to be held by
Arthur Rickard and Co. Last year the
Rickard Extended Co. offered Hotel Sydney
holders two of its 74 p.c. cum. prefs. for each
hotel pref. (8 p.c. cumulative, but eligible for
10 p.c. if profits permit), the purchase price
including rights to deferred divs. Practi-
cally all Hotel Sydney shareholders agreed,
so Central Railway Palace Buildings is now
almost wholly a Rickard subsidiary, and in-
terest in its doings is confined to those who
have an eye on that mostly land-dealing con-
cern. The somewhat amazing entries at the
tail-end of the table above —the clearance ot
arrears of pref. divs., the refund to vendors
who had guaranteed payment of pref. divs. in
the early stages, and 84 years’ divs. paid on
the ordinaries —all these happenings must be
cosidered in conjunction with the acquisition
by Rickard’s Extended and the backing that
concern has given its new subsidiary. .
Considered independently of recent happen-
ings, the Hotel Sydney has had a somewhat
remarkable career. Ample capital could not
be found at the beginning, and by the time
construction had been completed very large
outside liabilities had been incurred. But
having, after a struggle, secured a liquor
license, the Hotel Sydney began to go well,
and lately lias been doing handsomely. After
providing for taxes and setting £lllO aside
for depreciation and sinking fund (the
property is leasehold) a net profit of £9ooi
was disclosed. That was sufficient to
pay prefs. their maximum 10 p.c. p.a. and
leave 94 p.c. on the £15,000 of ordi-
nary capital. Whether such performances
can be maintained depends on many things —
the seasons, the general financial condition of
N. S. Wales, and, above all, efficient manage-
ment. Until recently the co. made no effort
to pay arrears of pref. divs.; the large out-
side debts were very properly engaging the
attention of the directors. Since its absorp-
tion by Arthur Rickard Extended, however,
not only have the arrears of divs. been met,
but plums have been extracted for the ordi-
nary interests. At the latest balance this
change had taken place in the liquid position
compared with 12 months ago find five years
previously, when liabilities were at about
their zenith: — > 9l
Apl., 16. Oct., 20. Apl., 21.
Debentures .. ..£20,000 -..-.‘non
Mortgages .. .. 25,000 15.000 1--000
Overdraft .. 7,723 is’iii',
Other debts . . . . 4,799 *- 107 18 ’ 16 '
Total liabilities . . £57.522 £27,034. £40,514
Liquid assets.. .. 2.220 B.BBs
Excess liabilities .. £55,302 £18,140 £32,568
The half’s pref. div., the refund to the ven-
dors and the retrospective ordinary divs.
together called fir £8948, making the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquid assets
£41511. The payment of arrears ot divs.
and’ current divs. has thus put the liquid posi-
tion back £23,000-odd. But the -parent co.
has had nearly all of it. * *
Shortland Islands Plantations,
Ltd.- —This British Solomon enterprise closed
its tenth vear in January, and though it
has had Burns-Philp influence to help it
along', its progress has not been rapid. u>
two estates the co. holds 19,203 acres, but
only 1511 acres are planted, and 418 moie
will have to come under cultivation before
freehold rights are fully secured. Parly
plantings are, however, assisting nowadays,
189 tons copra were produced bist year,, tl»e
net proceeds therefrom being £2<93. M‘ 1S
went to assist development, together witu
£2265 of fresh capital got in. Bmce
January a further £lOOO has been collected
from shareholders. _ The 500 £lOO shares
are now called to £79 7s. each *
“Old Banker”: There has been a general
tendency since the war _ for British and
foreign banks to extend into fields outside
their home territories. The F.B.A. policy
in this direction was well known for some
considerable time prior to the war, and
while their banking institutions penetrate
into outside countries to suck the honey
from the foreign flower, they show their
reciprocity by prohibiting any foreign hank
establishing itself in the States. I routing
by the experience of their big neighbor, ( ana-
dian institutions are now widely extending
their activities to foreign fields, including
many Eurooean centres of trade, the 'Vest
Indies, Central and South America, the
total foreign branches numbering 159. Ke-
ports furnished indicate that the foreign
activities have been most helpful to Can-
adian trade, and, moreover, the venture has
been so highly profitable that the atlas is
being searched with a view to further
invasions. These movements are inter-
esting from the Australian point ot
view, and indicate a path which may
lead to the opening up of pastures where
many of our institutions could browse.
Prior to tb(> ’eighties Australian-owned
banks used to regard their branches outside
their home State and in Maoriland almost
as foreign enterprises. Since Federation there
has been continuous expansion by all the
bigger institutions over the whole continent
and to Maoriland, until now the limit has
been almost reached in the matter of branches.
Our banks, so far as further expansion is
concerned, now resemble a plant that has
become root-bound in the pot. "Why should
not the Australian banks go north, as some
of our insurance cos. have done? Asia, with
millions of mouths to feed, seems to be the
natural market for the bulk of our produc-
tion. During the war our trade extended
right through the northern islands, India.
China and Japan. All through the banks
allowed their foreign agents to handle the
resultant business, find it was performed
in a rather perfunctory manner at times.
The Far North opens up a vast field for
profitable banking expansion. The Federal
Government recently appointed a Trade Com-
missioner for the “East,” and his mission
would be made much easier if he had an
Australian bank to assist him. #
Vic. Saving's Bank Commissioners will in
future carry the fire risks on all buildings
upon which they have made advances. Pre-
miums hitherto paid to insurance cos. will
be collected by the bank after Sept. 30.
When the Bank’s Act was amended last
year, chieflv to increase the house-property
jimit to £BOO. the little clause regarding in-
surance was sandwiched in between other
provisions and attracted little notice. The
War Service Homes Commission has had its
own insurance branch since its inception.
* •* * *
Mount Cuthbert makes no headway. To its
long list of losses it adds another of £l4, <39
for the six months ended February _S.
Percy Piggott, as losses mount up, gets more
and more laconic. No wonder, when he is
faced with a list of liabilities like this: —
Debentures . . • • • • A
Deferred creditors . . . ■ , 17.552
Sundry creditors . . • .
Bank debits .. . • • • 104,.>..8
Total .. £203.508
On the other side of the slate copper stands
at £94,594, and stocks and sundry debtors
make up roughly £21,000, leaving a huge
shortage to be made good whenever copper
again limps to the pay point. There are


If your house is wired for clectrfcitr, and von ire
having trouble with your door-bell because' of ex-
hausted batteries, yon are being annoyed medlcsslv
The famous little Wayne Bel! Hinging Transformer
Will ring your door-bells with (he same current that
lights your house, and will need no furl her attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulbiirn Street Svd-
ney : and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets
Melbourne. — Advt. pj
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, eic.. of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
4o per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydnov.
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. i:i
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe is the most reliable and at
the same time the cheapest water conduit on the
market. For that reason it is only commonsense to
instal it, whether it be for city or town supplies,
for irrigation, private use, or for conveying almost
any kind of manufacturing fluids, from brine to
fruit pulp, tan liquors or mine culm. Wood Pipe
has a lf> to 20 per cent, greater flow than metal, m il
may be both installed and maintained at a fraction of
the co t. The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. —Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77- Castlcrcngii
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Oltice ; tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Challis Bouse, Marlin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Cauves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blu>t
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. lie-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* -X- * *
“1921 Models” —-“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 3G- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oerlling'o
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 205 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
* * * »
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
■* ♦ * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing. 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
Turn Your Earnings into Capital by investing in a
WICHITA MOTOR TRUCK
The Wichita chassis is built for endurance and its endurance is abundantly testified to by
users in 83 countries, including Australia.
Before you decide listen to what the Wichita has to say for itself.
HIGHEST QUALITY. LOWEST PRICES.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY.
Red, X -j— Trams Stop at Door.
two sets of bonds, one lot of £55,500 issued
when times were bright, and £25,000 of pr-or
lien stock. Against these are mine and plant
set out in the balance-sheet as having cost
£286,500. The worth of the plant is just
what the mine makes it, so to see if the pro-
perty is deserving of rescue work reserves
of ore have to be reckoned up. These total
193,500 tons, containing 13,245 tons copper.
What they will realise in North Queensland
depends on the world’s markets and on what
labor will let the metal be won for. Nearly
all the ore in sight is at shallow depth, so
costs would not be heavy were it not for
the Bolshie factor. Good developments in the
Orphan entitle the Board to do something
heroic, especially at a time when money is
tight, as then reconstructions can be fixed up
cheaply. The prior-right debenture holders
are not likely to give way very much, but
why should not the old debenture holders
and the shareholders put their goods into the
same basket, reduce capital and make a fresh
start after writing everything down to bed-
rock? A good body of call-payers would be
conserved to the co., the debenture load
would be lightened, and the concern once
again got. ship-shape. Then, when the tide
turned in the metal market, there would be
a chance of salving something. On the pre-
stmt balance-sheet there is not much to in-
duce the shareholder to pav (‘alls for the
benefit of debenture-holders and other
creditors.
Two little banking shows which are
bravely keeping their heads above water
in a rough sea are the Launceston Bank of
Savings, established in 1835, and the Hobart
Savings Bank, which started 10 years later.
The trustees would not agree to an amal-
gamation scheme when the Commonwealth
took over certain States’ interests. The
Speck in recent years has been invaded by
the big banks of the mainland, and the locally-
owned institutions have felt the competi-
tion severely, and been forced or induced
to amalgamate with one or other of the in-
vaders The pinch was first felt when the
Commonwealth Bank arrived with its sav-
ings bank department. Then the State sav-
ings Bank of the State amalgamated with
the Federal institution. Later on, the
National Tas. felt the offensive, and it fell
on the neck of the Commercial of Aus.,
which had previously acted as the National’s
agent on the mainland. Later still, the
Commercial of Tas. so'd right out to the
E., S. and A. How long can the two old
savings banks swim on without assistance?
To attract funds they are paying 4 p.c. on
deposits, and, of course, ndministratmn costs
are heavier nowadays. The two old insti-
tutions together hold about 2?. millions of
deposits, and tbe’r profits have for many
years been trifling.
* * # *
From an authority on the subject:—
In view of the early consideration by the Federal
Parliament of Item No. 397 of the tariff schedule,
importers of explosives from S’Africa are putting up
a. strenuous fight for a reduction of the duties pro-
posed. Their main argument is that the Interstate
Commission in 1915 found in favor of allowing the
products of S’African black labor into the Common-
wealth free of duty. The Commission was of opinion
that the Australian factory was not at that time
a genuine attempt to establish the explosives in-
dustry in Australia. Despite this recommendation
Die duty of 5 p.c. which was being collected was
retained. At that time the Australian factory was
not in a position to supply more than onc-tweuticth
of local requirements, but under the abnormal pro-
tection granted by war-time conditions it developed
so rapidly that it can now supply 80 p.c. of the
Commonwealth requirements of gelatine explosives,
and the whole requirements of coal-getting explo-
sives. Consequently the six-year-old report of the
interstate Commission does not now apply.
The destructive competition of black labor tan be,
best shown by'figures. Take, for instance, the only
S’African explosive on the N. S. "Wales “permitted
list.” This explosive, ligdynite, comes under the
heading of “coal getters.” Compare the price of
this explosive with the Australian factory’s cheapest
coal-getter, Viking Powder No. 1 —
Sydney price Viking Powder No. 1 £3 0 9 per case
Sydney price ligdynite.. .. 2 8- 0 „ ~
Difference in favor of ligdynite 012 9 „ ~
The Australian factory is not asking for a pro-
hibitive duty, but one that will bring- about more
equitable competition. The duty, asked for is a fur-
ther 20 p.c. ad valorem, which should increase the
price of ligdynite by Bs. lOd. per case, still leaving
a balance of about 3s. per case in its favor. Other
coal-getters from the Australian factor}- run as high
as £ 3 ss. 3d. per case.
Viking Powder No. 1 consists of 56 p.c. nitrate of
ammonia, almost exclusively produced in Norway,
On this the Commonwealth levies 15 p.c. ad
■valorem duty, which represents a charge of
84 p.c. on the Australian manufactured ex-
plosive. Tlie ingredient enters S'Africa free of
duty. But . the S’African supporters consider
that their explosive should come in with no more
than 5 p.c. duty to compete against an explosive of
Australian manufacture inflicted with an 84 p.c. duty
and supporting white Australian labor that receives
£4 Bs. per week, against the £1 per week paid in
S’Africa for exactly similar work. The Australian
cost of the ingredients only of the above-mentioned
two explosives is: Ligdynite, 17s. Id. per case:
Viking Powder No. 1, £1 2s. lOd. per case. S’Africa
can manufacture the former with black labor, pay
freight, insurance and landing charges, duty, carry
a cover of more than 124 p.c. for profit and amortiza-
tion, and still sell for 12s. 9d. per case less than
Viking Powder No. 1, which carries the cost of
manufacture and a cover of less than 10 p.c. for profit
and depreciation of factory.
John Bull is becoming almost as doubtful
of his future as a zinc-producer as The
Bulletin has been all along. The industry
is at present very depressed, owing to high
production costs. There is no difficulty in
procuring concentrates; the British Govern-
ment contract with the Broken Hill group
assures ore supplies, but the Imperial Min-
eral Resources Bureau, in a volume dealing
with zinc, declares that “it is questionable
whether a big smelting industry could be
built up in England until conditions are
much more favorable” as regards labor and
power. Merely pre-war conditions are no
good ; at any rate, under them the business
was an expensive failure, as the Sulphide
Corporation very well knows.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) last year got £34(5,298
from gold, but 498,849 of it represented pre-
mium. Investments added nearly £7OOO,
making the year’s total revenue £353,182.
Working exes., etc., took £113,854, and of
the year’s profit shareholders received
£65,000, taxes took £15,500, and develop-
ment and depreciation £32,628. There was
a balance of £726; added to the previous
year’s carry-forward, this put £9412 to
credit of I’, and L. account. The balance-
sheet showed liquid assets as follows: cash
and bullion, £72,474: loans, £11,940; 30 or
so investments (mostly rail, oil and mining
stocks), £126,797 (book value) ; stores,
£41,091; and sundry debtors, £30,492.
Against this array of liquid assets there were
liabilities of only £19,140. As usual, chair-
man F. A. Govett had much to say concern-
ing the hardships producers are experiencing.
Last year’s working costs ran out at 325. Od.
per ton, the “devastating wages award and
other matters” having added 45., which means
an additional £36,000 on output on the
present scale of 170,000 tons p.a. With
gold at par (85s. per oz.) Govett calculates
that, allowing for ss. loss in residues, it
would not pay to treat ore of a value less than
425. per ton. Ivanhoe’s average grade is
345., though last year, owing to 'the shortage
and inefficiency of labor, g.-m. Jack McDer-
mott went in pursuit of material of higher
grade than the average. But owing to the
exceptional prices got by the Australian Gold
Producers’ Association, Ivanhoe made even
31s. stulf show a profit. The co. averaged
11s. per ton from premium. Everything de-
pends on the behavior of the premium on gold
and the maintenance of values in Ivanhoe’s
richer stopes. Govett is optimistic concern-
ing the premium ; he places the world’s pro-
duction of gold nowadays at about 70
millions per annum compared with the pre-
war 93 millions, and anticipates that, unless
new rich fields are discovered, high costs will
continue to reduce present production by
curtailing operations in old mines whose
grade of ore is dwindling and becoming un-
payable.
It seems that Bob Turner’s Riverina
South (W.A.) is not dead, but merely gasp-
ing. It has as “supervisor” Mick Williams,
and as manager Dick Lawn, who have re-in-
troduced the old cheery twang into reports.
The change - in the show comes from what
has been happening in the north end of the
claim. At the surface is 2500 tons of ore
worth 565. per ton, but the real trouble
with the mine has been that while there has
been some stone of fair quality, the quan-
tity has been too small to keep things mov-
ing. Mick and Dick sent in a report on
April 1 which says that 375 ft. of driving
has been done. For 243 ft. in the north end
the reef runs from 3ft. to sft., the ore
sampling from 50s. to 80s. per ton. Pros-
pects of pay-ore ahead are talked about, but
the old miner knows that only the pick can
definitely establish values. There is no word
about total reserves; and the eo.’s advisers
consider that, in the best interests of share-
holders, the mine should be properly opened
up to keep the battery running continuously.
That has always been the policy from the
days of Dyason down, so, the trouble has
been with the mine, not with intentions.
Debts are in the vicinity of £lO,OOO, winch
includes the old £6OOO of debentures floated
before the first hopes had wilted.
Kalgurli shareholders in London have en-
dorsed the Board’s recommendation to real-
ise on the co.’s Westralian assets. Some
holders are disappointed at the directors’
hint that they may be asked later on to
approve of taking up a new property. The
co. has already dropped £5OOO in testing
alluvial gold-areas in Peru, and these parti-
cular holders prefer the cash to being dragged
into some fresh speculation. The co. has
about 12s. 6d. per share in liquid assets,
besides which something will come from the
treatment of the payable ore still in the
mine. .It is, of course, impossible to esti-
mate the probable value of the machinery
and plant until they go under the auctioneer’s
hammer.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) treated a larger
tonnage and got more gold last year than
for the previous 12 months, despite strikes
and labor shortage. Working exes, at 365.
were up 2s. 10d„ but revenue benefited from
£87,200 of gold premium and a profit of
£65,600 resulted. Divs. totalling ss. per
share were distributed in place of 2s. for
the previous year. Ore reserves amount to
637,300 tons, averaging 9dwt., showing a
falling off in both quantity and value, due
to the small amount of development work
done and to a large proportion of the ore
treated last year being drawn from the rich
No. 1 lode..
At Gt. Boulder (W.A.) a reduction in
the monthly output of gold must soon be
(“xpeeted. With every other big producer
going to pieces, and no new big fields being
opened up, Westralia threatens to become
a country of small mines.
One by one the few remaining failures
on Hampton Plains are passing away, the
latest being Mutooroo East. Floated in the
early part of last year, this delusion was
declared to be a really good thing, and
shares quickly rose from 2s. to over 10s. A
Bulletin man who inspected the show could
find nothing to justify the scrip being quoted
at its printing-cost, and the market very
soon came to the same conclusion.
Lass o' Gowric (W.A.) has turned down
the Nature’s Reward lease in the St. Ives
district. Had the Board looked harder the
option would never have been taken.
R. -V Varden, manager of the Brown Hill
in 1895, and 20 years later boss of the
Boulder Perseverance, died in England last
month.
Dredges for Larut's two kittens, Tupjai and
Kota, are nearly completed, and production
should begin on both shows early next year.
Instead of the estimated £40,000, it looks as
if each dredge will have cost £55,000 by the
time steam is up. To finance tin* purchase
each of the twin-cos. issued 50,000 new £1
shares in November last. Both have been
tilling in tirin' with sluicing plants. Tupai’s
two years’ sluicing gave 224 tons tin oxide
from 643,000 e. yd., and though last year’s
work showed a profit of £551 after meeting
all office exes., etc., manager John Cameron
came to the conclusion in December last that
the plant was merely spoiling good dre< lging
ground. So sluicing has ceased and the plant
is to be sold. The co. has approximately
18 million c. yards in the ground now held:
4 million yards are expected to go a lb., a
similar quantity fib., and about 10 millions
two-thirds of a lb. Kota’s sluicing venture
proved disastrous; its 12;n. pumping plant
did not get beyond the opening-up stage.
When it had been put into position a flood
submerged it. After several weeks of pump-
ing it was again got into running order, but
its luck was still out; it bottomed on a
water-race, with a flow which would have
taken 90 p.c. of the available power to check.
Just then a convenient buyer turned up and
the plant was sold for £20.000. Meantime
its flounderings had swallowed £8862 of
Kota’s cash. A year ago Kota was stated
to have 17 million yards available, 8’ millions
going a pound, and the balance two-thirds of
a pound. Since then apparently 40 acres
more have been acquired, but the estimated
amount of dredging material therein is not
disclosed.
* •* •>;.
It is difficult not to believe that Bendigo
Amalgamated is slipping back under present
yields. Officially, Carlisle is giving a large
tonnage of profitable ore, chiefly from the
1235 ft. and 1264 ft. stopes; yet the run of
the mine was recently only 5.9dwt., which
is poor stuff Unity is over the 5-]dwt.
average, and as the south-end spurs are
diminishing in size those between the 1145 ft.
and 1255 ft. levels are to be tested, Con-
stellation is now under the sdwt. mark, in-
stead of being a 30dwt. producer. So low
is the general grade of the ore handled that
Constellation drops into third place among
the mines yielding an appreciable tonnage
of ore. Gold in the Hercules has taken
to itself wines, and thc-e is nothing to gild
the lily at either the Nelson or the Monu-
ment shafts. Meantime Teddv Dyason has
joined the Melbourne Stock Exchange.
* * * *
Araluen Redbank's dredge has just churned
out a sixpenny for shareholders. Since the
Araluen Valley Co. passed its machine over
on tribute, the Redbank plant has been the
only one working for a co. in this old
southern N. S. Wales ground. In pre-war
years there were eight bucket-dredges in
operation, and for 1914 2 208 625 c. yd. gave
11,3100 z. gold worth £42,750. Last year
the Araluen, Vic. Araluen and Araluen Red-
bank together treated only 411.300yd5. for
24190 z. worth £9465. Redbank is, how-
ever, still able to squeeze a profit out of
ground which the old miner had worked.
* ? a :‘ 5 . re centl,y acquired two new leases
}. , which it hopes to prolong its battle with
high costs for another four or five years.
The co. which iu March took over the
\ alia gold and arsenic mines, X. S. Wales
Xorth < oast, has been getting that show into
trim with the 2000 contribs. which were
offeied and fully subscribed. Meantime odd
parcels have been despatched the 1000 miles
to Leggos Bendigo works, results c-loselv
approximating the general sampling by the
old syndicate Thirty-two tons concentrates
shipped in April went almost 42 p.c. arsenic
and lo.jdwt. gold to the ton, approximately
three tons ore giving one ton concentrates.
pipped to date has brought about
ilo 10s. per ton. Owing to the amount of
preliminary work necessary, precise costs
of production are not yet ascertainable, but
tie directors talk of ‘‘a very prosperous
future from handling the good tonnage o
high-grade stun in sight, so long as the demand
tor arsenic is maintained. Valla’s greatest
bother is bagging, carting and shipping to
Bendigo; it means about £3 per ton con-
centrates. The directors are trying to in-
duce Leggo’s to erect treatment works at
the mine.
Hillgrove (N.S.W.) is fast fading. No
new ore bodies have been unearthed for
some years, and treatment of tailings last
year gave more than twice as much gold as
was got from new ore raised. Last year
Xcw Lakers (reck crushed 70 tons for
770 z„ hut won 1740 z. from 014 tons tails
The co. has cried enough, and is willing to
scU out for £3319. The miners offered
£2.>00, but the co. refuses to cut its price.
L a purchaser docs not soon turn up the
auctioneer is to he called in, and another
once-aetive field will become a memory.


ANOTHER CRISIS IN ENGLAND.
Cricket overshadows every other subject of importance in England just now. One English writer declared before the second Test match that an English victory was “almost a national matter."
LEADER OF DEPUTATION: “Mr. Lloyd George, we have come to ask you to put aside the puny matters that are now absorbing you and proclaim a day of national prayer for the recovery of English cricket.”


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.H.G., 11.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner. Janies Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, John
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
W. ChorleySCo.Ltd.
a
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
LADIES’ 8
CENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JDDHPORES
j*
315 George St.
SYDNEY.
or
anrJ Dinner?® 1
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
sri
ffnirnr
~ N ;
a wrr ;
II
'-•r
' I <
31*
mi
L-V
liOil a.
1 SLICE
pL U G
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH”
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney. Agents. [4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Australia lost one oi the truest of its
"bush poets” when G. Herbert Gibson
< “lronbark”) died at Lindfield (Sydney) on
Saturday. As soon as there was a Bulle-
tin "lronbark” began writing verse for it,
and, though liis output was never large, lie
made writing Bulletin verse a good habit,
for nearly .40 years. Every bush-hut knows
“My Mate Bill”—that was an early one.
Years ago he published a collection called
“lronbark Chips,” and this he followed six
or seven years ago with “lronbark Splin-
ters.” Whatever he wrote was, like the man,
good-tempered find full of quiet humor, which
is the real bush humor. And nobody knew
the bush better. After spending some years
at station-work he joined the N.S.W. Lands
Department, and for many years until his
retirement eight or 10 years back lie tra-
velled over the country as Inspector of
Crown Land Offices. Then he settled down
with his family (he married late in life) on
10 acres of bushland at Lindfield, and he
was happy am on" his big trees till the end,
which came at 75.
Clem Govett, of Kyneton (Vic.), long-
before the days of motor-cars in Australia,
stuck an engine on an old carriage-body and
had the first horseless ride in that very
horsey district.
He went as if
all the devils
were after him
—-and ended up
in two feet of
water, with a
length of bridge-
railing round
his neck.
E. ALLEN BOX, who lately left off being
Official Secretary for the Commonwealth
in Great Britain, and is now in these
parts pushing Anglo-Australian business
on his own account.
Within 10 months the N. S. Wales Assem-
bly has lost six of its 90 members —two by
resignation; the others by death. Bill
Ivearsley, who heard the last division-bell on
Sunday, had sat in the House for 10 years,
first for Northumberland and afterwards for
Newcastle. He was a miner from Stafford-
shire, a Methodist and, in earlier days at
least, a local preacher. Withal he was a
quiet, studious, benevolent man (he gave
half liis salarv away to ear-nippers of all
sorts and conditions), and the House could
have better spared a better politician.
Alfred Vaughan, who retires this month
-from the post of Government photo-litho-
grapher of S. Aus., is probably the only man
anywhere who ever saw two of liis sons
(Crawford and J. 11.) Premier and Attorney-
General at the same time. He has been in
the one department all through liis service,
which dates back to 1807, and still lias a
group photo he took with the Duke of Edin-
burgh in it. 11. A. Powell, who now becomes
head of the department at 50, has already
34 years of service. For about 20 of them
lie has also been secretary to S. A. Society
of Arts.
Bill Diuistan, who will endeavor to hold
Maranoa for Labor, •is a Victorian and a
big man in the A.W.F. Going west from
Ballarat, where every tenth inhabitant is a
Dunstan, he did a lot of prospecting in North-
ern Westraliu, before settling down in Adel-
aide as a union secretary. Then Queensland
called him, and he became secretary of the
Bananaland •branch of the bushworkers’
organisation, with a seat in the Leg. Council,
lie has had to resign the latter position, but
that won t worry Dunstan. He can easily
get it hack if he is beaten for Maranoa.
Bes des, seats in the Council are two a
penny in Queensland.
The twin brothers Creer, lieutenant-com-
manders R.A.N., have had a record associa-
tion in life. Sons
of an ex-mate of
the Sydney pilot
steamer Captain
(look, they went to
school together,
saw the Boxer re-
bellion ns cadets
in the China Ex-
pedition, joined the
merchant service
together, and finally
w o r k e d into the
navy as midshin-
men, since when
they have reached
promotion side by
side and rank for
rank.
JAMES FRASER.
Chief Railway
Commissioner
(N.S.W.), who
has been airing
evidence before the
Royal Commission
re the 1911 rail-
way employees'
strike.
Passed out on the Ascanius, en route to
the Cold Country, Tom Smith, general man-
ager in Australasia for the Distillers Co.,
Ltd., of Edinburgh. After 20 years of suc-
cessful work here he was on his way to
Scotland to give an account of his steward-
ship when the end came suddenly off the
coast of Africa. The big Scot, who had.
spent Ms early manhood at sea, was fit-
tingly consigned to Davy Jones’s locker.
Smith was a keen and popular golfer, and
more than once was runner-up for the
N.S.W. championship.
Prof. David, of Sydney, and rejtired-Prof.
Howchin, of Adelaide, start for the far in-
terior of South Aus. this week. David, who
is writing a book on Australian geology, has
a conscientious desire to examine for him-
self the alleged evidence on the Finke River
of long-past glacial action. With them goes
Captain S. A. White, whose hunts after
birds are gradually fitting him to be a com-
petent guide to any out-of-the-way part of
this continent.
When Governor Allardyce (Tas.) was
running the show in the Falkland
Islands he once went across to
Buenos Ayres. The British Con-
sul there offered to introduce him
to the president of the Argentine
Republic, hut thought it best to
sound the ground a bit first, as
Argentina still claims that the
Falklands belong to her dr jure.
The frigid reply he got was that
the * President was not aware of
the existence of any British Gov-
ernor of the Falklands, hut would be very
pleased to receive- Mr. Allardyce.
“Lex’s” view ox it: —
T. J. Ryan lias paid heavily and the lawyers have
profited for the second time because he is tempera-
mental. As Queensland Premier he talked a sort
of anarchy and consorted with anarchists, and the
Ilobart Mercury, which is •on the law-abiding side
of the fence when things are going its way politi-
cally, rebuked him. Consider the difference in the atti-
tude Ryan took up and that adopted by his fcllow-
Hibernian, Edward Carson, in similar circumstances.
Carson talked anarchy, though he did it before
instead of during the war. The London Nation
called him an anarchist. Some of the Ulster rank
and file whined, in effect, that such a charge was
preposterous in the case of one with >o much money.
But Carson never denied it. On the contrary, he
admitted the soft impeachment on public platforms,
and virtually said he would offend in the same -way
again if the Crown gave him similar provocation.
There is something admirable about such courage
and consistency, something of the quality which
makes Satan the most likeable character in “Paradise
Lost.” Mr. Ryan apparently wants to put himself
forward as a dual personality, which the Lloyd George
Government propagandist, W. Copeland Trimble, now
in Sydney, has been striving to make of Edward Car-
soil: he would like to be the Pirate Chief in Bris-
bane, and the Suburban Empire Patriot in Hobart.
It can't be done; and the sooner he finds it out the
worse it will be tor my profession.
Isaac llardcastle Palfreyman, who went
west lately at Hobart, aged SB, had probably
married more people in Tasmania than any
other two men. There was a legend that
he was so popular because each couple tied
up by him could get a pair of blankets free
from the fluff stores run by some of the
family. Isaac had about a dozen sons, and
gave them all names beginning with A, such
as. Aristides, Achilles, Athol and the like.
Borne of them have good business heads, in-
herited from the old man. One is the very
capable “Ach” —which stands for Achilles —
who was Henry Jones’s old partner, laid,
after helping him to form the various jam
cos., went into Malayan tin and made a pile.
Although they had a farm worth £.lOOO, the
old couple named Sheard, who were mur-
dered at Beaconsfield (Vic.), lived a miser-
able sort of life. Their 04 acres were offered
to the Closer Settlement Board for soldier
settlement four years ago, blit after looking
at th<* ramshackle place and the poor stock
the inspector turned it down. Sheard is
described as a decent, sturdy, friendly old
chap who didn’t ask for anybody’s sympathy.
Although 7a each, the only aim in life of
(he old couple was to sell out and betake
themselves to the Cold Country to die 1 there.
“Monuro" : Captain G. Fletcher organised
and controlled the A.I.F. post office in France.*
Prior to 191(i it had been run as a branch
of the British Army mail, with unsatisfactory
results, so Fletcher was given an open cheque
as to staffing, etc., and told to go ahead.
Owing to the frequency and violence with
which Bill and Jim changed their addresses
the A.I.F. mail was by long odds the most
difficult in France to handle, and the British
Government thought its organiser worth an
0.8. E. to take home with him. On his
return to Sydney Fletcher’s application for
a job in the mail branch was tinned down,
and he now occupies a perch in Sydney tele-
graph operating-room. Our mail branch is,
of course, perfection.
Owen Smyth, the most, lovable old fire-
brand who ever called his Maker to witness
that all his opponents are inspired by the
Devil, has gone to England again after spend-
ing three months in Adelaide, the scene of
liis activities for 40 years. The great speech
which he had planned to launch against all
disloyalists was barred by the canny Scots,
who did not want any highly controversial
matter at the friendly meeting of the Cale-
donian Society ; so Smyth just hired a hall,
let off liis fireworks and then moved on.
Recently an ex-soldier who enlisted in the
Great War at the age of 00-odd was men-
tioned ; but his service did not go beyond
Rabaul, and may be beaten by the record
of Joseph Andrew Armstrong. This ancient
assumed the military age of 43 years and five
months when he enlisted in October, 1015,
notwithstanding that he was born in 1852. He
got to France, hopped over when the time
came, and accumulated 12 wounds at Pozieres
in July, 1910. Thereafter he was for two
years a prisoner of war in Germany. He
is 09 now, and still nursing his war disa-
bilities.
Barnett Smith is to retire, at the age of
70, from the job of town-clerking the North
Sydney municipality, which has been his for
31 years. He was council clerk of St.
Leonards till that- borough, East St.
Leonards and Victoria were tied into one.
Besides being the oldest town clerk in N. S.
Wales, he will probably strike a record in
the recognition he is receiving from his coun-
cil. When he pulls out at the end of this
year he will take (if the proposal of the
aldermen goes through) a year’s holiday on
full pay, and subsequently receive a gratuity
of two weeks’ salary for each year of ser-
vice.
There is no go-slow about Leslie Read,
of. Calarie, near Forbes (N.S.W.). Only 14
years of age, he already possesses a plough
and horses, bought out of his own money:
and, contracting with the farmers in his
district, he has been making £6 per week.
Calarie is so proud of him that it is inviting
the whole of Australia to bring along a boy-
piloughman who can beat him.
An apparently good man gone wrong has
been pulled up with a jerk in Adelaide. R.
L. Eraser has been moving about in a naval
uniform collecting subscriptions for blinded
men, and butting in on Boy-Scout matters.
A whole lot of suspicious circumstances led
to Ins arrest, when lie frankly admitted him-
selt a fraud, living on the money he col-
lected. and owned up to having passed in
\ ic. and N.S.W, as (variously) Kingston,
Nelson, Cameron, McPherson and McKenzie.
I.ut lie protested that his D.C.M., Belgian
decoration and naval-service stars are his
own and genuinely earned; and the police
saw no reason lo doubt it. The Port Adel-
aide S.M. called liis conduct shocking, bur
in view of Ins past let him off with a month.
Barrister J. R. MACEARLAN, K.C., who
led in the cane for T. J. Bunn, K.C.,
versus Hobart Mercury.
Ronald MoJvt*r, tin* new Inspector-General
of Vic. Prisons, lias struck u heap of trouble
already. First, there was the suicide of
the Governor of Melbourne -Gaol because lie
was worried over tin* custody of a man
accused of murder. Then Vincent Hyndes,
who helped himself to the It.S.S.I.L.A.’s
funds by forgery and uttjering, managed to
get hold of a revolver and turn it on himself
in the dock. Fortunately the old thing didn’t
go off. Finally, a prisoner in Melbourne
Gaol, one Abromovitz, secured some poison
and got sick enough to obtain a shift to the
city hospital.
Dr. Lang was recalled the other day by
the death at Grafton (N.S.W.) of John
(Mark Thomson. IL* was one of the doctor’s
immigrants, having come from Ayrshire in
tin* Duke of Portland at the end of 1837.
Thomson, who was 90 when he passed out,
had a recollection of the mother of Dr. Lang,
too: in her old age a Government man used
to wheel her about in a barrow. But by
that time the old lady had had a vault built
and got her coffin ready.
To perpetuate the memory of William
Farrer, whose work as a.eerealist has been
worth millions to Australia, the Vic. Royal
Agricultural Society has approved of the
idea of a Farrer Institute of Research, and
it is proposed to beat up an inter-State con-
ference to draft a scheme. It has been
mentioned that a bag of wheat from each of
the 24,000 Vie. wheatgrowers who have bene-
fited by the Federation variety, bred by
Farrer, would give the memorial institu-
tion a good start.
Dr. J. M. Creed on an old friend: —
Admiral Cresweil, whose work on the Naval Board
was mentioned frequently during the Cockatoo Dock
inquiry, had a great deal more experience than
might be expected from one whom this country
knew only as commander first of the S. Australian
gunboat Protector and then of the Queensland “fleet."
Actually he first came to Australia as a cadet in an
early flying squadron, commanded by Admiral Horn-
by. When a sub-lieutenant he was appointed to
a ship on the China station, and shortly after was
seriously wounded in a boat engagement with Chinese
pirates. He behaved so meritoriously that he was
promoted to full lieutenant and appointed to H.M.S.
Undaunted, then the flagship on the Indian station.
Later he applied for a change to H.M.S. London,
then stationed at Zanzibar for the suppression of the
East African slave trade. On one occasion, in the
face of superior numbers, he attacked and destroyed
a slave depflt some distance inland. Several of his
men were wounded, one so seriously that Cresweil
had to carry him on his back nearly two miles to
the boat. For his conduct in this action he received
a letter of thanks from the Foreign Office, and also
the special approval of the Admiralty. Disabled
by malaria, he was ordered to England, and on
recovery retired from the Navy with the rank of
lieutenant, commuting his pension and coming to
Australia to become a squatter. When in the Northern
Territory he was asked to join the S.A. gunboat
Protector. In re’ation to his wound by pirates,
years afterwards I removed a slug which formed
part of the charge fired at him. It was about the
size of a shilling, three-eighths of an inch thick, and
made of zinc.
THE SPEOTRE AT THE FEAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes lias a busy time ahead —-on Monday
Agent-Generals’ luncheon; Tuesday, Australian and
M.L. Luncheon Club’s luncheon; Thursday, Press
luncheon; Friday, Lady Markham’s dinner; 20tii,
Producers’ Association luncheon; 22nd. Canadian
Premier’s luncheon.; 24th, Parliamentary Associa-
tion’s dinner; 27th, Mrs. Chun hill’s dinner. On
the 29th he will dine with the Prince ol Wales.” —
Cable.
They bade him to the splendid feast.
He went with glad expectancy.
Fine viands from the West and East
Were spread for William Hughes to see.
lie looked on them, but did he reach
A hand to touch the hot-house peach
A spectral claw would intervene —
A claw b\ others’ eyes unseen.
He sunned him in a ducal smile,
Was bidden to a prince’s fare ;
Hut did the chicken him begin I -
A thing unmarked by others there
Did whisper at his dexter ear,
And shrank he from the meat in fear.
U>, of lh> feast, in that high place
Partook lie only of the grace!
No matter how lie hungered, nor
How splendidly the meal was spread,
The things he hail a longing for
Were barred him by the spectre dread.
It struck the oyster from his lip ;
It froze the soup when lie would dip.
Where’er he dines sits darkly screened
Dyspepsy, his familiar fiend.
VICTORIA.
DINO.


* :■ :
'
A
m
O
■mm*
<pP
1*
%
■
.
*
V
p
II
M—ll
HI
>4V '
otce
dm
QX.D &t>.O.£UUO
t*
Unique range
of Models.
If
Obtainable
of all
Tobacconists
THE PIPE THAT GIVES
DEPENDABLE SERVICE


A
Peapes' Concession on Half-Hose
Available for 10 Days only.
The half-hose quoted here are of British manufacture and
ALL WOOL. They are offered at these concession prices
just when the need for wanner Winter socks becomes
evident.
At these prices a speedy clearance is assured. Early order-
ing is therefore recommended.
1. Black Cashmere 2 -Hose 5/6, now 4/9
2. Black Cashmere *-Hose 7/6, now 6/6
3. Extra Quality Cashmere £-Hose 9/6,
now 7/6
PE ALES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IP YOU SUFFER AFTER EATING
take two or three tablets of Bisurated Mag-
nesia (or a little of the powder) with a
sip of water. This quickly and safely neu-
tralises the harmful acid, stops the food fer-
mentation, and gives your stomach a chance
to proceed with its work in a painless, nor-
mal manner. Thousands of people know
from their own experience that Bisurated
Magnesia is the one thing that helps them—
that it enables them to eat hearty meals of
the good things they like without worrying
about after effects. Bisurated Magnesia is
obtainable at any good chemist’s, and if taken
as directed it will quickly rid sufferers from
all trace of digestive pain, and enable them
to eat hearty meals of the things they like
without fear of consequent discomfort. It’s
no good experimenting, though: you need
Bisurated Magnesia, and that's what you’ll
get if you see the additional trade-mark word
“Bismag” on the package when buying,—
A DVT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management 1 Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER.
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
A LIKELY STORY.
MRS. NEWLY-WRICH : “And do you mean to
tell me that you was in your last place-
without a break for ten yearn?"
JOBLESS DOMESTIC: “Yes, mum."
Mrs. N.-W.: “An' trot did yer nay the dinner-
service 'teas made of? Shell-proof
harm or, I suppose! It must hare been."
"Bat” : We were standing in the poreli of
a big Coll ins-street building, watching the
antics of the rain dodgers, when a well-
dressed young woman who had been stand-
ing near us moved out to the entrance,
frowned at the sky, hastily put up her um-
brella and started off. As her brolly opened
over her head a couple of teaspoons and a
small fork clattered on to the pavement.
There was just a flicker of hesitation, and
then she walked on. We had started to
depute each other to gather up the lady’s
goods for her when an old chap next me
chuckled and drew our attention to a notice
on the wall: “Blank Tea Room—Nth
Floor.”
“Fido”: In Swanston-street the other
afternoon a beautiful car, swinging round the
corner into Flinders-street, ran over a small
brown dog. The car pulled up in response
to a public outcry, the driver imagining he
had passed over a child. A tall, shabby man
was bending over the deceased tyke, mourning-
like the mother bunyip for her young. The
motorist was sympathetic, but pointed out
that the dog was on his wrong side, and was
guilty of other contributory negligence.
However, if a couple of pounds would help to
heal the thin man’s hurt (£2 produced) here
it was! The thin man descended upon the
money, and the motorist escaped. “Garn, you
was a mug!” said a bystander. ‘‘Why didn’t
you stick the toff for a fiverV” The thin
man had now abandoned the corpse. "It’s
all right,” said he. "I never saw the dog
before in my life.”
* * * *
“General Practitioner”: The law regard-
ing the use of the prefix "doctor” requires a
deal of alteration in order to prevent the
title being exploited by those who haven’t the
shadow of a right to adopt it. In N. S.
Wales there is, apparently, no legal bar
against an individual .setting up in practice,
and putting "Doctor of Mental Science” or
“Doctor of Optics” on his plate. Unless he
puts “Doctor of Medicine” he cannot be
fined. About a year ago, in Mudgee, a man
hung out a sign on which he called him-
self a “Doctor of Optometry.” He was
hauled up and fined £5O. He appealed
against the decision, and a higher Court
quashed the conviction. Not only has the
gentleman resumed the practice of his
specialty, but now he calls himself the only
Doctor of Optics recognised by the High
Court of Australia!
"Tin Hat”: If there’s anything in specu-
lating while your luck is in, -a motorist of
Preston (Vic.) should rush off orders for
tickets in all the sweeps he can discover.
He was driving his car through the opened
railway-gates at Clifton Hill when a
train smashed through, hit. the motor,
carried it along and ground it into a mass
of wreckage before the engine-driver could
pull up. As the horrified crowd raced for
the front of the train, a begrimed motorist
crawled from under the engine—uninjured
except for a few scratches on the face. He
declined the proffered services of a doctor
and walked off home with a friend, while
the remains of a pair of railway gates and
a motor-car were picked out piece by piece
from under the engine.
“Xmike”: The murder of an old couple
at Beaconsfield (Vic.) lias been responsible
for some queer outbreaks in the Melbourne
press. The staid morning papers printed
photos of the victims’ late residence with
a prominent "X” over the room where the
corpses were found. The evening Herald,
more assiduous in providing details for those
who can’t read, turned its camera on to
various aspects of the tragedy, including
close-ups of the black trackers hunched up
in macintoshes with their noses to the trail.
A weekly, usually devoted to powder-puff
topics, went further. The old couple’s lied,
with a certain utensil posed in the fore-
ground, held pride of interest, with a study
of the bloodstained bootmark on the floor
of the shack. As for the descriptive re-
porters, they gave free rein to their specula-
tions, with results that were embarrassing,
and even threatening, to several innocent
people. In the first place they furnished
a description of an alleged suspect: with a
large red moustache and one eye missing,
whereupon gentlemen with the vermilion
trimmings and “something queer about the
eyes” (to quote one writer) became un-
popular for 50 miles around. At the Flin-
ders-street station the other night a poor
devil with a soiled appearance was handed
over to a bobby with a jostling crowd around
him, only to give a perfectly satisfactory
account of himself. Our bellow press has
a lot to answer for.
* * * *
“Emsee” : Among the easily-mobile weapons
of destruction used on either side in the
war the Stokes gun stood alone as the most
efficient distributor of wholesale hell at
close quarters. The effective bursting-area
of its shells was anything up to 100 square
yards, and as it was possible to have eight
shells from one gun in the air at one time
the moral and physi-
cal effect on Fritz left
nothing to be desired.
Early in 19J.6 the Hun
set out to discover
the secret of these in-
fernal machines, and
in the vicinity of the
Brido u x salient a
raiding party got
away with one and
some ammunition.
After this we were
told we might look
forward to the use of
Stokes guns against
us in uncomfortable
quantities. But the
II uns never took
ad v a nta g e of the
sample. Why they didn't remains a mystery
and also a cause for pious gratitude on the
part of the Digger.
“Country Ped”: It is time something dras-
tic was done to stamp out diphtheria, which
is endemic in many country towns in Vic.
Nowadays, with the use of anti-toxin, there
are very few deaths; but every year hun-
dreds of children lose from a month to six
weeks’ tuition, because the schools are closed
to try to prevent the spread of the disease.
The trouble lies mostly with the carriers—
youngsters who, though they carry the germs
around, themselves develop no ill effects. At
Kangaroo Flat school, among 180 youngsters,
no less than 20 carriers were discovered.
But that was an unusual proportion. Eight-
LOOK HEP ORE YOU LEAP.
"And would uou lor me as much if father lost all his money.?"
“Has he?”
“Why, no.”
“Of course I would, darling."
eeu months ago I saw two doctors stamp
otit what promised to be a very serious epi-
demic by swabbing the throats of about 30(1
children, isolating the four carriers who
were found, and putting their brothers and
sisters and mates under close surveillance.
One other thing remains to be done. The
disease has been epidemic in Elmore for
some time, and the primary schools have
been closed off and on tor weeks at a stretch
without any appreciable difference in the
number of cases. Why? The Sunday-schools,
which the Shire health officers have no power
to close, are open as usual, and the carriers
are there busily infecting healthy children.
EARLY PIETY.
MATILDA JANE (catching the minister after
Sunday-school) : “ Oh, sir, please what
would you charge to christen my doll?”
“J.G.” : A while back a party of surveyors
came up to the Wallan (Vic.) railway sta-
tion, took levels and measurements, and
went away. A few days afterwards two or
three big officials came along in a reserved
carriage, got out, marched about the sta-
tion, looked at some plans and went away.
A week or two later one or two Commis-
sioners came in a special train, got out, in-
spected the plans and tin; station, and \Venl
away. A few days later still a gang of
plain men came in an open truck, got out
and erected a water-tank stand. Before the
tank was fixed, the gang and some other
men were put on to build an overhead signal-
box a few chains further up the platform.
Just as the job was being finished somebody
said : “This damn place will be no good, as
you won’t be able to see the lines on the
Melbourne side, because of the new tank.’’
Then the work on the signal-box was sus-
pended while a drove of officials came up
from town and argued whether it would be
better to pull the tank-stand down, or to
annihilate the signal-box. Finally, it was
decided to grub up the tank-stand. The
ordinary bloke could have told ’em at the
start that the tank-stand would be in the
line of vision from the new signal-box; but
he was too busy paying increased fares and
freights.
“Sixenate”: From a case at the Sydney
Central Court the other day it appears that
a citizen is expected to tell a plain-clothes
policeman by instinct, or his feet or some-
thing. The police admitted that plain-clothes
men have no identification-card to produce,
and they successfully prosecuted for resist-
ing the police a man who objected to being
arrested by an ununiformed individual carry-
ing no proof that lie was a constable. So,
apparently, the citizen who is challenged by
any other citizen claiming to be a Robert
and is invited to walk with him has the
choice of two things—running the risk of a
charge of resisting the law, or taking the
chance of being sandbagged in some quiet
spot by a rnasouerading garrotter. It's a
joyous tip to thugs and blackmailers.
"Ake Ake”: A Maoriland mayor has
beaten the band. Speaking at a reception
given to Dr. Hertz, he referred to the rabbi
as “the distinguished head of a most distin-
guished branch of the Christian Church.”
(Continued on page ?S.)
FRONT-LINE PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There - !.- me and Fritzy, miles o’ rusty wire,
An’ slimy shell-’oles, water-logged an’ grim;
1 show me ’at. an' slick as death Vll Are.
An’ now an’ then I ’as er pot at ’im.
’Way to th’ rear we ’ear th’ big guns roar,
Gay hairyplanes go skimmin’ over ’ead;
But what, I arsk, would ’appen to th’ war ,
If me an’ Fritzy swung th’ bloomin’ lead?
Lloyd George is makin’ speeches every day;
Our Billy ’Ughes can ’it ’em up a treat;
Of ’lm an’ Gott ole Bill’s got ’eaps ter say,
An’ Birdy waves ’is flipper when we meet—
’Streuth! ’E’x tlv one ter stretch yer flamin’ joint
With talk o’ leave ter Paris an’ er spell!
But what, I arsk, would ’appen (’ere’s my point)
If me and Fritz ses calmly, "Git ter Ilell! - ’?
In some grand chateau, ’id from vulgar view,
Sits Foch an’ Mister ’Aig; cigars glow red;
Each tells the other what ’e ought ter do,
And shifts tlj’ flamin’ armies in ’is ’ead.
Then swarms o’ blinkin’ Red Tabs an’ Brass 'An
Gets busy on flier details of th’ plan;
But what, f arsk, would ’appen. starve tiler rats!
If me and Fritz surrendered man for man?
Vot that I’m goin’ ter do it —love er duck !
It’s me what knows th’ flamin’ cows are swine.
Why, if ’c brought, me lager, said “’lire’s luck!”
I’d push ’is crimson face in —not fer mine!
But still th’ little think-box ’neath me thatch
Keeps fellin’ me, “It’s you what spills yer gore.”
“Fer what?” I arsk. Eh, Cobber, got er match?
An’ all this bloody slaughter—what’s it for?
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


1844-1921
t-yy
B grafiM
•&kA *
• V j.JhF
v f lf '
ft gn .
k*■ ■ ,
* j* . -.’’C .'i
% - |fj|B
<&. ** mt*: *
'filiii h
ffvr • >r-»
E-^sS&H
BMP**"* ' >s t'-
; * * v
"i
• - - «ilPti*p||* ssmmmx
• J.&ti£Z±k&- ..A ..* ' •*.
fjmypxr--
■BBBMf :•-••/ fBBH|II
•' - •• .*■•
:-. ofa
'
- <**■•*.*
.
« -,
*rfQ£i
•** j
»
■ : ■


Xo. 15S. —All Diamonds, £l3/10/-
Xo. 144. All 1J
monels, £l7/10
Xo. 131.
Exquisite design.
Diamond set.
£l7/10/*-
No. 157.—Single Diamond. £7 10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
f
Stewart Dawson & (ogw.)Ltd.
Si/c/n&if fostablismcnts \
185 -187 PITT ST HEAR, KIJNG ST.,
CORNER -4-12 GEORGE ST..
af
No. 151.—3 Diamonds. £l7 10 -
No. 1-JO. —Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 148. —All
Diamonds,
116 10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond. £9/10
“Howitzer”: 1 know one Digger who
doesn’t intend to claim his war gratuity.
During the battle of Pozieres wo came
across an unrecognisable body. After de-
taching the identification disc we buried the
body and Pte. Bluey Gray was duly re-
ported killed in action. At roll-call a few
Diggers were reported missing. After the
war, while on a. visit to Ireland, I went into
THE IRISH QUESTION.
MR. McSHORTT : “Anyhow, where would we
be it England did give Ireland overy-
thing she wanted?”
MR. O'HOGAN ( excitedly ): “England couldn't
do if, malm! Oi defy her to do it!”
a pub, and on being served by the pro-
prietor 1 nearly spill my beer. He was
Bluer, who, according to A.I.F. records, had
been killed in action. He told me that
during the stunt he felt he couldn't stand
any more, and decided to desert. Com-
ing across a dead body, he slipped his
identification disc on the dead Digger.
Eventually he reached Ireland, and presently
bought a pub, settled down, and doesn’t
intend to resurrect himself.
"M.S.M ” : Old Justice A’Beckett was on
the bench one day when Purves was cross-
examining a witness relative to something he
had written. Then:
Purves: I suppose you never expected to have this
letter brought up against you
Witness: I certainly never expected to be exam-
ined on it by a rascally lawyer.
Purves: I ask your Honor's protertion.
A’Beckett: What is the matter, Mr. Purves?
Purves: The witness has just mumbled that he
did not expect to be examined on this letter by a
“rascally lawyer.”
A'Beckett: Witness, you mustn't mumble 1
“NIGHT-NIGHT!"
"See here, I will not let you yo out in a
frock like that.”
“ Don't be an ass, Georye. Pin not going out —
I'm going to bed.”
“Y.Z.”: A gallant male relative cautions
me not to get into the way of kissing the
maid. He had yielded to temptation when
the new girl proved to be rather pretty, and
thought he was getting along splendidly
when he kissed her for the third time behind
the hatrack. “You rather like me, little
girl?” said he. “Oh, no,” was the cold reply,
“it is not that. The missus offered me half-
a-crown if I would tell every time you kissed
me. This is seven-and-sixpence.” The
astounded housefather raised the price and
bought in his three kisses for half-a-sov-
ereign. But the servant-girl had no sense
of commercial morality—she sold out to the
missus just the same.
“Yarruin” : “T. Traveller’s” experience (B.
2/t>/'2l ) reminds me of the days when I
had charge of a bush school on the northern
tablelands (N.S.W.). A little girl had been
absent for a week, and I strolled out about
a mile to ask whaffor. The draggled mother
came to the door, but she didn’t, ask me in.
and I noticed that she fidgeted a lot and
threw aporehensive glances down along a
bush track. When I was leaving she fol-
lowed me with a broom and carefully obliter-
ated the impressions of my number tens.
“I’m thinking of you, sir, as well as myself,”
she explained. “If my husband suspected
me of having a man on the premises I'd get
a hidin' and you’d get another as soon as
he’d found you out.” Next time Mary was
absent I sent a note.
» * * *
“Mirza” on Melbourne medical studies: —
When “Gregor” wrote (B. 26/5/’2I) that Mel-
bourne meds. get only 12 months’ tuition in anatomy,
he had not dipped his pen in the inkwell of Truth.
Whatever rocks may be hurled at the curriculum,
none will strike the anatomy school; for in that
subject the student is remarkably well catered for.
In his first year the fledgling receives lectures in
Elementary Anatomy (osteology, etc.), which pre-
pares him for the detailed study (both macroscopic
and microscopic, and including lectures, preparation
of slide specimens and dissections of the human
body) that absorbs most ot his second and third
years. Next year (fourth) he receives instruction
from an eminent surgeon in “Regional and Applied
Anatomy,” or anatomy from the surgical standpoint;
and in his final year he is taught his “Operative
Surgery” by lectures, demonstrations and practical
work on the cadaver.
“James”: The parson stopped to converse
in the street with one of his flock, a matron
of hefty proportions, when her young hope-
ful DUtted in. The lady turned, and dealt
her surprised offspring a ringing blow on
the ear, exclaiming: "The manners ’uv yer!
No one ’d think as we ’ad a pianner in the
’ouse!”
“Zanthus”: There is a curious bit of for-
gotten history behind the original settlement
on the Swan River, out
of which grew Westralia,
In 182 S the Secretary to
the B r i t i s h Admiralty
urged that there was a
danger lest the “French
or the Americans should
assume possession of the
only safe anchorage on
the western coast of Aus-
tralia.” The French
bogey was an old one, but
F.S.A. wasn't usually
supposed to have any de-
signs on Australia. Still,
at this time, American as
well as French whalers
did a very big business
on the southern and
western coasts. K. J.
Eyre states, referring to
3840, that there were
about oOU American and
French whalers working-
in those parts, and a
little earlier one of the
Swan River settlers re-
marked that they owed
much of their knowledge
of the Westralian coast
to the Yankee whalers.
It is a coincidence that
the only attempt—apart
from the more recent
c Herts o f professors,
film-men, carpet-baggers
and others —to annex a
piece of Australia to
IJ.S.A. took place off
Westraliu. In the ’sixties
an American captain hoisted the Stars and
Stripes over one of the guano islands of the
Ivescheuault group, claiming that it was out-
side the three-mile limit, but was promptly
turned down by the U.S.A. authorities.
# * 4 *
“Centurion”: “B.” tells of a South African
in kilts enlisting in the North Russian
Expeditionary Force (B. 2/G/’2l). The kilt
cult in S’Afriea has lasted much longer than
it did in this country. During the last Boer
War the Duke of Edinburgh’s Highlanders
were familiar objects on bridge guard along
the Capetown-Aliwal-Nortli line. After-
wards a kilted regiment was formed in
Jo’burg, and was joined by many Jews, In-
deed, it was cabled in 1914 that Isadore
Cohen, of the Jo’burg Scottish, had been shot
by a sentry during manoeuvres for not
answering a challenge. Ours went out with
the coming of universal service.
“Wilfrido” (M.L.) : A lawyer’s life is not
without its compensations. Humanity drifts
continually in and out of the court-room.
The barrister sees acting that Duse or Bern-
hardt would find it hard to excel. The other
day in an assault case the defendant dragged
herself to the box with a baby in her arms
and another small infant trailing along by
her side. “Camouflage,” remarked counsel,
drawing attention to her bowed appearance ;
"she is an instructress of fencing and the
children are not her own.” Traffic here, as I
suppose in other places, is not allowed to
pass stationary trams. The offence had been
committed by a motor-cyclist who, in his
zeal to pass a car that had not then stopped,
speeded up and knocked down a little boy.
The witness, an irate conductor, gave evi-
dence of his advice to the cyclist. “I says
to ’im, I says: ‘Now, ’ow would them people
get on who get off and get killed?’ ”
“Copy Boy” < London ) : There are still
many people in England who imagine that
Australia is largely inhabited by bush-
rangers who wear remarkable hats and are
prepared to “pull a gun” on the slightest
provocation. In an article on the “unwrit-
ten law” the Daily Despatch remarked
firmly that it did not want anything of the
kind in England, although “in Australia
atad America these eases are not uncommon
and are very picturesque.” I cannot recall
a ease of any notoriety in which the “un-
written law” has been successfully pleaded
in Australia : hut in England during the war
there were at least two in which it was put
forward, with disastrous results to plain
justice. In une instance it was urged by
the great John Simon (who a short time
previously had been the British Attorney-
Generall, and resulted in a man who had
shot his wife’s lover being triumphantly
acquitted and cheered as he left the court.
PEACE, BLESSED PIECE!
PAUL : “You know, Pierre had no veuve of
mind till In married Mimi!"
PAULIne : "And him he inner of mind noW."
PAUL: "Oh, yes. Hers-erery day."
“Tonic”: As there Was an epidemic of
croup in our town recently one doctor asked
his chemist to prepare a good supply of
ipecacuanha wine to tneet demands. The
chemist miked up about half-a-pint and left
it on a shelf overnight. When lie turned
up next morning his charwoman was hang-
ing over the dustbin in a bad way. The
label on the bottle which had contained the
medicine was still “Finest old port.”
“S.E.X.” and a gloriohs company:—
It may be that in these democratic days the para-
phernalia of tides passes away. But a recent issue
of the London films, which 1 have just reverentially
perused, furnishes no evidence of the fact. Apart
from the usual collection of Highnesses and Hum-
hugs, I came across the chief Piper of Arran and
Lamlash, the Constable of the Duchy of Lan-
caster, the King's. Remembrancer, the president of
the Dail Eireann, the Senior Wanderer of the Sligo
Gallics, and—last, sweet name of all—the MacGil-
licuddy of the Reeks, whose death was “generally
regretted.” I join in the regret. I might have
visited the MacUillicuddy when I was at Killarney
recently, but I didn’t; and now, alas, his Reeks
and I can never meet! However, these ate, after
all, but tame and home-grown birds. The Foreign
Intelligence introduced me to a flock of stranger
fowl, the Aga Khan, the Maharajah of Gwalior, the
Ulema of Azhar, the Karem Ilayesod, the Mullah
of Somaliland, the Harmost of lonia and many
such. Even they were forced to “pale their ineffec-
tual fires” before the thundering magnificence of
his Grace the Metropolitan of Brusa and the Living
Buddha, Ilukukhtu, King of Mongolia. This last
is a new departure in monarchs, having recently
been violently created out of Thibetan chaos. And
what can one say of a party whose titular advance-
guard reads like this: “His Beatitude the Oecume-
nical Patriarch of Constantinople, Germauos the
Fifth” ? It reminds one of that German verbal
procession of which Mark Twain said that it took
15 minutes to pass a given point. Is it any wonder
I close rny Thunderer with a Kune dimittist
“N. 8.” : At a State school the other day
I listened to a lesson on Livingstone, given
by a bright young junior teacher. She told
of his marriage with Miss Moffat, his jour-
ney up the Zambesi, and the discovery of the
Victoria Falls. Incidentally she said the
thunder of the waters at the Falls drowned
the human voice. That the seed fell on good
ground was proved by a “composition” on
the lesson by one of the kiddies. “Living-
stone,” he wrote, "married Miss Moffat, and
then went to find the Victoria Falls, because
von cannot hear anybody speak there.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A pair of trousers, alleged to
be the co-revs, were introduced as evidence
in a Sydney divorce case a few days ago.
They didn’t carry conviction, however: the
defence had a reasonable story <>f trickery,
which his Honor believed. Other peti-
tioners with curious exhibits have been more
fortunate. One furious husband and his
witnesses forced their way into a bedroom
and found by the bedside a prize which the
pursuers seized upon. Any doubts his
Honor might have had were scattered when
the petitioner produced in court two sets
of false teeth which had been lying lovingly
together, and also a dentist who identified
the man’s teeth, mentioning bitterly that
they had never been paid for.
A BALLAD OF TOO-GOOD-TO-LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The washer-lady came and went
And she was good to see;
she scrubbed the house with brave intent
Upon her willing knee,
she made the windows crystal clear;
And when the day was done,
Although she knew that rest was near,
She caused the setting- sun.
The willing wildness of her eye
Filled all our souls with pride,
Her eager hands that seemed to fly
Were not to he denied ;
Her zeal was like a hallowed tale
In some forgotten book,
The while with furious mop and pail
She scoured the hidden nook.
A gem, a jewel, worth her weight—
She was but thirteen stone—
In solid thankfulness to fate
That made the treasure known
AAe loaded her with silver white
And sent her on her way,
■So glad that all the happy night
Wo dreamed of washing day.
That was last week. Alas, this day
She should have come again.
AVe watched, we hoped, we knelt to pray,
But hope and prayer were vain. >
AVe eyed askance the moveless gate,
The bucket and the broom,
Then bowed our hapless heads to fate *
And mildly cursed our doom.
She made no sign, she sent no word
Our soyrowing hearts to bless;
.Vone knew the nest of our bright bird,
She gave us no address.
AVe asked the baker and the man
AVlio brings us soap and tea,
Then wept into the frying-pan
in abject misery.
Bat zeal revived. Upon her tracks
AVe hunted hush and scrub,
We cleared the saplings with an axe
Behind the nearest pub ;
Wc left no stone at all unturned
To find her live or dead,
But all in vain our ardor burned—■
The dame of dames had fled.
And now we stand in fearful thought
And all her deeds review.
W -re her achievements really wrought,
And was she really true?
The windows clear as glass remain,
With lustre shine the stairs—
Now did we somehow entertain
An angel unawaves?
She had not quite an angel's shape—
Lord, how she scrubbed that floor!
I seem to hear her fiercely scrape
The pots and ask for more. .. .
Tile day is gone, the sky looks mean,
With one thin star in charge—
Could she, ah, could our joy have been
A lunatic at large ?
N.S.'V.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m
* Kj'rl
:
'
•5
■
m
.
m
'
'6
■
Wm
:■ ■
B m
m
XI
u
m
s;
1
■ ; i
■
■
is.
.
o*. i
wm
>
1
'Mm
H
V.
m
■
Bis
*
- sn
m
1811
:
mmmm.
■ -
A
1
*-/ M 1 , v** S
K v* ? y, ■*. ***** ■
! '• %J|3tll
g| . &£< »
■ ■■ ■ r
m
11 HI
■
m i a
(
s
Golden Noble Duchess (imp.), owned by >lr. C. D. Lloyd, Caulfield, Vic.
Successful winter feeding demands that the cow receives exact ration to produce the
greatest possible milk yield continuously.
The health of your cows and their milk production this winter demands first consideration.
Herds fed on pasturage alone enter winter unprepared for winter production. The
milk flow decreases. Building them up again is costly and unsatisfactory.
When constitutions suffer, the milk yield fails.
The failure to provide proper winter food injures cows’ health, seriously affects stamina
of the calf, and, of course, decreases milk yield.
In addition to natural grasses, feed Meggitt s Cattle Food, the ideal concentrate. It is
strong in milk-producing qualities that are lacking in pasturage.
Concentrates are necessary for maximum production.
Meggitt’s Cattle Food fed as directed gives the cow the material she needs.
This supplies the correctly-balanced ration essential for milk production and bodily maintenance,
It is all nutritious food of uniform quality, wholesome and appetising.
There is no waste.
Test a portion of your herd with Meggitt’s Cattle Food, and judge by results.
WRITE FOR PAMPHLET “A," INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED.
ace:
vtw MrHarrisons It am sail Ptu., Lul, f>66 Bonrke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William Adams
E - TJco tit Caeca Street. Ilrisbanc; Messrs F. W. Heritage d Co.. Ltd Hobart and
L eatherston”Street. ' Wellington, S.Z.; The South Australian Farmers' Co-op. inion, Ltd., ob
d- Co., Ltd., Kinp Street, Perth : Messrs. R. S.
Launceston; Messrs. Johnston d Co., Ltd..
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
PNSEfDOII^I
ttEGGnr
O/ieboyonthebag n
guarantees quality
HEAD OFFICE ?j6 KING ST SYDNEY fyfcrks: l-iirramatta)
.,.r,imiTnrrrrttvttfffrr?fTrfrrT-.-f^ftff¥TmSff?N^t e r','/r-<V^r.cr^fr^?om n r.v^!V7irTrr-."mrt~, n—r,-..,., r .. ■.- ' _
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED OiL. CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
Ssffil
GGITTS
DNSEED 011^
[MI
l to
; PARRAMATTA
VAe Jboy on theJbaq
quamrtrnes <jualin]


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR F'?ONT. with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4% Guineas per week.
Tels.: T3001,-8002. Apply Manager.
I
WHISKY
TH e TQP NOTCH scqtch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
TIT FOR TAT.
"Here, don’t hit him with that end of the
rake —come at him with the b'lunt end.”
"Hey, yam! Why didn't ye tell yer dog
that?”
“Macquarie Street”: I have not hitherto
seen any cases of sleeping-sickness in England re-
ported in either the medical or the lay press; now,
however,, there is word that an Australian’ lady,
formerly Noruh Marjorie New, of Melbourne, now
Lady Leigh, has shown symptoms of this awful
malady for the past six months. New York papers
have drawn attention to a few cases •of the sick-
ness in that city and other parts of America, and
it was a curious fact that the brother-in-law of
Dr. Simon Flexner (the famous bacteriologist and
head of the Rockefeller Institute in New York-
city) should have fallen a victim to it about 18
months ago. White people it) the affected belts
of Africa have a fair chance of recovery, because
they usually come for treatment in the early stages
of the complaint; hut the Kaffir usually succumbs,
because he does not make his appearance for treat-
ment until the trypanasomes are entrenched in
his central nervous system, and then it is too
late, as the parasites defy the efforts of the doctor
to dislodge them. Congo and 1 ganda practitioners
are still working away with enthusiasm at new
methods of treatment; the one which is regarded
favorably at present is the intra-venous and intra-
spinal injection of a preparation of arsenic. In its
early stages sleeping-sickness is by no means easy
to diagnose. A few enlarged lymphatic glands in
the neck may be the only observable signs. It is
then that the injection treatment offers hopeful results.
Later the ease offers the same prognosis as loco-
motor-ataxia and other late manifestations of syphi-
lis. In the final stage patients are comatose. To
eradicate it will no doubt involve the eradication
of the tsetse-fly; and in the jungles of Africa that
will be a prodigious job.
* * » »
•‘Monaro”: “Aloysius” (B. 26/5/’2l)
discredits '"Don Mac’s” story (B. of the
M.L. trapper who, after a severe accident to his
abdomen, sewed up the wound with bootlace, and
survived. I don’t doubt the yarn. The dreadful
spur to action was a lonely, agonising death. Now read
this. On Euromanga station, near Eumungra (Q.-S.A.
border), in .1903, some abos. were engaged draft-
ing scrub cattle. A cow charged a half-caste, caught
him and gored him badly across the abdomen,
almost tearing the viscera from their moorings. The
unfortunate abo. scrambled through the fence, stood
up, and surveyed the damage. Instinct told him he
was done. Grasping the grisly mass lie tore it adrift
md slung it down. “There goes my tucker-bag!”
he said. Walking to a log he sat down and died in
two hours, lie retained consciousness almost till the
end, and stated that the pain was inconsiderable.
The doctor who later inspected the remains said that
even with the most skilful attention he could not
have survived more than a pain-wracked day or two.
* * *
“Wee Bobbie” (Solomon Inlands) : I was
struck by an exceptionally large load of firewood
a Solomon woman was carrying suspended on her
back from a band of bark across her brow. We
were weighing copra; so 1 called her up and put
her burden on the scales! The firewood alone
weighed 1821 b., but she was also carrying a 41b.
axe and a 12-uioriths-old piccaninny. She had
carried the burden then well over half-a-mile. After
resting on u log, which was not one foot high, she
got up without apparent difficulty and went another
quarter of a mile to her house. The woman was
only about 4ft. lOin. high. Three days later she
gave birth to a son. She had been getting a supply
of firewood in to see he>: over the event. Yes,
thanks—both doing \yelL
* * * •
“Lilac Domino”! “Jim Carew” asks (B.
10/5/’2l) for a -good buckjum.p-rider following
his occupation after middle-age. At Canonbar sta-
tion (N.S.W.) is one, flurst, who is close
to the 60 mark. In his younger days this youth
had the reputation of never being slung. Even now
a horse cannot shift him once he has a firm seat.
Jellicoe, one of the prads which bucked before the
Prince, lias been ridden many times by Hurst, and
Jellicoe is a proper horse-puzzle when he likes. Old
Bill has just finished breaking in a>. mob of young
’uns at Canonbar, and has started tin.'another lot
of about 70. He owns a long, flowing beard which
wags in time with the bucks, Hnd which, the other
wags reckon, acts like a balancing-pole.
* * * *
“Bareoo”: In the Stratlibogie Ranges
(Vic.), the true home of the wombat, the world’s
champion borrower, he provides
free drinks for bird and beast as
soon as a dry spel! sets in. When
the usual drinking places in a
(■reek go dry he digs in the sand
for soakage, and when the mois-
ture fails he makes further down
the watercourse, and pinks an-
other well. He never makes a
bloomer, and is always well ahead
of the underground trickle.
Brumbies have the same instinct.
The Flinders River, in the north,
and the heads of the Maranoa and
Warrego. in the soutli of Queens-
land. used to be infested with
wild horses some years ago, and
when the pools went dry they
would dig in the soft sand of the
river-beds till the booze was un-
earthed, repeating the procedure
some miles further down when the gradually-receding
moisture had passed the original pub.
‘R.I.P.”: I take off my hat to an appa-
rition that blew in at Mein (N.Q.) to-day (April
16) from McMillan River, up near Cape York. He is
an old prospecting pioneer, who has been isolated by
flood waters since early November. His food sup-
plies having become exhausted, he has existed for
the past three months on goanna and blue-tongue
lizards, caught by hjs dog, his nigger having de-
serted him early in the year.
“Rae-akiaki : Belfast (M.L.) produces
this record. A £lO to £1 wager was recently made,
that a gang of five men could not dig 100 sacks of"
potatoes in eight hours. Digging, picking, sorting
into two samples, an<j sewing the tubers into sacks,
they did 101 in 7* hours.
“D.F.”: As a working bullock the Devon
has many good qualities (B. 2/6/’2l), but he lacks
the strength and solidity of the Hereford. Take
them all round the whitefaces are perhaps the best
of all workers. They are easier to break in than
the Devons, which are often wild and intractable,
and when they are broken they are not so hard to
handle. A year ago there was something of a boom
in working bullocks in Tasmania, and a good pair
ot polers or leaders was worth £5O or £6O. But
there has been a slump since.
"Dido”: Andy Irons brought long Tom
Bourke, his shed mate, home with him. Tom was
a sh\ Australian, especially timid in the presence
ot women: but Andy persuaded him to go to the
Coy’s Wesleyan Sunday-school picnic un the river,
and even dragged him into a game of kiss-hi-the-
MATHEMATICAL ACCLRACY.
SURVEYOR : “How far along a station, Jacky?"
JACKY: "Bout one mile and a bit, I bean tink-it, boss."
SURVEYOR : “How far the bit, Jacky?"
JACKY : “ 'Rout, nine mile, boss."
ring. You know the formula: the blushing damsel
dances round the ring and drops her handkerchief on
the shoulder of the man of her choice, and then
breaks across the flat at top speed, just as though
the idea of being kissed was quite too obnoxious
for anything. Kitty Henry, prompted by Andy,
waltzed round twice and then dropped the handker-
chief on long Tom Bourke. Tom stood for a
moment in' a state of ghastly perturbation, gazing
after the flying damsel; then he picked up his heels
and sailed off, not in pursuit, but in the direction of
the Goulburn. Reaching the river he plunged in and
swam across. On the other side he took to the
timber, and the picnic saw no more of him. At
two in the morning he turned up at Irons’s bedside
in Coy’s. He had walked home. He threw him-
self on the bed, and Andy began to expostulate.
“It wasn’t nice, you runnin’ away from the girl
like that. Anybody would think she was a bloomin’
lubra. I'm going to marry tha,t girl, too.” “Yer
what?” “I’m goin’ to marry her. We arranged it
this afternoon.” “Corstruth!” gasped Tom. “My
Gold, I’m glad I ran !”
“J.G.”: Years ago when we were living
on the plain country north of Bendigo (Vic.) native-
cats nightly raided out poultry. “Mud Splasher’’
(B. 2t>/5/’2l) will be interested to know that l
cleaned out the lot by simply setting a few rabbit-
traps on the top panel of the post-and-rail fence
around our place. Just set the traps at intervals
along the rail—no need to cover or bait them. When
the native cats came along they climbed the fence,
then travelled on it towards the poultry-yards and
fell in.
***•'*
‘T1.D.8.”: “Alex.” (B. 19/5/’2l) inquires
tor cross-eyed Binghis. I came across one, a young
gin named Nada, at Bummers Creek, Mount Mar-
garet district (W.A.), Both her eyes were badly out
of step. That was about 25 years ago, and there were
no brindles there then. When I met her she had for
companions a tame dingo and that remarkably in-
telligent and entertaining deaf-and-dumb gin
(“Dummy”) who afterwards became so well-known
at Pindinnie.
“Ankylostoma” : The discomforts mentioned
by “Troehus” (B. 2/6/’2l) resemble the premonitory
symptoms of hookworm disease. The intense itching
is caused by the larva of the worm, picked up by
the bare feet, burrowing its way through the skin
into the tissues beneath. Getting into the blood
it is carried away by the veins, and after a non-
stop journey through the heart comes to rest in
the lungs. From there it burrows its way out into
the air-spaces, and either works its way or is wafted
up the windpipe into the throat. If “it is not spat
out it is swallowed and settles down in the intestine.
There, after such an eventful youth, it leads an
uneventful and contented suburban existence for the
rest of its days.
"Bora' : For the past few days I’d been
wondering how my kelpie pup came to get his snout
all white, with -tuff that looked like flour. This
morning I found it teas flour, for 1 discovered him
with his head in the bag, having breakfast. Anyone
know of a similar ease ?
"Country Fed”: There’s a movement on
foot in Melbourne among the trap shots to introduce
English pheasants into V ictoria. The idea should be
scotched at once. We have already enough nuisances
that were imported for sporting reasons. llow do
the pheasant-enthusiasts know that these birds, which
have to be nursed in England to. keep them alive in
winter, won’t find this climate -so congenial that
they will emulate the sparrow and the rabbit, and
become pests?
** ’ *
“Bull’s Eye” : The most horrible island
death of recent times happened when the N.D.L..
steamer Sumatra -vas loading copra at Hermit
Islands a couple of years back. A fire broke out
in the hold, and to dope with it the hatches were
put on, bulkhead doors sealed and a steam jet run
in from the boilers. After two hours, sousing the
hatches were lifted. The Are was out all right, and
so was the life of a native fireboy. He had clamb
A POLITE INTEREST.
COCKY : “ 'Ere, look at this."
NEW HAND: "My oath, that’s a beauty.
Did yer get, it when you was down for
the Show?"
ercrl up to the top layer of bags, and there battered
in vain against the hatch coverings. The noise ol
the steam drowning his cries for help, the poor
devil was boiled alive. Of course he had no right
to b« asleep there.
(Continued on page 22. )
CAMP-FIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the wind goes idly by
And the breakers, seething, fall,
Arid the seagulls landward fly
Homing all, homing all,
Through the mist, through the damp,
Through the hours moving slow,
Comes the memory of a camp
And a camp-fire long ago.
By lone waters burning—
How it lit the dark !
Leaves and ferns and bracken,
Ti-tree, oak and bark ;
Since we bent above it
Time has journeyed far;
Dead are all its embers,
Pale its ashes are.
As the raindrops on the grass
From the filmy pine-tops fall,
And the people slowly pass,
Homing all, homing all,
Through the mist, through the damp,
Through the hours moving slow,
Comes the memory of a camp
And a camp-fire long ago.
How it lit the gully
With its ruddy shine !
Leaves and bark and brambles,
Mountain-ash and pine!
.Since we gathered round it
Time has journeyed far;
Head are all its embers,
Pale its ashes are.
As the doves at end of day
From the far-off ridges call,
And the last lights die away,
Fading fast, fading all,
.Through the mist, through the damp,
Through the hours moving slow,
Comes the memory of a camp
And a camp-fire long ago.
How its lights and shadows
Played at hide-and-seek l'
Mulga from the low ridge,
Mallee from the creek!
Since we dreamed beside it
Time has journeyed far;
Dead are all its embers,
Pale its ashes are.
>. S. W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Gillette
the choice of 20,000,000 men.
It is not chance that has placed the Gillette in the
hands of this great multitude of men of all nations.
They have selected it for its quickness, handiness
and reliability.
No stropping—no honing. Always keen and ready.
Adjustable to any beard by a simple turn of the
handle.
Standard Set in neat leather case . .
Obtainable everywhere.
28/6
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
!!■■ ■ _
:::::::::
j::;::
• VA,
• • ■!•■■■■ •■'Jl
m in
;:::r
*<£4
:::::
■••••■■
ss:::s:s:::::s8s::s::::
s»s>w9
llliimao*
'"iljPii
i!;i[n:H!!ll?3«sii
Forty Years on the Pacific
By FRANK COFFEE.
Interesting alike to the Stay-at-Home and to the Traveller.
Over 100 Illustrations. S Maps.
DESCRIBING THE LURE OF THE GREAT OCEAN.
With the co-operation of Native Chiefs, Naval and Mercantile Officers, Trade]
Pilots, Administrators, Journalists, Miners, Trappers, Missionaries, Mushei
Pirates and Blackbirders.
REAL LIFE ON SHIPBOARD AND ASHORE IN STRANGE LANDS.
/
'iff*
w
M
wfl*
K.M.S. NIAGARA AT SUVA, FIJI'.
Describing:
Life among the
Breakers an d
under the Balm-
trees.
Mining Life and
Methods in the
Klondike and
Alaska.
Bear 1 Diving'
in the Torres
Straits.
From Australia
to Alaska,
including
Pacific Coastal
Cities, and
New Zealand,
Tahiti, Samoa,
Fiji, Hawaii
(.the Pearl of
the Pacific),
New Caledonia,
Tonga, New
Guinea (Papua),
Carolines Mar-
shalls (Japan's
recent acquisi-
tions), Solo-
mons, Gilberts;
Philippines,
China & Japan.
Containing more interesting and useful matter describing the Pacific than any other
book ever issued —the customs, diet, government, products, flora, fish, animals and
birds of the Pacific Islands, and the native , habits, also sports.
Trials and good work of Missionaries in the Orient and the Islands.
Obtainable at the following Bookstores
Annas & Robertson "t
I) .Vmocks, Ltd.
Cole’s Kook Arcade I
Sydney. Australia
Georjfe KohortM.il & Co. I
Mullens & Co. (
Melt)., Australia
Rigby, Limited Adelaide, Australia
G. 11. Barker Brisbane, Australia
Whltcombe & Tombs
Edmi ster & Co.
Arey & YViMlnum
Auckland.
Ne w Zealand
A. M. Robertson .... San Francisco, U.S.A.
Lowman & Hanford Seattle, I'.S.A.
Ireland & Allan Vancouver, B.C.
Or from the Publishers: —
OCEANIC PUBLISHING CO., 1 Bond Street, Sydney, Australia,
and 44 East 23rd Street, New York, U.S*A.
J *
■ :•»
.*ll
,:r.
&
/ 1
r !
\ '
I
ENTERTAIN YOUR GUESTS
WITH AN
AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO
For the entertainment of company, for dance music
played in perfect time and measure, for the accom-
paniment of songs, transposed into the keys best
suited to the singer, there is nothing better than an
AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO.
Every member of the family quickly learns to love
the AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO. It provides
every class of music to suit the varying ages—from
the popular children’s nursery rhymes to the most
gorgeous and soul-stirring classic interpreted by a
renowned artist specially for you.
BRANCHES—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON
LISMORE.
9a
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE, PRICE LIST
WITH FULL PARTICULARS
OF ,OUR EASY-PAYMENT
SYSTEM. YOUR PRESENT
PIANO CAN BE TAKEN IN
EXCHANGE AND ITS FULL
VALUE ALLOWED.


Stop that stubborn
cough with
CLEMENTS .
COUGH REMEDY,
2/6 per bottle
wherever you buy
Clements Tonic.
Winter chills and other ills
will not worry the wise folk who build up their stamina
with a good, dependable tonic such as
CLEMENTS TONIC
the pleasant, dependable blood and nerve medicine that
ensures healthy nerves, sound sleep and hearty appetite.
Your local chemist sells CLEMENTS TONIC, and insist
on it!
For liver and
stomach ailments
try a few
FLETCHERS
PILLS.
They cost only 1/-
per box at all
chemists.
Snell”: Years and years ago I
suggested in The Bulletin the idea of one of our
expert stockwhip players working up a music-hall or
circus turn, and within two years there were several
whip* experts on the amusement market. I have
just discovered the possibilities of another novel
variety turn in a sawmill cook. He is a little fat
man, and babbles for ten brawny timber shifters.
His specialty is flap-jacks, and his corporate em-
ployers have a cavernous appetite for this particular
viand, with the result that pancakes have to he
turned out in great profusion. 1 was privileged
to watch cook on the job, and I never saw more
dexterous juggling in all my life. The small fat
foreigner (he is part Chinese) could do anything
conceivable with a frying-pan and a flap-jack,
and many things nobody else would be likely to con-
ceive. With a pan in each, hand he tossed flap-jacks
till the air seemed full of frying-pans and flat,
revolving discs of dough. He danced them, whirled
them like phonograph records in violent action, or
tumbled them over and over in the air from pan to
pan, and never once did the flap-jack fail to lob
flat-footed just where it was wanted. Finally the
cook used two frying-pans and a flap-jack as a skip-
ping rope is used, hopping over the pancake as he
whirled the pans, the pancake jumping from pan
to pan under his feet and over his head. If 1
were a vaudeville entrepreneur I would be out after
Half Sin to-day.
“Magpie” : .V Pommy who had held a job
in Sydney long enough to reckon that he knew all
about Australia was keen on going on the land. A
South Coast friend who knew something about it
tried to keep him off it, and told him that one day’s
grabbing would kill him. “But 1 would not. go
grabbing myself,’’ said the newchum —“I’d get some
magpies to do’that.”
* *: ♦ *
"dolm Dee”: There's no race-suicide about
the red-head, a small, bird belonging to the finch
family. The nesting season lasts all the year.
I have found nests as late as May, and in them were
young birds, some feathered, some quite naked, also
eggs a week from hatching and others quite fresh—
all in the one nest. Can any Abo. toll me of another
bird that ean beat it?
“Babbler : (Jo slow? The team of live
which is working with shearing contractor (J. (I.
(,'aslhell. of Wellington. (N.S.W.), shore 6.000 sheep
in.six days, the highest day’s tally being 1.082. Two
of the team maintained an average of 230 per day.
This was at T margalio. Continuing the goqd work in
the Bourke district, the team maintained a. daily
average per man of 160-sheep at Multagonna; whilst,
at Coolring the average wa f s 172.
GIVING BILLY A TESTIMONIAL.
“What sort of neighbor is Billy? 'E dedden
bear very good name one time."
“'E be very honest man. I told tin just
after 'e come ’ere that if 'e’d stop prig gin'
my wood I’d gore 'e an old sofa I
dedden want, and ire habn't missed a
single stick since."
“Cantab": J. A. Wilson, of Belmore
'(X.S.W.), a wealthy suburbanite whose unique hobby
is the publication of a local newspaper, has an Aus-
tralian wit. Asked to tell the probable sum a con-
tractor was making out of a scheme to which he
(Wilson) was opposed, the latter specified the amount
as “a wad of notes a kangaroo couldn’t jump over.”
CONFOUNDING THE PROPHETS.
“Here's u professor saying that then'll be able to make us live for nine hundred years."
"Well, none of us live long enough to he able to tell him, he's wrong."
"I dun no. Ye run never tell. One of us might."
“Kulgoa": In parts, of Westralia t.hm*
is a rave.reptile called the “jumping snake.” Though
i( has- the head and body of a shake it is a lizard,
■and usually about Pin. long. It has a single pair of
well-developed legs, nearly 2in. long, With five toes
to each foot, and it. can jump a distance' of sft. and
a height of 3ft. In color it is a dingy black or
dark grey, with greenish shades, fading to a. light
tint underneath. It is quite harmless.
“Barcoo”: “Jim Carew” (B. 19/5/’2l)
asks for the name of any
horSebreaker found regu-
larly in the pigskin after
the age of 45 years. In
the early 'nineties Jack
Rigg broke the colts on
Landsdowne, Minnie Downs,
Northampton Downs and
Enniskillen, all contiguous
stations at the head of
the Barcoo (Q.). He had
then been .breaking for
nearly 40 years, and was
.just about abreast of his
60th mile-post. The horses
on the places mentioned
were all half- or three-
quarter thoroughbreds, not
handled till three-year-
olds ; consequently they
took some riding. Many
of Black Allen’s Enniskil-
len colts weren’t caught
and handled till actually
five years old. They were
the terror of most break-
ers, but Rigg’s success
with them lay in his ex-
pert handling of the
youngsters before getting
'on board. On occasion he
would do a circus trick
for onlookers. Vaulting
into the saddle, wrong
way round, with his face
towards the tail he would gaily stick the roughest,
despite his 59 years.
“Wesson: There’s a curious case of double
death duo to snakebite recorded on a nearly een-
turv-old tombstone at Port Macquarie (X.S.W.).
An officer of the garrison had died and the widow
was sitting near the grave with her child, when a
black snake bit the youngster. It succumbed and
the mother also died, apparently from shock, not
from snakebite. Both were buried in the vault
beneath.
“Fact": I called at a country post office
the other day in the Riverina (X.S.W.) and asked
for my mail. The postmistress, a stout ' old lady,
came out and said, “Mister, would you mind waiting
a few minutes as there’s a fowl in the box and
she hasn’t laid yet?”
"Toby" : '"Sparks" (15. l!)/r>/'2T) wauls a
cure for mosquitbes. Catch 'em and knrfck their
blankv heads-off.
“Bat": Sin* was a nice little Waac,
home in Fngland on her first leave, and after the
usual family hugging and osculation was being more
or less “third-degreed” by mother, who eventually
sighed out, “And did you meet any of those awful
Australians, my dear?" “Yes, mother!” “Did you
have much to do with them, my dear?" "Yes, we
were camped next door to them for some time.” “I
hope you learnt no bad language from them, ray
dear.” “Oh, only ‘Damn’ and ‘Hell,’ mother.”
“Goodness gracious! Don't let your dear father hear
you say those words—it would shock him." With
a significant toss of the head Miss Wane replied:
“Oh, father! him!’’
“Friday Island" : Tail antbcdsV Near
Albany Pasa (Cape York, N.Q.) there's one 28ft.
high. From the sea the island looks like a giant's
cemetery.
* * * *
“H.R.8.”: Does any Abo. know how to
encourage a ewe to mother a. lamb not her own ?
1 have tried several schemes, but have not succeeded ;
yet 1 believe it has been done.
“H.W.G.” : Has there ever been a lynch-
ing in Australia ? I came near to seeing one in the
old days. Here are the facts, with only the actors’
names altered. In 1863 two young men on Waver-
ley station (N.Q.), Lacewell and Lusty, were set
up in a bush pub by the owner of the station with
a view to relieving the calls made upon the hospi-
tality of the homestead by the too-numerous tra-
vellers. They made a start under a tarpaulin rigged
tent-fashion, and they sold grog as quick as they
could get it —in fact, the first cheque that was
knocked down there was for £4OO. Eventually they
shifted into a slab house where they ran a com-
bined pub and store. They bought a mob of horses,
and as I took the job of breaking them in that
accounted for mv being there when the row hap-
pened. At that time St. Lawrence was only a
landing-place ; and as it was necessary to be there
when goods arrived to protect them from the blacks,
the stations on the other side of Conner's Range
used to send their drays down early to wait for the
ship. On this occasion there were teams from four
different runs waiting, and the men camped at the
pub. They were nearly all ex-convicts, and they
got on the booze with some other station-hands who
happened to be there. The place soon became a
regular Bedlam, with a series of free fights. A big
young Irishman, Jack Molone, used to bump them all,
and at last they' got scared of him and his mate,
one Yorke.v, an old convict. Among the crowd was
a little inoffensive chap. Jack Higgins, a shepherd
from Lotus Creek. He was also on the spree, and
his manager, Phil Sherdan, came down to take
him back. Sherdan was a light man but a great
wrestler, and could box well, and the men kept wide
of him. That night I was helping behind the bar,
and the three of us were being kept busy, when Hig-
gins. who had been asleep, woke up and shouted for
the crowd. He put his hand in his pocket lo pay
up, and then said: “Boys, I’ve been robbed.” Sher-
dan jumped to the door, and drawing a revolver
said: "No man goes out of this till lie's been
searched.” Two men were appointed to do the
searching, and all in the mob were willing to sub-
mit to it except Jack Molone. He threatened to
bash any man who interfered with him. Sherdan
called on others to assist, and they mobbed him.
and some of the money was found on him. He was
asked where the l est was, but he wouldn't tell; -o
Sherdan pulled down a pair of new bridle reins,
made a slip-noose,by running the rein through the
part that is buckled to the bit, and, pa ing it over
Molone’s head, pulled it tight round his neck. He
was then hoisted on to a three-legged stool and the
rein was fastened to a" rafter. Sherdan told him
he would hang if he didn't say where the rest
oi the money was. Three times Molone was asked,
but still he refused to speak ; whereupon Sherdan
kicked the stool from under him and left him swing-
ing. His tongue shot out of his mouth, and I
thought his eyes would have fallen from his head.
Lusty, who was a very active man, jumped on the
bar. at the same time drawing his -heath-knife (we
all carried a revolver and a knife in those days),
lie then leaped over the men’s heads and slashed
the rein as lie passed, and Molone fell to the floor
unconscious. He came to in about half-an-hour ;
but he refused to tell even then. They were
going to resume the hanging business, but the pub-
licans interfered. So they stripped him naked
and tied him to a tree. The mosipiitoes soon made
him speak, and he said Yorkey had the money. It.
was then noticed that Yorkey had disappeared. We
all rushed over to the drays. Yorkey had gone:
but in their dray were shirts, trousers, pickles, jams
and a lot of other things he and Molone had stolen
from the store. Molone was gone in the morning,
and 1 never saw either him or Yorkey again.
“Bung Bye" : Since the controversy
started about the cannibalism (or otherwise) of
Queensland blacks 1 have been verifying mv memories
of specific cases in this Far Northern part. About
187 C Hugh Macquarie and his brother —two packers
-were on their way from the Palmer to Cooktown.
When they reached a narrow pass, culled Hell’s Gates,
they were attacked by blacks and Hugh was killed
and his brother wounded. The body of Hugh and
the wounded brother wore taken to the blacks’ camp,
where the dead man was eaten. The brother's leg
was broken to prevent his escribe, and he was kept
by the blacks till required, when ho also was killed
and eaten. About 18“ o Jack Forrest, and his
wife and child (a daughter) were camped near the
Laiiva, out front Cooktown. One morning, when
Forrest returned from horse-hunting, the wife and
cliibl were gone, and the camp had been ransacked.
The tracks indicated that it was the work of blacks.
A search party was organised and indications were
found that the woman bad been eaten. Further on
the party captured an old gin, who told them that
the white woman had been eaten, and that the boys
had intended keeping the little girl, but that the
gins in whose cafe they left her became jealous,
with the result that she too had been knocked on
the head and eaten. As recently as 1892 a party of
blacks wore going “walk about” between Muldivn
and Georgetown, and when alongside Red Cap, near
Mungana, a big fat gin, about 18 years old, was
murdered by a boy named Spider. The body was not
wasted—it was eaten. Only two weeks ago an old
black fellow was taken from Mt. Surprise to the Mis-
sion Station. In his heyday he had helped to polish
off more than one “long pig.”
HERIDITARY.
“What a dear little fellow! And my! isn't
he black!"
"Yes, missy. Him father plarry dark man."
“N.J.C." lie “B, Ill's” par as to goannas
eating eggs whole (B. 19/5/’2l) my uncle came
across a go. which had just swallowed a clutch
of 13 eggs. The go. was arrested with a pitchfork
in the act of climbing a tree, and immediately made
restitution of the eggs, which were again placed
under the hen. In a week there were 13 chicks,
let 13 is considered an unlucky number.


I'll
I 4
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality —a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
STSTE(XPRpSS
CIGARETTES
N°333 20 ~ f/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
9>
%
o
\f>
V*
'b
V
ft-
@°
CS-
A.
O
O
LARGE SIZE
J#i V
'Hr r


■A
1
A' A
fc. .. ... v » A ** •<
*^wi^BBsllwSi
....;/ ; - ■ .
■mhpmm
§.i i te? ',,
&S* «p fv
■lip !?:® i fpi ii fI ap
x Av N mm m
* \ -AA'A*
'mm® ••• a a
mmy
li^
-■WMBBwI
aa&Jßk -M Jk
■
;•/ A- :
;• - ....
* ’•.•:••-* *' . -
I i
»<ti
ff ft
*;?
m.
. y'V- i - .
m
•■;-•»" O
' *»i
'
.
•"•••
•A'W
;,'* A: ■•;
i'+tt+.y.
A,
««
■
■ I
-38
.'A-A:
: :. .i A
A
A:
■ .
■
’& y **
vA
■-
i
- :
a
1
H
A
■ m
Highest Qualify Reflected in
Sturdy Road Service
Perdriau Tyres reflect, in their dependable service
on the road, the skill of the trained craftsmen
who build them.
PERDRIAU AUSTRALIAN TYRES
Manufactured from selected rubber compounded
into the famous wear-resisting Perdriau tread,
and built up with ply upon ply of stout British
fabric, these sturdy Perdriau Tyres give long
consistent service and maximum tyre security.
Fit for
••"v: —
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney 122 Flinders St., Melbourne 21Z Adelaide St., Brisbane
Grenfell St. and Hindmarsh Sq., Adelaide ;$E5,'4 Murray St., Perth
C punning Economy
a
/ ill
It
Sxurdu
;


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
tybtid.
schnap^
7
m
*****
m
mu//
W
\
’i t/ /,J
mm
Ctl £ST
T *ou
*LtS
/fT -fecM?
0?:
CROUP
**•«£**-
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
A Plain
Fact!
\Y. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wale*
Branch Office:
> Bond Street, SYDNEY.
W...
What is Art?
There has been much talk about the “bol-
shevising” of the Royal Academy (Loud.),
and the cable tells things like these
Artistic- London is bewildered by the amazing
spectacle of famous painters like John Col-
lier and Hugh ltiviere trundling home pictures
which have been rejected by the hanging committee
of the Royal Academy.
Old painters declare that rejection will ruin some
of the most popular.
Mr. Frank Salisbury states that one of the most
fashionable painters is grief-stricken by his first
rejection in 40 years.
Art critics say that the committee's policy repre-
sents the triumph of 25 years of steady undermining
by the New English Art Club.
I can look back to the time when the
“star” Academy picture ot the year would
be, say, sometnipg by W. I*. frith, ideo-
graphic in color, fashion-platish in effect
and cheaply.melodramatic in conception. An
iron railing would .be erected to keep the
fashionable crowd from getting too close to
the stodgy, lifeless, drab-looking "picture of
the year.” Millais and Frederick Leighton
would come probably next in order of popu-
larity. Now, of those three only Millais’s
work retains much of the reputation it ap-
peared to deserve half-ii-century ago.
The vapid, hideously-apparelled men and
women of Frith, and the icy-cold classical
figures of Frederick Leighton, like the
marble-hall occupants painted so monoto-
nously by Alma Tadema, have dropped many
degrees in both market value and the estima-
tion of the art world. The admired pic-
tures of 1870 were mostly back numbers
before the century was dead. Why, then,
should a “fashionable painter” of the last
few years not have his first rejection?
Forty years of being “fashionable” is a long
innings for any artist, and if artists are
“ruined” by not being fashionable, as one
of the news items says, surely it was time
that the Royal Academy fashion changed
to give the old barbarians a chance.
Fashions come and go, except with “old
masters," which remain always beyond re-
jection, even though they fade and fade
until practically nothing of the original charm
of the painting is left. Art never knows its
own mind. I look at an oddl.v-repellent pic-
ture by Lambert hanging in Melbourne Nat-
ional Gallery, and I find a fund of innocent
merriment —-no, not in Lambert’s picture,
but in its ridiculous, old-fashioned frame;
one of the many gilt atrocities that enclosed
ft suburban family portrait, when 1 was a
child.» Those frames, after having been
despised for half a century as the last word
in Philistine taste.' or lack of taste, had a
sudden vogue at the time when Lambert
painted Lottie, the. Lady and the dead fish.
Loudon was ransacked for old dingy-gilt
carved-wood frames of the type whereat
a previous generation of Art turned up its
haughty nose. There’s a moral in that
frame. What is good art, and how long will
it be ere it become:: bad art, and will it ever
make a recovery' after its fall? Who shall
say what made that old frame fashionable
among the Philistines of yore, and then
fashionable among the art faddists after
the taste of the Philistines had outgrown it?
The wisdom of to-day is the ignorance of
to-morrow in co(/no$centi circles.
EDMUND FISHER.
Prose
I deprecate Mr. Francis Brien’s scorn of
prose anthologies. His reason for thinking
they are an illusion, as well as a delusion
and a snare, is that the selections in them
must be short. “The best English prose-
men,’ - says he, "have required 30,000 to
oOO,OfiO words for their expression, and no
anthology can hope to do it.” If this means
that great writers have always used this num-
ber of words to express themselves on one
subject-matter, I take leave to demur. What
about the prose splendors enshrined in 'the
English essayists, from Francis Bacon up to
Francis Brian? Bacon expresses himself
pretty fully on such matters as Truth, Adver-
sity, Love, Death, Religious l.’uity, Fortune:
nnu on each he expends fewer than a
thousand words. Adversity he despatches
in about four hundred; Truth in perhaps
eight hundred; Death in about six ; Super-
stition in not more than live. Sir
Sidney Colvin says that Candor's ear for
the rhythms and harmonies of prose reveals
itself as fully in three lines as in a hundred.
And Professor Saintsbiirv holds that it is in
extracts only that Sir Walter Raleigh is to
be profitably studied* Addison’s wonderful
"Vision of Mirza” is told in 1200 or 1400
words. What is commonly looked upon as
one of the glories of English prose in its
highest imaginative flights—Lamb’s "Dream
Children”—might be read carelessly in five
minutes: it does not reach quite 1500 words.
The fact seems to be that Mr. Brien is dis-
appointed with the whole corpus of English
prose, even as Wilde was with the Atlantic.
He is all for correctness. "The sole dutv of
prose is the correct expression of the author's
thought; the measure of the prose's merit is
the correctness and not the eloquence of that
expression.” Hazlitt pointed out long ago
that the great writers were often incorrect
and slovenly. Homer nods, we know; and
there is living a man who is willing to write
down that Shakspeare sometimes positively
snores. Even Mi*. Brien himself is not im-
peccable. But if correctness is the be-all and
the end-all of prose, the compiler of a school
grammar-book is a greater writer than New-
mai or De Quincey, Ruskin or Carlyle. I
would plead with Mr. Brien to consider the
prose passages by which “C.M.L.” makes
illustrious his article on "Prose and Poetry”
tR.I. -u/;>/’2I). Do a dozen facts stated
in a dozen well-shaped sentences make better
and more truly eloquent prose than these?
Though the weight of authority is over-
whelmingly on the side of “C.M.L.” in his
contention that great prose and poetry are
practically identical, I venture to disagree.
"Much confusion,” says Wordsworth, "has
been introduced into criticism by the contra-
distinction of prose and poetry.” For Cole-
ridge ‘‘the writings of Plato, Bishop Taylor
and Burnet furnish undeniable proofs that
poetry of the highest kind may exist with-
out metre.” Shelley goes even further.
"The distinction,” says he, “between poets
and prose-writers is a vulgar error.” So
that Molifere’s M. Jourdain had been talking
not prose merely, but also poetry, for 40
years without knowing it. On the other
hand, I have on my side the very Watts-
punton, whom “C.M.L.” calls “a great critic
if ever there was one.” He admits that
prose can sometimes, as in the case of
Plato, do some of the work of poetry, though
imperfectly and trammelled by conditions;
but “the structural difference between them
is fundamental... .like a captive balloon
prose can never really leave the earth.”
The clue to this fundamental difference was
first, as far as I know, indicated by Arch-
bishop Whately. “Poetry,” said Whately,
“is not distinguished from prose by any
superior beauty of thought or expression,
but is a distinct kind of composition.” There
you have the truth of the matter. In the
thousand and one definitions that have been
given, “Poetry” has been deemed to be
synonymous with the sublime or the beauti-
ful, and the word has been used in that
meaning in criticisms of sculpture, paint-
ing, music and architecture, as well as in
works on literature. But, really and tech-
nically, poetry means the expression of the
sublime or the beautiful in verse—in mea-
sured, metrical, patterned language. Great
prose, too, can express the sublime or the
beautiful, and it can soar to heights—as
the authorised version of the English Bible
proves—to which poetry has never attained.
The language of prose may be, and in great
prose it always is, rhythmical; but it must
not have metre or a recurring and conven-
tional measure or pattern. In a word, it
must not be verse. And that is the whole
story. “Prose poetry” is a contradiction in
terms.
HENRY MOLONEY.
More Barton
Erasmus Barton is a poet of whom any
hearthrug might be proud. llis standpoint
is so domestic, his view so entirely in har-
mony with the realities of ordinary life that
his circle of readers is constantly increasing;
and more and more he shares with the
greatest of Australians the distinction of
helping to build up the national character,
iiis nights are never too high for the general
reader; yet his sincerity and simplicity are
such that his name has come to be regarded
highly in the ranks of those who claim some-
tlmig ot literary taste. The present volume
of his work. Songs of Sufficiency (James
Calderwell Woop Woop), has in it all the
appeal of his earlier verse. Thousands who
read The Hope Ballads” at the close of
the war will find here much in the same
strain, and something that is new and dif-
erent. Barton sees a few things plainly
and states them strikingly. Take this, for
example, from a long poem called -‘Profit-
less
l have loved -rosebuds and tripe
And paid housekeeping bills,
lares grow till the harvest is rii>< •
bven poets take pills.
And here is a little memory of the sad im-
ports to which we grew accustomed in war-
tune, and from which we are scarcely vet
emancipated:— ‘ -
Bad matches sparkle, leap and flv
bike Mary’s hitter wit;
the most apologetic eve
Is large enough to’ hit.
One peculiarly striking fragment has a
special application at the present time;
the large sectarian question,
Which seems to sages odd’,
Is merely indigestion
Of tools who swallow God,
And do not masticate the whole belief
In which great saints have harmonised their grief.
An intensely human note is struck in the
domestic poem entitled “Early”;
What is more gloomv than this?
W hat fraught with more sorrow ?
Aot the sleek adder’s low hiss,
Nor the money men borrow
At fourteen per cent.
For the overdue rent
To be paid on the morrow.
Coldly it lies in the dank
Of the grey-footed morning,
While the little cups rank upon r- '■
Cook shindy scorning.
What is more gloomy than this?
Not the black shadows of Dis
At 6.25 in the morning.
Whithersoever I rove
This with ray fancy shall strive,
This dark thing and sad
Without hope to be glad,
this sorhb.e and unlighted stove
in the morning at 6.25.
Both true and false vers libre find a place in
the collection. Here, in happy, mocking
strain, Barton girds alike at the poets of
the seventeenth century, at William Shak-
speare and Alfred Tennyson, and at some
Australian lady disguised under a well-
recognised literary fiction of nomenclature:—■
My lady is sweet
From her hair to her feet—
Sing willow, green willow—
Red lips and swift dimples,
Her satin cheek rimples
The white of the pillow.
If I were a pillow—
Sing willow, green willow !
How warm were mv blisses
’Mid dimples and kisses, ’
Where soft the wind sighs
Over Clarabel’s eyes.
Where Clarabel low lieth
The breeze it pauseth,
The breeze it sisrheth:
And this circumstance causeth
Considerable reflection
Over mv late rejection
By the fair, the chaste, the unimagined she,
Who, willow or no willow,
Pillow or no pillow.
Hath no time for me.
The stern, matter-of-fact way in which this
most modern of poets meets his loss has a
real pathos about it; but there is, as there
should be, something of the tiger also in the
man. Here he breaks into free verse of
the American pattern:—
You are more to me tlian high gum-trees,
More than children singing,
More than the morning on yellow sand
Or the wind whipping a truant sea,
More than great ships,
More than new buds on a I.a Fran-c rose
With all the perfume intact.
You are you :
Therefore 1 love you.
You have sweet things to- say
Because you often stoo to think.
If you went away from me with seven other men,
Seven tall men each with a smile
And a thousand pounds or so in cash.
If von deserted me utterly
For two days and the night , between,
I should call you back again,
Call you back to the Divorce Court -
Because I love you ;
And none other shall take you
Save at a great cost.
Remember this when you lie in the night alone
That is pretty lamentable when judged as
verse; but there is no mistaking the strength
of purpose implied in it, the virile potenti-
ality of the man who can write so directly
and with such assurance.
Erasmus Barton has his faults. He
shows none of the tender love of sunrise
and moonset such as characterises the work
of llcderic Quinn : he is lacking in the broad
human sympathy of Henry Lawson; he can-
not handle an ecstatic jargon of anti-poetical
reform like Bernard O'Dowd, nor has he
ever loved a unicorn with the passionate
abandon of Hugh McOrae; but he gives us
something that none of these have to offer—
a poetry for men who read the morning
papers, a song for those who observe life from
a suburban train. Songs of Sufficiency will
come as a' tonic to many whose literary
appetites are jaded with the triolet and
jarred with the sonnet.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
A New Hook About London, by Leopold Wagner
(Geo. Allen & Unwin). The author pretends to
none of the literary charm of G. S. Street or Le
Gallienne; but he probably knows his subject even
better than those enthusiasts and his tastes are cer-
tainly much more catholic.
“Oh London. London, my delight,
Great city of eternal night!
Thou city of the Midnight Sun
Whose day begins when day is done!”
So sang Le Gallienne, but he only had in his mind
the London which lies between Bond-street and
Temple Bar; and as for Street he grows cold when
he gets away from the zig-zag formed by Piccadilly,
St. James’s-street and Pall Mall. For his province
Wagner takes the whole monstrous collection of
lanes, thoroughfares and alleyways which comprise
Greater London, and is as vividly interested in the
Fox and Crown Inn at Highgate (whose original
proprietor, he observes, was granted a coat of arms
by Queen Victoria for stopping her bolting horses,
but died in penury) as he is in the most opulent
West End club. Most Australians, and more par-
ticularly the Diggers, have not had the leisure to
explore Ohingford on the one hand or Kew on the
other. Few members of the A.I.F. even got as far
south as the Elephant and Castle (to which, as the
author points out, Antonio refers in “Twelfth
Night”), though it was not more than .a quarter of
an hour’s walk from Horseferry-road. But they all
investigated the West End with diligence, and Wag-
ner is as minute and unexpected a guide here a:
elsewhere. His method is to take a well known
land-mark and trace it to its early beginnings ; and
in the process it often appears that the place was
much more famous in another life. Most people
who visited London before the war knew Willis's
Rooms off St. James’s-street. Edouard was the chef,
and the King himself often fed there. Rut not
everyone knew that this was once Aim,tick's. Who
has not read of the Argyll Rooms? The Trot;., which
front Ifflfi onwards was rarely without its quota of
uniformed Australians, was once that notorious
dancing-hall. The Australian cricketers and many
others from this side of the world are welcomed as
a matter of course at the National Sporting Club:
it was formerly Evans's Supper Rooms, and a portion
of it was rbe original of Thackeray's “Cave of Har-
mony." Wagner appears to accept the view that
Or. Johnson really did frequent the Cheshire Cheese,
though his chair .and tile other relics which are
shown to tourists have often been derided as bogus ;
hut he is definite about “Dirty Dick's’’ in Bishops-
gate—the whole story contained in the booklet pre-
sented by the "D.l>. Cellars" is a lie. This volume
should he priceless to anyone with a historical mind
who meditates a decent upon London.
lielease, by Rosamond Napier (Methuen). A capi-
tal story of a little Irish fishing village, whose most
typical colleen is suddenly dropped into India as a
hurra vie m sahib, the wife of the Commissioner.
Naturally she finds things difficult, and her husband
doesn’t help her much ; but it all cronies right in the
end, though it is touch, and go till the last page or
two.
The Poisoner, by (Jerald Cumberland (Grant
Richards). 'The story of Martin Savart, musician
and dipsomaniac, who travels from whisky to whisky
until lie comes to a moist conclusion after the
manner of Masefield’s “Nan." The tale is rather
pretentious and exclamatory, and the flashes of erotic
symbolism are very reminiscent of D. H. Lawrence,
whose name is mentioned in a couple of places.
The ninth number- of Art in Australia is devoted
to etching, and proves a remarkable record of the
progress made by this branch of art in the Common-
wealth and MaoriUnd. As usual, the volume is
well produced, and meticulous care has been
bestowed upon the plate's, of which there are no less
than 85, with the result that the. elusive charm of
the originals has been captured to a surprising
degree. The whole thing makes a' joyous folio for
the collector. As to the letterpress. Lionet Lindsay
has a comprehensive article on "The Art of: Kl h
nig,” and Bertram Stevens traces the development
01 the art in Australia, while Maurice flnr si pro-
vides some notes on its acclimatisation in M.L.
The Inky Way
It appears from the latest volume of the Historical
Records of Australia that Launceston had a narrow
escape of being called “I’atersonia." which name
was at first given to it by Governor King, from
Sydney. It is just as well it was a dud; for Pater-
son, the local Lieutenant-Governor, didn't deserve
even that much honor.
“Kudex”: Lovekin, of the Perth D.ut.v \kws, who
has been kicking at the A..1.A. ever since it was a
baby, has accepted an Irish compromise on the
question of staff gradation, which has been the cause
of all the bother. It will cost, him about a fiver
more a week than he would have had to pay under
the Isaacs award; but he is satisfied with having
got his own way.
“Hamer’*: Australia, though practically tlie whole
population reads books, still imports most; of its lit-
erature ; yet away back in 1839 it made an effort
to do the other thing. In that year a special Aus-
tralian edition of “Pickwick Papers” was printed
in, of all places, Launceston. A copy of this edition
is preserved in the Mitchell Library; and recently
one was added to the Sydney Public Library collec-
tion. These are supposed to be the only copies in
existence—at all events in Sydney.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
ri bro 15 I'd
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, interior
walls and ceilings—with Bardie's Australian-
made “PIBROLITK” Asbestos Cement Sheets
and Boot with “Kibrolite” Slates.
“FIISHOIJTK” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing- to rust, rot
or ,corrotle. “Kibrolite” .Asbestos Cement
Sheets are made in :>fi sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “I!.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,’’
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane
581-3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
aCS
*Ss.
Note the
Label
on this
Bag.
SKIN-GETTERS! It pays to consign Rabbit, Eox,
Kangaroo and other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane. LTD.
Salesmen Onlv, Regular auctions. Prompt Returns.
. ' . L 3
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the daintv loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland-
7ENOBI£
f
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom — the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
t
!|h
W
A.W. TAPS and CHASERS.
MACHINE AND HANDWORKING.
VARICES THREADS.
SLIDE AND HAND REST,
INTERNAL. EXTERNAL.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., Manchester, England.
Sole Australian Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO. LTD.,
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
STOCKS CARRIED IN ALL STATES.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Ciilwullu Chambers,
C'ustlereiijili Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane X’erlb
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
0
ssr
L?%3>‘ 4S fe
o
S 3
Ps
e*
V-
ss
They Wear So Well
When you buy Congoleum
Rugs yoO take no risk what-
everin the quality orservice
they will give.
With their extra heavy
surface coloring, they stay
new and bright; they hold
their beauty better and
longer.
Bordered like a carpet
they are just as attractive at
a third of the cost.
No hammer or tacks—they
stay where they’re put —can
be cleaned with a mop in a
moment.
The Gold-Seal guarantees the
safety of your investment.
Made hr the foUmi'i”g hzcs:
9 ft. xl2 ft. 9 ft. xlO ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 9 ft.
9 It. x 7 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
GUARANTEE
Sole Australian Representatives :
Brown & Dar-eau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
Business, Robbery Etc
MUME PIPE
CONCREYE
"Blue Forms'': One suburban landowner
lias me puzzled. In tilling in bis return lie
stated that lie was a "Measurer." Now is
lie a tailor, draper’s assistant or surveyorV
Does he measure out half-pints of milk, put
the rule over dead’uns, or appraise the calves
of prospective, ballet-girls? What is his job?
"T. 0.1.": June 1 was the S4tli anniver-
sary of tin l first sale of town lots in Mel-
bourne. (>ne hundred of them went for
a total of £3127, and seven Williamstown
lots for £325. The highest price was paid
by Wilton J. Eyre—£l hi for the nor’-east
corner of William and Collins streets, upon
which was built a public house occupied by
Mrs. Umphelby.
* * * *
“Bung": A Monaro (N.S.W.) hide mer-
chant who recently visited Sydney has re-
turned firm in his conviction that all the
profiteers haven’t been hanged yet. While
in the city he sold a large consignment of
hides and bought for himself a pair of Sun-
day boots. It took five hides to pay for the
footwear —and he reckons that it didn’t take
that many to make ’em.
* * * *
“Xamwec’’ (Babaul) : Australian products
are at last coming into their own up here.
Burns-Philp recently landed a consignment
of most excellent curried Australian rabbit,
put up in half-pound tins, and it was rushed
at Is. t)d. per tin. l’.S.—l forgot to mention
that the Australian rabbits had been to Eng-
land and back again, and that the tinning was
done on the way by a firm in Soho.
“D.F.”: The sale of wives was by no
means unknown in the bad old days of Van
Diemen's Land. The Hobart Town
Ga/Ihttk of 1820 records that, a citizen had
disposed of his wife for a gallon of rum and
20 ewes. The price seems to have slumped
later, for at a much more recent date a
stonemason in the Son'll district sold his
wife to the local snob for a pair of boots.
They were good boots, though.
“D.Y." : This is the “two-men-one-job" age
on N.S.W. railways. The other day I tra-
velled between Strathfield and Sydney (S
miles). On one station a workman and
a youth were holding a pair of steps while
a third was fixing an elejrtrie light “lead’’ :
further along on employee’s business was to
look on while .his mate painted a pipe; and
at; Sydney two men were helping each other
do a small repair to ft defective drinking-
fountain. Small wonder the fares are up.
■* * * *
“Phil Hamm”: When the shadow of the
drought was over the land, and the cookies
were approaching the end of their tether, the
bank manager no longer greeted them with a
smile when they went, cap in hand, to
wheedle a few pounds more. But the drought
broke, and the pendulum swung. As 1
watched a procession of waggons, laden with
wheat, pouring info-our railway station, I
said to a bewhiskered chap at my elbow :
"This looks good for the cookies.’’ “Good?’’
he grinned. "Why, we spit on the floor
when we go into the bank now.”
“Juice” : Alcohol as effective, cleaner and
more pleasant than petrol is now’ being
manufactured by the C. S. R. Co. and re-
tailed at 3s. 4d. per gal., as against 3s. Bd.
for heavy■ benzine. That is only the begin-
ning. So far it is made from molasses, but
there are other sources. Year after year
the man on the land throws a way thousands
of tons of partly-diseased, undersized or
otherwise unsaleable grain, spuds and fruit.
Where the freight is not prohibitive, and
because there is no packing, grading or care-
ful handling, it pays to grow’ grapes solely
to turn them into alcohol for pow’er pur-
poses ; and when it is only the low-grade
stuff that need be so disposed of, there is
obviously a large future in front of the in-
dustry.
* * * *r
“Yarra Ben": Whenever the proposal of
electric traction to replace the antediluvian
system of cable trams in Melbourne crops
up, look out for opposition from the City
Council! Recently there was some talk of
linking up a portion of Swanston-street with
the electric system enjoyed by the Northern
Suburbs, and all the old banalities were
trotted out again, with the addition of a
new one. This dime the aesthetic suscepti-
bilities of the City Fathers w ere shocked, their
primary objection to the scheme being the
“disfigurement” of their beautiful thorough-
fares. Cynical observers who grow tired of
the tedious trips per cable-car aver that they
would w’illingly forego the sight of the
c rowds of bookmakers who habitually deco-
rate Bourke-street if they could be assured
of quicker and more up-to-date transit. But
councillors would not do away w’ith the
bookies for all the pictures in the Tow n Hall.
“Bouragi”: I suppose if anyone were to
suggest that Papuan prison labor should be
hired out to a private co. nowadays there
would be a howl. Yet it was done when
that very practical pro-consul. Dr. Mae-
gregor, was building the foundations upon
which his successors have been raising straw
castles this many a, futile year nast. Things
were- rather anyhow in the B.N.G. Treasury
then —early in the ’nineties —and when the
British New Guinea Gold Mining and De-
velopment Co. of Stalest put it to the Old
Man that it: could find profitable employment
for about 00 native convicts, the economical
Macgregor came at the proposition. For a
long time the lags from Port Moresby did
good work, mostly in road-ma kins' and clear-
ing. Then beri-beri intervened, and the
Doctor brought his lambs back to the fold
and started to pay for their tucker again.
However, he gave the B.N.G.G.M. (’<•. a
good character as a boss and provider, w’hich
is more than he did for lots of other white
employers. >


s
f-' : f
■ . '
mwaxSßm
'
... A. A .... 1
N
%
■ jpx.
k 5 A
\I\IIUI\
r
% m
*• H
A *
\«s
'
r
Y~r
4
asag: mW
'
m
m
■
hi
.
i
■
i;
\<y
m
mm
■
/ M
■ A
fill
■ ? r> ;
» >•• - .w. ;-•■■• .i
....
m
m
m
h
I
A A
M
m
' .
. 'Sv.,
A .-•
•• ■*
■ m
m*
s§p»
S mH
mm
■
.n ;
' : . ,/i>.
Brandi!
: • • ■•:••
gttlAU TAKtgi
■
kCI
A v
*
«
ut.l
■ ■ ■■ .*i
ki./ ■ •
Since *B9 from Pure Grape Wine.
The quality of the grapes produced at the famous Chateau 7 anunda Vineyard is second to none in the world.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy is distilled from the purest wines made from these luscious grapes, and it retains the
valuable ethers which go to make its medicinal properties. Its distillation is carried out under Government
supervision.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy is supplied to most hospitals and Government institutions throughout'Australasia.
OBTAINABLE ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
Proprietors: B. SEPPELT & SONS. LTD.


7A
pt
7
r
ss
s£ra&
?$*
Up - ||| ipi
% sv> <
1 Tifnii Vm'’' fV*'"' *• s |
ss
%
>4l
w*
m
/
3£2
REMEMBER THIS!
It makes no difference where you go, or what price
you may pay, it is absolutely impossible to get a better
medicine for the treatment of coughs, colds, croup,
whooping cough, bronchitis or any other throat or
chest affection than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
tyjouM J!ox JfaJtix -
Cranny Chamberlain
a
Dodgeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
Very little attention keeps Dodge
Brothers Motor Car fit at slight
repair expense.
Its consistent economy is a continu-
ous source of satisfaction.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
w
W b
Q
cn
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.j Melbourne. Standardised Motors, Limited, Sydney.
Cheney Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brothers Inc, is a Member oj the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce,
“Homo”: Appropriate names? Dr. Jesus,
M.D., Director of Health in -the Philippine
service, is the newest saviour of those disease-
racked islands.
The English film-producers fancy re-
using the plots of famous books has at last
given the Old Testament a boom. Ihe loy-
making of Solomon and the fair Shulamite
and the vengeful action of some of his real
queens is proving particularly attractive.
Vivian Tanner, P.M., has been given the
job of member of the Vic. Licenses Deduc-
tion Board, at £BOO a year. He was selected
by Lawson and Arthur Robinson, presumably
as a better man than the political has-beens,
unappreciated lawyers, and others who
wanted a cosy billet.
Above all things Governor Weigall (S.A.-J
is a farmer. Asked by the Adelaide papers
recently to give them his impressions after a
year of residence, he let ofl the inevitable
fireworks of delight with everything in
sight. But he couldn't merely fluff about the
subject be is really interested in. So South
Aus. got this in the eye: “I pan truthfully
sav that every prospect pleases —except the
cattle, which are wholly unworthy of the
State and its people.”
“Friday Island”: There's going to be
trouble should a case of yellow-fever slip
into Australia. The virus-carrying mosquito,
Stegomyia fasciaia, has been found here, and
more still can be brought on shipboard from
yellow-fever countries. A mosquito that has
fed on yellow-fever blood isn't capable of
giving infection for 14 days, but for ;_><
days after that can cause trouble. Money
laid out on a Commonwealth “mosquito sur-
vey” would be well spent.
“Wallaby”: The last published report of
the headmaster of the Darwin (N.T.) public
school showed a roll of 120 scholars —46
English-speaking Europeans, IT Malay half-
castes, 30 Chinese and 27 Greeks. More and
more the whites are leaving Darwin to the
Chows and Greeks, though there is still a
fair smattering of rabid extremists who find
conditions so congenial that nothing can
frighten them away from the paradise of
loafordom. But it's a fine sight at the school
to see a class of “whites” in one corner and
a class of hall'-castos and blacks in another
corner. The brotherhood of man is not. part
of the young Darwinian’s education : and.
mostly, Dad, who talks a lot about it out-
side, would pull the roof off if an attempt
was made to put it into practice.
“Adelaide”: The Foundry Hotel is one of
several pubs in the west end of Adelaide
closed by the Licensing Bench as being un-
necessary. This was the earliest settled part
of the city, and it. adopted, as a matter of
course, the old English idea of having a
drink-shop every few yards. They helped
to make the Local Option idea, so reason-
able on the face of it, look foolish when a
poll was taken 1.0 years ago. The suburbs,
though already scantily supplied, voted for
Reduction by one-third, and, to apply it,
large districts such as Burnside and Paradise
had to be left without any licensed house
at, all ; but the over-supplied city voted to
keep all it had. The Licensing Bench now
claims the right to weed out some of the
crowd on general principles. One of those
to go is the Foundry, just opposite the West
End Brewery; and on its mournful closed
doors some thirsty ' humorist has chalked
“Found dry.”
“Skyrider”: llow is it no one has ever
attempted to make use of those old wayside
pubs which, having lost their licenses and
occupants as well, are fast falling into
decay? There ought to be a little fortune
for anyone plucky enough to start something
on the lilies of the American road-houses.
Take, for example, the old Pelican, on the
Goulburn-Braidwood road (N.S.W.). This
ancient pub was built in the ’thirties or
earlier, of stone, with walls about 3ft. thick,
rooms of generous proportions, fine old
stables, and verandahs which would be a god-
send to a tired traveller on a summer day.
It was at one time on the Gibson estate
(Mitchell, of hack and hunter fame, owns
it now), and it looks across lovely scenery
towards Old Tirranna. Many a merry party
put up there in the golden days of the big
houses, and some famous horses were fed in
the stables prior to annexing the Burren-
gooroolong Plate and the Bachelors’ Bag at
the picnic races. After it lost its license
the Moriartys lived there, and the old place
revived its glories, but now it is merely a
refuge for passing swaginen, and heading
rapidly for ruin. Yet if there’s no money in
this, there surely is in some others like it.
“Ye Anciente”: Marshall’s Brewery, in
Oxford-street, Sydney, has been closed for
many years, but only now are the wreckers
removing the last, of the ancient buildings—?
solid stone structures whose dead wall has
disfigured that neighborhood for nearly a
century. Its passing recalls an extra-
ordinary swindle worked by a mild young
habitue of Larry Foley’s White Horse
Hotel, best known as “The Diamond
King.” He was wont to wear a big
collection of precious stones, but as he
traded them off, or lost them in gambling,
his title became an empty one, and he was
dropping out of notice when he startled
his own and other circles in the last ’eighties
by being arrested for a brazen fraud. ID
had noticed that a block of ancient and de-
crepit terrace houses uext to the brewery
had long been tenantless, and he conceived
the brilliant, idea of entering into possession
and selling them. Setting forth that the
property was part of an estate left him
under bis father’s will, he proceeded to
convert it into cash. And he had succeeded
in extracting a stiff deposit from at least
one buyer when his delay in producing the
needful deeds led to inquiries and his con-
viction on a charge of false pretences. He
served a stiff sentence and disappeared.
The property really belonged to some estate
that was neglected, or over which there was
a dispute. A good uianv years afterwards
Marshall’s Brewery bought it, pulled down
the terrace, and erected office buildings and
stores on the site.


SHIPOWNERS!
For Spraying, Cnitching and Shearing
The Machines Illustrated Here Stand Alone.
THEIR REPUTATION FOR HIGH QUALITY AND MONEY-SAVING SERVICE IS
ESTABLISHED IN EVERY COUNTRY WHERE WOOL IS GROWN.
Owners are not merely pleased with their performance—they are enthusiastic.
m
Ms
n
tmi
n
TT*
*3
a
w
►
3£
<i>
/
is
n
31
P
FOR SPRAYING SHEEP
For Protection Against the Blowfly Pest
The tsocpefo POWER
SHEEP SPRAY PLANT
is conceded the most satisfactory and efficient
outfit ever produced. It has been especially
constructed for applying the dip by means of
a solid jet under pressure, and is the direct
result of more than four years’ experience in
spraying sheep with this method. Reduces
losses by from 90 to 95 per cent.
Supplied complete as illustrated,
including all fittings, ready for
work. The two shearing machines
and grinder can be supplied with
the outfit or attached later, if
desired. Further particulars will
be posted on request.
For Crutching & Shearing
The «£s» “Little Wonder”
Two-Stand Portable Outfit
is a world-wide favorite. Quality alone can
explain the universal popularity of this outfit.
It is strong, practical, economical, convenient.
Needs no special shed or installing. Can be
taken to the sheep and set to work instantly.
Supplied complete as illustrated, ready for
work. If further particulars are required,
write to-day for illustrated leaflet describing
the outfit in detail.
fxxpefo Shearing Machines
can be supplied in any number of stands to
suit any size* flock.
They will give you the same good service
that has won for them the goodwill of experi-
enced woolgrowers the world over.
m
COOPER ENGINEERING
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins
CO. LTD.,
Street, MELBOURNE.
Clarke & Fauset, Ltd., BRISBANE. N.Z. Loan & M. A. Co., Hughenden, Townsville, Rockhampton.
& H. F. Co., Adelaida. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth. J. A. Semple & Co., Launceston.
Australasian Implement
Distributors also of Engines, Pumping Plants, etc. Write us your requirements.


ft
Tacum
Is so soothing and cooling for
baby’s tender skin after a bath
with Cuticura Soap.
Soapls-.Talcum Is.6d.,Ointment Is.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W."
' Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postuge to United
States, 3d.
O happy ! huppv ! happy day!
When she whose beauty you adore
Creets you in virginal array,
And clasps vour hand to part no more
Only ,by perfect: health sustained
May such felicity endure,
To hold the happiness you’ve gained
Take Woods’ (treat Peppermint Cure.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
for Colonial Riding.
Conditions make it imperative that
only a bicycle of proved merit be
chosen when buying a new mount.
Start well from the beginning and
purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The reliability and
long service of bicycles con-
structed of B.S.A. Fittings make
them an investment which pays
immediately from the date of
purchase, and saves many troubles.
V)
All 8.5. A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable
A
A. Sign ot
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
'Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in
BriXETix takes your fancy, write
Manager, who will, quote you price for
The
to. .the
it.
Line Shaftings
equipped with
SKF
Ball Bearings
have the distinct advantage of requir-
ing very little attention and operating
with the least loss of power. They
can be run at high speed and heavily
loaded without any danger from
heated bearings.
Full particulars on request to any
address.
Gardner, Waern & Go.
HEAD OFFICE: 384 City Road, South Melbourne
DISTRIBUTING CENTRES:
MELBOURNE 369 Flinders Street
ADELAIDE 122 Currie Street
HOBART . . Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone
Co., Ltd., 15 Argyle Street.
SYDNEY 225 Clarence Street
BRISBANE Horsham House, Adelaide Street
PERTH Unbehaun & Johnstone, 37 King Street
Backward children.
if you have a child that is not thriving 1 , the greatest
food help that you can give is Benger’s.
Beng-r’s Food is always prep ired with fresh new milk,
nature’s greatest food for growing children.
f
Food
helps the digestion of the milk; changing it into a highly
nutritious food cream which children greatly enjoy.
An extra meal of Benger’s twice a day., mid-morning and bed-
time, has by Doctors’ recommendation, helped thousands of
weakly children to robust health.
Benger’s booklet is full of help for anxious parents. Write for a free copy to-day.
BENGER’S FOOD LTD. 117, p;tt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers : BENGER’S POOD LTD., MANCHESTER Enjland.
*
Snug in the hug of your old armchair
With your thoughts wandering aimlessly
On winter nights you can banish care
In the smoke from your GBD.
GBD
The perfect pipe.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
C J»
c
<(
Ji
GBR
SPORTING NOTIONS.
"Fitz”: The touring Australian cricketers
teach geography indirectly. One leather-lunged tram-
passenger, reading of the Gloucester (N.S.W.) aero-
plane fatality, renovated the atlas thus: “Gloucester?
Gripes, that’s the joint our blokes declared closed
with eight for five-thirty-three against, an' then
only got a blanky draw.'’
The cricket conference in England soon
got down to business. It fixed an English
visit to Australia for 1923-1, and Australia will make
a trip in 1925. The other important recommendation
was to give sanction to the eight-ball over in Aus-
tralia. The resolutions go to the Marylebone C.C.
for approval—which shows how much convention still
counts in England.
The Lyndhurst stud, at Warwick (Q.),
presided over by C. E. McDougall, owns something
like a record. The last four Queensland Derby win-
ners, Symposium, Syce Lad, Boy Syce and Seremist,
all first saw the light there, and the last three
Q.T.C. St. Leger winners, Had-I-Wist, Boy Syce and
Griehka were also foaled there. Outside of Seremist
(by imported Seremond) all were the progeny of the
late Syce (imp.).
The annual Indianapolis 300 motor-speed
contest lias resulted in a victory for T. Milton, who
covered the distance in shr. 17min., which is a record
for the run and is 23min. faster than Chevrolet’s win-
ning whiz on the same trade last year. Ralph de
Palma, a. former winner, had his second bit of bad
luck by being compelled to abandon a leading position
through engine trouble just after completing half
the journey. In 1920 he had nearly five miles in
hand at the 400-mile post when his machine took fire.
Peter Moir, who died of blood-poisoning
lately, originally hailed from Bathurst (N.S.W.).
In Sydney he played Rugby Union for Glebe, and
he repped under these rules for N.S.W. against
Maoriland in 1902 and Bananaland in 1903. He
was one of the first star-plavers to secede from
the Union game, and it was at his suggestion that
J. J. Giltinan formed the opposition Rigby Asso-
ciation. lie was a member of the first N.S.W.
Rugby League Thirteen which opposed Baskerville’s
“All Blacks” prior to their departure for the Cold
Country in 1907. Though over list, he was a
rema.kably active League forward, and toured
England with the original Kangaroo combination
of 1908. He was 39 when the “no-side” was
blown.
- * * * *
People who take an interest in horse-
racing for racing’s sake will be critical of the handi-
capper’s estimate of Eurythmic’s superiority to the
best of the others in the Spring handicaps. The son
of Eiidorus is bound to be top weight : the question
is how much top? He has been once beaten in ever
so many attempts. It, was the Melbourne Gup race
that he failed in, finishing fourth after being in
trouble more than a quarter-mile from home. Rut
every other time Eurythmic has run like a. horse in
a. class by himself, and his Sydney Cup victory was
inconsistent with his one defeat at Fleming ton. Pro-
bably his position in the handicap will give a dozen
other horses an appearance of being favorably treated,
merely because they will have to be let in at a
trifle less weight than usual.
.T. A. Fair, hem. seo. of the Motor Cycle
Club of N.S.W.:—
“Smike’s” remarks (B. 26/6/’2l) following the sad
death of Harold Parsons are nothing but a. confounded
insult.. He contradicts himself, too, by stating that
Parsons’s triumphs rested on some “comparatively
safe and healthful pastime,” and adding that Parsons
must have known if he kept going on the “safe
pastime” he would strike something in the end. To
refer to records made by him “as not worth holding”
because he was on the best bike available might also
be applied to Ross Smith and other “now-athletic
champions.” No doubt “Smike” will wait-till Ross
Smith dies in.the same way, and then write similarly
ignorant remarks about him as an “advertised, photo-
graphed and boosted champion.”
“Celia Lloyd”: Re “Soso’s” yarn of one
Bill buying two cards in a. poker game, and build-
ing a. routine flush (B. 26/5/’2l). Fifteen years
ago, in the Solomon Islands, one night when the
game was big, the heaviest laser for the first half
was also a Bill. He bought to a ten. jack and
queen of hearts, and bought the king and ace of
hearts. Unlike “Soso’s” Bill, however, our Bill
didn’t tremble. He quietly threw in his hand,
taking good rare that, it didn’t get into the discards.
Four players were backing good hands, and that
meant money in the Solomons in thosp days. Whe-i
the last bet had been made, and a show-down called
for. Bill turned his hand face lip, and claimed the
whole of the ready. He contended that he was
placed out of the betting by Hoyle’s first law (“No
chance, no bet”) v but that he had a claim to all on
the table. Argument ran high for a while, until it
was settled by an American skipper, who agreed that
the course taken was the only cnc open.
“Smike”: ”YZ” (B. !)/(i/’2l) has a notion
that the Vic. Public Schools’ boatrace is ari outlet
for religious prejudice. If “YZ” had been to a Pro-
testant public school he would know that the lack of
scrutiny regarding any youth’s religious convictions
results in such a mixture of creeds that no school
could stand for a particular brand of faith, whatever
assumptions might be drawn from its name or coat of
arms. For instance, Melbourne Grammar, like its
brother in Geelong, is ostensibly Anglican, but if
has educated Jews and all kinds of Dissenters, and
even tried to put a classical veneer on me, who was
of mixed Baptist, atheist and R.C. extraction. Simi-
larly, Wesley < Allege has had many a good Presby-
terian and Anglican, and Scotch has not, only been a
refuge for various Christian beliefs, but is now includ-
ing so manv Chinese that the studv of Confucius
will inevitably have to become part of the curriculum.
1 admit that Xavier is a little apart from the others,
hut T deny that the Xavier bovs ever think that
Mother Church is looking on, or that the other young-
sters are conscious of any sectarian feeling when
the whole lot line up for the annual run on the
river.
Some recent results in tennis tournaments
in England and France will cause redoubled specula-
tion regarding the results of the Davis Gup. The
world’s champion, Tilden, who hail a terrific run for
the hard court battle at Paris, finally beating Washer,
the left-handed Belgian, in three sets (6 —3, 6—3.
6—3). went down last week to the Spaniard Manoel
Alonso, who had previously walloped the Englishman
\rthur Lowe in the first heat of the Davis Gup. The
fact that Alonso accounted for Tilden in two sets
(6 —4, 6—l) in a. three-set match isn’t, of course,
suggestive of the latter’s waning ability, but it has
shattered his reputation for invincibility, and has
proved that his famous bullet, service has lost a lot
of its wizardry among international players. Inci-
dentally, his defeat with his brilliant countrywoman,
Mrs. Mallory, by a comparatively unknown pair in the
mixed doubles at Paris is another staggering onslaught
on his nerve and confidence, wluch he proved in .Mel-
bourne were highly sensitive to fluctuating fortunes in
a game. But an even more arresting episode last
week was the hiding given Shimidzu by F. T. Hunter
in the Kent championships. The -lap. who, at his
best, is little inferior to Tilden, never had a hope,
his figures reading 2—6, 2—6.
The next most interesting heat for the Davis
Gup will be France v. India, probablv in Paris.
The French team will be selected from Gobert,
Laurentz, Brugnon and Decugis, who are all in fine
form, Gobert and Laurentz recently winning the
French Hard Courts Double Championship. That
the Indian team is not to be despised is shown by
the performances of Sleem and the Fyzee brothers,
who have been knocking out first-class players in
English tournaments. Major Hartwell, also of the
Indian party, got his name in the papers the other
day bv finishing off the Maorilarider F. M. B.
Fisher, who handles one of the most brilliant
•racquets- in England. . .. . .
{Continued on page 38.).


>
'A
A
nW
IK
&W\\
I 1
&
MJ
*C*J&>
VEA*^
ANP _
NEW TASTES
FOR SCHOOL LUNCHES
Give the kiddies these wholesome
meats On theiT Sandwiches—
“REX” HAM PATE and “REX”
Veal and tongue pate
They spread readily and are so appetising
that everyone enjoys them. They are all
pure meat, prepared and packed by the
most hygienic methods. You can have
nothing more wholesome. “Rex” Pates are
great for suppers, parties, picnics, lunches, etc.
Your grocer can supply.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1096
J K/SIQ
r
Shirts
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns -a touch of
refinement in the materials a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary -all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory W ear and
Service.
▲8 SI
,See Hits
.brand on
each shirl
m
%
m
<3
S’
&
<*o
/y
\\
8
'A
r p//
5S
The Only Original Drag' Saw on the MarKet.
Beware of Imitations.
$
>■*
M
m
PI
■ &
I
MrUl to mrtal. No lininr* »<>
burn Oponlrt imUntb al
Safely Angle; protects
operator’s hands.
Adjustable guide plugs.
Split I'itman head. Take*
up all wear. Sates repair
bills.
Jiffy saw holder, (irip.s
or releases saw inAtajitly
No hole*, to drill ' Saves
2 hours daily.
The VAUGHAN DRAG SAW
The only Drag Saw made with the jiffy saw holder. It grips or releases saw instantly. Save two hours a day. No holes
to drill. Turn a nut and the Saw is ready. Metal to metal clutch. No burned linings. Picks up load at any speed
instantly and without grabbing. Always ready in an emergency. Fitted with safety angle. Protects against smashed
hands and raises, lowers and guides saw.
Adjustable Pitman head. Takes up all wear on crank pin. Saves expenses.
Solid crank case ensures long life to bearings.
BACKED BY THE LARGEST MANUFACTURERS IN THE WORLD. ~
SAWS LOGS UP TO EIGHT FEET. SIMPLE, RELIABLE AND LOW-PRICED.
Illustrated pamphlet on application to
SCRUTTONS
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
DEPT. “G.”


Sauudei
"Wristlet,
balance,
s' Lady's Oct. Gold patent. Expanding Watch
full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
£l2/10/-. loot. Gold, £l7/10/-, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent.'s high-grade, open-face
keyless Lever, compensation balance, non-
magnetic brequet time spring, J-plate
movement, £2.
Higher grades, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ Lady's Set. Gold patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £B/10/-. Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
£7/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
Guaranteed Watches
V. Saunders’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunting
Keyless Lever, Waltham or Elgin, 10-year
Cases, £5. Extra jewelled, £5/10/-.
20-year Gases, £7/10/-, £«♦/ lw/-,
£lO. 25-year Cases, higher-grade move-
ment, £l2/10/-, £l5. Set. Gold,
£l5. Extra jewelled. £l7/10/-.
Hot. Gold Cases, £2O, £25. I.Bet.
JII
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch,
solid nickel movement, 30/-, 40/-. Silver
('Ves. £3, £3/10/-. Gold-filled Cases,
£4/10/-. Extra jewelled, £5. Gold
Cases. £O/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders' Lady’s Oct. Gold patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jcwe'l' d nn veinent. compensation balance.
£l2/10/-. 16ct. Gold, extra jewelled, £l7/JO/-, .
mk
lv.',y, v.'v::-':./-:
HR
lt»
SSHRwwwws
gllJlggfjplS
to
#s if
'’smL
mmw
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Hunting Key-
less, lever movement, £2/15/-. Extra
jewelled, £3. Waltham or Elgin move-
ment, £4/10/-. Silver Cases, lever
movement, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-.
Waltham movement, £5/15/-. Extra
jewelled, £O/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£l7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £l2/10/-. 15ct. Gold. £l7/10/-
/ • r*;,
' £ \ \ S ''s
\ \Vf V
ffwl 1 Mf —/>
l fm A
p\\
Sskvv V
>s »
$ N
? f#|il 4
>?. X
fluii
- i
W\&
P; silM lU
Bl®
S V'~A
\}}\ :r.
KS
9 mm
s /;
f?r iV :Ki
" K _ 'l f -•••; • - . > *W . j^J
, r " V" -
a* • ~£~f
* *sr T \> \\\ „f j
\‘ I 1
&>C''
V*
: ”.:,V
Hiy^
.
ffi£
At a Glance
this illustration shows the essentials of an “IDEAL” Heating System
as applied to modern dwellings. The Boiler is located at the lowest level
—not necessarily in a basement. The pipes are easily concealed, and
the system can be installed without trouble in old buildings as well
as new.
The following are the special advantages offered by
“IDEAL” Hot Water Heating.
Hot water, heated in an “Ideal” Boiler, and circulated through “Ideal”
Radiators, provides genial comfort throughout the home. Temperature
of any room may be raised or lowered at will.
“IDEAL” Convenience
Only one fire to look after. Less
trouble than an ordinary room fire.
and may be left unattended for hours
at a time.
IDEAL” Cleanliness
No ashes, soot, smoke or fumes in
side the house. No soiling or dis
coloration of furnishings.
IDEAL” Healthfulness
Nothing is added to the air but
warmth. No unhealthy gases or
vapors. Like a bright spring day in
its freshness and comfort.
“IDEAL” Economy
The fuel usually burnt, in one open
fireplace will heat, four average
rooms. For an equal heating duty.
electric radiators will cost over
twenty-six times as much, and gas
fires (with flue) eleven times as
much as
“IDEAL” Hot Water Heating.
x-ss
m
m
O;
■:o:
» . J
Send us a rough plan of your house for an approximate
estimate of cost. We prepare Heating plans on tracings
submitted to us by architects, builders or plumbers.
Write NOW for illustrated literature.
“Pty Ltd^
////////////,
I
(/)
0
■/'*'
c-
k
10
z
» Wy
7/ X
JZL>/
////////////////;
Z
7//
!F"'i
HM
/////'
391-403 Bourße St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney
“IDEAL” BOILER.


•‘Nad Roj”: At breakfast Willy pulled
the pin out of ihe bomb, with pa’s assist-
ance. “Say, mum,” he chirped, “have fowls
sot lips?” “You silly boy,” barked mum.
“get on with your breakfast and don’t be
such a little fool!” “Now, my dear,”
chipped in dad, “you shouldn’t treat the boy
like that; you should encourage him to ask
questions and improve his knowledge.” “All
right.” said mum wearily “Why did you
ask such a question, Willy?” “Well, mum.
when I went into pa’s office yesterday lu
was holding up the typewriter lady and 1
heard him say: ‘My word, I wish my old
fowl had those lips.’ ”
Amusements.
C YD N K Y’S CIII K I' THEA T U E S
J. C. WilliuiiiNuii. 1.ti1., direction.
OFFER:
HEIi .MAJESTY'S.
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
I'ALACE.
WEDDING BELLS.
yNIO N l> IcTII It 10 TIIIOAI It 10 >
SET THU STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
I C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.. MIOI,HOI ItNlO
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A PIQUANT. UNUSUAL MUSICAL PLAY,
OH, LADY, LADY!
THEATRE ROYAL.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF
Tiie Greatest of all Musical Comeitv Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
• Plans at Allan's, Prices as usual.
KINO’S THEATRIC. M101.150V1 I! N 10
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
aiid GRAHAM BROWNE in ARNOLD BENNETT’S
play of Fancy,
THE GREAT ADVENTURE,
A Tender and Whimsical Romantic Play in Four Acts.
Prioes as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
TO \V X II A L 1.. IttEIBOURS K.
Direction: J. & X. TAIT.
COMMENTING SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 25,
and on
TUESDAY. THURSDAY, SATURDAY, TUESDAY,
JUNE 28. JUNE 30. JULY 2. JULY 5.
MISCHA LEVITZKI,
The Wonder Pianist of the Century.
Plan at Allan’s.
UOVT'S THEATRICS. MELIIOURXK.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DIC LUXE. BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridsre).
A SELZNICK DE LUXE SPECIAL,
RED FOAM.
Also
CHARLIE CIIAPLIX in
THE LANDLADY’S PET.
Prices as usual.
QLACI A 1! I UM. MEL II O CSN E.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION :
AFTERNOONS . . 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
jy| AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOb'ICNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS present a Powerful
Picture Play,
in
FORBIDDEN.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
jjyj EI.IIA THEATRE, M EUIH)URN E.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CIIAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WOULD and SELZNICK.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. AIKLISOURNI.
THE LATEST AND REST IN
MOTION’ PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
A llan wii. k i e siiakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
DUNEDIN SEASON:
JUNE 15 to SATURDAY, JULY 2.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Machinery for Sale.
FOR SALE, Breaking-down
Frame for logs up to 38ft.
long x sft. diameter, Rack
Feed.
1 Rack Bench, Friction Feed, Table
45ft. long. Ironwork complete for
Jib Crane for SAWMILL, Heavy
type.
Fuller particulars, specification and
blue print on application to
F. E. 3ARBAT & SONS, LTD.,
Ipswich, Queensland.
ft
35
, Milflft
AMU
\\
\\
TA
\\
m
smss
“AUSTRAL” Brand Metals
for Shipbuilders and Dockyards
(Made in Australia).
Austral Brand Metals are now continuously
used by both Mercantile .Marine and I.aval
Workshops, because Austral metals have
proved, under severe conditions, to be of the
highest class for the purpose intended. Our
foundry is equipped to produce propellers up
to 10 tons and marine and naval engineers
are cordially invited to inspect the plant.
“Austral” Manganese Bronze
This metal was used for propellers on R.M.S.
Ormonde, R.M.S. Niagara and S.S. Katoomba
—a fitting tribute to its quality. It has a
positive non-corrosive quality and tests have
proved its general superiority over ordinary
metals used in the trade. In two grades,
“A” and “D.”
“Austral” Phosphor Bronze
In three grades, Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
“Austral” Navy Bronze
In two grades, Nos. 1 and 2.
Manganese Bronze Rods
For Pump Rods, Tail Shafts, Valve Spindles,
etc. Now used by large Australian and New
Zealand Shipping Companies.
Whatever your metal requirements there i(
an A.R.C. product that will suit your pur-
pose.
We cordially invite inquiries and will supplj
quotations on request.
AUSTRAL BRONZE'CO. LTD.,
Metal Refiners and Manufacturers,
O’Kiordan Street, Alexandria.
AB 16
A Vital Message
to Moneyed Men
Men with money, how can you leave your money in the bank, drawing
a miserable interest from 4 to 6 per cent., when you can put it into
Kendenup on mortgage at 8 per cent, and get £5O free Bonus profit foi
every £lOO you put in? Remember, that every building that goes
on to Kendenup increases your assets. Thousands of pounds are being
spent there every month in constructive work. Now, when you pul
your money into Kendenup you have an absolute first mortgage over
the whole thing (valued £600,000) ; you get 8 per cent on your money,
and, in addition to getting your principal returned to you in five years
YOU GET A £5O FREE BONUS OUT OF PROFITS FOR EVERY
£lOO YOU INVEST. We can say without fear of contradiction (knowing
what we do) that the man who has money and does not invest in
Kendenup and its securities and its advantages cannot know the
elementary ABC principles of finance.
The bulk of the debentures have now been subscribed for. Are you to
be one of those that lack vision? Are you to be one of the too-lates?
Anyhow, come in and talk the matter over further with us. You will
be both surprised and delighted.
Look How Kendenup Debentures
Beat War Bonds.
£lOOO War Bond, 1925 £lOOO Worth Kendenup
issue, Value on Re- Debentures, Value in
demption £lOOO 0 0 Five Years £lOOO 0 0
Interest at 4 per cent. Interest at 8 per cent, for
for 5 years 225 0 0 Five Years 400 0 0
(This is free of tax.) Estimated Bonus Profit
out of Land Sale ..... 500 0 0
Total £1225 0 0 Total £l9OO 0 0
Leaving You with £675 MORE PROFIT than War Bonds Would Give.
£lOO
In the Savings Bank will be worth in five
years, at simple interest at 4 per cent ....
£l2O
£lOO
In Kendenup Debentures will be worth in
five years, with bonuses attached
£l9O
So the estimated profit on each £lOO
Kendenup debenture is
£7O
more than the
Savings Bank.
We can Cash Your War Bonds on especially
favorable terms. Call or Write.
De Garis Kendenup (W.A.) Development Co. Ltd.,
80 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
D. MARCUSSEN, Sydney Representative.
C. J. DE GARIS, Managing Director. FRANK J. PENNIFOLD, Secretary.
G. T. DAVIES, Director of Publicity.
TIIE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY ARE:—
1. A. E. Lloyd, Esq., Manager E. He Garis & Co. Pt.v., Ltd., Mildura.
2. 11. S. Corbould, Esq., Manager Sarnia Packing Pty., Ltd., Mildura.
o. D. S. Newman, s Esq., Sain,a Packing Pty., Ltd., Mildura.
4. C. J. De Garis, Mildura (Managing Director).
5. A. N. Nicholas, Aspro Manufacturer, 10 City Road, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS for. Trustees for Debenture-holders: W. P,. & O. McCut.heon, Melbourne
Sydney Representatives: Messrs. Vickery, England & Wilson, 2 Martin Place,* who
hold copies of Trust Deed, Debenture and Company's Agreement.
SPECIAL NOTE—Mr. C. J. De Garis considers
that with the revolutionising methods of
Dehydration plus intensive cultivation, Ken-
denup land will go up to at least £6O an
acre. Kendenup has never known a drought.


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
: ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
-Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
. 48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
a
Um
t*r
m
yy
iMftl
u/or the Summer Camp
Abbots
lager
THE BEER WfTHOUTAT?TVAIr*J
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants. Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL.—Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGINES. —Stationary Steam. 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES. —Portable 6 lI.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d rive n
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
[i
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Firefly *
Criterion “Scandal’'
Palace “Wedding Bells”
Tivoli Annette Kellerinan
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Oh, Lady. Lady!”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
King's “The Great Adventure”
Tivoli .' Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Mrci.HA '. . Moving Pictures
llritakkia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice Skating
Town Hall Mischa Levitzki
«•—
According to that unwearied enthusiast
the programme-writer, "Wedding Bells,”
which has followed "Nightie Night” at the
Sydney I’alace, is "as beautiful as a bubble.”
The noun may be conceded, but the adjective
is inadmissible* for beautiful it is not. The
modern American comedy of manners (per-
haps one should say comedy of American
manners, for nowadays the writers are
mostly Englishmen V never is. "Wedding
Bells” belongs to that class of play, and is
an average specimen. It exhibits a plot
which is rather ridiculous but not obtru-
sively so, types which have grown familiar
without ceasing to-be moderately interesting,
and a fairly clever "line of talk,” though un-
duly padded with painful observations like
“Well, I’m damned!” and “Whaddya think
o’ that?” But in action the piece is so
deficient that now and then it drags like a
wounded goanna, notably in the second act.
In -the main it is sufficiently amusing, and it is
guaranteed not to tease the jaded brain
with unaccustomed thought. There is posi-
tively nothing in it that need check for one
moment the flow of conversation between
acts about the last race at Robbery Park
or the 30-guinea gowns that Mrs. <}o-
lightly wears on a total income, husband
included, of £7 30s. a week.
“Wedding Bells” is wholly concerned with
the complicated amours of Reginald Carter,
New York man about town. He marries
Rosalie, is deserted by her and divorced,
and arranges to marry Marcia, but an .anti-
divorce bishop refusing to perform the cere-
mony, he espouses Rosalie instead (that
ANNETTE KELLERMAN SHOW AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
“For Pity's Sake,” a bloodthirsty meller-
drama with effects by “Opera House Sy”
(Bert Wiggins).
enterprising young woman has returned in
the nick of time), leaving Marcia to console
herself wifli an impassioned minor poet.
•Toe Coyne’s impersonation of lieggie is uni-
formly excellent. His acting has an easy
sureness and finish that Sydney has grown
to , adrnire. »,Another striking success • is
achieved by r Sidney Sterling, as an English
servant with a weakness for bigamy, and the
little Marie jLa Varre has to do as Rosalie’s
ward Js done. As Marcia, Rubi
Trelease looks well and talks indifferently
well. She gives the audience occasional
glimpses of a truly noble back. Marjorie
Bennett works hard and makes a creditable
fist, of Rosalie; but there are times when the
part makes too large demands on her un-
developed resources. However, she is
young yet. For the rest, Frances Ross
reappears, and the audience signifies in the
usual way that it hasn’t forgotten her ; and
Lance Lister, Reg Long and Arthur Denton,
the last-named a rather raw newcomer who
may improve on acquaintance, inhabit the
stage occasionally with more or less satis-
factory results. Rather more than less.
A packed-to-the-gas-fittings Sydney Town
Hall with the vice-regal Forsters in the only
comfortable chairs, listened again to Levitzki
on Saturday night, lie opened the concert
with the Bach-Tausig organ Toccata and
Fugue in D minor, and followed up the great
thunder with a bit of Beethoven that
sounded like rain falling on a carpet of dry
leaves. More Beethoven in the “Pathetique
Sonata” ; and a group of Chopin, mostly Pre-
lude's, and to finish up the A Flat Polonaise.
Followed a dramatic flash of Scriabine and
a sit-by-the-fire picture of a young girl sing-
ing at her spinning-wheel by Itaff. Then
the grand piano rose and waded mid-stream
into the ‘"Blue Danube.” According to the
programme this aquatic turn was "by
numerous requests”—and yet Sydney is said
to be a music-loving community !
Congreve first laundered the Wishfort
family-linen 2UU-odd years ago, and the
S.U.D.S. run it through the wash again last
week, to the great delight of three packed
audience at Sydney Repertory Theatre. As far
as human nature is concerned “The Way of
the World” is at much the same milestone as
it was in those far-off days, when fashionable
London sipped its diluted cocoa-beans in the
chocolate-houses that had sprung up all over
the city in compliment to Dutch William.
Even the tactics of the .successful playwright
haven’t altered materially, for although Con-
greve doesn’t show us his heroine between
the sheets, the rising of a curtain discovers
one of his fair before her mirrbr in a cami-
sole—a cam., by the way that was distinctly
patched. The Uni. Dramatics, under
Frederick Ward's guidance, kept the thistle-
down brilliance dancing lightly until Mistress
Millament (Lelia Coppola) married her re-
formed Mirabel! | Fred Ward). Congreve
himself would have been hard put to it to
find fault with the cast, and would have been
the first to give a cheer for Lelia Coppola,
the Petulant of N. H. Pickering and Fred
Ward’s Mirabell.
Sydney Tivoli’s big attraction is .s'ti'll
Annette Kellermau, who, besides her mer-
maid tricks, makes a hit in song, dance and
wire-walking. Bellowdrama and the small-
town Opera liou.se are caricatured in a far-
cical sketch, “For Pity’s Sake.” Stuart
Barnes discourses on the tribulations of a
married man, and ‘Mack-Knife Pete,” a meek
old joker who cuts out wooden animals for
stray kiddies, is the current movie attraction.
“Firefly" is still in command of the finan-
cial campaign at Her Majestv’s, Sydney;
and the Firm’s G.H.Q. has no present inten-
tion of superseding it.
The Criterion, Sydney, is slill the abiding-
place of “Scandal,” and every night, at 9.25
or thereabouts, an agonised lady-yelp rushes
into the Bedroom and hysterically inquires
“Am I too late?” So far she has always been
bright and early, but you never know your
luck.
Mae Murray is living the life of “The
Gilded Lily” at Sydney Globe and Ilay-
market. Though really as pure within as
any of the cherubim, Mae flutters around
the high lights and the high balls until the
young man from the cow country comes to
town and Mae decides to link up with him
and sweet simplicity forever. But that’s
no good to the man from the pastures—he
wants the naughty little girl of the twinkling
leglets. So Cowslip Mae is forced to turn
him down, but finds the heart of a child
beating behind the shirt-front of one of her
gayest and richest suitors. Same address
finds Dorothy Gish in search of some stolen
pearls. The Lyceum and Crystal Palace
have the week’s thriller in “Dead Men Tell
No Tales,” a tale of wreckers on the high
seas; and the Lyceum also sees that Booth
Tarkington kid Edgar presenting “Hamlet”
to the neighboring boys and girls at three
cents admission. This is the joy of the pro-
gramme. The Crystal Palace shows May
Allison cavorting in a £5OOO coat that
doesn’t look a bit better than Aussie rabbit.
The Strand tells “The Story of the Rosary”
and “Oliver Twist, .Junior.”
The etchers’ show in Sydney:—
The first exhibition of the recently-formed Aus-
tralian Painter-Etchers’ Society at the Education
Gallery is certainly an important one historically
and for the number of exhibits ; but, though there
is much good work, the standard generally is not
high, and in many instances descends . almost
to the pavement. There appears to have been no
process of selection; one wonders how some of the
prints exhibited could be interesting even to an
etcher, and whether some of the exhibitors would
still be taken seriously as artists if their claims to
the title rested on etching alone. A weak drawing
in pen and ink might seem quite passable if repro-
duced in the bitten line, for etching is a mellow-
ing medium, capable of covering a multitude of
sins ; but in the matter of real art value poor play-
ing on a flute is no better than the same perform-
ance on a tin whistle. The committee, remembering
this, could have improved the show considerably by
demanding something of a higher standard.
There is much evidence in the show of slavery
cn the part of capable men like -T. B. Godson, Hans
Hevsen and some of the M.L. exhibitors to a well-
established convention, more or less throttling
modern work in thi> medium, which rules out as
“untrue” etching a plate that has been needled over
the whole surface. But, like Kembrandt. who in
his best works showed that a complete expression of
tone as well as form was possible, a few of the
exhibitors have sometimes looked upon etching as a
medium only limited by the exclusion of color, and
have adopted go-as-you-please methods ; and in their
work alone the subject holds the interest first and
the medium and technique come after, which is as
it should be. Chief of these exhibitors are Lionel
Lindsay in his “Fig Tree Hotel” (No. 10), “Last
of Old Hunter Street” (No. 28), “Old Essex Street"
(No. 62) and one or two others of lesser importance;
and Sydney Ure Smith in his “Windsor” (No. 26)
and “Deserted Courtyard, Hartley” (No. 53). The
lpst-named, though its light generally appears to
have been needlessly dulled by surface ink, gives
an illusion of space—a losing of the flat surface
that is not equalled by any other exhibit.
In the matter of subject there is nothing more
important in the show than the work of Norman
Lindsay. As usual, biting oft a giant’s share, he
makes every other exhibitor look like a pigmy in
this respect. But though he commits his subject
to a tonal rendering and goes well along the way
towards its successful accomplishment, he remains
the illustrator, more interested in the doings of
liix people expressible in form alone than in the
other vital part of the vehicle for his story.
At Melbourne Playhouse, three nights last
week, the Mermaid Society ottered ".Belinda”
as an antidote to “The Land of Heart's De-
sire,” which opened the meeting with prayer.
Yeats’s artless Celtic fantasy abounds in
opportunity for pantomime efiect, but when
stage effects are missing, and the fanciful
lines are either inaudible or ill-spoken, and
the aged wir of the village priest is un-
worthy of its hire, then does the pious propa-
ganda of Yeats amount to a dire infliction.
To speak quite seriously, the production of
this unworldly playlet, under Mermaid So-
ciety conditions, was a business error. It
could merely move saints to .sadness, and
sinners to snorts. Milne’s "Belinda,” intro-
duced as "an April Folly in three acts,”
was a pleasing proposition, for the name
part, as played by Mrs. Frank Apperly, is a
sweetly humorous exaggeration of irrespon-
sible womanhood, an idyllically flirtatious
grass-widow in easy circumstances. Separa-
tion from her husband since their first six
months of matrimony has enabled Belinda to
look as young as her devoted daughter. Her
life has passed in pure platonic dairyings
with conventional types of the human male
ass, while hubby, who left her because slie
objected to his beard, has been wrestling
with lions in the African jungle. He re-
turns to surprise her with two caricatures of
types ill attendance, while the larky maiden
born to him during bis absence is persuading
the conventional poet-type to get his hair
cut. Helton Daniell looked the part of the
handsome, impossible husband, and Mrs.
Apperly, as aforementioned, was quite charm-
ing. Her mouth-play is pretty, her little
tricks of utterance are as pleasing as hei
smile, and but for a comparative want of ex-
perience and grace of gait and action, she
could be classed with Margaret Swallow, who
played the voung widow in “Man from
Toronto.” Miss Isabel Handley played the
daughter winsomely. and Miss Edith Apple-
ton, the trusty parlormaid of the romance,
walked and talked as one well-informed in
stage duties. As for the two caricatures
of character-types, they were intended to be
absurd, and they filled the bill. Norman
Mitchell was most. usefully absWd at the end
of Act 2, while Mrs. Apperly was giving
delightful expression to her joy at learning
that her husband was the- tall, beardless
stranger she had just fallen in love with.
Alan Murray, the joke with the spaniel hair,
was rumored to have a fine baritone voice,
so the marvel was that nobody forced him
to oblige the audience with a song.
“Maid of the Mountain” positively finishes
at Melbourne Royal On Friday next week.
Meanwhile Violet Yorke has retired into
matrimony, and a new Governor’s daughter
flirts in her stead. The ne ,v imported lady,
who has the bonnie figure of a panto boy, is
less picturesque, and not more effective in
speech, than her predecessor. One misses
the Australian girl.
‘The Great Adventure” promises to win
its just reward at Melbourne King's. Com-
ing after an exhausted season of farcical
melodrama from America, the wit and fancy
of Arnold Bennett’s play had to overcome
philistine forces of misunderstanding, and
seemingly it was getting a good name for
itself at the end cf the first week. If the
character of Ilam Carve, the painter, is
caviare to the general, the character of the
widow who takes him in hand is agreeable to
all tastes. The widow is a juicy cut from the
commonplace joint of humanity, and Marie
Tempest serves her up in an attractive way.
Dot Brunton continues to contribute most
of the life to “Oh, Lady! Lady!” at Meb
bourne Majesty’s. Dorothy has shorn her
tresses and tumbled into plain tweeds for
her career as a crook, but her subdued
appearance doesn’t affect the extravagance
of her conduct when she is called upon to
drop the serious business of an embezzler to
brighten up a dull patch with a song and
dance.
Melbourne Town Hall will be open to
Levitzki on Saturday next and for a week
or more thereafter. Also Saturday will be
the first of Alexander Watson’s farewell
nights at the Playhouse, the absolutely final
recital coming on Wednesday next week:
after which Alexander will take his Dickens
stories and his Shakspeare and Kipling pro-
grammes to Sydney, where he will give his
first recital in the King’s Hall (Hunter-
street I on July 2.
“SCANDAL." AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
John Bedouin as
Pewscy, and Herbert
Leigh us Robson.
In “Red Foam,” which is having a run
at Hoyt’s Melbourne houses, much of the
argument is carried on by automatics, with
a large, coatless sheriff to see fair play. The
story is laid in a rural village, and appa-
rently the title' is a crude movie reference
to the well-rehearsed anger of a mob of
supers in a violent scene near the conclu-
sion. “Beautifully Trimmed,” another Hoyt
subject, shows a bizarre swindle in allegedly
worthless oil shares which, of course, yield
overwhelming dividends when they are
Required by the right man. The juiciest
dish on the Majestic menu is “One Hour
Before Dawn,” wherein an unexpected flash
of sagacity bv an American ’tec releases H.
B. Warner from a murder charge. “The
Typhoon,” which follows, is a spine-shaker
of smaller dimensions. Its principal fea-
ture is Sessue Hayakawa, who reveals about
a thousand different faces as a Jap secret-
service agent in pre-war Paris. The Melba
is screening “The Rosary” again, and there
is a great rush to the Britannia to view
Louise Glaum as a desert enchantress in
“The Leopard Woman.”
The latest re-arrangement of Adelaide
theatres will move the Fuller variety pro-
gramme from the Prince of Wales’ to the
King’s, which will re-open for the purpose.
The P. of W., also under Fuller management,
is to go back to its old winter fare of melo-
drama. The Royal has the very ordinary
“Welcome Stranger,” in which Jules Jor-
dan scores the unusual success of looking as
if, he were made for his part and no other.
O’Hara is as popular as ever, and the sup-
port is all good with one unimportant excep-
tion. Esiiek’s dances at the Palais continue to
bristle with novelties, and Val Royal and his
orchestra occasionally enter in disguise and
show themselves clever actors as well as
musicians.
From an Adelaide critic: —•
A large show of small pictures is open at the
Society of Al ts rooms. Mrs. W. G. Torr has a travel-
experience far beyond that of the usual local artist.
Working in water-color, with sound technique and
a pretty taste for subjects, she presents a wide range
of landscapes. She can idealise the sandhills near
her own home at Brighton (S.A.) or the flower-
crowned ruins at Port Arthur (Tas.). Some of her
studies, bolder than usual, deal with rocks at Mount
Buffalo (Vic.), and one of the very best is from
the Blue Mountains. Also she knows the Maoriland
lakes and crags. But mostly she is content with
pleasant bits of flower and scrub. The Adelaide hills
have been scoured for subjects, and so have the
southern beaches. In the softer and greener aspects
that England offers Mrs. Torr has been specially at
home, and she has pleasant bits from Stratford-on-
Avon to Cornwall, South Wales to Surrey. Seldom
has an exhibition in Adelaide been such a success on
the commercial side. -Speaking a language which the
public knows, and pricing her work with modesty,
the artist has sold practically everything offered.


MURDOCH S Great
\
(1
1
B
fj fHi
jn flj
|JS ®
n w
!)i
' /
n
m
* f®
-
J I k aiv
a
ii
■**
i
Hi
Mur
OCMs
rvirwg:
*P^A
The
Worlds Largest
Men’s c Boos’
Wear Store:
Sale Commences June 24
Sale Ends July 15
Period—2l Days
af
Shirt Bargains
NEVER SUCH AN OPPORTUNITY—aII splendid
values even before these reductions were made. Look at this
select stock of Men’s Cambric or Oxford Golf Shirts,
designed, cut and made by specialists in Murdoch’s work-
rooms. Made with soft turn-back Cuffs and Linen Neck-
band (reinforced). A very large range of neat and
effective Blue or Black stripes on White grounds. A
high-grade Shirt at a drastiq reduction.
Usually, 10/6. Special Price. 6/6. Less 10 p.c., Bd.
Sale Price - 5/10
Hat Bargains
ru
1
MEN’S PURE FUR SOFT FELT HATS. All fresh
stock, featuring Sydney’s smartest shapes. Bought direct
from mill at a special concession just in time for the great
Sale. Brims, 2jin. Shades: Slate, Pearl, Laguna, Cuba,
Biber, Stone, Drab, Radio and Oxford, all with Black Silk
Bands and neat Side Bows. Also Brown and Black with
Self Bands. Sizes: 61 to 7:}.
Usual Price, 22/6. Special Price, 14/9. Less 10 p.c., 1/6.
Sale Price - 13(3
a
Pyjama Bargains
MEN’S SPLENDID QUALITY PYJAMAS, Murdoch-
made, from warm, fleecy, winter-weight flannelette. Your
choice from a variety of neat designs.
Usually 15/6. Reduced to 11/11. Less 10 p.c., 1/2.
Sale Price - iO|9
An Overcoat Bargain
MEN’S WARM WINTER S.B. CHESTER or RAGLAN
OVERCOATS. Made from extra good quality Aus-
tralian Tweeds in dark serviceable shades of Brown or
Grey. Made with neat Step Collar, Flap Pockets,
Strapped Cuffs.
Usual Price, 63/-. Special Price, 57/6. Less 10 p.e., 5/9.
Sale Price - 51/9
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Winter Sale
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiraiiiiiiiiiiiiimnimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiM^
A BARGAIN event that will eclipse all former achievements —even Murdoch’s!
And this is the reason!
Only recently Murdoch’s had the honor of being first to announce, in Tailor-
ing and other lines, a RETURN TO PRE-WAR PRICES.
Now a-top of this comes the big Winter Clearance Drive, with its generous
concessions in every department.
Every line reduced at least 10 percent.
Many lines specially reduced to HALF-PRICE.
Here is an example—-
A SPECIAL BARGAIN
IN TAILORING
THIS is a Suit Offer without parallel! It is
the special Suit value which, by means
of buying direct from the Mill—saving
all middlemen’s profits, together with the
straining of every effort to cut down high
costs —gave Murdoch’s the distinction of being
first to return to normal prices.
To you it means a high-grade 3-Garment
Sac Suit, fashioned from Splendid Quality
Australian Woollen Tweeds, featuring a
fine variety of attractive colorings and smart
designs. Tailored to perfection.
TO YOUR MEASURE.
Usual Value- -£660
Reduced to - - 4 18 9
Less 10 per cent. 9 1 0
Sale
Price
£,418111
In addition to the above and other tailoring
Bargains—all other Suiting Cloths are subject
to the 10 per cent, discount during sale, as
follows:
Usual Price.
SALE PRICE.
£5 13 9
£6 10 0
£7 10 0
£B-10 0
£9 10 0
Less 10
per cent.
(£5 2
£5 17
£6 15
£7 13
£8 11
5
0
0
0
0
A TROUSER BARGAIN
Made-to-measure.
The return to Pre-War prices coincident with a special
purchase give's to you this substantial reduction in price.
Excellent quality, striped, smooth worsted-finish Trouser-
ings, smart and thoroughly re-
liable.
K
\
vn
«* u
%
A
■m
Present day value (to measure)
87/6. Reduced to 27/6. Less
10 per cent. 2/9.
Sale Price 24/9
Made to Measure.
Did you receive a copy of the
Sale Bulletin? It is pro-
fusely illustrated, and de-
scribes Bargains galore in
Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
Simply send your Name and
Address. Address your
letter to Desk R.
Pattern Coupon
DESK R,
MURDOCH'S, in Park-street, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,
Please send me, free of all cost, a nice range of
Suiting Patterns and Measure-form Outfit.
'Name
Address .
MURDOCHS
In Park St., Ltd., Sydney,
The World’s Largest Men’s
and Boys’ Wear Store.”


Representatives,
in N.S.AV.:
Neott & Holladay.
Ltd., 31A Pitt
street. Sydney.
Possibility
and Probability
accessories have contributed to the
possibility and the safety of the motor
cycle, but the fitment which removed the
greatest prejudice against it in the early days
—the thought of dangerous vibration—and so
made its success and future popu’arity a
probability was undoubtedly the
iu
Model 8175
with compound
spring and coil
springs in peak.
f SADDLE.
"The saddle that killed the vibration bogey."
W rite for a copy of the Brooks Book.
J. B. BROOKS, 6- C 0 LTD.,
134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
When you take your girl to a cinema show,
Sit far from the pilot-light’s ruby glow.
Subdue your remarks, of all draughts beware,
And don’t put your hoofs on a neighbor’s chair!
And stay like “a sport,” with your girlie pal,
To study “screen ads.” in the interval.
Glad tidings for winter you’ll find, be sure,
On one about Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.Q., Melbourne.
Super-Excellent QUALITY!
Preserve your footwear and keep the uppers soft and pliable by using
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
They are super-excellent in quality, and are produced bv leather
experts to REPLENISH THE NATURAL OILS of the
leather, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles and Tubes.’
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes; Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, Now on Sale.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Tiieuzi’ : Lizette Parkes, who is leaving
the stagi* on the finish of “Tin* Welcome
Stranger” in Adelaide, has had a long and
varied career, despite her youth. It seems
only the other day that she was “Baby
Parkes,” a sparkling infant who started at
the Melbourne Tivoli and was later seen in
kiddy parts under the banner of Meynell and
Gunn. As she grew bigger she was in strong
demand among managers, and by the time
she had readied the twenties she had done
ingenue roles in all sorts of plays anti given
Maoriland a Peter Pan that challenged tin-
more matured version of Tilda Prune. Later
on Lizette went to the lions with Julius Tre-
mendous in "The Sign of the Cross” and
contributed capital etchings of young
womanhood with Graham Browne. Emelie
Polini and others. Incidentally, she broke
out in musical comedy at Melbourne Royal
a few years back. The piece was “The
Belle of Mayfair,” and Lizette in the name-
part surprised a lot of people with her
pleasant singing voice and twinkling feet.
I’ax : File Broughs Imvo been a power
in their theatrical world. The other day
I lie death was announced of Miss Louisa
Brough, aged S 3, an aunt of Australia’s well-
rfememhered Robert., and of Sidney, his
cousin, who was a member of one of the
Brough-Boucicault companies. For the rest
sin- was sister of the late Robert and Wil-
liam Brough, burlesque-writers, and of the
kite Lionel Brough, and aunt of the late
Fanny and the present Mary.
L J (London) : After 10, years of seclu-
sion (the last few spent in something like
poverty) Eleonora Duse has reappeared at
Turin. Ibsen’s “The Lady from' the Sea”
“The Great, Adven-
ture," at Melbourne
King's.
Ashton Jarry as the
picture dealer.
was the piece in
which she made her
return (Duse’s
taste in drama
was always much
more literary than
Bernhardt’s), and,
although fi2 and
white-haired, sli c
walked on to the
stage w i.tho u t
“make-up.” All the
leading Fre n e h
and Italian papers
sent critics to
Turin, and they
unanimously waxed
enthusiastic anent
Eleonora’s art.
“Glen H.” (Lon-
don) : It is pre-
dicted that a new
opera, “11 Piccolo
Marat,” by Mas-
cagni, lately put
on in Rome, will
be more popular
than the same com-
poser's “Cavalleria
Rusticana.” On the
first night Mascagni
had to take over
40 calls, and critics
who were present
at the first per-
formance of “Cav-
alleria” in 1890
state that the en-
thusiasm on the
occasion was in no
way equal to that
which the latest opera evoked. The libretto
is unadulterated bilge, lint, the music is of
better quality than anything done previously
by Mascagni.
Reflections of an old concert-goer:—
Needless to say the press agents introduce Levitzki
as “another Rubinstein.” No young Russian who
pounds the - piano could escape the impeachment.
Mark Hambourg was a “legitimate successor to
Rubinstein”; moreover, Mark had succeeded in
assuming a very Rubinsteiny appearance. I must
have heard more than half-a-dozen successors to
Rubinstein in my time, without including Moisei-
witsch, who was the object of enthusiasm this time
last year. Paganinis, too, have been popping up
at intervals all my born days, though the last dry
interval was a pretty long one. Of late years
fashionable violinists have all started as boys on
the platform—-Kubelik, Mischa Elman and Jascha
Heifetz, for instance —and the tone of a boy-
violinist cannot reasonably be styled Paganinishfwitli
as much confidence as the punch of a juvenile Ham-
bourg on the ready-made notes of' a piano can be
termed Rubinsteiny. What becomes of these “un-
rivalleds” who are overshadowed in subsequent adver-
tisements by the “incomparables” who in their turn
are supemeded by the “unparalleleds” ? The other
day we heard the smileless Heifetz alluded to as the
“most wonderful violinist in the world.” The un-
impassioned young man bows with wonderful facility,
yet we old hands know he does it not more so than
Kubelik, and, moreover, he is wanting in the sing-
ing tone associated in my recollection with Kubelik
and Elman, and in the warmth that an Ovide Musin
and many another popular violinist have infused into
their playing as a matter of course. Formerly a fiddler
had no chance of fame —the applause of the great
paying multitude —unless he made a direct appeal
to tlie emotions of people who hud neither studied
music deeply nor practised on the fiddle for amuse-
ment.' Tlie hysterical praise of a small minority
of intelligent and unintelligent students of the art
did not suffice to bluff the masses into the idea that
THE JESTER'S LOT.
CASUAL ACQUAINTANCE (to popular com-
edian): “And what do you reckon is the
rottenest part of your job?"
POP. COM (sadly): “Having to smile at the
funny stories told me by casual acquaint-
ances, old chap."
a comparatively unemotional master of technique
with a fine, trained musical memory was carrying'
them away with his easy, correct playing. There
was no “publicity” system in the days of Musin.
The general public had to be fetched by the per-
former if it was to come at all. The feeling had to
be in the tone that was produced from the instru-
ment—the “fried-fish feeling, the grease,” as Van
Diene called it. The gen. pub. is not fetched by
the performers these times. Facile piano-player
Moiseiwitsch, the Russian with an unlimited reper-
toire at his matter-of-fact finger tips, did not fetch
the public. His remarkably clever playing left un-
biassed hearers cold, though his dexterity bluffed
them into imaginary enthusiasm at the moment, it
was the publicity that fetched the flock. I was
one of the sheep.
“Te Fana” : When Fullers’ myorama com-
pany was working Maonlanrl 30 years ago,
Ben Fuller, the new knight, was advance
agent. John, jun„ manipulated the lantern
which displayed “Through Ireland on a
Jaunting Car,” and between times sang
comic songs. Old John, Lydia and Walter
and Howard Chambers were other members
of the company, while a greyhound, with a
notice on its back telling the tidnigs that
Fuller’s show was in town, was the principal
publicity. Ben also did a red-nosed stunt
with the firm at a later date in Auckland
and was easily one of the most serious
comedians hiding his features under grease-
paint.
“Wodgil”: “Wedding Bells” will prove to
the Citizens’ Economy League that it wasn’t
born in vain. There are nine characters in
the play, and only one scene. And in sym-
pathy with the prevailing agitation, the
management has dispensed with an orchestra,
a pianist and a violinist supplying all the
music that can be expected for the money
in these hard times. Manifestly the rustling
of programmes, the crunching of chocolates
and peanuts, the dull roar of racing remi-
niscences and, above all, the tabbies’ chorus,
have a depressing effect on the nice girl
at the piano. But when the fiddler is play-
ing fortissimo you can hear him quite plainly
four seats back.
. “Alwych”: D. Reay Macartney, assistant
director for Annette Kellerman, says that
while in Los Angeles his Australian mail
from children was never from 40
to 50 letters. Before leaving for Fiimopolis
as special representative of the Picture
Show Magazine, Macartney, who is Sydney-
born, was sportsmaster at Chatswood School.
He says thousands of really clever people
over there are eating their hearts out wait
ing for “their chance” in the pictures.
Macartney, by the way, was successful in get-
ting four scenarios accepted by Mack Sen-
nett.
"Mr. Dot": Somerset Maugham, who
dropped in on Sydney the other day, re-
marked, after expressing surprise that
chiefly “foreign” plays were staged in Aus-
tralia : “Every audience likes to recognise
on the stage types with which they are
familiar.” Well, if we are not familiar with
American types it’s not the fault, of the
managers.
“C. Ockney” : “The Great Adventure,” the
latest adventure of the gifted Marie Tempest
which has reached Melbourne, was first
shown in London in March, 1913, under
Granville Barker’s auspices and ran for
considerably over 12 months. Wish Wynne,
who has during the last few years paid us
two visits as a “character vocalist,” was the
Janet Cannot of the production.
"Dido”: It is just as well the bouquet-
throwing habit has passed out. It led to
many heart-burnings. I remem-
ber an occasion at the Mel-
bourne Royal when a posy was
thrown to a robust actress for
whose smiles many had com-
peted. She took up the bundle,
and was bowing and smirking
lor the edification of the front
stalls, when a rival on tin l stage,
the soubretle, snarled in a voice
halt the theatre could hear:
’ You needn’t stand there grin-
ning. f paid the fool lialf-a-
guinea to throw them to me!”
But the most disturbing inci-
dent arose in the Alexandra,
when two ladies in the front
si alls heiran belaboring each
other with the bunches they
were carrying, and filled the
orchestra reserve with mangled
vegetables. It was plain that
each disputed the other’s right
to throw floral offerings to the
beauty actor of the piece, but
the low comedian, a bandy artist
with a face like a knot in a
, tl . l 4 red-gum log, stepped over the
footlights, and with outspread, expostulating
palms, cr’ed: “Ladies, ladies, not upon my
account, not upon my account I beg of you !”
lhat stilled the disturbance.
From London :
Owing to the coal strike there has been a slight
falling off in business, but “first nights” continue
to conm thick and fast. Keble Howard’s “Sweet
William,” a new innocuous comedy, is threat-
ened with popularity. It is a sort of modern subur-
ban version of “Romeo and Juliet,” in which the
best acting is provided by old Australian favorite
Susie Vaughan as a profiteering landlady. The pretty
young hero is played by George Tully, who was re-
cently in the Commonwealth. “Sweet William” is
a Courtneidge production. After making a fortune
with “The Arcadians” Courtneidge struck a spell of
bad luck, which did not change until last year, when
he put on “Paddy the Next Best Thing” at the
Savoy. “Paddy” is still going strong, and so is
“Tlie Rebel Maid,” another Courtneidge production,
which began a few weeks back at the Shaftesbury.
With three successes running simultaneously he
now has no catfse to complain of his link. The'
Gaiety attenmt to relight the oft-mentioned “sacred”
lamp of burlesque has proved' disastrous. After a
couple of weeks “Faust on Toast,” which is alleged
to have cost £lO,OOO to put on, was pulled off,
and is now being renovated and made to look as
unlike its original self as possible. When it c-omes
to pass again it will he as a modern revue. Melba’s
farewell concert, given at the Albert Hail on a Sun-
day afternoon, drew an audience of 10,000. Ivy
Phillips, the Adelaide contralto, has made her first
London appearance at the Wigmore Hall, and been
well received, although, as one critie observed, “she
seemed more concerned with the production of, her
voice than the interpretation of the music she sang.”
Dorothy Dix, the dark-haired charmer, who was
seen in Australia in “Joseph" and His Brethren” and
“The Speckled Band,” and whose publicity agent
at the time confided to a sympathetic public that
she was “a very lonely girl,” has just been divorced
by her actor-husband, Thomas Jameson, on the
ground of her friendliness with a £(entleman named
Yearsley, who is described as beipg “interested in
musical productions.” His attempt to mitigate
Dorothy’s loneliness involved him in £5OO damages.
The lady is at present appearing in “Don Q.” at the
Apollo.
“Vandorian” (London) : Mrs. Griffiths,
mother of the remarkable trio, has only hei
youngest chick, Bessie, at home with her.
The pianist Beatrice is, of course, Mrs.
Waiter Swinson, now of Turramurra
(N.S.W.). Perth (W.A.) is the home of
the violinist Muriel, who married Professor
“Oh, Lady, Lady!" at
Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Alfred Frith as Spike
Hwlgins, ex-burglar.
Fitch, of the 'Var-
sity. Bessie and
her songs at the
’cello more than
hold their own in
the fierce competi-
tion of this over-
crowded isle. She
is just back in
Ivondon after a big
concert engagement
in the South of
England, and with
mother’s assistance
gave a musical
par t y the other
afternoon. Ada
Crossley, plumper
than of old, and
l o o k i n g remark -
ab 1 v well, me n-
tioned her recanta-
tion of public per-
formances with a
sigh. She no w
feels too fit to take
her ease while her
li usl)a n d, pv.
Mueeke, a former
Adelaide man, col-
lects fees as a
throat specialist.
Harold Williams, a
young Sydney bari-
tone, who is doing
very well in Eng-
land, sang. He
“belongs” to Wav-
erley—or did —and
has married, since
lie came here, an
all-Australian w : fe.
Bes s i e Griffiths,
who has become a
front-rank ‘cellist, favored the company by
samplim; a recent present from her patron
saint, Princess Louise, the most artistic oj
the old Queen's family. A few weeks ago
she gave Bessie an Italian ’cello with a
mellow tone like a chamber organ’s.
“0.K.”: While some Melbourne University
professors and others were discussing the
awful immoralities of film stories, nobody
raised a laugh by remarking that “Maid of the
Mountains,’’ the record success among recent
local stage productions, is a “crook” opera.
But, then, romantic opera with brigands in
it has usually been a glorification of crime.
(Jay's “The Beggars’ Opera” shocked Queen
Ann’s loyal subjects, and Don Caesar do
Bazan in “Maritana” is a disreputable
boozer who started his career of Operatic
heroism by shedding a gallant captain's
blood in a street brawl, thereafter jauntily
wiping his sword on his tattered cloak. In
“Maid of the Mountains” the course of true
love is strewn with highway robbery and
murder, and one of the minor brigands boasts
of cutting somebody’s throat. The heroine
confesses herself a thief, who naturally
anprovjes of thieving as a profession, and the
climax of the story is the escape of the boss
felon and h<s low-comedy assistant with their
respective ladv-admirers. No screen melo-
drama ever offered a worse example to the
young, but it is all quite permissible in onera.
A stream of melody drowns a multitude of
sins. '
From Waterfall :
Of all the steamers that come to Sydney the White
Star liner Ceramic has .probably the finest band and
concert party, and to the number of 60 they stormed
the Sanatorium the other afternoon in two motor-
’buses—incidentally meeting on the way a cottage
which had broken down while being moved and an
aeroplane which was being' towed tail-first to Sydney.
The jazz band was the first that many of the
patients had heard ; and the vocalists and the piper
weye highly appreciated. The patients’ recreation
committee begs The Bulletin to say thank-you to
all concerned, including the matron and the staff.
Incidentally, the days and nights are long
for the hundreds of inmates at this consump-
tives’ refuge; and materials for indoor games
of any kind are badly wanted.
Elizabeth Irving, grand-daughter of
S’Enery, has made her debut at the Court
Theati' 1 , London. The piece was “Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream,” and she filled the bil-
lowy butter-cloth of Titania. She is the
daughter of H.B. and Mrs. Irving (Dot
Baird).
“Namoi”: When “Nightie Night” was
first produced in London it was booed by
the gods, who on that occasion must have
been American schoolmarms on a joy-ride,
for afterwards it broke all records. “Up in
Mabel’s Room” is the last shocker that has
come in for the tornado. Probably we shall
get it as a sequel to “Scandal.” It has an
equally enticing display of underclothing.
THE CONVERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Americans and Rechabites
Have left us no resort of nights
Except a game of cards,” said he —
"The theatre is not for me.
“The Yankee play serves jo destroy
hi acting hours our every joy;
die Uechahites with gloomy spite
Rob intervals of all delight.
“So why should I, I’d like to know,
To theatres elect to go ?
I can’t stay in for my distraction.
Nor e'en go out with satisfaction!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


TILLICO High-Grade Heavy Duty Lathes
Australian-made Machine Tools.
A.
nr
m
urn
Sliding, Surfacing Screw-Cutting Lathe, Double Back Geared, 9 % in. Centre, Oft. Gin. Bed.
Mmmmmmmmmmmmmm wniiim
Sliding, Surfacing, Screw-Cutting Lathe. Double Back Geared, llin. Centre, 14ft. Gin. Bed.
I^l
WL.M
TiLLIGO
Sliding, Surfacing, Screw-Cutting Lathe, Double Back Geared, 152 in. Centre, 14ft. Gin. Bed.
Send for Full Specification.
Gear Cutting, with the Latest Automatic
Gear-Cutting Machinery, a Specialty.
TILLICO Marine and
Stationary Oil Engines.
The Engines are made in sizes from 71i.p. to 35h.p., and have been sup-
plied for the Royal Australian Navy launches for the last ten years. Pull
particulars may be obtained from the Manufacturers,
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO.
LTD
SYDNEY:
171-5 Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-3 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
Cor. Edward and
Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie St
TASMANIA: 1
33 Cameron St
NEWCASTLE:
Howard Smith Ch'rs;
Watt St.
Works :
Fountain Street, Alexandria.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special
Sol: Agents: RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
I WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUIS# ?
f
I rWLS&wrIITTy MAKERS
SigSinu.ED IN AUSTHW*
PROP*«TO*i r _gz -f-
-||§|||&UUAN D»STIU \
MELBOURNE.
£
UK
\OID
Pure halt
THE SPIRIT
of Australia
and dustratids
BestSpir/t
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED, BUT ALSO BOTTLED
UNDER GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
Dealing with the Hampshire bowling to
the tune of about one run per half-minute, which
was equal to <t scoring stroke off every ball, the
Australians hit up 708 for seven wickets last week.
Taylor and Macartney getting centuries and Bardsley
209. The Hants attack is feeble, even for a weak
county side, and the Southampton wicket is an easy
one in good weather. The county’s reply (370) in-
cluded a 59 by Fry and a classy 129 by Mead. The
latter should be a certainty for the Test which
begins on July 2, and Fry can apparently have a
place if he wants it, despite his age and the fact
that, the critics consider him but the shadow of his
old self. Armstrong sacrificed his chance of a win
in the pursuit of a record, and Hants in the second
knock with 135 for five easily staved off defeat.
For the Surrey match the odd step was taken of
leaving out Australia s two best hats, though Collins
is still a casualty. Surrey is always formidable,
particularly on the Oval ; and Hitch, who is about
the nearest thing to McDonald that England pos-
sesses, went through the enfeebled scoring side to
some purpose. Gregory, who banged up a chancey
101, was the only man to make anything of the
attack. Surrey provided an indifferent response, in
the course of which J. N. Crawford, who is a Test
possibility,, fell to Mailey for a single. The con-
sistent Ducat top-scored with 47. Australia did badly
vgain before the Ilitch-Fender eommnation —Gregory
being dismissed this time for 25 —and the innings
closed for 158. Such performances serve to point
the rotten luck that, England has had, and to suggest
that bad bowling isn’t the whole trouble, as alleged
by Lord Harris last week. With the equivalents of
Hobbs and Hearne out of its side, Australia might
be made to look very unimpressive by a well-chosen
English XI. Armstrong lias, of course, been won-
derfully fortunate ,as regards the absence of casual-
ties.
* #- * *-
Warren Bardsley, who now tops the Ans :
tralian batting list in England, has the remarkable
record of 10,000 runs, with an average of 50, .during
his career in first-class cricket. He has also knocked
up 37 centuries —six of them over 200 —and if tic
scores over 2000 rurs during the present tour (he
already has nearly 1000 to his credit) he will be the
first man to do it three times running. During his
first trip to England in 1909 he aggregated 2180
(average, 40), and in 1912 his tally was .24-11
(average, 51). In previous trips he hasn’t shown
his brightest bat in the Tests, yet he obtained the
coveted “double” —136 and 130 against England at
ihe Surrey Oval in 1909. it is a queer reflection on
various people that when this brilliant smiter struck
a. bad patch in Australia a while back, he was re-
garded as hardly eligible for the Ma State team.
Lionel Tennyson, who looks a likely cap-
tain for the next English team to Australia, would
,find many old friends hero. Born at the end of 1889.
lie was a small boy while his father was Governor
of S. Aus., and though still a youngster when the
Governor-Generalship followed, lie and his two
brothers—both now dead in the war —played a lot of
cricket with the Grammar boys in Sydney.
Racing at Caulfield last Saturday changed
the tone of the market on the G. X. Ilurdle. In the
opening- event, a two-miles’ go over the little sticks,
Bright Plume had no better luck than most seasoned
jumpers that have been out of the game for a long
stretch. lie struck timber heavily and re-opened an
old wound, it was said. So his National chance at
time of writing looks little worse than that of
Bandule, who also ran without showing hi- former
dash. By the irony of fate it happened that the
actual winner, Youghal, had been scratched for the
National on account of a slight mishap. The easing-
up must have improved Youghal beyond the trainer's
knowledge, for he went out at 20’s, like Truepenm
and Briiisn Arch, the placed liorse-. Telecles, the
elderly favorite, ran respectably, finishing fourth, but
be seemed to tire at his jump-. Percolator, another
National fancy, was leading when he fell, so the
doubt about him being capable of clearin'*- all the
hurdles in the Flemington three mile*- is stronger
than ever. All things considered, British Arch cut
the most hopeful figure in the field, though his per-
formance took no shine out of the prospects of Fis-
conib and Two Blue", neither of whom was saddled
on Saturday.
In the Steeple there was another meeting between
lolatts and Mountain God, and this time the God won
in smashing style, old Doiran running best of the
others. The long journey over fences at Flemington
is not due till July 9, and when it comes to pass
the only certainty is that several accidents will hap-
pen. Mountain God is not the sated jumper in the
business, but he seems almost as sure as the best,
and on his present form he needs only good luck to
make him a good thing.
The Bananalund Turf Club got through
the postponed third day of its Autumn Meeting in
fine weather. Prickles, who made the pace in the
Brisbane Cup, was first in the Second Welter, with
Daylight second. The favorite, Ercanil, went down
to Grizzly in the Flying, but in the Moreton Handi-
cap, the good thing, Syceonelle, with Albert Wood up,
went on her winning way. The crack Bernard
horse, Fairy Bob, was really no three-to-one on
chance for the nine-furlong Royal Stakes. How-
ever, he prevailed by a neck over Ladomond, with
the flail-driven Pah King Hie winner in another
furlong. The Epson* Handicap gave the late Syce
his third winner for the day, Kaboora being his
representative this time.
Brisbane Tatt.’s followed on Saturday, but V. ednes-
day’s running form was most impoverishing to
backers. Kaboora, who won the Winter Handicap,
was the exception. The addition of 21b. was too
much for Grizzly to repeat his success in the Flying,
and Muquet collected another place in Tutt.'s Handi-
cap. The outsider Field Marshal did not run up to
expectations, afid won that race. Killorn was back
in the saddle to some purpose in the Novice, and was
able to keep Anchillo going long enough.
# * * *
“Jonah” : Wo’re racing mad in South Ana.
The two Cup carnivals were records in attendance
and tote-investments. Morphcttville's three day.-’
machine-wagering produced 0 94,078 for the club
and the Government to pit k at, and at the jiist-
coneluded Vic. Park meeting the three days’ betting
through the legal channel was .086,620, or a grand
total of .0180,698 on the six days. This is over-
-050,000 in excess of anything in the past. But,
of course, for every day's racing in Adelaide there
are a dozen in Sydney.
* * * *
Under Australian Rules at Sydney on Satur-
day Paddington led Newtown at hallf-time by 37 —32.
Within a few ticks of the bell, Padds. were still in
the lead (63 —58). Then Geurin, with a great kick,
got his third goal and Newtown won by a point.
Chalmers booted five and Evans four goals for
Paddington. Another last-minute defeat was that of
Easts by Sydney, Scores: 67 —64. I-lill (six) and
Saunders (two) kicked the goals for Sydney, and
Knott (five) and Richards (two) found the uprights
for Easts. The all-round inaccuracy of the kicking
may be deduced from the fact that, a both-side total
of 35 behinds went on the board. In the Railway-
Balmain match Railway amassed 46 —8 in the first
quarter. Though ’Main made up much of the lee-
way the final bell left them beaten by 73—50.
A generation Ims passed since the meeting
of Carlton and Geelong held the interest that it
did on Saturday, when over 40,000 stood around
the spacious Carlton Oval and roared themselves
hoarse till it was no use roaring more. Sleepy
Hollow played a fast, concerted game, and held
their own up to half-time, but thereafter Carlton’s
weight and superior training stood to them, and
rush after rush down the ground brought points
i n half-dozens, s o
that at the end the
i >ld Blues had 24 to
the good—Bl to Gee-
long’s 61. The Sea-
sides should beat
most of the Leaguers,
but they lack weight
and staying power.
Richmond spiflicated
Kssendon with ease,
and 86 points to
’Don’s 71 : ’Wood
smashed St. Hilda
with 114 points to
64, an d Melbourne
outed ’Roy bv 69 to
41. This looks pro-
mi sin g, but isn’t
really: because ’Roy
are hopeless this
season. They want
new blood. In fact,
they want 18 new
men.
BERNIE
HERBERT.
Richmond's famous
follower.
The "hiof Assoc, game, in which the unde-
feated Ports outed last, season's premiers, ’Stray,
by 70 to 58, was less discourteous than usual,
possibly by reason of recent happenings. These in-
cluded the handing out of warnings to umpires to
be more strict, police-court fines of 4:5. *;4 and
tl to obstreperous barrackers, and the unfortunate
death of a ’Town . player, who collided with an
Ls.-rndon man the Saturday before and died with-
out regaining consciousness'. In a word the Assoc,
enthusiasts have acquired a glimmering of the great
truth that football is a game rather than a Balkan
war.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs licked 'Varsity, at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground last Saturday by 55 points (13
tries 8 goals) to 11 (3 tries 1 goal), the occasion
being the oecoiul-last round of the X. S. Wales Rugbv
League premiership. The Surfers’ vanguard over-
whelmed the Blne-and-Gold six in every depart-
ment. the Students only obtaining possession in
the downs about half-a-dozen times. During the
first spell East notched 32 points to nil, tries
being scored by Wright, Holmes, Rex Norman (3),
lves and Campbell, four of which Rex
Norman converted. After lemon-time ’Varsity
bogged in more spirited!', and Dumvorth, Cripps and
Conaghan registered tries, one of which was con-
verted liy Courtney. Pearce consistently gave the
seaside rearguard the ball. Watkins played another
excellent game. J. D. (“Pilin'”) Campbell—just
back after nine years as a Leeds (Eng.) pro.—was
the star back on the field. His running, catching,
kicking and hip-high short passes, and his doubling
round and tackling were a treat. Caples and Sid
Kaufman combined cleverly and repeatedly sold their
opponents. Norman, by totting up 25 points, goes
to the head of the League scoring list, with a
total of 71 points in eight matches. Rigney, as
custodian, completely overshadowed Linskev, who
many times fumbled badly, and was never confident.
The best of the ’Vanity combination were Cripps
and Conaghan. They were starved by their van-
guard, but made the most of their few chances.
Oripps’s try in the second spasm was a classy
effort. In the other games Newtown got a surprise
over the Dockers by 12
points to nine. Norths
overcame Wr ts by 31
point* to 17, thereby
annexing the premier-
ship, not only for the
fir t time in the history
of League football, hut
for the first time since
the Pirates won the
Rugbv Union medals
and Nash Cup in 1898.
Their record of 14 wins
and one drawn game in
15 matches will take
some heading, and re-
flects great credit upon
Chris MeKivatt, their
coach. Glebe beat
South Sydney bv 16
points to seven. St.
George had the bye,
an d journeyed t o
Bathnr.it, where they
limned the local “B”
XIII by 31 points to 7.
“DINNIE"
CAMPBELL, who
has just come bock
to Sydney Eastern
Suburbs after nine
years in England
as a Rugby
professional.
Bananaland’s Rugby League XIII
triumphed over Tancred’s Maorilanders for the second
time, on the Brisbane Exhibition Ground last Satur-
day, before a 13,000 crowd. -Scores: 8 points (2
tries 1 goal) to 3 points (1 try). The tackling
was fierce. Davidson was forced to retire in the
first spell, being replaced by McElwee, and just on
time Tanered followed him with a damaged neck.
The Q. scorers were Flannagan and Bennett (tries)
and Paten (goal). Walters notched a try for Maori-
land.
Jim Phelan, who has see retailed for the
Australian Rulers in Sydney for many years, is
retiring, apd so is Ted Butler. Butler was mainly
responsible for the importation many years ago
of a batch of first-rate Melbourne ’bailors, who were
found goods jobs in Sydney in order that they
might put a stiffening into the Harborside teams.
For a time it seemed that, the game might boom;
but Sydney found the Rugby League too alluring
as a spectacle, and the home-grown pastime is now
at an even lower ebb than it was. before the war.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union surprise on Satur-
day was the wat ’Varsity downed Glebe-Balmain, the
runners-up in the competition. The students, who
have acquired polish from 'their Maoriland brethren,
were too scientific for G.-8.. who also lacked pace
among the backs. Nothling, the Uni. full-back,
who scored a try, played a brilliant semi-three-
quarter game. Raymond also was very' nippy, and-
the opening he made for Morgan to score war per-
haps the titbit of the match. ’Varsity played an
attacking game, religiously keeping the ball in
play, and G.-B.’s forwards were soon all out as a
result. Erasmus, on the wing, and Gwynne were
given most chances, but their back division was
outclassed. Buchanan was again very pound, but
the pace told on him after the spell. W. Friend and
Elliott were triers to the end. Wests ran through
Old Boys in a game which was confined chiefly to
the forwards. Wogan, who is at his best this season
and has learnt to keep his head, ran <-trongly. He
evidently has an understanding with Shute. Lane
played well, blit had little to do. Hall, as usual,
was most prominent for Old Boys. Grayson nulli-
fied his good following-up by faulty tackling. Norths
led Manly pointless in the first half, but thereafter
went to the dogs. The Village forwards pushed
the Shoremen all over the field after the spell, and
Eyre and Thorn were continually bathed in lime-
light. Corre.v and Louden started off well for
Norths, but were overtaxed, and Humphreys was
left to fight more or less on his own. For Manly
Chambers was the piek of the hacks. Easts at
first looked like losing their tail-feather" to New-
town, but the latter's indifferent condition let them
down in the end. Scott, for Newts., hit form
again, particularly in the first half. Higney, the
Easts’ forward, was the pick of their bunc-h, anrt
Wilcox, in Carr’s position, was sound if less ortl-
liant. McKay was easily the losers’ best forward.
Sydney Rugby Union selectors have got
together a somewhat lopsided crowd to withstand
the Springboks on Saturday. The.' have put in too
many men who have done their dash.
In the first hair of the Granville-Eastern
Suburbs Soccer match at Sydney on Saturday,- Thomas
found the net. and Easts led by I—o.1 —0. In the
second Granville charged like dervishes, and after
some brilliant work by Hevnian, \\ alsh scored front
a corner-kick. Time: One all. Canterbury piled
up 10 goals against Annandale’s nil. Balmain Fern-
leigh slaughtered Gladesville by 6 —l, and Pyrmont
accounted for Campsie Thistle by 3 —o. Canterbury
(12 points) and Balmain Fernleigh and Pyrmont
(11 each) look down on the rest in the premiership
table.
Teddy Aldred, who died at Sydney on
Monday, was a stalwart in Australian Soccer. in
1913 he represented Queensland *'. N.S.W., and
showed fine form as goalie; then, after nearly four
years against the llun, he bncklc-d on armor in
Sydney. Op to last Saturday he was active in. the
pastime, and played for Campsie Thistle v. Went-
worth in the League competition.
Fired with the ensample of the Rugby
League womenfolk to kick the football or tear each
other’s hair, 120 Soccer women-adherents have de-
cided to delve in. Soccer is probably more fitted lor
women than Rugby League; and the Sydney ladies
have the precedent that their game is played ex-
tensively in England and France.
* * * *
England has picked up its Rugbv football
after the war much quicker than its neighbors, it
beat Scotland, Ireland and Wales in 1891, not again
till 1912, but three times in the last four plat ing
seasons This winter a strong young XV was picked
—and stuck to. Two men dropped out for family
reasons, but only 17 in all were concerned in the
three victories.
Bert Spargo, of Victoria, beat Tommy
Noble at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, but
by no vast margin of points, and only after be had
narrowly evaded defeat himself along the k.o. route.
Noble lias been training since his opening debacle
against .lainito, and the Australian feather-weight was
the sorer for it at the end of the conflict. It was
in the 12th round that the dogged, hard-punching
little London pug nearly settled Spargo—a gory
session in the course of which the local youth's
grievously-assaulted ear caused the ring to resemble
a shambles. After that Spargo boxed warily and
well, and his adversary’s hopes of a win receded
to vanishing-point. The loser got a fine reception
for a courageous- if not bigotedly fair and sporting—
display.
Although Melbourne fight funs are not
keen on coons, another was served up to them on
Saturday night in Larry Hawkins, alleged bantam-
weight champion of the I'.S.A. He weighed in as
a fodder against Jimmy Sernmens, the lfean Vic-
torian bantam, and for six rounds received an
artistic hiding. In the seventh Hawkins swung ,i
left that landed nearly a foot below the belt, and
after that two riolicemen protected him- from the
wrath of a crowd that thirsted for his blood. Sem-
mens got the decision and the coin, which included
a £5O forfeit for being overweight. Hawkins, it
is to be honed, will get a ticket hack to the cotton-
fields and the trees where the watermelons bloom.
About the quaintest “settling” speeeh on
record was that made by the referee at the paying-
out of stakes over an Adelaide fight—the first organ-
ised by Mike Mane in his new venture there. One of
the contestants had complained loudly but vainly
of having his ear bitten in a clinch—and certainly it
bled freely—and had some time later been disquali-
fied for hitting low. “I don’t believe you meant to
do it.” now said the ex-referee, sympathetically,
“and you were leading on points up till then” ; and
to the winner: “I am convinced now that you did
bite him, and I only wish I had detected it, at the
time.” So relations between the parties are still
somewhat strained.
The English polo team, which went down
to the Americans in the first of the Trsts last week
hv 11 goals to four, suffers from the prevailing
national complaint—namely Anno Domini. Major
Vivian Lockett, the English No. 3, was at his best
two or three years before the war; Colonel Hunter
(back) is another veteran, and Colonel Tomkinson.
who is in the forties, was "o badly wounded on the
Somme that it was said he would never play again.
Lord Dalmeny, who probably played No. 2, is just on
40, and stout and old for his years. The victorious
Yanks, with the exception of their back, Milburn.
who starred against the team which the Duke of
Westminster organised for America in 1914. are com-
parative boy -1 .
Two N.S.W. bowls championship finals
were decided at Sydney on Saturday. Cessnock sent
two teams. In the pairs Thompson and Davidson
crashed before Flook and Payten (Ashfield) by 24
16; and in the rink, Mosman downed the North-
erners by 27—23. Cessnock lost through patchy ploy,
since at both the 7th and 18th ends they got five
up. The Mosman four were Geddes, Gordon. Hopkins
and Colquhoun. A. Marshall (skipper of Cessnock)
previously won the N.S.W. singles.
W * * *
B. Swinbourne (who recently survived a
double protest as winner of N.S.W. novice cross-
country championship) took Botany (Sydney) Harriers
four-mile open road-race on Saturday. From the
OOsec. mark be defeated 16 others comfortably in
24 min. 38sec.. and was only downed by •!. H. Dillon
bv lsec. for fastest time. Swinbourne will be one
of N.S.W.'s team in the Australian cross-country
championships in Victoria next month.
* -* * *
The position of Adelaide football teams
on the premiership list has been greatly altered by
the previously unbeaten Sturt going down twice,
first to Norwood, easily, and then to Port Adelaide,
after a desperate struggle, by a single point—7
goals 15 behinds to 8 goals 8 behinds. These results
left Norwood at the head of the list, with five won
to one lost ; Port, Sturt and West Torrens equal for
second place.
DODGING HIS HALF-CENTURY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"It’s a common expression, ‘You’re a liar!’ at
Manly, isn't if.” “Pretty common.” “You’ve
been called a liar pretty often at Manly?” “Well,
yes, but Brown called me a liar twice, and I didn’t
want to be called a liar 50 times.” —The Mayor of
Manly, wider cross-examination, as plaintiff in a
slander action.
There are many ways of storing. It is usual in
games
To struggle for the maximum of points.
Then a hundred in a Test match gives, the maker of
it claims
On multitudes of enviable joints.
But the system in the council rooms at Manlv-by-
the-Sea
Is a matter of the minimum in hostile repartee.
Von conceive the Village Fathers gathered round the
council board,
Debating, let us say, about a drain.
“That’s a lie, you d—d old blackguard!” And an
alderman has scored —-
His adversary mentioning in vain
That his truthfulness no decent man would honestly
impeach.
No one listens in the civic game as played at Manly
Beach.
“You're a liar!” “you're another!” (Smith and
Jones each minus one.)
“He couldn't speak the truth, gents, if he tried;
If his Worship claimed his duty by this suburb he
had done.
Well, he (the speaker) answered that he lied!”
(One more point against his Wo-rship, and his score's
non’ fort//-eight !
tie'll notch his fifty and go down to night as sure,
as fate.')
Now observe the old campaigner faced with iiiiiniii-
ent defeat.
He swiftly from his pocket whips a writ.
“Brown, you've been and gone and slandered me.
Them words I'll make you cat.
This meeting is adjourned. Get out of it!
Rets are cancelled, and the entrance-fees will be
returned to all.
Whew! In all the nights I've played here this was
quite niv closest call!”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Some Day You’ll Be Sorry
that you cannot box. When you find
yourself facing the bully, your size
and strength will not help you—but
SCIENCE will. Don't envy others for
their coolness and confidence in a
scrap. Be envied yourself !
Think how humiliating it would be to
be beaten by a man smaller than your-
self ; think of the jeers of the on-
lookers and the taunts of your pals.
When the day comes it will be too
late for regrets.
LEARN BOXING BY POST.
Our system is simple, practical and thorough; it
embraces every punch, guard and counter known to
ringcraft. The student has personal advice and
supervision just as if he were attending the classes
in Sydney.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students testify their con-
fidence in the Baker Course.
If you want a copy of the interesting booklet, “Scien-
tific Boxing in Your Home,” just write your name
and address across this advertisement and mail it
with three stamps to cover postage. The booklet
tells all about the course, and gives many valuable
hints.
k-J
m
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER
AND BROTHERS,
505 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
eueii
p 11E WW k
HOTQR WRIT
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Hoys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
Use gf
Fuller & Johnson
Power
THE FULLER & JOHNSON Throttling Governor
Petrol-Kerosene Engine has been on the market for
years and is a thoroughly up-to-date standardized
engine of known value.
Just the engine for the farm, station, or any other place
where dependable power is needed.
Each engine is a sturdy, full warranted machine and will
perform exactly as represented. It is “easy to start,” will
operate smoothly and steadily on either kerosene or petrol
an*d will deliver more than its full rated Brake Horse Power.
The simplicity of design, the high quality of materials used,
the perfect balance—and the most rigid inspection tests insure
to each purchaser an engine capable of long and continued
service.
Learn more about these exceptional engines —a post card
mailed to the nearest distributor named below will bring you
full descriptive literature.
Easy to Start
In sizes 3,5, 7,9, 12, 15, 20, 25 B. H. P. Stationary and Portable
DISTRIBUTORS
The S. A. Farmers* Co-operative Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
Sold Everywhere.
A dreary place would be this earth
11 ere there no little people in it.
I'lie song of life would lose its mirth
11 ere there no children to begin it.
There’s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health—chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS
Do not delay a single day. Avoid serious illness
by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
Motor Control Gear.
We can supply and erect control gear for
all types of motors, and for practically any
condition of service. This gear includes
starters, control panels, etc.
We can also supply oil-immersed switch-
gear for mines, sub-stations and industrial
work generally.
We shall be glad to give estimates and
answer inquiries for supplying complete
plant, as well as for electrical elevators
and hoists, gear transformers, motors,
dynamos, etc.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Homewood 8 O’Neill Pty. Ltd.
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-6 William Street,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
a
f
af
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
All Sizes in Light- or Heavy-duty Types
for Pearling Schooners, Working Boats,
Pleasure Launches, etc.
lUMMiimniuj
H.D. Type.
The Engine for
the Workboat.
This Caille is a sturdy,
reliable, single-cylinder
model, evolved for heavy
duty where plenty of hard
work in the most exposed
weather conditions must
be met. An ideal power-
plant for the light launch
wheye engine-space is
limited. Equipped with
weatherproof igniter that
gives a certain spark in
all weathers. If you
have hard work to do you
need this Caille. Ask
prices and particulars.
WE CAN DELIVER FROM STOCK
thp world-renowned Caille Perfection Marine Engine in all size;*,' for
light or heavy duty, in 1-, 2-, or 4-cylinder models. . Also Reverse
Rears in all sizes for immediate delivery. Recommended for in-
verted car and other engines up to 20h.p. running at about 750 revs,
dives same speed astern as ahead. Write now for prices and
descriptive folders to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, X.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”


SAVKS KVER.Y CASH OUY(A
TWO SMIUINCS IN CVS AY
Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale
From 27th June to 16th July.
Men’s Boots Specially Reduced
LESS the 10 per cent. CASH BONUS.
URI —Tan Calf Balmorals, smart extended models, with
light welted soles; a very comfortable fitting and neat
boot. Usual Price, per pair, 27/6. Sale Price .. 25 9
UR2 —Tan Calf Derby Boots, comfortable fitting shape,
light welted soles; stocked in two fittings. Usual, 39/6.
• Sale Price, per .pair 35/-
UR3 —Tan Derby Boots, of fine American Tuscan Calf,
extended last; leather lined. Usual, 50/-. Sale Price, 39 6 j
c Dedu€l 10 per cent, from these prices.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
"The Store for Men.”
IVe fay Carriage. Bex 497, G.P.O.
. A
•
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that is borne on every pool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bonnington’s
Irish >loss bandy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
l/i
Hi /r<^.
,8.
BOH Ml NOTCH'S'.
C APR AGEEN 6
Jmt
CtCuu;* aONMNCTOM
/ ■
—V
IRISH MOSS
Get a bottle to-day—
Insist on. Bonnington’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
—ls the standard remedy for Toughs, Colds, In-
fluenza, Bronchitis. Whooping Cough, and all Chest
complaint* 8.A.22.
mm
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne.
Nest Her [?] Theatre.
Of the £250,000 proposed to be spent on
a Victory Arch as a war memorial in Mel-
bourne £125,000 is in .sight, as the State
Government and the City Council are each
to give £50,000 at the rate of £5OOO a year,
and it is proposed to take £25,000 from the
War Relief Fund built up by the State-
school kiddies. But as the Diggers’ Assoc,
isn’t enthusiastic, and banks are putting-
on the screw, it is questionable whether
promise's, not to say cash, for the balance
will be forthcoming—especially as the Mayor,
like the Premier, wants something artistic
and non-utilitarian that will stand for senti-
ment and idealism. Eighteen months ago
the money could have been got far easier.
His State Ex. opened tin 1 exhibition of
Septimus Power's pictures at the V.A.S.
galleries on the I.4th, and in doing so talked
enthusiastically about Vic. artists. “Aus-
tralian picture shows should be warmly en-
couraged,” In l said, “because England needed
education about Australia, and nothing
could be more convincing than painted les-
sons of Australian country life and the
magnificence •of Australian scenery.” He
thereupon made red marks on a few of the
paintings with his cheque-book.
There is one Englishwoman in Melbourne
who has been practising that form of edu-
cation for years. Whenever Mrs. Geoffrey
Syme sends Christmas greetings to her rela-
tions in England she chooses exquisite bits
of, Victorian country scenery, painted by
Australian artists, to convey her good wishes
and .show oil' the beauties of her adopted
country.
That gay lad, Captain Goodfellow, step-
son of Governor Allardyee of the Speck,
finds that the climate of the Sleepy Hollow
doesn’t suit his health, so he is being drafted
off as an extra aide to G.-G. Forster and is
at; present in Sydney. Shellshock left Good-
fellow deaf; but he is expert at lip-reading
and no one notices the defect.
It has leaked out that the Education heads
are! hatching a .scheme of celebrating, next
year,, the jubilee of the introduction of the
free, secular and compulsory system in the
State by holding an exhibition or display of
some sort. Teachers who were allowed little
leisure during the four years of the war,
owing to the calls on them by the Department
for so much “social service,” are a bit dubi-
ous, but are keeping a window or two of
their minds open till they learn more about
the suggested splash.
When the Taits announced Heifetz’s fare-
well Melbourne matinee the public was
credulous enough to make “house-full”
notices necessary at the Town Hall. Heifetz
was no more affected than usual. If lie has
an emotional nature it is well concealed both
in his personality and in his playing. His
work on this occasion was as usual tech uv-
eal ly astounding. The Mendelssohn Con-
certo, the ladies’ favorite, and whose great-
est interpreter was Lady Halle, caused him
not a moment’s perturbation. His is an
impudent interpretation. There is abso-
lutely no reverence for tradition, nor are the
composer’s instructions adhered to. In some
of the tempos and phrasings he practically
tells Mendelssohn to mind his own business;
nor is the poor old German-Jew able to reply
to his brilliant Russian compatriot. Inter-
est in the programme waned after an. aston-
ishing performance of “The Dance of the
Gnomes” of Bazzini. Encores were demanded
greedily. -
Beatrice,, daughter of the late Bijou Wilson,
is marrying into the Church this week. Bride-
groom Edward Chase is a son of Canon Chase,
of revered memory, and the young man has
a parish of his own at llurstbridge. The
wedding will be in St. Paul’s Cathedral, and
the guests are legion. There will be one
pew for those over 90 years of age, so many
early-time St. Paul’s folk are interested in
the son of the old Canon. Edward Chase
was born in the first, vicarage, which used
to stand where the Gas offices now tower.
Beatrice Wilson’s four sisters have come
with their families from different corners
of the globe to see the youngest of the family
walk to the altar, and the nuns of the
Abbotsford Convent have spent weeks em-
broidering a lace veil as a gift' to the bride.
Evie Yule, daughter :of Dr. and Mrs. Yule,
of Malvern, is to marry Dr. Lyle Buchanan,
whose lamp shines at Eastwood, Sydney.
The wife of Rhodes scholar Frank Apperly
agrees whole-heartedly with Somerset
Maugham that Australia shouldn’t be behind
the other world-centres in the Little Theatre
movement. The vivacious lady owns
an archdeacon for father, an M.A. degree
from the Dublin ’Varsity, and practical stage
experience. She is endeavoring to fan Mel-
bourne’s enthusiasm for repertory work, and
has already produced several plays here.
Her work was conspicuous at the Playhouse
last week.
Macalister Smith was made a life governor
of the Austral Salon the other day, because
of his whole-hearted interest in budding Aus-
tralian talent. Reeentlv. whenever some
new, hard-up talent has needed a helping-
hand, Mac. Smith has made a timely appear-
ance. He is a young man with a long
purse, as well as a violent interest in music,
and in appreciation of the honor the Salon
had done him he passed it over a solid
cheque.
The Big Butts —Clara and her Rumford
—are due for an Australian tour to last
from August till November this year. It is
a “farewell tour,’’ and after it the large
lady means to sit back and watch her family
grow up. There is ,said to be a Voice de-
veloping- in one of the baby Butts.
Tin 1 big bazaar for the Linen Chest Fund
in aid of tin* Blind appeal filled the St. Kilda
Town Hall in the afternoon, and was fol-
lowed by a raffles-jazz combination in the
evening. Mayor Alford- gave his blessing
and some leaves from his cheque-book. Mrs.
Eggleston, wife of St. Ivilda’s M.P., managed
to do some work in spite of 800 frills on
her Parisian dress. Mrs. Hewison, Mrs.
Cabena and Mrs. Tallis wen; in harness for
stall work. Dot Brunton, clad to her knees
in furs, did some raffling. A buffet under
the balcony roped in tea-money, and in the
meantime tin* precious linen collection hung,
like Monday’s washing, round the platform.
The Blind orchestra made sweet music in the
afternoon and burst into wild jazz noises in
the evening. Walter Kirby braved doctor’s
orders and sang delightfully. Mac. Smith
escaped from acres of raffle-girls and put in
a song-at-the-piano. It was a picturesque
affair all round, and got. away from conven-
tional bazaar ideas —the jazz in ‘the evening
was an inspiration.
The Sam Staughton widow, who is now
right off the sick-list, hostessed a glad flapper
revel in her South Yarrn ballroom a night or
two ago to welcome her eldest grandson, Bob
Staughton, back from the Cold Country.
Young Bob’s father died many years ago
and his mother is now Mrs. Tom Skene. The
dressy young things whirled until the cats
came out on the suburban tiles. Sweet
Seventeen-and-under now frivols in satin
shoes and chiffonery and all that sort of
thing; not at all the sort mother wore in her
school-days.
News of the sudden death at sea, from
heart failure, of Mr. Tom Smith, drew as
many sighs from Melbourne as from Syd-
ney, where he had lived and golfed of late
years. By matrimony he was a remote
connection of the dancing Greens and Mrs.
Jim Purves, for he married the widow of
Harry Green, the brother of Florric and
Sadie.
This picture of Professor S’llarry Allen’s
charming little wife was taken by Pegg
Clarke from a pastel
by the subject's
artist-daughter Mary.
The dame, who is
one of Melbourne’s
busiest philanthropic
and charitable work-
ers, has a genius for
organisation as well
as a gift of oratory
which is the envy of
budding politicians.
Among her war acti-
vities, she presided
over the medical
wo m en’s branch,
which she helped to
organise, and the
Mothers’ Union and
the Victorian League
have both claimed
her as president. With it all she is one of
the best-liked matrons in this village. As
a girl she came to Australia to instruct the
vice-regal Jersey children, and the -Professor
induced her to stay.
The Malvern end of the Anglican Boys'
Home will get a nice cheque from a Bring-'
a-Gift and Buy-a-Gift tea at the house of
Mrs. A. Lempriere I, Dove Greene that was,
and sister of the dressy Claude Macdonald
matron). Mrs. Trapp, the well-known
golfer, was chief conspirator in getting up
'the affair. The flower stall was run by
Gladys Moncrioff, who, although suffering
from a semi-cold, also warbled in the music-
room with Harry Hilliard and Mira Ken-
map. Hilliard was on his native heath, so
to speak, for in his pre-stage days he was the
moving spirit at all functions in aid of his
clerical father’s Mayfair church in Down-
street. Justice Higgins's wife sold cauli-
flowers and carrots in the garden, and the
Best People surged round, emptying their
purses without a growl. Dr. Lillies' wife
looked after the fancy stall. At the request
of the local parson raffles were taboo; but
there was tennis.
The artists room at the last Heifetz
matinee was packed with sentimental auto-
graph hunters. One member of the tribe
brandished a photo of the artist, and an-
nounced to him that she had spent a
guinea to possess it. The imperturbable
Jascha was hardly polite to the lady.
Somewhat of an autocrat, this same young
man. A youth of 20 or even 25 who, by
manual labor, keeps a large family of rela-
tives in comparative luxury, a.s he does, gets
the lording habit. Ida Adams was there,
too, looking like a billowy grey cloud in her
furs. She is a fascinating wench.
This is Monteath’s picture of A. .T. Parkes,
father of a brood of musicians whereof the
most notable is Cecil,
who was a conspicu-
ous tiddler'as an in-
fant and has since
developed into a fine
performer. There is
another boy, Kings-
ley, who promises to
do well on the same
instrument, while his
younger brother Mil-
to n threatens t o
glitter on the piano.
Their well-equipped
parent learnt most
of his own art in
t h e Philharmonic
Society and Halle
Orchestra of Man-
chester. On coming
to Australia he bo-
came first violin under tile baton of Marshall
Hall, and started to erect a reputation as a
teacher.
The Victorian League for the Musical
Education of Children is the outcome of a
children’s concert movement inaugurated by
Gibson Young in 191!) under tlie protection
of Melbourne ’Varsity. The League consists
of delegates from all musical and educational
institutions, has been fathered by Meredith
Atkinson, and begins operations at Geelong
on Friday, when Gibson Young will unfold
the mysteries of song-construction to the
kiddies. Cathedral-organist Floyd will
amuse Malvern youngsters next week, con-
ductor Gertie Zalman is booked to spread
the gospel at Hawthorn, and entrepreneur
Sutton-Orow will distribute his tracts at
Melba Hall. League-secretary A. B. Lane
and Gibson Young, both of whom are Ben-
digonians, will make a joint musical raid on
the Golden City early in July. Young in-
augurated similar concert societies in Man-
chester, Newcastle-on-Tync, Liverpool and
Derby.
Gustave Walther, Belgian violinist, and
Jeanne’ Ferofit, the pert little lady who min-
isters to him pianistically in public and
mothers him in private, were farewelled by
admiring students in the Melba Hall on
Saturday. The fiddler, who makes a Paga-
ninish figure with his emaciated face and
raven locks, has, for various reasons, had
many hard bumps with a very cold shoulder
in Australia, and it is regrettable that such
a capable artist did not get a better run.
He leaves by the Sonoma for New York.
A note from London :
There were heavy casualties among Australian
and M.L. artists at the Koval Academy this year.
Only 12 got works past the hanging committee, the
most successful being the Maorilander Oswald Birley,
Who has three portraits on the line. One of Lam-
bert’s Palestine studies is in the same conspicuous
position, and due prominence is given to two minia-
tures by the Melbourne artist Bernice Edwell.
Blamire, Young is represented by a delicate water-
color study of three porcelain jars. It is rumored
that Bernard Hall was among the not-wanted ; also
the Melbourne Gallery Scholarship winner, Marion
Jones. But this is only Marion’s first try, and she
is, artistically speaking, not yet ripe enough for Bur-
lington House. Incidentally, she is now engaged on
a portrait of Edward Dyson’s sister, Airs. Harrison
Owen.
Maggie Dickinson, in her recently-acquired
capacity of Mrs. Sydney Culver, writes to toll
her friends that she is more or less in love
with London, but has not yet visited the
Continong. That will see her presently, and
her attention will he turned to America on
her way hack to Melbourne to dance in the
“Babes in the Wood” panto, next Christ-
mas. Meanwhile Maggie is often busily
engaged in watching notable dancers and
enlarging her repertoire.
The Mayor of St. Ivilda and Mrs. Alford
have sent out pasteboards for a ball on
July 18.
Dr. Crivelli and his lady gave a dance the
other night to celebrate the conferring of
the Legion of Honor upon their son liene.
A large party jazzed in the drawing-room,
which had been cleared of everything except
vivid decorations of poppies. Bene and Paul
helped sister Helen to entertain, and sister
was Frenchily clad in r -neh colored brocade
and vivacity.
During Grand National week, on July 8,
the Robert Knoxes, of Greenknowe, Toorak.
will give a big dauee at their home. Guests
will" pay at least a guinea each for their
invitation cards, and the money will help
the funds of the City Newsboys and the
Alfred Hospital. The Allen dame and Mrs.
Clarke (Mount Schank) are handling the
tickets, and the committee has the. backing
of the Norman Brookses, the. Norman
Bayleses, the Baillieus, the Fairbairns, the
Grimwades, the Leonards and the Leslie
Stuarts. The Earl and the Countess have
given their blessing .and will probably go.
The Mayor of Essendon and Mrs. Hoyle
will give a ball on July 15 in the new Town
Hall at Moonee Ronds.
From "Vandorian” iu London: —
Mrs. Dave Low and her favorite artist are moving
into their new tiat in Bayswater, and great is the
flatter of the pots and pans thereof. The pretty
Auckland girl who married The Beu.ktin’s former
cartoonist is so capable that she gives frequent
shocks to English servants. Mrs. Dave,- deftly ham-
mering up a small case to send to Maoriland, moved
one handmaid to remark: “Of course, mum, no
English lady would do that!” At which the ALL.
girl only shook her bobbed hair —it’s dark with fluffy
ends—opened her handsome grey eyes a trifle wider,
and went on hammering. The Lows’ new flat, by the
way, is a kind of minor miracle in congested Lon-
don, for it includes a" studio, and even in Chelsea
artists wear out their boots searching for a nook witli
a headlight. Low and his charming wife are just
hack from Devon, where they've been taking the air.
Then! is a gilded youth about town who
lias been bitting high spots in the caffis with
money that Dad could not lake with him.
Fizz bills'were reaching dizzy limits when the
youngster got an idea 1m was paying for
more than his guests drank. Then a bit of
Dad’s old shrewdness came to his aid: and
the youth ordered that every cork drawn
should be tied to a string that he hitched to
his braces. Now lie solemnly counts his
corks before lie settles his bill.
A “German Circle” lias tacked up an un-
obtrusive card of dates at the entrance to
the Lyceum Club.
In the craze for color a well-known Sas-
sioty woman managed to bag a hat of a
wonderful red —something like the nicest
cherry you ever saw. Then the head of a big
furnishing linn approached her for the “loan
of her hat for a gentleman.” “What would
a man want with my hat?” asked the aston-
ished dame. “Oh, he just wants to get the
shade for his new dining-room,” said Mr.
Decorator.
Jack Brim ton, Dot’s brother, got through
the whole of the war unscathed. Now in
America he has hurt his knee and is in
serious trouble with the injury. After the
big scrap he crossed to his step-brother,
who is something large iu the movie business.
Adelaide passes on some gossip:—
Owing to the visit of the G.-G. and his wife, the
last week of June will be a social whirl. Jazzing
starts at the Town ITall with a Mayoral ball on the
Tuesday, and continues every night until Saturday,
when a juvenile ball firings the razzle to a close. One
Alayoral shivoo generally suffices; but this time we
are to have two. The second is to be on the 29th —
old and middle-aged to the one, young to the other;
so according to the grading you will know if you are
considered in the sere and yellow.
The other day Alillicent (“Nipper”) Fearon took
Grant Matheson for better or for worse. She is the
third and last of ex-Sydneysider A. 11. Fearon’s
daughters to take the matrimonial plunge. Lasf
summer the family came to town from dad’s far-away
station for the marriage of another daughter.
On the same day, at Christ Church, Mostyn Evan
handed over his pretty and only chick Enid to the
safe keeping of Laurie Gliddon. Two hundred odd
were present, and as the ’groom is a popular member
ot the Hunt Club, proceedings were festive. A large
party rushed .the Melbourne express to see them off,
but the couple dodged to a station down the line,
so the merry push nearly buried in confetti another
poor unoffending pair who began to think that their
unobtrusive little wedding bad somehow turned
Adelaide’s head.
There was a big ball at the Palais Royal to
raise funds for the Girl Guides the same night,
and a' good many of the wedding guests, having
further celebrated at dinner came along and
imparted an aroma of high spirits and bubbly water
to the proceedings. Everybody seemed to be there,
from his Ex. and suite and the Mayor and Alayoress
downwards. Besides the jazzing there were bridge
and a sweet stall, and much lucre must have resulted
for the Guides.
The vice-regals turned up in full force at the recent
Port races. Captain Hounston Boswell arrived with
the Hunt (which finished the afternoon’s run on the
Cheltenham course) in time for afternoon tea with
the committee. En route to th% races, their Exes,
came upon a carriage accident, and the Weigall lady,
with practical good nature, lent her car for the
feminine victim to be driven home in. The president
(Dr. V. C. Benson) and his wife each gave lun-
cheons, for which the men and the women were
separately drafted. Her Ex. ate among the tabbies.
Jascha Heifetz on his arrival went to the Town
Hall, where the Alayoress held a reception in hi'
honor. . Everyone who makes musical noises had been
invited.
G. A. Jervois, of Wellington station, on the
.Murray, passed out suddenly the other day at Wood-
ville, where he lived. He was a nephew of a one-
time Governor of this State, and a keen sport.


Hr- „
~- V
■/'Mi
rf
■ /
■
'mm
/
11
1 !
II
I !
u
17
n
m
i
i I
U
fl
m
.
■
n
2*a»P*
1L f s
Ff*
'
M
u
THFDF
JL JL JL JL_*lTv * a
ii
E
'y
1
»
«/
\
'U
t
’ H
:■:■ fill:?: : liH'S'-Mi
m
WSmmMkmMiMA -.: .>?
■isiillSt&iJflitlll
C
1 ■-'
a
m
mm
v*-!
%S-I
0 i *
1* -vS
-«mr MMmm-m
“There and Back” is not merely a
slogan when used in connection with
BOOMERANG TYRES, but a fact. No
matter the condition of roads—good,
bad or indifferent, BOOMERANG
TYRES will get you to your destination
without punctures, and with the ADDED
VALUE of LONGER WEAK, greater
resilience, FULLEST TYRE AND
PETROL ECONOMY. Assure a pleasur-
able motoring tour by fitting only
Barnet Glass Boomerang Tyres.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia.’
All States and New Zealand.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vmfage 1911
NE PLUS OLTR/i
as
f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnsy.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St.. Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club;
Thone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
rss*\
a
f
af
a
f
Bond’s Australian Made
Triple
Wear
Hose
is definitely
Guaranteed
not to ladder,
hole or tear.
Made in
heavy Plated
Artificial Silk
%
f Hi
Vv
and 4 times the Weight and 4 times
the Strength of any Silk Hose money
can buy. Triple Wear is
easily your Best Hosiery
Investment at
1211
PER PAIR
Geo. A. Bond & Co. —All States & N.Z.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Somerset "Maugham, whose books and plays
all Australians know, is camped at Usher's,
and, in spite of his assurance that “there is
no real winter in Sydney,” displays a, per-
fectly cat-like knowledge of the corners
where the radiators glow. He is small,
slight, wears a tiny moustache, and when
he faithfully describes himself for passport
purposes he says he is tubby. Most of the
time he is busy meeting people. When he isn't
doing that he is working on the typescript
of a new book —polishing a sentence, discard-
ing another because it is not vital to his
story, heightening the color here, subduing
the tone there. He calls this part of a
writer’s work “great fun,” and there you
have the meticulous little man, abhorring the
slipshod, whether it be an audience or a
play—the one produces the other, he con-
tends. lie cannot understand why we Aus-
tralians, who are so distinctly a race, have
not at least burnt off a clearing for a drama-
tic school of our own, and already this
stranger within our gates is working up a
movement to encourage Australian play-
wrights. The first step is to be an open
competition for an Australian one-acter, for
which £lOO will be the prize, the winning
play to be acted by the Repertory Society.
Following that he hopes the bills will offer
a £‘>oo rewatd for a three-actor.
Talking of his own little achievements, Mr.
Maugham says that on the first ingot of
"Fau,v Frederick” he sat in the auiUence
feeling the pit of his stomach slack, while
his throat and his ears were fin) to bursting-
point-—-he was down to iiis last few pounds,
and felt like Ishmael among that house-full
of first-nighters, the great in literature, art,
the- drama and society, conscious that the
audience, in spite of critics and press notices,
was going to make or break the play, lie
travels altogether without photographs, is
anxious to meet Norman Lindsay, and, being
English, did not say “When you come to
little old London I will give you the time
of your young life.” On leaving Sydney he
will move north to some siuail tiopm isie,
and get to work filling a bag with scenarios
for the American picture people.
Katherine Hughes, of Canada, with eyes
of youth and soft white hair, is a lecturer of
charm and personality. She lias held posi-
tions that perhaps no other woman nas ever
held —at one time she was assistant to the
Agent-General for Alberta in Condon, and
she knows aoout the work that women all
over the world are doing in tne great move-
ments of the day. \\ hen she spoke at the
Feminist Club the other night her audience
was spellbound with the force and directness
of her speech, and electrified at the very
close when she bad the temerity to speait
of what part the great women of Ireland
are playing in the days of their country’s
tribulation. However, after the first iiuake
of the breath that the word “Ireland” caused,
the audience found that. the good-iooiwiig
woman in the hat that is built on the plan
of a Russian peasant’s cap was neither
throwing bombs nor making appeals ; so tne
earthquake passed as though it were nothing
more than the rumble of a tram.
It is off the highway, as is appropriate, the
pleasant cottage in the sunlit garden that
goes by the name of Twilight House, but
might better be called Harvest Home, for
there is more of the rich stillness of autumn
about the 20 residents than the grey wraith
of the fading day. Half-way down a steep
road that ends in a corner of bushland and
a drop to the water’s edge, this home for
aged gentlewomen stands, and in these clays
bougainvillaea and rich-tinted climbers fiing
a screen of high-toned magic between it and
the occasional bit of everyday that passes
by. Sunlit rooms and wide-flung balconies
make up the house, for each resident has
her own room, made individual by her own
treasures —salvage from those royal days
when she reigned a queen in her own home-
circle. One poignant scrap of treasure-trove
is a clove-basket —a fairly large basket fitted
as if for needlework and built entirely of
cloves. Can’t you Smell the fragrance of it?
Can’t you imagine the memories that spring
with the first early-morning whiff of it?
In the long ago it was brought by a tra-
veller uncle from the Spice Islands. An-
other treasure is a fisherman .made of fish
scales and tiny shells—he accompanied his
owner in more opulent days from a trip to
Java. Photographs are everywhere, and in
one room pride of place is held by the por-
trait of a Scots lady with a determined nose
and a nigh white mutch. “Ah.” said some-
body, “she looks as though she wore the
breeks.” “And so she did,’" delightedly’
agreed the owner of the room (who, “would
have lived and died in Edinburgh if I hadn't
married the Australian cousin who came
home to Scotland to visit with us”). “But
she wore them with such a noble air that
they became her.” On one side of the house
the bush lias been cleared and a new road-
way is being made. “Just think,” exclaimed
this resident in g.ee, “in a week or two more,
there’ll be bonnie babies in smart perambu-
lators for us to look over the fence at in-
stead of a shabby bit of bush that nobody
wanted !” The sparrows in the neighborhood
are plump and pompous and arrogant owing
to the ministrations of the bird-loving lady
who is kept in broken biscuit-ends by the
little grocer around the corner.
In the gum-trees that no road-making can
ever reach the kookaburras chuckle with glee
over a never-ending joke—it is the jest of
outwitted misfortune. For here on the sun-
lit balconies tired hands can lie folded
through the passing hours, can give up for-
ever the struggle of patching and darning
those two ends of life that somehow never
would meet. Isn’t it a pity that in all this
big throbbing city of Sydney there is but
one such sanctuary?
Franc's de Bourguignon was last heard
in Sydney with the Melba Concert party in
Hill), having toured with the song-bird amic-
ably from 1915, when, as you will remember,
he had to leave the defence of Belgium to
others, after being severely wounded in the
foot. Prior to the outbreak of war Francis
was the minstrel at the Belgian Court, the*
Queen summoning him as Mary of Scotland
called her Rizzio whenever she felt the need
of cheerful sounds. The days of court min-
strelsy are (alas!) departed, but since his
knockout at Antwerp he has worked his
way round the world four times, and the
concert that lives most firmly in his memory
is a recent one in the West Indies. That
night at Kingston, in Jamaica, he three
times changed, from the skin up, between
the striking of the opening and the final
chords.
Francis, who is rather a social lion, says
New York is still amazed ov'er the bomb-
like arrival of Nelson Illingworth, who is
one of the few artists who have not had to
buy their way through the dour of success,
but burst through. And he claims that
France has produced the greatest of liv.ng
pianists—Cortot. But Cortot’s Paris en-
keep him chained —only once h is
he managed even a season in London. The
young Belgian, who comes straight from a
Canadian season, opens at the Couservator-
ium in about three weeks’ time with a reper-
toire that is almost ent.rely of the moderns.
General Howse, the medical V.C., and his
wife will .be farewelied from Orange on the
28th —t h e General
then goes to take
over supreme com-
mand of the Com-
monwealth's military
filed.cal services, The
lady is of the
Pilcher - McPhillamy
family, of legal and
landed fame. Sue
was a very earnest
worker in the Red
Cross Society, and
journeyed to England
dur.ng the worst of
the war to be near
her husband. The
family (there are
five children) will,
of course, have to
make Melbourne its
headquarters.
Sydney crept through the back gate of the
Wen Lworth last h r day night, down the
garden-path and inlo the gay ballroom for
the d.nner-dance in aid of the Prince Alfred
Hospital Aux.liary. But somehow Sydney
doesn’t take kindly to carnival, so, in spite
of ail the efforts of the committee, only a
handful of fancy costumes turned up. Hand-
some Pauline McMorran won a prize in a
black Pierrette dress. Mrs. Cumberlege wore
the very obvious breeks of a Persian prin-
cess. Round the lips of her fireside outfit
swayed a gauze lamp-shade; and her top
part was mostly beads and a feather head-
dress. Commander Edwards’s dark wife had
a cave-man in her party—it seemed to the
impartial that he might have left nature
alone. .Till Rich wore a striking rose-o nk
velvet dress, and the busy secretary, Mrs.
Gore .Tones, brought a pretty daughter who
was mostly bunches of henna. Claude Cum-
berlege went as a Turk, probably with some
subconscious idea of laying tin a harem in
Heaven; a pretty girl wrapped in rose pink
won the prize for the best mask and domino:
Leslie Walford brought his good-looking
wife; and Marie La Varre slipped out of
her silk pyjamas into a black velvet, and
came on to dance with somebody who had
stepped from “La Roh^me.”
Dame Margaret had made up her mind
that there would be no wallflowers at
her young people’s dance last week, so she
asked only those she knew could dance. It
was a joyous affair, but its success did not
depend on trappings of any kind. The young
persons were only regaled with a Spartan
stand-up supper, with tea and coffee as bev-
erages. The Dame hopes to set an example
of extreme simplicity in all such entertain-
ments : she believer that ostentation and
flaunting extravagance have a good deal to
do with current social unrest.
The five-year-old son and only child
of Governor Davidson’s private sec., Major
Egerton, has just lost his anoendix at Lewis-
ham Hospital.
The grounds of Havilah were looking their
best in the still winter afternoon last week
when Lady Forster paid her first call on
the little orphans of the North Shore home.
Havilah is a Society chick, so that some of
our very best were among those who cheered
thh G.-G.’s lady, when she unfurled the
Union Jack to the wandering wind that
crept over the green lawns. After the small
beneficiaries had piped out “God Save,” the
affair became a market, with a quick turn-
over of flowers and green.stuff.
Some friends of the late Colonel Oswald
Watt are establishing a fund to build a
memorial Home for Boys at the Havilah
orphan institution ; and if he ever thought of
a memorial this is the kind he certainly would
liav.e chosen. Apart from donations to
charity his will provides for money gifts,
large and small, to practically every one he
knew who was not precisely affluent. The
place to send donations is c/o Shepheard
Lnidley, 7 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
The open-air dancing af St. Paul’s was
the same old success this year. If you missed
a dance on the polished floor of the marquee
and somehow got tangled tm with the night
air, you could throw off his cold clasp by
the warm fire in the common room, or by
one of the other numerous fires that shone
cosily through inviting doorways. St. Paul's
is one of the most popular of Uni. dances
not only among the gilded lasses but also
among the educational bigwigs. Miss Garn-
sey received in black satin, and Rev. Prin-
cipal Carnsey in the milk of human kind-
ness. Wesley, St. Andrew's and the Women’s
College were all represented : and among the
dancers was every bit of Society fluff you’ve
ever heard a name put: to.
The night previous St. Andrew’s hung its
school hall with its own pale blue and white,
and indulged in its yearly outburst. Besides
the Maorilnnd footballers, St. Andrew’s bad
two dist'nguished guests, Surgeons MftcCor-
lnick and Jarvie Hood.
Singing teacher Mavrogordnto is leaving
Sydney, and going off by the Cferatnic to Lon-
don. Though one' of the best instructors and
most cultured men on the staff of our Conscr-
vatorium, he suffered from an inability to
advertise himself; so.it was only the lucky
few who penetrated to his wonderful store
of knowledge of the languages and music of
other countries. Dorothy Helmricli. the
Sydney girl who of all the Conservatorium
pupils in London has been most successful,
was one of “Mavro’s” pupils. Another,
Cecile Adkins, who was such an artistic suc-
cess at her teacher’s farewell recital the
other evening, takes up her master's mantle
at the Con.
A day-time function in a theatre is always
rather depressing; but Annette Kellcrman
managed to galvanise the reception the
Swimming Association and half the Labor
members gave to her the other morning. In
sapphire-blue dressing and a tight little pink
hat she kept her listeners entertained and
interested, and in the end trotted her hus-
band forward to say how pleased ho was to
be Annette’s husband.
Grace Stafford’s pupils put on Gilbert
Murray’s translation of “The Trojan
Women” at St. James’s on Saturday night;
Grace herself being that woman of Sorrows,
Hecuba, and Dorothy Dickson a graceful
but somewhat fragile Helen 'of Troy. The
production was an artistic success in the
highest degree, the chorus moving about in
attitudes that suggested a Greek frieze! and
intoning the rhythm of the lines in quite the
classic manner. Grace studied the produc-
tion of these plays at the very fountain-head
of this new-old movement in London. Her
studies embraced plastics, eurhythmies and
hours in the British museums por ng over
old prints. In view of this it was rather a
break-up when one morning she received a
note asking her please not to produce “The
Trojan Women,” as the Repertory Society
proposed to put it on some day.
If in your letter-box you find during the
coming week an envelope embossed with a
blue crown and anchor it will contain an
invitation to the dance to be given by the
members of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squad-
ron on .July 15 at Kirribilli Point.
The Williamsons are arriving in Sydney
about the end of August, and expect to
house themselves under the same flat roof
as the Stewart Dawsons. They and the
Dawsons are planning a trip to Japan.
The North Sydney O’d Grammarians with
their w'ves and daughters and then- best-
girls filled the Paddington Town Hall for
their annual ball in aid of the Memor:a
playing-fie.ds. Two fields have already beet
opened, and now tne cash-box has to be re-
filled to keep the contractor-wO.f from the
door and get him busy on the next field or
two. This dance is famous for having the
nicest committee in the world, and needless
to say bunches of sweet girls in pretty frocks
and crowds of partners made the party the
success it always has been.
Mrs. E. I’. Simnson is back in Sydney for
the marriage of son Telford to Ursula Cat-
terall, and daughter Helen is with her. It
is now six or seven years since Mrs. Ted and
Helen went to London, where they have been
living in Chester-square. The girl, who is
described as having the bluest eyes in the
world, is a brilliant graduate of Oxford. She
has also indulged the vice of play-writing,
and has even acted in some of them, and is
a Bachelor of Music with miles of orchestral
compositions to her credit. And hardly more
than passed the 20-mile stone! These lazy
Australians!
The Lucy Garvan prize is eoing to be our
of the most sought distinctions of the Girls
High School. Old
Sydney High School
girl Mrs. Lancelot
Harrison had the in-
spiration to com-
memorate in this way
M r s. G a r v a n’s
memory in the school
for which she had
done so much. The
old girls of the school
are subscribing the
hundred pounds that,
invested, will bring
in sufficient to buy a
yearly set of books.
Here is a picture
of the wonderful
1 a d y w ho, a f t e r
several months’ rest,
sunply had to get
into harness again, and is now in charge of
the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar at Cremorne.
C. H. Hay, who now writes C.M.G-.,
M.V.0., after his name and won’t be happy
till he lias a knighthood, returns to Sydney
with Premier Storey on July 11. Ilis friends
are preparing a dinner for him.
Gladys Verona, the little singing girl who
has suiig in spite of Heaven knows what
odds, has interested Daniel Mayer, Le-
vitzki’s manager, and he is going to introduce
her to London. Gladys, in a black velvet
•hat and a charming little sapphire-blue
frock, sang at the Conservatorimn concert
on Saturday afternoon, and so came publicly
into her own ; but the great success had been
when the handful of a girl had sung privately
for the great man. Gladys Verona is one
of the pluckiest bits of artistic Australia, and
success can hardly fail to be her.s. Roland
Foster trained her voice.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The Moreton Handicap was postponed for a few
days owing to the 'exceeding wetness of the rain,
and when it was run a chilly morning brought out
furs that would have warmed a Shackleton expedi-
tion. Mrs. YVhitting'ham wore black silk jersey
cloth and a small black hat. Mrs. Glynn Connolly
was tailored in navy serge, and wore a white hat.
Mrs. Jack Fihelly also wore navy blue, brightened
by a cerise hat. Many of the regular racegoers did
not turn up.
At St. Barnabas’s, Ithaca, Dorothy Musman,
eldest daughter of the late C. Musman, M.A., of
Newington, Sydney, was married to J. R. Hyde,
C.E., who comes from Swindon (Eng.). Uncle J.
L. Woolcock gave the bride away, and Joan Wool-
cock and Peggy Peren were the tiny bridesmaids.
The Myosotis Private Assembly, which went into
retirement during the war, has broken out more
brilliantly than ever. Its first dance this year was
held at the South Brisbane City Hall, and Alan
Corrie, Martin Snclling, Frank Cassidy and Lanec
Jones were responsible for its success,
Mrs. Digby Denham and daughter Winnie, who
have been, spending a couple of years in Canada
with Mrs. Steacy (who was Elsie Denham, and
whose husband was chaplain with the Canadian
troops), are home again, and thanking the saints
for the Queensland sun.
Last Friday night 13 consular representatives held
a re-union dinner at the Belle Vue. In spite of the
Friday and the 13, it was a very jolly party,
in which most of the wives joined. France. Belgium,
Chile, Norway, the Netherlands, Japan, Denmark,
Panama, Spain. Switzerland, Italy, U.S.A. and
Greece were represented. All the colors and emblems
of the 13 decked the table, and over the .table
a hand (presumably J. Bull’s) was proffered to the
countries whose agents were dining below.
Wattle Day will be held on .Tub’ 8 this year, bur
the bush has begun its celebration already. The
fluffy golden balls are everywhere, and winter is in
hiding a little longer.
Mignon O’Doherty, daughter of the late Dr.
O’Doherty, one of the best-loved of Queensland’s
old-timers, is playing in “The White-headed Boy’’ in
London.
Mrs. W. H. Groom, widow of W. 11. Groom, who
represented Toowoomba in State and Federal Parlia-
ments for nearly 40 years, and mother of Federal
Minister Grocrn, was 83 last week, and had a birth-
day party. The little lady writes and sews without
glasses, is a vigorous gardener, and is full of the joy
of life.


af
For Presentation.
-zimmmmam
i
Z
si)-Piece Canteen of Finest Quality Plate and Cutlery.
Price and fuller particulars on application.
Hardy Bros, stock only the finest qualities in Rustless
and Steel Table Cutlery, and the Highest Grade Silver-
plate manufactured in England. Every piece of plate
bears the company’s name as a guarantee of quality.
A complete range of Canteens stocked.
HARDY BROTHERS- LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-JIB Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Always Reliable!
MtAL ALLOj
[
“Perfection”
Dental Alloy
A High-grade Alloy
for Amalgam Fillings.
Comparative tests place it on a level with
the very best Alloy that European or
American manufacturers have produced.
Samples on application.
Read what a Client says:
“I exclusively use ‘Perfection’ Alloy and find it
equal, if not better, than any other I’ve used during
my 20 years’ practice. I’ve been using it now for
a few years, and all Fillings I’ve examined since
are in perfect order.”
Manufacturers of
DENTAL GOLDS
SOLDERS
PLATINUM and its ALLOYS
PLATINISED WIRES, etc.
REDISTILLED MERCURY
Specialists in the economic and scientific treat-
ment of
DENTAL RESIDUES.
a
jTD “THE DENTAL
METALLURGISTS’
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Laboratories and Works : ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the States and New Zealand.
SPECIAL SUIT
At 8£ Guineas.
m
L'±n
m
\\S
I
m
m
Mi?
»v\
!*
1
POSITIVELY THE BEST
VALUE OFFERED IN
MEN'S WEAR.
WE are proud of our record of
achievement in the produc-
tion of SPECIAL SUIT at 8£
guineas. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Aus-
tralia, the trimmings—the
inside foundation not seen
by the purchaser— are in
keeping with the high-
grade materials and hand
tailoring which goes into
every Special Suit.
BUCKLEY’S SPECIAL
SUIT hns another advantage
—that the materials, being
lighter in weight than most
Australian-made Tweeds, meet
the need for a higldy-
dependable Suit at a Mode-
rate Price.
Write for Samples and Self-
Measurement Form —Sent Free
on Application.
SPECIAL SUITS
MADE TO MEASURE,
8h GUINEAS.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD., Bourke St., Melbourne
m
m
m
i.
O'
Cl
V.
-
0
afv'-
-V
m'x v v
•N .
' s.
r
CHOCOLATES
Inside each one —the richest,
creamiest centre you ever
tasted. Under the exquisite
Hillier chocolate coatings are
enticing nut centres and
delicious cream fillings.
No matter what confection
you have been partial to,
you'll say that “Ernest
Hillier’’ Chocolates are the
most tempting you ever
tasted.
We urge you to find out more
about these toothsome fill-
ings. One taste shows their
distinction.
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
and 30/-, post free to any
address in Australia.
StHoof Uillti/l
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
DADDY 5
HOME J
11l
s


ffisierp
'Y'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Flunk of
Luxite
(jLJLdISOTT
that Is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose-' such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
'Wholesale and Indents thru
'Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. + hO York Street,
Sydney
LEARN DRAWING!
*
3
B&rVt
‘There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
fii in p 1 0
lessons in
the principles
of black-and-
white work and de-
sign have been
prepared by Mr.
Harry .T. Weston,
Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, enabling you
to study art in
vour own' home.
This
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING
teaches you with-
out drudgery how
to apply your tal-
ent, and how to
make big money
besides learing a
fascinating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s Money
in the Pen,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.,
gives examples of
the lessons and
sarnples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent you on
receipt of your
name and ad-
dress and three
stamps to cover
postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
53 Union House, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
mm
sri ns
MADE
Perfection
PINK RUBBER
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell S Co. Ltd.
if you-have any
WOOL or SKINS
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
THE HALLMARK Finish this
OF THE sketch
SMART WOMAN.
By MIMOSA.
mo l )e really smart a woman must con-
vey the impression of being daintily
fastidious regarding her personal
belonging and appearance. Her hair and
skin must look as though they retained the
appearance of youthfulness as a result of
cleanliness and care. This is impossible
where the skin is spasmodically subjected
to experiments with all sorts of preparations.
The really smart woman will know what
she is using, and those who follow this
advice will use only simple, pure ingredients
that can be procured in original packages.
If the chemist does not have what you want
lie can easily obtain it for you, if you insist.
Clammy Hands —After washing your
hands, rub over them a little fuller’s earth
mixed with Orris, powdered. 1 think you
will liml that this will help.
Beauty’s Cheeks —Some face-creams
have a tendency to induce a growth of down
on the face. You can be on the safe side
by avoiding make-up creams, using instead
Mercolis.d Wax. It will protect your face
in motoring, arid holds the powder perfectly.
It is the last word in smart, effective toilet
luxury.
Beautifui. Lashes —The character of
the eyebrows and lushes certainly has much
to do with the beauty of the face. Get a
package of Mennaline and apply a little at
night, brushing gently in the morning. This
will bring about a decided improvement in
the texture of your eyebrows and lashes.
Washing Haib Brushes —Scrupulous
cleanliness of the brushes is necessary if you
wish to keep your hair in good condition. The
best way is to use Curd Soap and a little
household ammonia in warm water. Let
the brushes soak for a short time, then
wash them thoroughly. Rub as dry as pos-
sible and air in t.he sun.
Velvet Skin —Instead of several layers
of facercream and powder try a solution of
Cleminite. Get a package, dissolve it in
four ounces of water, and bathe the face
with the solution, patting it until it is quite
dry. You will have a “skin-like-velvet”
effect that will last for hours.
Scanty Locks- —Thick glossy coils of your
own hair means devoting time to brushing
and scalp massage, also an occasional use
of hair tonic to keep the hair healthy. The
best and simplest tonic is Bay Rum and
Boranium. Get a package of Boranium
and mix it with a 1-pint of Bay Rum. This
will clear off any dandruff, and materially
aid in producing the desired result.
Large Pores and Blackheads —This is
the formula: Obtain a package of Stymol
tablets from the chemist’s and dissolve one
in a cup of hot water; after the effervescence
has subsided dab the face, using a small
sponge. The result is quite startling. This
is an excellent astringent. Used every day
will close the enlarged pores and prevent
wrinkles.
Bloom of Health —The use of rouge ; f
obvious is rather vulgar. You can get over
the difficulty and still have nice, rosy cheeks
by using Powdered Colliandum. Get a small
tin and apply a little with the tips of the
fingers. It is quite harmless, and its natural
color blends with the tint of the skin, so its
use can never be detected if it is applied,
properly.
In Bad Odor — I do not know of any safe
way to check excessive perspiration, but you
can instantly kill the odor, which is not
only unpleasant to you but to those about
you, by applying a little powdered Pergol.
Cupid’s Bow —The best thing to use for
your lips is just a stick of soft Prolactum.
Rub this over the lips, and it will give them
the desired color and keep them soft and
fresh.
Superfluous Hair —You can remove that
undesirable down on your face with Phemi-
nol. Get a -package and apply a little to the
hair, which can soon be rubbed off, leaving
the skin quite clear. It is also useful for
removing hair from the under-arm.
Lack-Lustre Hair —If your hair is dull
and lustreless after a shampoo, you are
using something that is too sfoapy. Try just
plain Stallax. Get an original package, as
it is more economical. A teaspoonful in a
cup of hot water for each shampoo is suf-
ficient, as it foams tremendously and rinses
off easily, leaving the hair lustrous and
fluffy, with a dainty suggestion of perfume.
Premature Greyness —This trouble may
be easily overcome and the hair restored
to its natural color by using concentrate of
Tammalite. Mix it with about the same
quantity of Bay Rum and apply with a small
sponge.—Advt.
y
§
Sw"'
if you are interested in Drawing.
Fill in the miscng features—or paste it
on white paper and make any other
additions your taste sugi ests. Write your
name and address rn back, erclose 3d.
in stamps, and post to address below.
Mr. Bancks will then send you
free a helpful criticism, with his
illustrated booklet on "Art that
Pays.” Every sketch sent will re-
ceive Mr. Bancks' separate atten-
tion and opinion.
Or send your name and address
only, with 3 stamps, for the book
alone. You can soon learn to earn
money at home in your spare time.
The booklet tells you how. It explains
fully the methods of the bancks School
and what it teaches.
.1, C. Bancks School ol Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
We Desire
to Buy
a
Platinum. Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 .Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds. Pearls, Emeralds and other
line Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. liildk, Melbourne.
Larcevt Hotel Ai'cnnimoihticr. In Australia.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read tlie Burns 11 Australasian,
tid. weekly—an illustrated paper eoutaifiiug
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to'visit the
Bitmsit Austkalasjan Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If anv illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Fx 8 R
Watches
From Kureepa, .
Queensland,
have just reoeiv e ' |
the following: “I !
am sending my
‘Fx and it 0'.,,... j
for repairs. i , ' +
it fall on the
floor, with the re-
sult that it ceased
work i turned
I would not risk
it in the hands of
anyone else but
yourselves, as I
place great value
Gent's O.F. Oxidised
•Steel “Super Fx and
R” fully-jewelled lever,
84/-
0)1 it. It has had the very roughest of use for
the past eight years. It has fallen to the
ground off horseback on several occasions; it
has been in water several times; but, in spite
of all its rough usage, it has always kept per-
fect time, and never failed me once.”
it is by the selling of such watches as above
that our great leputation for watches has been
built up. After 80 years of watch-selling we
do not know or' any more reliable or accurate
watch than our “Fx and R.” Yet they are low-
in price.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain I'iirures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o* a hostile character will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions Volun-
tarily submitted; and no US. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
11.Y.E.: Sorry impossible to return MS.
of unacceptable paragraphs.... H. 8.: The form kills
it, for one thing.... Cantab: Seeing that the little
paper isn’t printed for general circulation and hasn’t
even a published price, but merely goes among mem-
bers of the society, its slip was scarcely worth
howling about in public. And, anyway, the un-
happy editor has apologised H.F.W.: Doesn’t get
anywhere... .J.W.K.: You write like the Sydney
town-clerk. Under the weight of your adjectives the
w.p.b. groaned and burst. ... Biljones: Written-in a
style we loathe. Not Billingsgate but Josh Billings-
gate. .. .8.F.E.: Pencil scrawl not up... .8.M.5.:
Rather rugged and extravagant.... Sycho: Not for
us. With better telling it might make a magazine
yarn. .. . E.L.S.: No earthly use. .. . Weski: Lament-
able. .. .Kemo: “Idol” asks for a different touch...
Ego: The same old tiling dished up in a cruder way.
....1880: Not up to print level... .C.C.S.: Doesn’t
get pear....En Zed: They don’t strike us.. .R.H.M.:
Sorry the water should induce your soul to sing like
that 1.H.D.: No use to us. Don’t tfiink it would
be much use to anybody.... Artemus II.: “The
Riders” must have-a better seat in old Pegasus's
saddle... .2483: Very du11.... Gerit D.: And very
commonplace... .Norris P.: The old things in poor
verse.... A.J.P.: A chap pitched you a yarn and
you lent him a pound. Later on he came hack for
more. As that happens about ,1000 times every
hour you’ll have to invent some very interesting cir-
cumstances for your man to do it in. .. . Douglas M. :
Poor as Lazarus... . R.S.D.: Try a. bit of the lovely
thing:—
They landed, well we know it, on the shores of
Aussie’s Isle;
And they had come with impressions that they
would'win in fine, good style;
So when the final team was chosen, and the time
for play began,
We find that England had come right out into the
van.
But the Aussies are not such big fools to allow a
thing like that,
For when they got in and started 'to hit, well it
nearly laid them flat;
But England’s hopes were shattered, in the first
match, as you've seen,
By the Aussies winning the first match straight off
the reel.
They were the finest fellows, and they're the best
Australia’s got;
For getting out of any scrap, they always came on
top,
Though they’ve been beaten in a few games, they
are still a cheery lot,
For they take their heating like men, and laugh at
the mistakes and their rot.
... .Mary N.: It fluttered sadly into the basket....
A.V.A.: Who would rhyme “watching” with “glanc-
ing” would sink to any depth—even to writing
American free verse.... K.R.F.: Not enough in
“Walls”... .Kemo: The meat on the bones is too
ragged... .W.E.L.: No use.... Brigalow: Very un-
tidy.... Therius: That yarn has been worked before
with several variations... ..I. M.M.: Reads -thinly....
Sir Spen: Nothing in “Getting Square”.. . .F.M.C. :
“Jacob’s Well” is hopeless... ,F.H. (Wellington):
Don’t care for “Euclid” Paul 0.: “Simon”
misses.. . .R.W.R.: Too slight... .Shadow : Cut out
the long preliminaries and try to put more life into
the main yarn.... lona B.: Why on earth do you
use an antiquated English you don’t understand?
“Thou standeth” jars the poor little verse to death.
...R.5.8.: No use... Essie Jay: Sketch doesn’t strike
us hard enough. .. .R.R.P.: None of them quite....
Don Three: “Buster” hasn’t enough in it.,..
J.M.S.V.: Not good enough... .Fanuela: “For Valor”
nearly. . . .Frank H.: “Tophet” goes back. .. .
A.W. (Manly) : The story moves, but it’s too
machine-marie... . S.M.Iv.: Horrible... .R. 5.1.: No-
thing there R.W.8.: N 0.... Oliver B.: It has all
the charm of all the muses:—
Hullo! Hullo, George! What about going for a trip?
There’s 1 and Nell, Bell and Nip;
There’s room just for two more
In that lovely little ’bus of Moore’s.
Bring your tabby, I’m sure you’ll be happy,
It’ll be lovely away from the smoke;
For nothing is more pleasant and healthy,
» To find yourself on tlia water when you awoke.
But where the diggins are you going?
iYou haven’t even as mui h as told me that;
You’re like the wind doing a bit of blowing,
Or you must think that I’m a flat.
Well, it would he more of a surprise than a knock.
We’re going up the Murray River;
Say, if that don’t give you a little shock,
I thought I saw you quiver.
. ...E.A.P.: Why don’t you write in the Australian
language?? Your screed sounds like a badly-
constructed telegram in a mixture of Yiddish,
picture-showese and Kanaka-English. ... 11.G..L.:
Don’t like “Trade and Commerce”. .Kuaka: “House
of Dreams” moves in the old ruts. You can do so
much better.... Xenon: Rubbish.... Malay : No yarn
there. ... Peter D.: Not thrilling enough to be worth
while n0w.... Old Reader: Not nearly... .M.A.P.:
Very mild sort of mirth. .. .G.R.M.: Not quite....
R.F.S.; No, but not hopeless.... Kitty F.: It’s a
wild, gory thing, but well enough done.
Will you try again? R.R.D.: The little
thing wants manicuring.. . .John B.: All tin-
yarns start on a possible road, but none of them
get far enough.... 11.M.5.: Crude and imitative....
Wee Bobbie: Not this time... .T.P.R.: No use to us.
. ...1.L.1.: “All’s Fair” doesn’t quite make us believe
it’s true. .. .W..J.C.: Rather slender information to
go 0n....T0m G.: Too wild and sudden. .. .S.F.F.:
No use... .R.D.F.: They don’t quite do it...F.C.C.:
Well told, but there isn’t a yarn in it. . .. Deirdre:
Wedding yarn doesn’t keep near enough to the pro-
babilities .... Nunquam (and 6543 others): The
“Irish Problem” doesn’t concern us except insofar
as it concerns Australia Nettie P.: It has been
held for print; but space hasn’t been available....
M.D. (Waral) : McKenna had a column a while ago.
....R.R.P.: As verse it is on the edge; and the
suggestion that it will be tune enough to work by
and bye drags it over... .Cecil M.: Rather too
misty.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
■Pelican: Pen and ink work too jumbled..-. .L.S.:
Drawing hopeless; may use one joke... .R.O’C.:
Where do your men buy their hats?... .L'.S.F.: No
drawing... .E.R.S.: Go after the man who advised
you, and take an axe D.G.: Washes too areemic.
A.H.G.: Awful illustration of ancient gag
M.M.S.: Learn drawing, then try again... .1.W.0:
Not up E.P.W.: Not a hope. .. . A.McH.: Three
painful spasms V.D.: Misses.. . .I.B.; Deformed
loafer going home again A.K.: Weak.... E.G.:
A long way short... .A.N.; No.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apftly
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, t> Spring Street,
4247, y a a
4810. Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 29,
SONOMA.
IO.OUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T" E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY ANI) THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE “
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWI.EY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, Iv.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
.Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors— Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love,
Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Atnerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Spy, LLD. ; Frank N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. FI. Brown.
Manager: G. FI. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Doods Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji'. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Skipping, eie.,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7tli JULY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
MAKURA, 9th SEPTEMBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 28th JULY, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP 00., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
m
/ ::
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL. SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SCEVIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12.000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers .at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Rout^,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15.000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11.250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
’SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
’DIOGENES 12,500 tons
’Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of failings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, I,td., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 18X7.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Iteserve Liability
3&S
I
- £4,965,200
3,425,000
- 4,965,200
£13,355,400
Directors
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.1..C., President.
Tlioinns Bnckland, Esq.
Charles Himiie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithful), Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office— 2l) Thread needle Street. E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Calde remittances made to. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
f
JM ot Australia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Intorest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
IAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Oeraldton
and North-West Ports).
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
(Carries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
{Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Transliips at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and f vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full niirtionlars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Co'lins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY),
j FAVORITE MATL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
; Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply—
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address.
“I roquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing' Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
ISlaeklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at. Brisbane),
Canadian-Australasian lloyal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land. Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bnndaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
Tlie largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,33(5,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .... £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. ~ ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
af
a
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt *Street, Sydney.


GENUINE
If#
(Re§d)
BILLIARD
5)
ft
m
m
m
i|iiiiiUlUUtf
n
A
m
n
niiwrfl
n play they are resilient —faultless in running —true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes :
If in
17/6
21
set
CPostagre «n One Set—N.B.W., 9d,; Other States. 1 12).
SNOOKER BALLS
: Ui ini *' :ii i >T
Sizes :
llin.
£6,6!-
1 lin.
£7/7/-
2in
£BlBl- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributors:
1C
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Spend
winter
evenings
happily.
S'
mmm
w 1
Music has the greatest
influence in the home, it
soothes away care, makes
you feel bright, and has a refining effect on
the children s development.
The NEW EDISON
is a wonderful instrument that brings the actual voices or
instrumental harmonies of the great musicians right into your
home.
The famous Edison Tone Tests, in which artists have sung
in direct comparison with the New Edison’s Re-Creation,
have proved that no human ear can distinguish the difference.
No other sound-reproducing system has attempted or dare attempt such a
test.
Learn for yourself what we mean by music’s Re-Creation. Free Illustrated
Literature will be gladly .sent, post free. Write for it now,
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 304-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
eg
-sv.
zo
€
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum Razor
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum.” which .is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6—POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
4T
c
?
&
r
Sr-
/
tel
v
r
ver
iTour
icSvmy ,
Gt/ee/iaiam
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns—via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Wyandra,
Bomhala, Wodonga, Arawatta.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 Georgs Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.


m
m
m
When a Man prows old
o
He gets a*cold,
And a poor Sick Man
is he.
We see him a min
o
The Healthiest of Men
*1!
Cured with NEW
DISCOVERY.
Of all the new discoveries in medical
science the most remarkable in recent
years is one which has proved invalu-
able to thousands of people, and which
is rapidly taking the place of all other
remedies for the relief of coughs and
colds. The preparation is called Or.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and
Colds, and is a scienliiie compound of
great, merit. It is most healing to the
lungs amd throat, and ban’shes the cough
or cold in a remarkably short time,
leaving no ban ait«." • ffpits. As it
conta'ns no poisons of any kind it is a perfectly safe remedy for children, and is
particularly good for croup and whooping cough. The dose is small, and it is pleasant
to take.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY, THE SAFEGUARD OF THE HOME.
9
D? Sheldons
f
a
Effaa
i
I
!SSSS!SS!!!SSS9!!
End Your Corns the Modern Way
STOP paring your corns. Avoid the
painful results and the risk of
harm. Stop soaking and greasing
your corns. Avoid disappointment; for
a soft corn soon becomes hard again.
t
Use the “Jilue-Jay” method, which is
gentle and sure. Try it once—you will
never be troubled with corns again.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific preparation.
The man who produced it had made a
life study of surgical dressings. Note
(he illustration below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” removes
pressure and stops the pain. The wax,
marked “B,” acts on the corn alone,
and nowhere else. “C” is a rubber-
coated, moisture-proof tape, which ad-
heres snugly and securely.
B
Blue s jay
Tke Scieix-ti+ic
fcCorrx Erxder
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS,
All Good Chemists
in Packet . . .
4 in Packet . .
wilt supply
1/6
The Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
road runs pleasantly along
’Neath arching boughs and shady
trees.
Birds sing their happy morning song
And twilight's tranquil melodies.
The flowers are sunkissed, frail and sweet,
And warm young grass grows for my feet.
No towering mountains bid me climb
Their snow-clad heights; no glacier bars
My path ; no lofty peak sublime
Forbids ray journey to the stars,
While Death and Danger waiting there
Still challenge me to greatly dare.
No foaming torrent thunders past
The iron rocks, impetuous, swift
And uncontrolled, and laughs to cast
The spray on high to toss and drift
And shine a moment in the sun,
A jewelled fabric, fairy-spun.
No glimpse of strange and unknown seas
Is there, no sight of ocean blue
To draw my heart. No fresh uing breeze
Sings clear of careless deeds to do
Aboard some wonder ship, with sails
Wide-spread to swilt adventurous gales.
The road is shady, sheltered. Few
Walk where, througa many a quiet day,
1 go, and where the evening dew
Falls soft—who knows but patience may
Be great as courage, and no less
Content may be than happiness?
vjctokia.
GRACE ETHEL MARTYR.
Sharpening Wits.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IKEY JACOBS, bookmaker and to-
bacconist, camq to his shop door,
• glanced impatiently up and down the
street, and then, muttering something to
himself, turned, walked inside and went oack
to his betting-book. A few moments elapsed,
during wh.cn ikey several t.mes went cat
fully through some figures in the book;
then lkey’s son, young Solly, a lad of about
17, hastened through the shop, having re-
turned from an errand on whicn lie was long
overdue. As Solly reached the door at the
rear of the shop reading to the living apart-
ments Ikey called him to a halt.
“Vot in plazes does dis mean?” he asked,
pointing to some figures in the betting-book.
•Ls dis right? Haf you laid Toosty Plake
vive hondred to von dat doupre lure Poy an’
Pink Lady?”
“Yes, father. He wanted that double and
there was no price-list about; so, as I often
heard you say anyone who takes under a
thousand to one any double is a lunatic, I
laid Dusty half that price—500 to 1.”
“You tamn fool, Solly. Get out o’ de
shop. Every time I turn my pack it cost
me anyt'ing up to vifty poun’s, all through
you not havin’ any vits about you. Dou’t
you know' vit von horse ten ter von an’
anoder twenty ter von der odds for a douple
should pe moltiplied—dat is, if der costomer
is vide avake; to tamn-fool punters like
Toosty Plake you apltiply der odds and
defide py two.”
Young Solly hung his head meekly the
while his father round,y abused him, and
when the parent’s temper seemed cooling a
little he went behind the counter and recom-
menced mixing tobacco. Then Jacobs, sen.,
broke loose again.
“You hafn’t enough vits for dis pisness,
Solly. Et es no gopt. I haf tried you long
enough. Dey vant a lad at Spencer’s pottle
vorks. I vill haf to speak mit Mr.
Spencer. De Vork among der glass might
sharpen your vits a little.”
Old’ Ikey succeeded in placing young Solly
at the bottle works, in a job which the lad
seemed to like, despite his parent s oft-
expressed hope dat der vork among der
pottles might sharpen his vits a little.
Ikey Jacobs well merited the name of
Cunn.ng Ike by which he was known among
the sporting fraternity, for he had several
times resorted to tricks at “pay out” and
his word wasn’t much taken on trust.
Dusty Blake, a printer by trade, knocked
out a living at a little back-lane jobbing
establishment. He was a methodical though
irrespons.ble sort, who week after week
backed “rough stuff” at lkey’s with approxi-
mately half his earnings; religiously he paid
the landlady his board, and quite as reli-
giously biewed what was left in booze.
The fact that Dusty Blake above all
others had been overlaid a double, the “first
leg” of which had already won. was to
Ikey a trouble that soon assumed large pro-
portions, for the day on which the Summer
Cup was to be run —Pink Lady now* ranked
second favorite —drifted perilously near.
However, having ascertained from Solly
that Dusty was about three-parts drunk
when he took the double bet, the cunning
mind of Ikey soon decided on a plan which
resolved p-«’f into nothing more than a
plain swindle.
It had happened that when Solly
wrote Dusty’s bet in the book he did so in
ordinary lead pencil instead of in ink. This
suited Ikey down to the ground. Imme-
diately after the Summer Cup (which Pink
Lady duly wen), he erased “Pink Lady”
and made Solly write afresh in ink, as
Dusty’s second fancy, “Gunner Lass” —a mare
that had started favorite, and for which
Dusty was known to have a very strong
regard.
Dusty Blake, somewhat in anticipation of
Pink Lady’s win, and somewhat because he
met a very dear old pal of earlv days, now
a prosperous sugar-planter in Fiji, got quite
drunk on the Summer Cup afternoon, and
for at least two days suffered recovery. The
ill-effects had quite worn off. though, when
he walked into lkey’s a couple of days later
to collect his winnings. At his appearance
in the shoo Ikey assumed a bluff loquacity,
and showed a very decided inclination to dis-
cuss his own private business transactions.
All this trying to appear the good fellow
nobody had ever accused h ; m of being some-
what perturbed Dusty, and what were sus-
picions'but a moment before were verv soon
realities. Tkey extended all sorts of sym-
pathy to Dusty in having got so close to
picking a winning double. Dusty was dumb-
founded. He was sure of the double he had
taken, and was quite satisfied that this was
omy another of • lkey's smithes out of a
liability. After a little oral finessing Solly,
who had been kept home from “vork among
der pottles” expressly for the purpose, was
called in by his father and showed Dusty
the particulars of the double bet. This by
direction of his father, and after cast-iron
rehearsal, tor Solly was a good k.d at heart
and hated a.l tins roguishness.
Dusty was at first inclined to pull the
shop down, but by some magic he exhibited
much more self-possession than his best
friend would have credited him with. After
lingering ten minutes or so Dusty, whose
brain was already working overtime, left
for home. Not a soul did he acquaint of
lkey’s treachery.
Next day Dusty, semi-drunk, with a bottle
of hock—lkey was partial to hock —under
his arm, lurched into the shop, seated him-
self at lkey’s elbow and proceeded to be
one of lkey’s best pals. Anyone could be
a food pal of lkey’s for the time being by
shouting hock. Together they drrink, and
Dusty further ingratiated himself by paying
for a sweep ticket in which he and ikey
were to share fifty-fifty any winnings. The
hock was beginning to give a decided impetus
to Dusty’s vocabulary, so to prevent a good
customer becoming a nuisance Ikey ordered
a cab and had his guest despatched home.
A profitable side-line in Ikey Jacobs’s busi-
ness was his dealings in winning sweep-
tickets. It was his custom to offer clients
who had drawn a prize about SO per cent, of
the face value in ready cash. Needless to
remark many availed themselves of the cash-
discount system.
The ticket in which Ikey and Dusty were
interested duly arrived, and Ikey. with the
care and precision that characterises his
race, made a note of its number before hand-
ing it over to Dusty, and then carefully
filed the p'ece of paper bearing a record
of the number.
About a week elapsed, during which time
Dusty Blake led the quiet, sombre life of
a broken punter; then one morning there
arrived at Jacobs's shop a letter addressed
to Ikey bearing result slips of the sweep.
Ikey carefully filed the envelope, and at once
proceeded to check his and Dusty’s ticket-
number with the result, commencing among
the five-pound prizes and working backwards
towards the “horse numbers.”
“Zix-zix-two-zix, zix-z.x-two-zix,” he re-
peated als he rapidly scanned the slip.
Then, uttering a wi.d whoop of hilarious
joy, he grabbed bis hat and the result-slip.
Ills spectacles fell on the floor. He rubbed
his hands itchingly together. “Der f-i-r-s-t
p-r-i-z-e ! Sacramento ! Der first p-e-rize !”
Then replacing his spectacles he bounded to
the rear door.
“Rebecca! Rebecca, come here at vonce!
Mind der pizmess vile I’m gone. I vant
to go out a vile perticular. An’ if anypody
comes tel! ’em nodings vere I’m gone.”
In a twinkling after Rebecca his wife had
taken his place behind the counter. Ikey was
tearing up the street in the direction of the
Elite Printing Co.’s establishment to break
the news to Dusty, all the time having
visions of a healthy cash discount from
Dusty’s half-share of the £5OOO.
Ikey didn't stop to make inquiries from
the office-boy. a fat youngster who with un-
gainly agility sidestepped the bulky form
that dasbed along the passage and pulled
up alongside Dusty’s bench. Panting with
excitement and from his hurried trip, Ikey
cast a glance or two around to see they
were alone, and then proceeded to acquaint
Dusty of their good fortune.
“Vife tousan’ poun’s between me an’ you.
an’ at de virst try, too. Sacramento i But
ve haf de gout luck togeder, Toosty! Der
first prize! Pink Lady in der Mitsummer
Hanticap! See, zix-zix-two-zix draws Pink
Lady, der vinner, der rinner! You haf pad
luck in missing der douple vit Pink Lady—
no, I mean vit Gunner Lass in der Summer
Cup, but togeder ve vin der first perize vit
Pink Lady in der Mitsummer Hanticap.
Ve shall haf some hock to-night ven der vork
is done, Toosty.”
Dusty slid off his perch and bolstered up
an appearance of supr.se at their sudden
enrichment, though the alert eye of Ikey
thought it perceived in Dusty, even in tnis
the greatest event of' his life, that eternal
taint of indifference which characterised
him. Acting on the impulse of the Lttle
weakness he thought he saw in Dusty, Ikey
straightway got down to hard business.
“How much do you vant /for your share
paid in cash to-night. Toosty?”
“Oh, I don’t know, Ikey. Suppose you
give me two thousand? That’ll leave you
your half and five hundred for collecting.”
“Phew ! I haf not so much money as dat.
Der panks will not adfance me so much
money on short notis, perhaps. Petter make
it a tousan’ clear, an’ I gif et to you now
right here.”
“Make it fifteen hundred and I’ll sell out
straight away—that is. providing you give
me another hundred when you collect. If
I don’t get it straight away I’ll hang on to
the ticket and collect it myself. Then you’ll
get your half share, and I’ll charge you com-
missum for collecting.”
“Viften hundred now and later an extra
hundred? Veil, let me see. All right. I gif
you viften hondred and if you es not too
flush ven I collect —veil, perhaps den anoder
hondred. eh?”
“Good.” said Dusty, sliding off his perch
and producing the sweep ticket.
From an inside vest pocket Ikey took a
bundle of one-hundred-pound bank-notes and
paid Dusty.
Ikey turned to go. satisfied with his deal,
when a thought struck him.
“I say. Toosty. You keep d ; s a secret, for
if everypody knows all der hospittles,
churches and army prigadiers vill pe round
for collections. Ve must not make et public.”
“All right. Ikey; I won’t breathe a word 10
a living soul. You can trust that to me. But
before you go, here, take a fiver to young
Solly. He’s me many a good t””n in
his time. Don’t give it to him until Satur-
day p’gbt. Let him have' a good blow-out up
at old Pizzev’s.”
Ikey to"k bis departure and for the rest of
the week things went well. Saturday after-
noon was good at the races. All the favorites
fContinued on next page.)


DM Nm led Ytfur Skin!
Zam-Buk is the Ideal Gold-Weather Skin-Balm.
Use Daily and Avoid Winter Skin Troubles.
THE skin is one of the most sensitive parts of the human body, and,
because it is also the most exposed to injury and disease, it ought
to get more attention than most people think necessary. One should
be exceptionally careful just now, because June is a very critical month
for the skin. ,
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small abrasion, and skin weakness, are
all likely to lead to trouble. Neglected chafings, “chaps,” chilblains, cold sores
or cuts may also cause more serious disease in the shape of festering wounds,
ulcers or itching sores, and even chronic Eczema is often traceable to neglect in
the early stages of a simple affection.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost instantaneous cleansing effect. So pure are
the juices in Zam-Buk that they sink deep into the pores, permeating all the minute “machinery”
of the tissues, and they end the trouble thoroughly and efficiently.
The Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the LOST ARTS of
the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was universal.
MOTHER’S
VARICOSE
ULCERS
“Through the breaking of a varicose vein,”
writes Mrs. S. A. Holt, 81 Union Street,
Newtown, Sydney, “I had a very bad ulcer-
ated leg. Other experiences persuaded me
that Zam-Buk must have unusual healing
power, so I got a supply and began to use
it. Night and morning, after bathing the
sores with warm water, I applied Zam-Buk.
Thir herbal balm soon cleansed the ulcers of
all bad matter. Further dressings of Zam-
Buk were really more wonderful still, for
they quickly restored my leg to sound, healthy
condition.”
RAW,
CHAPPED
HANDS
Mrs. Lily Phillips, 69 Bay Street, Glebe,
Sydney, writes:—“For healing: chapped hands
in winter time I have found Zam-Buk invalu-
able. At times my hands have been ex-
tremely bad, the cracked skin causing much
smarting: and pain, especially after immersion
in water. The cold westerly wind: made the
skin harsh and brittle, and fissures world
then form. For these I have found Zam-
Buk most soothing, whilst it softens the
skin, checks all harshness, and heals the
era eke.”
am
u
Zam-Buk is unequalled
for chilblains, chapped
hands, and all winter
skin troubles. Obtain-
able from all Chemists
and Stores.
MUil
lliii
lliiili
LlUliiil
were beaten. Saturday night life seemed
very fair. Ikey wore the air of a squatter who
has dined well after selling a good mob
at top-of-the-market prices. Young Sony
was dressed after “vork among der pottles,”
and together they sat in tne Sitting-room,
Ikey dozing and smoking, Solly reading the
paper while waiting for a pal to call.
"What’s this, father? Dusty Blake gone
for a holiday to Fiji! Says so in tins pup in-
here.”
“Dat reminds me, my poy. 1 haf a fiver
here Toosty left for you. H» said you had
done heem many goot turns. Listen, my poy.
You must not preathe a vord. Me and
Toosty von first perize in a sveep. But 1
did not know he vas going avay so soon.
However, dat does not matter. I haf made
a good deal vit heem. Yiften hondred down
and anoder hondred veil 1 collect —perhaps.”
Solly pocketed the fiver and pricked his
ears when he remembered how Dusty had
been robbed of his double win.
”Abc you sure tlmt everything is all right,
father?”
"All right? Vy, of course et es all right.
1 haf send avay der ticket an’ der money vi 11
be here any time now.”
Solly wasn’t satisfied, and with his
parent’s per miss'on got the result slips,
which, only tended to further raise iiis
suspicions. Then lie got the envelope and
scanned the post-date stamp thereon.
“I thought so, father. The type is not the
same as they generally print result slips
with, and the envelope they came in was
posted here in this town. Yes. posted here,
father!”
Quick as a flash the old man realised that
Dusty had “put one over.” lie sank listlessly
into his chair and beads of perspiration
stood out on his brow.
Slowly he found his ton ,r ne.
Solly, my poy. I should haf expected et.
I should haf looked at der envelope, and my
vits should haf tolt me to be careful—be enre-
fol. vety careful. However. I v'H rot 1 «e
all. You gif me back der fiver Toosty left,
and from Monday you run dis pisness. I
'ill take your job at, de pottle vorks. Et es
my vits vat vant sharpenin’.”
A. DITTON.
Coker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COKER was no chicken.
Nearer 50 than 60, all his dis-
cretionable years had been spent
in establishing himself as a leading cit/zen.
To a man of his mentality it was a simple
process; but the school he favored was very
narrow in its outlook. The higher one
graduated the less one was fitted to solve
many of the problems liable to be met with
later in life.
Thus when Miss Muffitt applied for the
job of private secretary, Coker blinked at
her over his glasses, gave her the job and
tell head over ears in love with her in three
simultaneous or closely correlated movements.
This was. quite at variance with his estab-
lished principle, which was to think twice
before deciding once on even the most trivial
matter.
it was quite a new experience for him, so
he could only flounder uoout in tne siougti
of his own admiration and make tniugs
very uneomiortaflie for boui of tnem. rie
never tflougne of siaetracK.ng his einot.on
as an agreeable finale to a dull bus.ness
day; nor ot allowing it to spend its totce
m a lot or harmless little pleasantries tnat
would have hurt neither of tnem, but should
have amused both, tie took to lying awake
o’ nights thinking how adorable she was,
instead of kissing her smartly on the nape
of the neck and taking her out to dinner and
being done with it.
Mostly she wore a black frock of filmy
substance through which her arms and*
shoulders shone Lke antique s.iver. Her yel-
low hair, heaped high on tne top of her
head, left a couple of vagrant curls to nestle,
behind her ears in a manner most disturbing
to one who has no defence against tins sort
of offensive. When she stooped over her
stenography on the days she wore her grey
ninon, Coker used to sunt his eyes: but even
then he could sense the bows of pink baby-
ribbon that spangled her underwear Had
he not practised this system of voluntary
ulindness he might have seen things even more
disturbing.
Coker was a big man: fifteen stone, mostly
fat, and when he settled down iu Ins
oflice chair he looked l.ke a great inverted
pear, the illusion being helped by a little wisp
of grey hair on the top of Ins camouflaged
baldness which suggested the stem of the. fruit
as we sometimes see it with the bisciuts and
cheese, at the end of a good dinner, when
a pretty woman is not so immediately d *si-
rable as a cup of black coffee and a good
cigar.
Coker learned that she was known as
Dick. He was quite scandalised when he
heard one of his clerks address her thus
familiarly. Anybody less like Dick would
be hard to imagine. Blanche, very likely,
or Florence; or Violet, because her eyes
were a deep blue, though her complexion
was roses and lilies —really “creniq de N.non,”
but Coker didn’t know that, and her ha r
like the gold we won when we ran a silk-
worm farm in the privacy of our bedroom.
Yet “Dick” fitted. She had a quick, boyish
step, a little, boyish laugh, and her figure
was not yet matured enough to preclude the
idea that she could pose most provocatively
as a boy scout at a fancy-dress ball. She
had a trick of stoop'ng her head just a little
and glancing up out of the corner of her eye.
At other and rarer times she would throw
her head back and stare defiance at you with
a jutted chin most disconcertingly.
Coker married?
Oh, rather! Years and years ago, to a large,
slow-thinking, solemn woman, who might,
have been a half-sister, a maiden aunt or
some su°h near relation, so much did she re-
semble him both physically and in tempera-
ment. It seemed almost indecent to suggest
that there had ever been pnss’onate
moments between them. They had a small and
p'mply fam'ly that wore round-rimmed
glasses and held minor positions in Sun-
il a v-sohools. Cod kn n ws how tliev hannened!
Maybe. L'ke Tonsy. “thev inst • ini
none of them ever cost Coker a tithe or the
sleep tnat ne lost over ICck, nor caused lnm
a fiunuredtn part of the anxiety either.
It never entered his head to fire her. In
fact, ne stuck another 1U shillings a week
on to her screw, winch even then was barely
enough to meet her expenses, considering
how high the ragmen nad bumped every-
thing a girl like Dick just had to have.
She wore a slave bangle above her le.t
elbow that set Coxers fingers itching,
and he went hot and cold all over every time
her skirts brushed his trouser legs. He
often lost tne sequence of h.s ideas when
dictating to her, and the climax was reached
when he began to say his prayers regularly
i —a tiling he hadn’t done for years —Winding
up with "O Lord, bless Dick anff keep us.”
Rather a lame conclusion, but there are some
things it is not proper to petition the
Almighty straight-out about.
Rut you can refer such things to the oppo-
sition firm.
Yes, if the Devil would let him hold Dick
in his arms for an hour he could chop the
last year of his life off altogether! Three
hundred and sixty-five days—B76o to 1.
Tremendous odds, but the gamble was worth it.
He made tne pioposition to the Devil after
a very perturbing day. Dick—he always
thought of her as Dick now—had turned up
wearing a dark-blue frock of some diaphanous
stuff, with practically no sleeves or top to it.
She couldn’t have been less conscious of her
costume if she had been buttoned from chin
to toes in an armv overcoat. It would be
wrong to say that Coker was tempted. That
impl.es a certain amount of intention, and
intention is born of a belief in one’s capacity
to achieve. Coker just desired supinely.
It was close on midu'ght. The house was
quiet and stuffy. Except for the almost
soundless tiekiug of the clock on his dre.ssing-
t-m.> and the somnolent glueks and gurgles
of Mrs. Cof'-'r in the next bed, everything
was as silent- as the grave.
lie felt a 10 : b'etfer alter lie had made the
suggestion. It was something, even if it
came to nothing. Quite a business proposi-
tion. If there was no reply in a dav or two,
or by the end of the week, he would cry off,
exp-ess contrit'on in the proper ouarter,
feel that he had added to the joy of Heaven,
arid also passed through unite an experience.
He turned over and went to sleep at once
and slept like a top right up to breakfast-
time. He woke up with a. wonderful grate-
fulness that he had not died in the night,
and -was greatly relieved to find, that no
calamity had struck his household while he
sßpt. He was cautiously cheerful at break-
fast. and purposely avoided asking a blessing
on the rolled oats'. He would play the game.
One cannot serve two masters and expect
full, pay from both.
Hopefully, yet fearfully, he went to busi-
ness. Something might happen during the
dav.
NnfMrg did.
Well, there was plenty of time —maybe the
tlu’ng needed looking into. He wouldn't
close right away on a pronos : tlon himself, if
there were no competitor in the market.
Next morning he actually pinched D’ok’s
elbow and got a rattly little laugh and a
rf]or| cjrrnlr* ?ri vc*
ik walked oil ins toes for the rest of tin
day—haut-uay only —aiiu if Sunday hadn't
inuerventd between that.and their next meet-
ing', tuwts nu ceiling wuai ms next move
might nave been.
ue refused to go to church. - No,. he
hadn’t a coid; he didn't want to go, that
was all. .uis. CoKer went with.-ut h.m
and told the parson that her husband really
needed a long noliuay.
Tnat very lugnt ne attacked the problem
again. If he had known any incantations
lor raising the JUevil he would have tried
mem. in Ins anxiety to trade he made a
cut —13 minutes instead of the original 60.
As day was breaking he made his hual bid.
rive minutes it the thing went through
within 24 hours.
It was suiely a tempting offer. They
couldn’t expect him to cut lower than that.
There it was; Ins final offer. lie turned
over and went to sleep as a kookaburra in
the big pine just outside Ins window laughed
at a blear-eyed sun peering over Waverley
Cemetery.
no was alertly expectant all day, looking
forward to a peaceful morrow, for by then
the thing would be settled one way or
another. He felt strangely confident about
tnat. Several times he thought the great
adventure was just beginning, but always
something intervened.
About half-past four he had a great idea.
The Spottiswoude matter had to be hurried
througn. Would Dick give him a couple
of hours after tea .' 1 She could wire her
mother that she would be sent home in a
taxi about nine.
No need for that. Dick lived in a room
and fed herself. Nobody cared where she
was, .so long as her rent was paid oven
Satiuday. ■
What an ass he was not to have discov-
ered those details before!
Why
It was left at that. Lots of possibilities,
but no plan at all: (lie other party had to
attend to that.
Torhaps the suggestion that they go
across to the Blue Cafe for a bit of fish was
part of it. Coker ordered a - small bottle
of wine to be served with the meal. lie was
going to be a real sport and give it every
chance. They went into the lift together
just on six. • One of those automatic lifts
where you shut yourself iu, press a button
and trust to luck.
Sometimes it is all right, sometimes things
happen. This time the lift jibbed and Dick
crowded close to Mr. Coker.
The scheme was working, but he wasn’t
going to be bluffed off bv any “fun in a
lift” business. lie pushed Dick away and
pulled the safety catch. The lift, shot off
with a whizz-zz, and the girl was flung hard
against her employer.
They were found in each other’s arms, and
both quite unconscious. They took Miss
Muffitt home about nine. She was onlv
shaken, but they took Mr. Coker to th<‘
morgue.
Heart failure, accelerated by shock.
It was pleaded by the Devil at the Court
of Celestial Equity that Coker was going
to die of heart failure in nine months, any
how.
D. H. SOUTER.


—rii* .
tejte*. R ■ »■*'• I
mfc- . i Wmk "
0 ‘ *V■ - ' ij; -I
llw A# ,*L‘ „. . ,
By
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
AVis Supply—
J Allll AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Files, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks. Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
LM.NN.EUS* HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIO.
681 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210; Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist, on “ Singleton’s refuse all substitutes.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health aid strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORUCK'S MALTED MILKCO.
SUOUGH. bucks, eng.
©
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
l<fJ.CoHis Brotdn^'S
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of ItKONCimTCs ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and'
cor.ic.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NUUKALGIA, TOOTH-
ACIIF.. RUKUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England , 1/S and S/-.
Made in England.
A Determining Point in Valuing a Used Car
is the Condition of the Nut Facets.
evidence that the machine has been well and skilfully cared toi.
Mindful of this the Careful Mechanic, when taking down or reassembling, discar s
the Shifting Spanner as far as possible, using only
The Convenient Box Spanner
knowing it to be
A More Satisfactory Tool
from all points of view, particularly that by its use one
Will Not injure the Nuts.
ST
'AUTq
wm
C sr >
- -
i<m
„o,po
Mil
We have the largest
selection of
BOX SPANNERS
in the State, suitable for
all kinds of nuts, whether
accessible or those diffi-
cult to approach.
We here mention a few:— . . , n .
“THE AUTt) : CLE SET,” in Wooden Case, 31 sizes, with Ratchet,
Universal Joint, £5/17/6. A most magnificent collection.
“SET SIX,” in Wooden Case. Fits Nuts fin. to fin., with handle,
' 28/6 complete.
“SET SEVEN,” in Wooden Case, 15 sizes, with lin. Tee and Im.
Elfoow Handle, 39/- complete.
“SET ELEVEN,” in Wooden Case, 15 sizes, with Ratchet, Exten-
sion Bar, etc., 65/- -
“SET TEN ” in Wooden Case, 21 sizes, with Ratchet, Extension
Bar, Universal Joint. Takes Nuts lin. to fin. S.A.E., 1 in. to
fin. Whit, lin to fin. U.S.S., 87/6 complete.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
MAKE
A NOTE
OF IT
ARE WORTH
MAKING
A SONG ABOUT
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently td-day as the Finest Blended Cigars m the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Clvib Reil
The Half ReiX
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 0(1.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9: Box of 100,
Free all over Australia.
m
CRAIG &AITKEN 5 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club ReU Cigar Factory. .
rupture.
A FREE TRIAL.
If vou are troubled with this complaint, writs
mil we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alii CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first days
use It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. - It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove v, luit «e .-(■
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
It it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
with success in life, especially for women
and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter'*
Small Pill-
Small
Dose —
Small
Price
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousne s s,
Consti patiort,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
Accurate—Compact
The Remington Model 51 Automatic
Pistol protects YOU against acci-
s
Va
&
dental discharge.
It is impossible to fire
a cartridge without
simultaneously grasp-
f
ing the stqck and
pressing the trigger. Two
other safety devices insure
against accident.
JgemingtOTft
ifor Shooting R!|hl
SPECIFICATIONS: 'Cali b e r ' .3801
length, 6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.;
weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish, dull
black; magazine holds seven cartridges,
one extra cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless automatic
standard metal cased or soft pointed.
the same cartridge as is used in other
American ..Automatic* Pistols oi this
caliber,/
C-nT
lt . Md«
AU*< a
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.


rx-r - LLZZZZT'T” TLiJjIZ
Q
sssass
m
| *v fifi Bk 4V HH 1 HR
<
■ r : ; :/v ; ... '•' ■ •"
'
■ • fi Si -
ajNMBL - ••' • - ■ ■ -‘-j, ■„•■ ,-,. ■:
■■■ ■
im
■
iss
5^3
.-WKT "
Ml
i
•••'• • .1 . '";\-
I
:
§l||gggl
V.
■
.
if
M«ll!
.
%\
%
1
1
• 7;
fep
m
■■'■X
1
' y
lljswjp
MhhPHHRNp
I;J1 pi®
i . li >' 3
WSmm
M
H
B
Hr
Bllilll
■. ■ ■ ..- . .
’
«WiMßWpa
..X
.
■■■•••'
(MM
S«S
: I
f
li
wm
m
:
■
n
• !
m
■
: 'xP
H
V **» %
§g.
; |M|
'•
>PBIIIPI
■
°w V ' *'
' 1 ■
1
*1 l j *itw
- - v*
1*
,
I ‘
mm
»\ < x 5
wmm & *
af
©
©
©
Sydney Address:
26 King Street.
Melbourne Address:
455 Lalrobe Street.
