

u.
S
V
m
A
■.f V
Cosy,
Glowing
Warmth
Get one now arid be
comfortable
throughout the winter
HE EDISON GLOW ELECTRIC
HEATER—neat clean, compact and port-
able—is ideal for every room in the home.
Place it near you after your bath, in the nursery
with the children, or alongside the bed when re-
tiring. Its cosy warmth will be appreciated by all.
YOUR Office, too, will be more cheerful with
an EDISON GLOW.
m
j
Australian General Electric (p
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
S’YrXNETY'
j^AZDa
HOUSS
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE 1
Phone : City 3510. Box 2517 G.P.O.
Phone : Central 2646. Box 538, G.P.O,
AGENTS :
BRISBANE —The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C.A.)Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
TASMANIA—OIiver 6C Oliver, Hobart 6C Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins 6c Co. Ltd. 88 Currie St.
PERTH —Charles Atkins 6c Co. (W.A.) Limited,
" Mazda House,” 894 Hay St.
N -Z.—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
'
iSr
/
a
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2154
Thursday, May 26, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
Ink Capacity
Because of the complete
absence of unnecessary inner ►
fittings, because of the liberal
space allotted to the ink-
well, and because the makers
heard the demand of penmen
for more ink capacity in self-
filling pens
92
r
fount-Pen
writes more words to the
pen-full than any other self-
ritler
*7 /f> EVERYWHERE
* * / ” All-British and Guaranteed
'THE Pen of Pens.
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company. Ltd.,
218-226 Clarence St., Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
.Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
□
IT
JI
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built
for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary cure will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
158 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U-S.A.
HOTEL
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Jjarsreßt Hotel Accommodation In Auotralia.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
Euthymol
tooth/paste
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.O., Sydney.
I ree sample will be posted to you.
mj
E'i!
MANGROVITE BELTING
Lowers the Cost of Production.
Overhead charges which have heaped up by the use of
inferior beltings are eliminated when
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
is installed in the machinery-room. Forty years’ experience
in belting- manufacture stands behind this production, which
possesses an unswerving super-frictional grip on the pulleys
and transfers the maximum of generated power to tile
machines.
Our staff of transmission experts is always at your service
to advise you on all your belting problems'.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Ltd.. Adelaide.
Western Australia: Cibbs, Bright & Co. Ltd., Fremantle.
OnotoPen
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-filling mechanism is
part ot the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfacto y self-fillins pen like the Onoto so be
sure to g t an Ono'o and not an old-fashioned squirt-fil'ed pen
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C, 1.
Managing Agents :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST
Sydney a nd Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-Be;t for all Pens
L
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson's Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinp- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keei> the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
a Tin.
Ta
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lune=.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
The Red Page
Prose Poetry
For 2000 yearn people have tried to define
poetry, and have tailed. Theodore Wattss-
Ditnton, a great critic if ever there was one,
said that it is '‘the concrete expression of
the human mind in emotional and rhythmical
language.'’ But that definition does not in-
clude "subject,” which to many is of the
utmost moment: nor is it fair to account
rhythm solely as an attribute of poetry, for
all good prose has a marked rhythm. In-
deed, it is not easy to pick upon a passage
of absolutely a-rh.vthmic prose; and even the
description of a football match may be in
intensely emotional language, though cer-
tainly not poetry. Poetry ranges from the
huge thunder of "Homer” to the delicate
fantasy of David \Vright. Battles and
voyages in Iliad and Odyssey ; every pos-
sible aspect of love, from the frank eroticism
of Sappho to tile unhappy Immanent Will of
Thomas Hardy ; the philosophical dreamings
of llamlet and Browning; Macbeth's musings
on time and death ; the gorgeous imagery of
Keats; the rebellious mysticism of Shelley ;
the mockery of Byron; the organ pedal of
Milton—all these are its province, embracing
every vista of the human mind. Every vista
but one: there is no squalor in true poetry.
Poetry; to be poetry, must be beautiful, if
it is not beautiful it is not poetry. What,
then, is beauty? Who can possibly tell?
“Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” We have
but put back the definition a stage; if
you can define beuuty you may have a chance
of defining poetry.
The more We consider the more convinced
we become that the division betwen poetry
and prose is impalpable. Adhere are two
territories—no one denies that. When we
are well within either territory we can say
definitely in which we find ourselves; but
where that territory lias begun, that no man
can say. We feel that a leading-article is
prose, and that “Thou wast not born for
death, immortal bird,” is poetry; but what
about the 23rd psalm, in English, of course,
because in Hebrew it is certainly poetry?
And what about "So when this corruptible
shall have put on incorruption, and this mor-
tal shall have put on immortality, then shall
be brought to pass the saying that is written
‘Death is swallowed up in Victory.’ O Death,
where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy
victory?”? And what about Raleigh’s “<>
eloquent, just and mightie Death! Whom
none could advise, thou hast persuaded; what
none has dared, thou hast done; and whom
all the world hath flattered, thou only hast
cast out of the world and despised. ‘ Thou
hast drawn together all the far-stretched
greatness, all the pride, cruelty and ambition
of man, and hast covered them all over with
these two narrow words ‘Hie jacet’ ”?
Most people will agree that if these ex-
amples are not poetry they are at all events
uncommonly like it. They have all the quali-
ties—nobility of subject, passionate empha-
sis and gorgeous rhythm.
Take again: “On. then, all Frenchmen
that have hearts in your bodies ! Roar with
all your throats, of cartilage or metal, ye
Sons of Liberty ; 'stir spasmodically whatso-
ever is of the utmost faculty in you, soul,
body or spirit; for it is the Hour!” In
what respect does the tremendous passage
that so begins differ from a hundred equally
tremendous passages in the Iliad? Carlyle’s
“French Revolution” has been called “an
epic in prose”; probably it is little more
veridical than the Iliad, though equally vigor-
ous?* and are we to insist on its being prose
simply because it is not in metre and its
very, rhythm is often extremely bumpy?
Now listen to this: “Darkness and silence
ruled everywhere around. Above them rose
the primeval oaks and yews of The Chase,
in which were poised gentle, roosting birds
in their last nap; and about them stole the
hopping rabbits and hares. But some might
say, ‘Where was Tess’s guardian angel?
Where was the providence of her simple
faith?’ ” Exquisite though this passage is
I cannot imagine that one could call it
poetry; the loutish word “hopping” turns
it instantly into prose. I might have selected
the death of the Duke of Hamilton in
Esmond” or the death of Margaret in “The
(’loister and the Hearth”; I with afore-
thought picked on “Tess” partly because of
its extreme poignancy, perhaps more because
Hardy, in his furious wrath at a society that
could hang his beloved “Tessy,” appears
deliberately to have destroyed with some
single, uncouth word every dream of beauty
before it has really settled down into dream-
land. He describes how Nature was, exquis-
itely indifferent during the sin against Tess,
yet he mars the beaut’’ of the description by
"hopping rabbits”! So near akin are prose
and poetry—one word changes the one into
the other. This is very characteristic of
“less.”
Now try this; “But the iniquity of Obli-
vion blindely scattereth her poppy, and deals
with the memory of man without distinction
to merit of perpetuity. Who can but pitv
the founder of the Pyramids?”—and so on
to the end of tbe Hydriotaphia. It is em-
phatically not poetry, though orchestral
prose, my? Personally, I think it is too
diffuse, too outre, too straining, to be poetry.
"But beauty vanishes, beauty passes,” sings
H alter de la Mare, achieving in a few simple
lines an effect far more vivid than all the
drums, and trumpets of Sir Thomas Browne.
I hat is the crowning achievement of poetry
—its possibility of intense compression of
thought and language; nor does it need to
strain, to warp words out of their proper
meanings, to secure its effects. Wordsworth
would support this statement.
For a last poser I give what seems to
me one of the most beautiful passages in
put by Walter Savage Landor into
the mouth of in an imaginary conver-
sation with the hetaira Rhodope: “Laode-
meia died ; Helen died: Leda, the beloved of
Jupiter, went before. It is better to repose
in the earth betimes than to sit up too late.
There are no fields of amaranth this side
of the grave; there are no voices, O Rhodope,
that are not soon mute, however tuneful:
there is no name, with whatever emphasis
of passionate love repeated, of which the
echoes are not faint at last.” Austere this
is, and strangely moviug. 'Landor is simply
repeating what Browne .said, and de la Mare,
and Solomon long before either; but how
nobly he says it, how simply, how truly poeti-
cally he says it!
Then, after all this, what is the difference
between prose and poetry ?
C.M.L.
Buskin’
The present insistence upon the educa-
tional value of the repertory theatre is ask-
ing for trouble historically and intellectu-
ally. To label a thing “educational,” ‘■im-
proving." “uplifting,” has always proved a
ghastly failure—the dog had a bad name
before the people came to look at him. Auv
dog can always do his bit intellectually and
morally, but, judging by historical results, he
must do it in camera: liis purpose publicly
stated, he hasn’t a hope. You and I have
no more use for the advertised “great moral
purpose” than we have for the "great human
lesson." We don’t go to the play to look
into these ethical possibilities; we go to see
what it was that the promoter had to call
those names to get by the censor—which is
what he meant us to do. That is Ins con-
ventional way of saying: “Here is something
rather rich, boys; by contrast it might
teach a nun that it is a good thing to obey
the rules. But come and have a look at it
for its own sake." Meantime the uplift,
having served its publicity purpose, has gone
to pot. Inversely, a similar result is to
hand.
In the beginning the Greek public theatre
was semi-religious in spirit, the acting and
the dressing (there was no mounting) be-
coming consequently as rigidly conventional
as the robes and intonations of the priests
of that day and this. Aeschylus invented
a good deal of the externals of the Greek
drama, besides writing some good samples
of its internals; and some of the ornate cos-
tumes worn by his actors are contemporarily
noted as having been worn also in religious
processions and Dionysian ceremonies.
Aeschylus was strict. The tragic costume
lor male “leads” was an embroidered, sleeved
tunic, and a green pall or long, mantle bor-
dered in purple and gold. "Seconds” and
“thirds” wore a shorter red mantle em-
broidered in gold, and partly covered by a
high-fitting, very ornamental scarf. Sooth-
sayers wore a woollen network over the tunic.
A. queen’s outfit was a flowing purple robe
with a white scarf; in mourning, a
black robe with a blue or yellow shawl.
To increase the height to the popular
tragic stature the actor wore the cothur-
nus (a sort of buskin with raised sole
and heel), a topknot of hair and a
lot of padding, the tragic “lead” becoming
thereby a vast giant, dominating bis scenes
physically as well as dramatically. And
everyone wore a mask, the loss of the possi-
bilities of facial play being not really very
important in the huge, open-air theatres.
These rules were in the main enforced in
the majestic Greek drama and the pungent
comedies of Rome as arbitrarily as is to-dav
the wearing of a collar by the “lead” of a
Pinero play. When the Western Empire fell
man’s natural love of the public play re-
asserted itself as soon as the noise of the
falling had died away. But Convention
(the strongest power in the world) came in
at once in the persons of the monks who
took the places of the prophets and em-
perors ; and the people who wanted plays
were directed to go to the mysteries, morali-
ties and miracle-plays, written by the monks
and performed in the churches. So the
sing-song, the posing and the dressing to
brder butted in again before the art of act-
ing got its second chance. Even to-day the
rules survive in the barnstormers of the ohc-
night stands, and in the common belief that
no man of • another period ever tuned his
voice or walked as the men of this period—
saddening survivals of the ancient belief that
in church (whether in Athens or up at the
Abbey) one must be different from else-
where —one must, in fact, act.
“His Majesty’s servants” were probably
some improvement on the moralities, 'liis
Majesty being not quite so powerful as
Mother Church. Still, he was "his Majes-
ty.” and a man must behave in liis presence
—must be careful to give the conven-
tional artificial impression—so I don't
suppose the improvement was very marked.
When Lord Leicester’s “servants” were
licensed to open the first public theatre
in England, in 1571, the rigid attitude
of mind was well established: the actors
were still in the presence of their masters,
in spite of the death of Aeschylus and some
violent monks. Throughout the rich age
of romantic literature the actor followed his
“servants’ ” precedent, mouthing and ranting
in the accepted method of expressing emo-
tion. After 150 years of this strutting and
screaming for his betters the actors’ saviour
turned up—a little, conceited man, up to his
ears in self-love off the stage, but a miracle
of inspired naturalness on it. David Gar-
rick really pricked the bubble of the differ-
ence between a man being and, a man acting;
his critics were amazed that he should so
“act” his parts as to seem in very truth to
“be” Macbeth and Hamlet and Shylock.
which is obliquely mighty thin criticism of
the Quin and Cibber, etc., whom he outed.
But there was only one of Garrick to mil-
lions of Quins and Cibbers looking for
easy money, and with Garrick safely dead the
tide turned back to the old roaring and gib-
bering which any man with a good hide and
a big voice could do. History, having
proved sadly that one man however great
was nothing against convention, altered
the convention, and T. W. Robertson wrote a
series of “natural” plays—“ Caste.” “Ours,”
“School,” “M.P.”—which insisted upon natu-
ral acting. The stories might happen to
anyone in the audience, so the posturing and
thunder were no earthly good. This by the
grace of God sent all the old “school” out
into the provinces on their way to oblivion;
and the new school—the real school of the
presentment of man’s emotions—had the
game in their own hands at last. Some
fining down had still to be done, of course;
(Continued on page 25.)


*
a
nm
m
The Burberry Raincoat, Illustrated
When the garment you purchase bears the name
“Burberry” on the lapel you experience the satisfac-
tion of knowing you have t-he most dependable
article, and one with a world-wide reputation. 1 his
storm-proof example of a belted style is smartly
fashioned, of full and generous cut, featuring Itag-
lan shoulders, convertible collar.
Half-lined, with Blendor. Price £lO/6/6
A similar style, lined throughout with check.
PRICE £l2/2/6
A superior style, lined throughout with check,
PRICE £IW6
IXB7O.—A Dainty Blouse in Plain Fuji Silk, has a
roll collar, a fancy shape, and narrow revers The
sleeves, shoulder seams and fronts are hemstitched,
and collar and fronts are richly embroidered.
PRICE 31 /-
No matter whether you are planning a full replenish-
ment of your wardrobe, or just adding a few garments,
you will find in our diversified selections of fashionable
apparel the very examples you require at prices much
lower than you expected to pay. Comparison proves
this.
Mail Orders receive
expert attention from
a n efficient and
highly-trained staff.
sesxi
N
&
S',
J
sJS"
to
0*8X1
We Pay Carriage on
Fashion Goods to
any part of the
Commonwealth.
i
m
ip v.
•JXIBI3.
JXIBI3. —This is an Effective Knitted Wool Sport*
Coat that features a long roll collar. A note of
distinction is added by the collar and wide band at
foot revealing a shade that is in artistic contrast.
This useful garment is obtainable in the following
colors. Brown and Fawn, Fawn and Beaver, Dark
and Light Ilose.
PRICE 47/6
IX332.—Smart Fuji Blouse, in Magyar Style, made
to slip over the head. It has a roll collar, edged
with binding of check silk, which also forms a smart
little tie in front.
PRICE
16/11
1X891.
20
-3*
1X491X
-X
m
w
/
IXB9I. —Charming Blouse in Crepe de
Chine of Heavy Quality. The square
neck and the sleeves are each adorned
with a row of faggot stitching, and the
front is heavily hand-embroidered. In
Pink and Ivory.
PRICE 25/11
IX49lX.—Dainty Biouse in Pine Georgette
of Plesh-Pink shade. Fashioned in
Magyar style, with round neck, bound
with self material. The front is hem-
stitched and hand-embroidered. Also
in Ivory, Navy, Black, Sand and Pink.
PRICE 17/11
,IXB3.—Very Fine Knit Stitch is used
for this Smart Sports Coat, which has
a wide cape collar with long scarf ends.
Colors: Saxe. Sand, Vieux Rose, Bottle,
Grey, Dark Grey.
PRICE 49/6
JXI44. —Dressy All-Wool Knitted
Sports Coat; the new roll collar, cuffs
and band at foot are of contrast brushed
wool, giving quite a smart finish. Sash
at waist. Colors: Lime, French Grey.
PRICE 69/6
H563. Smart Hat
in Silk Velvet,
Black. Nigger,
Saxe. Mastic,
Navy.
PRICE 25/-
H509. — Be-
coming Hat
in Silk Vel-
vet. Black,
Nigger. Saxe,
Mastic. Navy.
PRICE . 25/-
H 563
, ■ m
r
H 509
■»
JX
144
JX
63
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


The consistent efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is the real reason for the continued
and ever-increasing demand for this remedy. Letters from all parts of Australia and New
Zealand in praise of these pills are continually being received by the Proprietors. Space
will not permit reproducing anything like the number received, but the few here printed
go to show the widespread popularity of this remedy. For every letter published there are
thousands of people who will speak in similar terms.
ERSKINEVILLE.
Mrs. C. Waugh, 157 Hailway Parade,
Erskineville, N.S.W., writes! —
“I can confidently recommend Dr.
Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills as a reliable
household remedy, that will give the
most effectual relief in all digestive ail-
ments. I have used the pills for fifteen
years, and during this long experience I
have, with the aid of this valuable remedy,
been kept in the best of health.”
NORTH SYDNEY.
Mrs. E. Shea, 19 Little Walker Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W., writes: —
“I have been taking Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills for a number of years, and
they have contributed considerably to the
sound state of health I now enjoy. They
are a valuable remedy for constipation ;
they clear the head, and keep the blood in
a clean, healthy condition, and they effec-
tively do their part to make existence
brighter and more cheerful. I have the
greatest faith in the value of this remedy
and could not recommend a better.”
SOUTH BUNDABERG.
Mrs. Nellie Osborn, Walker Street,
South Bundaberg, Q’land, writes: —
“I can recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a most valuable agent for
maintaining the system in a healthy con-
dition. I have used the pills for upwards
of three years, and have found them a
most effective remedy for the relief of
constipation, and whenever I feel at all
run down or out of sorts there is no
other remedy that so quickly puts me
right again, removing every symptom of
languor or depression. No one who wishes
to be well, and to keep well, will regret
giving this remedy a trial.”
GREENSLOPES.
Mrs. L. Been, Logan Road, City View,
Greenslopes, 'Q’land, writes:—
“I am a very satisfied user of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and have
fully proved their value for many years
past. I used to be an almost chronic suf-
ferer from rheumatism and biliousness,
and your remedy was the first one to give
me any real satisfactory relief and ease,
or to make my life at all tolerable. With
the help of your remedy my health im-
proved wonderfully. The rheumatic and
bilious attacks gradually became less
severe, and continued to occur at much
wider intervals, and during the past four
years I am happy to state that I have
very seldom been troubled with either
of "these ailments. I have the greatest
faith in your remedy and am never with-
out it.”
MEREWETHER.
Mrs. Elizabeth Hall, 19 Morgan
Street, Merewether, Newcastle,
N.S.W., writes: —
“After six long weary months of suf-
fering from the agonising tortures of sci-
atica, during which any real relief or rest
were seldom possible, I was completely
cured by a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills; and as over eleven years have
now gone by without any return of this
cruel complaint, I am on sure ground in
recommending to similar .sufferers the
self-same remedy that effected such a com-
plete cure in my own case.”
WYNNUM SOUTH.
Mrs. Maria Simpson, Bay Terrace,
Wynnum South, Q’laml, writes:—
“During the greater part of my life I
have beeii periodically afflicted with seri-
ous disorder of the kidneys and bladder,
associated with considerable abdominal
swelling, and the endurance of much
pain and inconvenience, and no matter
what remedies were taken for the allevi-
ation of these distressing symptoms, no
satisfactory relief was ever obtained until
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were
brought to my aid. I began my first trial
of this remedy by taking a dose of one
pill each night, and after a three weeks’
course the relief obtained was so won-
derful, so entirely beyond what i had ex-
pected, that 1 determined never again to
be without a supply on hand. After an
experience of upwards of twenty years, I
can truly state that all subsequent ex-
perience has fully borne out the happy
results of my first trial of this valuable,
remedy, and that a knowledge of its vir-
tues has not only made my life tolerable,
but has led to an improvement in my
health in every way.’’
BOONAH.
Mr. Ernest Baxter, Park Street,
Boonah, South Q’land, writes:—
"I have such personal faith in the
pov\ or of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to
relieve digestive ailments, whether these
are merely slight and temporary or are
chronic, obstinate and long-standing in
their nature, that I should like to recom-
mend their use to all sufferers from these
depressing afflictions. I used to suffer a
good deal with biliousness and constipa-
tion, but I never once found the pills fail
to relieve and benefit these conditions.
Unlike other remedies, no weakening or
depressing after effects ever follow the
use of these pills, but, instead, they give
tone to the digestive organs, and purify
the blood; and they refresh, vitalise and
invigorate the system generally. I am
fully convinced that no one need despair
of obtaining help and relief for their
digestive troubles with this really effec-
tive remedy at hand; this mountain of
medical virtue, in its mole-hill compass;
and its price, just a modest sum within
the reach of all.”
WEST LEEDERVILLE.
Mrs. E. Fordham, 21 Oxford Street,
West Leederville, W.A., writes:—
“From my own personal experience of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills I have
pleasure in saying they are a wonderful
and unsurpassed pill as a corrective for
stomach trouble. Before taking your pills
I suffered from severe pains in the
stomach and loss of appetite and tried
numerous patent medicines, but obtained
no relief from their use' I saw your pills
advertised and gave them a trial, and
since taking the first dose, which was
some months ago, I have not experienced
any symptoms of my old complaint. My
husband also finds these pills unequalled
for cleansing the liver and toning up the
system. I can recommend this splendid
medicine to others affected as I was, as
I have found no medicine to equal the
quality of these unique pills.”
FITZROY.
Mrs. Margaret Duffy, 43 Westgarth
Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic.,
writes: —
“I have used I)r. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for a good many years, and have
never found any other remedy that could
take their place. There can be no two
opinions as to the great value of this
remedy in disorders of the digestion. I
have personally experienced benefit from the
pills in biliousness, headache and consti-
pation, and by the effective manner in
which these distressing disorders are re-
lieved or removed, the burden of life is
made considerably lighter and easier to
bear. I feel thankful personally that
such a humane and helpful treatment has
been made available, and I shall always find
pleasure in recommending it to others.”
TOOWOOMBA.
Mrs. Alf Challis, Raff Street, off
Campbell Street, Toowoomba, Q’larnJ,
writes:—
“Like many other women leading an
indoor existence, constipation, biliousness
and headache were for me the bane of my
life, but for several years past, a.s the re-
sult of taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, I have not been nearly such a fre-
quent sufferer: and it has been a real
source of comfort and assurance to me
to know of such a reliable remedy for the
treatment of these distressing ailments.
Whenever I now feel the slightest disposi-
tion to biliousness, I find a timely dose of
the pills acts as an unfailing preventive of
this trouble. The general improvement
in my health that has taken place during
the past few years inspires me with in-
creased confidence in. the curative power
of the remedy that has achieved such a
happy result.”
EAS'F PERTH.
Mrs. Mary Phelan, 235 Royal Street,
East Perth, W.A., writes:
“I have found Dr. Morse’s Indian Root,
Pills to be a good, sound, reliable medi-
cine. I take a dose of these pills twice
a week and find they keep me in good
health, and keep away the severe giddy
headaches from which I used to suffer.
It is a highly valuable medicine, and to
those who require a good remedy for this
sickness I recommend these pills.”
COOEE.
Mrs, Deo Burrows, Cooee, Tas.,
writes: —
“I can say without the least doubt that
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are an
incomparable medicine for banishing bili-
ousness. I suffered a great deal from this
trouble before trying your pills, but since
taking the first dose I have not had a
recurrence and now enjoy splendid health.
My little boy also was a terrible sufferer
Avith biliousness, and would feel so sick
and have such a headache that he could
not raise his head from the pillow. ,1
gave him a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills and soon noticed a remarkable
change in him, and it was not long before
he had his appetite back and all symp-
toms of his complaint disappeared. 1
recommend this excellent medicine to
those so affected, as I know from the use
of this peerless medicine that there is
none to equal it.”
WEST PERTH.
Mrs. Emily C. MacManus, 45 Dyer
Street, West Perth, W.A., writes:
“For biliousness, l)r. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are unsurpassed. When I
feel this complaint coming on I take two
pills and find they keep this complaint
away. I advise those troubled with
biliousness to try these remarkable pills,
as they arc 1 a sure cure. 1 have resided
here twenty-two years.”
HOBART.
Mr. H. T. Beckett, 10 Chapel Street,
Hobart, Tas., writes:
“As a general medicine Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a wonderful medi-
cine for combating ‘ the little ills Ave are
all subjected to. Whenever I feel I
want a stimulant I take your pills, as
there is none like them for putting the
system in good working order without any
unpleasantness, as their action is mild
and effective. I recommend these pills
to one wanting a good, sound and reliable
medicine, as that is what I have found
them to be.”
TIMARU.
Mrs. Mary Anne Taylor, 66 North
Street, Timaru, N.Z., writes:—
“I can say that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are an efficacious remedy for
constipation. I was a great sufferer
and received much benefit from their use.
I am the mother of eight children, and a
long resident of Timaru.”
INVERCARGILL.
Mr. Josiah Lines, 85 Nlth Street,
Invercargill, N.Z., writes:—
“I first saw Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills advertised in one of your pamphlets
as a good remedy for relieving indigestion.
I decided upon trying these, and found
the ailment soon abated, and after being
a terrible sufferer I am glad to relate that
i scarcely ever have a recurrence of this
old malady now.”
PETONE.
Mrs. Isabella Debney, 46 Hutt Road,
Petone, Wellington, N.Z., writes:
“At Reefton I commenced gh’ing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, as I
was subject to constipation, and I can
state this remedy acts in a mild manner
and makes ‘one feel brighter’ after a dose
or two, and I now would never be without
them. At times I find these pills useful
with the children, and they really provide
our family medicine. I have been resident
here about five years, and am the mother
of elevftu children.”
DUNEDIN.
Mrs. Agnes Ayers, 5 Pentland Street,
N.E. Valley, Dunedin, N.Z., writes:—
“A relative .some years ago suggested
my using Dr Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as
I was ailing very much from indigestion,
and on these overtures I decided to try
this medicine. These pills acted in a
wonderful manner in relieving me of my
former trouble with indigestion. lam
now never subject to the former attacks
and consider myself cured, and I recom-
mend this remedv to any people suffering
from indigestion. Personally I have
already recommended them to hundreds
of people.”
FOR
are a purely vegetable preparation. They are not advertised as a cure-all, but as a corrective for everyday ills. They purify
the blood cleanse the stomach, put life into the liver, stimulate the kidneys to perform their proper function, and will
prevent many of the ailments so common if taken occasionally to keep the system in proper working order. In thousands of
homes Dr. Morses Indian Root Pills are the sole Family Remedy for all general complaints.


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete. Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
We Desire
to Buy
n
Platinum., Gold, Silver, in any quanti
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POS" 11 FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SB
v
*
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure—you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handv cure —no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. 'Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
CUERDIN & SAIN6BURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
eliabiht
kX:
rd
Y/i
■lrffiaj.-Z*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
FOR ALL PURPOSES
For whatever purpose Veterinary Instruments and Appliances
are required it would pay you to get the Denyer Quality. A
great reliabillitv is always assured, for Veterinary Items bearing
the name of DENYER represent the most efficient and advanced
ideas. Our Catalogue should he in the hands of every stock-
owner—send for your copy to-day.
DENYER BROS.
The Veterinary House of Australia—2Bl GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
DENYER’S AUSTRALIAN
LAMB CLAM.
An indispensable Instrument on
the Sheep Station, especially
where large flocks have to be
efficiently treated in the short-
est possible tune. TheDEN\ER
AUSTRALIAN I «AMB CLAM is
a particularly efficient pattern
and strongly made for extensive
serviceability.
Price 17/6. Postage 6cl.
m
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
ronresentatives. Norman Baker & Bonghurst. 50 York Stree^feydney^
#
This little Phonograph
is as clear
in reproduction as the large
and costly Instruments which
must always be left at
home. Ihe Decca you
can take with you wherever
you go.
n
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
No case required; ready to play
any make and size of Record
immediately opened.
3 Models —Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre . .• 11 10 0
Cowhide 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music-dealers.
STANLEY E.
GREEN, LTD.,
Australian
Agents
Edison Amberol Records
mn
for May.
This month’s list affords Phonograph owners another
opportunity of adding some choice records to their
collection. The two Royal Purples are exceptionally
fine.
Royal Purple Records.
-Red Rose —Monsieur
Beaucaire. Bass, Bari-
tone, orch ace.
29055 —All! leve-toi soleil!
(Ah ! \ Arise, Thou
Loveliest Sun !) Romeo
et Juliette. Tenor, in
French, orch. acc.
P. A. Asselin
Blue Amberol Records.
m
-Yellow Dog Blues —Fox Trot, for
Dancing. . , „ , ,
Harry Radennann’s Jazz Orchestra
3992-
—Flanagan’s Night Off —Vaudeville Sketch.
Ada Jones and Steve Porter
3995-
i—Comrade o’
(with Mario
Mine. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
i Evelyn Cox in the Refrain)
3996-
I—Crimson1 —Crimson Blushes.
American
Symphony Orchestra
3999-
i—Country -Fair at Pun’kin Centre —a Rural
Story. Cal Stewart
4000-
Dream Medley, Reels. Violin,
aqc. bv Larry Briers.
Joseph Samuels
4003 r
-Don’t You Remember the Time?
Contralto and Tenor, orch- aec
Louise Terrell & George W ilton Ballard
4007-
y It with Flowers. Tenor, orch. acc.
Vernon Dalhart and Chorus of Girls
4009-
I—Just Like the Rose —Fox Trot (introduc-
ing “Freckles”)- For Dancing, Saxo-
phone, Xylophone and Piano.
All Star Trio
4010-
i—Air for G String, Violin. Piano acc. by
Robert Gayler. Joel Belov
4011-
L—ln the Shadow of the Desert Palm.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Betty Barrett and Harvey Wilson
4013-
l—l Might be Your “Once-in-a-While”
Angel Face- Soprano, orch. aec.
Leola Lueey and Mixed Chorus
4015-
-Underneath the Moon. Contralto and
Baritone, orch. ace.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
4018-
-Daddy, You’Ve Been <t Mother to Me.
Tenor, oreh. ace.
George Wilton Ballard
4019-
)—Ev’rybody
orch. acc.
Calls Me Honey.
’ ''-i
Contralto,
Helen Clark
4023-
!—Spring Morning—lntermezzo. Whistling,
orch. ace. Sybyl Sanderson Pagan
4026-
Farewell Marguerite.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Albert Lindquest
4028-
i—Let's All Be Good Pals Together.
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
John Young and Frederick Wheeler
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
n
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The PCum Eo#or
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the
“Plum” Razor, and being practical trades-
men they know just the kind of edge
required for an easy shave. PRICE 12/8 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rainy Day.
The storm sky is a nun to-day
Who reads her rosary,
Grey bederole for the dusty earth,
And crystal for the sea;
Her coif, the white cloud of the gale,
Is now all hidden by her veil.
The dark sky is a nun to-day
Who tells her beads of rain,
A silver for the plashy pool
And brown drops for the plain—
The plain that in its green heart bears
A fragrant answer for her prayers.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Timelessness.
1 would I were where Six Years lies,
Immortal under larkspur skies!
She fed these flocks of Fantasy
That now are only dreams to me.
She gave each little lamb a name—
Ambition, Beauty, Love and Shame.
She drove them tenderly along
Through Fancy's pastures green with song.
I cannot bathe them in Heaven dew
As Six Years voung was wont to do;
I cannot fill their heads with rhymes
Of other days and other times.
For now the full-grown sheep are old ;
They bleat in vain from Wisdom’s fold:
“Oh, give us back our shepherdess
In the child fields of Tirijelessfiess.”
I would I were where Six Y r ears lies
Immortal under larkspur skies.
The lambs still skip around her knee.
Only the sheep bleat here with me !
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Coast at Twilight.
I saw when twilight lowered dim veils
Of mist and rain a phantom shape—
A ship that sailed with sodden sails
By sheeted reef and spectral cape.
Half-curtained by the mist and rain
Lay gleamless beach and still lagoon ;
Harsh-crying, overhead a crane
Flapped heavily o’er ridge and dune.
It seemed as though some spell was shed,
Down-stealing through the cloudless skies,
From realms by Life unvisited,
From scenes unseen by living eyes.
Far sail and hull, faint spar and mast,
By waning capes and fading bays,
The" ship crept northward till, at last,
Grey distance hid her from my gaze.
A lone, late thing, the crane flapped on
’Twixt sky and earth, o’er sea and shore,
Till, lost and merged in twilight wan,
It vanished and was seen no more.
All nature breathed on deep and height
As though with half-suspended breath ;
Yet neither was it day nor night,
And neither was it life nor death.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Stars and Prunes.
The little star that was the sky’s delight
Paused on the grocer’s roof and then waß
gone;
Lost was the star and empty was the night,
And all because the world keeps spinning
on.
The grocer’s shop stood firm, the star went
out;
The home of cockroaches and brooms and
cheese,
Where tinned things slept and jams were
ranged about,
Crouched dully there upon its red-brick
knees.
JEons before its builder's fathers came
Out of the slime of ages, that small star
Had lit the emptiness with heart of flame,
And dwelt among the things that always
are;
And now a hungry shop had swallowed it,
Snatching it from the night with heavy
paw,
Hiding its glowing beauty in the pit
Which lurked beneath that cavernous
black jaw.
There always is a corner shop close by
To block the broad horizon with its bulk,
To snatch the wheeling planets from the
sky,
And, having stolen them, to sit and sulk.
The grocer has no stars for sale; his place
Has no bright magic in its dusty store;
The star, it seems, has vanished into space,
And, being eaten, may be seen no more.
I sometimes wish —and yet when all is said
The grocer’s shelves hold sugar, sauce and
spice,
And golden pats of butter, good white bread,
Great mellow prunes and gleaming pearls
of rice;
The shop has many rich and simple things,
And, though its owner twines his fingers
he
Is very pleasing when he nods and brings
The tempting goods for breakfast, lunch
and tea!
And so life seems to be —a star goes down
Because a man must live, and, living eats;
’Tis unavailing to be grieved, or frown
. Or curse the herded shops that breed drab
streets.
Man may not keep his star and have his
bread,
But, though he weeps, must barter this for
that.
So love the wonder star till it has fled.
And then regard the cheerful butter fiat I
VICTOBIA,
DALE COLLINS.


VICKERS W LIMITED
&
IP- i
m
rjr
r>
Air
S
wwwtf
Machining Large Gun Forging.
r ut: ,Bin. x .loin. Speed: 48ft. per minute. Scrap removed: 12001 b. per
Hour. Operation: Rough Turning a Forging, giving 32 tons maximum stress.
Vickers Adjust-
able Reamer.
ANNOUNCEMENT.
Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., are pleased to
announce that they are introducing to the Australian
markets the high-grade products of Messrs. Vickers,
Ltd., of Sheffield, England, whose reputation as steel
manufacturers is well known to the engineering world.
Stocks at present landed comprise:—
(1) High-Speed Steels, in squares, rounds and flats in all sizes.
(2) Warranted best cast steels for quarry tools, machine tools and all
general purposes.
(3) Gear Steels, Vickers’ Special, 3£% Nickel, sizes up to sin. round.
(4) Axle Steels, sizes up to lfin.
(5) Vickers’ High-Speed Vanadium Twist Drills.
(6) Vickers’ Files, large assortment.
;
*6
Milline Cutters.
Vickers Quiet
Change Drill
Chuck.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR FULL PARTICULARS TO
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD
171-175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE—S2I-523 Collins Street; BRISBANE—Edward & Mary Streets; PERTH—33-35 King Street;
ADELAIDE—96-98 Currie Street; NEWCASTLE—Watt Street ; TASMANIA—33 Cameron Street, Launceston.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspape*.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2154.
TJHLUKSDAY, MAY 26, 1921.
Price 9d.
HITTING THE WRONG PEOPLE.
“There is appalling destitution in many parts of England and Wales.” — Cable re coal strike.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
and published by .William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
f’or 2,1 ids. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
Jo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
, The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short 'Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
.1000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin wilhrcturu all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable, Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 8 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,”' i 5l High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada, —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. : The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., V/ West Madison Street, Chicago;,
Golden Gate Neivs Agency.ll:) Market Street, Chicago ;
Clark Street Reading Club, lit N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San • Francisco ; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle ; Liberty
S’cws Co., Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New York City;
Schultz News Agency, Bryan t Park: Schultz News
Agency, 102 West 42nd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central News Stand,
103 East sth Street, Los Angeles. Quaker News Co.,
912 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —TF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; B. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffiuTtß'alleitxfli.
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 1921.
THE SANCTITY OF CORNER-POSTS.
Joseph Carruthers, who was various kinds
of N.S.W. Minister, including Premier, for
IS years off and on, devotes liis latter days
to being a country landowner and a bucolic
Cassandra in his native State. Pie has at
least the merit that he knows the country
and was born in it. He is more respect-
able than respectability itself; more ortho-
dox than orthodoxy; and he wouldn’t dis-
turb the old boundaries, landmarks, tradi-
tions or superstitions for all the paper money
in Russia. The idea of carving N. S. Wales
or any other big, neglected area into man-
ageable smaller properties, and having a
number of Sydneys, even though they might
be smaller ones, and (say) four ports in-
stead of one, appears to be outside the
'Carruthers philosophy, as it is outside the
philosophy of the whole Carruthers tribe.
To this eminently typical gentleman, a sur-
vivor of the Podsnap school to which John
Robertson and Henry Parses and George
Dibbs were attached, the Ma State’s borders
might be hallowed ground where for genera-
tions hardy patriots had fought and died
to preserve the tribal blood, the language,
the faith and the national independence,
instead of each of its two land angles being
marked merely by a post in a wilderness
whereon any casual unarmed stranger can
sit and expectorate into three of Austra-
lia’s artificial divisions, with never a soul
or a tradition or a fortification in sight.
Tasmania has natural boundaries, and is in
a category by Itself, but the patriots of the
mainland States have to lash themselves
into an artificial fervor about the sacredness
of an upright log in the unpeopled, unpoliced
county of Poole, and a number of similar
uprights elsewhere. They have done it so
effectually that the sanctity of corner stumps
has become au obsession, and politicians who
frankly admit in Queensland, N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Westralia that things are dis-
astrously wrong, would gladly do anything
to put them right save interfere with the
corner-posts.
* * * *
Joseph Carruthers drew a dreary pic-
ture of his native State in Sydney Tele-
graph of May 16. For example:—
At a lonely village, Tilpa, situated in magnificent
surroundings, an old resident spoke bitterly and
despondently of the happenings in the outlying parts
towards the Tuross country. Over a score of farmers
had given up dairying and abandoned their farms to
graziers because of the absence of schools to educate
their children and of even fair roads to carry their
produce.... Most of these families were in Sydney
or in towns....
At Candelo a fine sturdy farmer said that in his
neighborhood there was no school and 20 children
were there needing one. One of his children, nine
years of age, had never had a day’s schooling, and
this fact was burning into his heart... .If the school
doesn’t come along to the families out there, then
the families out there will have to vacate their
farms and come into the towns.
At Cobargo a splendid farmer... .had to send his
children to Sydney to complete their education....
“Now,” he said, “when tny children come home they
are unsettled and dissatisfied because uiey have tasted
of the pleasures and excitement of city life”....
As to, the farm work, the men were strong on the
point that they needed Jabor to help in their work,
but that, whilst a high living w.age was fixed [in
Sydney | for labor, the Courts and Commissions that
fixed prices of products [in Sydney] were straining
every point to lower the prices. Consequently the
farmer and his family were being sweated like
human drudges, while the city worker was protected
from sweating. Farm labor necessitated at least 10
hours’ work on six days, and on Sunday the cows had
to be milked twice. . . .Thus 65 hours per week was
the minimum for the farmer, whereas in the city
every hour worked over 44 must be paid for as
overtime. No farmer was receiving anything like
the award rate for his labor.
Forty years ago Sydney was a very different place
from to-day.... Sydney, in fact, was in the hobblede-
hoy stage, neither a man nor a boy, and things were
crude in many respects.... The country, in those
days, presented charms and pleusures that attracted
young and old in a way that can be scarcely realised
in these times.
Not only was Government centralised in Sydney,
but sport and the entertainment of young and old
were being similarly centralised.
And having set forth his tale of backsliding,
degeneration, degradation and decay,
Joseph’s idea is that the visible causes
should go on exactly as before lest corner-
posts should be disturbed, but that, owing
to a proposed change in the human heart,
results should be different. And every ortho-
dox politician holds the same view.
* * * *
Forty years ago, as Joseph Carruthers
points out, the fertile coast districts and the
metropolis weren’t so far apart in the mutter
of civilisation, and the country was not only
habitable but attractive. Now it is, by com-
parison, steeped in barbarism. In many
counties, including some in the coastal belt
greatly blessed by Nature, population is
less than it was 40 years ago. Consequently
the chances of education —the amount of
education which a youth requires that he
may keep pace with his fellows—are less,
and because of this the inducements to re-
main are less. The fact that many people
have left makes things worse, and is a solid
reason why the rest should leave also.- At
one time—as recently as 40 years ago,
according to ex-Premier Carruthers —there
was a reasonable equality between the exist-
ences and the life-prospects of the child of
the land and the child of the city. Now
the future of the one is to be the man with
the hoe, sullen and bowed and ignorant, and
of the other to be the pampered, bedizened,
frothy creature of the picture-show, the
Domain oration, the football-match and the
pony-course. The principal differences begin
with 21 hours’ extra work per week in the
country, whereas there used to be fair
equality, and a high basic wage for the town
employee (the townsman is mostly an em-
ployee), while the small farmer remains a
piece-worker, with what remuneration he
can scrape up. In the case of the dairy-
farmer, a Court in the city cut down the
piece-work wage that tfie city man with, the
basic income and the Saturday and Sunday
holiday should have his goods more cheaply.
At the same time he has been ordered to
pay more when he happens to be a small
employer as well as a piece-worker, and he
is taxed more.
ft "ft * *
Forty years ago N.S.W.’s belated “free,
secular and compulsory” system wasn’t yet
in working order, and all over the world the
amount of knowledge required to equip a
child for the battle of life was much less:
than it is to-day. Now the N.S.W. system
is both elaborate and costly, and steadily
becomes more elaborate and more costly;
which means that it is more difficult to pro-
vide a capable instructor for every small,
isolated congregation of children. There are
no such isolated and neglected congregations
in the Cumberland (Sydney) county where
the population in 1611 was 431 per square
mile, or in Northumberland (Newcastle)
with 49 per mile. But of the other 139
counties only one has over 20 per mile, and
in the 53 counties where people are dying
out education grows more and more diffi-
cult. Even on the coast just south of Syd-
ney such counties as St. Vincent (which in-
cludes Nowra, Milton and the great deserted
port of Jervis Bay), Dampier (with Moruya)
and Auckland (with Bega and the fine har-
bor of Twofold Bay) have been losing inhabi-
tants almost continuously since the district
was cursed with a branch railway which has
never paid, which passes behind and ignores
all these ports, and which was designed to
drain their trade away to Sydney, These
are the districts of which Joseph Car-
ruthers writes, where people have to choose
between flight and child-savagery. With an
average of 34 persons to the square mile it
would bee-gar the Treasury to give the child-
ren of such localities the education they
should have, especially while education grows
dearer and local taxpayers few-er. Yet the
places named are more populous than the
average outside the picture-show and pony-
racing metropolis.
* ft * *
Sydney was a fairly reasonable sort of
capital even in 1880, when it was the centre
of 995 miles of railroad, and the domain
which it commercially controlled by its rail-
roads extended to just past Wagga on the
south, to Wellington on the west, and to no
place in the north because the Northern line
began at Newcastle. There was then no
South Coast line, and no Goulburn-Cooma
branch to drag trade away from Twofold
Bay and Jervis Bay, nor was there any
North Coast line to pass Port Stephens in
the offing and carry its proper commerce past
it. In those days the city wasn’t the loan-
drunken, pony-race and picture-show, red-
dag and 40-liours-per-week institution it is,
and it held only 30 per cent, of the popula-
tion instead of nearly 45 as it does to-day ;
and people said congestion would diminish as
new districts were opened up by the rail-
ways. Outside the radius of the 995 miles
of railway which concentrated on Sydney the
State pretty much ran itself in a commercial
way, and drove its waggon to ports that are
now abandoned, and even built ships at such
places. As the dirt, road and the ox-waggoa
are past, or at least eclipsed, the obvious
idea is to re-open the lost ports and re-con-
nect them with their hinterland by the
modern equivalents of those old devices —the
railway and the train. Then the Ma State
might get back to the old days, only with all
the modern improvements—the days when
the capital didn’t try to contain everybody,
and didn’t demand all the trade, and when
the tide of settlement hadn’t begun to wash
back and the new lands to be abandoned
almost as soon as found. But only a drivel-
ling lunatic or an incurable Tory who would
rather die than change could suggest that the
cure should be entrusted to those who have
labored incessantly for 40 years and more to
create the disease, and who claim that it
isn’t a disease but a virtue. N. S. Wales
wants four commercial and political capitals,
each controlling about the area which Sydney
effectively controlled in 18S0 or a little
earlier. And to arrive at that result it is
necessary to abandon the idea that there is
anything sacred about corner-posts, which do
no more than mark where N. S. Wales
and South Aus. and Queensland meet; or
that there is anything holy and eternal about
the map of the States made in 1861, though
it has lasted longer than preceding ones. In
course .of time N. S. Wales has lost such ports
as Darwin, Gladstone, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Portland, Hobart and Adelaide, not to men-
tion Wellington and Auckland. It was well
that it did so, for possession of the mon-
strous property did the State little good, and
but for subdivision there would have been
little progress. The blessed work has stopped
for 60 years, but 60 years of paralysis is no
reason why it shouldn’t resume.
THE MONOPOLY OF LOYALTY.
For as long as the memory of living Aus-
tralians goes back, the Conservatives of this
country have been claiming a monopoly of
loyalty. The explanation is not far to seek.
Toryism is not politically remunerative here,
as it was in England before the war, and as
it is in the U.S.A. still. The restless, ques-
tioning initiative of the A.I.F. accurately re-
ttecteu the political mentality of the Com-
monwealth : this is a land, for good or ill, of
legislative change and daring experiment.
The Tories regard the tendency as a
calamity; but since the industrial develop-
ments which succeeded the sudden spread of
unonism in the ’nineties, they have not dared
to say so, any more than they dared, after the
late war had been in progress for a year or
so, to denounce the Diggers’ departures from
British Army traditions. The recklessness
of youth and its ever-growing distaste of the
good old ruts had to be countered with some-
thing; and the Union Jack served. When
the tariff became an issue in Federal poli-
tics the importers claimed that those who
wished to see Australia develop into a. manu-
facturing country were hostile to the British
connection and the British flag. When that
cock failed to fight any longer, the assailants
of the Flag were discovered to be “the
Socialists”—meaning the party led by that
eminently Constitutional reformer J. C.
Watson. Citizen service and the Austra-
lian Navy scheme produced a fresh out-
burst : the one was conscription and there-
fore un-English, the other an insult to the
White Ensign. The Dreadnought move-
ment and the fiasco which overtook it will be
fresh in the minds of most Australians; and
so will the charges of disloyalty hurled by
papers like the Argus and the 8. M. Herat.])
at those who considered the R.A.N. a more
effective contribution to the defence of the
Empire. In 1914 opposition to both C.M.F.
and R.A.N. was so dead that a fresh cock-
shy had to be found, and disloyalty to the
Flag was discovered in W. M. Hughes’s anti-
trust campaign. Anyone who turns up an
anti-Labor newspaper file of a few weeks
before the war will find the same accusa-
tions of disloyalty levelled at the party of
Fisher, Hughes and Pearce as are now
being levelled at the party of Tudor and
Ryan.
With the realisation of the danger that
faced the Empire the old cries were stilled.
A nation can no more afford the game of
party politics in war-time than,the C.O. of
a battalion can in the trenches: it is too
disruptive. In any case the immemorial
Tory gag about the disloyalty of Labor was
badly discredited. The R.A.N. had saved the
coastal cities of Australia from bombard-
ment by the Emden ; Laborites were giving
their lives for the Empire, while many
eligible young professional men who had ac-
cused them of disloyalty remained at home ;
Fisher, Hughes, Pearce and the rest were
demonstrating that, whatever their demerits
might be, they were certainly not traitors.
Between the end of 1914 and the beginning
of 1938 it would have been too thin alto-
gether to test a man for Empire loyalty by
his class, his racial origin or his creed, re-
ligious or political. A loyalist was a hard-
faced young man in khaki; and sometimes
his name was . Smith and sometimes it was
McXab and sometimes it was O’Brien.
Occasionally he was a squatter or a lawyer;
but 10 or 15 times oftener he was a miner
or an engineer or a shearer and a unionist
and a supporter of policies which he had
heard condemned as disloyal by the Conserva-
tives of Australia. The present idea in
Tory circles is that the immediate past has
been forgotten, and that the old tactics and
the old cry may profitably be revived iu the
old, old interests. Nothing is new but the
Menace, which is no longer Protectionism, or
Socialism, or Fisherism (coupled with the
name ot an “anti-English” mosquito fleet)
or Hughesism, but is now the red flag of the
Internationalists when it isn’t the green and
yellow of' the Sinn Feiners. During tne
past year an Australian Bolshevik has been
almost as difficult to find as an Australian
Buddhist; and with each fresh wave of infor-
mation that is allowed to reach the Common-
wealth concerning conditions in Russia, the
adherents of the insanity grow fewer. It
has always been a Tory convention in Aus-
tralia that supporters of Home Rule for
Ireland were disloyal to the British flag.
The youthful W. A. Holman was disloyal in
Australia when W. E. Gladstone was being
disloyal in England, and many a gallant Dig-
ger who now lies dead in France or Palestine
had to endure the same aspersion for his
attachment to the opinions of Colonel Red-
mond. M.P., who also fell for that Empire
which he was said (for the purposes of Aus-
tralian party politics) to want destroyed.
The same evidence is used to-day to convict
an Australian of Sinn Feinism (with all
that its worst manifestations imply) as suf-
ficed half a century ago to convict his father
of Fenianism. It is all a matter of disagreeing
with the repressive measures of the English
Tory party of the day. In 1882 the Crimes
Act suspended jury trial in Ireland and gave
the police the power of search, and those
Australians who thought this an outrage on
British liberty were called disloyalists. To-
day those who criticise the application of
martial law to a country which, before
measures of repression were begun, was the
freest of crime in all Europe, are disloyalists.
It is equivalent to arraigning as traitors
such eminent British Liberals as Lord Bryce,
whose denunciations of British governmental
methods in Ireland are unsparing ; Lord Aber-
deen (who last week advocated “Dominion
Home Rule of the most comprehensive
kind”) ; Sir John Simon, Lord Grey and
Mr. Asquith ; and former Unionists of the
stamp of Lord Robert Cecil and Lord
Henry Bentinck and Generals Gougii and
Mahon. Which is too absurd to bear dis-
cussion.
* * * *
No doubt there are persons in Australia, as
in every other part of the civilised world,
who would cheerfully see the British Empire
in ruins. But they are few and poor. Left
to themselves they have iiq h means of dis-
seminating their blood-thirsty sentiments.
Their handful of supporters have been listen-
ing to them Sunday after Sunday for years,
and no damage has been done to the fabric
of Empire. It lias remained for Australian
Conservatism to give these ludicrous despera-
does the advertisement which helps causes no
less than cheeses or other commodities. In
the effort to dish Labor local Toryism is
doing the one thing possible to get derisory
figures like Judd and Garden treated as
serious forces. That would not matter much
since Australia, by reason of those very
characteristics of enterprise and independent
thought which disturb Conservatism most, is
about the least likely place on earth to
shackle itself with Leninism. But in the
process ha treds are being created which are
fierce in proportion as the accusations made
are venomous. The thesis is that the Labor-
ites of Australia are, in the words of T. J.
Ley, M.L.A., of N. 8. Wales, pledged “to
support the Labor policy of an Australian
Republic under the Red Flag.” So wickedly
untrue is this that wherever a patriot of the
Ley stamp succeeds in convincing a working-
man that the opposition candidate holds such
opinions, lie not only gets the deluded one's
vote, but also fills him with an anger against
the alleged enemies of the Empire which is
liable to lead to violence. The explanation of
this phenomenon is also the reason why such
charges should not be hurled about at the
present time, and will not be by any thinking-
man who puts the safety of Australia and
the British Empire before the interests of his
party. Germany is beaten, but a country's
last enemy is rarely its next. Japan is arm-
ing quite openly to fight someone for the
territory which it must have, in the next few
years, or starve. It will not be Australia
provided Britain remains supreme on the
seas or anything like it, and provided also
the Commonwealth remains a part of the
British Empire. Naturally a decent Laborite
sees red when an anti-Labor politician or
newspaper is able to convince him that his
formidable party is pledged to a course which
must turn his native land into an Asiatic
dependency. So this policy serves very well
to set workers at each other’s throats. But
something far different from that is urgently
needed. What is wanted just now if this
country is to pay its war-debts and have a
sufficient surplus to meet its fair share of
Empire defence is more production, and that
is largely a matter of more patriotism and
less dissension, more co-operation and less
rancor. A political device which was harm-
less as recently even as a decade ago may be
a national peril now. There are no disloyal-
ists in Australia to-day who constitute so
grave a danger as those who. careless of the
omens, international and industrial, seek to
divide the community with hatreds for their
personal gain. And they are no less dis-
loyal though they wave the Flag continually.
DARWIN GOES ON STRIKE.
Darwin, the rather celebrated little place
at the top of Australia, has decided to pay
no Federal taxes until it gets the inestim-
able blessing or inalienable right of Parlia-
mentary representation. As it never pays
any State taxes, this about finishes the list
of possible strikes. If it secures represen-
tation it doesn't follow that industries will
boom any more than they are doing, and per-
haps the strikers don’t greatly care. Wynd-
ham, the first town over the Territory’s
western border, is represented in the State
Parliament at Perth, 2177 miles away as the
mail goes: and also in the Federal Parlia-
ment at Melbourne, about 4500 miles away:
and it has hopes of being represented at Can-
berra, 4700 miles away. Still, Wyndham’s
great State meat factory, which has cost
about a million, has closed up, just like Dar-
win’s Private Enterprise works of about the
same value. Possibly this was because
management by very long-distance telegraph
is never a success. So the demand for repre-


mentation is more a mailer u r thtoij and
dignity material interest. it isu t
understood that Darwin, speaking for the
Territory, is especially anxious to be a
State with its own Parliament and Govern-
ment paid for by its own people, but it is
anxious for representation at Melbourne,
about 2005 miles away as the crow files, oi
at Canberra, about 2040 miles away, paid toi
out of the common fund. 1 bus it would
help to govern itself and help to govern tip-
six States, and yet be a sort oi comfortable
ward of the Commonwealth, with the built
of its expenses liquidated by others. i-li.e
common argument is that the lack ot repre-
sentation is an "unparalleled ’ outrage on
human rights, for Darwin, though it has
almost left off having lawful visible means or
support, is a whale for its rights and can t
sleep for thinking of its wrongs. Still, it shares
its disfranchisement with Papua, the Can-
berra Federal capital territory, and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, on which stands \\ ashing-
ton, the United States capital. The District
has a population of 331,000, and for 130 years
it has pined without a member in either
branch of Congress, though on a population
basis it is entitled to two in each House, it
is even without a Town Council, and Darwin
has that blessing, at any rate. In other
words, Washington is treated as a federal
estate, which the Northern Territory and
Canberra are also. Yet disfranchised Colum-
bia is much nearer to being self-supporting
than either our Northern Territory or our
misbegotten Canberra.
Australia never really wanted to disfran-
chise any place, but the North is a problem.
If it was allotted one full-blown member in
each House, each oi its electors would equal
nine Tasmanians or about 19 Victorians in
voting power for the Representatives, and
would have as much power as perhaps 70
N. S. Wales citizens in the Senate. Probably
it wouldn't matter if the Territorian did
enjoy all this authority, though the dis-
crepancy is startling. The experiment cer-
tainly might as well be tried. The United
States method when it possesses Territories
is to allow each one of them to have a repre-
sentative in Congress who can speak but
not vote ; to let it run a local Government,
very much as if it was a full-blown State,
at its own expense, and when it reaches to
practical financial independence, through in-
crease of population and hard work, it becomes
a real, complete member of the Union. But
if some such provision existed in Australia
it would do nothing to meet the present ca.se,
for the people who now boss the N. Territory
don’t want to pay for a local legislature, and
under their riotous policy of strike and boy-
cott and loafing and carefully cultivated dis-
satisfaction the place 1 is losing population and
is more of a financial incubus than it was.
Up till 10 years ago, the big Northern pro-
vince, which has its outlet and its complain-
ing voice at Darwin, was under economical
South Australian management. In 1909
its unfinished railway from Darwin to
Pine Creek (the northern fragment of the
transcontinental which remains unfinished to
this day) actually paid a trifle over working
expenses, though Federal control promptly
turned this surplus into a loss of about
£21,000, and also multiplied 17-fold the loss
on the S. Aiis. section of the same line.
Population wasn’t progressing in those days,
but if it could fairly well hold its own, de-
spite isolation and unavoidable parsimony,
there seemed a prospect that the North
would blossom like the rose when the railway
was finished, and the age-long lonesomeness
was broken. If the Commonwealth had
finished the line and left other conditions
much as they were, the blossoming might
really have happened. Unfortunately it
neglected the one work that mattered and
attended to everything else. The North lost
its fragment of representation in the State
Parliament at Adelaide, but in return it was
adopted by its rich Federal uncle at Mel-
bourne, and it went the way of many other
proteges of rich uncles. In its latest de-
velopments it practically left off work. A
great crowd of Federal officials is spread over
the land, and the expenditure of their big
salaries puts money into circulation. Occa-
sionally there is a ship to load, though skip-
pers greatly dislike the place, and usually
there is some sort of strike or hold up with
each ship, for the Darwinite has developed
the knack of making a little work go a long,
long way. Occasionally, too, the inhabitants
may contrive to get five or six hundred
pounds from the Federal Treasury for re-
moving a' pair of trees. In addition to
tree-clearing and wharf-work there is a pros-
perous sly-grog business, and it is believed a
considerable trade in smuggled opium. What
other forms of honest, self-supporting toil
there were seem to have closed automatically.
But there is plenty of space and warmth, and
a slipshod community leans on its rich
Federal uncle and drifts along,
* * * *
The dignity of Labor has been pretty well*
forgotten during the palmy days of Federal
doles, Federal pubs and Federal responsi-
bility for the Territory’s outgoings. But, as
evidenced by the latest strike, the North has
developed an opinion about the dignity of
full-grown citizenship compared with which
the attitude of the inhabitant of Canberra or
of Washington (U.S.A.)is strangely mild and
acquiescent. Now, the time may come when
it will be necessary to reconsider the idea
that any man should have a vote and con-
sequently a qualification for Parliament
simply because of his age and the fact that
he exists. Possibly it may yet be decided that
a man is no more qualified to enter Parliament
just because he walks on two feet and there
is a vacancy than to enter the police-force
just because there is an opening. In other
words, it may yet be realised that disquali-
fication as a voter and member either for a
term or for life, instead of being an unknown
penalty, should be one of the commonest.
The man who objects to pay for his country,
who objects to fight for it, who incites other
people to object likewise, who attempts or
incites to the overthrow by violence of the
self-governing rights of the people of the
country, and who is the adherent of any
foreign power, is out of place as a possible
ruler. Conviction of certain offences should
lead to automatic removal, and public speech
on , political subjects should be barred to the
man who has thus forfeited his rights for
the time being. And there are circumstances
in which a person with avowed intentions
should be called upon to “show cause” even
without any criminal conviction being re-
corded against him.
A section which looks like a ruling section
in the Territory has behaved for a long time
as if that place was outside Australia and
had no duties of citizenship to Australia
while Australia had a multitude of duties to
it. That section has been verv much of a
law to itself. It has done nothing to build
up the great Federal estate, but has rather
done what it could to wreck industry, to dis
sipate population, to promote a haughty and
truculent spirit of loafing, to retard progress,
to weaken the already frail barrier between
White Australia and Asia, and to bring the
White Australia idea to naught by advertis-
ing the tropical third of this country as a
place in which settlement has failed. It is
now suggested that the Territory, while re-
maining the petted, paid-for, pensioned and
unmanageable child of the Commonwealth,
should be endowed with quite extraordinary
powers of full-grown citizenship, for any
definable power that could he given to such a
handful of mixed peoples would be extra-
ordinary, Presumably citizenship must be
granted even if the position is anomalous, but
the occasion 'should be as good as any other
to arrive at a definition of citizenship. To
be inside a country while scorning it and its
institutions and doing nothing for it but
everything against it is insufficient.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pensioners and White Elephants.
Whatever the outcome may be, the demand
of the able-bodied miners of Mount Morgan
(Q.) that they should receive the whole pro-
duct of the mine as wages, together with an
allowance or subsidy out of taxes or loans,
opens a wide field for something or other* —
contemplation, astonishment, possibly even
contempt. The position isn’t complicated. In
1914, just before the war, copper sold at £59
15s. per ton, and wages were fixed accord-
ingly. In 1917 it had soared on the wings
of the war boom to £125, and wages rose
accordingly. The price is now £72, but the
Mount Morgan miners demand that wages
shouldn’t fall accordingly—they demand
that they should be paid as much for doing
£72 worth of work as for doing £125 worth.
There is no reason to suppose that the fall
in value is only temporary, for it is merely
a return towards the stereotyped conditions
of many years past. The matter has been
fully inquired into by a Judge who was an
appointee of the Queensland Labor Govern-
ment and isn’t supposed to be hostile, and
the report is that the loss on the production
of £72 copper at £125 wages is huge and
quite impossible. The works are closed solely
because this loss has been going on for some
time, and has swallowed up not only hope
but also most of the available cash. An
offer has been made by the eo. for resumption
at a wage-reduction under which the share-
holders would forego all profit, as they have
done for a long while back, and give their
plant gratis. The offer has been refused,
not in anger and with the pretence that
it is possible to pay wages based on the £125
copper for mining £72 copper, but because
the new principle has been discovered
that wages—at least miners’ wages—
must never come down. Cataracts and
angels and dynasties may fall, but not the
weekly pay. The price of everything the
miner and his family can possibly want may
fall like a tide dropping away from a rock,
and other people’s wages in other States and
countries may do the avalanche act, but
like a partially-burnt heretic the Mount Mor-
gan miner says his principles are at stake.
Already people dependent on the mine (about
25,000 depend on it), though in no way re-
sponsible for the stoppage, are suffering
greatlv. Recognising that something must
be done the miners proposed that the
State should make up the difference, either
out of taxes, many of which fall on people
poorer than themselves, or out of loans that
fall on posterity. It wasn’t suggested that
the dole should be paid to each sturdy men-
dicant openly, and to his shame, but that
it should appear as a subsidy to the com-
pany, from which, however, the company
would receive no benefit. They offered no
reason why they alone should receive war-pay
in peace-time at the cost of their fellows; they
merely held it to be in the obvious nature
of things that they should. It all suggests
a misconception of their place and value in
the cosmos. A copper-miner isn’t necessarily
more beautiful than other men: more re-
fined ; better educated ; a more shining moral
and spiritual light; a greater blessing when
here and a greater loss when absent. He
has to be judged by his usefulness like any-
body else. The occupation he follows doesn’t
supply a local need except the need for oro-
fit, copper-digging being almost wholly done
for export. One modest copper show among
a multitude would fill Australia’s require-
ments. If copner-digffing for export yields
a profit, then the digger is a national asset,
for this country badly needs profit. If it
onlv pays its wav. he is neither one thing
nor another. If it shows a loss, as is the
ease at present, the miner is a debit, a
disaster, a handicap, and also a white ele-
phant.
Who Fears to Speak of ’23?
JUST on the heels of the big Federal income-
tax assessment the people of N. S. Wales re-
ceived their State income-tax papers with
anything from 50 to 100 per cent, increase,
which will probably be 100 to 200 per cent,
next year, for the amount added has proved
only a drop in the tub of the new expenditure
of a Government with so many thousand
parasites to keep and as many hangers-on to
mollify. The cry of astonishment and rage
was considerable among people who are too
casual to keep a close watch on their poli-
tics, and who never know what is coming till
it comes; but half of them would have got
only their deserts if the tax had been twice
the size. The voting at the 1920 election
was miserably, absurdly small, and it wasn’t
the well-drilled Laborites who were missing.
There was abundant notice in the blatant,
boasting, threatening speeches of the bosses
of the New Labor movement that they con-
templated tremendous doings, vast expendi-
ture on their own class, and huge taxation.
Put most people don’t seem able to read:
and the cumbrous proportional voting sys-
tem was a trouble; and the casual, comfort-
able, unpatriotic citizen who thinks polities
have become dirty has got into the habit of
leaving them to dirty people as a protest, so
that they may become dirtier. In conse-
quence the staying away of the folk who
are now glaring at their well-earned tax-
papers was the outstanding feature of the
election. There is now, in addition to the
futile complaint about the taxes, a very
strenuous and widespread resolve that things
will be different —wonderfully different —
next time; and they will, bar accidents and
happenings, and provided the sleepers can
keep awake that long. But the next elec-
tion is two years off. And suppose the Gov-
ernment secures the appointment of 14
trades-union secretaries to the House of
Life Nominees, and suppose it keeps its
majority of one in the Assembly because
Dan Levy won’t part with the Speakership,
or because some other Nationalist takes it;
or suppose that it can get alung without a
majority through the slack attendance of its
opponents, there may be no next time. For
instance-
(l) The term of Parliament may be lengthened.
England had two-year Parliaments once. Then for
310 years Parliament was supposed to be a new
institution every year. (Ruauitn 11. had 20 in 22
years.) Then there were alarms and excursions and
civil wars and infinite variety, but the country settled
down to three-year Parliaments in 1094. Next it
happened in 1716 that Gisokge had just come to the
throne by the skin of his teeth, and the people hated
him and his harem at sight, and it was feared a
new House, then nearly due, might replace him. So
it was enacted that, in the best interests of the
country, the same old House should last seven years,
and there were seven-year Parliaments until 1918.
If the crisis hadn’t blown oyer by 1722 that House of
Commons was capable of declaring that it would last
70 years.
(2) There may be a re-arrangement of electorates
so that a solid Labor constituency becomes two con-
stituencies. which would double the vote, while two
solid anti-Labor constituencies became one, which
would halve the vote.
(3) The voting age may be reduced to 18. It has
been found that this always tends to strengthen the
red-rag party, for youth has hardly got beyond the
boy-pirate stage, and has no responsibilities, and
as a rule no property to lose. More than half the
absurd and costly N. S. Wales’ coal strikes are
caused by the boy wheelers. The influx of new voters
would be fair excuse for recasting the electorates.
(4) Ghosts may arise, as in Queensland, where
there came to be more voters than there were adult
inhabitants, and where there were 70 electors in one
boarding-house. Sydney Muncipal Council is con-
trolled by the same Labor machine, and it is said
that such a thing as five lodgers drawing their £lO
qualification from a £39 house is quite common.
So the people who threw away their oppor-
tunity in 1920, and who got their next tax-
papers in 1921, and who gnashed their
teeth about what they would do in 1923,
may well remember that there may not be a
1923. And if there is a 1923 it isn’t safe
to assume that there will be a 1920. The
person who misses his electoral chances
when they come takes a big risk these
times.
—-♦ 1
Expelled for Criticising the Ministry.
Such happenings are as common as rabbits
in up-to-date Labor circles: the latest case
was that of Waite, an official of the United
Laborers’ Union, who was shot out of his
membership of the N.S.W. Labor Council
on the ground that he publicly criticised some
of the decisions of the ruling party. The
new Labor is, indeed, ‘an arrogant and
utterly undemocratic institution with a pro-
found faith in secrecy, censorship, suppres-
sion of all free speech except its own, and
the manufacture of majorities. Its conven-
tions are not open to the press. Its secret
caucus takes over the functions of Parlia-
ment when Labor is in power, so that open
debate in the assembly of the representa-
tives of all the people is merely a register-
ing of decisions arrived at in the dark. In
the same spirit the Labor majority in the
Sydney Municipal Council proposes to shut
out newspaper men from its committee meet-
ings, where all the real business is done, and
merely let them in, because the statute says
they must be let in, when the majority sits
in open council to say stolidly that this or
that coal-mine deal or metal-quarry pur-
chase or new-street contract has been de-
cided, on, that no reasons will be given, that
argument is useless, and that the asking of
questions is waste energy. The fact that
Alderman Burke’s name is attached to the
proposal recalls the fact that another Burke,
in partnership with Hare, was a suppressor
of speech in Edinburgh about 1828 (he was
hanged in 1829), and he also worked in
the dark when the press wasn’t present,
wherefore “burking discussion” is a common
expression to this day. Possibly the pro-
posed new Municipal Franchise Bill may
shut the press out altogether. The N.S.W.
Labor Council and similar bodies not only
exclude the press but take measures to pre-
vent any member telling the secrets of the
prison-house, though the boss man or Pre-
mier may make a guarded statement of more
or less accuracy. The attitude taken up is
that Labor's doings are Labor's exclusive
concern. But they are nothing of the sort:
they would only be so if Labor legislation
affected Laborites and nobody else, and if
Laborites paid the whole bill. The Council
of Secrecy which threw out Waite for being
a mild Oppositionist (it hasn’t power yet
to imprison or hang Oppositionists) also
proposes “the formation of a Labor army
throughout Australia” —“whether armed or
not the leaders refuse to say.” At the same
time the Sydney branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Union demands that the Dooley
Government shall “establish and exercise a
strict censorship.” Which recalls the recent
hold-up of the Barrier Miner because the
local union bosses weren’t allowed to censor
the contents. If the new Laborism ever gets
to the top in an independent Australia, with
complete control, however accidental, of the
political machine, it will probably have a
long run even after its real voting power is
down to 25 per cent, or much less, while
its opponents stand for 75 per cent, or much
more. In fact, it will probably be very!
like its friends Lenin and Trotsky, who
appointed themselves to office in November,
1917, and seem no nearer re-election or
plain election or even pre-selection in their
fourth year than in their first.
A Case for Breach of Promise.
A survey is in progress of a fresh railway
route between Yass and the misfortunate
and unbuilt Federal capital at Canberra to
see if the unbuilt branch can be made at a
cheaper rate. But it doesn't seem as if
anything within reason can put Canberra
on a main line of railway, and it appears
doomed to be a sort of coal-and-timber
siding in a pocket of the hills. The map
suggests that the Sydney-Melbourne line
might be straightened to cut across country
from Albury to Wingello, near Moss Yale ;
but, unfortunately, an express isn’t a goat
or a chamois. Another stroke of genius
would be to extend the Goulburn-Cooma
branch to Orbost in Victoria, and duplicate
the whole thing, and make that the main
Brisbane-iSydney-Melbourne line ; but, though
that might put the capital of Australia right
on a main route, it makes the Treasury dizzy
to even think of it. At present the capital
of Australia is 44 miles from the main rail-
way at Yass and five miles from the branch
which stops a little beyond Cooma ; for the
unfortunate place has a habit of being round
the corner —even Chevy Slyme in “Martin
Chuzzlewit” couldn’t equal it. As the pre-
sent arrangement goes, the person who
approaches by sea will land at a wharf on
a little Federal water-frontage allotment—-
an isolated scrap of the capital, not big
enough to put a city on —and will travel
140 or 145 miles along a thread of Federal
land to a bigger scrap. The one who comes
by rail will find, either at Yass or Quean-
beyan, according to the line of his attack,
a board on a pole telling him to change
into the mixed train for the only village
capital of a whole continent that the world
can show. And a large picture of Austin
Chapman, the only really interested
party, will naturally adorn each of the three
gates. If the place was abandoned now the
loss wouldn’t eqtial what W.A. has dropped
over the abandoned W.vndham meatworks;
but no one cares to go back, yet no one is
quite so foolish as to go on, Canberra is
the ugly, penniless girl, that Australia in
a wild moment became engaged to. Mar-
riage is too horrible, yet breach of promise
is a bore. So the swain stays away and
writes as seldom as possible.
Claim-jumping in the Name of
Patriotism.
The just-published interim report of the
Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public
Accounts in the case of J. T. Caldwell
suggests that it is a perilous thing to do
business with a Government department
these days. Caldwell put in an applica-
tion some months ago for a timber-cutting
lease in the Western Pacific Islands of
Vanikoro and Tevai. He had reason to be-
lieve that his proposal was as good as
accepted. The Resident Commissioner had
“strongly recommended” it; and Caldwell
held a letter to that effect. The War Ser-
vice Homes Commissioner, in the course of
his quest for timber, got in touch with
Caldwell, and the latter gave the Commis*
sioner an option over his find. A contract
was drawn up and signed by Caldwell.
But not by the Commissioner. What the
Commissioner did Was (1) to find out that
Caldwell’s lease had not yet been granted
by the High Commissioner of the Western
Pacific, and (2) to go after it himself. A
series of cables between Melbourne and the
islands culminated in this one from the
Commissioner’s office: —
Please grant six months’ option to War Service
Homes Commissioner to lease Vanikoro and Tevai to
justify expenditure by Commissioner in providing
survey and inspection party.
In response to the embittered protests of
Caldwell, which were eventually ventilated
in Parliament, the Public Accounts Com-
mittee investigated his case. The finding
establishes some new and astonishing points
in commercial morality. Caldwell’s com-
plaint was that the War Service Homes
Commissioner had gone behind his back to
influence the authorities to refuse him his
lease, so that it could be got for nothing
by the Commission. The committee found
that, as a fact, “Mr. Caldwell’s applica-
tion for a lease was seriously imperilled by
Mr. Bradshaw’s request”—i.e., that the
timber-lease should be given to the War
Service Commissioner, on patriotic grounds,
instead of to Caldwell. And it laid down
a proposition in ethics which would have
been redundant in connection with most
inquiries:—
It is a recognised canon of all reputable business
that good faith shall be observed throughout all
stages of commercial negotiations by the parties
concerned.
But there are exceptions, it appears, to this
good old rule, and the Caldwell case was
one of them. “ Under ordinary circum-
stancessaid the committee, “the action of
the War Service Homes authorities in
endeavoring to supplant Mr. Caldwell
would be sharp practice of a very reprehen-
sible character.” But in the instance under
review the complainant had “himself can-
celled all obligations”: he had not exactly
lied to the Commissioner, but he had failed
to disclose the whole truth to that official.
And, accordingly, the Commissioner had be-
haved correctly and Mr. Caldwell was “at
fault.” If a would-be burglar before a
Criminal Court put up the defence that his
victim’s title to the goods was doubtful it
would avail him little or nothing. But
Parliamentary committees have a different
standard of justice. The moral so far appears
to he that the citizen who is taken down by
embattled officialdom and makes a song about
it has a fool for a vocalist.
-
Playing the Goat with the Navy.
By a trained man who has had to follow
the inquiry:—
A Royal Commission of half-a-dozen Federal Par-
liamentarians has been struggling to discover (1)
the reasons for the hurried expenditure of money at
Cockatoo Dock and the wholesale sacking of men
when the Parliamentary vote was spent, and (2)
whether there is any truth in the persistent allega-
tions of loafing and inoompeteney made against the
shipbuilders and engineers.
So far as the work of the Commission goes in
fixing responsibility for the swift exhaustion of the


Quality in Roofing is
what gives it resist-
ance to sun and rain—
the two w’orst enemies
of Roofing. Quality
in MALTHOID is built
in. That’s why it
lasts so long—why it’s
the cheapest roofing
you can buy. No bet-
ter protection for the
homestead, flat roof,
garage, etc. Properly
cared for MALTHOID
will last as long as the
building it covers.
D
READY ROOFING.
Samples and printed matter free on application.
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis
House, Martin Place, Sydney.
REMEMBER!
1. Other Roofings may
look the same, but
there is a vital differ-
ence between them and
MALTHOID.
2. MALTHOID has
been laid in Australia
continuously for
eighteen years, and
because of its con-
sistently high quality
has developed into a
great business. That
speaks for itself.
3. Thirty-seven years’
experience making the
highest-grade Roofing
and eighteen years’ ex-
perience fixing roofs
means a great deal to
you.
funds voted for naval construction, the cost of the
proceedings is an indecent waste of public money.
The facts were known to the Naval Board, the
Treasury and the Minister long ago. By the express
direction of the First Naval Member (Admiral Grant),
the dockyard, instead of keeping the hull of the
Adelaide indefinitely without innards, went full
steam ahead on the job of completing her. The
work has now been stopped. A vessel that would
have given the Australian Navy at any rate one
modern light cruiser is now rusting in Sydney
Harbor. It will take the best part of £50,000 to
“pick up” the work on her if she is ever to be put
under steam —and that of course is apart from the
cost of doing the work that remains undone. A
Government department certainly has no right to
spend more than has been allocated to it. But the
trouble in this matter is that the Minister knew
what was being done —was aware in November last
that work on naval construction would have to stop,
and that the effort to finish the Adelaide would be
turned into tragedy unless he secured a further vote.
But he let the Department go on overdrawing,
blithered about his anxiety to see the warship fin-
ished, and then apparently for some obscure reason
connected with “party tactics” handed the crowd
of workers on the job notice to quit.
For the last year or so the men at Cockatoo were
most damnably maligned, mainly by two groups of
people and newspapers—those that knew nothing
about what was being done at the dockyard and
others who are frantically anxious to crab Australian
industries of every sort and can always find dupes
to help them. The truth about Cockatoo is that, whether
the island be suitable for the purpose or not, work
equal to that done in any naval dockyard has been
done there; that work never attempted in British
naval dockyards has there been done with conspicu-
ous success by Australian-trained engineers; that
the charges of incoinpetency—supported by indict-
ments on bogus figures relating to the Brisbane—are
without foundation. Incidentally, the people who
have been throwing perjured arithmetic at these
workmen have not been near this Commission. Hav-
ing helped to wreck Australian shipbuilding, they
are probably satisfied.
Meanwhile a policy of spending a million or two
a year on numerous obsolete billycans and nothing
on a half-finished modern craft continues in full
operation.
Red Tape on the Imperial Scale.
Since the commencement of the war the
Commonwealth Government hits relied for a
good deal of its legislative and adminis-
trative inspiration on Downing-street.
Where it has departed from the London
model the tendency has been to go to greater
lengths—as in the War Precautions Act
Repeal Act, and the decision to shut out
German goods altogether, and in perpetuity.
It is largely a matter of official indolence.
The tactics of the Hughes Government in
passing many of its responsibilities on to
the Empire may be seen in operation in
any Department any day where an under-
strapper shields himself behind some in-
visible superior. The danger of these
laissez-faire methods is exemplified by the
situation which has developed in the dye
business. After the Armistice Britain
appointed a Dye Commissioner under the
Board of Trade. His duties are twofold;
(1) he has to see that certain essential
German dyes come into the country which
the Empire’s late enemy was pledged to
supply under the Peace Terms, and (2) he
has to prevent dumping. When the Great
War arrived Germany was as far ahead of
Britain in the manufacture of dyes as
Britain was ahead of Germany in the manu-
facture of cricketers. The British dye-
manufacturers did not catch up during the
war: it is doubtful, indeed, if they ever
will catch up while the present generation of
intensively-educated Germans remains alive.
Such production as there is in the United
Kingdom may be said to be confined to British
Dyes Ltd.: this big trust claims to control 98
• per cent, of the trade already, and it is out
to secure the rest. So the British Dye
Commissioner is. in a sense, a bulwark of the
good ship British Dyes Ltd. That is quite
as it should be from the point of view of the
British taxpayer. But what place has the
Australian taxpayer in such a galley? The
query is pertinent for this reason. At
present, owing to the official indolence
above mentioned, any Australian firm which
desires to import dyes from ani/ivhere has to
do it through London, and on the certificate
of the British Dye Commissioner. Japanese
or other foreign firms which have branches in
London, and consequently have access to the
Dye Commissioner, can trade without a handi-
cap. But an all-Australian firm wishing to ger ■
dyes from (say) America is virtually blocked.
If it was a question of excluding certain
German dyes from Australia on Imperial
grounds this paper would be disposed to
agree that no place is better suited to act
as a gate than London. They have the tech-
nical experts there —men trained to discrim-
inate between one line and another —that
the Commonwealth lacks. But that is no
reason why we should antagonise our friends
in the United States by placing obstacles
in the way of Australian-American trade
which do not exist in the -case of Anglo-
American trade. The obvious corrective
is an official authorised to issue the
dye-certificates for Australia in Australia
which are at present being issued for it in
London. The existence of such an authority
would lessen the possibilities of friction with
those who are well disposed to us, and with
whom it is in our interests to remain on
good terms, and at the same time it would
put Australian firms on the same mark with
Japanese and other overseas concerns.
Sawbones’ Training in Melbourne.
“Gregor” comes back :
Defending the present medical curriculum at Mel-
bourne University, “Dix” (B. 5/5/’2l) mentions
the names of two eminent graduates, Coux Mac-
kenzie and Edward Embley, in support of his con-
tention that the course is all that it should be. To
these names might be added those of R. J. Bull,
Hilda Rennie, T. P. Dunhill and half a dozen
other specialists who rank with the great medical
scientists of the world. But “Dix” misses the point.
These people are eminent, not because of the course
they did at Melbourne, but because of their own
ability, which would have brought them to the front
had they been graduates of the worst educational
establishment in the world. The logical conclusion
of “Dix's” argument is that a good University course
THE COAT OF MANY COLORS.
“Another meeting of the Supreme Council will be necessary to repair the rent in the Entente’s
garment. After each successive council the public has been assured that a perfect understanding
exists between the Allies, only to find that some troublesome problem has been left unsolved.” — Cable.
JOHN BULL: “ Blow this Entente coat! I no sooner get it to meet in one place than
it hursts somewhere else."
will take in at one end the thickest-headed dullard
and turn him out at the other end a brilliant scien-
tific investigator—which is foolishness. But to
return to the main issue: let “Dix” g’anee at the
time-table of lectures, and then say whether he thinks
a student can grasp all the essentials of histology in,
roughly, three weeks, materia medica in a couple
of days and the treatment of V.D. in its multifarious
aspects in five lectures of an hour each, this last
being especially interesting in view of the dictum of,
Sir William Osler : “Know syphilis in all its aspects
and all things clinical will become known unto
you.” A comparison with Sydney University empha-
sises the inadequacy, three years’ anatomy being done
at that institution against 12 months at Melbourne;
also Sydney provides for a year’s materia medica as
against less than a week in the aggregate in Mel-
bourne, and several months’ bacteriology, instead of
the one complete day furnished for the Victorian
student.
A cry from Ernest Wunderlich :
The ukase has gone forth—the Government' has
decided, on financial grounds, that the N.S.W. State
Conservatorium Orchestra shall cease to" exist on
August 31 next. But, of course, something must
be done to prevent the disbandment of this educa-
tional institution; so music-lovers of X. S. Wales,
and of Australia generally, are joining together to
guarantee the Government against loss on the opera-
tions of the orchestra up to £lO,OOO per year for
three years, in the hope that Ministers may be in-
duced to reconsider their decision. Two companies
(not for profit) are to be formed, one in Sydney
and one in Victoria, with an aggregate capital of
£30,000 —£21,000 as the part of N. S. Wales and
£9OOO as Victoria’s share; yearly losses to be
borne by the two companies in the ratio of 7-10ths
and 3-10ths. Victoria’s quota is already assured.
Ours is to be raised, if possible, before the public
meeting at the Town Hall convened by me for
Friday, 27th inst., at 3.30 p.m. Because we believe
that a large public really wants the orchestra, and
because we know that its purpose is to benefit the
many, the financial scheme has been designed to
enable the music-lover of small means to give his
help. The shares of both cos. will*be of £3 each,
£1 to be paid on application, £1 in 12 months
(if required) and the other £1 in 24 months (if
required).
Very true, something must be done to pre-
vent the disbandment of this orchestra,
which has a national value, inasmuch as
it not only maintains a standard but also
serves as an inspiration for scores of minor
musical bodies throughout the States; and
no more practical scheme than that now put
forward has been suggested. Applications
for shares in the N. S. Wales co. may be
made to Mr. Wunderlich or to the Regis-
trar of the N.S.W. Conservatorium of Music.
♦
Fenton, M.H.R., of Victoria, has definitely
proposed that there should be no specially
elected Convention to draft a revised Federal
Constitution, but that members of Parlia-
ment should appoint themselves as the
geniuses for the job. Parliament hates to
admit that it isn’t the flower of Australia’s
intellect, honesty and patriotism, or at least
the worst part of it does. The ruck which
got in on all manner of petty issues would
have a poor chance of selection for a body
chosen to deal with one supremely big ques-
tion, so they are naturally hot to select them-
selves. A great deal has been said about the
beautiful democratic principles of the Initia-
tive, the Referendum and the Recall. The
Initiative demands that the people should
have a definite preliminary voice in Con-
stitution-making. The Referendum implies
something more than the dumping down be-
fore the nation of the big document which
is to rule its future and shape its destiny
with the order “Take the lot, for it is Joel
Moses Gabb’s great work, or leave the lot.”
And the Recall demands that it should have
a right to call back Fenton and Gabb and
Considine and even William Maloney if,
having chosen them as glorified parish coun-
cillors, it doesn’t think them big enough to
suddenly assume the mantle of Washington.
♦
“G. 8.,” this time from Bombay :
“Broker” (B. 3/3/’2l) pats Australia on the back
and says how much its beer is appreciated here.
But you should hear the growl from the importer.
Just after reading “Broker’s” par I was in the
warehouse of one of the largest spirit and liquor
importers of Bombay, where there was a shipment
of Australian beer stacked alongside the other stocks.
I had to listen to a quarter pf an hour’s tale of
woe, and had no answer, for l‘ myself was ashamed
of the condition of the shipment. The packing
was disgraceful. The cases were all warped and
cracked, and every single one either looked very
sick or had collapsed entirely. They were absolutely
inadequate, and seemed to be about the same class
that is used for railway forwarding in Australia.
The packing of the bottles was also wrong, the ordi-
nary straw sleeves- only being used, the bottoms
of the bottles sitting flat on the bottoms of the
cases. The burra sahib told me that 6 to 10 p.c.
is thp absolute minimum average breakage suffered
with this beer, which counteracts any advantage
gained over English liquor with regard to price
and freight. Every case of the Australian beer has
to be repacked before it can be despatched inland.
The manager of a big provision store here tells
me he gets Australian jams, packed tin on top of
tin and tin alongside tin, with absolutely no pack-
ing between the layers or between the tins and the
cases. A tin of jam bursts, owing to rough handling,
and the selling value of the whole ease is imme-
diately depreciated 50 p.c. owing to the destruction
or defacement of the labels on the other tins ; for
labels must be clean and attractive and the con-
tainers in perfect condition to command a ready
sale here. A while back I had a shipment of
porcelain insulators witli heavy iron stalks from a
Melbourne co. These people sent them to me
packed in Yankee kerosene cases! Most of the
iron stalks had lost the cases on the way, and some
kind stevedores somewhere bad lashed several of the
cases with coir rope to keep them from falling to pieces.
There is no reason why Australia could not supply
all the foodstuffs that now come to this market from
England. America and Japan. Everyone here admits
that Australian products are good, but bad pack-
ing doesn’t give them a chance in a market which
doesn’t know them well enough to take no heed of
their outward appearance.
Some of these days when economy is really
desired the “permanent” heads of public
departments will not be permanent—they
will be appointed for three years, and will
have to work to justify their reappointment.
At present when a man reaches the top
chair he is under no real obligation to save
his State’s money; on the contrary he is
frequently put to it to find excuses and pre-
texts for spending. Jones, the last secre-
tary or under-secretary (the title varies in
different States), got £5OOO for a certain
purpose; and knowing that the time may
come when £5OOO will be very handy, Brown,
who has succeeded Jones, asks for that
£5OOO year after year, whether he really
wants it or not. He has nothing to gain
from being able to produce proofs that he
has saved the country money: he can’t get
higher in the service, and he is in no real
danger of being pushed any lower. So, as
a rule, he just vegetates. If the heads of
departments throughout Australia Were told
next week that they were appointed for two
years, and that their re-nomination depended
upon a saving in the aggregate of four mil-
lions a year, it could be done, and the ser-
vice be all the better for it.
D. C. McGrath, M.P., has distinctly had
the better of a little argument with Senator
“Pompey” Elliott. Some -months ago a
Bendigo cleric wrote a play in which he
made an Australian officer curse the Tommies
for “letting the Diggers down.” Elliott
hurried to Bendigo, and at a crowded meet-
ing told the dramatist, in effect, that he w'as
an ignorant and disloyal miscreant, that the
Tommies were paladins of bravery, and that
anyone who argued to the contrary was an
Empire-wrecker. Forgetful of the Bendigo
episode, the Senator, during the Defence Bill
debate, launched an attack on the Tommies
which made the priest’s effort appear feeble
by comparison. Besides other things he
said that he had had to give his men orders
that if there was any more bolting amongst
the English they were to be shot. McGrath
drew his attention to the discrepancy. The
Senator’s unconvincing riposte was that
McGrath “was not a genuine returned sol-
dier at all, or he wouldn’t go on in such a
way.” Of course, of course Shakspeare
knew all about it. He said: —
That in the captain’s hut a choleric word
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.


DO
WRITE. FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
r
-*r.
m
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
in -7
F
fe7W
s -
m
COA
/
MILK
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Agents:—
A. VICTOR GEGGO & CO..
7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
A. VICTOR EEGGO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
After much cackling while on the nest,
the Sydney Ministry has produced its Child
Pension scheme in a rather addled state.
The first two children in a family are not
to be pensioned, even if the family is on a
very low wage. For the rest, aged under
14, the pay is to be 6s. per week each, pro-
vided the family income isn't thereby raised
above £6 Is. per week. So the person with
£5 15s. per week and three healthy children
will be paid for one, and the person with
the same wage and 10 lame children (mostly
twins) will also be paid for one. To help
find the money for the healthy £5 15s. child,
it is proposed to save the £500,000 a year now-
expended in aiding sick and distressed child-
ONE CAN’T HAVE BOTH BUG AND
BONE!
“So country in the world has a better chance than
Australia of building up a. great trade with Asia,
and none is so indifferent to its chances.’'
ren. The new scheme provides no guarantee
that the money will be spent on the children
any more than there is assurance that the
baby bonus will be spent on the baby.
Widows are to be pensioned at the rate of
10s. per week, and when that little matter
is fixed up N.S.W. will have pretty well
developed folie eirculairc. One-third of the
people will live by taking in each other’s
washing ; one-third by pensioning each other :
and one-third by breaking into each other’s
houses. Incidentally, the last lot will steal
the first lot’s wash.
Soap was the subject of some acrid re-
marks by Hill, M.11.R., when the duty on
the substance was considered in the Reps.
Hill led the attack with the charge that soap-
making was largely in the control of a com-
bine which was fleecing the poor producer.
Though it was explained that from 50 to 60
firms outside the alleged combine were manu-
facturing the article in Australia —several,
by the way, producing fancy soap, most of
which was imported before the war —Hill
clung doggedly to the theory of the octopus,
and called for volunteers to lop off its ten-
tacles, regardless of the fact that the lessen-
ing of the duty would squelch the smaller
manufacturers But naturally that aspect
of the case didn’t strike Hill. He is the sort
that would burn down a mansion to get rid
of a flea in the dog-box.
Last Saturday the Sydney Telegraph was
hurt by the enhanced duty on candles. Its
leader-writer saw in this an example of the
inequitable ease with which the Victorian
manufacturer obtains increased Protection.
But it was the wrong done to the poor that
hurt most —to people in the Backblocks and
to the miners with whom the candle is “one
of the slighter tools of trade”: —
The candle will now become dearer by a half-penny
a lb., if not more; for it is an unhappy fact, well
knovvn to the consumer, that, when a duty is raised,
lie is generally charged more than its equivalent.
It might have been a convincing bit of Free-
trade logic had this Melbourne message not
been rushed into the paper at the last
moment by someone who hadn’t seen the
leader: —
The Victorian candle manufacturers to-day reduced
the price of candles to 6td, per packet.
The N.S.W. Profiteering Court has washed
its hands of Section 14 of the Act under
which it lives. Said section says that a
trader may be hauled before the Bench and
charged with asking too high a price, though
the law fixes no price, and seeking an unfair
profit, though the law doesn’t say what is a
fair profit. The Judge is supposed to make
a law to suit each case, and having made it
this month to fine the defendant for not
obeying it last month. His Honor held that
if tlie statute didn’t know what it meant he
didn’t know either, and dismissed the case.
However, some deserving lawyers made a
fair profit out of it.
Big trades-union officials wield a power
nowadays that is calculated to make popes
and kaisers green with envy. The copper-
miners at Mount Lyell (Tas.) agreed, with
the full consent of the A.W.U. gods at Mel-
bourne, to accept a reduced wage, realising
that no one could pay as much for getting
out £72 worth of metal as for getting out
£126 worth, though the weight might he
the same. But suddenly the gods at Mel-
bourne changed their minds and wired “No.”
The Tasmanians were disgusted at this
fickleness, disgusted at being ordered to break-
faith, disgusted at the prospect of more idle-
ness. Still they obeyed. Joss had spoken.
The things are many which the Common-
wealth is suooosed
to do, but which it
leaves undone be-
cause it is too
busy paying baby
bonuses, making
everybody a “com-
missioner,” filling
the N.T. wi t h
brass-hats and see-
ing that journalists
sign somebody
eljße's articles at
election time. Thus
it co n t ro 1 s the
1a w s governing
marr i a g e an d
divorce; yet every
State makes its
own laws, and the
respondent or co-
re. in one State is
a stranger and a
foreigner in an-
other, and money
is wasted and jus-
tice mislaid over
questions of “domi-
cile” wljen fh e
whole of the Fed-
eral lands should
be one domicile.
And now a new divorce law is threatened
in X. S. Wales to add to the chaos.
The question of woman’s right to be a full
member of her husband’s union, with a voice
in deciding for or against the strike, rises
again at Mount Morgan. There the miners,
under direction of the A.W.U., refuse to work
unless they get? the full value of the output,
the use of the workings and machinery free
(all these have been offered) and a subsidy
to boot. Failing this their families may
starve. No doubt as members of a House-
wives’ Association the women could them-
selves strike and refuse, to fry any more
chops, but that would only be retaliation —
not remedy or prevention.
The Tariff discussion has discovered that
nearly every member is a Protectionist where
the industries of his own electorate are con-
cerned. The other night onions cropped up,
whereupon Gibson, the Country member for
Corangamite (Vic.), who had hardly con-
tributed even a yawn to the debate, demanded
a towering duty on the imported vegetable,
and backed up his argument with pages of
arithmetic disclosing the state of the onion
farmer. The same thing occurred over
lucerne seed ; but this time it was Fleming,
the latest rural recruit, who was the spruiker
for the growers. He spoke passionately for
the industry that gave him his votes, and for
once he and his colleagues forgot their favor-
ite anthem that Protection encourages Com-
bines and high prices.
The prize for ignorance used to be held
by Lazzarini, M.H.R. for Werriwa(N.S.W.),
who thought Britain hadn’t incurred any
debt through the war,
but had emerged tri-
umphantly by print-
ing unlimited paper.
But Parker Moloney,
now of the same
State, made an
earnest bid for the
ass’s head when he
fold the people of
Albury that Riverina
shouldn’t join up with
Victoria because in
that State “the evils
of centralisation are
more pronounced than
in any other part of
the Commonwealth,”
and that “the proof
of this is in the steady
decline of Victoria's
population.” If con-
gestion is measured by
th e proportion o f
population concen-
trated in one citvfc
then South Aus. is
the worst case; but
if it is measured by
the possession of the
biggest and slummiest
an d most rapidly-
growing city, then N.
S. Wales can’t be
beaten. As for the
decline of population,
well, there are many
matters on which the
Lazzarinis and Molo-
neys know no better, and many others on
which they knovvn a darned sight less.
Australia’s sanguine Superintendent of
Immigration reckons that this country will
receive 20,000 immigrants this year, 50,000
next year, 100,000 in 1923 or ’24, and after
that nearly the whole human race. It
sounds very well; but —
In a spacious country which works diligently and
makes enough to keep its people and pay its foreign
liabilities, and something over—in a country, that, is,
whose exports cover imports and foreign interest bills
and leave a bit more to reduce debts or make im-
provements—the new arrival is an asset. He increases
the surplus.
In a country which just pays its way and no more
he is neither one thing nor another.
In a country like Australia which doesn’t make
enough to keep itself, and lives on imported goods,
and borrows so much per head per annum to drag
out its existence with, he is a loss and a liability if
he merely does no better than those already in the
country.
It is all a matter of arithmetic. When a
Minister goe& once a year to London to
borrow £6,000,000 for the support of
2,000,000 people, how often would he have to
go to how many places to borrow how many
millions for 6,000,000 people?
This is Manufacturers’ Week in Sydney,
and the Sydney Government has risen to
the occasion in its usual impressive manner.
That is to say, it rushed the following
announcement into , the Freetrade dailies :- -
The Premier's office has received a request from
a responsible house to bring It into communication
with producers of all lines Australian raw products
for export to Japan. Those interested please com-
municate by letter with —- .
F. C. G. Tremi.btt. Acting-Secretary, Premier’s Dept.
It is usual in these matters for foreign
buyers of Australian raw materials to do
their own advertising. But the Sydney
Government was so anxious to explain that
the Australians are too poor and ignorant a
race to become manufacturers that it turned
the Premier’s Department into a publicity
bureau.
For two days last week a conference of
Queensland Labor heads “considered the ques-
tion of unemployment and its alleviation”—
that is to say. it adopted reams of familiar
resolutions in favor of the 0.8. U., the right
to work, “a vigorous borrowing policy,” the
abolition of the capitalistic system, and the
extraction of moonshine from pig-melons.
One of its brilliant proposals was that “steps
should be taken to compel boats entering
ports where coal is available to load suffi-
cient to carry them to another country.”
This, it was argued, would enforce the wharf-
laborer’s right to lump more coal at three
bob an hour. But it would also remind the
shipowner of his right to keep away, and the
last state would be worse than the first.
Another bright idea was the issue of “a
paper currency of a non-promissory nature
in payment for all public services and
works,” and the Theodore Government was
directed to see about it at once. One would
think that the war-gratuity business was a
sufficient warning, even to Queensland Labor
heads, of what will happen to Australia if it
ever goes monkeying with inconvertible paper.
Largely owing to the expenditure of Fed
eral and State loan and trust money, tin*
Queensland revenue is again booming, and
shows an increase of nearly li million on
the corresponding figures of last year. In
spite of that, expenditure is already £357,629
ahead of revenue, so that the year threatens
to close with a thumping deficit. And the
incapables who have brought about a result
so disastrous have the nerve to talk about
NOT TO BE WONDERED AT.
LATE COMER: “ You don't seem very pleased
to see me?"
KEEPER OF THE STABLE: "'Taint that, old
chap. I know you will pay me hand-
somely in the end. But Eve had so
many white 'uns pushed on me lately—
eatin' me out of house an' 'ome —that
th' sight of anything Mg gives me u
hit of a scare nowadays."
compelling business men who must pay 20s.
in the £ to contribute to a fresh loan. With a
total indebtedness of 181 millions (State,
Federal and local), or £lB7 per head, which
means £9OO for every head of a family, the
only thing the Government can suggest is to
dive still deeper into debt. Meantime no
serious attempt is being made to curtail ex-
penditure, and though railway stock and
locomotives are going to rack and ruin, a
moderate estimate makes the Department
over-manned to the extent of 4000—mostly
political protdges.
When the Country Economy Conference
sitting in Melbourne came to the question of
saving the screws of imported Rubber-Stamps
by appointing Lieut.-Governors, it baulked.
It was one of the duties of the Cocked Hats,
said Andrew of Bendigo, “to foster that
Imperial sentiment which saved Australia
in the recent war.” Yes; and the want of
it, due to the absence uf imported Stamps
for the State Government Houses, 'made
Canada and S’Africa keep out of the war,
of course, and lose themselves.
N. S. Wales Minister for Motherhood
has been converted to the idea that hos-
pitals are better not nationalised, but appa-
rently he won’t be allowed to see a new
light on the Childhood Endowment scheme.
Already he has been drawing pay for a
year on the Motherhood racket with no
motherhood to do, but such luck is too good
to last. It is calculated that £3,000,000 a
year will supply 6s. a week to 64,103 child-
ren, though doubtless, as in the Baby
Bonus case, more children will be discovered
than anybody dreamed of, and 6s. a week
will be found quite inadequate. It Is still
proposed to raise funds by lottery, and if
the Government can make 10 per cent, over
and above expenses and can sell 40,000,000
five-shilling tickets a year (nearly eight
per Australian inhabitant) the million should
turn up. But other States may start in
self-defence rather than see about 15 per
cent, of their gambling money go to Sydney,
so everything is precarious.
A DIRGE OF VANISHED BANANAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As a result of the levying of a duty of one penny
a pound on bananas imported from Fiji, it is probable
that no further supplies will reach Australia from that
source.” —Howl of anguish from the Aitovs.
Pardon our manly sorrow, gentle reader.
These streaming tears and broken words excuse.
For years in pungent par. and leaded leader
WVve sung the praise of Hughes.
Others (we name no names) have plotted treason,
Others again have flayed the man and gored,
But we’ve been faithful in and out of season
And this.... is our reward.
We could have borne the impost on Havanas
(They send cheroots frofn Java, which is Dutch),
But to resign our loved Fiji bananas —
It is too much! Too much!
“Put not your trust in princes,” said the Dago—
“Or Ministers,” the warning we amend.
With taxes on imported truck and sago
Tliev smite their warmest friend.
A direful rage for change and revolution
Infects the rulers of this hapless land.
Fiji bananas were an Institution.
Can Upper Chambers stand i
Keen is our grief, and Collingwood's is keener.
A common loss and sympathy we share.
No more the cry of “Eighteen for a deenei"
Will split the Smith-street air.
No doubt Fijian uncles still will flourish—
The tariff schedules don't apply to men —
But ah! the pulpy fruit that used to nourish
We’ll never bite again.
-N.S.W.
WODGIE.


BORED!
A VIEW OF THE CURRENT PERFORMANCE OF “LOYALTY.”


m i
■
/- .
■
n
with the WONDERFUL
"DIGGER" WINCH
ONE MAN
GRUBBING MACHINE
It Save* Money, Time & Labor
Price Complete, from £l5
Undoubtedly the best but lowest
priced Grubbing equipment on
the market. Hundreds are now
in use.
WHY BE WITHOUT ONE '
Write for Illuatrated Catalogue
and mention this paper
ft Quick Gears Pty. Ltd.
75 Penders Street, THORNBURY, Melbourne, Victoria
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of e very description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia:
Total Deficit,
Out- including
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912 ..£10,989 £18,918 £3,715 £22,633 £19,644
Dee.,
1913 .. 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,902
1914 .. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915 .. 36,892 22,986 10,277 33,263 16,517
1916 . . 40,172 21,651 8,661 30,312 6,657
Reserves.
1917 .. 49,298 27,225 11,430 38,655 3,986
Goodwill, £5OOO, disappears. . .. 8,986
1918 . . 61,414 40,127 8,209 48,336 22,064
1919 .. 84,335 55,927 9,857 65,784 40,615
1920 .. 142,939 70,583 14,008 84,591 98,963
This is another young life co. which found
conditions so favorable lately that its lay-by
for the year exceeded the reserves with which
it began the term. The 1919 accounts showed
total policy-holders’ reserves of £77,(552; hut
some years ago, when the management set
about ascertaining the precise position,
£37,037 was introduced as the estimated cost
of “establishment and organisation,” so only
£40,615 of the £77,652 was represented by
assets that you could handle or stumble over
in the dark. Last year’s exceptional policy-
writing opportunities and a favorable claims
experience made £58,348 more available for
strengthening reserves. The introductory
table covers operations in three departments;
Ordinary life, Industrial and Accident, hut
the Ordinary figures eclipse those of other
branches. Total Industrial income last year
was only £6B: '9, while accident business con-
tributed £l2: the two sections providing
£1738 and £O. respectively to the year’s sur-
plus. The Life Insurance Co. of Australia
lias got far from its promoters’ plan ; Indus-
trial insurance was to be its long suit, and
not only were policies to concede extra bene-
fits, but bonuses to policy-holders were talked
of. The plan of campaign designed to make
these concessions and bonuses possible evi-
dently crashed soon after the co. took to the
field. Anyhow, Industrial business is now
only a side-line, and, as in other life con-
cerns, the department is regarded chiefly as
“a useful feeder to the Ordinary branch.”
Last vear £6440 was collected in premiums,
and £4163 of it went in exes. Put another
way, it cost £64 to get each £lOO of Indus-
trial income, and that doesn’t offer much
prospect of bonuses for policy-holders.
Ordinary life business has developed in
this way:—
.Ordinary Department.
Loss Expense
Income. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1916.. £22,685 £1,673 £12,087 7.4 p.c. 53.3p.c.
1917.. 31.708 4,268 17,306 13.4 „ 54.7 „
1918.. 48,372 5,796 30,627 12.0 „ 63.3 „
1919.. 77,044 8,537 51,257 11.1 „ 66.5 „
1920.. 113,597 12,652 65,677 11.1 „ 57.-8 „
The accounts show £134,877 of income for
the past year, buit in the table £21,280 of
“commuted premiums,” representing pre-
miums paid in advance under the war-
gratuity scheme, has been disregarded.
Though it does not matter much whether
these advance premiums are credited to
revenue in one lump or are distributed over
the years to which they more rightly belong,
their inclusion in one heap makes a big
difference when working out claim and cost
ratios. For instance, on income including
this £21,280 the past year’s Ordinary exes,
worked out at 48.7 p.c,, a considerable im-
provement on recent performances. Actually,
however, the 57.8 p.c. shown above is a
more accurate estimate of the year’s costs.
The figure is still very high; it could not
well he otherwise while the proportion of
new business to old is so large. But the
L.C.A. has, after nine years, now reached
the stage when renewal premiums exceed the
income from new business, and as the pro-
portion widens the expense rate should ease.
The co. lias hot been so energetic as one or
two other youngsters, hut it has got to-
gether a nice little business. At Dec. 31
there were 9965 policies in force, assuring
£2,451,748 and yielding an annual premium
income of £102,680. The present liability
under these policies is not known : the co.’s
second quinquennial investigation is due at
the close of the current year. But the
£98,963 of assurance funds, intact and the
£71,500 of proprietors’ capital no doubt
amply protect policy-holders. The position
has been considerably strengthened during
the past year, which opened with a paid
capital qf £44,000. Calls produced a further
£27,500, exes, eased during the period, and
losses were light.
From the policy-holders’ point of view
everythin? seems to be going as well as can
be expected of a young concern. But share-
holders are getting hungry; and pressure
was put on the directors at the annual meet-
ing to induce them to make a distribution.
Last year was described as the “greatest
year of prosperity” the co. had had, and one
shareholder who journeyed from Adelaide
with a pocketful of proxies declared a div.
to be a “necessity.” Apparently some L.C.A.
shareholders have yet to learn the rudiments
of life assurance. So far there has not been
the slightest justification for a div. Until
the actuary decides precisely what amount
of funds should be in hand to protect policy-
holders, even those inside do not know for
certain whether one penny of “profit” has
been made by the L.C.A. since it began
operations nine years ago. A profit may
be disclosed by the actuary, but even so, it
shareholders want to make a success of their
concern, they will do well to consider policy-
holders first when the cake is, cut. The
future of the L.C.A. depends on whether its
business getters can offer prospective in-
surers a contract and inducements as advan-
tageous as those of other offices. Much also
depends on the manner in which it treats
its present lot of policy-holders. So far not
a penn’orth of bonus has been distributed.
It is, indeed, (questionable whether share-
holders should be permitted to get a crumb
while anything like £57 of every £lOO of
income is swallowed by exes. If well
directed the L.C.A. has a chance of being
developed into a solid little office; but the
shareholders’ squeal for divs. is likely not
only to hamper the management but also
to injure the concern in its policy-hunts.
The English Electric Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., formerly Standard- Waygood-
llercules, Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £17,274 12§ p.c. = £lO,OBO £7,194 £3,347
Premiums on new shares .. 6,675 10,022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10,647
1913.. 21,372 12* „ „ 14,062 7,310 17,957
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19,926
1914.. 35,725 12j p.c. = 19,547 16,178 36,104
1915.. 23,215 124 „ „ 19,547 3,668 39,772
Written off book debts and securities, £9286 30,486
1916.. 6,152 10 p.c. = 15,638 21,000
1917.. 16,268 10 „ ~ 16,888 20,380
1918.. 16,925 10 „ „ 16,888 37 20,417
1919.. 16,993 10 ~ „ 16,888 105 20,522
1920.. 46,238 10 „ „ 21,600 )
Special div. (10 p.c.) to pur- ) 3,038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 j
£lOO,OOO (in shares) paid for Deficit.
English Electric connection .. . . 76,440
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Big changes have taken place in this co.’s
affairs. For 11 years Standard-Waygood-
Hercules had done very well; but the enter-
prising management saw such excellent
opportunities awaiting a concern equipped to
manufacture electrical machinery locally that
it set about devising a scheme which would
put S.-W.-H., Ltd., on the track of even
greater successes. The directors concluded
that the backing of one of the big English
manufacturing cos., with developed and
proved designs, would be of immense value.
Finally they approached Dick, Kerr and Co.,
but little did the Sydney directors realise
what was to be the outcome of the negotia-
tions. Dick, Kerr and Co. were just about to
join up with a big amalgamation, including
among others the widely-known Siemens Bros,
and Willans and Robinson. This was the Eng-
lish Electric Co. (nominal capital, five
millions). In due course, the proposals of
the comparatively little quarter-million Aus-
tralian co. came before the amalgamated Eng-
lish co„ which regarded the scheme so favor-
ably that it agreed to become a partner in
S.-W.-H., and give it a free run with all
English Electric rights and trading in the
Commonwealth. So in one move the S.-W.-H.
directors secured complete and powerful back-
ing for their development schemes and freed
their business of competition from the big
English concern.
Of course, such concessions could not be
acquired cheaply: the. English Electric asked
100,000 £1 fully paids. That looked a very stiff
scrip consideration for a co. whose paid capi-
tal was only £215,960, but everything depends
on the extent to which the Australian co. can
trade in the English one’s goods, and also
the use it can make of the library of patents
and designs held by the English Electric. But
the £lOO,OOO of scrip handed over does not
rank with that already issued. The English
co.’s holding is eligible for one-tenth of
divisible profits, so for the past year it cbuld
have got only a little more than p.c. in
divs. Profits will have to move to £lOO,OOO
p.a. before it can get 10 p.c. Then in the
event of liquidation these shares are entitled
to only one-tenth of the assets. It was also
stipulated that Jas. B. Nicholson’s co. should
dump its old title and adopt its rich uncle’s
name. In addition, the English co. re-
served the right to take up a further 100,000
£1 ordinaries at a premium of 55.; but these
shares have so far not been applied for. The
greatest effect of the arrangement to date on
the local co.’s balance-sheet is the intrusion
of a £lOO,OOO goodwill item, hence the deficit
of £49,690 (i.e., the amount of capital not
represented by tangible assets) now shown in
the introductory table. The actual deficit
may. be even greater, as £37,095 represents
an interest in a subsidiary—Weymouth’s,
Ltd.—and that may include some goodwill
consideration.
There has been no visible spring in the
Australian co.’s profits so far. But it may
prove to have done considerably better last
year than the £26,750 disclosed indicates.
The concern has been passing through diffi-
cult times, and chairman Nicholson puts the
Board.’s policy in this way:—
To allow of a reasonable profit being obtained in
a depressed market, it has been necessary to value
at prices which will compete with imported equip-
ment at present-day costs. This hhs been done. Owing
to unforeseen delays, we have been unable to com-
plete some very large contracts, and a conservative
valuation has been made of the work done on these.
Tire current year should derive considerable benefit,
and this is fortunate, as most of the energy of
our staff will be devoted to the completion of our
new workshops, which will start with nearly
£500,000 of orders.
Further evidence of the directors’ policy of
caution is provided by the fact that, though
the profit claimed for the period would have
been ample for the payment of the usual
10 p.c. and also the div. to the English co.,
and notwithstanding that there are substan-
tial cash assets available, no distribution is
to be made at present. The management
very properly desires to hold on to every
penny until present depressed trade condi-
tions clear and financial stringency eases.
Besides, the co’. is pushing ahead with a
large workshops scheme at Clyde (Sydney).
During the year £113,600 was raised in 6 p.c.
debentures (convertible into ordinaries any
time after the next balance), and at March
31 £110,728 of it had been outlayed on
workshops and equipment. The £30,400
balance of the debenture issue is now being
offered. Apart from the debentures, at the
balance liabilities amounted to £65,448;
visible cash resources, stocks and book debts
exceeded a quarter of a million.,
* * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane)
Dividends and Aided to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1910. . £27,215 20 p.c. = £21,000 £6,215 £96,053
1911.. 24,701 20 „ „ 21,000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 „ ~ 21,000 3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares . . 11,111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 lljp.c.= 14,138 8,378 122,873
1914.. 25,114 12i„ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1915.. 23,967 124 „ „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
£133,333 transferred to capital . . 3,669
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 ) „ , ft , Q
Written off, £6539 ( 2 > ooo 5 > 669
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 ) , raa
Written off, £5833 \ __ 6 > 669
1918.. 25,118 7 p.c. = 19,599 1 , nfin - „ RQ
Written off, £4519 f I>ooo 1 > 000 6 - 669
1919.. 25,066 7 p.c. = 19,599 ) , ono 7
Written off, £4467 j I’ooo 1 ’ 000 7 > 669
1520.. 26,235 74 p.c. = 19,698 I . nftn „
Written off, £5537 j 1 - 00() 8 ’ 669
Internal reserves disclosed. . 80,220 88,889
Reserves capitalised £88,889 ..
1921.. 26,941 74 p.c. = 24,138 )
Written off, £2803 j
The Perkins shareholder who has depended
on the published accounts for his enlighten-
ment has not been made very wise during
recent years. The annual balance-sheets
lhave hinted that everything was going well
enough to maintain the divs.; but beyond
that and giving a not altogether satisfactory
catalogue of belongings they have been of
little value. Some months ago the directors
suddenly disclosed that the co. was consider-
ably better off than they had previously
admitted. In the introductory table the pro-
fits are those shown by the directors, and
that is after allowing for depreciation.
After making dividend distributions most of
the balance of disclosed profits has been
used to write down minor accounts, chiefly
such things as casks and malt, and the
trifles left have gone into a so-called rest
account. The growth of this account has
not been visible, because it. has been lumped
with liabilities; but in the five years to
1920 the. published accounts showed that
approximately £16,500 of disclosed profits
had been dropped in, though whether any-
thing had leaked out cannot be ascertained.
Twelve months ago the £8669 shown in the
introductory table was the only accumula-
tion which the outsider could definitely re-
gard as a true reserve. In September last,
however, the, directors decided to side-step
Queensland’s amended State Income-tax by
issuing bonus scrip for £88,589. To under-
take this capitalisation they apparently dug
out £80,220 of hidden reserves, or only
£17,580 less than the total of all divs. paid
to shareholders and all visible additions made
to reserves during the five years since the
last capitalisation of accumulated profits,
which had doubled the old severely-written
down capital. The latest bonus distribution
gave one new 15s. share for every three pre-
viously held. The 15s. paids have since been
converted into £1 scrip.
Twelve months ago, when the directors
lifted the div. a half-point, notwithstanding
that a no-license referendum was only a few
months ahead, the “Wild Cat” remarked that
the directors were either very confident or
very rash. They continued to be quite un-
concerned about the attack of the Drys, for
the capitalisation scheme was actually put
before shareholders a few weeks before the
vote was taken. Bung won that battle,
but there was nothing in the victory to be
jubilant about. There were 193,761 votes
for continuance and 155,669 for prohibition,
which means that should only one in 10 of
the \Vets change his mind the Drys would have
a majority. However, having the definite
assurance of a further life, Perkins’s direc-
tors are now distributing more than ever be-
fore. The final div. for the past year was
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., and that means
21i p.c. p.a. to original holders in the pre-
sent co. —still a small co., of course, com-
pared with the old co. which this one suc-
ceeded. Nevertheless, there is not the profit:
in beer there used to be. During the period
covered by the first table £44,444 of cash has
been introduced by shareholders, and, though
meantime considerable reserves —visible and
hidden —have been accumulated, profits have
failed to keep step with these additions.
This comparison is given for what it is worth
as a further view of the progress made over
many years:—
Profit on
Brewing, etc. Expenses. Depreciation.
1910.. £38,862 £9,822 £1,694
1914.. 49,079 17,698 5,909
1917.. 48,348 17,617 8,101
1918.. 52,321 19,773 7,430
1919.. 58,434 24,994 8,374
1920.. 64,480 27,822 10,422
1921.. 67,703 28,775 11,487
The tabulation is not of much value because
of the profit-hiding. The considerably enlarged
depreciation allowances are an interesting
feature, though. An examination of the
balance-sheet entries is not illuminating
either, because, as already mentioned, lia-
bilities and reserves are in one parcel.
Twelve months ago liabilities and rest
account totalled £146,961; in the latest
accounts they are down to £113,341. Mean-
time assets have moved in this way :
1920. 1921.
Properties . . . . . . £214,645 £219,855
Stocks 81,027 105,313
Book debts 111.308 140,985
Cash, War Loan, etc. .. 28,753 18,270
£435,733 £484,423
That shows an improvement of £43,480 in
more or less liquid assets.
« » * »
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney):—
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1910. . £10,741 9 p.c. - £6,338 £760 £44,221
1911.. 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912.. 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares. £1942.. 53,438
1913.. 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914.. 18.890 9 „ „ 8,401 80 68,920
1915.. 15,108 15i „ „ 14,395 25 69,608
1916.. 15,187 10 „ „ 9,390 22 75,383
1917.. 14,776 10 „ „ 9,390 3 80,766
1918.. 14,476 16 „ ~ 15,024 80,218
1919.. 15,254 10 „ „ 9,390 3 86,079
1920.. 16,134 12 „ ~ 11,268 90,945
Special bonus to borrowers. £523.. 90,422
1921.. 16,890 16 p.c. = 15,024 ) ql ft 27
Borrowers’ bonus, £1261 . . . . j ’
This 47-year-old building-loan co. again hears
the call for caution. During the 12 months
ended March 1920, it was “inundated” with
applications for advances, and the manage-
ment could not resist the temptation of put-
ting a record lot of business on the books;
but it says it exercised great care in select-
ing securities. During the past 12 months
building costs reached what appeared to be
their zenith, and a tendency to ease seemed
not unlikely. As any falling-off in values
would necessarily affect security margins, the
Equitable held what it believed to be a tight
rein on its advances, and put out on mortgage
an amount approximating only the year’s re-
payments of principal, though it had cash
resources capable of financing a larger busi-
ness. This shows bow each year’s new ad-
vances have varied over a dozen years:—
1910 .. £76,622 1917 .. £85,482
1913 . . 116,687 1918 . . 75,797
1914 . . 104,825 1919 . . 97,918
1915 . . 82.093 1920 . . 120,072
1916 . . 71,907 1921 . . 109,389
At March 31 £346,302 was out on mortgage.
Paid capital is £93.900, but reserves almost as
large * have been accumulated, total share-
holders’ funds amounting to £184,922. To
finance its loan business the co. is itself neces-
sarily a large borrower, and at the balance
bad £215,324 of deposits. The security for
these is substantial; the accounts show net
assets with a book value of £401,513 to pro-
tect them. Put another way, an all-round
collapse equal to 46 p.c. of the present book
value of assets would have to oqcur before
the security for any of the deposits would be
in doubt.
Besides paying regular divs., the Equitable
also has a triennial distribution of “surplus
profits.” For some years the regular div. was
9 p.c., but six years v ago it wms lifted a
point. Though the triennial distribution was
not then due, at the 1920 balance the “official
declaration of the close of the war” was
made an excuse to give shareholders an
additional 2 p.c. (£lB7Bl, while borrowers
apparently also got £523. Now an extra
6 p.c. (£5634) goes to proprietors, and


Do you use soldering irons in your business? Ki
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of thos
which stay hot and are free from the soot of ;
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iroi
possesses these and many other advantages over th<
old style. It coats but little for current, and re
quires very little attention to be kept clean anc
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron i
tiu; spiral coil wire handle, which keeps Temarkabli
cool, and which may be grasned close to the tit
without discomfort. Australian General Electrh
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburi
Si reet, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collin
Streets. Melbourne,— Advt. f;
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. 1
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain 01
chemical acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.
sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaid
and Perth.— Advt. . [
Pioneer’' wire wound and continuous stave AVooi
Pipe is unrivalled as a conduit for irrigation, water
supply, water works, railroad and mining pur
poses. It is cheaper to lay and maintain than meta
pipe and has a constant carrying capacity from 1.
to 20 per cent, greater. Send for our 70-page fre<
booklet. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.. Ltd., Burn
Buy Road, Lane Cove.—Advt.
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting'.
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtuin Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patenl
Attorney Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
0 flee; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Marti;
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723’.— Advt.
* # * «
. IDEAS-—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. . Col u son & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mei-
bom ne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• • .
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England) con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants ; sulphuric-acid plants ; • glass-works plants
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* *" *
1921 Models -—‘‘National’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
lt b >P V Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
t‘ a ,T B r } Ve ' e! , ltS ' Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
® a t '" p Crushers, furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
0 ?- r , or writP c ,f or particulars. IT. B. Selbv A Co.,
G , eorfre st , reet (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
*
Messrs. Felton, Grirnwade and Co. Pty., Ltd have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
1 Mclbour r e > . f °v the display of scientific
matenal. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also corn-
goods _°\DVT° f chenllca1 ’ microscopic and biological
The Sydney and Suburban. Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydp^y.—Advt.
upon thlm 6 benefitS derived by Cultivators from the use of explosives are so well known that it is unnecessary to dwell
A Settler 's chief difficulty is to know the most economical and safest kind to use. The ordinary high explosive, Gelignite
is unobtainable m most places except at very great cost. It must be handled with extreme care, ahd kept in a licensed magazine.’
We have for many years supplied a compound known as Rendrock, which has been largely used far and wide to the
great advantage of Farmers, Fruitgrowers and Settlers. During the War the material was unobtainable. Its manufacture is
now resumed The ingredients (solid in the form of cartridges, and liquid) may be transported by steamer or rail at ordinary
Ask your storekeeper for a bulletin, which fully explains, or if he has not one, mail a post-card to—
Guthridge Limited, George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
Rendrock is equally as good for any kind of rock blasting.
£1261 is to be distributed among borrowers.
Over the past three years shareholders have
thus averaged 12§ p.c. p.a., a good return,
though nothing out of the way in view of the
size of the eo.’s reserves. For the year prior
to the war the co. made larger profits than
it shows nowadays, for though higher interest
rates help income the co. in turn has to pay
more for the money it borrows, while exes,
generally have increased. Taxes alone are
now taking £2017, compared with £568 for
1914, and office exes, take £450 or so more
than formerly.
** *-*■
The Foggitt-Jones ham, bacon and canned-
goods business is being passed over to a
public co., or, rather, the public is being in-
vited to further develop it. Nominal capital
cf the new concern is to be half a million,
of which 168,777 £1 ordinaries will repre-
sent the old proprietors’ interests. The pub-
lic is invited to take up 100,000 £1 preis.,
which are to carry a cumulative 8 p.c., and
are to rank point for point with the ordi-
naries to 10 p.c. It is an attractive offer
in view of the security offered. The old
co.’s balance-sheet as at Dec. 81 last showed
net assets totalling £168,777. That in-
cluded properties and plant at written-down
values, and they are to be passed over to
the new concern on that basis, though revalua-
tions show them to be now worth considerably
more. The old proprietors also ask £30,000
cash for goodwill, representing less than one
year’s profits. Including the £70,000 of the
public’s money left in the business, adding
£17,000 current profits which it is estimated
will be earned before the co. takes over, and
deducting preliminary exes, of about £BOOO,
the new co. will show net assets of approxi-
mately £247,000, or nearly 50s. per £1 prel’.
share. That is on the basis of assets at their
old book values; actually, on estimated
present values, the margin of protection is
much greater. It is refreshing to encounter
a new float in which the vendors do not
seek to pass over their interests at present
inflated values, but instead protect their
business by including their old belongings
on a conservative basis. So long as ample
security is provided, it usually does not
matter much to pref. shareholders on what
basis assets are transferred ; but in this in-
stance the conservative policy brightens the
prospects of the public getting more than
the minimum 8 p.c. Recent profits have been
ample to pay the £BOOO required for the prefs’.
div. nearly four times over. Foggitt-Jones
started in a small way in 1904 and has made
great strides; The war helped it consider-
ably, but the co.’s output has continued to
grow since. It has been developing a very
healthy export trade, and it is to extend
its canning interests that the new capital
is chiefly required.
* * * -■»
W. J. Mangan, of the Albury (N.S.W.)
Daily News, is inviting the public to take
over that newspaper and its jobbing interests,
The prospectus is not enticing. The assets
have apparently not been independently
valued, but are “roughly put” at £3050, in-
cluding £5OO for copyright. The vendors
price is £4350 —£3350 in cash and £lOOO in
shares, and by taking the £lOOO in shares
Mr. Mangan is alleged to “show his con-
fidence in prospects.” The goodwill con
sideration is thus £l3OO. No statement of
recent profits is presented to support that
figure, though there is talk of possibilities
when plant has been added to and the old
policy of drift remedied. “For many years,”
the prospectus naively admits, “there has.
been practically no canvassing for advertis-
ing, subscribers or, printing, the business
done literally ‘drifting in’ to the office.”
* » * *
N. S. Wales Mines Department, which has
been looking for a coal-mine for the State
Government, seems to have found something
good on the Bargo River, about half-a-mile
from the Southern Railway. On the advice
of his staff, Mines Minister Gann decided to
take a chance there and put down a bore.
One sunk in 1910 near the Hill Top railway
station, about 81 miles south-west, proved the
Bulli seam to be only a few inches thick, but
about nine miles to the north-east, near
Appin, Coal, Ltd., proved Bft. 3in. o? good-
quality seam at about 1600 ft. The question
was whether the seam thinned gradually be-
tween Appin and Hill Top (in which ease
about 4ft. could be expected at Bargo), or
whether the thinning was rapid. If the
latter happened it was a toss-up as to which
side of the Bargo area such thinning occurred.
The Minister decided to take a chance, and
won. The bore hit the seam at 1279 ft., and
it pi’oved to be sft. coal, a 6in. band and a
further 6in. of coal. Tbe fuel is of splendid
quality, comparing with the average Bulli as
follows:—•
Mois- Volatile Fixed Calorific
tare. Carbons. Carbon. Ash. Value.*
Bulli .. .71 23.65 63.98 11.66 12.68
Bargo . . 1.00 29.05 61.93 8.02 13.30
’Pounds of water converted into steam per lb. coal.
The Bargo ash content is lower than in coal
from any southern colliery, and the calorific
value is very high. The State coal reserve
extends in the direction of the Appin bore, so
the seam should thicken as it is opened up.
It is an attractive proposition, and if wed
managed should prove a valuable asset tu
the Government. As the mine is practically
on the Southern railroad, its product will
have the advantage of a saving of 3s. Sd. per
ton in freight compared with present sup-
plies, and that should also guarantee it a
good trade with Victoria if the Government
wants a customer.
* * *
The harsh effect of present taxing methods
on prospectors was strongly emphasised by
several witnesses who appeared before the
Federal Taxation Commission in Perth the
other day. As the Act is now administered
a prospector may draw blanks for years, and
then when he gets a prize most of it is
snatched from him. The Act makes no
allowances whatever for the many years of
unremuuerative work a prospector may
undertake before he picks a winner. Objec-
tion was also taken to the taxation at face
value of shares received in payment for a
mine. . Instances were quoted of shares hav-
ing a face value of 10s. or 20s. which were
not worth as many pence, and sometimes
finally proved to be of no value whatever.
Herbert J. Daly had a few words to say to
the Commission. He quoted the case of the
Hampton Celebration. This show was pur-
chased from the prospectors by a Kalgoorlie
syndicate of mine maangers, who sold it to
a London co. The terms of sale included
a stipulation that the co. was to pay taxation.
Daly estimated the amount payable at
£15,000, and the co. has set that sum aside.
Daly remarked that it was very unlikely that
London would entertain the purchase of
another unproved mine on such terms. All
this states the case very well for the genuine
prospector and legitimate mine-buyer, but
what about the hordes of option-takers who
beat the prospector down in price and then
load the purchase to an absurd figure before
passing it on to the publicV They are a
curse to the industry, and deserve to bo
taxed beyond the present limit. The camp
followers who peg around the prospector for
miles are in most cases equally deserving of
the attentions of Ihe tax-gatherer.
Having failed to induce the miners’ union
to agree to a variation of the recent Arbi-
tration award, the Kalgoorlie mine-owners
propose to “struggle ou under existing con-
ditions” until the end of the year, when an
attempt will be made by the Chamber of
Mines to secure a reduction in wages. Jus-
tice Northmore now presides over the Court
in place of Justice Burnside, and the
Chamber is anxious to rush its case to the
Court to see if the new president can be
impressed by the mine-owners’ tale of woe.
* * • *
Westralia’s Collie coal-field last year pro-
duced 458,0117 tous, valued at. £349,432, an
increase of 57,000 tons and £.79,000 in value
compared with the 1920 figures. The State
Government is the field’s biggest customer:
in the 12 months the railways and tramways
took nearly 300,000 tons. Five cos. carried on
operations during the greater part of the
year, but towards the close three of them
amalgamated, and among the shareholders
of this concern are several of the longest-
headed among Kalgoorlie’s mining crowd.
About 900 men are at present working on
the field, but that number should be increased
before long.
* * *
Mararoa (W.A.) Irn.s so far been unable
to find a new mine in the West, but still
has hopes. Shareholders are being assured
that every precaution will be taken to make
a certainty of the value of any property
acquired in future, which implies that the
directors regret their precipitate action in
purchasing the Light of Asia, at Cue, with-
out having first ascertained its real worth.
The “Wild Cat” could never understand
the Mararoa taking that proposition seri-
ously.
Another Westralian derelict, the Lloyd
George, at Gibraltar, near Coolgardie, has
been passed on to some credulous people in
the Eastern States. A fqw small crushings
have been extracted in the past; but as in
nearly all the mines on the field of which
Coolgardie was once the centre, payable
values gave out at shallow depth and almost
at a moment’s notice. It would be interest-
ing to know on what terms the property
was disposed of.
* * * ■#
With the approval of the State Cabinet
the Vic. Electricity Commissioners have
made a £379,000-contract with the Inter-
national General Electric Co. of the U.S.
for transformers and switchgear for the
Morwell brown-coal electric-development
scheme. There were no Commonwealth
quotes, but the Australian General Electric
Co. put in the offer for the successful ten-
derers. To ascertain whether it would be
possible to give preference to J. Bull the
lowest offers for sections of the plant were
aggregated (as no British firm tendered for
the lot), and it was found that even after
allowing for the preferential tariff in favor
of Cold-Country goods and for exchange
differences, the Yankee co, had the advantage
to the extent of £200,000. Gen. Monash,
chairman of the Commissioners, attended the
Cabinet to explain details, and again im-
pressed Ministers with his bigness and his
grip of things.
* * * *
Biplane, Harrietville (Vic.), is one of
several plucky ventures there which keep the
flag flying. The mine was taken over by the
present co. in October last, since when the
5-hd. battery has crushed 000 tons for 0970 z.
The shoot of gold in the bottom level has been
proved for 150 ft. Stone in the. winze from
this level is going an ounce to the ton, and
the reef is declared to show a tendency to
widen. A lower tunnel is being driven to-
wards the reef, and a good deal of develop-
ment work is being done above and below.
Ah, those were the days! John Nolan,
who died last week, was a youthful member
of a party that pioneered the Gaffney’s Creek
and Wood's Point fields (Vic.), and their
first crushing was 40 tons averaging 40oz.
Although some, very promising new reefs
have been found on the Normanby field (Q.),
such as the lioss Smith and Billy Hughes, a
v’itul factor in the success or otherwise of
the new co. will be the method of treatment
adopted. In the early days amalgamation
was the only method, and while operations
were conducted on the brownstone things
went swimmingly ; but trouble came as soon
as the sulphides were reached. Normanby
did not last long enough in the first couple
of spasms to test cyanide, although a lot of
the tailings have since been treated that way
with moderate success. If Normanby lost
anything like its neighbor, Charters Towers,
by amalgamation, then it is no wonder it
died young. Official records show that
before chlorinatioD and eyaniding were intro-
duced, only 50 p.c. of Towers gold was re-
covered, although the mills averaged lfoz.
per ton, a tribute to the richness of its stone.
Keduce the recovery to the 10 to 15
dwt. of Normanby from sulphides, and the
reason why the latter did not kick along on
its smaller reefs is evident. Experiments
will have to decide the means of treatment
now, for the ore carries clialcopyrite and bis-
muth (in addition to small amounts of other
sulphides), both bad for cyanide. Probably
in its raw state it will not be a eyaniding
proposition, and that is one of the hurdles —
and the main one—that this promising little
field will have to get over. Still it can be
done with the application of scientific
methods.
* # •* *.
Nothing further seems to have been done
regarding the recently-projected establish-
ment of by-Droduct coke ovens at Ipswich.
Every day delayed is adding to the total
loss of valuable hydro-carbons. But then
the whole of the coal and coke business at
that centre is conducted in a more or less
slap-dash fashion. It is surprising the
amount of incombustible manor that gets
to consumers in a ton of fuel, yet it costs
just as much for freight and handling as
the purest coal. Ash .percentages of one-
fifth to one-fourth are not uncommon in
ruu-of-mine coal a.s delivered. North Ips-
wich, which is the centre of the coke busi-
ness, has seams of a dry coal which makes ex-
cellent coke: the fuel ratio is ideal for coke-
making. The Eclipse and Tivoli are the
main seams, but they carry over 20 p.c. ash
in run-of-mine. Barring this, it is the best
dry steam-coal on the field, and calculated
on a pure coal basis ( i.e., ash and water free)
it has a higher calorific value, on boiler tests
us well Us laboratory, than the best Bun-
damba, which is certainly excellent and is
always reserved for the mail trains. With
an up-to-date washing plant the North Ips-
wich seams could probably furnish an article
as good for metallurgical purposes a.s the best
Newcastle. When a co. at Cloncurry buys
Ipswich coke carrying, say, 30 p.c. ash, it is
paying a terrific price and freight on the
only portion of the stuff which is of use to
the smelters.
Recent tin prices have hard-hit some of
the Stanthorpe (N.Q,) dredges which have
been facing poor returns with commendable
pluck. The Broadwater, Devonia and Sugar-
loaf have dropped out. This leaves onlv about
five operating on the entire field, and the last
returns show that they ran through only
'pf’i?!? cub* yds- for 25 tons black tin worth
£2400. a ghost of former yields.
the biggest, fish at Kangaroo
Hills (N.Q.), has rather disappointed share-
holders in the tunnel driven from the bottom
of the The formation was cut all right
—about lctft. of it —but the values down to
oOft. were not there. The co. is now driving
in the hope that a continuation of the rich
shoot will be located.
Tannymorel colliery, in the Warwick dis-
trict (Q.), has been closed down on account
of underground fires, following on the thinning
of the seam. The co. is going to try a new
position on the same coal, and a tunnel is
being pushed ahead as quickly as possible,
for there is a good demand for the fuel. This
seam supplies easily the best coal on the
Downs: most Downs coal is rather inferior,
that supplied to the railways giving from &
to 30 p.c. ash. It sparks rather badly, too,
but in effective calorific value it is not much
below the better grades of Ipswich—and it
costs a bit to get Ipswich coal up the range
to Toowoomba.
The recent opening-up of the Baralaba and
Styx coalfields, Central Queensland, has
again raised the question whether Port
Alma or Gladstone is to be tire port to de-
velop the export trade. In November last
Port Alma was inspected by representatives
of prospective coal exporters, who turned
it down as unsuitable for the erection of
coal-bins and travelling cranes. As they
had to expend much capital on plant at
some port they decided Gladstone should
be the one. But it almost appears as if the
Cabinet is backing Rocky, for the Railway
Commissioner offered the Blair Athol:' Coal
cos. a through rate to Port Alma of 14s.
fid., a distance of 278 miles. As they would
not have that port at any price, they asked
for a similar rate to Gladstone, but were in-
formed that that would cost them 225. 7d.
per ton for .’512 miles, or an increase of over
50 p.c. in the rate for the extra 12 p.c. in
distance. No wonder Gladstone asserts that
it does not get a fair deal. Whichever port
wins, the coal cos. will suffer on account of
the railway gradients, for the lines were not
built to handle heavy trainloads.


THE PUPPET SHOW.
“Special arrangements have been made by the Postmaster-General's Department to keep the Prime Minister constantly in touch with happenings in Australia during his voyage to England, The Commonwealth wireless telegraphy
installations will be employed. The staffs at the stations concerned have been notified to prepare for a heavy pressure of official correspondence between the Prime Minister and his colleagues, who have got into the habit of referring
all questions of policy to their chief, and hesitate to do anything without first obtaining his approval.”


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one Stp.te.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir 11. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falldner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, John
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd,
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal. 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal. 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures. 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER, WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet—4ooo feet.
BOILERS.-—Loco Type Tubular. 20-30
HP.
ENGINES Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES.—-Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING. —Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR.—S team-driven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE.—-Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL. fl
salmi
THe
finest
TOBACCO
two forms—
■V vjg>, {\
Plug-Slice
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH”
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents. f
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
A friend waves a farewell: —
Colonel “Toby” Watt, who was drowned on Satur-
day while surfing at his beautiful place near Newport
(N.S.W.), was at a French flying-school when the
war began. He had been one of the first motorists
in Australia, and he was one of the first amateurs to
take up flying in Europe. England didn’t come into
the war soon enough for him, and he joined the
French Army as a private. His technical knowledge
and skill caused him to be transferred to the first
created French flying unit, and his reconnaissance
work (there was little or no air-fighting in those
early days) gained him practically every French
decoration that could be held by one of his rank.
RUNNING STIFF.
HIS HONOR : “Then, I think you said, you
chased the prisoner. Did you overtake
him?"
THE WITNESS: “Not on your life, sir!”
General Pau wrote of him when he left the French
Army for the A.I.F. that ‘‘he knew neither fear nor
pride,” and no more accurate character sketch could
have been made of the man in as many words.
He was now over 40. and he had never been the
right build for flying, being over six feet high and
framed in proportion. He was given his British
Army rank (which he could have had for the asking
at any time during his years as a poilu) and put in
charge of an A.F.C. squadron. His subsequent work
was lai-gely administrative, and it ended when he
brought Australia’s flying-men home.
It is unnecessary to say that he was courageous
in all things to the point of recklessness—if it had
been otherwise he might be alive to-day. But his
most remarkable qualities were his capacity for
idealising people and causes and his abounding
charity. He could see no evil in anyone, and so he
got the best out of everyone. This trait more than his
brilliant battle record made him the success he was
as a C.O. As regards his generosity, though he was a
very rich man it is doubtful if he had much surplus
income left year by year. He gave incessantly to
every public institution and to any private beggar
who had the shadowiest claim to assistance. His
own tastes were so Spartan in their simplicity as
to constitute a joke amongst his friends. He leaves
a 15-year-olu son who is at school in England, a
brother (Ernest), and three married sisters.
The Diggers used to think kindly of
Birdie and other heads who always seemed
so anxious to salute the men before the
-men could salute them. But in the Senate
the other day “Pompey” Elliott blew the
gaff. He said he had suggested the dodge at
a conference, and most of them had agreed
that the Digger was more likely to be
enticed to salute than browbeaten into it.
W. J. Woodward, an old Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.) boat-
builder, heard
when tie war
was still alive
and he was
70 that ships
were urgently
wanted; so he set
out to make one
with his own hand
—the other one is
injured—a n d no
assistance. He cut
the beams himself
out of timber grow-
ing in the Lake
Macquarie area,
and has got the
boat half built —it
is 78ft. long, with a
beam of 19ft. 4in.
But the war being
won, the old chap
has lost his enthu-
siasm, and is look-
ing for a buyer of
of the ark as it
stands.
Col S. J. COBLE .
R.A.F., Director of
the new Australian
Air Force.
Ex-Premier John Verran (S.A.), accom-
panied by then Attorney-General Bill Denny,
once put in the week-end at Kapunda, and
on the Sunday Verran was asked to take
the leading rSle in a “pleasant Sunday
afternoon.” Denny, also invited, declined to
preach, but a'greed to sit on the platform.
John, after raging eloquently for nearly two
hours, ended with : “But before I close I’ll
give you a final message to take home, and
it is this, ‘Gawd don’t care how we. die,
Gawd only cares how we live.’ ” Before the
crowd had time to fathom this John swung
round to his colleague, and with a very per-
ceptible wink, roared: “Don’t He, Bill?”
Bill said He did.
President Givens lately assumed a wig and
gown in the Senate because, as he said,
“Senators had sent him a petition” asking
him to wear the pretties. “Why,” asked
“Jupp” Gardiner, “should a secret petition
be taken round for signature by Senators to
induce the President to wear something that
is distasteful to him?” And he quoted
Givens’s remarks of 13 years ago:—
It can be no pleasure to the President on a
shwelterin’ day in summer to have his head wrapped
in five or eight pounds of currrled horrrse-hair. Who
pays for the ridiculous little black shtick for the
usher of the Black Rod whin he ushers in the Govern-
nor-Gineral? I enter my protest against all this
ridiculous flummery. A shwelterin’ day in heavy,
flowin’ gowns! They might as well wear a pair
of double blankets.
Now some blasphemous people are saying
about the petition that, if the framers of it
had. tried to do it, they couldn’t have given
a better imitation of Senator Givens’s own
literary style.
A grand-nephew of Paul «Kruger is among
the little band of Afrikanders who will wel-
come the Springbok footballers to Sydney.
He is in the wool business.
“Tuart”: Paddy Glynn will have to hurry
along his history of the Commonwealth Par-
liament (B. 19/5/’2l) if he wants to get
in first. J. M. Fowler is writing his im-
pressions of that institution, of which he
has been a member for 20 years.
The Petersham (N.S.W.j mayor, A, J.
Clark, who returned Sydney Town Clerk
Nesbitt’s monumental letter, has had a lot
of municipal experience. He was for 12
years an alderman of the Brisbane City
Council, and mayor in 1900 and 1901; and
he was chairman of the relief committee at
the time of the big Brisbane floods in 1893.
He has been eight years an alderman in
N. S. Wales; and, as a result of recent hap-
penings, he will probably be a candidate for
the Sydney City Council at the next elec-
tions.
Stanford Howard, a South Aus. Rhodes
scholar, as an airman made an attack on
the Armentieres railway station in July,
1918, but after bombing and machine-
gunning the depdt was wounded, and so was
unable to ascertain the damage he had done.
Recently, on vacation, he went to Munich,
and in the train met a German officer, who,
in chatting about the war, told Howard how
he was wounded by an airman who, single-
handed, raided the Armentieres station,
destroyed two troop trains, and blew up
scores of soldiers. The Fritz himself was
so badly hurt that he was out of action
for the rest of the war. On comparing dates,
etc., Howard found it was his attack. The
German saw that the Australian received
every attention, and introduced him all round
as “a friend of mine.”
Gone west, Alfred Street, pioneer of
Kuranda (N.Q.). He was in the Kilkivan
gold rush, and later drifted north, where he
backed Smithfiold against Cairns —and lost.
Then ho moved up the range to Kuranda,
commenced growing tobacco—and again
lost. Finally he struck a winner in coffee,
which he grew and ground, using aboriginal
labor. His coffee was well known in Queens-
land, and competed favorably with the
foreign article; and a few years ago his
plantation was within sight of supplying
Australian needs. Then, however, the Gov-
ernment took a hand and placed the abo-
riginals in mission stations. The high “white”
wages of the North rendering competition
with foreign colored-labor supplies out of the
question, he allowed the weeds into his plan-
tation and sat back. His wife passed out a
couple of weeks ahead of the kindly old
man.
Terrible things are happening in Tas-
mania. Frank Edwards, the new member
for Russell in the House of Dodery, is a
mere child of 30-odd. Frank, then known as
“Nipper,” was the bright boy, both physi-
cally and intellectually, of Hutchins’s school
in his day, and afterwards shone at the Tas.
’Varsity. He is the first. Rhodes Scholar to
get a seat in the Tasmanian Parliament. For
some time he has chased Costs at Burnie.
“L.W.C.”: Apropos the par (B. 12/5/’2l)
on the post-war occupations of Westralia’s
V.C.’s. In the Red riots on the ’fields last
year, Axford was the one who held up a
couple of hundred strikers in order to let
another returned soldier get away. Carroll
is still as unselfish as ever. One night
lately, in the train from Perth, he noticed a
small boy sitting, lonely and tired, in a
packed compartment. In five minutes the
boy was in Carroll’s sleeper. The boy was
my brother.
On April 30 Mount Barker (S.A.) com-
memorated the 90th anniversary of the death
of Captain Collett Barker, after whom it
was named. Barker was sent from N. S.
Wales by Governor Darling to inspect the
Murray country. He left his party, sa: .ng
he was going to climb a lull to get a view
of the river’s outlet. Fastening a compass
to his head lie swam across a channel, walked
up a sandhill —and disappeared. The blacks
stated long afterwards that he was killed,
his body being thrown into the river and
carried out to sea. Barker was an asso-
ciate of Captain Sturt, and the town that
took his name has erected a monument to
his memory.
John Hayes, R.A.N., Naval Ordnance
Officer-in-Charge of Spectacle Island (Syd-
ney), is a witty Irishman who joined the
lower deck in the days of windjammer war-
ships. He once put up a weird job-sticking
record. While stationed in a torpedo-
boat attached to the Naval Depot, Williams-
town (Vic.), 30 minutes from Melbourne,
Hayes visited the city only twice in two
years—once on an official visit to the Navy
Office and once when his expert advice was
wantefi by a Board, inspecting Westernport
(Vic.) naval base. It took him a week to
get over the land voyage. Which reminds
one of the Agaiambu tribe in a water village
in Papua whose feet bled when explorer
Monckton took them to dry land.
From the Federal gallery:—
One of the puzzles in the House of Reps, is P.
G. Stewart, Gockv member for the Wimmera (Vic.).
Expressing himself largely by interjections, he can
at one time reveal a good Australian point of view
and at another an outlook sufficiently narrow and
conservative to get himself mentioned with approval
by the Argus. Stewart’s countenance suggests
obstinacy; yet there is no one more likely to be
converted by a sweetly reasonable argument and then
spruilc with fiery intensity on his new-found faith.
As an agriculturist he is one of the most progres-
sive in the country, and he showed his interest in
the scientific side of his industry by handing the
Vic.” Government a block of land for experimental
purposes. It is said that a few years back he was
a sailor, and this allegation is responsible for the
humorous charge that he supports the importing
policy just to keep his old profession fully employed.
Dr. William Macansh, of Brighton (Vic.),
over whom a mound has just been heaped in
the local cemetery, became pretty w-ell known
in the days of Bent’s glory because he was
chairman of Tommy’s election committee.
He was mayor when Bent was Assembly
Speaker, and health-officer when Tommy ruled
Judge REED, K.C., lately appointed to the
Maoriland Supreme Courf Bench.
the State as First Minister. If there was
one man tor whom the bulky Thomas deferred
it was Macansh, who wanted nothing. Once
when the Argus was cross with Bent it
said he had “too much ego in his cosmos.”
Whereupon Thomas told the Argus rounds-
man that Dr. Macansh had never said any-
thing to him about having this “what-d’-y’-
call-it,” but he would ask him about it that
night, and get something for it, as it might
be catch in’.
South Aus. had nearly forgotten Randolph
Payne till he died last week at close on 80.
He came from Yorkshire as a boy, and in
the long ago was book-keeper to George Fife
Angas, then school-assistant to John L.
Young, and finally teacher in the Educa-
tion Department and live wire in many a
country town that had his dominie services.
Mrs. It. Small, a niece of the first white
girl born in Australia, was 92 when she died
the other day. John Small, doctor’s dis-
penser, arrived on 11.M.5. Sirius with the
first fleet in 1788, bringing his wife with
him; and shortly after fheir arrival an
infant was born. Subsequently she became
Mrs. Oakes and aunt of the lady who has
just had a funeral.
John Nolan, who faded out the other day
at Hawthorn (Vic.) just as the 87th mile-
post was in sight, was one of the props of
Gaffney’s Creek gold-mining. He must have
put by a tidy bit, for he was very comfort-
able in the sunset years. The family he
left includes a couple of brainy sons and a
daughter, who married T. B. Molomby, rail-
way transport superintendent.
George Dean, who leaves for London this
week. with a mission from South Aus. to
look into Repatriation matters on the other
side, retired from the active-service list last
year with the honorary rank of Brig.-Gen-
eral. He was one of the earliest citizen sol-
diers in Adelaide, and rose from the bottom
to the top of the local force. When the war
came he got as far as Gallipoli, and his five
sons and only son-in-law did their bit, too.
This is how Hobart World headed a Syd-
ney message of May 19 in regard to Lord
Mayor Lambert’s statement that the Nation-
alists were using the Union Jack for poli-
tical purposes:—■
“Political Bounders.”
Dragging Union Jack in Butter.
Statement by Lord Mayor Gutter.
But the Would is a Labor paper, so there’ll
probably be no suit to recover damages for
libel.
R. J. Noble, B.Sc., the first holder of the
Ben Fuller Trust’s travelling scholarship in
agricultural science, graduated with first-
class honors at Sydney ’Varsity in 1915. He
served with the A.I.F. and was then
appointed to the biology branch of the
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department, and
has since been delving into plant diseases.
He will attend the June International
Science Congress ,(tJ.S.) and afterwards
work at Illinois, Wisconsin or some other of
Sam’s big vegetable-shops. The young man
is a son of an inspector in the N. S. Wales
Education Department, and got to the Uni.
via Sydney High School.
THE STYLIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Lord Mayor at the City Council said the
resolution of the Sailors and Soldiers’ Fathers’ Asso-
ciation, submitted by the general secretary (Mr.
Everett) and addressed to the ‘Lord Mayor and
aldermen,’ protesting against the Union Jack not
being flown at the Town Hall on Anzuc Day, was
received by him as Lord Mayor, and withheld from
the last meeting of the City Council because the
writer oi the letter referred to broke all canon-: of
good taste and etiquette relating to correspondence.”
—S. M. llkkald.
As stylist of the city,
My diction’s cold and chaste,
Pure, elegant and witty,
No comma e’er misplaced;
I strive to shun turgidity,
And follow with rigidity
The canons of good taste.
(Th’ wage-slaves gives their blessin’,
They jerry ’oo I serves;
I keeps th’ aldies guessin’,
An' cops wot I deserves;
But them tinpot nonentities,
’Oo kids theirHelVes “identities”
Gets on me bloomin’ nerves.)
I loathe undue jocosity,
Or ribald epithet;
I hold uncouth verbosity
r A breach of etiquette,
And him who utters coarse abuse,
Or says “Be blowed!” or “What the deuce!”
I view with pained regret.
(But them there ’owlin’ dingoes
Of anti-laboritea,
Them fat, flag-waggin’ jingoes,
Th’ flamin’ crowd o’ skites,
W’en they starts goin’ crook on me
An’ I gets narked—struth, then you’ll see
The boot in dead ter rights.)
And so in my high station
I charm each citizen,
With dignified oration,
Or wise and fluent pen;
I’m arbiter of etiquette,
A civic Chesterfield, beset
By -coarse and vulgar men.
N.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


# 't, %.
/ , l<£
( p 41# -m^^/M''
i
m
A
M
ME
'll
li
;4'4
P 74
m
//
r
1
"7
cs
0
7?
21
-
m
fra
sv.
«i
v.
((////
&
/*
7
£
'/
m
>\
<4
%
/O
7"
Js?
R
ct
■m
%.
«
m.
rv
<*
%
3|yee (astles
A J' y • i 1 •
;
/
in the air
nxere’sho sweeter Tobacco comes fpomWginia
and no better brand than the Three Castles”
• Thackeray The Virginians”
W 1) &H O Wills, Manu/a( / f//vy-> s o/” theJamous hrvmd—
THE "THREE CASTLES” CIGARETTES


, •
A"WARRIGAL”HAT
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
This excellent hat by Peapes' exemplifies the
perfection to which the manufacture of felt
hats has attained in Australia.
It is a smooth-finish Felt with medium
<-rown, 2|in. brim, unbound edge. 1 |in. or
2in. band, with bow at side.
Colors: Grey, Steel, Slate.
Peapes’ competitive price.. 30/-
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
a Book Lover
[NEW SERIES].
237 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Editor: H. H. CHAMPION.
The first issue of the new Series is now
available.
Annual Subscription:—
5/- net, posted.
Sample copy: Sixpencs, posted.
The Book Loveb (new series ) contains
24 pages royal quarto, with cover in
colors by Hector Paterson.
FRANK lIEXTY,
Manager.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
l)e Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director .
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Audio”: When 1 saw Wilson making an
heroic attempt to keep his intestines in with
his hands, I got the stretcher-bearers, and that
was the last I saw of him for two years.
Next time we met in Collin,s-street. “Been
back a year and doing pretty well,
thanks,” he said in answer to my questions.
He wouldn’t have a drink or a cigarette:
the doctors had warned him against both, and
he had to go home to lunch because they
prepared milk and patent foods for him. At
this stage a one-legged Digger came around
with the box. Wilson dropped a bob in,
and, as the collector moved away, said:
“Poor devils! A man’s lucky to have got
home sound, isn’t he?”
A BIT TOO PREVIOUS.
DINGBAT: “ Well, doctor, I consulted a
chemist and lie advised me”
DOCTOR : “My dear sir, chemists always give
bad advice.”
DINGBAT: “to come to you.”
“Alex.”: Brown arrived home from the
lodge the other night showing 100 p.c. satu-
ration. In fact, he soliloquently remarked
several times, “Brown, I nefer sheen you
so Chic) tight before.” He crept into bed
beside his slumbering wife and carefully
turned his whisky-laden breath towards the
wall. Then, just as he was congratulating
himself that Mrs. B. would never know his
condition, an icy voice fractured the silence.
“Brown,” it said, “you needn’t turn over —
you’re drunk right through.”
Hobart and Sydney are
feeling it with equal
intensity, and now a
London cable says that
it is puzzling Euro-
pean electricians. The
testing officials are dis-
missing it as “foreign
earth currents,” and
hopefully waiting
for it to disappear.
Probably they are influ-
enced by the fact that
the mysterious current
made itself evident at
about this time last
year, and after a week
or so disappeared. It
is weird to watch its
effect on the galva-
mometer. The galvo.
will have its needle
deflected to a certain
angle by the ordinary
batteries working the
line, when slowly but
steadily the needle will
creep still further down
the scale, and, reach-
ing the furthest point,
will, seemingly i n
response to the
changed polarity of the
unknown battery,
slowly retrace its steps
until it reaches the
perpendicular, a n d
then as steadily creep
down the opposite side
of the dial. Some,
unaware of the like
occurrence i n the
North, blame it on to
the Aurora Australis ,
while others more or
“Galvo” looks towards Mars:—
Recently a mystery has been perplexing the elec-
trical experts of the Postal Department. On all
the duplex lines (those worked by changing polarity
of the batteries) a powerful intermittent current has
been seriously interfering with business, and the source
of it is unknown. Certainly it does not emanate from the
batteries attached to the lines, nor is it confined
to one particular section of the Commonwealth, for
less seriously suggest that Mara is trying to com-
municate with us. Taking into consideration the
facts (1) that it would have to be a wonderfully
powerful aerial current that could, by induction, so
seriously affect heavily-batteried lines such as these,
(2) that it appeared at approximately this time
last year, and (3) that the effect is so general,
the possibility that the current has its origin in
Mars should not be emptied out with contumely.
“Glen Orchy” : Hobart is easily ahead of
any other town in Australia in the number
of graveyards per head of population. It
sports 13 for about 40,000 people. But only
two are now doing business, and one of these
is not much used. In the old days every
denomination, including the Je\vs, had a
cemetery of its own, and the Anglicans fol-
lowed the English practice of having a grave-
yard attached to each church. The oldest
“gravestone” (it is made of blue-gum) still
in existence is that
of Mary M ac k,
once housekeeper
to Bobby Knop-,
wood, the first
chaplain, who died
in 1808. She and
other old-timers
were probably
buried in St.
David’s church-
yard, but her mem-
orial is now at the
Botanic Gardens,
and the oldest
tombstone actually
in the cemetery
dates from more
than a dozen
years later. Some
of the old epitaphs
were pretty frank.
That of George
Gwatkiu, a sailor
who lies in old St. David’s, states that he
“to spirits ever was inclined and spirits
’tis has brought him here,” and calls on all
those “who spirits drink in waste” to con-
sider his untimely end.
* * * *
“Svranx” : The Digger didn’t always give
his Pommy flare the wrong Australian ad-
dress. Not a few little tragedies were faced.
Two at least I know who had left brides-to-
be in Aussie went gay on London leave,
and picked the wrong damsel. But as so/m
as they found out that the girls weren’t “that
sort,” and there were portents of little things
to come, .both got urgent leave and “did the
right thing.” Another chap, a bit of a rough-
neck, though good enough at heart, after
fixing things upon these lines in London,
came home only to find a somewhat similar
sort of dilemma waiting him here. This
Dig., though, was lucky enough to have a
mate to take on the Australian girl, for that’s
the sort of cobbers Australian cobbers were.
“R. 8.”: Australian surgical research
moves with the success of Dr. Ratten, sur-
geon-superintendent of the Hobart Hospital.
The case was that of a war widow, aged
26. For 12 months she had been quite in-
sane, and her mental condition at the time
of the operation was such that she had to
be prepared from the padded cell of the
hospital. There was definite evidence of the
“LEAD US NOT ”
“We’d better go inside now!”
“Why?”
“I’ve just remembered something that I
haven’t got to do.”
cause of insanity being the loss of the thy-
roid gland. About an hour after trans-
plantation of thyroid gland to breast and
abdomen, she returned to normal, and has
remained normal ever since—now four
months after the operation. Her mind is
a blank as to the period of her loss of
reason, but she remembers everything prior
to that 12 months.
“Bill O’Costs” from the lawyer’s table :—-
The “embittered litigant” (B. 5/5/’2lj has good
reason for his- snort at the waste of time ovelr futile
“objections” to evidence by opposing counsel; but
the offence is not altogether common to the trade,
nor is it usually done merely to waste time. It is
the result of a morbid craving to obstruct and
embarrass the other side by every means, legitimate
and illegitimate. The truth is that, in spite of our
brag about “the high traditions of the profession,”
>ve are far below the standard of good English and
American practice. Objections without substance
are there seldom taken, and, valid or not, are rarely
argued. As a necessary corollary, some, scruple is
observed in the method Of examining and cross-'
examining witnesses. If English and American judges
permitted the forensic tricks with which our own
benches are so, familiar, they Would never get through
their programmes, of judicial work. As a specimen
of American practice worth imitating, here is a
fragment of a trial witnessed by me in a. Californian
Superior Court. A question having been put to a
witness, counsel rises.
Counsel: ’Bject.
Judge: Why?
Counsel: Leading the witness.
Judge: Objection sustained. Next question.
A little later the same counsel rises for, it may
be, the, third time.
Judge (with some surprise): Say, whaddisit now?
Counsel: The testi-mony is irrelevant.
Judge: Yeh, so it is; but it don’t matter, anyway.
Counsel: But your Honor —- —
Judge (to all concerned): All through? Stand
down, witness.
If we adopted Uncle’s Sam’s business-like methods
we would at least save embittered litigants a lot of
time and- money.
* ■* * n
“Hamer”: Australia ife still breeding ’em.
A youngster of not more than seven got lost
in the bush while chasing butterflies. Search
parties failed to locate him until, on the
night of the second day, desperately continu-
ing its search into the hours of darkness,
one party saw the glow of a fire in the bush
and hastened towards it to ask the camper if
he had seen the child. The camper was the
kid himself. lie had no matches, but the
lens from an old electric torch, one of his
“kid’s treasures,” had enabled him to ignite
a bit of paper and dried grass. It had been
a long job getting the fire alight, but he
reckoned it would attract attention, and
“anyway, it was more comfor’ble.” The
philosopher, none the worse for his outing,
was fast asleep when they found him.
“The Verger”: Even on the journey to the
altar women are usually late; in my experi-
ence SO per cent, of them are behind time.
Perhaps it's vanity; they like the idea of
being waited for expectantly and worried
about. But one 'groom put up a Petruchio
stunt the other day. After waiting 10
minutes for his bride he announced that he
would be there to be married at the same
time next day, but he didn't intend to hang
around. Entreaties failed to hold him or
to bring him back when, after the arrival
of the bride, he was pursued to his bachelor
lair. The indignant lady, when he saw her
that night, tried to postpone the event in-
definitely; but he said the wedding was tak-
ing place next day or not at all. It duly
happened—and the bride wasn’t late by a
split second.
-> *, f * *
"Hixenate” : Quite a lot of people, when a
.sentence is handed them, fail to take it in a
Christian spirit. The late Arthur Nelson
Barnett was amazed at hearing a man he had
just ordered to prison say, in sweet, gentle
tones : "Thank you ! Thank you, your Wor-
ship ! May the blessings of Heaven be yours,
and your dear children and your worthy
parents. You arc my eternal benefactor!”
Then he looked the surprised Law fiercely in
the eye, and hissed : “And you know what I
mean!” It was a woman who exclaimed:
“Well, all I can say is, ‘May you be as
happy as you are handsome.' ” And the
magistrate, who remembered what he looked
like in the glass, knew what that meant.
* * * *
“Gunner”: Some men are known by the
company they keep, others by the company
they float; but there’s one officer of an inter-
state steamer who is known by the game he
plays. The other day he was handed a tele-
gram addressed simply “No Trumps.” It was
for him all right.
* * * *
“M.D.” explains the cas§: —
The blindness which has overtaken popular George
Maxwell. M.H.lt. for Fawkner, may or may not have
been caused by over-use of the eyes; but as the
condition —detachment of the retina —lias occurred in
both eyes, and is obviously total, it is pretty certain
that the patient suffered from myopia (short sight).
The retina, which is very loosely applied to the
underlying choroid, being attached to it at two
points only, is supported in its position by the
vitreous humor and any shrinkage or lique-
faction of this body naturally allows the retina to
get free from its moorings. When it does so blind-
ness is caused, partial or total, according to the
extent of the detachment. As changes in the vitreous
lire very common in short-sighted persons, it is in
these cases that such accidents are expected, especi-
ally when the error of refraction is of high degree.
When the detachment is beginning (the complaint is
diagnosed by the ophthalmoscope, the eye being
normal externally)a patient may unfold a story that he
can see the whole of an individual, but that he appears
erdoked, his head being in one direction and his feet
in another (metamorphopsia). Complete blindness
results When the detachment becomes total. A few
years ago, in America, out of 283 ophthalmic sur-
geons ,I'ho were asked as to the curability of retinal
detachments 250 replied that they had never had a
case where the cure was lasting. London surgeons
of high repute, however, have of late years published
several cases of spontaneous re-attachment after the
INITIATIVE.
"Hep, Dig., you've drawn first prize in the
big sweep !”
“ Oo-la-la! What luck! By cripes, I’ll be
able to cash my own gratuity bond
note.”
lapse of many months, so that there is always a
gleam of hope, though the chances of getting a spon-
taneous cure are about equal to those of getting the
first prize in Tatt.’s. The general opinion is that
medical treatment is a failure, and that as surgical
treatment is conducted on unscientific principles this
form of treatment is brutal. No attempt at surgical
treatment has apparently been made by the special-
ists in Mr. Maxwell’s case.
(Continued on page 18).
THE PERSON WHO PAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"In Melbourne civil servants have been demanding
that, in fixing their wage, the Public Service arbi-
trator should take into consideration, among other
things, the money they put into the plate on Sun-
days, and make allowance for all such.”
The dimpled civil servant feels
(He naturally would)
That when into the pew he steals,
Desiring to be good,
If presently the plate comes round
The plate is built that way—•
His country dear in duty bound
Should straight its pistol-pocket soiled,
Dredge up a tanner or a pound
His churchly dues to pay.
'Though other fellows who desire
To save their souls alive
Provide the pastor’s simple hire,
And usually contrive
• To find a thrum to bear them straight
Up Peter’s golden stair.
The civil servant ducks his freight,
And thinks his ticket to that state
Of holiness and joy elate
Is other folks’ affair.
So he invites his country dear
The fat half-crowns to find
To give the plate, his soul to clear,
If he should feel inclined.
And if taxpayers will not be
So slyly taken in,
Wc’U suffer torments long and dree-
In fire and molten brimstone we
Will pay the final penalty
Of civil-service sin!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


1
1
its
o
k;
J
I
*
R
w
1
a
»
\
/i
\
WATSONS
S
-re*
no SCOTCH
111‘iillrlniHlll
;D«e /,on%|
r’ioni
kfo .
i§p^z§f
p
Z>
zz
v\
ir
y
4
Victor
r.
a
7/
Aw
a
m
i
.5%
hi*;
Proowcc of scon «w'
6;
O
v ! j ill'll M
Qenllemen,
(he
nm
I he 'Pt'et*',
JohrvP CfeviS.}


No. 158. —A1l Diamonds, £l3/10/-
»0. 144. All I4ia.
monels, l‘l“/io/-
8%
4
No. 131.
Exquisite design,
Diamond set
£l7/10/-
No. 157.—Singlo Diamond, £7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
n
StewabxDawsoh & (<W.)Ltd.
C/wo Sydney gstablisments :
185 -187 PITT ST. HEAR. KIHG ST.,
CORKER -412 GEORGE ST..
m
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, *l7/10/-
No. 140.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 148.—A1l-
Diamonds.
£l6/10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond, f9/10/-
“Sir Speu”: It had been the custom in
a little Outback Sunday-school to arrange
the class in a certain fixed order, and to
open the proceedings with a series of ques-
tions always the same. No. 3 was invari-
ably asked, “Who made you?” and replied,
“God.” No. 2, in answer to the query, “Who
was the first man?” said “Adam” ; and so
on. One day No. 1 boy was absent, so No.
2 was moved along to the end of the stool.
“vVho made you?” came the question.
Adam,” was the prompt reply. The saintly
lady corrected the boy. “Please, miss,” came
the explanation, “the boy that God made is
wagging it to-day.”
SUSPECT.
"Pleathe, thi[?], did you find thippence?"
“Brekekek’s” brick :—-
What has Melbourne’s Uni. Conservatorium of
Music ever done to justify its existence? It stands
apart from the rest of the ’Varsity in many respects,
paitieularly in the matter of preliminary exams, and
quahflcfction for entrance - Matriculation" is not neces-
ry * The first-year classes are about half-filled with
precocious youngsters, who will think of putting their
hair up when they are doing the final year of their
course. Whom has the Conservatorium turned out,
anyhow? Nobody has ever had the courage to
attempt the Melbourne doctor’s degree in music. The
only Conservatorium-trained man who has brought out
any original work is the one at present in charge,
D. J. Coutts. A catchy fox-trot has been published
for the Commencement celebrations, but the com-
posers (there are two) are from the Science and
Medical Schools. Over on the Arts side the Literary
Society has tried to justify the first year of its
OWNER OF IT OUGHT TO KNOW.
SKIPPER: "Hullo, at it again. Must have
a very weak stomach, old man."
GROGGY ONE: "Can't be-o-ooh-very weak,
Cap'n. It's detained me here for the
last ‘three hours.”
existence by publishing a little anthology of verse,
which has been very well received. By the same
token the Conservatorium ought to find no difficulty in
bringing out a collection of songs and other original
pieces; if it were a really live school of music some
of its members ought to have written no small
quantity by now. But such is the spiritual and
intellectual deadness of the place that nothing Is
more improbable.
“Sinkiloo”: I was travelling recently by
train from Townsville to Ayr (Q.), and at
Mine h a n aiding struck a
squabble between the guard
and a Chink in charge of a
fruit-waggon. It appeared that
Ah Sin had ordered an open
truck, and on arrival at the
siding with a large crate of
bananas had found a closed
truck, the door of which was too
narrow to admit the goods, from
whatever angle the problem was
approached. The argument
ended nowhere, and the Chink
was left scratching the spot
where his pigtail used to .prout.
The bananas had to go to town
by return train, otherwise the
white devil might cancel the
order and thereafter transfer
his custom to the competitor
across the creek —and there was
no time to drive back home and
repack the fruit into a smaller
crate, even if one was avail-
able. On the return trip our
train picked up the truck and
took it to Townsville; and when
the door was opened there was
the. huge crate snugly stowed
inside. A stop-work meeting
was called in the railway goods-
shed to discuss how the devil
Ah Sin had managed to get it
in and how the blazes it was to be sot out.
It turned out that that Chink had solved his
problem quite simply. He had taken the
orate to pieces and rebuilt it inside the truck.
*** . #
“W.G.L.”: One quiet Sunday morning at
Gallipoli, just prior to the evacuation, church
service was being held in a small gully with
steep sides, the congregation being grouped
on terraces, the topmost of which held the
padre and an improvised choir. The latter
were led in harmony by “Dad,” a sturdy old
Methodist with a high, piercing tenor voice.
A hymn was sung, “Dad” leading off and
keeping well in front; then came the lesson
of the day, and the padre had announced an-
other hymn, when a loud, raucous whisper
echoed through the gully like the rattle of a
machine-gun, “Don’t start the blanky thing
so blanky high this time, Dad !”
* * * ♦
“Sixenate”: The N. S. Wales Full Court,
on being asked what it thought of a police
practice which is
really a common
one, reduced a fine
for illegal grog-
selling from £lOO
to £5O. After the
accused had been
tried, the police
mentioned that this
was a second con-
viction, and the
magistrate, taking
this into considera-
tion, inflicted the
larger fine. The
Full Court, said he
was wrong—the in-
formation about
the first convic-
tion should have
been put in evi-
dence, so that the
accused could make
an answer, or not
at all. Yet in case
after case informa-
tion about previous
convictions is given
in the same casual
manner. If they
only knew how, or
thought it worth
whi 1 e, scores o f
convicted persons
might thus get a
reconsideration of
their penalties.
Incidentally, the
High Court has
decided that if on
a second trial an
accused person Je-
clines to go into
the witness-box or make a statement,
evidence giveu or statement made by him
at a first trial cannot be used against* him.
* * * »
“Silas Snell’’: Wyall had five daughters,
of whom Mary was the plainest and Kate
the fairest to look upon. Chubb had been
knocking about the farm-house a great deal
on Sunday afternoons and of evenings with-
out making the direction of his attentions
very obvious. But Chubb had a lipfe lot of
land and many cows, and was a suitor to be
encouraged. Finally, he went to Wyall one'
Sunday afternoon when the girls were out,
and, after going through a series of bashful
contortions, contrived to blurt out: “See
’ere, Sam, I’d like to marry one of your
gels.’’ Sam Wyall took three puffs at his
pine before answering; then said he, “Which,
fer instance?” Chubb writhed and kicked
his heel; then, overcome by his nervousness:
“Oh, I dunno. I ain’t pertickler. S’pose
we leave it to you?” Wyall puffed in silence.
“All right, then, we’ll make it Mary. She’s
plain, but she’s easily the best’ milker.”
“Good enough,” responded Chubb without
enthusiasm. Chubb continued to drift round
in the evenings, and to drop in on Sundays,
and it was taken for granted he was engaged
to Mary. Six months passed, and the son-
in-law-elect went to Wyall again, “About
that marriage,” he stammered. “Well, what
about it?” replied the fond father. Chubb
kicked up the rug, twisted the roof
out of his hat and said: “You know, I’m
givin’ up dairy-farmin’-—goin’ in fer wheat.
A milker don’t matter so much now. S’pose
we make it Kate?” They made it Kate.
* * * *
“Seno”: The Melbourne Board of Health
maintains an establishment where people
who have reason to suspect that they have
syphilis may have the Wassermann reaction
performed on a sample of their blood to make
sure, free of charge. A student of psychol-
ogy would obtain a fund of material for re-
search from the behavior of these unfor-
tunates when they hear the bacteriologist’s
verdict, for invariably come to the
laboratory, in spite of the fact that reports
are sent by post or telephone. In just the
same way that shell-shock generally affects
the stolid by nature, and passes over the
more highly-strung, those one would expect
to hear the bad news calmly take it the
worst. One young gentleman, infected seven
years ago, who had been told that he was
cured, decided to undergo the test a few days
before his marriage, and, on learning that
the result was positive, simply remarked
Great Scott!” and walked out. The same
day another had to be restrained and threat-
ened with forcible removal, in view r of the
fact that he regarded those connected with
the institution as slanderers and traducers.
Women, for the most part, hear what some
regard as a death-sentence with far more
coolness than do the men, nearly all of those
who have hysteria on the premises being
members of the sterner sex. Incidentally,
were statistics, including ages and occupa-
tions, to be published, they would afford
much food for thought and reflection to
social reformers and members of Parliament.
• * * *
‘‘T.P.”: A white woman in my district
(Vic.) recently sold her six-year-old son to
a Chinese market-gardener who took a fancy
to the bright little nipper, and promised to
give him a State School education, then send
him to China to proceed with his training,
and finally bring him back to Vic. and article
him to a solicitor. Some Britishers, who
objected to this amazing deal, took legal
advice with unsatisfactory results. The In-
fants’ Life Protection Act deals only with
children under the age of five years; it is
certainly not a case of child-stealing; and,
finally, it can’t be brought under the Im-
perial Act dealing with slavery. We’re won-
dering what con be done about the whole
beastly business.
* * * *
“Albatross” tells of Dirty Shirt: —
The blown-out threat of the Australian Seamen’s
Union to exercise job control on board ship recalls
how Captain Jackson quashed job control on board
the old wooden barque Bullwhanger, of which I was
second mate at the time. On shore the Old Man,
owing to his unkempt appearance, was known as
Dirty Shirt Jackson. After paying the crew off
he’d wander from pub to pub with them and drink
their pay while they drank his, and there was no
let-up until the exchequer was busted. At sea be
was a different proposition—a sailor from Sailorville
and a disciplinarian to be reckoned with. We had
been running our easting down in about 50deg.
south lat., and had hauled up to make Cape Otway,
bringing the wind and sea on the port quarter. It
wus blowing a gule, with a high sea, and the old Bull-
wliaager was burying herself and leaking like a
basket. Jackson was hanging on to all the canvas
he could, taking advantage of the slant. It was
“pumps” every two hours, and the crowd got fed up.
This is where they decided on job control. They
went aft in a body and demanded that the captain
should take in sail, with the alternative that they
would do no more pumping. Jackson eyed them
shrewdly. “All right," he said, “if you won’t
pump you won’t; but there’s not a damn stitch o’
canvas coming off this hooker l’ve got a fair wind
and I’m goin’ to carry on. Don’t pump, you swine,
and we’ll all go to Ilell together 1” Jackson secured
the two pump-handles and took them to his room.
After a while the old Bullwhanger began to get
sluggish and settle down. The helmsman complained
that she wouldn’t steer, and green seas were coming
over the rail and dropping like lead on the decks.
MUCH SAFER.
THE SISTER: “What sort of husband do you
think I ought to marry, Dick?”
THE BROTHER: "Well, if I were you, I’d
marry a single man and 'leave the hus-
bands alone.”
Getting full up of it the crew rushed to forcibly
take the pump-handles away from the captain; but
he met them at the bottom of the companion-way
with a loaded revolver, and threatened to drill a
hole through the first man who attempted to come
down. It was not until things were getting pretty
serious that Jackson yielded to the entreaties of his
crew and put the pump-handles into commission
again. The crew pumped without ceasing for 36
hours. Their backs were aching and their hearts
broken, but they were contrite. A few days later I
saw T the skipper emerging from a Flinders-street pub.
drunk as a fiddler, arm-in-arm with two members of
his formerly recalcitrant crew. He was Dirty Shirt
Jackson once morel
FACING DEATH.
A Marching Sang for Boys going into a 70-day camp
under the Army Act.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s important to start out early if you want to be
good at the game,
And leam to snuff and see yourself on Australia’s
scroll of fame.
I'm going away to learn the salute and how to adore
camp-pie,
To acquire a taste for mutton soup and take lessons
in how to die.
So hooray, father! and pip-pip, mum!
There’s a glorious future for me;
If I give any lip I’m in Kingdom-come
When next my face you see—hee. hee!
When next my face you see!
I’m going away, dear pupper, to learn to be properly
fierce
With the sons of cooks and the sons of guns and the
sons of Senator Pierce;
But if I complain at a hero’s bed or remark that
the eornbeef sings
J II be shot at dawn by a chesty chap who doesn't
pronounce his -ings.
So it’s goodbye, pupper, and hooray, ma I
And I mightn’t be back for a while;
If I offer the corpulent colonel a jar.
Farewell to my boyish smile!
While Brigadier-General Wha’s-’is-narne is directing
the traffic in town
The little boys show them the soldier’s way to die
when the sun goes down.
It’s another little life laid down, dear pa, that Aus-
tralia could hardly spare ;
But shut your jaw, or they’ll plug you too if you
say it couldn’t be fair.
So it’s hooray, mummer, it’s hard to bear,
You’ll dream of my pretty ways
If the feet you tickled are dancing in air
At the end of seventy days!
If I haven’t saluted the colonel’s aunt or even the
corporal’s hat—
Bo you think it would hit me so awfully hard to die
for a thing like that?
Oh, mother of mine, the hot tears full! I may
perish—it would be dirt—
Because I failed to salute the cow that swallowed
the corporal’s shirt 1
So, it’s goodbye, pop! Mum, cut it out!
Don’t let the sad tears flow!
If we don’t “eyes front” or go “absent without”
We’ll all be hanged in a row, ho, ho!
We’ll all be hanged in a row.
VICTORIA.
F. LIDBURY HINDE.


TIME.
WM.
x/rrs
i
r#
1
T U°
U
low
The two things necessary for SUCCESSFUL milk production are—Breeding and good feeding. ,
To feed weU you must supply an a.PPe«n g ration containing the ££7^: c^yt Wed' Zt.T”
A COWMAY POSSESS m BEsToFCONSmUTIONS AND MILK QUALITIES, BUT THE VALUE OF THESE WILL DEPEND ON PROPER ,FEE_DjNG
Better feeding means better results.
By results Foods—for Horses, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Chicks, Calves—are cheaper.
@ Salt Lick lasts six times longer than rock salt. It is economical and efficient,
i i nS eed Oil Meal is the Standard of Quality.
pure Ltinseeu street Melbourne Messrs F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
AGENTS-Mcssrs. Street, Perth. Messrs . H. S. Fee ton d Co., Ltd., Quern Street, Brisbane. Messrs. Johnston & Co.,
Ltd Featherstone Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PHSKDOIIMm
/■vE&Gir: '
fWRRAM^.T
S Vx&boyonthehag
guarantees quality
it
e
HEAD OFFICE 26 KING ST SYDNEY(^aks-.Parraraatta)
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED OIL, CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
IjHSttu
'j <AeJboy on theJbag
quansntjees <juali(y


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. 8. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4Yz Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
rgelV
WHISKY
TH E TOP NOTCH ’scqtch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“J.T.C.”: Re “Wandi’.s” inquiry (B.
5/5/’?l) as to a cross between corella ami galah.
I hay« robbed the nests of both for many years, and
although the birds feed, fly and breed in the same
places, often in the same trees, they apparently draw
the line. But f have taken both young galahs and
young corollas front the same nests often enough for
it to be no novelty ; and I find on inquiry that others
have occasionally done the same. I record the
following: 1900, Burrabogie station, two eorellas
and one galah in a nest; 1903, Uardrv station, one
galah mothered by a corella ; 1903, Wyvern station,
two corollas and one galah, all just about to fly.
Evidence was on hand in the last case showing that
a galah was first in possession of the nest. She
probably laid, only to be driven out by the eorellas.
and her egg was hatched and the young one reared
with the eorellas. There was absolutely no trace of
a cross in any of the cases quoted. W. Eason, one-
time coach-contractor at Hay (N.S.W.), witnessed
the taking of the two eorellas and one galah from
a nest at Burrabogie. He had bet. the nest would
contain thfee birds. Asked what he knew, he re-
marked that a galah had first had the nest, and
between the galah and corella he expected there
would be at least three birds.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide man has dis-
covered a natural jumper in a black sheep, and has
trained him over hurdles till now, as a • fpur-year-
old, he can do sft. Bin. He is expected to improve
further, and a match against a good horse is talked
of. The woolly acrobat belongs to Hall, of the
Abattoirs, and can be seen in action any market
day.
“Barcoo”: “Dr. Nil” (B. 21/4/’2l) is
wrong in saying that the late G. L. Kemp (S.A.)
was the first importer of that now almost universal
breed of sheep-dog, the kelpie. In the first place
the kelpie is a local (Australian) product and not
an importation. Twenty years ago any sheep-dog of
note was a kelpie, a barb or a tully, The first-
named were by far the most numerous and were a
station breed that came into prominence as intelli-
gent sheep-workers, being named after Kelpie, the
racehorse. The barb breed also made a name for
themselves outside their original home, “Big”
Burrawang (N.S.W.). They were jet-black, with
small pricked ears, and were christened after the
famous black thoroughbred. The tully took the
name of its breeders (N.S.W. station owners), but
it never came into prominence, as did the other two.
* * t * *
“Golub”: “Dido” (B. 5/5/’2l) says the
bite of the goanna is “believed to be poisonous.”
The go. might not be a venomous reptile in the
ordinary sense, but its bite is pretty deadly if the
wound is not immediately attended to and sterilised.
The curved front teeth of the go. are grooved on the
inside (probably an evolutionary modification of the
poison-duet of the snake), and in this groove par-
ticles of the 'go.’s tucker collect and . decay. There
is no need to dilate on what its tucker usually con-
sists of. When it bites, this decomposed matter in-
fects the wound, in which it remains after the teeth
are withdrawn, and often, even with immediate
treatment and care, the result is a suppurating
wound, which may take months or even years to heal.
One feature of the infection is that, just as the
wound lias healed and closed up and the patient is
congratulating himself, it breaks open again. The
infection, of course, is a bacterial one, but evidently
the organisms with which the punctures are infected
are of an especially virulent strain.
* * * z
“Pongo”: Re “Sand Seeker’s” punt (B.
5/5/’21)“ which the white ants devoured although
it was nowhere near land when the termites were
at work. There was enough moisture in the punt
to obviate the necessity of seeking it elsewhere.
White ants cannot live without periodical soaks
of moisture; hence when working ashore they go
'to the earth for it, and if unable to get it they
sky the towel
“Steve Hart”: Nobody living on the coast
of N. S.
need buy
real good
main stem,
shape of the
very tough
can be fas-
bowyang.
Wales where bangalows grow
leggings. Every branch has a
legging on it, just at the
It only requires cutting to the
instep and the calf. It is
and absolutely watertight and
tened by strap or ordinary
TAKING NO RISKS OF COLOR-BLINDNESSL.
BOSS: “Jacky, I suppose you have had a good swim?"
JACKY: “No plurry fear, Boss!”
BOSS: ” Why, Jacky?”
JACKLY : “Too many shark, Boss.”
BOSS: “But, Jacky, don't you know sharks will never touch black men?”
JACKY: “All right, Boss; but one of them plurry fellows might be blind.”
“Stove Mart”: The kurrajong-tree, apart
trorn its fodder value in drought times, has been
proved by a Hindu named Sunda who has a farm at
Ivy ogle (N.S.W.) to afford in its bark a splendid
material for making rope similar to that manufac-
tured from ordinary hemp. He simply immerses the
hark in water for a few days, when the fibre comes
away freely. He makes all the rope he requires
from it, and he exhibited a sample recently which,
though not half-an-inch thick, pulled I>] ton.
“Boorara”: During the recent dry spell
only one hole in the creek had contained water
for some weeks, and was eagerly frequented from
sundown to sunup by rabbits, bandicoots and, more
particularly, wombats. After the hole dried out a
party of wombats took over the site and excavated
a hole about 4 ft. in diameter. At first the hole was
about lOin. deep, and sufficient water drained in
during the day to water all the furry folk that
called. Then as the sand drained the depth of the
hole was increased until at about 2ft. 6in. a hard
rock bottom was met. Friend ’bat was pot dis-
mayed, for next morning I found that seven tunnels,
each about 16ft. long, had been driven out from the
bottom of the hole in different directions, and a
good water supply was still maintained.
**. * *
“Pick” : There may be something in
“Hamer’s” suggestion (B. 28/4/’2l) that immunity
from snake venom can be inheritec}. Pups born
from a mother that during the period of gestation
went down to and recovered from tick poison are
themselves afterwards tick-proof. Immunity also
comes from frequent inoculation. Bee-farmers never
swell abnormally as strangers do from bee-stings, nor
do bush children suffer the after-effects of stings
from bulldog ants, as do city visitors. Neverthe-
less, unaccountably, there are occasions when even
snake-bite produces little harmful effect. On a
South Coast (N.S.W.) dairy farm a few summers ago
a new-ehum Londoner one evening came in with the
information that he had that morning slain a long
“begstie” which, when turned up by the harrow
tines, had nipped his leg. He had the punctures
of a venomous snake to show in the centre of a small
swelling, but suffered nothing more. In the paddock
we found that he had belted Nicholas out of a three-
foot tiger, using the swingle-bar to do it with.
“Homo”: Anent “Jim Carew’s” suggestion
(B. 21/4/’2l) as to laying in the winter supply of
goanna oil, when I mentioned it to Limpy Lannigan.
the oldest inhabitant of our rheumatic circle, he
spat fiercely and denounced Jim as an ignoramus for
being unaware that go. oil was kicked into Limbo,
years and years ago, by the united boot and blas-
phemy of enlightened rheumatised martyrs and medi-
cine men, because if steadily persisted in it would
rot even the bone out of a Greenland whale.
“Aloysius”: I hereby tender my affidavit
supporting “Don Mac’s” story (B. 7/4/’2l) of the
M.L. trapper who,' having ripped open his lower
abdomen, sewed tip; the fleshy tear with his bootlaces,
using the tongue of his belt-buckle as a needle.
But in the interests of the strict truth which “'Don
Mac” and I have so much at heart, I must point
out his error when he says that, the operation com-
pleted, outraged nature collapsed and the trapper
fainted. What happened was that the trapper, on
resuming his journey, found his progress hampered
by his laceless boots flapping about his feet. He
was <a man ,of resource, as “Don Mac” has already
shown. He took off his boots, and with his teeth
drew from their soles several hob-nails. Then he
rcp'latdd the boots and nailed the uppers securely to
his ankles, using his knuckles as a hammer. It
was after this that he fainted. But even then it was
not necessarily on account of what he had just
passed through. He told us he remembered seeing
an old goat just before he went down and out. He
might have got a whiff of him.
* * * *
“11.V.E.” : Among fishes the flesh of which
is considered poisonous are the sea-porcupines, or
porcupine-fish. While netting mullet on the weedy
flats of a South Coast (N.S.W.) estuary writer has
occasionally taken several of these strange forms,
running to about 18in. in length. As a rule, the
sharp spines which dover the body lie flat, but when
pore, declares war he erects them, and they then
serve ns a formidable armature. Waders who step
with bare feet on porcupine-fish usually break into
a dance, but I’ve never heard of serious damage being
done, because the spines are seldom erect at the time.
HER PREFERENCE.
MAGISTRATE (to hesitant witness): “Why
won't you kiss the hook?"
MITNESS (coyly) : “Av .yon plage, your
Honor, I'd sooner kiss the policeman."
After rough weather these fish can often be found
lying dead on beaches or in roc-k clefts. The large
stomach or body cavity usually contains a good deal
of sand. When at home pore, constantly sucks in
water, strains off the animalcul*, small crustaceans,
etc., and ejects it. When landed he usually empties
his tank, becomes flat, and loses his balloon shape.
(Continued on page 22.)
OLD ’ENERY AND THE OCTOPUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a tarred old fisherman, with stubble on his
chin,
Who sat and smoked —his shrivelled cheeks worked
strangely out and in.
He marked a baby octopus that in the -seaweed lay
Upon the rugged, storm-swept rocks surrounding
Neutral Bay.
“Ho, never kill them things,” said he.
“Such acts once nearly done fer me.
“Two innocent young devil-fish I sees, and I must
take
And claw them up from out the sea. I cot them with
a rake,
And then I pulled ’em inside out, and they'd done
me no ’arm.
The day was fair, the sky was blue, the water it
was calm.
I dreamed no mother octopus
Would ever persecute me thus.
“That night I’m sittin’ in me house beyond the gas-
works fair,
The face is at the winder-pane. By Gawd, I sees it
there !
It’s peering through, and blinkin’ mad, and mouthin'
fearfully ;
A funny sort of goo-goo eyes the devil makes at me.
It is the. mother fish I've brung
Down on me, mournin’ for her young.
“That octopus is like a ton of dough. So ’elp me,
boss,
Its beak is like the horn upon a old rhinocer-oss ;
Its feelers I can hear a-slidin’ up and down the
walls,
And one comes down the ehimbley, and mournfully
it calls.
It tries the door. I’m cold as dead,
Me hair is walkin’ round me head.
‘And then it is I falls upon me wicked knees to
pray,
And ’Enery feels he’ll never see the blessed light
of day,
Some feelers creep along the roof, and one is round
the back,
And one is wavin’ o’er me what she’s pushin through
a crack. A
I hadn’t time to jump afore
Deliberit it opes the door.
THE MUSTARD CURE;
GOANNA: “I say, you're making it pretty
hot, ain’t you—the last egg I got of
yours was full of mustard."
“And now I fetches such a yell, and darts to ’ide
meself
Within the ’ardwood cupboard, crouchin’ underneath
the shelf.
And slidin’, slippin’ in me house, a-smotherin’ it with
slime,
She comes, the flamin’ octopus, bent on a ’orrid
crime.
I hears the monster sloshin’ round;
Me ’eart is leapin’ at the sound.
“It searches in the milk jug, and it dips into me
beer.
It sucks the keg quite emp’y, and more awful is me
fear.
A sober octopus is bad, what mortal man would wish
To have to deal bare-’anded with a drunken devil-fish?
Me life is dwindled to a span—
I wisht I’d bin a better man.”
The old man wept ; he blew his nose. ’Twas like
the trump of doom.
“I’m waitin’,”. said he, “till the fish looks in another
room, -
Then for the topmost storey skips. I jumps five feet
or more—
The thing is feelin' at me as I reach the second floor.
I’m on’y addin' to me cares —
The fish is flotnid’rin’ up the stairs
“I s’pose you know a devil-fish a ’undred arms has
got?
Well, ten of them was after me. I through the
winder shot.
With jest a prayer for Heaven's 'elp, 1 jumps into a
tree,
And as I fell the suckers pinched, and sucked, and
fumbled me.
I ran and ran on in the dark.
Until I come to Callan Park.
“They found me .’ouse pulled to the ground, and all
among the stones
A mighty big -cow-octopus was seekin’ for me bones.
They slaughtered her. ’Tis years ago, but when the
black night falls
I think I hear an octopus a-prowlin’ on the walls.
I feel her suckers cold, 1 swear,
A sort of fumblin’ in me hair.”
The old man sobbed again. Said he: “These baby
devil-fish
I feed with meat. I let them bite me big toe if
they wish,
That never more a mother one in angry mood may
steal
And pull me ’ouse about me ears, and ravenously
squeal,
Pursuin’ ’Enery through the dark
The long, lone way to Callan Park.”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


MATCHED FOR SERVICE-A PLANT “WORTHY OF ITS HIRE”
Don’t take
our word
for it—
Prove it
Yourself!
n
LITTLE WONDER"
2-stand Shearing 8 Cmtching Outfit!
Every ‘ Little Wonder’ in use has main-
tained the record for “unmatched service
that has earned for this machine an envi-
able reputation throughout ijthe Shearing
World.
The outfit is strong, prac-
tical, economical and con-
venient. It has successfully;
settled the shearing and
crutching problem for over
1000 Australian wool-
growers.
When shearing is completed the
“Little Wonder” Engine will be
found invaluable for spraying sheep,
pumping, woodsawing, etc.
An illustrated leaflet giving further
particulars will be posted on request.
Shed Plants in larger or smaller outfits of the same high
quality can be also supplied.
o
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clarke & Fauset, Brisbane. Harris Scarfe, Ltd., Perth. Australasian Implement & H. F. Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
N. Z. Loan & M. A. Co., Hughenden, Townsville & Rockhampton. J. A, Semple & Co., Wellington Street, Launceston.
■ .
ms
'His Master's voice"*
p O*v«tC»»*
“HIS MASTER S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONES
and COLUMBIA
GRAFONOLAS
are constructed specially for playing
“His Master’s Voice” and “Columbia”
RECORDS.
The following Celebrated Artists record exclusively for
the Gramophone—
Melba, Galli Curci, Caruso, Ruffo, Heifetz,
Kirkby Lunn.
For the Grafonola—
Constantino, Daisy Kennedy, Sir Henry Woods’
Orchestra, and the Coldstream Guards Band.
BUY YOUR GRAMOPHONE AND COLUMBIA
RECORDS AT
PALINGS
We have thousands of records to select from and six
nicely appointed showrooms where you can hear records
in comfort.
' MAGIC NOTeS
TAAO6 MARA
w. H. PALING & CO., LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE and NEWCASTLE.


FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
Keep your nerves and blood in good order by taking
CLEMENTS TONIC
Build up your system now to withstand winter colds, chills and
epidemics. CLEMENTS TONIC will help you; keep a bottle handy and take
an occasional dose when you’re feeling off color.
“Mellish Reef”: Mention of the albatross
being “chatty” (B. 5/5/’2l) reminds me .of the
booby, a tropical sea-bird. He is easily top of the
class for vermin, and is a don’t-care sort of fellow
all round. He will often land on a steamer, gener-
ally on the bridge or boat deck, towards sunset, and
stay there till daylight. 1 have often grabbed one
and held him for a minute or so—but have always
had to drop him and make for the fire buckets to
wash my hands. I believe it was Captain Cook that
gave these birds their well-deserved name. The
albatross, by the way, will not alight on deck, as the
booby does.
* # * «
“Spare Corp”: A man who kept himself
absolutely free from vermin in the trenches told me
his method was to dose himself regularly with
sulphur, a supply of which he always carried. Used
to bush-whacking, he said the same method made
him a non-sufferer from the attentions of fleas even
in the most flea-haunted places-—they simply hopped
away directly they got a whiff of the sulphur,
although it gave him no odor that was perceptible
to the human nose.
* * . -<* •
“J.G.”: Some years back there was a
family row near Kerang (Vic.), and in the mClfe
the father got. killed by one of the sons. It came
out at the trial that the son could pick up three
coils of fencing-wire, weighing a cwt. each, with
each arm and walk off with the whole 6cwt. He
could also lift the lot off the ground at once and
dump it into a dray. That was my No. 1 strong
man. No. 2 was a young cocky at Kamarooka, near
Bendigo (Vic.), who was able to pick up a four-
bushel bag of wheat bv the lugs' and lift it into
a dray. If anyone thinks this is only a moderate
feat let him try to lift an ordinary thrcc-bushel
bag of wheat so that the top of the bag will be
level with his head.
“Xamilc”: I was sympathising with Larry
upon his failure to induce old man Coyle to accept
him as a son-in-law. “It’s not because Vs got
anythink agenst me,” said Larry. “’E knows I got
er good job an’ mean ter keep it. It’s just ’is
flamin’ cross-grained temper, Look, Bill, ’e’s that
flamin’ contrary that if yer threw ’im inter ther
crimson Murray the old blank ’d float up stream!”
“Audio”: The two of them came in to-
gether, a big, flash, racy-lookitig chap and a little
weed of a man with a big moustache that, seemed
to owe its hue to constant immersion in an amber
liquid. The prosperous one ordered the drinks, hut
they were only half-way through them when a man
approached and engaged him in conversation. The
big chap turned his hack on his humble friend to
carry on a long and animated argument with the
A BAD LANDING.
THE TRAMP (suddenly hearing lurid lan-
guage): "Struth, I though yer was the
parrot up at the pub!"
new arrival, and the pair of them ordered rounds of
three drinks turn and turn about. “You’re getting
a lot of neglect,” said the sympathetic barmaid to
the little man. “Oh, that don’t matter, miss,” he
replied, running his tongue' round his moustache.
"I’m getting a lot of beer, too.”
“Eddysou”: I have often wondered if
Ryley succeeded in his mission. He was a one-
legged man. I saw him first at the Wallow spring
show, where his dog took first prize for arithmetic.
Ryley had trained his dog for a turn in a circus
or at the music-halls, and the animal was his
proudest possession. When Ryley was showing off
his dog he was like a mother displaying the perfec-
tions of her first-born. Camping was the gifted
tyke’s big effort. He assembled the wood, lit the
NOW HE'LL BE ABLE TO TELL 'EM.
CITY YOUTH: “What's that the calf is licking!"
COW FARMER : “That's rock salt, my hoy."
CITY YOUTH: “Go hon! I've often wondered how corn-beef teas made!"
fire, filled the billy and grilled the chops. Then
he washed up, lit his pipe and lolled by the fire
reading The Bulletin. When I next saw Ryley
I was staying at a. hotel in Morwell. He came
crutehing it clown the road with an axe over his
shoulder. There were, two farmers on the verandah,
and Ryley addressed these, resting his axe on the
ground. “See a big yaller motor-car pass through?”
he asked. No, no motor-car had passed to their
knowledge. “Splitting?” asked one, looking at the
axe. “No,” said Ryley raising the weapon; “that’s
for the feller in the motor-car. He druv over Horace
and broke his back. The best blanker in Australia,
Horace was.” Here the landlord chipped in from
his leaning-place in the doorway. “There was a
feller went through in a yellow motor-car, a feller
with a big moustache.” “That’s him,” said Ryley,
bracing his crutch. “But he was makin’ for Melbin
and it was two days ago.” “That’s him,” repeated
Ryley, and he hobbled off on his one leg and a
stick, resolutely heading for Melbourne and some
motorist unknown. “Say,” cried the landlord, “was
this Horace any relation of yours?” “Yes,” replied
Ryley, “he was. He was my dog.”
* * , * *
“Steve Hart”: The Aussie-bred mule will
beat the camel, both for weight-pulling and for dis-
tance travelled with or without water. The camel,
unless specially trained, is a fraud and a delusion
as to his abstinence from water. Take a came]
used to going, say, 40 miles without water, and
try him on a 60-mile stage. I’ll bet he lays down
at 45, and all the hooshtas in nine languages won’t,
shift him further. But he’ll go back.
* * *
“Harry Banyan”: “Aragun (B. 14/4/’2l)
asks if any Abo. writer has seen a dog tackle a death-
adder. Here’s a ease since his par. was written.
On April 22, while crossing my cultivation patch
accompanied by my cattle-dog Ginger, a noted snake-
killer, and Tiny, a fox-terrier, we came upon a big
death-adder. Ginger and Tiny sprang upon him
simultaneously, and in a few- seconds he was out.
But in the scrap Tiny was bitten on the nose. I
administered a dessert-spoonful of ground alum, but
the little chap died four hours later. The adder,
which measured 2ft. Bin., is now in methylated
spirits at my home in Mackav (Q.).
* * * *
“Trochus”: Can any Abo. tell me how
long it takes to hatch a crocodile’s egg? 1 once
unearthed 40, and on breaking one found in it a
partly-formed croc. I put the rest In an artificial
nest, and 36 hatched out six weeks later. I presume
from this that the period is two months. I tried
six eggs some time before, but omitted to put wire-
netting over the box, and in course of time I found
six holes in the straw and six miniature croc, tracks
in the sand all heading for home and mother. An-
other time I put three eggs on a shelf in the bath-
room. I can’t say how long they lay there, but,
believing them hopeless, I threw them in the garden
and then had to sprint to catch three young lizards.
In unearthing scores of nests I’ve never yet found
more than 40 eggs. “Vigiians” some years ago
mentioned 70 in a nest. They must have been leg-
horns.
“Carna”: While on venomous snakes let
me introduce as one of the most deadly the New
Guinea water-snake, which, properly speaking, can-
not be classified as an Australasian reptile, since it
has no counterpart outside New Guinea. Its poison
belongs to the viperine group, and I know of two
cases in which death has followed its bite within an
hour, one victim being a native police-boy at
Madang and the other a Kanaka in the EitapS dis-
trict. The reptile’s favorite habitat is among rocks
at low tide, although more than once I have seen
It as much as 10 miles out at sea. The natives have
a mortal dread of it, and if a boy only thinks that
he has been bitten he will simply lie down and die.
The water-snake’s gland-secretion is of a distinctly
green color, of the tint known as sap-green, and
since the greater part of its food is made up of the
creatures found between low and high tides on the
sand and rocks, this can hardly be ascribed to the
large amount, of calorophyll which is contained in
tropical vegetation.
* • * *
“Mud Splasher”: Native-cats are plentiful
and destructive up here in N.Q. Owing to their
visits to the kitchen at night, I left my domestic
Tom there recently to find out which would be the
better pug. A wild chap turned up about mid-
night, and there was a fearful scrap which awoke
the whole household. They fought for nearly an
hour, and the result was the death of the visitor;
but Tom was very badly knocked about.
* * * *
“Delhi”: “Trochus” (B. 28/4/’2l) tells of
a crocodile giving off a sickly smell when mortally
wounded. But almost every beast gives off a peculiar
smell then. Let “Trochus” walk past the next dog
he puts a bullet into, and he’ll smell the death-
stink at a distance of 6ft. or 6ft.
* * *
“Myalla”: Re carnivorous marsupials (B.
21/4/’2l). A grey kangaroo-joey, which was reared
by my brother-in-law as a pet, used to go with the
dogs when we were hunting rabbits and take part
in the chase. While the rabbits were being skinned
the kangaroo would push the dogs aside and eat the
livers and kidneys voraciously. After a gorge one
day she became sick, and blood-like froth issued
from her mouth and nose for nearly a week. We
diagnosed the case as a piece of liver stuck in her
gullet, for she continually tried to scratch her
throat with her fore paws. She recovered, only to
die six months later from eating some rabbit poison.
* * * .
“Billy T.” : It was in the Gippsland hills
out from Traralgop. The gang was seeking an enor-
mous coal-seam supposed to exist in the locality,
and Brass was one of the number. It was Brass
discovered Balcony Rock. He came into camp gush-
ing about it. “It juts right out over the gorge above
the waterfall,” said he. “A lovely place to hang
yourself from. You couldn’t get a better. Fasten
the rope to the rook and just walk off, and there
you are.” On Sundays Brass would go and sit on
the side of the gorge among the pink heather, and
look up at Balcony Rock, marvelling at its per-
fections considered as a gallows. The only man
of the party who did not curse Brass as a morbid
brute was Hansen, a deplorable deadbeat picked
up in the bush, and engaged as cook and washer-
up. One Sunday evening Brass came into camp
in a condition of restrained excitement. “You know
the Balcony Rock?” he panted. “I discovered it,
didn’t I? ’Twas me always said it would be a
glorious place for a hanging. Wasn’t it ray find?
Straight, wasn’t it? Well, here’s that cow of a
Hansen been and used iti”
"Homo”: Deeming me a snake bite expert
because I once had a par. in the Abo. column, a lady
friend Outback has written me for something con-
clusive on this matter. Her child, aged seven, was
bitten in bed one night. She was hurried off to a
doctor, who said that it wasn’t a case of snakebite.
There were no dangerous symptoms meanwhile, nor
after, but next day another doctor (the family quack,
who couldn’t be located the night before) said “it
most certainly was snakebite,” but that the child
had been bitten through a blanket. Medico No. 1
opined the punctures were too far apart for snake-
bite. The distance was half-an-inch when the child’s
arm was extended, though when the arm was doubled
up in the position in which the child was sleeping
the punctures were slightly closer together. Medico
No. 2 avers he saw five cases this year and "the
bites were of no uniform size.” Now the lady asks
my ruling to place the matter beyond doubt. Accord-
ingly, from the raft of my impotent helplessness, I
cast the case upon the Abo. waters. Can a diagnosis
be based upon the distance between the punctures?
“Audio”: Though I lived close to blacks
in Westralia for three years, I never saw them
kindle a fire. When moving from one place to
another the' bucks leave the track continually in
search of game, but the gins stay on the beaten
path, keeping alight the smouldering pieces of bark
they carry. On reaching the new camp, fires are
built from these beginnings.
“Gregor^’: “Hamer’s” par as to the possi-
bility of developing immunity from snakebite poison-
ing (B. 28/4/’2l) opens up an interesting subject,
and it w'ould be a bold physiologist who would say
offhand that such a thing is impossible. Snake-
venoms, which are protein in chemical nature and
owe their toxicity to the presence in them of specific
albumoses, belong, practically speaking, to the same
class as bacterial to-xins, although in the present
state of our knowledge regarding the structure of
the latter, it is as well not to be too definite. But
we do know that these toxins, when “planted” in
tlie blood, produce antibodies—that is, substances of
an unknown chemical nature, which have the effect
of overpowering and neutralising bacterial toxins or
poisons. This is the basis of treatment by antitoxins,
sera and vaccines, and recent research has shown
that the property of aoting as an antigen (a sub-
stance capable of producing an antibody) is not
confined to toxins alone, but is present as well in
enzymes, such as zymase, the fermenting principle
of yeast, or trypsin, a human digestive ferment.
These enzymes, when extracellular in nature, stand
in the same relation to the cell which produces them
as do the toxins to the organism which secretes it,
and are of similar chemical structure, as far as w»e
know at present. Hence, if these bodies can pro-
duce antibodies which arc able to neutralise their
antigens, why cannot snake-venom, which, structu-
rally, resembles them, do likewise? In India and
U.S.A. efforts have been made to produce an anti-
body to snake-venom, knowm as “antivenene,” for
THE EARLY BIRD.
THE BOASTER: “ The man who nets out to
skin me of anything has got to get up
pretty early in the morning"
use in the treatment of reptilian poisoning. The
method of preparing it is to inject minute quanti-
ties of venom (much less than what is necessary
to cause death) into a healthy horse, and to increase
gradually the quantity until immense amounts are
given without harmful effects, by reason of the pres-
ence of the antibodies which have been continually-
forming. Unfortunately', however, these antibodies,
when taken from the horse and injected into a person
bitten by a snake, are not as useful as might be
thought, because of the specificity of the venom
of the snake. For instance, antivenene prepared
from cobra venom would be of no use for tht
treatment of krait poisoning, nor would antivenene
formed from one variety of cobra or krait venom be
of use in treating a person suffering from the venom
of another variety. Hence “Hamer’s*’ immunide
would have to be nipped always by the one kind of
snake. Anyhow, there is room for an immense amount
of research work in this connection.


U 2.
*4.
•w
•**
* 01* 0
•*.
.i
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality—a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
CIGARETTES
N 9333
20 roB 1/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
/
P 1
%
car
•^er>
vD
SSJi
1
V
<o
V
®°
<J-
<S*
o
o
LARGE SIZE
mm
ttt
c
mm
a
r r
wm


-
:®i
i* 1
AAr
i
/;
“U
- i ;..
i - ■
§l§glpl
r i ..v»J
&
/S
* i f ®
I • ‘
I ■
rS:, . t
4
ft
•■ i < ' V; *
is 2 l v
I ' K
s"'-f'vs^
i
m
i / />
® I R j
;\l
'.»* r .* -iL ’:
HHp I
Slit-?.: i
:*T
m
*3v&
Wi, : :■*'«
*■
wipr
<• *
i j
'■z3*xx.* n x>&S&&,
Highest Quality Reflected in
Sturdy Road Service
Perdriau Tyres reflect, in their dependable service
on the road, the skill of the trained craftsmen
who build them.
PERDRIAU AUSTRALIAN TYRES
Manufactured from selected rubber compounded
into the famous wear* resisting Perdriau tread,
and built up with ply upon ply of stout British
fabric, these sturdy Perdriau Tyres give long
consistent service and maximum tyre security.
Fit cPerdriaus for %jmning Economy
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney 122 Flinders St., Melbourne 217 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Grenfell St. and Hindmarsh Sq., Adelaide 212/4 Murray St., Perth
mn
i M
’ %%£%■
.
mg
. ■ ■
. • j
.
1
. a
m


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. tke
Fife's
% %\
S *W*
m
m
\
N
r *o u
W ts
/ff' "co^-S
'WW'ft
CROUP
■*£.S*a6i~
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
. ■
Chest Troubles
A Plain
Fact!
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. 6. Hearne&Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
I£ >-
the crude snobbery of Caste had to become
the skilful snobbery ot “Lady Windermeie s
Fan,” and later the artificial unsnobbishness
of “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray before it
reached the simplicity of Man and Super-
man.” But in the main the job was done,
every actor from the "lead ’to the mono-
syllabic butler had to be a Garrick living
and not acting his part. . 1
So in the end the literature which started
the game cahie into it again. Ae.schylus s
task was as hopeless under the slave-laws
and vagrancy by-laws of Athens as was
Shakspeare’s under practically the same
laws in England. But the laws are gone,
and the actor has no master now save the
art of acting. Hence “Riders to the Sea*
“The Playboy of the Western World.
“Deirdre ” all great achievements of letters,
are played by unlettered, natural men and
women —great achievements in the art ot act-
ing. too, the unconquerable power of sim-
plicity presenting the author’s thoughts as
ho thought them. I choose the Irish plays
rather than “Hindle Wakes,” “Strife, or
“Fanny’s First Play” because they are,
acted by Yeats’s peasant company, the last
word in utter naturalness, and tor me the
finest examples to cate of the actor s art
of showing a writer’s thought uncolored by
the actor’s thought.
DENIS MAHON.
The Reputation-bursting Habit
Periodically it becomes the fashion to say
of any man whose reputation has survived
a considerable time that he is “an exploded
force” or "a pricked bubble” ; and now Hilary
Lofting affirms (It.P. 2S/4/’2l) that ‘the
bubble of Carlyle as publicist burst about -U
years ago,” though "the bursting was not
proven until 1914.” The date (1914) is, ot
course, just the time one would expect tor u
revulsion of feeling concerning the reputa-
tion of a great Englishman who had com-
mitted the eror of discovering for his country-
men undoubtedly great Germans like Goethe,
Schiller and Frederick, and unknown German
achievements in poetry, philosophy and ad-
ministration. We are not now concerned
whether Carlyle was right in his judgments
of his heroes. But let us admit that our own
judgments as well as Carlyle’s concerning
those who became as a nation our discredited
enemies will have to be revised at a later day
free from what Herbert Spencer calls the
blinding effect of the bias of patriotism.
I note carefully that Mr. Lofting speaks of
the bubble Carlyle “as a publicist,” and this
may look like a material reservation. But a
publicist is an uncertain sort of person. The
word denotes a writer on the law of nations
and of nature or upon current political
topics. Nbw, Carlyle’s work is such a mix-
ture of history, laws of nations, biography,
ethics, morals and politics that no one can
put the “publicist” into his water-tight com-
partment.
One sees at once that Mr. Lofting betrays
the besetting fault of the hostile critic, of
judging his subject only from the worst as-
pects. It is not thus that reputations are burst.
Stress is laid on the ill-mannered epigrams
and snarling acerbities of the dyspeptic old
man, the sonorous dubiously-sensible dog-
matisms of “Sartor” and the undue glori-
fication of Prussian character —a debatable
question, - by the way. One looks through
the article in vain for a word to even sug-
gest the quality in Carlyle that made his
reputation as a publicist and otherwise and
—pace the exploders!—perpetuates it: his
unflagging honesty of purpose and great
moral force. To see and understand this it
is not necessary to agree with a single con-
clusion of his. As the handmaid of that
there passes unnoticed, too, his character-
istic zeal for Truth. It may be Truth as he
saw it, but the ideal is always. there, and
almost every page Carlyle wrote gives evidence
of it, with a sincerity that must impress the
most cynical. Contrast his historical method
with that, for instance, of Macaulay, with
his “purple patches” of fine writing and his
everlasting sets of antitheses; this period
contrasted with that, so many advantages, so
many defects; in this character so many
ranked virtues, so many vices. “Such vras
the character of King Quidnunc, called by
his admirers The Great and by his enemies
The Foolish.” Pleasant word-spinning, with-
out verification or stimulus. Carlyle does at
least give us a vivid picture of man and
time, with authority, chapter and page for
every fact; going out of his way continually
to point out the discrepancies and doubtful
matter in everything he cites. He allows no
ambiguity or obscurity, not even his own, to
pass; sitting always, as it were, at the
reader’s elbow. One knows he is not going to
be palmed off with dubious phrases and
authoritative say-so’s when the author him-
self doesn’t know. In a sentence, he is free
from the tricks of the trade, and for that
should have our grateful thanks. Has his
great gospel of work —honest and purposeful
—and the Joy of Life (of which he got
little enough himself, poor devil!) no
“publicist” value in these days? Was any
doctrine of German efficiency dinned into
the ears of Britons harder than this world-
wide gospel? Does not his line: “Give, O
give us the man who sings at his work!”
strike a singing chord, in the soul of any but
a Direct Actionist? Has any publicist more
trenchantly exposed the curse of leisured in-
dolence in Britain and its inevitable issue?
So much for the ethical side. On the
practical, it should be enough to have dis-
covered Cromwell for his countrymen: to
have found him to be something more than
the sanctimonious, hypocritical regicide of
earlier history; to have discerned in the
French Revolution more than an outbreak of
murderous ruffians; to have shown us Goethe
and Burns in the light of world-poets, who
thought great things and expressed them —
in fact, the things Carlyle could not express
himself. So that there is a big balance to
set against the irritating obscurities, the in-
tolerant sneers and the occasional dogma-
tisms, which no one wants to deny.
ALEX. SOMERRYLLE.
Schliemann
Perhaps the most remarkable figure in
the whole 19th century was that of the curi-
ously un-German German, Heinrich Sehlie-
mami. His claim to fame is that through
his archaeological discoveries he revolution-
ised the modern view of Greek myth and
consequently that of the whole of ancient
history. As a child he became passionately
fond of the Homeric story, and his very
earliest ambition was to learn' Greek ; but his
family lost its money, and at 14 he had to
go into a grocer’s shop. Then his health
failed, and he could not get employment.
After facing the hardest sort of luck he
shipped as a cabin-boy, and had the good
fortune to be wrecked on the Dutch coast.
Tn Amsterdam he became an office-boy ; and
five years later lie was sent to , St, Peters-
burg as agent of the firm. Seventeen years
of successful business made him a million-
aire ; and he then retired from the prelimin-
ary skirmish to take up his real work.
During his business years Schliemann had
acquired most languages, had become an
American citizen through the accident of
being in California at the time when it was
recognised as a State, and had visited the'
historic spots in Greece and Egypt; but
these things counted for nothing among the
scholars and historians. Grote had treated
the Greek myth as the mental child’s play
of a primitive nation, an accumulation of
the stories of the people’s nursery, preserved
partly on account of their religious bearing
and partly because of their poetic adapt-
ability, but having no real relation to any
ascertainable facts. When, therefore, the
millionaire dabbler in Archaeology came into
the field with a theory that the story oF
Troy was historical, he met with something
like ridicule. If there had been a real Troy its
ruins should remain; but the very site of
the supposed city was not certainly known.
And then the argument came to an abrupt
ending, for Schliemann went out a'nd found
the city, proved it to have been very much
as Homer had described it, and brought back
from the excavated ruins a great treasure
of golden ornaments of the Homeric kind.
His instinct for the right place was almost
miraculous. Of dozens of possible mounds
he generally began digging at the right one;
and everywhere his discoveries added enor-
mously to our knowledge of the ancient
world. At the time of his death he was
turning his attention to Crete, where Evans
and others have lately carried on his work
with such remarkable results.
Meantime he had built a house in Athens
and married a Greek wife. Between his
spells of digging he lived a life half-classical,
half-modern. The floors of the house were
Trojan mosaic ; the walls were adorned with
Greek friezes. He read Greek classics every
day; he received Stock Exchange lists by
every post; his wife wore in her own home
the jewels and ornaments that Cassandra
might have worn in Troy. Successful in all
that he had attempted, and having fully
vindicated the early opinions that romance
and scholarship combined to form, he was
yet free from all dogmatism in discussing
questions with his opponents.
His was, of course, the work of the daring
pioneer whose conclusions and beliefs must
be modified by the continuation of the work
he began. Troy, in the- latest view, is not
quite what he thought it. It was evidently
a capital city of vast importance and wealth;
yet it falls into a smaller space in the light
of other discoveries. But Schliemann did
actually lay bare the great sun-dried brick
walls before which Hector ,stood in his
brazen armor, did prove that the city had
been burned with fire, and did entirely alter
the values of ancient legend preserved for
after ages.
Whether Troy was or was not a Greek'
■city cannot with certainty be stated until
the Cretan inscriptions are better under-
stood. A current view is that Troy re-
presents one of the last great strongholds
of the pre-Greek Egeans, which it was the
chief pride of the Greeks that they had
succeeded ip taking. Such a theory makes
easy history; but there are difficulties in
the way of believing it. A possible explana-
tion —and the one that on all the facts
looks likely—-is that the Egeans were really
one of the elements in the make-up of the
Greek. On thill theory the Athenian would
be Dorian and Elgean in equal mixture. So
would the people of most of the Greek
States. And the Homeric story would tell
quite naturally of the deeds of Egeans on
both sides of the Trojan wall, without any
thought that the people who fought there
were other than genuine Greeks. It is no
more remarkable that Homer should take
this view than that Tennyson should tell
the idylls of Arthur, the British king, as if
those idylls belonged to the people of Anglo-
Norman England.
Before many years are past these things
will not be left to conjecture. Schliemann
proved that in dealing with the remote past
a spade and an imagination are more valu-
able than written records. That in itself
was an immense contribution to the world's
thought.
D. M. W.
A Satchel of Books
Australian Social Development, by Clarence H.
Northcott, M.A. (Columbia University Press, L'.S.A.).
While purporting to be no more than a sort of indus-
trial Blue Book, this succeeds in being a very
useful history of Australia. In a preliminary survey
the development of the States and their political
parties is traced. There is a brilliant and exhaustive
account of the social-reform movement, from the
formation of the first N. S. Wales Labor Party in
1890, to the present day, and a suggestive conclud-
ing chapter on the chief problems which face the
Commonwealth. First among the latter he .places
“States where the political capital is the commercial
capital, where the only port developed is the commer-
cial port, where the wealth of leadership, initiative and
prestige are at the service of the capital often with-
out understanding of the problems of the country.”
Hardly a fact is stated without supporting refer-
ences, hardly a' conclusion advanced without sound
arguments in its favor, and a pleasant atmosphere of
unbiassed detachment pervades the work.
Historical Records of Australia, Series 111, Vol. I.
This deals with the settlement of Port Phillip in
1803 and of Tasmania during the decade that fol-
lowed. There is an extraordinarily fine set of docu-
ments —despatches, ships’ logs and the like—though
the editor, Dr. Watson, has been baulked, so far, in
his search for several papers which are believed to
be in existence. In the mass this handsome book
gives an excellent picture of life as it was lived
on the edge of this continent a century ago.
The Prevention of Venereal Disease, by Sir G. Arcli-
dall Reid, M.B. (Heinemann). Sir Bryan Donkin, M.D.,
supplies an introductory chapter in which, after stating
that, “venereal diseases are known to stand in the
front rank of diseases which maim and kill,” he
goes on to say that they are “also such as can be
most readily prevented by prompt personal disinfec-
tion, at the time of exposure to risk.” The book is
a melancholy tale of the defeat of science at the
hands of misguided piety. In 1915 Reid had medical
charge of the troops in the Portsmouth area. The
men were being riddled by disease, and commonsense
at last prevailed over prejudice to the extent that
the establishment of venereal ablution rooms was
permitted. They did good, though, says the author,
“they were clumsy and unsurgical; if there were
infections the proper time for disinfection was imme-
diately, ' when any of the simple disinfectants in
common use would be effective.” However, by 1917
he was seeing so many V.D. cases in hospital that
lie begun a vigorous crusade on behalf of sanitation.
“Disinfect at once, at once, at once,” he told the
men. He also instructed them in the art of doing
it, and supplied the necessary material. Hear his
testimony: “Immediately venereal disease vanished
from my units. ' For six months not a single case
occurred. In two years and fofir months, during
which quite 20,000 mijn must have passed through
my hands, only seven were infected.” The fact
that this wonderful change could be accomplished
was not news to the War Office. Many ships in the
R.N. had been getting similar results by similar
methods for years. There was a man-famine in the
field, and at the same time “there were in the ven-
erea] hospitals enough officers and men, full.v-trained
soldiers, to have furnished not one army corps or
two but a great army complete from almost G.O.C.
to trumpeter.” Arrangements were made to apply
disinfection to the British troops along lines which
later almost completely banished V.D. from the
American Army. At. once the clergy, Exeter 1-lall
and the other influences which make a practice of
putting innocence before the innocent got to work
and the scheme was dropped. It is with the object
of educating his fellow-countrymen as to the state
of needless filth in which they are living that Sir
Archdall Reid has written this book. He rarely
abandons the hard, dry style of the scientists, but
one of the subjects that, does cause him to warm up
is Miss Ettie Rout (Mrs. Hortiabrook). He pays
her a most glowing tribute for her work done on
behalf of the Anzaes.
Ladyfingers, by Jackson Gregory (Scribner’s).
An American crook story, and not very different
from the rest. Ladyfingers, after the usual amazing
adventures with incredibly corrupt police, finds him-
self engaged as private secretary to an old woman
who makes millions ; and: the hard old creature melts
in the last chapter over a great-grandchild for which
the interrupted love-part of the story is responsible.
The reader will require faith as large as a mustard-
factory to believe the yarn, but it will bustle him
along, all the same.
I,antern Lane, by Warwick Deeping (Cassell). A
story of the days of the second Charles and the
plague of London. The great advantage of pitching
your story a few hundred yean* ago is that the aver-
age reader doesn’t expect ordinary things to happen
in an ordinary way, and that makes it. easv to
slap in the mystery and the excitement and the
color. But Warwick Deeping has done his romanc-
ing very well, though you do get out of patience
now and then with his incredible hero-in-spots, John
Fairfax.
The Tour, by Louis Couperus (Thornton Butter-
worth). A colorful romance of ancient Egypt by
a notable Dutch writer, too little of whose work
has been done into English. The story itself is
slight, but the book affords a fascinating picture of
Egypt as an opulent young Roman traveller about the
time of Tiberius would see it. A thing that could
only have been produced by a man who had delved
deep into ancient literature.
The Trail of the lieast, by Aclimed Abdullah
(Hutchinson). A high-speed detective and love-
story with the scene's laid in Paris, by an Afghan
“soldier, playwright, explorer and author.” His
style of writing suits this type of yarn, and he has
turned out an effective antidote to the tedium of
a railway journey.
Passover, by Beatrice Baskerville (Thornton But-
terworth). The story of the son of a rich Polish
landowner who faces ostracism for marrying a Jewess,
and whose troubles are accentuated when, in seeking
to prove that the murder of his young brother Was
not a Jewish ritual crime, he finds that the mur-
derers are members of his wife’s family incensed
at the oppressions of his fathers. The author handles
her dramatic situations well, and does some praise-
worthy character-drawing.
With Lyre and Lute, by Jack’ Eliot (Kegan Paul,
Trench, Trubner and Go.). This collection of verses
shows a little singing quality and a faint suggestion
of skill in verse-making; but there is nothing with
any definite promise. Well-worn commonplaces run
in fairly smooth verse, with a very occasional lift
to something that just misses being worth while.
Rich Relatives, by Compton Mackenzie (Martin
Seeker). A grade below his previous potboilers, “The
Vanity Girl” and “Poor Relations.” The writing
maintains its pleasant fluency, but the story dawdles
while Mackenzie indulges an impish fancy at the
expense of sundry English types. Barring the heroine,
Jasmine Grant, none of the characters have solid
reality ; every one, from Aunt Cuckoo with the seven
cats to Uncle Alec with his dilly German Prince, is
a reflection on the author’s creative faculty.
Inky Way
“Forester” (W.A.): “N.F.P.” (B. 20/l/’2l) in
correcting ;t reviewer on the Bed Page (B. 6/1/’2l)
has fallen in with a thud. The scarlet-flowering gum
(Kuo; ficifolia) occurs over only a very limited area
in Wcstralia, certainly less than 1000 acres, near
the mouth of the Bow River, 58 'miles west of
Albany. The tree “N.F.P.” writes of is the Gold-
fields red-flowering gum ( Euc. torquata), an entirely
different species, with a somewhat; large range in
the drier portions of Westralia. It has not, like
Euc. ficifolia, bean the subject of extensive cultiva-
tion throughout Australia and Africa. The man who
wrote that book-review knew what he was talking
about, whereas “N.F.P.” has reached the erroneous
conclusion that “things that look like each other are
necessarily the same,” which they are not.
“Blanc Majeur”: “E.D.’s” argument <m ' N
Spruiker in Art” (R.P. 5/5/’2l) is heavily
by the fact that it is based on a false gen re IK ;
Speaking as a Melbourne man who tramp- igh
the city’s principal shows, and excepting fie -pie
of cases'that “E.D.” instances,.! cannot r. ; ■
within the past couple of years that hine •
opened by a garrulous frock-coat. All tin.
won’t assert that the “spruiker in art” (c ug art”
in its widest application) is altogether e\Un.-> in
fact, I suspect that in another form and with ’•
influence he has gone over to Literature. w:
a man ccnnot threaten a book without 1 ;
of his press friends announcing the inn
the masterpiece, and altogether giving h
welcome that the poor painter or etcher,
his official opener thrown in, seems coi
unadvertised and neglected.


GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS -
Costs Considerably Less
than Weatherboard.
!! -
Build your new home —Interior and Exterloi
Walls, Ceilings, etc., with Hardie’s Aus-
tralian-made “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement
Sheets, and root with "Fibrolite” Slates. The
cost will be considerably less than a similar
house With exterior walls of weatherboard;
lath and plaster interior walls and ceilings,
and a tile or iron roof.
"Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-retard-
ant., white-ant proof, unaffected by sea air,
and contains absolutely nothing to rust, rot.
corrode or burn.
Write for Free Catalogue “R.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
"Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Prices
for
tty;alt’ !<iv.•> ",
Wool
nm
are not what they might be. But make the
best of the situation; Consign to —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling: Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Trade records prove the firm’s skill and
success as salesmen.
[2
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland.
JgENOBIA
n
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock—
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured, only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia t
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER,
IS, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
m
A.W. TAPS and CHASERS.
MACHINE AND HAND WORKING.
VARIOUS THREADS.
SLIDE AND HAND REST,
INTERNAL, EXTERNAL.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., Manchester, England.
8010 Australian Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & GO. LTD.,
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
STOCKS CARRIED IN ALL STATES.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
•*
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
mmessss
Model 828
for
Luxury and
Reliability.
Write us for particulars
and prices of all models.
J. >B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
13* Criterion Works. Birmingham, Eng.
Representative in New South Wales: —
Scott and Holladay, Ltd., 31a Pitt Street, Sydney.
For real
pleasure
cycling—
—ride a cycle
fitted with a
BROOKS
SADDLE,
7
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £3B/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. § W. Chandler Pty. Ltd
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
-
L2*i
...
When looking for an all-
round Grinding Machine, re-
member that Brown and
Sharpe Universal Grinding
Machines are readily adapted
to the most diverse set-up.
Brown 8 Sharpe
UNIVERSAL
GRINDING
MACHINES.
Straight or taper work, either internal or external, including abrupt
tapers and two tapers at one setting, as v/ell as saws, cutters,
reamers, etc., are all handled simply, quickly and thoroughly on
these machines.
We will gladly furnish complete details.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ****•
Business, Robbery, etc.
“B.B.”: Do safes ever wear out? At
Toctimwal CN.S.W.) there is still in con-
stant use the safe from which Ned Kelly
extracted a considerable amount of cash
when he raided the Jerilderie hank. And
that’s getting on towards 50 years ago.
» * * * .
“Cutis”: The citizens who are so fearfully
alarmed lest the new tariff will force up the
cost of living hy leading Australia into the
awful heresy of making things for herself
instead of importing them, ought to consider
the case of a certain brand of soap. It used
to be imported from Boston (U.S.A.), and
was sold at 2s. a cake. Now the cakes bear
on them the words “Made in Australia” and
cost a bob each.
* * * *
“O.”: This advt. appeared on May 11:
Applications are invited for the following positions
in the Institute of Science and Industry, viz.: (a)
Chief of the Bureau of Agriculture, (b) Chief of
the Bureau of Industries. The term of each ap-
pointment will be for the period of five years, and
the salary £1260 per annum, with annual incre-
ments of £5O up to £l5OO. W. Massy Greene,
Minister for Trade and Customs.
No doubt this is all right from the point of
view of a mathematician of the standing of
the Director of the Institute, but to a simple-
ton like me the screw for the five years appears
to be: First, £1250; second, £1800; third,
£1350; fourth, £1400; fifth, £1450. Where
does the £l5OO come in?
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Twenty years ago Comino
was a Sydney fish-shop king who gave
meals for a shilling which would amaze
the modern diner if offered at three
times the price. The service was not the
daintiest; but there was no question about
the quality and quantity of the food, and
the business seemed to pay the big Greek
well. Out of some of the profits he made
investments in land. A week or so back part
of his estate, facing the beach at Bondi, wms
sold; and the price reached the ridiculous
figure of £5O per foot. The distance between
the cheap, plentiful meal at a shilling a
head and the monstrously dear sand at £5O
per foot is .bridged hy the policy of city con-
gestion which has helped the war and its
paper money to make Sydney a terrifically
dear place.
* * * e
“Murkah”: The sending overseas of men
to investigate systems of telegraphy, tele-
phony, etc., is a waste of money. The
latest instance is the despatch to U.S.A.
by the P.M.G.’s Department of a man to
look into telephone systems, both wired and
wireless. If these trippers were chosen for
their knowledge the system might have some-
thing to recommend it; but invariably they
are men of “tact” rather than ability. The
apparent miracles of conducting a dozen or
so separate telephone conversations, as well
as a half-dozen streams of telegrams, over
one wire, or broadcasting Melba’s voice over
half a world, are really accomplished by
comparatively simple machinery. With the
aid of blue-print diagrams and the clear
technical explanations of the text-books the
principles can easily be grasped. That
is what diagrams and text-books are
for. The merits of the various systems arc
a matter of endless, unbiassed discussion in
American and English technical magazines,
which don’t require to be read in America
to be followed. It is a cert, that each
Yankee telegraph co. interviewed will claim
that its system is the best on earth, and
that all other Garddam systems are punk.
Which is one reason why these excursions
are mostly futile.
* * * •
“Friday Island” : Cockatoo Island is not
the only dockyard where stores are illicitly
“passed out” in broad daylight. I remember
one Chisel, a carpenter in another Govern-
ment yard, who had expended much depart-
mental time and material in the manufacture
of a handsome aviary in a snug retreat be-
hind a timber stack. But just as the aviary
neared completion the yard boss, who was
a member of the Order of the Winking Eye,
fell ill and an honest man got his job. Un-
perturbed, Chisel finished bis masterpiece,
ignoring his mates’ croaking that the gadget
could never be got past the New Bloke,
there is no regulation against bringing parcels
into the yard Chisel happened along one
morning with six canaries and a package of
birdcage debris, with which he plastered the
aviary. He then sought out the boss. “Sick-
ness at home, sir, and I’ve brought in an
aviary. I’ll let it go for a tenner to get
some ‘ready’.” The boss looked sympathetic,
but being honest was poor. “I’ll give you a
fiver, Chisel.” But apparently it couldn’t be
sold under a tenner. Chisel asked permission
to raffle it at half-a-crown a ticket. The boss
took two. That afternoon Chisel returned
the boss his five bob. as no other ticket had
been sold and the raffle was off. “I’m sorry.
Chisel; I can’t offer you more than a fiver.”
“If yon don’t mind, sir, I’d rather not let it
go at a sacrifice. I’ll take it back home this
afternoon if you’ll give me the pass, sir.” The
gatekeeper asked no questions as the aviary
went through.
OMNIPOTENT McISAACS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fat little man with the little thin stick
Springs swift to his feet with a bound;
The slim fiddles squeak and the trombones move slick
From the drum rumbling echoes resound.
Just a wave of his hand and the curtain has fled,
The chorus sways sideways, and sings.
And alone in a box, sagely wagging his head,
Sits Mclsaacs, who pulls all the strings.
The little men scheme and the big fellows cheat
(High finance is for those in the know),
For an honest man finds he gets nothing to eat.
When red wine sets their blood in a glow,
“That villain Mclsaacs” they threaten to shoot —
How they tremble in fear of his ire,
And try to appease him with most of the loot,
When the chestnuts they’ve pulled from the fire!
Oh, gallant Mclsaacs ! They crown him a king
With a sceptre of three golden spheres,
And stout politicians dance round in a ring,
Ere they whine in his massive pink ears.
“Oh, gibbit,” they moan with a lack-a-day-dee,
As they smear him with smellful soft-soap;
And gibbet they’ll get, with the noose running free.
When Mclsaacs takes hold of the rope.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


REPORT and BALANCE-SHEET of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
as on 31st MARCH, 1921.
The balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss
Account for the year which then terminated are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £54,220/17/8 for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, amounted to .. .. .. .. £336,610 1 6
Add balance brought forward from previous year .. .. .. 50,014 15 8
Leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. . ■ £386,624 17 2
From this sum the following appropriations have been made:—•
Interim dividend of 9 per cent, per annum paid in November
last for the six months ended 30th September preceding .. £90,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £1,320,000) .. 120,000 0 0
Reduction of Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. 20,000 0 0
£386,624 17 2
During the year Branch Offices were opened at Brisbane; Bundle Street, Adelaide;
York Street, Sydney; and Branches at Lismore, Kempsey and Casino in New South
Wales. And the Agencies at Robertstown, in South Australia, and Healesville and
Mitiamo, in Victoria, were converted into Branches.
Agencies were established at Pulteney Street, Adelaide; Kilkenny, Stepney, Wasleys
and Barmera, in South Australia; and at Dalwallinu, Maylands and North Perth, in
Western Australia ; and those at Apsley, in Victoria, and Trayning, in Western Aus-
tralia, closed.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Bank’s
Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 25th May, at noon, when the
Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors in lieu of Mr. Bowes Kelly
and Mr. Edward Trenchard, who retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of
Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing
year, in terms of Article No. 124.
In addition to the ordinary business of the Meeting, Resolutions will be submitted
as Extraordinary Resolutions for the purpose of (a) altering the Memorandum of Asso-
ciation, and (b) substituting new and revised Articles for the present Articles. Should
these Resolutions, which are fully set out in the Notice convening the Meetings, and
referred to in the Circular dated 12th May, 1921, which has been posted to Shareholders,
be passed, the same will be submitted to the second Meeting convened by the Notice,
which will be held at the same place as the Ordinary Meeting, at 11.30 a.m. on Thurs-
day, the 9th June. 1921.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD,
Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 12th May, 1921.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-62,000 £lO pre-
ference shares
fully paid up £620,000 0 0
276,000 £8 or-
dinary shares
paid up to
£5 pen share 1,380,000 0 0
£2,000,000 0 0
To Reserve Fund Account .. 1,320,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss Account .. 156,624 17 2
£3,476,624 17 2
To Notes in Circulation .. 49,524 10 0
To Bills in Circulation.. .. 1,172,673 12 11
To Government
Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. £297,061 11 6
Bearing inter-
est .. .. 2,921,981 3 3
£3,219,042 14 9
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. 10,572,286 18 10
Bearing inter-
est .. .. 10,400,201 14 2
£20,972,488 13 0
—£24,191,531 7 9
To interest accrued and rebate on
current bills .. .. .. 258,727 5 3
To balances due to other hanks. . 292,890 16 4
£29,441,972 9 5
Contingent liabilities as per con-
tra in regard to obligations of
customers and others on letters
of credit and guarantees, and
also in connection with the sale
in London of certain deben-
tures .. £1,222,274/8/7
ASSETS. Cr.
By coin, bullion, Australian notes,
and cash at bankers .. .. £4,795,583 18 9
By Government, municipal and
other public stocks, debentures,
and funds.. .. .. .. 3,691,951 19 li
By bills and remittances in tran-
situ 1,803,591 17 11
By notes and bills of other banks 17,173 11 10
By balances due from other banks 127,731 5 2
By duty stamps 12,330 18 1
£10,448,363 11 8
By bank furniture .. . . 29,341 11 1
By real estate, consisting of bank
premises .. .. . . 567,828 16 0
By other real estate .. .. 43.823 14 4
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts.. .. 18,352,614 16 4
£29,441,972 9 5
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit and guaran-
tees, etc., as pex* contra,
£1,222,274/8/7.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 226
Branches and 114 Agencies ..£471,270 13 8
To Income, Land and Note Taxes.. 64,220 17 8
To Interim Dividend .. .. 00,000 0 0
To Transfer to Reserve Fund .. 120,000 0 0
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. 20,000 0 0
To Balance .. .. .. .. 156,624 17 2
£912,116 8 1
By Balance brought fonv&rd .. £50,014 15 s
By Gross Profits, including recover-
ies, less rebate on bills current,
interest paid anri accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises and rent 862,101 12 5'
£912,116 8 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
£1,320,000 0 0
£1,320,000 0 0
By Balance last year
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account
£1,200,000 0 0
120,000 0 0
£1,320,000 0 0
The customary Auditor’s Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comnlv
the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report. S 10 com PD with
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
\
Sgt'Se
The world tours made by Hupmobiles in 1910 and 1912 demonstrated to
the whole world the stamina that can be built into a car selling at a moderate
price, and established the Hupmobile reputation for strength and performance.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot ami rug mils.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains—door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
457 Adelaide St., Petries Bight, Brisbane, Q’land.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
Hobart.
N.Z. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE ASCOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
H immobile


v,v..AV.V -ava
V*A
mm
; • ';
Jp
y
W ‘
H
%
¥>
' ,
SiSSS
s@;
A.j*. ' >■
:«
\
.'V.;.
YA
Y ..
t
■ .
Don't Let Children Cough.
You know how a cough racks you and Weakens your
entire system. You also know how quickly a cough
can terminate into some serious disease the \ lungs
and bronchial passages. Stop the childrens cough at
once by giving them Chamberlain’s CoUgh Remedy.
Granny’ Chamberlain
copyriiCHTED
nm
Dqdg&Erothers
MOTOR CAR
As long as the name is attached to the* l " rtiotor
car, Dodge Brothers may be depended *4pc>n to
safeguard and protect it.
As long as they build motor cars they will be
the best motor cars Dodge Brothers build.
The petrol consumption is unusually
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
J
7#l>
rj>
~y/L
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle Wot®* Agency (Queensland) Ltd.,
yribbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Ltd.,
Adelaide,
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Auto-mobil# Ch%%r of Commerce.
“G. 8.”: The ex-German raider Wolf is
now in Australian waters under the name of
the Wachtfels. The French Government
took her over at the Armistice as a freighter.
She is a peaceful-] ooking craft now; yet she
once had a record of 19 victims in a day.
What with losses, direct and indirect, over
the shipping trouble, and the higher payments
provided for in the Railway Classification
Board’s award, the estimated Victorian sur-
plus of £162,000 for the current year (end-
ing June 30) has vanished; but as Lawson,
who is acting for McPherson, is sitting down
hard on outgoings, a deficit may be avoided.
“Peir”: Preaching on the question why
men don’t go to church, a Melbourne subur-
ban Methodist pulpiteer said he used to
have a congregation in which the men out-
numbered the women three, four and even
five to one. “Naturally,” he added, “you will
be a little curious to know in what part of
this big metropolis that was. It was at
Pentridge.”
“T O.I.”: It was on May 16, 84 years
ago, that Governor Bourke laid the founda-
tion stone of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Syd-
ney. Governor Macquarie had previously
laid it at a spot which is now about the
centre of George-street, but far-sighted
Bourke curtailed the area of the cathedral
grounds, after a fight with the parishioners,
and pushed the boundaries of the street back.
When one considers the rather excited
career of “E. E, Judd (39), publisher,” who
was lately accused of presenting a revolver
at his own audience in Sydney Domain, one
sees that things might be worse. But
for an inability to keep step, and perhaps
a lack of the “diplomatic” instinct, Judd
might be State Premier or Treasurer to-
day. He has many qualifications—a fairly
good “carrying” voice; the pertinacity of a
peccary (the peccary is only a small South
American hog, but he has been accused of
attacking an express train) ; unlimited self-
confidence; a vast number of ideas (almost
all wrong, but that doesn’t matter) ; a dis-
like of employers, capitalists, Governments
and institutions; and ambition, velocity, and
a capacity for getting along without much
grammar. If only Judd will bend a little
more to the machine he needn’t even now
despair of the Premiership.
“M. Mulligatawny” : “Rio’s” story of the
strange visitor, “the young Irishman of the
Esmqnde type” (B. 12/5/’2l), is calculated
to give law-abiding monarchists > a severe
attack of the shivers. But no one at the
Red Cross Home really took the gasconad-
ing Hibernian seriously. His own story,
repeated ad nauseam, lacked verisimilitude,
lie was alleged to have resigned his com-
mission in the Irish Guards, and to have'
shot lots of British soldiers in Dublin in
1916. As “Rio” knows, commissions cannot
he resigned in time of war, and I’ll bet my
Sam Browne belt to a pull-through that the
garrulous Irishman was never in the Irish
Guards at any time—other than as a private
or n.c.o. —and that his yarn about the I.R.A.
and its inclusion of British generals among
its members is moonshine.
“Veronal”: Callaghan—afterwards a Dis-
trict Court Judge—printed two statutes in
his “Acts and Ordinances of the Governor
and Council of N. S. Wales” which show that
the naturalisation of foreigners was not at
the time of their passing (1525) the simple
matter it now is. The two men naturalised
by these short Acts were Timothy Goodwin
Pitman and Prosper do Mestre, both appa-
rently at the time citizens of the U.S.A.
Prosper de Mestre begat Etienne, whose
colors certain celebrated racehorses often
carried to victory. Callaghan's .“Acts, etc.,”
in two volumes, are now rare. Previous to
their publication the only handbook of our
statutes was an abridgment by Ross Don-
nelly. The Government of the day printed
Callaghan’s book, and for the use of the
press insisted upon the retention of 300
copies for “public purposes”-—a pretty stiff
bargain.
“X 696”: To a man in difficulties suicide is
the easy way out; but when j T ou want to
suicide without being dead it’s as well to do
it where no one will see you. The man who,
in sight of the lighthouse-keeper at South
Head (N.S.W.), left his hat and a farewell
letter at the top of the Gap, and walked
briskly away, only brought ridicule on him-
self. But there have been some fairly well-
arranged suicides. One was that of a man
who brought an entire rigout of clothes which
he placed in a bathing-shed cubicle at one end
of a Sydney beach f then, proceeding to the
rocks at the other end, he divested himself of
all his garments except a bathing-suit and left
them there. A man crossing a, beach in a
bathing costume draws no attention; and
when the abandoned clothes were found, with
the usual pathetic note, a search was made
for the body, and the drowning reckoned to
be authentic. Only that this man remembered
something he particularly valued, and decided
to burgle his own house in order to get it, he
might have remained dead.
“Matear” : During the hearing of a case
in a Melbourne suburban police court, the
interesting fact was supplied by a witness
that part of an agent’s business which had
changed hands, and over which the litigation
was raging, was a list, containing several
hundred names, of persons who might reason-
ably be expected to bite on what, in under-
world circles, is known as a “scheme.” This
is the first time I’ve heard of this in Aus-
tralia, but in America the compilation and
sale of “sucker” lists is almost a national
industry, and no efficient chevalier d’industrie
would dream of setting up in business with-
out one. Of course you can get lists that
are not composed of “suckers.” A big
American newspaper owner who toured Aus-
tralia a while ago went on strike against
newsagents some years back, and de-
pends for his distribution upon runners; and
he circulates all over the country. Three or
four hundred of his lads fall out every
month, and he gets most of his supply through
an address-list of likely kids. Those names
and addresses cost two cents (Id.) each. At
the other end of the scale you can get a just
allegedly of every person who has applied
for over 10,000 dollars’ worth of- shares or
stock in every new flotation for the previous
12 months; and that list is liable to cost you
a dollar a name.


n
m
m
as
mMm
M
V -
•
m
m
v*
~
, . rss
SwUi
>
SSI«V ' •'''.«!'
•:
: £,
>•
. < * l @ssaß
fejBBP ’to A
..... .-. ~ ' j
ml
O ■ :
y'j
■'•■'■• • v• ••
■!s*ra3
&
m
ml
■ '
■v
■
::
BWgfc Js!sa#r
1::
r
>sr:
'i*wSCT"i
■ill 1 Sllhk p
... J-+ r- i
9fc'. r &--.:i
■Vq
mm
m
■
s*i
“ .•
a
sr
[1
188 Bit
»
; -
MM
.;• - > -•>
v
:• r ii?*»**»
ljltP»ft§
—77 V'- *,
* *•;
k>." r
j
Si
■•••
'R’yrrs'-g**
■k\. ... jp*
mu
: ; ,
. •
¥7
*«*
v V • : > -■-
: • <
m
■%,
■
~:
« i
:;:. .
■gif
y‘ ;-*'
i
■ ■
PS
grs 4, *
s;#
.
•%~~-imw.
-
'y
MS
i -vr.
< *-
*■. ?
M
Jfc
V
m.
mm
SP«>s
-,t , .
• v«:cjM . i-^;i
7.
1
LJIf West^i
. J3K2SMA.
H
wish live H A
s».
m
at ;■■■■' ■. 'if***--
No wine experts are readier than those of
our valiant Ally France to admit that Aus-
tralia produces wines equal to the finest
French vintages; in fact experience has
proved that the Australian soil—particularly
that of the famous Great Western vineyard
—is eminently suited for the growth of high-
class wines, and this, with the glorious Australian climate,
combines to produce a grape that is second to none in the
world for its quality and lusciousness.
The immense cellars at Great Western are the largest and
best-equipped in the Commonwealth, whilst the laboratories
are complete with the most modern appliances connected
with the industry.
“Great Western" Sparkling Wines have been
Awarded Medals and Certificates
throughout Australia and at Phila-
delphia , Paris, Bordeaux, Amsterdam,
and other Exhibitions of the World.
“Great Western” Sparkling Wines are
Obtainable at AH Hotels and
Licensed Grocers -
Great Western Sparkling Hock,
This Wine is somewhat of the same character as Burgundy, but its
flavor is more piquant and delicate, with just a suggestion of acidulous
freshness, associated with marked softness and limpidity.
Sparkling Burgundy—Red Label.
This is a rich robust wine, possessing fulness, softness, homogeneity
and verve; makes an excellent dinner wine, and is an undoubted aid
in the treatment of those cases of physical weakness resulting
from malnutrition.
Great Western Champagne, Extra Dry,
“Special Reserve
A very fine and most excellent vintage with all the qualities of
roundness, lightness, body, vinosit.v and delicacy which are so
essential in any good champagne. It has carried off with Unfailing
regularity the chief awards at the principal Commonwealth Shows.
Distributing Agents:
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle.
PERTH: Phil. Coyle.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Brown & Co.
TASMANIA: Irvine & McEachern.
X
;x.
- '\


m
] )i
&
•W*
Cuticura Shampoos
Mean Healthy Hair
Especially if preceded by touches
of Cuticura Ointment to spots of
dandruff, itching and irritation.
This treatment does much to keep
the scalp clean and healthy and to
promote hair growth.
Soap 1 s.,Talcum 1 s.6d.,Ointment lt.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S. W.
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
There’s a time for war! There’s a time for peace!
A time to begin and a time to cease,
There’s a time for work, there’s a time for play,
A time to go and a time to stay.
Man’s changing mood needs light and shade,
For such is the mould in which man was made;
And for coughs and colds he finds, be sure,
A time for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
FIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
—They are reliable.
The satisfactory service obtained
from genuine B.S.A. Fittings is a
point which has gained the approval
of thousands of experienced riders
whose appreciation is one of the
most valuable proofs of quality and
reliability. Comfort and long service
are the chief features of all models.
Be sure you get a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
A
'I,
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign ol
Quality.
Send for Catalogue and
particulars post free to
D. V. RENNIE
(Representing R.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
mn
“ Save Money—Turn Friction into Power."
SOME ADVANTAGES OF
SKF BALL BEARINGS
FOR LINE SHAFTING:
1. The starting friction is no greater than the running friction;
hence a far smaller motor is required to produce the same driving
result, as it is unnecessary to provide for heavier starting loa-S.
2. The loss of power by friction is reduced approximately 60%
if plain bearings are exchanged to SK. F" Ba l Bearings.
3. Considerable saving in oil and in time, labor, and expense of
inspection and up-keep ; SKF Bearings only require attention
when oiled—three or four times a year.
4. Minimise the necessity for power plant extensions.
5. SKF Bearings, thanks to their self-aligning quality, auto-
matically and instantly adjust themselves to compensate for shaft
deflection without in any way cramping the balls.
A representative direct from the Home Factory is now permanently
located tn Australia, and his advice is at your disposal.
Write for a copy of booklet.
"SKF Ball Baarings for Line Shafting"
posted to any Address on Request.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO.,
HEAD OFFICE: 384 CITY ROAD. SOUTH MELBOURNE
Di.t.iW, Centres: MEL BOU RN E. 369 Flinders St ; SY DN EY 225
C Itrence St.; AD! LAIDE. 122 Currie M ; B <ISBANE. ’29 Adelaide
St.; PERTH, Uubehaun fc JoKuslon., 37 King St.; HOBART. Medburst
Electrical Work* fc Telephone Co. Ltd.. 15 Argyle St.
L.Sh. 2.
J
3
X
9S «S*3
C-K'
vmsrn
anil rejoice
in your choice.
:f •' . • ' •/' • S:. . '
There’s all the satisfaction that a
smoker can desire in a GBD.
it is the pipe to choose for all the days that
come and go.
Made in London from the finest selected
French Briarwood—thoroughly matured and
well finished.
Fill up a GBD with your favorite tobacco and
enjoy a cool sweet smoke.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
*
BengerY Food does three
things for the dyspeptic
—it gives complete nourishment;
—it allays the craving of the stomach,
—it wms back natural digestion.
m
Food
is so highly nutritious that athletes use it in training, so
delicious that invalids and aged persons enjoy it, year
in and year cut.
The Booklet of Benger’e Food contains dainty recipes which give
relief from the Bameneßs of milk and similar diet. These are so light
as to giv nourisument with digestive Post free on request from
BENGER'S FOOD LTD.,
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bols Proprietors and Manulacturers: BENGEB S FOOD. LTD.. MANCHESTEK, England.
A.lB.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Adelaide Golf Club is trying a new secre-
tary in Rymill, who has done so much for the Seaton
links. Commander Maxwell Fowler, the old sec.,
is to be the club’s business manager.
* » * *
Mack, the well-known coursing authority,
has decided to hand his judge's coat to the moths.
Mack, who claims to be the only black-haired man
alive who saw Adam Lindsay Gordon steeplechasing,
went to the dogs in his early youth, and in South
Aus. he has settled no less than 13 Waterloo Cups.
For his age—-he is on the awkward side of 60—he
is a physical phenomenon.
* * * *
“Soso”: I sat in at a little game of poker
recently. One player. Bill, seemed to know a bit
about the game, and .was having all the luck. In
the deal 1 got three aces, and, thinking the luck had
changed round, I lifted the blind. Bill played and
bought two cards, I bought the fourth ace. After
Bill got his two cards he seemed to think he was a
jelly-fish, judging by the way he was shaking, and
before anyone had a chance to bet he tabled his
hand and stammered: “Gor-struth! 1 bought a
routine flush!"•
* ♦ # *
As the East Melbourne cricket ground is
to be handed over to the Railway Department ut the
end of the present football season, the club is alleged
to be considering the idea of amalgamating with
Hawthorn and getting access to the latter’s ground
near the Glenferrie station. There is some talk oi
Fast pouring £ 1500 or £2OOO into the funds of
the combine, if the scheme comes off; but a matter
that culls for strong consideration is the size of the
playing area. Unless the Glenferrie oval can be
enlarged, four would be munificent for a boundary
hit, and six would be generous even for a ball that
travelled over the outside f nee.
* « * * *
“0.K.”: Chess is no exception to the rule
that pre-eminence in any game comes only to the
player who begins as a child. Capablanca, the new
champion, who has just beaten Lasker, is said
to he a chess genius, but there’s no saying how
much he owes to the fact that he began moving
pawns and pieces when he was five years old. The
best hand at solo whist is played by the man who
lias been familiar with cards since he was a child,
which remark applies also to cribbage. To a child
who knows every move on the chess-board, champion
form comes in an ordinary way of mental develop-
ment, provided the mentality is equal to require-
ments and the youngster is kept in practice.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: Critics of the turf may say
what they please, but most club officials are great
sticklers for racecourse etiquette. Here is an in-
stance of the Spartan way in which the rules are
sometimes enforced. At a recent N.S.W. country
meeting a newly-fledged bookie —a youngster who
had scarcely cut his wisdom teeth —was calling the
odds. One backer thought he could do better, and
told Ikey so. The odds-merehant turned on him
with lurid words. A club official was on to him like
a flash. “You foul-mouthed ,” he said indig-
nantly, “do you think this club allows that sort of
thing? I’ll well report you to the com-
mittee, and if I hear any more language like
that ”ou’ll be well turned off the course.”
The offender wilted and apologised profusely. “That’s
the way to talk to him, George,” said a veteran
fielder, approvingly; “we don’t want that sort of
language here.” And the committeeman moved off
soothed doubtless by the sense of duty done.
* • * »
“Also Ran” has horrible imaginings:—
The most potent argument against Communism
has not yet been touched. This is the outlook for
sport under the Red Flag. The principal occupation
of the voting Australian is sport. The other things
are merely for the collection of enough money to
live on. The sport of kings, particularly, would be
up the pole when the ruddy flag floated from the top
thereof. The major part of a racing crowd doesn’t
spend an afternoon bunched uncomfortably on a
course in order to see a total of 18 minutes’ racing.
It is the flutter that draws them. Betting would
automatically disappear with Communism, as no
one would have anything to gain or lose. Racing
would languish like a Federal territory. All gambl-
ing would be impossible; the only call permissible
in auction bridge would be “Seven no trumps.”
Poker would be an experiment with the law of
probability. Two-up, erstwhile the mainstay of our
noble manhood, would become a lost art—a subject
for study by high, bald foreheads. In fact, life
would be flat as last night’s beer and only leavened
by meetings of unemployed jockeys, trainers, book-
makers, boxers and cricketers. John Wren can deal
with that problem. At the elections of the future
will be seen the placard, “Jones and the Red Flag,”
and across the way the rival “Vote for Brown ana a
Flutter on the Ponies.”
* * * *
“Tote-odds”: Can “Boomerang” (B.
5/5/’2l) name one bookmaker in Adelaide with
whom “most of the big betting is still done” ? If he
had had experience of the bookmakers there he
would know by bitter suffering that, if by good luck
he picked, say, a £25 divvy, he would find that
they have, with few exceptions, a £l5 limit first
and £5 limit second. What owners are going to
bet with the books on such conditions? Further,
owners are sure of their money from the tote; but
in a place where all bets with bookies are surrep-
titiously made, the risk which an owner would have
to take” in investing with an unlicensed man is very
apparent. It is true that a lot of small betting
is carried on with the books—mostly off the course.
But the bulk of this money goes into the tote just
the same, the “turf accountants” balancing their
book on a race, thus retaining the percentages and
fractions which the machine deducts. The tote
figures speak for themselves. At the two opening
days of the recent S.A.J.C. meeting (Goodwood and
Cup) over £70,000 went through the machine. From
experience I know that the stable commissions ( go on
at the death-knock, and the machine nearly has a fit
recording the investments as the horses are’ lining up
to the post. The money of the public is in by this
time, so the hurt that owners suffer through the tote
exists only in the imagination of those who still hug
the idea that bookmakers are a racing necessity.
* » * *
“l <5-30”: Tennis-writers are talking cf
Australia reaching the final in the Davis Cup, though
they will have to tackle Britain or France (or
both) under conditions where their inexperience will
be a severe handicap. Certainly Britain has been
weakened by the withdrawal of Kingscote, but Lycett
and Crawley are great players and tacticians, whilst
A. H. Lowe, who has replaced Kingscote, has ten-
acity and accuracy to compensate for his unenter-
prising backline game. Young Anderson managed to
beat him in the Davis Cup in Sydney in 1919, but
Lowe was too good for Hawkes in Melbourne, where-
fore the Geelong youth will have to repeat his recent
Sydney form to face the Englishman with any con-
fidence. France, which is expected to be represented
by Gobert and Laurentz, is even more formidable.
Gobert has shone brilliantly in the best company,
and Laurentz has a big record; and it is unwise
to count on their showing the temperamental weak-
ness which has marked their failures in previous runs
for the Cup. If the Frenchmen get an engagement
with the Australians, the latter will need superla-
tive nerve and cunning to win. The trouble with
our fellows is that none of them can be expected
to score much bv outright aces in a big match.
That is to sav, they can onlv rely on a modest pro-
portion of winners in the give and take of service,
the result being a lot of ground play and a conse-
quent weakening of the moral and physical fibre
for the real crisis in the argument when it arrives.
The ability to trump the other fellow with a sleeve-
ful of aces is a great asset in an international, as
Tilden has proved.
(Contirned on page 88 )


nm
WHEN APPETITES
NEED TEMPTING!
Serve “ Rex ” Camp Pie —enough in each
tin for five adults. No cooking or warm-
ing up wanted. It is made of the choicest
meats compounded, cooked and seasoned
in the tastiest manner.
Serve it with salad —there is nothing more
appetizing or trouble saving.
All grocers sell it.
PACKED BY—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1885
33TC2IaJ«*
sprj
11)11
s
[iOllilHllHimii
111!
llL'iim,
Amk A “v DACON.VSAI-
An ft
\L° tqngi^b
,
iMtu
■■■■>* j*~*
I » ai * * 2 S » a « « a I 4n «3t 'OXjJI I A *» A
'
mm
i
.
.
PLEASANT REFLECTIONS
come easily to the man who uses a Gillette.
Its soothing, easy action is a daily source of
satisfaction. The
Qillette
is adjustable to any beard by a simple turn of the handle.
Its two keen blades are always ready—no stropping, no
honing.
Standard Set, in neat Leather Case 28/0
Obtainable everywhere.
THE GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors: S. HOFFNUNG & CO.. LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
CANADA
MADE
KNOWN THE
WORLD
Shirts
m
%
m
.
m
&
I &
XA
m
/i
i
ffi
s
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them— in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept: No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
brand
shirt
Whom the ==^sss
Ml/LT/GRAPfI
n
The Multigraph helps everyone
with production and distribution problems.
It is a factor of efficiency in the most successful
and progressive concerns all over the world. It
helps you to secure your printed forms today.
IT HELPS-
Banks, who use it for printing
letterheads, envelopes, deposit and with-
drawal forms, notices, subscription and acknowl-
edgment blanks, record forms, vouchers and
many other printed necessities.
Manufacturing concerns of all
kinds, who need production tickets, labels,
tags and other printed forms, which arc supplied
immediately—with the Multigraph.
Wholesale Dealers and Im-
porters, Insurance Companies, Rail-
road and other Transportation Services,
Gas and Electric Light Companies, Govern-
ment Departments, Universities, Colleges,
Business, Civic, Religious and Social organiza-
tions all find the Multigraph a means of solving
their priming and circularization problems.
AND IT WILL HELP YOU
to turn out your own printed matter, at half
the cost (or less), in half the time, when
you want it and without exasperating
delays. Will you not permit us to demonstrate
the Multigraph—without obligation to you?
Stott & Underwood
70 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
*‘Printed on the
Multigraph”
Office form*
Works forpu
Booklets
Pamphlets
House Organs
Circulars
Folder*
Blotters
•ackers
Notices
Price Lists
Labels
( sida
Tm»
m
mmmmwmmm
$
m


fa
A. Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, pure Silver, complete
with Egg Cups and Spoons, Butter Dish. Salt Cellar and Toast
Hack, 70/-
mzar r
wm
•.
9 1
**•
a s
*L* a-
A. Saunders’ Oake Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauice Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt-
lined, handsomely fluted and burnished, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Dish, pure Silver-plated, AI quality, richly
embossed, £9/9/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Pickle Jars, pure Silver-ptated,
A 1 quality frame, English Cut-glass Jars,
£5/10/-
8
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, £5/5/*
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, hand burnished, £5/5/-
A Powerful Water Raiser
for Farm, Station or Orchard
The
“BILLABONG”
Windmill
is doing excellent service in many parts of the Commonwealth. It is made
in Australia and specially designed to suit Australian conditions.
Smooth and easy-running—substantial in construction—'and a Quality
mill through and through, the "Billabong” is without doubt a leader of
its class.
A special feature of the "Billabong” Windmill is the patented Speed
Regulator and Governor that will not allow the wheel to "race in heavy
winds, while the bearings are so accurately aligned and sensitive that the
lightest breeze is converted to useful power. It is a usual sight to see a
"Billabong” Mill working when others are idle.
When fitted with the Automatic Tank Supply Regulator, the “Billabong”
stops or starts itself according to the level of the water in the tank. This
allows you to go about your other duties without any fear of stock being
left unwatered, or of any wastage occurring by
overflow from the tank.
If you are looking, not merely for a windmill,
but for real Windmill Service, investigate the merits
of the "Billabong.”
The "Billabong” Book is post free for the
asking—shall we send YOU a copy? Write NOW!
'JOHN
m
5 r-
& SON-Pty. Lid
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
SHI
&>&?* !
( > <-OOJV s -
.


The orgy on loans and paper money which
ins nut everything in Sydney on an artificial
basis 1 is having its bad effects far afield.
," te i v a co. set out to make glassware on a
k!„ scale at Hobart. But on the first work-
in; da y the union and the manager had a
row about hours of toil on night shift. The
manager wanted the same hours as the union
accents in Melbourne, but. the union de-
manded Sydney hours. Result: The works
were closed, the skilled operatives have re-
turned to the mainland, and the Speck lias
for the time lost a valuable customer for its
hydro-electric power.
Under the power conferred by the new
Local Government Act (N.S.W.I to sell
land upon which rates have not been paid
for seven years, Waverley Council is offer-
ing over 100 blocks whose owners have mis-
laid themselves or died without mentioning
in their wills that they owned the property.
The result will enrich the funds of the
Public Trustee, for, after the claim of the
Council has been satisfied, the balance has
to be handed over to him for safe keeping.
However, on some of the blocks no rates have
been paid since the incorporation of the
municipality in 1801 : and, even though
land was sold for £5O per foot in Bondi
recently, there won’t be much balance in
cases like that.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
HER MAJESTY’S.
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
yM O N PIC TUIt E TIIK A T RES
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
DEAN W 1 ERIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Season Ending June 15.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON. LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 28.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
REVIVAL OF THE POPULAR SUCCESS,
GOING UP.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE 310UNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
UOYT'S THEATRES, At E I, DO U KN E.
B 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
WILLIAM FAVERSHAM in
THE SIN THAT WAS HIS,
Also
FRANK MAYO in
HONOR BOUND.
Prices as usual.
tr ING’S THEATRE, Yl EIIIO U It N IS.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
|y|A,TESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS’
FEATURE,
HOMESPUN FOLKS.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLACIA K It M, MELBOURNE.
ICE SKATING.
% EVKRY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION :
AFTERNOONS . . 2/0
EVENINGS 2/8
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICE.
gIUIAKMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Legal Notice.
County of Kildare, Division of Naas.
Equity Bide, Record No. 470. Letter “H.’’
RYDER HUNGERFORD of 20a Wentworth
Place in the County of the City of Dub-
lin Administrator of CATHERINE
HUNGERFORD of Cromwell stow n in
the said County Kildare and Division of
Naas Spinster deceased Clerk Plaintiff.
EDWARD HUNGERFORD of Cromwells-
town in the said County and Division
Farmer Defendant.
To JOHN HUNGERFORD (last-known
address Ruthven Street Toowoomba
Queensland Australia). EDWARD
HUNGERFORD or his Descendants (if
any). GEORGE HUNGERFORD or
his Descendants (if any).
riIAKE NOTICE that by an Order of His
1 Honor the County Court Judge for the
County of Kildare dated the 3rd day of
February 1921 personal service upon you of
Notice of the Decree in the abovenamed Suit
made on the 28th day of October 1920 was
dispensed with and it was ordered that Two
Publications in the Courier Brisbane Queens-
land in The Bulletin Sydney N.S.W. the
Auckland Weekly News and the Weekly
Press Christchurch and the Otago Witness
Dunedin New Zealand of the Notice of the
said Decree and of the Memorandum should
be deemed good service on you and that the
time within which you should apply to add to
or vary the said Decree should be the 10th
October 1921 after the Publication of this
Notice.
The said Decree of the County Court
Judge of the County of Kildare made
in this Suit and dated the 28th day of
October 1920 Decreed and Ordered as fol-
lows :
(1) That an account be taken of what is due to
the Plaintiff and all other the Creditors of the
Deceased.
(2) An inquiry to be made and account taken of
what or what share, if any, the Plaintiff is entitled
to as one of the next-of-kin of the Intestate.
(8) An account of the Funeral and Testamentary
expenses.
(4) An account of the personal estate of the
Deceased come to the hands of the Defendant or to
the hands of any other person by his order or for
his use.
(5) An inquiry what part, if any, of the personal
estate of the Deceased is outstanding and undis-
posed of.
(6) And it was further ordered that the Defendant
do on or before the Ist day of December, 1920,
account to the Court all sums of money which shall
be found to have come to his hands or to the hands
of any person by his order or for his use.
(7) And it was further ordered that if the personal
estate of the Deceased be found insufficient for carry-
ing out the objects of this suit then the following
further inquiries he made and accounts taken, that,
is to say:—
(8) An inquiry be made what real estate the De-
ceased was seised of or entitled to at the time of
her death.
(9) What are the incumbrances, if any, affecting
the real estate of the Deceased or any part thereof.
(10) An account as far as possible of what is
due to the several incumbrancers and to include a
statement of the priorities of such of the incum-
brancers as shall consent to the sale thereinafter
directed*
(11) That the real estate of the Deceased or so
much thereof as shall be necessary to make up the
fund in Court sufficient to carry out the object
of this suit be sold with the approbation of the
Judge free from incumbrances (if any) of such incum-
brancers as shall consent to the sale and subject to
the incumbrances of such of them as shall not
cuiiseiiu
(12) And it was ordered that W. A. Lanphier shall
have the conduct of the sale of the personal estate
and of the real estate and shall prepare the condi-
tions and contract of sale and the abstract of title
subject to the approval of the Clerk of the Peace
and that in case any doubt or difficulty shall arise
the papers shall with the like approval be sub-
mitted to Mr. Edward Little B.L. Court Council to
settle.
(13) And it was further ordered that for the
purpose of the inquiries thereinbefore directed the
Clerk of the Peace shall advertise in such newspapers
as he shall think fit such advertisements to be pre-
pared and the insertions thereof directed by the
Clerk of the Peace as he shall see fit and the Clerk
of the Peace shall make the inquiries thereby
directed in any other way which shall appear to
him to give the roost useful publicity to such
inquiries.
(14) And it was ordered that the above inquiries
and accounts be made and taken and that all other
acts ordered to be done be completed before the
20th day of January 1921 and that the Clerk of the
Peace do certify the result of such inquiries and
accounts and that all other acts Ordered are com-
pleted and have his certificate in that behalf ready
for the inspection of the parties on the Ist day of
February 1921.
Dated this sth day of April 1921.
Signed on behalf of the Plaintiff,
W. A. LANPHIER,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Naas.
Form of Notice under Section 60 of the
Chancery (Ireland) Act 1867.
And take notice that from the time of the
service of this Notice you will in default of
your making such Application as is herein-
after mentioned be bound by the Proceedings
in the above Suit in the same manner as if
ydu had been originally made a party therein
and that you may attend the proceedings
under the within-mentioned Decree and that
you may apply to the Court at the next Ses-
sions or by leave of the Court at any subse-
quent Sitting to cancel vary or add to the
wirhin-mentioned Decree.
Dated this sth day of April 1921.
J. W. DANE,
Clerk of the Crown and Peace for County
Kildare Courthouse Naas.
A PRETTY GIRL IS
LIKE A MELODY.
We have them in thousands, for every
taste. Real Photos—S tunning
Beauties —Snappy Pictures.
A magnificent photogravure of Austra-
lia's Venus, post free 5/-
Or the matchless series of 12, £2/2/-
PASADENA ART Co.
Central Chambers,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The requirements of section 88 of the Companies Act 3-915 Victoria have not been
fully complied with in this abridged advertisement of the Prospectus of Foggitt, Jones
Limited. This abridged advertisement does not contain anything to which the require-
ments of section 88 of the Companies Act 1915 Victoria apply, and which is not in the
Prospectus or is inconsistent with the Prospectus.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTDS of
FOGGITT, JONES LIMITED,
Ham and Bacon Curers, Butter and Cheese
Merchants, and Packers of Canned Delicacies.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria.)
NOMINAL! CAPITAL: £500,000, divided into 200,000 Fixed Cumulative
8 per cent. Preference Shares of £1 each (having the additional right to
participate equally with the Ordinary shares up to 10 per cent, in any further
annual distribution of profits, but so that the dividend on the said Preference
Shares, including the said preferential dividend of 8 per cent, per annum,
shall not in any one year exceed the rate of 10 per cent, per annum on the
capital for the time being paid up thereon) and 300,000 Ordinary Shares of
£1 each.
PREFERENCE SHARES.
(Preferential both as to Capital and Fixed Cumulative Dividend.)
100,000 of the above-mentioned Fixed Cumulative 8 per cent. Preference
Shares of £1 each are now offered for subscription, payable 5/-per share
on application and 5/- per share on allotment, the balance in calls
as required, but no call to exceed 5/- per share, and at least three
months’ notice of any such call to be given.
100,000 of the above-mentioned Fixed Cumulative 8 per cent. Preference
Shares of £1 each to be held in reserve.
200,000
ORDINARY SHARES.
168,777 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid up, to be allotted and issued
to the Vendor Companies (Foggitt, Jones & Co., Limited, Queensland
and Western Australia; Foggitt, Jones & Co., Limited, New South
Wales; and Foggitt, Jones & Company Proprietary, Limited, Victoria)
as part consideration for the transfer to the Company of the busi-
nesses and assets hereinafter mentioned.
131,223 Ordinary Shares of £1 each to be held in reserve.
300,000
DIRECTORS:
CHARLES EMANUEL FOGGITT, Turbot Street, Brisbane, M rufacturer
and Merchant.
THOMAS LLEWELLYN JONES, Turbot Street, Brisbane, Manufacturer
and Merchant.
ROBERT JOHN ARCHIBALD (The Brisbane Milling Company, Limited).
Brisbane, Miller.
GEORGE HENRY DAY (H. Byron Moore and Day), 332 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Share Broker.
EDWARD CLARENCE DYASON, Equitable Building, Melbourne, Engineer.
MANAGING DIRECTORS:
CHARLES EMANUEL FOGGITT, Turbot Street, Brisbane, Manufacturer
and Merchant.
THOMAS LLEWELLYN JONES, Turbot Street, Brisbane, Manufacturer
and Merchant.
SECRETARY and REGISTERED OFFICE:
WILLIAM DOIG, A.F.1.A., 43 King Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS —The Company has been formed for the purpose (amongst
other things) of acquiring as a going concern from the Vendor Companies
their businesses of Ham and Bacon Curers, Butter and Cheese Merchants,
and Packers of Canned Delicacies, and the undertakings, goodwills, and
properties thereof now being carried on in the States of Queensland, New South
Wales, Victoria and Western Australia, together with all the assets and
liabilities of the said businesses as at 31st December, 1920.
CONSIDERATION —As consideration for the sale of the said businesses
and assets the company will allot to the Vendor Companies or their nominees
168,777 Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid up, and will pay to the said
Vendor Companies or their nominees the sum of £30,000 in cash.
The Company will also take over the liabilities in connection with the
businesses.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES will proceed only on the Form referred
to and endorsed upon the Prospectus, copies of which Prospectus may be
obtained from the Company’s Brokers:—
VICTORIA:
H. BYRON MOORE & DAY, 332 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NORMAN PICOT, Equitable Building, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
HENRY MONTEITH & CO., New Zealand Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
D. J. BROWNHILL, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
BRAY & OWEN, Brookman’s Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
SAW & GRIMWOOD, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
DONALD CARMICHAEL, Barrack Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
F. Y. WILSON, “A.M.P.” Buildings, Hobart,
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allot-
ment is five shares, on each of which a sum of 5/- shall have been paid to and
received on behalf of the Company.
The whole of the above issue has been underwritten by Edward
Dyason Proprietary Limited, Equitable Building, Melbourne, and H.
Byron Moore and Day, Sharebrokers, 332 Collins Street, Melbourne.


THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service .Stores.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Good To The
Lasf Drop
&
m
ii
ABBOTS
LAGER
TApßppt w'/fioc/faßml.
firmedfrom PureTfd/tdNope Only
<-891
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Firefly”
Criterion “Scandal”
Palace "Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Picture*
Union Theatres 1 Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Going Up”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
Kino's “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Db Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium l ce Skating
Beatrix Vanderdyke (Maude Hanaford),
a free and frank young Yankee maiden, goes
at night to the studio of Sutherland York
(Cyril Mftckay), painter and lady-killer,
in search of experience. As is customary
in these cases, she leaves her mother (Beat-
rice Esmond) and Aunt lionoria (Mrs.
Brough) at home, rightly considering that
an artist’s studio at midnight or thereabouts
is no place for mothers or aunts. But at
the rendezvous she encounters two intimate
friends of the sex that doesn’t use helio-
trope face-powder—ope Malcolm Fraser
(Kenneth Brampton), victim of a hopeless
attachment; the other Pelham Franklin
(Frank Harvey), who had nearly proposed
to her but had preserved his celibacy by a
great effort. They are unexpected guests,
having called in York’s absence (Franklin
inhabits the same Hattery) to see a picture,
and before going they attempt, without suc-
cess, to. persuade the wilful young person to
return to aunt and mother. She remains
until llie impassioned painter imprints au
unfatherl.v kiss on her fair young back. Then
she grabs her cloak and is about to leuve,
when in burst m«, aunt Honoriu and Major
Thatcher (H. It. Huberts), a gouty squire
of dames, to whom she explains (menda-
ciously) that she is secretly married to
Franklin, and visited the studio merely to
throw elderly female relatives and malig-
nant gossip-writers off the scent. Follows
the bedroom scene, which has grievously
wounded the susceptibilities of the Sunday
press, but which the gallery regards witii
unrestrained joy. Compelled to pose as the
lady’s husband, Franklin pretends to insist
on playing the part to the limit. It is his
way of punishing her, and he does it with
a brutal realism which extorts the admira-
tion of the critics up aloft. But at what
horse-reporters call the psychological
moment he uncivilly remarks that he
wouldn’t have anything to do with her if
they were the only inhabitants of a desert
island, and stalks out of the room. After
which there is the usual abrupt anti-climax:
that is to say, the cold, hard, proud man of
the second act behaves in the third like an
infatuated idiot, apologises and marries the
giH.
* • » *
Such are the materials of which Cosmo
Hamilton has built “Scandal,” now at the
Sydney Oriterion. It is entertaining but
unconvincing. In the judgment of a writer
inured to “pitchers,” the bedroom scene
SCANDAL,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Peham Franklin (Frank Harvey) adopts
cave-man methods with Beatrix (Maude
Hanaford).
doesn’t deserve the harsh things that have
been written about it. Compared with the
cl a wings and posturings of some of the
hectic vampire-ladies it is a model of
propriety and restraint. But the fake-
marriage and the mock-honeymoon defy
the probabilities too glaringly. There
are elective scenes and bright dialogue, but
the play is structurally weak. Among the
actors the best work is done- by Frank Har-
vey, who contrives to make the hero manly
and impressive even when the playwright, in
one of the violent transitions to which he is
addicted, exhibits him as a maudlin ass.
Maude Hanaford, as the heroine, gets what
an actress of ability can get out of a part not
well suited to her. That line craftsman
Harry Roberts hasn’t much to do, but his
senile veteran is one of the hits of the niece.
Capital interpretations are also given by
Mrs. Brough, Emma Temple, Cyril Mackay,
John Bedouin, Kenneth Brampton and others
of the capable little company, and as no mem-
ber of the orchestra has been reported shot
there must be a consensus of opinion that it
is dojng its best.
♦* # *
Chu Chin Chow” draws its magnificent
robes about it preparatory to bidding farewell
to Sydney; its last weeks saddened by the
“FIREFLY,”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Lou Vernon
as Professor
Frahni.
death of V’illiers Arnold, whose artistic hand-
ling Inid made the Cobbler stand out as an
excellent bit of character work.
Jascha Heifetz, who says good-bye to Syd-
ney this (Thursday) afternoon, played to
another crowded house last Saturday even-
ing. The big work was the Grieg 0 Minor
•Sonata. Never through the season had
accompanist Clhotzinoff showed to greater
advantage; and Chotzinoff’s work has been
uniformly good. There was wild applause
for the Beethoven Romance in F, and the
Mozart and Porpora Minuets were golden
moments. Now Mischa Levitzki trundles on
his grand piano to keep the Russian atmo-
sphere in the Town Hall.
“Firefly” still glows nightly and on two
afternoons a week at Sydney Majesty’s, its
power to lighten an overtaxed community's
gloom increasing, if anything, with age.
h= * * »
The current programme at Sydney Tivoli
is headed by Ivy Shilling and partner William
Valentine, who d'ance gracefully but without
producing any novelties. A pair of “patter”
merchants and dancers, a bird ballet, an
English baritone and a farce complete the
first half. By the time the male escort has
returned with the chocs., Sylvia Bremer lias
made her appearance in “Unseen Forces.”
She plays a spooky miss of strange psychic
powers in this First National draw.
❖ sjs • * *
Sydney Globe and Haymarket show no
signs of a tight money market, but fling
millions about in reckless fashion at the in-
stigation of Fatty Arbuckle, who for one
week only is the possessor of Brewster’s
millions. On the same sheets Monte Blue
is the highsouled but lowly-born Kentuckian
who fights his enemy in the Legislature and
then has a shooting match with him on the
steps of Parliament House. But nobody is
a bit the worse, and Monte goes intact to
the girl of his heart. In “Lying Lips”
Florence Vidor (Crystal Palace and
Lyceum) is faced with the good old pro-
blem of money and ease versus love
and a penny-in-the-slot gas-meter. She
decides for the gilded cage; then a timelv
shipwreck flings her and the hard-up one
on a coral reef and they marry themselves.
The Crystal Palace programme spends the
rest of its time with Viola Dana risking
pleurisy for a young man who has carried
her off in her own yacht. This is “The
Offshore Pirate.” The Strand asks “Why
Trust Your Husbands?” and Hoyt’s gives
house-room to Mary Maclaren, who is “A
Forged Bride,” and Louise Huff in “A Dan-
gerous Paradise.” Both emerge without a
stain on their characters. Next Saturday
the Strand and Lyric get into Australian
clothes and display “Rudd’s New Selection,”
with Lottie Lyell, Gilbert Emery, Tal Or-
dell and J. P. O’Neill living a backblocks life.
s= * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the overtaxed
“Irene" has wearied of trying to keep pace
with the other two Williamson shows. Mr.
Marshall and his painful companions in plu-
tocracy will pass out on Friday, and Dorothy
Brunton, Alfred Frith’s widespread smile
and other features of the “Going Up” Go.
will reappear in the aviation comedy. When
this unexpected revival has shot its bolt
the virtues and faults of “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
will be unfolded to a callous world.
* *
Melbourne King’s doesn’t turn multitudes
away, but it has developed a useful Yiddish
clientele which comes to laugh and remains
to shriek at “The Welcome Stranger.”
* * * *
The nights and bi-weekly matinees of
“Maid of the Mountains,” at Melbourne
Royal, will be 150 on Tuesday next, which
means that the handsome comic opera has
arrived at that period when a few of the
latecomers go away remarking that “It
wasn’t so wonderful, considering all the talk
about it.” Success courts captious criticism.
** * *
Alexander Watson is giving four extra
recitals iu Melbourne, the first of them next
Saturday. The Playhouse has been engaged
for Watson’s short return season, and the
first programme will be his powerful treat-
ment of Dickens’s tale of Dr. Marigold.
Jjt si* :Jf
Heifetz, the unsmiling young violinist who
has been making Sydney marvel at his tech-
nique, will start a series of concerts at Mel-
bourne Toven Hall on Saturday.
* * «: *
Mahlon Hamilton catches the eye of Mel-
bourne Majestic supporters this w'eek. lie
is big and thrilling, and his behavior in “Half
a Chance” gives De Itougement the K.O. as
an adventurer. The elaborate shocker is
followed by “The Joyous Liar,” a middling
comedy in the cream-puff class. J. Warren
Kerrigan is the light-weight hero of the tale,
and Lilian Walker’s dimpled smile provides
some effective punctuation. At Iloyt’s
William Faversham is a flapper’s heartache
in the Helznick feature, “The Sin That Was
11 is.” For several thousand feet he struggles
against the adverse verdict of a censorious
world; then emerges from his troubles, in-
cluding a murder charge, without a spot on
liis character. Frank Mayo follows on in
“Honor Bound”—an exciting yarn proving
again that Brazil is the place where the
nuts come from. “The Hotel Riot” is the
third item; and the “riot” is superfluous, be-
cause Charlie Chaplin and Mabel Normand
are the principals. At the Britannia the
latest of the “Mohicans” continue to look
distant relatives of Fenimore Cooper’s
originals. The popular passion at the Melba
is “The Inside of the Cup,” containing the
milk and sugar of Winston Churchill’s seeth-
ing novel.
* * * *
On the screen at Melbourne Tivoli the
principal item is Sylvia Bremer in “Unseen
Forces.” She devotes mystic powers to
humanitarian purposes, and exchanges love-
vows soulfullv with Conrad Nagel. The
Vogues and Vanities vaudeville is equallv
crisp and conventional, the old familiar in-
ebriation of George Welch competing for
popular favor with the snufflebusting of
Charles Zoli.
tjc Jji
A Melbourne show of etchings:—
John Shirlow’s latest show of etchings at the
Decoration Gallery offers a survey of his work cover-
ing 25 years. The first item on his catalogue is
“Early Morning, Lonsdaie-street,” etched in 1805,
and, despite the growth in the artist’s powers, the
print isn’t reduced to a back number by his later
efforts. As a matter of fact. Shirlow has maintained
all through a high level of achievement, and it is
practically impossible to date his plates even by the
closest inspection of his subjects and his manner of
handling the problems they afford. For instance,
“Bullen Lane” (1909) looks the contemporary of
Brogan’s Lane” (1921), and after considering
“Brighton Beach” (No. 6) it is hard to credit that
it is 14 years older than “Hobson’s Bay” (No. 31). Of
course, Shirlow has gained in the ability to create
pictures out of the most unpromising material, as is
apparent in a bit of Little Bourke-street which is
invested with a beauty harrl to discover in the dingy,
everyday reality. A study of Fiinders-lane is also
fine, and the perspective of a long line of windows
in the front of a warehouse is as clever as the balance
between the high-lit upper storeys and the sprawling
shadows on the road below. “Princes Bridge, 1921,”
is charmingly simple and effective, but “Collins
Street, Evening,” is rather heavy, though the church
spires are cleverly etched.
** # *
After a long and exhaustive study of the
methods of Gilbert, going right back to the
‘big, big D,” and of the humor of Walenn
(who apparently has modelled himself on
the late Chief Justice of S.A.), Adelaide
Royal has switched suddenly to variety.
The Humphrey Bishop Co. brings to Aus-
tralia a programme something like that seen
in the open-air in summer. It is, however,
stx-onger both in singing and in acting than
the average of such bodies; and of course
the stage resources of a regular theatre are
a help. Verbrugghen finished a really suc-
cessful Town Hall season with a chamber-
music concert which was less well supported,
even though he himself figured in it as an
instrumentalist. The Prince of Wales has
a lot of clever new variety people, and Eslick
has conducted a riotously joyful “birthday”
at the Palais Royal. In pictures the eternal
problem of one man and two women is exam-
ined at West’s in two plays otherwise
widely different, but both gripping. Wofidel-
graph is lighter, Gladys Walton giving a
kind of Pickford show as the rich Beatrice
and the poor Nora. She plays both, and is
supposed to be indistinguishable—except by
an enterprising youth who gets a back-hander
from the lady, which convinces him he has
not kissed the social pet he imagined. The
Majestic finds a contrast of Norma Tal-
madge and Owen Moore auite sufficient to
fill the seats twice a day. but Australia’s
own Clyde Cook as a farcical jockey does
more than his bit to help.
He :Jc
From an Adelaide critic -
South Aus. Society of Arts thinks the time has
come to go back to its old custom of a second and
purely local show each year. The first of these
revivals, now open, comes as a slight shock to
people with memories of the work from all Australia
which has set a standard for some years past. Yet
the exhibition was well worth while. Several of the
smaller things of the late Gustave Barnes have stayed
over from his recent show. “Enchanted Ground”
shows all his gift of putting an air of mystery into
otherwise ordinary trees, and a mill and a watch-
tower are bold examples of ideas acquired in Britain,
Erom a colder atmosphere, too, come A. Hay’s dainty-
fragments of landscape. Rose Lowcay does ample
justice to our own hills, Edward Davies is sound.
McLennan lias a spirited study of the ribs of an Old
wreck, and James Ashton, who has been visiting N.
S. Wales, is seen in his new and almost unrecognis-
able inland manner, as well as in the familiar sea-
scape. There is also a good collection of the applied
arts in leather and china. The figure-studies are of
little importance, and this gives point to an
-announcement, made at the opening, that Alec MOl-
“THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS"
AT MELBOURNE ROYA
The Bandit (Frank Freeman) takes no
notice of his partner in crime (Robert
Chisholm).
rose, a local critic and art patron, has offered a
yearly prize of 25 guineas for the best “portrait or
figure painting or drawing (including group figure
work)” exhibited for the first time at this show,
and, of course, of Australian production.
Norman Gregg, who was solicitor for Mrs.
Farr in a recent inquiry in Sydney, thinks
that portion of a doctor’s discussion of the
N. S. Wales lunacy law' (B. 19/o/’2l) might
be taken by some to refer to Mrs. Farr —in
particular a reference to “obscene sexuality.”
If there be anyone so obsessed with the
Farr case as to connect Mrs. Farr with that
reference, The Bulletin points out to him
that the writer was at pains to say: “I am
not referring specially to Mrs. Farr, poor
thing! but I' am simply stating the general
principles that govern the treatment of such
cases [cases, that is, of folie circulaire Mr.
Gregg adds that there was no suggestion of
obscene sexuality in Mrs. Farr’s case. The
Bulletin doesn’t suggest that there was
and neVer thought of suggesting it.


PE APES
WARRIGAL"
Australia provides most of the world s finest wool.
Why should not Australians wear their own greatest
product?
Peapes have always believed in its quality and have
for many years specialised in the manufacture of fine
woollen articles for men’s use and wear.
So confident are they in the worth and durability of
these that they sell them under their own registered
“Warrigal” Trade-mark —a guarantee of excellence and
unshrinkable quality.
'‘Warrigal” productions are obtainable only from
Peapes.
1
“Warrigal” Underwear.
32in.
AZO2 —Light-weight
pure Natural Wool
Undershirts,
—
Underpants to
match 14/6
AZ65 —M edium-
weight pure Nat-
ural Wool Under-
shirts,
Long 1/- extra.
Underpants to
match 20/-
AZ66 —Heavy-weight
Wool and Cotton
Undershirts,
4-sleeves
Long Sleeves, 1/- extra.
Underpants to
match 14/6
AZ67 —Heavy-weight
pure Natural Wool
U ndershirts,
4-sleeves
Long Sleeves, 1/- extra.
Underpants to
match 25/-
Warrigal” Jacket Sweaters
Men’s.
AZ46 —Jacket Sweaters, All-wool
vest style, in Grey, Heather or
Cream 23/6
AZ49 —Similar style in Grey or
Heather, heavier -weight ...... 30/-
AZSS-—Similar style in Grey,
Lovat, Heather, Sand or
White 50/-
O.S.
25/-
32/6
52/6
Sizes 26in. 28in. 30in.
X.O.S.
26/6
55/-
32in.
AZ46b—Boys' Jacket Sweaters,
V-neck, in Navy, Cream,
Brown or Grey 12/6 12/6 13/6
AZ6Ob —Boys’ Coat Sweaters,
Polo Collar, in Navy, Cream,
Brown or Grey 13/6 13/6 14/6
13/6
14/6
“Warrigal” Rugs.
In reversible check patterns of Dark and Light
Grey, Fawn and Brown Mixtures 307-
In Brown, Fawn and Green Checks - 3i>/6
In Brown and Fawn Checks 637-
In Grey Checks .. 75/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
WARRIGAL
PEAPES &ei?
&©9-3il GEORGE SI 3YTONEY


a. Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street
Sydney
Please note TELEPHONE No. CITY 8704.
Large stocks on hand of—
HIGH-SPEED STEELS,
SPECIAL ALLOY STEELS.
CARBON TOOL STEELS.
MOTOR-CAR STEELS.
Inquiries promptly attended to.
Missing Friends.
"VXT ILL JAMES STITT, last heard of at
t T Moree about two years ago, or any-
body knowing bis whereabouts, communicate
with Messrs. Fraser and Oliver, Solicitors.
Tuirmt, who hold money for him.
W. J. FRASER,
Solicitor, Tumut.
Missing: Friends.
■ - -
DE MARIA KELLY, late of Ireland Street, Bright,
■“ Victoria, widow, deceased. Let EDWARD
KELLY, a son of the abovenamed deacesed, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of something to his advantage.
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger
Brown Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“G. Paint”: George Villiers* Arnold was
one of the best character actor-vocalists
we’ve had for many a day. lie was a won-
derful artist in stage make-up—a capacity
greatly developed by his love of sketching in
oils and water-colors. For three-and-a-half
years he toured Asia as leading comedian in
the G. and S. roles He was a devoted Gil-
bertian student, and he played every male
part in “The Gondoliers” at one time or
othei’ —surely a record! He has done a
round of great work during his seven years
in this country, where he married Pearl
Ladd, at present playing in “Chu Chin
Chow.” The kindly soul never had an
enemy.
Nancy Stewart was recently offered an
Australian engagement, but a bigger salary
was dangled in America, so she is going
back to add another cubit to her reputation
as a comedy actress. Nancy, who will be
remembered for good work with Marie ’rent-
pest (who, By the wa.y, is returning to Mel-
boure King’s next month), is crossing the
Pacific by an early steamer.
“0.K.”: The make-up of the average ’Mur-
kan stage person is unaccountable —I had
"Scandal,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Kenneth Brampton as
Malcolm Fraser, the
poet who was rejected.
written “stage
lady” until I re-
called that the
beauty of Edit h
Craine, our original
Trilby, was hardly
more conspicuously
artificial that that
of Tyrone Power,
her husband, who
accompanied her
on her second visit
to this country.
But the ladies in
a general way are
Ihe boldest offen-
ders. They use no
judgment. “Those
picture-girl eyes,”
which Ada Reeve
satirised in song,
are not their only
misdemeanor when
they are acting for
the camera. The
other day I saw
Constance T a 1-
madge on the
screen, and thought
her an admirable
artist in all re-
spects save he r
lips. Her lips
rivalled the raven’s
wing. Apparently
Constance h a d
faked them with a
salve that came out
dark in the photo, and the operator had
reeled off the film without troubling to dis-
cover the defect in the star’s appearance.
From this paper’s most ancient Melbourne
shows critic: —
Nothing could be more satisfactory to an old
Anglo-Australian playgoer than “Harrison O.’s”
comments on the popular Australian delusion that
only the best London shows are imported to this
country, and that the productions and performances
which we get are always as good as, and usually
better than, they get in London. “H. 0.,” writing
from only 12 recent years of Melbourne experience,
tells the bare truth which I used to tell in the
years before he was born. But tiie courage of such
opinions oozed out of my fingers as I grew old.
I was afraid of inciting the angry patriotic complaint
that a man who praises things English at the expense
of things Australian is a “stinking fisher,” and that
one Who bemoans a decline from the artistic standard
of long ago is merely echoing “the drivel of our
fathers.” Seeing, however, that young “Harrison
U.,” an Australian by birth and first impressions,
dares to credit the Brough and Boucicault and even
the Brough-Fleming-Dav managements with having
made a fairly good shot at educating the public here
on the best English theatrical lines. I will go fur-
ther and say that between the dawn of B. and B. and
the setting of the Fleming-Day sun there was u
better. all-round average of dramatic work in Aus-
tralia than there has been during the past five years.
Why, in Tittell Brune's time J.C.W. dramas had
stronger casts than the rising generation of Austra-
lians ever see, though Tittell never appeared here
with such a strong combination of people as the
company which was engaged for “Ben Hur” (the
first Australian production in Sydney) and after-
wards played “Sherlock Holmes.” Neither in drama
nor in musical comedy do we get the same complete-
ness of performance as of old, and the difference
between our best entertainments to-day and the
“casts of all-round excellence in London” is greater
than it was when Brough and Boucicault were going
in Australia, and the Kendals, the Bancrofts and
Henry Irving were going in London. By the way,
“II.O.” refers to Irene Vanbrugh as the best comedy
actress on the English stage, and one of whom
Australia knows nothing. The lady was here 31
years ago as the Inginue of J. L. Toole's co., and it
was here that she met Dion Boucicault. She was
but a beginner in 1890, of course, nor would I give
J. L. Toole's co. credit for excellence in any particu-
lar. He and his old-fashioned farcical comedies were
a great Australian disappointment in the long ago.
We were not easily pleased in the past, but the
present generation is being brought tip to expect
little and he thankful when it isn't disappointed.
WILL QUINTRELL conducting the First
National Orchestra of Melbourne Tivoli.
“Old Pot”: The comparison made by
"Harrison O.” (B. 19/5/ 21) between pro-
ductions in London and Australia is well-
timed in view of the fact that English mum-
mer Philip Leslie is missing from the pro-
duction of “Scandal” because, it is said, he
did not see eye to eye with the American
producer. Leslie was in the original cast
in London, and he became first perturbed
aud then outspoken when he was informed
that his reading “would not do.” Rumor
asserts that what followed led to Leslie
throwing in the part and taking a holiday
in the country, the plan he had in mind
prior to accepting the engagement with
J.C.W.
“Te Pana” : A combination of Maori and
Pakeha characters in home-grown theatrical
ventures is more likely to be a winner in
Maoriland than shows dealing only with
Hori and his people. Two Hastings jnen,
Archie Don and H S. B. Ribbands, are tour-
ing the Rickettv Isles with their two-act
comic opera ‘Marama,” and the public is
rushing it. Unlike ’ Tapu.” "The Land of
the Moa” and “Hinemoa,” shows dealing only
with Maori characters, “Marama” has a pie-
bald plot. Another man to find the brown-
and-white color-scheme pay is Beaumont
Smith, whose latest film-olay has half its
action pictnrised at Rotorua.
“Alwyn”: Re the Duchess of Plaza Toro's
remark, “That’s so like a band !” w’hen the
orchestra struck (B. 19/5/21). I wonder
what the dear old lady would say if she knew
the Baratarians who fill the various otfices
around the palace did the same. The, Mahenb,
when she left Sydney the other day, carried
about 90 members of the G. and S. Opera
Co., including wardrobe and stage staff. But
there was a strike beforehand, the chorus
refusing to go aboard unless the Firm agreed
to pay them half-salary during the boat-jour-
ney instead of, as previously, five bob a day.
The Firm held out till 10 minutes before the
boat was advertised to sail, then gave in.
It’s time these people were paid full salary,
whether working or travelling. A commer-
cial traveller isn’t docked for the time he
spends on train or coach between stores.
“Bad Bill”: Much has been said of the
late Stannis Leslie’s appearence. It was
the result of an accident. Stan was a medi-
cal student at Dublin ’Varsity, and sang in
the choir at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. He
was hastening there in a cab one Sun-
day morning when the smash came which
left him permanently disfigured. For
some reason or other he never graduated,
but wandered afield. “Fax” (B. 5/5/’2l)
is wrong in saying Stan opened an act
in “Robin Hood” with a solo and the stage
to himself. This chance came to Pat
Bathurst, who played “Will Scarlett”; but
Leslie did open an act and have the stage
to himsedf, when, as Private Willis, he sang
the sentry’s song in “lolanthe.”
”C. Ockney”: Madge Titheradge, after a
record run with “The Garden of Allah” at
Drury Lane—the piece was taken off last
month after being on the bills for close on a
year-—has gone back to Shakspeare, in which,
with Lewis Waller, some of her best work
was done. The Australian-born actress is
now playing Desdemcma at the Court in a
high-class production of "Othello” for which
Bernard Fagan is responsible. Madge, now
quite a top-notelier in the West End, has
been welcomed with acclamation on her first
appearance as the Moor’s missus. The Moor
himself is Godfrey Tearle, one of a famed
theatrical family, a cousin, hv the way, to
Comvay Tearle, nowadays a screen star in
America and the first Ben Mur in Australia.
The friendly spirit born in the
A.I.F. continues to flourish. FTinstanee.
members of the Wangaratta (Vic.) branch
of the R.S.S. I.L.A. recently got together and
bought the local picture-house with their
gratuity bonds. They turned two rooms into
club quarters, and appointed one of their
members secretary to the club and manager
of the flickers at a good salary. Result: be-
tween 35 and 20 p.c. interest on their bonds.
“Hamer”: Passed out peacefully in his
sleep a few days ago, “Side-Show” Hudson
of Dubbo (N.S.W.), Nobody was quite sure
about his age: but as he fought in the Cri-
mean War, and that finished 65 years ago, he
had passed the first flush of youth. Full of
breezy humor, the old chap was a feature of
all the show-grounds of the West and North-
West, where he side-showed, and made a
comfortable thifcg out of what is usually an
unprofitable business.
“Ancient Prompter”: No doubt the picnic
party of the old Gaiety company which
“R.R.L.” mentions (B. 12/T)/’2l) may have
suggested some “encore verses” to “Her
Golden Hair Was Hanging Down Her Back”
but the ditty, according to Seymour Hicks,
who sang it in London in the first production
of “The Shop Girl” at the Gaiety going on
for 30 years ago, came from the U.S.A.
Kicks says iu his autobiog.: “I was lucky
enough to pick up a song in America called
'Her Golden Hair,’ etc., which materially
assisted in establishing me at the Gaiety.
It had been heard in England before I sung
it, but had not succeeded.”
Claude Webb gets back at last to Tas-
mania, his native island, as manager for the
Union Theatres. He was first under Alfred
Dam pier in Sydney, and has since seen
London, the U.S.A., Alaska and San Fran-
cisco. For the past five years he has been
anchored in Adelaide as manager of the Pav.
“Emdee”: “Plus Tax” (B. 19/5/’2l) not-
withstanding, the person who laid the founda-
tions of the picture industry in this coun-
try was West, of West’s Pictures. J. D.
Williams appeared on the scene much later
and bought out one Crawley, an energetic
journalist who dropped the pen to exploit
the film in a theatre in George-street, Syd-
ney. Williams may, however, be fairly
called the “father of the continuous show.”
“Nella”: I should call “The Sign on the
Door” a jolly good show, and Maude Hana-
ford a front-row artist. But when Maude
streaks from home in a hurry and a taxi to
chase her flapper stepdaughter, how is it that
she turns up at her destination a little later,
breathless, but with another dress on? And
like many another good thing, the show is
too soon finished. The orchestra dawdles in
after 8: there are three intervals aggregating
half-an-hour, and then one is on the tram
by 10.22. Give me the did “Carriages at
11.15” days, and the three-bob stalls. My
R.B. look at “The Sign” cost me 11s. 41d.,
plus programme.
“E.T.”: A new play on the subject of
Mary Stuart, by John Drinkwater, whose
“AJbrahaiu Lincoln” brought him fame first
in England and afterwards in America, has
been seen in New York. A recent discovery,
Clare Eames, gives what is described as “the
most brilliant performance of the theatrical
season” in the name-part, and the Ixn-d
Darnle.v of the cast is Australia’s old friend
Charles Waldron. The piece is the opening
programme of N’York’s latest and most
sumptuous playhouse, The Ritz.
“Pongo”: Marie La Varre’s dad, Bill
Abdy, was appearing with a Fuller show at
Auckland (M.L.) Some years ago as Mons.
Poincaire, the French animal mimic, when
Piquo, the French clown, was due to arrive.
Geo. Stevenson, the manager, wanted to
make the visitor feel as much at home as
possible, so, being no French scholar him-
self, he deputed Poincaire to meet him.
Marie’s dad found the French clown among
the passengers on the boat, and, assuming
the most approved French manner, elbows
bent, palms up, said : “Parle tous Francais,
monsieur?” The French clown looked him
over, and then replied: “No, not a damn
word, ole pot; d’you ?” It afterwards turned
out that both hailed from almost within
sound of Bow Bells.
“Tarago”: Anna Snell, member of the
Gippsland giant family, who toured the world
some years ago with her sister Clara, and
tipped the beam at a mere 2Sst., was mar-
ried recently at the hamlet of Nar Nar Goon
“Firefly,” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Nellie Payne as
Suzette.
(Vic.), aud took
unto herself the
name of Small!
Her husband is
about sft. high, but
looks older. Clara,
who was over 6ft.
i n h e r stockinged
feet and 32st. in
weight, died in the
same Gippsland
town s h i p some
years back. Tom,
the other member
of the family, pro-
mised at 18 years
of age to eclipse all
records. He then
weighed 255 t., but
has gone back to
normal, and is now
an active business
man in the grocery
line.
“Delver” : “Fax”
(B. 12/5/’2l) errs
in attributing “The
Virgin Unmasked”
to Fielding. It was
written about 1709
by Bernard de
Mandeville, the
brilliant author of
the “Fable of the
Bee s,” a satire
which caused a
literary sensation
at that time, and
contained many ideas since elaborated by
Nietzsche, Samuel Butler and Bernard Shaw.
Old Charles Hawtrey, asking himscP
lately “What’s killing the drama?” replies
that it is the enormous I’ent of London
theatres: —-
When I rented the old Globe in 1884 at £4OOO a
year, it was considered a high figure. Now more than
'£soo a week is being asked for a moderately large
theatre. The consequence is that the production of
plays is not even a reasonable speculation. A play
that is taking £BOO or £9OO a week ought to be
a paving concern, but it isn’t; it is a dismal fail-
ure. ‘ At present theatres cannot be got for love, and
hardlv for money. People are waiting four deep
for an option. They are ready to pay any price
demanded. It seems sheer madness. Nor is there
anv possibility of building a new theatre. You
can’t get the labor, you can’t get the materials, and
you can’t get the permission. It seems to me that
the future of English drama is very dark. I have
lately read a number of excellent plays by promising
young dramatists, but I see no immediate chance of
production for them.
The Paris stage seems to be getting really
offensive in catering for the morbid and de-
cadent, A recent production has for hero
the Marquis de Sade, known to history as a
monster given to unnatural crime. On the
stage he first makes love to a girl, then ties
her up and carves her with a lancet, streaks
of blood showing on her bare breast. Off-
stage she is heard shrieking as the torture
continues, and he looks in occasionally to
show Iris gory hands to the audience. The
performance was almost too strong even for
the stomach of Paris.
“0.K.” on propaganda:—
The value of propaganda having been demonstrated
in war-time, we must expect to be deluged with it
until the public has grown wiser. We are now
getting it from America in all sorts of theatrical
forms, spoken and silent. The wandering Jew in
“The Welcome Stranger” is a glaring agent, and the
odd thing about the loquacious Hebrew is that his
character, though the work of a Jew author done to
the order of a ditto manager for the delectation of
the Mosensteins of Noo Yark, parades a very doubtful
quality as a virtue—lsidore Solomon is the most
uninsuiltable Jew imaginable, and the author evidently
glories in it. So glorification of a thick skin is
part of the propaganda, apparently. Isidore figures
as an artless, confiding person. Instead of being a
Solomon with a tendency to make a conflagration
for the sake of insurance money, he is the poor, dis-
tressed Izzy whose stock is burned by his enemies
because they think the insurance has lapsed. And
his daughter is a guileless Essie, just everything that
Shy-lock's daughter was not. Another recent tribute
to the Chosen Race is a song about a golden-hearteo
pawnbroker set to one of Moore’s Irish Melodies. A
small child who wishes to pawn a rag dolly on behalf
Of her sick parents is serrt away with £2 by the
soft-hearted unc-le. His first warn Jewish impulse
is to give the infant £l, but on second thoughts
hO makes it a couple; and then you are sure that the
song came from the factory that also produced
Isidore Solomon. And yet it must be admitted that
Mosaic propaganda is an almost excusable set-off
against ages of too unkind reflections on the Chosen.
The Ameriean-Irish are being catered for, too, but
chiefly with film-plays. You get the propaganda at
nearly every show. It is going the rounds naked and
unashamed.
A STROLLING OH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When skies were not so grey as now,
And softer winds did blow,
It was a pleasant thing, in truth,
With rosy Joy and gallant Youth
To go u-stroUing oh !
With pretty nutids at beck and call,
Like roses in a row
A-nodding all with leaves unfurled,
Who would not leave the tiresome world
To go a-strdHing oh V
But skies are grey, and winds are cold
And wiser ’tis, I trow,
To sit within my inglenook
With pipe and glass and story-book,
Than go a-strolling oh
x.s.w.
BRIG ALOW.


The “Ensign” Popular
Wsi
■ as
Reflex Camera
There is not another Reflex Camera on the
market that represents anything like the
value offered in the “Ensign Popular ’
Reflex. It is the lightest, simplest and
yet strongest Reflex made.
It weighs less than 41b. and measures only
square when closed. Even if you
have never used a Camera before you
could learn to take successful pictures
with this Camera in five minutes.
PRICE LIST.
Ensign Popular Reflex Camera, taking glass plates
4*4 x 3M. and Three Singje Metal Slides.
£ s. d.
4X, with Ensign Anastigmat Lens, F4.S, Gin. 21 10 0
4L, with Cooke-Luxor Anastigmat Lens, F 4.5,
5 fin 21 10 0
4A, with Aldis Anastigmat Lens, F 4.5,
sJin «. 22 10 0
4Q, with Dallmeyer-Serrae Anastigmat Lens.
F 4.5, Gin .'. 2(i 10 0
4M, with Ross Xpress Anastigmat Lens,
F 4.5, Gin 28 17 6
Camera, with three Single Metal Slides,
without Lens 15 10 0
Extra Single Metal Slides, each 0 8 0
Ilolborn Film Pack Adapter, leather-covered,
Model A, each 1 0 0
Antinous Release, each 0 7 0
Leather Carrying Case, best quality, each... 2 10 0
US
The House for GOOD Cameras,**
386 George Street
266 Collins Street,
93 Queen Street,
, Sydney.
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
w s
%
S 2
m
Made lock
Sold Toda
•s
\
\\
wwflm
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices:—
3A, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- & 307-
Post free to any address in Australia.
-
ERNEST HILLIER
*62 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
m
THE MARK OF QUALITY
MACHINE MADE PAINT
An Australian Product for Australian Homes.
No nation which depends on outside
sources for its everyday utilities can be
truly self-supporting.
The time has come for the Australian
paint industry to occupy its rightful
place in the national economy. True
patriotism should read: Preference for
home-products.
Rogers Machine-made Paint is made
in modern mills that work to a proven
formula, and so produce a standard
quality product.
Economy in spreading, results from this
machine-grinding method, which en-
sures an absolutely thorough compound-
ing of ingredients.
Use Rogers, and your national pride
will square with your personal pleasure
in the brightening of your home.
Distributors—
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Pitt, Vickery, 335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Wunderlich, Limited, 243 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Edmund Ashley, 102-104 Victoria St.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Hoskin & Carmichael, Creek Street,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., 297*303
Murray Street, Perth.
Millars’ Timber and Trading Co., Ltd.,
St. George’s House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
TASMANIA:
F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart.
W. Hart & Sons, Ltd., Launceston.
Head Office: Detroit White Lead Works, Rhodes, N.S.W.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BTJKNS, PHIL.P & CO., PTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNfi ?
LEWIS feWnITTY MAKERS
4*
4
A SPIRIT OF
HICH MEDICINAL VALUE
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
All Hotels & Licensed Grocers
nm
GUARANTEED
PURE
DISTILLED FROM
FINEST
AUSTRALIAN
GRAIN
SNORTING
MaJ eof£j TjNKEa
yui\ /.k. l//±fUCK SIMMONS I
L \/J (£&^\ DO THE JOB I
properly A
(Continued from page SO.)
The long overdue rain gave Melbourne’s
footballers a chance to bog in last Saturday without
risking a broken neck. Nevertheless, St. Kilda
(already minus its best forward, in hospital with
a broken leg) lost another good man similarly in
its affray with Carlton. The Tricolors alsb lost the
game, though they put up a great fight, and the
30,000 spectators roared themselves hoarse, so long
as there seemed a chance that the day might be won
on the voices. The Old Blues lasted better and ran
out ultimately with 101 points to the Saints’ 78.
Richmond’s Tigers went to ’Roy and won, but it
took them all their time. ’Roy led at the last
change; but in a needlessly willing quarter their
men went down like ninepins, and the Yellow-and-
Blacks got home by 44 points to 36. Geelong visited
’Wood, minus two of their best men, and, bogging
in violently at first, got 39 points in the first
quarter to ’Wood’s 18. After that the Maggies got
going systematically, and Geelono- had little to
say in the argument, which ended with ’Wood own-
ing 105 points to Geelong’s 87. The choicest game
of the day—from the
one - eyed barracker’s
point of view—was at
South Melbourne, where
the very ordinary
Essendon team made a
sanctified show of the
Red-and-Whites, with a
final tally of 81 points
to 38. South’s bar-
raekers never could
take a licking, and the
disastrous upending of
their pets caused
several willing goes, in
which some enthusi-
asts who were obvi-
ously looking for
bother got it. It’s
early yet to prophesy,
but as things are Carl-
ton, ’Wood, Richmond
and St. Hilda look like
having most say at the
finish.
E. W. COPE-
LAND. sec. Col-
ling wood (Vic.)
Football Club.
North Sydney and Eastern Suburbs, the
unbeaten leaders, met in the N.S.W. Rugby League Pre-
miership, at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. A
record football crowd (45,000) watched the proceed-
ings. Dune Thompson booted off against the wind
for the Red and Blacks. Norths’ forwards, losing
the leather in the downs, broke up smartly and
smothered the opposition backs. The first' score
came from Rigney, the Surfers’ custodian, who,
snaring a weak return by Ted Taplin near the touch-
line at the 25 flag, propped, drew a bead on the
Northerners’ goal, and landed a beautiful field goal.
East 2, North 0. Thompson retaliated by coming
round the blind side of the pack, making a hack of
Wright and sending to Blinkhorn, who galloped
60yds., beat two tacklers and crossed in close to the
corner. Horder failed to convert. North 3, East 2.
The Surfers then took a hand and were unlucky in
not crossing in, but Rex Norman, from a penalty
right in front, hoisted the flags. East 4, North 3.
East now attacked like tigers, but Rule and Peters
were rocks in defence, and repeatedly grassed Cubitt
before he could get going. Peters, after a 30yds.
race for the ball, crossed in, but was recalled for
illegally interfering with Rex Norman, who shortly
after had his revenge by hoisting the flags for the
second time. East 6, North 3—and this was the
position at lemon-time. The second canto gave the
Shoremen the wind, which they used to advantage.
Easts persistently won the hall from the scrums, but
the youthful Rule and Peters, with Thompson, gave
the opposing rearguard no chance. About here
Blinkhorn in endeavoring to throw Watkins into the
Agricultural Ground, twisted his ankle, and was not
afterwards dangerous. Rex Norman soon after hoisted
his third goal, making the tally East 8, North 3. With
but 12 minutes to go Thompson lobbed one over from
an easy position. East 8, North 5. McKivatt’s mena-
gerie now made superhuman efforts to cross in, and
eventually the wonderful Thompson beat the oppo-
sition and sent to Horder 20yds. from the chalk line.
Horder went hard for the corner flag, but was
dropped, the ball, providentially for the Norths, roll-
ing in goal. Geo. Green came from the clouds and
scored. Horder failed at goal—no side. East 8,
North 8. Webby Neill refereed capably. The best
back on the ground was Dune Thompson, who made
hacks of Kaufman and Caples. Both tries scored
by his side were due to his headiness and resource.
Blinkhorn was next in merit, for he overshadowed
Wright both in pace, attack and defence. Rule
for Norths was excellent, and absolutely smothered
Cubitt whenever that clever performer obtained pos-
session. It was largely due to his splendid sporting
tactics that the vaunted Cubitt-Wright combination
was disorganised. Rigney was much safer than
Taplin on the day. Rex Norman was sound and his
booting saved his side time after time. Of the
vanguards the Red and Blacks were the nippier,
although the Surfers’ six were the better in the
downs. C. McGrath was the best forward on the
grass; liis following and tackling were magnificent.
Jack Baker, Geo. Green and Ives and Pauli grafted
continuously. East’s best rucker was Watkins, who
did great work while his condition lasted. Harold
Horder was a passenger.
In the other games Souths defeated Wests by
22 points to 8; the infant St. George walloped its
parent, Newtown, by 11 points to 9, and ’Varsity
received its usual weekly castigation—this time from
Glebe by 45 to 16. ’Mains had the bye.
In Sydney, under Australian rules, Easts
led Norths at half-time by 41—16. Norths pulled
themselves together and in the third quarter the
board showed 61—48. Easts then bolted and finally
won by 93 —69. Sydney v. Balmain was a gruelling
tussle, in which Sydney hung out long enough to win
by 40—37. There was little to choose between Pad-
dington and Railway in a hard game, and while
each side notched 11 goals Paddington got 11 minor
points against Railway’s five. The final scores were
Paddington 77, Railways 71.
Saturday’s round of Sydney Soccer
matches left Granville the only unbeaten team in the
premiership scramble. In four matches they have
kicked 25 goals to five.
» * * «
T. B. Whight, Brisbane Uni.’s full-back,
is a product of those regions where white people
can’t live. He also excels at cricket and tennis.
Under P. F. Rowlands, at Townsville Grammar
School, he maintained an early promise, and has
already won the Thallon Medall and a University
schollarship.
* * * *
An extraordinary deadlock in West Adel-
aide Club football drags on. There are two opposing
bodies in the club, and the dispute has been given
importance by the firm refusal of the League to
admit to its meetings, Edwards, M.L.A., sent as
delegate from the club —or some of it. A Supreme
Court action has been talked of, but a more sensible
attempt is now being made to settle the matter by a
small across-the-table conference.
* * * *
The betting on the Brisbane Thousand,
run at Albion Park (Q.) last Saturday, made it look
a good thing for Tom McCarthy, especially after
his runaway win the previous week-end, but he
proved a quitter when the whips began to swish.
Master Warkon was eating up the field at the finish.
The Sydney horse Remmon was among the starters,
but the only backed horse to do any good was Glen-
burn, who was just pipped off by the outsider
Soldier’s March.
* * * *
Sandule is so many cuts above the ordi-
nary respectable hurdler that it will be hard to pick
any particular one to beat him if he goes for the
well-endowed Hurdle Race at Randwick on June 4.
In fact, Sandule, with list. 121 b. to hjs name, looks
favorably handicapped. He was second, with list.
71b. up, for the Doutta Galla Hurdle Race at Flem-
ington a week after he had run away With the Grand
National, the course being only a furlong shorter
than the A.J.C. event. And, what is more to the
point, Sandule had list. 71b. on his back when he
made a brilliant attempt to run away with the Aus-
tralian Hurdle at Caulfield, and was not cellared
until he had gone three miles. Silver Heart, the
winner on that occasion, would meet Sandule on 221 b.
worse terms if they both turned up for the Rand-
wick event, and as Silver Heart is an older animal,
his chance doesn’t take one’s fancy.
**! * * „
On the second day of the Wanganui
(M.L.) Jockey Club’s Winter Meeting some of the
entrants for the Auckland Great Northern Steeple-
chase turned out. The Grandstand Steeple (about
a mile shorter than the big event) was won bv
Luke (not in the longer . race) by a length from
that good horse Master Strowan. This former cham-
pion has list. 101 b. at Auckland, and is second top-
weight to Coalition (12st. 51b.). The M.L. jumpers
are an especially bad lot, mostly “dud” flat-racers,
and not within stones of horses like Bon Reve,
Waimai and Lochella. Lord Nagar has lOst. 21b.
in the G. N. Hurdles, and Old Mungindi, who has
yet to break the ice in M.L., lOst. 41b. in the
’Chase.
The Brisbane Thousand, run at “the
Creek” on Saturday, was a triumph for N. S.
Wales, inasmuch as the three place-getters, Soldier’s
March, Glenburn and Deween, were all foaled at
P. Reynolds’s Hobartville stud. All three are by
the imported Ayrshire horse Bernard, sire of the
w.i.a. performer Fairy Bob.
Governor Weigall is an even keener race-
goer than his predecessors in South Aus. He not
only saw all the racing at the Adelaide Cup meeting;
he was out at Morphettville before breakfast to
watch the gallops. During the meeting he bought
old Portee, out of the Marion Steeple field, for use
as a hunter.
Baseball-pitcher W. Ford greatly helped
Waverley to beat University on Saturday by 4—o.
The N.S.W. rep. pitcher swung very finely and struck
out 19 batsmen. Twelve of the initial 15 failed to
leave ‘‘the plate.” No better bag has been gathered
in Sydney premiership matches. The Dulwich Hi 11-
Leichhardt clash was also noteworthy for the fine
win by the Hillites: 4—2. C. Hodgson’s pitching
kept Leichhardt down to two runs in the second inn-
ings.
"SANDY” PEARCE (Sydney Eastern
Suburbs) waiting.
The M.C.C. match against the Australians
at Lords is another advertisement of the value of
youth in cricket. (Armstrong, who was 42 last
week, is merely the exception that proves the rule.)
G. N. Foster, who went for 12, is a member of the
famous cricketing family (a brother of the late
K.E. sjnd of H.K., who is one of the English Test
selectors), but he has been prominent in first-class
cricket for some 20 years. Evans is an old Oxonian,
like Foster, but of much later vintage. He is in
the twenties and was at his top last year. His 69
not out (which included nine fours) was the only
really confident and forceful display put up against
the Armstrong-Mailey combination. Hendren per-
formed consistently in both innings. Carter (who
caught three in M.C.C.’s first knock) got him off
McDonald for 40, and fie was l.b.w. to Mailey for
52 next time. Hut Lords is Hendren’s favorite
ground, and he knows the Australian attack by
heart. Andrews oarne off with a beautifully com-
piled 37 not out in Australia’s first effort, which
totalled 191—83 behind the English score.
* * if *
Barney Oldfield made a fine d6but against
United Services and Essex last week. He stumped
four and caught three in the first match, and caught
two and stumped one v. Essex —ten wickets in two
matches. In four matches Carter has stumped one
and cgught. five.
The quick events in the Australians’
match v. the M.C.C. at Lord’s recall the historic
match in 1878 which was finished in one day. The
M.C.C., including W. G. Grace, Hornby, A. Shaw*
and other champions of the time, opened on a
bowlers’ wicket and faded away for 33 (Hornby 19),
Spofforth capturing 6 for 4, and Boyle 3 for 14,
Mainly due to the attack of Morley and Shaw, Aus-
tralia responded with only 41. The Englishmen,
uplifted by this result, expected to retrieve their
first failure with a pile of centuries. Actually they
made 19 (Boyle 6 for 3 and Spofforth 4 for 16), and
the tourists hammered up the required 12 for the
loss of one wicket. That score was England’s record
failure in first-class cricket, but the Australians went
one worse against M.C.C. in 1896. A. D. Pougher
took the ball when the visitors were 3 for 18, and
the next sevep men each registered an eyeglass.
P.pugher finishing up with 5 for 0, while J. T.
Ilearn'e’s record was 4 for 4.
The 25-years’ lease of the Adelaide Oval
runs out in 1923, and the ground being part of the
city park lands the S.A. Cricket Assoc, has to' look
to the Adelaide Corporation for a renewal. It has
asked for 21 years more, and receives a reply that
the present £lOO a year will jump to £2OO, £3OO
and £4OO in seven-year periods. On the other hand,
it will have the Tight to increase, on getting special
leave, the present very moderate charges for admis-
sion. The Assoc, has - had a record year financially,
with a profit of £2360 from the Test match. It
is significant that the public rolled up to the N.S.W.
game far more readily than to any of the others,
even including the English matches.
Bert Spargo, the Victorian, appears to
have the Indian sign over Joe Symonds. He outed
the Britisher for the second time at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, and that is a thing no one- else
in Australia has been able to do even once. Godfrey
and again Wyns dropped Joseph, but on each of these
occasions lie "rose, and like Anfeeus, fought the better
for his fall. The exhibition was a stirring and
scientific one while it lasted. Spargo’s Mehegan-
like smother baffled Symonds, and his brilliant lett
did much damage in the intervals. By round six
Symonds was beginning to regret he had embarked
on the engagement, and by the end of the next
session he was virtually licked. The finish came in
the eighth with a right and left to the jaw which
incapacitated the Englishman for the 10 seconds
needed to gain Spargo the laurel-wreath of victory,
and not a moment more.
* * « *
Kirkwood made a remarkable showing last
week against a couple of hundred pros., comprisin &
the cream of Britain’s golfing talent. In the first
round he was out in 39 and home in 34. This
earned him the penalty of a huge gallery of specta-
tors for the second round, which he did in 38 and
34. Havers (who is only just 19) and Kirkwood
led at this stage (145 apiece), with Abe Mitchell
(146), the eventual winner, next. Kirkwood’s card
was 72 in the third and he led. But Mitchell took
76 to his 78 in the final, and won the first prize,
which was worth a matter of £l3O, Kirkwood’s
second bringing him in £BO. The “Australian
wizard,” as the Daily Express calls him, is already
second favorite for the coming pro. championship
event.
Melbourne ’Varsity athletes, who took part
in the Inter-Collegiate events last week, Had line
weather to assist them. A. Oldham (Ormond), who
chased Derrnot Gale in the 100yds; ’Varsity cham-
pionship two days previously, annexed the century
dash in 10 2-ssec., as well as the 220yds. in 23sec.,
being one-fifth of a second better than Gale’s run
on Monday. Le Souef (Trinity) shattered the pre-
vious ’Varsity weight-putting record of 35ft. 01 in.
put up by ’l’. Dodds on Monday with a put of 35ft.
9in. W. E. Macmillan annexed a double —880yds.
(2min. 6 3-ssec.) and one-mile run (4mln.
40 ]-ssee) ; but in the latter event .1. X. O’Driscol'l,
a 17-year-old youngster, made Macmillan run every
inch. ' But for the fact that the Newman College
boy stumbled about 20yds. from the tape, he might
have dead-heated. It. L. Almond (Ormond) also
won a double—l2oyds, hurdles (16 3-10 see.) and
long jump (22ft. lin.) —and was runner-up in the
100yds. championship. Running from scratch J. J.
Cooke won the two-mile handicap in lOmin. 23sec. —
a creditable performance for a youth of 20 years.
Ormond College (77 2-3pts.) made fair haieks of
their opponents, Newman (35 5-6 pts.) and Queen’s
(32 5-0 pts.) being the next best.
* * * *
In Sydney University athletic champion-
ships last week W. H, llutton won 100yds. (10 4-5
sec.), 220yds. (23 4-ssec.) and 440yds. (52 l-ssec.).
Hutton also took the sprints at the inter-collegiate
meeting last year. It. J. Honnor lifted 880yds.
(2min. 8 l-6sec.) and broad jump (21ft. 4in.), but
showed better figures for the Latter event (22ft.
14 in.) in the inter-Varsity meeting last year. The
high jump was between J. K. and It. Harbison, and
they divided the title with sft. 7in. ,J.K. last year
did sft. lOin. O. Nothling, the Rugby Union rep.
full back, won the shot putt with 32ft. lOjin.
» * * *
Annette Ivellerman, one of Australia’s
best advertisements, came home, after an absence of
15 years, by the Ventura on Tuesday. " Her first
successes were in 1901, when, at a Ladies’ Carnival
promoted by her father in the old Cleveland-street
(Sydney) baths, she annexed the 100yds. and 440yds.
championships of N. S. Wales, defeating Vera Buttle
in the sprint in Imin. 26jjsec., and Miss Riley in the
distance event in 7min. 26sec. Her attempt to
swim the English Channel, and her stillt-standing
world’s-record 27-kilometres’ swim on the Danube
are history. . ■ .
* * * *
Now that Shimiclzu lias been able to leave
his job in India, Japan is regarded as having the
strongest chance of lifting the Davis Cup. Without
question ’he is one of the world’s best players. H?
badly beat the Frenchman Gobert at Wimbledon last
year, and eventually reached the final with Tilden,
whom he extended to 13-11 in the first set before
going under to the champion’s superior pace and
stamina. Shimidzu’s partner, Kumagae, who has
lived long in the U.S., is considered an even more
deadly opponent. After Careful study of averages
and results, the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association ranked
him the fourth best player in the Republic. Britain
meanwhile is dropping heavily in the betting, and
there are gloomy suggestions that the Englishmen
will not survive the first round with the Spanish
pair, Manuel Alonso and Count Gomar, who recently
shone in the championships in Paris.
» * * *
Australia's first battle with Canada for
the Davis Cup will, happen at Toronto and not at
Vancouver as was first suggested. The Australians
were offered the choice of the two cities, and
naturally selected the nearest, because the arrange-
ment would allow them extra time for practice and
would afford them the further pleasure of playing on
grass. Subsequently the Canadians found that the
Davis Cup fixture came right on the heels of their
own championships at Toronto, and as they couldn t
miss the latter, they asked our fellows to cross the
continent to meet them, which our ever-obliging team
agreed to do. This decision meins that Australia
will play cm hard courts, which is probably a dis-
advantage to Anderson and Peach, though Hawkes
ought to feel more at home, as he leagnt his punch
on the asphalt at Geelong.
* * * *
“Smike”: The sudden death of Harold
Parsons has set me thinking of the absurdity of th.
business that made him popular. He, was no athlete
whose triumphs rested on aboundiiig muscularity in
some comparatively safe and healthful pastime. He
was merely a daring youth who squatted on the best
motor-bike available and chipped seconds off records
that weren’t worth making. He contributed very
little to his performances but readiness to risk his
neck ; yet he was advertised, photographed and boosted,
and his mud-caked bike was exhibited in shop-
windows, just to draw attention to the make of the
machine and testify to the super-excellence of the
tyres, petrol, lubricating-oil and what not which
were alleged to make his feats possible. Common-
sense insists that the value of any commodity in
the motor trade is not decided by these exploits;
but competition is so keen that any number of
motor, tyre and petrol merchants are always ready
to nut up cash for speed-contests, the result of
which may present one or more with undeserved
bouquets. No doubt Parsons was unlucky in hitting
a horse, but he must have known that, if he kept
going, he would strike something fatal sooner or
later.
“CRICKET BY TELESCOPE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bendren b. Mailey 5. This indicates beyond a doubt
That Middlesex’s pride has been dismissed —in brief,
is out.
The score would seem to show (though here one
must not dogmatise)
His “form” was poor—he should have stuck it
longer ’otherwise.
One is enabled further to deduce that Mailey’s health
Is standing up to England’s arctic summer, with its
wealth'
Of searching sleet and wind; and that his captain
(Armstrong) deems
Him still quite “class” enough to face the leading
county teams.
Bobbs, two-eight-four. Not out! Assuredly the
Cockney crack
Has found the trundling muchly to his liking. Well
done, Jack!
He will achieve (should lie but notch a paltry six-
teen more)
The century thrice over—truly an impressive score;
And one that must enhance his colleagues’ prospects
of success—
Which wqwld have hardly been so bright had he
accomplished less.
Oldfield (.first innings), 2. And in the next he did
not bat.
Oldfield before the wickets always did fall rather
flat.
The place the Digger shines in is, of course, behind
the sticks.
There he is full of cunning ruses, arid of baffling
tricks.
Warwick, the Wily, mostly sends his ’keeper in dead
last
(A practice which has proved of signal value in the
past)
And hence—the fact stands out as plainly as a Town
Hall clock—
The reason why the Digger failed to get a second
knock.
Thus is the murky public mind illumined day by day,
Which otherwise in blind, befuddled gloom would
grope away.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Gould You Defend Yourself?
Could you use your fists properly to
defend yourself against a bully, or in
a mix-up? When called upon to do
so vou will appreciate fully the ben-
efits of knowing how to box. There’s
pleasure, too, in boxing, for it is one
of the most enjoyable and healthful
forms of recreation.
LEARN BOXING BY MAIL
You can do it, easily and successfully,
under the Baker System.
All over Australia there are men who
have learned how to use their fists
by studying this simple postal course.
Each lesson has been specially prepared by Reg. L.
Baker, and is based on the personal experiences that
have made him so well known in the world of
athletics.
The Baker method takes you step by step from the
very rudiments of boxing right on to the highest
(points of the game.
YOU CAN LEARN WITH EASE
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, enclose three penny stamps to cover postage,
and we will forward you “Snowy” Baker’s interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which tells
you all about the Baker Course, the fees charged, etc.
Write that name and address NOW!
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
487 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
CUSi' |
m MSi Mb
MOTOR WRIT
Q, <? c* d.w'a
aw
Diamonds
Reduced
Greatly
3 Pine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l6/10/-
We are selling Diamonds in all forms of
jewellery at 25 per cent, less prices than we
were able to do last year.
The great controlling Diamond Syndicate have
NOT reduced prices; indeed, they have increased
them, but still our prices are 25 per cent, lower.
HOW?
Great numbers of diamonds —far the greatest
number of diamonds —are beyond the control
of the Syndicate.
Many parcels are held by those short of cash.
We always have large cash balances, and so we
have bought quantities of diamonds at from 25
per cent, to S 3 per cent, lower than the figures
of a yeiar ago.
Our no-profiteering principles cause us to
hand on to customers the great savings made
by our good buying—hence our 25 per cent,
reduction in the selling prices of our diamonds.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
"cUta? 23«25 Hunter Street.
THE E.A.C. HIGH-TORQUE D.C. METER
(Approved by the British Board of Trade).
The E.A.C. type is the only Commutator Meter which has successfully overcome all the inherent
faults of earlier commutator types. It is highly suitable for registering small currents, starting
with less than one per cent, of full-load current, and can be thoroughly relied upon to give
accurate readings at low loads after a long period of service.
Supplied in Solid Cast-iron Dust- and Damp-proof case.
On the Market for upwards of Ten
Years, and in continuous use in more
than 350 Supply Stations throughout
Great Britain and Ireland, apart from
large numbers of stations in the
Colonies and elsewhere.
FUIijL STOCKS ON HAND.
HOMEWOOD e O’NEILL
PTY., LTD.
Head Office and Warehouse:
172-6 William Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. I—Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2 —Ferrars St., South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: t
375 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the
Manufacturers’ Electrical Apparatus
Co., Xtd„ Condon.
Wtm <q
for Wood
=§
w it
N \\ V
Every circular saw we make
must maintain the high reputa-
tion we have gained in 75
years.
Because they are made of the
best warranted Crucible Cast
Steel, by highly skilled work-
men, Circular Saws branded
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
ARE FULLY GUARANTEED
Stocked in every size with standard
gauges and holes.
Send for catalogue. Address Depart-
ment “A.”
THE EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co, Ltd. SHEFFIELD.
379-381 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road. KALGOORLIE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
Use
!!efi> Johnson
n
Built Right
Easy to Start
Fuller & Johnson
Throttling Governor Petrol Kerosene
ENGINES
are known for their dependable work. “Easy to
Start,” they operate smoothly and steadily on
either kerosene or petrol and can be depended
upon to deliver more than their rated Brake
Horse Power on continuous load. They are of
the most approved design and built in desirable
sizes: 3,5, 7, 9,12, 15, 20 and 25 B. H. P. Can be
furnished in both stationary and portable types.
The Genuine
Fuller & Johnson
Farm Pump Engine
By its remarkable performance in every climate
and under every possible pumping con-
dition it has won recognition as the best
direct-connected pumping engine for its
size on the market. It is the original
Farm Pump Engine so well and favor-
ably known throughout Australia for
the past 10 years.
A post card to any of the following
distributors will bring full particulars
on FULLER & JOHNSON engines.
DISTRIBUTORS
Buzaeott & Co., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
The S. A. Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Ltd.,
mn
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian-made).
Price £125.
lIS
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, and
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
6in. centres x 6ft. bed; Hin. Hollow Spindle; Swing in Gap,
20in. dia. x 7Hn. wide in front of Face Plate. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground ; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller—■
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for complete specifications to
B E NS O N
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


The New Lamp Shades
add to Home Adornment
The most important part of a room is its lighting arrange-
ments, of which Lamp Shades are an integral part.
Very dainty Lamp Shades, with scalloped edges; for reading
and bracket lights. In colored Jap. silks of any desired tone;
finished with French braids to match. Price .. 19/6
Large French Shades, in floral Jap. silk, veiled with ninon and
trimmed gold beads and long drops to match. 35/- and 37/6
Large Dome Shades, with scalloped edges, covered in gold
tinsel and lined with lap. silk; neatly finished with gold braid
and beads; decorative as well as useful. Price, each .. 39/6
French Candle Shades, in Jap. silk daintily trimmed with
tinsel, braid and beads. Prices from ... . 3/9 to 15/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
We Pay Carriage Box 497, G.P.O
<Q>
1.
Java Industrial Fair
BANDOENG, 19th SEPTEMBER 9th OCTOBER, 1921.
BROCK & KOEKKOEK
Have secured a Pavilion 80ft. by 33ft., to be known as the “Australian
Court,” and are Prepared to Quote Manufacturers and other intending
Exhibitors a FLAT RATE, inclusive of ALL charges from the Common-
wealth to and during the entire period of the Exhibition. Personal
Supervision by our Mr. Koekkoek, who speaks Dutch. Owing to the
Exhibition space being strictly limited, early application is essental.
SPACES FROM £2l TO £l5O INCLUSIVE.
ALL PARTICULARS FROM
BROCK & KOEKKOEK, Commerce House, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Parie in the
Heart of
Melbourne
And Her [?] Theres.
Card women look like fiends when they
really get to work. The Mayoress and her
helpers had a big party in the Town Hall
for the Blind Appeal last week. It was an
awful scene. Acres of poker- and bridge-
playing women, wedged in a solid mak in the
body of the hall, sat for hours with set
faees and eyes glued on their cards. A grim
silence enwrapped them, broken only by
occasional hisses when some frivolous She
bubbled into speech. It is neck or nothing
with the card woman if there are thruppenny
stakes. She shows every hard line in her
face—lines that she carefully massages at
night, or smooths over with smiles in ordinary
social intercourse. Even the pouting petal-
mouth of a card woman caught young gets a
grim look from the set of her jaw if she sees
the pasteboards going against her. It gives
one dreary thoughts to watch them chasing
their money.
On the fringe of this desperate scene a
lively tussle went on among the tea-dis-
pensers and the busy raffle women. A buffet
under the balcony was packed with high-
lights of Sassiety, dressed in business-like
frocks with big linen aprons. Some non-
playing males paid as much as a guinea a
cup for tea in sheer exuberance at their free-
dom. Home-made cakes had a great sale when
the pretty girl-cooks threw out a smiling
appeal. There were dozens of raffles in pro-
gress, mainly in the balconies, and Hedger of
the Blind Institute galloped up to the plat-
form at intervals with the announcement of
a winning number. The recent police-raid has
made rafflers positively crazy to show their
Ixtna fides. Mayoress Swanson was much in
evidence among the practical helpers, and
Mrs. Secretary Cabena was the busiest
woman on the scene. Money, by the way, is
simply pouring in for the cause. No appeal
has ever clutched Melbourne so thoroughly.
Ordinary women, in- their innocence,
thought the City Council had come to an
understanding to limit every mayor’s innings
to 365 days, so that the ball of distinction
would be kept rolling around. The five con-
secutive years of IJtennessy, with bis sub-
sequent struggle to retain the awful dignity
for yet another year or two, had set the
Councillors calculating. As there ar.e 32 of
them, it was discovered that, if they all
succeeded to the title alphabetically, the man
at the bottom' of the list might have to wait
155 years for his turn, or 62 years if each
mayor clung to his robe of office for an extra
twelve months only. Even 62 years is longer
than many councillors’ wives are prepared to
wait for the free run of the Mayoress’s room :
so it was decided that every councillor must
relinquish the chair without a struggle when
his time was up. Thus far no councillor has
been content to retire in accordance with the
one-year-engagment system. All sorts of
prayers and entreaties, male and female, are,
however, being brought to bear on the next
election question, although any old thing
might happen before the ballot.
The G.-G. must be getting fond of Colac.
He has .been down there for a week-end
again, this time to give a start to a Billjim
.memorial project. The district people had
his Ex. all to themselves this time. In March
300 A.N.A. delegates, who gave him the most
rousing welcome of his official life, were in
the ring, and the. people were the fringe of
-the crowd.
Mrs. Wisdom, wife of the hew Administra-
tor of New Britain, has arrived at Rabaul
and has had an enthusiastic reception. There
has been no Governor’s lady as hostess dur-
ing the reign of the two previous Adminis-
trators, and her presence will make a differ-
ence to the big bungalow on Namanula Hill.
.General Wisdom has had much experience
of the tropics—in Singapore and the Malay
States, as well as' in Ceylon, where Jie was
interested in rubber. He used to represent
Claremont in the Westralian Assembly, but
jettisoned his politics at the sound of war’s
alarums and started out after Fritz. He
fought in France, and so should have a
sympathetic feeling for the Diggers who are
being given precedence in all jobs to do
with ex-German New Guinea.
It cost £lll6 to refit the vice-regal home
at Malvern for the Stradbrokes. So that
-the work could be expedited two contractors
were put on without tenders being called,
apd the Executive Council has now had to
specially approve of the bill-paying.
Attended by Premier Lawson, Chief Secre-
tary Baird and Minister Clarke, the Earl
has been to Ballarat helping the local folk to
jubilate over the union of the city and town.
Of course he was told anew the story of
Eureka, and had pointed out to him the
statue of Peter Lalor. It was also men-
tioned that Lalor’s grandson, true to his
line, disposed of seven Turks on Gallipoli
before he took the westward track.
The Stradbrokes don’t seem to worry over
such trifles as military precedence. So far,
with two or three exceptions, junior officers
and their wives have been fed at Stonington,
while the claims of senior officers to free
meals have been overlooked. Perhaps they
are doing this in the endeavor to smash
down class distinction. On the other hand,
they may think that military persons disim-
prove on promotion. Some of them cer-
tainly do.
As our Earl walks into the Chief Secre-
tary’s building to attend Executive Council
meetings he will stand a good chance of
being stuck up by an ex-prisoner for the
loan of a couple of bob. The Penal Depart-
ment, which has been down the law-courts
end of the city for several years, has been
shifted back to the Old Treasury, and the
Inspector-General’s room has been placed
right opposite the Executive Council cham-
ber. This entrance to the building has
hitherto been sacred to his Ex., Ministers
and high officials; but now all is changed.
Just beside the door of the head of the gaols
is a little desk like one of the compartments
in which you write wires in a suburban
telegraph office. It is labelled “Visitors’
Book.” Herein Sassiety writes its name,
supposedly for Government House use.
What’s going to happen when someone who
has just done 15 years in Coburg Club for
murdering his mother-in-law’s aunt signs his
name immediately after that of Mrs. Howard
Talbot Brown! Shouldn’t things be kept at
least as exclusive for an Earl-Governor as
for an ordinary Knight-Governor? What’s
the good of having two members of Mel-
bourne Club in the Cabinet if they won’t
say a word about “bad form,” and point out
that this sort of thing is simply “not done”?
There now seems to be a reasonable pros-
pect of Victorian music-lovers planking down
guarantees to the extent of £3OOO to help keep
the Verbrugghen Orchestra alive. The com-
mittee that has the matter in hand includes
the Barrett medical knight and Minister
Frank Clarke. An assurance is given that
there will be a specific number of concerts
yearly, that "the provinces’-’ will get their
full share, and that there will be a fairly
liberal allotment of low-priced seats. Clarke
will be helpful in obtaining something in the
way of a State guarantee if the public agrees
to make good any loss up to £2500; but it is
hoped that sufficient will be promised without
any Government backing at all.
Broothoni studios are responsible for this
picture of little Wilma Berkely, whose mezzo-
soprano threatens to
bring her well to the
centre of the musi-
cal limelight.
Wilma is a young
bush girl, and was
adopted by her
cousin, Ada Berkely
Casey, the well-
known singing-
teacher, who deter-
mined to give the
child her chance.
Experts enthuse
over the quality of
her voice, which she
uses with an innate
dramatic sense.
When °he filled the
Blind Soldiers’ Club
vv it h melody the
other day, Governor Stradbroke voiced loud
praises of the little songstress.
Ralph Falkiner is adding to his stable.
His latest gee-gee is an aeroplane which he
has been riding about the country. Falkiner
flew to one or two recent country race meet-
ings and caused a sensation among his
brother-sports when he floated down to them
from the clouds.
The George Chirnsides are digging out
from Werribee, where they have lived all
their lives. Werribee Park has been sold to
racing-man Locke, and the ex-owner and his
exquisite dame will now make England their
headquarters. Their only daughter, Audrey,
flew from the nest some time ago and mar-
ried a horsey Englishman who has interests
in India.
The Everard Brownes seem to have called
off their English trip, as they are about to
settle down in a Fairlie House flat, done up
in a decorative scheme in which French
wallpapers will be the background for the
old furniture from the Western District
homestead, Cororooke.
Mrs. Kegworth, lately passed out across
the sea, was a haughty Melbourne beauty of
the ’eighties, who will be better remembei’ed
here as Amy Hogg one of a family of social
heavy-weights ’’n those days. She settled
in the Fog after tying-up rather unfortu-
nately with a visiting Englishman. An
elder sister —long dead —was the wife of the
late Judge Chomley, and the youngest died
in Burma a few years after her marriage
with an Indian Army captain. The only
surviving sister is the wife of General Dob-
bie, of India. There were two Hogg brothers.
The elder married a wealthy English widow.
The pair have iust tracked home after, a visit
to his native Wattle. The other brother,
Campbell, runs an estate agency. The
family should have had money to burn but
for grandfather Dr. Black’s stx-ange will: he
tied his large fortune up for 30 years.
J. M. Worthington, who was arrested a
day or two ago on a charge of having cor-
ruptly taken £750 “upon account of help-
ing a person to recover a valuable security”
(£2BOO worth of war bonds), was the last
man in the community expected to figure in
a police-court dock. He lias been Assembly
Sergeant-ht-Arms since W. B. Ileywood went
over to the Council side as Usher, and for 30
years or more he has been an officer of the
House staff. Till the case comes on for
hearing those who know’ him best are
suspending judgment. He has thrown upon
him the onus of explaining how he became
the intermediary between somebody unlaw-
fully in possession of £2BOO Worth of war
bonds and the War Loan Office, which (for
a bait) handed him £750 as a reward.
Clarice Malyon, the dainty little lady
with the exquisite voice, guve a recital at
Melba Hall last week —one of a winter series
of concerts offered by the ’Varsity Con. VVith
ELsie Fraser at the piano, the singer showed
her tuneful versatility in a mixed programme
of French, Russian and modern English
songs. One, by Mona Mcßurney, was ultra-
modern Australian, and Mom herself was in
the hall to criticise her composition.
Victoria’s motley crowd of knights’ wives
and widows knew’ little or nothing of
a “real lady” who died at Thornton
the other Sunday, her husband being
Sir John Barnewall, an Irish baronet,
the ll.th in his line. Lady Barne-
wall was the daughter Grace of an Essen-
don resident named Blennerhassett. In the
long ago, when she changed Blennerhassett
for Barnewall. she couldn’t have seriously
hoped to be a baronet’s lady. Her husband
was merely the second cousin once removed
of the 10th of the line.
Mrs. Howard Willoughby’s passing caused
regret among those who knew her in the
days when her late husband was editor of
the Argus ; for, like “Timotheus,” she had
a fine courtesy. A son, Arthur, and two
daughters are mourning her. One daughter,
the widow of the late Dr. Praagst, has a
medical son who did his war bit with our
navy. The other daughter is Mrs. Norman
Paxton. Some ink is still being shed in the
family, as Howard Willoughby’s niece,
Bunchie Wheeler, and Mrs. Willoughby’s
niece, Blanche Jones, combine to report frocks
and frivols for the Australasian.
Congratulations are tumbling in on Taylor
Temple Harrison, who has just become en-
gaged to Violet Yorke, the vivacious girl
playing in “The Maid of the Mountains.”
Yorke is a stage name, Violet being a
daughter of Mrs. R. Pelham Dawes, of
Yorks (Eng.). Her fiance is the son of a
sawbones ’way down in ole Virginnie.
Dr. Percy Brett’s wife —a sweet little
woman with big blue eyes--gave such a
homey party at Menzies’. One can’t have big
parties at one’s own place these days when
maids have to be coaxed to stay even in a
house w’bere there’s a bouquet of adorable
babies. The inner lounge at Menzies’ was
turned into a drawing-room, and there Were
bowls of roses from Sunuyside—the hostess’s
house—and home-cooked cakes were spread
on real house-linen. A fluffy, frilly company
of a hundred or so hobnobbed and chatted
and swapped scandal and domestic stories;
and some delightful music came from a
corner where a baby grand was housed.
< Old Xaverians, of whom M. Larkin, M.A.,
LL.B., is the new president, have been pelt-
ing J, A. Clarebrough, their hon. sec., with
congratulations on getting through as doctor
of dentistry at the ’Varsity. When the war-
drums sounded Clarebrough hearkened, and
his career had to wait. He gained a cap-
taincy while on the Fritz hunt; then, return-
ing, he Went in for an intense course of
study for three years, and wound up with
his doctorate.
One of the earliest grammar schools to be
established under the auspices of the Church
of England was All Saints’, and on July 13
it is to celebrate its jubilee. Old Boys* and
parents of past and present scholars are being
appealed to with the idea of raising funds
so that the new school boarding-house can be
handed over as a jubilee gift free of all
encumbrance. This part of the institution
was only recently bought, the purchase and
equipment running into £4OOO. Nearly £7OO
of that amount has already been received, and
the jubilants are out hot foot after the
balance.
The Geelong Advertiser, in its report of
the Head of the River festivities, put up in
black lines at the front of one section : ‘‘Some,
of the dresses. Daring combinations of vivid
colors.” These young reporters do keep their
eyes peeled. But it was rather a gusty day.
An irascible little old person, an ex-pro-
fessional man, who lives with his wife at a
seaside establishment in St. Kilda, is notori-
ous for his extraordinary mental lapses. It
is more than mere absence of mind ; it ap-
proaches total obfuscation. On a recent
afternoon he V'as sitting w’ith a rug over his
knees on a seat on the Esplanade, deep in
a volume, when a policeman noticed the in-
trusion of an obviously unwelcome female.
The w r oman’s advances provoked only barks
and grunts, and presently she withdrew.
Within 10 minutes she was back at the
student, and when he had driven her off the
constable drifted up and had a word w’ith
him, with the result that when the woman
presumed for the third time and w T ent so far
as to take the arm of the recumbent citizen
and endeavor to draw him away, the prompt
John Hop touched the woman on tlie
elbow' and said: ’‘Here, you get away out
of this or I’ll arrest you.” “Arrest me?”
cried the woman in amazement. “Yes,
madam.” Here the reader came to a tardy
appreciation of the situation. “God bless
my soul!” he said. “My mistake, constable.
It is my wife!”
Mrs. Mills, pictured here by Vandyck, is
one of those who do good works without
obtruding them. All
through the war she
did fine things, and,
better even than
that, she has done
them ever since. In
her hospital visits,
for instance, she
would notice some
little comfort miss-
ing—an electric fan,
it might be, or a
radiator or even a
piano; w’hereupon
she got out her
die q u e-book and
within a day or two
the needful thing
was installed. The
hospitals- and rest-
homes that she visits
are legion; so, unobtrusive as she is, a
bushel isn’t large enough to hide her
light. Langwarrin-camp hospital has grown
to bless her name; so has the big Caulfield
institution, and the Austin and MacLeod
hospitals find her a consistent and warm-
hearted visitor. Mrs. Mills is the wife of
John Mills, an owner of racehorses and a
man of the land in Gippsland.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
There lias been a whirl of at-homes at the
Queen Adelaide Club. Mrs. Eustace Grundy gave
one to welcome back Mrs. HedJey Todd; Mrs. Allan
Simpson hostessed another to introduce Mrs. Henry
H. Balch, the wife of the new American Consul;
and the Club committee gave a farewell party for
Mrs. George Dean, their vice-president, who is off
to the Cold Country.
A big afternoon dance and bridge party was given
at the Grand Central Hotel by Mrs. Jule Wendt in
honor of Mrs. William Clark, from London, and Mrs.
Clive Baillieu, from Melbourne, at which the floral
decorations beat all Adelaide records.
The Dansant, in aid of the Lady Victoria Buxton
Girls’ Club, held in the Osborne Hall, brought
together a lot of elderly ladies, who frisked and
jazzed. Six plucky men were present. Frooking.
with a few exceptions, represented the tag end of
Ihe summer. A clever exhibition of fancy dancing
was given by the sisters Whitby and Bill Hayward,
who have just come back from "the Fog with all the
latest steps. Afternoori-tea, flowers and cake on sale
added to the bawbees.
The Railway Department is horribly perturbed
because h Miliicent press correspondent said that
Commissioner McGuire received a deputation in his
pyjamas. The Commissioner himself is in: Sydney
attending an inter-State conference, but the General
Traffic-Manager and Chief Mechanical Engineer assert
that the head was fully clothed when the deputation
bore down on him. But, anyhow, in these days of
dinky pyjamas what would it have mattered ?
Lady Weigall is still on the sick list, but his Ex.
is going strong as presider-in-chief. Invitations have
been issued for the King’s Birthday feeding. Owing
to the increase in the official list it will be necessary
to hold two dinners, one on June 3, the other on
June 7.
A. Clark, a young man on crutches, has started to
walk to Melbourne to visit a brother. It took him
six days to walk from Mount Lofty to Meningie, but
he ought to reach Victoria before Christmas. He
lost a foot by being knocked down by a motor-lorry
in Rundle-street, but he seems to have shed none of
his grit with it.
Miss Slatter, of Yarrangoon station, near Port
Wakefield, has given the Government 1688 acres for
the use of returned soldiers. The gift was made in
memory of her late uncle, William Fowler, who
first took up the land 70 years ago. The Govern-
ment, in accepting the offer, decided to buy another
4372 acres, to be divided into eight farms.
Eric West, holder of the Lowrie scholarship of
Adelaide University for Agricultural Research, has
started out on his travels. He works by way of irri-
gation areas in N. S. Wales to the agricultural side
of university study in California, and plans to take
Britain on the road home.


knom
a
m
m
f ' <
%
1
V.yyyyy/,
■I
u
1
i
/#7
Vs /
K li <
I
i
*•;&!
ii
■
.
m
i i
m
M
'
1
m
; ‘7
m
l-LOS
It'S
; : :S
■
&
m
S
- :
&
fs.
.vs
7
W7i
'M.
m.
m
mm
Miles Cheaper
£ Australian
TYRES
::
w&mmmmrn
m
/
m
ZZ**7±
m
i
7
W&l
Ifif!
/
mm
mm.
//
■m-
mm
M#
m m
ms
WMi
<?mf,
■
j/f-
-mm
m
&
m
MELBOURNE
/
m
m
mm
/
m
i
m
/
m
mm
Vi
/
V--'
mm
m
m
m
m
m
/
&
■I
\y'
iMmm
/
/
7
it
*7
S
4*?
mmm,
m*.
m
wm'W
m
yt&j&y.
m.
m
m
m
■am.
/
C
mmm
mMm
* e


UMRLES
lIEIDSIECI6
Vintage 191!
CfMfIMW
i rtE PLuj OLTRfI I
mr&f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents -
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
' ith'j’ ' V;
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
i
i
HR
'sz/Uif
n
I 1
A ustralian - made
Yellow
Diamond
Hose
Made in
A r ti fi
Silk Smart
Comfortable anc
Guaranteed to give
satisfactory Service
''Yellow Diamond" which
sells at a very low price
stands supreme as a Hose
FOR EVERY DAY WEAR
Griffin
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Ruth Beale i.s back once more in Sydney
looking as though months of browsing on
economics in America had been what her
being craved, and still hearing the bloom in
her cheeks put there by weeks of ice sports
at Alonquin Bark, out of Toronto. Kuth
says that the synthetic cow lias not come to
stay in the States, but that “home-brew” is
established. Everywhere she went she met the
sign “Make it yourself,” and in the shop win-
dows were sheaves of barley and packets of
hops. And everywhere you can buy fluid
concoctions that the up-to-date housewife
cunningly dilutes with water. To this she
sometimes adds one or two dehydrated grapes,
and the result i.s a thing So heady that a
mere Aussie is stunned by only looking at
it The dehydrated grape is having a great
sale. Everywhere the Australian went for
a meal she was invited to a preliminary cock-
tail whose basis was everlastingly gin; evi-
dently mother’s ruin is part of the social up-
lift over beyond. The withdrawal of light
wines from the market has been a grievous
food-lpss to the races from Southern Europe
—so much so that the thrift kitchens which
are in every big city were forced to give
demonstrations to educate the Spanish and
Italian women in corresponding food-values
lor Giuseppe.
The communal kitchen failed in its ven-
ture as the poor man’s friend, but has met
the need of the well-to-do fiat-dweller, who
has his three-course dinner brought to liis
door in his three-tier holder which has cost
him £5 ss. to start off with ; but the idea of
mum and dad and the children drifting in to
a communal kitchen and eating a meal in the
bosom of the neighborhood didn’t seem to
appeal to the hard-op.
Ruth hobnobbed much with highbrows, and
at the Columbia University, which is the
throne of Economies, the professors gave a
lunch in her honor at which each presented
her with a copy of his (or her) latest book.
And here’s a hint for the Sydney girl who is
going on her first trip to the States. The
well-dressed American woman wears almost
exclusively French or English clothes, or
clothes modelled in the French and English
styles, whereas we in Australia gloat over
freakish American fashion-books.
Ruth’s home worry is concerned with the
Housewives’ Association. “Markets and
more markets,” 'she wants: “but we must
have a central market handy to both wharves
and railways, like the markets in New York,
whose deputy commissioner is a woman.”
And that .suggests a possible use for the
otherwise never-used railway- station at Mil-
son’s Point.
The Canary comedy started when Grace
Bros, rang up Clarence Moss, of the Child-
ren’s Hospital, and offered him £25 for the
hospital if he could get Heifetz to open
their bird show. Mr. Moss replied that he
could almost feel the money in his pocket,
and rang up the Heifetz management. The
Heifetz management replied: “Certainly;
Jascha would be pleased to do such a thing
for the Children’s Hospital.” Then doubt
began to assail genius, and the night before
the event Clarence Moss received a ’phone
call. It was the Heifetz secretary. “This
thing you ask Mr. Heifetz to do it is
impossible—why, thq place you ask him to
go to it is a department store. It would
forever hurt the prestige of Mr. Heifetz to
open the bird show at a department .store.”
Clarence Moss began to feel a hand in his
pocket trying to sneak that £25. He girded
his tongue for battle. He pointed out that
Heifetz was a Russian ; that during the war
Australia had sent £6O,Q(X) to Russia ; that
Mr. Heifetz would be the means of handing
back £25 of the £OO,OOO to suffering Aus-
tralian kiddies; that the Governor of the
State, “the representative of the King,” had
opened another exhibition at Grace Bros.’
a short time previously; that Mr. Heifetz
surely did not consider himself of greater
importance than the representative of the
King of England! The secretary at the
other end of the ’phone climbed for a dry
spot from the floods of eloquence. “Ah, Mr.
.Moss, you open a different vista to me. Mr.
Heifetz will do thip thing.” Mr. Moss wiped
his forehead; the cheque once more was
secure in his pocket. On the next afternoon
n limousine was driven around to the AiuP-
tralia to collect Genius, and Genius came
down the stairs followed by the family, the
secretary, the secretary’s wife and the family
friends. t He might- have been a youthful
Moses leading the lost tribe. Another ear
was requisitioned, and they purred out to the
Promised Land. But Alarums Heifetz’s mouth
began to droop the minute she entered the
emporium, and found herself amidst a wilder-
ness of taffetas and satins wearing the
' reduced” signpost. She made a wild dash after
Jascha, who was in front with the hospital
secretary and his own secretary. "My son,
you must not do this thing. This place is a
department store. You cannot do it.”
Jascha of the unsmiling lip replied: “But.
mother, now I am here, I must do it.” “M\
son, you must not! What would the world
say if it was known that Jascha Heifetz
opened a bird show in a department store?”
And Jascha was pushed into the descending
lift, the family and the family friends after
him, and they raced back to the seclusion of
the Australia.
And the canaries screamed with laughter.
The opening of the new vying of St. Luke’s
was the eminent Anglican function of last
week. This hospital represents the efforts of
the Church in Sydney to have an institution
for the sick that will be as closely in touch
with their church as the 8.0. hospitals are
with theirs. But this doesn’t mean that St.
Luke’s is sectarian any more than Lewisham
is. Though in the heart of tra(lie-torn Dar-
linghurst, St. Luke’s is so tucked away that
scarcely a sound penetrated to the 200
golden-Heeeed sheep of the fold who browsed
on the lawn while Governor Davidson made
the opening speech and Canon Beck gave
the blessing. Dame Margaret, a strong Fair-
fax element, Dr. Kate Knowles, the Arthur
Allens, Mrs. Sargood, Mrs, Meares and Mrs.
lioystone Davey were among those \vln>
walked through the six "single” rooms and
the three wards of the new wing.
At Paddington Town Hall Sydney Gram-
mar’s Old Boys held their annual hop last
week against a background of palm and trail-
ing greenery and the school colors, gold and
black, the whole lit by yellow-petticoated
lights. It was a warm night, and the palm-
banked stairs bloomed into a record harvest
of pairs always shifting and always being
replaced. Computing from bottom step to
top, a small fortune in ankle-to-knee pure-
silk hose was represented. In the hull the
floor was covered with youth, every second
girl being in the bobbed stage. One little
thing in about three yards of black tulle
ruffles looked like the Ziegfeld Follies; by
adding a collarette and cuffs of Maltese to
her black silk dress, Audrey Schute managed
to look Old World ; Dr. Fraser’,s daughter
Isabel wasn’t a bit psychic or spooky, but
very piquant and up-to-date in her demure
black dress and slicked back hair; and Bud
Donovan, in green, looked like a combination
mannequin parade and movie actress. Pink
was the popular color, and the pretty Aiming
girl from Strath field and a graceful Terry
girl both chose this shade; Noela Senior was
a graceful little figure ; and Barbara Laidley,
Joan Rolin, Kath Williamson, Dot Lawson,
Alison Mac-Culloeh (in rose du Barry silk),-
Dr. and Airs. Eakin, handsome Mrs. F. B.
Wilkinson, Herbert Maitland’s lady and a
bright spot that was partly letter-box and
partly lobster salad helped to make the
giddy throng. There was a real supper, for
which the table decorations—lceland pop-
pies in moss baskets—were the work of Sur-
geon Maitland’s lady and her sister, Miss
Cook.
Here is Sidney Riley's picture of Con-
stance Scott Ileed, who is the rosy-cheeked
smile at the Y.A.D. Club in Jamieson-street.
Constance started
her Red Cross work
in 1914 and is still
at it. She was for
two and a' half vears
at; Reinga .home.
Woolwich, and then
two years at No. 4
A.G.11. (Rand wick)
—and that was a
time when V.A.-ing
meant scrubbing
floors , and polishing
brasses. She was
also at the Mill.
Moss Vale, and the
Red Cross Pickle
Depot knew her
hand. If she doesn’t
deserve a decoration,
who does?
Even the girl clerks in the banks looked
cheerful one day last week. The staffs had
just finished their fitst big struggle with the
heads finder the new conditions, and the
heads were lying in the sawdust. It was
all about the dismissal of a clerk, Harry
Ford Itawson, who had taken part in form-
ing the bank clerks’ union, and had in con-
sequence, Judge Rolin,, of the Industrial
Court, found, been first ordered away to
Dubbo and then relieved of his job. The
Judge ordered the clerk’s re-instatement;
and he must have his old stool in Pitt-street,
too—not one in Dubbo. That night the
banking unionists flocked around the young-
man, and gave him a cheque, and cheered
him; and that and the prospect of getting
IS months' back pay—the proceedings have
dragged on so long—were a comfort even
in the face of the appeal that the banks
threaten.
Marie Tempest isn't taking part in the
great theatrical matinee owing to her pur-
suit of the rest cure at La Corniche: but
her cheque to help it along is one of the
handsomest to date.
Eustace Pinhey is about to be fettered
for life to an English girl. Eustace, who
went a way early in the war iu the Dental
Corps, has been studying medicine iu Lon-
don ; and is now fully fledged. 1 lis mother
was one of the good-looking Fit* Stubbs girls,
sister to Maud, the composer; another sister,
Rosina, was threatened with a career, and
Marehesi had actually christened her Sydna
for the part, when quite suddenly one morn-
ing her voice failed her. Mother and she left
by the Orsova to be in time for Eustace’s
wedding, hoping, too, that something may be
done to bring back the golden voice.
Here is the latest photo of Marvon Day,
who left here with the A.M.C. on the Ceramic
in 1916 under Captain Gwyn Hughes. After
lie was wounded he
was made a sergeant
at Dartford, and
then his natural
inclinations and his
talents led him into
the No. ‘.I Diggers’
Concert Party. Mar-
Von a ttracted so
much notice bv his
dancing that the
signing of the Arm-
istice saw him en-
gaged for a London
panto season with a
clever girl-partner
named Edith Lyon.
Under the name of
Jean and Ninette
Austral these two
youngsters were the
star dancers at the last Drury Lane panto,
“Cinderella.” The pair have appeared at
the Pavilion in Glasgow, have been five times
to Holland, twice to France and Denmark,
and are booked for three years ahead. Mar-
von’s proud mother sails off by the Ceramic
—'her boy’s old transport—next month to
join her clever son. He is a Mosman
boy who started composing his own dances
and costumes at the age of eight.
Freida Bennett, of Mosman, youngest
daughter of, the late Alfred Bennetts, has
just said “Yes’’ to Charles Taylor, of the
Dunlop Rubber Co. Freida has done a lot of
amateur acting, and had a minor part in
“Romance” a couple of years ago.
At Karachi, India, on Ahzac Day, Herbert
Scrivener, \captain in the Indian A,rm>\
stationed at Peshawar, was married to
Dorothy Jeans, who wears the grey and Scar-
let uniform of Queen Alexandra’s Imperial
Nursing Reserve. The soldier-man is son of
the Arthur Scriveners, of Longueville; the
bride hails from the apple county of Dorset.
Due* in Sydney by the Sonoma Captain
Waldo Evans, the American Governor of
Pago Pago, our nearest neighbor among
Uncle Sam’s naval bases. With him comes
-his little wife, Paparosa, whose front name
is a source of great rejoicing to the natives
of the simmering Apeck with the wonder-
ful little landlocked harbor.
Tien Hogue, who sails by the Malwa to
see how they do things in Loudon, has one
of the few soft-speaking voices the Austra-
lian stage has known in the last few years.
In “Scandal” on Saturday night the voice
of Mrs. Brough was in vreat contrast to the
unmusical tones of many of the other prin-
cipals. Maude Jefferies and Muriel Starr
had voices that are still remembered with
vratitude, and Emelie Polini deserved a men-
tion sometimes —and other times a slap.
Sydney girl Agnes Greasier can look for-
ward with an easy mind to a few more
months’ study in London. One night last
week Sargent’s ballroom was crowded with
girls and boys dancing that Agnes may sing.
Mayor Lambert’s slim lady came on after
the meeting at St. Mary’s about the monster
fair that is to take place in the Town Hall;
Waverley’s Mayoress, Mrs. Cavanagh, had
a seat of honor ; and Attorney-General Mc-
Tiernan and lawyer McTeague and a bunch
of girl M.A.’s and B.A.’s added a scholarly
flavor.
Singing-girl Eileen Shettle, who for the
past year, with cousin Nellie King’s help,
has been “Delphine,” of the georgette and
n : non trifles, is thinking of taking one more
flight to America before settling into matri-
mony. If she goes Lorna Gowland, of the
Firm, will take the trip with her, just to see
what games the women around the corner
are playing. /
On Thursday the Uni. Quadrangle was
very gay with flags and stalls and bunches
of flapper girl-undergrads, with shining hair,
silk stockings and high heels, let loose in the
interests of the Women’s Settlement. Ap-
propriately enough the first sign that met the
eye was the skull and crossbones, under which
piratical sign the meds. traded unblushingly
in sweets. The Forster lad}’, in a simpl“
rig-out that was mostly tones of her favorite
blue, made thq, opening speech and after-
wards walked about attended by the aggres-
sively clean-looking Goodfellow aide. But
the outstanding beauty of the afternoon was
the girl grad., who almost without exception
wore her locks uncropped.
The undergrads’ com mem. on the Friday,
which set out to be a jollification, was a
melancholy affair, in spite of the well-dressed
crowd of mothers and sisters who should
have made the Quad, look festive. Instead,
it seemed soggy and unkempt, and the stu-
dents were mostly as droopy as moulting
roosters. Even the mock trial, at which
Lord Forster was the principal prisoner-at-
tlte-bar, failed to hold its audience.
Cymbals were the only thing missing from
the jubilation at St. Vincent’s Hospital the
other afternoon when Mother Rectress was
presented with a cheque for £ll9l, the
gleanings from the big institution’s ball.
There was a, great muster of doctors and theii
wives to share in the rejoicing, to which the
State Exes, added their handclaps j and there
was a look of peace, perfect peace, about
those hard workers, Mrs. Harold Fairfax,
Miss Egan, the Ivenna and Kendall ladies,
and graceful Mrs, Reginald Vaughan.
Riverview Old Boys are holding their
annual ball on .Tune 8, at the Paddington
Town Hall.
Eirene Mort enjoys the distinction of being
the only woman on the Council of the Aus-
tralian Painter-Etchers’ Society. This
society was formed at the end of last year to
further the interests of etchers in Australia
and Maorilaud. Its first show will be held
in the Education Department’s gallery on
June 7, and will include specimens of the
work of the earliest etchers in Australia, as
well as a representative selection of the
products of present-day artists.
S. T.'De Goes, a former Swedish Consul
here, has returned and is staying for a while
before going off to Maorilund and thence to
Tahiti on the way home. The only thing
that prevents his visit being an unbounded
success is the sad absence of French wines.
This is the way it’s done. The elderly
man from foreign parts met his friends and
demanded their congratulations on his en-
gagement to a pretty girl. “But, old man,’’
they exclaimed, “you’re married !” “Oh, yes,”
he replied readily, “of course I’m doing the
decent thing. I’m sailing home next boat to
break the news to my wife!”
Past pupils of Loreto, Kirribiili, are going
to jazz at Sargent’s on June 2, and they want
all the old girls to be on hand.
The man with the roving eye was making
great headway with Baby Face on the re-
motest lounge. “You will have dinner with
me to-morrow ?” he begged. “Oh, but you
know I’m only a (trass widow,” she de-
murred. “That’s all right, kid. And I’ve
had hay fever. So we’ll go to a vegetarian
caff 1 .”
Australian authoress Mary Marlowe has
just had news that her third book. “The
Ghost Girl,” lias been accepted by Collins and
Son, who have also contracted for two more.
The book comes out in September—in nice
time for you to include it in your Christmas-
gift list.
Mrs. Simpson-Jones, who was handsome
Connie Simpson, was at the Australia the
other night, with a diamond band in her hair
that fairly unnerved the other cats. Connie,
who has been renewing okl acquaintances, has
been enjoying the air of Bowral during most
of her visit.
The Third Battalion has decided to issue
a quarterly magazine, entitled “0.A.5.,” of
which Dr. J. Kean is to be the editor. The
quarterly is intended to prove that “we Dig-
gers are in earnest to try to build a White
Australia and a white humanity knit by the
Red Blood Bond.”
A Brisbane postscript:—
The latest engagement is that of Esme Hobson, the
pretty daughter of the Stanley Hobsons, of Too-
woomba, to Dr. Murphy, M.C., a son of the G. S.
Murphys, of Ascot.
The English mail brings news that Evelyn Rome,
youngest daughter of the late Thomas Rome and ot
Mrs. Rome (who was Sarah Thorn, of Ipswich), is
tc marry Major St. Clair Grey, of the Poona Horse.
Hon. Mrs. Brodrick and her daughter, who have
been staying at Government House for some weeks,
are leaving for the South. They are thinking of
a South Sea tour before going to America, and then
home.
Mother Mary Claver, who arrived here in the early
’seventies and for 40 years taught French to genera-
tions of All Hallows’ Convent pupils, died on Satur-
day morning. For many years she was organist at
St. Stephen’s Cathedral.
Mrs. Bob Bell and Miss Fredda Taylor were the
soloists at the Musical Union concert last week. Mrs.
Bell sang Marguerite’s solos in old gold tissue, and
Miss Taylor Siebel’s numbers in white satin crepe and
georgette. Both ladies bore off armfuls of flowers.
■ The Queensland ladies’ tennis team that recently
scored a win in Sydney has had a “reception” at
the Town Hall. Mrs. Molesworth, Mrs. Stanley Roe
and Miss. Marjorie Fowler blusbingly accepted the
honors of the day, the fourth member, Miss MeQuade.
of Toowoomba, being unable to attend.


m
n
mn
Fine Diamond
Bow, in case
The illustration shows one of the Company’s many
distinctive designs in Diamond Ornaments. The
gems are of finest quality, set in pure Platinum, and
the workmanship throughout is of highest standard.
The smartest and most up-to-date de-
signs ruling in London are embodied
in the Company’s stock, inspection
of which is cordially invited.
Illustrated Catalogues are posted free on application, and selections are
forwarded on approval.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m-m Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
A Great Opportunity
BUCKLEY’S have always been in the position to announce
Special Offers at Prices without Parallel Elsewhere.
Lately we have published more of these offers than ever, and
we shall do so whenever possible. Each announcement made
by this House contains unique opportunities. Instance the fol-
lowing'
Through the foresight of our Buying Organisation we have
secured
4200 Yards of High-grade
IMPORTED SUITINGS
At a Price much below to-day’s replacement cost at the mills
These beautiful Suitings comprise Real Scotch Tweeds, West of Eng-
land Suitings, Fine Worsteds, etc., in an exclusive variety of Cheeks,
Stripes, Diagonals, Herringbones, and
various other designs, also Indigo
Cheviot Serges,? all in weights specially
appropriate for the present season. The
importance of this purchase, which was
made at a huge discount for cash, is of
exceptional interest, and we are giving
our Customers the Full Benefit of the
Savings VVe Have Effected.
We are, therefore, offering these All-
Wool Imported Suitings, distinctively
hand-tailored and trimmed in keeping
with the high grade of the material,
at the Exceptional Price of
£9/1 9/6
Under ordinary conditions these Suits
would be retailed at from 14 to 10
guineas.
Make a point of inspecting these
Special Suitings at the earliest oppor-
tunity, as the qualities, once seen, will
quickly be bought up.
If unable to call, write for Samples
and Self-measurement Forms, which
will be sent post free.
m
nm
n
m
nm
n
BIICKLEYS!
BUCKLEY t NUNN UD. BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
MAfL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY
TO ANY POST bPPICE
RAJ LWAY STN. OR PQRI
•M AUSTRA\.!A
CARRIAGE
»OST OFFICE
mn
Protect Australian Homes
with Australian Products
The fostering of Australian industries is more than a senti-
ment —it is a practical policy which will make for national
progress.
It means more employment for Australians, greater pros-
perity and a stabilised society. Manufacturers of essential
products who have expended a large amount of capital in
the erection of industrial plants are entitled to the support
of every true Australian—so long as they manufacture
products of merit and utility.
Sherwin Willi a ms
Products
Are Made in Australia.
They include Paints, Varnishes and Decorative Finishes of the highest
standard. They are scientifically prepared to give maximum service for
specific purposes. For brightening up Australian homes inside and out-
nothing will give better results. They protect as well as beautify—they save
the surface and preserve the fabric to which they are applied.
Every Australian in need of decorative finishes should specify Sherwin
Williams Products and ensure satisfaction.
?
anancm
S 3
Ilf
m
mi
111
m
N
w
n
/
v
Made at RHODES, SYDNEY, N.S.W., by
Sherw/r- Williams Co. (Australia) Lm
DISTRIBUTORS:
SYDNEY:
G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.
Watson & Crane, Ltd.
BRISBANE:
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd,
PERTH:
Barnett Bros., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Jas. McEwan & Co.,
Pty.. Ltd.
John Sharp & Sons, Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Colton, Palmer & Pres-
ton, Ltd.
FREMANTLE:
J. & W. Bateman.
NEWCASTLE: Frederic Ash, Ltd.
COVE
TH
EART
Look for the “Cover
the Earth ” trade-
mark—it is your
guarantee of satis-
faction.


M
'ffisterp
•*A»
■1
m
rw
Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxiie
Hosiery
that Is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose- such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Wholesale and Indents thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. ♦ 50 York Street.
Sydney
Learn to Draw
m
nm
n
m
“There’s Money
in “
the Pen.”
Send for,
Mr. Harry'
J. Weston’s
instructive
interest ing '
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.”
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work . are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series of easy, pro-
gressive lessons gives
you a thorough
grounding in the
basic principles of
art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
bn every lesson.
Send three stamps and your name and address to
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
52 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY
It hurts to be scorned by the one you adore,
The one whom you hoped to win.
It hurts to be hurled adrift on the world,
And despised by your kith and kin.
Yet, time can bring ease to such hurts as these,
Tho’ remembrance may still endure,
But for bronchial pain resignation is vain
Without Woods’ Great Peppermint Curt.
—Advt.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
-»
wmm
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
rubber
Public Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
/CORRESPONDENCE invited from MELBOURNE
Lx and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. IvIMBER & CO., LTD;,
Royal Exchange, King William Street, Adelaide.
The Making of Manon
by “ESTELLE.”
I HAD a note from Manon this morning,
asking me round to spend the after-
noon at her microscopic fiat.
I went. I am fond of Manon, although
I consider her unnecessarily good-looking.
Her features are not extraordinarily fine,
but the whole effect is dangerously charm-
ing. I looked forward to seeing her arming
for conquest.
By 4 o’clock we were in her little bed-
room. “Sit down, there’s a dear, - ’ she said,
“and while you are finishing that sash I
will reveal to you my horrid secrets.
While she was examining herself criti-
cally in the glass, I had time to observe
she was not looking her best. She looked
pale, and little lines were visible round the
eyes and mouth. V.A.D. work is tiring,
and it had left its mark on her. There were
two little blackheads on her chin, her hair
was lank and straight, and her hands and
nails needed attention.
“Yes, I am ugly, am I not?” she said gaily,
as if in answer to my unspoken thoughts.
“Do you think Sidney will get an awful
fright when he sees me?”
“It doesn’t seem to worry you, anyway,”
I said, biting off a thread.
“It doesn’t,” she said, “because I am going
to make myself pretty here and now.”
“Paint and powder,” I said acidly, “will
not banish those spots on your face. If you
don’t want to frighten your fiance you’d
better take a few days’ rest and keep severely
to yourself.”
“You dear old puss!" said Manon, who
was washing.
“You don’t use soap on your face! I
exclaimed, as she rubbed a creamy lather
into her skin. .
“Not ordinary soap,” she explained, as
she rinsed and dried it. “Pilenta. You
wouldn’t call my skin so bad, would you? 1
can’t use anything but a neutral soap, and
my chemist tells me this is the nearest to’
neutral you can get.”
Her next movement interested me. Be-
fore her skin was quite dry she rubbed some
white stuff, like rather solid cold cream,
on her face and neck, and then wiped it off
with a clean towel. “What’s that?” I
asked.
“Mercolised Wax,” said Manon ; “I never
use cold creams; they clog your skin up
and make it muddy. Whenever I get tired
of my old skin I just put some of this on,
which removes the outer cuticle, leaving a
dice new skin underneath. No, you can’t
see it peeling, silly! Look !” I examined
her closely, and certainly her skin looked
wonderfully fresh and clear, and there was
no sign of roughness.
While she was brushing her hair I re-
marked, “Aren’t you going to bave any
sleeves at all in this frock?”
“Of course not; it would ruin it. One
must have one decent dance frock.”
“But, Manon,” I expostulated. She smiled.
“I’ll tell you another little secret. Pheminol
for removing superfluous hair—is sold in
powder form at any decent chemist’s, and
you mix it with water yourself so as t°
make a paste. It’s simply wonderful, and
the process isn’t a bit painful, and doesn’t
leave any red marks or irritation.”
Manon was still brushing her thick and
pretty hair. It is fairly ordinary in color,
darkest brown, but there are soft lights in
it, and it is beautifully glossy. “You wash
your hair with stallax, don’t you?” she
asked me. I replied in the negative.
“Oh, but, my dear, you should ; there’s
nothing like it. I washed mine last night.”
“Good gracious!” said I. “I could never
do mine up properly so soon after a sham-
poo.”
She smiled absently. Now she was brush-
ing a few drops of some liquid into her hair
and fussing about with a comb. When I
saw her clearly two deep and becoming
waves were visible over her forehead.
“All done by kindness and silmerine,”
she laughed.
“If I’d put it on last night my hair would
have been a mass of curls to-day. But it
doesn’t suit me so, and I just comb a little
in before I do it up.” And she nodded a
charmingly dressed head at my reflection
in the glass.
“Hot to-night,” I remarked.
“Very,” she said. “If I don’t put some
cleminite on I shall be a pink and shiny
fright by the end of the first dance.” She
was covering her face with some lotion.
“Practically home-made,” she said. “Most
chemists keep cleminite, and you make it
up at home. Don’t you think the effects
rather good?”
It was. There was a soft bloom on her
face and neck which had no look of “make-
up,” but which had removed all unbecoming
“shine.” “And the beauty of it is,” said
she, “I am sure of looking the same all the
evening. No rushes for a looking-glass and
a powder-puff for me. I say, Estelle, I’m
rather pale, though. Just for once!” She
rubbed a trifle of powdered colliandum on
her cheeks. It gave her a tiny soft flush
which was most becoming, and brought out
the color of her eyes.
“What glorious eyelashes you have!” I
:sighed enviously. “Don’t you ever touch
them up?”
“Never,” she said. “I rub a little menna-
line in now and then to make them grow, but
that’s all. Now give me my frock, there’s a
dear. Where’s my nail polish? Liquid, you see :
saves a lot of trouble, and looks twice as
nice. I’ve run out of bicrolium jelly, so
my hands look a bit rough. Still. I must
have some proofs to show S s d how hard I
work. Oh, there’s a taxi! I’m sure that’s
Sid. My gloves and cloak, there’s a dear.”
She brushed her lips with a stick of prolac-
tum. leaving them with a soft tint that was
'healthv but not too bright.
“Am I pretty?” with an enchanting smpe.
“Horribly,” I said, with a pang of jeal-
ousy.
“By-bye. Estelle. Tell you some more
•another day.”
And she was gone.—Advt.
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture,i
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Sweet Potato. A Handbook for
the Practical Grower. By T. E.
HAND and K. L. COCKERHAM.
Illustrated. lGs. net.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GRASBY,
F.L.S., Agricultural Editor of the
Western Mail, Lecturer in Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. ss.
Science of Dairying. By W. A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A., Science Tutor,
Auckland Training College, New Zea-
land. Illustrated. 3s.
The Book of Butter: A Text on the
Nature, Manufacture and Marketing
of the Product. By EDWARD S.
GUTHRIE, Ph.D. Illustrated. 12s.
net.
The Book of Cheese. By CHARLES
THOM and WALTER W. FISK.
Illustrated. 15s. net.
The Story of Milk. By JOHAN D.
FREDERIKSEN. 9s. net.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. C. 11.
ECIyLES, D.Sc., and Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 9s. net
Dairy Cattle and Milk Production.
By C. 11. ECKLES, D.Sc. Illus-
trated. 14s. net.
Manual of Milk Products. By Prof.
W. A. STOCKING. 18s. net.
Milk and its Products. A Treatise
upon the Nature and Qualities of
Dairy Milk and the Manufacture of
Butter and Cheese. By Henry H.
WING. 15s. net.
Productive Agriculture. By Prof.
J. 11. GEHRS, B.S. Illustrated.
ss. 6d. net.
The Teaching of Agiculture. By
G. A. BRICKER, M.A. 10s. net.
Elements of Agriculture. By Prof.
G. F. WARREN. Illustrated. 10s.
net.
The Principles of Agriculture.
Edited by L. H. BAILEY. 10s. net.
The Principles of Agriculture. By
C. A. STEBBINS, M.S. Illustrated.
Bs. net.
The Small Grains. By M. A. CAR-
LETON, M.S. 18s. net.
The Wheat Industry. By N. A.
BENGTSON, A.M., and D. GRIF-
FITH, AM. Illustrated. 6s. Gd.
net.
Field Crop Production. By GEORGE
LIVINGSTON. Illustrated. 10s.
net.
The Principles of Agronomy. A
Text-book of Crop Production. By
F. S. HARRIS, Ph.D., and GEORGE
STEWART, B*Sc. Illustrated. 7s.
Gd. net.
The Corn Crops. By Prof. E. G.
MONTGOMERY. Illustrated. 13s.
net.
Farm Management. By Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 17s. net.
Farm and Garden Rule-BooK. By
Prof. L. 11. BAILEY. Illustrated.
17s. net.
Manual of Practical Farming. By
JOHN MCLENNAN, Ph.M. Illus-
trated. 12s. net.
Electricity for the Farm. By F. I.
ANDERSON. 15s. net.
Spraying of Plants. By E. G. LODE-
MAN. 12s. net.
Chemistry of Plant and Animal
Life. By H. SNYDER, B.S. Third
Edition. 12s. Gd. net.
Elementary Chemistry of Agricul-
ture. By S. A. WOODHEAD,
M.Sc., F.I.C. 3s. 6d.
The Fertility of the Land. By
ISAAC PHILLIPS ROBERTS. 13s.
net. , ~
Soils: Their Properties and Man-
agement. By Prof. T. L. LYON,
Prof. E. O. FIPPIN and Prof. H. O.
BUCKMAN. Illustrated. 20s. net.
The Soil: Its Nature, Relations and
Fundamental Principles of Manage-
ment. By Professor F. H. KIN Or.
14s. net.
Phe Chemistry of the Garden. IV
HERBERT H. COUSINS, M.A.
With an introduction by "•
WRIGHT, F.R.H.S. Is. 6d.
Irops and Methods for Rn-
provement. By ALVA AGLK
M.S. Illustrated. 10s. net.
•ioils and Plant Life as Related to
Agriculture. By Prof. J• L. LnV
NINGHAM and W. H. LANCELOT.
Illustrated. 9s. net. ,
fertilizers: The Source, Character and
Composition of Natural. Home-m
and Manufactured Fertilizers,
By
A.M.
Suggestions as to their Use.
EDWARD B. VOORHEES,
Revised edition. 15s. net. T
Manures and Fertilizers. Bv • •
WHEELER, D.Sc. Illustrated.
Ul.
lacmillon’s Illustrated List °i Loo
Agriculture, etc., will he sen P
• on application.
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character} will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Vame and address must appear on the MSS. No
Hnbility is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Harrop: But surely you don’t say that,
because the theatrical employers encouraged the tip-
ping system, ushers were justified in doing what that
contributor referred t 0.... Os. G.: “Return” very
close to the mark.... Ralphus: There is moss on it.
. ...A.McL.: Well written; but not quite big enough
for the space....M. E. Sphere: There is no trace
of it in this office... .John Sing: If we only dared!
....Zabut: We’d give eighteen-penee to be made
as young aB we were when we first met that dirtier
1eg.... Meataxe: But there’s nothing wrong about
that. If a co., instead of distributing its profits,
puts them into its business, surely it is as much
entitled to interest upon that money as upon money
subscribed as capital. To deny shareholders that
right is to encourage them to pay out the last farth-
ing of profits—which isn’t good either for creditors
or from the business-extension (which is the national)
point of view.... J.F.K.: Glad to hear outback
Queensland schools ate fly-proofed. “Country Ped”
was obviously talking of Victoria... .J.W.P.: First
time we’ve ever heard of it.. .D.D.M.: Contractions like
“ ’bove” for “above” are bad. But the verses have
promise... .E.R. (Wilsonton) : Could only flutter as
far as the doormat.. .P.M.D.: Nothing fresh there...
William S.: Lame little lay... .C.L.L.: It’s certainly
unusual:—
If wrong we do,' why lose our sleep?
And become less fit, when time to reap
What we have sown?
The time to think is before the act;
If we set aside this little fact
We’ve not wisdom shown.
Life is ever young—always new
If we let the Cosmic thots come thru
Our brain.
It we attune our brain to ideal thot—
Like results in our work is wrought!
Strive to attain!
. ...A.H.M.: We don’t buy stories without seeing
them even from the very young... .Aorai: Pleasant
verse, but don’t let it run out of soansion.... Chun-
joberree: It is fatally easy to leave out the alternate
rhymes and say things like that. The verse is
fair, but the subject matter is nothing... .Enito:
“Drunk” has been done far too often before....
See Bee: “Holiday” is t.d.b. verse on a subject
that doesn’t matter... .G.F.A.: Well enough done,
but not worth doing... .Ugly Face: Give it better
handling.. ..H.0.N.: The lady wore a pair of her
husband’s silk socks and they oarne down and had to
be fixed with a bit of string. Wonderful!... .J.M.:
What kind of ear have you to rhyme “hand” with
“man” ?... .G.V.8.: Even “light verse” should have
some freshness... .A.J.J.: The major who hopes he
may one day rise to the dignity of being a captain
is a novelty... .V.L.8.: Very lame... .Minnie M.:
Thin and old themes in rheumatic verse.... K.G.:
You lack a sense of metre.... K.M.W.: He who can
rhyme “love” with “divulge” would rhyme “Jupiter”
with “caterpillar”.... Kemo: Not enough in “Slid-
ing Down”. .. .D.A.R.: Nothing there. .. .F.N.A.:
Hardly... .S.U.: “His Heaven” too feeble. .. .Nurse
B. C.: Can’t say, but we’ll be glad to read them...
Cray : Come in and sing’t:—
Do you hear what all the folks do say:
“There was a man knocked down by a hearse to-day.”
Why, it’s time that the Judge said: “Death to him
Who takes out a hearse for a pleasure spin.”
“Fined the toll of twenty-five quid,”
Thus quoth the Judge to poor old Sid.
“Ought to be more for the harm what’s done—
What if the coffin had weigheed a ton?”
Now folks, take lesson from this deed:
Never let a hearse get in the lead.
Criss-Cross: Not quite... .D.L.S.: Both fail....
Erk : Old and transparent. .. .R.W.C.: “Near Thing”
doesn’t suit u 5.... Frank H.: Don’t like it....
W.J.C.: When a contributor sends stamps we en-
deavor to return unused copy. If he doesn’t send
stamps and asks for it months afterwards, the sus-
picion is that he merely wants to be a nuisance....
R. : The verse is middling ; the subject is nothing.
. ...E.J.H.: There is only one mongoose story.
Yours doesn’t say anything at a 11... .Pearl: One
is rather commonplace verse, the other badly chopped
prose... .M.M. (Ipswich): But there’s no tlhought in
it... .N.N.D.: Sketch rather colorless, verse not up.
. ...J.O’S: Verse lumpy. “He Went Batik” would
make a few good lines; you drag it out iibto a dull
sketch.... Plodder: The “Owl” looks hopeless; but
try the “Violin” again and get it better. The idea
is worth it.... Inquisitas: Doesn’t get ' near....
S. : Very tedious C.L.G.: “Goodrless of the
Lord” too slight... .Osbert G.: “Tibby” doesn’t
strike us.... Tin Hat: Not up.. . .G.R.Af : Must be
better than that. .. . J.L.: Rambling disrjertation on
goats passed 0ut....J.C.: 01d.... Glab .•< Obviously
he had been shaved in the first inter faL... J.S.:
We’re scared to turn loose your snake tliat “roared”
. ...J.8.: That milk went sour long agefc. .. .T.J.K.:
Yes, payment is made for anything us fed... .G.F.:
Too long for point... .Hobo: Blanket s.tory old.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTIS’IpC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.A.H.: An amazing pair of dogs. . .j.E.E.: You
fall down badly on hands. .. .A.H.: Could", reproduce ;
but drawing faulty, particularly ■ the youngster....
A. J. 8.: Gags old, drawings hopeless.... 0.T.: Weird-
est school-teacher to date. ’Ell joke ancient
J.H.8.: Weak little effort overbalanced into w.p.b...
J.J.C.: Your hopes are dashed... .E.J.: No drawing
.... J.W.: Not up... .Francis: Sketch laas the faults
of youth; the joke, of age... .E.C.W.: Terrible....
A.S.P.: Misses... .R.H.H.: Three artistic nightmares
going back....M.C.: Drawing fails... .H.T.: Weak
in manner and matter... .Giz: Show promise....
A.M.: Don’t do it again... .A.G.T.: Scratchy and
characterless... .H.P.D.: Not much ,in it.... J.J.:
Funny how that joke keeps bobbing up....J.5.:
You can’t’ draw yet... .W.A.P.: Gag has barnacles
on it.
“Moete” : This was told to me to-day by
a fellow-tradesman who has one of the
largest ethical practices among-V.D. patients
in Australia, and it supplies a perfect
illustration of how syphilis is communi-
cated to the unsuspecting and inno-
cent. A patient, suffering from the*
in one of its worst stages, on one of’
his visits -to the surgery laad a crop of
papules, or small syphilitic pimples, on one
side of his face in a raw and bleeding con-
dition. Dr. 606 inquired how they came
to be in that state. “Oh, that!” was the
response—“the barber did that when he was
shaving me just now.” Further inquiry
unearthed the information that the usual
stick of styptic. substance had been applied
to stop the bleeding, after which it would be
rubbed on somebody else’s face; also that
the razor had been “sterilised” by dipping it
in warm water!


Shipping.
orient line
J t W SSo£ bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fnres, . ,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. —City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spi'ini
Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 1,
VENTURA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.in., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAd OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking:, Public Companies, ike.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir "ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
•Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
,All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.: James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq,; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE,
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, Bouth Africa, Ohlna, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
CWe/ Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places ip
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also tire
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara I alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 28th JULY.
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STL’AM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
n
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trios of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Afridai
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC ; 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES
THEMISTOCUES
DEMOSTHENES
'SOPHOCLES ...
'DIOGENES
•Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
15,000 tons
11,250 torn
11,250 tom
12.500 tons
12.500 tons
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passenger's only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills.. Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
mn
m
£4,958,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
' .
Director*:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Bucldand. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esn.
Robert L. Faitbfull, Esq., M.D,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.
C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General a^ er
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—~9 Xhreadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. ,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
n
Janfe-Bietalta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australiaand Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices tbrough-
and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Intcreston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL. Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
JA ™ Deputy Governor. Jan. Ist. 1921. Governor.
Shipping*
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports <
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
("Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Te 1.6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
ZIIU anu oiu Vj/iuod xa oocugtiD.
ICarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
JCarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLlsHSsr
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSIiN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANtIA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
IVLUIItIUV eiaiiuiga luctcdii/ci.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
sorts duly vised.
For. all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
I’itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Svdney).
P. & 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at, Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at, Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
mn
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,376,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
M
W^7?TJTr7TH
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.


m
BILLIARD&SNOOKE
BI4LL&
In play they are resilient —faultless in running—true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: l|i n
17/6
-lIZ
9d.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes: Ifin.
£6/6|-i
1 Jin.
£7/7/-
2in.
£B/8/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distributors:
DC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Legal Notices.
TO SAMUEL STACEY, formerly of
Petone, New Zealand, and son of
WILLIAM STACEY, brother-in-law of the
late EMMA JANE STACEY, who died at
Wellington, New Zealand, on the 2nd De-
cember, 1917.
By the will of Emma Jane Stacey, late
of Seatoun, Wellington, New Zealand, de-
ceased, a legacy was bequeathed to the above-
mentioned Samuel Staeey who is requested
to communicate with the Solicitor, Public
Trust Office, Wellington, on or before
the Ist day of September, 1921, failing which
the Public Trustee proposes to distribute
the estate of the said Emma Jane Stacey
disregarding such legacy.
Any person knowing anything of the
whereabouts of the said Samuel Stacey is
requested to communicate with the said
Solicitor.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JAMES DENNISON, formerly of
Christchurch, widower of JOHANNA
BLACKWOOD DENNISON, and to all per-
sons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 9th
day of May, 1921, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of December, 1921, your
claims to the estate of Johanna Blackwood
Dennison, who died intestate on or about the
27th day of April, 1920, at Christchurch,
failing which the said estate will be distri-
buted amongst those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of
May, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
■Wellington, New Zealand.
TO PATRICK O’KEEFE, formerly of
Drouin in Victoria, father of JOHN
O’KEEFE, and all persons claiming by,
through or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the 6th
day of May, 1921, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of November, 1921, your
claims to the estate 6 f John O’Keefe, de-
ceased, who died on or about the 9th day
of March, 1920, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of
May, 1921 i
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
mm
W I
y. i
> A
** §
I
/ 3
lie
A'
1
nJU
COMOX
WELDING
A Good Luck Sign
for every car and
truck owner
THE wear and tear on commercial cars,
trucks and other vehicles adds con-
siderably to overhead business
expenditure. New motor parts are costly and
more often than not hard to replace quickly.
Consequently many commercial vehicles
struggle along with worn or temporarily
repaired parts until they stop dead in their
tracks.
At the first sign of trouble seek the Good Lick Sign—
the guide to a COMOX welding station. You’ll find
one in every locality ready to build up worn machine
parts, or make strong-as-new repairs to broken ones, no
matter how hopeless or difficult the damage may appear.
A COMOX Welder works with remarkable speed, thereby
saving your time. The powerful fusion of the broken
metal parts guarantees a perfectly sound job, which
saves you the cost of new parts.
If you are interested in machine-part repairs from any
angle, we will gladly forward prices and particulars of
COMOX Outfits, or the address of the nearest COMOX
welder on request.
Commonwealth Oxygen
and Accessories, Ltd.,
Foy Street, Balmain, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AGENTS—FYVIE & STEWART, 362 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; HARRISON BROS. & CO., LTD., 20 Patterson
Street, Launceston; GEO. WILLS & CO., LTD., Grenfell
Street, Adelaide; GEO. WILLS & CO., LTD., Murray
Street, Perth; EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street,
Brisbane; BROWNE & JOSKE, Suva, Fiji.
nm


How to get the Best of
Your Gold in One Night
rm
*
m
sfg
Miss LILY MOLLOY Worn a photo).
New Discovery Users the
world over will be glad to
hear that the Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., has provided for
its patrons a new and pure
Aspirin called SHELPIRIN,
to be used in conjunction
with their famous favorite,
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds.
To utterly break up a Cold
and quite get the best of it
in one night is their object,
and with Shelpirin to aid the
action of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery this is now pos-
sible. One or two Shelpirin
Tablets taken before bedtime,
a double dose of New Dis-
covery, and the fever sub-
sides. The throat loses all
tenderness, and the bodily
symptoms disappear.
In the morning continue the
New Discovery in teaspoon-
ful doses to prevent a recur-
rence, and to soothe the mem-
branes to their normal state
of comfort.
For headache or nervousness
use Shelpirin without New
Discovery ; for a child's cough
omit the Shelpirin, and con-
tinue the use of New Dis-
covery until quite relieved.
Shelpirin and New Discovery
constitute the modern and
efficient method to quickly rid
you of your cold.
Miss Lily Molloy says New Discovery is Grand
Dear Sirs,, —
I think your Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the finest Remedy for a Cold that I
have ever come across. I rarely suffer from a cough, but I occasionally catch cold, in
my travels, and whenever I do the one thing that puts me right quickly and pleasantly
is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
I consider it a grand Remedy, and am sure that anyone who once tries it is bound
to be a fast friend in the future. I have already recommended it to many of my
friends, and I am sure I wish you every success with this wonderful remedy.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) LILY MOLLOY.
D» Sheldons
NewDiscoveih
OUGH
AND
OLDS
«*?
WJ
Afraid to put his boots on
A PAINFUL corn and eight hours
of agony ahead. That’s a
foolish Way to start a day,
when “Blue-Jay” offers you com-
plete freedom from distress.
Apply a “Blue-Jay” Plaster to the
worst corn, and you won’t have
further trouble. The aching stops
at once, and then, hour by hour,
without you knowing it, “Blue-Jay”
gently’ cures the corn, which eventu-
ally loosens and copies right out.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific prepara-
tion. The man who produced it had
made a life study of surgical dress-
ings. Note the illustration below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the pain.
The wax, marked “B,” acts on the
corn alone, and nowhere else. “C”
is a rubber-coated, moisture-proof
tape, which adheres snugly and
securely.
9 •
B
Blue-i
The Scierv+i-fic
CorrvErxder
ja
c
“BLUE-JAY”
“BLUE-JAY”
CORN PLASTERS, 6 in Packet
BUNION PLASTERS, 4 in Packet
AU Good Chemists mil supply.
Sorrow is Not.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rj ORROW is not
For such as I,
KJ While life is hot,
And blue the sky ;
Who, loving life,
Dreads not to die,
But treats his years
As some brief tale,
That weary length
Would render stale ;
That needs its tears,
Lest laughter fail;
Who from the past
Holds no regret;
But to the last
Would not forget
Gold in its dross,
Thoughts living yet:
Who though he would
On soft fare dine,
Holds bread is good,
And water tine;
And, couching hard,
Finds sleep divine.
While lips are red
To kiss, and flowers
The glad world spread
(More gay for showers),
Life’s days are sped
In golden hours!
Oh, life may give
Its gifts and fly—
To-day I live;
To-morrow die.
Sorrow is not
For such as I!
n.s.w.
HAMER.
Heirlooms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JJT AVE you paid the interest on the
| | heirlooms. Uncle?”
“Yes, Isidor, my dear, 1 paid it
again.” Old Max Golanski (who wasn’t
really old) sighed as he hung up his flopping
hat. The heirlooms had haunted him for
years—all the years he had been in Sydney;
and n0w.... It was Isidor’s fault, of
course. Isidor didn’t understand, and in his
thoughtlessness was apt to take a great deal
for granted. Not that Max Golanski grudged
the boy anything ; on the contrary, much too
much of Max’s small salary had been always
too readily at Isidor’s disposal. And the in-
come of the first violinist at the Apollo
Theatre couldn’t stand much subdvision. even
taking into account that the last
on the little house at the lower end of
Forbes-street had been paid. Still, old Max
was a bachelor whose wants were few, and
Isidor was dead Rebecca’s son.
Max sat down at the table, as Isidor came
back into the front room rubbing hard at a
brown shoe on his hand.
‘‘l’m goin’ over with some of the boys to
Manly to-night, Uncle Max, but I don’t
s’pose I’ll be late.”
‘‘All right, Isidor, my dear; you’ll find
the key under the mat.”
Max watched the tall figure walk quickly
out of the gate and up the street to the
William-street trams. The figure’s suit was
too strikingly cut and of too definite a color,
its hat was too fashionable in shape and
angle, its tie too bright, and its bits of
jewellery too many and too obvious. But
old Max saw nothing of this. Young Isidor s
lazy eyes were those of Rebecca, the little
sister of the Warsaw garden, and that was
enough for Max.
He sighed again, and went into the kitchen.
He must start for the theatre soou. and must
get some food and a cup of tea first. The
brown teapot reminded him again of the
heirlooms. Ah, that was Isidor’s fault —too
bad, too bad. But one mustn’t blame him too
much; youth is a hard driver, as the Polish
grannies tell you. When old Max came to
Sydney, he brought the silver and gold remains
of the Warsaw household with him—sugar-
bowls, a few little dishes, a couple of rings,
and a dainty samovar his mother had in-
herited. Times were bad at the breakaway;
nobody wanted violinists, it seemed, first,
seconcl, or twentieth. But Max and Rebecca
had had good training in hunger in Poland,
and they held on well. Once or twice the
heirlooms went into pawn, but they got them
back, and presently times were better and they
kept them altogether. Later, Rebecca asked
for Max’s blessing, and took her vows proudly
in the Synagogue, pledging her heart to young
Hirsch, who had sold three pictures in one
week and was going to make a fortune. But
two years afterwards young Hirsch slipped in
Castlereagh-street. and a tram knocked him
down, and he died. Rebecca and the baby
Isidor came*to live with Max. who had a few
pupils and a long backward vision of Warsaw
to make the rest of the world for him. In
time Rebecca’s sorrow lifted a little, and the
heirlooms came out of their baize coverings,
and twinkled bravely on the sideboard. Look-
ing at them, Max was blind to the ’Loo and
the strong sunshine, blind to the cheeseparing
toil and the miles of stormy water between
....Down the windows of the dim room
snow drifted obliquely, falling eternally; a
great stove gleamed at the far end, and near
it the mother sat at her table, where the
samovar glittered in the shadows and the
little silver dishes for the sweetmeats made
high lights on the table’s dark top. Some
rings flashed pn her hand's as she put the tea-
glasses in a r0w....
But Rebecca asked for his blessing again,
laid hands on little Isidor’s head, and closed
her eyes. And the toil grew harder for a bit,
with a child; in the house and no mother to
watch the money for the grocer and the baker
and the milkman. Often now the heirlooms
went up, and often Max borrowed the interest
in fear and trembling at the end of the six
months; but he had good friends at the
Synagogue, and slowly things somehow
righted themselves. Some engagements came
and brought others, more pupils came and the
fees rose a little. Sometimes for months the
samovar on the sideboard made his backward
vision for him, as Isidor's eyes brougnt
Rebecca’s and the bleak, beloved garden into
the Forbes-street room. But the violin s song
is no dire necessity ; the engagements were no
better paid and grew no greater in number as
the years passed. So the heirlooms came and
went with the fortunes of the house. Het-
man Gautz often told Max that he could lend
twice what he asked for them, but Max shook
his head and took the £7 ; it was hard enough
to find that and the interest when the time
came. .
He puf the tea-things away, bolted the
kitchen-door, and put the key of the front-
door under the mat. Coming out ot the
theatre into the warm, sub-tropic- night ne
hoped that Isidor had luid a good time at
Manly. It was well that the boy should take
what youth had to offer. But under the
trees Rebecca’s eyes turned slowly and looked
at him —young Isidor had faults, *angerous
faults. Horseracing is part of the pastimes
of youth. Max supposed; but it takes monej,
and money must be earned. That was another
of Isidor’s faults; as a money-earner he was
not much good. His jobs came and went
like the heirlooms; he was as often on the
sideboard as at work. Max smiled as he let
himself in and put the key back under the mat.
He lit the lamp and turned it down, went
upstairs, and undressed quickly, kneeling by
the balcony-door to. say his prayers. But. the
God of Israel brought him no sleep for a long
time. A year ago the heirlooms had gone up
with Herman Gantz to the full possibility of
their pawnable value. Gantz had lent £lB in
them, and Max had hurried home praising
God, had added £2, and given the £2O to
Isidor—to Isidor waiting dry-lipped and
trembling in the front-room where the naked
sideboard mocked them. Isidor had stolen
£2O. He had taken it from old Daniels’s till,
and put if all on a “certainty” at Randwick ;
and the certainty had not won. So their
mother’s samovar went to work again for Max
and dead Rebecca; and Isidor was the first
at Daniels’s shop in the morning, helping the
old man with the safe and the till, and
slipping back the £2O.
Midnight rang over the Domain, and Max
heard the front-door close softly and Isidor
come creeping shoeless upstairs. Max sighed
up into the darkness: the boy was so soft
and considerate in little things—in little
things. Eighteen pounds. .. . Where and
when could he hope to get such a sum?
Would ever the silver treasures show him the
long sweet vision again? Round and round
the questions tumbled in his mind, but with
no answers at their heels: and round and
round again.... And at last the God of
Israel relented, and Max slept.
“Wouldn’t you like to pay a little off the
principal. Max?” Herman’s voice was pro-
fessionally ingratiating, but there was an
undercurrent of friendly concern in it, too.
Max looked up and smiled bitterly.
"I don’t get the money, Herman ; you
taking weekly instalments off the interest
keeps the things safe, but that’s all I can do.
It is a long time before the principal begins,
if ever it begins.”
“Don’t say such a thing, Max”
The shop door opened, and a woman came
in and up to the counter. Herman’s face
grew grim and non-committal, as if he were
-judging submitted jewellery.
“No, Miriam ; I ain’t got nothing for you
to do, and I shan’t have this week.”
The woman’s hard, capable face showed her
disappointment, but only for a second. “All
right, Herman ; I’ll be in again on Monday to
see if you want me. Rosy and Abe all
right ?”
“Yes. quite well, thank you. Miriam.”
Herman’s face softened to normal again as
the door closed. “That’s my niece. Max, and
she’s a damn nuisance. My brother Abe
died four years ago, and she ain’t got nobody
but me and the family.” Herman nodded
backwards, the family being presumably hung
up on the wall behind him. “She should be
married—that would be the best thing—but
she’s too old now. She kept house for Abe
until he died, and she kept him in order, too.
d’you know that? But he’s gone, and Miriam
has a little money, but not enough. She has
to work, and she always wants to work here
—to be among her ow-n people, she says,
where the Sabbath is holy and all the people’s
minds are the same.”
Max sat down, and Herman leaned over the
counter, determined to get his full grievance
off his chest for once. “That’s all very well,
but sometimes your own people ain’t very
happy with you. isn’t it so. Max? Rosy’s a
strong-minded woman, too. But. of course.
Abe’s daughter has a claim on me; and at
sale-times, or when I’m extra busy or Rosy’s
sick, Miriam comes here and helps.” Her-
man raised life arms above his head in
despair. “But sometimes I think I would
give anything I have —do anything—if there
would be somebody else responsible for
Miriam besides me. Two womCn can’t fit in
one house and keep politeness with them.”
Herman wagged a stubby forefinger wisely
and portentously at Max. who was lost in
thought.
He stood at a tall window in Warsaw
and watched the snow drifting by in eternal
silence. At the far end of the room, by a
great stove, the mother sat, and her hands
twinkled and flashed round the samovar.
“Will you give me a cup of tea, Herman?”
he said, rousing himself and standing up.
“A cup of tea? But Rosy’s out for the
day.” Herman was hurt at the cold recep-
tion of his tragic grievance. He nearly said
so, but Max’s purposeful face stopped him
in time.
“All the better,” Max said: “invite me
into the room and we yvill talk some busi-
ness together.”
For nearly two hours the voices mur-
mured in the room. When Max came
through the shop into the street, he had only
just time to go home for his -violin on the
way to the theatre.
On the Friday afternoon Isidor was wait-
ing impatiently for Uncle Max. Friday was
the theatre’s pay-day, but that aLd Joe
Rosenthal’s certain tip for Warwick Farm
to-morrow and Isidor’s anxious wait were
only coincidences. Uncle Max came at iast.
hung up his awful hat, and sat down.
“Isidor. my dear, there is something im-
portant I must tell you.” Max’s voice was
dry, and in his eyes there was a strain of
more than mere poverty ; Isidor waited
scared.
(Continued on next page.)


CONTAINS
ANIMAL OIL or FAT
Btt
I2»*I
CUTS
BRUISES •
SORES * BURNS * /£*
PILES * PIMPLES * ECZEMAT}f£
RHEUMATISM • SCIATICA * BAD LEGS'fc&M IVI
‘SORE HEADS & BACKS’ CHAPPED HANDS
6//V EQUALLED FO/f CR/CLCETER S ,
CVC£/STS, FOOTBALL , .
SPORTSMEN GEN£fiALLyjgts2gps\
AS AN
UmilliS
Painful Ulcers Perfectly Cured
“As the result of a sprain, painful ulcers broke
out round the ankle-bone, and my foot swelled till
it was impossible to get my boot on,” Mrs. S. A.
Darrell, of 27 Levey Street, Chippendale, Sydney,
writes. “The holes eaten by the ulcers were so
deep that I could bury my fingers in them. Though
many remedies were tried, I was bad for fifteen
months.
“Luckily I was persuaded to use Zam-Buk. Its
first application brought decided improvement,
which grew more noticeable each day. Zam-Buk
drew out all corrupt matter. After a few weeks’
treatment the terrible ulcers were entirely healed
Up and covered with new, healthy skin.”
The prudent housewife and busy breadwinner soon
find that both expense and suffering are saved by
keeping a pot of Zam-Buk always handy.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
IT NEVER FAILS!
The Unique Skin Cure
With a World wide Reputation.
Note the name Zam-Buk—the name which alone
stands for perfect healing and the conquest of skin
disease.
Zam-Buk is a herbal preparation with a positively
unique healing and medicinal action on the skin. So
well-balanced and comprehensive is Zam-Buk that
it drives disease absolutely out of the flesh, cleanses
and invigorates the tissues, and stimulates the growth
of new healthy skin.
Not only is Zam-Buk an instant and ever-ready
“first-aid” in case of accidents, and a swift alleviator
of aches, pains and skin irritation, but records prove
it the unequalled cure for the skin and scalp diseases
of children and adults.
Conceived on new and scientific lines, Zam-Buk
has always been recognised as being immense strides
ahead of fatty ointments and salves. To-day its
reputation is firmer than ever it has been.
As benefits the world’s greatest healer and skin-
cure, Zam-Buk is absolutely reliable at all times. It
saves doctors bills. That is why it pays to pin your
faith to Z& m- Buk.
»
KU
IT
IN
“I am going to be married next week,”
Max said, looking steadily at the floor.
“Married! Heavens, uncle, why?”
Max looked up, his lips twisted in a smile.
“It is time there was a woman in the house
to look after us and keep us in order, Isidor,
my dear; and I am old enough to know my
own mind, I think.”
Isidor’s lazy life, the good clothes for no-
thing, the little loans every other day—lsi-
dor’s social fabric was torn to shreds in the
wind of this terrible news. Uncle Max mar-
ried !
“Who is it to, uncle?” .
“To Miriam Gantz, the niece of Her-
man. She is of a sensible age, and for years
she kept his house for her father. She will
know all that our little house wants.” Max’s
voice trembled as he put a shaking hand on
Isidor’s shoulder.
Lightly Isidor’s shallow mind threw off
the feeling that something was wrong; and
quickly it turned to a good time near at
hand. He put his arm round Max's
shoulders. “Congratulations, Uncle Max.
That’s fine —a great stunt. We’ll have a
spread, and get all the boys here for a
spree”
Max shook his head. “No, don’t make
any sprees for me. Miriam and I will go
away to Woy Woy for a week ; and after-
wards we will come back to work. That
will be sensible, I think.” He turned to go
into the kitchen. “Oh,” he added at the
door in a carefully careless voice, “Her-
man’s wedding-present is the heirlooms.”
He glanced sharply at Isidor, but no sus-
picion clouded the boy’s eager eyes.
“Good! Old Gantz is not a bad old sport,
after all.”
A fortnight later Isidor was very busy.
In half-an-hour Mr. and Mrs. Max Golanski
were due back from their honeymoon, and
there was a great deal to do in the time.
Bowls and vases of flowers to arrange; the
new hall-carpet to put down, and the um-
brella-stand to set up. in the corner; the
new bedroom-suite to re-arrange for the
twentieth time, and a hundred things to do.
It was a tough job. but Isidor managed it
and a clean shave as well. He put on his
coat as the cab stopped at the door.
He kissed his aunt’s cold face, and pulled
Unde Max into the front room as she went
upstairs. Max looked worn and tired, but
glad to be home again. Isidor pushed him
into a new armchair.
“Uncle,” he said excitedly. “I've got a
wedding-present for you. with all my love
and my mother’s love —she is wishing for
your happiness now as much as when she
was here.” He sat on the arm of the chair
and ticked off the fingers of his left hand.
“An oak bedroom-suite, very swell; a carpet
for the hall, an armchair for vou on Sun-
days. a dresser for the kitchefi”
“But, Isidor, my dear, the money—where
did you get it?”
Isidor laughed in self-conscious pride. “I
won £lO on Übiquity on Saturday, and
I put the heirlooms up with Blumenthai.
He lent £2l—l always knew old Gantz was
a skinflint!”
Dead Rebecca’s eyes looked proudly into
Max’s as the bottom of the world fell out
for him.
"Thank you,” he said, his white face
struggling under the blow ; "that was very
clever—and very kind of you, Isidor, my
dear.”
FRANCIS BRIEN.
If Polygamy Came to Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f I|T ELL, John Smith,” said Mary Jane
\\ in her most acidulated tones, "and
what have you got to say for
yourself ?”
When Mary Jane was a bride and John
her groom she used to coo little pet names
at him —Johnno, johnsie, Smithikins and the
like ; and he used to respond with "Maisie,”
“Mollo,” “Mollikins” and so on. But those
days were long dead, faded and wilted away
by the friction of matrimony, atrophied by
dull domesticity.
Nowadays with these two it was always
just “John Smith” and “Mary Jane,” and
neither of them expected anything else. John
was dull and docile, and at home generally
dejected. In business he was, as one of his
competitors had reluctantly admitted, “no
slouch”; in the presence of Mary Jape he
slouched continuously, feeling, as he never
said but knew indubitably, that it was useless
to attempt to do otherwise. Mary Jane, on
the other hand, had never achieved anything
except John Smith, not even a child to carry
on the family tradition, and in consequence
she was all arrogance.
Perhaps in her heart Mary Jane knew that
slie was unfair to John Smith : perhaps nor..
Your Mrs. Caudles, whether they have their
softer moments of relenting or not, manage
somehow to be very consistently domineering
over the worms who marry them, and Mary
Jane was a thorough Caudle.
John Smith was long past hoping. In the
beginning he had been, in his curious, doughy
way, in love with Mary Jane, and that had
inhibited him. Later, as some of the gilt had
begun to wear off the wrought-steel chains
that bound him, he had realised dimly that he
wasn’t-getting a fair deal and had attempted
to reason with Mary Jane. That settled it:
to attempt to reason with a Mary Jane is
the most soul-destroying thing any married
worm can do. Mary Janes can’t reason, and
if they could they wouldn’t stand it—least of
all from their own John Smiths.
So John Smith learned to suffer in silence,
bearing his cross most wormly ; for in his way
lie was a very good and seemly little John
Smith. He hated scenes; he loved respecta-
bility ; bis soul was suburbanised to the core ;
and to have done anything that would make
the neighbors talk would have seemed to him
the reddest of red sins. In all his goings
and comings he was decorous, unhurried and
sedate; he neither drank nor smoked, neither
swore nor looked at risky plays. And for
every one of his virtues of domesticity Mary
Jane despised him.
“Well, John Smith, and what have you got
to say for yourself?”—the usual wifely greet-
ing when John came home in the evening.
"Nothing, my dear; it’s been a nice day,
hasn’t it?” —the usual counter.
“Has it, indeed! And how am I to know
what sort of a day it’s been —slaving here
from morning till night keeping the home
together. And a let you care.”
"nave you, my dear? I’m sorry. Why don’t
you rest sometimes or go out for a nice little
walk, or —or —something?”
"Nice little walk, indeed! How do you ex-
pect me to go for walks with all I've got to
do and with the miserable, scarecrow, clothes
I’ve got, when there’s that Mrs. Jones down
the street dressed up like a peacock, and her
husband earning no more than you.”
* * * *
John Smith suffered dumbly through the
ordeal of dinner, its prelude and aftermath,
and at length settled himself in his easy-
chair and began to read a book on Turkey
that had been lent to him. As he came to
a chapter that dealt in wholesome frankness
with the polygamous customs of the Turks he
began to feel hot under the collar and glanced
furtively at Mary Jane. But he read the
chapter, and it set him musing on the possi-
bilities of polygamy. Keeping harems full of
beautiful wives had always seemed to him a
very naughty thing to do; but, when you
came to think of if, it didn’t seem naughty to
the Turk. He was used to it, had been
brought up to it, accepted it as one of the
commonplace customs of his country. To the
Turk, after all, adding to your stock of wives
as you could afford to add must seem us
natural and desirable as adding to your stock
of suits or singlets seemed to a European
similarly favored. lie wondered how he,
John Smith, would get on if he were a Turk
or if polygamy came to Sydney, as people
during the war used to suggest it might do if
the slaughter of available men went on much
longer.
* # * #
Here, then, was the same little street in the
same sedate little suburb, and here was John
Smith leaving for his office in his usual way at
his usual hour, and yet conscious of a some-
thing different. What could it be? Ah, yes, of
course; he was leaving behind him not one
wife but two. He remembered now the win-
had lasted ten years, the toll of human life
growing greater year by year till at last the
thing petered out for sheer lack of soldiers to
carry it on. And then had come the recon-
struction schemes of the exhausted nations
threatened with obliteration. Polygamy was
inevitable, and polygamy had come. Well,
well!
And here was the same John Smith com-
ing home from his office at the same old
hour, and here was the same old Mary Jane
welcoming him in the same old way.
“Well, John Smith, and what have you
got to say for yourself?”
“Nothing, my dear; it’s been a nice day.
hasn’t it? And where’s Mabel?” (Mabel
was Mrs. John Smith No. 2.)
“Where’s Mabel, indeed ! Yes, and that’s
just what T want to have a few words with
you about.”
“Yes, my dear. I hope you two haven’t
been ouarrelling?”
“Pah! Quarrelling, indeed! And what
if we have? What does it matter to you
whether we quarrel or not? Slaving all day
to keep the home together! And a lot you
care!”
“No, my dear. I mean yes, my dear. I
mean”
“Oh, I know what you mean, only you’re
not man enough to say it. .You mean your
troubles about how your wives slave and
save and make drudges o£ themselves, so lona
as you can go to the city every day and gad
about with your dissolute friends.”
The idea of John Smith gadding about with
dissolute friends ought to have made John
Smith laugh ; but John Smith had a vermicular
sense of humor, and on such an occasion, m
any case, he would not have dared to laugh
even if he had wanted to.
“I’m sorry, my dear,” he said dully; “why
don’t you rest a bit, or go out for a nice
little walk, or —or —something?”
“Nice little walk, indeed! And how do
you expect me to go for walks with all I’ve
got to do, and with the shame of that Mrs.
Jones down the street being able to lord it
over me the way she does, and her husband
earning no more than you?”
"What—how, my dear?”
“How, indeed! You know very well how.
Here are you just as well off as Jones and
could easily put your wife in her rightful
position if you had the decency to do it.
And let me tell you, John Smith, you’ve got
to do it pretty soon, or I’ll know the reason
why. There’s some nice carryings-on down
there in the city, 1 don’t doubt; but you
can’t hide it from me for ever, John Smith :
I’ll find out sooner or later, never you
fear!”
“Yes, my dear; but what —what do you
want me to do?”
“What do 1 want you to do! Listen, to
him! If you were any more than half u
man you wouldn’t need to be told what to-
do. Do the right thing by me, of course.”
“Yes, my dear; but how?”
“How! Oh, to think I should be tied to a
man like you ! How ! Why, get another
wife, of course, you coward, and put me
where I ought to be. You can afford it.
There’s that Jones, not a penny better off
than you, with his three, and you with your
miserable two. How do you expect me to
hold my head up in the street, John Smith,
and you with the harem of a wharf-laborer?”
John Smith woke with a start. Mary
Jane, a book in her hand, stood oyer him and
glared at him with menace in her eye. It
was the Iwok on Turkey, and it was open at
the chapter on polygamy.
“Well, John Smith, and what have you
got to say for yourself?"
“Nothing, my dear. I’ve been asleep.”
“Yes, you’ve been asleep. And dreaming,
too, I don’t doubt. Dreaming you were a
Turk, I dare say: with a harem, I’ve no
doubt; and all the rest of it, I shouldn’t be
surprised ; and me on the shelf, most likely.
Nice sort of a book this is to bring into a
respectable home, I must say; and a nice
sort of a man you are to read such things and
dream about them, too. But it’s no more
than I’d expect of you, John Smith.”
“Well, now,” muttered John Smith to him-
self, as Mary Jane flounced out of the room,
“isn’t that curious!”
INVER G.


n
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
M.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We SuppiiT—
JAItBAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNISUS - HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
®)e Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1506. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton's"—refuse all substitutes.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
•cs
£
As*
Hi
i *
HORLICK‘S
MALTED MILKC*
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG. ‘
m
S*S**»eT«
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
0? J.CoHis Broy^
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colc/s, Asthma,
Bad in the Cough of BKONCJiITiS aud
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and Effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains ot GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHASM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 4/-.
Made in England.
The Splitdorf High-Tension
Magneto with Impulse Starter
A Substantial and Compact Unit Easy to Instal.
,; ■ - Wj#v v "' f ■ ' 'UIh
i iIT I
d\
rp
#
m
i
This outfit offers to Ford users a DEPENDABLE ignition system which will
improve the operation of the engine, as it supplies a hot, snappy spark so essential
to efficiency under all conditions of Service.
One of the features of the outfit is the IMPULSE STARTER on the Magneto.
This is a simple device so arranged that it throws the Magneto shaft rapidly past
the point where the spark is produced. The result is that a full hot spark, properly
timed, is always obtained, EVEN WHEN THE ENGINE IS CRANKED
SLOWLY.
THE IMPULSE STARTER has the effect of turning the magneto at the rate of
500 revolutions per minute, insuring easy and safe starting, even under the most
severe conditions.
THE COMPLETE OUTFIT includes:—
THE 4-CYL. HIGH-TENSION MAGNETO, WITH
IMPULSE STARTER.
A HEAVY BRACKET FOR THE MAGNETO,
Which has 2 large-sized bearings between which the
gear for the silent chain is mounted.
AN EXTRA WIDE SILENT DRIVE CHAIN AND
GEAR WHEEL driven from the shaft on which the
original timer was mounted.
A WIRING SET TO THE SPARK PLUGS, and all
necessary controls and connections.
THE COST OF THE WHOLE BEING £29/15/-
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers* Supplies.
ALL THE TIME
ALL THE YEAR ROUND
ALL THE WORLD OVER
9
11
'AN(j
W'
0
2
fel
mm
m
■■■ •:
9
3
4
8
ir.-<
■tt\
>.**.*
5
cx£
7
420 r
3*2
6
SOMEONE
IS TAKING
BEECHAMS PILLS
SB
o'-
O/
&
'M
riazz
sssc
Ift
... .-,
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
AH First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
If unable to
secure from your
Tobacconist, send for a
Trial Box.
Box of 25 12/6
Box of 50 23/9
Box of 100 467-
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
■with success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter's
Liver
Small Pill-
Small i
Dose-
Small
Price,
Pills, for the
real source of
“|a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
hey cure
Biliousne s s.
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
[Pimples and
[Blackheads.
m
CARTERS
ITTLE
VER
PILLS
M
M!
C-IS
A Long Step
Forward
nm
Every sportsman knows what it
means to have his day's hunting
spoiled on account of his car-'
tricTges becoming damp and unfit for use.
For many years cartridge manufacturers
have experimented to perfect a method of
making their shotgun cartridges impervious
to dampness under all conditions.
Remington experts have at last developed a
process—known as “WETPROOF”—which has
been patented and is controlled by this company.
Our factory loaded shotgun cartridges subjected
to the “WETPROOF” treatment—as are all the
Remington UMC brands—will withstand without
damage to their shooting qualities such con-
ditions as rain, dampness, or actual immersion
tor a considerable period of time, which are
ruinous to ordinary cartridges, and which are often
.encountered in the field.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne


THE
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
Company Limited,
MINE OWNERS. IRON & STEEL MASTERS.
. vs- 7.V,.
SS: *
II
mBKBm
. ; . . i» *:.7 ■"• if
■ ■•■
■
■ ' ■• : v ;
' • . . ■; '■ :.¥ -y:
'
Water Front View of portion of Steel Works, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Manufacturers of
PIG IRON (various gratis*),
STEEL INGOTS.
BILLETS AND BLOOMS.
RAILS AND FISHPLATES,
BULB & PLAIN ANGLES
ROUNDS, FLATS, SQUARES,
BEAMS, TEES, JOISTS,
CHANNELS, WIRE RODS,
ETC., AND
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
WORKS:
Iron and Steel Works,
NEWCASTLE, N S.W.
Silver-Lead Mine,
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.
Ironstone Quarries,
IRON KNOB. S.A.
Limestone Quarries,
DEVONPORT. TAS.
HEAD OFFICE:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, Collins St., MELBOURNE
