

The
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited.
Mine Owners. Iron and Steel Masters.
Portion of Steel Works, NEWCASTLE, in operation.
PIG IRON,
RAILS & FISHPLATES
INGOTS, BILLETS,
BLOOMS, TEES.
etc.
v
%
o
m
Uj
o
-K
5*
&
4/M|Tfc9
ROUNDS, FLATS,
SQUARES, ANGLES,
STRUCTURAL STEEL,
SULPHATE of
AMMONIA, etc.
LONDON: 3 Great Winchester Street.
Branch Offices:
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE: 75 King William Street.
Head Office:
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cables and Telegrams: “Gambroon,” Melbourne.
The Bulletin
VoL 42.—N0. 2150
Thursday, April 28, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Advt.
The Viceless Pen
of all the Virtues
Fills itself with the simplest lever
action, possesses unprecedented
ink capacity, and the unleakable
quality. The ink flows evenly;
the lflct. iridium tipped gold nib
writes smoothly and freely. The
Whytwarth is indeed THE Pen
of Pens.
Its attractive finish and perfect
balance are only two more of
Its many virtues.
17/6 EVERYWHERE
All-British Make and Guaranteed
Sole Agents:
Australasian Publishing Company, Ltd. t
218-226 Clarence St., Sydney.
r
fount-Pen
THE YANDOO.
THE 7th F.A.B. Magazine (vot. 3), 200
pages. 270 photos of exceptional interest,
reproductions of journals printed in the firing-line,
three big, four-colored maps of Northern France
battlefields. Price 5/-, postage 6d. extra.
No Aussie Artilleryman should be without it.
YANDOO -MANAGEMENT, c/o Sil Roftu,
llO Bathurst Street, Sydney.
mi
. t
0
2L>4*»WUj
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
7 Ke ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd.. 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORUCK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
\ Slough, Bucks. Eng.^
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
ol
TOOTH/PASTE
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0.,
Free sample will be posted to you.
Sydney.
IMflHptt
-
|jj!j
liliriiiiiitlil
ill
MANGROVITE BELTING
will not slip under the most severe strain ; grips the pulleys
tenaciously, gives long life and dependable service, and
runs at a low cost. It is scientifically manufactured to
meet the particular requirements of every drive; delivers
the greatest percentage of generated power and functions
perfectly in every respect.
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
is the belting you should liave on every drive in your
machinery room. Our staff of belting experts is maintained
for your convenience, and will undertake to carry out belting
repairs during week-ends or at any time to suit your con-
venience. ' .
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
48 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Western Australia: Gibbs. Bright &Co Ltd., Fremantle.
South Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
Jh
Comfort under a strain is the test of comfort, and the
best Braces made, “Shirley Presidents,” will stand this
test.
“Shirley President” Braces are made by the manufacturer for
just such contingencies. Wear “Shirley President” Braces for all
uses. Millions of satisfied wearers the world over. Guaranteed
by the makers.
Look for the name “Shirley President” on the buckles.
For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WAITER CATHRO PTI., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N,Z.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other lt is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good’’ as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson's
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
IP
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Pecunious Poet
There never was au age of poetry .in t-lie
sense that there was a stone age and that
this is the age of brick. The poet has always
been a social excrescence, a superman; and,
being superior to his kind naturally he gets
inferior fare. As the sparrow tribe resents
the small bird to .whose drab tail you have
attached a purple feather, and promptly ex-
terminates him, man in the mass objects to
the presumptuous fellow whose intellect dis-
plays purple patches. The mass feels a sort
of sullen resentment for the superior crea-
tion. and when the one aloof seeks to impose
upon the ruck his liner ideas the class enter-
tains for him much the feelings a push of
hearty youug ragamuffins with fine barbaric
instincts feel for the schoolmaster.
Since the true poet must of necessity be
tile pioneer of thought, the one just ahead,
he cannot look for anything but exceptional
treatment, and as his inspiration carries him
beyond the apparent normal needs of man he
can never be a profiteer, as- the maker of
beer is, and the-purveyor of meat may be.
For which let us thank God with all the
earnestness of which we are capable.
A successful poet, successful as the brewer
is and the big-way draper, is almost incon-
ceivable. The fact that In* has occurred at
odd times does not make him any the less
a fantastical thing and a cause for judicious
objection. A poet in such circumstances
owes his affluence to conditions similar to
those that apply to*a justly-celebrated mus-
tard whose owners once admitted they owed
their fortunes not to the little that was
eaten but-to the much that was left on the
plat*?; To make a poet fashionable is not to
make him well read. ' You have merely made
his hooks necessary to the furnishing of a
well-ordered home.
1 foWever. the rich hard who has made his
riches at his harp is so rare that we may pass
him with' only brief mention, and turn back
to the misfortunate genius lisping in numbers
a pathetic complaint that his socks are with-
out toes and his bread is unbuttered on both
sides. 11 is feet, nevertheless, are beautiful
upon the mountains, and what would he do
with the i)aufacli of the brewer if he owned
it? Let him thank the gods, who lie well
■within his reach, that lie has to keep up no
such an appearance. Dei'p in his heart every
poet should know that jxivorty is his pride
and his salvation.
What does success in art mean? Look to
the arts that are conducted at a profit, mark
into what: hands t hey drift, observe how they
are diverted; from their native dignity and
nobility of purpose, and ask yourself would
you liave poetry in the position of the
drama of to-day. exploited by the bar-
barians. abandoning the freshness of in-
spiration. the heat of passion, for cold sense
(and business sense at that), serving to pro-
vide pot-bellies and big balances for the ex-
ponents of private enterprise who are quali-
fied to take control of the Muses because of
their success as wholesale produce merchants
and pie-men in a large way of business. Who
desires to have poetry rank as a staple in-
dustry subject to the laws of trade aud com-
merce, a marketable commodity susceptible
to the machinations of the .profiteer? Who
does desire it will continue to weep because
the poet is not as fat as the pork-butcher,
and because his wife lias not a hundred-
guinea Pekinese.
See poetry become a household necessity,
make tinsmith’s family and the ware-
houseman’s daughters a.-, eager for the morn-
ing song as the,\ are for the morning’s milk,
and what would follow? The Universal
Metrical Supply Co., with headquarters near
the Stock Exchange, and branches in all
the suburbs, running its own delivery vans,
leaving the family’s measure of poetry at
the kitchen-door every morning, or selling
verses by the feet at its retail stores, sub-
ject to the dictation of the big dealers’ com-
bine. Poetrv factories would be found
everywhere beyond the noxious-trades limit,
and no poet : of any dexterity as a rh.vmster
need be out of a billet at seventy-five shil-
lings a week; while piece-work would be
readily attainable, enabling a Bod Quinn, a
David Wright or a Randolph Bedford,
working eight hours a day in accordance
with the rules of the trades-union of Aus-
tralian Makers of Metrical Measures, to
earn something approximating the sum men-
tioned.
There are those amongst us, no doubt,
who. rather than see the poet down at heels,
would have him down at the heels of the
large manufacturer. These will appreciate
the idea of the poet, with his little black bag
of lunch in one hand and his faithful um-
brella in the other, skipping on to early
trams on the way to his daily work and
skipping off again in the factory’area, where
the wholesalers in song and rhythmical story
produce the goods in vast quantities. With
the eye of faith we see him bobbing up again
at lunch-time to take brief glimpses of the
sun, not, however, for professional purposes,
as the astute proprietors would certainly
provide all the necessary inspiration on the
premises with the aid of the cinematograph,
giving a landscape poet like Quinn vivid
glimpses of the Hawkesbury and providing
a botanical bard like Bedford with number-
less samples of our native flora—any kind
provided their names are like agapantlius
find pittospornm and pelargonium, or that,
they are monosepalous. miniliform or ovate-
acuminate—while giving David Wright
beautiful visions of the higher life in Ire-
land in the .days when every family had a
troop of performing fairies in the front
garden.
What poetry would become produced in
these circumstances we can surmise after
looking about us at the successful drama of
the day. Where the profits are, there will
be profiteers. Do we desire to give the
beloved Muse into the hands of these gentry,
or shall we still rejoice to have her remain
poor but honest, wholly undesirable to the
exotic taste of the plutocrats in her simple
Grecian vestment and virginal head-dress of
penurious laurel? Heaven forbid that
>oetry oyer fall under the control of the
high priests of private enterprise, who in-
sist on the divinity of the principle of giv-
ing the people what they want, since it is
the true mission of the poet to give the
people what they least expect.
EDWARD DYSON.
Carlyle as German
It was Carlyle's expressed opinion that the
Prussian Army of his day was a godsend
of good government in its “victory over
chaos.” Furthermore, he wrote in 1875 that
Disraeli was “a cursed old Jew not worth
his weight in cold bacon.” Old-man Carlyle
was like that-: violence at all costs, even at
the small cost-of honest truth. Probably if
the .archangel Gabriel had been doing his
best as Prime Minister of a wooden-headei
monopoly, Carlyle would have fallen foul o
him in harsh and bitter phrases; phrase
loud and wantonly insolent; phrases artili
ciully eloquent and self-consciously forceful.
The bubble of Carlyle as publicist burs
about —<J years ago', but for GO years befor
that ho had done as much harm to the Britisl
character as he could manage in hi
criminally long innings. So tacitly grea
and powerful was he that his bursting was
not proven till 1914. Speaking generally
the history of the world is hoping that the
echoes of the' report will die down soon
but there is not much life in the hope yet
He settled himself (irmly in a Chelsea attic
or on a Dumfriesshire farm, “the lonelies
nook in Britain,” and he thundered Germai
philosophy, German efficiency, German
poetry, Germany—Germany—into the leth-
argic e irs of the Prince Consort’s subjects.
These people were all swollen with prosper-
ity in the military quiet which is all that
Fat asks for, and they had no need noi
desire to do other than listen to any engag-
ing noise that was going on. Carlyle was ;
good stirrer-up of lethargy—his “Best’.
.Shall I not rest in the graveV” over his desk
has points apart from its consistent over-
statement. But stirring-up is only a pre-
liminary, the excavation of the hole in tin
ground where ■ the house is to come, so t<
speak. The wise,. far-seeing publicist shoulc
have more than the bee out of his bonnet to
put into the hole when he has cut it. Ant
Carlyle hadn’t, as the distant thunder 01
1914 is still saying.
Literarily, he is not so easy to place
About 20 years ago he was a magnificence
beyond words to my groping, uncritical mind
“Sartor Besartus” I ate; dozens of. times.
Some hollow place, some vacuum in my soul,
craved the reverberating joy of the dramatic
phrase in plain recitative—si sort of Shaks-
peare-caw-1 IEKALP-leader cross. That was
literature : to make drama out of mere topi-
cal statement. And Sartor was IT. I got
as drunk as an owl on the interlocking
iridescent phrases; I was as full as an egg
of real, modern, applicable wisdom; find I
was so swift and clever at catching the fine
points in the tails of the phrases (as the
“cold bacon” at the end of the Disraeli
smoodge) that I was afraid to look at my-
self in the glass. A lot of boys I knew did
much the same things. Life was a terrific
proposition. The cosmos sat beside us in
soul-shattering menace. Earth was full of
a dark striving without rest. There was no
noticeably active God, but no God was needed
if we went on striving. So we did. That
no results came or were even indicated did
not bother us at all—the job was to keep
on looking things bravely in the face. The
French Revolution was “truth clad in hell-
fire" ; T.eufelsdrbekh brooded mockingly and
tragically over Weissnichtwo, struggling
almost physically for some narrow* sanity in
gorgeous passage after passage; and a
Nemesis of historical significance idogged
the ' footsteps of every wanton passing deed.
We had a beautiful time going round and
round and round to the music of massed
German bands playing most skilfully the in-
spiring “Stirring Up” overture —for ever.
But. of course, a man doesn’t get. to
Carlyle’s high seat even temporarily without
some goods to deliver. Under all the savage
noise, the Prussian megalomania of his work,
there is an amazing, not so much scholarship
as memorised research. If Somebody else
had asseihbled the data and made the pro-
phecies indicated, the two together might bo
to-day in Carlyle’s high 1850 place. As it is,
cyclopadias give us a good deal of plain
research without any bees in any bonnets;
and it looks quite different from Carlyle’s
turgid treatise on Schiller, Fichte, Richter
and the other gods in his German Olympus,
whose names were hardly known to the 18H7
Briton in the street. But Carlyle made
them known. His gallery in “Heroes and
Hero-worship” wants a lot of editing now in
opinion, but none in statement. The same
may lie said of “Past and Present.” of
“Frederick the Great,” “John Sterling,” of
nearly all the fiery books. The matter is all
there in a wide pto fusion surely unequalled
in letters, a vast moving mass of knowledge
which seems never at fault and never under
control. His opinions—“ Might is Right,”
“the Practical aristocrat in combination with
the Titular will make Chaos Cosmos,” “Most
of mankind is made up of dishonest fools,
apes with angry dog-faces”—these went over-
board 20 years before they crystallised in the
silly word “cannon-fodder.” The wild angei
of the “public scold” and “his tempest and
agony of thought” are no eunipment for
public speech. On the contrary. But Car-
lyle made them sound like it with the inex-
haustible reserve of his scholar’s knowledge
behind and his genius for invective in front.
The few important men of his day who knew
better were afraid to say so.
As the fine matter lies groaning under the
curse of the opinions, so is the splendid Ger-
man music of the style weakened by them.
As an artificer pure and simple Carlyle is
not surpassed, I think, in British letters:
hence his long innings. The tearing fire and
skill of his diatribe is miraculous ; the sourest
critic can sit back and admire the thunderous
hard-hitting. The inspired'line shines often
and ofter r amongst the phrases, more often
perhaps than in any other English literary
artist. Once or twice in every book the old
(Continued on page ‘25.)


Crtjjoayjwcdefasfijie
ECONOMY IN MAID’S WEAR
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
irfi
Mr
1 1 H it
11! 1 ,')!
I 'I
llxlihl
SSi
LLU
V'\
Stti
202 s
FX2O2/5 —A Kimono-shape Dressing
Gown, as illustrated, for cosy winter
wear, in Grey Fledging, with facings of
Grey feateen and self girdle. Lengths:
42, 45, 48. PRICE 32/6
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
J 825/95 —This is a Smart and Cosy
Woollen Sports Coat, in very fine knit,
lias a roll collar and narrow revers.
Inset sleeves have turn-back cuffs,
trimmed with buttons in self shade and
similar buttons form the fastening in
front. A double fastening belt encircles
the waist. PRICE 35/u
FX3sl—Maids’ Warm Dressing Gowns
in Fledgling, faced with Satin, designed
\-neck and pointed collar, finished with
girdle. Colors: Pale Blue, Pale Pink
Length 48. PRICE 45/0
FXlBBs—Maids’ Dainty Kimonos car-
ried out in Crepe, trimmed facings of
\\ liite Crepe. All-round belt of self
material. Colors: Pale Blue, Navy,
Pink. Helio, Salmon. Vieux Rose
Lengths: 42, 45, 48. PRICE 12/6
FX42o—Children’s Cosy Woollen Coats
in Cream Wool, fashioned with sailor
collars of self with Rose-colored stitch-
lngs Similar stitching on cuffs, belt
finishes. Lengths: IS, 20.
PRICE
18/11
_jy]
FX207&
How satisfying it is to know that possession of Fashion’s
fairest creations is made easy through the moderate
prices which prevail at The House of Economy. Anthony
Horderns’ consistent policy of exceptional value-giving
is evidenced in the maid’s wear illustrated on this page.
ORDER BY MAIL.
Customers living at a distance
shop at Anthony Horderns’ with
perfect confidence, because they
know our Mail Order Service
provides the same facilities for
shopping as those available for
personal shoppers. Orders are
executed quickly and efficiently
by an expert trained staff.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Carriage is paid on Fashion
Goods and Family Drapery to
any part of N.S.W., and to the
nearest port on Interstate and
Island Orders.
si#
m
S
M
§
a
m
L
>=x
/042
266
f=x
/ooo
Write for the Fashion Book.
The charming, authoritative
styles of this new season are
portrayed in our new
Fashion Book. After perus-
ing it you will be convinced
that nowhere else can such
admirable examples of dress
and accessories he equalled
for value. Copies are posted
free.
FXIOI2 —Smart Chemise Frock
carried out in Fine Check
Shepherd’s Plaid, as illus-
trated, smartly trimmed with
black silk military braid
which faces the round neck,
outlines shoulder, sleeves, and
forms bands near the foot of
the skirt. Small acorn but-
tons in two-tone effect in self
and black are a further finish.
Lengths: *42, 45, 48.
PRICE 29/11
FX266 —A Dainty Frock for
Girl’s Wear carried out in
Vieux Rose Serge* as illus-
trated, having a plain long-
waisted bodice with square
neck and bell sleeves, trimmed
w*ith stitching in Navy Wool.
The skirt is accordeon-pleated
and a narrow girdle belt
marks the waistline. Lengths:
30 inches. PRICE .... £4/4/-
FXIOnO Attractive Wool
Jumper, in plain knit, as
illustrated, with a wide sailor
collar, knit of Saxe Blue Wool
of fancy stitch and having a
band of self shade across the
back. Bands of Saxe Blue
also trim the coat below the
waist and edge the turn-back
cult’s. A threaded girdle of
two-toned wool in Saxe and
Tan outlines the waist.
PRICE 42/6
FX2o7s—Gabardine Skirt, as illustrated, smartly designed
with buttons at both sides and also has wide belt. A really
excellent quality skirt, especially suitable for holiday wear.
Every girl requires one skirt which is put to one’ special
use. Let this be the example for that purpose. Colors:
Fawn and Reseda. PRICE .* 37/6
FX4O9 —Maids’ Skirt of Navy Serge, as illustrated, smartly
designed on the latest lines of Skirt Fashions, making it
something every young lady would desire once she had
inspected it. PRICE 52/6
SMART SKIRTS FOR MAIDS. NOT ILLUSTRATED.
EXIO93 —This is a Useful Skirt, carried out in Gabardine,
smartly fashioned with two tucked empiecements outlined
with a row of self buttons. A shaped belt finishes. Lengths:
32, 34, 36. Colors: Fawn, Iteseda. PRICE 25/6
FXlo9o— This Smartly Designed Gabardine Skirt is a
commendable example typical of our admirable selections.
It is fashioned with two empiecements and effectively
trimmed with rows of self buttons that extend from hips
to hem of skirt. Colors: Fawn and Reseda. Lengths: 32.
34, 36. PRICE 27/6
ELEGANT FROCKS FOR MAIDS. NOT ILLUSTRATED.
FXI232 —This is a Charming Chemise Frock developed in
Gabardine,, fashioned with Magyar bodice. The effective
scheme of embellishment consists of pretty Mastic Silk
embroidery on front of bodice, the round neck, also cuffs,
outlined with Mastic Gabardine, buttons to tone. The
narrow belt ties at back forming sash ends. Lengths: 42,
45. Colors: Saxe, Rose. PRICE 35/11
FXB37 —Navy Serge of Excellent Quality is used to develop
this Smart Coat Frock, which is fashioned with Magyar
bodice. The round neck and sleeves are outlined with
White Silk Military Braid and White Silk Stitching and
a row r of Black Bone Buttons extend from neck to waist
at back of bodice. The narrow' belt ties at side, forming
sash ends. Lengths, 42, 45, 48. PRICE £4/19/6
FXls67—Velvet, that favored and distinctive fabric, is
ntilsed to carry out this Charming Frock for a Maid,
Eau-de-Nil Chenille embroidery and a tiny Georgette collar
stitched with same Chenille provides a pleasing embellish-
ment. Sash ties fall at the back. Colors: Brown, Navy,
Black. Lengths: 4:1, 45, 48. PRICE 89/6
FXIS23 —Tlie Charming New Chemise Style is featured in
this Delightful Maid’s Frock, which is developed in
Gabardine, colored embroidery and self buttons ornament
the bodice. A graceful effect is created by the pleats at
sides of skirt. Colors: Fawn. Henna. Lengths: 42, 45, 48
PRICE £7/10/-
i
m
mm®
i-A !
fx
6/5
FX6l3—ls a Cosy Winter Coat in
Heather Mixture Blanket Tweed, as
illustrated, having a large circular
collar revers of medium width, patch
pockets with flaps and ail all-round
belt. Large sell' buttons serve both as
fastening and trimmings. Lengths: J-o
45, 48. PRICE 69/6
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
FX36l—Serviceable Macintosh Coat,
ruhbpr lined, and having storm collar,
inset sleeves, and all-round belt fasten-
ing in front with buckle. Lengths: 12,
45. PRICE 45/-
FX9O0 —Is a Rainproof Cape with Black
Rubberised surface, lined with Black
and White Fine Check. There are slits
for tlie arms. Lentils: 42, 45.
PRICE 44/11
FX7S4—A Pretty Coat for a Little Girl,
fashioned with inset sleeves, paicn
pockets, and novel shape roll collar. In
fancy-colored mixture. Tweed. Lengths:
18, 20, 22. PRICE 34/6
5n!
*0
fX409
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


■
mm
f
gp Uf !§
ililli
■
*ll . ■ I
.
i ■
' „
■
■J
:•■•■:•;:
£ :. ~.• "R ' % l
l ~
n
«10
■ , i) i \
A
m
i ;
n
w
I
,11 1
f ■>
m
j ||
Ir 111
iffl
■ ••
11
■
>
«
J
«%#£y»pBA€: I * ,«s
1 - ' :
zr.
> " .
1 1111111 '/'"''
Hmh
H£PPLE WH i T g
. .r.... ... . ...........
SHERA tfefc
COMMUNITY PLATE (Knives,
Forks, Spoons) deserves your
serious consideration. Any-
thing that you buy only once in your
lifetime—such as plate—demands a
closer scrutiny and greater caution
than attend ordinary purchases.
When you buy COMMUNITY
PLATE it is for once and all.
Here is a guaranteed Fifty Years
of service. And the beautiful period
designs —so tasteful and elegant-
remain fresh and attractive to you
throughout.
On Exhibition and Sale at Leading Jewellers and Sh
ops
Makers also of
ON'KT DA COMMUNITY
RELIANCE PLATE
[Guaranteed for 25 yea^s)
Oneida Community Limited
Established 1848
THE BANKING HOUSE. 228 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
M alters also ot
ONEIDA COMMUNITY
PAR PLATE
(Guaranteed for 10 years)


PINKETTIS
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
*vho are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FIIEE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Q
? uiUiiih
dim,
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
158 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
$
VV
7T
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure —you don't feel them going. It fs a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure—no trouble", no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
D JERDIN & SAINSBURY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “Mattamac**
Stormproof you Will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
"Mattamac” Stormproof. Reiuse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a “Mattamac."
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
rsrar
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21 ioz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The “ Mattamac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z .
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE v
sir
Mmom
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
5J
These three illustrations are direct ‘Draw'ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful reprcsenta'ions of the Feather-
weight Mattamac" Stormproof. if ic/i
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 21$oz. weight ; without
Belt, 19 oz.
GENTLEMAN'S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. Weight; with Belt,
2 1 soz.
MADE IN ENGLAND ...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write to us. We will send you, post free, the “ M attamac ” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
"MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you ths “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC ” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
The “ MATTAMAC" TRADE MARKS are.registered throughout the WORLD. {Copyright reserved.)
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-filling mechanism is
part of the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfactory self-fillingpen like the Onoto, so be
S-re to g't an Ono'o and not an old-fashioned squirt-fil ed pin.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C, 1.
Managing Agents :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST
Sydney a nd Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-Be t for all Pens
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
T iioh, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 25. Post
Free, direct from—
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Prospect.
A glory lights the harbor’s face.
The breeze is from the north ;
Let us forget the cares that fret
The hearts of weary men,
And then
Row forth, row forth.
The silver gulls are flying low
Along the gleaming shores ;
And as we glide upon the tide,
Beneath the sparkling sky,
We’ll ply
Bright oars, light oars.
Brave splendor brightens cave and reach,
The early mists have gone ;
Let us away with spirits gay
On lit ways glorious,
And thus
Row on, row on.
Afloat upon the shining tide
We shall forget all hate,
All ill, all crime, as keeping time
Our oarblades swing and sway
Till day
Grow lone, grow late.
Then we shall put about, and while
Our oars make flakes of foam,
We shall forgive, live and let live,
Know good or nothing know,
And so
Row home, row home.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Song Eternal.
On feverous bed he lay and tossed unresting
The tedious night and sultry morning
through;
Outside the summer birds were gaily nesting,
A lark-song rent with joy the tent of blue.
There came a grey fakir who knelt beside him
And bade him ponder o’er his sinful past.
And asked him had he ne’er a hone to guide
him
When o’er his head the clods should fall at
last.
And ere he passed, his wav'ring mind was
riven
By doubt, that rent him like a subtle pain,
If his were sins that might not be forgiven,
If Hell or Heav’n should be his final gain !
But far away within a hillside valley
Where forest fern a kindly covert made,
A wild thing drooped and closed its fl^al
And died in peace, untroubled in the glade.
No grudge it bore; no hope or fear it
cherished
Of bliss or bale by future days possessed;
A simple creature, lone and calm it perished.
And laid its deer-like head on Nature’s
breast.
And while below' cathedral chimes were steal-
ing
In dirge and chant round roof and tower
and vane,
Above their dead the forest bells were pealing
A song that sang—“ There shall be life
again!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
Joy of Life.
We have climbed, up Ragusa’s fortress walls,
The walls the old-time builders made so
strong
To shield their cherished churches, homes and
halls
The ages long.
We have rowed over in a little boat ,
And wandered on Lacroma’s lovely isle,
And swum in waters where its roseleaves
float
For full a mile.
We have lain out upon its sun-baked rocks
And felt our naked shoulders sting to
brown.
And helped the little goat-herd fold his flocks
When dusk came down.
We have enjoyed a thousand rare delights.
And revelled in them all with full-sou led
zest.
And now there comes a star-gemmed Queen
of Night
To bring us rest.
Tired with the beauty of this splendid (jay
Into your arms, my strong heart, let m'
creep:
Like happy children, wearied out with play.
So let us sleep.
N.S.W.
OLIVE KELSO KING.
My Lady.
I never let my lady know
How dear she is to me.
My lady who is all my earth
And all my silver sea :
For if she once should guess her worth
What would become of me?
I never let my lady read
My slavery of love,
For were she wise enough to know
How she my soul can move.
So haughty would the beauty grow,
And out of reach of love !
So I. who would have died for bor.
Command that she obey
And leave her lonely in that hour
When most I long to stay.
Lest, when she see my heart’s full flower,
Her own might turn away!
For though my lady be a queen,
A queen a king might woo.
Had he the pride to press his suit,
A prize no man could rue.
This thing I know, beyond dispute,
She is a woman too!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


Modern Methods of Construction
ALL REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING
with the exception of Exterior Walls for
Messrs. JOHN KEEP 8 SONS LTD., Clarence St., Sydney
4B
Hi
si
Wi
iSfcS*
msm
n i
r
■
.. m bh
T
Nw^g
s .
mb#* 8 ”
iMMMK
K&T
HM
NEW OFFICE BUILDING FOR MESSRS. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JOHN A. DEAN, General Contractor. * , f , ROBERTSON & MARKS, Architects.
WE WERE CONTRACTORS for all INTERNAL WALLS, FLOORS AND ROOF,
which were constructed in
REINFORCED CONCRETE.
We will give ESTIMATES AND DESIGNS for all classes of Concrete Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
173 Clarence Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.
VOL. 42—No. 2150.
THURSDAY. APRIL 28, 1921.
Price 9d.
GOING TO FEND FOR HERSELF.
“Last week 220 delegates from over 70 towns and settlements in Northern N. S. Wales resolved to establish a new State. The Riverina is planning similar action.”
MISS NORTH: “Good-bye, Ma! I’ve had enough of wearing these rags and working my fingers to the bone to let you go to the races.”
MISS RIVERINA: “And I’ll be off presently.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Maclf.od, of
-lusgrave and -McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Hl-lletix Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
i o„ _l4 George Street, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
* 1 10s - per annum you can have The
Sent reyalarly tu you every week for a
tar, io any address in Australasia, post paid.
J 0 any address overseas, £2 per annum.
leyues, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
"lanaeT €SS Commynications to be addressed to the
Special Notice.
rejused iCie ‘ UIU Stamped l( -tiers are liable to be
n , J i r e i COnten m, °f. t, i's paper are copyright by the
publishers Ihe right to reproduce or translate any
pait oj the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
, e Editor will carefully read and. where praetic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I optical. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
qoiio n ° e i Tccei/ ‘ng two columns in length, or. say,
MOO words are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
‘ etters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
1 he Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no :\fs. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS!, is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
t f °P" '•? 10 be destroyed if not acceptable Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MSI to distinctly understand that it is not
1 esponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Tllnck and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and intr est and adapted for
direct reproduction, nr any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
ai tis tic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
ufter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (iordon
and Got eh, Lndgate Circus; and IT. Dawson and Sons,
‘ aption House, Jireams Jluildings, London E.C.h ;
T - lIn J, c >, MoloCh Satire Sorrier. 3 Fleet Street,
London, L.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31 High
llolborn, London, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
„ Panada. Thomson. Stationery Co., Vancouver.
LX.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., !,!,l Hastings Street.
T ancouver, H.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 11. C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary. Alberta.
V.S.A.—Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Eric Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago • Uni-
versal News Co., 7.) West Madison Street. 'Chicago ■
Golden Gate News Agency, 710 Market Street, Chicago •
Clark Street Reading Club, 1.’,l N. Clark Street
Chicago. San Francisco ; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle: Liberty
Sews Co., Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
iano s, slh Avenue and 27th Street, New York City ■
C'chultz News Agency, Bryant Fork: Schultz News
Agency, 102 West a 2nd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central News Stand’.
Wo Last sth Street, Los Angeles.
Jacques Horn <(• Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ko^c,—Brewer and * Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong .
Singapore. John Little and Co., Merchants,
bin gan ore.
Ceyi.on. )[’. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; L. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Yaw a—Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
i ur.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropol'e
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Postage Rates.
, Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom. All Sea Route,
1605. , lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
m each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; B>,oz. to JOoz
3d ; 10oz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1,0z.,1\d., and
id. each, additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1021.
UNDER THE ARMY ACT.
All great wars are to end war —temporarily
or for ever, according to the optimism or
effrontery of the politicians who stand be-
hind them —and invariably the effect is to
breed other wars and to fasten militarism
on nations which never knew it before. Last
week’s proceedings in the Senate offered an
example of the process in operation. The
Minister for Defence introduced an amend-
ing Defence Bill, the effect of which will be,
if Parliament is mad enough to accept it,
to place the C.M.F. during training, or on
embodiment, under the British Army Act.
Senator Pkatten, who was the most vehe-
ment critic of the proposal, began by admit-
ting that he “knew nothing of the Act.”
Neither did Senator Foster, an ex-private,
though he had “made fruitless efforts to pro-
cure a copy” in the Melbourne Public Lib-
rary and elsewhere. Senator (ex-Brigadier-
General) Elliott could only tell what the
Act had done to him. “Because he fell foul
of a Duke’s son, prior to the great offensive,
he was denied all further promotion, and
threatened with a trip back to Australia in
disgrace if he made a row.” The threat
was no idle one, the Brigadier having been
under the Army Act at the time. Had he
not done what other good men have done
before him and knuckled down, the whole
of his soldiering would have gone for no-
thing, and he would have had no right to
clear his character. The case of Lord
Lucan after Balaclava, Dawkins r.
Rorfby, and a dozen others, have estab-
lished that a victimised officer cannot claim
even a court-martial —under the Army Act. It
is unlikely that Senator Peakce —who has
never been a soldier and is not even a lawyer
—knew what ex-Private Foster and ex-Briga-
(iier—(Jeneral Elliott did not know. In tins,
as in other military matters, he has no doubt
relied on the advice of permanent soldiers
of high rank. Enough for him that the
change will (1) Anglicize the discipline of
the Australian Citizen Forces (he explained
that "as Australian soldiers had to work
under that Act in wartime, it was desirable
that they should be familiar with it”), and
(2) provide a formidable weapon for
use by the Government if desired. Even
as lie was facing the blizzard of instinctive
hostility to his Bill in the Senate, a couple
of his colleagues in Sydney were disclosing
reasons why it is as likely to appeal to
Australia’s present Prussianised Executive
as it is certain to be detested by those who
understand the first principles of freedom.
"There is a pernicious propaganda in Aus-
tralia which seeks to set Australianism
against anything British. Once and for nil
ire must stmn/i this hind of thing out,"
declared the Federal Treasurer and Premier-
Presumptive. And .Major-General Ryrie,
Assistant Defence .Minister, added to this
that "the great body of loyalists would
be compelled to take the matter into their
own hands.”
* * 4 #
The British Army .Vet differs in no single
essential from the first -Mutiny Act of 1689
which was passed, in the words of its pre-
amble. "during this exigence of affairs, that
soldiers who shall mutiny or stir up sedi-
tion, or shall desert their Majesties’ service,
be brought to a more exemplary and speedv
punishment than the usual forms of law will
allow.” The Mutiny Act was so antipathetic
even to 17th-century England's ideas of
liberty that, an odd device had to be invented
to make it palatable. The Act died auto-
matically every year and nothing but a
vote of Parliament sufficed to bring it to
life again. This was perpetuated in the
Army Act (1881) and prevails to this day.
The Great War being over, enlistment in
the British Army is voluntary once again. The
man who joins up is thus supposed to know
his obligations. Take one of them in rela-
tion to “the pernicious propaganda of Aus-
tralianism”—the thing which the Federal
Treasurer says must: once and for all be
stamped out here. The soldier who serves
under the Army Act must obey orders, how-
ever unpleasant, as blindly in time of peace
as any man in the A.I.F. obeyed them in a
front-line trench. It may be taken for
granted that many of those who fired on the
crowd at Amritsar the other day hated the
task—as much almost as the British firing-
squads in Flanders loathed executing their
unhappy companions during the late war for
humanity. The penalty for disobedience
(under the Army Act) is death or penal
servitude. In this connection it is instruc-
tive to consider the position of a compul-
sorily-enlisted Australian in face of a Gov-
ernment-inspired order to assist in suppress-
ing “Australianism.” To disobey would
constitute one of the reddest offences in the
Act. But to obey might be even more peril-
ous. Says the Constitutionalist Dicey—
An officer orders Iris soldiers in a time of political
excitement then and there to arrest and shoot with-
out trial a political leader against whom no crime
lias been proved, but who is suspected of treasonable
design. In such a case there is (it is conceived) no
doubt that the soldiers who obey, no less than the
officer who gives the command, are guilty of murder,
and liable to be hanged for it in due course of law.
Stephen’s “History of the Criminal Law
of England” justifies the system which is
liable to place soldiers in the above dilemma:
The inconvenience of being opposed to two juris-
dictions, the sympathies of which are not unlikely
to be opposed to each other, is an inevitable con-
sequence of the double necessity of preserving on
the one hand the supremacy of the law, and on the
other the discipline of the army.
A few days ago some N. 8. Wales trainees
cleared out of camp in a spasm of resent-
ment against the conditions. A tactful
sergeant-major was sent after them and
marched the party back in time for a
hot breakfast. That was under the
Defence Act. Under the Army Act they
would have gone where many an Australian
went abroad —to gaol. In Melbourne the
other day a Duntroon graduate, who had
been returned from the Front as “perma-
ently unfit,” and who had made several un-
successful attempts to escape from the
starvation existence of a junior officer in the
permanent forces, took a civilian billet
without the permission of his superiors. He
was court-martialled and reprimanded, but
is now free. Under the British system his
punishment would have ranged from a death
sentence to one of “dismissal from the ser-
vic-e,” which carries with it a number of
civil disabilities. Such drastic penalties may
be necessary, as Mr. Justice Stephen has
asserted, to maintain the discipline of the
British regular army, whose members are
periodically called upon to perform distaste-
lilt acts, but who volunteer knowing the
implications of the profession. But what
place in reason or in equity have they in a
conscripted army of citizens?
The answer is that unless it is proposed
to employ Australia’s trainees for schemes
such as suppressing “Australianism,” there is
no object whatever in putting them under the
Army Act. For purposes of the sort their
uses will be obvious, assuming, that is to say,
they are compelled to serve under front-line
conditions not only during their 118 days’
training, but as often as the Government
exercises its right of calling them up. In
those circumstances brother may be ordered
to fire upon brother or son upon father with
the liability of being turned into a criminal
if he refuses. Each member of several
generations of compulsory soldiers will fur-
ther be in this position: if during certain
periods of the year the conscript exercises
his right as a citizen of criticising the' Gov-
ernment or the Army or Navy or any highly-'
placed individual in them, he will stand to be
accused of an “attempt to stir up sedition.”
llis sentence, in that ca.se, will be a matter of
what the Army officer thinks he should suffer
in the interests of discipline; and the point of
view of many officers on this question can be
ascertained by any interested party by refer-
ence to the nearest Digger. If it is not
designed to use the citizen forces as a re-
pressive instrument against persons guilty of
“Australianism,” or other political opponents,
then the Defence Act will do very well. The
considerable proportion of the A.I.F. which
had previously served in the C.M.F. was not
handicapped in any way by passing from the
one form of military government to the other.
The Diggers recognised that for warfare in
the face of the enemy something drastic was
needed; and the Australian soldiers of the
future may he trusted to take the same level-
headed view. But between that and the
sacrifice the Hughes Government had the
nerve to demand last week there stretches a
wide gap. The British-born community
which saddled itself with such an arrange-
ment would deserve the army of court-mar-
tial-made criminals it would breed.
A PROPOSAL TO EXCHANGE AUS-
TRALIA’S BIRTHRIGHT FOR
RUSSIA’S POTTAGE.
“I)r. M. .T. o'l!kii,i.y (Rector o i St. John’s, Sydney)
said that he began his clerical life in the slums of a
large Knglish manufacturing city, and what he then
saw convinced him that the present constitution of
society was essentially un-Christian. Therefore, he
said that the present capitalistic constitution of
society had got to be swept by the board.” — Sydney
Telegraph.
Even as the reverend gentleman spoke his
confession of political faith, the workers of
England were considering whether they would
do what he says has got to be done here.
They know far more about the pros and cons
of Communism than our workers do. They
possess their own ably-run dailies which have
followed the Bolshevik movement hopefully
from its inception. Many of the weeklies —
the New Age, the New Witness, the
Nation —whose contributors are the flower
of Britain's intelligentsia, men like Wells,
Bertrand Bussell and Massingiiam, be-
gan with the utmost sympathy for the new
regime. The best of the Conservative dailies
have stated the case for the overthrow of the
capitalist system in terms which would have
evoked threatening - gestures from Mr.
Hughes had they been employed here. The
English know that those who in Kussiu have
swept the capitalistic constitution of society
by the board enjoy many things which Britain
lacks, and no doubt will continue to lack
so long as capitalism endures. Tom Skey-
hill, who has just returned from a tour of
Russia, told last week how it was possible
to cross half that vast country by rail for
half-a-crown. The theatres, cinema-halls
and opera-houses are free, and there are
plenty of them. There are, in theory, at any
rate, no profiteers, no rack-renters and no
loafers. All these advantages*—if they are
advantages—England might have had for the
taking last week. The workers could have
cast off their chains and been free to dis-
possess everybody of everything. They were
not checked by the “massed forces of Pluto-
cracy” or any other fictitious influence of
the sort. Plutocracy, like our Judges, exists
only quamdiu si bene gesserit; the army and
the police, which are recruited from the work-
ing-classes, have never stood by wealth for
long in any of those countries where its mis-
deeds have engendered revolution. It is
doubtful if either moral scruples or dread
of the carnage which accompanies every up-
rising (the ultimate difference between a
general strike and a general uprising is
merely a question of terms) had any bear-
ing on the matter. The crux of England’s
case against Communism is that it offers a
highly civilised State more burdens than
blessings. Communism may suit Russia,
which has barely emerged from Feudalism,
for another half-century; it would not be
tolerable to the British, who are more jealous
of their freedom than any other people, for
a week.
* * * »
Communism is not a natural social con-
dition. The Christian churches, and more
particularly the one to which Father
O’Reilly belongs, have been preaching it
for 1900 years. What has the world to show
for all that zeal and energyV A few years, in
the first faint dawn'of the Faith, when the
disciples shared one another’s belongings: a
monastery here, a nunnery there; and then
—Russia! It is the habit of Christian man-
kind to listen approvingly once a week to
the divine injunction that those who have
should sell their all and give to the poor; and
during the succeeding six days to act in a
directly opposite manner. In a general way
of speaking, therefore, no rich man will be-
come a Communist of his own free will.
And no man with anything to sell—in art!
in literature or in manual toil —will behave
eommunisticalJy unless watched with an
argus eye and controlled by an iron hand.
Take the case of Father O'Reilly’s native
country. As a result of the Land Purchase
Acts Ireland has become a nation of land-
lords. The Laborers’ Acts dowered a pre-
viously ill-housed class with 50,000 modern
cottages at a rent of Is. 6d. a week each.
The Agricultural Wages Board awarded the
toiler on the land 30s. a week, free turbarv.
grazing and milk. In some of the manufac-
turing industries, in the North of Ireland
especially, a wage of £5 a week is not at
all uncommon. If Ireland became Com-
munist to-morrow it is certain that on the
following day weaklings and faint-hearts,
remembering the advantages their brains and
industry brought them under capitalism,
would begin clamoring for the old arrange-
ment. Since in Ireland, as in every other
Caucasian community, the tally of persons
fitted to rise vastly out-numbers those who
are doomed to fall, it would not be safe for
the upholders of the Communistic regime to
allow representative government. A nation
of efficients in a world of capitalism is no
more likely to remain communist unless com-
pelled to do so than an efficient national is
in a Communist State. We accordingly get
as a condition of Communism either an
oligarchy or a one-man despotism. What does
that imply? Australians have had a taste
of it under W. M. Hughes. But only a
taste. Freedom of speech or of the press
is as obviously incompatible with nn artifi-
ciality like Communism as it is with an arti-
ficiality like Czarism. Neither can stand
criticism, since neither admits of modification.
A public meeting called to demand a change
of Government would be as much a crime
under the one system as under the other.
But a citizen who is not free to speak, to
write and to act politically, within wide legal
limits, enjoys no freedom worth mentioning.
The experience of Voltaire, as recounted by
Dicey (“The Law of the Constitution”), is
shocking to one of British up-bringing:—
In 1/17 Yoltairk was sent to the Bastille for
a poem which he had not written, of which he di.i
not know the author, and with the sentiment of which
he did not agree. ...In 1725 Voltaire, then the
literary hero of his country, was lured from the
table of a Duke, was thrashed by lackers in the pres-
ence of their noble master, was unable to obtain
either legal or honorable redress, am), because lie
°* l * lls ontra Se, paid a second visit to
There is no difference in fact or in principle
between the form of government which per-
mitted such outrages and the form which
Bektrand Bussell, who went to Russia a
Communist, found in operation there. In
“The Practice and Theory of Bolshevism”
he remarks: —
The necessity of inculcating Communism produces
a hothouse condition where every breath of fresh air
must, be excluded: people are to he taught to think
m a certain way, and all lree intelligence becomes
taboo. the country conies to resemble an iinineuselv
magnified Jesuit college. Every kind of liberty is
banned as being “bourgeois”; but it remains a fact
that intelligence languishes where thought is not free.
Last week the workers of Britain placed
on one side of the scale the material gains
which may (or may not) result to the poor
from the overthrow of our present social
system, and on the other that possession
lacking which nothing in the world is worth
while to men of their blood. It was not
strange that they should have declared for
freedom.
The churches do well to he angry, how-
ever belatedly, at the sorrows of tin* poor,
li is not so long since clerical leaders of all
denominations instructed the needy and
suffering to be content with the lot to which
Providence had called them in this world,
ami look for their reward in the next. But
the political convert's enthusiasm can only do
harm where it is suddenly diverted from one
extreme to the other. To quote Bussell
again: “The price that Russia is having to
pay [in almost universal poverty] is very
great.. . .We must expect that any other
nation following Russia’s example will have
to pay an even higher price than Russia has
had to pay.” Is human nature so blind as
well as so base in Australia that it reauires
a holocaust to set it in the right path and
a Revolutionary Tribunal to keep it there ?
And in any event the people of this country
hold their destinies in their own hands.
They are vocal, through their 14 Houses and
their 800 legislators, as no other nation has
been in the world’s history. The poor remain
with us. But the decrease in their numbers,
and the improvement in the position of those
who are left—both of which changes date,
to all intents and purposes, from the period
when Parliaments began to be democratic-
are among the best advertisements of repre-
sentative government. If churchmen want
to help the poor of to-day they will not
advocate revolution, which never yet gave the
poor anything but revenge. They will warn
their congregations against it. Revolution is
not a holiday chance to be taken in the spirit
of a Tattersall’s-sweep ticket. It is a
ghastly necessity for nations maddened by
mis-rule and powerless to produce reform’s
otherwise. For people like Australians who
rule themselves to begin murdering one an-
other as a prelude to national bankruptcy
and the rule of some native Lenin— it would
not only he tragic: it would be absurd.
THE SUPERFLUOUS POMP OF
PORTFOLIOED PERSONS.
Ihe much-needed subdivision of Australia
into manageable States lias two sets of
enemies who possess the loan of the public
ear. The city politicians are hostile because,
when some city clerk rises to Ministerial
office by lung power, subterranean engineer-
ing, strict attention to party organisation,
racial influence or sectarian pull, and be-
comes one of the handful that rules 300.000
or <OO,OOO or even 900,000 square miles of
territory, lie no more wants to see his king-
dom diminished than does a sultan or any
other royal blackguard. Also he is no more
willing to admit that any part of it, how-
ever remote, would be better under another
Government—one on the spot—than is a
sultan or any other public calamity. The
city press has every reason to be hostile, for
if (say) X. S. Wales was cut up into (say)
tour States, there would be four capitals,
four smaller Sydneys instead of one-over-
grown affair, and four sets of metropolitan
papers instead of one. In other words, there
would be three new competitors to divide the
power and profits with. So no one in an
existing big city or in the district that geo-
graphically belongs to it has any particular
reason to advocate the subdivision of the
bloated political estates save a patriotic
desire to do what is obviously best for Aus-
tralia. And patriotism, except the kind that
™ ing to serve the country badly for
1-0(10 a year and also bestow on the country
for a consideration the services of its friends
and relatives, is rare. The favorite appeal
of the city press is that six State Cabinets
are very expensive and that 15 or 18 would
be more than Australia could possibly
afford. Hence admonitions like this (Sydney
Telegraph, 13/4/’2l) :
v *!'' ysA.ition in the North to break away from
V s. Males and set up a new State is now to be
mutated in the Riverina, where a similar agitation
has been launched In so far as they aim at
setting up further full-fledged State Governments
with all the expensive paraphernalia of Governors.
Ministers and Parliaments, thev are, of course, mis-
chievous, deserve to fail and probably will fail.
M hat we need in Australia to-day is not more but
less complication and duplication of our government
apparatus. But so long as they aim at securing greater
consideration for the special needs of the North
and of Riverina they deserve to succeed....
Melbourne Age follows the same line of rea-
soning lest Portland and the Western Dis-
trict should break away. It has devised a
scheme of local councils as a milk-and-water
or shandygaff substitute for subdivision, also
as a half-hearted compromise and a red
herring drawn across the trail. Its idea is
that the Government should become a com-
plicated misery of five storeys. Municipal
or shire councils are to be underneath, as at
present. Then there are to be new d.strict
councils covering larger areas. They will
have no power over loans, lands, the making
of new railways or the opening of new ports,
but some semblance of work is to be found
for them. The third storey is to be the
State Governments, ruling the old areas.


muddling in the old way and holding all the
old powers that matter. The Federal Gov-
ernment is to be the fourth storey and the
British Government the fifth, so that the
smaller variety of citizen, with all this full-
fledged administration on top of him, will
he squashed pretty flat. Still, the Age’s is,
at least, a definite scheme. The Telegraph’s
idea is apparently that the old gang should
talk decentralisation to the secessionists a
little harder.
The Age’s scheme of complication, dupli-
cation. multiplication and entanglement
would leave the handful of Big Cities the
same overwhelming and all-absorbent affairs
that they are now, so it or variations of it
are much in favor with the Big City press
and politicians. It is advanced on the
specious plea of economy, the assumptions
being:—
(1) That if Australia is cut up into la or 18
States its nexv State Governments, though located
in smaller towns and away from the domination of
city Labor Councils, and removed from the old city
influences, and starting everything afresh, must neces-
sarily he the same pompous heaps of corruption and
riot and extravagance as the Legislatures at Sydney
or Brisbane. The idea that they might be quiet,
cheap, little affairs like the Legislature at Hobart,
hut without the Upper House traditions which that
body inherited from the convict days and from a
back-number British Government, is brushed aside.
(2) That if Australia, on the other hand, is cut up
into 70 or 80 or more districts, each with a new
kind of Council, these Councils will necessarily be
cheap, honest, pure, patriotic and unblemished —like
the Municipal Council of Sydney, for instance, an
institution which shines like a good deed in a bad
land.
The matter of cost is the whole ostensible
basis for the argument, that mainland Aus-
tralia should still consist of live gigantic
properties, one of them the biggest province
in till the world which struggles along under
a single Cabinet, and another the third big-
gest. Further, that they should all he run
by Governments located on the southernmost
fringe, so that some of the other fringes are
ruled by telegram at nearly 2000 miles range
and ail the Cabinets live in one-fifth of the
country or less.
Australia certainly couldn’t afford 1 5 or
IS Cabinets of the Dooley or Theodore
type. It couldn’t afford six. But the coun-
try can’t do without government of'some
sort. The United States supplies some illus-
trations. It is very much like Australia in
size and is under 49 Governments, the Fed-
eral one making the 49th. The biggest State
is smaller than N. S. Wales, and its sub-
division is expected. The smallest State is
one-twenty-fifth the size of Tasmania, and
in its case there is an impression that the
subdividing process has been carried too far.
The Republic isn't a land of moral beauty,
which is partly accounted for by its mixed
population, and partly by original or acquired
sin. But it is a solvent country, one which
has a mortgage on the world instead of the
world having a mortgage on it. And despite
all its corruption its State Governments
have never got down openly to the financial
level of some of our own. Some details of
the very richest State and of a rather poor
one follow, money being reckoned for con-
venience at the old rate of about five dollars
to the £ :
New York State.
Population, 10,646,989, or twice that of Australia.
Governor (elected by the people), £2OOO per annum.
Upper House, 51 members at £3OO per annum.
Lower House, 150 member's at £3OO per annum.
Biggest town, New York, with 5,737,492 people.
Capital, Albany, with 106,632 people, the fifth town
in size.
New Jersey State.
Population, 2,544,342, or more than that of X.S.IY.
and S.A. combined.
Governor (elected by the people), £2OOO per annum.
Upper House. 21 members at £lOO per annum.
Lower House. 60 members at £lOO per annum.
Biggest town, Newark, with 418,789 people.
Capital, Trenton, with 113,974 people, the fourth
town for size.
Australia has a great deal to say for itself
in the way of area, but it lias little popula-
tion except round the Altate capitals, and it
seems likely to lose much of the outlying
population it has unless it acquires more
State capitals as nuclei. If the really habit-
able part of the country was subdivided now
(the desert being Federal property and run
as far as it required running by Com-
missioners) some of the new States would
begin with very few taxpayers. But oven
one-fifteenth of Australia could almost afford
a Government like that which suffices for the
State of New Jersey with more than half
as many people as the entire Commonwealth.
There is no need for the Belsiiazzar-1 ike
magnificence of a Storey or the pomp and
circumstance of a Dooley —or of 13
Dooleys, that being the extraordinary num-
ber of parasitic Ministers who have climbed
on to the Treasury carcase in the Ma State.
INQUIRE AT THE BACK DOOR.
The more we dig into the story of ancient
man the more completely are we overwhelmed
with the sense of the unimportance of most
things. ‘ A Roman lived so clean a life that
such an incident as a cold in the head was un-
known to him ; the Athenian public had such
fine literary taste that the excitement of
seeing and judging a new play was as great
as that which accompanies the close hnish
of a League football match ; the Babylonian
rule made all ways clearer of violence and
safer for the traveller than any other the
world has known ; the Egyptian lived a life
of quiet, refined luxury beside which modern
extravagance looks coarse and rude ; the curi-
ous civilisation of the Inca had more thought
for the common people and their bodily needs
than the best socialist to-day. In reviewing
the efforts of the past to reach something
which made life worth living nothing is
easier than to get the mind out of focus and
either to declare that we are far behind the
ancient races or to point to a few notable
modern inventions and assert that vve are
infinitely in front in all that constitutes true
progress.
The truth is that the judgment of relative
progress is generally confined to a comparison
of front ranks only. We take a glance at
the shop-windows of the ancients, then men-
tally deck out our own; and according to our
particular view of the goods in the show-cases
we decide for or against our own time. Such
n, mode of judgment is necessarily bad. It
does not matter a tig whether Homer is
greater than Swinburne or Plato than
Herbert Spencer ; the relative value of
Greek sculpture and modern wireless need
not be considered: the facts that Queen
Zenobia went to the Persian border on a
white camel and that Queen Mary goes to the
English coast in a blue train are of no con-
sequence.. To get at the corresponding values
of things we must view the back premises:
for in human advance the things left undone
are always liable to rise up and swamp
achievement.
Come in at the back door of Athens and
forget for a moment the glory of Sophocles
and the golden tongue of Demosthenes.
Forget the giant statue of Athene that towers
over the city and the white marble columns
that have dazzled 25 centuries of remem-
brance. There are policemen here who
patrol the darker streets and arrest the
criminal. You might pass the hangman on
the way or rub shoulders with the gaol-
keeper. All these people are slaves: but they
take no note of that in Athens, for so are the
the minor officials of the
courts and the public scribes. Coming in
without introductions, practically everybody
you meet is a slave. Even the men who
strike coins in the mint are slaves, as well as
the scores of highly-respectable, well-educated
and travelled men who fill responsible posts
in great households. Many of these are not
Greeks. You will meet sleek Egyptians and
black Ethiopians and white men from North-
ern Europe, all in bonds of one kind and an-
other. all inclined to grumble at their luck.
Athens has at least half-a-dozen slaves to
every free man; and before von have been an
hour among them you will have formed quite
a new idea of Attic history and understand
the misery that upholds the white marble at
the front door.
Hut if you leave in one hour vou will come
away with false impressions: stay a couple of
hours and discuss things at the foot of the
back stairs. These slaves are as clean and
well-fed as the ordinary workers living in
Paddington and Fitzrov. They are housed as
well, sleep as well, laugh as well as the
modern drudges of civilisation. They are
never unemployed ; they never sleep in the
park: they have a good many privileges.
Here is Timotheos, who has a grievance
against his master. He tells you that if he is
kicked in the same place to-morrow he will go
to the temple of Theseus and take sanctuary
there. It is quite a good arrangement when
a man wants to change his boss and his job.
He has a few days' rest and is then offered in
the slave market again—he can demand that.
Being sold again may involve a pleasant trip
to Chios or Delos,where the big slave-markets
are. Timotheos is ready to take the risk
of getting something more to his taste in the
way of a new slavery—always remembering
that he will wait to be kicked again in the
same place before he makes a move. Not
one slave among them all has any tear of
hunger; the terror of being without home or
shelter never touches them.
After two hours spent beside the doors
where they put out the garbage-tins you are
convinced that the Athenian slave was just
about as well off as the average unskilled
laborer in Australia. He lacked freedom and
might be occasionally kicked; but he was not
under the whip of fear for the morrow.
Also, he had always the chance of, being
liberated. The Government valued him and
looked after him; if anybody kicked him too
hard it was a criminal offence.
But —the but in the examination ot com-
parative progress generally turns the scale —
a slave had no legal rights, r 1 is evidence in
a court of justice was accepted, but only
after he had been tortured. The point is so
large and staggering that the inquiry at the
foot of the back stairs can finish at once.
Bill has his rights at law; he is the equal
of the best when he gives his evidence.
Timotheos can retire with his kick into the
shadow of the faded marble.
But if the same kind of inauiry be taken
to the back door of the, northern villages
where the Gaul lived in more comfort and less
enlightenment that Ihe Greek of Athens, the
result may be different. The back door there
is uncommonly like the front. The big chief
calls the man emptying the garbage-tin by his
name and lifts his right hand, palm outward,
in greeting. There is no fear of unemploy-
ment here either; the kick can be answered
in kind ; the man with the garbage-tin can-
not be sold. The chief’s manners and tastes
may not be as fine as tlie Athenian's; cer-
tainly he biulds nothing in marble. An hour
among the men at the back door of that
village which the Greeks call barbarian is
curiously enlightening.
In the survey of human progress through
history there is a lot of heartbreak. The
failures are so great that they make the
whole story look like failure; but there arc
bright spots where they are least expected.
Suppose we alter our standards of judgment
and let art, invention, letters and architec-
ture fall into the secondary place which is
riehtly theirs. Let 11s take as a great human
axiom that the people whose progress is the
greatest are those whose back door is most
lijce the front.
D. M. W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cheque in Politics.
Last week a practical joker got a report
into a Melbourne paper that W. M. Hughes
was dividing £15,000 between three Bendigo
bodies—“the gift to be taken from the
£25,000 recently presented to the Prime
Minister by certain admirers.’’ To an inter-
viewer Mr. Hughes said :
I have given instructions to the police to ascer-
tain who the writer was. If it were true, it would
be one of the most shameless acts of attempting to
bribe a constituency in the history of Australia,
In my experience it is without precedent.
No severer rebuke can be imagined to the
people who gave Mr. Hughes his £25,000.
And it likewise amounts to a stern criticism
of himself for having taken the money. If
he had given Bendigo £15,000 it would rightly
have been condemned as an attempt to bribe
the electors. Not such flagrant work, per-
haps, as if he had followed the example of
candidates for the Rotten Boroughs of ISth
century England and given a thousand voters
£l5 apiece; but in principle the same. And
in principle the significantly anonymous
gentlemen who contributed Air. Hughes’s
£25,000 acted as Robert Walpole habitually
did with dangerous opponents. Walpole
found that even where those who took Whig
money for more or less imaginary services
to the nation did not come over openly to
the Whig side, yet their criticism of the party
weakened and died away. And so he went
on bribing, remained nnshakably in office for
a record term, and retired, with his peerage,
one of the wealthiest men in England. Aus-
tralia’s rich men who found most, if not
all, the handsome fortune which .Mi-. Hughes
was handed the other day have benefited as
Walpole did. They did not bargain or
make terms with the Prime Minister, know-
ing, probably, that they would have been
peremptorily ordered out of the room had
they attempted anything of the sort. They
simply sowed the seed and waited for it to
sprout. The Prime Minister would be some-
thing more than human had he not been
touched by their artless tribute. How could
he go on assailing the rich when from being
shadowy imaginings—truculent, maleficent
k and vast.of stomach and cigar—-they had be-
come his hospitable friends? To serve
Labor while being subsidised by Mammon
this is a task which no honest politician can
accomplish. Every time a politician takes
money from a section his views are likely
to be influenced, however unconsciously, in
the same manner. Mr. Hughes can see
the one point well enoueh. How is it that
he is blind to the other?
•
Time’s Changes.
Somewhere or other in honorable retirement
lurks Bruce Smith. He will never again
break a Parliamentary lance on behalf of a
colored Australia, never again hoist his calico
banner, with its device of “Cheap Goods and
Blow the Local Product!” amidst the huzzas
of the Sydney daily papers. Though dead
politically he yet liveth —in the persons <.f
the Industrial Workers of the World. 11 is
old Cobdenite friends have deserted him.
Australia has never had a newspaper which
was quite so arrogantly intolerant on the
coolie-exclusion issue as Sydney Telegraph
was a decade ago. It was Bruce Smith,
plus a bitter, acid quality which he lacked.
Yet, last week, this paper, which fought the
Alien Immigration Restriction Bill to the
last ditch, and after it had become law
tried to discredit it by stories of visiting
Indian natives being pushed into the sea by
Australian Customs officers—this paper wrote
scathingly, apropos Tom Walsh’s willing-
ness to admit 2000 Chinese to the Seamen’s
Union, of “the cant of the ‘lnternationalist,’
a doctrine deliberately aimed at the destruc-
tion of patriotic sentiment.” There was no
haughtier Freetrader once than the Tele-
graph. And a few days ago it observed, in
a leading article :
The bulk of the indemnities must be paid in
goods. If goods are sent to the Allied countries to
the extent of some hundred millions annually they
will destroy all industries in which Germany com-
petes ; and if they are sent to neutral markets they
will drive the Allies from those markets. The
orthodox Freetrader would welcome cheap goods if
he could he sure of receiving them for ever; but
this tribute must cease in 30 years and leave the
consumer at the mercy of his former tributary.
But a doctrine which is sound in principle
cannot be made unsound b.v an irrelevant
thing like a war. The early-Victorian dogma,
which the Telegraph preached for so many
years, laid down no time-limits within whicu
cheap goods would be acceptable. The “ortho-
dox Freetrader” took it for granted that after
a certain period the Australian consumer
would be at the mercy of the foreign supplier.
But he argued (1) that this was sound
economically, the long-hour, low-wage person
having demonstrated his superiority in his
chosen line; (2) that the beaten race should
turn its energies to some less complicated line,
such as cattle-raising or wool-growing; (3)
that the defeated need not fear being treated
harshly as regards prices or otherwise, since
there was a simple cure for profiteering- and
warfare alike —namely, internationalism. It
is a plain fact that the insanity which is
careering about the world at the present time
is in its essentials the one which had warm
supporters in every expensive club in the
Commonwealth before the war. Why
should Australia reject cheap German or
Austrian or Asiatic goods? They were bar-
gains and boons. If Australians couldn’t
make the same articles at an equal
price, let them take to pick and shovel work,
or get into the bush and mind sheep. Too
many manufactures coming in? Nonsense!
The more the merrier. Tariffs only produce
hatred. The exclusion of the colored races
has the same effect. Away with the White
Australia doctrine! Tear down all barriers,
fiscal and racial, and within 1.0 years the
world will enjoy that brotherhood of man
which Coupe x foresaw! Such were the
claims of the Freetraders of yesterday. Such
are the claims of the Internationalists of to-
day. It must be a grim discovery for Bruce
Smith to make that during all the years he
thought he was a Conservative he was in
reality aiding the cause of revolution: a pain-
ful duty for papers like the Telegraph to
have to explain, day by day, that when they
said cheap foreign goods were a blessing they
meant they were a menace to the nation’s
existence, and that when they called for
black labor they intended to say that the
coolie was an industrial calamity and mis-
cegenation a crime.
6
A Land of Old Contraptions.
Baron Laming ton (aged 60 and no longer
the man he was when he chased the hours
with flying feet and frequently caught them
up as Governor of Queensland) was invited
the other day to hear a lecture on his old
State by Agent-General Hunter. The A.-G.,
as in duty bound, enthused about Queens-
land, which really deserves many of the
good things that are said of it, and also,
of course, about tbe policy of State or Pawn-
shop Enterprise which guides it. That is
what lie is paid for, and, anyhow, the man
who founded the Government meatshops
couldn’t do otherwise. Lamington corro-
borated all that Hunter said about the
Suite, but as to the policy he remarked
in effect, if not in these precise and elo-
quent words, that it is crazy and not fit to
be thrown at a dog. Some of his words
were as follows: —
He believed that, if Private .‘/Enterprise had been
permitted to supplement Government expenditure,
Queensland’s development would have been enor-
mously accelerated, while the investment of capital
would have induced a greater influx of yvhite popu-
lation. He quoted in support of this opinion a
former manager of the Queensland railways, who
said he was convinced that, laid Private Enterprise
been unfettered, Queensland would now he covered
by railways.
The vein of wisdom in Lamixgtom’s trite
remarks was too thin to be worth following
up; still, the fact remains that what is
called State Enterprise in Australia has one
foot in the grave. Something else has to
come—either a measure of real State Owner-
ship or a clearance sail? to l’rivate Capital.
As regards the railways, which are the eter-
nal hone of contention, they suffer from
every possible drawback. The first object
was, in a great measure, to boost the pro-
perty of private landowners, now mostly
dead and with their estates dissipated. The
next purpose, which developed inter, was to
boost the vested interests of existing cities,
and in this matter Labor was and is quite as
vested as Capital. This idea extended till
railways were laid out and worked for the
express purpose of destroying or preventing
towns that promised to be rivals. After that
railway-building became to a great extent
relief work pure and simple, and this is
the present phase of State Ownership and
an addition to the old evils. The crowning
jest is that the State never owifed any rail-
ways at all. They were all built with pri-
vate capital which is wholly cumulative
preference capital, carrying an increasing
dividend that promises soon to he, in the
aggregate, the biggest dividend screwed out
of any nation of railway-users on earth.
The State’s share in the business is to re-
lieve (lie real owners of the worry of man-
agement, and to guarantee them against any
loss of principal or dividend. It isn't much
of a share when one comes to look at it.
Even 30 years ago, when State railways
hadn’t yet become a more instrument of con-
gestion in a few spots and depopulation in
others, and when the public debt hadn’t be-
come the fixed and monstrous institution it
is, what was called Public Ownership looked
an unquestionable blessing. It looks an un-
questioned curse now; yet if Australia could
get rid of its loan habits and its Big City
disease the blessing would resume business
at the old address. On the other hand, when
Public Enterprise is worked in a. huge and
incapable fashion solely with borrowed
money, and the debt is neither repudiated
nor paid off, every bad investment becomes
an immortal pensioner, and the accumulation
of such debts means that Public Enterprise
must stop some day. The loan business on
a big scale is still young, but already Aus-
tralia puts up with many an obsolete con-
traption because if it was replaced there
would be two mortgages on the new contrap-
tion, and if it. was replaced twice there would
be three. A country that paid cash could
afford new works and appliances, but be-
cause it hasn't, paid and doesn’t pay cash
young Australia is already filling up with
old contraptions.
Where Freetrade Spelt Blue Ruin.
The Argus contrived the other day to point
the absurdity of its own fiscal policy. It
published a wire from Maoriland giving a
reason cited by Priminister Massey for the
decline of wheat-growing in the Windy Isles,
namely, “the fact that it was impossible to
buy the implements required for wheat-pro-
duction at less than three times the pre-war
cost.” In that sentence the whole fabric of
the Ereetrade case for the removal of duties
on agricu ltural implements was demolished.
There arc no Protective duties on these im-
plements in M.L. The farmers there have,
for many years, been supplied under Eree-
trade conditions, and the absence of local
competition has enabled the importers to
charge as much as they chose. In Australia
Protection, by giving the manufacturer a
chance to establish himself, has prevented
the farmers from being exploited by the
foreigner. It is true that prices have in-
creased in Australia in consequence of higher
wages, dearer materials and fuel, and the
enhanced cost of things generally. But it
is not true that the farmer has to pay more
for his tools of trade because of the tariff.
New duties designed to ho adequate and
effective were introduced last year. They
have been in operation 13 months, and there
has been no corresponding rise in the price
of Australian-made implements and machin-
ery. Taking the entire field equipment for
a 300-acre wheat-farm, the increase since
1014 has been less than 70 per cent. The
exact figures are subjoined :
P re-wav 1921 1 ncrease
Prices. Prices. p.e.
Harvester ..ill 3 0 0 £192 10 0 TO
Petrol engine, 7-
h.p. stay •• S 3 0 0 ! or, ID o 27
Plough, i disc,
S. J 30 0 0 61 0 0 091
S. J. Harrows, I
see. set with bin-
and wheels . . S 15 0 17 7 0 98 \
Drill, 16 x 7 di-c 43 10 0 84 0 0 93
C'haffciitter. No. ■> 20 0 0 34 10 0 721
Totals ..£304 5 0 £4 94 17 0 027
A substantial advance certainly, but nothing
like the 200 p.c. increase in Ereetrade Maori-
land. Properly handled and cared for, any
of the appliances in the foregoing list can
do 60,000 acres. Spread the 02J p.c. increase
over that area, and the average pans out at
a trifle over three farthings iter acre. It is
a cheap and effective method of insurance,
whereby the Australian wheatgrower has
been shielded from the fate which has over-
taken his Freetrade congener in M.L., and
the Commonwealth has gained an important
industry (which means more purchasers of
Cocky’s products) into the bargain. The
ease for scientific Protection was never more
strikingly exemplified.
“11l Fares the Land to Hastening Bills
a Prey.”
Til fares the land to hastening bills a prey
Where debts accumulate and men drift away.
Extract from imaginary poem.
A short section of the most historic road
in Australia connects the biggest British city
south of the line with the old town of Parra-


fl
A
For Galvanised Iron
and Structural Steel
Gives double life to iron roofs— ensures protection and service
to structural steel work—and fine appearance as well.
Full details on request to
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
matta, which once had a shot at being the
capital of the British dominions hereabouts.
This road was allowed in recent years to
fall into disrepair like the carpet on the mud-
door of a black king’s palace, or like the
jewel of gold in a swine’s snout that Solo-
mon wrote about. It became suggestive of
an Indian track over the Cordilleras. The
. rulers of a free but despairful self-govern-
ing community decided that its maintenance
out of their own resources was beyond them.
So it was patched by the Government with
loan money at a price which would almost
have paved the narrow way with brass. And
then it was opened (after being open for a
century) with a blare of trumpets which
would have done justice to the opening of the
way to Heaven. The Cabinet, inflated to
bursting with these repairs and the fuss
made about them, hastily put on the market
a Good Iloads Loan of £500,000 at 54 per
cent, free of tax, the money to be spent solely
in top-dressing the four main roads in Cum-
berland County wherein Sydney stands.
’Phis will furnish work for the unemployed
ot Sydney and keep them where their votes
are wanted. Cumberland extends north to
the Ilawkesbury bridge, west to Penrith and
south to near Camden. It 1073
square miles, so one single soleing and heeling
of its main roads is to run to almost £3OO
per square mile, or nearly 10s. per acre.
Similar treatment of the rest of the 300,432
square miles of the State being quite impos-
sible, 00 per cent, of N. S. Wales will have to
do with the old type of road and be content to
merely pay—'-unless the north and south and
west set up as separate States and keep their
money for their own roads. Already Cum-
berland County has nearly half the popula-
tion of the State (431 per square mile at the
1011 census, against about 24 per square
mile in the rest of the country), and it has
the capital, the Government offices, nearly all
the factories and shipping, the termini of all
the completed railways, all the banking and
insurance headquarters, the two archbishops,
the viceroy, almost the whole of the Irish
row and most of the membership in the
Cabinet. It should, therefore, be able to pay
cash for keeping its own floor in order or
do the work with its own local credit instead
of pawning the prospective new Northern
State and Biverina as security. Evidently
decentralisation is not in the air so far as
this Government is concerned, and will have
tp be achieved without its consent, for no
owner raises money on his nigger’s prospec-
tive earnings with the intention of letting
Sambo run away. In fact, the policy of
pawning the country for the repairs of Syd-
ney’s suburbs indicates an intention to in-
crease the population and the voting power
by making Cumberland County the one really
desirable place to live in, whereby legal
secession will be more difficult than ever. In-
cidentally, the Good Roads lOU is repayable
in 30 years, which is alleged to be in some
way a special merit. It certainly gives the
lOU a fictitious value by putting it in front
of many much older and lower-priced. loans.
But there is another point of view. The
policy of short-dated borrowings, now almost
the only one by which money can be raised,
is to put the second lien before the first,
and the third before the second, and the
fourth before the third, till at last the person
who lent in good faith at 3-i or 4
Per cent, with his bill not falling" due till
31)40 finds that he has degenerated into a
hundredth mortgagee with 7 per cent, people
payable so far ahead of him that his security
lias almost ceased to be worth mentioning.
But whatever the creditor may think of this,
the putting of new debts before old ones
enables shady political characters to raise
money which would otherwise be unattain-
able; the concentration of expenditure on
rich, thickly-people. areas enables them to
buy with the money the biggest possible block
of votes for the party in office, whatever harm
it does to outside settlement; and the fixing
of repayment dates is calculated on the pos-
sible life of the Government, so that not it
but the next Government will have to pay.
In this agile dodging of ghosts and these
shifts of vote-seekers, there are, unfor-
tunately. two things which escape attention.
One is the nation and the other is the future.
♦
The Latest Federal Picnic.
Preparations are nearly completed for the
stately procession of non-expert politicians
who are to travel by camel and motor-car
across the wmist of Australia from south to
north, and give their inexpert opinions on the
railway route after seeing the country in
one of its moods. It has 12 moods in a w T et
year and 12 in a dry and 12 in an ordinary.
Then they are to compare the route they have
seen with, other possible routes they haven’t
seen and report. In this lies the owl-like
wisdom of sending raw politicians to ske-
daddle through the land instead of trusting
to the accumulated wisdom of the thousands
of hard adventurers who have left their
tracks across at all seasons. Melbourne Age,
sour as usual, condemns the pageant on
the ground that “there can be no serious
consideration of the construction of such a
railway for at least the next decade.” Other
people condemn it because the country wants
that transcontinental line very suddenly, and
there is no time to waste on the peregrina-
tions of orators with their chaplain, botanist,
press-agent, historiographer and icecream-
freezer. If another decade passes before the
nation makes a move to take possession
of \\ hite-Australia-in-the-North some one
else will probably do the work for it —the
Japanese, the Indian Government or even
the Chinese whom secretary Walsh, of the
Seamen’s Union, is prepared to admit to
membership. The undertaking isn’t really
a very big one though it looms like a gigantic
bogey through being talked about so much.
And it needn’t cost such a very great deal
if all the work is done from the south, which
is the way the Territory should have been
invaded from the first, for work done from
the North would only mean that the Bol-
shevik leaders at Darwin would demand a,
four-hour day and £2O a week, and if the S.A.
Government got the contract with a bonus
for speed and economy. The present Federal
Government is impossible Its new railways
are laid with rails of dore bullion and
mahogany sleepers, and have marble for bal-
last, and judged by the bills the station tanks
are pure gold.
A Wind from the North.
Writes an Australian exile in Malaya:—•
No country in the world has a bettor chance than
Australia of building up a great trade with Asia,
and none is so indifferent to its chances or so casual
in fulfilling its orders. I have just returned from
MAKING IT CLEAR.
“Let as hear no more talk on the subject in this Chamber. The bill matures on May 1. With
oil Allies we will be present at the appointed place to enforce its execution.”— French Premier Driand
on the reparations due from Germany.
FRITZ: ”Ach! Now at last I see your point.”
Singapore with a month’s supply of tinned grub,
and, with the exception of half-a-dozen of jam and
a dozen bullamacow, the lot is American or English.
Last month I got an all-Australian Supply, but this
trip the Chow storekeeper tells me he has sold out
and doesn’t know when he will get another ship-
ment. It is always the same tale. During the war
American and European supplies were scarce and
the Australian had it all his own way, but after the
Armistice U.S. “commercials” became as frequent as
rubber trees, and Yank goods are everywhere now.
The Yank earns his trade. His goods are well packed
and attractively got up. The Asiatic counts a lot
on the appearance of an article, and an attractive
label costs no more than the unsightly daub on the
Aussie tin.
Something to eat suggests something to drink,
and here the Australian fails not in quality
but in quantity. Anyone who has tried Jap or
American beer once doesn’t try again. The most
serious rival to the Australian article is a Danish
decoction, though several British brands have a hold
on the market, A Sydney brewery sends a steady
supply, but the demand keeps well ahead of it.
Se\ eial other firms that were on the' market for a
while soon dropped out, despite a clamor for more.
One of them replied to a cable: “No more beer till
drought is over.” The agent now handles an Eng-
lish production.
Malaya imports the whole of its food supplies,
even rice. The Malay is too lazy to grow anything,
and the Chow makes too much out of rubber to
bother about growing anything else. The demand
for European, food amongst Asiatics is increasing,
and there is no reason why Australia should not
supply the demand. She is not asked to supply
anything else. We don’t expect to get our togs
from there, considering she sends her material half-
way round the world to get the foreigner to make
her own.
Asia is Australia’s nearest market, and it is hers
for the asking. By reason of her geographical posi-
tion she can undersell the American or English pro-
duct. When the Jap competes he is cheaper,
but no one will buy his shoddy when a better
article is available even at a higher price. The
Chinese storekeeper is a patient animal, but is grow-
ing very fed up with the casualness of the Australian
shipper and with the rotten get-up of the stuff when
it does arrive, and the calamitous packing. Anything
is not good enough for Ling Cuing where his
stomach is concerned. He is the greatest materialist
in the world, and he is the principal consumer in Asia.
Australia needs no meretricious advertisement. Her
wandering sons have given her a good name. Her
civil engineers and surveyors and mining engineers
are doing the pioneering work in these parts because
they are best fitted to do it. Ship after ship comes
north from Sydney with the cream of Australian
engineers—men that no country can afford to lose,
driven out by lack of work owing to the insane policy
of importing and borrowing. It is a crime to ruin
the reputation these men have earned by sloppy habits
of trade.
The Training of Doctors.
“Gkegob” on Melbourne sawbones, junior:
Before long the question of extending the medical
course at Melbourne University from five years
to six will have to be tackled again. The present
five years’ course is notoriously inadequate. The
student spends his first year “doing" chemistry,
physics and biology of a low standard; his second
year in anatomy and physiology on a time-table so
badly arranged that he wastes at least four hours
a day; his third in lectures and demonstrations
on seven or eight varied and widely differing sub-
jects; and his fourth and fifth years in hospital prac-
tice. Thus he puts in yeally only three years at the
essential parts of his profession, excepting anatomy
and physiology ; and the numerous and lengthy vaca-
tions are to be deducted from that. Moreover, not nearly
enough time is given to matters of paramount im-
portance. Thus, bacteriology is allowed two hours
twice a week during one term of three months only.
Twenty-four hours in .which to become acquainted
with the thousands of organisms which cause disease
in all its varieties, and are constantly waging war
on man ! Biological chemistry is granted three days
spread over a year. And materia medica is also to
be absorbed in 24 hours!
Contrast this with the course of any first-class
American medical university, such as California,
Columbia or Rochester College, New York. To gain
admittance the candidate must have either taken
a degree in science or else have completed the first
and second years of the science course and passed in
chemistry, physics, biology and physiology. He
spends the first year of a six years’ course (in some
universities a seven years’ course) in studying ana-
tomy and histology. His second year begins his hos-
pital work, ,and thenceforward, until he has com-
pleted the requirements for a degree in medicine, he
does hardly anything else. Lectures are few, since
he is supposed to study the theoretical side of his
work by reading in his spare time, and when he is
not in the wards or the hospital laboratories he
attends clinical talks,” a method of instruction to
which Australian students are strangers. From
10 to 15 students are assembled under an instructor,
who, having picked out a case and explained it, hands
around typewritten sheets containing the salient
points. Then everybody sits down and a student is
asked to tell the rest what he thinks about it. Any-
one who has attended lectures at Melbourne Uni.
knows what would happen to a student who was
rash enough to interrupt, say, Prof. Osborne’s phy-
siology lecture by a question.
There is no reason why we cannot introduce this
system here. Were chemistry, physics and biology
made compulsory subjects for matriculation in medi-
cine—the matriculation standard is already as high
as the standard of first-year medicine—anatomy and
physiology could then replace them in the first year
and leave four years for medical subjects. At pre-
sent the Melbourne Uni. course for the degree of
Bacheloi of Medicine is a scandal and a public menace.
The N. S. Wales Government is asking for
a half-million Good Roads Loan, and it ought
to be a success. City motor-owners alone
should put up the money. They art; offered :
(1) 54 per cent, interest free of State and Federal
income-tax, and while freedom from tax is no earthly
benefit to the poor man who doesn’t pay tax, it is
clear profit to the rich man who does. In fact, what
is 54 per cent, to a man with a wheelbarrow may
be 7 per cent, to a man with a Rolls-Iloyce.
(2) The security of the whole State for interest
and repayment, for the whole State (barring chances
of secession) is made liable without its consent,
though the money is to be spent wholly around
Sydney.
(3) Repayment in 10 years, which puts the lenders
well ahead of a swarm of older creditors.
(4) Good roads made out of this money as far
as Hawkesbury Bridge, Wiseman’s Ferry, the foot
of the mountains and somewhere near Camden, to
the vast saving of the repair bill. To some garage-
owners the saving in repairs will be another 2* or
175 per cent, on their investment, according to the
size of the investment.
By way of a further boost it was announced
concurrently with the prospectus of the Road
Patching Loan that London had taken John
Storey to its weskit, and that parties (not
specified) had declared that 'more loans
(amount not mentioned) would be forthcom-
ing provided the money was invested in re-
productive works (nothing said in the cables
as to whether they were to reproduce the
whole interest on their cost or Id. in the £
of the interest). It sounds rather unreal
somehow, for it profits John Bull nothing
if his loan, due in 1940, is invested in works
that reproduce a fragment of the interest if
the wholly unproductive fellow whose loan
has to be repaid in 1930 has an equal lien
on the works and gets there first. In fact,
it sounds like plain rot.
♦
“0.K.”: No recognised custom in party poli-
tics shows more contempt for public interests
than the system of “pairs.” I read that
when Captain Bruce, of the House of Reps.,
left for London early in the year to transact
business of his own, he arranged a pair with
the Labor party. That is to say, one Labor
vote is to be “dead” as long as the
Captain, who is on the other side of the
House, is absent on his private business.
The party system must take all responsibility
for this contemptuous treatment of the object
which Constitutional Government is supposed
to have in view. If every member were an
independent representative of the people,
owing no allegiance save to his constituents
who returned him, the absence of one member
would merely mean a reduction of one in the
number of members, and the temporary dis-
franchisement of one electorate. Under pre-
sent conditions the mission of the softgoods
potentate means practically a reduction of
two in the number of effective votes. But it
is much more than that. It is a brazen con-
fession of the dishonesty of party politics
whenever “the feeling of the House” is put to
the test. The alleged feeling of one particular
Labor member is bound to be the opposite of
Bruce’s feeling, as far as the so-called “test”
goes. The two members are paired—and
they get £lOOO-a-year apiece! They vote
always against one another in accordance
with an arrangement made before either of
them had the least idea of what all the
voting would be about. In which arrange-
ment we behold the immortal soul of party
politics.
“Fax”: Who can wonder at the fatuous
attempts of workers in alleged “key” indus-
tries to bully Governments into submission
when Chambers of Agriculture ring with such
sentiments as “the interests of the producers
are of paramount importance to the whole
State,” the inference being that all producing
is confined to men on the land? A truce to
all this talk about “paramount in-
dustries” and “key industries.” They exist
equally on the demand that comes from con-
sumers. How would the coal-miner live if
there were no market for coal, and how would
the “primary producer” wax wealthy if every
man were a farmer in a semi-savage way,
growing enough wheat to make all the flour
he wanted, keeping a cow or two, and raising
a sufficiency of pigs side by side with a
sufficiency of vegetables? And the lumper
and the railway servant —workers who are
not essential to a simple-living community,
but are really outcomes of civilisation, like
bankers and stockbrokers —how would they
get a living if all other men went back to the
land and stayed on their own little bits of it?


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT,‘with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from.
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4y z Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
&
7.
/
■
OCOA
milk
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria,
Agents:—
A. VICTOR EEGGO & CO.,
7 Hamilton Street. Sydney.
A. VICTOR EEGGO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
Hughes naturally raged at the suggestion of some
practical joker that he was trying to bribe his
constituents with a present of £15,000. But pro-
bably his choler was not so much due to the
audacity of the fraud as to its untimely reminder
to the public that he had received a present of
£25,000 and the consequent revival of curiosity as
to who found the money. In the Reps. Frank
Brennan and others shot over impertinent questions
and suggestions that the gift was illegal under the
Constitution. There was some talk of testing the
point in the High Court, but without a resolution
from the House it is difficult to see how the Court
could consider it. Meantime there is a good deal of
banter about the credulity of Bendigo’s Mayor. Had
that worthy really known Billy he wouldn’t have
been in such a hurry to spread the glad news that
the Priminister was enriching Bendigo with
£15,000. Hughes doesn't throw his money about
in that fashion. If he had felt specially generous
last week, he would have taken a bagful of coppers
to scatter among the kids of Earle Page’s electorate
in gratitude for being allowed to go to London
reasonably confident that the Government will be on
deck when he returns. Hughes hasn’t even recom-
mended Earle for a knighthood, which is base
ingratitude.
Wool having been tumbling since October,
and being now quoted at a price “far below
the average cost of production” (the
authority is Higgins, chairman of the
8.A.W.R.A.), the A.W.U. has demanded of
the Westralian sheepmen a 33$ per cent,
advance in wages. And the sheepmen have
replied that there will be no shearing this
year, that expedient being less unprofitable,
they contend, than paying £2 a hundred,
which means about £l6 a week and found to
a good man. According to Higgins,
B.A.W.R.A. has on its hands 2,700,000 bales
of carry-over wool. Coarse crossbred fleeces
haven’t been fetching the cost of shearing
and transport. The demand for wool has
slumped so heavily that B.A.W.R.A. hasn’t
sold 100,000 bales in three months, and there
is a possibility of prices falling “so far below
the cost of production as to drive thousands
of sheepbreeders, graziers and farmers out
of their occupations.” It seems a poor time
to ask for a 33$ per cent, increase in the
wage rate.
It came out last week that it cost £499
2s. sd. to remove (1) two banyan-trees, (2)
a 700 yd. wire fence, (3) “two large earth
mounds,” and (4) “several small trees” at
Darwin in preparation for the landing of
Ross and Keith Smith. Four shillings an hour
was paid to each man engaged in the exhaust-
ing business by the representatives of an
effete capitalism which grinds the faces of the
poor, and the serfs of plutocracy (there were
12 of them) were motored to and from the
job. The fiendish brutality of the system of
production-for-profit was once more exempli-
fied : no one even thought of running up a
State pub on the landing-ground.
Only the Tariff will be discussed while
Hughes is absent in England. If the
schedule can be sent on to the Senate before
the Prime Minister returns, the Reps, will
TIIE CRISIS EXPLAINED.
“After the Government’s snap defeat, Mr. Hughes threatened that if not assured of Parliament's
future good behaviour he would resign; and if he was assured of it he would sail for England almost
immediately.”
MRS. GUBBIT ( cleaner ): “Dear, dear me! Them bous muster been so excited over the
prospect of yet tin’ rid of little Willie that they couldn’t make up their minds
which of his kind offers to accept!”
go into recess, and the customary trick will
be perpetrated of holding up the Budget and
the Estimates until after a good deal of the
money has been spent. That is if the Gum-
leaf members agree; but after roaring
against the duties on agricultural machinery
tiiey will probably be too hoarse for a
violent demonstration against the hoary old
financial fake.
Fluting about the repaired portion (9 miles
16 chains) of the Parramatta-road, Mutch,
Minister of Local Government (N.S.W.).
bragged that the job had been “efficiently
and economically” done for £16,720, or
£lB5O a mile. That, at least, is what Syd-
ney Telegraph made him say; the Herald
report (and Mutch hasn’t contradicted it) is
that “the actual cost was £78.330, as against
the estimated cost of £61,600.” Which is
amazing. Victoria in 1909 built 20 miles
of railway (Ultimo-Chillingollah) on the sft.
3in. gauge for £34,000 or £l7OO a mile.
South Aus. a few years earlier constructed
9J miles of 3ft. 6in. line (Mahar-Jandowae)
for £11,740, or £1287 a mile. Certainly
things are dearer than they used to be,
but the probabilities are that Victoria and
S. Aus. could still put down a serviceable
railway for what it costs the Ma State Gov-
ernment to patch up an equal length of
suburban road.
Sydney’s explosive Father O’Reilly, who
created a fuss by his statement that starving
people should steal food tan aged widow
would represent the line of least resistance),
talked the language of the Irish hunger-time
of over 00 years ago. It is difficult to get
out of an old groove. There isn’t enough
real food famine in the O’Reilly State to be
worth a mention, and, anyhow, the handing
out of food doles is lavish. But clothes
(mostly imported) have long been a real
difficulty, and even a food stealer can’t go
out naked ; also the house-famine is terrible.
Both troubles arose in this land of wool and
abundant building material through the doing
of insufficient work; so, being a powerful
member of a Church whose influence w r ith
the dominant Labor party is very great,
suppose for a change Father O’Reilly recom-
mends the abolition of go-slow.
• N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture Dunn has
issued a circular relative to a recent Bul-
letin par from London complaining of the
State in which canned peaches had reached
there from Leeton. The Minister says the
Commission “has no knowledge of any com-
plaint having been made as to the quality
of the ‘lbis’ brand of peaches,” and, there-
fore, “emphatically contradicts the criti-
cism.” Well, The Bulletin has this much
knowledge—the complaint came from an
Australian in London whose job it is to
handle these goods there. And it is pre-
pared to back what that Australian on the
spot knows against what a Minister in Syd-
ney doesn’t know. '
An industry is never too small to be
worth encouraging. Forty years ago there
was a bit of a silver mine at Sunny Corner.
That turned men’s thoughts to silver and
lead, and paved the way to Broken Hill.
Broken Hill’s silver-lead smelting needs led
to the establishment of the coke industry in
Australia, and the opening-up of the iron-
flux quarries at Iron Knob. The opening
up of li-on Knob led on to the Newcastle
iron and steel industry. Meanwhile Broken
Hill added zinc to its harvest of silver.and
lead; and liow with iron and steel and zinc
available the old Lysaght galvanised-iron
manufacturing co. has formed an Australian
co., put up works alongside the Broken Hill
Prop, s Newcastle furnaces and started the
first unit of them last week.
The Queensland Government has been try-
ing in a lame fashion to cut down the super-
fluous personnel of its Railway Department.
That is to say, it served notices of retirement
on 220 employees. Thereupon the Q.R.
Union bosses interviewed Theodore and told
firm firmly that the cutting-down business
must stop, and the Labor Premier agreed
that it should stop. Theodore alleges he has
not “retrenched” anybody—he has only “got
rid of excess hands.” Perhaps the excess
hands will appreciate the fineness of the dis-
tinction. In the year 1913-14 (before the
advent of Ryan and Theodore) the Queens-
land Government railway employees num-
bered 10,546. To-day they total 14,443,
although there has been a reduction of nearly
a rnidion train-miles per annum. The
revenue in 1913-14 was £lO2 11s. lid. per
man employed. In 1919-3920 it was only
£37 17s. 2d. Under the circumstances it
looks as if 4000 notices wouid have been
more appropriate to the financial position
of the Department than a mere 220, especi-
ally when it is considered that the rail-
ways have exchanged the £38,163 surplus
of Denham’s last year for a deficit of
£1,229,579 in 1919-1920. Capable railway
officials in Bananaland estimate that fully
33 per cent, of the job-holders under the
travelling Larcombe could be got rid of
without impairing the inefficiency of the
service. But inasmuch as these same job-
holders pack the departmental labor organ-
isations and the labor organisations boss the
Government, retrenchment in the real sense
is not to be thought of.
When the S. A.us. election results came
through to Melbourne, the Age had a caption
“Failure of the Country Party,” and it mis-
led one of Tudor’s followers into a taunt
at Cocky’s expense in the House of Reps.
But the Farmers and Settlors group, which
is S.A.’s Country party, didn’t fare badly.
Its aims were modest, and it wasn’t well
organised, but it will have four members in
the new Assembly, a gain of three. Certainly
the Progressive Country party flopped mourn-
fully, but that had nothing to do with Cocky,
It was simply the Nationalist Labor faction
with a new label.
Hughes’s motion of confidence in himself
and his Government recalls George Bennett’s
in the Vic. Legislative Assembly 22
years ago to prop up the first Turner Minis-
try when it was staggering after its five
years of office. Bennett —with Tremvith he
represented Richmond —was easily the most
popular member of the House, which then
had its home where the Reps, now meet.
Sick of the intrigues that were going on to
shift George Turner, he moved that the House
express its confidence in the Ministry. Up
jumped F. C. Gray, who represented P’ran,
and seconded the motion without comment.
Bennett would rather that anyone else in
the House had done it, and “If nobody else
will second the motion I’ll withdraw it,” he
blurted out, and withdrawn it was. Not
long afterwards Allan McLean, aided by
Shiels, threw the bomb that displaced the
little grey lawyer.
Premier Storey, who doesn’t really know-
much outside Balmain, has assured the press
in London that “the movement for a new
State has not yet reached the stage of prac-
tical politics.” His Ministry hasn’t either,
though it has reached the stage of being a
practical joke.
Vic. Treasurer McPherson, who is in
London, has been negotiating for a £2,500,000
loan for railway-construction, electricity gen-
eration, water works and such things. He
did not go there expressly to hold out his
hat, but after being told that Victoria had
been a good child —so unlike Queensland —
he was asked if he could do with “some-
thing.” Of course, he replied: “Ilow much
have you got, and at what priceV” As Vic.
has been selling debentures over the counter
in Melbourne at 0,1 p.c. it may be taken for
granted that nothing worse than 6£ p.c. will
be accepted in London.
During the recent “crisis” both Tudor and
Hughes put up a bluff concerning their in-
debtedness to printer’s ink. Said Tudor: “I
do not think any member of Parliament has
less to thank the papers for than I have.”
And then Hughes interjected “What have
I to thank the papers for?” Both of them
know well enough that the head, body, limbs
and soul of their respective political careers
have drawn all their nourishment from
organs of publicity. They have used the
press for all they were worth. Hughes, for
instance, was endow r ed with a face that was
a large percentage of his fortune. For pro-
fessional politicians to talk of what the
press has not done for them is bunkum. It
has done as much for them as for any other
actor with his press-agent and his book of
pufl’-notices.
The capacity for violent self-admiration
which belongs to the present Cornstalk Min-
istry has never been equalled since untra-
velled Miss Yum Yum in “The Mikado”
reluctantly admitted that she was the most
beautiful girl on earth and couldn’t help it.
Agricultural Minister Dunn, who was until
lately a school-teacher, was opening a show 7
the other day at Wellington, and seized the
opportunity to declare that N.S.W.’s fin-
ances, under him and his colleagues, w 7 ere
better than those of any other country in the
world. He didn’t so much take credit for
this as imply that: with people like them
such things couldn’t be avoided. A recog-
nised sign of some forms of aberration is
that the patient not only thinks he is the
greatest financier in the world or some such
trifle, but underlines his written assurances
in the struggle to be feebly forcible. As a
case in point a sensational novelist who had
a brief career before his light went out pub-
lished most of bis last mad novel in italics.
Some of N.S.W. politicians even sleep in
italics.
AVE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hail to our fair, young dead,
Dead ere their time!
\\ ho, ere their Spring had sped,
Ere their glad youth had fled.
Fell in their prime.
Hear the bells’ mournful toll ;
Hear the drums’ muffled roll
Solemnly swell.
How we our hearts to-day,
Bow we our heads to pray,
Bow we in tears and say
‘‘Hail and farewell!”
Nay! To our mighty dead
Farewell shall not be said.
Hail to them ! Hail!
Hush, then, thy weeping there;
Though they seem sleeping there.
Watch they are keeping there—
Shall Death prevail?
lie had no fears for them ;
lie cannot sunder!
Give no more tears for them;
Rather, glad wonder
As, down the years for them,
Great salutes thunder.
Hail to them! Hail!
Let now each swaying bell
Pour from its golden throat
Some greai, triumphant note.
Let the drums tell,
Throbbing, in circling tide,
Far round the world, and wide,
How our sons fought and died,
Each in his place;
Laugh’d, as they kept the tryst;
Laugh’d, and were sacrificed;
Laugh’d, as with Death they diced,
Laugh'd in his face!
Failure is not so rare
As is to nobly dare;
And though, perchance, there were
Failure on failure there,
They did not fail—
They who gave hero-blood,
Knowing the giving good,
So they, by that rich flood,
Might win us Nationhood—
Hail to them ! Hail!
Over their last, low bed
Bend not thy stricken head,
Oh, thou bereft!
And, if thine eyes be led
Some of thy tears to shed,
Let to their warp be wed
Pride as the weft!
Hail to the royal dead,
Gallant and loyal dead,
Hail to the dead!
Dead ? No ! Though nevermore
They shall endeavor more,
Nothing can sever more
Them from Life Evermore—
Hail to them ! Hail!
Hail them our sacred dead:
Hail them our splendid dead:
Hail them our living dead !
Hail 1
N.S.W,
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.


“YES-NO.”
“Mr. Hughes is considering his resignation”; “Mr. Hughes has never thought of resigning”; “Mr. Hughes has his resignation in his pocket”; “It is denied
that Mr. Hughes had his resignation in his pocket”—Mr. Hughes grows more like George Reid every day.


Telephones:
Central 10173, 2473.
Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY,” Melbourne.
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act, 1915.)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE=PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, “London House,” 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems. '
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.: —•
f Dividends.; 1
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
1915.. 532,824 89,084 12p.c..- 438,618 5122 24,498
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 ~ „ 443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 „ ~ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 539,543 89,084 12 „ „ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 „ „ 451,762 1105 33,168
1920.. 544,773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 „ „ 491,987 1908 36,178
During the past financial year British
Tobacco went out after a lot of new capital,
and £1,226,545 more was put up by the
ordinaries, taking Uie paid capital of the big
concern to more than 64 millions, almost 14-
million of which is m old 6 p.c. prefs. On tfie
enlarged ordinary capital the usual 12 p.c.
was paid, leaving only a very slender margin
for reserves. But the profits which tins
tobacco-combine blows out for public inspec-
tion cannot be taken seriously. It is merely
a holding concern, and its accounts are all
that is visible of half-a-dozen or so sub-
sidiaries which lead a more or less independ-
ent existence but never whisper a word as
to their State of health. British Tobacco’s
disclosed profits represent just so much of the
net earnings of the subsidiaries as the direc-
tors care to bring to light; and its balance-
sheet is not at all informative, because no less
than 4f-million-odd of capital is represented
by “shares in subsidiary cos. (book value),”
and nobody except those in the inner circle
know what there is to represent these
millions. All the directors have admitted at
any time has been that the profits disclosed
“do not include the co.’s interest in the un-
divided profits of the subsidiary cos.”
Attempts have been made at shareholders’
meetings to wring some statement as to what
was lying hidden in the subsidiaries, and the
only satisfaction the inquisitive got was the
assurance that “there were undivided pro-
fits.” But in view of the regular 12 p.c.
which the parent had distributed and a belief
that the big combine and its pups are well
able to niake themselves comfy in almost any
circumstances, the public has had great faith
in the reticent parent, though it has shown
only very mild surpluses over and above divi-
dend distributions.
That faith now proves to have been well-
founded, for concurrently with the issue of
the latest accounts came an announcement
that the subsidiaries had become so inflated
with stored profits that they had undertaken
to capitalise no less than £628,591. This
amount has been passed on to the parent in
the form of shares, and it, in turn, proposes
to pass on the whole of the gift to its share-
holders in its own scrip, one new fully-paid
ordinary being handed out for every eight pre-
viously held. This will take ordinary capital
to at least £5,646,610, and a 12 p.c. on that
lot (assuming the directors hope to maintain
that rate) and the 6 p.c. to the prefs. will
call for more than each year. The
subsidiaries will thus have to hand over
£170,000 or so more than they did in this
latest record year.
Precisely when and how the subsidiaries
accumulated the large amounts they have re-
cently capitalised, and how much still remains
untapped, will not, of course, be divulged.
But the revealing of the large amount of un-
distributed profits in the subsidiaries is some-
what surprising in view, of the fact that, in
X. S. Wales at least, tobacco has been treated
as a “necessary commodity” and has been sub-
ject to price-fixing during recent years. Con-
sidering the ease with which increased prices
were obtained on application to the price-
fixing commissions it appeared that there had
been nothing very fat about earnings, unless
the price-fixers were blind to the actual posi-
tion. As to the future-—well, as in the past, it'
is a matter of faith in the select few who
guide the affairs of the big, silent concern.
Visibly there is only a reserve of a little over
£36,000 to buttress £7,131,337 of capital,
while it is not at all certain whether
£5,398,061 of interests in subsidiaries is repre-
sented wholly by tangible assets. The past
year’s profits, by the way, are shown in the-
table less £27.160 paid into the funds of the
Employees' Trust to purchase further share
interests for the staff. The British Tobacco
was one of the first Australian cos. to intro-
duce a co-partnership scheme. During the
past seven years £191,634 of profit has been
set aside to purchase staff-shares, which rank
with ordinaries for div., and carry similar
rights a few years after issue.
* * * *
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended,
Ltd., property subdivisionists and salesmen.
Sydney. The co. began with a deficit of
£1145, representing flotation expenses:—
Dividends.
, v To
Profit. Pref. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£1,145
7-J p.c. Reserves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1914.. 33,152 4,782 10p.c.= 15,000 13,370 12,225
Deficit.
Haymarket Co.’s assets overvalued £15,051 2,826
Reserves.
1915.. 20,744 4,717 Nil 16,027 13,201
1916.. 7,282 Nil Nil 7,282 20,483
1917.. 13,849 Nil Nil 13,849 34,332
Accumulated pref. divs. funded £23,597 10,735
1918.. 17,179 9,438 sp.c. = 7,500 241 10,976
1919.. 23,640 10,154 6 „ „ 9,000 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves, £19,944 . . 35,4U6
1920.. 43,467 12,281 7Jp.c.±= 11,250 19,936 55,342
Originally there was Arthur Rickard and Co.,
Ltd. Then there were purchases which in-
duced the co. to form Arthur Rickard and
Co. Extended, Ltd. The latter is a holding
co., its tenements being as follows: —
Arthur Rickard & Co. Ltd., 200,000 shares. . £200,000
Haymarket Permanent Land, Building and
Investment Co., Ltd., 49,722 £2 shares 99,444
Central Railway Palace Buildings, Ltd.,
15,000 ordinaries and 35,624 prefs. .. 50,624
The Extended Co. holds all the shares in the
old Rickard Co.; all but 278 in the Haymar-
ket; all the ordinaries in the Central Railway
Palace Buildings, Ltd., and at the date of
the balance (Dec. 31) all but 4281 of the
prefs. But whereas the Rickard and Hay-
market shares cost the Extended Co. par, the
£50,624 of capital in the Central Railway
Buildings (really the Hotel Sydney) cost it
£73,786. The 15,000 Hotel Sydney ordinaries
were subscribed for at par, but for 21,447 of
the prefs., cum rights and accrued dividends,
the Extended Co. gave 42,894 of its own
shares (two for one) ; and apparently some
trifles amounting in all to £1715, have been
charged up and included in the book value of
this investment. Since Dec. 31 other of the
prefs. have been bought, and now only £2316
of the Hotel Sydney capital is not in the
hands of the Extended Co. The Hotel Syd-
ney prefs. carry 8 p.c. cumulative, and when
the ordinaries get 10 p.c. the profs, are en-
titled (if the money is there) to 10 p.c. also;
so it was probably just as well for the holder
of the ordinaries to secure the prefs. Certainly
to have paid two shares for one looks a stiff
price; but it isn’t quite as stiff as it looks,
because of the accrued dividends. On the
21,447 shares these divs. meant about £BOOO.
This amount, along with the accrued divs.
on the co.’s previous holding, in all £12,926,
has, the directors say, been paid in full since
the accounts were made up.
In the table at the head of these remarks
it will be noticed that there has been a trans-
fer of subsidiary cos.’ reserves to this co.’s
funds during the year; and where the co.
doesn’t own all the capital, then its propor-
tion of the reserves has been taken into
account. There is a good deal to be said for
this new practice. There are holding cos.,
like the British. Tobacco and Henry Jones
Co-operative for example, whose share-
holders don’t know what their real reserves
are, because they are mostly reserves of sub-
sidiary cos, whose accounts are not published.
The one strong argument against including
them with the holding co.’s figures in this
case is that the Board of the holding co. is
not also the Board of each subsidiary. Of the
holding co. there are only three directors —
Arthur Rickard, J. T. Tillock and Arthur
Cocks. Apparently neither Tillock nor Cocks
is a director of any of the subsidiaries; so
they accept as reserves the reserves created
by other Boards, even though, if they con-
stituted those Boards themselves, they might
decline to regard the sums as undistributed
profit, or, indeed, as profit at all. Certainly
the appointment, of directors of the sub-
sidiaries is in the hands of the holding co.
And this raises the whole question whether
tlie division of the. business in this way has
anything to commend it. The holding of a
few shares by outsiders is of course no bar to
a fusion of all the interests, for a sale could
be made of the assets of the smaller co. to
the larger. In some few cases there is a
business reason why the figures of subsidiary
cos. should not be disclosed ; but in this case
there is an exceptionally complete disclosure.
It amounts, then, to this: with no visible
satisfactory reason why it should be so, the
directors, appointed by the shareholders to
manage their affairs, are not the directors of
the concerns which really carry on the. busi-
ness of the co.
And it is a business which takes a lot of
handling. The table shows that there are
assets alleged to be worth £55,342 more than
the capital, after paying divs. up to Dec. 31.
Now, what are those assets and upon what is
their valuation based? Combine all the suh-
sidiary balance-sheets and you get this result
as at their latest balancing dates: —
Purchasers’ balances and mortgages £290,827
Land and property .. .. 170,701
Interests in otlier cos. .. .. 90,892
Sundry debtors, etc. . . . . 42,089
Hotel, furniture, license, etc. . . 95,950
War Loan and cash .. .. 31,531
£726,990
Less Liabilities .. . . . . .. 328,164
Net assets of subsidiaries .. .. £398,826
Besides its interest in the share capital
and reserves of subsidiaries, the Extended
Co. has £23,015 in War Loan and on deposit,
and it owes £23,906. On Dec. 31 there were
approximately £4931 of interests in the sub-
sidiaries not held by the Extended Co.
“Interests in other cos.” is an unsatis-
factory item in that last compilation. It
may mean anything—interests, for instance,
in other hotel property; or interests in land
held for subdivision. The “land and pro-
perty” item includes a £47,000 city freehold
and a £35,000 city leasehold ; this is exclu-
sive of the hotel leasehold. Tlie balance is
unsold land—approximately £BO,OOO of it.
The bulk of this is held by the llaymarket,
and probably includes the remnant of the
Furracabad estate, near Glen Innes. The
Haymarket has pulled itself together, and
last year showed a profit of £12,028, as
against £6Oll in 1919, £4675 in 1918, and
£2020 in 1917. The hotel co. has also begun
to show a good profit—£7374 net for its last
half-year. What the future holds this paper
doesn’t know, having lost its prophet’s
licence.. Given reasonably good management
a co. in the land-subdivision line couldn’t
very well escape showing fine results during
the past few years in Sydney. The ques-
tion is: Are the conditions of the past few
years going to persist? If not, are equally
favorable conditions going to replace them?
If they don’t, the assets and their earning
power .will shrink. The liabilities will not.
.Metters, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, enamel-ware, etc., who
paid £29,656 for the goodwill of the business.
In the table this item is not regarded as an
asset:—-
Writ- To Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves. Deficit.
1912.. £18,665 10 p.c. = £11,844 £2199£4,622 £23,356
Premiums on new shares .. 3,177 20,179
1913.. 24,305 10 p.c. = 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares . . 375 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
Reserves.
1915.. 17,606 5 p.e. = 8,206 5087 4,313 1,606
1916.. 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,376
1918.. 23,434 6 ~ „ 9.848 5667 7,919 26,295
1919.. 23,907 8 ~ ~ 13,131 5825 4,951 31,246
Premiums on new shares . . 25 31,271
Transferred to capital .. £32,794 ) Q .„
1920. . 39,610 8 p.c. = 14,453 6687 18,470 ' ' '
Premiums on new shares . . 114 17,061
1921.. 54,767 10 p.c. * 20.069 8697 26,001 43,062
Metiers, Ltd., now in its fourteenth year,
has been one of the minority whose share-
holders were for years content with mild
dividends so that the concern might be built
up out of unreleased profits. During the
six years to Jan., 1919, divs. averaged under
G p.c., and meantime more than £44,000 of
profit was left in the business. During the
past two years the proprietors have been
getting some reward for their self-denial.
In 1919 there was a bonus issue tone in five),
and probably no other capitalisation of re-
serves during recent years was more justi-
fied : the bonus-issue represented little more
than the issue of scrip against divs. which
disclosed profits would have warranted. The
8 p.c. for 1920 provided some compensation
for earlier lean distributions, and for the
past year the fruits of the conservative
policy have ripened, and 10 p.c. is being
paid with the greatest ease. Indeed, more
than is distributed has gone into reserve.
The table above does not give the full
extent of each year’s net profits. Two years
ago 50,000 of £1 7 p.c. prefs. were issued,
and these shares were fully paid up at vari-
ous times during the past year. The direc-
tors, however, do not include the pref. divs.
with net profit, but treat them as “interest”
among general expenses. The figures above,
therefore, show the amount available for
the ordinaries, though for the past year
actual net profits were larger—to the extent
of anything up to £3500, the amount paid
away to the prefs.
Bes : des the £12.379 new capital paid in
by the prefs., £5269 was put up by
employees last year. This took total paid
capital to £252,457, compared with £145,019
seven years ago. Balance-sheet movements
over that period have been as follows: —
Liabilities.
1913. 1920. 1921.
Overdrafts .. . . £26,689 £29,593 £73,861
Other liabilities ~ 26.607 47,638 54,859
Assets.
Land and buildings.. 48,000 93,947 116,092
Plant 31,784 52,928 88,265
Stock 75,384 122,630 169,192
Book debts.. 36.418 59,134 73.422
Other assets. . .. 175 16,026 137
Considerable extensions were undertaken
during the past year, and £57,000 more is
now in properties and plant, While a further
£4G,OOQ-odd has gone into stocks. To finance
this expansion the management has had to
lean on outsiders for £51,500 more. Never-
theless, the latest balance-sheet shows a sur-
plus of liquid assets over and above all
liabilities exceeding £114,000. Compared
with eight years ago, there was £124,573
more in fixed assets, while liquid assets had
expanded £130,774. Meantime liabilities
had grown £75,424. The volume of net
assets had thus advanced £179,923 in the
eight years. New capital has assisted with
£74,044 and premiums on new shares have
contributed £514. The co. has thus had its
position improved by about £104,000 of pro-
fits between the two balances —an excep-
tionally fine performance. After payment
of the latest div. there were reserves of
£72,718, but since goodwill is still included
at £29,050 the surplus of tangible assets
over and above paid capital is the £43,002
shown in the last column of the introductory
table.
* # * *
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
1909. . £ 295,000 £ 205,109 £6,090 Nil £92,369
Unexplained reserves, £lB3O .. 90,539
1910.. 295.000 193,31 S 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295.000 190,711 6.081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
Loss.
1914. . 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96,327
1915.. 295,000 198,099 1,960 Nil 98,287
Profit.
1916.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Loss.
1917.. 295,000 203,169 9,001 Nil 106.947
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil 7 ~,
Renewals written off, £10,750 .. j 1 ’
1919.. 295,000 244,212 7,785 Nil l-,qo 9nn
Renewals written off, £lO,OOO .. ) 1
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 260,263 887 Nil / n ,/. 91 q
Renewals written off, £B9OO f ’
After showing substantial losses for three
years this Speck railway managed to squeeze
out a few hundreds of profit for the 12
months to Dec. 31 last. But that had very-
little, effect on. the slippery-dip behavior of
finances experienced during recent years. The
co. has always been more or less in trouble,
and when it became necessary to re-lav the
Burnie-Guildford section of the line there was
no renewal reserve to pay for the work. So
during the past year, as in the previous
couple of terms, considerable amounts had to
be charged against revenue to balance the
books and show the outgo on relaying opera-
tions. Together with working losses, the co.
has in four years skidded more than £48.000
to the bad. Going back to 3013 —the year in
which the last profit of any consequence was
shown —the slide has been as follows :
1913. 1919. 1920.
More or less liquid assets.. £15,572 £41,379 £36,026
Liabilities (apart from
debentures) .. .. 21,448 78,236 95,223
Excess liabilities . . £5,876 £36,857 £59,197
Not only has the co. not paid any divs. since
1913, but it has also not been able to pay
debenture interest or rent of leased assets. So
the accounts now present this great array of
debts: Debentures, £172,000; deferred rent
and interest, £30,525; deferred debenture
interest, £37,281; interest and unpre-
sented coupons, £Bs*; funded dividend"
certificates and interest £19,603; sundry
creditors, £4382; bank overdraft, £2579. It
is a hopeless-looking tangle and has been fur-
ther aggravated lately by the slump in
mining, on which the 'railway depends so
much. The co. began in the boom days of
Zeelian : £lOO,OOO was paid for “rights and
concessions,” and besides taking over the
Emu Bay-Bischoff line a new track, partly
financed with borrowed money, was pushed
into the silver field. When the boom passed
the co. was left with several dead-horses on its
hands and the united efforts of such financial
heavy-weights as directors John Grice, Wm.
Jamieson, Bowes Kelly and J. S. Reid cannot
shift them. Their hopes nowadays depend
chiefly on the Read-Rosebery zinciferous
group and what the Electrolytic Zinc can or
will do with them, but with £95,000 of debt to
meet, apart from the £172,000 of debentures,
the prospect is cheerless for the 100,000 of 8
p.c. prefs. (half of which is cumulative)
and desperate for the £260,000 of ordinaries,
who some years ago had their shares written
down in a sort of a way from £1 to 15s. each.
* * * *
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., from the
time the Combine cos. were formed and
assets of this co. were written up (appa-
rently £67,228 net) and transferred (there
was previously a small deficit) :
Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb.. £ £ £ £
1914.. 11,120 10 p.c. = 1600 5 p.c. = 6070 62,853
Assets further written up, £3BB .. 63,241
1915.. 11,219 10p.c. = 1200 10 p.c. = 6070 67,190
Assets further written up, £46 .. 67,236
1916.. 7,473 10 p.c. = 1200 10 p.c. = 6071 67.438
1917.. 4,267 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~ 3035 67,470
1918.. 8,224 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~6071 68,423
1919.. 6,022 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~ 3035 70,210
1920.. 5,219 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~3035 71,194
1921.. 10,076 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~6071 73,999
This Melbourne co. was a pioneer in the
movie business, but it threw in its lot with


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. "Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [1
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world's best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. fl
Light to handle, easy to lay and absolutely reli-
able, “Pioneer - ’ Wood Pipe costs only a fraction of
the price of metal pipe and its maintenance costs
practically nothing. The flow from “Pioneer’ -
Wood Pipe is from 15 to 20 per cent, greater than
that of metal, as the pipe is not subject to corrosion
and the inner surface is so smooth that it allows
for no accumulation of sediment. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Burns Bay Jload, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * •*' *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — advt.
Austjiauan Patents from P. M. Newton, Patei t
Attorney, Kinks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Oltice ; tel. Cen. 5085. And at Chullis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty rears’ practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * 9 *
Simon-Cauves, Ltd, (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants ; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’ —“National - ’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s St Oertling - *
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rat's. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
Turn Your Earnings into Capital by investing in a
WICHITA MOTOR TRUCK
The Wichita chassis is built for endurance and its endurance is abundantly testified to by
users in 83 countries, including Australia.
Before you decide listen to what the Wichita has to say for itself.
HIGHEST QUALITY. LOWEST PRICES.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY.
Red X -5- Trams Stop at Door.
Australasian Films, Ltd., and Union Theatres,
Ltd., when the big combine of flicker interests
was effected. Tile Amalgamated's principal
holding is 48,286 £1 fully-paids in the General
Film Co. of Australasia, t.ul.. wiucn in turn
represent 48.808 £l shares in Union Theatres
and a smaller number m Australasian r ums,
altogether scrip with a face value of £87,010.
The Amalgamated also holds the lease of Mel-
bourne Majestic, with a book value of £84.288
and a £4OOO blister, and owns the freehold St.
Kilda Theatre (£0764). In addition, it has
a £4OOO share interest distributed over three*
Melbourne suburban movie shows, holds
£11,700 debentures in the General Film Co.,
and, at February 28, showed cash and other
liquid assets totalling £15,771. Liabilities,
apart from provision for taxes, amounted to
only £307.
There were thus net assets with a book
value of £155,832 to represent a paid capital
of only £72,710. from which it might be con-
cluded that dividend-earning would be easv.
Hut for four of the eight years since it joined
the combine only 5 p.c. divs. were passed out
to shareholders. There is a considerable
amount of goodwill froth in the holdings in
other cos.: when the fusion was effected
Amalgamated’s assets were written up by
more than £07,000, but instead of taking
credit for this writing up by a re-arrangement
oi its own scrip the co.’s management wisely
placed £50,603 in a “capital realisation re-
serve account” which was “to provide for any
fluctuation in value of shares” held. The
divs. from the parent concerns have varied
widely : the ’flu cut into 1919 returns, and
for 1920 the parent cos., instead of distri-
buting profits, capitalised the whole of their
net earnings. But for the past year the
returns from other cos. have improved again:
£B3oo was received by wav of interest and
divs., compared with £2452 for 1920. and
£3851 for 1919. Properties last year contri-
buted £4852 net, and after ollice and other
exes., taxes and contributions to sinking and
depreciation funds had been met there re-
mained the £10,076 profit shown in the table.
This gave a good margin of £2SOS over the
■4mount required for the 10 p.c. to both prefs.
viud ordinaries.
* # * #
The Rural Department of the N. S. Wales
Government Savings Bank is now at work,
with city headquarters at the Barrack-street
office. So far, however, only the following
business is undertaken: Current accounts
opened, to be operated on by cheques ; fixed
deposits received, and interest thereon paid at
current banking rates ; deposit stock issued,
bearing interest, and repayable on certain
notice. The Department has taken over the
Advance Department, the successor to
the old Advances to Settlers Board: and
when funds become available and certain
formalities are complied with, a new line will
be added— vis., advances to new settlers on
the basis of £ for £ on improvements up
to £5OO. This paper wishes it was made as
easy to start new manufacturing enterprises.
The Chamber of Mines (W.A.) had its
annual roll-up in Kalgoorlie the other day
and wailed about the declining gold yield
and the increased cost of production. The
recent award had, President Dick Hamilton
declared, dealt a heavy blow to the business
and would almost knofck it out. Only a few
wealthy mines could pay the rises, and then
only by drawing largely on their reserves of
rich ore, so discounting the future to meet
the demands of the present. Nothing but
lower working costs could save the industry
from extinction, and to prevent this he
urged the workers to confer with the mine-
owners and thresh the matter out. As the
things foreshadowed by Hamilton won’t
suit the men any better than the cos., the
suggested conference ought to be held. It
can’t do harm; it may do a lot of good.
Certainly it would be stupid for the men to
blunder into trouble because they refused to
put themselves in a position to learn facts.
Westraiia was hopeful that a new gold
discovery made recently on the fringe of the
Murchison field, beyond Mullewa, would
turn out well; but according to a Mines
Department inspector who has been there
the chances are that it won’t. All that has
been found so far is a thin layer of alluvial
consisting mostly of small fragments of
quartz which contain a little gold. Until
something better is discovered, prospectors,
dryblowers and others are advised to keep
away.
* * # *
The expected has happened in the case of
Sons of Gwnlia (W.A.). At the oo.’s re-
quest the Mines Department has granted
exemption on 19 leases, and until workers
are willing to accept less wages than those re-
cently awarded by the Court or some other
miracle happens there isn’t much chance of
the Gwalia being worked on the old seM<\
Meanwhile plant capable of treating 500
tons per day of the immense piles of tail-
ings has been ordered.
* * * *
Devon (W.A.) toils on with little to
show for its labor. So far the co. has by
making calls managed to get out a few
under-G-dwt. crushings and is now rather
jubilant at having a small credit-balance in
hand and being able to do without calls for
the present. The management is installing
additional plant and behevts tnat before long
the mine “will give good returns and prove
to be one of the best.” A Bulletin man
who saw it lately dissents.
* * * *
The last four weeks’ smelting return of the
Mt. Lyell should go far towards convincing
the union bosses of the co.’s.endeavor to main-
tain operations for their benefit. For the
April period 12,585 tons ore were put
through for a return of 512 tons copper,
15,4180 z. silver, and 38‘Joz. gold, a record
from one furnace for the co. The recovery
grade compares with last year so: —
March, 1920. April, 1921.
Copper .. 2.77 p.c. 4.07 p.c.
Siher .. l.OOoz. 1.220 z.
Cold .. ,57dwt. .62d\vt.
The April copper recovery indicates a feed-
grade ox aoouc d p.c. copper, winch is a high
value to maintain without any benefit to tne
shareholders. As far as one can gauge the
feeling of the field, there is little chance of
the co. being met in a reasonable way regard-
ing the proposed wage reduction, and an
exodus has already set in.
The Compeer Tin Mining Co., with a capi-
tal of £lO,OOO, is pus-mug anead With its
equipment to work a 170-acre property at Lot-
tab (Tas.), 125 bores having established the
grade of the wash as 111 b., over an average
depth of 10ft. The area has been reported
on very favorably by Mark Ireland as one
suited to s.uicing on the return-water
system successfully employed on the Endur-
ance.
# * # #
The No. G Argent mine, Zeehan (Tas), has
ceased operations for the time being. Good ore
has recently been exposed, but high charges
and low markets have made it unprofitable.
The co. received from the smelters an advance
of only 6G p.c. on the silver-lead product, less
smelting charges, and that did not leave
enough to go round the 40-odd employees,
who refused to accept lower wages.
The half-yearly meeting of the Briseis
Central (Tas.) discloses the usual Speck
shortage of cash to complete the sluicing
equipment, operations being in a state of sus-
pense pending the boring, which w r as only
placed in hand in a comprehensive w r ay after
construction work. As an inducement to
the formation of the co. and the start of
investors to provide further capital, the
chairman stated that M. P. Curtain, of the
Briseis, had been called in to conduct a bor-
ing campaign. The 12 bores completed have
averaged about lib. to the yard, which can’t
be regarded as very satisfactory for such
difficult wash at present prices of tin, labor
and equipment.
* * * #
The State battery at Charters Towers
has very broken time these days. Clark’s,
the only producing mine on the field, has
its own crushing outfit, and only small
parcels are coming in and prospecting is in
the doldrums. Mt. Quamby sent along a
trial crushing, but it is to have its own
battery in the near future.
Corbould, G.M. at Mount Elliott, in a
report to the directors, some time back, men-
tioned a coal-field in which he was interested
and which might be utilised in treating
Cloncurry ores when things prosper again
there. He w r as referring to the Wh.te
Mountain measures, 40 miles no’.'th of the
northern railway at Torrens Creek, and
languishing for w T ant of rail communication.
There are large forest resources in the
neighborhood, too, and the Railway Depart-
ment had an inspector some time back
assessing its value, the idea being that tim-
ber plus coal might justify a branch line.
His report as to timber was favorable and
the Department was already satisfied as to
the quality of the coal. There is only one
seam, but it is 14ft. thick, and shows a sec-
tion Bft. thmk of sol d nrneral. without bands,
averaging 17 p.c. ash from near the surface.
A bore nut down on tb« dip cut the seam at
a depth of 150 ft. The locomotive tests
showed that, although the ash was on the
h ; gh side, the excellent non-clinkering quality
of the coal easily made up for this.
* * . * *
Arsenic seems to be almost the only metal
worth going after now in Queensland, and
the State mine will soon be up against pri-
vate enterprise, as two mines are being re-
opened in the same district. The newly-
formed Sundown Options, Ltd., lias taken over
the adjoining Sundown and Comet leases,
and operations are to start right away. Six
years ago the Sundown was a good tin mine,
and was worked by a New England co., which
did well out of it. Although there w r as much
arsenic in it, this all then went to the mul-
lock-heaps. The Comet is a parallel lode,
and by itself could not command the capital
necessary for efficient plant to treat its ore,
which carries copper and some tin. The
other show starting is the old Beecroft, over
which O. C. Roberts has taken an option, as
welt as a lease in Carpenter’s Gully. If
developments on these two properties come
up to expectations furnaces and dues will be
erected.
Wombali molybdenite mine, on the Mt.
Perry line winch, with the De Bavay
plant, IU-head battery, and all accessories,
is to be disposed of snortly, jumped in 1919
into the position of the premier molybdenite
mine in the State. The tine little treatment
plant was put up about two years too late
to get tue tull advantage of the war prices,
and disaster followed when control was
lifted last year and the metal slumped. The
Wombah is, for all that, a unique deposit,
comparable only to the larger pipes at Kings-
gate (N.S.W.). It is a huge white quartz
p.pe in granite, going down steeply but
fairly straight, and it had a diameter vary-
ing from 40ft. to 50ft. down to a couple of
hundred feet or more. Small quanut.es of
lead, zinc and copper come in at depth in
the central core, while the higher values of
molybdenite are clustered round the outer
zone. It should be one of the first to start
when values recover.
Y Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), hauls
down the flag, and the machinery man is
reckoning wr.at the mant is worth. The
last s.x months’ run ended in 311,469 cub.
yds. of drift going through the sluices for
125 tons tin oxide. The average works out
at practically 0.91 b. per cub. yd., but with
the bottom out of tne tin market thfe co.
intends to shut the mine up and sell off.
They sent manager F. U. Wilson to Malaya
and Siam to pick up a fresh area for the
plant, but he thinks he got there too late
to do anything. The co. shows debts £22,041,
against which stand stocks 15537, tin on
hand and in transit £11,705, and a few odd-
ments, leaving £4500 to be made up out of
the sale of the plant before a liquidation divi-
dend can be thought about.
Just when spicy things are out about
the Bux float, Badak flourishes its first
report. Nearly all the old Bendigonians
of the boom days have disappeared
from the Board-room to let in Kiewa llol-
denson as chairman, with T. J. Keane to
protect Bendigo interests. Shareholders
accepted The Bulletin’s criticism that it
was folly to liquidate the £2O,UIHj in hand
when manager J. R. Raleigh was still on
the hunt for a mine, especially as a final
div. would yield only a few pence per share.
Now Raleigh has spent £175 in taking an
option over a sluicing show in Upper i'erak.
The Chinese cannot go on with it because
of the cost' of putting up a dam to impound
tailings, and Raleigh thinks the job worth
tackling. The workings are near the con-
tact of granite and slate, but a bulk-test
will be made by Raleigh before his impres-
sions materialise. To help him on his mis-
sion, the directors have sent him a well-
bored property submitted to them by some
one down from Singapoi’e. So Badak has
an average chance, when times are bad with
tin-miners in Malaya, of picking up some-
thing likely. Before it goes that far the co.
ought to have a clean-up with prospector
Orton over the £lO,OOO promised him out of
profits. The Badak concession having
duffered so badly, the claim ought to be
scrapped.
* * # *
Woe is unto Bendigo ! E. C. Dyason con-
siders the future of its mining so dismal
that he counts on his rubber scheme to con-
vert the town into an industrial centre. I fis
advices from Moline in the U.S.A. more
than ever persuade him that he is taking the
right step with the Bendigo Amalgamated.
To fix up what to do with the £160,000 cash
in the Bendigo Amalgamated till did not
bother him a bit. He turns the 1,769,038
shares in the present co. into 700,000 shares
of 10s., and throws Is. per share in the
present co. to shareholders. This gets
£BB,OOO out, and brings the w r hole concern
down to sizeable dimensions. Then he allots
40 new shares for every 100 held in the pre-
sent co., thus creating an issue of 607,615
shares in the new co., letting the rest of the
scrip stick in reserve. All scrip to be dis-
tributed is to be fully paid up, but as he
converts the co. into a limited liability con-
cern he assures himself of £50.000 working
capital in case some fresh industrial idea
floods his brain. Dyason now admits that
Amalgamated was too unwieldy—a fact that
most people suspected from the jump. But
the float served its purpose of testing a Jot
of ground in central Bendieo ami proving
it to be worked out. Dyason has little to say
over the mining outlook just there except
that ’t “shows promise.” especially at the
old Hercules. He thinks that, as a result
of an economic adjustment, the industry
mav shake down on to a_ proper working
bas ; s. This is like saying that a cut in
wages has to come. Bendigo is filled with
varv’ng . thrills over Dvason’s back-sliding.
However, it certainly wants the rubber no.,
and ; t still more ne°ds the cash from the
d’Vderd. 8o the scheme will go through
with colors flying.
* * V #
The b»st of Bendigo’s gold was cot near
the snrface. sav above 1000 faet: after that
the field was probed with varying success
down to 4285 feet or thereabouts. Now
comes a proposal to explore the shallow
ground near the New Chum Railway mine,
from which over a million was raised. The
new float is called the East New Chum
Railway, and takes in five reefs of ancient
fame—the Whip, the New Chum, the
Sheepshead, the Nell Gwynne and the
Deborah. The eastern ground on the New
Chum reef has never had sufficient attention,
and if the new venture is furnished with
enough money it has good prospects of find-
ing something payable.
* * * *
Geologists looking for petroleum in Papua
have reported that the gas and oil shows in
the Aipa-Ie Hills are the best indications
so far discovered. Calcareous sandstones
were found to be impregnated with a light
oil giving off a strong petroleum odor. The
rocks unfortunately were much disturbed,
and the experts are now searching closely
for a settled geological structure in which
to drill. The new superintendent differs
from Dr. Wade as to what constitutes favor-
able conditions for the accumulation of oil.
As there was no structure in the neighbor-
hood of Dr. Wade’s boreholes good enough,
in the new man’s opinion, to warrant further
boring, the locality was abandoned. The
total cost of the search in Papua bv the
Commonwealth had been, up to a recent
date, £81,838 for plant and £51.845 for wages
and salaries, or £83,083 altogether.
* * * »
.Mount Nicholas coal (Tas.) is battling
against an underground fire, which has
caused a blockage of the air circuit. A new
tunnel is in hand, but meantime 100 men
are out of work and the co. is losing the
local winter-market.


The Evolution
»
When the world was young and civilisation was in the learn-
ing-to-walk stage of its development, primitive man realised
a need for something which would enable him to finish the
task arrested by darkness ; and of that need artificial illumi-
nation was born. Every step forward in the progress of culture
has been marked by an advance in illumination.
The r wcty to our civilisation of to-day lies parallel to the 'way to
better light .
A stick from the fire was no doubt the first lighting unit, but
there is plenty of evidence that crude forms of oil lamps came
into use long before history was begun. These have been dis-
carded one by one until to-day the final step
in the evolution of light is the incandescent,
electric lamp. The G-E EDISON Electric
Lamp with its drawn tungsten wire filament
and brilliant responsive light is the electric
lamp developed to perfection.
Be sure that all
your lamps are
branded
G-E EDISON
irillilHlillll
(appro:
z
to »
oa
rs
O N
0 pi
S3&P
0 cf -
H
P*
bj so^
EDiSO H
Vacuum, Lamp
in. sixes up to
100 watts.
(app r coc imact ely
100 C.P.)
a
I
35-45 WENTWORTH
SYDNEY
116 QUEEN STREET,
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, §.A."vrCharles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-99 Curd? Street PERTH, W, A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd. Hay Street
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets TASMANIA--Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN. WELLINGTON.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F B. S. Falkiner, Janies Ividd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.1.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
' Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Dakina House,
Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W A.—H. Little ErCo., 851 Hay St., Perth
'
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
-ENGINES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR.—S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumpinsr material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
tl
The
finest
TOBACCO
tBSST*' vwtirv
EDGEWORTH
rsK-m^
SLICE
In
two forms—
Flug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents. [4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
F. W. Neitenstein toiled so hard and so
successfully to reform the prison system of
N. S. Wales that he deserved a kinder fate
than the paralysis which clouded his de-
clining years and caused his death last
week. When he joined the Prisons Depart-
ment it was one of the worst in the world,
penologically speaking; when he left it—as
Controller-General in 1909 —it was one of
the best. Neitenstein was London-born and
went to sea as a lad. His only child was
born on the training-ship Sobraon, which
he commanded for years, and she tended him
devotedly till the end.
A pressman’s judgment:—
Pressmen do not grieve over Hughes’s departure
for London this week. As a giver of news the
Priminister is not worth 10 lines a day; and he
is the most elusive man in any Australian Ministry.
Watt on his very bad days was rude; but he usually
regretted it later. Joe Cook, though not remarkably
bright, was at the worst inoffensive. Hughes seems
to imagine that his mission in life is to play the
tyrant towards those who must meet him on unequal
terms. The Press criticises him ; then the minions of
the Press shall suffer. Why Hughes should pursue a
course so detrimental to his interest is inexplicable.
Less brilliant politicians have been too wise to
antagonise those upon whom they depended for their
daily boost.
Jim O’Sullivan, ex-M.L.A. for Kennedy
(Q.), has passed out in the South Brisbane
Hospital, of which he had been an inmate
for many months. He was a warm-hearted,
likeable Celt, who had troops of friends and
no enemies; but his wife died a year or two
ago, and he was never able to see much in
life afterwards.
Brisbane lost another of its big coal and
shipping men when It. A. Cleghorn went
west. As a youngster he was with the
Adelaide Steamship Co., and quitted that
service to found a company of his own —
Cleghorn, Hopkins and Co. He also formed
and became secretary of the Queensland
Colliery Proprietors’ Council, and was
Queensland’s representative on two special
tribunals appointed under the Common-
wealth Industrial Act. But he overdid it
and the end came early—at 46.
Dean Hegarty, of St. George’s, Carlton
(Vic.), who has been made a D.I). by the
Tope, narrowly missed the see of Sale when
it was created 33 years ago. He was the par-
ish priest of the place at the time. But Dr.
Corbett was handed the mitre, and Father
Hegarty, as he then was, succeeded the
whiskered bishop at East St. After
spending a quarter of a century at Ivyneton
as Dean, Dr. Hegarty was given the job of
shepherding the Carlton parish. It is never
too late to be promoted. The new docther
must be 75 or so.
When Sid Kidman was passing through
Melbourne nine
months ago a de-
putation waited on
him at Menzies and
modestly suggested
that he should give
£lO,OOO towards
the projected new
Y.M.C.A. building,
wherein his name
could have an
appropriate and
enduring memo-
rial. The cattle
baron stressed his
poverty by stating
that lie had just
had to pay £54,000
income-tax; but he
promised to be not
unmindful when
the weather broke.
He has now sent
along a cheque for
£25 to go on wfith.
The late JACOB
LENZER, Rabbi
of East Melbourne
Hebrew congrega-
tion for 32 years.
It isn’t only Russia that has a revolu-
tion. Hitherto it has been practically im-
possible to get elected to the Board of the
great A.M.P. without the office nomination.
Only once was it managed—by Benjamin
Short, the best-known of all the Society’s
canvassers of that generation. Last week,
however, Alec Jobson beat the deputy-chair-
man, J. T. Walker, the ex-Senator who has
had a seat on the Board for 34 years; and
even the chairman, Alfred Meeks, was only
saved by the Maoriland voters —they had
never heard of Vindin, the Sydney solicitor
who ran with Jobson. Jobson —he was a
Brig.-General in the war, and before that
an officer in the old Scotch Rifles —started
to earn his crust in the A.M.P. service, and
when he left it to be Australian actuary
for the Equitable he was the Society’s actuary
in Melbourne. His win was a win for youth
and the staff.
Coneybeer, the Speaker, and Angus, Chair-
man of Committees, having lost their seats,
there *will be two comfortable billets to fill
when the S. Aus. Assembly meets. The
popular tip for Speaker is old Dick Butler,
who has come back to politics at 70. But
Petherick is in the running, too.
Don. Cameron, secretary of the Vic.
Socialist party, who has been writing ribald
things to the Melbourne aldermen, used to
be secretary of the Plumbers’ Union in
Perth. Once he was chased from his soap-
box on the Esplanade for some provocative
remarks about the war. Fleeing from the
wrath of the populace, Don. took refuge in
the neighboring Weld Club—haunt of the
Westralian squattocracy- —and there is a
hilarious tradition that he concealed himself
in a meat-safe. All the same, he was back
at the old spot next Sunday, and he stood
for Parliament not long after and crashed
horribly. Don.’s pacifism is a plant of recent
growth, for he shouldered a gun in the Boer
war.
Passed out at Mentone, in the South of
France, F. L. V. Coffey, a barrister of 25
years’ standing in N. S. Wales. He was
searching for health when the end came. Be-
fore his call to the Bar he was in the Crown
Land offices, dealing chiefly with Land Acts,
on which he was a recognised authority. In
conjunction with A. B. Canaway, he consoli-
dated the land laws of his State, and was the
editor of numerous law books. He was a
nephew of that Vic. Judge Casey who knew
the cookery books quite as well as he did the
statutes. Alfred Coffey, a Sydney artist, is
a brother of the late barrister, who died a
bachelor.
Dr. Paton, who hands over the job of
N. S. Wales Director-General lof Public
Health to Dr. W. G. Armstrong, has had
8U years service in the Health Department.
Three of his sons served in the war. After
long leave Dr. Paton will probably become
Commissioner under the Venereal Diseases
Act—a bit of useful legislation which wants
a good deal more pushing than it has
hitherto received.
James K. James, stock-breeder, of Corn-
dale, Richmond River (N.S.W.), who went
out the other day, was known all over the
eastern corner as Jimmy Jimmy. He was an
identity 40 years ago, and every kid on the
rivers was familar with the name. The
blacks of those parts mostly called him
“Two-pfeller Jimmy.”
Mrs. Margaret Terry, of Summer Hill
(N.S.W.), has just started out on her 96th
year. Among her birthday gifts was one
from her brother George Macdonald, now in
his 98th year. This branch of the Clan
Macdonald is long-lived. The ancient lady
is the James Terry, who 70 years
ago had a grocery business in what is now
Oxford-street, Sydney.
The ambition of most sailors is to retire
to a farm, but few have done what Lieut.-
Commander C. D. Matheson, R.N.R., did
when he became the classmate of callow
youngsters learning scientific fruit-culture
at Dookie College before he tackled orchard-
ing for himself at Tunstall (Vic.). Mathe-
son was “pilot” to Admiral .Tellicoe during
his South Sea cruise in H.M.A.S. Suva.
They are both tiddlers in size, but whales
for hard work.
Dead in Britain, Cap’n Alick Simpson, of
the Aberdeen line of steamers, who was on
the bridge of the Pericles when that ship piled
up near Cape Leeuwin. The fine old salt
had brought the Pericles out 1 on her maiden
voyage; in fact, he had been in the Anglo-
Australian trade for half a century when the
misfortune occurred that blighted his honor-
able career. He was in command of the
Australasian when it took the N. S. Wales
contingent, or part of it, to the Soudan in
1887.
Lawyer Maurice Blackburn will probably
get the Labor nomination for Marib.vrnong
when Fenton retires at the end of the pre-
sent Federal Parliament owing to ill-health.
Tommy Ryan, M.L.A. for Essendon, will
also have a go if he can persuade the Libs,
to endorse him.
Gyles Turner, who blew up with the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, of which he was
general manager, left, nevertheless, Vic-
torian estate worth £29,233 to charities, the
Unitarian Church, the ’Varsity and philan-
thropic institutions. The ’Varsity share was
£lOOO for a scholarship or prize for the
encouragement of the scientific study of agri-
culture.
The mother of Drake-Brockman, the new
Judge at Rabaul, was that heroic Grace
Bussell who, 45 years ago, as a girl of 16,
rode backwards and forwards through the
surf at Busselton (W.A.) and saved the
crew and passengers of the wrecked steamer
Georgette—all of them that hadn’t been
drowned before she and her faithful Binghi
came on the scene.
Dr. Gengoult Smith, the new Melbourne
City Councillor, is a son of Dr. £ £, but his
views on public affairs are different. Smith
pere had a friendly feeling for the Irish-
Catholic community, and O’Loghlen made
him an hon. Minister in 1881. Smith, junior,
made his opposition to a procession on St.
Patrick’s Day a test, question at the poll.
A MOVING FAITH.
CENSUS MAN : “Now, let's sec, what's your
religion?"
CITIZEN: “Oh, stick me down a Roaming
Cath'lic."
Passed out the other day at Wuuluman.
near Wellington (N.S.W.), squatter John-
ston, known as far as the borders and be-
yond. He had been a sailorman, and up till
a fortnight from the end was brimful of
vigor in spite of hie tally of 89. Two years
W. G. MAHONY, Labor M.H.R. for Dailey,
who has been stirring up matters in con-
nection with the Cockatoo Dock.
ago he took a couple of horses into the bush,
cut down a 60ft. sapling, dragged it to the
local school and there erected and fully
rigged it. The old chap believed in a little
flag flapping. Later, with one leg through a
rope loop he went down a 50ft. well —
younger men around wouldn't tackle the job
-—and emptied it of mud, snakes and black
spiders.
Passed out at Cloncurry (N.Q.) recently
E. J. O’Keefe, after leaving the 85th mile-
stone behind him. He arrived from Ire-
land when a boy, became a teamster, and,
owning his own turnouts, was eventually
known on the roads of four States. The
old chap used to show with pride a bronze
medal he won while at the Sydney Boys’
School in 1848. His widow is in her 79th
year, and if she doesn’t quit the fearful
climate of the Far North she fears she won't
last out anothel 20 years.
Adelaide Uni. has resolved to revive its
Chair of English Literature. The original
endowment by W. W. Hughes in 1872 allowed
for just such a chair, but the Mental and
Moral Philosophy tacked on to it afterwards
got a professor to itself, and English was
tacked on to a history professorship of later
creation. Mrs. G. A. Jury has given £12,000
to endow the new venture, which is to bear
her husband’s name. He was managing
director of G. and It. Wills and Co. till
his breakdown in health; he had one sou
killed in France and the other severely
wounded, and he has never been the same
man since.
“Yoyang” : The oldest identifiable grave in
the little churchyard of St. Clement’s, Yass
(N.S.W.), is that of a nephew of Lord
Nelson —Charles Horatio Nelson Matcham,
son of Nelson’s sister Kitty and George
Matcham, of Adhford Lodge, Kent. Matcham
bought property in N.S.W. in the early days
-—at Dungog and Gosford. He sent his son
Charles to Gosford in 1829 to learn farming,
and later the youth settled at Bogolong (now
Bookham), near Yass, where he died on
March 11, 1844, aged 39.
Latest promotions in the Vic. Public Ser-
vice show that the controlling commissioner
thinks that Laughton, the statist, Crowe,
exports superintendent, and Robertson, chief
vet., should be regarded as equals in the
professional division. They have each been
given a screw of £750. Mullaly, Dempster
and Jensen, accountants in the Agricultural,
Lands and Education Departments, have
been put in the first-class clerical division.
They will draw £636 now, and will go up
by yearly rises till they reach £750. This
is about the last batch of promotions under
the classification scheme. Now the Govern-
ment can talk economy—once more.
CLERICAL CHARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One Synod representative was sensationally candid
in apologising for his absence from the previous day’s
session. “I got fight to the gate,” he said, “when I
met a friend. After some handshaking we discovered
that we had thirsts like limekilns. We adjourned
for a drink, and after keeping the cement on the
walls of the bar-parlor at the public-house up for
some time we met another friend and had another
drink. (Laughter.) Time slipped away so quickly
that I felt ashamed to come in late and interrupt
the discussion, so we turned round to see another
man about a dog.”—Sun report of N.S.W. Anglican
Synod proceedings.
’Twas 2 p.m. on a red-hot day.
Yo ho, divines, yo ho!
The Canon unto his friend did say:
“I'm dry. There’s a pub across the way ;
You could keep one down, I- fancy. Hey?”
Oh, ho ! Yo ho ! ho ! ho !
Yo ho, divines, yo ho !
They went inside and they viewed the beer.
Yo ho! ho! ho!
The Canon could scarce forbear to cheer.
“It’s great,” said he. Said his friend: “H6ar, hear!”
“Two,” said the Canon; “a brace, my dear.”
Yo ho! etc.
“My shout this time. Two more,” cried the friend.
What ho, divines, what ho!
Said the Canon: “Those who the elbow bend
Are the sounder Churchmen in the end.
It’s a point I always will defend.”
Yo ho, etc.
“The same again!” But his friend grew pale.
( Ho-ho, divines, yo ho!)
“The Synod,” he said, “is in travail:
Meseems I can hear our Bishop’s hail.
Let us go to him. Put down your ale!”
Yo ho 1 etc.
The Canon he grinned a carefree grin.
Yo ho! Yo ho! Yo ho!
“Let bishops bish, and Synods syn,
But what care I so the beer be in ?
Not one dash or straw, not one blow or, pin !
Yo ho I” he sang, “Yo ho!
Yo ho! Yo ho! ho! ho!
“Now join us, Miss, in a friendly round.
IIo! Ho! Ho!
You can stop one deftly, I’ll be bound.”
She shyly cast her eyes on the ground
And swallowed a gin without a sound,
Save “Ho, divines, yo ho!
Yo ho! Yo ho! Yo ho!”
The Bishop and Synod duly met.
Yo ho, divines, yo ho!
But the Canon stayed, without regret
(And so did his friend) where the beer was wet,
Chanting now ballad, now canzonet:
Ho ! Ho ! Ho !
And by all accounts they’re at it yet.
Yo ho! Yo ho! Yo ho!
Yo ho! ho! Ho! ho! ho!
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


IN FOR THE SHOW.


liH
M
i 1
i I
Pure Australian Wool
All good Australians interested in Australian industry
find in
PEAPES’ “WARRIGAL” UNDERWEAR
a full justification of their confidence in the qualitv
of the finest Australian wool.
Medium Weight, Pure
Natural Wool Under-
Shirts—Half-sleeves
Long- Sleeves
Underpants to match
Winter-weight Pure
Natural Wool Under-
Shirts—-Half-sleeves
Long Sleeves
Underpants to match
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
2O- 21/- 22/- 23/-
20/- 217- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/-
24/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/- 28/-
1 /. extra.
25/- 26/- 27/- 28/- 29/- 30/-
Peapes pay postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
1)1
/
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6 ; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch lor two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch lor three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of ail medals in
TAILORS AND NAVAL
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and.
under the management v-i’ Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Lath
De Luxe in ipost of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
THE MONOPOLIST.
"I hate the thought that Jim is running out
with other girls."
“My dear, you should have known before
that marriage is a lottery."
“Oh, I did; but I never expected anyone else
to share my ticket."
“Black Lip": My batman swears the
Prince told the yarn at Charleroi. During
an illness of the late King Edward the
Prince paid him a visit. After leaving the
sickroom, the lad turned to his nurse and
said: “I have been good, haven’t I?” “Cer-
tainly,” replied the nurse. “Then,” said
his Royal Shyness, “may I see the baby?”
“Crash”: The recent disappearance from
Sydney of a woman who was known in
social circles, and a wealthy business man
who is not her husband, is the forerunner
of a divorce; and it is also the result of a
cynical victory on the part of the husband.
He came upon the pair canoodling in the
garden, whereupon the embarrassed Lothario
blurted defiantly that he loved the lady and
she loved him, and if there was to be trouble
he was prepared to pay heavily to get the
woman her liberty. “Give me half-a-crown
and take her away,” said the husband icily.
*■ * * *
“8.3.5” : Thuds? A slashing L.H. Digger
was getting good hunting on his first Blighty
leave. Going along the Strand he saw a
bonzer skirt, and approached her in his usual
lady-killing manner. “Can I see you across the
road, miss?” he said. “Certainly, Digger,” she
replied sweetly. "Just a minute.” Then she
calmly trotted to the other side 'of the street
and called back to him : “Have a good look.
Dig.!”
« • * •
“Howitzer”: The most glorious patch in
Tonksy’s career was the week he spent a.w.l.
at Alexandria and appointed himself Govern-
ment Liquor Inspector. lie succeeded in
bluffing all the Gyppo grog-shops, and gen-
erally got 500 piastres to stop a prosecution.
Armed with a long piece of glass tubing
he'd stride into the boozeiy and demand to
see the grog. He’d dip the tube into the
bottle, and having coolly informed them that
the stuff was below standard, would pour a.
sample into a medicine-bottle and pocket it.
As every Gyppo kept adulterated grog, the
stunt worked well for a week. Then the
fluid that Tonksy came was heard in Cairo.
The Jacks got him in a gharri gloriously
drunk surrounded by a weird collection of
liquor samples and raucously informing the
universe that he was Inspector-General of
Booze for Egypt. He bought 2S days’ F.P.
* * * *
An idea from Callan Park :—•
Dismissing the girl’s alleged confession, she being
plainly untrustworthy, it is obvious to me that
the Guyra (N.S.W.) spirit is of Irish origin.
The Quilpish disposition to make a damfool of
Law and Order, as represented by mayor
and aldermen, the police and the- members for the
district, is essentially Hibernian. The baffling thing
is that the visitor from the other side should waste
time and energy stoning a hackblocks cottage for
the apparent purpose of attracting the attention of
a small girl.
In the United Kingdom a problem of the first
magnitude is awaiting settlement. The spirit, with
the clarified vision of disembodiment, is probably
able to discern which side is in the right—Unionist
or Sinn Fein. Let it take one side or the other.
All the fanatical bravery of the rebels is likely to
fade before showers of boulders propelled by an
agency which can neither be openly fought nor pri-
vately assassinated. >. The Castle myrmidons may do
creditably enough in armored cars. But how are
they going to comport themselves in face of half-
bricks which arrive from nowhere? The flower of
the Empire’s shock-troops would be stopped by
such a barrage.
Not only the Irish question but the problems which
are chiefly exercising the League of Nations could
be settled on the same lines. That accomplished,
the spirit might supervise matters of domestic con-
duct. For a corrupt politician a blow on the head
producing concussion of the brain might be an even
better corrective than a Royal Commission, as it
would certainly be cheaper- for the public. Pro-
fiteers, sectarian-mongers, robbers of the widow and
orphan—all might be disciplined on similar lines.
If there are spirits and if they can wield heavy
objects, as the otherwise inexplicable Guyra case
suggests, they could bring the millennium here within
a week —assuming, that is, they are the right class
of spirit.
* Mr * ■ ft
A total eclipse of the sun was notified in the
Islands not so long ago, and the missionary
of Aloa (Solomons) got all his “boys” to-
gether on the eventful day in order to lecture
them on the phenomenon. When the sun
became blotted out
and everyone was
standing a w e-
stricken, the voice
of a mission boy
piped out: ‘My
word! Kerosene
belon g-a Jesus
Christ he finish!”
And there wasn’t a trace of profanity in it,
either.
* * * ‘*
From an old Sydney Courthouse:—
“Call Maud Farr.” A short, very slim form
glides into the witness-box, is accommodated with
a seat, and looks appealingly at the burly figure of
her counsel standing at the bar table —Shand, K.C.
On the Bench is the placid, kindly Street. The
pale-faced, worried-looking man with a red
flower in his coat seated behind Shand is Dr. George
Thompson, on whose declaration that Maud Farr is
of sound mind one of the most remarkable in-
quiries in the records of lunacy jurisdiction of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court has commenced. The
question for Street to determine is whether this
Maud Farr —wife of a science professor at University
College, Christchurch (M.L.) —is rightfully incarcer-
ated in a State asylum for the insane at Gladesville.
The Crown is there to say she is. Counsel is there
to say that the husband has been advised by the
best available authorities that his wife is not
mentally fit to be at large. Led .by Shand, Mrs.
Farr tells the story of her life since 1912, spent
mainly in or about institutions for the insane. In
1915 she was brought from an asylum in M.L. to
Sydney, and at once incarcerated. She tells the
long, miserable story so clearly, explains various
happenings so readily, and is so accurate about
names and dates that, when Andy Watt rises to
cross-examine, curiosity as to how she will stand
the gaff can be noticed even on the face of Street.
Watt presses her closely and adroitly. At the end her
testimony on e\ery material question of fact remains
unshaken; her competence at the moment to think
quickly and to discuss herself and her affairs with
the detachment of rationality is established beyond
dispute. She has to answer some very intimate
and searching questions, of course—many of a sort
only referred to in medical text-books. She meets
them all quite frankly. The ordeal lasts four and a
ONE THING
AT A TIME.
“‘Let's decide where to
go for our holiday."
“I tell you we can’t afford a holiday
“Well, let’s settle where we’re going first,
and talk about affording it afterwards.”
half hours. Next day Shand tenders four medical
men who confess inability to find the slightest
trace of insanity about Mrs. Farr. Then the
case for the Lunacy Department and the husband
commences, and various specialists and asylum
attendants are called to tell the Court why a woman
from Maoriland, who on her own behalf has shown
possession of exceptional intelligence, is in a Syd-
ney asylum.
The Judge was thinking the matter over when
The Bulletin went to press. Incidentally,
Mrs. Farr is 43. She has ±15,066, a pretty
face, a spinal trouble, vivacious manners, a
16-year-old son, spectacles and a nice taste in
millinery.
“Oxide”: The nigger custom of “pointing
the bone” is having a disastrous effect in
Broken Hill at the present time. The medi-
cine-man in this instance is the highly
scientific technical commission which has
been inquiring into miners’ complaints,
known and unknown, chiefly the latter.
Scores of men who considered themselves per-
fectly healthy and found no trouble in stand-
ing up to their work have received a facer by
being told that they are suffering from
pneumoconiosis. In vain lias it been ex-
plained to the men that the awesome term
merely means that they have a little dust on
the lungs and that their working capacity and
health are not impaired, the only risk being
that they might give free board and lodging
to a homeless tubercle germ more readily than
a person with no dust. But the weak-hearted
consider themselves already doomed and they
prepare to yield up the ghost. This is
vouched for by sturdy old miners who name
mates that have wilted in the face of the
fetich.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: When Jellicoe visited
Port Moresby in H.M.A.S. Suva a party
of officers was dined and wined by the Papuan
Club. The last boat from shore to ship left,
at 11.30 p.m., but as the guests d'dn’t leave
the tropically-hospitable club until 3 a.m. a
difficulty re transport cropped up. “That’s
all right, gentlemen,” said one of the hosts,
a river trader, “I’ll run you across in my
little boat!” He led them to a jetty along-
side which a 60-ton schooner lay moored.
They went aboard, thinking a small launch
was waiting on the other s : de; but the host
coolly called the schooner’s crew on deck,
and amid much bustle and din and shouting
of nigger the ocean-goer was got under
way. After contending with the vagaries
of wind and tide, the few hundred yards
were covered, and the Suva was reached at
4 a.m. The bump with which that 60-
tonner stove in the Suva’s starboard gang-
way must have awakened the sleeping Jelli-
coe to the fact that some of his officers had
missed the last ’bus home; but nothing was
said next morning by the big little Admiral.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: The reunions of A.I.F. units,
once popular among returned men, are losing
their vogue; in fact, one recent attempt to
hold what two years ago was enthusiastically
acclaimed as an annual affair had to be aban-
doned. The fault is mainly with the women
who have taken possession of the returned
men. Colonel and private might mix happily
enough if left to themselves; but it has
usually been considered necessary to make
the gatherings double-ticket affairs, and that
has given Airs. Colonel Smith an occasion to
hold herself superciliously aloof from Mrs.
Private Spud Jones, while now and then the
wife of ex-Private Robinson, once again a
person of social importance, will not recog-
nise the blatant missus of Major Brown, who
isn’t. These differences have led to miserable
evenings, and hundreds of Diggers are swear-
ing they will attend no more. So the re-
union place of the ex-soldier becomes more
and more the pub, where the sanitary cor-
poral may have his drink with his General
and feel he is a man and a brother.
•Jr * * *
“Transport Captain”: One of the earliest
shiploads of Anzacs was officered
by two or three whose incapacity
for the job of handling a raffish
draft of untrained Aussies was
piteous from the moment we cast
moorings. On the
third day out I was
attracted by a com-
motion on deck, and
from the bridge saw a
score or so of soldiers
take their officers up,
neck and crop, and
souse them in the
horse-troughs. Hav-
ing thoroughly soaked
the pips, Billjim re-
tired and resumed the
consumption of fags.
I went on deck and
addressed th. e first
man dipped. “What
does this mean, Cap-
tain?” said I. “Oh,
nothing, nothing,” he
replied airily; “had the boys give us a
bath —-that’s all.”
“Sixenate”: This must be the most-
adopted youngster on record. While its
father was away at the war its mother died,
and it was adopted by a stranger in N. S.
Wales. The soldier, hearing of his widow-
hood, married in England, but in spite of
that was an early returnee. He had only
time to fight the adopted mother for the
infant and get it back, when he died. The
Pommy bride, who kept the kiddy, married
another Digger; and when she also died he
kept it. His mother took over the respon-
sibility when he had to go to another State
to work, and it passed into the care of her
married daughter. Then she heard the call,
dying of shock in childbirth, after her husband
had been killed in an accident. The sister of
SHE HAD FAITH IN HERSELF.
THE BABE: “Fancy, grandpapa, I made
thirteen mistakes in my French exercise
to-day."
GRANDPAPA: “Ah, well, never mind, dear —
I expect I would have made more."
THE BABE: “I don't think you would, gran-
pa—there were only thirteen words."
the husband then took charge of the nipper.
Now a sister of the second husband of the
grandmother of the child has put in a claim
to be the proper guardian, and threatens legal
proceedings unless it is delivered up. _ The
youngster is only seven years old, and if its
history continues in the way it has begun
it will have a tangled multitude of foster-
relationships before it reaches flapperhood.
(Continued on page 18.)
BACCHANALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
\\ hen I am lull of wine or beer
Or Gilby’s, as the case may be,
Or crOme-de-menthe’s green sparkling cheer,
What glorious visions come to me!
My soul expands—a mellow glow
Like sunlight on a golden glade
Breaks over me, and forth I go
In search of straying nymph or naiad.
A fisli-eyed fellow, rabbit-faced,
Too diffident for maiden quest,
Xo bolder Paris ever chased
His Helen to her nuptial nest
Than I when ’neath the wine-god’s spell.
’Tis then I sally forth to snare,
\\ itli amorous intent and fell,
Some foolish virgin in her lair.
When three-star brandy thaws my blood,
A bouncing, bounding buccaneer
I trail my coat-tails in the mud:
Not Dempsey, no, nor Carpentier,
Nor big Jack Johnson in his pride
Would dare to stoush me in the street.
When sober I am sorely tried
To keep the blowflies off my meat.
When brave brown ale the moments spill
Good-fellowship 1 just exude.
I fraternise with Jack and Jill,
1 want the multi-multitude
To come with Bacchus and with me ;
We’ll liquidate a thousand bars,
( pend the earth and spill the sea,
And storm the skies and steal the stars.
I often think, if some poor Wowse
By some mischance could fill his skin
With rich, red wine, and bask and browse
Within the pastures of his sin,
He’d be an ardent devotee
Of Bacchus, till Time called the rolls;
He’d cure his mind’s acidity
And take a larger size in souls.
I am a frail and feckless wight
With watery eyes and sandy hair,
Vet I have visions of delight
Xo Wowse can ever hope to share.
The music of the spheres I hear
Translated in an earthly key,
When I am full of wine or beer.
Or Gilby’s, as the case may be.
VICTORIA.
R. N. CRAWFORD.


;
■■
■■r
t 1 1
«iA Jffk
§0?:§; V'-X;tf
4
BwWBB|
Hi
N jjuai A • i\ $
r @%
* : *'f
XS:' ‘
m A
T
s*
ra*
r
**«\
£
".: ■
frj-
«77 \* iti
j .. §" %s
' >»“/ * ** „
- *; O 11
/>
mi
; :
V /'"'l
!f‘:
-
'
iiipiliil
H'f^^
1 { -
*v ‘-A- . * > - - "
HRj#; Cr 4X
XWw# A^>A 'W' '’7'' , ' v...,;;{
.
;W > gfe
1/
\;*^‘
" x ''
v t - *
, ■ x
■
wM
R«r
s ’alww.wt v
' x^BgSp-
■■H -
.■ v&:
'
% 1 vi,'< •■ <* V- y ...•*& «• ' '•■' ■' X. ‘•V { ; v <£ Vi&i''
£ -V Jjfek f ...
fc . 4 -jCLAMki ft*., *l'
■«* -^MBfili
HRMI
fil
ix 111 Mm
i ii «■
• IRHL.
.
,%f f.
|
xcißN
--iV"' V''mHMMif k■. V
jr ■ "
: ■■•■ 'V. ' ■
I
' i
THE
STANDARD
PIPE


No. 158.-—All Diamonds, £l3/io/-
No. 144. All Dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design,
Diamond set,
£l7/10/-
No, 157.—Single Diamond, €7/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson &(qgw.)Ltd.
. c fwo Si/cJn&i/ £stahlisment-s\
185 -187 PiTT ST, NEAR KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER <412 GEORGE ST.
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, £l7 10/-
No. HO.—Aqua-
marine an<l
Pearls JO. -
No. 148.—A1l
Diamonds,
£!fi 10/-
No. 156.—Single Diamond, £9/10 -
“Mr. Mac”: .Bishop Stanton, former
Baiters for North Queensland, told the yarn
himself. He was holidaying once in the Mu
State, and on the coach arriving at the top
of a precipitous slope in the Blue Mountains,
Jehu pulled up and took the usual precau-
tions, fastening the brake down hard and
shoving a sapling through the back wheel.
The Bishop watched the proceedings with
interest from the box seat, and as the horses
started slithering down the incline inquired :
"Driver, supposing that brake was to get
loose and the sapling was to break, what
do you think would happen?” “Happen,
my Lord?” exclaimed Jehu. “You’d just be
in Hell before you could spit!”
* * * *
“Croson”: A Melbourne coroner’s recent
animadversions on the railway practice
which permits station-masters to sell to em-
ployees, unopened, unclaimed parcels of
perishable goods, remind me of Billison.
Billison was a porter on a northern subur-
ban station and one day found in the waiting-
room a neatly-wrapped parcel which felt like
a rabbit or a hare. He took it, to the nflice,
and after it. had lain there unclaimed for
some hours the s.-m., in accordance with the
obscene railway practice, invited Billison to
make a bid. Billison offered a sprat, which
was accepted, and he carried the purchase
home. Fortunately he recollected that his
wife wasn’t in robust health, so he took
his bargain down the back garden and
opened it —to find, of course, as in the
recent case, a very deceased baby. For
two minutes Billison thought hard, then he
risked it, took a spade and buried the late
unlamented good and deep. Afterwards he
grew vegetables over the site until all traces
of the little derelict had disappeared. A
factory covers the place now and Billison
has gone elsewhere; but I remember how
fervently lie used to thank his stars he
didn’t hand that parcel of “perishable goods”
to his wife to open.
THE ESCAPE.
“I myself once came very near entering the
Church.
“Ah , did the girl jilt you?”
“Skyrider”: The annual “swan slaughter”
m still one of the Speck’s attractions. It
used to take place every February when
1 lived there, and 1 had hoped that the
place had become civilised since; but a
recent Courier states that over 400 black
swans were ruthlessly shot by alleged
"sportsmen” in this year’s battue. The
paper spreads itself on a description of the
"sport, ’ in which a State Governor and a Chief
•lustice took part—the “sport” of standing in a
lino in a lagoon and blazing away at solid
masses of birds driven up by beaters. "The
birds would crumple up in the air,” it says,
"and come crashing down into the water
with a smack that boded ill for any one
on whom they might happen to fall.” There
is one sure thing—had this occurred no
brains would have been damaged, unless they
belonged to the- birds.
HE’D MET OTHER DARLINGS BETORE.
MRS. NAGATEM: “ Richard. Hour manners are getting worse. To-day at Mrs. Discuss-
emall I distinctly saw you take out your handkerchief and wipe your chair
before you sat down. And, worst of all, their darling little boy was watching
you."
MR. N.: "Yes. my dear, and I was distinctly watching flic darling little boy, too.
Tin too old a bird to be caught on that bent-yin stunt."
“J.F.11.” (Loudon): The Times is more
cocksure about the historical origin of the
place-name Bendigo than many people long
resident on the spot. Reviewing a new book,
■‘Famous Fights and Fighters,” it incidentally
remarks: —•
Bendigo impressed the popular imagination to
(lie extent of giving his name to an important Aus-
tralian city, to one of' the greatest racehorses of
modern times and to a special drink known to “the
fancy.”
Has a connection between the golden city and
the champion English pugilist of the ’fifties
ever been really established? What and
where is the link? More likely sounds the
tradition that the pioneer diggers found lots
of bandicoots in the locality, and that the
word Bendigo was rapidly evolved from bandi-
coot. There is a third theory, once venti-
lated in the Aiigus, that the actual discoverer
of gold there was a foreigner named Ben
Diego, and the name of the field perpetuates
the fact. A systematic search of the early
archives, records and newspaper files, includ-
ing those of Bendigo, might settle the point:
but apparently there is no zeal for research
work of this description in Australia. There
is room for a well-informed and comprehen-
sive volume on Australian place-names: so
far only S. Aus. seems to have been ade-
quately covered.
* * * *
“Nateo” : Yet another expedition, making
the seventh in recent years, is to leave Eng-
land shortly for Easter Island, to make a fur-
ther effort to solve the mystery of its stone
monuments and terraces. Easter Island is a
lonely speck in the Western Pacific, on about
the same parallel as Brisbane, and almost its
only visitors are occasional scientific expedi-
tions. So far none of the learned inquirers
has succeeded in throwing any light on the
authorship of the monuments. All that is
known is that they were erected —they are
not unlike those at Stonehenge, but bigger—
during a great migration of the world’s in-
habitants from east to west. When this
migration took place or what caused it has
passed from the knowledge of man. One ex-
pedition, the Scoresby-Rutledge. remained for
some years on the island, before giving the
problem best. The one which is to leave next
is being financed by a number of members of
the Royal Geographical Society.
“Red Tape”: Justice James (X.S.W.) has
noticed it. When a male petitioner was tell-
ing how his wife left him ’s Ilouah asked :
“Did she say she was tired of married life,
or that it was no good to herV' and when
petitioner admitted she had made the latter
remark he said: “It’s always one of the
two.” But thev do occasionally discover a
new line. One Voiuan. with artistic tastes,
wrote the parting words in pastry on a
pie she had made for dinner: "Tins is the
last I cook for you." A man left his wife
, , j , i i ,• i,- ii ...
because she refused to look tor his collar-
, , 11 i i . , • ~
stud. He had parted m anger in the morn-
. , . i , , y i , . ...
mg: but he came back at night, sang losti s
B ’
“Good-bye” opposite the house, and then faded
away. A recent respondent left a broken-
hearted letter, in which she declared that
as her husband had failed to notice she was
wearing a new dress the previous day, he
had “evidently lost interest” in her, and she
never came back.
* * * *
“ Plum tree” : Knowing something about
the inventive capacities of small girls, I
refuse to get excited about the wench at
Guyra (N.S.W.) who alleges that she was
chased home by a strange man, and
whose room has since been barraged
nightly with stones and other missiles
by (1) the mysterious male person,
or (2) the spirit of a. deceased rela-
tive—you can buy either
theory for three ha-pence.
Tli e nocturnal sto n c-
thrower and the perse-
cut e d infant are old
acquaintances. Some-
times the mix heaves the
road-metal herself, but
as a rule she has an
impish confederate. How-
ever, it is no use calling
in spiritualists, or coun-
tr y correspondents, o r
heavy-footed John Hops
to “solve the mystery.” All that is neces-
sary is an efficient matron with a slipper.
“Sixenate” : The Courts get acquainted with
some queer kinks. For instance, there is the
one owned by Alfred Bartlett, a well-known
Sydney carrier. When last his propensity
for smashing by-laws was discussed at the
Sydney Central Court it was mentioned that
he had 50 convictions. Yet Bartlett is a
hard-working, estimable citizen whose only
failing is an obstinate antipathy to regula-
tions which he believes hamper him in making
his living; so he steadily pays in lines a good
portion of the money he earns by the sweat
of his brow. Sydney has also a man who has
been fined 14 times for window-smashing.
Years ago lie was penalised for the accidental
smashing of a window and in his recurrent
rage at being so unfairly treated he has been
heaving bricks through plate-glass ever since.
* * * #
on why Papua is Papua:—
George dc Menezes, who is generally recognised as
the actual discoverer of New Guinea, reached the
neighborhood of Geclvink Bay in 1526, 19 years
before “Carto's” friend Ortez dc ltetes (B. 7/4/’2l)
appeared on the scene. De Menezes makes use of
the term “Papuas” for “Os Papuas,” as it is some-
times spelt in the Portuguese chronicles), a name
given, he states, by the inhabitants of the Moluccas to
the New Guinea natives on account of the latter's
frizzy hair. Charts of “the Eastern Seas." drawn
probably between 1511 and laid, show the island
of Gilolo as “Papoia,” and the islands on the west
and north-west coast of New Guinea are collectively
"Os l’apuas.” After de Menezes and before Ortez
de ltetes was Alvar de Saavedra, who was sent
from Mexico in 1527 by his kinsman Hernando
Cortez in search of the survivors of Gal‘cia de
Loaysa's ill-starred expedition to the Spice Islands.
Saavedra found and rescued the survivors, and on
liis return voyage from the Moluccas was driven
south, thus falling in with the northern coast of New
Guinea, along - which he sailed for nearly 250
leagues, lie found traces of gold on shore, and
accordingly named the place Ida Del Oro. A year
later —1529 —he returned from Mexico, and, accord-
ing to Galvano, the Portuguese historian, his dis-
coveries then were more extensive than during the
previous year, covering as they did over 500 leagues
of coastline. In 1530 another expedition, also fitted
out in Mexico by the enterprising Cortez and com-
manded by Grijalva and Alvarado, staggered acro-s
the Pacific, but came to a disastrous end in Geel-
vink Bay, where the crews mutinied and killed
Grijalva. By far the most accurate though not
well-known account of De Retes's voyage, written
by Juan Gaetan, one of his pilots, makes no direct
reference to New Guinea under the name of Papuas,
and certainly does not credit his chief with being
responsible for its christening.
# « * *
“Centurion” is out to kill: —
In advocating the arming of mounted troops with
automatic pistols, “Non-Stripe” and others re-open
a very old controversy. Prom earliest times there
have been two varieties of mounted troops, those
devoted to shock-action and hand-to-hand fighting,
like the cavalry proper, and those combining the
mobility of the horseman with the missile-throwing
capacity of the infantry. Early examples were the
heavily-armed Roman cyuites on the one hand and
the mounted Parthian archers on the other. The two
schools were seen in opposition when Crusader and
Saracen met, until English bowmen changed the
history of Europe by proving that infantry armed
with that, splendid rapid-fire device the long bow
could shatter any cavalry. Then, about the Thirty
Vears’ War, the mounted shooter came in again, lie
was called a dragoon, from the short musket he
carried, and lie did great work later with Marl-
borough, notably at Blenheim, where the 2nd Dra-
goons carried a key position on foot. The dragoon
carried the sword as well as the rifle, and to this
system we returned under Allenby. Before that the
British had allowed their cavalry firearm to degen-
erate to a useless carbine, till the Boer War taught
them their mistake, and they evolved the “short
rifle” for all arms. The adoption of the automatic
in place of the sword would be a superfluity. If
you want to develop fire supremacy, you can do it
much better with the rifle. If you are going to rely
on shock-action, the sword, with its great moral
effect and deadliness at close quarters, is the pea.
Years ago the Yankees, following the example of the
Germans, armed their cavalry with the Lehr auto-
matic. The idea was to use a charge of mounted
men preceded by a flying cloud of In l l let's. The
notion soon lost favor, though many Continental
armies gave their cavalryman an automatic as a
THE TRAM SIT OF ROMANCE.
JONESLEY : "Coming around to my golden
wedding next month?"
BROWNKINS : “Your golden wedding! Why.
man, you’re not thirty-five.”
JONESLEY: “No — sh! —but I’ve bagged an
heiress.”
secondary arm. British services adhere to the rifle.
Its superiority for mounted troops when the sword
cannot be used is proved beyond all argument.
A NEW MOON WISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Turn your money, bow three times and wish
under the new moon.” —Established formula of
white magic.
The evening falls,
The kookaburra calls,
The cows in sombre lines take home the milk ;
There's a new moon
Sot like a silver spoon
In clouds that trail away their ravelled silk.
I turn my cash.
My wishes are not rash ;
But something I desire when moons are new.
Bowing I ask
If she’ll accept the task
Of seeing this peculiar matter through.
No, not for Jane;
Site were too great a strain
On all the large resources of tho sky.
If 1 should seek
Her love, I'll try to speak
With that elusive damsel eye to eye.
But Jane is right
if I get sound and sight
Of what 1 ask on economic grounds.
I want the moon
To merely grant the boon
Of twenty-five to thirty thousand pounds.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
RONDEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So much for love I would have dared and done;
Yea, toiled in bitter night or blazing sun;
The flame of niv desire so strongly burned,
I would have given all, and fairly earned
The gift 1 sought, if this I might have won.'
All pleasurable things I willed to shun,
If thereby I could gain this greater one
That meant all things to me, because I yearned
So much for love.
She seemed as cold and chaste as any nun ;
Yet bird-like, swift, she to my arms would run,
And so I told her all my love. She turned
Away from me, and laughed. My heart she spurned,
And seemed to think the game was rather fun ■
So much for love!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
REX BOUNDY.


RESULTS—NOT EXCUSES
4
u
r
r
N >1
V
vw
m^r
£
'^r
C
a,
j
N
V 5
4
v ;«vH
9 } V '*
m
Y
V
f
,/-
u
bZ
\2B
J
m
S .
Read this Unsolicited Testimonial:
AVe are pleased to forward herewith
the final report in connection with the
Feed Test recently conducted by us.
It is a matter of much satisfaction to us
that we can report so favorably on
Poultry Food.
In the preparation of the final report
the whole of the figures were re-checked
and verified.”
FINAL REPORT.
“Auburn-View” Feeding Test.
Ist October to 31st March, ’2O/’2l.
Meggitt Pen wins by 131 eggs.
COST OF FEED PER HEAD
INCLUDING GRAIN AND
CHAFFED GREENSTUFF, etc.
Meggitt Pen.
5/3 per head for 6 months.
Dept. Agriculture Pen.
6/9 per head for 6 months.
Poultry Tonic was used during the
latter stages of the test and gave very satis-
factory results.
Taking into consideration the adverse
weather conditions experienced during
the test the egg yield is well up to standard.
The outstanding feature of the test, apart
from the very satisfactory egg yield, is the
splendid “condition shown by the
fed birds as compared with the worn-out
appearance generally of second pen. WE
CAN CONFIDENTLY RECOMMEND
POULTRY FOOD to commercial
Poultry Farmers and others, because we
have found it to be a perfectly balanced
food, more economical to feed, and returns
a high egg yield without imposing a strain
on the constitution of the hens so often
noticeable when a guessed-balanced ration
is fed.
Yours faithfully,
“AUBURN-VIEW’
(Signed) S. J.
• POULTRY FARM,
Holmes, Manager.
Feed @ Poultry Food and supply your Kens with the correct, y-balanced ration that will produce eggs without forcing or fattening.
It is strong in the nutrients necessary for continuous egg-production.
Order from your storekeeper to-day and judge by results.
By results—@ Poultry, Chick, Pig, Horse, Cattle, Calf Foods—are cheaper.
AQBXm-U**. Lau^Zl.
Wellington. Messrs. It- 8. Ex-ton d Co., Ltd., Queen 8 reef. Ericlenc.
yNSErooiiffAl
m
ttEGG'TT C°
PAPRAHATT*
Ohe hot/ on the hag
guarantees gu*af/ty'
HEAD OFFICE ‘£6 KING ST SYDNTI-’iY(Waks-Parraniatta)
of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal, Specialised Stock Foods and Tonic Meals.
Manufacturers
s&&}utu&nb
Aegraip xio fioy Jt// XJ
W *i-±VWVtiavU -li ,
*3 dtlm •*n 11I0Q3W (|
IVjWiio oaasNfl


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Brewed at Home
r-*
2
If it isn't.
" Its Better
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia —BAR NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
traba. 0R POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
King George IV
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
A QUESTION OF VALUES.
“He's supposed to be worth a million!”
Well, he isn’t! Hut he happens to possess
it.”
“H.V.E.”: As “Sassafras” says HA
31/3/’2l), snakes don’t “hiss”; in fact, they rarely
say anything. But in the mating season there is
a strange, muffled, cooing sound, heard by night,
which is ascribed to snakes bent on canoodling’.
Some observers say that on following' up the noise
they have eventually come on snakes. I have often
heard this sound in quarters where there were no
wild pigeons or doves to which it might otherwise
have been ascribed. The calls, etc., emitted by birds
and mammals during the honeymoon season are
often very different from the ordinary ones. Even
man himself employs unaccustomed notes then. As
legalds FT is ’ assertion that the deadly snakes
of India are mostly viperine, and therefore have
hollow venom fangs, I may remark that the seven
or more kraits and the spectacled and king cobras
are colubrine and have grooved poison conductors.
These varieties furnish most work for the under-
taker. Among the many Indian vipers, according to
Wall, only the famous and dreaded daboia, or
chain viper, is very deadly. But, after all, an
Indian sea-snake known as Enhydrina valakadyen
puts all these skilled poisoners in the shade. Its
venom is estimated as eight times more potent than
that of the binocellate cobra. Fortunately, however,
bites from sea-snakes rarely occur. As regards
“Mirza’s” remarks on the fixed quantity of venom
injected, I think it is only natural to assume that
a black srake of Bft. 6in. in length (my record for
this serpent) would inject a larger dose than one
of much smaller dimensions. Further, the venom
ejected in one instance on a tomahawk blade by one
of these serpents was quite colorless, though it may
in some cases be pale amber or even yellow. it
certainly isn’t green, as many suppose. By the
way, the venom of certain wasps has a strong
animoniacal smell, while from my experience that
of a venomous snake is quite odorless—though big
diamond-snakes, which don’t pick their teeth after
a meal, are often personally unpleasant.
* * * *
“Kboat”: “Murkah’s” albatross (P,.
3/3/’2l) must have been anaemic if ho could not
1 ide out a four-days’ stiff blow. I have been float-
ing around the Pacific for 12 years and have never
seen one show his exhaustion by tumbling into
the water ; and I have been in a few decent breezes.
These birds can take their rest on the ocean and
feed there with perfect ease, no matter how hard
it is blowing. The idea of them starting to go to
the pack after a few days’ blow amuses me.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: I can vouch for “Dean’s” state-
ment (B. 17/3/’2l) that the Binghis of Bananaland
have a cure for gonorrhoea, but, like other remedies,
it is given out, not by the lubras, as stated, but by
the medicine-man. My introduction to this parti-
cular cure took place on the Warrego some years
ago, ai d “Dean” need no longer worry, over the
reticence of his dusky doctoress who refused to
divulge her secret. The magic-working herb is a
creeper-like plant fourd on the flooded water-courses
after the periodical inundation has receded, and is
locally known as penny-royal. The leaves and stems
are stewed for neally an hour; then the liquor is
strained and allowed to cool. The brew is bitter
and nauseous, but magical in its efficacy. The herb
is usually found contiguous to Binghi’s bread plant,
the nar-doo.
“Tawed”: Either “Mulga’s” death-adders
(U. 7/1 /' 2l) must be pretty mild affairs or else
people in his district are tough. A little girl was
bitten near here (Merriwa, N.S.W.). The mother
saw it done and sucked the wound immediately. A
doctor was sent for post-haste, and all the fences
were cut to let him come straight across country.
The little girl died 20 minutes after she was bitten,
and the doctor when he arrived two hours later had
his work cut out to save the mother—she had got
some of the poison into a scratch on her lip.
* * * *
“M.E.M.D.” : May I chip in on this ques-
tion of whether snakes hiss? I’ve met one that
could. He can’t now—he’s dead. At Yackandandah
(Vic.) there was a great racket in the stable one
morning, and on getting there we found the lad
who worked on the place having a high old time
with a fair-sized snake, which had got into an empty
zinc-lined case, nsed to hold horse-feed. There was
no exit for him, and the boy was jabbing wildly
at him with a three-pronged fork. Each jab in-
stantly called forth a surprisingly loud and very
angry hiss, and the combined hissing and thrashing
round on the tin made quite a noisy business of it
while it lasted.
*** ' *
Jonah”: On a bit of a rise at the mouth
of the Goyder River (N.T.) just
about the site that the English co.
selected for its cotton plantation,
there’s a pile of oyster shells about
30ft. high and containing roughly
about 1500 cub. yds. The shells
are all blackened by age and weather.
At first I thought the Malays, who
had a big camp here in the early
days, might have been responsible
for the collection ; but then the oldest
abo. in the district said his father
had told him the pile was there in
his boyhood. There is not an oyster-
bed within 200 miles of the spot,
and as niggers don’t collect oyster
shells, can anyone suggest how they got there?
* * * *
“Science Grad”: “Sassafras” says (B.
31/3/’2l) it is sufficient to place metal caps on
the tops of the house stumps to keep the white
ants at bay. Neither in Queensland ncr in more
northerly parts is that sufficient. If a householder
wishes to feel secure against the pest, he must re-
gularly inspect all wooden piles in contact with
the ground and, if need be, inject poison in the form
of a solution of arsenic. White ants will very quickly
travel over the iron cap by building a tunnel of
clay. In New Guinea they don’t even go to this
trouble. Instead, they utilise the services of a
species of small borer, which they carry to the scene
of action in a doped condition. After being revived
from the trance the borer actually pierces the iron
and the ants stroll through the hole.
“Sidweelan”: My mission-trained Solomon
Island cook-boy, Jonah, and his understudy, Boko,
were discussing the Creation. Said Jonah: “One
time—lo-o-ong time now!—God He make him man.
Two fellow man—Aram an’ Mary belong him, Evie.
Firs’ time lie make him head; then He make him
belly; then He put him arms, put him legs. Then
He push him longa stummick, He say, ‘Orright! you
two feller you wake up. You finish now. You go
walkabout longa gardin. Now, altogether man he
got him this feller mark longa finger belong God.”
That was the navel. So now you know.
SORTING HIM OUT.
MA : "Sh’, dear, that's the Lord Mayor."
DEAR (in a child’s whisper) : "Mummy, is he one of God’s relations?”
“Murk”: A recent Abo-ist asked for the
record load of wheat. I don't want to encourage
the flash foolishness, which ought to win gaol rather
than cheers; but, to go on with, Ted Spry took
25 tons 12cwt. into Coolamon (N.S.W.) behind 32
bullocks in 1909. The same conductor’s 405 bags
of chaff, 10 bags high, and weighing 20 tons scwt.,
has never been bettered, to my knowledge.
“Friday Island”: “Santo” (B. 7/4/’2l)
had better re-read my par re tuberculosis in the
South Pacific and note that I stressed the "dry
areas” of the South Sea as sanatoria. His point
that the Marquesas are hot-beds of t.b. and are on
a geographical level with Thursday Island doesn’t
discount the latter’s value for t.b. patients. The
“dryness” or “wetness” of tropical places does not
depend on latitude. In the Solomons rain falls
almost daily in the winter, causing a “steamy” heat
inimical to consumptives, but at Thursday Island
(about the same latitude lldeg. South) there are
seven rainless months. “Santo’s” remarks cannot
belittle the Northern seaboard of Australia as a healthy
region, especially for tubercular white people.
“Eddyson”: The storm struck the car in
the rocky hills just beyond Joseph's Coat, where
the roads in wet weather are bottomless pit's of mud
between sabre-toothed rocks that would tear the
works out of a road-roller, and night came
down while Peseot was still struggling
to pilot the Ford out of one quagmire
into another. Finally he struck a posi-
tion in which the car was balanced on a
boulder, and where the wheels just
whirred each in its own quagmire, throw-
ing out mud like a burrowing dog, but
not making an inch of progress. Then
Peseot took up his wife, and instructing
Bell to do likewise, led through the dark-
ness, the howling wind and blinding - rain,
heading for a faint glimmer on the hill.
They came eventually to a farm-house, and
knocked. The door was opened about a
foot, and a sour agriculturist awaited
explanations. “Come in,” he said
—“wouldn’t ’ave a dorg out of a night
like this. Come in. Take off yer wet
coats and sit down. Wouldn’t put a dorg
out sich a night.” He pointed to the
collie on the mat in proof. “Sit you down. The
missus will get you some tea presently. She’ll be
’ere any minute. I sent her down to bring in a sick
cow from the back paddock. Wouldn’t have a dorg
out on a night like this! ”
* * * *
“Troclius”: ITow far can a crocodile
shrink herself? In 1907, when I was at Pt. Charles
(N.T.), a croc, had gone into a billabong to lay;
but the season was late, and there was no water, so
she went to sleep. Abos. tracked her and captured
her alive. They tied her legs and arms with grass-rope,
also her jaws; and they bound a stick along her back.
Then with two cross-sticks four of them carried her
six miles. It was too late to skin her, so we used
14 fathoms of manila rope to bind her firmly to the
stick, and with another piece tied around her loins
we made her fast to a forge. Twice during the night
i went out and hunted away dogs that had “set”
her. Then at C a.m. I went out to kill her; but she
was gone, having shrunk out of handcuffs, gags,
ropes, etc., which lay there in orderly fashion, show-
ing no sign of a struggle. Further down her track
was seen going straight for a cliff, over which she
tumbled 20ft. on to a ledge, then bounced off this
on to a rock 10ft. below. Her track after that could
plainly be seen on the mud to the sea. An abo,
when looking at the fall she had said, “By cripes,
mine think it him bin breakem all about egg inside!”
“Hamer”: Can immunity to the conse-
quences of snake venom be inherited ? Seventeen-
year-old Percy Green, of Wingham (N.S.W.), has
been bitten three times by black snakes, and has
not once been seriously affected. His father seemed
similarly immune. A Wagga (N.S.W.) family
named Pigott has had members of each of three
generations bitten by snakes without harmful re-
sults. That individual men are snake-proof is in-
controvertible. There was the old character of the
A [?]EFFECT INSULATION.
SHIM: " Charley says I’m so cold. You
don’t think I’m cold, DO YOU?"
HIM: "You couldn’t he. You're so wrapped
up in yourself.”
Bunnerong-road, near Sydney, known as German
Charlie, who had been bitten hundreds of times,
and used to allow himself to be chewed sometimes
for the edification of visitors. German Charlie had
a dog which also appeared to be similarly invulner-
able.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE CAMEL TRAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the Barrier once at noontide
As I drowsed in sullen heat,
Through the still and sluggish silence
Came the sound of plodding feet —
Feet that told of weary travel,
Thirsty leagues and burthened backs;
Trudging feet of laden camels
Moving up the Western tracks.
Through the river-gums they sauntered
On the dry, red, barren ground,
Gaunt, unlovely, weird and awkward,
Alien to the scene around;
Eyes forever forward gazing,
Dreaming (who shall say me nay?)
Of some desert, red and distant,
And a far-off, bygone day.
As a wind of noontide, waking,
Through the blue, grey saltbush ran,
Palms and pools perchance they visioned,
Grove and tent and caravan—
Lifeless wastes, where, seldom broken,
Silence, lone and ancient, palls;
Sunset over leagues of desert
Burning red on ruined walls.
Where the staring Barrier Ranges
Coastlike meet the saltbush plains,
Through the stirless, sluggish noontide
Thus they creep, the camel brains;
Dusty leagues before them blazing,
Station stores upon their backs.
Thus goes Asia, thus goes Egypt,
Up our silent Western tracks!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Lysaght’s Newcastle Works, Limited
WORKS NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE - 8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Galvanized Corrugated Iron,
Galvanized Plain Iron,
Black Sheets.
LOCAL AGENTS*—,
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
AND AT
24 Queen Street - - MELBOURNE
436-444 Ann Street - BRISBANE
Grenfell Buildings - - ADELAIDE
21 Mouatt Street - - FREMANTLE
THREE EXQUISITE
BOUDOIR GRANDS
AT PALINGS.
MASON & HAMLIN
AN ARTIST’S PIANO.
A most excellent Boudoir Model
possessing a distinguished beauty and
richness of tone. These Pianos are
much sought after by the Worlds
Greatest Pianists, who require a Piano
of the highest excellence for tone
quality and perfect touch.
GAVEAU
Made in the best-equipped factory in
France.
The Gaveau Pianos are justly celebrated
for their excellent Tone Quality and
resonance, the touch is perfect and
case design is most artistic. The
high-grade workmanship ensures great
durability.
BEHNING
Since 1861 the Behning Pianos have
been a delight to the musician who
appreciates good tone quality and
resonance.
The behning is one of the most popu-
lar Pianos we have ever handled. The
finest grade of material and work-
manship is used in their construction.
CALL IN AND HEAR THESE LOVELY PIANOS. YOU’LL BE DELIGHTED.
CATALOGUES FREE.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Brisbane, Toowoomba, Rockhampton,
Newcastle and Lismore.


FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
Keep your nerves and blood in good order by taking
CLEMENTS TONIC
The thirty-year-old Australian household medicine It
“PUTS THE ‘VITAL’ INTO VITALITY.”
“Maskee”: Although the convolvulus-like
vine mentioned by “Ragar” (B. 24/3/21) is plenti-
ful along the beaches of New Ireland < Bismarck
Archipelago) it is not used by the local ladies as an
abortifacient. They put their trust in a greenish-
brown berry, which is eaten in its natural state.
The treatment involves fasting and thirsting for
24 hours. Although the method is supposed
to be a strict secret among the Marys, I man-
aged to get hold of several of the berries and passed
them on to the local M. 0., who forwarded them to
Sydney for analysis ; but the quantity was insufficient
to give any result. When a Mary has once made up
her mind to keep the birth-rate down it takes a
lot to stop her. 1 saw one from an outlying district,
who had been unable to obtain assistance from the
local women, adopt the crude but effective method
of swallowing a couple of sticks of native tobacco.
1 was sorry for her —I’ve smoked the Stuff 1 But
she came up smiling the next day and won a race
at the King’s Birthday sports on the station. I had
ample evidence during the taking of a census that
race-suicide was the principal factor in the declining
population of New Ireland*. Among the hundreds
of villages visited, families with more than two
children were rare.
“Too Bad”: “Friday Island” (B.
31/3/’2l) tells “ ’Struth” thrashing won’t reform
poultry-eating terriers. It will. Tie the pup and the
murdered bird in a sack and leather the sack with
a light whip. Fido will associate fowls with flog-
ging and give the game best. The punishment should
be inflicted immediately after the crime.
“Colloid”: “Pick” (B. 24/3/’2l) wants to
know if Binghi’s tribal surgeons had any skill in
setting a broken limb. The Filbarra blacks out
from Marble Bar (W.A.) set a fractured limb by
first stretching and twisting until they get it back
to its original position; then they wrap it up
with cajeput bark, which is bound tight (criss-cross
fashion) with kangaroo sinews, and this in turn is
OTHERWISE HE WOULDN'T MIND.
THE MAN: “Phase, Miss Smith, don't call
me Mr. Brown.”
MIS SMITH: “Oh, hut our acquaintance has
been so brief. ( Sweetly) Why shouldn’t
I call you Mr. Brown?”
THE MAN: “Well, mainly because my name’s
Tones.”
covered with a layer of spinifex gum, though some-
times clay is used instead. After three weeks the
mess is removed, and the alio, is able to resume
his tribal duties.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : A friend of mine, a South
Coast (N.S.W.) parson, recently informed me that
his dog, an Irish terrier, had killed a porcupine. Up
till now I never doubted my friend’s veracity, and
have always found him a keen student of bush loro;
hut this last yarn has me thinking. Can any Aho.
remove these seeds of suspicion by tolling me if it
is possible for a dog to kill a porcupine?
"Maskee” : “Imbaga’s” story of the faked
sapi-sapi (B. 24/3/’2l) reminds me of a similar un-
successful attempt to dupe Black Brother in New
Guinea. In this case the trader saw a fortune in
counterfeit boars’ tusks, the genuine article (in
matched pairs) being valuable currency. He sent
a sample to Germany, and in due time received a
consignment of tusks that might have deceived a
boar himself. It was when the trader started to
collect the reward of his brain-wave that he dis-
covered his mistake. The consignment consisted of
all left tuslis.
THE ABSURDITY OF IT.
“ Girr-r-r , where’s ycr money?”
“Mon-money! I’m on artist , old man!"
“Amicus” : It was a sweltering day on a
run near Menindie when Martha, one of the station
gins, was being married. The parson had put the
vital question to her, and waited expectantly for
the usual “I will.” As he received no reply, he
repeated the query, hut Martha was mute. Some-
what exasperated by the silence, he rasped out:
“Speak, girl, speak 1” Whereupon Martha wiped
her perspiring face with a gaudy handkerchief and
said, “By cripes, boss, it’s a plurry hot day!”
* * # *
“Wallaby”: Staniforth Smith was always
on good terms with the Southern scribes, so
I wasn’t surprised to read that he
accomplished wonders in the North-
ern Territory. He certainly did.
It ere was an ordinance which pre-
■ n .ed the beautiful native birds and
t icues being trapped and sent abroad
for the amusement of the idle and
the callous. Smith had this ordi-
nance altered, and the trappers got to
work. A month or two since it was
reported that the Mataram was tak-
ing thousands of these painted finches
south. * And apparently the birds
were allowed to land, as the trappers
went back north for another cargo
on the last B.P. steamer to sail. The
mortality before these birds reach
their destination is horrible. More
than half of them die by beating
out their brains on the walls of their
cages through fretting, or from starva-
tion. Queensland permits lots of
things, but does not permit this cruel
trade. Neither did Gilruth when he
was Administrator of the N.T. The
poor old buffalo got it in the neck,
too. The Woolnor aboriginal reserve
was a sanctuary for buffalo,
anci nobody was allowed to shoot over it under the
Gilrutli regime. It was the only part of Australia
in which the animals were preserved. But influ-
ential “industrialists” had to be catered for when
the freezing works cut down employment to zero,
so the reserve was leased to buffalo-pluggers, the
extinction of the valuable beasts being thereby
hastened.
“Marko”: Has any Abo.-zoologist: over
run across authentic cases of poisoning, even mani-
fested in slight local effects, from the bite of an
indigenous lizard ? The “gila monster” of South-
West U.S.A., which looks like our jew-lizard, was
thought to bo the only poisonous lizard in the
world until recent Carnegie Institute researches
proved him to be not venomous. This would make
it appear that there are no venom-secreting lizards.
All ttie same, as a lad, I saw a badly-swollen foot
and leg, tlie result of a bite from a NT. S. Wales
lizard whose favorite dwelling-spot was in the reedy
fringes of swamps. In New Guinea, in the districts
close to the Dutch border, over Eitape way, is a
small lizard, no more than 4in. long, - which the
natives avoid with great enthusiasm. In 1917 I
treated a native for what were undoubtedly the
effects of a poisonous reptile’s bite, and my patient
assured me that it was this lizard, known locally as
kana, which had nipped him.
"Bureri”: “Bouragi” (B. 9/12/’2of
knows very little of the Trobriands. I’ve been trad-
ing for pearls there for 13 years and have never
yet seen a black or pink lapi pearl. The lapi
pearls are cream-colored and yellow. To the state-
ment that “buyers came every year from Paris to
Samarai especially to get
the black and rare pink
stones,” I am rude enough
to say “Rats!” About
1903 (I get this from our
oldest inhabitant, not
Greek, a pearl-trader
since 1906) three buyers
did come from Paris—
Rollo, Rosenthal and
Brudo. The two R.’s,
after staying a t' e w
months, returned to Paris
and stayed there. Brudo,
who lost on the venture,
turned “pearl-trader,” and
is still at the Trobriands,
buying the “stones” from
the natives. During the
past 12 years we have had
three buyers representing
London firms drop in, hut
have never had the luck
for two of them to drop
in at the same time. I
don’t know why “Bouragi”
wants to make out that
the Greeks had command
of the pearl-trading. It
was never so. Twelve
years ago there were only
two Greeks trading, Mick
and George, as against
five who were not Greeks.
About June, 1910, George
died. In 1913 old Nicho-
las blew in, but in Janu-
ary, 1915, he died. Old
Nick, excepting for the 15
months 1913-15, did all
his trading “up to wind-
ward” two to three hundred miles from the Tro-
briands, and so did One-arm-Johnny, his two sons
(Yordi and Vasili) and Solon.
“Trochns”: When a crocodile is mortally
wounded he gives off a sickly, musky odor. I first
noticed it on flic Finniss- ltiver (N.T.). I had
shot at and thought 1 hit a 12-footer, but he looped
the loop and landed in Bft. of water. I got in the
dinghy and was pulling up, when my abo. became
excited, sniffed violently and said, “Boss, you bin
killum! You no smellum no-good stink? All time
alligator want to die, him makum that one no-good
stink.” And prodding the bottom with the oar, he
soon landed on our quarry, dead as a door-nail.
Later I located one on my own at fully 100yds.,
and the abos. got him when the tide fell.
* * * #
“S.A.C.”: They had been arguing about
the Test matches, and at last Digger fell on Pommy
with “Struth, your argument’s like the bloke from
Merbein who got sliick in Melbourne. He put a
penny in the tram slot, then looked up at the Town
Hall clock to see his weight!”
* * * *
“Globe”: “D.F.” (B. 24/3/’2l) refers to
cultivated land growing healthy crops of eucalypt
and going back to forest.
It would be as good as
laying odds on Eurythmic
to bet “D.F.” that the
land was flooded just be-
fore the unwelcome crop. -
Along the Goulburn Val- 7
ley (Vie.) country the
young shoots are wrongly
called suckers (they grow
from .the seed), and are
as troublesome as saffron
thistles. The first (year
they can he ploughed in,
but after that it is a mat-
ter of complete grubbing.
Ringbarking and cutting
off to the level of the
ground only strengthens
them. A mate of mine
could not And the gate for „
two hours -in a liundred-
acre paddock last week —
and that paddock /grew
10 bags to the acre in 1916.
“Silas”: Bryan had a small hardwood,
weatherboard skillion on the Charley Napier lease, and
by virtue of an old miner’s right could not bo ejected,
although the directorate found him an obstreperous
Irishman and very much in the way. So Crane,
the mine-manager, turned iiis mullock-tip on to
Bryan, and began to tip reef down about Pat’s
happy home. Bryan raved every time a hunk of
hard material battered at his humble roof, but.
imagining he had no redress, contented himself with
standing in the open and cursing Crane, Crane’s
progenitors and Crane’s progeny in a voice that
could be heard back at the township. But the tip
crept up Bryan’s walls and on to his roof. It
swarmed all over his poor abode which, being
stoutly built of good material, withstood the pres-
sure, even when his iron chimney clogged. Furious
were Bryan’s objurgations these times, and horrible
the threats he hurled at Crane. “I’ll ltang yeh yet,
me man!” said he. "Hang ye he the neck, 1 will,
as high as a tree! Mark me what I’m say in' to
yeh, Anthrew Crane —Pat Bryan will be the death
of yeh!” Now, the front of Bryan’s house just
peered out of the big mullock-tip, and he was com-
pelled to shovel industriously to keep his one exit
clear. Then one day he returned from the township
to find the inevitable had happened—the skillion
had caved in. Where it had stood was merely a
depression in the mullock-heap, out of which some
splinters of timber projected. Bryan was ropable.
“Lorrd, the luck!” wailed he —“the dirty, scurvy
luck! To think it would happen so, and me just
out from the house the niin-ute or two. Ochone,
aroo! And the hope and joy of me life was to get
that bla’guard Crane for me manslaughther. Now,”
sobbed lie, “where’s the divil a scrap of satisfaction
left for me ould age at all?”
‘■Mag": lie white ants (B. 31/3/’2l).
There is no occasion for “14” to put metal caps on
the house-posts. . Although customary in Queensland
it is not a permanent preventive. A system adopted
by some builders in South Queensland is to bore a
hole on an angle well into each post from about
six inches above the earth. Then fill the hole with
kerosene or any potent exterminator, and cork to
prevent evaporation. The house I occupy was
treated in this way some years ago, and has been
free from the pest ever since. The holes are refilled
periodically.
“J.H.P.”: “Mulga” (B. 7/4/’2l) has had
happier experiences of death-adders than 1. Under
the lee of a pine ridge at Bald Mountain, near Wal-
langarra (Q.), there is a grave, the resting-place
of a wee lass who was bitten on the toe by one
of the horrors. The nearest neighbor jumped on
his horse, took the child in his arms, and galloped
to Wallangarra, a distance of four miles; but she
died on the road 20 minutes after she had been
bitten. A few years later her brother was bitten by
an adder under the same tree, but on the thick of
the heel. He lay paralysed for six weeks, but eventu-
ally recovered.
“Boomerang”: The blackberry industry,
likewise the blackberry curse, is the product of one
plant imported in a (lower-pot in 1843 by Philip
Oakden, of Launceston (Tas.) —he who founded the
Bank of Australasia, lie gave six small cuttings
to his old gardener, one Broadway, who halved his
share with the Tasmanian historian Fenton. Some
years later the Tasmanians were astounded at the
prolific growth of these plants, and in another few
years, thanks to the birds’ aerial distributing system,
the productive blackberry was flourishing all over
the Speck and in scores of places on the mainland.
“En-Zed” : I was serving the drinks when
an argument cropped up as to the number of pints
that could be disposed of in a given time. A man
(I won't mention liis name but he is known from
Wellington to Napier) declared that if" someone
eared to pay for it he could drink 12 pints of beer
while the clock struck 12. The dozen pints were placed
in a row, the clock was set, and —he did it all
right. lie is now over 60 years of age and can still
do the same feat. He can also settle a pint as quickly
as a man can dispose of a nip of whisky. Of course
he doesn’t swallow the beer—he just pours it down
bis throat. Another feat that stands to the credit
of a Maori around the3e parts is the drinking of
two gallons of beer within five minutes. This is
really a better performance than it looks on paper.
* * * *
“F.C.L.”: Many bee-keepers know the birds
tiiat are fond of bees; but recently I discovered two
BIRDS OF AFEATHER.
THE PRESIDENT'S LADY: "And where do
you live, when you arc at home, Mr.
Speargrass?”
THE VISITION COCKY: “Medder Flat,
ma’am.”
THE LADY: "How nice! We tire in a flat,
too.”
other marauders. One is the common dragon-fly
and the other is a winged insect with a pair of
long yellow tentacles below the eyes. Ho frequent-
orchards and flower-gardens, and is generally found
in dahlia blooms. When lie captures his hoe he
inserts his tentacles under the scales on the abdomen
and empties the honey-sac.
NORMAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To Jeraldinnie three men came,
And hot it was at Jeraldinnie.
The breeze was like a roving flame,
The horses couldn't raise a whim lie,
But stood with noses in the dust
And knees quite obviously giving,
Their heads in meagre shadow thrust- —
Just living.
On Monday we had read the glass,
And iir the shade ’twas one, nought, seven.
The day before ’twas so. Alas 1
One hundred now suggested Heaven.
“Five days at one, nought', seven, see,
That’s so,” and lloban sipped his mixture.
“The glass here now is known to he
A fixture!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNKLL.


j»i* •*%
«»
• i
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality —a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
CIGARETTES
N 9333
20 FOR I/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
•i,
•■i
\
v
%
'U
U
>.
2 3
VP
B*l
1
So
V
o>
®°
cs-
o
I
o
LARGE SIZE
■ini ill
i


m
'>?■
* , * l
■
am
>V-*.
:
&
'p>
g
rail
1
-■
: ■
5
■■
.
tiii®:«^
: •
askm/m
: '■
■
aMri
v
tvf-
■■MMßgg
■
■
■
%
1
\*
r
0
*v
K
P 1
e
/.
fc&rv
50« S
IgpJ^
m
■■ -
=•••
c '-.... • '
V
I
ESSENTIALS in TYRE BUILDING
Any Tyre Manufacturer can obtain first quality rubber
and fabric by paying the price, but, when the tyre has to stand up to
Australian road conditions, careful attention must be paid to the
equally important matter of the skill of the tyre builder.
When the materials for the manufacture of Perdriau Tyres are passed by
our inspectors, we know we have the finest material obtainable. We know
also that our secret tread compound will outwear any other tread.
Then the tyre is built up by workmen who have undergone a thorough
training ; built up under the supervision of experts who know intimately
the conditions under which the tyres have to serve.
Fit a Perdriau next time and you will find satisfaction in it’s sturdy
road service. Your Garage can supply you.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, and PERTH
Post a Post Card for a Price List.
PERDRIA)
»


C
l-'
f Fife's schnap? 9 ; "")
«%
ms
m
V»»
I’ , f
\\
//
%
X'
T/ ?Oo
v:
CO^°
13.
CROUP yV
uiiuiiijjmrnn
A Plain
Fact!
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
9 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
man makes the reader grasp for joy of the
magic that there is in the placing of words.
But that is artifice, and artifice and enthusi-
asm are not enough ; the soul of letters is the
truth. And in time, if it takes 80 years or
only 20, the falseness behind will show
through the sometimes wondrous work in
front. That hollow place in me has been long
since filled up—l want no reverberation of
nothing crying splendidly to nothing. If I
did, no one could give me a larger go of it
than Carlyle, and hardly anyone a better
quality. But I don't want it; nobody out-
side Germany wants it, until the 1914 echoes
are silent again.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Biographer’s Job
The assertion made by Alfred Buchanan
(R.JL\ 1/4/21) that biography “is mostly
dead'’ because everything is left out that "is
of vital import in tiie temperament of the
man” is about as untrue as any statement
that could possibly be made with regard to
tue written lives of literary men. instead
of too little being told about their "inner
life, with its weaknesses and passions,” a
great deal too much is laid bare —detailed
information that has not even a shadowy in-
terest for the lovers of their work, but that
makes u loud appeal to a circle of readers
who feed at the garbage-troughs of unclean
gossip and who often read biography rather
than fiction just because there is less reti-
cence than the average reader of fiction
would put up with. Why have more bio-
graphies and books of comment been written
about Oscar Wilde than about any half-
dozen of his contemporaries V Not because
of the greatness of his work, nor because of
the peculiar personality of the man, but
because in every such work a page or two
can be inserted which provides literary offal
for the readers who will buy it.
Mr. Buchanan wants to have it explicitly
stated what Swinburne's irregularities were.
It is a desire which not one true lover of
Swinburne’s poetry in the whole world will
share. It is no business whatever of Mr.
Buchanan’s. Swinburne has given him great
gifts, poured out for him a rich wine of
song; and in return Mr. Buchanan wants
to poke Ins nose into purely personal affairs
to sniff out any unpleasantness that may be
there.
But Mr. Buchanan says that these things
—-notably the “debilitating irregularities”—
“ore the man.” That is sheer nonsense. The
man, in the case of a poet, is the singing
voice that brought great gifts to men. Over
and above that, it is a fair enough thing
that a biographer should give us a clear pic-
ture of his friend as he moved among his
fellows; to give us more than that is not a
lair thing. Mr. Buchanan has no more
right to know what Swinburne’s secret vices
ivere in the year 1879 because he wrote
great poetry than I have a right to know
what Mr. Buchanan’s pet fads are in 1921
because he has written what I regard as a
foolish article. The poet’s life is his work ;
and that old stanza of Tennyson’s has as
much force to-day as ever:—
He gave the people of his best:
His worst he kept, his best he gave.
My Shakspeare’s curse on clown and knave
Who will not let his ashes rest!
Reticence in biography is more than a
matter of good taste ; it is a matter of keeping
faith with the dead. What kind of cur would
Edmund (fosse have been to his intimate
friend Swinburne if he had written the sort
of book Mr. Buchanan asks for? But the
test of the whole thing is easy. If Mr.
Buchanan believes in the sort of publicity
ihat would throw all secrecy to the winds
and bring every weakness, vice and foible
lo the full light of day, why wait for death
and the biographer? Why not tell the world
now while he is still alive. George Moore
did it, why not Mr. Buchanan? No doubt
most men could make a book of their private
confessions that would sell well at 17s. (Id.
to the people who are not pleased with
Edmund Gosse’s reticence. I, for one, will
faithfully undertake not to read Mr. Buch-
anan’s autobiography when presented in this
way; but I have not the least doubt it would
have a big sale. To be true to his expressed
opinions he ought to give the public such a
work. On the other hand, Swinburne did
not make his failings public; and as his only
outward offence has been adding great work
jo our literature, I do not see why he should
be put in the pillory now.
D. MACULLADH.
Chesterton v. Divorce
The demi-literati went to the first night
of Magic” at the London “Little Theatre”
in 11)13 expecting a pyrotechnic display of
-iterary and dramatic agility, of matter
understood only of the chosen. From that
view the play was a disappointment, but it:
was so very good otherwise that even that
&o Dce foi 'S ave tll(! unpardonably fat man
of. oo who bowed to it at the end —bowed in
spint, that is; in the flesh it was impossible.
Chesterton had always stood for the sub-
lime paradox, the paradox that really carried
a new truth. “The Cheshire Cheese” and
aansom cabs had done their worst, with the
ui a ne > reputation and intermin-
able r leet-street talk, until it really appeared
uiat any truth, new or old, must be wrapped
in paradox. The critic can’t help admiring
a literary dexterity, however needless and
nutating it may be, especially if the author
as obviously enjoys it as Chesterton does..
tie Cl 'itics will always give their
attention to the pungent paradox if they
withhold their respect from its possibly
needless obscurity. Not the feeble, self-
efforts of Whistler and Oscar
wude, of course, but the joyous, earthquak-
ing magnificences of the Chestertons, born
and unborn, should always get a hearing.
These have more and better meat in them
than the earlier attempts. They are not
•concerned with Art and Nature, nor with
green carnations and rose-white youth, but
with, the nature of God and Ilis will with
men and women, with the curious happiness
ot the dwellers in Hell, and the awful dusty
dryness of water. Chesterton's business is
Avith primal matters, sublimely above the
impertinence of paradox, a form of Augustine
Birrell’s “bantering the Trinity.”'
The paradox means mostly' rebellion of
thought. Chesterton, true to its mode, uses
, a ® a cloak for a depth of superstition and
faithfulness which a Mother Abbess could
envy. He reminds me of a portrait in the
Academy years ago—a portrait of Father
Bernard A auglian. Like all the V'aughans,
h ather Bernard is exceedingly, even strik-
ingly, handsome; and the artist had taken
lull advantage of the fine head’s possibilities
in pose, color and lighting. The result was
a very large theatrical picture of an orna-
mental gentleman playing the part of a
prince of the Church. The portrait expressed
nothing of Father Bernard but his command-
ing presence, his purely ornamental person-
ality. A Protestant in a bitter humor would
have called the picture oblique publicity of
“the finest business organisation in the
world” ; and not too oblique. Chesterton is
like that; lie appears to be a deuce of a
fellow hobnobbing with the Devil, and at
mighty arm-waving variance with God. In
point of fact, lie is a lamb; the pyrotechnics
are ornament, well-lit publicity for bring-
ing other lambs back to the fold in a glitter
of rewarding paradoxical wisdom—not find-
ing for them a new fold, as would appear,
but bringing them, clever as they are, back
happily to the oldest of the folds. It is a
good scheme, and Chesterton tackles it well.
The first hint of it for us who had laughed
hugely and heartily with Chesterton at the
motley and tinsel of the world and its creeds
was “Magic.” The “lead” is a conjurer who
early in his career sold himself to the Devil.
There are subordinate characters, a lord of
the manor, a parson, and so on, sharply
and excellently characterised and all beau-
tifully and modernly typifying the author’s
vigorous rebellion. The lord is most engag-
ingly over-colored as the soul of ineffable
tediousness; there is a sparkling scrap
between the parson’s “damned collar” and
the conjurer; there are scintillating tirades
from all and sundry, and many lines which
are gorgeously funny. By the exercise of
liis black art the conjurer is enabled to save
the life of the lord’s son, which lias been
medically, pronounced a hopeless task. But
the funniest thing of all is the conjurer’s
sale of his eternal welfare to the Devil for
the power of magic. Chesterton’s own magic
power makes the play a thrilling and absorb-
ing proof of the magic at the heart of every-
thing, but there it is: this modern man
sold his soul to Satan.
Now, see the ancient fold to which Ches-
terton singing before his happy lambs has led
them. lie will have none of divorce. This
i.s not consistent. The ancientest fold of all is
casting an eye growing less and less unfavor-
able on the decent cutting of Gordian knots
which have grown indecent. Still true to
the method, he calls his book or tract, “The
Superstition of Divorce.” It is mediaeval, or
I am completely at fault in my dates of
superstitions. Chesterton wants no reform
of divorce; no half-way begging of his ques-
tion is any good to him. He will have no
divorce at all. He stands all the old argu-
ments up: the family, the children, even the
vows at the altar, deliberately closing his
ears to the answers. When a journalist of
Chesterton's eminence closes his ears to
anything in the world he has become peril-
ously nearly fanatic. This side of fanaticism
there are the visions of the family trying to
stay united and do its duty when its bond
and soul are gone; of the children growing
up in a strain immoral and dangerous; and
of the vows which can be altered whenever
the authorities in vows will come willingly
from the 16th to the 20th century, and look
willingly at man as he is.
I am sorry. The Chesterton stunts were
good, fervent work. “The Flying Inn” is a
drunken glory from end to end, and “The
Ballad of the White lloi •se” a true glory
from end to end. “Magic” is a good play;
all the critical papers are good, and most
of the glittering paradoxes. But “The
Superstition of Divorce,”' considered even as
a mediaeval pamphlet, is really too bad.
F. B.
A Satchel of Books
The Charm of the Etcher’s Art (The Studio, Ltd.).
If an artist of no great ability does a moderate!v
decent drawing in ink on card, only the very few
lose step in the ensuing excitement. But let him do
the same drawing on copper, and though he might
do it even more carelessly he is taken much more
seriously. It is Art. Of course, the idea is wrong,
but not only do you pet that impression if you sit
on the selection committees for our local exhibitions,
but you acquire it also from etching publications.
There is nothing very remarkable about any of
the works reproduced in this book. There is good
drawing generally, and a rather pleasing, non-com-
mittal rendering of tone in places, but on the whole
it is doubtful whether some of the plates would have
had so fine a publication had they been pen or wash
drawings. If you do not take etchings more seri-
ously than pen drawings, the letterpress by Malcolm
C. Salaman will not very greatly impress you. The
reproduction of the plates is excellent, for all the
quality of the originals seems to have been preserved.
The Art Collections of the Nation; Some Recent
Acquisitions (The Studio, Ltd., London) is mostly an
illustrated catalogue of cobwebs—the bad work of good
men who forgot to destroy, and the poor work of some
more modern men who couldn't do any better. But there
is a beautiful Whistler reproduced in colors, “The
Little White Girl’’; the splendid “Mrs. Kinnear,” by
Raeburn; a good Bonnington, a fine drawing by
Millet, and some others which, along with a number
of illustrations of beautiful examples of old armor,
. furniture, etc., and the history, make the book worth
having.
The World’s Food Resources, by J. Russell Smith,
Professor of Economic Geography in Columbia Uni-
versity (Ilolt, N, York). This is a book to make
an Australian sad. The writer is an American
authority on his subject, and when he writes about
the U.S.A. one feels one can trust him. But he
makes perhaps 20 references to Australia, and almost
every one of them is wrong. “Australia,” he says
writing of wheat, “gets the same amount of rain as
Southern California” —in other words, is in the region
of very scanty rainfall. Almost throughout he pic-
tures Australia as a dot on the map; that it has a
climate almost as variable as that of the U.S A,
lacking only its blizzards, plainly never occurs to
him. Its districts with an average annual rainfall
of 157 inches are clearly outside his knowledge. He
says, speaking of the eastern coast, that crops are
not grown beyond the mountain range because of
drought. Of course that is where practically all the
wheat is grown. His references to Australia in rela-
tion to sheep are equally absurd. “In Australia,” he
writes, “the tendency [of sheep] to degeneration
because of heat has been overcome by the constant
importation of fresh breeding stock from England,
\ ermont and other localities where the sheep is at
his best. ’ The “degeneration” is, in fact, so marked
that Australia is seriously thinking of prohibiting
the export of stud sheep, so keen and persistent has
the demand been on the pfh't of foreign flockmasters
during the past few years. As to butter: —
“The dairy industry of Australia, which is further
north [than Maoriland] and out of the latitude of
steady rains, is sadly interfered with by droughts.
Consequently it is less important than in New Zea-
land, being almost limited to Victoria, the most
southerly, the coolest and the rainiest part of a
warm, dry continent.”
Now the production of butter in N. S. Wales is from
20 to 30 p.c. greater than it is in Victoria; and in
no State has the production been so rapidly increased
as in Queensland, the northernmost State —and, amaz-
ing as it may be to this shockingly ill-informed Pro-
fessor, the rainiest State of the continent. Finally,
the world is informed that in Australia we use an
infusion of eucalyptus leaves as a substitute for tea!
Dr. llussell Smith’s book no doubt has its value. But
because lie lacks the data it is obviously worse than
useless as a review of the world’s possibilities as a
food-producer.
The House oj Commons and Monarchy, by Hilaire
Belloc (Allen and Unwin). Belloc, a clever dog-
matist with a curious mediaeval kink, was in Parlia-
ment for four years and left it convinced that
there was no hope for an institution which- failed
to take Belloc as seriously as Belloc took himself.
The same fate has befallen litterateurs as eminent as
Belloc, but the others got over it; Hilaire hasn’t.
Hence this book ; an elaboration of the writer’s fond-
est political illusion, which is that the. .House of
Commons is moribund because*it has ceased to be
“the Aristocratic organ of an Aristocratic State,”
and that in its sovereign quality “it must be replaced,
and can only be replaced, by that which is the
only alternative to Aristocracy in a Great State, I
mean a Monarchy.” Unless the present reigning
House recovers the powers of the Stuarts or Tudors
(and “that,” one learns, “would be the best way,
because the most continuous,” although “Monarchy
may come in any one of a thousand ways”) Britain
will lose its greatness. Even the worst Monarch
would be preferable to the best House of Commons
of the kind that imperfectly appreciated Belloc
“Imagine Edward 1., or Napoleon or Alfonso of
Castile at the head of the State to-day. .. Imagine even
the tawdry Marcus Aurelius, the weak Nero, or the
half-mad Otto the Third. . . .placed at the head of
the modern State. What do you think would happen
to the corrupt .Judges, to the politicians who take
bribes, to the great trusts, to Hie secret financiers?
Their blood would turn to water.”
But the book is not to be judged as a whole by that
llilaireous passage. In reality it is provokingly
interesting, though more as a revelation of person-
ality than as a study in practical politics.
Merit and Democracy, by E. George Marks (Tyr-
rell's). This book treats of Caesar, Napoleon, the
Holy Alliance and the French Revolution without
throwing much new light on them. It is much
subdivided under large black headings, such as
“Ecstasy of Blood,” . “Apotheosis of Tyrants” and
“Gage of Battle,” and contains many strenuous
observations, such as this: —
“Napoleon determined—corollary of his system of
democratic merit —that the basaltic foundations of
all subsisting barriers of monarchical oligarchism
must be cracked, crevassed —in the same way that
Austerlitz had cracked, crevassed the Hapsburg foun-
dations ; that the seeds of democratic thought must
continue to be diffused into the apertures until every
stronghold of absolutism, perforce, beheld the spread-
ing branches of the banyan-tree of the people.”
Napoleon was a man of might, like Tubal Cain, who
hammered in iron and brass when the world was
young. And, thanks to him, the alluvial pinnacles
of despotic anarchy were cracked until the stronghold
of absolutism, like Front-de-Boeuf’s castle of Tor-
quilstone, casting its weather eye to leeward, saw
the spreading branches of the apple-tree of the
people. And it is difficult to say whether the strong-
hold or the apple-tree was the more surprised at the
meeting.
Golden 11 uckles, by Conrad 11. Sayce (Alexander
McCubbin, Melbourne). The young doctor, who, hav-
ing an ample fortune, devotes himself to research, is
in love with Ida Hennessv, a Melbourne Society girl.
Colonel Bathwick is going to marry Ida, and on
the eve of his marriage asks the doctor to examine
him. The doctor finds him suffering from venereal
disease, and poisons him to prevent the marriage.
After that the scene shifts to the wild places of
the Northern Territory, where Ida herself at last
arrives full of love for the heroic murderer, who
meantime has found a quite unnecessary gold-mine.
Life in Central Australia is well described ; but the
main events of the story do not carry strong con-
viction.
Mixed Marriage, by St. John C. Ervine (Allen and
Unwin). A play produced at the Abbey Theatre by
Lennox Robinson three years before the war. Any-
body who wants to get the inwardness of the tra-
gedy of Ulster can find it here. The characters are
admirably drawn, the situations are convincing and
the Belfast dialect is admirably handled; but the
action of the piece is slight in proportion to the
talk. Still, there is a real pulse in it.
The Impossible Apollo, by Thomas Cobb (John
Lane). The purpose of this yarn is to show that the war
helped to break down the barriers between the lower
middle class and the upper middle class in England.
A brother and sister of each sort do most of the
work; but as they arc very uninteresting!people, and
their social differences don’t amount in value to
a row of pins, the story moves wearily. The book
is not badly written; but it is not brilliant enough
to put life into its dead matter.
The Guarded Room , by G. T. William (John Lane).
A particularly well-written story, with live characters,
which has for its centre the sacrifice of a daughter’s
life for the mother who since the death of her hus-
band has shut herself from the world. Some of the
situations would in other hands seem improbable, but
the author’s skill makes them convincing.
A Spring Wall: in Provence, by Archibald Marshall
(Collins and Sons). A pleasant, rambling account
of one of the most historic regions in Europe. Aix,
Avignon, Vaucluse, Arles and a dozen other places
are visited ; and the backward glance at the pageant
of history never fails to hold the interest. The illus-
trations arc excellent.
T'ae Love-a-Duck and Other Stories, by Stacy
Aumomer (Hutchinson). A collection of long short-
stories, full of imagination and bad grammar. De-
lightful little plots some of the yarns have —“A Source
of Irritation,” for instance—and there is good char-
acter-drawing in others—especially “Them Others.”
The Seeds of Enchantment, by Gilbert Frankau
(Hutchinson). A weird search for a wonderful bean
and a still more wonderful people by a long Anglo-
American, a bloodless English socialist and an amaz-
ing post-war Frenchman. The yarn is incredible,
lint queerly fascinating, and was evidently inspired
by an inquisitive ramble through Annain and Saigon.
TAttle Pierre, by Anatole France, translated by
J. Lewis May (John Lane). Another of the series
of translations’ of the big French writer’s work
designed to bring him very close to the English
reader. Nothing could be simpler or more attrac-
tive than the intimate tale of the little boy as
here told. The translation keeps the color and atmo-
sphere, and that is the best that can be said of any
translation.


FitTFoinTfe
Costs Considerably Less
than Weatherboard.
nti
wm
Build your new home—lnterior and Exterior
Walls, Ceilings, etc., with Hardie’s Aus-
tralian-made “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement
Sheets and roof with “Fibrolite” Slates. The
cost will be considerably less than a similar
house with exterior walls of weatherboard;
lath and plaster interior walls and ceilings,
and a tile or iron roof.
Write for free Catalogue "I!."
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York St Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
This Trio
Sheep, Cattle, Pigs at market.
Are you a Winehcombe-Carson sender?, II
not try the firm with your next draft.
Consign
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Results provide a profitable proof of
Svinehcombe, Carson's success as selling
agents.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
lt will pay you .
The convenience and economy gamed,
together with the constant pleasure
derived from healthy exercise, make
the purchase of a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings a paying
investment. Reliability and service
are the leading features for which
these machines are famous, and make
them invaluable for business or
pleasure. Loo k for the B.S.A. trade
mark on your new bicycle.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A Sign ot
Quality.
B.S.A
ft
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
A.W. High-speed Milling Cutters
for ACCURACY, ENDURANCE and CUTTING POWERS.
Manufactured by
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.,
Manchester, England.
Stocks carried in all States of all sizes in ItOl
FINISHING. SLOTTING. SLITTING. SIDE and r At L,
CONVEX, etc.
GILBERT LODGE &. CO. Ltd.,
115 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 506 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cii I will In Chambers,
Custlereugli Street, SYDNEY.
A«ENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING ANI) GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
A Denyer Specialty
Triple Crush Emasculator.
Price 00/-
Postage 9<l. extra.
THE efficiency of Denyer’s Special Pattern
Triple Crush Emasculator is endorsed by
hundreds of stockowners. It permits of
the work being carried out in the quickest,
easiest and safest manner. It is made to our
special design, which has proved superior in
practice. Why not secure the services of this
better instrument on your station?
Write for our Catalogue of Modern Veterinary
Instruments and Appliances—mailed free to
your address.
DENYER BROS.,
Specialists in Veterinary Instruments & Appliances, 281 GEORGE STREE , SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KIND
SORUBBS ™ AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all; Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
A Perfect Drilling Machine
THE HOEFER 21in. DRILL CAN BE
FURNISHED in THREE DIFFERENT STYLES
Description.
Greatest 1 height of drill ...
Greatest distance from spindle to base
Greatest distance from table to spindle
Distance,; column to centre of spindle
Diameter'of column
Vertical > feed of spindle
Diametejr of table..
Spindle for Morse taper . .
Size of tlargest cone pulley
Size of smallest - cone pulley
Tight arid loose pulleys ..
IlevoftitieiY* of driving pulleys..
Floor space
Call or write for further particulars.
CAM I OR EASY TERMS.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
THE ENGINEERS’ DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street, Sydney
uoni.
394 in.
24in.
10 fin.
5 jin.
9 tin.
15|in.
No. 3
| 9in. x 2in.
4in. x 2in.
i Sin. x 2 : ;in-
! 250R.F.M.
| 40 in. x 10 a.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Te rami’’: Touching: on names appro-
priate to occupations. In ITI4 James
Slacker hung out his shingle as proprietor
of the Internationfrt Hotel, Apia, Samoa.
* * * *
“Bihai” from Papua
It has rejoiced ns mightily to read in various Austra-
lian dailies that Hie Papuan natives greet the tax-col-
lector with cheers. .Many strange tales have been told
of these primitive people, but this is the limit.
Possibly the author’s next article will be on the
popularity of the Irish landlord when he calls to
collect the rent. The native tax is dubbed by my
••boys” their fine, and has not been enthusiastically
greeted by either whites or natives. It is imposed
to further native education. The missions arc
now to receive a grant of a. few shillings for each
“boy” who passes a prescribed examination. Only
one examination has, so far, been held. The results
were deplorable, as they were bound to be under
the conditions, and the amount received in grants
from the taxation fund did not cover the cost of
the materials used in the examination. It was not
the fault of either teachers or scholars, but simply
that the method was archaic. were in
English—to the natives a foreign language. And
the pupils were put through their paces as if they
were backward white children. The education of
the native should begin, not by teaching him that
“Kate likes tine liats and furs” (vide Australian
school series, second primer), but by developing his
(and her) natural gifts for carving, plaiting, basket-
work and the like. With all the materials at hand
in the country, my cane furniture is still “Made
in Japan.”
» * * *
“Te Pana” : Fiji is running Tahiti to a
standstill in the production of vanilla beans.
And until a few years ago the French pos-
session numbered vanilla third on its list
of world-wide marketable products. That
the bean is grown at all in the Fiji group
is due solely to a man and his wife who
used to run a little trading station on Viti
Levu. Somebody on the island once failed
with a vanilla plantation, and no one else
would try it until the aforementioned
coui>le planted 0000 cuttings of good Mexi-
can vanilla. The crop was a success, and
in pre-war days averaged 15s. per lb. for
the dried beans. That was a big price ; the
news quickly flitted about, with the result
that to-day the Lord only knows what area
is under cultivation. Vanilla beans grow mi
a vine like passion-fruit. The hardest job
in their cultivation is the fertilisation of
the flowers —once that knack is acquired the
vines need no more attention than the pump-
kin. Curing is a simple process. Inciden-
tally, a cobber of mine in Levuka told me he
had seen wild vanilla in the N.T. Climate
and soil are certainly both suitable.
-X- * *
“Old Banker” on savings bank facilities: -
The recent failure of Farrows Bank in England
was a. severe blow to the thrifty men of the middle
find working classes. With Lloyd’s and Barclay’s it
supplied a service in England which the savings
banks provide in Australia. The big banks in Lon-
don have never troubled to cultivate the connection
of the man whose income is limited. However,
wium Farrows closed down several large London
institutions issued announcements "that the small
man would be welcome. They have opened special
departments for handling his business, and accounts
can he started with .Cl, interest being allowed on
the balances.
The changed attitude in conservative London
shows the direction of the wind. It has a direct
hearing on a subject which has been given weighty
consideration on various occasions by Australian
trading banks. That is, the matter of allowing
interest on current-account balances. They are pro-
hibited by law from providing savings bank facili-
ties; yet, if a method copld be found to retain
what business they have and attract the smaller
depositor, it would be of immense benefit to the
banks whose grip on the small man is lessening
vear by year. This movement is largely traceable
to the financial straits to which State Treasurers
have been reduced. To bring funds to the savings
banks they have offered attractive rates of interest.
The general policy in the old days was to strictly
confine the savings bank to its proper use, and even
up to a few- years ago the average limit in all the
State Banks on which interest was allowed was
about £350. To-day it has risen to about £lOOO.
The Commonwealth will pay interest to the £l3OO
mait. Further, the rate of interest keep's soar-
ing, consequently there is little inducement offered
to a depositor to transfer part of his savings to a
trading bank for investment at fixed deposit. More-
over, there is no restriction on State Treasurers,
and if the going is good it would not be surprising
to see the maximum soon increased to £2OOO. A
“savings” account of these dimensions will be a
shrieking anomaly; but that won't matter.
The banks, as a rule, have consistently set their
face against paying interest on current balances.
After the smash of the ’nineties those few which
still allowed it were disciplined into line as soon
as the association became powerful enough. But
as the growth of the savings bank figures, both
Commonwealth and State, lias been mainly at the
expense of the banks, and as this drain has been
severely felt, action'will inevitably be taken by the
trading institutions to arrest, if possible, the flow of
credit balances to (he Government banks.
THE RETURN OF ABRAHAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“All denominations of the Christian Church were
represented at the public welcome to the Chief Rabbi
of the British Empire.” —Daily paper.
Thus fades the ancient feud oi East and \\ est,
The trouble over immaterial things;
Sectarian bias takes a needed rest
And ceases from its vain imaginings.
What does it matter? All the various views
For which men fought and died were somewhat
rash.
The simple Christian fact is that the Jews
Have now the handling of the Lord’s own cash.
Theology is pleasant in its way,
But counts for little when the loans are spent;
The British Empire is the word to-day
Hosanna to the tunc of cent, per cent. 1
Let Christian saints and scribes and Pharisees
Walk arm in arm while softly over them
The golden Lombard banner in the breeze
Links up the old and new Jerusalem.
The Pawnshop and the Empire! Lift the cry
Till every meaner voice at last is still.
Moses for Britain! Shylock’s hands are dry ;
No pound of flesh is written in the bill.
x.s.tv.
C. O. M.


" I=s How the =
MULT/GRAP/i
Earns
The Multigraph earns on
everything it prints by saving
from 25/o to 75 % of your present costs.
It earns by getting your
price lists and all important
printed matter out on time—
every time.
It e'arns in your sales force
by getting the confidence of your
trade and keeping it: by cultivating pro-
spective customers, enabling your sales-
men to become bigger producers by de-
veloping mail order business in districts
too costly to cover by salesmen ; by keep-
ing your sales force well informed, in-
terested and enthused.
It earns by educating and inspiring your office and
force, by developing enthusiasm anti ability. It earns by backing
up your advertising and putting personality into your message
You are paying for a Multigraph whether you
have one or not. Why not start it earning now?
Stott & Underwood
70 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
■ M
Gillette
The Safety Razor chosen
by twenty million men as
the only perfect means of
shaving quickly and
smoothly with perfect
safety.
No stropping—no honing.
No loss of time.
Standard set in neat leather
case 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributers:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE,
"«?WN thm
•world ova
Gillette
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
Fifty=fifth Annual Report of the
Directors to the Shareholders.
Die Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Share-
holders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 28th March, 1021, also Statements of
1 rofit and Loss, and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
1 he Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 2Nth March,
1021 (including the Balance brought forward from pre-
vious year, £16,571 ss. 5d.) amounts to £104,678 12 10
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent.
per annum was paid in November last . . . . .. 31,250 0 0
Leaving available £73,428 12 10
Prom which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of
10 per cent, per annum .. .. .. .. .. £31,250
To transfer to Reserve Fund .. ~ 20,000
51,250 0 0
Leaving a Balance to carry forward of .. .. .. .. £22,178 12 It*
It is with deep regret we record the death on 2nd August last of Mr. John Shiels. our
greatly valued and esteemed Manager, who for 31 years devoted his ability and wide
experience as a banker to the service of our Institution with eminent success.
Mr. R. Scott Young, with the title of Superintendent, lias been appointed to the
general management of the Bank.
Branches have been opened at Bundle Street, City, and Parana, and Agencies at
Alawoona. Kilkenny, Mercunda, Willowie, and Wool Bay. The Clarendon Agency
has been closed.
The General Annual Meeting will be* held in the Board Room at the Head Office
of the Bank, King \\ illiam Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday. 4th May, 1021,, at 12
o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will lx* called upon to elect two Directors in the
place of Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., and Howard Watson Lloyd. Esq., who retire by
rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to
fix the remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
BALANCE SHEET, 28th MARCH, 1921.
Liabilities.
To Capital paid up £625,000 0 0
I‘escrve Fund . . 600,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 73,428 12 10
Interest accrued on fixed deposits
and rebate on bills discounted 72,681 4 5
£8,156,385 17 10
Assets.
By Specie, bullion
£ 3,303,919 6 8
Bank premises and furniture.. 102,508 19 0
Bills receivable and all other
Advances' .. .. .. 4,089,897 12 2
£8,150,385 17 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Year from 29th March, 1920, to 28th March, 1921.
To Reserve Fund, as
below . . . . £30,000 0 0
Dividend in May, 1920 25,000 0 0
Dividend in November,
1920 .. .. 31,250 0 0
= £8(5,250 0 0
Bank Premises and Furniture Account
in Mav, 1920 5.000 0 0
Balance , 73,428 12 10
£104,078 12 10
By Balance 29th March, 1920
Net Profit, including Recoveries, and
after making provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, Interest accrued on
Fixed Deposits and Rebate on Bills
Discounted, and deducting Expenses
at Head Office and 54 Branches,
including Salaries, Rents, Taxes, etc.
C 70,571 5 5
!
88,107 7' 5
£104,078 12 10
RESERVE FUND
To balance at tills date
. . £600,000 0 0
£OOO,OOO 0 0
15. S. YOUNG, Superintendent.
tV. I’. COTTRELL, Accountant.
By balance 29;h March, 19-20.
Transfer from profit and loss,
May, 1920
. £570,000 0 0
30,000 0 0
£OOO,OOO 0 0
ARTIIUR WATERITOUSE
CEO. RROOKMAX
JAMES Jt. FOWLER
HOWARD W. LLOYD
A. G. RYMTLL
Director
We have compared the above Balance Sheet v.-ith the Books and Accounts of the Bank of Adelaide
for the year ending 28th March, 1921. and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same We
have counted the Cash and examined the Bills on hand at the Head Office—the Assets and Liabilities
at the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants
of the respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager
Adelaide, 15th April, 1921.
W. L. WARE, F.C.P.4. )
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A. /
Auditors.
jjuttelfa
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
[3


V*
G' t>
o*
n
§
4
%
§.
$
>x
V
V
/j;
s
5M
//
0
/ .
ffi
V
J
r ©J
€
r?-
|(S£
e>
T?
&
\Q
*2
w~
'32
>-* tr
**
s>*A
&\
%5
*'*
or
fel'iV
\\ r*
c£
-- v l^-
Dizzy Spellsj
P|IZZY spells are generally accompanied by that
tired feeling, absence of appetite, and ner-
vousness. Your liver is wrong. That means poor
'Professor Livertaq’
circulation, congested brain, disordered stomach, constipated bowels.
Chamberlain s Tablets for the stomach and liver are what
you need. They act directly with the liver. You need only one
each night for a few nights and you will soon be right again.
ChamberlainsTableis
FOR THE STOMACHandLIVER
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
The soundness of its construction
accounts for the unusual economy of
operating Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
Barring the results of accident or abuse,
owners pay little for its service, aside
from the daily running cost.
Ordinary care keeps it in good condition
for continuous service.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
I
m
ft
v
\\> u
Canada CycJ e & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ptd.j
Melbonrne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Richard Morton, dramatic critic and for-
mer manufacturer of Gaiety lyrics, is just
dead in London. It is a punishment for writ-
ing “Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay.”
“S. Antonio Broke”: At Russell-street
(Melb.) police barracks the other day I met
the real John Hop. God gave him the
name of Hopkins, and his father had him
christened John.
“5.A.8.”: Recently a waitress from a
swagger Melbourne cafe took to court a row
she had with her husband, and the fact came
out that the squabble arose from his having
been infected by her with syphilis. 1 only
hope that at least a dozen State M’s.P.
have been in the habit of going to that cafe'
regularly. We may hope to get something
done in that case.
Harwell’s success in South Aus. moved
“Bishop” Barnes, of Queensland, to prophesy
that the same thing would happen in Theo-
dore’s State. “The National party,” said the
Bishop boisterously, “will march from victorv
to victory,” and in the exuberance of his
emotion he rushed into the country and made
a policy-speech—at Wyimum, of all places.
In actual fact the path of victory along which
the National party marched in S. Aus. leads
to the morgue.
“Warrego Bill” : We hush blokes who come
into uncivilised places only once in a year
or two have certain advantages in summing
up the relative immorality of cities; and 1
wonder what even a hardened Sydney brute
would say if he were accosted by 17 women
in a space of 100 yards in the main street.
That, anyhow, is what happened to me in
Collins-street last evening—and 1 am a very
mild-lcoking crab, too. As might he expected
of the Pharisee, Melbourne doesn’t think it
anything out of the way. In the same fashion,
it permits couples to lie around in thousands
at St. Ivilda. Centennial Park and Uni-
versity Park in Sydney may be had, but they
are Sunday-school gatherings compared with
the lawns and beaches of St. Ivilda. I have
seen happenings in the broad daylight in this
cheerful suburb which have made me wonder
whether I was living in an Australian city or
a kaffir kraal. The truth is Melbourne strikes
us alwavs as a city of cant. It is immoral to
travel by tram on Sunday morning, or to
bathe on Sunday afternoon. Yet it is not
immoral to lie on the lawns with a girl all
night. Or to open the pubs on Good Friday,
though even terrible Queensland cannot ahear
open pubs on that anniversary.
“T. D. Emdee”: The adoption of the
Murray system of telegraphy is a tardy
recognition by the Commonwealth of a home-
grown invention. It is about 20 years
since red-headed Donald Murray, M.A., then
chief of the S. M. Herald staff, completed
a scheme he’d brought from M.L. to apply
the typewriter to telegraphy. Most of his
brother-pressmen in Sydney knew he had a
big thing; but since he wasn’t a telegraph
man his idea was so coldly received in Aus-
tralia that he hawked it oversea. It soon
attracted attention, and has now been in
use for many years, a fact to which the pun-
dits of the local post office seem to have just
awakened. The Scots first saw what a
great thing. Murray had brought them, and
the Yanks were not long in coming to a
similar conclusion. In the competition for
the nob-recognition of its prophets Australia
has a long iead in Art, Literature, Science
and Invention.
A. T. Saunders on his old friend the Mee-
jim of Exchange :
“Good Australian” (B. 7/4/’2l) is the right sort
of person to write about money, coinage, etc., for
he knows nothing about it. He says that the Mint
“pays” £3 17s. IOJd. per oz. of gold which is worth
practically £6 per oz., and suggests that the
£3 17s. IOJd. should be doubled and the price made
£7 15s. 9d. per ounce, whereupon prosperity would
follow. Why stop at £7 15s. 9d. per oz.? Why
not make it £77 17s. 6d. per oz. ? For that can be
done if the “price” in gold coin of Great Britain
can be raised from £3 17s. lOld. per oz.
But really there is no such thing as a fixed or
mint price of £3 17s. lOld. per oz. for gold. All
the British Government did from 1819 to 1914, when
specie payments were suspended owing to the war,
was to fix the weight and purity or fineness of the
sovereign. Prior to 1819 Britain’s system was bi-
metallic; in 1819 it became mono-metallic, and the
gold coin known as a guinea, which under the bi-
metallic system was worth 21 shillings, disappeared.
Prior to 1819 4400 z. of pure gold were coined into
1780 guineas, In 1819 the number was increased to
1869 to make the new coin, the sovereign, a 20-
shilling piece, and the shilling and other silver
“coins” were called in and alloyed “tokens” issued
in their place.
Prior to 1914 if a person took 4400 z. of pure gold
to the London Mint, the master of the Mint would
without charge add 40oz. of alloy to it, making
4500 z., and coin the 480 oz. into 1869 pieces called
sovereigns, each coin being 11-12ths pure and weigh-
ing the 1869th part of 480 oz. Therefore each ounce
of the 480 would be coined into three sovereigns and
429-480ths of a sovereign, and as 480 tokens called
half-pennies happened to be worth a sovereign, for
convenience sake the fractional 429 were called half-
pence, and as they make 17s. lOld. it became the
custom to say an ounce of crown gold (that is
11-12ths pure) is worth £3 17s. 10}d. and that was
called the “mint price.”
While anyone could take 4400 z. of pure gold to the
London Mint and have it alloyed with 40oz. of base
metal and coined into 1869 sovereigns, that person’s
gold must take its turn to be coined, and the person
might have to wait weeks for his 1869 sovereigns; so
the British Government arranged with the Bank of
England that the holder of any gold could take it to
the bank, have it assayed, and the hank was bound to
give the holder 1866 sovereigns (in bank-notes con-
vertible into gold by the bank on demand) for
every 4400 z. of pure gold. In other words, the
bank charged three half-pence per ounce of “crown”
gold for its services, or three sovereigns out of every
1869.
As 4400 z. of pure gold are coined into 1869
sovereigns, the “value” of pure gold is £4 and
109-440ths of £1 per oz. and cannot be shown ;n
half-pence.
I have £lO 10s. which challenge “Good Australian
to prove that the “price” of gold is fixed or that ’t
can be fixed —of course in British sovereigns, and of
course at the same time and place. One-hundred-and-
sixty ounces of “crown” gold are worth 623
sovereigns at the same time and place, less bank or
mint charges, invariably just as a 701 b. bag of the
C.S.R. Co.’s IA sugar is worth any other bag of
the same brand and weight in good condition at the
same time and place.


=0
714'
V
*
m
m.
a.
William - A-Hill
WORLD'S WHITE JU-JITSU CHAMPION
Me a
St's.
I3S 3 °Ur ke
«&,*»«•.
x>ear
Sir?
' *•• >*ri- iZz?z%g»u?g*-
ST'*2? ‘o J 6 9 \pe a n t a e >T on<
fcatt?*- i£ atl oar'‘ lo£! , »«S? t 'il
vpon e Q * °or^ e> . -^ a s
»dna S' *Jfe a &e s ? e «i>
*i fch^ at, *©s * e **
._ c/ 2© I,® 8 . ttn,,-, , e ®Sir,v._>
The Great Tonic and
Strengthener for
Men and Women
The letter of testimony, facsimile of which
is here reproduced, is most weighty proof
of the value of Sedna, for supplying
bodily vigor and vim, wherewith to
carry on.” It is important to notice,
too that Mrs. Hill (professionally known as Miss Edna Davies), the
world s greatest woman ju-jitsu exponent and holder of 126 medals,
altogether endorses her husband’s approval.
If YOU feel the strain of life's battle, act immediately on the above
recommendation! Drink
m.
I
a
m
o
VWt
■U'A
It will revive and strengthen the wasted or overworked system,
heip to make good red blood, and put vim and zest into your
whole being.
For ladies, especially, “Sedna” can be heartily recommended as a
bracing and strengthening tonic without rival.
Obtainable from All Chemists and
Stores throughout Australasia.
B.stnlmfors for Vic., W, A„ Q’Jand, SLA, and Broken Hil B. Seppelt & Sons, Ltd.
,Jolm '»oods & Co., oyaney. Tasmania: Gardner. McKenzie, Ltd., Launceston.
''Hill,
iitiiMl,
r-
H
>
&
»jfE»^s»,-;
rllarssßaHnu
y»si
>1


Don’t Suffer With Eczema
Cuticura Soothes at Once
First bathe the affected part with
Cuticura Soap and hot water. Dry
and gently rub on Cuticura Oint-
ment. This treatment not only
soothes, but in most cases heals
distressing-eczemas, rashes, irrita-
tions, etc.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co-. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
ilHF~'Cuticura Soap (haves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- tV 3/-
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland.
£ENOBI^
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Beil 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OSTER Bulldog and Bull-
dog Ratchet lines include
eighteen different tools.
The smallest screws the
pipe sizes gi n - t° fin.
The largest screws the
pipe sizes 1 |in. to sin.
The others come between
these extremes.
Tell us what sizes you screw.
We’ll furnish the proper
tool and guarantee satisfac-
tion.
n
DISTRIBUTORS :
( lias. Atkins & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Clias. Atkins & Co. (H.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Banks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Banks & Son Pty., Ltd.. Melbourne.
Parke iV Lucy Co. Ltd.. Sydney.
It. I*. Serutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney,
l'rede. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering; Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery. Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists. [is
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
jjj®* 7 ***,
cj
M oe
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
7
?
7
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 Yz inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £3B/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers anil
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
What Does “Overhead”
Mean to YOU ?
Possibly it may mean rent, insurance, taxes and other
similar expenses. If, however, you use machinery in
your business. Overhead ought to include Friction
the invisible drag responsible for waste power and loss
of considerable plant efficiency. Will you let us show
you how
SKI 7
BALL BEARINGS
can practically eliminate all this friction, and save
incalculably in wages, oil and fuel?
Write for Pamphlet, “Save Money-
Turn Friction into Power.”
We invite you to put your machinery problems, as
applied to the reduction of friction, before us. A special
representative, direct from the Home factory, is novv
located in Australia, and his advice is at your disposal,
without placing you under further obligation.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.
Head Office —381 City Koad, South Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTING CEXTKKS:
MELBOIRXE —36!) Flinders Street.
SYDNEY —325 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE —330 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE —122 Currie Street.
PERTH —Cnbehaun & Johnstone, 3” King Street.
HOBART—The Med hurst Electrical Works &
15 Argyle Street.
Telephone
Co, Ltd.,
L.Sh.3.
Of the £2,390,097 distributed us premium
on Australian gold sold abroad through the
Gold Producers’ Association during the past
couple of rears £1,599,507 has gone to W cst-
ralia, £357,490 to Victoria, £309,332 to
Queensland and £99,230 to N. S. V ales.
“Nigger M.’': Life in the country is long-
drawn-out ; but I had no idea just how long-
drawn-out it is until the Hamilton (Vic.)
Spectator announced the other day, in re-
ference to some event or other, that it “aver-
aged three-quarters of an hour per minute.”
“Gas”: Westralia’s local option poll
roused the Trades Protection group to an
aggressive publicity effort in which movie ads.
and poster hoardings played leads. With a
nice appropriateness the big water tank at
the Perth central station, proudly perching
on its 40ft. tower, yelled in 3ft. letters “Vote
Continuance!”
Westralia is raising a memorial over the
grave of J. C. Mclntosh, of the Loudon-to-
Melbourne flight. When the call came in
1914 he was felling trees for a living, the
same sis Murray, McCarthy, O’Mara and
Carroll, the V.C.’s. No finer band of warriors
fought under Foch than the axemen from the
Westralian forests.
The census-takers who went out into wild
places were rewarded with one find, any-
how. They didn’t discover the bunyip—
that animal has never been counted in any
census yet. But near the coast and not very
far south of Sydney a white man was
located who had never heard of the recent
coolness that the Kaiser made. It seems
like a case of leading a really quiet life.
“K.C.A.”: About that word blankard.
“Lights out” had gone in Trentham Camp
(M.L.) one night, and two Diggers lay talk-
ing in low voices in one of the huts. I over-
heard part of their conversation. Joe : “You
married, Bill?” Bill: “Yes, are you?” Joe:
“No, but I was nearly, once. I was engaged
to a shinin’ little shieler down at Picton ; a
’arf-caste Maori. But she died —the blank-
ard.”
Harry Barnard, of Rio station, one of
Queensland’s finest bushmen and natural-
ists, is being patched up in a Rockhampton
hospital, the result of his horse falling and
rolling on him. With Archie Meston and
Sergeant Whelan he climbed to the summit
of Bellenden Ker in 1889, and Barnard’s
Spur commemorates the feat. Afterwards
he collected birds and insects in N.Q. for
one of the Rothschildren.
From the Federal lobbies :— ■
If the next Commonwealth Parliament assembles
at Canberra the Melbourne dailies will have them-
selves to blame. Their eternal scolding has got on
members’ nerves. That and the disproportionate
space they give to the utterances of Victorian mem-
bers, which hits the tribune from another State at
liis most sensitive point. The agitation for an early
move to Canberra is prompted less by a yearning
for that insalubrious spot than by a desire to get
away from—-and get home on —the Aon and the
Argus.
“S.T.” : London has found a way of getting
over the prejudice against theatrical perform-
ances in Lent. The Ben Greet Co. played
“Everyman” at the “Old Vic” every Tuesday
during that season, and twice a day on the
first three days of the “Holy Week,” which
used to close many houses entirely. The
play is, in fact, now definitely adopted as a
kind of sermon. It was put on repeatedly
during Lent at the Church House at West-
minster in aid of the Abbey Restoration
Fund, clergymen taking the leading parts,
with a bishop to give an opening address.
A Lowrie scholarship has been handed
by Adelaide ’Varsity to Eric West. This is
an unusual kind of prize, founded by Alfred
Roberts in recognition of the services ren-
dered to agriculture by William Lowrie —
who, by the way, is still alive and active. It
takes the form of a gift of £l5O to a gradu-
ate who will devote himself for a year to
research and report on some approved sub-
ject. West, who is the son of a B.A. school-
inspector, went through the School of Mines,
spent two years on a farm, another two at
the Agricultural College at Roseworthy and
two more at the war, and recently won a
B.Se. with high honors in agriculture.
“Glen H.” (Loud.) : Lately a paper here
published a photo, of Cecily Debenham. It
showed her behind a wheelbarrow contain-
ing someone else’s offspring, and was labelled :
“Cecily Debenham and her little daughter
Peggie.” Now, Cecily is unmarried, where-
fore a jury has ordered the paper to pay
£5OO. It is going to make editors less
anxious to inflict pictures of stage ladies
who are known as “Miss” and may or may
not possess husbands. The publication of
the photograph was alleged to have given
rise to imputations against the lady’s chas-
tity, and evidence was given regarding a
remark made by Mrs. Fred Leslie to the vic-
tim’s sister which “distressed me very
much.” Various theatrical people went into
the witness-box to explain how necessary it
was for members of the profesh to be like
the wife of the late Caesar; while one stage
lady, Lilian Braithwaite, announced haughtily
that “actresses of established reputation” do
not stand in need of press publicity, and she
personally regarded it as “a penalty of my
profession.” The verdict emphasises the fact
that as many dangers of libel lurk in press
photographs as in the printed word. One
Melbourne editor found this out years, ago
when, anxious to get ahead of his reptile
contemporaries, he published a photograph of
“(Section of the crowd at Flemington on Mel-
bourne Cup Day." which had been taken the
previous year. A young gent who had been
left in charge of his employer’s business was
prominent in the picture, and explanations
and a cheque were necessary to wipe out the
h 'se suggestion that he had left the post of
duty.
THE HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1918
The droning of shells, and a nation at prayer;
A torn, bleeding Digger; a woman’s sweet care ;
Then a sunny verandah ; a hospital chair.
1920.
Laughter and sunshine on bright Coogee Hay ;
A one-legged Digger is trying to play
An organ; and people move slowly away.
N.S.W.
ERLC FAIREY.


Every woman knows that clean
bread cannot be made with dirty
hands, neither can a house be kept
tidy without constant attention.
So it is with the human system.
Pure blood cannot be made from a foul stomach and
deranged digestion. The body needs the same care and
attention to keep it clean as the good housewife knows
is necessary to keep the home clean and in order. It
is not enough to keep clean on the outside, but on the
inside as well, and many people entirely neglect them-
selves in this important matter, which is so necessary
to their general health. If people would only bear this
in mind much unnecessary suffering could be avoided.
For the purpose of cleansing the system Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills'are unrivalled. They cleanse
the stomach, purify the blood, aid the digestion and
assimilation of food, and tone the entire system.
&
m
i
i
wM
//////A
m
m
y
&
7/,
7
m
7%
7
//.
y/7'77'
m?A
7
W/.
7
|M '<Kr* K? S 7
nORSES
D
R
l l^
FOR
liver
i
I
S 3
f-
is
SS7.
7777/
5777/S/7.
They Make You Fee! Brighter.


A. Saunders’
Silver-plated,
Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
A 1 quality, daintily engraved, in
Silk-lined Case, 25/-
Saunders’ Juvenile Spoon and PusheTj
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, dainty design in Silk-lined Case,
45/-
Silver-plated Cased Goods
1
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, selected Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated
Mounts and Ferrules, finest-quality Sheffield Steel, 45/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Knives Forks, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
in Silk-lined Case, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-Sl5 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs,
pure Silver-plated, highly burnished, A 1 quality,
30/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon, in
Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 32/0.
r
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, in Case, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, 50/-
Wind-Power Pays.
Pays in convenience, pays in time, pays for outlay. Say you required 1 000
gallons of water every day and paid to have it hand-pumped to a height
of 40ft. It would be a laborious job for a man to do in two hours.
Reckoning his time at one shilling per hour, the yearly cost would be
£36/10/-, which sum would more than pay for a
“BILLABONG” MILL
to_ do the same amount of work. The second
ye'ar the pumping would cost nothing beyond
wear and tear, which doesn’t amount to
much on the massively-constructed, silent,
ball-bearing Billabong. The patented, com-
bined Speed Regulator and Governor of this
mill prevents racing, adapts the mill’s speed
to the wind velocity and pulls the wheel out
of the breeze when it is dangerous to pump,
making it safe in all weathers.
Other features are automatic lubrication,
centre lift, silent working and split bearings
which can be all renewed without moving
any gear. See them all illustrated in the
Billabong Catalogue, free for your address.
A small outlay puts you in possession of
this permanent water supply. Why wait?
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
*JOHN^=
m
& SON-Pty. Ltd
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
Our Patervf'
CombirvedL
-TPSC-D
REGULATOR.
CGOVERMOR
55
Vi
MM
.m iJiiS
m
m
Hi
hi
i
%
1
I
!fe\
*»JIW \
$s.;>^
*4
lfc<<
Mggff
$
11
I
■
11
M
m
ms
ii
.(MI
in
1
:;i
*£'\"
v&
M.
%)
1mm
'■ i 1
>x
fem#|!p
vs
;^ "v- ;
H.NV
IS*
'Xx
Sss
*85


Amusements.
ydxevs c hIE I
J. (J. Williamson, Ltd.
THEAT R E S.
Direction.
OFFER
her MAJESTY’S.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
(LAST TWO NIGHTS).
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT,
FIREFLY.
criterion.
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera
Direction J. 0.
HOUSK,
WILLIAMSON,
SYDNEY.
LTD.
Evenings at 7.45. Matinees Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday,
.). C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
( Ijv arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD.
CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
Allan wilkib shakspearean
PRODUCTIONS.
SCHOOL OP ARTS, ROCKHAMPTON,
23rd to 30th APRIL.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
NIONI*ICTUKE T II E A T It E S
THE PICK OP THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
'CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
ST 15AND, CLOP.E, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WESTS OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. TVILLIA3ISON, LTD,, MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
MOVT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
NAZIMOVA in
WAR BRIDES,
and
HARRY CAREY in
BLUE STREAK McCOY.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MEIItO 0 It N 15.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN I). O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
TO \V N HAL L, MELBO URN E.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
Messrs. J. & N. TAIT announce the return visit of
the N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA and their distin-
guished conductor HENRI VERBRUGGHEN.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, FRIDAY,
30th APRIL. 2nd MAY. 3rd MAY. 6th MAY.
SATURDAY, FRIDAY SATURDAY
7th MAY. 20th MAY. 21st MAY (MatinCe)
Season Tickets (transferable), £2/2/-
Beserved Seats, 7/6; Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-.
Plan at Allan’s.
Mill*
II '
r
This little Phonograph
is as clear
in reproduction as the large
and costly Instruments which
must always be left at
home. The Decca you
can take with you wherever
you go.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
No case required; ready to play
any make and size of Record
immediately opened.
3 Models —Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. II 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music-dealers.
STANLEY E
GREEN, LTD.
Australian
4 gents
Edison Amberol Records
for April.
• ssg
>--v
e m
One of the reasons for the wide sale of Edison Records
put out each month is the lists are so balanced that all
phonograph owners can find four or five selections to add
to their collections no matter what their individual tastes
may be.
Royal Purple Records.
29051 —Life’s Dream is O’er.
Soprana and Contralto,
orch. acc.
Marie Rappold and
Carolina Lazzari
290 S2 —Deh vieni, non tardar
(Ah, come nor linger
more) —Le Nozze de
Figaro. Soprano, in
Italian, orch. ace.
Marie Tiffany
Blue Amberol Records.
3957 A Matrimonial Mix-up. Negro Sketch,
orch. acc. Billy Golden and Joe Hughes
3958 — Little Girls, Good-bye—Apple Blossoms.
Tenor, orch. acc.
Lewis James Chorus of Men
3959 — The Mighty Deep. Bass, orch acc.
Wilfred Glenn
3960 Linger Longer, Letty. Contralto and
Baritone, orch acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
3968 Triplets—Fox Trot. Xylophone, orch.
■acc. George Hamilton Green
3969 llanagan's Troubles in a Restaurant.
Vaudeville Specialty. Steve Porter
39/2 Old Fashioned Garden —Hitchy-Koo,
1919. Contralto, orch acc.
Helen Clark and Chorus
39‘1 There's Not a Song that Trembles, Can-
tilena. Soprano, Contralto, orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd, Helen Clark and
M’xed Chorus.
3975v—Tou Are Free— Blossoms.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. ace.
Betsy Lane Shepherd and Lewis James
3976 —When Honey Sings an Old-time Song.
Tenor, orch. acc. George Wilton Ballard
3979 —Roll On, Silver Moon —Yodel Song.
Orch acc. Frank M. Kamplain
3984 — Aloha Sunset Land. Ist Soprano, 2nd
Soprano and Alto, orch. acc.
Homestead Trio
3985 — Oh, Gee! —Medley of Irish Reels.
Accordeon, piano acc. by Joe Linder.
John J. ivizhmel
3987 Cruiskeen Lawn —Lily of Killamey.
Soprano, orch. acc.
Leola Lucey and Mixed Quartet-
-3988— Swanee.
A 1 Bernard and Frank M. Kamplain
3990 —My Isle of Golden Dreams —Waltz.
Tuxedo Dance Orchestra
4014 —Venetian Moon —Fox Trot, for Dancing,
Lenzberg’s Riverside Orchestra
4041 —Oh, By Jingo! Oh, By Gee (You’re the
Only Girl for Me). Male Voices,
orch acc. Premier Quartet
TIIOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only). 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
|y|A.IKSTIC THEATRIC, MEI.IiOIKMi
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE iu
GOOD REFERENCES.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|yj ELISA THEAXIiE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATIIE,
WORLD and SLLZNII lv.
gUi'mMA Til EAT lIE. JUil.liOLli.Mv
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Missing Friends.
Mercer (now possibly mann)
HELEN ELIZABETH daughter of
George Daniel Mercer and Elizabeth Mercer.
If the above lady, or her husband or de-
scendants, will communicate with the under-
signed she will hear something to her advan-
tage.
Miss Mercer sailed for Australia in
October or November, 1877, and was last
heard of in 1892 at Brisbane; from letters
then received she may have married one
Thomas Mann.
CHAMBERS, McNAB and McNAB, 139
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WILL LUCY ANNA REBECCA .TUDD
or any person knowing of her where-
about nlease communicate with
ANDREWS & ROBINSON, Solicitors,
Narrogin, W.A.
GO S SARD
Front Lacing
CORSETS
WORN BY WOMEIN OF DISTINCTION
THE WORLD OVER
H. W. Gos sard Co.
Chicago New York London Toronto Sydney Bitenouiires
Legal Notice.
To JAMES ARTH UR SHEPHERD for-
merly of Timaru New Zealand
brother of LETITIA IRVINE
SHEPHERD deceased and to all
persons claiming by through or
under him.
PURSUANT to an order made on the
9th day of March 1921 by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand you
are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the Ist day of
August 1921 your claim to the estate of
Letitia Irvine Shepherd who died intestate
on the 23rd day of June 1913 failing which
the said estate will be distributed amongst
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
DATED at Wellington this 9th day of
March 1921.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington. Ne w Zeal and.
ALL PERSONS having claims against the
estate of EDWARD McNAMARA
late of Montumana in Tasmania, laborer,
deceased instestate are requested to lodge
s-une with the Public Trustee, Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, within one month
from the publication hereof.
HECTOR ROSS,
Public Trustee.
| N the Intestate Estate of WILLIAM GILBERT
1 ATCHKSON also known as FREDERICK JOHN
ACIIESON late of Svdnev cabman deceased.
WILLIAM GILBERT ATCIIESON, son of the above-
named deceased, is requested to communicate with
the undersigned regarding the distribution of the
above estate. T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee,
Culwulla Chambers, G 7 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., 20th April, 1921.
Public Notice.
TO MARY THOMPSON HOSKINS (nde
McDonald) formerly of Nanango in
tue State of Queensland wife of Fred Charles
Hoskins.
TAKE NOTICE that I FRED CHARLES
HOSKINS your lawful husband hereby
declare that I have not seen or heard of
you since the Twenty-Sixth day of May
1914 and that I intend to re-mafry if I do
not see or hear of you on or before the
30th June 1921.
FRED CHARLES HOSKINS.
Yarriman Creek, Queensland.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN Of
A GOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before —
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock’s Dress-
ings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
BOSTOCK’3 POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
THOMPSON U CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
•‘THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castkmaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILIIAMSTOTVN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Q
■ :
Vertical direct connected steam-driven 'Electric Generating Set.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE;
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Anst. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Zitd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dnreau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.


THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels.
Sole Agents for Australia
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
r-'
kTJK
* ji
7
a
Homr looking at You"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The B<?ev
without a Rival
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hail of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E T. CHEESEMAN.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Firefly”
Criterion . “The Sign on the Door”
Palace “Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
Tivoli Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOW'S FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .....; “Irene”
Royal . “The Maid of the Mountains”
Kino’s .............7;.1 “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
♦
There was a "try-out” of the just-formed
Italian Grand Opera Co. at the National
Theatre, Balmain (Sydney), last week.
“Cavalleria Rusticana” and “Pagliacei”
formed the opening offering; and Balmain
evidently leans toward Italian opera, for
there was a big house and much enthusiasm.
’Twas a good beginning under difficulties, and
promised much better things. The princi-
pals were satisfactory. Balboni and Jean
Drummond (now “Signorina”) tied for first
honors. Miss Drummond was a big sur-
prise, for her concert appearances here were
not very illuminating or successful. Evi-
dently grand opera is her forte; she can
act, and she sings Italian better than most
Italians. She played the chief roles of the
two operas. Her Santuzza had all the fire
of the Sicilian, and she was a bright, attrac-
tive Nedda to Balboni’s fine Canio in
"Pagliacei.” Count Filippini acted and
sang his way successfully through both
operas, doing the famous Prologue to “Pagli-
acci” specially well. Plump, pretty and
sweet-voiced Fanny Wood (Lola) made a
capital foil to the fiery Santuzza ; and Wins-
low Knight and the Misses Lilian Mon-
terey and Quirie were commendable. The
discrepancies appeared in the chorus —small
in number, of very little vocal quality
and no balance. The grand opera orchestra
was missing, but the company made shift
with strings and piano (Lute Drummond
at the big instrument, and the Countess
Filippini on the conductor’s stand). The
company has gone to Bananalancl, with
chorus ranks strengthened, for a season in
the Northern capital.
** * *
Going to see “Chu Chin Chow” at the
Opera House has become a habit in Sydney.
And every time the family goes it marvels
more at the scene-painting and the mechanics.
“Nightie Night,” at the Palace, Sydney, is
still extorting the loud laugh that proceeds
from General Satisfaction. “It gets a hold
on you like love,” the Dress-agent avers, and
it is certainly less expensive. Front seats
are only 11s. lid.
* * •-!: *
“The Lilac Domino” will pass melodiously
from Sydney Majesty’s this week, giving
way to “Firefly.” “Firefly” is described
by those who should know as “a real comic
opera,” and there is certainly nothing bogus
about the principals, who include such
artists as Rene Maxwell, George Gee and
Ralph Errolle.
“The Sign on the Door” is drawing record
houses to Sydney Criterion and the cast
has settled down resignedly for an unpre-
cedented run.
A Sydney show of paint and patches:—
Howard Ashton, one of Sydney’s best painters,
does not altogether do himself justice in his uneven
Collection of pastels and oil-paintings at Gayfield
Shaw’s Gallery in Elizabeth-street. But, though only
a few of the pictures show his later development, and
though these, more closely approximating the truths
of light and color, have for neighbors some that are
decidedly false and extravagant in this respect, it is
nevertheless an interesting and wholesome show.
Generally lie chooses the simplest subject, and in
his best picture, “The Dead Tree” (No. 36), ably
demonstrates that a stubble field .broken only by a
lone dead tree, with distant Ranks of bush on low,
green hills, may be a beautiful arrangement and
sufficient to make a satisfying picture. He might
have been as successful in “Woolpacks” (No. 11)
and one or two others were it not for a certain
spottiness in hiS handling. This, employed so often,
suggests a mannerism, obvious enough to compel
thoughts about paint at the expense of one’s interest
in the subject.
Mr. Ashton looks out on Nature with an eye fully
alive to the beauty of light; and, while he does go
far toward giving us an accurate record of his impres-
sions—as in “Bondi Beach” (No. 1) and “Across
the Moor” (No. 17) —one feels that he is capable of
even better work, and that a certain element of
prettiness dominating his least important pictures,
still present in his better, but almost entirely absent
from his best, is not the result of a small outlook,
but of unsuccessful building on to foundations that
have not been carefully enough laid down in the
first place.
Louise Glaum is on the Sydney Lyceum
programme this week as “The Leopard
Woman.” She is the super-cat who stalks
a man on a secret mission in Africa ; but; of
course, the fade-out sees her a domesticated
tabby and the pair reconciled. Tom Moore
tops up the meal with “Stop, Thief!” iu
which a parson speeds up in order to marry
three pairs at once. During the interval
at this house Devron Brock sings a song or
two. “To Please One Woman,” at the Globe,
is reminiscent of the recent Tozer tragedy,
and the publicity agents have worked a con-
nection between the two for all it is worth.
(Flappers should take a full supply of
hankies.) To counterbalance it is a healthy
comedy with Bryant Washburn as “An
Amateur Devil.” Karl Marx disciples and
corpulent profiteers are agreed that “The
World Aflame” at the Empress should never
have passed the film censor. It is another
propaganda picture with an alleged solution
of all industrial troubles. Lawn-tennis enthu-
siasts who hadn’t an aeroplane to take them
to Maoriland for the Davis Cup matches
are catered for at the Strand. Also ran:
Shirley Mason as a graduate from an orphan-
age in a Fox film, "Girl of My Heart.” At
Hoyt’s, Sydney Fairbrother, in a “human
interest” picture called “Laddie,” plays the
little old mother whose son is ashamed of
her and passes her off as his nurse.
Sydney Tivoli presents a first National
thriller this week in "Nomads of the North,”
for whose finale there is a roaring forest
fire and a decent sort of Canadian Nor’-West
trooper letting a prisoner scot-free. A tamed
grizzly and a dog also come in for a hand-
clap when they rescue their mistress from
the hands of the villain. Owen Moore
appears in a piece of drollery with compli-
cations called “A Chicken in the Case.” And
Fred G. Mumford bosses an orchestra in
shirt-sleeves and flowing bow ties, while bari-
tone Fred Collier lifts his voice in song.
Wirth Bros.’ Circus, which has been in-
habiting Sydney Hippodrome for the last
two months, is about to move out on the old
road—the road that is always new. To-
morrow night’s offertory goes to the unem-
ployed.
* >!« >;s sjs
That Australians have written real poetry
and composed real music was illustrated
again last week at the King’s Hall, Sydney,
by Justin Vaughan Flynn, helped, as to the
music, by Mrs. H. B. Allard and Vern Bar-
nett. Flynn has a fine voice, and interprets
Australian verse with sympathy and skill.
Among his audience was Education Minister
Mutch, who is credited with a notion of doing
something for the literature of his native
land by spreading a knowledge of it in the
schools.
Lionel Lawson, notwithstanding the years
he spent with the 11.F.C. learning the tech-
nique of ’planes, has lost none of his facile
fingering and bowing, as his violin proved at
the Sydney Conservatorium last week. It
exhibited a beautiful singing tone, and he a
fine execution in the concerto in F shprp
minor (Vieuxtemps), a Schumann sonata,
and several new works. Incidentally, the
fiddle was a Strad. Pianist Laurence God-
frey Smith added some solos to his friend’s
programme.
v y
“Irene,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, has re-
ceived a much-needed shake-up from the
company, and the long yarn that the leading-
lady spins to Mr. Marshall in the first act
“WELCOME STRANGER,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
John D. O’Hara asks Jules Jordan to put
some money into his town-lighting
scheme.
sounds much less like a recitation than it
did. Also, the heroic utterances of Mr.
Marshall on the same occasion have been
toned down, or pruned, and the compara-
tively polished comedy of Paunceforte, as
Robert Harrison, is now snappy where it
formerly was mechanical. What will always
be lacking is a touch of real human nature.
Snatches of conversation between Irene and
her mother nearly get there, but the illusion
is promptly dispelled by the apparition of
those two ghostly Bowrnry girls at the win-
dows overhead. And when they dance with
the little raucous-voiced man-milliner!
When they dance and sing! The house usu-
ally roars and wants it all over again, but
the story receives a stousli on the point that
puts it to sleep.
-”Y\ elcome Stranger” is breaking no re-
cords at Melbourne King’s. It doesn’t
improve under the microscope. Jules Jordan
“THE LILAC DOMINO,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
George Gee as Prosper.
and John O’Hara are realistic impersona-
tors of their natural selves amid surround-
ings of unrealism. There’s no sincerity in
the play save its propaganda, and whether
the propaganda seem true or false is mostly
a matter of the Jewishness or Gentility of
the citizen who is considering it. Nothing
in the show is quite so unquestionable as the
fact that true melodrama is inconsistent with
the short skirts of a modern Lizette Parkes.
Suffering from false accusations against her
in-no-cence, Lizette would be as convention-
ally impressive as any of the distressed hero-
ines of yore used to be if she wore a long
gown instead of a frock with shapely legs
at the end of it. Melodrama belongs to the
age of long drag skirts. An injured heroine
who has no tail to swish when she flies
from the room looks very like an angel with-
out any wings.
* * s!: *
“Tommy’s French Wife,” the Fullers’
opening shriek at Melbourne Princess’s on
Saturday, deals with the clouded life of
Lulu Graystone, who is left in the grip of
a pacifist family while her hubby is away at
the war. The poor girl (Vera Remge) is
soon kicked out with an alleged stain on her
character, and the arrival of a baby deepens
the blot to the extent of stirring her now
blinded husband to a state of homicidal
mania. Happily the warrior’s sight is re-
stored by a magnificent surgeon, and then
Nellie Ferguson and Victor Fitzherbert con-
fess their joint authorship of all the con-
tumely and false witness that has made
Vera resemble a study by Elinor Glyn.
Nellie’s motive for her wickedness is an
unaccountable craving for Austen Milroy,
who, despite his fighting instincts, has the
pulpit tone and uplift manner of his dreary
old dad—the latter presented with a sort
of oratorio personality by the company’s
plump tenor, Jack Kirby. There is also a
decayed spinster with auburn ringlets who
grows skittish and uncertain under the care
of Helen Fergus, but none of these people
compare with Victor Fitzherbert, who is
the snake in the household and grows tojtlie
proportions of a python in his attempt to
wreck the Seventh Commandment.
A few symptoms of tiredness are all that’s
the matter with “Maid of the Mountains” at
Melbourne Royal. The show has now
turned into its second hundred of perform-
ances, and for the moment, perhaps, it has
a stitch in the side whilst waiting for its
second wind. But there is no fear of a
slump. “Maid of the Mountains” is the sort
of thing that Australia seems unlikely to
get in the dark days of combine that loom
ahead, and no discerning theatregoer will
forget to go and see the picturesque and
tuneful spectacle while he may.
V ❖ v
At Melbourne Tivoli the screen is splashed
with criminality and evil purpose. In
“Kalda Ruby” the crooks are fast goers,
full of mischief, but in “The Master Mind,”
which is the mind of Lionel Barrymore
devoted to a long and futile revenge on be-
half of an electrocuted little brother who
didn’t look worth it, the bad characters are
merely hired by the year to represent re-
spectability under false pretences. The
singer is Elsie Treweek again. The lady’s
voice is hard and the daws in her artistry
are various, but though her warble be some-
times so-so, her personality is always yes-
yes. It is pleasingly defiant. The lady
looks as though she could take up arms
against a sea of musical troubles, and end
em with a tall top note.
An adaptation of “Mid-Channel” gives
I lnero a small advt. at Melbourne Majestic
tins week, but it doesn't increase the fas-
cination of Clara Kimball Young, whose
conventional movie pantomime can onlv re-
veal half the heart of the leading ladv. ‘ The
passable work of Lucy Cotton makes a
reasonable entertainment of “Blind Love,” a
subject on a lower plane tnan “Mid-
Channel, but embellished with large ouanti-
ties of simple affection. Nazimova in
"M ar Brides" holds the top place on Hoyt’s
programme. The yarn is distinguished for
the remarkable suggestion that women can
make peace permanent by refusing to bear
sons for cannon-fodder. There is no pro-
blem offered in “Blue Streak McCoy.” It is
one of those slices- of American Western life
in which Harry’s hanidy gun turns the
drama in the direction he wants it to travel.
A Prince of Bharata,” dealing with another
attempt at mixing colors in the matrimonial
game, is interesting as an example of the
Danish films that are finding a place on
Australian screens. A convict with a passion
for perfume and a high morality is the
attraction in “Heliotrope” at the Melba. At
the Britannia Madonnas and Men” is pro-
viding a record glimpse of the legs of ancient
Rome.
❖ & sj<
The Bard’s birthday party which the Shak-
speare Society gives at Melbourne Masonic
Hall every April was not so cheerful this
time as the friends of poetic drama could
wisli. The presence of Lady Stradbroke in
a front seat didn’t seem to inspire indi-
vidual reciters or flood vocalists-in-ordinary
with melody. In fact, her Ex.’s gracious
smile failed even to influence Prof. Wallace's
foggy enunciation when he made a few
remarks. An oasis in the desert of diction
was the coupling of two scenes from “Much
Ado, by Charlotte Hemming and Frank
Russell. She is an artist with a per-
sonality, and he a satisfactory Benedick to
her Beatrice. Among musical features on
the menu two courses of violin solo by
Alberto Zelman made amends for many
other things. Zelman talks to one’s heart,
where. Verbrugghen speaks to one’s head,
and his manner is as pleasing as his tone.
* $ *
A little Melbourne show :—•
Some of the water-colors exhibited by M. W.
O’Connell at the Athenaeum suggest that lie has been
influenced by Blamire Young. “Castles in the Air,”
for instance, shows the .Japaneasy treatment of trees
that is sumptuously advertised in Young’s decora-
tions. In “Cattle in Shade” the manner is carried
a little further, the foliage of the trees rising like
plumes of green smoke above the tree-butts and the
cattle lying around. “Sunrise on the Promontory”
gives a salmon-tinted mountain with the same
skiagraphic vegetation invading' the picture. O’Con-
nell, however, has an attractive palette, and there
is a youthful freshness in the handling of his sub-
jects that appeals to one strongly after the academic
gentility of more seasoned men. As a painter of
evenings he scores many points, his “Purple Eve,”
priced at three guineas, being a gift for the money.
But O’Connell is not over-confident in shadow pro-
blems. In “Sunlight and Shade” they ruin the fore-
ground of an otherwise pleasing composition.
The bright, clean humor of “Going Up’
has been much relished on its revival at
Adelaide Royal; it also has the advantage of
giving the tremendously popular Frith his
biggest chance. There followed “High
•links,” which exists mainly on two tunes,
and is as unmistakably French in origin as
Yes, Uncle,” which ended a. jolly season.
Cyril Ritchards dances as well as eyer, and
is promoted to Greene’s old part of the re-
vengeful “High Jinks” Frenchman, Greene
himself now playing the lead. Dorothy
Pur dell has some good minor parts, too;
Adelaide has always had a fondness for her
since she played the leading lady in “Fair
and Warmer.” Gilbert and Sullivan follow
at once. Pictures suggest the zoo. At
Wonderarraph is “Tiger True,” in which
Frank Mavo -“.fought for his mate in the
jungle of the city, and won her by right of
claw and fang,” while at West’s Louise
Glaum is a “Leonard Woman.” The
Majestic has something novel, starring the
freckled Wesley Barry, who is getting a big
boy now. The Majestic variety turns are
still mainly Stiffy and Mo, but there are
some clever dogs and cycling girls.
Galsworthy and Temple Thurston are the
latest English dramatists to gain a hearing on
the continent of Europe. The Dutch have run
Thurston’s “Wandering Jew” for a long
season following on the new-comer Hutchin-
son’s “Right to Strike” —already secured for
Australia and (in a localised form) for the
U.S.A. This last play and Galsworthy’s
“Skin Game” are being translated into Flem-
ish also for early production in Antwerp.


BUTTER SCOTCH
■ WAFERS ■
|JacKeci in i -
/lirtighl Tins.
5/o each
POSTAGE 6?EXTRA
Sent to any address in rfustra/ia.
'tL
Afcw jirv
0n«
HKrl i
- ;
On/y /fddress
I62fitt Si SYDNEY.
Keep the Doors of Memory Open with
An Ansco Vest Pocket No. 2.
A CAMERA which is replacing the pocket-
diary, because pictures taken with it tell
stories quicker and better than words. No
posing or seeking the best light necessary.
It takes the picture where the picture is and
takes it right.
The size of the picture is 2\ x 3\ inches, and
the negatives make fine enlargements.
Price, with Modico Anastigmat Lens F7‘s, £8
L T “
“THe House for GOOD Cameras,**
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
ha RRINGTONS’ sell kodaks.
" Half-a-
Teaspoonful”
s*.
( V
N
- :
Sffisclien 90
Chaining the active principles of fc p celc
9 teaspoonful of this SaJ ®
T h s f ou ld be taken each morni 0
iroL > sche n Salt is a remedy
m the blood
offering from ?5
ifJJ® Constipation Liver and Ki
r l most useful
i taken for a c&f* J
& t 0 assure its full effect^'
■LI m ß,ff,Ths HUGH!rrra>^
Eneland £mMs^^o
Two months of clear-eyed
health for two-and-sixpence
AUSTRALIANS are a specially favored
nation. They get plenty of food, sun-
shine and fresh air. But, usually, they
eat too much meat. This—and a variable
climate—put an undue strain on the liver.
A sluggish liver —one that is performing its vital
cleansing and regulating functions imperfectly —is the
nucleus of many troubles. Constipation, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sciatica—all these come from a disorded
liver.
Yet “half-a-teaspoonful” of Kruschen Salts—taken in hot
water each morning—will prevent these ills and keep you
brisk, fresh, alert, eager and capable for business and
pleasure.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists 2/6 per bottle
Enough for two months
The diet of the modern man—because many foods have valuable
elements “refined” out of them—is usually deficient in those salines
essential to healthy life. Kruschen Salts supply these.
Kruschen Salts are now sold in the New Dry Powder form. This is a
great improvement on the Crystals. The new style allows the dosage
to be measured better. This means greater exactness, better results
and—the Salts go farther.
Australia: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. & W. Grear, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, also at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct Indents executed by the
manufacturers through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand: Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
Fairbaim Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington, Auckland
and Dunedin.
NOTE:--Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes Ltd., established 1756, in the reign of
George the Second.
702 a


The QUICK CUT AUTO LOGGER
The Only Machine in the World that can Fell a Tree Level to the Grcund.
S&rf
A FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH.
He who buys labor-saving
machinery made locally is a
benefactor to his country and
himself.
Australian Invention. Manufactured in Australia.
For particulars writs— “QUICK CUr,” 905 Rathdowne Street, North Carlton, Victoria
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion BooK
Shows all the newest in Women's ear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Tig"’; The late Pete Hughes, well known
in Australia as a theatrical manager and
most efficient advance-agent, was grievously
handicapped in being unable to read and
willing to. perish rather than admit it. On
one occasion at a country hotel in Victoria
the postman handed him on the verandah
what he conceived to be an important: letter
lie was expecting from the head in Mel-
bourne. He kept the missive all day, and in
the evening said 1o the maid: “What a pity
it. is a bright girl like you can’t read! I
might have had a good job for you in town
if you’d been able to read and write.” “But
I can,” said the maid indignantly. “They
told me you couldn’t. Here” —he threw the
letter to her—“here’s a letter .from the
theatrical firm I represent. Bead it out.”
The girl took the letter and read: “P.
Hughie, Esq. Dear sir,—With regard to
the leakage from the barrel of beer, of which
you complain, allowance will be made for
two and a half gallons.” The landlord was
P. llughie.
“THE Slay ON THE DOOR," AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Lafe Regan (Win. J. Kelly) calls to inflict
assault and battery on the villain
Devereaux ( Chas. White).
“E.T.”: Dot Boucioatilt was a sick man
when the last mail left England. He super-
intended the final rehearsals of the new play
for Mrs. Dot flrene Vanbrugh), at the
Duke of York's, from a specially-built couch
in the stalls. His pluck was rewarded inas-
much as the production is pronounced a big
hit. The piece is “Mis’ Nell o’ New Orleans,”
and is one of only two plays from the U.S.A.
in London bills at the moment. “The Great
Lover” at the Shaftesbury is the other.
“E.F.”: The Captain Smith who beat
Colonel Tim Mclnerney badly at a Mel-
bourne City Council election the other day,
being a son of the late irrepressible L. L.
Smith, is therefore grandson of that E. T.
Smith who ran Oremorne Gardens and
Astley’s Theatre in London half a century
( ago. lie’ll surely push into Parliament,
like his late lively dad before him. The
. spirit of the showman is in the blood.
And there are brains with the blood.
“First Trombone”: When an Anglo-Dago
eo. was preparing a production of “Madame
Butterfly” at a Melbourne theatre, the gaiter
of a small band of scene-shifters, who was
inordinately intelligent for a scene-shifter,
approached the stage-manager. The leading
soprano was singing her chief solo, containing
the line, “And then the ship appearing.”
“Say, Mr. 8.,” said he, “what about these
—— sheep?” “What sheep?” demanded the
manager. “Well, here’s the big singer singin’
like about the sheep appearing,
and if no sheep appear what the
is the show goin’ to look like?”
“Audio”: Two heads are better than one
in a proverb, but at a movie show a better
view is possible when each person keeps
his head to himself. The other night the
couple in front of me were exchanging a
rapid fire of kisses, and as the lady appeared
the more enthusiastic offender I mildly in-
quired whether she couldn't satisfy her thirst
while the ads. were on or after the show.
She looked at me in surprise, and then quite
seriously whispered over the back of her
chair: “You see, I haven’t seem him for
three months.” I apologised.
“C. Ockney”: A sporty kind of theatrical
manager, of a type rare in England, is
Charles Cochran. Some little time ago he
made the veteran Arthur Roberts an offer
of £lOOO a year
for life, which the
comedian—well on
in the ’seventies—
accepted. The
deal has turned
out so far
factorily for both
parties. Roberts
is playing in Coch-
ran’s very profit-
able revue, “Lon-
don, Paris an d
New York,” at the
London Pav., and
with all his old-
time success. He
has been in receipt
of big money all
through his career,
but duns have pur-
sued him unceas-
ingly—mostly with
very poor results.
He once collabor-
ated in writing a
musical play for
his own use, and
appeared on the
programme as
“Payne Nun n.”
Therein the vola-
tile joker was tak-
ing a leaf out of
the book of his pal,
the late Jimmy
Davis. Jimmy
was the invariably
“Irene," at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Beaumont Collins as
Mrs. O'Dare, Irene's
mother.
“stoney” little man who wrote the libretti
of “Floradora,” “The Geisha” and many
another winner under the name of Owen
Hall.
“124”: Often the stage shows Nature
what a slattern she is. Becently I had to
“do” in one day a found-drowned at the
morgue and a critique of “Hamlet,” and
couldn’t help noticing the difference in stage-
management. Ophelia, when they fished her
out from where a willow had let her down to
a muddy death, was just beautiful —not even
her hair or frock was wetted or disarrayed.
Her cheeks retained their peach-like pink;
her rosebud mouth was wreathed in a sweet
smile, not dropped horridly; her eyes wove
closed in dreamy reverie, not staring with
the white rolled up; her fairy form was
svelte as ever, not swollen to caricature.
No fish and sea-lice had nibbled at her; no
snags had torn her; no torture of asphyxia-
tion had marred her pleasure of dying artis-
tically. When it comes to mirroring—
thanks, the stage will do me.
“Hal”: Tie “Hamfat’s” reference (B.
14/4/’2l) to the filming of “A Message from
Mars” in 1903. This picture—a M.L. product
—was the first ever staged in which trick
protography was resorted to for dramatic
effect. The producer was W. Franklyn Bar-
rett, and the film was a “super-feature”—of
400 feet!
“Epacris” : As to catchwords or phrases re-
minding one of old operas, (“0.K.,” B.
14/4/’2l), the following, I think, are still
much in evidence : “But where do I come in?”
and “You keep dark on the weather bow.” both
from “Paul Jones”; “Bob up serenely” from
“Olivette”; and “You are queen of my
heart” from “Dorothy.”
“0.K.”: Illustrated souvenirs of James K.
Ilackett’s Loudon production of "Macbeth”
have arrived m Australia, which suggests
that the American actor again thinks of
coining this way. I have an old volume of
Shakspeare published in America —and pre-
sented, by the way, to Georgia Hodson, the
wife of Lister, the grand-opera impresario--
in which one of the engravings represents
“Mr. Hackett as Falstaff.” Probably it was
'the grandfather of the modern Hackett who
specialises in “Macbeth.” Other famous
actors pictured are John Drew (father of
Sidney) as Aguechcek, Macready as Shy-
lock. Mr. and Mrs. Wood as Touchstone and
Audrey, P. Riehings as a ridiculouslv elderly
Richard 11., Edwin Lester (with curly side-
whiskers and mo) as Henry V., Thomas
Hamblin as Coriolanus, Edmund Kean as
Richard 111., Mrs. Mowatt (with ringlets
and long lace-trimmed sleeves) as the most
feminine of “manly” Rosalinds, G. F. Daven-
port as Othello, Julia Dean as Beatrice, and
the Cushman sisters as Romeo and Juliet.
So the Hackett of half a century ago. pre-
senting Falstaff as a fat man in frilled wide
pants of the Charles 11. period, must have
been a mummer of note. They dressed as
they jolly well pleased in those times, and
their staginess fills the eye, in most instances.
But they were “legitimate.” Nobody knows
exactly what “legitimate” stood for. Con-
sistent unnaturalism, perhaps. But whatever
it was the star actors of the period had to
cut their art to suit the tradition.
“K.T.S.”: A new play being tried in
London is called simply “Love?” The note
of interrogation possibly avoids infringement
of the prior claim of Sheridan Knowles’s
old play with otherwise exactly the same
title. The idea opens up possibilities. I
have certainly seen a performance which
would have been best fitted by t-lie simple title
“Hamlet?”
The linotype got in some ungallant work
in Adelaide Register the other day. The
dramatic critic was talking of Dorothy Brun-
ton’s later and more sophisticated stvle, and
this is how it came out: “Miss Brunton,
both in her acting and singing, was dainty
and engaging, with here and there a new
rougish touch which contrasted with the
simplicity of other days.”
“Hamfat”: The picture-people have not
waited to make a movie of the Mort case in
order to work on the “boom” the sensation
created. Taking a film fresh from U.S.A.,
this is how the puff-man advertises it-
The Unfortunate Romance of a Young Doctor
and an Attractive Patient.
She was just a foolish woman, languishing, blasS,
neurotic.... He was a handsome and rising young
medico who has just made one mistake, though
fatal....
And the advertisement is illustrated with a
picture of a woman standing over a
prostrate man, whilst a revolver lies on the
floor.
Drury Lane theatre, London, has put up
its record run with “The Garden of Allah.”
But it was a distinction easily won. Before
long runs came into fashion, Drury Lane
was always a pantomime house at Christ-
mas, and the other attraction of the moment,
however successful, always had to move out.
This year, Hichens’s desert drama just kept
right on. So Madge Titheradge has broken
the record of the house with a mere 300 per-
formances.
Patricia B.”: Died recently, in Brisbane,
a near relative of Cesare Cutolo, a noted
Italian musician, who held successful con-
certs in Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney in
the ’sixties. After passing through the Con-
servatoire of Music, Naples, Cutolo joined
the Garibaldians, being appointed on the
staff of the red-shirted liberator, and serv-
ing in most of his campaigns. In 1860 he
arrived in Sydney, where he married the
widow of Mr. Heath, a chemist. He opened
a studio for the teaching of music and
among his pupils was the son of Governor
Denison. Later he accepted a lucrative offer
to settle in Victoria, and was on his way
there in the vessel Alexandra, when he was
killed by the spanker boom falling on him.
An action was begun by his widow r trainst
the A.S.N. Co., and the co. paid £lOOO and
costs to settle it.
“Alquoholl”: I have a play-bill of the
opening on Jan. 4, 1854 of the first theatre
in Bendigo (Vic.), called the Theatre Royal.
It was 73ft. x 30ft., with slab walls Bft.
high. The “large and highly-talented com-
pany from London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Mel-
bourne and Sydney” performed Buhver’s “The
Lady of Lyons.” Mr. Yates (Claude Mel-
notte) was the star artist; Miss Wernham
was Pauline. The audience numbered 600
and the prices look modern— stalls 10s. 6d.,
reserved seats. 7s. 6d. and back seats ss.
The play wasTollowed by a “Grand Concert.”
The same company afterwards played
“Othello,” “Charles II.,” “Merchant of
Venice” and “The Waterman.” One of the
company, E. W. Shearcroft, was given a
benefit subsequently, at which J. li. Greville,
the fine comedian of later years, sang an ori-
ginal local and topical song.
. ,‘‘J-UH.” There’s a candor about Ade-
laide Evening Journal that grips you. In a
notice of 'lrene it says: “It is not sur-
prising that it is being so favorably received
by Adelaide audiences—hypocritical as they
are known to be.”
“E.T.”: In his interesting resume of old-
time comic-song catch phrases (B. 14/4/'2l)
O.K. missed the one which, generally
accepted, has passed into the language. He
mentions the title of the ditty, “’E dunno
where ’e are,” but not the happy “On his
own” which originated in the same song—
“Drinkin’ Scotch-an’-soda on his own."
Everybody uses the expression nowaday. But
nobody was guilty of the vulgarism before
Gus Elen introduced his coster ballad.
“THE LILAC DOMINO," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Mel. Ward in a gollywog dance.
“T. D. Emdee”: It was flip success
achieved in the amateur performance referred
to by “Fax” (B. 21/4/’2l) that put Rose
Musgrove on the professional stage from
which marriage to a Ceylon planter long
since retired her. Papa George was opposed
to Rosie appearing even as an amateur,
but was reconciled when he saw her act.
She under-studied Henrietta Watson in
“The King’s Musketeer” at Sydney
Majesty’s, and when Henrietta was indis-
posed went on and played Milady with
so many delightful little comedy touches that
she was soon starred in “The Marriage of
Kitty”—after J.C.W. had combed England
to get some one better.
“Film Up”: An American moving-picture
in which a Japanese actor starred has been
adapted to the stage by two French libret-
tists, and made into an opera, which has just
been successfully produced in Paris. It
will in the course of time find its way to
England, where Yankee “presidents” of amal-
gamated film companies will see it. The
rights for the screen will thereupon be bought
and the story re-adapted, and anon a film
will be “released” as “the wonder picture
founded on the great French opera.” It’s
a case of churn and churn about with movie
plots.
“8.. J.” (Lond.) : Somerset Maugham seems
to have acquired the knack of writing plays
which keep newspaper scribes guessing.
“The Unknown,” staged here a few months
back, was discussed by parsons and others
as though the writer had laid the foundations
of a new theology, and now “The Circle” is
condemned by some critics as an outrage-
ously immoral play—one calls it “a tract
in favor of free love” —and considered by
other commentators to be the best thing
Maugham has yet done. On the first night
some of the gods were seized with a rush of
morality to the lungs and started boohing.
Yet the thing is merely a witty comedy in
which a young wife decides to follow the
example set by her husband’s mother 30
years earlier, and elope with another gent.
The sinners of long ago are dragged in to
serve as a warning to the young wife to keep
off the grass, but the spectacle of a moder-
ately grande passion in the early stages of
senile decay does not keep her to the path of
duty, and this is what annoyed the gallery.
Its idea of a “ ’appy ending” would be for
her to stay with her impossible husband.
Maugham made the further mistake, from the
point of view of that gallery, of not wrap-
ping up the sinful act in the tissue paper
of sentimentality. He makes it quite plain
that the eloping couple (like the middle-
aged couple who had previously taken the
wrong turning) will quarrel, become bored
with one another, and finally settle down to
make the best of things, for all the world as
though they were a respectable married pair.
THE VILLAIN PASSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The black-browed villain with his scowl and his
cigar has had his day.”
Ah, do not say that ne’er again
We'll sec the whole-souled villain act —
The wretch who laughed at beauty’s pain,
Who death inflicted with no grain
Of weak remorse, although in fact
The victims of his foolish spite
Were sweet, and good, and most polite.
A thin, tall man in flapping bags,
With lank, black hair; his cigarette
Was proof the vice of smoking fags
Will make us all detested lags.
lie stalked across the stage and met
The heroine, jocosely then
Insulted her before all men.
The hero rushed, and to the sod
He struck the vile one. “Dog, beware!”
Vnd writhing there in manner odd
The villain swore before his god
lie would ker-ush the tender pair;
And all his life devoted he
To shameless, nameless perfidy. .
With railway engines, whirling saws,
Wrecked viaducts and ruined dams,
Outraging man’s and heaven’s laws,
With flashing eyes and champing jaws,
Huge trees and great hydraulic rams,
With earthquakes and volcanic flame
lie sought the girl to kill or malm.
And shall we never more behold
Him hiding publicly beside
His black accomplice, see his cold,
Malicious eye, nor hear him scold
In ranting tones Ills wrath to hide?
Without its villains there can be
No virtue in the play for me.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


ir^.
Mmmtff
R
C
O
,
Standardised
French
Th
x. x--- .. -JGL JSL M,
€
m
m
m&w mm
N
■"i
v
36 Miles to the Gallon
Citroen double helicle gears, as
shown below, provide 98%
efficiency as proved by Hop-
kinson’s tests. In Citroen gears
a comparatively greater num-
ber of teeth are engaged at any
given moment, and in such a
way that the power to be trans-
mitted is distributed over the
whole length of the arc of en-
gagement. This feature reduces
the strain per square inch, gives
greater strength, makes them
unusually silent in running and
eliminates hammering between
teeth, friction and thrust. No
special lubrication is necessary,
as with Citroen Gears practi-
cally no wear takes place.
//
'//!■
J
///■
S 5
m
<*-
>
J
i
, V\
Specification of the 10-1 SH.P. CITROEN.
THE ENGINE UNIT comprises the motor, clutch and gear-box in one unit
with three-point suspension to the chassis, ami can be taken out without
interfering with the body. . , ,
ENGINE: Four cylinders cast “en bloc” 65 m/m. bore, 100 m/m. stroke.
Effective capacity over ISh.p.
IGNITION: High-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER: Solex. horizontal type, automatic in action.
LUBRICATION: Pressure fed, even to gudgeon pins, and all oil is filtered
before delivery to pressure pump.
CLUTCH: Single dry disc of the most simple and effective type.
GEAR BOX: Three speeds and reverse, top speed being direct drive. All shafts
mounted on ball bearings.
TRANSMISSION: Propeller shaft fitted with two cardan joints. Back axle
mounted entirely on ball bearings. CITROEN CHEVRON GEARS for crown
bevel and differential.
SUSPENSION: Front springs semi-cantilever, back springs in the form of two
pairs of semi-cantilever. This system has proved excellent owing to the main-
tenance of a very rigid alignment and ensures very sweet running, comparable,
in fact, only to that of much larger cars.
STEERING: Right hand steering, irreversible, by worm and toothed sector.
COOLING: Thermo-syphon system. The radiator is of ample size for the
engine, with two water outlets instead of the customary one, and the cooling
is extremely efficient.
BRAKES: Very powerful brakes. Foot brake situated at rear of gear-box, and
the hand brakes operate on hubs of rear wheels.
WHEELS: 5 detachable Michel in disc wheels.
TYRES: 5 Michelin Tyres, 710 x 90.
LIGHTING: Electric, two head lights and rear light are supplied.
SELF STARTER: Electric motor' with gear transmission to fly wheel
HORN: An electric horn is fitted as standard.
SPEED: About 45 miles per hour, any reasonable hill can be taken on top gear.
PETROL CONSUMPTION: About 36 miles to the gallon.
OIL CONSUMPTION: About 1100 miles per gallon.
WHEEL BASE: 110 inches.
WEIGHT: Complete with touring body about 13Jcwt.
ALL BODIES are entirely BUILT IN AUSTRALIA in the latest and smartest
designs and of the best workmanship and materials.
AGENTS!
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Bradley Bros., Ltd., Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Clifton Hill,
Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Moncrieff Engineering Co., Light Square,
Adelaide.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND:
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
TASMANIA
A. E. F. Gurdon, Brisbane.
Winterfcottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc., Christchurch. Leyland Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
Factory
Representatives t
W. A. CROWLE, LIMITED. Crowle House, 161-163 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUfW ?
LEWIS &WnITTY MAKERS
finest Spirit in
ClusiraHafijftistorp
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED
BUTALSO BOTTLED UNDER
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
iiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiimiiiiii
m
URE MALT
m
IUIOINAUSWU*
PROPRIETORS
AUAN OiSnui^ 1 '
nELßOißrt£*
SPORTING NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
St. Kilda beat Northcote by 127 for the
semi-final in Melbourne District Cricket last
week. Saints’ total of 415 made ’Cote's chances
desperate from the outset, but, despite the failures
of the early batsmen, the tail wagged vigorously,
Bailey getting 80, Gibaud 57, and wicket-keeper
Halfpenny 44 n.o. A dogged fighting spirit against
indifferent bowling was responsible for ’Cote’s
brilliant recovery. There was never any doubt about
the result of the P’ran v. Melbourne engagement as
soon as Carl Willis of the former team got busy.
Willis clouted up 136 n. 0., the final tally of 7
for 302 leaving Melbourne 3 wickets and 4 runs to
the bad. Willis has been flogging the ball smartly
of late. His two previous innings yielded 105 and
71. P’fan and St. Kilda started to battle in the
final on Saturday, and Saints, winning the toss,
promise to repeat their performance against North-
cote. At the finish the board showed 3 for 262,
Hotchin and Horan contributing 130 and 92 respect-
'tively, both n.o.
* * * *
“J.H.” (London) : When Armstrong and
co. arrive at Trent Bridge on May 28 for the first
Test they will find a good many new faces in the
English XI. I’m betting, to start with, on Donald
Knight, A. P. F. Chapman and G. T. S. Stevens—
“ Misters” all. Knight is a lovely bat w’ho \Vas at
the top of his form when the A.I.F. lads were over
here in 1919. Young Chapman is the finest outfield,
bar Vernon Ransford, I have ever seen. Cambridge
were nearly leaving him out last year. Then in
an important match preceding the ’Varsity fixture
he knocked up a century per innings by flawless
cricket. He is a fair-headed pleasant youngster, and
if he develops is just the sort to one day lead
an M.C.C. side in Aussie. Stevens, the Oxford “blue,”
is a great cricketer with an ideal Test-match tem-
perament—unsh if table when backs are to the wall.
He and G. E. C. Wood, the ex-Cambridge wicket-
keeper—probably a better ’keeper and certainly a
better bat than “Struddy”—were about the only
two amateurs to make a stand against the Players
at Lords last season. At slip Stevens has no superior
in England. Spooner, Jupp and Barnes are all sure
to be oh deck when the gong goes for the first
round, ar.d I wouldn’t be surprised to see George
Gunn, Mead and E. Tyldesley chosen. M. Falcon,
who is an M.P. but play's cricket when Lloyd George
lets him off, and Jack White (Bucks) are two classy
fast bowlers. The cream of these players, with
Hobbs, Hearne, Ilendren, Woolley and J.W.H.T., are
likely to give Warwick Armstrong some anxious
moments, though my own money is on Australia.
* * * *
Naming: racehorses after prominent mum-
mers doesn’t always bring them into the limelight.
There was a nag called Barry Lupino in training a
year or two ago, but he never proved himself as
quick on his legs as the comedian. At Sandown
(Vic.) last week Sam Mackay’s colt Lionel Attwill,
by EaYlston—Burletta, full-brother to Radnor, won his
first race, after many previous attempts. He is
christened after the Westralian owner’s son-in-law, the
bright English “Juvenile” of the sporty Drury Lane
Drama, “The Whip,” seen here some few years back.
“W.M.W.” on a disastrous meeting:—
Deloraine (Tas.) Turf Club’s Easter meeting is
easily the Speck’s most important race-fixture; one-
tenth of the entire population foregather for it. A
certain parson of the town, realising, no doubt, the
futility of preaching against racing, supplicated Heaven
that there might be no accidents. The result pro-
vided a remarkable example of the inettieacy of prayer.
In the Grand National Steeplechase Toiler fell at the
first fence and his rider died a few hours later. Tom
Splendour, in the lead, came a cropper in the Trial
Hurdles, and the jockey was badly knocked about by
the oncoming field. Orsay fell in the G. N. Hurdle
and broke his neck. His rider is still in a serious
condition. Philomel' came down in the same race, his
rider breaking a collar-bone. Three other jocks had
minor falls. Incidentally, not a single favorite got
home first.
Since “Ouida” wrote about horse-racing
nothing stranger has been done than the journalistic
comments in the Australian press on the Prince of
Wales’s sporting activities. The Argus last week,
after referring to the Prince’s “debut as a steeple-
chase rider’’ in a point-to-point over the Bicester
country (though a point-to-point isn’t a steeple-
chase), went on: “Australians.... did not let him
come home without some tips regarding the best
way to negotiate timber, and the Prince did not
disgrace his Australian friends.” The implication
plainly is that he jumped timber in Oxfordshire,
where little or none is to be met with, even in the
rough-and-tumble of the hunting-field. Point-to-
point courses are practically never laid over timber
in England. “With catch-weights at 12st. 71b.,”
proceeded the Argus, “he had to carry more than
2st. of dead weight.” In fact, it was not a catch-
weight event, but one for heavyweight hunters. It
is the sort of stuff that puts Australian papers on a
par with the Yankee sheets which every August
write of “the crack of the rifle being heard in
Scotia’s grouse-forests.”
* « * *
“Mujik”: Of course, some 6f these thou-
sand-guinea yearlings bought the other' day at Syd-
ney .sales may be in front at the right time, but it
would be safe to lay odds against it happening to
even one of them. It must be a terribly expensive
form of vanity or optimism that induces a man to
separate himself from these large wads for the pur-
pose of acquiring a juvenile mystery. Take the
horses that have done conspicuous things at Rand-
wick lately. Speciality, winner of the Doncaster
and All-Aged Stakes, was bought for £lOO. Wish
Wynne, a brilliant sprinter, second in the Doncaster
and winner of the Flying next day, fetched £25.
David, winner of the three miles w.f.a. Plate, was
got for £4O; Salitros for £350; Alfort for £250 ;
Swift Shot (Tatt.’s Cup), three times a winner in
five starts, for £5O. It was always worth remember-
ing, too, that there were no buyers for Wolaro'i as
a yearling, nor for Poitrel, though vast sums were
h'-fin"- thrown round for animals never heard of after-
wards.
• » » *
The new Betting Code, recently adopted
by Sydney sporting bodies and forwarded to the
V.R.C. for approval, pro' ably was a guide in a
recent dispute, settled by that august body, the
committee of the V.R.C. A punter had backed a
course double on the third day of the V.R.C. Spring
races, and as his second “leg” was scratched before
the first started he claimed that he should not pay.
McShortodds thought he should, and the case came
for decision. The code provided for it generally
and specifically, and the bookie had to accept a
knock-out. The chairman of the drafting committee,
Mick Kinnane, is a retired bookmaker whose know-
ledge of the laws of the game is of the highest.
* * * *
“Concession” bookmaking, which seems
more remunerative even than “1 pay the u'in-ner ;
the icin-nev I pay,” looks very ridiculous in the light
of tote dividends paid at Port Adelaide recently.
Five of the highest divs. on the £ machine were
40}, 20}, 12, and 7i twice, the 20} div. being paid
on a runner-up. The same nag, backed with a “con-
cession” Ikey, would have returned the punter’s
stake! A place bookmaker on the course would have
offered, say 4 to I, which is perhaps saying more
than wouid have been the case. But still the
influence of Ikey’s friends in politics keeps the
tote from getting a fair run in N. S. Wales or any
run at all in Victoria.
* * * *
Jack Green, feather-weight champion of
Australia, failed to last three rounds with the Fili-
pino, Villon, at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
He is suffering from what the medical profession
calls “functional nervous disorder,” the outcome
of his first k.o. defeat at the hands of Criqui.
“Terror,” quoth the sage, “represents a general inhi-
bition of inter;-si and external response and a
simulation of death.” The chubby-faced Sydney boy
made response to all three tests. For two and a
half rounds he showed a pitying house that his speed
and confidence were gone; and Villon’s right upper-
cut, and the left and right which followed it, pro-
duced in him an excellent illusion of mortality. The
boy whom Joe Symonds considered equal to anything
of his weight in Europe needs a long rest before he
again faces one even in the crude Villon class.
STONE defeats EDWARDS in a gory fight
at Melbourne Stadium.
On .Saturday night, at Melbourne Stadium,
Harry Stone beat his old opponent Llew Edwards on
points. The contest went the full 20 rounds, and
there was much blood. Edwards had repeatedly to
wipe the blood away with his glove to see his oppo-
nent. Sometimes he wiped it on his opponent.
Stone hit again and again, but Edwards kept
going. Stone came back with his old “Hop, Harry,
hop,” doing quaint step dances before rushing in.
Some of these feet movements were of surprising
speed. The Stadium was packed, crowds hammered
outside for admission, and those within the building
made enough row to drown the gong.
Both Stone and Edwards weighed out as welters.
The latter was in poor nick for him, his face show-
ing the ravages of too much work and punishment.
The Hebrew was his old spectacular, busy self. It
was in the fifth round that the Lonsdale Belt holder
had his left eye badly opened, and thereafter Stone
continually peppered his man where the attention
was calculated to do most damage. Edwards battled
gamely, but the Yankee veteran was too fast and
strong, and at the end of the 20 rounds the enemy
proceeded dejectedly to his dressing-room to have six
stitches put in one eye and four in the other.
VILLON, the Filipino featherweight, who
scored a sensational k.o. victory over
“ Jacky ” Green, featherweight champion,
of Australia.
N. S. Wales Rugby League competition
opened on Saturday and 20,000 barrackers invaded
Sydney Cricket Ground to see Norths, skippered by
Harold Ilorder, wallop Souths, led by his brother
“Spot.” Scores, 15 points (3 tries 3 goals) to 11
points (3 tries 1 goal). It was the Norths’ first
victory over the Rabbitos in seven years. Despite
an advantage in weight of over a half a stone per
man in the vanguard, the red and blacks were
fully extended in the scrums, where E. Wilmot, a
last-year’s junior, snared the leather as often as
George Green, Norths’ clever rake. At the end of
the first half Norths led by only 1 point—9 to 8
(3 tries to 2 tries and goal). In the second
McKivatt’s lot had the nor’easter (such as it was) as
well as the sun behind them, and Harold Horder
kicked two goals. Duncan Thompson’s contribution
was a neat penalty goal. Souths toiled hard, how-
ever, and the speedy Moloney, who was playing his
first senior game, by a splendid dodgy sprint crossed
in the corner. The tackling of both sides was solid,
but in attack each missed golden opportunities. The
best forward on the grass was ex-Bananaland rep.
E. McGrath, of the Rabbitos, who never once let up
and tackled like a demon. Oxford had a day off as a
goaler and seriously damaged the red and green
pack’s chance in the scrums by wandering about
among the backs. Duncan Thompson and Dallas
Hodgins behind the Norths' pack were too slick
for Blair and Swinnerton. Harold Horder effec-
tively disproved a rumor that the Southerner, Mick
Moloney, was his master for speed. He overshadowed
the apprentice throughout. “Spot” Horder was the
Rabbitos’ best back, and set his outsider moving
upon the slightest provocation. “Tiny” Ives, Geo.
Horsey and C. McGrath were Norths’ busiest for-
wards. Blinkhorn, Norths’ left winger, made the
most of his few chances, whilst Taplin, safe as
usual at back, earned roars of approbation for a
50yds. dash down the line. In a nutshell Souths were
defeated by Harold Horder’s ability to hoist two
goals too many. Tom McMahon made no errors as
referee. In the other games Glebe could only down
the infant St. George by 4 to 3. Newts, walloped
Wests by 17 to 8, the Dockers slaughtered ’Varsity
by 57 to 0, and Easts had the bye.
Cecil E. Mumin, wlio died suddenly at
Bombala (N.S.W.) on Monday, was one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest Rugby Union forwards. He was
fearless, clean and resolute, particularly good in the
loose and in the line-out. Murnin captained Eastern
Suburbs XV to victory in the premiership in 1905,
arid later led N.S.W. against both Queensland and
Maoriland. He left with the “Wallabies” for Eng-
land, but through serious illness was brought back
to Australia. He went out at 38.
* * * *
G. Yeomans, who holds a badge won in
the Queen’s at Wimbledon (Eng.) over half a century
ago, took the S. Aus. Railway Rifle-shooting Cham-
pionship last week. He is 78 years of age and he
rolled home 30 points ahead of his field —which is
an Australian record that should stand for a good
many years to come. The astonishing old gentleman
spent the war years in instructing A.I.F. men in the
use of the rifle, and he also holds the Commonwealth
long-distance record as organist and choir-master
(C. of E.).
* * * «■
Australian Swimming Unions’ reps, at the
Hawaiian carnival on May 28 are Frank Beaurepaire
(all distances), Ivan Stedman (breast-stroke and
sprints), and Mina Wylie (ladies’ events), tfhe inclu-
sion of Billy Herald (N.S.W.) for the sprints would
have strengthened the team.
* * * *
Great was the joy at Coogee (Sydney)
Aquarium Bath one day last week when Fanny
Durack decided to have a trial swim. She was in
great form and went 66§yds. (two laps) in fine
fashion. The erstwhile world’s champion was quite
satisfied with her showing, and intends next season
to endeavor to regain her place in the swimming
world. Last Saturday she further pleased her
admirers by giving an exhibition splash at the
Eastern Suburbs final fixture.
* * * *
George M. Colledge is again Queensland’s
singles bowls champion. He previously won the
title in 1917-18. T. W. Bouchard alone has done
better since 1904-5 with three victories. In years
Ahut the locusts have eaten, Colledge did big things
for Q. in inter-State cricket.
» * * *
City walloped Cessnock for N.S.W. bowls
pennant at Waverley (Sydney) on Saturday by 108
—7B. The winners were “up” in all four rinks,
with Harry Thorpe’s 31 —19 the best card of the day.
F. G. Murdoch (Killara) downed Tom
Howard (Bonnie Doon) by 4 up and 2 in Sydney Grade
golf on Saturday. It was the ex-Sout'h Aus. cham-
pion’s second defeat of Howard this season, the
other being on Bonnie Doon. Killara won the
match by 7 —2. Manly’s defeat of Concord was
very decisive (9 —0), W. C. Sturrock’s 7 and 5 on
H. Kent and Eric Apperly’s 2 up on W. E. Bain
being the bright patches.
N.S.W.’s win over Victoria in inter-State
tennis at Sydney last week was its 30th since the
series began.' Vic. has 29 matches to its credit.
N.S.W. won the singles by seven rubbers to five;
Vic. took five doubles against four. The final cards
showed:—
N.S.W. .. 11 rubbers, 27 sets, 245 games.
Victoria . . 10 rubbers, 25 sets, 240 games.
J. B. Ilawkes (Vie.), Jim Anderson, Norman Peach
and C. Todd (N.S.W.) were competing for inclusion
in tlie Davis Cup team. In the singles Hawkes
defeated Peach (6 —4, 6 —4) and Todd (3 —0, o—l,
6—3), and with Patterson wiped out Rice and Todd,
Neil and Clemenger, and Peach and Anderson in the
doubles. The Victorian left-hander serves accurately,
and shines in volleying and cross-court smashes.
Anderson, owing to execrable placing, met most of
the near-champions. He defeated Wertheim and
Maclcay in the singles and with Peach accounted for
Mackay and Buckley and Wertheim and llainey in
the doubles. Except for his usual faulty serve, Ander-
son, who is now in good health, played well, and his
great reach helped him repeatedly. Peach licked
Gerald Patterson in the single’s on Saturday by o—4,
6—2. Excellent placing at Patterson’s feet was the
big factor in the victory. Todd appeared afflicted
with “nerves,” and after his defeat by Patterson
(6 —1, 6—4) failed to repeat his best form. Gener-
ally, Patterson was lackadaisical. His smashing was
terrific; but in general his performance suggested
a lack of seriousness. He has put on a lot of weight.
In the ladies’ matches, N.S.W. defeated Victoria
by nine rubber's to three, and Queensland jumped
on N.S.W. second team by 10 rubbers to two. Miss
Mountain (Vic.) beat Miss Halley and Mrs. Fuller
in the singles, and with Miss Bury downed Miss St.
George and Mrs. Fuller in the doubles.
“Linesman” : 11. S. V. Busst, an ancient
cyclist who won the M.B.C. Stakes in Melbourne as
far back as 1889, and later on took prizes as ari
oarsman, is now Bendigo’s champion tennis player.
Busst went to the game about the end of last cen-
tury and for 15 years has represented Bendigo Club.
In 1900—1 —2 he was the Northern District Singles
champion, and the other day again annexed the Bush
Shield for the Provincial Singles. Another victory
will make it his permanent property.
In tlie final of this year’s M.L. Uni-
versity tennis singles champion, A. W. Sims (Otago)
defeated Johns (Auckland) by 7 —5, 10—8. Three
years ago Sims won Auckland secondary schools’
championship, and though Pat O’Hara Wood beat
him (6 —2, o—2)0 —2) in the M.L. championships this
year, he licked Peach (6 —4, 6—4) in the M.L.-
N.S.W. match, and with Bartlett wiped out A.
Watt and 11. Marsh in the doubles. Sims, who lias
just turned 21, also won the open singles at the
Taranaki tournament in January.
Australia and Maoriland have decided on
a dissolution of its tennis partnership ; henceforth the
Rickety Isles will rank as a separate “nation” and
send its own team to fight for the Davis Cup when
it can find one,
* * * *
Westralia brilliantly defeated crews from
all the States in the eight-oar championship event
on the Tamar (Tas.) on Monday. It was W.A.’s
first win. Of the previous 3-8 contests Victoria had
won 25, N.S.W. 7, Tasmania 3, S. Aus. 2 and Queens-
land 1. The Westerners were advantaged by the fact
that they did all their final training on the course.
Chiefly it was a tussle betw'een Tasmania and West-
ralia, and the latter—the lightest of the crews —
hung out just long enough to win by a few feet.
Victoria, S.Aus., Queensland and N.S.W. filled the
places. The three miles straight course was left
awash in 14min. 39sec.
The single sculls was a fiasco. G. AVestbrook
(Tas.), Barton (A’ic.) and G. Neilson (N.S.W.) were
the starters, and after a foul, in which Neilson was
disqualified, the re-row gave an easy victory to AA’est-
brook.
* * * »
A remarkable afternoon’s work was put
in lately, at a regatta on the Torrens Lake in
Adelaide, by R. L. Naylor, captain and stroke of the
University. He first won a heat and then the final
in the maiden fours, changed to a senior-junior
crew and won a heat but lost the final. Then he
transferred to an eight oar, and won a heat and
also the final of the “dash.” It was a triumph of
effective training. Renmark sent two fours to the
city, and won two events. It is the first time they
have been heard from, but the success of the Murray
Bridge crew (which now represents the State) nas
greatly encouraged all the Murray River clubs.
* * * *
The versatile South S.vdneyite A. W.
Winter wdped out a long-standing l'ecord at Auburn
(N.S.W.) on Saturday with a standing high jump
(without weights) of 4ft. 9 7-Bin. The great Irish
jumper Mat Roseingrove put up the previous Aus-
tralian record of 4ft. Bin. in the ’nineties. The
world’s amateur figures (sft. ssin.) were secured by
L. Goethring at New York in 1913. Jim Byrnes
made the professional figures for Australia (oft. 3in.)
in 1885.
THE VERGER’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Billy Sunday received us as he was lying in his
bed working up his sermon for the afternoon. We
rode with him in his automobile to the afternoon
meeting, and at night 1 was in his private room after
the evening service, when two men rubbed him down,
and a doctor massaged him, especially his neck, chest
and back. Every article of his apparel was wet.
His shirt was saturated — Australian traveller in
Sydney daily paper.
“I have not been able to afford a sheet on my
bed for years.”— Anglican clergyman’s admission to
Synod, reported in the same paper.
“Yes, there ’e goes!” the verger cried,
As the parson sprinted past.
“’ls form’s acknowledged far and wide:
We have no one ’arf so fast,
Nor any stayer in the town
That ’as qualified so well
By honest work, up ’ill and down,
For to run a course with ’Ell.
“Now come with me and watch ’im strip
For a fust live rounds with Blimm.
’Oo’s Blimm ? Why, where’s yer sportsmanship
That you've never ’card of ’im ?
Blimm acts as parson’s trainer, lad.
’E keeps ’im (lose or win)
Fit (be collections good or bad)
For ’is daily scrap with Sin.
“Them dice! Them cards! ’E uses them,
An’ like a perfessor, too!
’E’s learned each trick and stratagem
As you’d find if ’e played you.
But ’e don't game for sordid gain:
The stakes are not earthly pelf.
Week in, week out, ’e throws a main
With old Beelzebub himself.
“What’s ’is percentage of the gates?
Why, there ain’t no gates, worse luck I
No fortune ever gravitates
’ls way... .’Ere I May I be struck
Stone blind if this admission sad
Ain’t the truth. ’E’s dead, dog poor.
’K barely makes his exes., lad—
’li’s paid as an amachoor!”
N.s.w.
10.2.4.


SOME DAY YOU’LL GET A THRASHING!
Some day the bully or the thug will
knock you down!
Think how you’ll regret then that
you never learned to box!
Grasp the chance now to assert your
manhood and be able to give as good,
and better than you get!
LEARN BOXING
BY POST
Ss*
fyX:
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
The simple lessons prepared by Reg. L. (“Snowy”)
Baker, which have taught hundreds ot successful
boxers, will show you clearly with illustrations all
the hits, guards and counters used by the leading
exponents of the game. The series is based on
“Snowy” Baker’s wide personal experience, and is
quickly mastered.
Fit yourself to take your rightful place!
Send for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which explains all about the course
ami gives many useful hints. Just write your name
and address across this advertisement and enclose
three stamps for postage, the book will be sent by
return.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
Athlete of Australia,
471 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
A*
E BRITISH IMPfRIALOILS 1
HE
f
MOTOR SPI
HIGHL
mzm.
©'
Wm
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORIU3, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Thu Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since 1596. FOR Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton's "—ref use all substitutes.
Missing: Friends.
WILLIAM SYDNEY EMERSON.
T F the abovenamed William Sydney Emerson, who
came out to New Zealand in or about the year
1889 or 1890 will communicate with the under-
signed he will hear something to his advantage.
Any person who is able to give information as to
the abovenamed William Sydney Emerson is also
requested to be good enough to communicate with
the undersigned.
jtIACNAMARA & SMITH, Solicitors,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MOTOR GAR STEELS
LARGE SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
CHROME NICKEL STEELS for AXLES and other highly
stressed parts.
CRANK SHAFT FORGINGS of CHROME NICKEL STEEL
IN STANDARD TYPES.
CHROME NICKEL AND NICKEL STEELS in Bars and Discs
for GEARS and similar parts.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE POSTED ON APPLICATION.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
BEWARE OF
CHILLS
caused by these sudden changes of
weather. Chills result in so many dan-
gerous throat and chest complaints, when
not attended to. At the first sign of
shivering or feverishness get a bottle of
Greathead’s Mixture
In so many cases the use of this old and
valued remedy has prevented chills from
developing into influenza. Oreathead s
is a sure cure for all colds, coughs and
sore throats. It will cure you, as it has
thousands of others. Sold in good-sized
bottles.
Get a Bottle from
Store or Grocer.
m
IRON-CLAD _
OIL IMMERSED SWITCH-GEAR
This is undoubtedly the type most approved of nowadays by the highest electrical authorities
for all industrial work, as well as in mines and collieries.
All inflammable or breakable insulating material lias been eliminated and superseded by mica
insulation.
We specialise in such equipment suitable for the severest conditions of service, and all of which
complies with the British Board of Trade regulations in mines. We also specialise in
OIL-COOLED TRANSFORMERS. MOTOR CONTROL GEAR.
All are essentially British.
Manufacturers: Electrical Apparatus Co., Ltd., London.
SOLE AGENTS:
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY., LTD.,
Head Office and Warehouse.,. .172-170 William Street, Melbourne
Workshop No. 1 Somerset Place, Melbourne
Workshop No. 3 Eerrars Street, South Melbourne
Sydney Office 375 George Street
“Capital” High-Speed Milling Cutters.
The continuous hard work to which Milling
Cutters are subjected soon proves whether
they are made of that high-grade steel so
necessary if they are to hold their sharpness.
Constant re-sharpening means delay, and
appreciable wear quickly renders the
cutters useless because their accuracy is
destroyed.
A Sweeping Guarantee
The confidence the makers have in “Capital” High-
Speed Milling Cutters is their offer to replace any
tool that shows that defective material has been used.
Because “Capital” High-Speed Milling Cutters are accurate and of high-class
steel they are to be found in all the leading engineering works of Australia.
Prices, etc., on application to Department “A.”
THK EAGLE and GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of “Ultra-Capital” High-Speed Steel,
3"{)-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 La t robe Street, MELBOURNE.
46 Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE.
Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
John Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.. ADEEAITVE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
R. L. Milligan, Collins Street, HOBART.
The THORNLEY Lathe
(Australian-made).
The Lathe for engineers
and motor garages.
1
THORNLEY Lathes are built to guaranteed limits of error, find
a test-sheet is supplied with each machine.
Gin. centres x 6ft. bed: liin. Hollow Spindle; Swing in (lap.
20iu. dia. x 7iin. wide in front of Face I’late. All Spindles of
Special Steel accurately turned and ground; All rotating parts fin-
ished by grinding; Machine-cut Gears from solid throughout; Saddle
T slotted for holding down for Boring or Milling; Feed Shaft
independent of Lead Screw; Lead Screw cut on Thread Miller —
are but a few features of recommendation.
Write now for specifications and complete particulars to
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.


ZMen’s Calf Balmoral Boots
in Tan or Black at 2716.
URI-This remarkable offer dispels the
belief that "opportunities” occur for the
few only. Here is every man’s chance.
The value is almost Wholesale; the
quality, far in excess of the price. On
smart, extended, comfortable last, with
light welted soles. In either
tan or black. Price, per pr.,
27/6
Farmer’s : Sydney.
"The Store for Men. ” ‘Box 497, G.P.O.
f,
MmWih
<rm
Mt
„ ' - I
£
BOND’S Australian-Made
l.V’Hj
“Ladder^
Proof”
Hose
In PURE SILK of
Luxuriously Soft
Quality, but possessed
of such remarkable capacity for service that
EVERY PAIR IS GUARANTEED
not to Ladder, Hole, or Tear.
“LADDER-PROOF" is undoubtedly
the Hose that YOU ought to Buy
“FOR SPECIAL WEAR.”
Watch
Bracelets
i 3
?/ 6*.
are the Rage.
Reliable fully-jewelled
Lever Gold Watch, on
Expanding Gold Brae-
let, from £B/8/-
We have sold thousands of these Watches, and
the demand grows daily.
WHY ?
Every watch we sell is guaranteed for 15
years.
Every watch is tested before delivery.
Every watch is known as reliable and accu-
rate, or thrown out of our stock.
Prices, too, are the Ip west, in Australia for
high-grade goods.
We carry an immense range of designs in
Gold and Platinum, both plain and set with
jewels.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
j24-*ipF*v c b.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
Commencement at the ’Varsity whirled
into a ball at the Town Hall on Friday
night, with the Governor and his Countess
for guests. The Earl relied on his blazing
star for decoration, and was otherwise in
crow-like attire; but the Countess was gor-
geous. She wore a tight sheath of midnight-
blue, satin and a magnificent train of dusky
velvet which hitched on to one shoulder and
helped out a wisp of a tulle bodice. Her
jewels were enough to give a burglar heart
disease. Besides a single row of pearls tin*
size of peas, she wore a dozen pear-pearls
dripping from a diamond chain, and her tiara
sprouted opals and diamonds. The general
doughy dressing of the University dames
slumped into one mass of insignificance
alongside the splendor.
It was a young people’s dance, given for
llie graduates of this year. There was a
procession of those who would be grads, at
the next morning’s ceremonies, and these
young things, mostly shy, were taken in a
queue, to be presented. One male student
struggled to the point of apoplexy in pulling
on tight white gloves, only to be reminded
curtly that he must take them off to shake
hands with a lady. But the fledglings lost
their shyness when they got to jazzing.
Young girls with years of “stew” packed
tight in their clever heads flung themselves
at it like an Australian ballet. Some of
the Profs., too, got well into the whirl. Prof.
Skeats had his programme filled like a
debutante, and so did Richardson, Dean of
the Faculty of Agriculture.
Supper was for the big guns. The students
snatched coffee and cakes in the upper rooms,
while a. couple of hundred Importants were
at trencher work in the Council room.
Guards kept the heavy doors where the stout
and middle-aged made havoc of turkey and
champagne. This supper-room had two long
tables, and Lady Stradbroke had about half-
a-mile of narrow pathway to negotiate before
she reached the honor centre. Five different
professors trod.on.her train in the advance,
and scrambled among their blushes and their
feet in the disentanglement.
The decorations in the hall were Futur-
istic. Queer-shaped lamps hung from
ropes of orchids against orchid-tinted
draperies. On the face of the organ
were hung several gold laurel wreaths —
waiting to bo won. They looked like new
hats hung in a (le luxe millinery. The organ,
wondering whether it was a Christmas-tree
or a jumble sale, also bore the brunt of
college colors, and underneath the balconies
were well-worn banners of the various col-
lege clubs. The ball was a great success.
The day draweth nigh when nearly all
masters of arts will lie mistresses. On
Saturday there were rather more girls than
boys who came up to displace the B
with the M. And among the bachelors of
arts who had gone for honors there were
20 successful shes against only 13 of the
other sort. In the matter of book-learning
the Gwendolines of the future threaten to
wipe the floor with their brothers. But that
won’t make any difference. They will still
be the sex that will also w’ipe the floor with
a wet cloth.
The Florrie Young Memorial got a swank-
ing bit of help from the cafe chantant at
Buckley and Nunn's tea-room. Lloyd, of
the firm, gave the spread, and handed the
place over to Sassiety. The Leura Clarkes
sent in a Avaggon-load of wonderful palms,
which towered decoratively to the ceiling.
Under the tropic vegetation the Blind Instir
tute Orchestra made music and the blind
tenor Sutcliffe sang. Importants from the
theatres also lent their voices. Dorothy
South sang inside an adorable lace frock,
with a natural-history specimen, on a cart-
wheel of tulle for a hat. Zoe Wencke, in
a pink bonnet, black curls and a blue frock,
added to the programme. Robert Chisholm
had an idolising woman audience for his
love songs, but Mrs. Pillar troubled Sassiety
a bit by reciting in French. Hal Elvins
pounded the piano, and Walter Kirby g°t a
thunder of applause for his warbling. Mrs.
Duckett, Mrs. George Fairbairn, Mrs. Fred
Armytage, Mrs. Fred Krcrouse, the Mayor-
ess and half a hundred others hostessed
tables.
Some of Sassiety’s Very Best got a shock
last week. Busy matrons had become so
absorbed in charity-appeal raffles that some
overlooked the Law. • Raffles are illegal, but
there have been so many special “permits”
that the illegality has been forgotten in
the flurry of bazaars. The police—horrid
things!—made a raid on the crowds that
are blocking the highways with their sale of
raffle-tickets, and there has been an agitated
sorting-out among much-ruffled dames. _ One
dear suburban mayoress, who is running a
raffle perfectly legitimate in her own suburb,
had innocently brought her collecting-box to
the city that day. She was caught and
declared out-of-bounds and packed off home
in tears. The people in control of the most
recent appeals are laying down very rig d
rules —found very necessary to prevent the
unscrupulous reaping where they have not
sowed. The dames are now very humble, and
anxiously consult their men-folk on every
move they make in the matter of cafe
cliantants and raffles. But the smile on
the faces of those left in possession of city
stands is horribly suggestive of the animal
that gave the Lady of Niger a ride.
Captain Colin Morris, of the Indian
Army, who blew in from Mesopotamia to
spend a short furlough with his pretty little
Queensland wife, is the son of Melbourne’s
one-time professional beauty, Mrs. Maesmore
Morris. She, after a brief flash behind the
footlights with Julius Knight, embarked on
a second matrimonial adventure with a I*.
and O. officer, MacDonald Sutor, who gave
up a life on the ocean wave to grow tea in
Ceylon. Colin was also earning his crust
as a planter when the war drums sent him
soldiering with a Sikh regiment which is
still in Mespot. The Sutors tracked off to
Borneo last year to make their fortune in
rubber; but that elastic commodity having
slumped and slumped again, they are flying
back to tea in Ceylon with their son and
daughter. This latter pair are said to be
bounie, though they have not inherited the
maternal beauty. Mrs. Sutor got ha- good
looks from both parents. Mamma was
pretty, and Dr. Wilmot, her dad, was one
of Melbourne’s handsome men of his day.
Caroline Lundgren, who was awarded £3OO
and costs against airman Garrett O’Brien,
will, apparently, have to wait for the fruits
of her victory. Garrett’s father showed no
disposition to find the money, and Mann, J.,
on examining the impetuous young captain,
declined to order his imprisonment under the
Debtors’ Act. O’Brien offered payment by
instalments out of his pay as an officer of
the Royal Air Force, and at ’s ’Onor’S sug-
gestion ho gave Lundgren a document which
will enable her, if necessary, to assert her
rights in the Cold Country. Mann didn’t
think it was any use prejudicing O’Brien’s
career or blocking him from earning the
damages. lie fixed £3OO because he calcu-
lated that would pay the passage of the
husbandless claimant back to Britain.
Norman Brookes’s brilliant wife is win-
ning local repute as a novelist. Two
books, “Broken Idols’’ and J‘The of
the Gods,” took the
fancy of astute
readers a while ago,
and now r she is com-
p 1 o t. in g another
which should appeal
to tennis fiends and
get a vote of thanks
from the general
public. The yarn,
“The Surface
Game,” will have a
tennis atmosphere.
Mrs. Brookes has
the inventive faculty
of the born fietion-
ist, and it wouldn’t
be surprising if her
latest effort was
snapped for the pic-
tures. A scenario
from “Broken Idols’’ is now under the con-
sideration of an American producer. The
photo of the gifted lady is by Humphrey.
The Harold Papes have flitted back from
the Fog, and Mrs. George Chirnside hos-
tessed a w r elcome-home dinner at Menzies’
for the pair, who have unpacked in a Mel-
bourne Mansions flat. Afterwards every-
body oiled back to the Alec Russells’ in
South Yarra to two-step for the rest of the
evening. Rear-Admiral Sir Percy Grant took
the opportunity to breathe a few farewells
before cutting oft with Prime Minister
Hughes to the Cold Country. The depart-
ing sailor-man, by the way, is selling off a
few cases of china, glass and other valuables
which he brought with him but didn’t bother
to unpack.
Bank of Australasia Superintendent James
Henderson had a thrillsome time last week.
His bank-jubilee came along, and when he
blew r into the office on the anniversary he
was greeted with an avalanche of congratu-
lations, compliments and presentations. The
following night he and his v T ife entertained
the staff at a theatre-party at Her Majesty’s,
wdiere they overflowed the first four rows of
the dress circle. A surprise-packet followed
in the shape of a sit-down champagne supper
served in the theatre foyer.
Jascha Heifetz, another Russian Jewish
violinist captured by the Taits, arrives in
Melbourne this week. Remarkable for his
music, he is also alleged to be unusual for
his rise to affluence. Two or three years ago
he and his family were feeling the first nip
of Bolshevism in Petrograd, and would have
regarded even a ham-bone as priceless. How-
ever, they got out of the disaster into the
comparative peace of Siberia, and from
Yladivostock sailed to America, where the
youth’s fiddle d.d magical things. Nowa-
days he travels with a valet, secretary,
accompanist, parents and two sisters, and
lias signed large contracts for years ahead.
He is good-looking, but rather girlish m
appearance, and has learnt enough English
to explain that, though his name seems com-
paratively simple, only a soda fountain can
pronounce it properly.
This clean-cut young face belongs to Harry
G. Musgrove, who caused more than a
flutter in the show world when he came
back from America
with the First Na-
tional pictures in his
pocket, and then took
over the Mclntosh
circuit, leek, stock
and barrel. Harry,
who is a. nephew of
George \l usgrove,
was once a kind of
confidential clerk to
Watkin Wynne, of
the Sydney Tele-
graph ; then he went
secretarying fo r
West's Pictures, after
which he leapt into
the general manage-
ment of Australasian
Films, Ltd., and a
directorship of Union Theatres. It was he
who was perhaps most largely responsible
for the amalgamation of picture interests
on this side of the world. Last year he
broke away, and, reckoning there should be
big value in the name of Musgrove, elected
to put it to the test. But there is more
than a mere name to this quiet little Aus-
tralian, who has showmanship in his blood.
A dinner was given the other night to
returned Australian war-artists —more par-
ticularly to welcome Lambert, who slapped
paint about in Egypt and Palestine. Lam-
bert was in his element there with the open
country, the blazing sunlight and the Horse.
Streeton made a speech, and Benson and
Crozier, who were our two lighting artists,
were made much fuss of.
Victorian League representatives have
been gadding about the Apple Island. Now
Mrs. Staughton, Miss Price and Miss Julia
Swan have just staggered through a maze of
farewell-parties given to them in Hobart, a
village that is nothing if not sociable.
W. M. Williams, who trails an 0.8. E.,
and has just entered politics in the Speck,
is about to make a third plunge into matri-
mony. His fellow-plunger, Mrs. Winspear,
of Melbourne, is. the widow of one parson
and the daughter of another. Williams is
an ardent Cold Tea apostle and the two will
work together for the good of the cause. He
has retired from business life, having made
heaps of money from rags. His chiffon
stores in the Speck have been bought, it. is
said, with Ilenry Jones’s money. Jones
is swinging a good deal of attention
from jam to rags. It is even said that he is
buying up one of the big Melbourne fluff busi-
nesses that have felt the stress of hard
times in The Lane. S’Henry and his family
are hound for South Africa, but a daughter
and son-in-law, Tom Fitzgerald, are to settle
in Melbourne. Fitzgerald used to manage
the W. M. Williams stores in Hobart, so
knows the job.
It isn’t often that a man ducks when £3OO
is thrown at his head, but Melbourne Town
Hall staff possesses one who absolutely re-
fused, on conscientious grounds, to take £320,
his share in a first prize in Tatt.’s. With
the consent of the conscientious one, charity
has been given the money. When he threw
in his bob he presumably just wanted to be
agreeable. To give a trifle, so as not to be
considered a killjoy, was one thing; but to
take a div. of £320 was quite another propo-
sition —for him.
The Harbor Lights Build ladies spread tea
and cakes for the annual gathering at the
Seamen’s Mission (Flinders-street). Gov.
Stradbroke had the chair, and his Countess,
who is now the Guild patroness, sat below
with the John Madden and Simon Fraser
■widows and other committee matrons. Naval-
Captain Brewis and W. E. L. Wears patted
Chaplain Gurney Goldsmith and fellow-
workers with their tongues for looking after
Jack ashore, and the company sat up and
took notice when D. York Syme candidly
informed his Ex. that the light shed by the
vice-regal presence was one of the surest
beacons to attract philanthropic beneficence.
Lord Stradbroke, whose eye twinkled when
one speaker referred to him as a uew-clmm
at his present job, looks the typical English
squire. He spoke his piece with the uneasi-
ness of a beginner who means to get the
darned thing right when lie has the hang
of it. Archdeacon Ilindley also contri-
buted to the oratorical programme. Mr.
Fred Knight called for hands up for the
new committee. Chaplain Goldsmith called
tor a hymn, and then six sailor-men with
plates called for cash; and at the finish th<
platters simply groaned under the good not -
and silver provided.
How sorry \ ie. is to lose Brig.-Gen. Brand
as commandant was shown at the big send-
■ or^e d up by the Soldiers’ League in
the Town Hall. The Ma State will hav<-
a first-rater in the commander of the First
Division of the reorganised armv. Swank
isu t Ins strong point, lie is a real Digger
General, and Sydney can safely give him the
cheery hand.
Australians in Paris are beginning to
write home about Ivy Turton, a willowy con-
tralto from Westralia. Two or three years
ago Ivy appeared as Katisha in n Perth
production of “The Mikado” and uplifted a
voice so noble that an enthusiastic patron of
the arts offered to advance the money for
three years’ study in Europe. To Paris Ivy
went last year, and, tinder the name of Mig-
non Trevor, she has made a hit. According
to the Continental edition of the Dait.y
Mail, Ivy Mignon “had a triumph at a pri-
vate <l4 but, when she sane before Mine.
Millerand”—wife of the President who fell
out <>f a railway train in his pyjamas—“at
a musical party given by Mrne. Dupuy,
widow of the Senator, where the leaders i.f
the musical coterie of Parisian society had
gathered to hear this fresh and sweet young
singer.” At a subsequent appearance on
the concert platform, “the musical and vel-
vety timbre of her voice, which is of un-
usual quality and range and which she uses
with great skill, won'for her an enthusiastic
receptionin fact, “few debutantes have
made a better beginning with the difficult but
appreciative Par’s public.” It looks as if
another Ada Crosslov has arrived.
The University Council has forged a link
between old Jewish faith and modern
Seventh Day Adventism. An Adventist
student pleaded that he couldn’t attend at
the Commencement last Saturday to get
his B.A. degree because Saturday is the day
he keepeth holy. But he wants his B.A.
badly in order that, he may M.A. in March
next year. The Council remembered that
the same difficulty arose with a Jewish
student, in whose behalf a special meeting
was appointed: so the professorial board
has been besought to recommend that what
was sauce for the Jewish student shall be
likewise for the other sort of youug man
who goes to worship on Saturday.
Reverence is not making any noticeable
headway among young Australians. On a
recent Sunday half a dozen nippers were
playing euchre on a flat: tombstone in the old,
neglected cemetery at West Melbourne. A
little further over, in a ring formed by their
two youngsters fought it out on top
of the graves of a few of the pioneers. Bui
perhaps they thought that, ns Parliament
has authorised the City Council to convert,
the burying place into a market, there wasn’t
much harm in anticipating the side-shows
a bit.
Adelaide passes <>n some gossip:—
Sisters, cousins and aunts turned up in force to
see St. Peters come out on top by 23 points in the
inter-college sports. The steady rain all the after-
noon was depressing to the women folk, but the boys
had a hilarious time.
The Port races were sloppy, too. The rain didn’t
start until after the first race, and as no one had
an umbrella the women in new winter outfits were
just damp tragedies. The biggest div. wouldn’t
cover the damage.
A unique ceremony took place .at Government
House the other day when their Exes.’ little daughter
Priscilla was handed on her seventh birthday a
handsome gift from the police. It took the form of
the historical landing at Glenelg, illustrated in
Broken Hill silver, and mounted upon blackwood,
with the city coat of arms. The Commissioner of
Police (Brigadier-General Leane) passed it to thc
small kiddie, with best wishes from the force, in
appreciation of the many tokens of goodwill from
Government House. His Ex. and Lady Weigall both
said thank-you on behalf of Priscilla. Healths were
drunk, then all hands went to a cinema show in the
ballroom.
On Monday W. G. Coombs was re-appointed chair-
man of the Adelaide Hospital Board, and granted
nine months leave of absence to visit England. He
left by the Ascanius with his wife and daughter.
At. the Osborne shipbuilding yards of Pooie and
Steel, the other afternoon, the Enri”bla the fPst
large vessel built in South Aus., after having been
christened by her Ex., was launched. Many thm
sands saw the bottle of wine smashed against the
cargo-carrier’s nose and cheered lustily as she
lurched into the water. His Ex. and Priscilla and
two A.D.C.’s supported Lady Wei gall in her job.
and after it was over the official party adjourned to
the workshops for afternoon tea and speeches.
Crawford Vaughan left by the Perth express on
Thursday on his way to the Cold Country on a five
months’ visit. He joins the Orontes at Fremantle.
Brigadier-General and Mrs. George Dean are also
making for the Fog. They go by the Euripides.
T. G. B. Osborn, professor of Botany at Adelaide
University, is just back from a round-the-world trip,
during which his brilliant wife lias efficiently done
most of his work. He found British universities
mostly hard-up for funds, hut keen on research
work.


igi|§
jg
gHgl|P IM
.
11
■
r f.v ■:.■
IHBil
■ ' ;;
,•
mm J||
:.-. ;U;
mmm
: *>y?
—looking for the Singer
IN the nursery, the little ones listen
“ with parted lips and straining eyes ”
to the old tales ot mystery and en-
chantment. They are told of the spirits
of tree and rock; the fairy in the pool;
the djinn in the bottle.
Then, when they hear the marvel of a tuneful
voice singing* for them their well-known
rhymes, they think that here, at last, is a
wonder-box—the home of some kindly fairy.
And they run and clamber to see the maker of
the marvellous music.
It is not wonderful that the small folk should
he beguiled by the life-like tones of the
Columbia Grafonola. Let the grown-up but
close his eyes when he listen to a Columbia
Record, and he will fail to shake himself free
from the belief that he is in the presence of
the actual singer or instrumentalist.
The Columbia Grafonola records
the best efforts of the best
musicians—from the most ma-
jestic to the merriest and mad-
dest—each a master in his own
sphere.
J he Perfect En core —
A Columbia Record
on tbe Grafonola
■ r-
Aji
■W "'‘■l
i
17
f,
■■
-
-
V.
a
•••;<
' : j ': ...
|
m.
:/
m
::. • -
«
M
S
il
-
■■ ■
n
m
m
■
■
w
f
' ■
*
la
as
O
&


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CiMfIPM
WE PLUS ULTRA
£
7
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
<zb(s
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4984.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
The CHARM of LIGHT EFFECTS
on Polished Floors adds greatly to the
beauty and character of your rooms.
USE
HDD
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working*
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
“The toast was Anzac” once again on
Monday, when citizens honored tlie men who
fell at Gallipoli in Commemoration services,
and hung wreaths of laurej and rosemary
upon monument and honor roll. The glad
hand, with a sprig of rosemary, was extended
by the Soldiers’ Club to every soldier from
any clime who happened to strike the city on
that day. The G.-G. and Lady Forster
visited the rooms in the afternoon ; liis Ex.
spoke a short address, and he and Lady
Forster afternoon-teaed with a hundred men
who were at the Landing, five men of Mons,
and the trustees of the club. Dr. Mary
Booth and secretary Edith Rowsell, with.
their voluntary workers, engineered the func-
tion successfully. Banners of the bat-
talions which faced Gallipoli hung round the
recreation hall. Lady Forster was handed
a hunch of rosemary.
Monday afternoon saw also the dedication
of a site for a memorial drinking-fountain
near Woolloomooloo, with a Commemoration
service under the auspices of the Centre for
Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers. The G.-G..
and Lady Forster and Dame Margaret David-
son were present. The navy and army
were strongly represented at a service at
the Town Hall in the morning. .
At the sixth annual meeting of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Society in the Town Hall
last week, Lady Forster, who presided, had
the support of Governor Davidson and Dame
Margaret. Congratulatory letters from
Queen Mary and the Queen-Mother having
been duly recited, her Ex. complimented all
hands, and suggested that the V.A.’s of the
past might now turn to children’s welfare,
hospital work and such, even if they gave
only a day a week to it. Governor Davidson
then did his brief turn as a courtier. Hav-
ing mourned the departure of Lady Helen
Munro Ferguson, he said, # “How fortunate
we were —and how fortunate we are!” Con-
siderable interest .centred in the address of
ex-Queensland Agent-General Thomas Robin-
son, for ho was spokesman for his wife, who
with Major Busby (Sydney) and Mr. Bush
(W.A.) represented Australia at the Geneva
Conference of the League of Red Cross
Societies. Mr. Robinson accompanied his
wife to Geneva, meaning to sightsee a little,
but he went with her to the first meeting of the
League, and found so much to interest him
in the discussions that sight-seeing was off.
The result of that conference boils down to
this: “during years of peace the Red Cross
Society in each country should become, as
it were, the Custodian of Public Health.
Already for 20 years the Italian Red Cross
has fought malaria, and has almost driven
it out; and the American Red Cross is wag-
ing war on typhus in Poland,” Dame Mar-
garet remembered those who had worked for
the Comforts Funds —worked, many of them,
laboriously, and most of them in the back-
ground where no ray of limelight ever fell.
After the meeting Lady Forster held an
informal reception, and she gladdened the
hearts of the Junior Aids who formed a
guard of honor at the entrance to the hall
by giving them a little talk all to them-
selves.
The Hon. Mrs. Pitt-Ilivers acted as aide to
Lady Forster at a recent Verbrugglien concert,
and no male wrap-carrier could have moved
with more alacrity than the attractive lady
when she set out to bring ’celloist Leon from
the dressingroom to the viceregal presence.
Evidently Adelina’s music pleased her Lady-
ship’s ear, as she talked for some time to the
performer and invited her to share the vice-
regal pen.
The Hon. Lady Egerton, who came to
Sydney last week and is staying with Dame
Margaret, is the widow of Sir Alfred Eger-
ton, who was controller of the Duke of Con-
naught’s household,- while Lady Egerton was
lady-in-waiting to the Duchess from 1879
until her death two years ago. With her
husband she ’accompanied the royal pair on
their honeymoon in the' Mediterranean, and
thereafter shadowed them wherever they
went, Mr. and Mrs. Geddes extended the
glad hand to her at Leura, Bellevue Hill, be-
fore they left for England by the Orviett> on
Saturday, and she lias renewed many other
friendships that she made the other side.
Lady Egerton will shortly go on a visit to
Colonel and Mrs. White in Tasmania, and
expects to return to England about August.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret go to Mudgee
next week and attend the Bligh amateur
races. Mrs. Hunter White, of Havilah, puts
them up. On May G they trek to Lithgow,
and look in at the small-arms factory and
iron works, after which Dame Margaret un-
veils an honor roll at the district school.
The Alliance Francaise is to be revived
in Sydney: that was the verdict of an enthu-
siastic meeting at Government House, where
there was an entente cordiale of French,
British and Belgians. Secretary Lamb mar-
shalled the well-dressed company to after-
noon-tea first; and then in the ball-
room, with Dame Margaret presiding, the
Alliance resurrected itself, as it were, from
the ashes of the French-Australian League
of Help. The older body merged into the
league early in the war “to work for the
French, not merely to create an interest in
the language.” Peace of a sort has come,
the League of Help is no more, France
knows Australia better, the one has
approved of the other, and the knowledge of
the French language, even of its literature,
becomes more of a necessity. Miss Soubeiran
visioned the Alliance rising to great heights
and becoming a French-Australian Club,
even with its own home. The French Con-
sul (how gracefully he did it!) compli-
mented Dame Margaret upon “her exquisite
taste in dress, which was French.” She
blushed, in reply, to the roots of her beauti-
fully-coiffured snowy hair. Miss Gurney
and Mrs. Jewett share the duties of lion,
secretaries, and the annual (two
guineas) can be sent to them at’the French
Consulate, Union House. French conversa-
tion and lectures, and plays in French, are
included in the programme. Miss Soubeiran
and Mr. Doucet are presidents.
The frocking at the meeting was smart.
Dame Margaret wore a dinner frock of black
and prune embossed material. Mrs. Spitzer,
the wife of the recently-arrived manager of
the French Bank, was striking in fawn taf-
feta with a crimson flower, a scarf of price-
less lace, and henna-toned plumes upon her
small brown hat.
Hospital Friday, which used to he Satur-
day, is on the programme for next week.
Thirty two institutions have their beaks open,
so the public is requested to pay, pay, pay.
This year the hospitals will be among the
hungry chirpers, and Martin-place comes
under their control. But the cadging child
is cut out from among collectors, and" buttons
and badges are not to be on sale to trouble
the souls of the artists.
Dr. and Mrs. Gerslion Bennett—until a
week or so ago she was Bertha Monash. only
daughter of the General —have’ been honey-
mooning in Sydney and the Mountains.
Beryl Bryant is changing her name to Mrs.
A. E. Mayor. She will housekeep in Sydney;
but there’s to be a little more acting until a
contract has expired.
Enid, daughter of Auditor-General F. A.
Cogfilan, said “I will” to Dr. W. R. Darton,
of Rylstone and Kandos, at St. John’s, Ash-
field, on the lGth of this month. Evelyn
Coghlan and the bridegroom’s sister Essie
were bridesmaids. White georgette and erfipe
de chine, with a diaphanous court train
of pink, and her mother’s wedding veil,
formed the bridal array. Mauve and pal&
pink georgette clothed the bridesmaids re-
spectively, and their coiffure-covering was. of
black panne. The young couple are setting
up housekeeping in Kandos.
This Sydney pian-
ist, Nellie Weather-
ill, has lately en-
tered the fields of
musical composition,
and her “Five
Eastern Memories”
is popular in the
best musical corners.
There was a flavor
of Debussy ;in “A
Moo d,” w h i c h
Laurence Godfrey
Smith, her former
teacher, introduced
at Lionel Lawson’s
violin recital. She
also dabbles in
poetry, and verses
written about the
little Prince’s visit
brought a letter from Edward P.
At St. Paul’s, Burwqod, in a bower of
palms and blossoms, Kathleen Olive Anning,
of Casso Tasso, Burwood, undertook to
watch the butcher’s bills for Arthur Mac-
quarie Cowper, son of Harrington Cowper,
of Petersham. Bride’s father, the late W.
Anning, owned many broad acres in North
Queensland ; the bridegroom is a grandson
of the early-day Dean Cowper. White satin
artistically draped, with a cloak arrange-
ment of silver lace falling over the court
train of satin, formed with a plain tulle
veil the bride’s array. A quartette of brides-
maids, which included the bride’s twin
sisters, were on hand in apricot-shot satin
topped by black panne hats. At the bride’s
home later her mother gave the welcoming
hand to many guests.
Lilia Tietyens, younger daughter of soli-
citor Fred Tietyens, of Tara, Albury, has
accepted an engagement ring from George
J. A. Moore, of Port Moresby, Papua. The
’groom-elect, who was a lieutenant of the
20th did much good work in re-
cruiting and War-Loan campaigns.
The latest engagement in naval circles
is that of pretty Kathleen Jocelyn Campbell-
Riley, younger daughter of Campbell-Kiley,
of Colstown, Toowoomba < Q.), and Captain
Alan Upward, R.N., of 11.M.A.5. Anzac. in
command of the Ii.A.N. flotilla of destroyers.
The bride-elect, who came t<> Sydney for the
Easter gaieties, is still visiting friends here,
and receiving congratulations.
From far and near people rolled up at
Walcha to hear Eleanor Fenwicke make her
vows to Frank Nivison, of Ohio. Nell is the
only daughter of the Jack Fenwickes, and is a
sweet little colleen with charming manners.
Frank Nivison (affectionately known as
Towser), who had nearly five years’ war
service, enlisted as a trooper and returned a
captain and M.C. He is a first-class polo
player.
When the Repertory Players produced
“Getting Married” Sydney audiences sus-
pected what “The
Voysey I nheri-
tanc e” has estab-
lished, that Grogan
McMahon had dis-
co ver e d a pearl
among women for
repertory play-
acting. In each of
the two productions
the work of Beatrice
Macdonald has been
brilliant. As Mrs.
Hugh Voysey, the
living flame of re-
volt (in a charming
shade) against the
family’s smugness,
she was almost ideal.
Offstage Beatrice is
a good-looking girl
with as intimate an acquaintance with books
and plays as the ordinary young person has
with lipsalve. She has a facile pen, a witty
tongue, and'is an authority on Irish litera-
ture. Judith Fletcher took the. picture.
Sadie Maguire said “I will’’ to comedian
Billy Elliott at St. Mary’s Cathedral last
week, and many members of the theatrical
profession heard her do it. Sadie, who lias
been in “The Lilac Domino” of late, was
an original of the Tivoli Follies, and Billy
was appearing in black cork next door. And
that’s when it started. At the wedding
Sadie was a picture in white georgette and
silver lace, with a white tulle veil. She
followed Maggie Dickinson’s lead and car-
ried a prayer-book ii.stead of the usual
armful of vegetation. Sister Kitty in helio-
tropd georgette, and Rena Clarke in pale
pink, with black tulle headpieces, attended
the bride.
Constance Meta Duncan Darley, only
daughter of the Cecil West Darleys, was
married on a recent Wednesday to James
Seton Yeitcli Mein, only son of the late
Captain J. S. "Mein. The bride, a niece of
late: Chief Justice Darley, crossed the Pacific
with her mother to wed her soldier-husband,
as England has" claimed the family for some
years. The ceremony took place at St.
John’s. Darlinghubst, and the reception at
Springfield. Macleay-street, the home of the
Suttor family. White charmeuse and much
old. Limerick lace formed the bride’s array;
the" bridegroom’s sister Mary, in Aliee-blue
georgette and a white-feathered hat, was
bridesmaid, and Major Edgar Milner Stephen
aided the bridegroom. The nest of the new
pair will be in Bananaland. where the
bridegroom shows Nanango how to grow
prize fruit.
This week, at All Saints, Woollalira, Agnes
Morris, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Morris, of Campsie, weds Alfred
King, son of the Kings of Hurlstone Park.
They will live in Melbourne, where the
bridegroom, who is on the literary staff of
the S. M. Herald, goes to help the paper.
Alice Curtis, second daughter of the late
A. T. Curtis, of Hillgrove, and Mrs. Curtis,
of Marrickville, said “I will’’ one day last
week, at St. Clement’s, Marrickville, to
Harold Berry, son of the late William Berry,
of Lithgow. Arehdeafcon Martin then tied
the knot. Sister Jean and Dorothy High-
field attended the bride, and her brother
William and Walter Donaldson supported
the ’groom. There was a shivoo at Miss
Bishop’s hall, and a honeymoon at Katoomba
and the Caves.
Pianist Hilda Roberts, of Bananaland,
played the Grieg Concerto in A minor with
the Conservatorium Orchestra on Saturday
night. The soloist got the real atmosphere,
for she had the good luck during her student
days in London to hear a performance of
the work conducted by the Norwegian him-
self. The pianist gave some hints, too, on
concert-platform deportment and frocking.
Her gowning was grey brocaded crepe de
clime with silver lace draperies and floral
ribbon about the waist-line. An armful of
flowers was handed her. Marie Tempest,
charming in black with a crimson panne
cloak and lace-brimmed hat, was with
Graham Browne in the audience. Artist
Bruner, who has been gathering color in
Java for some months, was also seeking
musical relaxation that evening.
Lewisham Hospital requires Sydney’s sup-
port at a fete for the building fund on the
14th of next month. Mesdames Yeeeh and
McDonald and Miss Dimond, who are to run
the sweets and “fancy” stalls, gathered their
friends at the Carlton recently to raise
funds for the furnishing; and Mrs. Victor
Conriek, Eileen Hogan, and others provided a
musical programme that drew an audience
which overflowed into the corridors.
For the jazzing in aid of St. Martha’s
Home, where they make the dainty undies, a
committee of much energy encouraged a full
house at Paddington Town Hall —mainly
young people, whose trucking was really good.
Coloring was brilliant —vivid greens, brigut
blues, purple and a salmon pink torn from a
Turner sunset. Lady Mayoress Lambert, in
black, with rub.v-sequined net, was president
of the party. Josephine Marks, coiffured like
Romance, wore flowing draperies of pink,
with gold-lace, gold-net and opalescent net
trappings. Mrs. Trefle favored one ot her
magpie effects; Mrs. J. C. Leete was in a
wreath of blue roses and a blue satin gown:
and secretary Nellie King was raven-clad.
The Repertory Society, which started its
theatrical career so well with “The Voysey
Inheritance,’’ plunges this week into social
activities. The opening festivity is an at
home on Friday ntternoon at the club’s cosy
rooms in Elizabeth-street. The programme
of future events is now fairly complete.
Lectures, reading circles (from which the
theatrical cast will be drawn), and addresses
on the Greek plays by Miss Tildesley, with
sidelights on the modern drama by Ruth
Bedford, fill tin* bill. Some earnest spirits
foregathered at the club recently, when artist
Souter’s description of how he tried to found
a repertory club in Sydney gained him the
role of chief comedian.
Dame Nellie Melba expects that Sydney
will be hard-pushed for laurel leaves during
violin Heifetz's season. She has got her
order in early, and has cabled for a wreath
of the greenery to be handed the gifted youth
at his first concert, on Thursday night.
Brisbane sculptor Harold Parker, whose
name all artistic Europe knows, is back
again in Australia. His wife, by the way,
is a daughter of Thomas Robinson, late
Agent-General for Queensland. Parker’s
visit recalls some memories of his struggling
days. His most famous work, “Ariadne,”
now in marble in the Tate Gallery, London,
remained in clay for years while the sculptor
kept the pot going with commissions. For
most of this time the drooping beauty was
used by visitors to the studio as a hat-rack.
Parker's first model was a very small girl,
kindly lent by his washer-lady on condition
that she was delivered safely home. The
young person objected to the “altogether,”
and bolted into the street, with Parker in
full pursuit. At the end of the sitting the
sculptor succeeded in re-clothing the infant
and set out with his charge. He couldn’t
understand her tendency to fall forward
every few yards while passers-by tittered.
But now he knows; he had merely put the
infant’s garments on back to front.
Soprano Rosa Alba is using her bird-like
notes in Maoriland at present. She is sing-
ing in oratorio and at concerts with satisfac-
tion all round.
A Brisbane postcript:—•
Auburn-haired Doreen Morgan, one of Lena Ham-
mond’s star pupils, is the lady soloist at the latest
Brooke-Cahill concerts. The boys, after hearing
Doreen’s silvery soprano, promptly booked her to
support them.
His Ex. opened the Y.W.C.A. hostel in Bowen Terrace
last week. Then he sped to Toowoomba to open
the show, visited schools, went to the races, looked
in on the Eisteddfod hall, and hurried home to get
the place swept up for his garden-parties.
The members of the Brisbane Women’s Club have
farewelled Mrs. G. R. Ryder, who is leaving for
England. Mrs. E. Tritton and others said nice
things about the work Mrs. Ryder had done for the
Club ; and gifts of remembrance were handed over.
Mrs. John Mackay, of Sydney, who has been visit-
ing Brisbane, has been telling us some interesting
things about the Women’s Union of Service. A
similar association will probably be formed here.
Allan Frankel, a returned soldier, was married at
the Synagogue on Wednesday of last week to Ada
Isen. A breakfast was held afterwards at the
Frankel home at New Farm. Vida Isen was the
bridesmaid, and Byron Kozminsky groomsman.
Norah Gurdon has been showing a number of her
paintings in the Art Society’s rooms, and Gwen
Grant and Vida Lahey, two sisters of the brush,
have been entertaining the visitors at afternoon tea.
Miss Lahey is to give an exhibition of her work
next month.
The Orchestral Society has given its first concert
of the season. His Ex., who is very keen on music,
was there, and Mrs. and Miss Broderick accompanied
him.


GEM RINGS
Of Exclusive Design.
particular* on
application.
A choice collection of artistic designs selected
from the Company’s comprehensive stocks. The
gems are of finest quality set in Pure Platinum.
Illustrated Catalogues are posted free on application
and selections of goods are sent on approval to any
address in the Commonucaltli at the Company’s risk.
HARDY BROTHERS-LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
London
m
3RS
\
Q
O^XJONEs
«cC
yo
zrp
THE QUICKEST WAY
to get to the Grocer’s according to the facetious
small boy is to RUN.
And when you arrive the quickest and safest way
to get the Cheese that will please, is to say —
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
The outdoor worker, the bqsy business rran, the
women-folk and even the children praise this
appetising sandwich spread.
It has a flavour that hits a warm spot on every
palate, whilst as an aid to digestion, it is highly
recommended.
“Rex” Cheese is sold by all grocers in handy tins.
No other is as good. Sold Everywhere.
Packed by- FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 867
BUCKLEY’S
HIGH-GRADE SUITS
at 10 Guineas.
We have just completed a special purchase of High*
grade Imported Suitings consisting of newest season s
designs in real Scotch Tweeds, West of England Cash-
meres and fine Worsteds in Stripes, Checks, Diagonals,
Herringbones and various other suitable designs for
Autumn and Winter Wear, also Indigo Blue Serges in
rough and fine Twill Effects.
We are offering these High-grade Winter Suitings at the
special price of
10 Guineas.
These Suits will be hand-
tailored, and the trimmings
will be in keeping with the
high-grade materials, which
are from the looms of the best
Scottish and English manufac-
turers.
This is an example of what
the public may gain by taking
advantage of the selling policy
at Buckley’s.
Write for patterns and self-
measurement form. Sent post
free.
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY t NUNN UD. BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
MAN. (MR SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY PQST OFFICE
RAILWA'f'STN.O* PQRI
<N AUSTRALIA
1 m i
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims cal.
for.
Neatness of patterns — a touch of
refinement in the materials —a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary—all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a reftd Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
.See Hiis
brand on
each shirt
18.
a
£
<2
S'
&
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory Wear and
Service.
AS 61
n
m
\
&
S
«
S
1
\\
A
%


Vpsieru
Zn
V
'Y'OUR Hosiery playing a most im-
portant part in your appearance,
merits most careful selection. Think of
Luxite
Hosiery
that is radiantly beautiful, fine in texture,
and ’withal has the ability to wear longer
than the average hose - such is LUXITE.
It is the choice of men and women of
refinement. Offered in pure silk, silk
faced and lisle styles, in a wide range
of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Wholesale and Indents thru
"Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd. * 50 York Street,
Sydney
Simple Drawing Lessons
<S?\ I
8^
vWvSI
that will
take you
on step by ~
step from the
rudiments of
art to its highest
stages. The Weston
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING,
compiled by Aus-
tralia’s master com-
mercial designer
and poster artist,
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, is simplicity
itself. This pleas-
ant, easily-mastered
course has helped
many students on
the read to making
big money by tak-
ing up art work,
for it exp’ai ns every
point clearly, and
you have the benefit
of Mr. Weston’s
personal criticism.
The interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen,”
which describes the
course in detail
and gives examples
of the lessons,
will be sent you
if you forward
your name_ and
address wjjh three stamps to cover postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
47 UNION HOUSE, BYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
S'
S* -
BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
pmn: rubber.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under tlie management of P. Hennessy.
ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS WELL,
A FANCY DRESS FRIENDSHIP.
“¥' WISH,” said Helen, as she gave her
hair a final pat, “that I could get hold
**“ of a really decent costume for to-
morrow night. This Jazz affair is getting
dreadfully tired. And every other girl in
the room is wearing its twin sister.”
A pretty rose-and-grey Pierette who was
adjusting her right shoe nouded reflectively.
“M’m,” she said, “but its no good worry-
ing. It's a bore not being a plutocrat
I say, Helen just look there 1”
The two gads gazed fascinated at a woman
who had ,iust supped off her coat. She
wore a delicious eignteentli-century costume
of mauve satin over a sprigged petticoat. A
white powdered wig set on lier softly glow-
ing face, and a patch was perched haugntily
in one dimple.
“Isn’t she exquisite!” whispered Helen.
“I think those old-fashioned tilings are en-
chanting and original these days!
Come along, Mabel; they’re waiting for us.
It was a very depressed Helen who changed
her shoes in the dressing-room after the
dance. Her costume was rumpled and torn
and a large stain was visible on the front.
"I can’t go to the ‘Excelsior - in this to-
morrow night,” she confided to Mabel. “I’ll
have to tell Guy I’ve got a headache or
something.” , ,
“Poor old girl!” sympathised her friend.
“I’ve only tnis one fancy dress, and 1
haven’t a sue in the wide. Oh. I say, I was
introduced to that lovely creature she’s
a Mrs. Beauchamp. She’s asked me to have
tea at her flat to-morrow here she is
l’ll introduce you, too.”
The following afternoon Helen and Mabel
were having tea with Mrs. Beauchamp. It
was a charming room, and, though the
weather was warm, a small wood fire burned
clearly in the grate.
Mrs. Beauchamp’s appearance by daylight
had given both girls something of a shock.
Her frock was pretty, her complexion beau-
tiful, but the lovely wig of the previous
night had given place to her own hair, which
was lank, dull and straight. Though she
seemed young, there was already more than
one grey streak in her locks. She looked
almost plain.
“I’m so glad you liked my frock,” she
smiled in answer to a remark of Mabel’s.
“But it always depresses me so. I do wish
I lived in the eighteenth century,. or that
wigs were the fashion nowadays. I can’t
camouflage my horrid hair anyway by day-
light ! Have another cake. Helen; they’re
real cream! Forgive my being frightfully
rude, but could you tell me where you get
your hair waved ? Or is it natural ? Because
I was admirig it all the time at the dance.”
Helen laughed.
“Can’t afford to patronise hairdressers,”
she answered, ‘‘and it isn’t natural. No. I
just use silmerine.” She finished as if that
explained everything, Mrs. Beauchamp
knitted her brows;
“Silmerine?” she inquired, “I’m afraid I’m
very ignorant. What is it? Where do you
get it? What do you do with it?”
“One at a time,” laughed Helen. It is
a rather nice-smelling colorless liquid. You
can get it from any chemist’s. You just damp
your hair with it, put in slides where you
want the wave....and, voila, ze curls”....
“But that’s too wonderful,” exclaimed
Mrs. Beauchamp. “Do you have to use it
every day?”
“Oh. no! The effects last for some
days. And the queer thing is that the more
you use silmerine the less often you require
it. It seems to coax the hair into natural
waves that stay in of their own accord.”
“If my hair weren’t so odiously thin and
streaky,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, “I would
rush out this minute and buy a bottle before
I have another sandwich. But my grey
locks would look too ridiculous in waves.
Shall I have a bottle of peroxide or Condy’s
fluid, and turn my few remaining hairs a
bright gold or red?”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” put in Helen, “I’m
going to reveal a horrid secret. A little
while ago I found some grey, hairs on my
own head. Mabel’s fair; she won’t go grey
so soon. So I got a packet of tammalite and
dissolved it in bay rum, and put it on the
faded parts with a clean little brush. It
was wonderful the way that it gradually
brought back the color to my hair.”
“How lovely,” continued their hostess.
“Yes, I really must try that. Tammalite,
you said, didn’t you? By the way, a lot of
people I know are using boranium as a hair
tonic, but so far I haven’t tried it. Do either
of you know if it’s any good?”
“Any good!” chorused the two girls....
“Why, it’s the only thing.... -
“I mix it with bay rum”
“You can use eau-de-cologne. I believe.”
“It’s the most priceless stuff.”
“My hair’s grown heaps thicker since I
used it.”
“Good gracious!” interposed Mrs. Beau-
champ, “I suppose I shall have to use it too,
I’ll put it down with the tammalite. What do
you shampoo with?” she asked. “You’ve both
got such glorious hair.”
This time Mabel answered. “Oh, the usual,
stallax. you know.”
“Stallax ? I don’t seem to know it. Is it
some special preparation?”
“I don’t think so,” replied Mabel. “It is
quite ordinary stuff. I believe. You can buy
it in packages from most chemists. But it
makes the most lovely shampoo; it lathers
gorgeously in any water, and your hair dries
quickly after it and looks so soft and bright.
My own hair always gets and brittle
after a shampoo of any kind that I always
massage my scalp with olive oil before wash-
ing it.”
“That’s awfully nice to know,” said Mrs.
Beauchamp. “Really, I’m most intensely grate-
ful to you two girls. I’ve been envying your
hair.”
“And we’ve been envying your complexion.”
said Helen. “I do wish I had nice pink cheeks
like yours, and I don’t like the idea of rouge.”
“Powdered eolliandum.” said Mrs. Beau-
champ. in a dramatic whisper “just a trifle
..,. harmless indetectable any chemist’s
....used it for years. By the way, Helen,
didn’t you say something about wanting a
fancy dress for the ‘Excelsior’ dance to-night?
You wouldn’t care to borrow my rig-out. I
suppose? It’s just your size, and I know it
would suit you.”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” said Helen, “you’re one
of the best.” — Advt.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
VISCOUNT BRYCE.
Modern Democracies. By the Right
Hon. VISCOUNT BRYCE, 0.M..
P.C., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S. 2
Vols. 50s. net.
* * In these volumes Lord Bryce examines a
few popular Governments in their actual work-
ing, comparing them with one another, and
setting forth the various merits and defects
which belong to each.
Fijian Society: or the Sociology and
Psychology of the Fijians. By the
Rev. W. DEANE, M.A. (Syd.),B.D.
(Lornl.). Late Principal of the
Teachers’ Training College, Ndftvui-
l<svu, Fiji. Limmediately
Australian Campaigns in the Great
War, being a Concise History of
the Australian Naval and Mili-
tary Forces. 1914 to 1918. Bv
LIEUT. THE HON. STANIFORTH
SMITH, M.8.E., F.R.G.S., F.Z.S.
(44th Battalion, A.1.F.), Adminis-
trator of the Territory of Papua,
WITH A PREFACE by ERNEST
SCOTT, Professor of History, Uni-
versity of Melbourne. With Maps
and Illustrations. Bs. Gd.
Australia Economic and Political
Studies. Bv VARIOUS WRITERS.
Edited by MEREDITH ATKINSON.
12s. Gd.
The New Social Order: A Study of
Post-War Reconstruction. By
MEREDITH ATKINSON. M.A.
(Oxon.), Director of Tutorial Classes
and head of the Department of Soci-
ology in the University of. Melbourne.
Second Edition, completely revised.
[lmmediately.
Men and Thought in Modern His-
tory. By ERNEST SCOTT, Pro-
fessor of History in the University
of Melbourne. With Portraits. 12s.
Gd. net.
Rudyaird Kipling's Works. Dominions
Edition. 6s. net per vol.
UNIFORM EDITION, 22 Vols.
7s. Gd. net per vol.
POCKET EDITION, 23 Vols. Limp
leather, 7s. Gd. net; blue cloth, Gs. net
per vol.
THE SERVICE KIPLING, 26 Vols.
Blue cloth, 3s. net each.
The Book of Butter. A Text on the
Nature, Manufacture and Marketing
of the Product. By EDWARD S.
GUTHRIE, Ph.D., Professor of Dairy
Industry, N.Y. State College of Agri-
culture at Cornell University. Fully
Illustrated. 12s. net.
[Rural Text-hook Series.
Karl Marx and Modern Socialism. By
F. R. SALTER, M.A. ss. net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
The March Number contains
a Special Australian
Article entitled
WHITE AUSTRALIA,
also
IRELAND AND THE HOME RULE ACT.
THE MIGRATION OF THE RACES.
THE PARIS CONFERENCE.
DIPLOMACY BY CONFERENCE.
SOUTH AFRICA AND THE EMPIRE.
UNITED KINGDOM: Unemployment and the
Industrial Situation.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o< a hostile character . trill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Blue Page: Enough about that; but hope
to hear from you again.... Toby C.: What geography
is it ? And is its use prescribed in Queensland
schools ?.... Gumleaves: Well, you know, you don’t
use words very well. For instance, you call your
contribution “a reply to Mr. Bedford,” and it isn’t
that at a 11.... Jonah: Sorry, but you no doubt
missed that yarn when it was first printed. It would
be about the time when the whale had y0u....
A.D.J.: Glad to hear.... Gregor : We’ll trust you—
handle the matter yourself... .H.K.: Thanks; but
we’ve had a lot of Chesterton lately.... Pierce B.:
Next time you try, instead of merely rhyming
“forth” with “wrath,” try rhyming “wheelbarrow”
with “go-cart”... .W.C.P.: Not well enough done...
Gil Bias: Couldn’t be much worse. . . .A.P.W.: Very
wobbly and crude.... Eyelet: Thin and p00r....
Frank H.: The sorrowful thing simply (lopped into
the basket.... Osbert G.: Held for inquest... .Jack
A. W.: “The Practical Patrician” doesn’t strike us
as being either thrilling or humorous.... Stan E.:
“Pals” is too commonplace. .. .John A. C.: A
“description of sunrise over a mystic lake” is sheer
waste of words. . . .E.G.F.: Very poor. . . .Mag: Versa
like that would disturb a prickly-pear. .. .0.N.J.:
Doesn’t get near. . . .R.S.A.: Not much there....
11.H.H.: Crude picture-show stuff... .B.A.V. : Poor
as the shadow of Lazarus... .C.J.W.: Doesn’t get
near the pay-window F.F. (Windham): Nothing
there for us. .. . E.D.M.: Very rugged.... Concave:
The verse doesn’t carry it. .. . Kambooja: Not enough
in “The Slipper”... .Henrietta Maria: P00r.... Rex
B. : “Destiny” not up. .. .Quondam: Too rough and
ragged.... See Bee: The bumps are too numerous. ..
W.A.H.: The “Memories” are too commonplace in
thought and too rough in manner; but there is some
promise.... Mildred C.: Nearly, but not quite....
A.F.R. : Take it away and sing it to the lady, if
she loves you after that she is worthy of y0u....
Calumet: The idea is all right, but the lines go
heavily. Get to work on them Spanish Bridle:
Too slight. .. .R.S.A.: You could easily improve
“Sea Tramp”.... Alex B.: Difficult mirth, that....
Chumjoberree: “Summer” and “Woop Woop” equally
bad. Which is a pity, because you can write better.
....Ella N.: Splendid thing:—
Those wond’rous purple shadows
Floating o’er distant hills,
Send my thoughts awandering,
My mind with fancies fill.
They remind me of the years
That stretch before us all,
Full of unknown mysteries, *
But still to us they call.
....Gambit: None of them up. “Force of Habit”
might pass if it could be made to mean a bit
more. . . .En. O.: An old theme, and not brightly
handled...H. (Claremont): An impossible movement
for verse of the sort. .. . Dulcie S.: You have a .very
fair idea of verse. But get something new to say.
.... Simon L.: Sorry ; they won’t d 0... . Emfios:
“Curse of the Movies” falls far short. .. .T.V.T.: It
wanted a finer touch. .. .Kangaretta: That habit of
beginning a new sentence on the last syllable of a
line creates a prose effect. There is plenty of pre-
cedent for it, but it is thoroughly bad.... James G.:
They don’t strike us very hard. .. . J.G.: With six or
seven thousand alleged literary manuscripts to handle
yearly it is hardly possible to reply by letter even to
those who are willing to pay tuppence for an instant
reply.. . .A.P.W.: “Memories” not up. . . .E.M. (Mary-
borough) : Doesn't amount to anything. . . 'W.R.M.:
They don’t get anywhere near. .. . BellerivC': The
natural history studies are stimulating. We select
“The Ocean Shark” :—-
Fiercely on the scent of prey,
With grim and rapid motion,
Glides the huge and dreaded shark,
The fiend of the ocean.
When furiously the breakers dash
Across a vessel’s deck,
Greedily these reptiles flock
Around the awful wreck.
Onward through the splashing waves,
With grim and rapid motion.
Cleave the huge and horrid shark,
The fiend of the ocean.
.... A.R.W.: Don’t know how they did it; but the
statements are on record, written by the men of the
time for those who presumably saw it done. Pictures
.with banks one above the other are extant —some
*of them dating from about 1000 b.c Fingal:
Gone over the tailings dump. . . .M.D.G.: Don’t
burble. Make up your mind what you’re going to
say before you sit down to say it.... Barney: But
that explains nothing. .. .Jonah: Centipede yarn
moss-grown.... Hood: Yes, even for “p eot r y”
if it’s printed. .. .Mag: Could have been done in six
lines.. . .Yan Ban: Not up ; but try again. . . .Tocsee:
Chameleon yarn as old as the kilt itself.... Arrow:
Without a point, then. . . .Murat: A little squeak like
that won’t make Australia awake or arise. .. .Percy
Veer: Been done before.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.K.K.: The worst war horror to date... .8.M.:
An amazing effort. . . .Bell: All miss. . . .C.Y.: You’ve
a long way to go yet....J.A.: Posted back....
Stranger: It couldn’t be. . . .C.S.: Not original. .. .
I. : Woefully wooden... .S.E.T.: Weak drawing,
weaker humor.... F.W.: Not up....Le Dan: You
need to study drawing. . .V.E.: None good enough. . .
E.A.D.: All scratch —and scratched. . . .E.D.M.,
B.L. and C.H.: Sketches in blue ink can’t be con-
sidered... .A. W.: Terrible... .G.C.McI.: Not avail-
able... .A. S.: Deformed youngsters going back....
A.L.: No use... . J.N.: Is that off your own bat '!....
J. : None .good enough... .Phil: Drawing bad.
“Pioneer”: “Spare Corp’s” instance (B.
3/2/’2l) of “blankard” coming from the
mouth of a padre reminds me of one church
parade on a Sunday before a stunt. Our
padre was speaking about prayer, and in
emphasising the fact that the spirit of the
act rather than choice of words mattered to
the Deity, told us a story of two foot-sloggers
whose water-bags gave out somewhere in the
Never Never of Australia, many miles from
the next water-hole, let alone a pub. He
drew a really moving picture of them
struggling along on the parched sand under
a sun, till the elder man collapsed.
When the old chap was about to breathe his
last, with his thoughts turning Heavenwards
he asked his mate if he could say a prayer
for him. Bill, after some hard thinking,
prayed: “Oh, Lord, be kind to a poor old
blankard !” The point of the yarn was amaz-
ingly emphasised by the fact that there wasn't
one flicker of a smile among all the hard-
faced Diggers who heard it. , .<


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
Xew and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
T.uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
T*l-—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4017 n
4810! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 1,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
yHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
v 10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
’S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 pan.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled 011 the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Ivt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, If CM G. •
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C. I
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Depo-il Stock 3.091,069 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
I>i hectors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. 11. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert It. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Si.v, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in !
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
BRanches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street). !
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairuairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529 988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125 000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 2,'250'000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1’521’520
URANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
_ , , , land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, cte.
Cana d ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY, NOON.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
<>mud Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara l ulls, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
TAHITI, 31st MAY.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 26th May.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
for illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEO HOE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
V
<t. 2
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11.250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE. i
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons, I
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £O4 to i
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
- £4,958,260
- 3,350,000
- 4,958,260
£13,266,520
Directors:
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Minnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
M.D.
M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTTJECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Janfe*JtaraKa
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a % Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor.. Jan. Ist. 1921. Governor.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
lst, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
{Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
! Huddart Parkei LlM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
| STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
| and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
j Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must Jiave Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic/Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing: Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES' at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough. Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,§36,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about . . .. . . £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..'£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. . . . . £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
fi£
INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd,.
33 Pitt Street, Sydney.


GENUINE
m"
1
(Resd) 1
BILLIARD ekSNOOKER
imTtflimrcrm!
im
1 <S
5 «lS
In play they are resilient —faultless in running—true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: ljin. l|in.
17/6 21/- set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.; Other Statesi 1/2).
SNOOKER BAELS
Sizes: l|in. lain. 2in
£6,6|- £7/7/- £B/81- set
(We Pay Carriage on Bnooker Balls).
•Sole Australasian Distributors
M
'unmans
ac
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Mi
n
i.
ABBEY
SHOES,
noted for their lasting qualities.
You purchase true comfort in each pair
of Abbey Shoes, for they are made to fit
your feet!
A SMART SHOE !
Abbey’s special highest-grade Patent
Derby Shoe.
Also in Tan Willow Calf, in made-to-order
style.
Stocked in half-sizes, narrow, medium and
broad fittings.
Prices: —
Patent Derby, 757-
Brown Derby, 63/-
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Write for the interesting illustrated
Abbey Catalogue.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote-you price for it.
m.
1
C-. <■' <• 2&Wm y
Iw-viw#*
<*&
■*.»/>
2?
'«
si
: ;
KS
SfcS
■-,. sV .-' /.V
• *: ;•;•'•■• S'-V-V.
JWp
. •<.*■ V» -.'jSS
£i«l
•ftV
v «*&«&* w sr
••:?•-: • -■
• •• >f.*fs »W>S: 4...%
HSi
*3s
SMB
V -
.' r .
Xvti
ssssksb
o#
t BSSOf*S FRO«
obM**
***' inattieS^
*
Great wP°^ rixiet G er^ ere a ceW\
tests o£ t* e lttf rct» riveted-\
Saden- °*t w ', *
\eue-^ elded ’ be sim tteTe pie rced »
0«s ‘"“'V* * et e”e\’« ealto ”R-
B e-«eio«r scatter- pie rcec i
*• -r~\
Diving v 9 e nera lw \
•buvann furm s e tt ecV - \
parties ing t» e s u.p-\
ivm& „ e neraii" \
**'*“''
B ad—"' WW
i e«ie rilOCQtS
Oxy-Acetylene
Welding excels in
peace as in war.
SUCH is the strength of an Oxy-Acetylene
welded joint that it is proof against the
heaviest shell fire. The German gun-
turrets were pierced, but could not be
shattered. Such strength!
The marvel is that some manufacturers and engineers
still use rivetting, tire welding or brazing, wnereas
Oxy-Acetylene welding would do the job qu cker,
better, and cheaper.
Oxy-Acetylene welding fuses the metal parts to be
joined. It’s a wonderful time- and money-saver for
the producer of metal goods, engineers, motorists,
farmers and householders. No broken metal article is
too large or too small that a COMOX welder will not
repair it for a fraction of the cost of replacement.
For name of nearest COMOX welder, for particulars
of COMOX welding outfits, write to
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S.W.
AGENTS—Melbourne: Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street Arielable: Geo. Wills & Co., Etd.,
Brisbane: Evans, Deakin & C<*., 121 Eagle Street Perth: Geo. Wills & Co. Gtd.,
Launceston: Harrison Bros. & Co., 20 Patterson Street. Suva, liji: Brown & Joske.
Grenfell Street.
Murray Street.


PLAZA Tooth Paste
Bleaches the Teeth and
makes them Beautiful.
Miss Dorothy Woolley is a Plaza
devotee, and says she finds Plaza
Tooth Paste simply lovely. This
charming little artist is recognised
by the foremost critics as one of the
finest exponents of classical and
interpretive dancing in the world.
All Australians are proud of Miss
Woolley, and she writes that she is
going to tell her thousands of girl
friends how good Plaza Tooth Paste
is, for she says she cannot recom-
mend it too much. You try Plaza
Tooth Paste, too, and see if you do
not find it a better Tooth Paste
than you have ever used before.
Look in the Glass
after using Plaza Tooth Paste, and
see how it bleaches the teeth, and
cleans and polishes them to perfec-
tion. You will charm all your
friends with a smile when your
teeth are Plaza-cleaned. Plaza
Tooth Paste—the new Dentifrice,
large tubes, 1 /6.
MISS DOROTHY WOOLLEY (Dorn a
photo by Howard Harris Studios).
ttaj.
mMTfrrrwr
TOOTH PASTE
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should lead the British Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Oflices, 51 fligh Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
We Desire
to Buy
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
/
The Perfect Pipe.
Why
Worry
Life is always worth the living
When you’ve got a GBD. ,
%
m.
I
Many Popular Shapes.
On Sale Everywhere.
A Song of Railway Screeches.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL trains have tootle-valves attached
To blow whene’er the drivers list;
They sound when life is swiftly
snatched
From danger in the morning mist,
They call to stations as they pass.
To tunnels as they thunder through.
To cows that eat the tufted grass
Between the sleepers and the dew.
Their purpose I have never known.
These sudden calls by day and night,
It may be they are simply blown
To give the passengers a tnght.
It may be that their tuneful cry •
Comes down the grade where metals slime
To make the person strong to die
Who sleeps when drunk upon the line.
It may be that in places drear,
Where day is but a cloth to wipe
The glass that held the midnight beer.
The whistle tells “the time is ripe ;
It may be that the flying hoot
Is sent in mockery of the pain
That comes through travelling per boot
Without the cash to go by train.
All this I guess, but never learn
With any certainty or truth,
Though I iiave felt my spirit yearn
To solve the scheme from early youth.
But this I know : the tootle shrill
Takes varying form and shapo and stylo;
And I admire the splendid skill
That makes the music worth my while.
There is a driver, thin and brown,
Who plays the whistle like a flute,
And all the rumbling way to town
Gives forty miles of solid hoot;
There is another, thick and grey,
Who sends cold shivers down the spine,
With blasts that sound like Judgment Day
Coining express along the line.
Ah, well! The bumping buffers pause,
The brakes grind hard upon the wheels;
Hot coal is in the engine’s jaws
And I can bless the toot-and-squeal.
Without the shrill and sudden call
We should sit still with shoulders hunched
And no amusement left at all,
Except to have our tickets punched.
I watch the aeroplane on high,
I hear its kookaburra sound ;
And wonder if. when all men fly
And no trains crawl along the ground,
The screeching art will still remain
And travellers feel the blessed boon
Of racked nerves kept upon the strain
While pilots whistle to the moon.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
Twenty Pounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MONTE GREEN sat on a bench in the
Treasury Gardens. It was late in
the afternoon, and already a thin
stream of workers from the grey-stoned Gov-
ernment offices beyond flowed past him in
the direction of the railway-station.
Some few as they passed eyed the shabby,
nondescript bulk of the lone sitter; their
quick glances ranging from the merely curi-
ous to those of speculative contempt. They
felt, rather than saw, the disrepair of his
wardrobe, the pathetically down-at-heels
atmosphere which enveloped the man as in
a fog of shabbiness, and sniffed with that
easy condescension which is the hall-mark
of respectability. Not a single man of them
cared the value of a stale oyster who he
was or whence he came.
For the matter of that Monte didn’t care
either. He returned all glances with a look
of devil-take-your-impudence on his passion-
scarred face, thrusting his hands still more
deeply into the moneyless pockets of his
trousers, and lolling back on his seat in an
attitude of careless unconcern.
He remained thus until the last of the
pedestrians had disappeared from view. Then
lie sat stiffly upright and sought to fasten
the ragged coat more tightly over his chest,
for the evening air was chill. Alone now,
except for the half-dozen sparrows that
scratched and quarrelled on the gravel path,
and the clumsy gambols of a mangy puppy at
the edge of the shrubbery beyond, he no
longer cared to mask his dejection. His
shoulders sagged, his sprouting chin fell for-
ward on his chest, his eyes watered.
An empty stomach is prone to pessimism.
Monte had not tasted food for twelve hours,
and remembrance of bygone feasts away back
in the dim, dark ages of his respectability
now came to mouth at him over the chasm
of the years between.
His fast, however, would soon be at an
end. He-reflected, a little tremulously, that
the coming of darkness would make all the
difference. For reasons best known to himself
he preferred for the time being to remain
where he was until night, friend and faithful
ally of the under-dog the world over, should
descend murkily to his aid. In the interval
of waiting he allowed his thoughts to run in
whimsical self-apostrophe.
“These men—these clerks,” he told him-
self, “what are they but the unconscious
slaves of an effete and degenerate system?
” hat is there in all their little tuppenny
round of routine and red tape to compare
with the varied experience and entire, if
occasionally cheerless—l had almost said
beerless—freedom of such as I ? Naked
entered they the world and naked shall leave
it. And here I refer to intellect rather than
to corporate substance. The flame-winged
muse knoweth them not. They eat, drink
and are happy—as the worm is happy. Art
is immortal; and the fires of genius burn not
on the altars of servitude.”
I rom the pocket of his coat he produced a
Pipe almost as forlorn-looking as himself. A
fev Y ashes still remained at the bottom of the
well-burnt bow-1, and these he now proceeded
noisily to light.
“Life,” said Monte aloud, “is like a plate
or soup shall we say cabbage-soup? Cool
enough around the edges, but warming as
- vo . 1 ! .set in. And often damned hot in the
middle.”
But why cabbage-soup?” asked a voice at
his back.
For the fraction of a second Monte re-
mained as if petrified, the lighted match still
poised in his fingers. Then he slowly
turned his head and looked into the cold,
unwavering eyes of Detective Jones, of the
Russell-street station. That astute officer
was smiling grimly.
“Why cabbage-soup V” he repeated softly.
"Why not oyster-soup, or tomato-soup —or,
in fact, any soup. Your simile, as a whole,
appeals to me. But why cabbage-soup,
Monte?”
“Because it’s so damned unsatisfying,”
said Monte, turning aside with a scowl.
“Quite so.” The detective sat himself on
the bench by Monte’s side. “For a wonder
you’ve found it out. Well, Monte, what
d’you know?”
"Not a thing,” growled the derelict. He
shuffled his feet uneasily. "Not a thing.”
“That’s a pity,” said Jones. For a full
minute he studied Monte’s unattractive pro-
file, and his cold eyes seemed suddenly to
become less cold, lie tapped the other on
the arm.
“Look here, Monte. We’ve known each
other for a dog’s age. We sat in the same
class at school, and we’ve been in sight of
each other more or less ever since. Of the
two of us you had much the better chance.
You came of respectable stock, you had a
university training, and the prospects of a
fine future. That says nothing. To-day
we’re each where we are. ■ I’m trying to
remember that we were once pretty good
pals. That’s why I’m going to speak now
as a man first and a policeman after. I’m
going to give you a chance that another man
wouldn’t give you, and that I wouldn’t give
any other man.”
"I should he wiser,” said Monte clearly,
after a second’s pause, “if I knew where all
this was leading.”
Jones flashed him a quick glance.
“I’m going to tell you. Three hours ago a
roll of one-pound notes —20 of them, to be
exact —was taken from a suburban shop till.
The robber was seen—sufficiently well, any-
how, to enable a good description of him to
be handed to me. Now I want to say only
this —pass those notes over to me, and I’ll
square you for this time. I’ll do just that
for old times’ sake. I know you’ve got them ;
and you know that I know it. Pass them
over to me. Now it’s your turn to speak ;
and I hope to God you’ll speak straight for
once in your life.”
Monte faced him with a twisted smile.
“You’ve got me all wrong in this, Jim.
Do I....excuse me, but do I look the kind
of man that has 20 pounds—my own, or
anyone else’s —in my pockets? I assure you
I haven’t 20 pence.”
The detective ignored the protest.
“You’re too smart to carry it on you—
yet,” he said, as if reasoning with himself.
“That’s why I’m putting it up to you now
—fair and square. I followed you here, and
I know what 1 know. Did you ever do a
decent action, a real straight decent action,
in your life? Now, I’ll say only this—hand
that money back to me and I’ll stand by you.
The newspapers are making a fuss. There’s
been too much of this sort of thing lately,
and we want to return the goods. In an hour’s
time I’ll come back. Y r ou won’t try to dodge
me, for you know it’s no use. There’s more
than one other thing against you, and if we
didn’t get you on this we’d get you on some-
thing else. In an hour I’ll be back, and
you'll pass me that wad —see. I’m doing
the square thing by you. You haven’t been
to gaol yet. though you’ve come mighty near
to it. Think it over.”
He got up and went quietly away into the
gathering dusk.
For a quarter of an hour Monte sat motion-
less. Then he, too, arose, cast a quick glance
to right and left, and walked to a Moreton
Bay fig-tree about a chain away. lie thrust
his hand into a hollow of the root and took
out a tightly-rolled package. With hardly
a glance at it he thrust it into his pocket;
returning then to the bench, where he settled
himself like an ill-shapen blot against the
soft background of the dusk.
A man came hurrying along the path at
his back, passed under the gas-lamp a dozen
yards away and vanished in the gloom be-
yond. The quick thud of his feet came back
to Monte through the still air. Hardly had
the sound died away in the distance than
the figure of a woman moved into the circle
of light. She had a handkerchief to her face,
and Monte was suddenly irritated to dis-
cover that she was coughing—coughing.
God, what a cough she had ! lie thought it
would never cease;
In his annoyance he relaxed his cramped
muscles. His feet scraped the gravel, and
he swore audibly. The woman turned and
moved slowly towards him. As she came
opposite she spoke.
“Go to Hell,” said Monte without looking
up.
Instead of the foul abuse he looked for, his
hardened ears caught only the sound of a
strangled sob. He heard her gasp and
cough. Then her voice came to him out of
the black shadows as she moved away.
“I’m there now.” ~ \
( A sudden revulsion of feeling swept him.
Some latent chivalry, some echo of forgotten
manhood, pricked his consciousness like a
sword. On an impulse he left his seat and
ran after her. He had not far to seek.
She was coughing again—hard, dry coughs
that shook her thin body like a leaf.
“I’m sorry I said that,” said Monte, half-
unwillingly. He sensed rather than saw her
surprise.
“Said what?”
“Told you to go to Hell,” mumbled Monte.
The reply shocked even his hardened sen-
sibilities.
“It’s—it’s all right, mister. I’m used
to that. It's what they all say. It’s my
cough. No one’ll look at me.”
The utter misery in the flat, tired voice
made him quiver all over. For almost the
first time in his life Monte realised bow
brutal a thing existence might become. He
stood there peering at her in the darkness,
not knowing what next to do or say.
“God” —he thought bitterly, “the thief and
the whore.”
Before he quite knew it he had taken her
bv the arm and was leading her to a seat.
She went unresistingly, apathetically. A
gas lamp waned and flickered overhead. By
its feeble light Monte saw that the handker-
chief at her month was stained with blood.
(Continued on next page.)


and a bandage and a pot of Zam-Buk make the simplest and
safest first-aid.
Zam-Buk is so beautifully soothing for the children s hurts. A
touch of Zam-Buk smeared over a cut, burn or scald —a
piece of soft bandage to cover it —no more pain—no more
tears. Just quiet, swift healing in Nature s way.
The grown-ups, too, find Zam-Buk a real boon, both for their
injuries and for those skin affections which, if neglected, soon
lead* to obstinate sores. By its
QUICK, CLEAN HEALING
Zam-Buk prevents all dangerous complications.
Besides its wonderful healing and pain-killing power, Zam-Buk also possesses powerful
antiseptic and purifying properties. Unlike coarse, fatty ointments and salves, Zam-Buk
thoroughly draws poison out of the wound or sore before it heals the place with new
skin. That is why the Zam-Buk way of treating the skin is so thoroughly reliable and
satisfactory.
#">)
&
V.
KvJ
C 5
£
' M
\ &~sr/
AUSTRALASIA’S GREAT
HOME FIRST-AID
You cannot afford to be without Zam-Buk, the
healer which safeguards your everyday injuries
against Festering and Blood-poison. Zam-Buk is
also invaluable for Eczema, Bad Legs, Biles,
Ringworm, Children’s Sores, and Rashes. Boils
and similar skin affections. Of all • Stores and
Chemists.
o«' j °
N tt*AV-
I
BW.U
RtS
.LtS - i-mpLIS -
SM SCI AT EC A u"s
bhCKS • d\\PV»lvi •
SORE
L/NEQUALLED «M CR/CKETE RS
FOOTBALL PLAyERS
SPORTSMEN GENERALLY ,
CYCL
AS AN
Rocfa^
••« ~. v-
a
“You’re ill,” he said, starting back.
“I know,” said the woman simply. “They
told me at the hospital I hadn’t more than
three months to live —three months. Only
that I want money—God, how 1 want
money”
Monte waited for the paroxysm ot cough-
ing to quieten.
“We ;ill want money. He looked at
her with rough sympathy. “The question
is, how bad do we want it. It’s stiff luck
for you. But why the money?”
“It don’t matter. I'll never get it, of
course. It's only that I hate the thought
of having to die here in the city. There’s
a little place I know, away up in the bush
—trees and ferns, and —and things. I went
there once when I was a kid. It can’t be
so hard dying in a place like that. I
thought if I could earn enough to take me
there —just for three months —it wouldn t
matter after that. 1 used to earn more’n
that in a week —in a week. No one’ll look
at me now. It's my cough”
Monte’s restless lingers suddenly encoun-
tered the money in his pocket. The touch
of it seemed to burn him like tire. From
somewhere at hand a clock was calling the
hour. The sound made him wince. A queer
feeling took possession of him. lie so‘>meu
already to know the answer to the question
lie was about to put. He moistened his
lips and turned half-irritably in his seat.
“How much —I mean, how much would
take you to—to where you want to go?”
.“I counted up once. I knew it was no
use. I was just trying to kid myself. Twenty
pounds I made it. Twenty pounds”
She broke off to cough.
Monte sat staring at the darkness. At
that moment he hated himself, hated the
woman at his side, hated everything. Exist-
ence was cheap and mean. Yet he knew
that men clung to it as if it Were indeed
some gift of the gods. One-half the world
must die that the rest might live. This
matter of the twenty pounds —it struck him
as queer—damned queer. Of course, it was
just coincidence. If only lie wasn't so afraid
of gaol, of being shut up alone with his
thoughts—he might—lie might-
The woman had done coughing. She lay
back almost exhausted, her face in the
shadow and her eyes closed. One cheek
rested on the hard wood of the railing.
On the seat between them was a hand-
bag, a tawdry thing, all stained and blotched
with the weather. Monte lifted it and looked
inside. It was empty except for a few
coppers, a handkerchief and a bottle of
cheap scent.
His hand slid into his pocket and returned
grasping the roll of notes. He dropped them
into the bag, closed it, and put it gently
back on the seat. Then he rose to his feet.
At the sound the woman lifted a white,
sodden face.
“I can’t help you,” said Monte in a
strained voice.
He took the handbag and thrust it at her
almost violently. “Get back home,” he
said harshly. “I don’t want you. Go on
away.”
His sudden savagery .seemed to frighten
her. Without a word she slunk off like a
beaten dog. He could hear her coughing
—coughing as she went. God, would she
never stop that damned cough V He sat
down again and tried to stop his ears —and
the almost uncontrollable impulse that
shouted at him t<> go after her and beat her
with his two lists and tear the bag from
her....
Detective Jones, stepping softly ■up some
ten minutes later, found his man huddled
motionless at the end of the seat. His cold
eyes gleamed with .satisfaction.
"I knew you’d listen to reason. Hand
them over, Monte. And then we’ll go down
town and I'll stand you some supper and a
bed.”
Monte stirred slightly.
“No.”
"It's your due,” said Jones, misunder-
standing. "For £2U you buy just that
much —and your freedom. I’ll stand to my
wold. . But pass me that wad first.”
“Jim —Jim,” said Monte, in a husky whis-
per. “Tell me one thing first —only one.
I’m just curious to know. Did you have
the numbersV”
Jones laughed.
“What does that matter7' If you want to
know —no, I didn’t. Now then, what have
you done with them? Hand them over.”
There was a »iueer smile on the derelict’s
face.
“Jim, I’m sorry—but there’s nothing
doing.”
“I)’you want gaol, you fool?”
Monte was tremblim* a little, but there
was a strange ring in his suddenly softened
voice.
"I don’t. But you’ve got me in wrong
over this. If I had the notes I’d give them
to you, but I haven’t.”
“Is that your last word 7” asked the detec-
tive in a hard tone.
Still smiling, Monte nodded back from
the shadows.
“It’s a true word.”
There was an instant’s pause. Then
Jones reached out and jerked him roughly
to his feet.
“You always were a liar. Did you ever
do a decent action in your life 7 Well,
you’ve had your chance. Come dn.”
BERNARD CRONIN.
A Little Dinner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS on my way to “blow” my last two
shillings on a real dinner when I met
Fitz-Basin. He was “awfully glad to
meet you, old chap.” As a matter of fact,
lie was just wondering where he would dine;
meeting me had settled the , question, lie
would dine with me. I explained the finan-
cial problem. The solution was easy. One
dinner at two shillings divided by two made
two dinners at one shilling. We set off to
where I eat when down to the last bob.
“Been busy all day collecting my rent,”
explained Fitz-Basin as we walked. He
generally is busy at that; when not suc-
cessful he sleeps in the Domain. “Didn’t
see a chance to have a bite all day, so I
begin to feel just a little peckish, old boy.
Fearfully bad times," he complained.
"People so frightfully hard up they couldn’t
manage my rent to-day. Ah, well, cheer
up! Let’s eat. drink and be merry; to-
morrow they might. Gad! I feel sorry for
the poor devils indoors a night like this !’’
Entering the eating-house Fitz-Basin
looked expectant. He seemed rather hurt
that the head waiter did not rush forward
to conduct him to his table.
“Take soup?” asked the waitress.
“A serviette, please,” ordered Fitz-Basin.
“Serviettes a penny extra.”
“Robbery ! I won't pay it. Look at the
state of this tablecloth! Certainly 1 won't
pay it. A piece of clean linen in close prox-
imity to it would by contrast make it un-
endurable. Yes, I’ll try some soup. Thick
soup, please.”
When the soup came Fitz-Basin pointed
out that it was clear.
“Y’ordered soup. If yer wanted barley
broth, why didn’t you say so?” growled the
waitress as she bustled to the kitchen.
Fitz-Basin emptied half the contents of
the sauce-bottle into his broth.
“Try some sauce,” he advised. “You can
just about manage it if you flavor it a little.”
“What ter follow?”
“Oh, would you mind reading the menu,
old chap?” he asked. “I’ve left my glasses
to be repaired.” Fitz-Basin’s glasses have
a pawnable value, so they are often under-
going repairs.
lie listened attentively while 1 read
through the long list, from steak-and-kidney
pudding down to cold corned-beef and pickles.
“Ah, what fish have you?”
“No fish.”
“But you distinctly state ‘Soup, fish ami
sweets, or soup, meat and sweets, one shil-
ling'; it's in large black type at the top
of the card. I can clearly read it from here
without my glasses. Impostors! Suppose
I have conscientious objections to eating
meat, you entice me in here under false
pretences. I've a good mind to speak to
my friend Dooley about this.”
“Oh, ’urry up; I can’t wait ’ere arguin’
all night.”
“Don’t be impatient, my girl. Let me see.
What was there? Ah, yes, I'll have some
steak and eggs. Two eggs, please.”
I kicked Fitz-Basin violently. “Steak and
eggs, one and six,” I whispered.
“Ah, yes. Dear me, too bad, too bad.”
“Indeed! Our eggs is new-laid.” The
waitress directed Fitz-Basin to the ' -, 'Tng
with her nose as she gave him this informa-
tion.
“You were not addressed, my dear; I
spoke to my friend. Don’t be impertinent,
and vou may bring me some roast beef. And
horse-radish,” he added as the girl retreated.
The tea-waitress came and poked a cup
of tea at Fitz-Basin.
“Wlmt’s this?” he asked with a look of
interest at the strange stuff.
“Tea. D’yer want cawfee?”
“Yes. coffee. Certainly; coffee, by all
means.”
The roast beef arrived.
“I asked for roast beef and horse-radish.”
“Radishes is off. There’s the lettuce.”
Fitz-Ba sin’s explanations were intern p til
by the arrival of the coffee. . .
•‘Good gad, girl, you’ve put milk m n •
he groaned. , ,
“If yer want black coffee, why don t , e
say so 7” . .
While the coffee was being exchanged
Fitz-Basin let me into the secret ot making
coffee. I gathered that the further you can
get away from milk to perform the mysteri-
ous rite the better the coffee. Beaching to-
wards the bread he changed his mind and
beckoned the waitress. . »,
“Brown bread, please. This white stu t
is simply ruinous to the digestive organs.
As there was no brown bread I teai that
Fitz-Basin will suffer from indigestion tor
the rest of his life. , , ,
Except that roast beef should never be
cooked and that Fitz-Basin’s was, and the
fact that no one but he can boil a potato,
the meat course was satisfactory.
"Now, old man, what sweets are ve hat-
ing V” lie asked, handing me the card.
After I had read through the dreadful list
twice lie thought he would try a. little blanc-
mange and custard. Not nearly enough eggs
had been used in the composition ot the cus-
tard. la* explained, though to my eyes it had
an eggier color than all the eggs in cold-
storage could have given it.
“But some people never will learn to cook,
he condescended.
Bread and butter with lettuce and spring
onions followed. Then Fitz-Basin called the
waitress for more butter.
“Extra butter a penny.” she snapped.
“What, disgraceful! Everything is extra
here and you roll the butter hollow to make
it appear more than it really is. A fraud on
the public! The Profiteering Court ought to
attend to you. Take it away I will not
ruin my digestion with any more of this
white bread.”
Over another cup of black coffee r ltz-
Basin lit one of my cigarettes and was pro-
ceeding to find more faults, when the burly
proprietor arrived and pointed to the no-
smoking notice. Rather than lose a perfectly
good cigarette Fitz-Basin made a lordly exit.
“Thank you. my dear. Now, a kiss,” he
requested of the waitress as lie took our
tickets from her and handed them to me.
lie helped himself to a handful of tooth-
picks, reported the waitress for impertinence
—presumably because she refused him the
kiss—and hinted darkly at the Profiteering
Court while I paid the bill.
When at last he joined me on the pave-
ment. “Quite a decent little dinner.” he said
and sighed contentedly. Then after a long
pause: “I enjoyed it exceedingly well, old
man. After all, I am rather glad we could
not run to that other place. I don’t know
that I care too much for that foreign touch
about their cooking. Now. you must join me
in a long walk. It’s such a glorious night,
and I’m doing nothing until I turn in. I
can’t read without my glasses, you know. The
repairs amount to five and tenbence. Say
six shillings. ' You couldn’t manage”
But I had fled. I also am rather glad that
we couldn’t “run” to the other place. I want
to (line there again.
MICK PAUL.


i
SI
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in .stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCftOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL..
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet.
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what «<■ -i
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
if it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
'
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
safeguard yoor health
QfJ.Coltis Brot)nji!s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter'#
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an ' active
CARTERS
W ittle
H IVER
fl PILLS
They cure
Biliousness, Con-1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
Blackheads. In fact they make you bettei
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill —Small Dost—Small Prioo.
GENUINE must
bear signature
THE BEST MEDICINE FOU
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
KONCHITIS auii
lON.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPAS M S and
COLIC.
I A well-proved palliative
in the pains ol GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
acts like a charm in
Dictrrhcea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 3/-.
Made in England.
Free Air for Your Tyre
GARAGES, are you able to display the above sign?
If not, how about fitting your establishment with the
necessary equipment?
Such a sign is surely going to bring you more business
these strenuous times, especially if you have the right
outfit.
What do you think of this specification?
MAYO FREE AIR OUTFIT
Comprising Compressor, Air Tank, Triple Tank Fitting and Check Valve.
Details of the COMPRESSOR, Bore Sin. Stroke 4in.
Guaranteed to work to a pressure 2001 b. per sq. m.
Speed to run 350 to 400 revs, per min.
Fast and Loose Pulleys 13in. Da,
Fly Wheel 14in. Dia.
Power to drive '1 x /% h.p.
Details of AIR TANK. 48in. x 16in. Electrically Welded.
Filled to 1501 b. pressure, will inflate 20 ordinary-sized tyres
to 801 b.
THE TRIPLE TANK FITTING consists of
1 Adjustable Safety Pop Valve.
1 2% in. 1501 b. Pressure Gauge.
1 Air-tight Needle Valve.
PRICE FOR WHOLE OUTFIT,
OR
COMPRESSOR ONLY, £22.
TRIPLE TANK FITTING, £3/7/-
AIR-CHECK VALVE, £l4 -
£42
GARAGE JACKS, as illustrated, with Ball-bearing Castor Wheels:
3 Wheel with 4in. Dia. Wheels, £5/15/-
3 Wheel with sm. Dia. Wheels, £6/15/-
4 Wheel with 4in. Dia. Wheels, £5/15 -
m
r
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The House ior Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
'D
tfffiifi&s* you ifusk£
BEKHANS PIUS
ijjltt a ii a
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNEKS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
m
The Plum JZakov
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654. George Street, SYDNEY.
has a reputation throughout Australia
for Easy Shaving and Reliability.
Craig & Aitkeri are Sole Agents for the .“Plum”
Razor, and being- practical tradesmen they khOw just
the kind of edge required for an easy shave.
PRICE 13/6 POST EREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case .. 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
Remington
Revolver and Pistol
Cartridge's
Accurately maeje and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
log and maximum accuracy.
R: m S$c 0 ' b
br Shooting Right)
Regardless'of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
Remington UMC cartridges thoroughbreds in every
particular.
Catalogues free <
i request.
1
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
I). D. Bryant. Australian Representative, Box <>B6, G.P.0... Melbourne.


f
PS
m
A ■
: ■'
1 ; S
fi Vn"v£ SsSafo M
'"'■ : ' • ’ • •
.
■:
■—
hhhh
."' .■ ' ■' ' : ■ ■ ■ -
;rpp:jv....c : jSgfcp
; W;
. ■ .. . ';:■ ■ . '
:
■
m
I - 1
NS
$
K.la
m
~ V‘
mmmm
. snw> ";
;:? ‘ 1 ■;. > -f
I \. .. ■ ?:: , V."
- PP«
■ ,
- ‘ ' • »
JW.
g«M
; H
lli
m
i m
mm I
eiiiiiiii
;
■PWWH
I ipp|f| : ■ : '
Hi:
.
' JM>aaA&%aa%Mi
': ■,'; ■■
«§!111
SSHHiS
<a>
pMjliSi
gpnfp
Ml
it
Mrtpw*
■
huh
i
' : Wp#4;i'J;fs
:.;i,:;S r '
> : *■ ,'- 'MI
IS
MMI
Sydney Address:
26 King Street.
Melbourne Address:
455 Latrobe Street
