

S l
fs I
/
In these days of strict economy and
aim for efficiency it is well to remem-
ber that the electric motor constitutes
the most effective medium for the
application of power.
GE Electric Motors
furnish a given amount of work for
a given amount of electric current
supplied. This quantity is always cort-
is no waste —and your
bill for current is a .bill for actual
power delivered.
Our dower department nsoill gladly
furnish further particulars on request
/ \
/
/ /
: 7
•• V
. $
5 / %
■ /
fc &&
se
an
wmm.
mt
mimm
.
* X ife® ■
I
If «
&
■ ■
ftl T
m
mt‘ i-mvm
:%
Si«i
.
'
Mi
ri
m
m
ik &
Wf :
\ .
:
|§|i V \
it *?-
S :
m
KI
mmm;
feir
!
■f
* Jf!
1!
*W- :
.•
Si
% 5
• * l "Ik
SSI
■
.. :
m
m ': A
1
SSP' \
*s i
*
s
■ I
"\ -
■ ft. 4'i H'
M
n ax
VS lip
M
a
TS
.
II
yift
C'-msx , •.... .. >,
SKsdfc, '
■
m
>
■: :
m
Australian (General Flectrie 0.
35-45 WENTWORTH yWENUE
SYDNEY
a
116 QUEETKC STREET,
iWELE.OUR.TStE,
AGENTS: "
ADELAIDE, S.A.—-Charles Atkins 8C Co. Ltd., 88-90 Carrie Street PERTH, W. A.-—Charles Atkins SC Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
BRISBANE, Q.—-The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd. 894 Hay Street
Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets TASMANIA-—Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND—-The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2162
Thursday, July 21, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue'for 1921? It will he sent post
free to any address on application.
DTMOCK’S BOOK AECADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Apvt.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE ?
Euthymol
tooth/paste
If not, write to
Euthymol Department B, Box 224 G.P.O., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
SSUHii'liPi!
! i
_J|
5Kllii:i!ISi!ii l!l»
mm
Forty Years’ Experience
in the intricacies of belting manufacture has enabled us to
produce a belt that stands for service and economy.
MANGRQVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIOE BELTING
is celebrated for its tenacious GRIP on the pulleys, utilising,
every ounce of generated power.
Instal Mangrovite Belting in your factory, and you will have
an excellent example of what good belting will do to assure
you faithful service at low cost.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUD0W1CI, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Victoria: Corbett, Derham&Co., 397 Little Collins St., Melb.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
Tasmania : Henry Clark & Co. Ltd., Collins St., Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee will be available
shortly, and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Austra.ia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A I
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.
■ t -1
.
Shirley President—
The Ideal Brace
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES Lave been
imitated, but the copies are easily detected.
The imitator has not been willing to devote the time
and labor that have been expended by the original
makers to keep up the quality of their product.
Buy none but the genuine.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
label •
‘SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Cable Address: President
: <j
Established in 1870
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS ! INFLUENZA,
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
MOST
harmful throat tablets.
Throat Tablets anti Lozenges containing
Formalin (FormaldehydeL given itching
SIS rrLs 1J ot d & wTghfwere ob^g.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJIBES
contain no Formalin. Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug. forward 1/6 in stamps
Sold everywhere, tins ©hemic*-
to the Manufacturers, Hudsons isumenum
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Cults and Poses
Lon,-; hair, sunflowers and the greenery-
yallery garment have gone out of fashion.
But the spirit of pose which these affecta-
tions expressed is as persistent as ever. We
rather pride ourselves upon being rational,
matter-of-fact, plain-spoken and unaffected.
.Are w T e any of these? Suburbia in Austra-
lia, collectively and individually, as a matter
of fact, swallows greedily and indiscrim-
inately as much pose and affectation as any
half-baked dilettante cares to offer it. Art
is the stumbling-block. You cannot divide
and multiply it, test it :by sample, analyse
it, or balance it by double-entry. So it
renfains largely an unknown quantity. The
average suburbanite is afraid of it. He is
ignorant and uneducated in most things con-
nected with art, entirely distrusts his own
judgment and quells any instincts, original
sentiments or opinions in an utter panic of
funk.
This timidity and helplessness of the aver-
age ci f izen assists tremendously in feeding
the vanity anti affectation of the, art poseurs.
It is the healthy criticism of the general
public that helps to maintain a sane, whole-
some average in most affairs. The man-in-
the-street who has had no formal training
in cricket or politics will express opinions
and hurl a thunder of criticism upon these
or any other subjects of the moment,
whether given permission or not. But no
slings or arrows reach the elect who “go
in for art.” They are safe and unapproach-
able under a wonderful barrage of art-
jargon, and have dug themselves in securely
within the entrenchment vaguely referred
to as “culture.”
A visit to any art exhibition —-we are still
in the height of the season for shows —is a
revelation of pose. The actual artists, par-
ticularly the first-raters, are often innocent
of offence. They can afford to be natural
and simple, and ar.e usually too busy to be
affected. But the patrons and connoisseurs
and dabblers insist upon a certain amount
of attitudinising on the part of their idols,
and it would not be in human nature to re-
frain from a few stage tricks and shop-
window effects and advertisements when
these are so devoutly expected. But the
frumpy arty women and the ungroomed
artish men who have produced little or no-
thing of actual work positively wallow in
jai'gon and posture. Catch-phrases, cant
and soulfulness of manner cover a marvel-
lous mass of ignorance and lack of eduea-
t'on. Glib generalisations, all done solemnly
and self-sufficiently in the art lingo, appraise
and criticise beautiful works of art and atro-
cious eye-sores alike. This is done between
and among themselves, one .soul communing
with another. But if a mere outsider should
intrude and express an independent opinion
in honest, plain English, his presumption
is met with pitying glances and the lip-
curl reserved for those who outrage the finer
feelings of others.
This cant is by no means to be found
only within the realm of paint. The musical
poseurs are equally übiquitous and demon-
strative at this season of the year. They
flutter and flap round and round the pedestal
of each musical giant who comes here t<3
make sweet sounds for us. They own him,
they turn up their eyes about him, they eulo-
gise and look soulful about him ; they “run”
him and patronise him and talk reams of
nonsense about his technique. And they en-
joy themselves mightily; living in a delicious
glow produced by the awe’they inspire in
the poor outsiders who think it wonderful
of them to rhapsodise over what sound in
their untutored ears like mere exercises.
They enjoy themselves immensely. But
how many out of that great multitude of
rnusicales truly enjoy the music, and how
many are just posing and humbugging them-
selves? Here, again, the outsider is awed
into accepting at its own valim the cant and
affectation, unable and too timid to .distin-
guish it from real unselfconsciousness of true
artistry. He loves and enjoys and thrills at
the “William Tell” overture, or the fire-
works of such productions as “1812”; but
he almost apologises for his commonplace
soul in doing so. Could we compel an honest
confession from a big proportion of the supe-
rior highbrows who profess scorn of such
“popular” productions, we would find that
they really enjoy these and many other
simple, popular works too, because they ex-
press human feeling and simple emotions.
If we could make here a clean sweep of the
pretenders and posturers around the Divine
Flame of the Music Spirit, there would be
a closer communion between the great musi-
cians and the ordinary; simple folk who love
and enjoy melody.
Of .course, this self-same caflt and posing
is to he found in varying degrees of vulgarity
everywhere. We all know the traveller just
returned from a brief first tour abroad. “It
seems so funny to me, you' know —violets
at this time of the year!” Or, “How queer
it seems—fancy fires in June! In England,
you know” They are so informative,
usually with a thin attempt at being casual
and innocent of swagger. They will tell
you it is foggy in London, that most of
the inhabitants of- Paris speak French, and
that the King does not wear his crown
when travelling. And they generalise s',o
beautifully, too, with “In America no one
ever does this or that,” and “In Canada
there are no such and such,” as though con-
tinents have been scoured from end to end
in exhaustive inquiry.
In the language of that natural animal
the schoolboy all this is just swank. Swank
of all kinds is dealt with in public schools
with considerable advantage to the mental
and moral hygiene of all. If the schoolboy
corrective.methods could be adopted to deal
with swank throughout the whole structure
of the social fabric, a vast mass at present
clogging the arts, literature and true cul-
ture would be cleared away.
Affectation and pose are cheap and ridi-
culous foibles when displayed in connection
with any profession or class. The fact that
they are to be found most rampant and in
an acute degree in association with' the
loftiest and most divine mediums of soul-
expression—Art and Music —is a tragic and
awful paradox.
HATTIE KNIGHT.
Australian Universities
“Gregor” (K.P. 23/0/’2J) suggests that
the age and standard of entrance to our uni-
versities should be raised- Let us examine
this from the point of view of the student.
Our universities are not like the ancient
colleges by the banks of Cam and Isis,
where the sons of rich men may acquire a
little learning, some 'skill in rowing, and
the social graces; they are places where
hard work is the rule and idlers rare. Oi:
our 5000 students quite 4900 are in active
training for some profession and a higher
entrance standard would impose a heavier
burden upon their parents and delay their
entrance upon the main business of earning
a living. Most of the degree courses extend
ever four or five years; and as the average
age at entrance is 18 the usual age at gradu-
ation is 22 or 23 years. Generally another
year or two must be spent —without pay-
in gaining practical experience, and the
graduate is lucky who begins his profes-
sional career at 25—With the wage paid to
a bread-carter!
It is incorrect .to say that the choice of
subjects of study is so unrestricted as to
permit a student to know nothing well.
On the contrary, an iron rigidity is the mark
of almost all our professional courses. The
future architect, chemist, dentist, doctor,
engineer or lawyer has a definite list of
subjects-to “do,” to use the word that vexes
“Gregor’s” soul; the amount of each subject
to be “done” and the order and the time of
“doing” are prescribed with meticulous care.
To me it seems that the main fault of
these courses is that the graduate knows
nothing but what assists him to do his life-
work ; they tend to beget narrowness of
specialism rather than breadth of scholar-
ship. Quite 80 per cent, of our students
are thus pursuing rigidly defined courses of
study; barely one-fifth have any freedom of
choice. “Gregor’s” strictures are probably
intended to apply to this one-fifth of Arts
and Science students. But their freedom
of choice is imaginary rather than real.
Almost all are in training for the profession
of teaching; and the greater variety of sub-
jects taught in our secondary schools and
the higher standards demanded make for
the variation of subjects which he censures.
The modern university requires that the man
who intends to teach mathematics or French
shall, as a student, make mathematics or
French his main subject of study : it is no
longer an infallible article of educational
faith that a man who has spent seven years
in the cobbling of passable hexameters and
worse pentameters in Latin and Greek is
necessarily fitted to teach history or science.
I admit that the weaker vessels do take
some advantage of the “options” given to
follow the path of least resistance, but even
they know 7 their major subject as well as the
majority of our pass graduates knew 7 their
compulsory Greek and Latin. The army of
learning fnust have its privates as well as
its captains, and universities do not exist
solely to hatch out an annual brood of
Admirable Crichtons. They insist that each
one who bears the five-guinea stamp of a
degree shall have a satisfactory minimum of
knowledge to begin his life-work, and shall
have learnt how to learn. They hope rather
than’expect that in the getting of this in i tri-
mum their fosterlings will come to love
knowledge for its ow 7 n sake apart from its
value as a means of earning a livelihood ;
they trust that the best minds will try to
increase the common stock of knowledge, and
they teach the truth that the possession of
special knowledge is a sacred trust for the
common service of. mankind. Surely no one
imagines that a graduate of 22 years can have
any real knowledge of a world which he has
viewed all his life through the spectacles
of books! “Gregor” in effect has charged
him with the crime of being young; I for
one am glad that four years at a university
leaves a student enough of youthful follies,
to deserve such a censure.
Our universities are what our people
make them. The age of leisured culture
when the flower of our academic intellect
blossomed into the futilities' of patchwork
Latin verse lias.-given place to an age of
science. The practical Anglo-Saxon has
■always had but little respect for learning as
such ; even our most learned poet is English
to the core when he says:—
Not to know at large of things remote
From use, obscure and subtle, but to know 7
That which before us lies in daily life
Is the prime wisdom.
In our worship of the national god Utility
we children of the larger British growth com-
pel. our universities to sacrifice many of
their ideals on the altar of our obscene
idol. We have made them shops at
which a little learning may be bought and
sold, and we maintain the traditions of
democracy by overworking and underpaying
the .staff.
On one point I am pleased to be able to
agree with “Gregor.” Not one in 50 of our
graduates knows anything of sociology,
economics or political science except what he
picks up from the columns of the daily press,
a source of information tainted witli party
politics. At a time when ignorant fanatics,
in that spirit of intolerance which is the
badge of all their tribe, are openly planning
the overthrow of all our social and political
institutions, we are too mean and too lacking
in vision to provide the money to teach effec-
tively the elements of the social sciences at
the universities,. The vital educational need
both of school and of university is a nation-
wide diffusion of sound knowledge in soci-
ology and economics: against ignorance,
monomania, and destruction let us pit know-
ledge, sanity and construction, and who can
doubt the issue?
ALPHA.
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
w aae
yus A/an an
Where can I get a complete outfit at
the lowest price? That is the query
of the man who appreciates Quality
Clothes, yet closely studies economy.
Anthony Horderns’ is his choice, for
there he is assured of Quality, Style
and Value in everything he purchases.
&
mm
m
m
mm
4® fefcj
w
iVO
i
est
m
WmW*
Mi
saw
mm
&W
OLS
mi
§«\
▲ v '
bl X
£p-
TV 'O
ir
a®* 1 " *
Ml
%n
im t
tim
S4ih^-’i
%m
tgi
j'%
SxitfcZt
v*3?
saw
*3l
H
N
# <»
«
v\
&
L
I
S&
sSMI®
MEN’S SUITS REDUCED
Style, Quality and Economy
No longer does it prove difficult to dress well for
a small expenditure—a new suit of excellent
quality and style costs you no more than 59/6
at The House of Economy.
Here is an offering that will appeal to all men who
desire to save money on their purchases without
sacrificing quality.
The “Hordernia”
All-Wool Sac Suit
Australian Tweed, newest designs in Grey and
Brown effects. Coat lias two-button front, out-
side breast pocket, centre seam, no vent. Vest
has medium opening, four pockets. Trousers
have side and hip pockets, plain or cuff bottoms.
Originally 65 /-
NOW 59/6
A High-grade Suit to
Measure, £4/4/-
At all times values at The House of Economy
are unequalled, and with such a decisive money-
saving offer as this one featured here, still
greater value is represented.
In addition, the reputation of Anthony Horderns' is
at the back of this big economy event. Made-to-
measure Suit in All-wool Australian Tweed, in check
and stripe effects—in Mid and Dark Grey and Brown.
EXTRAORDINARY VALUE AT £4/4/-
Favored Styles in
Men’s Overcoats
The Altcar, as illustrated, double-breasted, belted,
belt, arm, back, skirt of generous proportions,
patch pockets, strap cuffs. New colorings in
Grey and Brown mixed Tweeds.
PRICES: 105/-, 126/-, 130/-, 147/-, 189/-
The Raglan, the ideal garment for all occasions,
Raglan Shoulders, turn-back or strap cuffs, patch
pockets. Dark shades in Grey English and
Australian Tweeds.
PRICES:
60/-, 65/-, 80/-, 84/-, 95/- to 147/-
MAIL ORDERS.
Our Expert Staff attends to requirements of Country
Customers with efficiency and complete satisfaction.
Orders are despatched promptly.
Carriage is Paid on Men’s Wear in N.S.W.;
to the nearest port on Interstate Orders.
VALUE IN
BOYS’ SMART SUITS
Thrifty parents consider quality first in buying
clothes for their boys, for only quality will give
that sturdiness in texture to stand the hard wear
and tear of service that the lads subject their
garments to. Therefore, Anthony Horderns’
set quality foremost, while keeping prices to a
very moderate level. Here are the new and
neat styles:—
The Durham Suit, as illustrated, ideal for Boys’
school wear, to fit Boys 7to 15 years. Coat has
four patch pockets, yoke and stitched-down belt,
plain knickers. SMART ENGLISH AND
AUSTRALIAN TAVEEDS, neat designs—
PRICES •
37/6, 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-
Fancy Worsted, all wool,
70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-
Navy Serge, Fox’s Rough, 62/6, 64/-, 66/-
Navy Serge, Fine Rib,
PRICES: 60/-, 62/6, 66/6, 68/6, 92 6
Band and Button Knickers, 1/6 extra.
The Parisian Suit, as illustrated, to fit boys 3 to S
years. Coats designed with pleated fronts, stitch*
down belt at back, full skirt. Grey and Brown
Tweeds, in new shades.
PRICES 29/6, 32/6, 35/-, 42/-
Boys’ Serviceable Overcoats
The Bangor, in mixed Tweeds, is buttoned to neck,
belted back or plain back.
PRICES:
11/6, 14/6, 16/6, 28/6, 35/-, 42/-
Substantial Savings Make
Purchases of Boots
Very Satisfactory
at Anthony Horderns’. Boots that will fit
comfortably and wear well are worth quite a lot,
especially when they have the smart appearance
you admire as w ell—yet these cost very little
money indeed—compare the prices!
Men’s Best-grade Black Glace Kid Lace Boots,
welted soles, smart medium toes. Sizes, 6, 7 and
8. Originally 37/6. *
NOW 33/6
Men’s Black Glace Kid Lace Boots, welted soles,
patent toecaps, splendid value. Sizes, 6, 7 and
8. Originally 39/6.
NOW 33/6
Mens’ Black Glace Kid Lace Boots, Oakite w r elted
soles, medium toes. Sizes, 5, 7 8 only. Origin-
ally 37/6.
NOW 31/6
MEN’S TRENCH COATS
Trench Coat, as illustrated, cut with full skirt, all
round, convertible collar, vertical pockets—
In Fancy Tweeds, neat designs.
PRICES 105/, 126/-, 147/-
Fawn Gabardine, lined wool check.
PRICES:
105/- 126/-, 130/-, 147/-, 168/-, 189/-
Coat Sweaters and Half-Hose
Prices are Lower
but quality is just as high as ever. Anthony
Horderns’ standard is well known—and it is
consistently maintained. You can depend on
worth and wear in every garment you purchase
at The House of Economy.
COAT SWEATERS.
Knitted All-wool Coat Sweaters, in Grey, Navy, or
Heather.
Chest 32 34 36 3S 40
V neck, fine knit.
Originally .. 20/- 20/- 20/6 21/6 21/6
NOW 19/- 19/- 19/6 20/6 20/6
Polo Collar, fine knit.
Originally . . 22/- 22/- 22/6 23/6 23/6
NOW 21/- 21/- 21/6 22/6 22/6
HALF-HOSE.
Men’s Black Cashmere Half-Hose, all wool. Aus-
tralian made. Medium weight.
Originally 3/9 4/6 pair
NOW 3/3 3/9 pair
Half-doz.. . 18/3 20/9
Men’s Navy and Black Cashmere All-wool Half-
Hose, made in England. Medium weight.
Originally . . 4/9 5/6 6/3 8/3 pair
NOW 4/3 4/11 5/3 6/9 pair
Half-doz. . . 23/7-2 27/6 29/- 37/6
Men’s Navy and Black Cashmere All-wool Half-
Hose. I. and It. Morley’s English make. Medium
Weight.
Originally 5/11 7/11 7/6 8/6 pair
NOW .. . 5/6 6/3 6/9 7/6 pair
Half-doz. 30/6 34/9 37/6 41/6
Heavyweight.
Originally 7/6 10/6 pair
Now 6/9 9/6 pair
Half-doz 37/6 53/-
Men’s Black Ribbed Cashmere Half-liose, all wool
made in England.
Originally 6/11 pair
NOW 6/ . £ air
Half-doz 33/6
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limifed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


At no time was it ever more
necessary to safeguard one’s health
than at present. Life is strenuous
and the cost of living is high. Apart from the various
expenses incurred through sickness one cannot afford
to be laid up unnecessarily. It is therefore of the
utmost importance to use every care while the health
is good instead of waiting until a breakdown occurs.
There is no better method of maintaining good health
than by a regular dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They are not advertised as a “Cure All” but
as a safe and sure remedy for the little ills of life, for
which they are unexcelled. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have now been before the Australian public for
a quarter of a century, and owing to their unquestion-
able merit they are gaining in popularity all the time.
D
Morses
i
i
I
1
I
I
'/A
'//a
7 /a
4
V,
A
i
1
i
FOR
liver
■Hi
They Make You Feel Brighter.


PINRETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
,1 jZ per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Or. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
57/6 Complete.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a:
Free Specimen of Embroidery to'
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Copy this
'
If you can KP ,
you can be taught to do original
drawings. Many pupils who pre-
viously could only copy are now
learning to do paginal sketches under the
Bancks system oi postal lessons. There is a
constant demand fornew original sketches
of all kinds —e nd good pr:ces are paid for
them. If you have any lik ng for drawing
let Mr. Bancks (the well-known caitoonist
and catiratnrist) show >ou how you can
learn to earn good fees in th s way Both
learning and earning can be done at
home, in v«~ur cpa-e t n-e.
Send you name and address (with ?d. in
stamps for return postage) to address
bt low, and the Bancks bo< klet, "Art that
Pays,” will be po-ted to you. Alto, if you
like to send a sample of your own sketch-
ing (either a copy of th s head or some
drawing of your own), Mr. Bancks will
per-onally write you, absolutely frr».
giving his frank opinion of your woik.
This School offers the finest nra'-'iral
instruction in the art and p act ce of
Drawing to be had in Australia, and it is
conducted person a u y by Mr. Bancks in
his own name. The booklet gives full
particulars. Write for it now.
J. C. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
8
vW
s-
THE RAPID CURE FOR CORNS
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy for the removal of
Corns, old and young, hard and soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK. It is a cer-
tain cure—it kills them. It is a painless
cure—you don’t feel them going. It is a
speedy cure—four or five days does it. It is
a handy cure—no trouble, no preparation, no
mess. Sold in packets. 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending Bd. in stamps to
OUERDIN & SAINS3URY PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
©
The Ruptured Person
who selects the DENYER ELASTIC TRUSS for his
safeguard has ensured himself of all the service
possible from a modern Truss.
He has selected a Truss that has proved its out-
standing merits. He has secured a Truss-etiiciencv,
ccmfort and satisfaction altogether unknown to
those who adopt other appliances. Let the
DENYER TRUSS be YOUR safeguard, and your
Rupture worries will disappear.
SINGLE 30/-; DOUBLE 407-
Let us send you our Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
If Poweik ts
WHAT YoU WANT-
ZjsePlum&
If you want to feel the exhilara*
tion of driving a Car, which, day
by day, is fairly tugging with
power, use Plume Motor Spirit.
You will feel this power the
moment you open the throttle.
Motorists speak highly of the
power developed by Plume Motor
Spirit. They say Plume doesn’t
jib on the hills, that ste j p hills only
serve to show how powerful it is—
and it doesn’t let them down when
they are in a hurry.
Plume is all power-it g : ves the
pull and the qu ck acceleration that
are so essential to satisfactory
motoring.
Plume also gives that extra M ile-
age that makes such a difference
to the petrol bill.
Fill up with Plume next time,
rnd ex erienee the pleasure of
driving a car that is alive with
power.
P 4 A
m*.
■//
i
m.
Y////M
i»»VV\\\
»
c t
if
’W.
PLUM
à
VACUUM on. CO.PTY LTD
PLUME
Wmm
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6d. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN 3 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Re : i Cigar Factory.
Safety, Strength
and Durability
The enormous strain to which
all shafting is subjected can
only be successfully resisted
by steel of the highest qual-
ity. Safety and economy
therefore dictate the use of
our
Bright
Shafting
Large stocks on hand in all
lengths from Jin. to din. in
diameter.
c le on *
Bright Drawn
Steel
Especially suitable for Bolts,
Nuts, Studs, Sett Screws,
etc., is our Bright Drawn
Steel.
Large quantities are avail-
able, so immediate delivery
can be given in
Hexagon, Square
and Round
The quality of this Bright
Drawn Steel is undoubted
and will give entire satisfac-
tion.
Snopiol pricps on application to Department “A.”
Telephone City 9863, or 7819 if handier.
The Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
579-881 Kent Street, Sydney.
{266 Katrobe Street, Melbourne
48 Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
R. I*. Milligan, - Hobart, Tasmania.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lost.
Mother, shall I call the cat?
Pit-pat—what is that?
Is’t a tapping at the door?
Is’t a shadow o’er the floor?
Who is coming? Who is there?
Was it but some passing air?
Someone’s waiting ’neath the tree,
Someone’s waiting there for me.
Mother, shall 1 cail the cat ?
Puss, puss, puss, she’ll come to me.
No, I’ll go and see.
Mother, shall I call the cat?
Pit-pat—what is that?
Was it just some passing word
By my trembling heart but heard?
Love is coming! Love is here !
None but I know he is near.
Mother, shall 1 call the cat?
Puss, puss, puss, she’ll come to me.
No, I’ll go and see.
She is gone ! How dark the n’ght!
No moon, no star, no life, no light!
She is gone! The mother, dream.ng,
Soon shall wake to sorrow, seeimng
Often in sad days to hear
The lost one ask in accents clear,
While the mother’s heart is breaking,
While fresh grief is ever waking—•
“Mother, shail I call the cat?
Pit-pat—rwhat is that?
Puss, puss, puss, she’ll come to me —
No, I’ll go and see.’’
N.S.W.
G. M. V. KE ABNEY.
Son.
White bands, white lids, and vivid, parted
lips
Brushed with dusk-perfume from the open
pang
Where through the drowsy tide of quiet
slips
Sleep, shackling limb and vein S
White thrpat and forehead fair —ah! son
of niine
In those wide eyes and kind, strong lips
I see
A gleam of my glad youth, that lurks in
sign
Of comradeship to be!
For ’neath mine own sad star you too were
born,
Aye, you, my son, and this must needs
le so:
We twain shall share the same slow* griefs
and scorn,
The same glad wonder know.
You too are brother of that company
That seek Truth’s self down guarded,
thorny ways,
You too shall glimpse the beacon-flame that
we
Must follow all our days.
Ah, laughing, pagan years shall proffer you
Life’s nCctar exquisite of sunny youth ;
The draught of dreams that drips like amber
dew
From shadowed lips of Truth!
And, in the lees of that delicious cup,
Pain and cold bitterness and dumb regret
Erst shall awaken and leap snarling up
To claini youth’s deathless debt.
Shall you, too, crave some garden that is
barred
Fain of dim leaf and flower and sweet
strange fruit,
And turning find home splendors subtly
marred,
Home songs grown sadly mute?
Shall you stretch hands that seek and find
no friend
Even as I, and tell with blinding tears,
Sorrow by sorrow, till the silent end,
The rosary of years?
For we are closer than one flesh and bone
Whose souls are kin; when you were
born, my son,
Some god of dreams and sorrows from his
throne
Bent down and sealed us one.
Ah, if there still be fairies, such, meseems,
Came k’ssing those shut lids, and surely
came
Prim Fancy, with her reticule of dreams,
And Love with hands of flame!
City and seaway, street, and bush and plain,
Passion and ache of wanderlust, l.ke fire —
These all shall call your spirit, thrill your
brain
With dream and fierce desire
Till hate and infamy, and freed and lust,
And the smug lies of fool and chaffering
knave
Beat the brave gods of youth down to the
dust
That hides Illusion’s grave.
Oh, fragile lamp that life has lighted here
In this dim room, night-sieged and forest-
walled,
What sorrow yet shall lesson you, w r hat fear
Bid you shrink back appalled!
Along the east the pulse of dawm begins.
The spectral night I have outwatched is
gone
With wan, ghost-griefs and wreck of sodden
sins
Into oblivion.
Morning and magic of a world reborn
To joy, these are youth’s portion, son of ,
mine;
Dim doubt and fear, the mists that pass
outworn
Before the dawn divine.
The whole gold sky flames with the day to
be,
And all my glad heart knows, though
death and wrong
Still breed in darkness, yet eternally
Are Life and Love more strong.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


WOOL
VICARS’
“MARRICKVILLE”
Tweed and Worsted
Suitings
May Be Known by This Sig'n
VICARS’ means QUALITY.
When ordering your next suit ask your tailor to show
you patterns of the famous “Marrickville” Suitings.
Their quality will surprise you. Vicars* “Marrickville**
Suitings are all pure wool and all Australian, which,
combined with the forty years* experience of the firm
of Vicars*, make “Marrickville** materials equal to the
world’s best.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE-MARK STAMPED EVERY TWO YARDS.
John Vicars (El Co. Limited, Marrickville, N.S.W.
&j£UMrLnxiZi >
Portable Electric Tools^
CINCINNATI Portable Electric Tools are designed for every need
of the busy workshop, to handle to-day’s work under to-day’s
conditions.
Think of the enormous saving of time and labor in taking the tool to
the job instead of dragging a heavy job around the shop to the tool!
Then there’s the high speed—and positive accuracy.
Your choice from the “Cincinnati” family will put you on the high road
to “cut” costs and bigger shop profits. Ask us. We’ll gladly demon-
strate any of the following on your particular work.
Hand or Breast Drills, Heavy-duty Drills, Radial Drills, Tool Post
Grinders, Bench Grinders, Aerial Grinders, Floor Grinders and Buffers,
etc., for either A.C. or D.C. current.
Call and inspect or write for catalogue and prices.
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
»
m
mm
mm
m
m
HO
Showing a “Cincinnati” Jh.p.
and Jh.p. Portable Electric
Tool Post Grinder, with teed,
in operation.
Heavy-duty
Bench Grinder.
Portable Electric
Aerial Gr’m'er
with end handles.
Portable Heavy-
duty' Drill-


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2162.
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 1921.
PfilCE 9d.
DON QUIXOTE AND THE LONG-SUFFERING SANOHO PANZA.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
‘‘Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. S.vdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 10s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
1 o any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor will caref lly read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Vei'se, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
S000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return (i will be understood that
the, copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Daivson and Sons,
Cannon House, ISreams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street. Vancouver, B.C.; the Boston Hat Works and
News Co., 109A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Albe ta.
U.S..4. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., J6I East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. 5th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Quaker News Co.,
912 North Fran: tin Street, Philadelphia. Penn.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
IIono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singanore.
Ceylon. —TF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Sara: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lid. : 8‘oz. to 10oz.,
3d.: 10oz. to I2oz., Sid.; elsewhere, ho?.., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
TIIE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in tills paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law. S. H. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 1921.
THE PROSPECTS OF DISARMAMENT.
When U.S.A. President Harding invited the
Powers to a conference on the limitation of
armaments, W. M. Hughes issued the cus-
tomary message:—
The invitation from President Harding to the
Allied and associated Powers holds out hope to all
mankind. In or timing- the object of the Imperial
Conference to the Federal Parliament in April I
said war was a curse, and we should do a'.l things in
our power to preient it, therefore peace was the
ideal to which the Conference should aim. All the
g-eH Powers will be represented. If they desire
disarmament they will come. Alone tney would
hold little hope of permanent relief from the suicidal
policy of larger and la>ger armaments. Together
they hold out real prospects of peace, and freedom
from that nightmare hanging like a cloud above
the heads of the people, especially the three naval
Powers. I rejoice that such a lead has Leen given.
Out of that odd medley of self-glorification,
platitude, mixed metaphor and optimism the
voice of Australia may clearly be heard
speaking. We want disarmament, though
that is not exactly what President Harding
proposes; and we want peace, though the
President is neither dishonest enough nor
disingenuous enough to promise it as a result
of any conference. No people in the world
are so interested in the arrival of a pacifist
millennium as ourselves. But merely be-
cause a man desires to be a millionaire he is
not justified in drawing a cheque on the im-
pressive current account which he does not yet
possess. The danger to a country l'ke Aus-
tralia, which is under-noon]"ted. unarmed,
heavily in debt, highly desirable to the immi-
grant races and governed on the hand-to-
mouth principles of party politics, Is that it
may make just tnat error. Prime‘Ministers,
like other men, tend to beLeve what they
want to beLeve, and in the present state of
the Commonwealth nuances there is probably
nothing that Mr. Hughes yearns to be con-
vinced of more than the neediessness of tne
up-to-date local fleet m which he believed
so passionately a decade ago. Is he justified
in operating on the disarmament account in
any shape or form whatever on the assump-
tion that there is a chance of its being in
credit in the near future? To believe it calls
for that peculiar form of optimism winch
drives men to embezzlement as a means of
winning a fortune on the turf.
♦ * * *
In relation to the world Japan stands in
some respects where Germany did midw’ay
through England’s industrial revolution, and
in some otners where Germany stood just
before the war. Its population p' " '•ding to
the 1920 census is 55,961,140, and is increas-
ing at the rate of about three-quarters of a
mil Lon per annum. But the Empire’s total
area is only 14 1, 655 square miles, and of
that but 16 per cent, is cultivable. The Ger-
mans, faced with poor soil, and mountain
ranges and dense forests, brought science to
aid in a forlorn-hope attempt to be-
come self-supporting for generations ahead
as regai ds food supplies. The Japanese, for
various good reasons, have made no serious
effort of the sort. But they have entered
into competition everywhere as manufac-
turers, as the Germans began to do a quarter
of a century ago. It was the Government’s
only hope of providing for the leaping popu-
lation. Their handicap was that no country
of like ambitions lacked so many ot the raw
materials essential to modern industrialism.
They turned desperately to China. The
story of Japanese penetration in that vast
country is merely a repetition of what
always occurs when ambitious industrialists
spread to the unexploited but. rich parts of
the earth. As China was not inhabited by
savages, and as the foreign debt secured on
the national revenues was shared by three
other Powers, while the representatives of
practically every nation of any importance
participated in the government, there were
peculiar difficulties to be faced. They might
never have been satisfactorily overcome but
for the world-war. Up to that period Japan
had been busy in Manchuria, but appeared
to have no idea of consolidating in China
generally. In May, 1915 —a time when the
attention of most of the civilised world was
centred on Europe—China was presented
with Japan’s famous Tw T enty-one demands.
They were accepted, with the exception of
one particularly obnoxious group, for the
reason that China was not in a position to
refuse. Japan only conceded the elimination
of Group V apparently out of consideration
for the feelings of the other foreigners with
interests in China. It is on the Twenty-one
demands that Japan’s claims on Shantung are
based. The effect of this concession obtained
under duress has been to make the peninsula
as Japanese as Formosa, and though Chinese
patriots may protest and boycott it is evi-
dently going to remain so. In recent years
Japan’s mam policy has been to keep China
divided. This has been done by innumerable
loans, partly for mining and railway conces-
sions, partly for the stirring-up of internal
risings. The provincial officials who took
the money attended to both obligations. Now,
all these activities were in defiance of one
of the chief objects of the Anglo-Japanese
alliance —that is to say, “the insuring of the
independence and integrity of China and the
principle of equal opportunities for the com-
merce and industry of all nations in China.”
And as to the seizure of Shantung, it was so
distasteful to America that the U.S. Govern-
ment presented identic notes of protest to
Japan and China as soon as the details of
the arrangement were made public. So that
Japan has defied the world to gain a footing
in China; is there now in defiance of the
opinion of most Englishmen and practically
all Americans; and is regarded as a usurper
and a foreign tyrant by Chinese of spirit. In
other words, Shantung can only be held by
force of arms, a remark which applies
equally to Korea ar.d to Japan’s recent gains
in Eastern Siberia. Any sort of effective
limitation of armaments, much less complete
disarmament, implies that this proud and
energetic race is prepared to sacrifice pros-
pects of world-greatness and be content to
huddle in its infertile island-home awaiting
the sure and speedy arrival of famine.
No better measure can be got of the
Lloyd George Government’s dispos'tion to
d'sarm than its present policy in Ireland
To hold this turbulent and unremunerative
corner of the Empire at a time when the
nation has just sacrificed one-eighth of its
wealth in a European war, a force, accord-
ing to some authorities, of about a quarter of
a million regulars, irregulars and pol’ce is
being maintained, in certain cases at unpre-
cedented rates of pay. India has been stiff
with troops for the past two years. The
existence of Palestine as a Hebrew State
depends on the armed might or Brita’u.
Egypt would revert to Turkey and the Canal
be imperilled if the British arms were with-
drawn. For the last three years Britain
has been spending a matter of £30,000,000
per annum to hold Mesopotamia. But Bri-
tain’s master effort, as always, must be at
sea if the Empire is to survive. The in-
violabTty of the Persian Gulf is as neces-
sary for the safety of India as the freedom
from poss'ble enemy control of the land
passes of Ind’a’s north-west frontier; the
command of the Euphrates-T'gris delta is
as unrent as the command of Aden, or Suez,
or Gibraltar, or the mouth of the Thames.
The whole of Britain’s mereanrile marine,
on which depend four-fifths of the nnt on’s
requirements in raw materials and food
stuffs depends on th» Navy ; and the moment
tie Navy ceases to be supreme, in the sense
of becoming inadequate to defend a given
part of the Empire, at that moment the
British mercantile marine will be doomed
and with it the United Kingdom as
a world power. The U.S.A. is in far
the best posiUon of any country to
t"lk d'sarmamert. In 1919 it had only
119 207 Japs (90 000 of these b o: n o ‘ 'r> S‘>n
Franc ; sco and Los Angeles), and as there
are one hundred rimes as many negroes in
the U.S.A. the miscegenation question hardly
enters into the matter, provided no more
Japanese are to arrive after tb« erearion of
the new world-order. The U.S.A. would
certa’nlv have to sacrifice certain concessions
and trade interests in China, and get out of
a number of places—notably the Philippines
—which have been more embarrass.ng than
profitable, on the whole. But it is self-
contained as regards every sort of legitimate
requirement, and nationally homogeneous,
inasmuch as patriotism in the U.S.A. is not
the monopoly of any class, creed or color;
and that means it is as uninvadeable as Aus-
tralia would be if it had a white population
of 100,060,000. And yet it is doubtful if
President Harding means any drastic limita-
tion of armaments, and it is absolutely cer-
tain that he does not mean what W. M.
Hughes implies. The poker virtuoso is
usually an American, and it is his habit to
bet big on four aces, and with a certain
boldness even on three. In this inter-
national game, where the stakes are the
approval of the groaning taxpayers of the
civilised earth, and something of that won-
derful moral prestige which Woodrow Wil-
son enjoyed for a few brief months after the
Armistice, the cards are all with the U.S.A.
England and Japan hold broken straights.
Bluff in the circumstances would spell ruin.
They will have to push their hands dis-
creetly into the discard on the Conference
table, and let their wily American friend
take the pool, for what it is worth.
THE RETURN OF THE FORAGING
PARTY.
N. S. Wales’s financial record to June, 1921,
is an illustration of the working of two little-
known natural law r s. They are not uni-
versal laws like those laid down by the
wildly-gifted Einstein about the curvature,
recurrency and periodicity of the Fourth
Dimension and the differences in the pace of
Time whereby, though a year is the same
length in one place as in another, it may be
longer through not passing so fast. They
don’t even apply uniformly over Australia,
but where they do, which -is principally
under Labor conditions, they apply with
disastrous emphasis. And this is how they
read: —
(1) That the more revenue there is the more diffi-
cult it will be to make ends meet.
(2) That the more new taxation is piit on this
year the more new taxation will be required next
year.
If something of the same sort prevailed in
the physical world, then the more a person
grew the smaller he would be, so that giants
could be carried about in the vest pocket.
But nature isn’t such a crude jester as
Theodore or Dooley Governments. In
support of these remarks is appended the
condensed account of the period since N. S.
Wales Labor Governments first Began, with
promises of economy, reduced borrowing and
sinking funds to extinguish old debts —
promises that deceived many people who
hadn’t allowed for the twists of blatant
office-seekers: —•
N.S.W. Labor Governments.
June, Revenue. Surplus. Deficit.
1911 .. £13,882,485 - £588,202
1912 .. 15,797,136 340, L 43
1913 .. 16,550,521 1.228,379
1914 .. 18,438,228 £373,039
1915 .. 18,946,227 430,048
1916 .. 19,703,518 149,591
Nationalist Government.
1917 .. 20,622,097 - 268,798
1918 .. 21,543,742 23,824
1919 . . 23,448,166 214,768
Nationalist Succeeded by Labor Government.
1920 .. 28,650,496 1,559,517
Labor Government.
1921 .. 34,180,039 445,496
As regards the way in which the huge
revenue was raised (in addition, of course,
to the loans), these direct taxation figures
explain something:—
Direct Taxes per N.S.W. Inhabitant.
1911 ..£0 12 6 i 1917 , . £ 1 18 11
1,912 ..126 j 1918 .. 2 0 11
1913 .. 0 15 10 | 1919 .. 223
1914 ..155 | 1920 .. 297
1915 .. 1 11 9 I 1921 .. 3 14 0
1916 .. 1 13 4 |
The appalling deficit of 1920, largely com-
piled in the fag-end of the year under the
new regime, and the appalling taxation and
further deficit of 1921, are monuments either
to administrative incapacity or to political
immorality, or to both.
First, there were Laborites McGowen and
Holman in partnership, the latter predomi-
nating more and more. Then there was
Laborite Holman with no real partner.
Next there was Laborite Holman under a
new description, and wearing a new coat
because he had lost the old one in a scuffle
with so-called pacifist elements of the party.
But he had no new ideas, no new training
to make him better qualified to keep the
petty cash in a branch bank, no new realisa-
tion that there aren’t 30s. in a sovereign.
Finally, there was and is Laborite Storey,
if it isn’t really Laborite Dooley. They
were all reared in the same school, only the
academy grows worse as it grows older. The
combine (which promised reduction of bor-
rowing, no loan expend ture, save on works
that would yield full interest and sinking
fund, and a sinking fund on all old debts)
began in 1910 with a surplus of £789,706
inherited from the careful but uninspiring
Wade, and with a public debt of £92,525,095
accumulated iu 57 careless years at an
average rate of about £1,600,000 per annum.
It paused for breath at June, 1921, with a
deficit of £2,249,559, despite the fact that
it had 21 times as much revenue to play
with as Wade possessed, and with a debt of
about £172,000,000, the increase having been
at the rate of over £7.000,000 per annum.
And, with all this revenue and all these
loans (the expenditure of borrowed money
last year was 151 millions), the Thirteen
Overpaid Incapables are loaded with
unpaid and semi-repudiated b'lls which
are becoming a public scandal. The
Thirteen fear a general stoppage of pub-
lc works unless many more loans are
forthcoming—a point that neither Wade nor
any of his predecessors was quite reduced to.
In the easy course of excuse-making it is
usual to blame the war for all and snndrv
troubles, though the war was the Federal
Parliament’s affair. But if the war is
assumed to have bpen in full bloom or blast
from June, ’l4, to June, ’l9, these were the
figures:—
Ponce vcirs, not deficit .. £4,161.737
War years, net surplus .. 922.472
The result was a not deficit of £3,239,265,
which was the trouble that turned Wade’s
surplus of £989,706 into Dooley’s hemic
shortage of £2,249,559. And of the gross
shortage shown above £2,156,724, or more
than half, was piled up beiore the first spot
was fired in Belgium.
Now 12 ridiculously overpaid N.S W
Ministers have been sitting like hungry
jackals on a rock awaiting tne return of the
eldest —the father of the ramily—who went
out foraging. It was rumored lately that
John Storey was coming back with some
small loan m his jaws, but tne news was
indefinite. If he hasn’t brought something
there are fears that very bad things mav
happen, for the most vigorous prospecting
shows that the immediate neighborhood has
been almost eaten bare of game. The amount
expected isn’t enough to last long, and
almost anything is expected w-hen it is used
up. The difficulty is moral rather than
material. There is more highly profitable
work waiting to be done in the i\ia State
than twice the population could tackle. In
fact, there was never half so much before.
The incredible importations of manufactured
goods that should and could be made here
to absorb the unemployed and 100,000 immi-
grant families to boot prove that. But the
people are different from those of the cen-
tury-end. Many years’ teaching, and more
especially the last 11 years’ teaching, and
most especially the last year’s teaching, has
been devoted to making them different. It
took only a year or so of job control to
render the Russian artisan so demoralised
and unproductive that four barely earned
enough for the decent support of one, which
is the trouble that N. S. Wales and Queens-
land and the N. Territory suffer from in a
milder form. In the absence of loans to
'till the gap the Lenin Government rushed to
extremes and proceeded to flog the workers
to compulsory toil. The revulsion was par-
tially successful, but it didn’t restore the lost
skill or re-make the demoralised masses.
Demoralisation is a very swift process under
certain conditions, and Civilisation is one of
the most easily dropped garments. It has been
proved by cases of unemployed persons in a
boat that the time necessary to fall from
high culture to cannibalism may be only 14
days. If the Ministerial foraging party of
one has brought money back with him it
will be spent as usual on railway building,
though the N. S. Wales Commissioner has
been moved to point out the unprofitable-
ness of railway extension under existing con-
ditions. It is only a temporary expedient,
and when the money is spent things will be
as bad as ever; but it is the kind of expedi-
ent which doesn’t raise the awkward point
that work must, in the long run, be self-
supporting and that industry must pay its
way. Industries are largely hung up or
else are unable to start because of the care-
fully inculcated idea that wages can be fixed
quite irrespective of the value produced in
return for the wages—the basic wage idea,
in fact. It is only to loan works that the
basic wage can be applied “regardless.”
TREASON AGAINST THE PEOPLE.
It may be worth noting, along with the
cricket cables and the news of how Glanders
won the Two-Year-Old Welter Steeplechase,
that Australia now owns a Communist Par-
liament, in addition to its other properties
and troubles. This is the- “Council of
Action” established by the Labor Conference
which recently sat at Melbourne and to all
intents and purposes threw over the White
Australia doctrine in favor of Kabl Marx’s
theory that the workers of the world should
join up together. It wasn’t openly elected
by the people, *or even by the political Labor
section of the people. It just came quietly
and mysteriously into existence, and it will
doubtless be renewed mysteriously when its
term expires, if there is any expiration. Still
it considers that it lias, or is going to have,
great power through the supineness of other
people. It is probably right. Its first
business is to capture the Federal Labor Con-
ference in the way that a strenuous minority
often captures a divided, undecided and tor-
pid majority. If the minority shouts loudly
enough it can pass for a majority, and if it
fights hard enough it may run the show
without even taking the trouble to do that.
Having captured the Conference it should
be able to dictate a new policy to the Par-
liamentary Labor party. This move isn’t
like the one which led up to Kerensky’s
republic in Russia—a move to enfranchise
the people and confer self-governing powers
upon them, for in the largest sense of the
term Australians possess these already. It
is to do the only other possible thing—to
take these rights away from them. The idea
which is propounded is “the rule of the pro-
letariat,” including the strikers, stop-workers,
slow-goers, job-controllers, cranks and ora-
tors. All those who have sprung from the
ranks by superior intelligence, industry,
honesty or dishonesty will be excluded, and
the power—the nominal power at least —will
be vested in those who remained in the ranks,
in most cases because there was no spring
in them.
* » * *
In Australia most people were born in the
ranks, or their fathers were, there being no
offshoots of an imperial race and no heredi-
tary nobility dating back to Ivan the Hor-
rible or Catherine of the many journeymen
husbands; so it is these new men whom it
is proposed to disfranchise for lack of bigger
game. That will mean transferring the
votes of the organisers who created the big
ironworks at Newcastle and the refineries a
Port Pirie and Port Kembla to men ot th
Walsii and Garden type, who never showed
the least ability to create anything save
fuss and a shindy. Such people count for
more in the Bolshevik scheme of things tna
the men who produce great things and g .
wealth and furnish well-paid employment,
because the former have heaps of spare t
attend meet'ngs, while the .latter h •
In the malring of a Bolshevik paradise
power gravitates to the men with no ’
honest, productive means of support,
with driving force, few scruples, s <
vo’ces and fluent vocabulary,
course of the proceedings the
tem is to be abolished; this m a a ‘ g
where millionaires are almost a*
b’ne moons, where most of the land be on-
to the State and (subject to the mortgag


all the great public utilities do so likewise,
and wheie private aetivA-es are mostly m
the hands of co-operative parties of small
investors. The banks, savings banks, mutual
and other insurance concerns, mines, fac-
tories, etc., are to go into a heap, and jackals
are to prowl among the debris.
This monstrous conspiracy against civili-
sation and the self-governing rights of the
Australian people proceeds quite openly and
has travelled so far that it has now set up,
without any disguise, its own separate or
dissenting Parliament or Council of Action
in rivalry with the People’s Legislatures. It
probably has no chance of making Australia
a Bolshevik hell so long as Australia is
ready at a crisis to sink to the hum.liation
of asking British aid and protection. But
if Britain decides that this self-governing
country must find its own way out of its
troubles, then no one can say that there isn’t
a chance. By way of preparation the cun-
ning hand behind the movement is already
trying “white-ant” tactics on the Australian
army and navy, such as they are, on the
cadets in training and on the police, after
the manner which its tutors and big tin
gods found so successful in Russia; and it
may succeed like them. Meanwhile the Gov-
ernment does nothing, which is just what
Kerensky, head of the Russian republic, d d
in similar circumstances. Its view is that
as there ha§ never been a Communist upris-
ing in Australia there never can be one,
which was also the view of Noah’s contem-
poraries before Deluge Day, and that of
Louis XVI. before the Revolution borrowed
his head and neglected to return it. The
Hughes-Cook Government doesn’t even
declare the Council of Action an illegal asso-
ciation. Yet nothing can disguise the fact that
the movement, call it what you please, which
aims at depriving the people of their self-
governing rights, is growing. Things tlmt
were hardly even whispered seven years back
are preached openly now. A very little while
ago it would have been unthinkable that a
Minister should mention with approval the
idea that the elections should be postponed
or abolished and that his party, being in
power, should simply nominate itself and its
friends for a continuance of power, and
do this, not because war or pestilence had
upset the order of things, but because it
knew the people were weary of it and a
coup d’etat was its only chance to extend its
arrogant career. Plainly things are moving
the Communistic way, and the Ministerial
policy so far has been to let them move—to
do nothing till it is too late, and very little
then.
CAIN, THE DEVIL, MR. PECKSNIFF
AND OTHERS.
It was, if I remember rightly, the late
Abraham Lincoln w*ho was blamed for
saying “You can fool some of the people
all the time and all the people some of the
time, but you can’t fool all the people
all the time.” I disagree. You can fool
practically all the people all the time, from
the day before the first printing press until
now, and you can do it while showing them
clearly that they are being fooled. It is
possible to put before them overwhelming
evidence on one side and tell them to find
a verdict for the other, and to secure that
verdict.
Take the oldest book known to the masses.
Cain’s crime at the worst was manslaughter.
He slew his brother in haste and possibly
with provocation. Anything else recorded
of him is good. He was the husband of one
wife. He built the first city, identified now
as Baalbec. He seems to have brought up
his son respectably; at least, nothing is
alleged against him, and among his descend-
ants were the first musician and the first
biacksmith. Solomon’s slaying of his elder
brother, on the other hand, was the cold-
blooded removal of a danger. His act was
contrary to the Commandments, while
Cain’s happened before there were any
Commandments. Also Solomon brought up
Ms son to be a crowned ass and a disaster.
Cain is posed as the proverbial and topical
sinner. Solomon, the deliberate fratricide,
the spendthrift, idolator, oppressor, poly-
gamist and voluptuary, also the loser even
in his lifetime of most of the empire (the
city that Cain built among the rest), isn’t
posed as anything of the sort.
Solomon naturally suggests his father
David. He was a good man about whom
hardly any save bad deeds are recorded.
His reputation for valor begins with the
fact that he slew at long range with the
primitive artillery of those days a soldier
whose short-range weapons gave him no
chance. This episode has become as stereo-
typed in one way as that of Cain in an-
other. David stands put as a brigand chief
of note and a Philistine’s hired soldier.
Then he developed into a cruel and success-
ful conqueror of the Nebuchadnezzar
type—the only one of any size that Israel
ever produced and supported by the only
mercenary standing army Israel ever pos-
sessed. He kept bad company— Joab was
bad enough for anything. The episode of
Uriah is the first-class treason and ingrati-
tude of history. Practically the whole
nation revolted from him to his eldest son
when the shadow of the youngest, the off-
spring of the casual and complaisant
Bathsheba, began to loom up as the future
king, but auparently the mercenaries were
too strong for the nation. Davtd’s later
days were devoted to k’ll'ng off the family
of his first patron and father-in-law lest the
old one-man dynasty of Saul should revive
and get in Solomon’s way. And his last
recorded words to his young son were in-
structions about the killing of two old men.
David and Solomon acquired the adm’ra-
tion of the priestly writers with their
lavish gifts, which included the Temple and
much munificence besides. They were good
men as the priests understood goodness, like
David I. (St. David of Scotland), who
bought his halo by giving most of the royal
estate to the Church—the only institution
which could write b : ograplres. But the
priests who gave them so much snaee in their
chronicles didn’t even accuse them of writ-
ing the books ascribed to them nowadays
and on which then* fame chiefly rests. Th's
remarkable omiss'on suggests that they
weren’t writers to any serious extent. And
the things that the admiring but ingen’ous
scribes tell of their heroes arc pretty shock-
ing. The human race in general doesn’t
notice the shockmgness because it is told
no; to.
It is a far cry from Solomon to Seth
Pecksniff, the boss hypocrite of English
literature. Whether Pecksniff ever did
any personal but unrecorded injury to
Charles Dickens will probably remain a
mystery, for one of them is dead and the
other never lived. Sail the author’s rage
and his ma’.evo.ent hatred of the country
architect would have justified the latter in
having his creator bound over to keep the
peace. No crime, not even that of travell ng
on an expired ticket, is alleged to explain
this intemperate loathing. Pecksniff seems
to have been a faithful husband to the late
Mrs. Pecksniff —at all events, the lady,
who doesn’t appear, says noth mg to the
contrary. He was a kindly and forbearing
father, especially to his very trying elder
daughter. He was polite except under in-
tense provocation. His intentions towards
his intended second wife were strictly honor-
able. He was tidy in his apparel and appa-
rently paid his tradespeople. And his money-
making schemes weren’t worse than the
average, though they are described at
greater length. Yet, the lack of evidence
notwithstanding, he is a person without a
redeeming feature, because the author, his
head swollen to twice its natural size
with indignation, alleges to that effect.
Dickenses comparatively early death at the
age of 58 w*as probably due to apoplexy
brought on by a fit of anger at Pecksniff.
If he had lived longer he might have sunk
into insanity through brooding over the mild
gentleman of his own invention who lived
near Salisbury.
In a small way the stage is a proof that
the people can be fooled all the time. It
has turned Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle
Tom, a brawny person who fetched fancy
prices for h’s Jack Johnson physique, into
a small-s'zed, pip'ng and unsaleable dodderer
with white wool where he wasn’t bald. It
has made Louis XI., not an upstanding
French gentleman who died at 60 after
founding three universities, but a tottering,
spindle-shanked ancient (he was born old)
who looks like the back view of a black
beetle. And it has substituted for the real
Othello, who was a helmeted brownish man
(he alludes to his helmet) in the picturesque
uniform of a Venetian general, a repulsive
negroid figure in petticoats and a turban.
The idea of. an Italian general lead'ng a
propd Christian army in petticoats ought to
be hissed off the stage, but it isn’t.
The Devil, being on the border line between
reality and fiction, is in a category by h’m-
self. It is popularly assumed that he has
no redeeming feature and can have none,
which also makes him unique. Yet if
merely convenO'onal Scripture che”sp*-o T .c,
are onrtted (“Peleg begat Reu and Reu
begat Serug” and the like), and account is
taken only of persons with descript'ons
appended. Satan stands more than half-way
up the list in the way of negative respecta-
bility. Nothing is said against Irm that in
any wav compares for concentrated b’Her-
ness with that d’rveful cry against, “Jero-
boam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to
sin,” inasmuch as Nebats son stopped the
flow of Peter’s pence from the big northern
kingdom to the priestly coffers at Jerusalem.
Satan, in fact, is rather a polite shadow
than anything ehe. Many Scriptural wr'ters
don’t even mention him, so unimportant is
he.
These are a few examples of only one lend
of litei*ary and artistic deception—the kind
in winch the ev'dence is plainly set out. and
people are told to show how insane they can
be pv drawing- an absurd conclusion, where-
upon they do so and live hapnily ever after.
Who says the human race can’t be fooled all
the time?
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dagger’s Dwelling.
Joseph Cook, Commonwealth Treasurer,
told a deputation of ex-soldiers last week
that thus far his Government’s war-service
homes scheme had cost £12,000,000. It may
be that when things get down to normal the
houses built for that money wJI be fou-d to
be worth £5,000,000, but judging by the first
report of the Federal Public Accounts Com-
mittee a lower valuat.on is more likely.
The Public Accounts Committee has
been looking into the N. S. Wales
branch of the business. Being com-
posed of busy politicians, and having-
only occasional week-ends to work in, it
has covered only portion of the wide field to
be traversed, but even so it has made dis-
coveries. At Goulburn it inspected 23 houses
which had been “deliberately and wilfully
scamped by the contractor, with the conni-
vance of the local supervising architect, h.s
son.” The site Of these desirable residences'
was “at the foot of a steep hill,” and the
materials and workmanship, from founda-
tions to roof, were “of the poorest desciip-
tion”: the bricks were crumbling and mis-
shapen, the plaster gaped and the wails were
damp. At Cessnock there were 20 wooden
houses in a condit'on so ruinous that the
occupants refused to pay rent On* them.
Although the cost ranged from £422 10 s. to
£582 10s., which is a tidy sum for a timber
dwelling, the materials and workmansh p
were shockingly bad, the timber containing
many shakes and flaws and be rg badly in-
fested with borers. At Newcastle £BlOO
was paid for a morass, described by the
person who recommended the purchase as
“excellent build'ng land.” In the same d s-
trict £38,000 was enthusiast'cally expended
in the purchase of bogs and lakes on wh’ch,
of course, “not a single building has been
commenced.” But N. S. Wa’es hasn’t had
a monopoly of these subtle jests. Speaking
generally, it seems, the War Service Homes
Commission has exh tfted a gift for buyirg
hunks of swamp and hill that nobody 'else
wou’d touch, and for pay'ng fancy prices to
speculators who had somehow got to know
that a simpleton with a Commonwealth
cheoue w’ould be rourd the corner presently.
Going to Tasman’a the Pubkc Accounts Com-
mittee was informed that the Homes Depart-
ment had bought 11 of lard on + l*e
summit o* Cataract Hill, Launceston. which
wasn’t worth clearing, that it had paid
£2887 for a block which three months before
had changed hands for £SSU and that it had
g.ven £8220 for a fraction of an estate
bought for £BOO0 —the sellers made £22u on
the.r bargain and retained 50 acres out of 85.
The man who made these statements is the
new Deputy Commissioner for the Speck.
Other witnesses gave evidence that the condi-
tion of affairs in the Tas. branch of the Com-
mission was absolutely chaot.c: estimates
were wrong, books disagreed, overseers were
incompetent, and the cost of erecting houses
was scandalously in excess of the p ice
agreed upon, so much so that the warriors
for whom they were built refused to take
them over. The last complaint is common
to all the States. In fact, the one thing cer-
tain about the whole demented business is
that there will have to be a first-class
writing-down of values when the community
becomes sane again. By a curious over-
sight the Public Accounts Committee doesn’t
recommend that anyone should be gaoled for
his share in the tragic orgy of jobbery, extra-
vagance, blundering and jerry r build'ng at
the expense of the natidn and the nat'on’s
defenders. Some of the culpable parties cer-
tainly deserve gaol.
♦
Freetrade and Unemployment.
“Some people claimed that the war had taught
them Protection. It had shown him what Freetrade
England could do. Industrial organisation in Free-
trade England had absolutely won the war. The
new tariff had already increased unemployment in
Australia.” —Senator Gah diner on the first reading of
the Tariff Bill.
Seldom have so many mis-statements been
crowded into as few words. Freetrade
automatically ended in England with the
commencement of the war. There was not
merely a smashing tariff directed at German
and Austrian dyes, motor-cars, tdxLles, glass,
toys, machinery, and the thousand other com-
modities wh.ch had entered into competition
with British goods previously; they were
prohibited altogether. As labor was scarce
owing to the demands of the military authori-
ties, and as effective anti-trust legislation
did not exisc, profiteering began—amongst
the wage-earners equally with the capitalists.
While artisans in the Midlands, who had
been content in pre-war days with £5 a week,
were paying income-tax on tls and even £2O
a week,' firms such as Vickers, Coats, Levee
Bros, and the great shipping companies dis-
tributed dividends that scandalised some of
their own shareholders. Bonar Law actu-
ally complained in the House of Commons
of the size of the return from one of his
sh.pp ng investments. That was what a
few years of complete Protection did for those
industries of Britain which just before the
•war liad been panic-stricken at the menace
of Continental competition. But not even
prohibition could br.ng into cultivation the
fertile acres that had become parks, grazing
areas, golf links and game coverts under
freetrade in food. As the rations got
snorter and shorter all sorts of frantic efforts
were made to correct the effects of the pre-
vious 70 vears of Senator Gardinep.’s pana-
cea. London clerks were implored to culti-
vate their back yards. Bowling-club mem-
bers grew potatoes in their greens. Rac ng
was stopped because the nation could not
afford to feed oats to horses. The Ministry
of Food was able to control the price of
home-grown provender to an extent; but
lnudiy anytn.ng was home-grown. An
American trust fixed the price of the meat
which arrived from overseas; a Californian
trust decided what should be pa*d for dried
fruits, and so on. Meanwhile the war was
being won in an extremely gradual way by
industrial organisations under Government
control. As there was no limit to the
money available for munition-works, motor-
car and lorry shops and the like, the results
in output were impressive. But the
crim'nal waste that went on then is one of
the ehief causes of unrest in the United
Kingdom to-day, and it has been the ruin of
State socialism’s reputation all over the
Enap’re. The wave of extravagance which
was symbol'sed 'n Flanders by thousands of
18-pr. shells at £3 10s. apiece lying about
in the mud may have been inevitable, or
aga n it may not. but it certainly was not
creditable to the industrial methods that had
been born of Freetrade. As to the asser-
tion that “the new tariff has already in-
creased unemployment in Australia,” it is
enough to consider what would occur
in the local industrial world with
no tariff. i\ew Benz motor-cars may
already be seen about the streets of Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and German cotton goods
once more grace haberdashers’ windows.
These and many other articles have come in
over the existing stiff tariff wall. But the
Germans are working at from Bd. to Is. an
hour, and Krupps, according to a recent
cable, have been able to turn a loss of
36 GOO 000 marks in 1919 into a profit of
79 000.000 marks in 1920—a matter, of
course, of the erormous output made poss'ble
bv 1 n r - work'ne hours. Are Senator
Gardiner’s supporters willing to accept the
German wage-rates and hours of labor in
return for Freetrader If rot. every ]o<ml
manufacturer would be out of business within
s'x months of the arrival of the fiscal svstem
which he regards as a cure for unemploy-
ment.
■—
Victoria as a Partly-Salvationed
Female.
Victoria is the home of Economy move-
ments, and there is one in progress now. It
means well, and the Lawson Government
also means well; but, as usual, ne'ther of
them means well hard enough. Victoria is
the one State which could, without an over-
whelm ng effort, swear off for good and pro-
hibit by law the Loans-for-Public-Works
curse, and thereby not only set a brilliant
example but safeguard itself from falling
into the pits which have swallowed up Wes-
tralia, Queensland and the Ma State. As
things stand it keeps its borrowing machinery
o'led and in good working order. The imple-
ment revolves more slowly than other
machines, but it ’is there, and it only needs
some turn of fortune to put a Ministry of
cranks and political orook« in charge of the
handle for a single three-year term and the
State might be so pawned and demoralised
that half a century wouldn’t repair the mis-
chief. As there are no fool-proof laws this
m.ght happen in any case, but if Victoria
was formally and publicly committed to No
Borrowing, and if the peop.e were educated
up to No Borrowing, it would be infinitely
more difficult for some Ryan or Storey to
set a razzle going. The present position sug-
gests that of the partly-Salvationed lady of
pleasure who testified that smce seeing the
Right she had given up night prowling “to
a great extent.” These figures tend to show
how (comparatively) strong the position
was in 1920:
Increase of Savings Bank
Debt per head Total Debt Deposits
in 20 years. per head. per head.
Victoria ..£l5 6 2 £56 18 8 £2B 15 0
S. Australia .. 15 9 5 88 15 5 32 10 6
Queensland .. 17 10 1 93 19 9 24 10 3
Tasmania .. 23 19 3 73 10 8 18 4 6
N. S. Wales . . 27 12 0 77 1 4 25 8 3
Wcstralia 52 4 4 119 12 4 21 10 0
To have the smallest liability, the slowest
rate of progress devilwards and the second
b.ggest pile of savings is a great deal. In
addition, Victoria is now the least-taxed
State in the Commonwealth. Its inhabitants
paid, for the year to June, 1920, £2 Is. per
inhabitant as State imposts, against the
£4 9s. 9d. to which Queensland has arisen.
And Victoria, on the evidence of the savings
bank figures, is far the richer of the two.
Especially its working class is richer. Apart
from the repatriation business, which is only
temporary, the State has been borrowing of
late at the rate of only £1 6s. per head pet-
annum. It is hardly worth while pawning
the life and soul of young Posterity for such
a sum. The amount could be raised by
taxation, and the burden per inhabitant per
annum would still be only £3 7s against
Queensland’s £4 9s. 9d. And with another
£2,000,000 invested every year in works that
had no interest burden to swallow up the
takings—in the State’s own works which
yielded 5 per cent, or saved 5 per cent. —it
would be possible in 20 years to take the
extra taxes off again and still keep the public
works policy going, and still abjure borrow-
ing. That is to say, the £2,000,000 a year
revenue from £40,000,000 worth of unen-
cumbered works would replace the £2,000,000
a year loan. If all these works weren’t re-
quired the debt could be reduced, which
would pay still better. Twenty years isn't
long, and it is a small effort to make to
secure the eternal salvation of a State, and
to set an example which nr'ght lead to the
salvation of other , States, and to write a new
page in the book of history,
Socialisation and Dodging Taxes,
The attitude of the Australian coal-miners
to the income-tax has been expressed with
admirable candor by A. C. Willis, general
secretary of their union. Appearing on their
behalf before the Taxation Commission,
Willis intimated that the coalies morosely
objected to being hit up by the Taxation
Department, and demanded an exemption
large enough to cover 310,000 of the 430,000
Australian citizens assessed last year. When
th.s was pointed out to him he said “Distri-
bute it among the higher-pa d men.” Informed
that the h.giier-pa.d men were already smit-
ten to the extent of anything from 4s. 7d. to
10s. 6d. in the £ the gentleman didn’t seem
impressed. “The ‘worker,’ ” he said, “regards
the tax as an imposition,” and on no account
would the "worker” defray it by means of a
stamp on his pay-docket, although it would
be far and away the cheapest, fairest and
least burdensome mode of collection. The
po.iu of v.ew is interesting for several
reasons, one of them being that the coal-
miner is about the. highest paid wage-earner
in Australia at the present time. Visiting
Newcastle (N.S.W.) recently to see if there
was any prospect of getting cheaper coal
the S. Aus. Minister of Works was handed
a return which showed that miners were get-
ting from 365. 4d. to 395. 3d. a shift, machine
men from 325. Id. to 3Ss. 3d., borers from
34si 2d. to 40s. Id., wheelers (lads) from
275. Bd. to 295. 3d., and special workers from
323. 3d. to 48s. sd. These were average
figures for one pit between January 2 and
May 14, and the shift was eight hours from
bank to bank, which means seven hours’
work or less. “In another colliery,” Hague,
the Minister in question, was told, “pillars
had averaged 575. 2d. per day during the
last fortnight and special workers 375. 7d.
From April 2 to Mav 4 the same workers
earned over 375. a day. From March 19 to
May 14 the pillars’ daily average, except in
one fortnight, was over 50s. a man.” These
may be Exceptional rates, but it is a fact that
the coal-miner is better off than many a citi-
zen on a fixed salary who receives his half-
yearly blister from the ' Taxation authori-
ties (he has no means of evading it), and
for whom there is no Government housing
scheme, employers’ liability, workmen’s com-
pensation, unemployed relief, or motherhood
endowment. No Australian worthy the
name is a believer in low wages. But men
who earn high wages shouldn’t squeal about
having to pay income-tax. The squeal comes
with particularly bad grace from the coal-
miners, who are not only in a position to make
substantial contributions to the revenue,
but who ask signal favors from their fellow-
citizens. _ A while ago their leaders talked
of “socialising” the coal-mines by some
indefinite form of Direct Action. Now the
proposal is that the people of Australia,
through their Parliament, should buy out
the present proprietors and hand the mines
over to the miners, or rather to their officials.
Ard the section which expects the peoo’e to
take on their shoulders this huge burden of
cap tal ahd interest demands immunity from
income-tax! There should be no privileged
class in matters of taxation. Every citizen
in receipt of income should contribute some-
thing, towards the cost of government, even
if it is. only a few pence. The principle of
exemptions is bad and demoralising in its
effects. Taxat:on ought to be a science, but
the mostly-Labor politicians who have ruled
Australia since 1910 have made it a chaos.
They view it as a means of victimising the
class opposed to them in polities, and of
granting special favors to their own sup-
porters. Hence arise such monstrous abuses
as that of the N. S. Wales grazier who was
r, ls ' Iod. on a net income of
iJSJ I2s. <d. A scientific employment of:
the taxing power is the remedy for many of
Australia’s ills. It would do' more for' the
wave-earners, in particular, than all the
sloppy socialisation and pauperisation
schemes now in fashion.


In the Matter of THERMO ELECTRIC LTD. (in Liquidation).
Tenders are invited by Theodore Geddes Dewar, Liquidator in Queensland, for the purchase either
as a whole or in lots of the following Assets, viz:—
Leaseholds, Rights, Electrical and Mining Machinery and Plant, Tools, Stores, Rolling Stock
and Sundries, Goodwill, Business and Undertaking of Thermo Electric Ltd. (in Liquidation) as
existing at the date hereof, excluding Book Debts, Cash and Bank Balance and Records, but
including Leaseholds and Wolfram, Molybdenite and Bismuth Mines, and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc., Offices and Cottages at Wolfram, North Queensland, and Wolfram Mines and Mine Plant,
Tools, etc., Offices and Cottages at Mount Carbine, North Queensland.
The Liquidator reserves the right to sell any Assets by Private Treaty before Tenders close and to elect, whether
Tenders shall be accepted
(1) As a whole.
(2) By lots.
The lots are more fully described in the Schedule, which with Conditions of Sale and Forms of Tender, may be obtained from
the Liquidator, Mr. T. G. Dewar, 7b Queen Street, Brisbane, or
Mes.-’is. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mesas. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne, Victoria.
Mr. W. 11. Bowater, Wolfram, North Queensland.
Tenders endorsed ae i iov'.ded in the Conditions and addressed to the Liquidator must be in the hands of the Liquidator not
later than noon on live 3.5 th day of August, 1921.
The* highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Brisbane' this Ninth day of June, 1921.
T. G. DEWAR, Liquidator.
King’s Buildings, 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
W. ChorJey & Co. |.td.
in
M
J
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, 3/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Latest Figures from the Soup Ritehen.
On last grievance-day in the Reps. T. J.
Ryan arose to discuss the multitudinous
unemployed in the State from which he fled
when the finances began coming home to
roost. He laid the blame on the wickedness
of the Federal Government in not supplying
Queensland with £2,000,000 to “open up”
the lands on the Burnett River. British
financiers turned the loan proposition down
as not nearly good enough. The Ministry
of Misery evolved by Ryan and Theodore
having rushed Queensland’s taxes up to
about twice the average of its neighbors,
Father Bull didn’t believe there was any
further taxpaying power to depend upon.
Federal Treasurer Cook took much the same
view. He had no spare money to lend, and
he didn’t see why he should borrow it, put-
ting the names of fairly honest States like
Victoria, S. Aus. and Tasmania on the back
of the tattered mendicant’s p.n. The pre-
liminary census returns and the publication
of the revenue figures to June 80 show that
Theodore and co. have raised their State
taxation another notch in these piping times
of peace—to £4 17s. Gd. per inhabitant per
annum. It is really a little more, for the
calculation should be based on the average
population for the year as at December 81
instead of on the larger one at census day,
but £4 17s. 6d. is something to* go on with.
This means that, bad as things are in
N.S.W., they are £1 6s. 4d. per head per
annum worse up North. Recent figures
for the two States are as follows:
Taxation per Head per Year.
N.S.W. (Holman). Queensland (Denham).
1914 ..£155 £l 6 11
1915 .. 1 11 S 182
Queensland (Rtan & Co.).
1910 .. 1 13 4 229
1917 .. 1 19 1 2 6 9
1918 .. 211 2 11 2
1919 .. 224 3 19 10
1920 . . 2 8 5 4 10 0
N.S.W. (Storey).
1921 .. 3 11 2 4 17 0
It is in these two States that the cry of th«
unemployed is most intense, and the doling
out of pauper rations most continuous. And
they are both beggars—both clamoring that
the Federal Government should raise money
for them with the names of Victoria, S.A.,
Tasmania and Westralia on the back of the
bill along with their own overworked signa-
tures. There are txvo extremes in house-
keeping. One is represented by the bright,
spotless little woman who can make home
a picture of happiness on £5 a week. The
other is typified by the jazzing or picture
maniac who can make it a pigsty on £lO
or £l5. It is misfortune that
it has had the other sort in its
offices for the past five years. N. S. Wales
has the same sort, but it hasn’t had it so
long. The position in Queensland shows
what the Ma State is making for.
■ ♦
The Fiscal Salve.
It is to be hoped the London Morning Post
was right when it said last week that De
Valera and the Southern Irish Unionists
had agreed to try to get (1) Dominion status
and (2) full fiscal autonomy for the South.
It is a long way from a republic, as it is
several miles ahead of anything an orthodox
Unionist would have listened to two years
ago; but it is a well-known principle of a
certain class of bargaining to begin by ask-
ing for more than you ever expect to get.
And, anyhow, this, in effect, was Sir Horace
Plunkett’s solution of the Irish trouble, as
outlined originally in the Irish States-
man, and accepted by practically all the
leading Irishmen of the day. The Irish
grievance from which all the others have
originated was commercial. The Restraints
were a national humiliation, amongst other
things, quite as acute as, say, the trans-
portation of convicts was to Australia in the
middle of last century. As a result of the
law forbidding anyone to bring more than
6s. Sd. into Ireland, no one went there for
centuries (other than officials and soldiers)
but the mean English. It was the refuge
of adventurers, bankrupts and fugitives from
justice; and Lecky (“Ireland in the Eigh-
teenth Century”) quotes Stewart, the Min-
ister, as saying:—
Going to Ireland was looked on as a miserable
mark oi a deplorable person; yea, it was turned
into a proverb; and one of the worst expressions of
disdain was to tell a man that “Ireland would be
his hinder end.”
The restriction on Irish exports was imposed
at the instance of the London merchants, who
had the ear of the House of Commons. Its
effect was firstly to kill numbers of Irish
industries, notably the woollen industry, and
secondly to start the emigration movement.
The famine of 1846 —due to a system of land
tenure invented in the interests of absentee
landlords with a pull at Westminster —com-
pleted what the Restraints had begun. The
Union itself was designed, primarily, to keep
Irishmen divided in the interests of the
commercial supremacy of the mainland.
Though the old Parliament of Ireland was
exclusively Protestant, its members were at
least as Irish as any member of a local
Parliament is Australian. They were the
descendants of English settlers of not less
than a couple of generations—men like
Robert Emmet, who came of Cromwellian
immigrant stock on both sides. Left alone
they would inevitably have tended to run
Ireland more in the interests of Ireland than
of England, as the Commonwealth and the
rest of the Dominions, for all their flam-
boyant loyalty, are being run to-day. And
ultimately the Parliament would have be-
come really representative in the sense of being
non-sectarian. It; was the Union that threw
Irishmen into two hostile camps, and only
dis-Union will ever bring them together
again. But nothing, unless perhaps a
continuance of the present hatred-breeding
struggle, will drive Ireland out of the
Empire. It would be even worse business
for the Irish than for the English; and the
Irishman, despite his reputation for cheery
irresponsibility, is a business man. Nor
could Ireland afford to impose a prohibitive
tariff against England, which takes most of
her products and sends her practically all
the coal which she lacks; or against the
Dominions, which supply her with raw pro-
ducts. And so with defence. “It is a car-
dinal principle with the Dominions,” said
Mr. Asquith in a recent speech at Ayr
(Scotland), “that the Imperial Navy shall
have access to and unrestricted use of all
their ports for naval purposes.” No treaty
is behind that arrangement: it is business.
If the professional hate-mongers, Unionist
and Sinn Fein, could only be gagged or
gaoled for a few weeks, or even days, (1) the
South would get fiscal autonomy, (2) the
North would presently claim the same boon.
And inside a generation seven centuries of
strife would be forgotten.
AFTER HIM AT LAST.
“Lloyd George and M. Briand are likely to accept Mr. Harding’s invitation to a Limitation-of-
Armaments Conference. China has also replied favorably.” —Cable news.
THE OUTLAW : “ A-ha! Woodrow failed to catch me with mush; so these fellers hope
to succeed with more direct methods!"
Large - Holdings and Dead Places.
In order. to weaken the secession movement
thereabout, Railway Minister Esteli., of the
Ma State, lately streaked like a comet into
Riverina to talk half-promises and .soft-soap
concerning the possible extension of the Vic-
torian railways into the country. Why
separation should be referred to as a calamity
to be averted by all manner of means, as
if it was the break-up of a nation or the
partition of a race, it is hard to say; but
so it is—the proposal to create even one
new capital on a continent is discussed as
if it was the Downfall of Poland. Really
secession would be highly desirable in the
interests of progress and good government
even if there was no Ministry of cranks and
mental cripples in any Big City and even if
the centralising craze was only half as bad
as it is. If there were only this one reason
for it, that reason would be enough: no one
State should be allowed to swell to such
political influence that it can almost dictate
to the Commonwealth and in alliance with
one other State can absolutely dictate to it.
The overwhelming State is the same objec-
tionable institution as the overwhelming
feudal noble used to be. In almost every
Federation the mere fact that a State was
becoming more like a master than a subject
has been held sufficient reason why it should
be dismembered. There might be no other
reason (and there are plenty of other rea-
sons in Australia), but that was enough.
Some Commonwealths have gone so far as
to make an overwhelming city practically a
province by itself; hence States of 72
square miles (Argentina) and 431 square
miles (Brazil). Australia alone regards
monster properties as a virtue and a bless-
ing—huge political fiefs of which the out-
lying parts go to seed for lack of super-
vision.
How the Universities Help.
An indictment and some evidence: —
Never was it so important that Australia should
have men soundly trained in economics; for if the
wild theories put forward by charlatans are not
combated our country will be surely ruined.
What are the Universities, for the most part
generously endowed by the State, doing-— doing, not
pretending to do —towards this essential work ?
The average University course is dead. It has
become a series of subjects and half-subjects to be
“done.”
As an example, take English. Since lam “doing"
economics English is one of the Arts subjects I must
take. Chaucer, I was informed in an English lec-
ture, derived his name from an ancestor who either
(a) sold socks or (b) mended boots. I also delved
among the roots of a controversy as to whether his
family-tree was (1) French, (2) not French or
(3) only partly French. Something was given on
the probable occupation of his mother’s father.
This in “English literature” I This- is what the
student of Economics must know!
Concerning Shakspeare we were awed by the
information that he spelled his name in different
ways; that he was rich and had no need to act
in his own plays; that, as his income has probably
been over-estimated, it is more than likely he was
poor and did consequently have to act in his own
plays.
In Economic History it was put to us that (1)
an outflow of nomadic groups from a population
centre or, alternatively, (2) a congregation into
tribal groups of scattered individuals of family units
accounted for the population of the earth. Why (3)
a wholesale descent from Heaven and (4) an upburst
from the bowels of the earth were omitted I cannot
say.
In Accountancy the following method of estimat-
ing the goodwill of a -business was given: “Take an
average of the annual gross profits over the previous
five years. Multiply' the result by a coefficient
roughly expressive of the prosperity and possibilities
of the business.” Think of a number, double it
and take away the number you thought of. There, I
would disrespectfully suggest, you have a method
which is quicker—and no easier to fake.
As for Statistics, the distinction between an error
and a mistake was dwelt on in amiable confusion
for three lectures.
In Business Principles we were informed that the
cardinal, virtues of industry are (1) concentration,
(2) certainty and (3) more concentration—this by
a lecturer who (I was statistical and disgustedly idle
enough to count) quavered “Eh-h-h-h-h-h” as mani-
as 107 times in a 50-minute lecture.
And Economics —well, in definition, the first four-
lectures dealt with it as the Study of Man. Yet
right down to the last in Ecs. 111. the remaining
lectures, betrayed it as the Science of Cloaks. It
cloaks old obvious facts under new names. As
an .instance, take,this. .Some industries give for each
additional outlay in capital less and less, some more
and more. This is the “Law of Increasing and
Diminishing Returns,” with a corollary called the
“Law of Increasing and Diminishing Marginal Costs
of Production.” Right through it is similar.
Povertv, even, is defined as a condition, pathological,
sociological, psychic, plus several other adjectives,
few of which are clearer than the word to be defined.
When a University descends to this type of infor-
mation it is time it was replaced by the “Did \ou
Know This?” column at the back of the World's
News. And, merely as an indication that the fault
lies not in the subject only, but also in the method
of teaching the subject, let this task, given this year
to students of three years’ standing in Economics,
shriek for itself. The ability to perform it is of
no earthly use to any not a library officer; sophisti-
cated students, as a matter of fact, will get. a
library research officer to do it for them. It is
plain “stodge” work, and there is no brain-emplov-
ment in it. The task is to compile a Bibliography
of Unemployment in the State in which the course
is given—a mere copying of the index-cards in a
public library.
- ♦
Take Three from Two and What is Left?
In those States where a Government of city
theorists, full of undigested Karl Marx
and prejudice and philanthropy and
ideas about paper-money, have piled the
State income-tax so high on top of the
Federal tax that they disturb the clouds, a
peculiar situation has arisen. There is now
one person whose income-tax over a series
of years may easily exceed his whole income.
This is, of course, the man on the land —the
universal scapegoat, the individual who is
always being settled, or resumed' without
payment, or pooled, or rural-banked, or
double-banked, or meddled with, or patron-
ised, or used as security for a loan to repair
the suburban roads, or the whole lot of. these
at once. In a country of uncertain climate
it is quite easy for this man on the land to
have two consecutive years when he makes
a dead loss —when his wages are nil and
debts, the result of unavoidable working-
expenses, accumulate. The N.S.W. wheat
crop in 1919 and 1920 averaged 51 bushels.
It got down in 1920 to under three bushels.
The wheat crop of Queensland for five
consecutive years (191 G-17-18-19-20) aver-
aged under seven bushels. Between 1910
and 1914 the sheep in N.S.W. dropped from
45,000,000 to 32,000,000. Then war prices,
which are becoming a thing of the past,
saved the situation for the time, but in 1920
the flocks were down to 28,000,000. In all
branches of the business there are violent
ups and downs. After the breaking of the
drought or some such blessing there comes
a rich year when the “primary producer,’’
barring the very small sort, qualifies to pay
double income-tax on a high scale. What is
left after paying it may still leave him with
less than nothing per annum over a term of
years. It has been explained to city Minis-
terial personages that, since taxation has
run wild, the rural person, instead of escap-
ing for, say, two years and being ruined the
third year, should be taxed on his average
income over a period—that he shouldn’t be
treated as a person with a fixed wage, be-
cause he isn’t one. City Ministerial
ages are loth to lose any revenue, even
though they may be wiping out the taxpayer ;
still they have agreed to think over the mat-
ter—think over it for 20 or 30 years and
come to some sort of decision after most
people are dead. And such things will con-
tinue to be so long as the States remain
their present unwieldy size and city Minis-
terial personages have to deal with things of
which they have little or no understanding.
“Neisser” : Let me appeal for an extension
of the Y.D. clinics in Sydney, especially as
regards gonorrhoea in men. At present some
of these are held on one or two nights a
week only, for a couple of hours each night.
Usually two medicoes are in attendance, and
one or more dressers —and such a staff in
this brief time often attends to upwards of
150 patients per night. In the circumstances
it is impossible to give any one of them
adequate treatment. What is urgently needed
is a full-time clinic with an expert in V.D
in charge. It should be equipped with all
the apparatus and conveniences necessary
for the modern treatment of gonorrhoea. It
should have the services of a competent
bacteriologist whose duties would be to
decide at the first visit if the patient has
V.D. or not, and at subsequent visits esti-
mate the progress of the cure. In the last
resort it is the microscope that decides when
the patient is free of his trouble. Under the
present system the surgeon can act in little
more than an advisory capacity, and the
patients are left to themselves to carry out the
treatment. Moreover, the doctor sees them far
too seldom, and his advice is often forgotten
before the next visit. If these suggestions
were adopted the number of cases presenting
themselves for treatment would be greater,
the percentage of cures would be higher, the
time taken for each cure materially lessened,
and the menace of these unfortunates to the
public considerably diminished. Also the
period of incapacity due to the disease
would he shortened, and thus economically
the State would benefit.


á
Fils Itself in a Flash
filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. T.as self-illinj -nennaiisn is
part of the pen, and so ca not be lo;:, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
Ttere is no other satisfacto y s'lf-filliiv’ pen Ik- the Onoto, so be
Sure to g t an Or.o o ano not an old-fashion, d squir.-fil ed p_n.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTi>..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C, 1.
Managing Agents :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURSF
Sydney and Me,Loi:rne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-Ee t for all Per.*
u
m
Special Alloyed Motor
Car Spring Steel
For springs subject to very high strains and very heavy shocks.
Stocks on hand.
Sizes from 1 inch by 3-16 inch up to 2| inches by | inch.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
All eyes are again turned on W. A. Watt, who
is now suspected of a desire to sit prominently
in the Corner. Not only this, but he has been
approving the sentiments of liyan with regard to
the London Conference, and the fact that he no longer
attends the Nationalist caucus has revived the
ancient expectancy of a move against the Govern-
ment. There is no doubt that Watt would welcome
the chief billet in the Commonwealth, but to attain
this ambition isn’t easy in the present state of the
House. Give Hughes his due, he is quite capable
of outgeneralling Watt, and the consciousness of
the humiliation that would come with defeat, com-
bined with an awful sensitiveness of the kind of
support he would need to hold office, keeps Watt
brooding darkly on the edge. Still, the Country
party cherishes illusions of doing something drastic,
and Gregory, its Chief of Staff, announces that the
truce granted to the Government will soon expire, and
that subsequent proceedings will bo interesting. The
whole situation is in the hands of the Labor party,
and in the battle of tactics that must ensue on the
lodging of a want-of-confidence motion Marshal
Tomjo Ryan should be w’orth watching.
Allan, leader of the Vic. Hayseed
Thirteen—one-fifth of the House —has ac-
quired the Bryan O’Hoghlen habit of carry-
ing a no-confideuce motion about in his
pocket, and so the Assembly has been strug-
gling with another political “crisis.” It is
only nine months since the general election,
and there are now threats of dissolution.
Forty years ago, when Berry and Service led
parties, two elections were held in the one
year. So there is a precedent, if one is
wanted, for permitting an appeal to the
people so soon after the last consultation;
but it would be a sinful waste of money.
The term “credits” has become almost as
dear to the heart of a certain kind of “re-
former” as “solidarity.” Recently a Sydney
Unemployed Campa.gn Committee deputation
ca'led on manager Miller. of the Common-
wealth Bank, and asked that, Australia hav-
ing raised £365,000,000 for “war credits,” he
would kindly get a move on and single-
handedly “advance a s’mrllar sum for produc-
tive purposes”—-unproductive railways and
the like. And such is the Domain orator’s
faith in the m.racle-work.ng ability of the
gcd-like capitalist that the speakers probably
beLeved Miller could find that amount, only
his hatred of the worker prevented him. In
truth the orator might just as well have goqe
to a hen and expected her to advance 12
months’ eggs.
If T. J. Ryan ever becomes Priminister
the New Protection might be given another
“fly.” Tomjo started this belief during the
debate on the Tariff Board Bill by declaring
that the present ll.gh Court would not give
the judgment Griffith gave in the Harvester
case. "What makes you think that'.'” asked
Littleton Groom, in astonishment, and T.
Joseph replied that he had been studying the
Knox tribunal’s decisions. The opinion is
interesting even if .t should have no material
consequences. Although Ryan has had
little luck in libel actions, few Australians
can teach him much about constitutional
lav.
To the making of unproductive jobs there
is no end. The laiesc insp. ration of the
Itepat. is to appoint officials to tour the
country, seizing employers by the persuas.ve
buttonhole and urging them to engage re-
turned soldiers instead of other men. The
result will be that the Government will have
the other men unemployed and on its hands
in place of the sold ers. If the Department
would only intercept itself some day and
seize itself by the buttonhole and persuade
itself to see about increasing employment it
would be better. For instance, it might
AROUSING HIS SUSPICIONS.
THE PASSENGER : “Why do we call all those who left the Labor party rats?"
THE MAN AT THE WHEEL : “The old proverb, you know—‘Rats desert a sinking ship.’”
THE PASSENGER: “ Cripcs! Are tee on a sinking ship?”
think up ways and means for producing
another 5,000.000 yards per annum of Anzac
tweed to begin with. This was the industry
which the Repat. tried to discourage in in-
fancy because it wanted the men to “go on
the land,” but it is pretty sick of the land by
now.
Queensland had a crowded day lately. The
men who were engineering the strike at
Mount Morgan decided that it must go on
unless they got their full terms—the same
pay for digging out copper worth £72 as they
received when it was worth £126; in other
words, (1) the full product of the mine; (21
free use of the plant; (3) a b'g subsidy from
the taxpayers. Then as these things weren’t
forthcoming and unemployment continued, a
big meeting at Brisbane decided that the
present Labor Government is,, and always
has been, “an enemy to the worker.” And
they are right. The charlatan who promises
that you can catch the 9 o’clock train even
you keep on fißngemupaga n till 10
o’clock is the would-be passenger’s worst
enemy, even though he seemed a wonderfully
good fellow at the time.
The census rigures are not all gloom. Her-
bert electoral division stretches from Mackay
right away up to Thursday Island, and is
almost entirely confined to the strictly agri-
cultural tropics, with a rainfall of anytmng
from 50 to 150 inches a year, and with the
hum.dxty wh.ch “the white man can’t stand.”
Yet the increase in that division in the 10
years was 10.4 per cent., or 14,929 persons.
This, though r.ot a quarter enough, is a
greater increase numerically than in any
other division in the northern State. Oxley,
near Brisbane, with its big industrial exoan-
sion, comes nearest with 14,609, and Bris-
bane next with 10,195. Darling Downs and
Wide Bay, both largely agricultural, show
decreases, and in other Queensland divisions
the increases do not exceed four figures.
On the Sydney municipal roll the voluble
Town Clerk is a voter, not by reason of his
fatal beauty or his affabil.ty, but as trustee
of a kiosk in Hyde Park. Truly the fran-
ch.’se is a fearsome thing. Probably some-
one else is 6n as bailee of the pot that asphalt
ia fried in.
There is no reason to suppose that Syd-
ney’s Lord Mayor Lambert will ever let
concealment, Lke a worm in the bud, prey
on hisi damask effrontery. He represents
Denison, the least populous of the 13 wards
(it has, or had, 2465 electors against Bourke
waid’s 5386 V. Now Lambert’s party has
asked the Court to strike off the roll 853 of
the 2645. includ ng the Anglican arehbishon,
and all the property-owners and lessees ex-
cept 41. The long list of the objected-to
seems to consist wholly of people who live
outs.de the ward, even though they may have
business premises inside. Ye,t the telephone
directory uescribes a certain W. H. Lambert
as living at Marrickvllle, though it also men-
tions h vv. H. Lambert who sits during the
daytime in the A.W.U. office as a hired ser-
vant.
The other morn'ng Sydney Telegraph
had a recurrence of its old Freeshoddytrade
madness, and frothed thus: —
The statement of Joseph Cook that Commonwealth
ships cannot be utilise d to carry flour to Europe be-
cause the inability to get back cargo makes outward
freights prohibitive affords a char example of how
the policy of restricting imports is injuring our
primary industries.
The difficulty is that the Commonwealth’s
b ggest exports are greasy wool, wheat and
flour, which are cheap, heavy and bulky, while
its biggest imports are clothing and clothing-
material, which are dear and light. The
Protectionist idea is to create so many new
industries here, and to get so many people
here to run them, that most of our heavy
goods will be consumed locally, whereby we
might to a great extent cut opt tin's export of
big, cheap things that weigh like ballast.
The pure Freetrade idea is to reduce or
abolish duties, lose revenue, and increase im-
ports till they are about 20 times as much
instead of tw.ce as much as the country can
pay for —all in older, it seems, tl.ac tne dead
weight of jewellery, watches, silks and ladies’
hats coming in shall balance the dead weight
of wheat, wool and meat vo.ng out. The Tele-
graph is rather out of practice with its
Freetrade, and makes a worse muddle of it
than it used to.
The Council of Action, was created
by the recent Labor Conference at Mel-
bourne, is supposed to be after the political
scalp of N. S. Wales Premier Storey. He
is not the material of which are made the
real blood-and-busteis. But if he is passed
out and comes wandering over to the Nat.on-
alist castle, it is to be hoped that he will
find it closed ar.d be told, without any ani-
mos ty, that so far as that party is con-
cerned h>. career is as definitely closed as
that of Judas on the morning of 3/4/33,
A man who bought his one and only spell
of office by crazy promises that almost ran
to billions should find no place waiting for
him when his own crowd gives him up.
The new A.-G., John McWhae, will probably
be succeeded in the Vic. House of Landlords
by Nawman Bayles, who a while back repre-
sented Toorak in the other House. Nawman
has consented to become a candidate, though
he knows that, if returned, he wJI have to
face his constituents again at the triennial
Council elections next year, unless he is
lu ky enough to get a walkover. McWhae’s
pos.tion in the Cabinet, assuming it survives
Cocky’s attack, may be harder to fill. Last
week there was a stiong effort to capture
W. L. Baillieu, Minister for Public Works
under the late John Murray and Honorary
Mm.ster in the Watt and Peacock Cabinets,
but so far he hasn’t responded with anv
enthusiasm.
An attempt was made at the Speck’s Labor
Conference to stampede island unionists into
an immediate acceptance of the “take and
hold’’ policy recently laid down in Mel-
bourne. A long day’s wrangle resulted, and
an after-midn.ght casting-vote division re-
ferred quest.on to a special conference.
Hobart World (feydney and A.W.U. con-
trolled) declares that two-thirds of the
25 delegates would have voted for the
Melbourne programme had not the
A.L.P. rules compelled them to mod-
erate their transports. So the battle
between the alleged evolutionaries and the
reputed revolutionaries is postponed for a
month or two. The odds are on the “revs.”
winning by half a head (the jaw half), and
that Will prelude a cleavage in the Parlia-
mentary Labor party and a consequent
Nat onalist win at the general election next
yea.*.
As in 1911 Westralia has cast a pious
resolution :n favor of State control of the
l.quor traffic, but the majoritv was small —
hss than 4000—and nearly three-fifths of
the ballot-papers were informal. The ex-
planation is that 30.000 electors who voted
on the continuance and no-license issues
didn’t bother to express an opinion about
Slate control. When the 1911 Licens ng
was passed the operation of the local
option clauses was suspended until 1921;
in effect, th£ trade was granted ten years’
grace. On its exp ration Bung was haunted
by a fear that the Government w*ould resume
all existing 1 censes on the grounds (1) that
btate control had been decided upon in pr n-
cipie: (2) that the trade had had all the
compensation it was entitled to, many land-
lords and licensees having recouped them-
selve-- several times over, and (3) that the
btate had a deficit of nearlv five m llioas
and wanted the money. But lioth'ng hap-
pened. The chances are that Premier Mit-
chell never thought of it, but it would have
made no difference if he had. Mitchell being
too soft-hearted to hurt even a jellyfish.
The hand of the city lawyer is on the
Progressive group in N. S. Wales. In
other States the farmers’ parties are reason-
ablv free from this element, but from the
beg'nning the Ma State faction has been
pervaded by Pounce and Parchment, whose
influence has been Lke gin and bitters on its
infant growth. Last week Ley, a city
sol citor, . announced that the Progressives
might think about a modus vivendi with
Fuller’s Nationalists (Fuller is also a
lawyer) if Fuller would do these things:—
Oppose motherhood endowment; stand for propor-
tional representation and elective Ministries; sup-
plant price-fixing and wage-fixing by the extension
of co-operation and co-partnership; concentrate on
improvement of transportation facilities and rural
development generally; encourage private enterprise
m lieu of extending State undertakings; practise
real economy, not by throwing more men o' t of
work, but by such methods as reducing Parliamen-
tary salaries from £875 to £500; arrange for one
return for State and Federal taxation and one elec-
toral roll; refuse to allow public moneys ever again
to be emoloved for private purposes; and get rid
of the Holman-Parkhill-Mclnto’ h group.
And in all that rigmarole there wasn’t a
word about decenjralisat.on. Yet if the
Progressives don’t stand for decentralisa-
tion they have no justification, politically
speak.ng, for being on the earth.
BIRTHDAY REFLECTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Acting Prime Minister .Tosrnh Cook ha's just cele-
brated his SOth political birthday.”
is a simple Hartley miner (and could anything
be finer ?)
I was chosen in the ’nineties by the workers of
my State.
I was bluff ai d bold and hearty, and I d- —d the
Tory party,
And I held that a Republic all our troubles would
abate.
Came a sudden alteration in my views on Throne
and Nation:
I discovered that the Crown was not a menace,
after all;
I got friendly with the Tories, and was made to see
the glories
Of the party I’d believed would cause the State’s
decline and fall.
So I joined the other section (causing anger and
dejection
In the humble ranks of those who'd made me
first an M.L.A.) ;
And I railed at Federation; aye, or any alteration
In the habits and the manners and the customs of
the day.
As a prominent Freetrader I rebuked the type of
raider
Who demands a smashing tariff in the name of
local trade.
1 was strong against conscription and I loathed
beyond description
The conception of a naval force in any sense
home-made.
I no longer hold with people who, when tariffs grow
to steeple-
Like proportions claim the thing is economic’ly
unsound.
1 am all for stern compulsion in the Army. A
m ulsion
On the naval question’s caused my old-time views
to swing clean round.
Tes; I’m everything I hated or despised or under-
rated
In the days when such opinions formed the cus-
tomary text
For the curses of the wealthy. But I’m still keen,
young and healthy—
I may stump the same old centres as a fighting
Bolshie next!
x.s.w.
J. B. D.


AFTER THE COLLISION.
BIG MAN: “It was pure accident, Sergeant. I didn’t mean to knock into him. He was pushed off the pavement —ill due to this silly rule about keeping to the left. What did they make it for, anyhow?"
LONG ARM OF THE SYDNEY LAW: “To divert attention from the deficit, sir.”


The Leading Power Transmitter Since 1858.
PIONEER
m
LEATHER
BELTING
§
Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.
Pioneer Tanners and Belting Makers,
117 York Street, Sydney.
INTERSTATE STOCKISTS
Victoria: J. & R. E. Madder, Melbourne.
S.A.: John McKell, Port Adelaide.
W.A.: Horace Summers, Perth.
Queensland: Hoey, Pry & C 0.., Brisbane.
Townsville: Burns. Ftailp & Co.
Tasmania: Clias. Davis, Ltd.., Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsoime
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridge*
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at W r est Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people:—
Debenture
Interest.
{“A” Stock 5
4 p.c. !
“B” Stock I
5 p.c. J Dividend. Reserves.
1910 £241,916 £76,840 15 p.c. = £83,849 £297,839
Transferred to Capital, £79,856 . . 217,983
1911 345,929 73,274 20 p.c. = 127,770 362,868
Transferred to Capital, £63,885 . . 298,983
1912 382,101 73,825 20 p.c. = 140,548 466,711
1913 202,499 73,147 15 „ ~ 105,411 490,652
1914 224,359 73,014 20 „ „ 140,548 501,449
1915 178,127 71,422 10 „ „ 70,274 537,880
1916 188,449 70,418 „ „ 87,842 568,069
1917 222,067 69,686 15 „ „ 105,411 615,039
1918 249,987 68,985 15 ,„ „ 105,411 690,630
Transferred to Capital, £70,273 • • 620,357
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115,951 659,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 ( 612 14fi
Drought exes, written off, £25,000 j ’
Premiums on new shares, £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. = 84,493 617,426
The drought and market troubles pressed so
heavily on this big co. that in October last
the directors, for the first time since the last
of several reconstructions 20 years ago, made
an appeal to shareholders for additional
funds. They offered 201,435 £1 shares at a
premium of 55., and at March 31 143,839
had been taken up and fully paid, the pre-
miums thereon adding £35,960 to reserves.
Practically the whole of that £179,799 got
in from shareholders and nearly £200,000
of the £264,000 cash on deposit with banks
12 months previously flowed out in addi-
tional advances. Some idea of the co.’s
market troubles can be gleaned from the
fact that whereas at March, 1920, it had in
store only 6062 bales wool, after finding buy-
ers for 45,020 bales during the 12 months
45,695 were still on the co.’s hands at March
31 last. Concurrently the market for live-
stock broke, and hides were almost unsale-
able. So not only has Goldsbrough Mort’s
been faced with the financing of heavy, un-
realisable stocks, but its commission earnings
on what it has been able to market have
fallen off because of the lower prices ruling.
In addition it had the drought to contend
with, and though that resulted in no visible
loss of capital, to get through it with only
normal stock losses meant a large outlay on
fodder and agistment. For 1920 £25,000
was provided for drought expenses: during
the past year a further large amount was
charged directly against revenue. This shows
how net profits have been arrived at for the
past four years:—
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1918 .. £366,644 £116,657 £68,985 £181,002
19 19 .. 359,317 134,367 68,338 £2OOO 154,612
1920 .. 299,901 161,862* 66,960 2000 69,079
1921 .. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
including £25,000 drought exes. .
During 1918-19 to earn £725,691 the co.
spent £250,024; including drought costs,
during the past two years £47,200 more than
for the previous two flowed out to earn
£169,271 less.
For the past two years shareholders have
had £200,444 in divs., though net profits have
totalled only £122,892, accumulated profits
having been tapped for £77,552. But,
as the table shows, reserves are still
very substantial, an amount exceeding
two-thirds of the enlarged capital hav-
ing been laid by. Even these reserves
probably do not represent the excess
of the present value of net assets over and
above paid capital. In the books the values
of some of the co.’s belongings have been
severely written down: for instance, pre-
mises, which were written down from
£529,601 to £358,494 in the reconstruction 20
years ago, now stand at £201,834. In addi-
tion, the co.’s own pastoral properties are
less “provision for depreciation, etc.,” and
by far the largest asset, advances, is shown
“after making provision for all debts con-
sidered bad or doubtful.” Of course, the
worth of the assets at present market values
and what they would fetch if Goldsbrougli-
Mort’s suddenly went out of business may
be entirely different. The growth, of visible
reserves, however, is alone striking evidence
of the remarkable recuperative powers of the
Commonwealth. This co. was severely
knocked about in the ’nineties, and a couple
of reconstructions were effected in an attempt
to get it on its feet again. This shows
balance-sheet movements since the issue of
accounts following the final re-shuffle in 1900 :
Liabilities.
1901. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. .. £558,995 £773,010 £916,849
Reserves.. .. 3,459 716,447 665,269
Debentures . . 2,167,660 1,504,648 1,492,218
Other liabilities. . 43,779 118,411 134,467
Liquid assets .. 63,026 647,455 443,257
Advances.. .. 1,533,189 1,967,430 2,284,606
Properties & stock 805,097 220,723 230,722
Premises, etc. .. 370,815 212,803 210,293
Other assets .. 1,765 64,105 39,925
The writing-down of 20 years ago proved to
have been too severe; so the crowd who,
through faith or inner knowledge of the co.’s
affairs, stuck to it when things were looking
very black, did wonderfully well. Though
£617,426 of visible reserves are still shown,
during the past 10 years the account has
been tapped for £214,014 to provide bonus
shares. Prior to the first capitalisation or
reserves paid capital had for TO years re-
mained stationary at £558,995. The only
new money raised has been the £179,799 from
the recent issue of shares at a premium. But
since 1911 shareholders have had £1,071,840
in divs. The amazing recovery was, however,
to a large extent due to realisations of
properties having provided surpluses in
excess of written-down book values. A fea-
ture of Goldsbrough Mort’s present position
is that its liabilities in relation to capital
are very small. After paying the recent final
div. the co. had funds of its own amounting
to £1,534,275, and it held £1,492,218 of inter-
minable debenture stock (three-fifths carry-
ing 4 p.c., the balance 5 p.c.). It owed only
£134,467 to outsiders. So if trouble should
happen along there won’t be any clamoring
creditors on the doorstep, and that means
that the co. would be in a position to sit tight
and nurse its securities until the inevitable
recovery eventuated. #
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses
(including Added Assur-
-4 p.c. to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Dividends). Funds. Funds.
1911.. £1,593 Nil £1323 £270 £135
Preliminary exes.. £2 . 133
1912.. 5,536 Nil 4467 1,069 1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 . . 1,188
1913.. 9,598 £598 5518 3,482 4,670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4,708 9,378
1915.. 11,702 9SB 5572 5,142 14,520
1916.. 12,039 1821 5379 4,839 19,359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6,234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6,195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
(Div. 5 p.c.)
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
(Div. 6 p.c.)
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
(Div. 7 p.c.)
1921.. .24.022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
From the beginning shareholders Lave
had a div. each year, and though for eight
years only 4 p.c. p.a. was passed out, that
was more than any other young life office has
been able to do. Most of them have gone in
furious chase of business regardless of ex-
pense, and in the process not only have divi-
dends been out of the question but varying
proportions of shareholders’ capital are now
represented by nothing more than establish-
ment and organisation accounts. The Assur-
ance and Thrift got to work on a different
basis: guided by a capable actuary it did
not go after big figures, and has* all along
been content to make steady progress and
keep down costs. It was established pri-
marily to introduce house-purchase assur-
ance, a branch of life business which had
proved both popular and profitable in Eng-
land and elsewhere, and which enables the
policy-holder after a specified period to call
on the co. for an advance to purchase a
home. The war interfered with the smooth
working of this scheme; operations were
restricted, for not only would it have been
improper for a life concern to dabble exten-
sively in boom values, but many policy-
holders who had purchased properties before
prices soared took advantage of market
opportunities, got out at a profit and repaid
the advances made by the co. Nowadays
house-purchase business is being limited in
amount so that it can be easily financed,
and at the latest balance the assurances in
force in this department totalled only
£59,727.
Total assurances at March 31 were
£342,462, compared with slightly more than
a quarter-million three years previously and
£173,832 in 1915. That has been slow going
compared with the performances of some othei-
offices, but policy-holders and shareholders
who have supported the Assurance and
Thrift can have no complaints on that score.
The co.’s safety-first methods have resulted
in the accumulation of assurance funds
which, at, each of the three triennal investi-
gations, have enabled the actuary to disclose
surpluses available for bonuses. On this
occasion managing-director W. R. Dovey,
who is also actuary, declares that, assuming
the interest rate which will be earned by
funds to be 34 p.c.* (the basis on which the ,
millionaire offices calculate liabilities under
policies), the Assurance and Thrift should,
on account of its policies in force at March
31, hold £50,913. The accounts showed
£60,800 of assurance funds. So after making
provision for a shareholders’ div. and for de-
ferred bonuses a surplus of £7602 is revealed.
Of this £4841 is to be distributed to give
participating policies bonuses at the rate of
325. per £lOO of assurance for each of the
three years since the last valuation, when
20s. bonuses were declared. The divs. to
shareholders and bonuses to policy-holders
have not, however, been wholly derived from
the surplus on underwriting and interest on
invested funds. Nearly four years ago the
management took up 77 acres close to the
railway outside Newcastle with the object
of establishing a garden suburb there in con-
junction with its house-purchase policy-
writing. Subdivision has produced good pro-
fits, and activities at Newcastle and else-
where have put £16,000 of surplus into the
co.’s revenue accounts since it began, an
amount which has been almost equal to the
total of claims and surrenders for the 11
years. Of the £24,022 of income shown for
the past 12 months £15,291 came from pre-
miums, interest contributed £4681 (repre-
senting a return of 64 p.c. on the average
of total assurance and shareholders’ funds),
and special profits contributed £4050. The
high interest earnings are offset to some ex-
tent by the expenses, which are not low,
though much under those of most young
offices. Last year exes., including the ilivi-*
dend to shareholders, took 34 p.c. of total
income; not including the div. the expense
rate worked out at 28 p.c. These figures
are not of much value, however, owing to
the profits from realisations, which exceeded
the total of the amounts paid to policy-
holders and to shareholders.
Besides Ordinary life and house-purchase
business, the co. is now doing fire and acci-
dent writing in a small way. Fire pre-
miums, less re-insurances, gave £1957, acci-
dent and sickness premiums added £395 and
£72 interest was earned, total income being
£2424. Fire claims took £334, accident and
sickness claims £26, and expenses charged
against the branch totalled £1312. This gave
a surplus for the year of £752, making total
funds £1477.
Paid capital is £17,684, and besides the
assurance and general branch funds totalling
£62,277 there is a reserve of £2163. These
give a total of £82,124. To finance opera-
tions the co. raised £6OOO mortgage on a city
freehold, and at the balance was working on
£2705 of fixed deposits and owed otherwise
£2190. On the other side these assets were
shown: Mortgages £48,561, freeholds £31,618,
loans on policies £3189, Government securi-
ties, investments and cash £7817, book debts
£1250, and odds and ends £583. They are
not, of course, the best assortment of assets
for a life concern to hold, but the nature of
the co.’s operations precludes large holdings
of gilt-edged investments. On the other
hand, there is a. wide margin between net
assets and ascertained liabilities under life
policies and risks under other policies. The
net liability under the former policies has
been declared by the actuary to be £50,912,
and, assuming that the general branch re-
serves are adequate, there are realisable
assets with a book-value of about £BO,OOO to
protect policy-holders. And if the worst did
happen, as further protection to policy-
holders is the £35,369 of uncalled capital.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd., general mer-
chants and agents, of Rockhampton (Q.) :
Writ- To-Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1910.. 34,488 10 p.c. = 9,375 5,000 20,113 85,435
Transferred to capital, £56,250 . . 29.185
1911.. 37,327 10 p.c.= 15,000 3,009 19,318 48.503
1912.. 44,102 10 „ ~15,500 5,069 23,533 72,036
1913. . 34,194 10 „„ 15,500 4,500 14,194 86,230
Premiums on new shares .. 6,291 92,521
Transferred to capital, £38,750 . . 53,771
1914.. 39,246 10 p.c.= 20,000 3,000 16,246 70,017
1915.. 51,398 10 ~ ~ 20,000 11,087 20,311 90,328
1916.. 38,834 10 „ ~20,000 4,222 14,612 104,940
1917.. 37,694 124 „ ~25,000 4,110 8,584 113,524
1918.. 50,305 124 „ ~25,000 2.929 22,376 135,900
Transferred to capital, £50,000 . . 85,900
1919.. 30,100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4.446 654 86,554
1920.. 60,964 124 „ ~ 31,250 5,484 24,230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10" „ ~25,000 2,340 16,857 127.641
Twenty years ago this co. took over a very
successful old concern of the same name
which had been distributing 15 p.c. divs. on
a paid capital of £46,875. The new co.
began with a capital of £98,750, on
which for some years 6 p.c. was paid, but
later the rate moved to 10 p.c. The co.
was doing so well 10 years ago, however, that
twice as much was going into reserves as was
being handed out in divs., and accumulated
profits were only a few thousands short of
paid capital. So a first capitalisation of
reserves was decided upon. Two other trans-
fers have since been made, and capital has
moved in this way over the period covered by
the table :—•
Paid capital .. .. 1910.. £93,750
Reserves capitalised .. 1910.. £56,250
1913.. 38,750
„ „ .. 1918.. 50,000
145,000
New cash-paid capital 1911.. £5,000
1913.. 6,250
11,250
Present paid capital .. £250,000
So no less than £145,000 of the present
quarter-million of capital represents profits
transferred. But notwithstanding these
bonus issues, at May 31, after providing for
the year’s final div., reserves, including
£lB,OOO in an insurance fund, had expanded
to within £4400 of paid capital. To old
holders Walter Reid and Co. has been
another Mt. Morgan.
Besides running a general-merchant busi-
ness the co. holds innumerable agencies, is
a shipping and insurance agent, and handles
stock and station produce. This shows in
another way how the co.’s interests have
grown over the period covered by the intro-
ductory table: —
1910. 1916. 1920. 1921.
Paid capital . . £93,750 £200,000 £250,000 £250,000
Debentures . . 50,000 22,900 14,400 13,500
Other liabilities 43,556 54,380 123,388 61,741
Stocks . . 87,896 163,653 211,318 233,009
Book debts . . 116.049 105,874 149,448 78,972
Cash .. 20,002 49,666 33,517 35,072
Freeholds a n d
investments .. 53,482 73,027 140,558 136,329
The last item includes premises, shares in the
A.U.S.N. Co., and War Loan —probably
mostly the latter, for two years ago the direc-
tors reported that they held £102,000 of the
Commonwealth’s lOU’s. If that amount is
still held, there has apparently been some
solid writing-down of the individual items
in the carpet-bag. The total book value of
all assets over the 11 years has gone from
£277,429 to £483,382, and meantime liabili
ties have been reduced £18,815. The only
cash introduced to assist that improvement
has been the £11,250 got in on new shares
and the £0291 of premiums thereon. Begin-
ning the period with £93,750 of paid capital
and £85,000-odd of visible reserves, the co.
has paid £229,437 of divs., tax free to share-
holders during recent years at least, and has
strengthened the business with £207,000-odd
of accumulated profits. It has been a re-
markable achievement, particularly for a co.
whose headquarters have not been in a capital
city. And that, in turn, indicates what a
fine stretch of country lies within touch of
Rocky.
The rather belated Federal Government
returns up to June 27 revealed that the
dropsical note issue has swollen again. One
of the most prominent features about it is
that the issue of the unusable and non-circu-
lating £lOOO notes invented by way of war
finance in 1914 are still going strong in peace
time. They increased by £896,000 during
the month and reached the monstrous total
of £23,630,000. Matters stand this way:—
Tho people, through poverty or some other cause,
were using £4,631,741 less notes than they did
six months previously, the active circulation hav-
ing dropped from £28,555,915 to £23,924,174.
All the same, the Government didn’t falter in
the production of paper money, and the total
quantity in existence rose from £57,651,401
(31/12/’2O) to £58,228,070 (27/6,”21).
So the banks had on their hands on 27/6/'2l
£34,303,896 against £20,095,486 at the end of
1920, an increase of £5,208,410. There was an
increase of £1,116,410 in the notes which the
banks can use (those that range from the denomi-
nation of 10s. to that of £100) and an increase
of £4,092,000 in the unusable, objectionable
thousand-pounders.
The £lOOO notes, manufactured as a war expe-
dient, amount to nearly as much as the whole
active circulation. Out of every £5B of paper
the public holds less than £24 because it has no
use for more, and the banks give storage room
to over £34 because the inflation must be stored
somewhere.
The gold reserve at June 27 was £23,844,394.
If the £lOOO notes were redeemed with gold
there would be £214,394 of gold left as a reserve
against a legitimate currency of £34,598,070 —-
about 12s. per £lOO.
If it isn’t proposed to redeem the £lOOO notes
(and there is no sign of any tendency that way),
then the £23,844,394 of gold was held to protect
£34,598,070 of currency. Which is not only
wasteful but ridiculous.
Probably Joseph Cook will get away as High
Commissioner to the bosky dells of London
without doing anything about the currency,
and his successor will learn with astonish-
ment that there is such a thing, and ask that
notice be given of the question.
* * * *
A Broken Hill man discusses the rumored
amalgamation of interests (B. 30/6/’2l) :
There is foundation for the rumor, and if it
comes off the advantages should be great. It is
said Collins House thinks half a million could be
saved annually in power costs, concentration of mill-
ing under one roof, administration, etc. If power
and milling were centralised the saving would cer-
tainly be enormous. As regards administration,
there are usually 800 or so salaried officers on the
field, besides a swag of more or less useful directors,
secretaries, accountants, auditors, etc., employed in
various cities. The new big power plant at the
South lends color to the suggestion that Wainwriglit
was looking ahead when he installed it, and the
latest is that Central will draw on the South for
electric-power requirements, shutting down its own
generating plant. This, however, may be only a
temporary measure whilst South is working on
short tonnage.
The chief obstacle to amalgamation is the matter
of control. The Baillieu interests are, as a rule,


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
cone tin's state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Nome Light
and Power Unit has been develoDed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, sim ile, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [1
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleab'.es represent the world's best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [1
* * * *
Have you ever investigated the merits of high-class
wood pipe as a water conduit? It not you will be
wise to do so, for you will find that it affords an effi-
cient service at a cost —both first and last that will
surprise and gratify vou. “Pioneer’ Wood Pipe is
much cheaper than metal pipe; it is preserved bv
water and can neither rust nor corrode. Its carrying
capacity is from 15 to 20 per cent, greater than that
of metal pipe, and this capacity remains constant
while metal pipe decreases with age. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.
—Aovr.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — ADVT.
Acstiui.uk Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, links Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
oiliee: tel. Cen. 51)35. And at Ciiallis liou»e, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uson & Co.. 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne. and Adelaide. Thirtv years' practice. Write
is for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Sjmox-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’—“National - ’ snetion-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and. 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Svdnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites. School Supplies. Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Wrights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Satnide Crushers. I'uniaees. Pure Chemienl.s. at lowest
rates. Cali or .write for partt'eidars. I|. B. Selby ,t Co.,
Ltd.. 26a George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydnev : and 443 Nourke Street. Melb. —Advt.
* * » *
Messrs. Felton, Gr’mwnde and Co. Ptv., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flirders-lane. Melbourne, for the display of scientific
m»terf>l. Bolen es. physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture n v e being shown, also com-
plete storks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
« * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated bv Art of Parl'ament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing. 14 Martin Place Svdp°v.— Advt.
GOOD NEWS FOR USERS OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES.
RENDROCK
PRICE GREATLY REDUCED.
Having been able to secure a supply of raw material at lower prices, we hasten to give our clients the benefit. At the reduced
price which has jurt come into force Rendrock is far and away the cheapest high explosive in Australia, apart from its safety and
other important advantages.
If you can’t get the compound from your store apply direct to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED. 10 Gearge Street, Camperdown, City, Sydney.
FACTORY* LEICHHARDT.
given credit for being larger than thely really are,
but they w'ould no doubt hang on tight. Other in-
terests are the English-owned Sulphide Corporation
(which is spreading itself into other fields than min-
ing), the British Co. (which is nothing if not
independent), the B. H. Prop., and Bewi k, Moreing
and Co., besides the lesser lights. 8., M. and Co.
have not a large say in the field, but their
management has been good, if costs and metallurgi-
cal work at the South Blocks may be taken as a
criterion. Ivlug, their manager, has also done some
fine work for the British. It is difficult to see the e
interests reconciled into one “combine,” but it may
boil down to the eos. coming together into groups.
In this connection it is known that two, if not three,
of the smaller cos. are now investigate g the advan-
tages of amalgamating. The Prop, has always
maintained an air of aristocratic aloofness; but its
greatness as a lead producer is on the wane, and
with Delprat in retirement it might be induced to
join hands.
If anyone can do the job it should be Bill
Robinson, who is reckoned one of the brainiest and
keenest men connected with the Hill. He was of
great assistance to Hughes during the war, when
metals were being sold to the B.itish Government.
Someone who doesn’t love Hughes suggested that he
was of great assistance to Robinson, as in inside
circles the latter gets the credit for the zinc con-
tract which the British Government thinks the Broken
Hill cos. might feel patriotic enough to cancel.
Judging from the huge stacks of zinc concentrate
at the Barrier, paid for but undelivered, it doesn’t
seem as though John Bull made a very good bargain.
Shareholders who have hung on without dividends
for the past couple of years would no doubt appre-
ciate a union which would permit of lower costs
and probably better metallurgical results. It is
beyond question that Broken Hill should have one
complete lab. pegging away at it-- milling problems.
Every co. has now its own men covering more or less
common ground, and results are for the most part
kept secret. Of course the Minerals Separation Co.
gathers in most of the patents and collects fat
royalties from the cos. There is one advantage
in this: it is only necessary to deal with one con-
cern in order to get rights to use most flotation
patents, etc.
It looks as though Germany must get the concen-
trate once more. This is another case of depreciated
exchange playing into the hands of Fritz. As he
sells the refined lead and silver mostly in London, he
is really paid for the smelting ar.d refining, which
is on a par with buying goods from Germany at
depreciated currency prices. He therefore is likely
to retain his grip on the metal market. For in-
stance, an average lead concentrate may assay 65 p.c.
lead, 350 z. silver ar.d 8 p.c. zinc. Fritz will buy
this at the market price for lead and ■silver (no
payment i 3 made for the zinc), deducting for ship-
ping, smelting and realisation charges (say) £6
per ton of concentrate. With lead at £2O and
silver at 35., the concentrates will therefore net
£l2 ss. to the producer. Assuming the German
sells the lead and silver in London, he will get
(after allowing for smelting losses, which are small)
somewhere about £l7 for the products, which will
leave him £4 15s. for his costs. This £4 15s. of
English money will purchase to-day about 1300
marks; and as our late enemy was able to make a
do of it before the war at about 100 marks, there
should be interesting developments before long. Aus-
tralian smelters’ charges are high at present, and
mine-owners are ready to let bygones be bygones if
Fritz will he good enough tq submit a reasonable
price.
Though John Brandon, sec. of B. H. Block
10, is officially ignorant of any merging of
his mine and the Junction, Broken Hill
knows that measuring up of ore is going on.
The bottom was out of Block 10 in Starley
Low’s day, and wby its Board ever built a
big treatment plant puzzled all and sundry.
The present idea is for Block 10 to gobble
the Junction. For 20 years the latter has
been a forlorn show, mostly Adela de-run,
always promising and never fulfilling. The
grade of the sulphides is low, and they are
not enough in quantity to justify expendi-
ture on a new mill. It would no doubt be
better for Junction and Junct’on North to
fall into Weir’s lap at the B. H. North; but
Block 10 has the road now so iar as the
Junction goes, ard the Joe Palmers would
sooner give up prayers than let go of Junky
North.
* * * •*
The Commonwealth Parliament has got
into a tangle over super-phosphates. It im-
posed a duty of 595. on su’phur and, subse-
quently, decided to admit super, free. This
meant that the foreigner was to get his sul-
phur + phosphate into the Commonwealth
without payment of duty, while local fer-
tiliser manufacturers would be called on to
pay duty on the sulphur they imported to
blend with phosphates. The Nauru deal was
to have provided cheap supnlies of the latter
constituent: but it has failed to do that
owing to the price involved in buying out
the old co. and because of the sinking fund
prov’sions involved. AustraPa has no free
sulphur; what supp’ies it does get come
from Lyell. Wallaroo and small deposits
of iron sulphides in the There has
been a move afoot- to get the super, people to
roast Broken Hill zinc concentrates on the
mainland, make sulphuric acid therefrom,
and let the roasted residues go to Risdon for
zinc recovery. With super, free on the
Lsts, the zinc industry is made very uncom-
fortable. Local super, manufacturers put
their case before Massy Greene the other day,
and the Minister admitted that the sulphur
duty had been imposed under the impression
that tne proposed duty on the terLl.ser
would also be confirmed. Now it is left to
the Senate to nee the tangle, but shumd the
duty on sulphur be lilted also R.edon w.ll
not be quite the thing it looks to be. Mean-
time the Jap is on the Hunt for orders for
super., and the Commonwealth s venture in
Nauiu phosphates has a depreciated appear-
ance.
* * * *
Distress signals are again flying on the
old 11.11 End field (N.S.\V.). Last week
Deep Levels was granted three months’ sus-
pension, Marshall’s Hill End has ceased
work, and the future looks so cheerless ta@t
“omy slender hopes of ever re-opening the
m.nes again” are entertained locally. There
certainly is little prospect of the field com-
ing to life under the influence of the present
dead-beat cos. It is only three years since
the M.nes Department made a thorough over-
haul of the old field and geolog.st Harper
expressed the op.nion that the prospects of
obtaining further good makes of payable
ore were favorable. On the strength of that
report the Prospecting Board undertook to
subs.d'.se the cos. £ for £ up to £lOOO if
they undertook prospecting on the lines laid
down by the Government geologist. The
cos. concerned reconstructed, apparently
with the object of taking advantage of this
offer of assistance, and though the favorable
report was hawked by interested parties to cod-
vince the public that the old field was still
a good thing, the work suggested was never
undertaken, and the vote has presumably
lapsed. The small work ng capital available
has gore in p’e-root’ng old wo "kin vs in
search of possible bonanzas, wh’ch, though
they could not make a field, might create
market booms. That is really what did
happen, and little development or sound
prospecting work was carried out. Final’.v
the l’m’ted working capital was frittered
away, ard the cos. are now in a w r orse posi-
tion than ever.
The principal causes of the latest collapse
at HH End can be summarised as follows:
(1) The heavy loading of promoters’ scrip
and small work.ng capital provided; (2)
the expenditure of the l.mited funds on p g-
rooting instead of on prospecting; (3) in-
effie'eut ecu pment bad’y placed, and costly
working methods. Sufficient power was not
avadame to work the small air-compressor
and inferior battery at the same time: one
or the other had to lie idle. Also the s tu-
at’on of the two batter’es necessitated s ow
and costly handling. Though the present
cos. have been discredited Hill End has scill
a chance; but it can be proved only by ex-
tensive prospecting, which the present cos.
have failed to do. The field’s only hope
now is for a strongly-financed co., which w 11
not be burdened by promoters’ shares, to
take over and thoroughly prospect the ground
under a capable management which is not
looking for a flutter in Pitt-street.
* * * ■ -#
While Adelong Estates (N.S.W.) has been
having a dull run, Adelong Creek, lower
down the stream, has had the shock of its
existence. Generally one of its two plants
has been on good dirt, but for the pkst n.ne
months both have been trying to get round a
b.g turn in the lead, and have been in poor
stuff all the while. In pre-war days the
grade of wash won recently would have
pa d; now, even wTh the gold premium to
help, the drift for six months is £2200. Jfin
George is sure that once round the
the luck will turn, but he suggests close-boring
to see where the runs of gold Le. Both t e
Estates and the Creek carry a big bill for
repairs and renewals nowadays, and that
and high wages have elevated the weekly
cost per dredge to about £2OO. The Creek
has a long stretch of gutter ahead to the
boundary of the Estates, and as it is work-
ing up-stream better gold should be got.
London Times has been smiting Hampton
Plains:—
On the very elerderest of grounds the field was
loudly and widely heralded as a eor.tinuation of the
Golden Mile line of lode; the Celebration and White
Hope were p ctured by irresponsible persons as Gol-
condas, wh’ile they yet were represented by no more
than bounds-y pegs anu a few feet of explora'o y
sinking... .New “mines,” areas of virgin scrub which
might have grazed a camel to the acre, sprang up
like mushroems in the night, ard were floated into
eos. before the sun sank.... Promoters asked prepos-
terous s- ms for leases innccert of the pick-help, and
the lamb-like public rushed to provide sustenance for
the wolves.,. .The most that coi Id he said for the
field was that unde” half-a-dozen leases were worthy
of the cost of careful testing; the remainder were
mere swindles... .It more than a chcrus of
two-a-penny experts to establish a field or hold up
a share-market, and the collapse of the boom was
inevitable.
Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co. are said
to be furious. Herbert Daly staggered, and
the Kalgoorlie mine managers who were
mixed up in the flotation or vouched for
t !l e White Hop* 3 ard Ce’etration stunned
bv the attack. But the ev’dence is not con-
clus’ve that it is d’rected aga’rst them. The
reports on which Rob’nson and Clark floated
the CeVbrat’on reckoned on a grade of oMv
about 50s. per ton down to 100 ft., and made
no rash promises whatever about values
below that depta. If the papers and “nre-
sponsible peisons” referred to oy The Times
pictured it to oe a Golconda, the fault was
ne.ther of Rob,iison and Clark nor of the
experts who furnished the tiotat.on reports.
The reference to the Wh.te Hope is r gnt, so
far as it goes. T..at m.ne was hawed by
the man in the street and promoters of sur-
rountnng and far-distant leases as a second
Gt. Bouider wren omy a few feet or explo-
ratory sinking had been done ; but at the t.rne
Itob.nson and Clark, on the recommendat.on
of Daly, planked down tiieir tens of thou-
sands for an interest, the show had three
shafts go.ng down on good values, and it
looked as promising as any of the big Kal-
gooriie mines d.d at the same depth, and
better than most of them. But, alas, values
petered out instead of persisting.
Not much was said officially of the new
lode exposed between 431 ft. and 48tft. in
the ma.n shaft of the Ingliston, Meekathar.a
( W'.A.), unt.l it showed up in the plat at
the latter level. There (sft. of ore going
2i,dwt. per ton is reported; but a
greater width than Gft. of ore has been
exposed at this level, though 28dwt. is the
only definite value so far announced. Also,
nothing definite has been reported as to the
value of the ore disclosed irom 437 ft. to
48,ft. in the shaft, and its average would
throw more light on the worth of the recent
d.scovery. It is stated that the new lode
was not seen in the h.gher levels, which is
no doubt quite true; crosscuts would most
Lkely have exposed it had the lode been
higher up. It is imp Led that the d scovery
may be a continuation of the h.ghly-payable
Fenian ore-body, but as the lodes in the
Fenian and adjoining properties were cut
off north, south and at depth by a dyke, the
theory cuts little ice at the present stage.
A narrow vein of loiv value has been
struck in the No. 7 level of the Edna May
Deeps. Two reet of Ldwt. stuff is not en-
couraging to si areholders, but better results
may be obtained as the drive is extended.
Taiping, Cap’n Teddy Miles’s Malayan
show, wh.ch commenced t.n-wmning over two
years ago, got a second plant—the Dee-
book’s Renong dredge—into act on in March
of last year. Performances to date have
been as follows: —•
Treated, Recovered, Realised, Costs,
Dec., c. yd. tons. per yd. per yd.
1919.. 872,0d0 294.6 11. Yd. 4.64 d.
1920.. 1,613,600 502.6 12.4 d. 6.24 d.
During its first year the ground averaged
12oz. per yd.; last year values worked out
at nearly an ounce less. Costs went 1.6 d.
higher, while the market helped to counter-
act that r.se by only .7d. Nevertheless,
ow.ng to the increased yardage, profits for
the J. 2 months to Dec. 31 last were, before
providing for depreciation, £39,110, com-
pared with £24,119 for the pievious year.
First d.vs. were pa.d dur.ng the per.od,
15 p.c. in April and a further 10 p.c. in Sep-
tember, together call ng for £35,C00. About
£24.900 remained in P. and L. at the balance
after writing off £7OOO-odd from var.ous
accounts. During the year 200,000 new
dollar shares were issued at a 25 p.c. pre-
mium, so pa.d capital is now £140,000. The
amount due to Deebook for its plant was
reduced from £40,736 to under £29,000 dur-
ing the year.
North Taiping is another show in which
the M.les fam ly figures conspicuously: the
Cap’n and three others have jobs on both
Taiping and North Taip'ng. The'latter has
a paid capital of £87,500. and holds 365
acres, of which 150 conta’n (so the estimate
says) 64 million yd. going from 14-loz. to
over a pound. There is about six years’
work for the dredge and if pr ces
look no aga ; n there are 120 hcres more which
will be worth attention. Last year (to
Dec. 31) 913.000 c. yd. were treated fnr
36 1 tors tin, the average be’ncr slightly
under 1440 z. Total costs worked out at
5 79d. per yd., but the boom market gave
the co. a profit of £40,000. A first div. of
10 p.c. was paid ; n 1919, and last year a
further p.c. (£35,000 > was distributed;
shareholders thus gett’ng half their capital
back in two vears. At the balance the co.
owed only £1?50, and held five times that
amount in cash.
BTver Spur (Q.) has come agam at a very
opportune t'me, after a long per'od of de-
s”Pory nrn'ng ard p’-ospect'nv work. Edgar
Hall has been p'lotinsr operators since they
were commenced in 1392, and the nrne h°d
a verv good spin on the old lode from 1902
to 1909, with silver as the main stand-by,
thou"h copper, lead and z'nc were also pro-
duced. Now prospects are better than they
ever were, as a result of op°n'ng up the
new I de wh'ch was found in a crosscut off
fll o 150 ft. level 'n 1916. The body is about
30ft. w’de in narts. and 10ft. of ’t is as rich
as, or r'cber anyth'ng previously found
in the old workings, asssvs of patches vn-
n:ne up to as lvgh as ISOoz. s'lver and 6oz.
gold. The go’d values 'n the lode w'll be
verv handy. Ore raised from development
work up to the end of May totted up 654
tons, averag.ng 650 z. silver and sdwt. gold
giving ±9 Its. 2d. per ton. These values in
cue principal ore snoot will help along the
treatment of the very big bodies of average
smelting ore available in the auft. lode. All
tnat is needed now is capital to get the
smelt.ng plant in order, as latterly the ore
has gone to southern smelters. Hall reckons
that ±5 per ton wJi be saved by treating
locally, and the ear of the Bivtxsn cap.tai.sc
is being t.ckied to produce the necessary
cash. The rejuvenation of the old mine
could not have come at a better tune, for
Queensland mining is in a parlous state.
The bore for oil at Marburg (Q.) has
stopped at the 500 it. level m the coal mea-
sures. Add.tional plant is being secured for
deeper bor.ng. Abuiit a mile to the north a
bore for water struck a strong flow of gas
at 800 ft. in sandstone the other day, and
naturally raised strong expectat.ons locally.
The pressure at first was sufficient to make
the flames r.se 10ft. when the gas was acci-
dentally ignited. The Government analyst
got busy on a sample, but faded to trace any-
thing stronger than methane, so that it
appears to be only a “dry” gas, such as might
be derived from an adjacent coal-seam.
Cas ng-head gases (i.e., “wet” gases) carry
ethane, or one or other of the higher mem-
bers of the paraffin series, so there appears
to be nothing to be excited about.
The Sardine, at Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.),
is st.ll well in the picture with a recent
crush ng of 30 tons averag.ng about 17 p.c.
of tin. Although the tunnel from the hill-
side, where it cut the lode, was rather a
blank, the tunnel level quickly ran into the
shoot, and this has so far produced 18 tons
tin concentrates from 73 tons d.rt.


Hullo, Joe
I say, Joe, I —'
Ere, Joe, a mo.
Don l" ran acjay, ole boy
e ■
Ere, I only wanner &rsK yet
<y
N> °
s<>
•><*
,o
—jor a jot on one oj'
fliose noo Boards d yours .
<Joe * CDt ,is that cxl I. I yoxj were
one o f ifiose returned soldiers worK %>
THE DIFFERENCE.
"Two hundred unemployed return'd soldiers were unable to obtain any satisfaction when they applied for work to the Federal Government last week,”
“The Government has appointed another Board to” etc., etc.


THE
UnionTrostee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—16 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. Janies
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Bracklon, K.B.E.,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, Janies Kidd, W. H.
Maekay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair, John
Mair.
A. E. NORDEN, F.F.I.A., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Manager.
V. G. WATSON, Assistant Manager.
f°
u o
or Lu n cltftSs
ano) Din nmmm
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
-^1
r r C o r v
w nnn
■■MJU
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s W T ear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY’S, Brisbane
W:
m
mm
PLUG
The
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’
R. TOWNS * CO., Sydney. Agents- f*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Chas. W. Long, of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, who died on July 15, was a mem-
ber of a widely-known Melbourne family. His
father was the founder of “Long’s,” the
chemist’s shop at the corner of Bourke and
Exhibition streets, a Melbourne landmark
for over half-a-century. The old man
acquired much land near Dandenong-road
D. S. OMAN, Vic. Minister for Agriculture,
caught when he wasn't worrying about
the no-confidence motion.
in what afterwards became the fashionable
suburb of Armadale, and died rich. A. E.
Clarke and Rutter Clarke, prominent stock
brokers, and the Neild family are near kin
to the Longs. Dr. J. E. Neild was C. W.
Long’s brother-in-law. Mrs. Neild, who out-
lived her husband, died a few years ago.
The Long family were leading Congregation-
alists, and when Dr. Neild was dramatic
critic of the Australasian he threw open
his house in Spring-street to his theatrical
friends, while his wife kept up the religious
end of the log; so their home became an
informal and cheery church and stage guild.
C. W. Long was a bachelor.
Barney Thompson (family name Solomon),
a Melbourne bookmaker of the ’sixties and
’seventies, has gone west in London in his
SOth year. Barney was the last of the five
(or it may have been six) sons of a New
Yorker who came across to Sydney at the
time one of the boys, Phin, was running one
of the many totes in King-street. The eldest,
Joe, “King of the Ring,” had been the first
of the family to reach Australia. Joe looked
after Barney, the youngest, and later took
him to London, where they carried on a
bookmaking business in Jermyn-street,
Barney attending the office and Joe the
field. When Joe died in Madeira, one Marks
took his place. Joe had made a fortune,
which he left to his widow—-a Miss Barnett,
of Melbourne —and his children. Barney
also accumulated much money and paid fre-
quent visits to Australia and India to dodge
the English winter. His last trip to Syd-
ney was in January, 1915, when he made
something of a splash at the Australia. On
the curtain being rung down on the totes
Phin became manager of ,J. J. Power’s
tobacco and cigar business in King and
George streets. Another brother, Jack, was
a boxer. The father and Jack, Phin and
Harry are all buried in Australia.
In a man of Premier Storey’s age and
state of health loss of weight is a bad sign.
Therefore the statement that John has re-
turned looking ill and 211 b. lighter than
when lie went aboard seems like another way
of saying that he will soon be succeeded by
James Dooley, if James can get ahead of
John Joseph Gregory McGirr.
Dick Vincent, sometime Mayor of Perth
and president of the Westralian National
Federation, is dead of the malady that car-
ried off Forrest, Wilson and Daglish. Once
a carpenter in Victoria, he made a fortune
as a contractor, and increased it in the hard-
ware business, but his political ambitions
were ruined by a quick temper and a wound-
ing tongue. On the night of his election to
the mayoralty he nearly had a fight with
the defeated candidate, and at a public meet-
ing called to decide whether he or a rival
should get the party nomination for a sub-
urban constituency, he audibly consigned the
other candidate, his committee and his fol-
lowers to Sheol. Withal, Vincent was a
good-hearted chap, and helped many a lame
dog over a stile.
“M.D.” on the tragedy at Hendon :
Any other man but Harry Hawker would have
been scared out of his wits at the verdict of a
London surgeon that he was suffering- from Potts’
disease. His only possible chance of recovery lay
in submitting to complete rest in bed for 12 months
or more and in having his spinal column immo-
bilised by a plaster of Paris jacket, or some other
method of spinal fixation. Complications were bound
to arise, sooner or later, in a patient who never
underwent treatment, and a haemorrhage in mid-air,
followed by paralysis, meant certain death. Para-
lysis of the lower limbs, from pressure on the spinal
cord, comes cn gradually as a rule, and is usually
caused bv fragments of diseased bone or the presence
of granulation tissue, but in Hawker’s case it was
due to blood being suddenly effused into the spinal
canal. Therefore there was no possible chance of
the brilliant Australian bringing his machine to
safety.
D. H. Maling, whose Saturday reviews
of Federal politics won more friends for the
Argus than his leading articles, has just
put down the pen after many years’ service.
For a quarter of a century he wrote the heavy
leaders, and it shows the quality of the
man that he was able to survive that experi-
ence with his humor unimpaired. In his
young days he was a carpenter at Ivyneton,
but his liking for ink got him into the
Argus as a junior reporter. Vastly read
and genially witty, Maling makes an excel-
lent after-dinner speaker, and has enter-
tained many a good company with his
sprightly tongue.
Thomas Goode, dead at 76 at Goolwa
(S.A.), was one of that State’s biggest citi-
zens outside the capital. All his long life
had been identified with the lower Murray.
He was there when Cadell took the Lady
Augusta on its trial trip up the river in
1852. The Goodes mostly made their mark
in the drapery trade in Adelaide, but this
one developed it at Goolwa, presently be-
coming a general merchant, with big in-
terests in the lake and river trading-steamers.
“Kahminyah” : We always reckoned Harry
Hawker would never be killed in a crash.
Whenever he took up a ’bus at Brooklands
he didn’t do it in the orthodox fashion by
turning into the wind and then taking off;
he simply opened his engine in the hangar
and took off from the asphalt in front. Com-
ing down would be the same, except that he
would finish up just outside the entrance to
the hangar. Many a time we watched him
spinning to within a few feet of the ground
and closed our eyes for the crash that never
came. A favorite stunt of his was to fly
around the racing track with his wheels
about 6in. off the ground, and dash under
bridges, etc., at any speed from 90 to 150
miles per hour. During the war and later
he not only tested new aeroplanes of types
already flown, but took up the unknown
machines and put them through all sorts of
stunts. If any machine had been passed
by Hawker* you could be sure it was Al.
Alfred Von Doussa, of Mount Barker
(S.A.), has celebrated his 50th year as secre-
tary to the local district council. He is not
an old man either. For 40 years of the half-
century he has been secretary also of the
Onkaparinga race-meeting, which began as
an .Easter Monday picnic, and has worked
up into one of S.A.’s chief sporting fixtures.
Von Doussa is a born Australian, and admit-
tedly such a good
one that his name
is not counte d
against hi m. He
used to be in Par-
liament, but at the
last election
would no t
tie himself
to either
party, and
so fell out.
HARVEY
PATTERSON,
a Far West
(N.S.W.)
squatter when
Broken Hill was
discovered, and
now- a director
of the Broken
Hill Prop.
The Stock Ex-
change of Adel-
aide adjourned
for a few min-
utes one morn-
ing lately in
memory of David
F o t h eringham,
dead at just on
74. He was a foundation member
in 1887, giving up the secretaryship of a
similar but less influential body to join the
new venture. Of the original 50 members
only Wills and Sydney Beach now remain.
If the late John Russell French had not
gone west Charles George Alford would have
shaken a loose leg on June 30. As it is he
stays glued to his chair as temporary general
manager of the Bank of N. 8. Wales. Born
at Drayton (Q.) in 1848, he joined the ser-
vice at Toowoomba when 14 years old. In
1874 he became manager at Mount Perry,
and, after various changes, succeeded J. T.
Walker (afterwards Senator) as manager at
Toowoomba in 1878. Seven years later he
was assistant-inspector at Brisbane ; then, in
1891, he transferred to Sydney as inspector,
presently became chief inspector, and acted as
general manager during Russell French’s five
months’ illness. He makes a hobby of work
and timber —he has a fine collection of Aus-
tralian woods, polished and otherwise.
“Topo”: Poor Harry Hawker's father
toils now in a north-eastern (Vic.) Metho-
dist circuit, and a fine type he is. He used
to be a crack rifleshot, and won a King’s
prize in N.S.W. and a championship in
Queensland, besides forming one of a Bisley
team. He is proucßof the fact that Harry
valued one of dad’s old rifle-shooting medals
more than any of the valuable trophies won
by himself. “One thing,” he said, talking
of his boy, “nothing was able to swell Harry’s
head —and he was a good lad.”
Adelaide has lost an unusual kind of news-
paper man in E. H. Lock, of the Register.
With a scientific and literary bent and
the appearance of a matinee idol, he
gave all his business time to the accountancy
side of the paper, with which he had been
associated for 40 years. The Field Natural-
ists’ Society, the Shakspearean Society and
latterly fruit-growing on the Murray were
his hobbies outside the office. Some years
ago he tried to get the city to provide itself
with a statue of Shakspeare; but Adelaide
seemed to think the bard would be remem-
bered well enough by his waitings.
“Whitehall” sees Barney Thompson off: —
Barney Thompson, the old Victorian bookmaker,
who died last week in London, carried on a business
which would be an eye-opener to the unt*avelled
wowser. He had an s.p. betting-shop in Jermyn-street
(which runs through ultra-fashionable St. James’,
parallel with Piccadilly) and he ran it quite openly,
the raiding of these establishments being unknown
in England. The large and comfortably-furnished
rooms used to be crowded with gilded youths
on flat-racing days—that is to say, every day of the
week, bar Sunday, from early Spring to late
Autumn. The rooms, with their deep armchairs,
attentive waiters, and excellent drinks, cigars and
cigarettes, were small editions of those of the great
clubs in St. James-street and Pall Mall nearby;
but the main interest of everybody centred on the
tape-machines, which were near the fireplaces,
whereas in the clubs they are relegated to the outer
halls. The wage-s were booked in Barney’s office
(in recent years he was rarely in it himself) a few
minutes before the race was due to be run at Epsom
or Goodwood or Newmarket, as the case might be.
Some of the affluent “sportsmen” rarely went near
a race-meeting and there were many who boasted
that they had not seen a horse gallop for years.
They betted entirely on “form.” As the names of
the winner and the placed stole up on the tape they
made entries in their betting-books—often represent-
ing debit and credit sums of thousands —called for
drinks, and made ready to back their fancies for
the next event. It was a restful way of passing
a fine summer afternoon; and many a one-time man
of fashion is cleaning boots or battling to retain a
waiter’s job in a far land as an outcome of it.
“Whitebait”: Max Meldrum, who painted
a striking portrait of a soldier for Maori-
land recently, is to be recommended for the
job of putting the features of M'.L.’s Gover-
nor-General Jellicoe on canvas. This is a
remarkable tribute to the ability of a man
whose unorthodox views on art are consid-
ered to disqualify him for so great a com-
mission. Yet it is undoubted that by pur-
suing principles that animated some of the
finest painters of the Renaissance onwards,
Meldrum has become the leading portraitist
of Australia. His picture of Archbish.
Mannix, that conceded naught in flattery of
the arcliiepiscopal position but presented
the prelate honestly as a man, is a work of
abounding strength and charm. If the Vic.
Government wasn’t affected by prejudices
borrowed from conservative art circles, it
would appoint Meldrum to the vacancy on
the Board of Trustees of the National Gal-
lery. With his personal force and enthusi-
asm he would act like an alarm-clock on that
body.
Joseph Vernon, of the wholly-rural West-
ern District (Vic.) shire of Leigh, is a
stayer. He is 93 years of age, and has
been a councillor for 50 of them. His
manyth three-year term expires /this Aug-
ust, but the veteran, still virile and with his
6ft. stature little bent by the burden of the
years, has been invited to stand again, lie
feels fit, and probably will. Vernon, as a
young man, was turnkey at Geelong to Cap-
tain Poster Fyans, Port Phillip’s first chief
of police and one of the first batch of
squatter settlers in the colony. The old
chap is now a grazier at Mount Mercer.
Speaker “Jolly .Tack” Evans, of Tasmania,
who is also Huddart Parker’s manager at
Hobart, has just achieved the distinction of
being chosen by the local Shipping Commit-
tee to trip to the mainland for the purpose
of telling his bosses and the Union Co. what
Tasmania thinks of the recent rise in
steamer fares and freights from Melbourne
and Sydney to the island. The position was so
quaint that even the Mebcuky felt con-
strained to pass remarks. Jacky then, in
hurt tones, tendered his resignation as am-
bassador, but the Shipping Committee said
“Tut-tut,” or words to that effect. In the
end it was decided that a State Minister be
sent, but that Jacky should go as convoy and
cruise about in the offing, so to speak, to ne
available if the Minister yells for help.
S. G. Wells,
many of whose on-
slaughts on various
harmless citizens
have been seen on
this page, is rather
a curio. The first
15 years of his
working life he
spent partly as a
sailor, partly as a
regular soldier.
Then, in 1919,
Gunner Wells
abandoned his bat-
tery at Queenscliff
to its fate, and
moved up to the
Big City to become
an arti s t. Mel-
bourne Punch
published his
maiden efforts, and
from that humble
beginning Wells
has risen to be
about the most pro-
lific caricaturist in
Australia. A
volume of his
crimes is now being
prepared for the
press.
Artist S. G.
WELLS.
As a youth John McWhae, Vic.’s new
Agent-General, was given a clerkship in the
Union Bank, and his family thought he was
made for life. But acres of collar and cuff
and three pounds a week were no good to
John; so to the disgust of his family he
cut loose. Sharebroking and successful
squatting and other specs followed, and now
the London office and (of course) a knight-
hood are to round off his life.
THE NEW BILL AND THE OLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On Wednesday Mr. Hughes will dine with Mrs.
Winston Churchill. On Thursday he will attend a
State ball, and on Friday he will dine with the
Dowager Countess of Jersey. He will probably spend
the week-end with Viscount Burnham at Beaeonsficld,
Bucks.”
Capon and truffles, commands at Court,
Silk knee-breeches and shining spats,
Three-chinned dowagers, crusted port.
Well-tubbed dukes in their Sunday hats;
And, final crown, while the snob-press clucks,
Burnham (Beaconsfield), Viscount, Bucks!
Mister Hughes, you were once plain Bill;
A duke in his coronet seemed to you
Like a bitter draught or a gilded pill,
Or fine fat pork to a godly Jew.
You lashed and labelled him “bloated dunce,”
Billy Hughes, on the soapbox, once.
Billy 11., you were once plain “Hughes,”
And poured your scorn on all banquets, widen
To your frugal taste were a mere abuse
Of life by the frivolous idle rich.
You cursed them deep with invective’s flow —-
But that was many a year ago.
William, what of the old Bill Hughes,
Had we the power on the Past to draw —
It we dragged him forth with his Spartan views
(Kropotkin’s theory, Marx’s law),
Just pulled him out of his sleep a minute
To see—well, this —what your week’s got in it:
Whitebait, Buckingham Palace, kings,
Churchill’s missus and wine in pails.
Dowager Countess of Jersey-—-wings
Of chicken, pate, and toast, and quails ;
A flood of hock with a burst of ducks,
AXD
Burnham, (Beaconsfield), Viscount. Bucks!
x.s.w.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


7&
A'
S A
\
k/t M
mu
/ _ <\VV
J
m
m
Willin'
< Uu^Lt:
0.
v.
SMi .
-IP
o //^
//a
- :S-
-2»
'■'£
/,w\v.
£
1
/
see
BSS
SK
Sold in Hermetically=sealed Tins and Packets
CIVIC
’■ l
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS.
OBTAINABLE
OF ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
FINEST GRAIN
BRIAR
BEST BRITISH MAKE
SOLID SILVER MOUNTS.


BOOTS or QUALITY
at a Big Concession*
During July Peapes offer two lines of Boots at con-
siderable reductions.
They are superior in material, cut and workmanship,
being specially made on Peapes’ own lasts.
At the prices they are well worth buying, even for
future needs.
Tan Willow Calf Boot, Oxford or Derby style, dis-
tinctive extended shape, neatly perforated caps,
medium-weight Soles. Usual Price 6* '•
Reduced during July to 39/6
Similar model in Black Box Calf.
Us-al Price 5S '6
Reduced during July to ... 39/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
å
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are. selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management . - Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America (r tlie Continent. Hath
De I.uxe *.n most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHEK,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
‘X. Dig”: One morning in the line in
front of Messines, in June, 191 G, Fritz sent
over a Minnie wh.ch I reckoned would arrive
just about where I was stand ng, so I made
tracks towards B Co. on our left. A ser-
geant of B Co., who had also seen the hefty
lady com.ng, had his own ideas as to where
she would land, and to dodge her he streaked
in the direction of our company. We clashed.
He went to hosp tal for three weeks and I
staggered back and had a week’s spell with a
cut head. A few days ago I was playing
Rugby League here in Townsville (Q.), and
when tackling an opposing forward I got
) >cKed out and the old scar opened up.
When I came to in the dressing-room the
chap I had bumped looked in to see how I
was. It proved to be the man I had played
collisions with at Messines five years ago to
IT MADE HER BLUSH.
THE MISTRESS : “Here, you wore my low-
necked gown to the theatre last, night.
You ought to he ashamed of yourself.”
THE MAID : “I was, mum. You ought to
have heard the remarks about it!”
the month —and we had never met in the in-
terval.
“M.D.” explains a mystery:—
A “myste> ious occurrence” has been reported to
the dailies from Wagragobilly, on the N.S.W. South
Coast. Three farmers became dizzy and blind while
working in the same corner of a field; and it is
suggested that there was something in the soil just
there to account for it. In order to look at near
objects the lens must be made more convex, and it
is the ciliary muscle which effects this change, the> e-
by enabling us to focus, or accommodate. Certain
drugs, such as atropine, temporarily put the focus-
sing mechanism out of action, and blurred vision is
the result; and certain poisons, such as those of
diphtheria and syphilis, often act in the same way.
Children are sometimes brought to the eye doctor
with the sto, y that they can’t read print. They are
generally found to be suffering from paralysis of
accommodation, and the cause of it may be diph-
theria. In acute cases like those at Wagragobilly
inquiry will generally reveal that the victims hid
recently partaken of sausages of doubtful freshness,
or of tinned or potted meats that would not pass an
examination under the Pure Foods Act. In b*ief
the farmers were suffering from the effects of toxins
generated from tainted food which had singled out
their accommodative mechanism, and placed it
hors de comlat. The dizziness was due to the effect
of the toxins on the central nervous system.
* ♦ * *
“Lex” : “We got a shock,” said an official
of the Orange Institution to a Sydney Tele-
graph reporter, “when we learned that the
vex diet Ln the Liguori ease] was regarded
as being against us.” Not against the ex-
nun, but. against “us” —meaning, presumably,
a sectarian syndicate w’hich financed her.
Maintenance and champerty are crimes of
whose existence these gentlemen are appa-
rently ignorant. The first consists in giv ng
assistance to a person instituting legal pro-
ceedings in which the assister has no
valuable interest or in which he acts from an
improper motive; the second consists in
doing the same thing with the object of shar-
ing in the plunder. The quest'on of cham-
perty may be d sm'ssed. s’nce the proceedings
have only produced a deficit; but on the evi-
dence given in court it is one of the clearest
cases of maintenance on Two facts
emphasised in the Judge’s summing up were
that M'ss Partridge was without means, and
that the real object of her new friends was
tq take a fall out of the R.C. Chpi’ch through
one of its b'shons. No one is likely to trouble
about swearing an information in the matter,
but it would raise the wilting confidence of
the community in the hona fides of tlie Bar
Coune'l and the Law Institute if they took
the steps which are obviously indicated on
the published facts.
* * *
“Steve Hart” : He was on his first trip to
Sydney by boat from the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers, and he caught his breath when at
nightfall he saw one of the crew ho st the
masthead I’ght. “Strewth,” he remarked to
the captain, “how do you expect to find
Sydney with that bit of a light?”
“0.K.”: Master Harold Jones, of Aber-
tillery, Wales, is a horr.ble satire on the
public texidency to glorify any suspect who
gets acquitted on a murder or other charge,
as though there were some
special virtue in being not
guilty. It isn’t sympathy
With the released prisoner
that accounts for such jub-
ilations, but conceit in their
own prejudices that moves
members of the multitude to
cheers when their hero, the
accused, doesn’t get con-
vmted. As regards Harold,
when the young devil was
tony 14 he was tried for the
murder of an eight-year-
old girl who was last seen
alive in his company at the
shop where he worked, and
whose dead body was pre-
sently found in a sack in a
shed near Harold’s home.
The circumstantial evidence
was strong ; nevertheless, be-
cause the lad was acquitted
his native village had a
eorroboree when he came
home. A brass band played
“See the Conquering” as
though he had won the war,
and the gallant boy had to
make a speech from a bal-
cony. Now when the out-
raged corpse of an 11-year-
old girl was d'seovered in
an attic above Harold
Jones’s bedroom, his native
village wanted to lynch h’m.
Hell hath no fury like a vil-
lage which becomes conscious of having had
its leg so pulled that it has wasted a brass
band on a murderous shopboy.
* * * *
From a table in court: —
To the average man the findings of the jury in
the Sister Liguori case —that there had been absence
of (1) probable cause, (2) honesty o’ belief and
(3) malice—look like confusion. But there is any
amount of precedent for them. In all cases of
alleged malicious information or prosecution malice
is, of course, the root issue, and the Law regards
malice as something apart and by itself. That is
why it always forms the subject of a separate ques-
tion. The leading casd on the subject, in which the
law stands crystallised, is Hicks v. Falkiner (Queen’s
Bench, No. 8). In this Tlalsbury took the dictum
of Hawkins, J., about the relationship of probable
cause and malice as embodying ■ the last word on
the subject, and ruled accordingly. Thus Hawkins,
approvingly quoted by Halsbury: “It is true as a
general proposition that want of probable cause is
evidence of malice. But this general proposition
is apt to be misunderstood. In an action of this
description [malicious prosecution] the question of
malice is an independent one (of fact purely), and
altogether for consideration of the jury and not at
all for the Judge. The malice necessary to be estab-
lished is not even malice in law, such as may be
assumed from the intentional doing of a wrongful
act, but mal'ce in facts (malus animus), indicating
that the parti r was actuated either by spite or by
ill-will towards the individual, or by indirect or
improper motives, though these may be wholly un-
connected with any uncharitable feelirg towards any-
body. In order to arrive at a conclusion on the
question the jury are to take into consideration all
the circumstances of the case and form their owft
opinion upon them, uninfluenced by any opinion of
the Judge, unless that opinion agrees with their
THE BIRD.
“What would you say if I asked you to run this little nest for me?”
“The nest’s all right, old thing. It's the canary that don't suit.”
own. .. .Want of reasonable cause is, as evidence of
malice, a question solely fer the jury, and even if
they should think there was want of probable cause
they might also think the defendant acted honestly
and without ill-will or any other motive or desire
than to do what he bona fide believed to be right
in the interests of justice; in which case they ought
not, in my opinion, to find the existence of malice.”
Anyone who wants to climb over the findings of
a jury or the directions of a Judge in respect to
malice meets this as the first hurdle.
“Friday Island”: During the war when
merchant-ship oliicers were at a prerrrum
America started training camps on land,
whence, after two months education, youc. s
were sent to sea with “tickets.” One of
these fledglings was in charge of the bridge
of a tramp steamer when a vessel loomed up
in the haze. Flurried, the officer inquired of
his helmsman (an old salt) what was to be
done. Shellback replied : “Show her our red
light, sir,” meaning that the helm should be
put over to bring the red port-side light in
view of the approaching vessel. Whereupon
“Mister” crossed the bridge, lifted the red
CHORUS CHATTER.
“Bertie, had a nightmare last night .”
“I saw her. Who was the little cat.”
lamp out of the port side-socket, walked back
again and waved it. There was no collision,
and fortunately a rain squall drowned the
language fiom the other bridge.
“Camb” : Binks, on the Collins-street tram-
dummy, had several times given a side glance
at a pretty, nervous young lady on his left,
but without effect. Then the tram pulled
up, and the lady got off and Fate
flung an opportunity at Binks’s head,
for his eyes fell upon a small brown-
paper package lying ciose to where her feet
had been, by the gripman’s entrance. The
car had already started by the time he had
p eked it up; blit he leaped off and sprinted
after the lady. He was little more than a
dozen yards off when she glanced round, gave
a frightened scream and broke into a
run. Binks, smiling at her nervousness,
clapped on more pace and caught her up
just as a poPceman rushed forward to her
assistance. Off came Binks’s hat as he
proffered the parcel and started on a breath-
less explanation. But just then charging
footsteps in the rear caused him to turn, and
the precious parcel was whisked from his
hand as a raucous voice bellowed: “ ’Ere,
blarst yer, give us m’ lunch!” It was the
gripman.
“Doc” : Was there ever the like of these
mates of the Australian bush! Frederick
Herbert Christopherson, of Lewis Ponds
(N.S.W.), had an accident the other day;
a heavy pole fe 1 1 on lrm and did fearful
damage to his back. The injury was so
ser'ous that he could not be subjected to the
jolting of a mo*or; so his mates and their
mates carried him 15 miles to hospital. 30
men doing the bearing in relays and taking
eight hours over the job.
(Continued on page IS.)
HOUSEHOLD GODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great gods looked down the open ages,
Long ago, when man was young,
Long ago when the first frail earth-song,
Quii ering-sweet, from his soul was wrung.
And they called to the lesser gods beneath them:
“Build us a bond that will chain his soul,
\e, who are kin to the pulse of man,
Should mete his dole.”
So the small gods wrought with a cunning hand
Mortar and team and dome;
And man bowed down to the Household Gods,
And called his prison—home !
QUEENSLAND.
MILDRED C.
ALL’S WELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr Percy Deane, the secretary to the Prime
Minister’s Department, is working very hard. The
Commonwealth is fortunate in the choice of this offi-
cer to helo in London.” —Heartening London cable.
Taxes go swiftly up ard jaws go down ; .
The Empire quakes beneath the Irish storm;
Across our isle-bridged sea 3 small men and brown
Inimically gaze. The monstrous form
Of Bolshev'sm looms —and yet, somehow,
The painful situation is not such
As causes anxious moments, inasmuch
As Mr. Percy Deane is working now.
One pictures him —while European thrones
Totter and crash and quaking monarchs flee
To foreign countries which, with stifled groans,
Usher them in-—facing like some stout tree
A blithered world, and on his steady brow
His motto, gleaming like an oriflamme:
“Buck up ! Your craven fears were shame, black
shame!
I, Mr. Percy Deane, am working now.”
N.S.W.
JOHN D.


.
m
m
mm
m
m
mm
■'
, y i
i -
y-
<*
m
if
mm
y
y-M
m
WtM
SH
f!
mmm.
■. - .
flltl
'
V:. iV
flf
MINCHINBURY
Special Cuvee
Pleasant
Recollections
p e nfol<b Whie 5


■All Diamonds, t‘l3/10/-
No. 144. All Dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131.
Exquisite design.
Diamond set.
£l7/10/-
No. 157.—Single Diamond. £7 in'
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawson & (qow.)Ltd.
3wo Sydney Sstablisment#-.
185-187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST. -
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, £l7/10/-
No. HO.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/-
No. 1-IS.—All
Diamonds,
£l6/10/-
No. 136.—Single IHainOnd. £9 10
'Goldring”: When H.M.A.S. Rustybottom
lay lor three weeks at the jetty of a thirsty
island in the tropics there were nocturnal
alcoholic manifestations on the lower-deck.
Obviously the wetness must have been
smuggled aboard from the jetty—a crime
(according to King’s Regulations) more seri-
ous than the actual imbibing. An officer who
combined a desire for discipline with a
horror of red tape hid for two nights in the
dark behind sandalwood stacks on the jettv,
but detected nothing. On the third night lie
heard the chink of bottles, then the scurrv-
ing of bare feet. He guessed at once that
messengers had arrived from a shore pub,
and, emerging, he found a bagful of bottled
iniquity on the jetty. Quiet destruction of
the loot, thought lie, would teach the de-
faulters a lesson without official turmoil; so
he headed the consignment over the edge and
fed 30ft. through the water to a coral
bed. At breakfast he received the ward-
room s praise as a tactful disciplinarian. That
the monthly stock-taking took place in
the officers’ wine store. The stock was 70-
odd bottles short.
HIS TRAINING IN ART.
DAD (to artistic son, who uses pa for his
model): “Holy smoke! I'd never ha'
put you to drawing if I'd known this
was part of it."
Quirk”: Here’s my nomination for the
* ei\e Stakes. All aeroplanes for training
purposes were fitted with dual control and
speaking tubes. An instructor took up a
w s° had no previous flying les-
“iov 500 ft. up the instructor’s
jc y-stick (control lever) came clean off
and could not be replaced. He quietly told
the pupil to take contx’ol, and the latter, by
following directions that came to him
through the tube, turned the machine and
eventually landed it back on the aerodrome
without mishap. Had the instructor by
auy means let the pupil know the state of
affairs, a crash was just as certain as any-
thing could be. Only sheer nerve kept his
voice normal.
THE HAT.
“ D’you get that hat you raved about?”
“Yes”
“What d’your husband say?”
“He raved, too!”
“Coolyah”: “Wodgil” (B. has
not minimised the danger of the aspirin
habit. Cases are constantly coming into
Melbourne Hospital as a result of extensive
use of the drug. Habitual use causes exten-
sive destruction of the red blood corpuscles
and the patient has a color resembling the
deep blue of cyanosis. While it may not
be true that babies have a supply in their
prams it is a fact that children are sent to
school with two or three tablets in their
lunch baskets. It’s time something was clone
about it.
“Gregor’s” medical eye is on the girls:—
Pulmonary tuberculosis among factory girls and
female shop-assistants needs looking into.
Medical men could tell almost unbeliev-
able stories about the numbers of patients
in these industrial classes, the majority
of them girls between 1C and 27 ; while
the allied complaints which T.B. brings
in its train would form a list as long
as one’s arm. Tuberculosis in this con-
nection conies under the heading of an
occupational disease, the conditions of
work being responsible for it. Those con-
ditions in some of the rag emporiums in
Melbourne and Sydney are little short of
appalling. Wages Boards say the girls
shall not work unduly long hours, but'
frequently the hours they do work are
spent in ill-ventilated rooms, contam-
inated by tiie expired air from many
lungs, aiid the atmosphere is full of
cotton-wool and dust particles which
choke the air-spaces of the pulmonary
tract, and so, aided hv other influences,
bring about the onslaught of tuberculosis.
Tlie prevailing medical opinion is that
over 80 per cent, of persons are born with
the T.B organism somewhere in their
system, and that they are healthy and
non-tubercular only so long as other
agencies in the body are able to keep
the germ in subjection, the latter mani-
festing its presence when they are unable
to do so-—a condition generally brought
about by unhealthy and unhygienic living
conditions. Hence the case and facility
with which consumption can make
its appearance among these work-
ing girls. The most serious part
of the matter is not the present
—which is bad enough—but the
future, for these girls are poten-
tial mothers; and tubercular
mothers generally produce
tubercular children. Labor unions seem to be so
taken up with questions of wages that they pay
little or no heed to those others which mean life
and death.
“Another Home Seeker”: “Phthisis” (B.
30/6/’2l) is in an unfortunate position, but
there is a large class of T.B. victims even
worse off—-men and women of good educa-
tion and used to some refinement, who have
been deprived of all means of a livelihood, and
so have not the £4 a week that “Phthisis” is
able to offer. He may in time be able to
get to one of the few existing places by
awaiting his turn, but for those others there
is nothing left but the one “bleak, dismal,
poorhouse-like State institution.” . The idea
or a possible -0 years in such a place is
positively appalling. Won’t some of our
public-spirited people provide and endow a
sanatorium where such men and women as
those indicated can, by paying according to
means, get good food, proper treatment and
some of the comforts of life among congenial
companions with a thought or two apart
from cards and starting prices? And couldn’t
the Red Gross carry on Boddingtou in the
interests of civilians after the military have
no further use for it?
* * •» *
A hint from the heads■
Although the A.I.F. is supposed to have gone out
of existence some time ago, the war staffs which
attended to, or neglected, detail business at the
Barracks has been continuing its work: but the
order of the sack awaits them at the end of July, and
already the hospitals have been passed over to the
Repat. A remarkable number of things still await
finalisation, nevertheless. Many ex-Diggers have
not yet got their gratuities; and there are matters
of identification certificates, mothers’ badges, medals,
unclaimed property and other trifles still to be
fixed tip. Months hence the casual Digger will pro-
bably be asking for things he has mis'sed ; but the
warning has been given solemnly that all claims
must be in before August.
“Emsee”: One of the rare flashes of
Fritziaa wit In the 1915-16 winter, when
operations on the Western Front were prac-
tically at a standstill, news was received of
a great Russian victory. Thinking that this
might possibly rile the Huns the Scots
Guards hoisted a placard over their parapet
giving the numbers of Germans killed and
captured. Fritz took a long time to think
out a retort, but eventually over his parapet
came a placard: “England expects that every
Russian will do his duty.”
“Sixenate”: A N.S.W. church dignitary,
who journeyed in North Queensland recently,
has been making some remarks on the casual-
ness of the people in those parts about the
marriage ceremony, mentioning that often,
when a parson isn’t available, a couple sets
up house on the understanding that they are
to be wedded as soon as an official knot-
fastener heaves in sight. But there is quite
as much casualness in the cities, and less
excuse for it. A woman called to see me
recently, and it was necessary to ask for
her marriage certificate. “Well, you see,”
she explained, “we aren’t rightly married
yet. There’s the fee and all that; and we’ve
been trying to save up for it, but me hus-
band’s been out of work most of the time,
and there’s been so many other expenses.”
From a city casualty ward: —
High prices and tight money have led to an in-
crease in methylated-spirit drinking which, to the
outsider, is simply unbelievable. The habit is found
mostly among the submerged tenth, but recently it
has appeared in other quarters. In the first case
the growth of “meth.”-drinking is helped by the
fact that sixpence will buy as much raw alcohol
as you can get in a bottle of whisky. The presence
of chemicals added with the idea of rendering the
spirit too unpalatable for drinking is of no moment,
since the drinkers do not possess a delicate palate.'
In pre-war days the Customs and Excise regulations
demanded that industrial alcohol be denatured with
methyl alcohol, the pathological effects of which
are to cause atrophy of the optic nerve, resulting in
total loss of sight in time, liver complications and
heart trouble ; but when the price of methyl alcohol
rose so high that its use was out of the question,
pyridine, which produces practically no harmful
effects, and is employed solely because of its nauseat-
ing taste and odor, was substituted. Hence, the slave
to meth. is now better off, to the extent that he
is not likely so soon to g-o blind or to drop dead.
Simultaneously a new social pest has arisen in the
shape of the sly-meth. seller, generally an itinerant
salesman who carries his wares in his pocket and
conducts his business up dark lanes. Meth. cases in
the casualty-rooms are no longer curiosities, and it
looks as though before long the Government will have
to take some such measure as the French Government
took in 1890. when it passed a law providing for
the addition of Paris-green to denatured spirit.
That put tlic brake on.
“Audio”: A foreman in our district, who
prides himself in his manner of handling
men, on noticing that one chap had stopped
and was keeping another idle with pony talk,
whistled the opening bars of the “Dead
March.” “What’s that for?” asked the cul-
prit. “To keep time with your work,” was
the reply. The retort was quick: “Next
time you feel musical whistle ‘God Save’ so’s
we can go home.”
* * *■ *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Fate lent a friendly
hand to a citizen of Sydney, who may be
called Blobbs, a little while back. Blobbs
got into difficulties, and to ease his mind
went on the spree and made things worse.
They v/ere made worse still by the fact that
he employed cash that was not his own for
the purposes of his colossal drunk. Then
the day of reckoning came, and Blobbs, after
attempting to face the issue several times,
and relapsing into beer on each occasion,
simply had to pull himself together. The
man whose money he had misspent was due
in Sydney. It was only a matter of a few
hundred pounds; but in the circumstances
it might just as well have been a few thou-
sands. Blobbs bad written a letter making
a clean breast of it, when a friend laid hold
of him with an excited “We’ve won!” A
ticket which they had halved had landed
somewhere about £5OOO. Blobbs had made
the casual investment at the outset of his
jag, when he was too drunk to remember.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) is to
have a centenary soon, and is going to
express it in terms of cows and things by
putting .up £lOOO in prizes at the local show.
It was in May, 1822, that Alexander Berry
went down in a 15-ton schooner to pick out
10,000 acres at the Shoalhaven, where the
cedar-cutters were already busy. Surveyor-
General Oxley had visited the place in Mac-
quarie’s time,’but reckoned it too wet. and
scrubby for settlement. Berry and his part-
ner. Woolstonecraft, had each a grant of
2000 acres to locate, and Governor Brisbane
had promised Berry an extra .10,000 acres
if he would undertake to support and employ
100 assigned men. The first trip was un-
lucky. Davidson, the master of the schooner,
his mate, two other white men and an abo.
went off in a boat to look for the channel,
but were upset in the surf, and Davidson
and his mate were drowned. As a bov the
former had, in 1809, been one of the sur-
vivors of the massacre of the Boyd at Whan-
garoa (M.L.), and had been picked up by
Berry, then supercargo of the ship City of
Edinburgh. Before he died in 1873 (at the
age of 92) Berry had increased the 14,000
Shoalhaven acres to 50.000 by purchases.
THE DECLARATION OF WAR.
DINKS : “Dear me, I thought yours teas such
a peaceful household. Whatever did
you say to upset your wife so?"
JINKS : “I don't know. I simply said I
didn't think she teas fit to he a Justice
of the Peace."
PANEGYRIC ON A PRAWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Best-loved companion of the reveller beery,
There lurks within your crimson little being
A devil that incites a something cheery
Within our bosoms, when We should be fleeing
Tram ward's and homewards to our waiting dearie
IV ho darns our socks (and us) with eyes unseeing,
And waxes every moment still more “waxy,”
t\ hilst we seek strange adventures in a taxi.
Oh, prawn, some necromancy doth surround you,
Leading the righteous from the roadway narrow;
( hitched in my fevered hand at dawn I’ve found you,
t\ hen wakened by an early-rising sparrow
Within Hyde Park —yes, they may take and pound
you
tor sandwiches, yet still within my marrow
t. ou stir ambitions all so very striking
They'd turn a vicar straight into a viking.
Some bards have found a pleasure In inditing
Sonnets unto your large and coarse relation,
The cray; to me he never seemed exciting.
Though I have taken him with moderation
And lots of mustard, yet he's not inviting
To those who know your succulent temptation.
Lobster or prawn? There isn’t any question—
One gives us courage, t’other indigestion.
My unplatonic prawn, I’ll ever sing you,
And Dagoes at the midnight hour will call
in salads and au natuvel to bring vou
Within some marbled, mirrored King-street hall.
E'en though stern fish-inspectors coarsely fling you,
When ripe, upon the “tip,” you are my all
In Life s long menu. Nathless, Conscience mentions
Hell s path is paved with prawns, not good intentions.
N.S.W.
H. O. HALLORAN.


MILK NOT REQUIRED
,Y)
m
X
'/A
%
%
m
0
&
A*?/
5?
\
\
M
g
L
0
i
1
JS
as
i
00
1
I w
i
MEGGITT M
LIMITED. I
i fm) /*■
W
%
V
*
AM
Because Meggitt’s Specialised Calf Food contains the nutrients and growth-producing properties
required for the calf.
Professor R. E. Caldwell says: —
“Satisfactory gains must be obtained by the prudent dairyman, through the use of MILK
SUBSTITUTE of proved merit, if he will but realise that the calf is a baby requiring
regularity in its habits.”
Calves fed on Meggitt’s specially-prepared Calf Food must thrive, because it is a highly nutritious
food composed of sound ingredients and contains all the elements which produce muscle and bone.
It is uniformly ground and mixes to a nice smooth paste, and is perfectly adapted for the require-
ments of the young calf.
Meggitt’s prepared Calf Food will pay you to raise your milkers on, or to sell for veal or beef.
Whole milk is now too expensive. It pays better to sell the whole milk and feed our scientifically
prepared Calf Food. It is more economical and sure of satisfactory results.
You will have no digestive troubles by feeding a correct ration.
Meggitt’s @ Calf Food is easy to feed and saves labor.
It is more economical to feed than milk. Calves thrive on it.
It builds up tissue as well as furnishing material for the repair of tissue.
Establish a sound foundation for your stock; use Meggitt’s Calf Food.
PAMPHLET No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
AGENTS Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William Adams A Co., Ltd., Kino Street, Perth: Messrs. R. S.
Exton & Go., Ltd., Queen Street. Brisbane; Messrs F. W. Heritage <& Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The South Australian Farmers'
Co-op Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin Street. Adelaide; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
e
’mmmm
sms
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST SYDNEY^irks:Parrcimatta)
MANUFACTURERS OF LINSEED OIL, CAKE, MEAL AND STOCK FOODS.
lINSKD ohmeu
MEGCITT IZ B
PARRAMATTA
UNSEfOOIIMBU
EM
AVEGGITT £•
PARRAMATTA A -*m
tteboyon the hag
guarantees quality"
°fAe Soy on (he Sac/
quamntees c/uality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. 8. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4 % Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
King George IV
WHISKY
THe'TOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFI. protector
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“H.M.” : A retired bank manager who used
to do a bit of fly-fishing- up Camden (N.S.W.) way,
tells me he once hooked a swallow with an artificial
yellow dun. He was getting through a fence at
the time, and his line was flying loose in the air,
when the bird took the bait. Repeating- this to a
friend, he said Walton quotes an exactly similar
incident in “The Compleat Angler,” and, further, he
showed me a book in which it is stated by Sir
Henry Wotton that it was the custom in Italy to
“fish” for martins and swifts from church steeples.
“Raggedie Wun” : The big meeting of the
local race club was due, and the horses had just been
brought in from the paddock for a topping-off on a
bit of corn. Our pub was filled with weeds of the
human race, all attired in tight pants and chewing
the inevitable straw. One such, Archie, who, by
repute, was a very heady head, was taking in hand
the publican’s horse. By all accounts this Archie
was something extra around a racehorse. We were
enthusiastic about him and bought him beer. As is
usual in the best training circles, Archie arose before
daylight one morning and went away with his charge
for a run against the clock. He had thrown the
rug off and was saddling afresh, when a wildly-
gesticulating figure was seen coming through the
half-light in a hurry and a motor. The horse was
being trotted around when the figure resolved itself
into the local stoek-and-station agent. When he
arrived on the scene he wanted to know why in the
name of the crimson purgatory Archie had taken his
horse. Archie peered at his mount and found he
had taken the wrong one. These unknown horsey
men! And the beer we had bought him!
“Mallee-ite”: Neither ‘TO.S” nor “FY7”
(B's. 19/5/'2l and 16/6/’2l) is correct when guessing
how the falcon strikes his victim in the air. The
murder is committed with the hard, horny substance
with which the point of the breastbone is armored.
All attacks I have witnessed came from underneath,
at a terrific pace; and that explains why the duck
(or other quarry) is either decapitated or suffers
from broken neck.
“Pick”: “10.5” says (B. 19/5/’2l) that
a hawk kills a duck by striking her with his beak,
and “FY7” (B. 16/6/’2l) that the finishing touch
is delivered with the murderer’s talons. That both
are astray is proven by the fact that there’s never
a wound or scratch upon the slain. The hawk breaks
the neck of his victim with a jolt from the first
joint of his partly-folded wing. I learned that at
Bibbenluke (N.S.W.), where I saw a tame magpie
settled by a blue falcon.
“Grouter King”: Let me calm the fears
of “Country Ped” (B. 23/6/’2l) re English pheasants
breeding fast enough to become pests if imported for
sporting purposes. Some years ago when old-man
Docker took up a few thousand acres at what is now-
Docker’s Plains (Vic.), he imported deer and phea-
sants. The deer thrived, but the pheasants failed to
hold their own, and after several unsuccessful attempts
to establish them, Docker gave them up as a bad job.
Sandfly : How’s this fof - a branding
record? At Vanrook station, in the Gulf (Q.), in
one branding of 443 calves, 400 were put through in
one continuous stretch of four hours. A Both-
well s frame was used, with only one set of men
operating. Hie remaining 43 were big weaners,
and had to be handled by head- and leg-ropes at a
much slower rate. I have a dim recollection of
a big tally on Strathmore station, in the Bowen dis-
trict, where over 700 calves were branded before
ireakfast; but I think there must have been too
much bellowing in the yard for the “ringers” to
hear the breakfast gong.
* * *
“Granite”: “J.P.” (B. 9/6/’2l) says he
has a miner’s right dated 1860. I
have before me the three following
“rights” on parchment (later ones
were printed on paper): (1) Issued
at Beechworth to Henry Wiseman,
Aug. 9, 1856; (2) ditto, Dec. 31,
186, ; (3) issued at Yaekandaudali
to A. Alderdice, Feb. 25, 1858. The
first is signed by Warden W. H.
Gaunt, who later became Judge
Gaunt and father of Rear-Admiral
Gaunt. The second is signed by John
Hall as “.Gold Receiver.” Further, I
have this day viewed at the Burke
Museum here (Beechworth, Vic.) gold
licenses issued in 1852, 1853 and
185-1. These gold licenses (virtually
miners’ rights) had a currency of one
month, and gave a license to “mine
for gold, reside at or carry on any
trade or calling except that of store-
keeper.” Why they were so qualified
1 can’t say. The fee for these
licenses was £ I 10s., and subsequently
it was £l, but in 1854 similar
licenses were issued at £ 2 gjch, hav-
ing a currency of three months. And,
while we’re at it, 1 have also before
me a copy of the Ovens Directory of
1857, and therein is a half-page
advertisement of one James Ingram,
bookseller, etc., Beechworth. James
Ingram was here years before 1857,
and 1 have this day in the flesh faced
the bar and stopped a whisky with
this venerable man, still with us and
going strong. He is 94, hale and
hearty, and always making provision for the years
when he will not be able to work !
* * * *
“Bouragi” : The Sainarai (Papua) bury-
iug-ground is the most gruesome I know. It lies
near the beach on another island, not far from the
U.M.fe. Mission at Quatto. From deep, round holes
in the graves, sinister blue-and-red crabs the size
of saucers gaze furtively with long-stalked, bead-
like, malignant eyes. As you land to bury your
friend or enemy, the crabs go back to their business
in their graves. Into the new grave you pile the
coral debris and go away, wishing that steel coffins
could be bought at 8.-P’s. Next time you go over
there are half-a-dozen holes in the grave you know
about, and, as you walk up, the crabs slip sidelong
into them. If you are wise you leave them and
never go back.
‘Con Drew ’ : “Sorright, m’dear,” hic-
coughed Hogan when the tornado that greeted his
homecoming had somewhat abated; “I’ve been playin’
a game of poker; got a lil’ present for you.”
I lunging his hand into his pocket he dragged forth a
crumpled fiver and handed it to the lady. “Poker!”
she said with deadly mildness. “How is it that
you can win money at cards when you can’t win
anything at the races?” “Easy,” said Grogan. “You
see, they won’t (hie) let you shuffle the ponies,
m’dear.”
THE DISCORD.
TOM : “Come, sing with me.”
TABBY : “ Really, I can't. That kid's howling
puts me off my key.”
“H. Murray": A freak of nature or what?
A calf born here on the Atherton Tableland (Q.)
had both ears marked at birth. Its parents weren't
pedigreed, but just respectable shorthorns.
"Te Pana" : The centre of Hindu activity
in Suva, the Fijian capital, is All Nations-street.
Here gather also the tatters of colored humanity,
types of dusky men and women of all the islands,
with the coolie fresh from the plantation “lines”
lording it over the filth. The place seethes with
animal life. Undersized women gossip at the door-
ways. They dress briefly—for skirt a gay square
of cloth carelessly tucked in at the waist, and a
sleeveless upper garment which fails to make con-
nection with the lower. All are loaded down with
brass leg- and arm-bangles. Heavy earrings show
MANY INVENTIONS.
“Oh, yes; we got about forty thousand, head
on the place.”
“Forty thousand! But of course you use
milking machines.”
from beneath their gaudy silked head-covering; their
noses are pierced, a bar of steel runs through the
nostrils, and the skin is drawn tightly on the cheeks
and secured by silver coins. They are of “the 40
women to the 100 men.’’ The street wakes up
at sunset. Dark shadows move in the roadway,
and savage-looking, bearded men move stealthily
in the gloom. The hubbub of a rabble is in the
air. Through the darkness peer bright eyes, soft
eyes and fierce eyes. Short, swarthy men, long
men, fat men, some with bodies glistening with
oil, others with disease-eaten skins, slither along.
Girls rush by, their black limbs exposed as the Orien-
tal jewellery jingles on their arms and legs, their
eyes alight as they reveal their charms and seek
approval. At different points crowds of coolies are
listening to lecturers who propagate their special
views. A tawny old Fijian revelling in the sensual
creed of the immigrant Mohammedans yells forth
its manifold virtues. “Vinaka! Vinakal” cry the
listeners. Farther along another speaker, waving
a Fijian Koran, tells of the glory of Islam, Hawkers
flit about with bags of feminine linen and Oriental
silks, displaying their wares to the brown maidens
from Tonga, laughing Samoan girls and Tahitian
bits of beauty'. A gaudy handkerchief or a pair
of yellow stockings makes the eyes of the Island
girls shine with avarice. Abdul Allah dangles a
leg-bangle and a bunch of beads before a daughter
of Fiji. Ho leers at her; she toys with the wares
and is lost. A party' of latecomers with clean
starched collars and new suits drift along the dirty
tracks carefully picking their way. Three of the
number are chanting sentences in English, repeating
over and over again the same words. To-morrow
they leave for Maoriland. They are memorising the
necessary “test ’ wherewith to greet the Customs
officials at Auckland. If you listen you may' hear
the same English sounds coming from 20 hovels on
the roadside.
* * * *
eronal ’: Australia possesses one of the
largest cuckoos in the world, if not the largest of
all. This fowl, which is rare, is known a K the
channel-bill (Scythrops nova; hollandim). Its habitat
is mostly' northern, but the bird comes south at times.
Its eggs are laid in large, open nests, such as those
of magpies (crow-shrikes), but as these birds are
not entirely insectivorous and the big euckoo is,
Master Scythrops may get a bit of carrion
popped down his throat occasionally' by' way of
variety. The channel-bill is no singer. Gould de-
scribed its call as a “frightful scream.” This cuckoo
measures about 24 inches from tip to tip, and in
general coloring i« grey, with white underparts and
broad bands of black across the tail.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE COBBLESTONE GHOSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The secret fir-trees stood four-square about a silent
place,
Whose bleary windows were dead eyes within a
dead man's face ;
The fungus moss upon the roof let gleams of bald-
ness through,
Close ivy all about the front like tortured whiskers
grew,
And creeping here,
A-shake with fear.
We seemed to see through matted growths the whit-
ish skull appear.
The house stood over 'gainst the moon, a dreadful
thing and lone,
A death’s-head socketed and foul, betraying scraps
of bone.
About its chaps the rose-vine clung, but never bud
was there,
Nor flower put forth where lilac, rose and lilies
fought for air.
When breezes blew
The dull trees through,
Ten little prankish ghosts came out and dabbled
in the dew.
Down in the dark below' a cliff the shrinking sea
made moan,
And all about the hated house damned beings seemed
to groan ;
Ten little ghosts would skip and reel, or turn in
pell-mell flight,
Or one great ghost stood solemnly in shining armor
dight;
But Carter said
That he had fled
At sight of Deeming toying with a newly-severed
head.
ET TU, BRUTE.
"John, surely you don't think the dead will
come up and eat that pork you've put
on the grave."
"You thinkem dead smellum flower?"
Banks swore it was a man in chains, but Holling-
wood declared
It was a headless rider, while the Hipworth boys
averred
The thing was just a murdered mar, who held the
poison bowl.
’Twas Jessop saw a miser weird, and in his head a
hole.
Between all those
In time arose
A fiery disputation in most passionate of prose.
They argued individually and in societies
With sticks or any weapons that the partisans could
seize.
The serious Psychic Brotherhood, the Spiritualistic
Bond,
The Visionaries and the Souls, with predilection fond
Each boomed its ghost,
And sought to roast
The spook of which its rivals might be mad enough
to boast.
Our town was split in factions, End by light of
day there went
The seekers digging bones up to support an argu-
ment.
They dug beneath the flooring, excavated garden
ground—
The only osseous fragment that the eager diggers
found
Was such a scrap
As was mayhap
The ridgebone of a kitten, but it mattered not a rap.
Each tempestuously disputed what the other might
contend—
We battled tooth and toenail to no purpose and
no end.
What little spectres might be, stringing through
the matted scrub,
We did not care a button in the Conversation Club ;
It was the tall
Thing ’gainst the wall
Provoked forays and bloodshed in the Cobblestone
Town Hall.
But when the stark moon shivered o’er the haunted
old abode,
Stood out the spook majestieal, or tragically strode
Against the black facade, and none cf all our fierce
galoots
Dared go beyond the broken gate, and, quaking in
our boots,
We clung in bands,
Our hair in strands
About our eyes, and holding clammy, cold, fraternal
bands.
Then came the man from Taproot. He’s an atheistic
bloke.
And he treats the ghost of Cobble as a fiction and
a joke.
He walked up to flic spectre ’fore our horror-
stricken eyes.
We saw him palely through it. To our wonder and
■ surprise
He fell not dead,
But came and said:
“The spectre’s laid!’’ and in the night our treasured
goblins fled.
We lothed that man from Taproot, we despised his
ugly face ;
He’d left us nought to fight about. We drove him
from the place.
He proved our ghost was moonlight helped by any
vagrant breeze
That moaned across the haunted house and shook
the ragged trees.
And when and how,
Swung from a bough,
A shattered mirror raises ghosts all men can tell
you now.
VICTORIA.
EDWAKD DYSON.


COOPER SILENT
BELT-DRIVEN
MACHINE.
Every
Outfit has been de-
signed and built to give
the woolgrower the solid, con-
tinuous and satisfactory service
that he has a right to expect from
first-class, high-quality machines.
EVERY OWNER OF 100 OR MORE
SHEEP SHOULD HAVE A SHEARING
MACHINE. NOW IS THE TIME TO
ORDER.
Write us to-day, stating size of your flock, and we will send full
particulars and price of an outfit to suit your requirements.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD..
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clarke & Fauset, Brisbane. Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth. Australasian Implement &H. F. Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
N. Z. Loan & M. A. Co.. Hughenden, Townsville & Rockhampton. J. A. Semple & Co., Wellington Street Launceston.
COOPER BIG GCN
2-Stand Shearing
Outfit.
COOPER
WOM>ER
“EITTEE
”2-Stand
Outfit.
RIGHT DOWN THE LINE
FROM THE LARGE SHED INSTALLATIONS
TO THE SMALL ONE-MAN OUTFITS
Shearing Machines
Have always stood for
highest quality,
economy and
H service.
COOrER “IDEAL”
1-Stand Outfit.
NEVER A DULL MOMENT
IN THE HOME
THAT HAS AN
AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO.
THINK what it would mean in your own home
—what pleasure it would create for the whole
family—what delightful parties together.
There is nothing like music for brightening
the home-life, and there is no instrument that
can better interpret every class of music than
an Autotone Player Piano.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE, PRICE LIST
AND EASY TERMS.
;
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AND AT
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
THE AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO
IS AN IDEAL ACCOMPANIST.


After Influenza
PM
a
when your “run-down” system calls for the assistance of «.
TAxnlv n ?,T. h T g . restorative > Bend for a bottle of CLEMENTS
TONIC. You II find it pleasant, invigorating and strengthening.
CLEMENTS TONIC
is sold in every city and town in the Common-
wealth. Ask your chemist or storekeeper!
Bung Eye”: Some good performances
were put up with the “blades” in the old days.
One of the best was that of Christy Kratz on Peak
Downs (Q.) in 1880. He shore 53 large-framed,
heavily-woolled wethers before breakfast in a two-
hour run. In those days Christy was the “gun,”
and could always turn out over 200 a day. Another
ciack was George Butler, and they often shore to-
gether. Kratz waj inclined to “bust his boiler,” and
was continually being warned by Butler, who took
things more easily. Kratz was a splendid horseman,
and could sit a buck with flic best. In later years
lie went in for cattle, and got together a herd of
0000. He dropped dead in Roma; Butler died in
Brisbane after an operation.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Amalekite” (B. 30/6/’2l)
asks for some explanation of the aurora occasionally
seen above a newlv-made grave. Phosphoreted hydro-
gen, generated by the decaying vegetable and animal
matter of the ages, exists throughout the earth’s
crust. The breaking-up consequent on the grave-
digging' makes it easier for this gas to percolate to
the surface, where it glows on contact with the
ox> gen of the atmosphere. Possibly gases from the
liody beneath would intensify the radiance. Its
extra brightness after rain is due to the fact that
<t damp atmosphere hastens the production of the gas.
“Kai Viti”: “Te Pana” (B. 21/4/’2l)
had me wondering when he spoke of seeing centipede's
bin. and Tin. long ami as thick as a sausage. But
when lie put red legs on the sausage and in a Suva
pub—well, then, it was easy. During my 40 years’
residence in Fiji 1 have travelled over almost every
island, and the nearest approach to a cgptipede I
ever saw was an earthworm. But, then, 1 am T.T.
* n * *
“The Crank”: “Merlin” says he does not
believe “Hamer’s” yarn about the hybrid cat-rabbit.
Then what does he say of this? About 15 yards from my
hut at Tent Hill (N.S.W.) there is a blackberry
bush, under which the rabbits have excavated a
large burrow. They have bred there for the last
nine or 10 years, and their progeny has always been
of the ordinary rabbit color. This year a large pie-
bald tom-cat has taken up his residence among them,
and now three or four of them are piebald.
“Hecagus”: Can any Abo.-liar cite a
parallel case? Recently 1 put a variegated frog
peculiar to the Atherton Tablelands (Q.) in a
bottleful of spirits. 1 kept it at the head of
niv bunk and used the cork as a needle cushion.
One day the bottle was missing and J blamed the
nigs. Then an ever-increasing dead-whalish smell
began to filter through the chinks of rnv slabbed
villa, and investigation disclosed a very dead carpet-
snake about 7ft. long. In removing him for burial
I discovered my bottled frog in his tucker box;
and I don’t know whether to blame the bottle, or
the needles or some soakage from the cork.
OUR PROGRESS COMMITTEE.
I think, Air. Chairman and gentlemen, ire
ought to send a couple of our ablest
men down to wait on the Guv’ment,
and if this meeting is willing to pay
expenses I’ll make one.”
“Din Kum’’: The cat-rabbit arguers should
be interested in a recent Adelaide Advertiser. Some-
one announced a sale of stock, and one line read
that a “cow in pig-’’ would come under the hammer.
I'iu Hat”: “Leo Lear” was wrong when
he stated (B. 16/6/’2l) that no motorist could kill
a snake by running over it unless the brakes were
hard on. One of the most sudden deaths I have wit-
nessed was that of a big black snake who slid under-
neath a car near Healesville (Vic.). 1 passed the
same spot two days later, and the crawler was still
dead.
“Hobo”: “Ria-akiaki” (It. 23/G/’2l)
knows little of potato-digging records. In 1912 Tom
Malady dug and bagged over 50 sacks of potatoes
m one day. And Bill Dowie, a Trafalgar (Vie.) lad,
put up a record of G 4 bags the same year. The
ci op was a heavy one, but was in stiff peat and had
big tops.
ONE THING HE GOT.
" I motor-lorry, you say? Did you get his
number?”
“No."
"Did you get the firm's name on the side?”
"No.”
"Well, did you get anything?”
"My oath!”
“Aragun”: “Bora’s" flour-eating pup (B.
23/6/"21) is no novelty. He is suffering from a
complaint prevalent among Binghi’s clogs. As a rule
the tyke grows very thin, and will ravenously devour
many things quite foreign to his normal menu. The
only remedy known is a good square feed at least
once daily.
“Te Whare” : It took embryologists a long
time to discover the exact reproductive arrangements
of tlie duck-billed platypus. It is recorded that.
Binghi, who in matters of bush-lore is rarely far
wrong, declared when in-
terrogated in very early
days that mamma duck-
hill laid eggs in a burrow;
but he was discredited, and
when white men found
an egg in such circum-
stances they took it. for
that of some large lizard
or bird. But it was even
then admitted that the
female suckled her young,
as milk could be squeezed
from the lacteal glands,
there being no teats. The
biggest platypus recorded
by early naturalists mea-
sured about 14 inches
from tip to tip, but writer
has seen a Monaro
(X.S.W.) example 18
inches in length. Before
the advent of the pelt-
hunter it was not uncom-
mon on warm moonlit
nights to find some long,
still river-reach in the
highlands alive with
platypi of all sizes splash-
ing and diving- or floating motionless on the water
like so many junks of wood.
* * „
* *
“Lancewood”: “Barcoo” (B. 23/6/’2l),
in his account of Jack Kigg’s success as a breaker
makes one little error. Although he worked on most
of the neighboring runs, Rigg never handled a colt
on Alt. Enniskillen. However venturesome he had
been as a rider, Rigg took trouble to minimise the
chances when handling a buckjiunper. Most elderly
horsebreakers do, although should a voungster turn
nasty they stick to him; but it is just pure fear
of falling oft that keeps ’em on.
(xagi : For the tooth-shedding habit tell
Narrabie” (B 30/6/’2l) to squirt a weak solution
ot alum and water into the prad’s mouth before
meals. Weak it must be, because alum in strong
form plays havoc with a nag’s inside; before meals,
mostly because the chaff absorbs the alum quickly
so that it doesn’t coat the stomach; squirt, be-
cause the alum will not take any effect unless
brought m strong contact with the tissue between
gum and tooth, this being the part that becomes
spongy, thus loosening the tooth
* *
Zanthus”: Australia may ret be able
to put in a claim as the cradle of the human race.
I hat eminent authority Professor Keith thinks the
now- extinct Tas-
manians were nearer
the original stock from
'V hi c h the various
races of mankind have
sprung than any other
savages who have sur-
rived to modem
times. It is a fairly
well-accepted theory
that people of the
Tasmanian type origi-
nally occupied all or
part of the continent,
hut were exterminated
or assimilated by the
invading Australians.
1 ndeed, one philolo-
gist finds in the lan-
guage of the Gipps-
land tribe, in the
corner nearest to Tas-
mania, 1 races of affin-
ity with the tongue
.of the Tasmanian
abos. The Tasmanians
were primitive enough
in all conscience, ages
behind the mainland
abos. They had no
boomerangs or spear-
throwers, and knew
nothing of the art of
polishing stone. Their
only weapons were
waddies and spears,
the tips of which were
merely pointed and
hardened in the fire.
Though the Speck is
mighty cold at
times they went mother-naked; and it is doubtful
whether they ever built anything more imposing
than a breakwind of boughs.
“Eddyson” : When Davy Corum’s weather-
board house on Clarke’s land was burned down Davy
and his family were driven to avail themselves of
the hospitality of a tremendous dead gum that had
fallen partly across the Pipeclay-road. The butt
was hollow. The stump end, with the assistance of
axe and fire, was converted into quite a serviceable
kitchen and living-room. In this Corum and the
missus had a bed. Mary’s bedroom was a little
further up the trunk, and- Bill’s dormitory lay be-
tween that and the kitchen. There was no scarcity
of fresh air; the wind blew through the flat as it
might through an organ-pipe, and
it was needful to partially stop
one exit to keep the lodgers from
being puffed like peas from a
shooter. The family was extremely
comfortable through the winter.
Corum was now braceman at the
Two Spot, Mrs. Corum and Mary
worked at Beenlands, but Billy,
the son, aged 19, was a weary
youth who rarely worked at all.
It was late in the morning of a
pleasant day when Corum, coining
off nightshift, having lingered an
hour by the way to point a pick
at the mine forge, discovered to
his consternation a gang of road-
makers demolishing his happy
home with a view to clearing the
fairway. “Good G—d ! ” said the
householder lugubriously, “and
only las’ Sunday I whitewashed
the kitchen!” He bat on ft
stump, miserably inspecting the
demolition of his domicile, while
two men with a crosscut ripped
through it. Suddenly there was
a poignant cry. A blood-curdling
but muffled yell followed, and the
sawyers ceased. Corum had de-
scended upon them, white with
horror. “Stop, fer the love iv
Heaven!” lie said. “P’raps Billy
isn’t up.” Billy wasn’t up, and
the crosscut had already raked buttons off Billy's
shirt. That was the kind of sleeper Billy was.
* * * *
“Viti Levu”: Alexander Berrv, afterwards
an M.L.C. in ?f. S. Wales and other more respectable
things, has a good word to say for the old-time
cannibal and heathen Fijians who held him a captive
in the island of Opuna till he was ransomed with
two sperm-whale teeth. This was in 1808, when Fiji
was very much in the raw state; yet Berry says that
the Fijians did not appear much more barbarous all
round than the ancient Greeks and could give them
many points as shipbuilders and navigators. Their
craft could make 15 miles an hour with a good breeze,
and could sail within three points of the wind.’
Cnlike the ancient mariners, the Fijians did not
mind getting out of- sight of land; they could steer
b> the stars. After he got away from Opuna, the
chief of winch wanted him to take the Job of general.
Berry went to Vitu Levu looking for sandalwood.’
A chief of those parts tried to persuade him to join
in an attack on 50 Tongans who had come over in
a big canoe. Tt was pointed out that the Tongans
were “fine fat fellows, and would eat well.” There
was a British captain named Stewart who lent his
vessel for a cannibal raid in Maoriland; but Berry
wasn’t that sort.
110010”: “The Newest Arrival” (R.
30/6/’2l) asks how he should proceed to get black-
and-white ponies. Well, there’s one simple wav,
i.e., to get ’em as a dead-and-gone neighbor of ours
got some bonzer black-and-white poddies—pinch 'em.
-Vial E. Roots”: Re “H.R.B.’s” inquiry
as to a plan for encouraging a ewe to mother a
lamb not her own. Put the ewe and lamb in a pen
by themselves, and hold the owe a few times daily
to let the youngster suck. Another scheme
is to put the sheepdog in the pen with them for
10 minutes. The ewe will protect the lamb from
the dog and look upon it as her own personal pro-
perty afterwards. No ewe will mother a lamb that
has not Jieen dropped about the same time as her own.
“R.1.P.” : I happened across a binghi last
week closely resembling an antbed. He was covered
from head to foot with a thick coat of red mud, and
was carrying a handful of bushes in front of him.
He was stalking an emu, and my arrival caused him
to miss his quarry, 1 inquired why he carried so
much filth.- “Well, boss, that feller emu he plurry
strong-feller nose, he quick-feller smellem boy
sposem no more mud all about.”
“Monaro”: At Yellow Mountain, near
Mineral Hill (Q.), is a kelpie dog that spends a
lot of his time refereeing turkey-fights. As long as
the birds fight orthodox Marquis of Queensberry the
dog stands by wagging his tail with joy at the
scrap. But as soon as they get into holts and
start the Yankee-hug system of fighting, he jumps
up and bumps them apart with his nose.
“Bill Bowyang”: Will “H.V.E.” or some
other snake authority inform me if the black snake
gives birth to more or less than 19 youngsters?
Bushmen of my acquaintance who have killed scores
of these snakes all swear that the reptile always
gives birth to the same number, i.e., 19.
“Jimsey”: How did the term “the
ringer” originate in the Australian slanguage? A
few years back it was applied to any man who
excelled at anything; in fact,, any extra-good animal
was referred to as “a ringer.” Nowadays it seems
to be applied only to the man who heads the tally in
a shearing-shed.
“Sandfly”: “De La Poor” (B. 5/5/'2l)
wants to hear of a full-blooded Chinese who is a good
all-round horseman. The Yet For brothers—four
of them—in the Normanton (N.Q.) district are equal
to the topnotchers in the Gulf, and that is saying
a lot. It is not uncommon to see three of them
mounted in the same race at the Normanton annual
meetings. The other brother being a professional
jockey is debarred from riding at amateur meeting’s
AFFINITY.
MISSIONARY (bidding adieu to his black
sheep ): "Hi may say, in taking leave —
er-of you—er—my—er—berrothers—
my only — er—regret is that — er—myself
er. myself an’ Mrs. Grumble quid are
not er — born —native aboriginals."
such as are run thereabout. The horse which would
throw any one of them out of a polev saddle I’d rather
walk round than ride. At cattle work they take some
holding too. They are full-blooded Chinese and real
decent bushmen.
■‘Bill Bowyang”: Tell “Jim Carew”
(B. 16/G/"21) that the blacks of Northern Wgstralia
are not the only Binghis who will not mention the
name of a dead man. Amongst most N.Q. tribes it
is the custom never to refer to the dead in any
way. When Binghi is buried his name dies with
him. It is mainly owing to this circumstance that
the philological studies of Carr, Smyth, Miklouho-
Macleay, Roth and others have been so unsatisfac-
tory in some directions, especially as regards per-
sonal names.


*
:
*.
w.i
%
n
•4
•a
.1
y State Express cigarettes raised the
v standard of cigarette quality —a standard
i r
Ll* not reached to this day by any other.
4»*
CIGARETTES
N 9333 20-1/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
V
*>«•
•i
%
o
°c>
vn
1
V
V
0*
<3-
4.
O
O
LARGE SIZE
mm mmw-
MmMmk',
MWWW fflf


sfini v
. ts H
HHEH 1 i H „v
■
ggg
HHI
I u
■
■HOI
11
. ■
■
m
mm
I-v >ww
m 1
■
■H
* * * - **• ,vf >*« i
;
»
iisi
.
■ .
: : i . : '
.... . ■ . ■ ■-• . •.•■.•.■■,■
HUH
' mmm
mm If ■■ ■ IVJSnCfRV-1 VJSnCfRV-- - 11 yHE3£
m
urn
W 1
': ■ ■' ■
m
i . :
Wmmmm
1 ■'•£
.
.
mm®-.
> ■■
&
Hi
axs
.
Sfe
i c
BMW
n
■ll
Ml':
: :; m
: lH 1 H
c-ar.Wr^-
m
HByn
MM
H
*1
Hi
* .-•■ -
i
mm&sgrn^,.
■ Hi
MHHjfMßjjt
■
B
I
m
1
Mi 1
I
.
■I
M
m
' y
■ ■
Highest Quality Reflected in
Sturdy Road Service
Perdriau Tyres reflect, in their dependable service
on the road, the skill of the trained craftsmen
who build them.
PERDRIAU Xu TYRES
Manufactured from selected rubber compounded
into the famous wear-resisting Perdriau tread,
and built up with ply upon ply of stout British
fabric, these sturdy Perdriau Tyres give long
consistent service and maximum tyre security.
Fit ‘Perdriaus for ginning Economy
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney 122 Flinders St., Melbourne 217 Adelaide St., Brisbane
Grenfell St. and Hindmarsh Sq., Adelaide 212/4 Murray St., Perth
m
isyMii
\
m
% i -
m
1 .
JL
ă
s


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. tke
Vi^rid.
ILs-
S 3 3,
SCHNAP^ 6
N '*\
* *
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
T
m.
m
W /■ .
w,
\\
N
Crt£s r
■Ug
v.bS'^
-co
CROUP ' V
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, eto.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
Of Australian Anthologies
I doubt if any country on earth is blessed
(or cursed) with anthologies as Australia is.
If the United States, for instance, were en-
dowed to the same comparative extent by her
beneficent publishers, she would possess no
less than 400 such offerings of stories and
verse. I can recollect 11 in which I, who am
not exactly conspicuous among the Austra-
lian literati, am represented, and probably
two or three have escaped my mind.
An anthology stands for theft made legal
by solicitation; and for some years now I
have been thinking it was high time Austra-
lian writers got together to put an end to a
shameless and persistent picking of the plums
out of their pudding by a set oi men to wnom
they owe nothing, not even courtesy. I can
safely say that the only times when pub-
lishers have been really affable to me were
when they were begging the use of some set
ot verse or some yarn mat had made a good
public impression, to swell out one of their
pernicious anthologies.
1 dare say there are several authors here
who have been drawn upon even more ruth-
lessly than I by local anthologists working for
apparently impecunious publishers who exer-
cise all the privileges ot a public charity to
get for nothing that from which they hope
to make much. In my own case every
notable thing I have done has been seized
upon with unfailing instinct by these literary
mendicants. In one collection for the bene-
fit of a poor publisher I find no less than 11
sets of verse of mine, ranging in length from
two-thirds of a page to three pages. It
has to be admitted here in all contrition
that I gave permission for the use of samples,
never dreaming, however, that l was Signing
over to a strange man practically perpetual
ownership of a large mass of my literary
goods, contrived with the sweat ot my soul,
and with the object of earning my daily bread.
For long years to come that particular (?)
publisher can go on screwing profits out of
my work, while denying me, so far as his
firm is concerned, the opportunity of col-
lecting one halfpenny on my verses.
It may be worth while to seek to impress
upon the Australian versifier and tale-bearer
that in granting permission to publishers or
their hired gatherers to use his printed stuff
he is doing his utmost towards killing any
chance he might have of seeing his work put
into volume form by any house in Australia.
Barabbas lias set up in business in the Com-
monweath, too, and there is nothing more
certain than that he will never pay for any-
thing while there remains the ghost of a
chance of his getting it for nothing. But
the trouble with writers, especially young-
writers who are turning out the good, fresh,
impulsive stuff that should be as bread upon
the waters, assuring returns for their later,
more toilsome, days is that, in their eager-
ness for publication, they are willing to sign
away their property to any wheedling, bland
tradesman who comes along- offering clear
type, heavy paper and attractive boards.
Because this difficulty is so hard to over-
come I would have a Federal Act restricting
the sale of all anthologies to one year from
the date of issue. I have to confess, too,
that some such vanity, coupled with a fine
consciousness that what I had Alone was of
no account whatever, and not to be con-
sidered in comparison with the magnificent
things I was going to do, made me an easy
victim for the anthologist. The constitu-
tional quality or natural defect I have de-
scribed makes it next to impossible for the
bard or story-writer to look properly after
his own material interests; consequently the
State should look after him, just as it looks
after any other simpleton exposed to the wiles
of the confidence-man.
I am now in the mid-fifties, and have been
writing verse and stories in Australia for 35
years, and only within the past year or so
have I learned to give an emphatic “No”
to the picker-up of unconsidered trifles.
Often he has been a friend, and I have found
myself in the position of either granting the
demand or offending an influential critic,
which also is bad business. But had there
been a body behind me with a kick in it,
I too might have developed something of an
iron will. Such a body is now shaping
itself. An organisation of Australian
authors, to be worked in conjunction with
the Australian Journalists’ Association, is
already breaking through its shell, with the
object of battling in the interests of imagi-
native writers in this country. This is
the most hopeful of some half-dozen Authors'
Societies that have gone as far as an initial
meeting in Melbourne or Sydney at one
time or another, and it will certainly sur-
vive to do good work, possibly even to
convince publishers it is worthier to publish
bards individually for what they are worth
rather than in a cheap, literary hashma-
gandie, called an anthology to give an air
of decency to the wiles of a well-to-do mendi-
cant.
E. D.
The Changeless Service
George Young, whose “New Germany”
was reviewed in this page last year, has now
written Diplomacy]/ Old and Nero (Swarth-
more Press). Young was First Secretary
at the Lisbon Legation when the war began.
Lisbon is unimportant at any time. The
world-war must have made it ridiculous. lie
applied for a transfer, or, that failing, to be
seconded for military service. This caused
him to.. leave, diplomacy and take to writing
about it; and perhaps now he may do his
country some good.
The detailed reforms which he suggests
have no particular interest to Australians.
The Foreign Office as he describes it is quite
as idiotic as it was in Thackeray’s time; and
every European Chancellor seems to be
another Pumpernickel more or less. What
should concern us, however, is the false basis
on which the Empire’s business as regards
foreign relations rests. Article 45 of the
now German Constitution says: “Alliances
and treaties with foreign States concerning
subjects of national legislation require the
consent of the Reichstag.” The power of
the U.S. Senate in foreign affairs was shown
immediately after the Peace Treaty. The
Parliaments of a dozen minor European
States keep a tight hold on those who might
commit them to ruin. But the House of
Commons still stands in this regard where
W. M. Hughes, with his system of adminis-
tration by regulation, is apparently trying
to steer the Australian Parliament in every
regard. It has no say at all on the issue
which is of more importance than all the
others. In Mr. Young’s words :
The Government —that is, the Cabinet —that is,
the Foreign Secretary—that is, the Senior Clerk—-
can decide for the whole Empire issues involving
the prosperity or poverty, the life or death of each
of us, and the honor or disgrace, the unity or dis-
cord of the Empire.
The men who are the repositories of these
vast powers come of an intinitesimally small
class. They must have a certain private
income. They must be suitably nominated,
in the same way as an officer requires to
be nominated in order to join certain crack
cavalry regiments or the Brigade of Guards
or the Rifle Brigade in peace time. They
must be colorless in character; or, anyhow,
subtle enough to conceal for at least the
first 20 years of their official lives any indi-
viduality they may possess. Mr. Young
cites three friends of his wiio were “dropped
or driven out of the service” for stiff-necked
adherence to their principles. One was
“the leading Oxford scholar of his year” ;
another "is now a prominent political re-
former” : a third “has become powerful in
the city.”
It will perturb our own Snowballs and
Heuleys to learn that Diplomacy is highly
popular with Roman Catholics. “There has
been of late,” says Young, “a succession of
Roman Catholic private secretaries, and an
increasing proportion of officials of senior
rank are now of that Church.” The ex-
planation probably is that English Catholic
families have French, Austrian or Italian
relations, and their members are good lin-
guists accordingly : and the Diplomatic Ser-
vice and Foreign Office examinations are
largely matters of fluent precis- writing in
European tongues—an arfr which is not well
taught injßritish public schools.
It is aUsurd that the Dominions —the Com-
monwealth or M.L., say —should have embas-
sies of their own. An embassy implies the
capacity to fight as xvell as negotiate; and
no Dominion can fight single-handed as yet,
or has obtained the consent of the British
electors to commit their fleet and army to
fight for it. Their country’s interests lie in
the direction of some change in London which
will admit of Empire affairs that may in-
volve peace or war being handled by Parlia-
ment.. It may be anomalous —and it is—
that a Parliament with whose election we
have nothing to do should settle for us such
monstrously important concerns; but it is
better than that the thing should be done, as
at present, by some shadowy little man whose
chief qualifications for the job are that he
bears a well-known name and has £lOOO a
year of his own.
J. B. D.
The Child and the Wage
Mr Piddington, K.C., lately Chair-
man of the Commonwealth Basic Wage
Commission, on “The Child and the Wage”
(R.P. 16/6/’2l) -
“5.H.F.,” reviewing my pamphlet, The Next Step,
says that my view is that “the finding of the Basic
Wage Commission was thoroughly bad because the
basis of the inquiry and the determination was thor-
oughly bad.” May 1 say that that is not my view?
The basis oi the inquiry was “the cost of living
of a given family of five persons.” My view is that
the Commission’s finding as to that cost is unassail-
able. What I hold to be thoroughly bad is the
system of legally fixing the cost of living of five
persons as the minimum wage for all adult male
employees. With that system the Commission was
not concerned. To enable the Commission’s finding
to bear fruit when the system was shown to be
unworkable, I proposed, in my unofficial memoran-
dum, to utilise the finding i.e., accord-
ing to the cost of living of the component parts of
the family of five. The Prime Minister’s question
which I thus answered was: “How the said finding
can be made effective so as to secure for every em-
ployee the actual cost of living according to its
true incidence, accepting the finding of £5 16s. as
the actual cost of living for a man, wife and three
children.” Both my memorandum and my pamphlet
had this and no other objective.
“S.H.P.” rightly says that underlying this there
is “the assumption that the cost of living should
he the general basis of payment for a workman's
services.” He contends that the basis of payment
should be the earnings of the worker (the context
shows that by “earnings” is meant value of service
rendered in production). But. is it not the whole
quarrel of labor throughout the world that the
law-free system of wages provides no measuring of
that value, still less any assurance of its payment?
And about that labor is right, whether we speak of
manual or intellectual service. Pasteur’s researches
saved France 200 millions sterling-—what was the
measure of such services, and what did Pasteur get?
The worker thinks he does not get what he produces.
He may be right or wrong, for the evaluation is
never attempted. The controversy is not dealt with
under industrial arbitration, but in Australia the
law of the living wage, which the community will
never ill-advisedly repeal, does stipulate for the
worker at least what it costs him to live in reason-
able comfort. Of course, if the wage is not pro-
duced it cannot be paid. Unfortunately the law has
mistakenly adopted as the domestic unit for the living
wage a family of five persons, and, according to
Mr. Ivnibbs, there is not enough production to meet
the cost of that unit multiplied by the number of
all adult male employees. But the experience of
the Commonwealth since 1907 (the year of the
Harvester wage) shows that if you make the unit
rational in accordance with actual facts, the mini-
mum of reasonable comfort is produced and can be
paid. I have shown (taking values and prices at
November, 1920) that to bring into every worker's
home the reasonable standard of comfort determined
by the Commission, you need (1) a wage for single
and married men alike of £4 per week, and (2) an
endowment of 12s. per week for each child. In
order to provide the endowment a weekly tax of
10s. 9d. per employee must be paid by the employer
(this because the average of children per worker ,is
nine-tenths, and 10s. 9d. is nine-tenths of. 125.).
The question, then, is: Does the production of the
country suffice for this total obligation ot £4 10s.
9d. per employee per week? It is answered thus:
In 1907 the Harvester wage was £2 25., and had
to be paid, and was paid, out of production at the
then values and the then prices. The equivalent of
£2 2s. was in November, 1920, £4 13s. at then
values and then prices. In the intervening 13 years
the country has advanced in produced wealth rela-
tively to population. So that there is the difference
between £4 10s. 9d. and £4 135., and the differ-
ence, whatever that may be, due to increased value
of products, as factors of safety in the proposals put
forward.
To which the reviewer responds:—
Very well, let Mr. Piddington have his own way.
The finding of the Basic Wage Commission was not
“thoroughly bad because the basis of the inquiry
was thoroughly bad.” It was a thoroughly good
finding except that the Commonwealth statist re-
ported that there was not enough money in the
country to put it into effect; except, also, that Mr.
Piddington himself declares that to put it into effect
would be inequitable and disastrous, even if there
were enough money. Whether' the finding as a cost-
of-living finding was good or bad is not the point.
The thing has to be viewed as a basic-wage finding.
If it was good as such, then there was no need for
Mr. Piddington to write his booklet.
However, all that is little better than hair-split-
ting. The big question is whether cost of living is
the proper basis for wage-fixing. If it is, then the
man who exploits the Kanaka or the Hindoo or
any other cheap laborer without regard for the value
of the work he is doing is adopting the right prin-
ciple. The other theory is that a man is entitled
to the fruits of his labor. It is a bad theory for
the exploiter and the loafer, but a good one for
everybody else. It is the only certain incentive to
superior effort and to study. Mr. Piddington was
a school teacher in days when school teachers were
paid a good deal less than they are now —and they
are still not paid enough. To his infinite credit he
worked hard and became something else. It would
cost no more to provide Mr. Piddington with neces-
sary food and clothing were he a school teacher
than it does to do the same services for the chair-
man of the Inter-State Commission. Is the cost of
living a fair basis, then, for fixing the pay of the
chairman of the Inter-State Commission?
What can be and previously was admitted is that it
may be necessary to declare a living wage; . but the.
fewer to whom it applies the better, and then only the
sub-normal. For the great majority the only proper and
rational basis is the value of services rendered in
production—in other words, a man should get what
he earns. Mr. Piddington admits that “if you
make the unit rational in accordance with actual
facts the minimum of reasonable comfort is pro-
duced and can be paid for.”. Which apparently
means that if you take other things into account
when pretending to fix wages according- to the cost
of living, you will not make the determination
absurd. That those “other things” govern and must
govern the situation is what was maintained.
Prose and Poetry
Anton Denning on metrical prose:—
Johannes C. Andersen (R.P. 30/6,”21) writes pro-
foundly of stress, pulsation, etc., without once
stumbling on the obvious difference between poetry
and metrical prose. The former is confined to one
metre at a time (or a regular alternation of metres) ;
the latter is a combination of “lines of poetry’’ in
different metres. It is just this characteristic that
gives metrical prose its haunting, elusive beauty.
And it is remarkable that “blank verse’’ (so mono-
tonous in the accepted syllable forms) only becomes
grateful to the ear when drastic variations of accent
and pause are made; that is, when brought peril-
ously close to the border of rhythmic prose. Blake’s
“Thet” hovers on the verge, in one of the most
unexploited metres of the language. Another minor
difference between these forms is line-length. Poetry
is conventionally confined or cut to a short line, but
the surge of rhythmic prose can often be felt
over a length that would be intolerable in verse.
Swinburne’s jesting, Jong lines—“ Only this oracle
opens Olympian in mystical moods and triangular
tenses.”.... “Life is the lust of a lamp for the
light that is dark till the dawn of the day when
we die”—sound forced and mechanical compared
with the long line of metric prose: “Night it is—
now sing louder all springing wells. And my soul
is a springing well. Night it is—now all songs of
the loving wake. And my soul is the song of a
loving one.” “J.C.A.’s” long and involved analysis
of ff’cCent in prose simply amounts to this truism,
familiar to everyone who has practised reading aloud:
newspaper prose cannot be grouped into pleasing
sequences of syllables because words are employed
whose natural accent occurs at the wrong spot in
the poetic “line.” But, if a set of words occurs
which falls dose to one or other of the accepted
variations of metre, the ear picks it out instinc-
tively. De Quincey for pages falls into line after
line of pure varying metre, as do Sir Thomas
Browne, the orators (remember Ingersoll), and much
descriptive prose. Who lias not been haunted by
“The nightingale was not yet heard, for the rose was
not yet blown”? The rhythm-faculty must be in-
stinctive, as it occurs naturally in children. How
wonderful their correction of faulty nursery-rhyme
by pause and stress! And their speech is naturally
rhythmic. A grown-up would say severely “Mar-
jorie has no boots on,” but to a child it becomes a
barbaric chant: “Mar- jorie’s got no boots on! Mar-
jorie’s got no boots on !” the accent on the
negative sacrificed in an effort to hammer a
rhythm out of the bare prose. Perhaps if we could
see into the minds of our other domestic animals we
might find a similar appreciation of metre. 1 have
often thought that the scornful aloofness of the avef;
age cat must be due to the terrible prose that re-
bounds off his ears daily.
“Wart”: Why didn’t Governor Paterson deserve
the honor of having a city like Launceston named
after him (B. 23/0/’21)? He made a bigger success
of the Northern Tasmanian settlement than was
made at either Sydney or Hobart. It was the first
settlement in Australia to become self-supporting.
Paterson was a friend of Sir Joseph Banks, and was
the first to collect and describe much Tasmanian
flora and fauna, including the Tasmanian tiger. He
explored the country, and planted trees every-
where he went. But, above all, he mined, at West
Arm, the first iron in Australia. The ore was sent
to the Cold Country and smelted'at the Portsmouth
dockyards.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
Hbrolir^
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
Itte” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building:
built of weatherboard and roofed with
Iron or tiles.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age. is fire-
resistant. white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing' to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send
for full information.
Write for Free Catalogue li.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
SBl-3 kittle Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
This Trio
Sheep, Cattle, Pigs at market
Are you a Wixichcombe-Carson sender? If
not try the firm with your next draft
Consign
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Results provide a profitable proof of
Winehcombe, Carson's success as selling
agents.
[i
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing—a memory of the homeland.
7ENOBIA
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom— the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock—
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only)
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
śf
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasias Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
CuUrulia Chambers,
Castlereasrh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Berth
G
0
m
£
VUGS
Am 16
/£
i
- •
X\'
£S£
£S
Washable and Waterproof
Why bother with sweeping
and beating carpets when
these durable printed rugs
are quite as attractive and
so easy to keep clean ?
Think of it! All you need
is a damp mop.
In addition to their beauty they
have two features that make friends
for them on sight They lie flat on
the floor without fastening—they
cannot be kicked up at the edges.
They come in a variety of patterns
—to harmonise with any color
scheme —to satisfy that “hard-to-
please ” shopper.
See that every rug you buy bears
the Gold Seal guarantee.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. X 12 ft. 9 ft. X 10 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 9 ft
9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
Sole Australian Representatives
GUARANTEE
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
There's a dreamland phase of beaut} 7 ,
When dame Xature gems her crown
With the glory of the autumn,
As the leaves 1 turn golden-brown.
But it brings a sense, with sadness,
Of grey winter to endure,
Which would banish all our gladness,
But for Woods' Great Peppermint Cure.
Adtt.
I!®!
"'AMTS IKVH' 0 '
ZJ
7* , **'l Uii tfi
N*.. :•
ViTii'ii i i n » t-m
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCK* MALTED MILKC?
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Business, Robbery
HUME PIPI
CONCRETE
“Am' : Our suburb boasts an “antiscep-
tic” barber; but he’s cut no unbeliever's
throat —yet.
* » * *
“Friday Island”: The price of camphor
has increased 700 p.e. in six years. This
is largely due to the Japs having a mono-
poly of the industry, the home of which is
in Formosa. As camphor trees grow well
in Australia what’s wrong with establish-
ing Australian industry V
‘‘Zanthus’’: The Postal Department does
not encourage morbid curiosity about the
bad old days. The other day a volume of
the “Historical Records of Australia” was
sent from Melbourne to Sydney, with Is. 3d.
in stamps on it. The Department collected
another Is. Id. before it was released, or
2s. for carrying one book 500-odd miles.
“Riom”: While waiting my turn at the
local hairdresser’s I was astonished at the
variety of names given by customers for a
packet of cigarettes. I heard “tigs,” “nails,”
“fags,” “Nearer my God to Thee’s,” “an Aus-
tralian XI,” “smokes,” “gaspers,” “two
drors and a spit,” and “single to Rookwood.”
The attendant never hesitated, so I presume
these are all common terms.
“Bi-cuspid”: An Adelaide man was re-
cently awarded £4O damages for two teeth
which were wrongfully extracted. As a
result local dentists have decided not to
hand back molars to patients. Frequently
a person racked with toothache commands a
dentist to remove a certain tooth which is
perfectly sound, the ache being on the oppo-
site jaw, but the patient swears that he
knows 'just where the trouble is, and insists
on a good tooth going overboard. If such
a person takes the tooth from the surgery
the dentist provides a possible litigant with
a valuable piece of evidence.
- * * #
J. B. Cramsie, Deputy Chairman of the
Metropolitan Meat Industry Board (N.S.W.)
writes: Lie the use of tallow for launch-
ing ships (B. 16/6/’2l), not only have we
exported tallow to Hong Kong for this pur-
pose, but the following have been launched
from Cockatoo Island with the use of the
special launching tallow manufactured at
the State abattoirs, Ilomebush Bay:
Cruisers Brisbane and Adelaide, destroyer
Swan, collier Biloela, coal-storage vessel
Mombah and Titan pontoon, as well as the
Commonwealth steamers Eudunda and Dun-
dula. We understand that the tallow gave
the very best results.
“Ears”: The new sound-amplifying instru-
ments, one of which Hughes employs at
Parliament House, are modern marvels that
are going to work wonders. Recently in
Washington (U.S.A.) one of the instru-
ments was applied to the chest of a man in
one room, and men elsewhere in the same
building listened to his heart-beats. In Mel-
bourne, riot long age, a demonstration with
similar instruments was given in a lecture
before a gathering of scientists, and tin*
ticking of a watch was heard as though a
giant clock was at work. We are but a
short step from being able to sit back in
Dingo Creek and listen to Billy Hughes
spouting in England. Can the benefactors
of Science go further?
* * * *
“Gum”: If “Bill o’ Costs” (B. 3G/G/’2l)
says his client paid five guineas for having
a will fixed, then clients in his State are
more liberal than they are in Vic. In one
case recently I took instructions for a will,
quoting 10s., which was paid. I then sub-
mitted a draft by post and received it back,
altered. I had it engrossed and, to suit the
client’s convenience, made an appointment
to complete it at my office at 9 p.in. When
he called he wanted further alterations,
necessitating re-engrossment. I re-engrossed
by band, and at 10 p.m. searched the buildings
in the street for a second witness and finally
discovered a broker’s clerk working back.
Having the will completed the client thanked
me and added: “This should be worth a bit
more.” and gave me 2s. He was worth
t’s(¥)o. too.
HIS LPHAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poor .Johnnie Crone was in this life
A servitor to Cow,
Xo time to him for child or wife
Did Strawberry allow.
For long as he remembered those
Four-cornered brutes had held lib nose
Hard to the grindstone. Ne’er had he
Seen faintest hope of liberty.
Dragged at the ruthless heels of Cow
He rose before tire sun ;
He got hi.s meals somewhere, somehow,
And milking one by one
He saw the morning pass away,
And then to end a heavy day
In frozen slush with bitter pain
Me milked the wretched tilings again.
He carted milk, and washed the pails,
And drove the calves about,
And then lie mended posts and rails
To keep them in or out;
And many times ’tween bed and bed
The greedy poddies must be fed.
The weariness few understand
Of bringing poddies up by hand.
He died, they say, at forty-two.
His grave is just hard by,
And animal.- have wandered through
Where broken panels lie;
And where the tall green grasses wav*
Sleek milkere feed upon his grave.
Herr Lies Jons OnoxE,
the stone avows.
I sadly add
STILL FEEDING COWS!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


V
€ -
v
%
m
1
V
William *A-Hill
WORLD'S WHITE JU-JITSU CHAMPION
ian
euL,
mllW
r.v,
•///.
V* /
/
I i i
I Hl*
j 111 mi
' I 111 nil
I l I
l I
am
I I I
Ulll
f maim
iviaiiw
ißlMiran
iiTiniSi
!
,
Vs\s'
TO
ETR
tin<*
mt
&
CO**
<>-7
S
RE E C
Efi
£AN&
LTD
O?
SnmiiHtfi
Strengthen
Men and Women
The letter of testimony, facsimile of which
is here reproduced, is most weighty proof
of the value of Sedna,” for supplying
bodily vigor and vim, wherewith to
carry on.’* It is important to notice,
too, that Mrs. Hill (professionally known as Miss Edna Davies), the
world’s greatest woman ju-jitsu exponent and holder of 126 medals,
altogether endorses her husband’s approval.
If YOU feel the strain of life’s battle, act immediately on the above
recommendation! Drink
HI
S/A
m
m
i El sit
1
o
□
Sfti 0
fc
£
-
.IJI/S
SSS
a
HB
f®2
a
It will revive and strengthen the wasted or overworked system,
help to make good red blood, and put vim and zest into your
whole being.
»
For ladies, especially, Sedna ’ can be heartily recommended as a
bracing and strengthening tonic without rival.
Obtainable from All Cbemists and
Stores throughout Australasia.
Distributors for Vic., H T ,A., Q’lanrf, ft.A, and Broken Hill: B. Seppelt & Sons, Ltd,
a.S.W John \\ oods & Co., Sydney. Tasmania: Gardner, McKenzie, Ltd., Launceston.
Mqq
l3e Bou rk
ar «: B
S3 * ti * 3n a °/s% 0 .
g.lU.'
Sqslj.
Sirs
o/i} ajQ ah
S *ip 7® fc 0 „
S'i'eat / °*e ®Wu £»?*•***« un,
. f °r ae^eo/A,* 0 J-oa ed
£**& f * Ce ° n , 4 S ° A b C ,>W°
£? e <?uajji®* bui??*** to\°P erea? ha $
3f t&sZiZr’si-’S’&r a.
p Qaa fu * * Te shp^ u
n 'Prof**'. ner
r ° Ge *na


■' -■■■■■ •
iMM
7^
r.
7
max®
A
:
'A
t f:
■
m
m
£3
i
;
to
m
mm
HOW TO CURE CROUP
The first indication of croup is hoarseness, which
is quickly followed by a rough, rasping cough.
Give Chamberlains Cough Remedy at once, or even after
the croupy cough appears, and it will prevent the attack.
Certain relief and the sole reliance of thousands
of mothers is found in Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Gran ny Chamb erl ai n
copyr-ichted
s
Dodge Brothers
MOTORCAR
It is always bought because of its known
value and its after economies. You
rarely hear its price mentioned.
Remarks about its low cost and long
service are much more frequent.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
%
-jr
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. Standardised Motors, Limited, Sydney.
Cheney Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
Determined on drastic economy, Federal
Parliament House authorities have sacked a
liftman —and added a clerk at the table.
Another record. Of the Abbott family, of
Wingham and Dungog (N.S.W.), the father,
three sons and one daughter have been
operated on for appendicitis.
One of the early City Fathers was called
to mind recently when Resrina'd W. Wright,
of Rose Park (S.A.), handed the Adelaide
< 'ouncil a portrait of his father, the late
Edmund William Wright, who was the
mayor of the city in 1850. The old-timer,
incidentally a relation of Lord Napier of
Magda la, was Adelaide's leading architect
t;0 years ago, and he designed the present
Town. Hall.
Judge Parsons, of South Aus., on a sug-
gestion by counsel that the “third degree”
method of interrogation might, have been
employed by the Adelaide police: ---
If any case comes before me in which it is shown
that there has heen anv attempt on the part of
any officer of the poli.ee to disgrace his uniform and
his calling by resorting to the abominable American
practice of terrorising accused persons. I shall con-
demn it with all the power I can command.
The weary old squabble in the Anglican
Church in South Aus. is likely to have a
funeral. The “charges” made by the Bishop
against Canon Wise for high-church prac-
tices have been held over for a long time,
and now Cleland, 1v.C.,. as Church Advo-
cate, announces that the Bishop has in-
structed him not to go on. The two church-
men have had a private correspondence, and
now seem to think there’s room inside for
both.
Now that a bishop has been marooned
there the citizens of Flinders Island, the
largest specklet in Bass Strait, think some-
thing may at last be done about their lament-
able steamer service. l)r. Ilay, the Angli-
can gaiters of the Speck, went there in the
Dolphin, but the steamer forgot to come back
or something, and eventually the apron
escaped in a police launch. And then, of
course, Dr. Hay said quite emphatically that
the people of Flinders Island were not
getting a fair deal from the Government.
Prompted by the Country Roads Board
the Vic. Government is again nibbling at
legislation to raise the registration fees on
cars above 25 h.p. \Y hen Arthur Robinson,
now Attorney-General, tried to levy higher
rates in 1918 to get a few thousands more
towards road-construction, he found the
opposition too much for him. It may be
the same again, though if it comes to mere
argument the advocates of the higher tax
will win. Three times out of four the big-
powered car which whizzes over the roads
of a shire doesn't buy even a pint of beer
within its boundaries.
The N. 8. Wales Government has struck
another snag—about its hundredth. Sixteen
more Sydney and suburban pubs were ordered
to close, and the law says that compensation
must be paid 21 days before the closing date.
But some at least of the money hasn’t been
paid, by reason whereof 12 Bungs applied
at the end of .Tune for a renewal of their
licenses. They were refused, so they may
make trouble for the distracted Government,
which seems to be behind with everything
save its own increased salary. When the
matter came up Dooley was at Coonamble
stating that all his troubles arose through
“the awful work of cleaning up the condition
of affairs left by the Nationalist Govern-
ment.” Dooley’s own concern is now well
into its second year; but apparently it isn’t
going to be responsible for anything even if
it lives to be a hundred.
“Doctor lodine” : Recently died, of miner’s
phthisis, at Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.),
William Leighton, who formerly worked a
quartz gold-mine near Mudgee (N.S.W.)
with his two brothers. All three have gone
out to the same complaint within 12 months.
The dust associated with the work sets up
pneumokoniosis (or thickening of the frame-
work tissue of the lungs), thus lessening the
lung’s resistance to the action of the tubercle
bacillus. A fortune awaits the inventor of
a respirator that Will filter the air and at the
same time not impair the working efficiency
of the wearer. The only alternative is
vigorous spraying to keep down the dust.
It is a gigantic economic problem, since
pneumokoniosis is the bedrock trouble com-
mon to stone-masonry, mining, rockchopping,
etc.
“Lex” on Divorce and Society :
The war flooded England with couples who had
married in haste, and a carnival of divorce followed.
Partly in order to cope with the new conditions,
Lord Buckmaster introduced a Bill in the Lords per-
mitting the granting of a divorce on five new
grounds. (The old ones had been adultery in the
case of a woman, adultery plus cruelty in that of
a man.) The Anglican Church began to take notice.
In England the Anglicans and the Roman Catholics
are the fashionable people—the ones who go to
Court- —and neither Church had even thought of coun-
tenancing divorce. Catholicism, being an all-or-no-
thing kind of creed, has always been in a position
to take up an authoritarian attitude here. Not so
Anglicanism. The clergy of the Established Church
found that by refusing to re-marry the divorced they
were not only losing fees but cutting into their
already exiguous congregations. Most of the rejects
immediately either joined one of the dissenting
churches or dropped church-going altogether. To
meet this Sir Edward Clarke, K.C., made a strong
appeal at the London Diocesan Conference in May
for the recognition by the Church of the principle
that a Christian marriage is capable of being dis-
solved. He was beaten. The Anglican Church re-
fused to marry the Duke of Marlborough a few weeks
later, and he had to get a Yankee cleric to do it in
Paris. The duchess was similarly rebuffed last week,
and she had to re-marry in a registry office. There
are two divorced dukes and three divorced duchesses
in London at the moment, all of whom had their
little unpleasantness during the war, and all 0
whom have married again. In addition, there aie
scores of lesser social lights in a similar position.
Now, hitherto, the Court, like the Established Churc ,
has refused to recognise divorce. That is to say,
no divorced person, innocent or otherwise, may be
received there. But divorce in a country like n S
land, where there are more than 1,000,000 excess
females of a reproductive age, may be meritorious from
the national point of view. In any case, neither mon-
archy nor the Established Church is strong enough to
stop it, as has been clearly shown by recent e■ en s,
and unless both the English institutions make up
their minds to accept it as part of the national life,
the Sovereign will presently know very few of
own peers, and the national church w
more empty pews.


m
zs
W
i
Y\>NC/fc
a
ca<7;
i
*c C
s-o
a-*
■: 12
THE QUICKEST WAY
to get to the Grocer’s according to the facetious
small boy is to RUN.
And when you arrive the quickest and safest way
to get the Cheese that will please, is to say—
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
The outdoor worker, the busy business man, the
women-folk and even the children praise this
appetising sandwich spread.
It has a flavour that hits a warm spot on every
palate, whilst as an aid to digestion, it is highly
recommended.
“Rex” Cheese is sold by all grocers in handy tins.
No other is as good. Sold Everywhere.
Packed by-FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 867
»
I
\STLf
e e
*3
Jl
SHIRTS
and PYJAMAS
These features--Quality
Materials—ample sizes—
re-inforced neckbands—
double seams and gus-
sets which combined
give long life and hard
wear.
Ask for Thistle
Brand Shirts
and Pyjamas,
and do not ac-
cept substitutes
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
SCRUTTONS LIMITED
SUPPLY EVERYTHING ENGINEERING.
For Every Branch of the Engineering Trade, Supplies can be furnished from Stock, whether for
Factory, Mine, Engine-room or Machine-shop. Send us your Inquiries.
Anvils
Belts, all kinds
Belts, Balata
Brushes, Foundry, etc.
Blades, Hacksaw
Ratchet Braces
Brass, Sheets, Bars
Blocks, Plummer
Blocks, Snatch
Blocks and Chains
Blowers. Blocks, Swage
Bears, Punching
Bolts and Nuts—
all shapes and sizes.
Compound, Albany
Compound, Case Hardening
Chucks, all kinds
Crucibles, Chain
Chisels, all kinds
Carriers, Lathe
Collars, Couplings
Cutters, Milling
Drills
Dies, all threads
Expanders, Tube
Engines, Vertical & Horizontal
Fittings, G.M. Engine of every
description
Water, Steam. Gas
Files
Gratings, Quartz
Grease, Axle
Governors
Hammers, Hose
Hangers
Handles, Hammer, Pick
Iron Bars and Sheets
Angles, Hoops
Injectors
Insertion, Packing
Irons, Water Tue
Irons, Soldering
Indicators, Speed
Jacks, all sorts
Lamps, Wells
Lubricators
Laces, Belts
Letters, Steel
Ladles, Lead
Muntz Metal
Nails, Nuts
Oils
White and Red Lead
Pumps, Steam “Snow”
Hand, large variety
Plumbago
Pipe, Copper, Brass, Steam,
Water, Gas
Pulleys, Wood, C. 1., Wrought
Iron, Steel
Packing
Rivets, all sorts
Rope, Wire Manila
Shovels, Spikes
Saws, Circular, Vertical,
Band, etc.
Spanners
Studs
Shafting
Set Screws
Screws, Wood, etc.
Stocks and Dies
Tongs, Pipe
Tools, Engineers’, Blacksmiths’,
etc.
Tools, Starrat’s
Taps, Whit, and Gas
Tubes, Boiler
Traps, Steam
Valves, all sorts
Wheels, Emery
Wheels, Truck
Washers, Wrenches
Wire, Brass, etc.
Waste, Cotton
Zinc
MODERN MACHINE TOOLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
See our Showrooms. The largest stock of Modern Machinery under one roof in Australia.
We Specialise in Power Transmission Equipment.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
THe Engineers* Depot,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dept. G.


Cs>
Prevent Failing Hair
With Cuticura Shampoos
The first thing to do in restoring dry,
thin and falling hair is to get rid of
dandruff, itching and irritation of the
scalp. Rub Cuticura Ointment into
the scalp, especially spots of dandruff
and itching. Next morning shampoo
with Cuticura Soap and hot water.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.6d.,Ointment Is. and 2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress : R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
li# Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
OOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Whilst mortals vainly probe and con
To learn their goal sublime,
The wheels of fate roll darkly on
Adown the aisles of time'
True happiness is found on earth
When we vain hopes abjure,
And seek the aid that proves the worth
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
Oi
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
It will pay you •
The convenience and economy gained,
together with the constant pleasure
derived • from healthy exercise, make
the purchase of a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings a paying
investment. Reliability and service
are the leading features for which
these machines are famous, and make
them invaluable for business or
pleasure. Look for the B.S.A. trade
mark on your new bicycle.
V
A
B.S.A.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
» »t*rrhattgeable.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.) ,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ŝf
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHKISTOIP HE H
JOHNSON & CO., nt their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy' shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is the
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputatilon.
CJ
e
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Ijonghurst/, 50 York Street, Sydney.
sf
sf
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
W r hite, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft. 12ft.
8-plait .. 10/- 11/6 13/- 14/6 17/6 21/6eaeh.
12-plait .. 13/- 15/- 17/- 20/- 22/6 26/6 „
16-plait . . 15/- 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/6 30/- „
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note or Money Order payable to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.
The Big- Ironmbngers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
m
i
mw,
Qj
a
i
&
res
Jkjaxte
<&
Reduced Prices
EFFECTIVE Ist JULY, 1921
Covers Tubes
Others in Proportion
Colo Covers and Tubes are
Guaranteed 4000 Miles
Your Garage can supply
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office: 5-7 Barrack St.,Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
The Smoker’s Delight
A man's pipe that meaures up
to a man’s ideal of what a pipe
should be—that’s the GBD. Made
of genuine French Briarwood,
thoroughly matured and shaped
by experts.
Satisfaction is assured when you
buy a
GBD
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Adelaide has surprised itself by having
two women-judges for the Walking Club’s live-mile
run on the Oval-and-Zoo course. (t; was a trial
preliminary to the State championship, and, being
won by at least 25yds., put no great strain on
the tape-holders.
»■*.**
The old outcry about the stiffness of the
Knglish Grand National steeplechase course broke
out fiercely again this year, after only one of
the 35 starters had got round without mishap.
* * * *
Tat ter sail's Club in Adelaide has decided
to stop one tax on winning owners, at any rate. The
winner of Tatt.’s Cup this year was a lady, and her
husband, providing “wine” on her behalf in the Club
rooms later, said she would give next year’s cup.
Chairman “Faratoo” McLachlan politely declined the
offer, and it is supposed that other clubs will follow
suit. The present custom means in effect that each
winner pays the cost of the trophy he wins, and it
is a tax that some cannot afford. Country clubs are
special sinners in this line; the cup is sometimes
handed to Smith with a brief speech, praising the
generosity of Jones, last year’s winner, in providing
it, and Smith needs a cast-iron hide to ignore the
implied demand.
* * * •
“Nemo”: In view of the proposed visit of
a team of American amateur boxers to Australia next
year it is to be hoped that some new local amateurs
will be unearthed. The present, crop is horrible. At
the last N.S.W. amateur championships Harry Young
won the featherweight championship and was easily
tlie cleverest boy in his division. He joined the pros.
At the Hippodrome the other night he was
opposed to Peter Woods in a six-round go. Woods
was a couple of pounds lighter and is as slow as a
hearse with a broken axle. Young outpointed the
enemy for the first couple of rounds, but Woods
started to worry him in the third, and in the fourth
had him down a couple of times as the result of
wild right swings to the jaw. Ultimately the referee
put the new pro. out of his misery. And he was
an amateur champ.!
* * * *
“Det Selloc” : There was a point’s differ-
ence between the teams at tbreequarter-time; and
the argument on the hill between the little long-
faced man and the big sallow chap with white eye-
brows had just about reached combustion point. “Me
one-eyed?” exclaimed the fierce little man. “Why,
you ain’t a blankety blank man’s bootlace! ” The
large one glared down at him, and spat contemptu-
ously. "Aw, fer Gawd’s sake shut up.” The little
man half-dazedly realised that the other had spat
on his boot. “Gawdblimey, I’ll ’ave a bit er yeh!”
he said. In a flash he deposited his greasy headgear
in the arms of a startled onlooker; then he hooked
out a set of false teeth, and dropped them into the
palm of a horrified old gentleman with snow-white
whiskers and low-hanging shirt-cuffs. “Come on!”
he yelled to the large man— “l’m, stripped!” For-
tunately some one intervened, and he was saved. But.
it was too late to do anything for the tidy little old
man with the white whiskers and the shirt-cuffs.
* * * *
“A Distracted Sub-editor”: The cricket
expert at the London end takes a lot of knowledge
here for granted. He sends, “Macartney specially
brilliant late cuts square leg.” and this, coming-
through at 2 a.m.. is quite likely to get a “to”
(instead of the necessary “and”) inserted after
“cuts.” Similarly “third man fine leg” gets a
technically ridiculous “placed at” written into the
middle of it. Then the eableman goes home to bed,
and the day sub-editor comes on, to face the jeers
of a city which can talk cricket in its sleep. No
dcubt an expert ought to sit up all night for this
special cable, but somehow the proprietors don’t
arrange for that. And now comes golf, with another
special vocabulary of its own: and it is the very
devil, with its “haffy” and “socceted” and “mashie”
(which last the cable itself lately called “massive”).
Further, this cabling is evidently done by a golfer
who chooses to use the extreme slang of the game,
making a player “sink” the ball if In form, or “find
a pothole” if out of luck. In a difficulty with a
tent-peg Kirkwood “pluckily took ,vood”—and had
50 Australian newspaper men wondering if they
could decently fetch the secretary of the local goif
club out of bed to explain. Perhaps the best thing
finding its way into print so far was about the fine
round that included 6 threes, one of them at the
long loth, which measures 450. This in one paper
became a proud boast that “Kirkwood hit a 6. three
of which, at the loth hole, measured 450yds.”
* * * *
Stumbler, winner of the hurdle race on
the second day of the Grand National meeting,
is by Positano. the father of Poseidon, who sired
Gold Coin and Telecles, two recent winners that
ran second and third in the G. N. Hurdle. In his
earliest day at the stud Poseidon begat a National
winner in Rathfarnham, and the wonder is that
he was not more generally recognised as a getter
of natural jumpers. It is in the blood. Jumping
is not so much a matter of conformation as a matter
of intelligence. Many nags that show' no aptitude
when put at the hurdles are as suitably built as
the “natural” jumpers. If there be a turn for
leaping in the Poseidon strain it is because he was
a specially intelligent racer, bandy in a big field
and quick to see a chance of pushing through with-
out needing to be steered by the jockey. Horses
at the best are not clever creatures, otherwise they
wouldn’t work as they do, but some have twice as
much horse-sense as others, and Poseidon was one
of the brainiest. So was Carbine. The Carbine blood
has been to the fore ip steeplechasing through Car-
binier. a son of Carbine and Barley, who sired,
among other G. N. Steeple winners, the best jumper
seen on the Flemington course within the past dozen
years, the mare w'hose individual leaps, positively
wonderful wiien she happened to take off a trifle too
far, sometimes fetched a round of applause from
the crowd—Leah Klescbna. Carbine had a full mea-
sure of horse-sense, and it’s horse-sense that makes
the difference, as a rule, between a “clever” jumper
and a muff at the game.
* * • *
Hannah’s next attempt to get a Totalisa-
tor Bill through the Vic. Assembly should prove a
winner if properly backed up by the racing tiubs,
but meantime the bookmakers, with their “conces-
sion” system, are doing their best to blunt the edge
of public demand for the machine. The time seems
to be coming when the non-concession bookies will be
very few. Already the men who lay “for a place”
only are beginning to look thoughtful. The starved
odds offered by the “place” men in the ordinary way
are less attractive than the concession man’s prices.
In the one case there is practically no chance for a
small punter to have a. decent win. He plays for
safety without any ambition to make a score. In
the other case the punter doubtless gets a bit the
worst of the deal, as compared with straight-out
price, when his fancy wins (otherwise there wouldn’t
be so many old books following the concession lead),
but the punter in this case likewise plays for a
measure of safety, whilst leaving himself with a
chance to be on the winner at reduced odds. He can
occasionally get, say, 10 to 1 with a concession about
a possible winner in a field of 10 or 12, when the
place layers are not offering more than 5 to 2
against his fancy. He has the choice between (1)
trying to win 50 shillings on a £ investment, and
(2) trying to win £lO and lose nothing in the
event of his fancy being beaten into a place only.
In either ease he loses liis £1 if the animal finishes
out of a place. Between the two chances he is likely
to choose the more exciting. A very crafty apology
for totalisator betting is the concession system, in-
vented by a keen calculator since the machine was
legalised in N. S. Wales. It certainly does reduce
the gambling evil as regards the small punter. It
lends an element of caution to his speculation. It
becomes possible for him to take odds about a loser
in every race, or two losers, without being a pound
out at the end of the day. Which is almost as satis-
factory to the punting spirit as the experience of
having backed every blessed winner for a place only,
at something less than a fourth of the quoted odd*.
(Continued on page 38.)


w 7
Sr-
l
aW.\v
V>
iier
your
TcSvmv ,
Queensland
The Riviera of Australia,
Melbourne to Cairns —via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter;
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Levuka,
Wyandra, Bombala, Wodonga.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave "Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.:—
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-V
"C
if
tWI
"x
r
j
B
F? t
An afternoon spoilt by a painful Corn
WHEN a painful corn upsets
your »ame, just remember
this: The way to end the
annoyance is simple, safe and
sure.
Get a “Blue-Jay” Plaster and
wrap it over the corn. You can
then resume your game, because
the pain stops instantly. Then,
while you enjoy your fun, “Blue-
Jay” will cure that corn, which
can soon be lifted out—for good.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific, prepara-
tion. The man who produced it
had made a life study of surgical
dressings. Note the illustration
below.
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the pain.
The wax, marked “B,” acts on the
com alone, and nowhere else. “C”
is a rubber-coated, moisture-proof
tape, which adheres snugly and
securely.
ai.j.i.pa’apg
Bt-snia
1/6
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS,
in Packet .
4 in Packet
All Good Chemists will supply
THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLE MAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
We Specialise in the Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping Machinery
and Complete Installations
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent
under guaranteed efficiencies for
W aterworKs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
vmir
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd-
PERTH*
Brown & Dnrean Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Decked,
Fenchiirch Street.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct, (Jolt! Patent Expanding.
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement/ com-
pensation balance, £B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £«/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, loot.
Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’. Oct. Gold
Links, 20/-; heavier,
25/-, 30/-. iSct.
Gold, £2, £2/10/-,
£3/10/-. Flat, Con-
cave or Convex.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Open-face
Kevlees Lever, compensation balance, non-
magnetic brequet time spring, f-plate move-
ment, £2. Higher Grades, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders' Four-
Stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders' Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Tablet
Ring, 15/-
15ct. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart secret-snap-and-
joint Bracelet, £2. Lighter, 30/-; heavier,
£2/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fancy Diamond Bar Brooch. 15ct Gold
£5/10/-
A. Saunders
Single-stone Diamond Bar Brooch, loot
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders 15et. Gold Bar Brooch, Diamond, Cut,
White, Fink or Green Stone, Beal Pearls, £2/10/-
A. Suumlei s loot. Uv,,u Bar Brooch, Diamond, Cut,
Wliite, Pink or Green Stone, Beal Pearls, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Spray and
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, loot. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Spray and
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, loct. Gold,
£2.
ffs, A.MDNOCRS
a —■ & i
mm
WJt
A. Saunders’ Lady's Wristlet Strap Watch, Oct. Gold,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-. Silver Cases,
£2, £2/10/-. Gunmetal Cases, 25/-, 30/-,
40/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders'
9et. Gold Soft
collar Bars,
7/6.
Stone set,
10/6.
A. Saunder.’ Fine
Diamond, Boat-
shape Ring, ISot.
Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring. ISct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’a Oct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
Lady’s Size, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, 30/-,
40/-. Silver Ca«e, £3, £3/10/-. Gold-filled
/•< t* f /-i f 4? 51 4£ £* / 1 / _
Cases, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. Gold Cases,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 30/,
loot. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nickel Hunting, Keyless Lever
movement, £2/15/-. Extra jewelled, £3.
Silver Cases, £4/10/-, £5,. £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/10/«;
Heavier, £(}, £O/10/- to £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO. £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
THE ECONOMY OF
MECHANICAL DRYING.
Rapid and efficient drying is an essential
feature in the large-scale production of many
Australian manufactures. Not only is time
saved in fulfilling orders, but there is also a
valuable economy of space where a compact
drying plant handles your material expediti-
ously, regardless of weather conditions.
Even when the product itself needs no drying there is often on the wrappers
and labels a moist adhesive, which must be dried quickly to save time in
despatch and also to prevent damage to contents of package.
“Ideal Radiators and
“Vento" Hot Blast Heaters
can be adapted to practi-
cally every drying need.
Temperatures, humidities
and air circulation can be
accurately adjusted for the
treatment of even the xnost
difficult products.
A “Vento” Battery—3 rows
deep—similar to that shown
in the illustration at the right,
will heat air travelling
through it at a velocity of
1000 feet per minute from
an initial temperature of 60
degrees to a delivery tem-
perature of 120 degrees,
using steam at 51b, pressure.
A lower velocity, a higher
steam pressure or a larger
“Vento” Battery will result
in delivery temperatures up
to 220 degrees or more.
mi *
I
&
Encased Battery of “Vento” Heaters with fan.
“VENTO”
Hot Blast
Heater.
Mechanical Drying covers a
wide field. Here are just a
few examples:—
Leather
Timber
(Including the difficult hard-
woods)
Chocolates
Pastilles
Drugs
Macaroni
Paint & Varnish Work
Oilskins
Foodstuffs
Laundry Work
Write us about your drying problem. We will
gladly send suggestions and sketches to suit
your particular requirements. The simplest
and smallest plants, as well as the most elaborate,
require careful design, and OUR ADVICE IS
FREE.
JOHN
G SON - IPiy. Lid
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“IDEAL”
Low Pressure
Boiler.


Amusements.
SY I) N E Y’S CHI E F THEATRES.
J. o. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
lIER MAJESTY’S.
THE LITTLE WHOPPER.
CRITERION.
MASKS AND FACES.
ROYAL.
ADAM AND EVA.
PALACE.
50,000 MILES WITH THE PRINCE.
T it If, A T II K S
yMO N I* ICTi; l£
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL FALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
IIKU MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A PIQUANT, UNUSUAL MUSICAL PLAY,
OH, LADY, LADY!
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plan at Allan's. Prices as usual.
K
IN(,’S THEATRE. VI F I It O V R \ It.
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
BAILEY and GRANT present MARIE TEMPEST
and GRAHAM BROWNE in HUBERT HENRY
DAVIS’S Greatest London Comedy Success,
COUSIN KATE.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE
AI no SYDNEY.
DB LUXE, BOURiyt STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Hndirel
CONWAY TEARLE in
SOCIETY SNOBS.
Also
monro Salisbury in
HIS DIVORCED WIFE.
Prices as usual.
Allan wilkie siiakspeabban
PRODUCTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
SEASON, JULY 18 to AUGUST 1.
Australasian Representative: HUGH I). WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Position Vacant.
ECHUCA TECHNICAL SCHOOL.
A PPLICATIONS, furnishing full particulars and
i *- returnable on Ist August next, will be received
from those qualified for the position of Engineering
Assistant in the above school —salary £2,32- £324
per annum.
Successful applicant will be expected to take
charge of classes in Mathematics (se.nor school) .and
Junior Science, as prescribed for Technical Schools
in the Departmental Syllabus, and to commence
duty on Ist September.
V. E. de HUGARD, Secretary.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Sutpi.y—
JARHAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood/ Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B n i 1 d e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
I’]NNICKS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
AuiUMfiiieiiit.
Ql,aClAIt 1 li M, M IS LliOU It X IS.
ICE SKATING.
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
THE LATEST AND REST IN
MOTION I*l< "I (T!ES.
Continuous ScssiSns.
Amusements.
jyg.V.iKS'i 1C TIUJATKE, .MEJASOL UNIS
COMMENCING NEXT SATUIiOAY.
LOUISE GLAUM in
LOVE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
y| Kl.lt A Til EAT lit.. MEUiUtIINK.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
tie productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGIiAPH, PATHE,
DIM |1 and SI.I.ZNK E.
Leuul Notice.
riV) RHODA MAY COBHAM (wee
JL Wilkins), formerly of Woolooga, in
State of Queensland, wife of Allan Blen-
man Cobham. —Take notice that I, Allan
Blenman Cobham, of Woolooga, aforesaid,
your lawful husband, hereby declare that I
have not seen or heard of you since the
First day of March, 1914, and that I intend
to remarry if I do not see or hear from you
on or before the Fifteenth dav of September,
1921. ALLAN BLENMAN COBHAM,
Woolooga, Queensland.
. I
m
f
w
Vl
#
it
sjh 'U i
wz,, "\\v i
fj y x i
f WW^
«00j
I V "«
f -Sr %
eat
# N #1
ss»
!' "
The foundations
of Benger’s Food are
wheat and fresh milk,
two essential foods.
Benger’s is distinct from
all other foods because it
contains in itself the means
of natural digestion.
This natural digestive power
is latent in Benger’s Food as you
buy it, but becomes active while
you are preparing the Food. The
process of self-digestion then
acts equally upon the Food and
the fresh new milk with which
Benger’s is always made.
The extent of this natural
self-digestion is easily regulated.
It ceases when the Food is raised
to the boil, which is the final
stage of preparation.
m
Food
for INFANTS
INVALIDS
& the AGED.
There is no more interesting food lesson
than (he simple preparation of Benger’s Food
according to directions.
The eomp’ete Boo 1 let of Bender's Food is a medically approved guide to the
rearing of In ants and the ra. eof Invalids. It contains a variety of da rty recipes
prepare i especially to r lie< e the monoti ny of oiilk and sin,liar diet for sick persons.
Every household should possess a copy. Write for it tc-day—post free.
RENGER’S FOOD LTD., n 7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers: BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER England.
A.sl*
La
Rt
emm
UM\
Shot Gtm Cartridges
TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge —
Examine the brass base of the cartridge for
the company’s own marking.
REMINGTON NITRO CLUB ARROW NEW CLUB
smokeless smokeless smokeless black
powder powder powder powder
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryaj.i, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
sfa
iti
Illilllllllilllllllllllillllillllllllllll
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiii hi
lira
immmimimiiimiiiiiiiiiiimmmiimit
STANLEY E. GREEN, LTD.,
Australian Ay, nts
I HE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Full, rich tons, clear reproduction
Ready to play ira nadiateiy opened.
Carried as easily as a handbag.
During the war tens of thousands
of Deccas played, sang and
amused scores of thousands of
3oldiers —in trenches, dugouts,
camps and hospitals.
To-day the Decca is even more
popular, providing its owners,
nmongstwhom are many Diggers,'
v'th musical entertainment wher-
ever they may he.
>iV"oc’e's:
I.eather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre .. .. 11 10 0
Cowhide .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
FROM ALL
MUSIC-DEALERS.


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
'Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS.
r> v4-r
Sfer
off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
3h<?BoGr
Without a Rival *
!
;BReWED from pure malt & hops only
Public Notice.
TO ARTISTS.
The Archibald Prize.
tN terms of the Bequest of the late J. P. Archibald,
. the Trustees of the National Art Gallery invite
artists to submit paintings in competition for the
above annual Prize, which will be awarded to the
best Portrait: “preferentially of some man or woman
distinguished in Art, Letters, Science or Politics
painted by any Artist resident in Australasia during
the twelve months preceding the date fixed by the
Trustees for sending in the Pictures.” Portraits
painted during the year 1921 will be eligible. Paint-
ings suitably framed must be forwarded free of
expense and responsibility to the National Art
Gallery, the Domain, Sydney, on or before the 31st
day of December, 1921. One Prize will be awarded,
the value of which will be approximately £4OO.
G. V. F. MANN, Director (X 5524).
Missing Friends.
HUGHES. —Information wanted as to
the whereabouts of three brothers.
Peter Poncia Peverelle Hughes, Ernest
Edmund Hughes and Arthur Chas. Hughes.
Address replies to Hughes, Grosvenor Hotel,
Deansgate, Manchester, England.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Little Whopper”
Criterion “Past, Present and Future”
JJ°val “Adam and Eva”
Palace “60,000 Miles with the Prince”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
King’s Hall Alexander Watson
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
Royal “The Lilac Domino”
King’s “Cousin Kate”
Hoy T’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Glaciauium Ice Skating
♦
The last act of “The Escaped Nun”: —
Campbell, K.C., had spent a day and a half
assuring the four inscrutable strangers huddled at
the end of the long jury-box that Bridget Part-
ridge’s claim for £6OOO from Bishop Dwyer deserved
derision. Shand, K.C., t-oiled hard for eight hours
explaining why she should get every penny of it.
Then Ferguson, J., who had listened to all the
buzzing with incredible patience, turned towards
tlie four referees and began to take the story to
pieces. Slowly, methodically and dexterously he
extracted the uncontradicted facts from the tangle
and held them up for inspection; weighed the testi-
mony where there was conflict; suggested possible
inferences; tossed aside the irrelevant—and gave
the bones of the thing an airing. The level, even
voice had not proceeded far when the gallery began
to realise that it was listening to one of the most
masterly analyses of evidence ever heard within the
walls of that old building. The acid dripped heavily
at times, too. Some of the commentary upor the
innuendo artd suggestion associated with th case
burned to the bone, it is probable that no Judge
in N. S. Wales ever more thoroughly conveyed to a
jury an understanding of the nausea with which a
case may afflict the Bench.
The jury spent the full six hours wrestling with
questions drafted to ascertain whether, in their
view, Bishop Dwyer had acted (1) with reasonable
cause, (2) with honest belief in the statements he
made, or (8) with malice. Then they came back
into court and asked for directions. Being told
a majority verdict would stand, they went back into
the gloom to finalise their answers. The Ulster
party was very hopeful. It knew there were three
Protestants and one R.C. on the jury. It counted
or. the result confidently. It even grinned. Seven
eyeliSs winked portentously at the writer.
The jury filed in again. Shand looked almost
radiant. Flannery sat thoughtfully rubbing a hand
over his chin. Campbell was not there.
The Court was stacked with people. The air was
very stilL “Have you your answers?” asked Fer-
guson. “We want to know,” was the reply, “if
in the event of us answering ‘No’ by a majority to
the first two questions”—Ulster with difficulty sup-
pressed three cheers—“we can by a majority
answer ‘No’ to the third question, about malice?”
Ulster looked for something to clutch hold of.
Shand sat up as if stung by a bee. Flannery
stopped caressing his face. Shand’s legal instincts
sensed trouble in a flash. If tlitre was a majority
against malice the colleen was “gone a million,” so
to speak. The other findings mattered less than
2d., for the whole thing turned on malice. Flannery
saw a great white light. Fergruson told the jury
a ihajority could, of course, answer the question
yes or no. Shand leaped to his feet. Flannery
leaped up also. They began disputing about legal
meanings. Ferguson was master there. He waved
them down and ordered the jury to march out once
more. The atmosphere was tense.
“Silence! ’ No need to call that, anyway. The
jury plods back. “Have you agreed now?” the
Judge asks. “Yes.” “Unanimously or by a majo-
rity?” “By a majority on two questions and unani-
mously <tfi the last/’ They pass up the written
answers—“No” to each. Flannery is on his legs
first this time. “t>n that there must be a verdict
for the defendant.” Shand: “No! Having found
that he had not honest belief, then malice must
folldw.” Ferguson looks mildly interested. His
pen writes slowly for two minutes. Then, turning
to the jury, he questions: “You find that he did
not honestly believe the case he put to the magis-
trate? ’ “We do.” “And that he acted from a
proper motive” “Yes.” “And you adhere to
this answer that there was no malice?” “Yes.”
It is copper-fastened now. “Then on that, there
being no malice, you will return a verdict for
defendant. The plaintiff had to satisfy you of
malice to gain a verdict. You understood that?”
es.” Verdict for the defendant accordingly.
Thousands on the street outside the court raise
cheers. O’Callaghan buys cigars for Brannigan and
Muldoon.
** * *
It is the business of musical comedy to
amuse, and “The Little Whopper,” at Her
Majesty/s, Sydney, fulfils this function
tolerably well. There is nothing provok-
ingly original in either jnusic or story.
Most of the characters are old acquaintances,
and some of the jokes were highly thought of
during the Spanish-American War. But,
although the .stuff is familiar and a thought
flimsy, it is never dull. It opens briskly
and keeps moving, from curtain-rise to
chocolate-creams and the National Anthem,
and if the cast is not particularly strong,
the supply of fresh young voices and twink-
ling limbs, the owners of which never get
their names on the programme, is adequate.
The Little Whopper is Kitty Wentworth
(Blanche Browne), pnpil at the Arlington
School, Philadelphia, and Janet MacGregor
(Gracie Lavers), though reputed to be as
truthful as Kitty is mendacious, is her chum.
The Wentworth girl is engaged to George
Kinmet (Claude Flemming), and, getting
leave from her teacher, Miss Granville
(Georgia Harvey), to pay a pretended call
on the Adfimses, people of tremendous social
tonnage in Philadelphia, she arranges to
meet George and marry him. But, missing
that enamored heavyweight, the girls stray
into the rooms 'of his friend Jack Harding
(Chester Clute), where they are followed by
Janet’s rich but respectable parents.
Plunging into a sea of prevarication that dis-
tracted virgin introduces Jack and Kitty as
Mi*, and Mrs. Adams. The customary com-
plications ensue, and things are sorted out
in the usual satisfactory fashion after Judge
MacGregor (George Willoughby) and Butts
(Cecil lvellaway) have temporarily frustrated
George’s attempt to elope with his own
fiancee.
* * # *
Blanche Browne returns to the stage as
energetic as ever, and rather less Gertie
Millanish than before. But you can’t argue
against time, and the part of a modish school-
miss doesn’t fit her like a glove. A more
mature character would have suited her bet-
ter ; still, within the limitations imposed by
the inexorable years, Blanche makes a re-
spectable showing. Gracie Lavfers sings
sweetly and acts promisingly in the most
important role which has fallen to her lot
yet. She is most successful when she is
simple and natural, but unfortunately that
isn’t always. Georgia HarVey’s school-marm
work is so good that there is no need for her
to get a laugh by exhibiting a fashion in
underwear that went out with Victoria the
Good. Chester Clute is the principal funny
man, and he is very well supported by Cecil
Kellaway, a sterling comedian of the old
school. After a long course of metallic-
voiced comedians from the other side of the
Pacific, Ivellaway’s quiet humor and quaint
singing are pleasant indeed. Claude Flem-
ming is a robust and harmonious lover, and
George Willoughby, Nellie Montague, Nellie
Payne, Dan Morris and George Moon render
useful service in their several ways. Also,
Jessie Sherwood and a dozen or more win-
some confederates foot it captivatingly ih
an Isadora Duncan dance and the chorus lifts
up its collective voice to fine purpose, albeit
the introduction in two numbers of that
pathetically useless instrument, the ukelele,
is a mistake.
Success is rewarding the efforts of the in-
teresting people who have set up in business
at the Sydney Criterion as merchants of
harmony and dispellers of gloom.
On the Sydney Tivoli’s silversheet Ralph
Connor’s “Sky Pilot” plays Daniel and the
lions with a rough mob of cow-purfbhers.
He triumphs by the aid of a strong straight
left and his ability to be on the spot when
"The Little Whopper
at Sydney Majesty's.
Miss Granville (Geor-
gina Harvey) caution-
ing her pupils against
telling Utile whoppers.
anything is amiss,
and in sheer admi-
ration the devoted
“lions” build him a
church and meekly
shell out traybits.
Ivy Shilling’s grace-
ful Eastern solo
dance, and an addi-
tional, entitled
“Temptation,” with
Harold Kelleway as
partner, adds to her
popularity. Wilkie
Bard, the English
character comedian,
comes into the big
programme o n
Saturday.
Hobart Bosworth,
the strong man of
the film world,
takes a hand in “A
Thousand to One,”
which is drawing
all the punters to
Sydney Lyceum and
Crystal Palace
this week. The
Crystal Palace also
shows Sylvia
Breamer in an ap-
pealing story of
the Court,
while at the Lyceum
Alice Lake takes
to “The Uncharted
Sea” when the man
of her heart decides
to pursue the ice-
fa ou n d Klondyke
gold ship. Alice is
really superb in her
manner of discarding her legal better
half to follow the ice floe and the bounding
bergs and a good-looking sailorman. The
Oifija board is brought into requisition at the
Globe and Haymarket to discover a treasure
that is to wipe off the mortgage on the old
home. “Stfaight is the Way” is the title.
Same address finds Win. S. Hart as “O’Mal-
ley of the Mounted.” Corinne Griffith is an
emtion-dfe-luxe of an etiquette-book—“lt Isn’t
Being Done This Season”—at the Strand,
where Shirley Mason makes an attractive
Emily in the old-fashioned “Lamplighter.”
“ADAM AND EVA." AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Uncle Horace (Herbert Lciah) seeks
suitable work.
Had not “The Lilac Domino” come to
Melbourne Royal close on the heels of “Maid
of the Mountains” it would seem the oddest
ot stories ever set to legitimate music, but
between the two large spectacular successes
there is an affinity. Three silly young
men, of the gilded waster brand, are advised
by a gipsy musician to form a matri-
monial syndicate, and throw the dice,
the loser to marry a millionairess and keep
the other two men in perennial luxury.
Needless to say the heavy baritone loses the
throw. The millionairess prima donna, for
her part, is a petulant, maiden complaining
of irksome chaperonage; consequently the
chaperon leaves her to drink herself drowsy
in the middle of a masked festivity at a
flash hotel. Nob6dy happens to And Geor-
gian sleeping off the effects until the first
kiss of loVe from the heavy baritone appeals
to her fuzzy feelings, and then the baritone
regrets his adventure with the dice. The
toreador-fiddler, however, takes to drink and
exchanges confidences with the millionairess,
who is standing around waiting for anyone
to talk to. In the course of conversation the
hired musician broaches the dice story, and
the fat of sordid fact is at once in the fire
of passion.
* * * *
There are other characters, including the
giddy father of the prima donna, and the
cousin he wants her to marry, and the other
girl whom the cousin wants to marry, but
they matter hardly at all. Moya Chance,
Valentine and Lou Vernon play these minor
comedy parts, the men being more fully sat-
isfactory than the lady, considering all that
is expected of ladies in these matters. The
two dicing friends of the hero —Hugh Steyne
and George Gee —have only one part between
them. Jointly they play the fool, and most
of the time they do it very well. Gee, being
somewhat more grotesque in his dancing, ges-
tures and grimaces, looms larger than Steyne,
but his strenuous performance is marred
by cheap affectations of effeminacy. Gaston
Mervale puts all his personality into the im-
possible character of the fiddler, Ethel Mor-
rison is the handsome chaperon who neglects
her job, and Jamieson Dodds and Rene Max-
well are the two singing principals who
express their stage feelings with due serious-
ness. The prima donna is a plump and
pleasing figure, and a very capable actress
under trying circumstances. The part re-
quires much of her, and finds her not want-
ing, except in sweetness of vocalism. She,
like Dodds, has the necessary power to sup-
port weighty situations; bht,v like Dodds
(who has the better voice), she lacks the
essential oil of melody in her tremolo warble.
The music, all round, deserves brighter
singing than it" gets from the soloists. Also
it deserves a larger orchestra. The show
in three acts, is gay and colorful, the chorus
looks and sounds well, and the background of
rippling sea in the last act appears quite
capable of wetting the back stalls if a storm
were to rise.
The development of a sentiment in an
apparently unromantic spinster of 30 is the
chief item of interest in that old Australian
favorite, “Cousin Kate,” which was staged
at Melbourne King’s last Saturday night.
On the way to relatives in the country, Kate,
a novelist of the keyhole school, encounters
a man who starts her thinking of a home
and fireside with two pairs of carpet slippers
warming in the fender. By the time the
pair reach the same destination they are
mutually enmeshed, and Kate goes off to
the Spencer household, where Amy Spencer
is presumed to be withering under the sudden
neglect of her nanc€, Heath Desmond, while
a parson is putting in overtime in trying to
replace the absent Heath in the girl’s affec-
tions. Of course, the defaulting Desmond is
Kate’s daydream, but the shortsighted novel-
ist doesn’t discover this glaring fact until
both have mushed one another into a desire
for an early marriage. The author’s pro-
blem is then to satisfy the ambition of Des-
mond and lvate without leaving Amy with
a broken heart, so he produces a happy end-
ing by filling Amy with a belated regard for
the parson.
Kate is played by Marie Tempest, and
she again uses those little choking noises
and whimsical changes of tone to restore the
comedy’s pulse when it is becoming some-
what low. Her best work is in the second
act, wherein the transition from a business-
like miss to a crumpled sentimentalist is
revealed with many flashes of feminine soul.
Graham Browne doesn’t give much point t«'
the treachery of Heath Desmond, and from
the first behaves with the suspicion that Amy
wouldn’t be greatly worried by his desertion.
He also does his best in his light Hibernian
persuasiveness in the second act, but in the
simulation of a grand passion later on he
tends to treat simple language as flaming
rhetoric and loses further marks for a rather
heavy style. Herbert Millard is Amy’s
eventual fancy, the Rev. James Baillette.
and all Herbert has to do is to wrap himself
in ecclesiastical stiffness, and purse his lips
in demonstrative moments. Dorothy Hamil-
ton, as Amy Spencer, is about halfway be-
tween ice and fire in her languid hunt for a
husband, whereas her mamma (Doris Gil-
lam) is one of those unsettled dowagers
whose quietest moment is the cousin to a
fuss.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the last nights
of “Oh, Lady, Lady !” are limited to Friday
next week. These times Nancy Benyon, the
new lady, is back in the clothes of the
baffled bride, which for a while adorned Cecil
Bradley. The newcomer has still a lot to
learn in the art of malcing-up her pretty,
Irish face and pointing her conversation,
but the composer is solely to blame for not
giving better chances to her sympathetic
mezzo-soprano singing voice. Moreover, con-
ductor Champion is repeating the common
orchestral error of Her Majesty’s. The
accompaniments are too loud.
At Melbourne Tivoli winsome Annette
Kellerman takes the stage, the slack wire,
and the water twice daily. Stuart Barnes
tells the old, old story of domestic difficulties,
and the jugglers serve their turn.
“Society Snobs” is conspicuous at Hoyt’s,
Melbourne, this week. A waiter who pre-
tends to be a Dago nobleman marries one
“Cousin Kate,” at
Melbourne King's.
Graham Browne as
Heath Desmond.
of the dreams of
the Four Hundred,
and needs all his
fatal beauty to
make the fraud suc-
cess f u 1. “H i s
Divorced Wi f e,"
which follows,
gives you the rug-
gedness of Monroe
Salisbury as a Ken-
tucky hero, but in
point of human in-
terest it is miles
behind an adapta-
tion of Mrs. Henry
Wood’s “T h e
Channings,” with
Dorothy Moody in
the part of Con-
stance.
Adelaide Royal,
w here for many
evenings the Prince
of Wales has been
dosed, shaved,
'ducked and other-
wise disloyally
used, as a cheer-
fully-willing victim
of crossing-the-Line
ceremonies, is now
dropping pictures
and switching off
to “Maid of the
Mountains,” with
heavy advance
booking. At the
„ „ P, of W. the
1' uller season of emotional drama has
a steady appeal to the public: Collett
Dobson producer, Guy Hastings hero, Leslie
Adrienne persecuted heroine. At the King’s,
Laura Guerite, an immensely popular per-
sonality, has concluded her long season, and
incidentally piloted herself (being a licensed
aviator) over the city. The Town Hall
u S into pictures with “The End of
the Road,” the uncomfortable kind of moral
story that every girl but no child is exhorted
to see. Much more attractive is the pro-
at West’s, where the Australian
Silks and Saddles’’ introduces Brownie
\ ernon and the great Ivennaquhair in his
top stride.


E. F. WILKS, Managing Director.
Are You
Curious
as to the
Reasons
WHY
The following Picture Theatres,
viz.—
Grand, Strand, Globe, Majestic, Lyric, Empress,
Crystal Palace, Haymarket, Broadway, Hub,
Redfern Palace (Sydney); Melba, Paramount
(Melbourne) ; Pavilion, Melba, Majestic, Britannia,
Strand (Brisbane); Strand, Britannia (Newcastle),
Have exchanged their Player-Pianos
for the world-famous
GULBRANSEN
Z$uc%$cncerto
Player-Piano ?
IF SO, call, and we will prove to you
what we have already proved to them.
The indisputable perfection of Tone, Touch, Durability
and Simplicity of Control is evidenced by the fact of the
above theatres exchanging their player-pianos for Duo-
Concertos. In some of them this instrument has been
installed for over three years, and being used from 8 to
10 hours a day. Think what this means —240 hours a
month, or in ail 8640 hours, and still as satisfactory as
when first installed.
We give informal recitals daily,
and once a month an evening
recital, at which Sydney’s lead-
ing artists appear. Invitations
will be sent on application.
V
If through sentiment you would not care to part with youi
own piano, we will convert it into an 88-note Duo Concerto
Player-Piano containing all the latest improvements.
If Unable to Call, Send for Catalogue R (Post Free).
CASH OR TERMS. SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET). TEE. CITY 10751 & 1075 ft
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter >Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
BRISBANE.
KING & KING, LTD., Queen Street.
HOBART—LAUNCESTON:
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.
Another Splendid
Hat Bargain— at Murdoch’s
AND better than all forerunners!
Modern market conditions gave Murdoch’s
opportunity to buy at a big discount. These
Hats have just arrived; they represent abso-
lutely fresh stock, and every hat has been
specially made for better-class trade. To you
it means a solid saving of at least 7/-
Men’s Smart Soft Felt Hats.
Made from Pure Fur Felt of surpassing quality. Smart city styles,
in sizes 0| to 7£; brims 2-fin. wide. Take your choice from a pleasing
range of shades: Fawn, Pearl, Slate, Steel and Cuba, with black
bands and neat side bow\ Also in Black and Brown with self bands.
Usually 21/= & 22/6
NOW
1313
If you canot call, write
for this splendid hat bar-
gain. Address your letter
to DESK B.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Murdoch’s Hairdressing Saloon is
at your service. First-rate ser-
vice. Six Chairs. No Waiting.
MURDOCH’S
IN PARK ST., LTD., SYDNEY,
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’
Wear Store.”
n
;** •V.'.'aV,
m
fV*:
iWJ
%
«
Hb M6
“Where
the good
Hats are.”
sfasfa
_
Easy to Start
For constant or intermittent work use a
Fuller & Johnson
Throttling Governor Petrol Kerosene Engine
Leading pastoralists and farmers are using this engine
for their power requirements and are highly pleased
with results.
This engine is simple in design, just as shown in the
illustration. In the construction only the best materials
obtainable are used and in the manufacture the greatest
care and precision is maintained. This insures a power-
ful, well-balanced, smooth-running engine, which will be
a source of real satisfaction and profit to the user. Each
engine develops more than its rated Brake Horse Power.
Built in convenient sizes—3, 5,7,9,12,15,20 and 25 B. H. P M fur-
nished both in the stationary and portable types. •
It is to the advantage of every power user to
know more of these most excellent engines—and
a post card addressed to the nearest distributor
will bring full information.
DISTRIBUTORS
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
The S. A. Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Ltd.,
Adelaide
WA
I
I


S
m
CMtetvJ
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Lever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
11/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS.
The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWELLERS.
The Standard Kemedy which has outlived th'e Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
1 llr Kemeuy used by Ariuy auu .Navy men.
tTsed since ir,<i6. FOR w r i77w*n„„v
£»SmiIAK BLIIHT FAIUHS EFIASH'S. WEAK sK
Missing: Friends.
\ t cBEAN.—The Union Trustee Company
I of Australia, Limited, as Executor of
the Will of James Mcßean, late of Haw-
thorn, requires information concerning
James Erie Mcßean, who was last heard
from, about 1915, at Dalby, Queensland.
Anyone having knowledge of him is re-
quested to communicate with the sa:d
Company at 333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
Ted MINERAL OILS. They are of the highest possible quality,
prolonging the thereat he? P S ° ft a “ d pliable ' thus Preventing cracks and
the sign of
perfection
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. In Bottles & Tubes.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, and Nigger
Crown Paste, in Tins, now on Sale.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]T & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
“75” (London) : The music of a new
revue, “Puss! Puss!” which is threatened
with prosperity at the Vaudeville, was com-
posed by an Australian, Kenneth Duffield,
while most of the lyrics were written by
Dion Titheradge, well known as a Bulletin
verifier. Duffield is a S. Australian (his
grandad was one of the original members
of the S.A. Parliament) and a Cambridge
graduate. He served in the war, and last
year married Eileen, granddaughter of the
late John Gorst. The leading roles in
“Puss! Puss!” are in charge of Lee White
and Clay Smith, just back from the Com-
monwealth —a fact of which the first night
audience was reminded when Smith came
bounding on to the stage with a dummy
kangaroo in one hand and a cage containing
a cockatoo in the other.
“Norbell” : What jarring lyres these poets
sometimes twang! Here’s Adam McCay
writing a prologue for Harry Roberts to
speak at the re-opening of the Theatre Royal,
Sydney:—
Look on this stage and tell me what you see.
Can j'ou behold no others watching me ?
Tr , Behold!
Here Bernhardt thrilled you with her voice of gold.
Sara made the public weep—and pay—at
Her Majesty’s. She never appeared in
sorrow or in song or in anythin" else at
the Royal. George Rignold lent the Firm
his theatre, Her Majesty’s, and fir a con-
sideration switched over to the old Roval
with “Right’s Right.”
“ADAM AND EVA,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Dr. Delamater (Cyril Mackay) pronounces
James King ( Wm. J. Kelly) a very sick
man.
“Salmon Gum” : Kalgoorlie is “the famous
mining town” in which Mrs. Fraser Gange s
vocal performances were rewarded with chunks
of the root of all evil (B. 14/7/’2l). I heard
Fraser tell the interesting story in Sydney.
“There must have been £6O worth of gcnd
in those nuggets,” he said impressively, but l'e
forgot to produce the evidence or any portion
of it. Kalgoorl'e was my abid'ng-place
when Callahan was tearing out moie gold
from the Lake View in one month tmin me
whole field produces now in two, but the
pleamng custom of surround.ng stout but
gratified sopranos with specimens hadn’t ther.
arrived. The Fraser Ganges are tortunate.
“Vaudeville Vet.”: Arthur Greenaway’s
appearance at Sydney Tivoli isn’t his vaude-
ville debut. As a matter of fact, Greenaway
was the first performer to give English
mus c-hall audiences a sample of the Aus-
tralian poets. More years ago than I care
to remember I heaid him doing Marcus
Clarke’s “Bill .Jinks” and Gordon’s “How
We Beat the Favorite.” Greenaway has
had a pretty versatile career when you
reckon that he has made all the dramatic
stops from Cmsar in the eccentric ILchaid
Mansfield’s production to the heroic lieu-
tenant of “Harbor Lights.”
“Royce Rolls”: Charles Waldion, who
first enchanted our female pouulace ns the
beauty hero of “The Squaw Man,” and re-
turned to play exnens •.ejy-i mrd lead .
with Ivathlene Macdoneli in “Daddy Long
Legs” and other saccharine productions, has
hit N’. ork haid as Darnley in John Drink-
water’s “Mary Stuart.” Drinkwater, who
scored an English and American success w.th
a prev.ous effort, “Abraham Lincoln,”, has
written a big part ior Darnley, and Wal-
dron is sa d to fit it to perfection.
“A. R. Klamp”: “The only fault with the
censorship is that it isn’t half strict enough”
writes a Poverty Pointer (B. 14/7/ 21).
The trouble with the censorship is that it’s
a case of one man decld.ng wi at a million or
so should see. Hence we have the anomaly
of “In Search of a Sinner” being refused
admiss on into Aus-
tral a and permitted
in allegedly wow-
seristic M.L. with-
out a out. Another
anomaly is that the
censorship doesn’t
affect Australian
productions. The e
are episodes
screened in certain
local films (harm-
less enough, I'll
admit) that would
never have got oast
the censor. There
was no eensorsh p
here when Grif-
fiths’s “Intolerance”
came along. That
picture wouldn t
have a hope now.
His “Broken Blos-
soms” has never
been shown here—
the only civil s d
country in the
world that hasavt
seen it. The cen-
sorship difficulty
will never be over-
come until children
are prohibited from
attending mov es
except at mat.nees
showing special
programmes. When
that regulation is
draited the censor
"Cousin Kate,” at
Melbourne King's.
Herbert Midard as
Rev. James Baillette.
should automatically lose liis job.
From London during the coal strike: —
Asche is now getting ready his production of
“Mecca,” which has been done in New York; but
it will not be called by this name in London, for
the Lord Chamberlain has refused to sanction the
title, on the ground that it may offend the religious
susceptibilities of the colored (and most numerous)
inhabitants of the Empire. When “Chow” happily
disappears, Robert Courtneidge’s production of
“Paddv-the-Next-Best-Thing,” a sloppily sentimental
affair on the lines of “Peg o’ My Heart,” but con-
structed with less skill, will be the London show
with most performances to its credit, the artistically-
staged “Beggar’s Opera” at the Hammersmith Lyric
coming second. Both have been running more than
a year. These, “A Bill of Divorcement” and Somer-
set Maugham.’s “The Circle” reveal no signs of suc-
cumbing to the much-talked-of slump, and the
two long-lived Cochran revues—“ London, Paris and
New York” and “The League of Notions”—are still
going strong and charging fancy prices. Cochran
has also brought the Russian Ballet over again, and
this likewise is booming. Most of the shows that
have been taken off in a hurry on account of the
strike and the dislocation of the railways, such as
“Sweet William,” “The Tartan Peril” (a pawky
imbecility which pictured a strike of Scotsmen
throughout England and achieved a run of three per-
formances at the Duke of York’s), “Up in Mabel’s
Room,” “Nightie Night” and “Faust on Toast,”
richly deserved to fail. The “Faust” burlesque is
probably the most costly failure in theatrical his-
tory. The first edition was taken off after 10
nights, and at the end of an interval of two weeks
a revised version was presented, which gave up the
ghost in a fortnight. The two are alleged to have
cost £40,000. The second failure left the Gaiety
without a tenant, and a revue, “Pins and Needles,”
which had caught on at the small Ambassadors’
Theatre, has been transferred to the big plavhouse
in the Strand. A feature of “Pins and Needles” is
the first appearance of Edmund Gwenn as a revue
comedian.
“Ibsenshaw”: I doubt very much whether
“Adelaide” is entitled to crow (B. 7/</’2l)
because his cultuied city has seen “The
Great Adventure ’ done by Repertory ama-
teurs. Certainly I question h.s assertion
that playgoers in the S.A. centre “know the
play by heart.” Bennett’s p.ece, as a mat-
ter of fact, was played all over Australia
long before Mar.e Tempest added it to her
programme. Hugh Buckler and his co. did
it in Sydney in 1913 —four months after its
London production—and Oregon McMahon’s
Repertory enthus.asts later laid the.r ’pren-
t.ce hands on it in Melbourne. But, cast
w.th art.sts of the cal.bre of Graham
Browne and Marie Tempest in the prin-
cipal roles, the comedy looks a new one to
us all, and thankful we are to get it.
“S las”: She was sitting in front of me
at the Annette Kellerman show, and her
somewhat chi.dish tittle-tattle bad got on
the nerves of her fat, morose friend. Sneak-
ing of the aquatic star, she gurg ed : “Look,
George—just look! How ever does the
woman ho.d her breath so long?” “810w 7 ever
does a woman hold her tongue so long?”
snorted George.
Middle Blue”: Clarice Hardwick, the
wh ms cal ma.d in “Adam and Eva.” is a
Melbourne girl, who was one of the ballet
that scrambled for Genee’s d.scarded toe-
shoes dur.ng her season here. Beau. Smith
gave the 1 ttie V'ietor an her first chance w en
he brought over Ethel Dane to give Australia
Rhe Glad Eye.” Since then she has played
everything from principal boy in panto to
the naughty girl in “Hypocrites,” wh'eh she
played in Brisbane when Lizette Parkes re-
fused to do so.
“Pr.vate Boxer”: Will some kind theatri-
cal manager be so good as to let us see some
of the later plays of James M. Barrie one of
these days? Nothing from the pen of
Britain’s most distinguished dramatist has
been done in Australia, if my memory serves
me, since “What Every Woman Knows”;
and that must have been a decade ago at
least. During the interval various Barrie
p eces have scored brilliant successes in
London and New York —“Dear Brutus,” “A
Kiss for Cinderella,” “Mary Rose” and many
more, including some splend.d one-acters—
but we never get them here. Failing the
“commercial” theatre, why don’t the Re-
pertory societies give ns a sample of these
delicac’es? Those who enjoyed “Quality
Street” would welcome another such comedy
from the same delightful author. And,
sneaking of this p'eee, there may be a chance
of its making its re-appearance on local
boards, since it has, with Barrie’s consent,
been turned into a musical comedy. In its
new guise, and re-christened “Phoebe of
Quality Street,” it was recentlv shown to
New Yorkers at the Shubert Theatre, and
proved that such human pieces never grow
old.
“TY”: “Old Pot's” reference to the bed-
room scene in “The Thief” (B. 30/6/21)
reminds me of the first time I saw it/ When
Henry Ivolker came to the unfastening of
the hack of Margaret Anglin’s dress he
struck trouble. There was dead silence
while lie struggled valiantly with a fractious
hook, t 11 a fed-up vo ce barked down from
the gods: “Aw — cut it!"
“Stargazer” recollects a few fat actors:—
The fattest was George ltignold’s little brother
Bill, who came to Australia to play Falstaff, which
was done (and a bit over) without an ounce of
make-up. One night William fell heavily when
trying to get into the linen basket, and with such a
concussion that a Woman in the gallery screamed,
whereupon a man in the stalls, who seemed to be
calling through a megaphone, cried with intense
solemnity: “Keep your seats, please! Keep
your seats! The house will right itself.” Next
heaviest was McKee Rankin, here as Nance
O’Neil’s foster-pa in art. His Macbeth was
a massive thing. When he sat down his stomach
obscured his knees. In this fact lay the point of
the gallery hoy’s suggestion, when he was toying
with Lady Macbeth (presented also on the mammoth
scale by Nance): “Take her on your lap, Mac!”
“His dew lap?” questioned a second voice viciously.
O .aude Bantoek was a mere shaver in such company,
yet fat enough to give zest to a smart quip at Her
Majesty’s one night. Claude, as the Rajah of Bhong,
backing a few paces, stumbled, and went plump
into the lap of a lady of the chorus sitting on a
settee. Claude stepped promptly forward, and asked
with mock concern: “Is there a doctor in the audi-
ence?” Whereupon one in front: “Doctor be blowed
—it's a coroner you want! ”
t, : I dropped in at the
Pallad um on Whit Monday and found a
boisterous Bank Holiday audience enjoying
the merry antics, chirping vocalism and
eccentric dancing of Daphne Pollard, who
heads the bilk She looks like doing even
better in a single turn than as one of a
big cast in revue, and is earning twice the
salary to boot. The Daily Telegraph says
she made her first appearance in a children’s
opera eo. away out in Australia. Where
d d Daphne rea’ly make her debut? “Away
out in Austral’a” is so vague.
“Ox” : Ella Airl e. of Australia, has gone
to London more with the idea of making
the Old Smoke pay for her pen than for her
voice and vaudeville talent. Si.e lavs no
cla.m to literary genius, but she's got the
show-shop instinct and a gLt for melodv
and stage craft. Her panto, “The Bunvin”
netted her more money than has ever‘been
pa d to all the rest of Australian panto
book-writers lumped together. But she had
to hawk it round for some years before
Ben h uller crossed her path. “Any Rao-s?”
--bawled from one end of the country to
the other—was one of her selling songs
and there were a dozen others. & ’
“THE LITTLE WHOPPER ” AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Butts (Cecil Kellaway) sings “Love
around the Corner."
George Guldens, tlie light and elegant
comedian well remembered bv Australian
audiences, was not a thrifty soul. His will
has been proved in London at £3lO.
“Aisle Seat”: Andrew Higginson, alias
1 rice Danilo, and formerly pub-owner at
Wangaratta, has turned up in the S’African
Cast of “The Lilac Domino” He plays an
elderly roue with a voice.
“Ike Pagliacci” : Harry Musgrove’s orches-
tra of 23 to accompany his pictures at Syd-
ney Tivoli gave something of a musical
shock to a country picture-proprietor on a
jaunt to the metrop. The latter wired for
his pianist to come to the city forthwith.
On his arrival the boss hurried the musician
to a /Tivoli matinee just in time for the
•\a illiam Tell” overture. At the last
flourish he turned to the pianist. “Hear
thntV” he inquired. “Pretty good, eh?
Well, now you know what I want from
you.”
“1 lick” : The movies are hot on the track
oi: the speakies. Now in Australia, await-
•mg tlie censor’s pleasure, are “The Sign on
the Door” as Norma Talmadge sees it, “Les-
sons in Love,” which is “The Man from
.loronto,” and the celluloid “Wedd ng Bells.”
The “Bells” have only just ceased to ring
at Sydney Palace. “The Sign on the Door,”
as a speakie, hasn’t got as far as Melbourne
yet, and there is a chance of the movie beat-
ing it to the box-office.
“Biobox”: J. D. Williams, who made
mov±e geography? in Sydney, used to say
that there was only? one thing likely? to keep
him away from the pictures—the awful
person who reads the sub-titles aloud. J.D.,
as head of First National forces, has now
been able to do his bit to suppress the evil.
He suggested to Charlie Ray that he do a
picture without a single sub-title. The star
was staggered, but Williams gave him vVhit-
comb Riley’s poem, “The Old Swimmln’
Hole,' to read; and now Ray tells it on the
screen without a word, while the title-
readers gnash peanuts in their wrath.
“Kaylee”: Just returning to Uncle Sam,
the Kelso boys, Australians both, who landed
here a few weeks ago to say “Hello” to
their people after 11 years in the States,
where they? hold good contracts. They
went away as jugalers, but developed comedy
bumps and went into burlesque. Prima donna
in the. Jean Bed'ni Co., in which the Ivelsos
fr.sk, is Flo Darley, wife of comedian Charlie
Bovis, well known here in earlier days.
“Namoi”: Gilbert Frankau, who fixed a
snapshot of the Sydney girl so apt’y in h's
hook, “The Woman of the Horizon,” has
recently been at work dramat.s^-g his
mother’s (Frank Danby’s) vivid novel, “The
Heart of a Child.” It was produced at the
Kings way lately, with Frankau’s present
wife, Aim€e de Burgh, as Lady Jill.
THE PERSISTENT TENOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adolphus Rainment, curled and fair,
A tenor is w hom thousands fear.
He’d rather sing than eat, and where
Are friends assembled they must hear
Him warble ballads by the hour.
His shortest song would fill a column.
His voice is thin, it has no power—
His audience is always solemn.
Adolphus is a worker slick
For charity’s sweet sake. The blind,
The lame, the halt, the starved, the sick
Have cause to think him very kind.
He gets up concerts every week
For all the known and unknown causes,
And then he sings with iron check
Long songs with brief, infrequent pauses.
If any woman lose her man,
Does any stranger miss a limb,
Out comes Adolphus with a plan
To straightway succor her or him.
Now folks declare with feeble grins
That charity (per entertainments)
Still screens a multitude of sins,
Two-thirds of them Adolphus Rainment’s!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


p
aiimiiniinnmwiiHiiiiii m
iiiiiiiiiiHiiimimuiimiiiiiiHHniiiHHuiiuntiiiimmiiHtmminnHiumamHmr^
r-
m
10
L* .V.
m
iiiiiiniintg
■ i-
MlllilllliillUr
lllllllllUlllllSlHftfNHMlUnWlMHlllHllllHDJlHMiK
I ll ijllllllllltllllUlllUlllllllllllHtltllllllllllllllllll
*
Really good Whisky should
possess the virtues of
MATURITY & DESIRABILITY
Maturity . —Age ever did command respect. In
l .war's to-day is to be found all the experience
of many generations in the arts of blending and
distillation, which has for its end the production
of a whisky—always ripely matured —worthy
of its universal designation as the Supreme
Spirit.
Desirability.— Charm and desirability always
go hand in hand, for without charm nothing
is desirable. Dewar's is a fountain of fascin-
ation —its triumphant quality persistently
pleases but never palls. The matured merits
of its magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed
year in and year out with never a trace of
tiredness of taste.
THE WHISKY OF MERIT.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIXP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS. LiniTED. Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ?
sfa
LEWIS&VvrIITTy MAKERS
finest Spirit in
Clustralianjtisiorp
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED
BUT ALSO BOTTLED UNDER
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
V.&OoO
m
®°<g>
URE MALT 1
on
ywiia^s
lU£O INAUSTRAUA
PROPRIETORS ~gz
ILIAN DlsTHl£R Y^&
HELBOBWIE
It looks ominous for the long-distance
eve . n * * n August that only nine familiar battlers
weighed out for a £7OO hurdle race at Caulfield last
Saturday, and only Telecles and King Neptune ear-
ned much money. At Flemington a week earlier the
top weight had beaten Eric Connolly’s horse easily
V?,™® _ r ™ home, so a difference of 7ib. in the terms
didn t look likely to reverse positions this time. Per-
haps the rather sticky going favored the lightweight
a lot. More probably another week’s work accounted
tor most of the improvement in King Neptune. Anv-
how, it was now Neptune who outpaced Telecles after
clearing the final hurdle, and on that show-
ing he is just the fellow to win the Aus-
tialian Hurdle on August 6, providing
1 here is always a proviso or two. Evidently King
Neptune is addicted to fits of depression. He went
“off” before the National, and was scratched after
cutting a poor figure at a down-the-line meeting. To
win presently over 3§ miles he must continue to
come on. Meanwhile, the Sea Prince horse looks
very like a deadly rival to Fiseom and others, and
the writer fancies his chance. After scoring two
creditable seconds at Flemington he has landed a
nice stake at Caulfield. And he has youth in his
favor.
* * * *
Gazomp, soon to be a five-vear-old, had an
interesting go with Doiran in the Steeplechase at
Caulfield last Saturday. The handicap favored the
juvenile, and, although he won under circs, that spoke
well for his stamina, the result was no sort of
guarantee that he ought to beat trusty Doiran over
four miles next month. Yet it was an encouraging
result for the Gazomp stable. The son of Gunner
jumped his best up to date, whereas 'VVooloo blun-
dered badly, and others either fell or dropped far
into the rear. It was the end of things for old Bill
Taft. He broke his fetlock, and was put to sleep.
In 1913 Bill ran second in the Grand National
Hurdle, and now, in his twelfth year, he was probably
quite prepared to die.
Earlborn won the Maiden Hurdle at the re-
cent National meeting, clearing the timber like a trades-
man. He has ,10st. 31b. for the long race at Caul-
field next month, and the old thief made such light
work of his jumps the other week that he will cer-
tainly be worth considering if owner Kellow has a
plunge on him anon. During his long career the
Earlston horse must have had some practice over
fences, for he was formerly a notable performer in
jumpers’ flat races and nearly managed to win an
Australian Cup.
* * * *
In Sydney on Saturday last Capitan beat
Peroration in the second division of the Maiden
Handicap at Canterbury Park. Capitan, who is bv
imported Capture, cost 30 guineas as a yearling at
the sale where Peroration was snapped up at 1000
guineas.
Demerantkis showed a wonderful return
to form in beating Longwy a head in the July Handi-
cap at the Bananaland Turf Club’s July Meeting.
W eighted at 9st., Pay Up romped home in the Trial
(six furlongs), and later in the Novice (two furlongs
further) with the same weight (including the 101 b.
penalty). The Howletts gelding got little support.
He, however, repeated the often-forgotten axiom that
it is usually only weight that stops a winning horse.
* * * *
South Aus. jumpers are generally of far
higher class than the local flatracers. But, even so,
Loftus Moorhouse, the Adelaide shareholder, has had
more than his share of luck in the Vic. Grand
National Hurdles. He won in 1904 with Sarasati,
1905 with York, 1911 with Arquebuse, and now with
Cisco in. Whelan, who trained the last-named, rode
Sarasati and York when they won.
On the second day of the Wellington
(M.L.) Racing Club’s Winter Meeting, the G.N.
winner, Coalition, beat the consistent Luke by three
lengths in the Wellington Steeple. It is considered
that last year’s winner of the big race will repeat
his success next month at Riccarton. One of Kem-
ball’s long string, the ex-Australian Gladful, won
the final hurdle. Acton Adams, who owns Lochella,
won the Winter Oats Handicap with Miss Muriel.
On the form shown in the Edinburgh
match the Test-selectors could do worse than give
at least one of the Scottish champions a trial next
Saturday. Kerr, the Caledonian captain, treated
both Gregory and Mailey with scorn while compiling
147—the most anyone has made against the Aus-
tralians this season. He is a sound field, and going
on at the end of the visitors’ mammoth innings got
three wickets for 37. The other Scottish batting
success was the Gordon Highlander Alexander, who
made 60. Australia batted first on a perfect wicket
and the first four men-—Collins, Mayne, Andrews
and Pellew—banged up respectively 113, 80, 125
and 40. This match, like the other two two-day
affairs, was, of course, drawn.
The only Australian to improve his batting average-
in the Durham game which followed was Taylor
who knocked up an attractive 54. The innings closed
for 269, or 99 better than that of the Northern
amateurs. The latter failed before the Australian
attack in their second effort, and Australia won by
10 wickets. Armstrong could have had more wins
jn the last month or so if he had either rested
the heavy-scoring Bardsley or Macartney or both,
or sent them in late.
* * * .
M 1“ Engfnnd Jack Gregory and E. A.
McDonald are the Thunderbolt Twins,” and H. L.
Collins is “The Horseshoe.” Old-time rep. Jack
Board, who was umpire in the Essex match, when
the fast bowlers made wreckage, summed things up
way : “Great bowling! Not since Surrey had
Richardson and Lockwood has any side owned such
a pair.”
* * * »
The XI., defying all convention by work-
ing Gregory and McDonald side by side on all import-
ant occasions, thus relying more on fast bowling than
pi obably any other team that ever lived, and reliev-
ing these two, when tired, by Mailey and Armstrong,
whose specialty is to be not-quite-got-hold-of, has
developed into a mighty machine for making catches
behind the wicket. A whole Lancashire team, though
managing to keep their stumps intact, got out in
this way. Up to and including Edinburgh, Gregory
had make 28 catches in the slips. Hendry, though
not catching the eye so much, gathers in' the ball
about as effectively; his figure is 25, Mailev coming
- 1 ®- The wicketkeepers’ bag is: Carter
-.0, Oldfield 18. Of course batsmen can hardly be
stumped off McDonald or Gregory, and Carter has
HARRY RAYNER, the oldest Randwick
trainer.
only dismissed seven men this way, to Oldfield’s 18.
Oldfield, of course, is played in ‘more of the less-
important matches, when one fast bowler is rested,
and the batsmen are more of a type to be lured out
of their ground by Mailey.
Warren Bardsley (256 runs; av. 64) leads
the averages of the Australian XI in Test matches
in England, E. A. McDonald is next (48), and
Macartney close up (45.20). Australia used
only 12 players in three games, and all except
Mailey have a double-figure average. Adding the
Test figures in Australia and England, Macartney
has scored 486 runs (av. 61), and Bardsley 567
(av. 1/.25). With the ball McDonald has been
far more dangerous in England than Australia. Last
season he took only six wickets (av. 65.33), but
m the Cold Land he heads the figures with 22 —
,J.A 7. The other wicket-destroyers are Armstrong
17.83), Gregory (17 —19.52) and Mailev
; J 1,1 the eight Tests Gregorv has taken
40—22.2, Mailey 46—25.69, and McDonald 28—27.96.
* * * *
t n^i rom soon . a ft el ' daylight last Saturday
tui long past midnight rain poured on Melbourne,
>vir ® c ientific football was an impossibility. Tlius
Hood, on their own ground, had 17 scoring shots,
~w uch but .three were goals—32 points in all.
Melbourne achieved some unusually accurate shoot-
ing, though—7 goaft 7 behinds. The Magpies,
assessing the Red Legs too cheaplv, spelled four
or their best players, and fell in. The Saints, also
on their own paddock, made an even worse exhibi-
tion against ’Roy, and couldn’t notch a solitary
goal, their 18 behinds leaving them a big deficit
against Roy’s 6 goals, 8 behinds—44 points. Gee-
long came to Essendon and returned happy at having
stepped from fourth to . 3
third position. Scores:
72 points to 27. The
Same that would have
been a same under
decent conditions was
won by Richmond.
The last kick of the
day gave them a 5-
point lead of South.
The final quarter in
the porridge-bowl was
immensely exciting,
South, with an 18-
point lead, being
steadily overhauled,
then regaining the
supremacy only to
ultimately lose it, as
stated—6l to 66. And
even on the muddy
ground a Southerner
had the bad luck to
get his leg broken.
PERCY PARRATT,
coach and captain
of Fitsroy football
team, and captain
of the 4th Division
team in the Aus-
tralian Army Divi-
sional competition
after the Armistice.
A humorous circumstance in Melbourne
Assoc, games, where ’Seray, ’Cote, Port and Bruns-
wick are certain of constituting the “final four,”
occurred at P ran, where the hopeless local team
tackled the worse than hopeless Brightonians with
l:' men, the superfluous player not being noticed
until quarter-time. P’ran then had to start the
second term with a clean sheet, and could onlv make
a draw of it—34 points all. Which is the only
time Brighton been defeated this season.
Sydney Rugby Union competition
on Saturday Basts (leaders) ran over a weak Glebe-
Balmain team. Carr scored three tries on his pace
alone. Rigney in the forwards was fast, but in-
clined to hang on. Erasmus bore the brunt of things
among the G.-B. backs, and Grose played one of
his solid games. Elliott stood out among the for-
wards. Newtown again failed to cheer first at the
end of their game with Norths. The Shoremen
, h I Ve K several good players, but collectively they
aie liable to go down to any fair combination. In a
heavy scoring game ’Varsity well beat Wests. Shute,
or the Sundowners, was awake to every opportunity,
and his three tries were the-result of intelligent
following up. Prentice gave away a lot of ground
by kicking high into the wind, and Nothling took
the ball indifferently. On the other hand his line
kicking was good. Black scored twice, and Coyle
got over three times. Old Boys were of course beaten
by Manly, for whom Mingay performed at his top,
while Eyie and Thorn were sound. Pilcher was
0.8.’s best.
* * » •
The Springboks have found the Union
brand of football more formidable in Maoriland than
in Australia. The first clash was against a second-
rate Wanganui XV, and the visitors won by 11 —6.
The score showed B—o against Wanganui at half-
time, and the local fifteen did well to pile
up 6—3 against the ’Boks after the interval. On
Saturday Taranaki produced its best against the
tourists, and the vigorous game ended without a
score on either side.
the third round for the Sydney Citv
Cup (Rugby League) on Saturday, Easts were out-
classed by Newtown in every department. Final
scores: Newts. 13 points (1 try 5 goals); Easts:
' pmnts (2 tries). Easts’ pack minus Pearce was
regularly deprived of the ball in the downs, out-
rucked and torn to grass in the open. The first
score was notched by Newts.’ custodian Main with
a classy penalty goal from half-way. Bolewski next
snapped up in the Surfers’ 25, and scored under the
posts, Main converting. Main hoisted two more
o ? P enalt - V anc * one from a mark—to which
the Surfers replied with an unconverted try by IVright
At the interval Newts, led—ll points to 3. After the
spell Dudley Seddon came away from centre to Rignev,
knee-punted over the custodian, who illegally he'id
him, and Main’s sure boot hoisted his fifth god.
Easts now heeled to Kaufman, to Watkins, to
Campbell, who went hard for the corner and scored,
leaving the totals as stated above. Elsewhere ’Varsity
downed Balmain, last year’s Premiers (who the pre-
vious week walloped Norths, the Premiers, by 20 to
2)-—l3 to 12. Norths beat Wests by 23 to 6‘; Glebe
did the same to the infant .St. George bv 45 to 6 •
and Souths drew the bye. Glebe now heads the Cup
table with 6 points ; Newtown is second with 5, fol-
lowed by ’Varsity, East, North and South with <*
points each.
* * * #
Tlie League will need to bestir itself if it.
intends to keep the game clean. The excuse that
teams which ought to have won are off their train-
me- might seem sound if it were not known that
there has been heavy betting over some of the games.
Of course, the players are not the bettors ; but they
seem to benefit by what the racecourse knows as run-
ning stiff. The team for Britain having been selected
one incentive for every player to show his best form
is gone; and it looks as if some of them are seeking
a harvest before the season ends.
* * * *
The eight League football clubs in Adelaide
continue to beat each other by a few points with
delightful inconsistency; all but Glenelg, which is
a first-season team, and so far couldn’t beat a carpet.
Of the rest, Port Adelaide was leading by a trifle at
latest advices; but —well, here is an Adelaide law-
yer’s story: “I’m fond of the game, and generally
look in at the Oval, where I meet a friend who is
supposed to understand it a lot better than I do.
He likes to have a half-crown on, and I oblige him.
He takes just whichever team he fancies, and I am
quite content to back the other. Shade of odds?
No, level; and I’m either four or five half-crowns to
the good so far on the sea-son.”
In the North v. South Island match at
Christchurch (M.L.) the hefty Northerners always
had the best of a vigorous game and won by 28—IS,
At half-time Norths led by 11—5. Norths’ forwards
dominated the game, and of eight tries the forwards
scored six. The last try by Norths was scored by
the lost. 101 b. J. Jacobs, who burst through the
opposition like a stray avalanche. It was the 17th
tussle; Norths have won 10 and Souths 6, and one
was drawn.
Under Australian rules at Brisbane on
Saturday. Queensland defeated N.S.W. in the final
match of the rubber by 85 points to 65. Up to
half-time N.S.W. had the best of the game, and led
by 31-24: but thereafter rough-up tactics spoiled
combination on both sides, and the Northerners pre-
vailed. In the mid-week N.S.W. galloped over
Queensland by 128 —65, the biggest majority of the
series. In the three matches Queensland piled up
269 points to 250.
# * * *
Harry Stone is still a brilliant boxer, but
he is getting too old to give away lumps of weight
to men in the championship class, as champions go
nowadays. At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday-
night he took on Tommy Uren, who had held the
middleweight title till the Saturday before, and was
unmercifully trounced throughout 20 rounds. In
the 17th he looked like being outed, and the
referee was begged to stop it, but the game Yid stood
up stoically till the finish, though weak and dabbled
with his own gore. Stone is nowadays a bookmaker
in Perth (W.A.), and fights whenever he can get an
opponent. During his stay in the West he has
beaten the welterweights Morey, Thompson and
Mitchell, the middleweight Murton, and the heavy-
weight Fred Holland (twice). A marvellous record
for a 9st. 81b. man who is not far short of 40, and
who trains mostly on oysters and green cigars.
There is one thing to be said for the
American boxers: they are not squibs. So we get
heroes such as Charlie Moy, feather-weight cham-
pion of California, showed himself to be against.
Jamito at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Moy
is a rugged little fighter with a left hook which
might put anyone out if it landed fairly. But the
much-improved Jamito only caught it once, am!
then he was moving away. Nevertheless it dropped
him for a couple of seconds, which is the longe-i
period he has spent in an extended posture on the
floor of a ring since he arrived in this countrv.
Jamito won perhaps 18 of the 20 rounds the affair
went. It was hard luck on Moy to be given an
opponent of the Filipino’s class to acclimatise him-
self on.
* * * *
Britannia, the King’s yacht, had her first
big win since the war at Southend last week. Un-
King of England, by the way, will soon be the onlv
crowned head in possession of a yacht. The Kaiser's
famous Meteor is, of course, out of commission, and
the King of Spain is getting rid of Hispania, which
ho was bringing to Cowes when the war-clouds begin
to loom.
* * * *
rr , I ?°®P er (amateur champ.) at Sydney
Tatt. s Club last week took 300 in 750 from Fred
Li minim, jun. (professional champ.), and went out
m 11 sticks, averaging 40. He began with 120,
and his other breaks included 136, 49, 41 and 37
(twice). Lindrum made only 194, his best being
4 < and 43. Although Hooper has intimated his
intention of retiring, it is believed he would like
to have another shot at the British championship,
which he was unlucky to lose.
* * » *
The weather was awful for the N.R.A
champion-of-ehampions’ match at Randwick (Sydney)
Saturday . Conditions were 16 shots each at
600yds. and 900yds. The final tally showed a dead-
heat between G. Lewis (Rockdale) and J. E. Face
(last years King’s prize-winner) with 136. F. Dehn
(Belmore) registered 135. In the shoot-off Lewis
won by 13—0. Previous holders of the title who
ran nowhere were T. Smalley (Penrith) and A.
Ackland (Western Suburbs).
Dulwich Hill was pushed from the top
r-L- ne - V c- bas< - b ‘l!' Premiership on Saturday by St.
. ® core > 20 runs to 14. St. George’s heavy
hitting in the second (eight runs) and sixth (nine)
innings staggered the leaders. Waverley (now at
the top) defeated Burwood by 5—2. It was a
triumph for pitchers Ford (Waverley) and Panton
(Burwood), and batsmen failed to score in 12 innings
out of 17. In the St. George Assoc.. Carlton and
Giants made a season’s record. At the ninth inn-
ings the book showed one-all. and it took an addi-
tional six innings before Carlton put up the neces-
sary run to win.
* * * *
recent \ ictoriau W aterloo Cup at
Geelong included amongst the starters Banjo Girl,
the Waterloo winner of 1919, and British Foot, last
winner. The winner this time turned up in
Manlda, a bnndle bitch by the dual Waterloo Cup
wmner Brown Hawk—Castle Hope. She is owned
by O. M. Hammond, of Portarlington, who gave 45
guineas for her as a puppy. As this year’s Waterloo
, and as she was backed to win
ioOOO by her connections at the first calling of the
card, and in addition has also won the Werribee
Gup this season, sheynay be reckoned a cheap bitch.
lor a few days S. Aus. wowserdom was
under suspicion of being responsible for Gov. Weig-
alls decision not to race, but there has since been
a semi-official intimation that Austen Chamberlain
is at the bottom of it all, having taxed the’Wei gal l
estates in England up to 15s. in the pound ol
their earnings. The public is left to infer the rest.
BLASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch the racers racing now
Without an eyelid tremble.
Unheedful of the awful row',
Not needing to dissemble
My feelings re the little bet
Recorded on my ticket;
Incapable of vain regret
Although I’ve failed to pick it.
I’ve lost my wager, done it in;
But e’en should fortune favor
I add no hooray to the din;
Success has lost the savor
It had when, in my punting prime,
“Good win’’ a gaudy night meant;
I’m past the hurly-burly time
When punters seek excitement.
Unmoved I hear men’s voices bawl
. The name of one I’m backing;
My heart declines to throb at all;
In eager faith I’m lacking.
“That gee will meet the fate of most
That bear a hot-head rider;
I’ll see it pipped upon the post
By some despised outsider.”
Thus run my thoughts, at sober pace,
Whilst joyful Jim is shouting:
The light of hope is on his face,
On mine a shade of doubting.
“Come on ! Come on !”—one final roar—-
He wins, or he’s defeated;
Ah me! I’ve heard it all before—
It’s history repeated.
Then why be glad or sad ? Enough
To take one’s pleasures smileless;
I grinned or frowned (if luck seemed rough)
Of old when I was guileless:
But now my lip I curl at Fate,
Ne’er joyful nor dejected,
And, as they clatter down the straight,
Expect the unexpected.
Shout on, young optimistic sport
And heighten the confusion!
I would that I were of the sort
Addicted to illusion.
You hail my ’orse as “ ’ome an' dry”
t Whilst I, with laugh unmirthly,
No mote deceptive in my eye,
Remark: “ Not got an earthly.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


WOULD YOU FIGHT or RUN?
If you can’t fight, you must run
away; with consequent loss of self-
respect and the shameful after-
thoughts that will haunt you like a
nightmare.
Lack of confidence, more than lack of
courage, might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will enable
you to act a man’s part should the
necessity arise.
Learn Boxing by Post
He teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops,”
and “moves,” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing-
In Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to us, with three
stamps to cover postage.
m
i I
as
mm
•mm
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
526 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
sf
means
Reliability
Figures speak louder than words
In 1914, out of approximately 1500 SKF Ball Bearings
•old for Line-shafting purposes in the U.S.A., our records show
only 3 failures, and the failure percentage is still lower for
subsequent years.
1915 SSOO Bearings 9 failures
1916 10,250 „ 6 „
1917 25,000 „ 3 „
1918 32,500 „ 4 „
1919 48,000 „ 6
99*99% Reliability
Do you get that from any other Bearing?
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Distributing Centres at Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
6f£?
*****
mm
In the Estate of Archibald Mclntyre, deceased.
We have been favored with instructions from the Executors to submit for sale by
private treaty one of the best Northern C.T.A. houses, known as
THE GRAND HOTEL, MACKAY,
comprising freehold, buildings, furniture, stock, plant, license and goodwill, as a
going concern. THE STRUCTURE is in good order, and consists of two storeys
with garden roof. It has for many years enjoyed the reputation of being the leading
Hotel in Mackay. THE ACCOMMODATION consists of 27 bedrooms, 4 sitting-rooms,
6 sample rooms, etc., with private and staff apartments in addition. THE SITE
occupies one of the principal corner positions in the centre of the City, and is within
a few minutes’ walk of t'he wharf. APPOINTMENTS: Very well furnished through-
out, electric light (own plant) and gas. AREA OF LAND: 1 rood 13 S/10 perches.
TRADE: Particulars of residential and bar trade, tariff, etc., on application.
DISTRICT: Very firmly established. Prolific cane producer, with excellent potential
prospects, annually increasing in importance. Mackay is one of the principal
Northern ports, and is shortly to be linked up by rail with Rockhampton.
PRICE: £lO,OOO.
NOTE. —The foregoing offers one of the most attractive investments available at the
present time, the present estimated value of a five years’ lease being £3500, and tie
rent return £6OO per annum, with an assured prospective increment.
aS: RICHARDS <a BUTCHER,
INNS OF COURT, ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you!”
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
A pure:
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
2 4
faTUtWi §
Don’t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can „do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
3
a
a
<o3+.
Foster Oil-Cooled
Transformers.
Their standardised efficiency is as high as possible, con-
sistent with reasonable capital outlay. They show to
advantage in the initial cost, and also in the total cost
over a long period. Only the highest-qpality materials are
used, and great reliability has been achieved.
The insulation is not affected by moisture or hot oil;
nor will it disintegrate under the influence of vibration.
Windings are of double-covered copper for small
currents, and rectangular wire copper strip for
higher currents.
FURTHER PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON
REQUEST.
Manufacturer*—FOSTEß ENGINEERING
CO., LTD., AVimbledon, England.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 173-6 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 315 George Street, Sydney.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 3: Eerrars Street, South Mel-
bourne.
So J 4.»
TttOiX
Make a Launch of your Rowboat!
The 2-h.p. “BANTAM” Perfection
Engine instals inside any boat.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Bore 21, Stroke 2A,
JR.P.M. 500 High-
tension Ignition.
a
DIMENSIONS
OVER ALL.
I-ength 16in., Width
loin., Height Kiln.,
Weight 401 b.
THE “BANTAM”
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to 9 miles
per hour. May be
easily operated and reversed without pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines. Suit-
able for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Prepare now for the coming season.
Just, a month or two and the picnic and boating season will be here
again. You’ll need a “Bantam” for that boat. Why not have all
the thrills of motor-boating for a low cost? Write now for particulars
of the “BANTAM” or Caille Perfection Engines in any size for
light or heavy duty.
SOLE AGENTS FOB. AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”


oAltra&i've, Ingenious and
Smokers’ Js(pvelties.
m
i
081
..-v -• > • >
mm
m
08l Artistic Smokers’ Set in best nickel plate with spirit
lamp ana extingu sher, aiso four separate ash trays which
are lined with heavy painted glass in shades of ted or
yellow; each tray has appe or cigar rest. Price .. 70/-
Farmer’s :: Sydney ,
ff The Store for SMen
We Pay Carriage
to the extent of 5%
Box 497
G.P.O.
082-G’ass Ash Tray
with bronze attach-
ments for ho'ding
p pes, cigars, etc., ani
box of matches; very
conven ent and orna-
mental. Price, 10/6
OB2
m m
m
wsmmmz
MW*
T W:
iIL
EW A
w
(J 1
SSi
paw" £%%
IVhen the period kmn;n a s “the twilight of
ife” arrives, extreme eare must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant Uls at a distanea.
%
IRISH MOSS
IS BEST FOR COUGHS & COLDS.
If tahen la time It win
•a cettinf Bonning'^ n > g_
sment serions dSTeiopmcntii, Insist
«>ld everywhere. - BA Id
MELBURNE
HATER
A Touoh of
Paria in the
Heart of
Molbourne
Just before a crisis arrived in State poli-
tics John McWhae, Honorary Minister and
member for Melbourne in the Drearier
House, _ accepted the Agent-Generalship,
and will take over the office from
Peter Mcßride in February. From October
till then he with Mrs. McWhae and daughter
Margaret will be on the sea or touring in
Europe. The new A.-G. has crowded a good
deal into his 11 years of politics. He was
Public Works Minister under Bowser, and,
not caring about being tied to a department
—he is a rich man and didn’t want the
money—took honorary office under Law-
son. It was the organisation he created and
controlled personally that rooted out ’flu in
"Victoria. The death of one soldier son and
the gassing of another (who has recovered!
aged him a bit, but still he carries his 62
years very sprucely.
The downpour on Saturday failed to wash
back the crowd from the Y.A.T.C. meeting at
Caulfield; but it reduced the social s.de to a
faint smudge. The Best People, discreetly
macintoshed, huddled together in the grand-
stand, and only a few women defied pneu-
monia by trailing expensive chiffonery during
semi-dry intervals. It was a depressing day
to all save a few successful punters.
Marie Tempest’s affection for chintz
skirts and pork-pie hats offers a festive con-
trast to the other two ladies in “Cousin
Kate” at the King’s. Dorothy Hamilton,
in pink, and Doris Gillam, in the low tones
of a dowager whose dressmaker has at last
brought her to recognise her age, are dimmed
as soon as Marie appears. Moreover, she
sports smart white shoes and stockings
which give a neat suggestion of summer out-
side, whatever the state of the weather in
a household with a deserted fiancee on the
premises. Marie Tempest had a good house
on Saturday, despite the Lilac magnet at the
Royal.
The Methodist Church at St. Kilda was
almost smothered in wattle-blossom for the
wedding of Dorothy, daughter of Senator
Pearce, and. Lieut. Ellison, a Sydneyside
parson’s son. Dorothy was one of the young-
est brides of the season—a velvet-cheeked,
starry-eyed youngster who looked beautiful
in her clingy white satin frock and her veil
hanging from a little Dutch cap of fine lace.
Four very young girls were bridesmaids—
Marjorie, the bride’s sister; a little sister
of the bridegroom; Wanda Hewlitt and
Muriel Isaacson. Each was fluffed out in
frilly taffeta of a different color, blue, pink,
maize and mauve, and each had a little Dutch
cap to match. Bridegroom Ellison and his
groomsmen, all Duntroon boys, were in
khaki.
The guests scurried along in cars through
the sleet from the church to a substantial
wedding-breakfast at the Esplanade Hotel.
Golden wedding-bells hung all about among
wattle blossom and violets, and primroses
and more blossom were amassed along
the tables. Lorna Reid and Mrs. Ted Dvson
played and sang. Mrs. Pearce wore soft
mole-colored satin and a turban of lilac
bloom veiled in grey. The Senator had a
gay flower in his coat, and Generals White,
Chauvel and Ityrie made cheerful orations,
though Ryrie’s flow of words was cut off
in its prime by an urgent call from the
House, which seems to be an agitated edifice
nowadays. The Chauvel lady wore a hand-
some gown and a tricky little turban. Mrs.
Sellheim was smartly tailored in dark-blue
cloth. Mrs. Woolcott smothered un her ivory
Irish crochet dress with marmot furs. Mrs.
Hall had a flamingo-red tooue to brighten
her dark navy suit. Mrs. Hewlitt was in
embroidered georgette. And a host of young-
sters were in their prettiest partv frocks.
The bride dug out the first cut of cake with
her brand-new husband’s sword, and then
ran off to get into an embro : dered brown
cloth frock with some lovely furs and a
.turban turned up off her face with pink
roses. They motored off to the hills.
Samuel Alford, Mayor of St. Kilda, gave
a ball of great splendor at that suburb’s
Town Hall the other night. He defied pre-
cedent and cut out the official set of lancers.
“Leave the dancing to the young folk,”
he said ; and the orchestra plunged into jazz
melodies or whatever they are. An impor-
tant crowd proeesshed from the Council-
room reception to the dais in the ballroom
—the Mayor, comfortably muffled in his
robes, and his lady in magnificent undress
ot gold-brocaded georgette, the Gaud Mayor
ana his lady m a glistening, jetted frock of
black and scarab blue, and a dozen mayors
trom surrounding suburbs with then- wives
or daughters in froc-ky splendor. Watt,
Arthur Robinson and T. H. i'ayiie had to
lie supplied with official partners—their
ladies were not present. Snowball and his
pretty daughter were there, and Agar Wynne
and Ins wife—-she in a fine contraption of
black and green struck a distinctive nute The
platform had tricky little beds of daffodils
and piiinroses planted on it for the evening,
ana the hall itself was dressed in gold—yel-
low drapmgs to the balconies, amber shades
to the lights and baskets of wattle blossom
dripping from the ceihng. The dobs, were
allowed a square dance to show oif their
white frocks—and they made a lovely bunch
■°£J? ,ve T-’ -° £ em ‘ Su PP er was an
official affair in the Council-room: it began
at 10 and wandered through half-a-dozen
courses, .well trimmed with wanes, until
about midnight.
~ lUe decorations were left a-hanging for
rangaise Ball the following
night. Ihe irenchmen, having woven some
tncolor among the gold and wattle, kept up
the Fourteenth of July with a jazz and
T 1 play f d the Marseillaise
when the Consul arrived on the scene
The Essendon Mayoral Ball was. a gor-
geous whirl at the local Town Hall.
Mayoress Royle trailed becoming black-jetted
t rapenes and held a bouquet of yellow roses,
and with her husband, resplendent in Ins
bunny-skms, entertained 800 guests headed
by the Gaud Mayor and Mayoress. The latter
ooked exceptionaly well in all black, with a
blue-sashed corsage suggesting the Order of
withes wife en H al “ Pom P ey ” Elliott came
with his wife. He wore a beaming smile, a
bewildermg array of miniature medals, and
t i j Stlft ellou B'h to ward off shrap-
nek Ihe hall decorations, for which town clerk
Campbell and the head of the local gardens
were responsffite, were elaborately beautiful,
in the background was a wood-sawing
comnle/e in mK tion ’-, with trucks and rails all
mplete. The ceiling was festooned with
autumn leaves, and the lights were hidden in
the hearts of red foses. The stage was
converted into a bush track, with a moun-
tain stieam trickling down the ferny trail
u!l d th ? mayoral supper-room was a pink
blaze of festooned flowers. 1
This photo pictures Miss Laura Nyulasv in
the cap she wore at a recent frivol. The dainty
little spinster is
always involved in
some charitable or
patriotic enterprise,
and her bump of
organisation, her
willingness to work,
and her unfailing
good temper are
three golden reasons
why she commands
success. During the
war years she not
only . worked with
feverish patriotism
on the common tasks,«
but was one of the
first to entertain
wounded Diggers, for
which purpose she
threw open her medi-
cal brother’s Hawksburn house. Every year
Miss Nyulasy sets cheques for two or three
hundred pounds to scatter among our
local charities at her own discretion on be-
half of Mrs. Cowper, who knows that sister
Laura is always in touch with the needy.
She is also an active worker with the now
eruptive Women’s League. Another medi-
cal brother flies his brass plate in WestraLa.
Half-guinea ticketholders rushed the Boys’
Llome frivol at Carlyon’s so fiercely they
nearly swept the committee women off their
feet. Dozens of ticketsellers having casu-
ally omitted to chronicle the names of
buyers, the hon. secs., pale with anxiety,
tore round like a pair of distracted peahens
sorting the crowd up into the right table
groups. Mrs. Mackay scintillated with a
snakehke sheath of blue sequin slashed over
black chiffonery. Another of the “also pre-
sent” was Mrs. Fred Kcrouse, who has put
on avoirdupo.s since she flung aside her dance
slippers. The company gloomed generally
at: having to pay extra for supper; and the
gloom did not lighten when another call
came to stump up for balloons and toy
whistles. But the proceeds will build up the
Boys’ Home banking account very nicely.
There w r as a “come-rest-in-this-bosom-my-
ow r n-strickendear” sort of solicitude dis-
played t by the Ma lvern Branch of the
A. Yv.N.L. committee when Mrs. Arthur
Robinson, its president, rose to address it
and tell it all about her treatment by the
central executive. She gave her version of
how she threw up the central vice-presidency,
and then came a resolution of confidence,
loyalty and affection. Like the prima donna
who has scored a triumph she was handed
a basket of flowers that somebody had
thoughtfully brought along. What matters
it if the Ministry in which one’s husband is
No. 2 is threatened with a loaded gun when
one can get a curtain like that and make
one s rivals wince V
Colin Colahan, here photoed by Montea th,
is regarded as the most striking disciple that
Max Meldrum has
yet produced. Orig-
inally a black-and-
whiter who contri-
buted many good
drawings to The
Bulletin, Colakan
fell under the sway
of the older man,
and, eagerly swal-
lowing the latter’s
arguments, soon out-
paced his mentor in
his enthusiasm for
the cult. Not only
d:d he paint chal-
lenging landscapes
and portraits in the
Meldrum manner,
but he incited a book
setting out the Mel-
drum . . points of view, comprising an
exposition of his art and aims by the
master himself preceded by an introduction
tiom the pupil that lashed every academic
convention with a gallantry only exceeded
b> the writer s wit. The result of that
effort was a breakdown in health, and Co’a-
hnu hurried away to King Island to recu-
peis-i , , nerves b - v Peaceful minting. A
wh le back he returned with a number of
canvases that enhanced his reputation, and
!L IS t n * W u ff v , to El ”'«Pe to see what travel
has to teach him. He intends to make his
headquarters in Paris and do Brittany and
forthm- ndy thoroughly before Proceeding any
. frothy Luscombe’s wedding was the occa-
sion of two separate and far-separated
trivo s one in Ceylon, where she that day
swore to love, honor, etc., her tea-planter,
Raymond Ashe; the other at the paternal
bungalow in South Yarra. At the latter
Base-Commandant Luscombe and his wife—
-3l’, ! ;rcv . jersey silk trappings a rd black
nat —ted (>() guests on wedd'ng-cake and
champagne, and the absent bride and br'de-
groom were enthusiastically toasted All
the b g military guns were there, herded hv
Generals Wlrte and Chauvel. Dr. Charlie
Ryan used h’s surgical knowledge to dissect
the cake with a sword belonging to the
bride s grand-dad. It was a cheery sort of
Hamlet.” w th the Prince of Denmark en-
joy-ng himself round the corner.
and months the big house on
tne St. Ivilda-road has yawned emntilv while
Lord Forster and his lady and suite have
been squeezed into Sydney Admiralty Hmise
or have camped elsewhere. “Is it «n offence
aga'nst the Constitutnn, or ain't it?” a
perfect lady inqirrrd the other day.
Owing to the Farmer party’s challenge to
the Lawson Government over the wheat-p ol
bus ness, the Parliamentary d’nner to the
Earl was put off from the 19th till a more
suitable time. When M’n-isters were look-
ing woebegone over what might happen if
the 21 Laborites, 13 Cockies and one inde-
pendent Laborite combined, Lawson told the
House that doubtless some Mimstry—his or
the one that succeeded —would make the
reams te prepnrat ; ons.
Ex-Senator D. J. O’Keefe, whose two re-
cent attempts to win a seat in the Speck’s
Leg. Council came to naught, has now to
mourn the loss of his life-partner. The lady,
who was deservedly popular, was one of the
clever Wilson family which included a
brother who was for years Launceston’s
favorite medical man. He died young a
decade ago.
.T. M. Niall’s knighting will come, of
course. It must come. Didn’t he act as
host when the Prince last year was enter-
tained at. one of Goldsbrough-Mort’s sta-
tions? Didn’t he present the winner of a
big steeplechase to the Prince, as though he
were offering him a cigar, and wasn’t he
recently made a. fuss of when the Prince
met him at Ascot and presented him to the
King? The head of Goldsbroughs is
understood to be a dead cert (racily speak-
ing) for a knighthood if he fails to score a
baronetcy. And yet the staff is not feeling
glad. For years it received a 10 per cent,
bonus on salaries, but last year, when the
cost of living was higher than ever, the
bonus was reduced to 5 per cent. Newsome
of them grumble tint they provided the
entertainment and didn’t get as much as a
glass of wine and a biscuit.
Dav'd Low was lately lunched by the dear
old National Liberal Club in London, and
after the repast regaled his hosts with his
views on “Cartoons as Propaganda.” The
National Liberal has recently invited a long
list of celebrities to fortnightly snacks. Low’s
place in the queue was between Dean Inge
and ex-war-correspondent Philip Gibbs, who
is now editing the Review oe Reviews.
The Byron Moores’ widowed daughter, Mrs.
Gordon, feels like smiling again after part-
ing with a refractory appendix. She will
shortly pack her steamer trunks for another
Indian trip. The appendix seems to worry
the Moore family, for a few months age
s ster Grace’s was cut adrift by the family
surgeon, and sister Linda parted with hers
before she trekked north.
Pianist Doris Haddon, of the Eastern Hill
Con., and soprano Vida Sutton will give a
comb nod recital in the Assembly Hall on
July 20.
L. L. Smith’s son, Gengoult, a Collins-
street doctor, has had his first dose of the
“elasticity” of public life. He was elected
to the City Cornell as a nominee of an over-
fervid crowd that wanted to scotch the St.
Pat’s procession, and to do it were ready to
prohibit all others. Now he has found
that the Council majority which was so keen
has cooled down and turned its back on
itself. So Smith has resigned—oh, no, not
from the Council; merely from the general
purposes committee.
Miss Theresa Officer, of the Riverina
woolgrowing clan, is being envied by other
advanced women for her new title of J.P.
She has plenty of money, plenty of brains,
and a fine sense of humor. Incidentally, she
has for years stumped the district for the
dear old AVomen’s League cause and knows
party politics from A to Z.
As the blanket shower for Melbourne Hos-
pital was so successful, the Hennessy lady
lias asked the public to assist her in keeping
the downpour going for St Vincent’s, which
is also hard up.
News comes from the Sn" rvq.
lege at Quetta that Brig.-General Bertie
tnuyd aim n.s n.ic w.i, a
brand new son. It is expected that the Lloyds
will return to Australia at the end of the
year.
In the breaking-up of the old Winter
Irving home most of the precious collect on
of paintings were packed off to the Cold
Country; but Dr. Leger Erson managed to
bag a few pieces. Squandered about his
large, rambling villa, Taroowa, St. Kilda,
he has one of the most extensive private art-
collections in this country—canvases, statu-
ary and china everywhere, and the shrub-
bery and lawns have bronzes that are only
safe from burglary because of their weight.
The doctor, who gave a big birthday supper-
party and showed off his treasures the other
day, looked 40 and felt 20, and confessed to
60 years.
George levers, who had an apoplectic
seizure in the City Council when debating
the dropping of the by-law to ban proces-
sions, never rallied, and passed out on Satur-
day. He was the third member of the levers
family to represent Smith Ward in the Coun-
cil, and held his seat for 20 years. His old-
fashioned courtesy, which well matched his
ripe age, and bis quiet, almost stealthy, gen-
eros ty made him a general favorite.' Only
a few weeks earlier the grave closed over his
wife.
Adelaide drops a line:-
After the recent w.ld whirl of social frivolities
Culture” was given an airing at a seven-day-and-
night Musical Conference, arranged by Director
Davies, of the Elder Confervatorium. There was a
big roll-up of teachers. The proceedings opened with
a chat and a snactc; and after that addresses and
recitals were the order of daylight and dark. Mozart’s
Requiem Mass” was given on the Thursday evening,
though it should have been kept to finish up with
on the Saturday.
The S.A. Government has dropped upon an easy
way of raising revenue—fining bookies and motorists.
The former may' become scarce in time, but the
latter, like the poor, are always with us. Quite a
bunch of our Naieest foregather at the police court
every day, and a man has only to stand still and
look at his vatvh, on any roadside, to see every car
in the vicinity slacken down to a crawl.
The ball in aid of the Free Kindergarten, held at
the Palais Royal, brought in much coin. But there
are signs that the young men are now less keen
about the jazz than they were at the start of the
season.
The S.A. Lacrosse Association is holding a dance
at the Palais Royal to finance a team to take part
in the inter-State carnival in W.A. in August. J. 11.
Reid and Gregory Bluer are responsible.
The two balls, with donations, in aid of the
Babies’ Home, Walkerville, have brought in, up to
date, £744, and there is still a bit to come.
A committee of women at Glenelg has been
formed to raise funds to build a war-memorial
hall. It s a pity a similar scheme is not started in
the city, where at present pictures have a complete
monopoly. It is rumored that the Queen’s Hall, only
recently released from Red Cross work, is shortly to
be leased for —billiards! Melba long ago pointed
out the urgent need for a hall for vis'ting concert
companies. Local talent can only air itself in the
suburbs.
At the 42nd annual meeting of the Y.W.C.A. the re-
tiring secretary, Mrs. A. S. Neill, presided. The Verco
lady is her successor Certainly the Young Women
have shown they can raise the wind, as within the
past year they gathered no less than £9028, and the
girls threw in £3356 of that themselves.
The Renmark hospital tragedy—four little mites
burnt to death in an isolation tent—was a terribly
sad affair, the more so as the youngsters were all
just convalescent after diphtheria. No blame was
attached to anyone, though no one Gan understand
how the gruesome thing happened.


m
%
li:
i >
SM
SOB
rpf^ltFrfrfrrrlj
KRB2SSSB&
rr^rrr
1
i * . Irrrrrr
K
hi
i ri
&
I
):
\\\£s£S
m
i"*.
tl. j\i
\\«
4*^
2^
S )
. v\
C /
"7%
frl-l
w
x
- j j-
a
\\
> i,v
1 "a.
:i><» -r ’ < l r 'l
“
V 1
w
Vi
V
; :^>>r ; ::**v
l Jl »S
*./: J:.. , )i
i y,c "4
m J .
) V***
wf
!*«!»»•»
I^ESS
k
•ht»«s
v;S3®
•• ••:■- » fcJV
• V > ' <\\v.v
rvcj
*%/•;
Oo
a


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
cumf
RE PLUS DLTRfI 1
r £ : rC.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
5%
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
'Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
ƒs
Si —
-
BOND’S Australian-Made
m
:i
$
“Ladder-
Proof”
Hose
In PURE SILK of
Luxuriously Soft
Quality, but possessed
of such remarkable capacity for service that
EVERY PAIR IS GUARANTIED
not to Ladder, Hole, or Tear.
“LADDER-PROOF" is undoubtedly
the Hose that YOU ou c ht to Buy
‘‘FOR SPECIAL WEAR.”
A WOMAN'S
Holeprof
Hostery
The Oxford Hall saw the end of France’s
celebration of her National Day. The bands
had played the Marseilla.se since break-
fast, and the Tricolor had flown in sunshine
as bright as on that midsummer Lng ago
when the crowds of Paris planted the flag
proudly on the captured Bastille. There
had been the handshaking at the Consulate,
and_ the more than excellent lunc..eon at
Paris House, where Consul Campana made
his speech and listened to the flowery phrases
of the friends of France. But the con-
cert and dance at the Oxford Hall were
the celebrations in which the hard-working
sons and daughters of France joined. Every-
body was there, from Consul Campana and
his wife. to a group of Franco-Indian pol.ce
in khaki uniform. There were two dark
ringleted little flappers in red middy blouses
and blue skirts who rather shyly danced
together all the evening, the indomitable
Miss Soubciran, and Playousts and Goos-
sens and Consul Segaert and Mrs. Henri
with the only cropped head in the room—
Frenchwomen do not favor bobbed heads —
and Cacialli. And surely one of the prettiest
girls in Sydney, in a cream dress w th tan-
gerine ribbon loops, very French from her
dusky piled-up hair to her slim feet, and
her name is Juliette Brancliier.
All Sydney knows that jolly group of sail-
ing men who go down to the Heads in ships
and call themselves the Itoyal Sydney Yacht
Squadron. Their hospitality is a proverb, so
there were no regrets coming when the Glub
sent out its cards lor a ball last Friday night.
The charming old Club house was approached
through a lantern-splashed garden that
laughed at Kipling's divorce of East and
West, for the quaint Chinese paper shades
everywhere cuddled electric bulbs. (By the
way, the Club doesn’t have to call in the elec-
trician every time it’s on pleasure bent, for
two of its oldest members can do the wiring.)
Guests were given the freedom of the Club-
house. Even absent-brother Bartholomew’s
bed-chamber was invaded with the safety-
pins and powder that are essentials of a
woman’s cloak-room. Flags and ensigns were
everywhere, and nearly 3000 yellow
roses nodded and drooped and twined along
the 'frails and played around the lattice-work
of verandahs that had been waxed to a de-
gree perilous for the older youngsters of the
Club, but just right for the jazz girl and
boy—there were about 130 of them. The
billiard-room and the little glassed-in card-
room had become two exquisitely decorated
supper-rooms, all yellow roses and great
yellow shaded lights, the whole with the
changing gioups of men and women rather
like an Aubrey Beardsley interior. In
another little room in a glass case was a
display of cups that would make any silver-
smith’s window-dresser green with envy;
and through every window came the magic
of the city’s great waterway.
Commodore Milson, who was in charge
of the craft and beamed on everybody, was
supported by daughter Marjorie in petunia
dressing. She and Don Taylor and his
good-looking wife (she was in black tulle and
jet frocking) and her gc.od-look.ng sister,
Miss Saunders (in a dress the shade of pale
honey), and Jimmy Milson were the interior
decorators who transformed the rooms.
Struan Robertson brought his little blonde
wife and Dr. George Watt his new bride.
Julie and V’era Coombe from Westralia w r ere
among the dancers; a graceful Jefferson girl
was in tones of red from her toes up, and
the smart Wheeler child wore tulle side-
puffs to the skirt of her pink dress. Mollie
Dangar and Dennis Allen and tried yachts-
men Hungerford, Walter Reeks, Garde
Trouton, the Waleys and Rear-Commcdore
Saxton were other trim craft on the sea of
gaiety.
It is the tellers, the ledger-keepers and
the little girls from the adding-machine
rooms who make the annual bankers’ ball in
aid of Prince Alfred’s a success. The heads
welcome the vice-regals and then sit in eas.v-
chairs on the dais, while hundreds of girls
and boys who Lave dug a hole in their
weekly screw dance right through the pro-
gramme. Last Thursday night the Town
Hall was a forest of flags and electric lights
shrouded in elongated silk cover'ngs—they
looked rather like the ghosts of prize turnips.
The committee scored: not only did it
have the G.-G. couple and the State Exes.,
but the entire Forster family came with
Mrs. Pitt Rivers and the newly-arrived
daughter, Mrs. Lubbock. Lady Forster
wore ivory lace combined with Wedgwood
blue velvet; Dame Margaret wore her
pale-grey brocade; gold tissue wrapped
Mrs. _ Pitt Rivers, and Mrs. Luboock
was in b.aclt and gold. Tne Denison
MiLer kn.ght and his lady and Mr. and
Mrs. Ivater were among the long Lne of
bankers and their w.ves and Prince A.fred
chiefs who made a Marathon of the passage
up the room in a va.n attempt to keep up
With the pace at which ihe band played
tiie Marseillaise.
The Alliance Francaise revived its pre-
war soc.abJLties last week, hang ns? out rts
sgn at the Paddington Town Hall. And
by the appointed 8 o’clock it seemed as
tnough the ha,lf of Sydney were France or
trance’s friend, and rt caused the reader of
history no surprise that so many of the
names that were not French sounded like a
breath of Ireland. After President Doucet
had handed Dame Margaret up to the sea-
grass chair of honor (very imposing the
Dame was as to her white brocade gown
and quite girl-Lke as to a pink bandeau
binding her hair), Miss Soubeiran, wrapped
about with a scarf-length of the Orient, ex-
plained that the absence of the G.-G. Fors-
ters, Sir Walter Davidson and French Con-
sul Campana was due to their keeping tryst
with Lady ’Flu. Mrs. Campana had braved
the night in black tulle, a red rose, and
sleekly-dressed black head. Mrs. T. H.
Kelly, wrapped in what might have been a
solid sheet of the Niagara Falls, or a length
of beaten silver such as an Inca might have
dropped upon his bride’s shoulders, swept in,
a turret-like periscope of fine feathers se-
cured to her head by an emerald velvet moor-
ing. With her were her two daughters.
Little Mrs. Gordon, in nigger-brown cache-
mire de so.e, sang a plaintive French song,
and Laurence Godfrey Smith ti'eated De-
bussy with extreme gentility. Then fol-
lowed a curtain-raiser in French that was
amusing when it was aud.ble. The Hughes
knight and his lady were among the front
seaters; President of the French Institute
Mr. Wright brought his slim wife, who hails
from Dublin and interpreted at the American
Embassy in Paris during the war. Mr.
Wright, as you probably don’t know, was
unofficial interpreter to Billy Hughes when
Billy did his dash at Versailles. Handsome
General Both and Consuls Segaert and Tep-
pema came with the ! r tall wives; and Mrs.
Arthur Jewett and Miss Gurney helped with
the smooth working Arrangements of the
evening. The Tricolor, the Union Jack and
our own blessed Australian flag were well
to the fore, and there were palms and a
good jazz band.
The Earl and Countess Stradbroke come
on their first visit to Sydney th.s week.
Dame Margaret puts them up at Govern-
ment House.
The ’flu fiend has been busy at Govern-
ment House. Major Egerton, the private
secretary, is among the victims.
After an absence of 10 years Mrs. Walter
Ehrig is back in her native land staying
with her father at
Yananabee, Darling
Point. London and
Paris and Brussels
and the Netherlands
have absorbed the
intervening years.
A n enthusiastic
musician, Mrs. Ehrig
followed up all the
London concert sea-
sons, and names
among that city’s
popular concert sing-
ers another Austra-
lian girl, Astro Des-
mond. Some time
ago Mrs. Ehrig’s
husband was ap-
pointed director of
one of the large w T ool
companies in the Netherlands, and Mrs. Ehrig
greatly enjoyed her stay in Holland. Back
vv.th her conies a case of music, mostly Rus-
sian, and some quite new to Australia. As
Violet Jackson, the lady was well known
in. Sydney as a lyric soprano of charm and
brilliancy. Afterwards she was a Marchesi
pupil, and made several London apoear-
ances. Her mother is the ohlest daughter
of the late Dr. McNah. Austral'a’s first
Consul-General for the Netherlands, and it
is a co'ncidence that after all these years a
granddaughter should have made her home
in Holland.
Another of our V.C.’s braved matr’mony
last week. Cartwright, of Inverell (doesn ; t
it seem a shame to spoil the dashing, blue-
bnnnets-over-the-Rorder sound of it by
fixrng the Christ'an name George?), marr’ed
Elsie Broker, of Ballarat, at St. Stephen’s
( hurch, Chatswood, uncle David Sm ! th
hand in a over the bride to the hero: and for
bridesma : ds there, were Lilian Smith and
Topsy Tooker in pale pink georgette.
Bright-faced Belle Rankin, s ; ster of
Archie Rankin, of Newcastle, is engaged to
Dr. A. F. Joyce, of Moorabin. Melbourne.
It was a ease of love at first sight between
the doctor, who is a widower, and Belle, who
h°d g"me down to the cold c'ty to recuperate
after her illness last summer.
Another pair of right-up-to the-minute
engagees are Marjorie itich ai.d Cliaord
Itoss. Marjorie is the only child of the
Effson Riches, and Clifford, who was a tiyiUg
man, is of DarLng Point.
Here is blonde Helen Simpson, old pupil
ot Miss Clarke s ai.d of Pose Bay. Helen
is toe daughter of lawyer Simpson, of the
Minter-Simpson firm, and she has returned
iroin her s L ud.es in England with mother to
be in time for brother Telford s weddmg.
V Ph her (oaie a book of her own plays pub-
lished by Blackwell, of Oxford, and a moun-
tain of music—chamber music mostly, which
there is talk of Verbrugghen introducing to
Sydney audiences. It was this Australian
girl who started the
Oxford Women’s
Dramatic Society;
before that the dra-
matics had been n
the hands of the
men, and at Oxford
the men and women
are not allowed by
College authorities to
jo;n forces in such
matters. The g.rls
have to get oti.er
men friends to play
their males, and the
boys cast their
female roles among
the outside fair. John
Masefield, Li 11 a h
MacCarthy (married
now to a botany
professor, and content with the stir that
runs through Oxford when it sights her
wonderful gowns and hats) and Gilbert
Murray are the greatest friends the women
players have had. Several of Helen’s plays
have been acted at Oxford, where,, inciden-
tally, the town theatre is so altogether un-
a*sthetic that the gads give their perform-
ances in the handsome and histor.c Uni.
halls. (There’s a hijit for our own S.U.D.S.)
However, playwriting and acting are mere
side-lines. Helen’s serious work is music.
After that comes poetry. A long way be-
hind, scenario writing. May Moore made
the picture.
Clever Myrtle Sperrey Bromley (she is a
graduate of the Arts and Med.cal schools)
lately promised before the Rev. S. G. Fielding
to be the minister.ng angel of Hal Wardlow,
who anpat.ently waited for the girl of his
heart to take her final exams, before becom-
ing his very own. She is from Mosman, he
from Bellevue Hill.
The tall fresb-complexioned youth, Philip
Towse, nephew of the Arthur Stewarts, of
North Sydney, has come to an understanding
with Amy, daughter of ex-Q.N. bank-
manager Sewell. j
Charles Orr, who died suddenly on Satur-
day, was the only son of Mrs. Fred Orr, of
‘*52,” where be was secretary. He was a'
lovable young man with an enormous circle
of friends in Australia and abroad. Volun-
teering as soon as war was declared—the
father had been a keen soldier, and the son
had intended going into the Army—he was
rejected on account of his eyesight. Later he
got through and was probably tee most short-
s.ghted member of the A.I.F. He went arv
early in 1915 as a gunner subaltern with
reinforcements, and jo.ned the batterv of
his friend Rex Rabett on Gall poli. He" had
risen to the rank of major by the time he
was wounded at Cambrai.
There was mourning in Sydney a week ago
for Mattie Osborne Foott, an accomplshed
musician and one of the daughters of the
late George Foott, one time Grafton’s only
lawyer.
In a recent letter from London mention
was made of the death of Mr. and Mrs. Percy
Spence’s married daughter, Vera. The other
two daughters, Joan and Phyllis, are still at
school.
The Osterlev will sail without one of its
booked passengers. Francis Vail, 21, sub-
lieutenant in the Australian Navy, had his
kit packed to go to England for a course in
gunnery, but meningitis claimed him after
a two days’ illness. Francis was the smart
youngster in charge of the Guard of Honor
on the Marguerite the other day when G.-G.
Forster had a naval review almost all to
himself. His last; boat in Sydney waters was
the Penguin. He was a nephew of Mrs. C.
H. Cupit, of Mosman; his people live in
Melbourne.
Jimmy Burns has been operated on for
appendicitis; and after a rather bad time is
sailing for Vancouver with his wife, on the
Niagara. The J. O. Fairfaxes and Barbara
and Janet Knox travel on the same ship.
The Oswald Watt memorial fund has
touched the £2OOO mark, and subscriptions
are still coming in to the treasurer, Shep-
heard Laidley. It is intended to endow a
dormitory in the Children’s Home, Wah-
roonga.
The Catholic Women’s Association is get-
ting ready for its Blossom Ball on July 27.
Mrs. Meagher and Mrs. Thornton are in
charge of 1 the decorations, and promise to
turn Padd'ngton Town Hall into a Garden
of Eden—flowering apple only, and no ser-
pents.
Gilbert Frankau, who was the eo-re. in
Leon Quarterma.ne’a divorce last week
vis-ttd ,-iusualia just before the war. tie
was wr.Lng "One of Us” at the Line, and
selling Cigarettes and cigars in lots of
IU,O(JU or so. He did not talk much about
his literary gifts, but claimed to be one of
the most capable commercial travellers in
the world. He is a slim, dark young man
with a passion lor dancing—when in Sydney
he danced somewhere every rnght, including
Sundays—and an aston.sh.ng knowledge of
cook.ng. His dinner-parties at the Australia,
where he fraternised with the chef and spent
hours in the kitchen, were the admiration of
the social world of the moment. He fought
in the ILF.A. during the war, an experience
which was the insp.iat.on of his fine poem,
"The Guns.” A little-known fact about him
is that he is Karl Marx’s grandson. The be-
whiskered revolutionary was the father of
‘•‘Frank Danby” (authoress of “Pigs in
Clover”), and she was Frankau’s mother.
Leon Quartermaine’s brother Charles, by
the way, was in Sydney with the Waller
company at the same time as Frankau;
Charles was Madge Titheradge’s husband.
"Vandorian’s” line or two from London:—
You remember the handsome, dashing young woman
who was the wife of Major Forbes, A.D.C. to Gov-
ernor Strickland ? There was a divorce later. Now
Mrs. ltosita Forbes is giving “desert-travel talks" at
the lEolian Hall. Her trip to Kufra provided fine
matter for a book; and as the writer has a big
social backing the rest was easy. Cassells will pub-
lish it shortly. Fortified with passports and letters
of introduction, the lady travelled as a Moslem
woman, Sitt Kadija, under the care of Ahmed
Mohammed Bey Hassanein. As Inspector in the
Ministry \of the Interior, he was a strong pillar of
defence against the suspicion of desert tribes. It
was a remarkable and audacious journey. But Mrs.
Forbes probably considered it a great lark.
Church Hill was a sort of Limousine
Avenue one afternoon last week when over
a thousand somebodies wanted to squeeze
into the Wentworth for the bridge-and-tea
afternoon- that was to restock the linen cup-
boards at the Ryde Home for Incurables.
Dame Margaret, in black velvet and furs,
and Mrs. Egerton, in grey cloth with a splash
of vermiLon wound into a toque, carried
Government House approval to the gather-
ing. Justice Wade’s lady, who was presi-
dent of the committee, had woven bright
wool embro'der es, like a patch of Urals, into
her navy blue frock. Mrs. Fred Searl, wife
of the home’s treasurer, and surgeon Mac-
Cormick’s lady were among the vice-reine’s
party. Mrs. Bertie Kelly hopped up on a
chair during the afternoon to auction a cami-
sole, which finally fell to Mrs. Frank
Osborne for over £3. All society and the
old friends of the home were present, includ-
ing Miss Margaret Harris, who drove deco-
rously up to the cafe door in her carriage-
a fid-pair.
The Carrington and the Hydro are the
happy hunting-grounds of the builders of
the mystery film which the Carrolls are pro-
ducing. Cast as the adventuress is Mrs.
Henry Hill Osborne, who arrives in the
first scene wrapped in a gorgeous fur coat,
and, after an intermediate wardrobe of gold
tissue and black and w-hite, emerges in a
w.dow’s outfit that will make Miss Sixteen
sigh that her chance of being a girl war-
widow- passed with the Great War. The
immense ballroom of the Hydro is cast for
the big beano of the film, and Ivy Shilling
and Ida Adams are going up specially to
trail some frocking through the ballroom
scene.
Lloyd Rees and Wal Taylor are sending
some of their choicest work to Jeanette Shel-
don’s art salon in Brisbane for exhibition
during Show Week. Artist Lloyd and
bookbinder-de-luxe Taylor are both Brisbane
boys; and some of the most admired pen-
draw-ings by Lloyd Rees at the recent com-
bined show- at Gayfield Shaw’s rooms were
of interesting corners of Brisbane. Lloyd
is a dreamy-eyed young man whose cheerful
belief in his own good luck doesn’t blind him
to the advisability of being on the spot, so
he w-ill voyage north in charge of his draw-
ings and Taylor’s tooled leathers.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Lady Egerton has put in a few days at Govern-
ment House on her way to Java and the Malay
States.
Mrs. Victor Cotton, wife of Victor Cotton, of
Grandehester, died last Saturday. She was Kathleen
Nisbett, of Sydney, and came to Queensland less
than a year ago as a bride. There is a tiny
daughter.
Kathleen Campbell Riley, who shortly weds her
sailor, has been deluged with teas and jazz parties.
One of the latest was the jazz afternoon given by
Mrs. Foss Thsllon at Lennon’s.
Jack Fraser, late 9th Battalion, has placed the
badge on Eleanor Jessup's finger. His people live
in Scotland. The bride was a war nurse, and
is a daughter of Mrs. Vincent Jessup, of Toowong.
Everybody economised in butchers’ and grocers’
goods to pay for a seat at West’s Olympia when
Amy Castles otherwise filled the place with song.
Amy’s sister Eileen was smothered with flowers, and
the audience seemed to think it had bought a right
to 17 encores for each song.
A new- engagement is that of Phyllis Maekenzie-
Shaw, of Valley of Lagoons, and Frank Cory, of
L-mgreaeh.


śf
Folding Clocks.
S-Day Folding' Clock, high-
grade movement, fitted in
Leather Case. Size when
folded, tin. x 4in.
£9 0 0
Plain Silver Fronted Watch
flock, with Leather Back,
fitted with Gentleman’s Good-
Quality, Ordinarv-sized ' 30-
Hour Gun Metal Watch.
In addition to their large stock of High-grade Wrist
and Pocket Watches, Hardy Brothers have a fine
Selection of Folding Clocks, suitable for both
Boudoir use and Travelling.
Watches which carry the Company’s usual guarantee
of Reliability are set in cases of Gold; Plain and
Engraved Silver; dainty colored Enamels and
Leathers; and make very acceptable Wedding or
other Gifts.
A selection will be sent on approval, if desired.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
U6-IJB Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
CLOTHES
A FACTOR IN BUSINESS.
The well-dressed man scores in the world of business. His personality is
enhanced by the clean-cut, graceful lines of a perfectly-fitting suit.
To dress well —quietly and yet distinctively-—requires time and care; time,
because the tailor cannot do justice to his skill if he is hurried ; and care because
not every shade and pattern will suit your personality.
BUCKLEY S SPECIAL SUITS at 8* Gas.
have a wide range of designs and colors and mark the wearer as a man of character
and discrimination.
Send for Patterns and Self-measurement Form —-sent Post Free.
'V;
4B
A
I
im
V
m,
*
BoN
MAILORDER SERVICE
Avg Fby Carriage
t o any Vos\ Office
ailway Sht. or Port
in Australia
sfsf
'TiucHeu & Ahum /id
WURKE ST /MELBOURNE
ƒ
Here is a High-grade
Camera which will enable
you to take Snapshots on
Dark, Gloomy Days, or
fast-time exposures on
Dull Days.
The
Ansco Speedex
FOR ROLL FILMS—DAYLIGHT LOADING
(Can also be adapted for Film Packs and Dry Plates),
IS THE DE LUXE FOLDING CAMERA
FOR HIGH-SPEED WORK.
The Ansco Speedex is a Folding Camera of the Highest Grade—both in
finish and capabilities. It has highly-finished fittings and high-grade Lenses
and Shutters. The covering is of Genuine Persian Morocco, with Rich
Black Leather Bellows.
The Ansco Speedex is THE Folding Camera, with which you can take
photos on every day of the year, and under all conditions of lighting.
>t>- It is fitted with F 6.3 Ansco Anastigmat Lens, in Optimo Shutter, giving
lime, Bulb and Variable Instantaneous Exposures up to l/300th of a second.
Ansco Speedex No. IA, takes pictures 21 x 4-1 £l6 7 6
Ansco Speedex No. 3, takes pictures 3J x4l £l6 15 0
e?
The House for
Good Cameras.
386 George Street, Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland,
42 Willis Street, Wellington
N.Z.
, N.Z.
harrinotons sell kodaks.
PURELY AUSTRALIAN
■
: 1 ■
■
m
"mßk
z
rf%
"Sold the day trey are made*
mm
Always in red
boxes.
Prices: 3/-. 5/6,
7/6, 12/6, 20/- and
30/-
POST FKEE TO
ANY ADDRESS IN-
AUSTRALIA. j
Only
address:
162 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Qcrtrti l


LEARN TO DRAW!
K
There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
T."\
No one can
learn the ,
principles o f
art by making
copies. Individual
ability must be
developed if success
is to be attained.
The
Weston Postal
Course of Drawing
teaches the student
to DRAW, not to
COPY; to make
original sketches,
which are person-
ally criticised by
Mr. Harry J'. Wes-
ton, Australia’s
leading commercial
artist and poster
designer. It teaches
all the points of
art study in a
series of simple,
enjoyable, easily-
mastered lessons.
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for a
copy of Mr. Wes-
ton’s interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen,”
which tells all
about tli e (
course, gives
examples of the
lessons and of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
64 Union House, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m&m
Made
Perfection
TPITStt RUBBER.
7
FC7
r '
ff
Enjoy every
mile . . .
CHE surest way to true
enjoyment of eve ry mile
of road travel, either on
a cycle or motor cycle is to
fit your machine with a
BROOKS
SADDLE
Let us advise you in your choice.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
134 Criterion Work*, Birmingham, Eng.
In these days we all have
to keep our end tip.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to selL
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
MISREPRESENTATION.
IMPROPER PASSING OFF.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO., LTD..
OBTAIN AN INJUNCTION.
Specialisation is the spirit of the Age, and
one of the most interesting tendencies is the
disposition of the modern manufacturer to
identify his goods by means of Trade-marks.
This system must continue to develop if
Great Britain is to maintain her pre-eminent
position in the markets of the world, because
identification tends to a higher standard of
production. Thousands of pounds are ex-
pended yearly in advertising registered
Trade-marks, and in many instances this
widespread publicity has made the public so
familiar with these lines that the Trade-
mark actually supplants the ordinary name
of the goods in question. This sometimes
leads to merchants unintentionally passing
off to the buying public ordinary goods under
the name of the genuine trade-marked article,
whilst, on the other hand, an unscrupulous
trader may be tempted to substitute an imi-
tation as the genuine article.
A case under notice is that of the Tootal
Broadhurst Lee Company, Limited, of Man-
chester, Cotton Spinners and Manufacturers
of high-class cotton fabrics. This is an old-
established and reputable company, and is
the proprietor of the following registered
Trade-marks, which have been extensively
advertised in Australia and throughout the
world, viz : —“Tobralco,” a cotton fabric of
high quality, for dresses and shirts;
“Tarantulle,” a finer fabric for lingerie
and baby wear; “Lissue” handkerchiefs
for ladies; “Pyramid” and “Lova” handker-
chiefs for men ; “Tootal Cloth,” a plain or
corded velvet “Tootal Pique,” "Tootal Shirt-
ings” and “Namrit;” a high-class voile in
white and colored designs.
The Company recently discovered that there
existed in Sydney a widespread practice of
passing off to the public cotton fabrics im-
properly described and represented as their
genuine trade-marked lines. Tootal Broad-
hurst Lee Company, Limited, in the inter-
. eats of their customers and the public, took
immediate steps to stop this method of trad-
ing. Their solicitors, Messrs. Minter, Simp-
son and Company, of Sydney, were in-
structed to engage agents to investigate the
matter. A three days’ investigation yielded
astounding results. It was ascertained that
no less than 25 business firms in Sydney
were selling cotton fabrics improperly de-
scribed as the genuine Tootal Broadhurst
Lee Company, Limited, products. Acting
upon the advice of their solicitors, Tootal
Broadhurst Lee Company, Limited, at once
instituted proceedings in Equity against
several of these firms. In all cases in which
proceedings were instituted, with one excep-
tion, they were withdrawn at the request of
the defendants, who entered into bonds
against any future passing off and paid all the
costs incurred by Tootal Broadhurst Lee
Company, Limited, in instituting proceed-
ings. In the one case in which the matter
was taken into court, an Injunction was
granted by Mr. Justice Harvey in the Equity
Court on February 23, until the hearing of
the Suit.
In many cases the defaulters produced
evidence showing that the goods had been
purchased by them in good faith from whole-
salers as the guaranteed “Tootal” products.
In other cases it was found that ill-informed
shop assistants had misrepresented the goods
without their employer’s authority or know-
ledge. It was with a view to bringing be-
fore the public and trade generally the fact
that their registered Trade-marks are pro-
tected, that the Company 'sought an injunc”
tion against one defaulter. Under Australian
law the person who actually passes off and
the person who originally passes off are
equally liable apart altogether from the lia-
bility of employers, under Section 29 of the
Prices Fixing Act.
The Tootal Broadhurst Lee Company,
Limited, are not claiming damages. They
seek, as stated before, to protect the buyer
and seller of their fabrics, and to establish a
respect for their registered trade-marks. —
Advt.
o
JL
Showing
Bottle
demounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easilycleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, (J.S.A.
We Desire
to Buy
a
Platinum, Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls. Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised arc those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outs-ide
the British Isles must be fixed bp the importing
bookseller.
Australian Campaigns in the Great
War, being a Concise History of
the Australian Naval and Mili-
tary Forces, 1914 to 1918. Bv
LIEUT. THE HON. STANIFORTn
SMITH. M.8.E., F.R.G.S.. E.Z.S.
(44th Battalion, A.1.F.), Adminis-
trator of the Territory of Papua.
WITH A PREFACE by ERNEST
SCOTT, Professor of History, Uni-
versity of Melbourne. With Maps
and Illustrations. Bs. 6d.
Australia Economic and Political
Studies. By VARIOUS WRITERS.
Edited by MEREDITH ATKINSON.
12s. 6d.
The New Social Order: A Study of
Post-War Reconstruction. 'Bv
MEREDITH ATKINSON, M.A.
(Oxon.), Director of Tutorial Classes
and head of the Department of Seen
ology in the University of Melbourne.
Second Edition, completely revised.
Gs.
Men and Thought in Modern His-
tory. By ERNEST SCOTT, Pro-
fessor of History in the University
of Melbourne. With Portraits. 12s.
Gd. net.
Second Edition. Thoroughly
Revised and Enlarged.
A History of Persia. By Brigadier-
General Sir PERCY' SYKES,
K.C.1.E., C. 8., C.M.G. Second Edi-
tion, thoroughly Revised and En-
larged. With 14 Maps and 193 Illus-
trations. Two Vols. £3 10s. net.
-Since the first edition of this work was pub-
lished much has happened in Persia, and the
stirring' events of the Great War are now
recorded. The history is thereby brought up
to date, but the entire text of the original book
has also been thoroughly revised in the light of
the latest knowledge.
Fijian Society: or the Sociology and
Psychology of the Fijians. Bv
the Rev. W. DEANE, M.A., (Syd.),
B.D. (Lond.). 16s. net.
The Near East:—“One of the best anthro-
pological books 1 liave seen for some time ; it
has illuminating discussions on ancestor wor-
ship, cannibalism, etc.”
SECOND EDITION. COMPLETELY
REVISED.
Introduction to the Theory of
Fourier’s Series and Integrals. Bv
11. S. CARSLAW, Sc.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Mathematics in the Uni-
versity of Sydney. Second Edition,
completely revised. 30s. net.
The Commercial Apple Industry of
North America. By J. C. FOLDER
and S. M. THOMSON. Illustrated.
18s. net. [Rural Science Series.
Management of Dairy Plants. Bv
M. MORTENSEN. Illustrated. 32s\
Od. net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British. Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:—
A SPECIAL ARTICLE ON IRELAND.
MEETING OF TIIE IMPERIAL CABINET.
THE , UNITED STATES AND THE OLD
WORLD.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE: Reparations and
Restoration—The Internal Condition of
Germany.
UNITED KINGDOM: Current Politics—The
Industrial Situation.
Aho articles from “Australia,” “New Zea-
land,” “India,” “Canada,” South Africa.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame and address must appear on the MSS. fr’o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
(Jeebung: Tuanks; letter passed to the
writer of the article.... Bio: Sorry, that’s finished.
....Henry B.: "Slang” very superficial-... V.T. :
A ou’l] have to put it more interestingly.... M.K. :
AH miss... .Outback: Similar yarn already printed.
. .. .Nor-West: Went the rounds 20 years ago....
Camelero; Didn't white ants attack palms in Darwin?
. ...H.J.T.: Painfully old....D.T.: Someone got in
ahead of you. .. . H.P.M.: You’d be amazed at the
real age of that Palace yarn H.E.M.: If it has
appeared elsewhere, no....Dingo: Pretty crude....
Jeremiah P.: We don’t reprint.... Marieda B.: None
of them quite win. .. . E.M.E.: The “Brooms” can’t
sweep here... Okey : Can’t find a smile Donald K.:
Tedious and wordy T.R. (lndooroopilly) : Poor...
Hilda B.: Hardly enough there Lucerne Hay: Try
to get more point into the stuff Billy R.: The
verse flounders badly Bay W.: “Bill” hasn’t the
punch W.H.L.: No use Jack A. W.: Doesn’t
seem worth while... .Frank B.: Ecstatic fragment
contrives to say nothing at all R.F.N.: Not much
of a yarn....Alethea: The epistle is very bumpy....
L.B.F.: The “Mirror” melodrama doesn’t quite con-
vince us that it’s true... .Potbrook: That bush know-
ledge ought to be a foundation for a better yarn.
( Have another go; and above all things be natural.
. .. .R.S.M.: “Bible Club” returned... .The Overseer:
The point of the yarn is very slight Demeter:
Shocking waste of good paper Simla D. V.: Rub-
bish. .. .T.F.W.: “Woman Decides” not for us.
Might suit some repertory theatre Wattle: Before
starting out you ought to know where you are going.
Chunjoberree: None of them up.’ Try to say
something new in a new way J.F.M.: Poor verse
even for the subject Onlooker: What does it
mean ?.... Bent Stem: No use heie.... Broodseinde:
Hardly enough in it Stuart C.: No yarn
Murdlanti: It falls to pieces at the third stanza.
... .Oglamite: “The Wife” is convincing enough,
but the horror is not interesting W.W.M.: Empty
verse full of bumps.. .Anna C.: Not well enough done.
P.C.C.: The verse is too good for the gossamer
theme... .J.W.B.: Not enough in it....Vida:
“Curios” too stiff in the joints J.A.L.: “Pro-
crastination” must go back J.C.B.: It doesn’t
amount to anything Gum-tip: No interest in the
very commonplace events H.C.H.: “Rose of
Delight” is all metrical thorns John S.: Sounds
like Bill Shakspeare gone insane C.B.A.: Not up
to print.... Books: Articles written from the point
of view of suburban Sydney can hardly interest a
continent... .Colin B.: The murderer who needs re-
forming and is accommodated in one act takes a
lot of swallowing S.A.E.S.: The lack of taste on
the part of 18 girls is hardly surprising when
the American pictures flourish N.V.P.S.: Poor
verse. .. .E.J.T.: It doesn’t score enough points....
Iggery: Poor yarn told worse.... Pedagogue: People
who “propose in this article” to do so and so are
weary wasters of words A.G.S.: Very crude
M.S.W.K.: The verse is rubbish; the yarn no use
W.H.W.: .Just says the old things in the old way.
E..J.R.: Hopelessly bad Daylight: So-so
T.A.W.: Not as mirthful as it should be I.D.:
It made us weep G.G. (Melb.): The car was
crowded and he was uncomfortable. It isn’t a first-
class plot for a story....Old Paul: It trips over
its own ruggedness E.C.B.: Rather too thin.
Albert R.: If they translate that sort
of stuff into many languages the League of
Nations has no chance lt.N.C.: Not up II.C.:
Too many poor lines in “Reverie.” Get out the
sandpaper... .Ian: “Dialects” not brightly enough
handled.... N.T. (Brisbane): “Paris” misses....
M.B.P.: “The Road” is too involved J.M.S.Y. :
Not a pulse in them. . . . A.E.G.: Commonplace, and
the verse is indolent,... D.L.S.: Fish yarn too thin.
....June: Don’t like it. ... W.M.T.: We don’t want
stories of 40,000 words L.M.H.: Don’t think it
has any special value. . . .Moonshine: Verse not at
all bad, but the theme is dog-eared and worn....
Bimbi: You can’t write verse with about one rhyme
to the square foot... .M.V.G.: No good... .P.B.P,:
Verses on “Australia” and “Bill” miss Eric F.:
Rather a feeble little flutter.... B. 111.: Too slight.
....Sigma: Faked verse has no joy in it....Philip
A.: They fall far short. ..’e.W.S. : Feeble
and commonplace A.M.B.: Verse and prose
both went out in the first round William
M.: You contrive to steer the yarn clear
of all interest. .. .F.J.C.: Too machine-made....
G.E.M.: “Happy Song” doesn’t sing M.C. (Strath-
field): Nothing much in it T.S.M.: The verse is
cheerless. ... Hilda B.: We wish it was different....
W.M.B.L.: None of them up Bordee: Can’t find
any sign of the “inspiration” Doris R.: In the
old ruts... .R.W.B.: The effort to be smart is too
obvious.... Gaimahra: Feeble lines without thought.
Margaret W.: Not up A.G.H.: We don’t re-
print, thank you all the same,.. E.P.L.: Verse soars
like a wounded duck P.O’R.: Doesn’t make a
story. .. .Iris: No use. .. .K.K.: They go weakly.
M.P.: “Geraniums” won’t do O’P.: The “Hawker”
goes a little lame in places... .Amateur: Why attempt
a sonnet till you have tried simpler things 1....
Stanley B.: Prose masquerading' as verse....
Sydalwg: Doesn’t make a printable story Ararau:
Too slight A.O.: Sorry, “Bark” yarn not im-
proved. .. .T.P.: Too late now... .Katakierak: Wasn’t
she catching insects on the glass? The Toad: Fell
into the hands of the Religious Editor G.B.:
Should be of use to the dailies G.A.M.: “And lo!
well within her own length she sat upon the placid
stream, motionless, majestic, calm, serene.” And lo!
she now sits well within her own length somewhere
else H.J.K.: Your statement that when the world
was made there were no modern inventions in exist-
ence is hereby endorsed G.F.S.: Music yarn old.
E.B.: “Souvenirs” not up R.S.I.: No interest.
. ...R.G.P.: We don’t want anything to “fill-up
space.” The trouble is to find it, not to fill it up.
C.E.D.: Been said before A.D.: Big space,
little interest Chiser: Old school-book story....’
Honi Penata: All used are paid for; cut out pars,
and send to accountant.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H-H.: Very wobbly drawing A.H.L.G.: Lifeless.
. ...A.R.W.: Good way below par N.B.: Hopeless.
E.K.: Drawing shows some promise; but you’ve
a lot to learn F.W.: The worst kangaroo to date.
... . J.K.: Nothing in it W.F.M.: Not up
C.W.II.: Drawing and gag both weak E.S.W.:
V ooden. ... A.K.: Misses.... L.M.: Too amateurish.
. ...E.J.N.: Men have been murdered for less....
J.W.: A nightmare indeed W.P.: No drawing.
. ...T.A.: Pencil sketches only good as suggestions.
N.B.: Low-water mark... .G.B.: Both miss. ...
H.W.: A weird jumble.


Shipping
orient; line
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. C abmes-de-
Luxe . Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Itooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
IIS; Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 3,
VENTURA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw,
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OKAUA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including :
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer .(Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 9
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love,
Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert It. Lysagut, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kins
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds F’airbairn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. 1,i20’000
Ordinary Shares 2,250|000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS 011 Australia, New 2e».
unnni a unnrio land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS iU'SSS.#
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
.Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER.
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti)-
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States* Canada* or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 28th JULY, 10 a.m.
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
12,000 tons
RUNIC
SUE VIC
MEDIC
PERSIC
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
12,500 tons
DIOGENES
*Building.
First- and Third-class Passengers _
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
a
- £4,965,200
- 3,425,000
- 4,965,200
£13,355,400
Directors ;
The Hon. Sir Charles lv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Bnokland, Esq.
Charles Hinnie. Esq.
Hubert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.: S. E. Laidley. Esq. Acting General Manager ; C. G. Alford.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
sfa
sank ot Sustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALU CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papuar New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.G. (
Deputy Governor. governor.
Shlnnlmr.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
‘Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
1 Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddarf ParkerLiM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand jjorts
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. . f
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Retween Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Colins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Full particulars of sailing dates, passage money,
freight, etc., apply—
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing; Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Jilaclclieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime® Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year,
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S.. General Manager.
sf
sf
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., litd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.


GENUINE
111
(Resd)
BILLIARD &S NO OKER
i
to
Tum
©
Mi
KSS
I
V.O*
S
C'ii*
ft
ft
m
«s
i
In play they are resilient faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and a\va\ supenor to any other ball Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Siz “ : lfin 1-fin.
17/6 21 - set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d,; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes: Jfin. 2in
£6,6 - £B/8/- set
(We Pay Carriage on Smoker Balls).
•Sole Australasian Distributors
1C
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
Apd at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Weddings
Ever With
Us.
They will marry. We
cannot help it, and
would not if we could.
Indeed, we do all we
can to encourage them.
We cater for them.
We study them.
We- spend thousands a
year to provide pre-
sents for them. We
cull from the world’s
best productions to
please prospective
couples.
Handsome China and
finest quality Electro-
plate Cake Stand 80/-
Less 20% dis. 16/-
We send our best buyers the world over to
sedect the beautiful, the utilitarian, the de-
pendable at the lowest possible prices.
Then, too, we manufacture in Australia
of the indispensable table requisites, and
every way we cater for wedding presents.
many
so in
Our large capital and huge output enable us
to get and to give the best possible values and
variety.
Visitors are invited to inspect our great dis-
play.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
11 cash'only.' 23 825 Hunter Street.
QEORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommoihtiss In Australia.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W. 0..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
t
Saving Shovels
and other things!
SAVING Shovels sounds like wasting time, yet one
Australian railway workshop cuts off the worn
halves of old shovels and welds on new sections
with the Oxy-Acetylene blowpipe. The repair costs
a few pence. What a saving on two or three hundred
useless shovels monthly!
Below is illustrated a repair made to a couple of
cast-iron brackets. Another profitable job that
obviated any necessity for hew castings.
Wherever metal parts are cnt or joined, or metal
goods produced, a COMOX Outfit is a necessity for
saving time and the expense of replacement costs of
all worn or broken parts.
If you are interested in production, or machinery
upkeep, why not ask us prices or particulars of
COMOX Outfits, or the address of the nearest
COMOX Welder.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd
Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney.
AGENTS—Fyvie & Stewart, 362
Collins Street, Melbourne,
Harrison Bros. & Co., Ltd., 20
Patter, n Street, Launceston.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
fas
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray
Street, Perth.
Evans, Deakin & Co., Ltd., 121
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Browne & Joske, Suva, Fiji.
m &
■


S'ZT-
ST
ill
sK
PLAZA
TOOTH
PASTE
LARGE
TUBES A
1/6
IF YOB WANT BEAUTIFUL TEETH YOB MBST BSE
Plaza Tooth Paste.
PLAZA TOOTH PASTE hygienically cleanses,
polishes and bleaches the teeth. It is an
entirely new kind of Tooth Paste that will
delight you. A pure white dentifrice, with
just the right taste, which forms a creamy
lather in the mouth and preserves the teeth
from discoloration and decay. Run your
tongue over the surface of your teeth after using PLAZA TOOTH
PASTE, and see how smooth and clean they feel.
Note how it tones up the gums, and keeps them in perfect condition!
It is an active agent in the prevention of Pyorrhea. Try this
delightful New Tooth Paste. It is a revelation!
PLAZA TOOTH PASTE.
fa
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
The Plum Razor
CRAIG & AITKEJJ, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig & Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum.” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for. two years, free
of charge.
Edison Amberol Records
sfa
for J\ily.
Besides several worthy compositions for bands and orches-
tras tbe r e is in tins months programme a d-versified list
of new songs by some of your favorite Edison performers
and splendid new dance mus.c.
Royal Purple Records.
29053 —Kentucky Babe.
Soprano, orch. ace.
Frieda Hem pel and
Lyric Male Quartet.
29059—1’m a fatale del mio
destino (Fatal urn of
my destiny)—La Forza
dei Destino.
Baritone, in Italian
orch. acc.
Mario Laurent!
Blue Amberol Records.
4008 —Evening Prayer,
orch. acc.
Yodel Song, in Swiss,
Fritz Zimmerman
4037—Red Tulip—Waltz Intermezzo.
Edison Concert Band
4043 —Afghanistan Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Lopez and Hamilton’s Kings of Harmony
Orchestra.
4049 —Bow-Wow —One-step, for Dancing.
Two Saxophones and Two Pianos.
Wiedoeft-Wadsworth Quartet
4052 —Hawaiian „ ,
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra
4054 — Dinnie Dononue, the District Leade*.
Irish Monolog, orch acc. William Cahill
4055 As You Were, Tenors.
Lewis James and Charles Hart
4057 — Sweeter as the Years Go By. Mezzo-
Soprano and Tenor, orch acc.
Helen Davis, Charles Hart and Mixed
Chorus.
4058 — Alabama Moon. Soprano, orch. acc.,
Xylophone obligato by G. 11. Green.
Gladys Rice
4059 Alexandria, Fox Trot—Aphrodite, tor
Dancing.
Max Fells’ Delia Robbia Orchestra
4060 — Ages and Ages. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
4061 — I’ll Always Keep a Corner in My Heart
for Tennessee. Teno.-, orch. acc.
Reese Jones and Male Chorus
4065 —Marion (You'll Soon Be Marryin’ Me).
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Rachel G-ant and Billy Murray
4068 —Manila Waltz.
United States Marine Band
4074—Ching-a-Ling’s Jazz Bazaar.
Mack and Miller
.4075 —Karzan —Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Green Bros. Novelty Orcnestra
4076—Haley’s Fancy Medley of Irish Jigs.
Accordion, Piano acc. by Joe Linder.
John J. Kimmel
4080—Come Into the Garden, Maud. Tenor,
orch. acc. Hardy Williamson
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Friendship.
[FOR THE BULLETING.]
1* LOVE the splendid partisan who stands
Bold against logic and the tongues of
hate,
With scorn upon his face, and hot, clenche
hands,
Meeting his friend’s traducer in the gate,
lie recks not what the great false world may
do,
Nor what pale, ev?l thing an hour may
hold.
In his broad faith his friend is always true,
Dross of the stranger may not smu'ch his
gold.
Ah, this, I think, is still the nobler creed
Till God Himself define the bounds of sin:
Not in the thing undone but in the deed
Shall manhood to a greater triumph win;
And deedful is the purpose of the song
When great hearts sing, “My friepd can
do no wrong!”
11.
We make our friends, as God made Adam
first,
Of dust of dreams mixed red with our own
blood.
We knead them cunningly, wrought best or
worst;
And set them up on pillars where the flood
Of life goes rolling down a hollow land
Of unacknowledged kinship. Alien thought
Stammers a word we will not understand
Because its undertones have never caught
The subtle, falling whispers of our own.
Our friends must answer in our ■ very
speech,
Faithful as echoes from a wall of stone,
The gospel that our dreams forever preach.
Each suigs full-throated to the grac.ous end
The epic of himself he calls his friend.
111.
Our friends shall fan us as the autumn rain
Once m the cycle of the seasons fails
The th.rsty meadows of a fainting plain,
As the wind ceases from the idle sails
That droon against the spars on some wide
sea.
Each friend makes friends of. his own
heart and kind;
And we shall wake to know this is not he
Who breathed in words the breath of our
own mind,
But some co.d stranger we have never seen,
One of the purposeless large world without,
For our grand uses faithless and unclean.
Confusion makes our happy dream a doubt:
And, where the narrowing circles meet and
cross,
A friend’s friends leave us aching with our
loss.
IV.
I climbed up many places steep and cold
And went by many ways of dust and mire
Seeking to find the inner flame of gold,
The god within the ciay, the pulse of fire.
Singing I went, and all my heart was light;
I giasped the eager hands of pilgrim men
In splendid dawns and campings of the night.
And ever the five stars of hope were ten;
And ever the white blooms a hundredfold
Increased in winter, calling to the spring,
Till wealth of friendship, more than I could
hold,
O’erflowed the scrip of my imagining....
Then, climbing to the mountain’s last grey
stone,
I stood in the chill wind of truth alone.
V.
In friendless ways great thoughts have ever
trod.
With co.n of loneliness the traveller pays
Who enters the uncharted wastes of God
Beyond the grey gates of familiar days.
I went across a land so wide and green,
It seemed the blue smoke of ten thousand
homes
Should rise as incense through the morning
sheen
Of the great trees. I dreamt of golden
domes
And cities near sweet waters, framed in
light;
But no man came to me by moon or star.
Then in the lone Lest place I heard Pel gut
Of wild new singing very sweet and far. . .
“A friend,” I said, “my loneliness to share!”
So sought and found no friend but love
walked there.
VI.
If I shall win my love to be my friend
There is no greater thing that I may do.
Existence in such union is an end,
Complete in every hour and ever new.
For, if fair friendship interweave my love,
All greater things to do are in it bound,
Sustained, encircled, held below, above,
From roots that firmly grasp the solid
ground,
Yet feed the b’ossomy branches in the sky.
Each fine endeavor finds its strength and
praise
In the same impulse; all the low, the high,
Through happy sweeps of unrecorded days,
Charmed to achievement when the twin
curves meet
To make the circle of a life complete.
VII.
Dear comrade of my thought and of my
heart,
The morning light is yellow on the trees;
The me'edv of life is as a part
Of the Ipw singing of the sunlit breeze
That moves in color through the bough and
bloom.
Here, in the vast, clean chambers of the
air.
The world forgotten, there is space and room
For all the ecstasy of olden uraver,
Bent knees, raised hands and sudden, golden
words
That wing against the wide .benignant shy
Like pnward flights of eager sh : n ! ng b’rds,
Homing to l : gbt at last, however high.
Ah, swpetbeart of all good and gods come
true,
Thought of my thought—l think I pray
to you!
N.S.W.
DACID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Wet Camp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PREVIOUS CONVICTIONS’ little,
dumpy, sawn-off swag was stand.ng
on end right in the m.ddle of the
garden path opposite my front-verandah
steps, like the daylight ghost of a little,
funed, grey-white slump; but Previous him-
self was nowhere to be detected. However,
he faded in presently, round the big, grey
front gate-post and on to the lower step;
and, gianc.ng aiong the bank of the irriga-
tion channel, in the d-reciion from which
he had come, I was aware of a turned down
biim of a hat and a pair of drawn-up knees
just showing behind a tree.
After a while the voice of Previous was
vague in the hot, heavy air.
“I left Dotty arnng there behind the
ornamental tree,” he said, "but I lost s-ght
of his hat for a minute when I got here,
so i went back to see if he was goin’ in
for a swim—or try in’ to thieve tne canal.
But he was only down in tne reeds tisaing
for yabbies With a bit of meat on a string.'’
(I might mention that yabbies aie hide
things ui tne ciajush nniu mai undermine
tae banks or the inigat.on channels ana neip
lec me vvai.er soan on. and waste, \vni.e me
leedii do tne.r best to cnone tne channels,
and have to be cut every year. They are
Known out there as iUcoaugney's Uuise.)
"I promised once to red you why 1 Drought
Douy uoin me river," rrevmus went on,
“auer oid S' Sam gave us permission to
camp’ an’ hsh an' shoot there, and alter he d
thieved tne cow mat chased me into the water
—1 mean Dotty did. not oid S’ Sam. The hsh
leave on biting alter Easier, and it was
the last of tne soft mguts. You know
the rain that come last week? Weil, it
started next mgnt and we was out m it all.
We was unset ao.e —drenched an’ wet an’
cold, in spite of a hre we had under tne
lee of tne log. Dotty rigged a sort of a
fly between tne log and two saplings that
stood near it —did it with one of his blan-
kets and pieces of clothes-line he’d thieved
from somewhere. Thieved ’em for me to
hang meseif with, 1 suppose, if I felt that
way. But the blanket sagced and leaked
worse than the sky did, so I had to take
it down to keep Us from bem’ drowned as
well as froze.
“The weather held up a bit to let in the
daybreak, and DoTy built the fire and I bad
a s.eep, crouched up. against the log. When
I woke Dotty was gone, and the rain com-
ing on again, and I didn’t know how long
I’d been unconscious. I sploshed througn
it all to the station, but Dotty wasn’t there,
and they didn’t seem like as if Old S’ Sam or
anything else was missin’. They wanted
me to stay and have breakfast and dry me-
self at the tug old fireplace; but I to.d ’em
I had to go and look after my mate, and
they understood that. One of the station-
hands looked up the best part of an oid
oilcoat that bad belonged to him, and an
old canvas raincoat that had belonged to
a horse, and made me take them. When
I got back to the camp Dotty wasn’t
there again, and just when I was going to
give it up I seen him comm’ across a creek
from the old Hay-road. He had a real
water-proof tent-fly that he’d borrowed from
some civilised blacks —the last of the Hay
tribe, that lived in a corrugated-iron camp
across the road, towards Yanko railway
station. He said they’d lent it to h-m, and
I believed him. You see, Dotty doesn’t lie;
he either tells the truth or smiles that
vacant, idiot smile of his, and says nothing.
I wondered what the blacks thought of
Dotty; and, to have done with that, when
we returned the fly on our wav here, Dotty
and the old king and queen grinned at each
Other a treat. Perhaps he could talk
some of their lingo and s'mr the songs of
their childhood —songs he’d learnt in his first
childhood.
“Well, Dotty fixed the fly and cooked
breakfast between showers. He built up
a roaring fire that held its own in spite of
the rain that got at it, and what with the
wind ahd the fire, he got the blankets dry.
Next he kept throwing hot coals and ashes
under the fly, and sweeping ’em off. Then he
putted down a lot of boughs when A held
up a bit. and beat the wet out of ’em against
a tree, and dried ’em out against the fire;
and we spread the old horse-rug and oil-
coat on them ard made a good camp-bed.
We’d kept the bread and flour and things
dry in the burnt-out hollow at the bottom
of an old tree, an’ we drank hot tea and
lay on our backs on a dry bed and under
dry blankets, and d’dn’t care for nothing
nor nobody—at least, I didn’t: I had a
book to read. And. if he d dn’t ferl it,
Dotty looked as happy as if he’d thieved
Heaven.
“Dotty had got some wire-fence posts
from a pile no the river-bank and stacked
them to the s’de of me. away from the fire,
to make it warmer and keep the w'nd off.
And, to make us feel more happv and com-
fortable, the rain ard the wind came on
like tbev d'd the night before. But ice
were all rmht so lone as the wind stayed
in that puarter. A stat'on-hand rode up,
between the rainstorms, in a b’e o'lskin
overcoat. w<<h the ta'l of it snread out on
his horse’s rumn. aV bent down oo his
horse’s neck ard said ‘Pav. mates. It’s a
wet day.’ Pottv no-'nted to the bil’v of
tea on the coals and jeHked his tbrmb up
to where there was a nint-not ups'd°-down
on the loe. Th» stat'on-harfl sa'd ‘Thank
yer.’ ard cot down from his horse, and
Potty reached him the sn»ar-h«»«: and he
had some tea. The stat'or-hand’s wet
sheen-do" came un. too. and shook bhnself
on the other s'de of the fire: tVn he dodged
round closer to and larked at ns <n a
friendly wav. TV step on-hand s f ood bv
the fire for a while r then he scotched the
bn-V of h?g iwqfl w-'th his PtPe fw«mr. ard
said ‘So-htiK" avd cot on h’s horse and
rod'' o'* '"V t'-’s do"- went after b ; m.
“Nohodv eIV romp to see ns enroot an
o’d masm-'e. Pottv tlmew it a h ! t of
c-d «o .aV.rtPd ’t + het lumped aw«v —it’d
thought Pottv was as’een. It swore at
(Continued on next page.)


m
A
7.
■
I
zs
r
&
// 4bio
%
* O
n
r
o- .‘ r
«
r 1
y\
W
V. \
Little Ones Rescued
from Ringworm.
Mrs. L. Pretty, of 77 Campbell Street, New-
town, Sydney, writes“My two little girls,
(rladys and AA innie, contracted ringworm on
the head through contact with other children.
My little boy also had them. I took my bov
to the hospital, and they put the X-rays on
his head. The consequence was that all his
hair came out, leaving him quite bald. This
so frightened me that I was determined to
treat my little girls myself. Although hardly
believing that Zam-Buk could be quite so
efficacious, I resolved to try it, and dressed the
affected parts with this balm.
“I was very gratified to find that Zam-Buk
took away the irritation, and that a great
improvement was taking place. The ringworms
began to disappear, and as I continued the
treatment they vanished altogether.”
Zam-Buk is the ideal winter skin balm for
chilblains, cold sores, chaps, eczema, rheumatism,
cold feet and limbs, sciatica and winter aches and
pains. Zam-Buk is also a reliable home healer for
cuts, bruises, burns and all superficial injuries.
Nothing can equal ZAM-BUK for
CHILDREN’S
SORES.
There’s nothing like Zam-Buk for children’s heads. It
keeps both hair and scalp healthy,, and is a quick and
certain remedy for ringworm and infectious sores. Zam-
Buk is prepared from herbal extracts of great curative value.
It is pure and highly refined, and does not contain any
animal fat or poisonous mineral drugs. You are perfectly
safe in using Zam-Buk.
Mrs. H. S. Campbell, 1 7 Carey Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, writes:—“For
years we have used Zam-Buk. Where the children are always falling and cutting
their knees, and for the treatment of festered wounds and skin rashes, Zam-Buk
proves simply invaluable. Once when my little Colin was troubled with nasty
sores, Zam-Buk cured them in a few days. It is a most wonderful skin healer.”
yam-Bttk
°Li chemists and stores, or post free direct from the
proprietors , C. E. Fulford (Australasia) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney .
Dotty; and then it snatched up the meat
and flew off with it. By-and-bye it come
mck and cursed Dotty some more an’ woke
me; so Dotty threw it another bit of meat,
and it swore its thanks and flew away with
that, too. I suppose it wanted that bit
tor its wife and kids. Anyway it come
Pack again and had a last piece comfort-
abiy by itself on the dry ground by the fire
after cursing Dotty and all his family, good
and hard, for about two minutes. It said
Dotty was a foundling, of something such—
like any other real bUshman does when, lie
meets an old mate unexpected after some
years.
i 1/ J all the wild magpies were
halt tame round Leeton until young civil-
servant Gawps came round bangin’ off guns
at em. I’ve seen one of them fancy fisher-
men la-di-dahs down there by' the river shoot
f bira like a curlew and break its
le £- There was a strong barb wire and
netted fence between ’em, so he couldn’t get
at what he’d shot. But the bird kept hop-
ping round on one leg, with his face to-
wards us all the time, screamin’ out, for
fill the world, ‘Now —see—what—ver—
done ! ‘Now—see—what—yer— done !’ '‘Now
see what yer—done!’ till his mates
come an’ got him away.
. Well, to get on with it. The rain and
wind come on with the night, worse ’n’ the
first night; but the wind still held in the
right quarter for us—as if all the winds in
th b {southern World lived there an’ was
go:n up to blow all the Japs outer the
North o Queensland. But we was as snug
as two rugs in a bug-—what yer grinnin’ at?
an 1 slept well. Till something woke
me. Yer know how something wakes yer—
anywhere in Australia; whether in the bosom
of your family, when a child gets sick in
the night, or in the bush, or in quod. The
rain had cleared at midnight, as it does at-
midday in Sydney mostly, and it was broad
moonlight, and all was still. But Dottv
was gone agen. I reckoned, maybe, he
mighter gone With that old magpie of his, to
look after his red cow an’ calf, ’n’ inquire
how they was gettin’ on, an’ whether they’d
found a warm gully outer the wind to sleep
in. So I give it best, an’ stood up an’
stretched meself, an’ put some more limbs
on the fire, an’ turned round an’ took in the
scenery.
“The. tourists never see the Murrumbid-
gee as it is; thev never see it even in the
mountains abo’ve Burrinjuck, nor below it
either—except perhaps at Gundagai or
Narandera or Hay. Where thev do see it
it’s like pictures of the Upper Darling at
Hourke except for the river timber; and
that grows tall and straight and sound
mostly. But down here it’s the o'dest
river in the world, in the oldest bush. Them
knotted an’ smarled an’ stunted an’ twisted
old Burnum-wood witch-trees have been burnt
out in a hundred bush fires, an’ rotted in a
hundred floods: but they won’t die—except
where the fire has burnt ’em down, or the
floods have undermined ’em an’ the nver
drowned ’em an’ poisoned ’em with slime
an’ mud. But you’ve been there, an’ vou
know.”
HENRY LAWSON.
Jack, John and Johnnie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
ri IHE three foregathered again on the
1 green garden seat under the pepper-
tree in the hospital ground, the stout,
florid man : the tall, thin, pale chap, and the
wreck with the bit of string—Jack, Johnnie
and John. John had the piece of string,
about a yard of it, and he was busy plaiting
it. When he had plaited the whole leugth
into linked loops he pulled his work out and
started again. He seemed to think the plait-
ing of that string the most important thing
in life. When he had plaited it for the
liftieth time he held it up to his companions
with a grunt that demanded appreciat.on.
“Splendid, John!’’ said Johnnie, and
Johnnie coughed.
“A blessed hole in every loop,” said Jack.
“Well done, son!”
With a sidelong duck of the head, and
speaking out of tnat corner of his mouth
nearest to Jack, Johnnie said, respective of
John: “They’ve passed him for the boobv-
hatch all right.”
"Didn’t need a medical conference to
settle the point,” said Jack. “Poor old
John! Fancy spending the rest of vour
natural grinning through the palings of a
Wild asylum.”
“Plaiting string.”..
Jack nodded. “YV hat's come over you,
JohnnieV A turn for the better? I see
you’ve been shifted from the Condemned
Cell.
Johnnie grinned palely. “Yes, two doors
nearer the Dead House. That’s so’s they
won t have so far to carry my corpus when
1 snuff it. cows !”
.' “Well, I’m a bigger load. I’ll know what
d means when they change my address to
Aext morgue on the left, going out.’ ”
"Oh, you’re all right. , You’re good for
a month.
Jiick shook his head. “Get it off your
mind,” said he. “Eighteen davs.”
“How d’you know that?”
“How do things get about here? The doc.
says Any mo. Any half-a-mo., for the mat-
ter of that.’ It’s somethin’ in the ventricle
of my heart, a sort of barrier forming. All
in a sec. it’ll slam to, and then Well
what’s the good of talking about it?”
“Where’s the harm? I know I’m done.
The Hun has been a long time gettin’ me, but
Im a war casualty all right. Gas on the
lungs did it for me. Now it’s consumpsh,
with only a few weeks to go.”
Jack nodded in a matter-of-fact way. “I
thought that was my little lot. I’ve" more
than a touch; in fact, I’m fumed through and
through. But the heart trouble is leading
by seven laps. Have a drink.”
With a glance through the boughs towards
the b:g house, he had taken a flat flask
from his pocket. He passed it to Johnnie.
John ceased plaiting his string, and sniffed
the air.
Johnnie took the flask. “It’s strictly for-
bid,” said he, lifting it to his lips.
Jack nodded. “We know all about that.
But rules ain’t made for dead men. Don’t
be afraid of it. There’s more where that
came from.”
"They copped every drop I had in a
locker-raid yes’day,” said Johnnie. “Threat-
ened me with ail the penalties.”
Johnnie croaked like a delighted crow. He
thought he was laughing. Jack held the
flask to the lips of John, and measured a fair
allowance. Jack wiped the bottle-neck with
his palm, and took the last of the whisky
at a gulp, then passed the flask back
to John, who sat for a time with his nose
pressed to the neck, content to smell where
he could no longer drink.
“Look at him,” said Jack. “And they say
he’s nutty. We oughtn’t to take it, Johnnie.
It’s fatal to us.” The two laughed again.
•T nghtens you, doesn’t it V Fatal, ’struth!
Idiots we are, endangering our chances of the
long life!”
“May be 20 days, me.”
“Me two, three, four—the Lord knows.”
Again Johnnie emitted his curious, croaking
laugh. “Got any oof, JohnnieV” continued
J ack.
“A coupla bob.”
. “I got seven. Save it. They’ll be send-
ing us along with John in the ambulance to-
morrow, when he retires to his particular
tomb. He won’t go quietly without us.
We’ve got to give the poor bloke a reasonable
send-off. He goes to the Mental Hospital
full of the pure essence of gladness. It's
his last chance. That ambulance trip will
be Jolm-o’s funeral. I’ll run over the gar-
den wall and get what’s needful. How’s it
strike you, John?”
John had dropped the now to him odorless
flask, and resumed the Dlaitihg. He held up
the string and grinned.
“Thirty quid apiece,” he said. “Watch
chains.”
Jack was right; he and Johnnie were told
off to accompany John in the ambulance that
carried him from the Military Hospital to
the Receiving House. Jack and Johnnie re-
garded themselves as chief mourners.
The ambulance was no sooner clear of the
hospital grounds than Jack produced flasks,
opened them, and handed one to Johnnie and
another to John.
“I never thought poor bid John-o would
be the first to go,’L said Jack. “Here’s luck
to him wherever he brings'up.”
The advantage of a flask from a hospital
patient’s point of view is in its flatness. It
can be hidden in one’s clothing, where a
bottle would be notorious. Flasks are for-
bidden in hospital, as bottles are; but apples
were forbidden in. Eden;
The ambulance brought two men back and
set them down at the hospital door. They
were very cheery mourners. They stood
for a moment, locked together, surveying the
ihhospitable hospital front, and then, still
clinging together for mutual support, see-
sawed tip the steps, singing hilariously,
"\\ hen Johnnie comes marching home again
hurrah, hurrah!” They tripped over the
doormat, collided with the hallstand, and
sat down. Their arms were still about each
other. One sang “We’ll all sing gay when
Johnnie comes marching home.” The oth
had a dash at “Willie, we have missed you '
A number of the patients frathered about
the prostrate pair, barracking jubilantlv
"Gorstruth, they’re choke full!”
"Wish I had half their luck.”
A male nurse bustled through the ring
“Here, here, wha’s wrong here'.' Less mi'
fer the love of Mike.”
He stood aghast, gazing down at the pair
And well he might. They were Johnnie
and John, shamefully inebriated.
The Master in Lunacy, through his oflicei\
had accepted delivery of the wrong man.
EDWARD DYSON.
Weather-Lore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
11l the piues the winter wind
Shouts its challenge notes;
Shoreward, with a gale behind,
Surge the fishing-boats;
Home they bring their crazy craft,
Home, in haste, once more,
They who read the new moon’s sign,
Wise in weather-lore.
Down the distance, bleak and black,
Speeds a tattered cloud;
Harried back and driven back
Towards the coast they crowd;
Worn of sail and torn of sail,
Wet and wan they fly,
Cursing low the crescent moon
For its weather lie.
Through the flung spray, fierce as hail,
O’er the frothing waste,
Shoved and shouldered by the gale,
Tern and gannet haste ;
. Flung and tossed from shoal and reef,
Fountains, foaming, gleam;
Caught and swirled in cave and cleft
Tortured billows scream.
Hounding reef and point at last
Peace and rest they gain,
While behind them sweeps the blast,
Howling doom in vain;
Where, on calm and even wings,
Tern and gannet glide,
Anchors down and canvas down,
Free of fear they ride.
Rugged rock and sheoak grove
Gleaming with fed light,
Round their, fires in Shelter Cove.
They shall group to-night,
While the clouds beneath the moon
Flee, a routed host,
And the scourged and maddened wave?
Thunder down the coast.
As. to heighten heated glow,
Log on log they pile,
Down the crescent moon shall go,
Careless of her guile;
Fooled and cheated, they shall watch
By the sheeted shore,
They that read the new moon’s sign,
Wise in weather-lore.
N.S.W.
RODERIO MULNS.


à
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 reatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES I
• H
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with ali cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most ■ scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL..
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it,! and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
34-9 Collins Street, Melbourne; Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
with success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter'*
. . Little Liver
Small Pill-
Small
Dose—
. Small
PricOi
CARTER'S
■ ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousne s s,
Constipation,
Sallow i Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
2
523
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction oi; the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE, value £750 and 397 other
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO e
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO try it.
First Prize in 1920 won by W. M. Neilsen, fltavp Shilling
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of °
Tickets from Local Agent in all Towns, or direct from
Arthur W. YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
A Good Team of Twelve
Leading Motor Accessories.
m
Study the list and learn why
our goods are so popular.
THE FAMOUS SCHJEBLIE CARBURETTER.
Models to suit all Engines, for CARS, CYCLES,
BOATS, AERO, STATIONARY. Illustration shows
latest Car Type.
Prices from 63/-, £4/5/-, £6/15/-., £l, £7/15/-
iPttcc re*
wet
THE INEANI)
“ONE PIECE”
PISTON RING,
The Best Ameri-
can.
Prices from
6/9 each.
THE “BRICO”
CONCENTRIC
PISTON RING.
The Best Eng-
lish.
Prices from
%/- each.
TRADE KAPK
SWAN “No. 5”
PHOSPHOR
BRONZE.
Every stick
guaranteed.
2/6a per lb.
ALili TREADING
BRANDS
WHITE
METAL,
including VTJL.-
CAN, as used by
Rolls-Royce.
5/3 per lb.
sfasfa
FELLOWS
BRITISH
MAGNETOS.
Inferior to none.
Singles, £9/12/6.
Fours, £l9/5/-.
Sixes, £23/15/-.
MAYO AIR
COMPRESSOR
AND TANK
for Garage use.
Price £42
Complete.
“THE PEEKLESS’’ HONEYCOMB KADIATOR AND BONNET.
The Best Radiator for Lords extant. At least Double the Efficieney. Workmanship
Unsurpassed. Price as shownj £l3/15/-. Radiator only £lO.
SSSS
Rotherham.
ENGLISH OR AMERICAN BALL RACES.
Send for List.
“RED CARDINAL” BRAKE LINING.
STANDARD on BuickSj etc. None better or
Cheaper.
ROTHERHAM FAMOUS BRASS GREASE CUPS AND
LUBRICATORS
LODGE PLUGS. The World’s Standard. Prices from 5/6 each.
mm
304 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies
c:
Lodge Plugs .
E
tmmmm
'W&mm
Spg®
wMxs.
S&&S^s£
' ->
svr;
: - ■: .
- ■ i
pS^;
*.vf-
mkm
hut
dwtr
YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Coltis Browne's
The Original ami Only Genuine
Til 13 1
Coughs i
and in the
BEST MEDICINE FOK
r Colds, Asthma,
Cough of )i ICON CHIT IS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
A 'well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS mice a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and S/-.
Made in England.
1
r*t\
WSy
lj
■
m
w
Ample Stocks and Quick Deliveries Are Now
Offered on
Westinghouse U. S . A. Miniature
Electric Lamps
Headlight—Sidelight—Rear and Speedometer Light Lamps
of all sizes for any standard make of motor car.
Flashlight Lamps for every make of battery. -
Candelabra Lamps that add greatly to the artistic appearance and comfort
of a home or public building.
Westinghouse U.S. A. Miniature Lamps represent the highest development-
in the art. Their superiority is due to most careful inspection and rigid
adherence to the highest manufacturing standards.
Write for Descriptive Literature and Information.
There is a Westinghouse U.S.A. Lamp for every lighting purpose.
Wes
inghouse Electric International Co.
' Incandescent Lamp Department
165 Broadway, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
CABLE—WEMCOEXPO. NEW YORK


THE
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited,
SIX YEARS of REMARKABLE PROGRESS.
.
.. .. ■
”1™
■
in
mm 'll i i >
: K si
Water-front View of the Iron and Steel Works, Newcastle, 1914.
' gr * •:
■ ■ '■ /
• . ' ■ ■ ■■ mi: :: v ■:
4. '
. ."I »
.4
4,;. - '
'•'*« <<
.4 V T
A.
::'N(
4tf:
' V '
«*«** it *
r-'A-v.
'
am
m
H
; s
- Wm
:■ ■ ;
Sill
'4.
1 i
mmm
m m
Ingots
Water-front View—but in 1920.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Pig Iron (Various Grades)
Billets Blooms Beams
Rails and Fishplates
Structural Steel Merchant Bars
Sulphate of Ammonia
etc .. etc .
HEAD OFFICE ‘
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cables and Telegrams: “Gambroon, Melbourne.*
