

XSES»v
GET THIS
j •dteUxDtb
MN
HANDY WORKER
AND BE YOUR OWN REPAIR MAN!
DOES GRINDING AND GENERAL REPAIRING.
BORES HOLES IN METAL OR WOOD.
GRIPS PIPE. CUTS IRON. HOLDS JOBS FIRMLY.
USED IN A HUNDRED WAYS!
FOR
HOME
and
FARM
WORKSHOPS!
• *
WMS
Mf®
!’:S
FOR
GARAGES
and
SMITHYS!
COMPRISES
STRONG VISE, GOOD ANVIL, STEEL SPANNER, GRINDING MACHINE, DRILL PRESS
AND DRILLS, SHARP-CUTTING HARDIE, STEEL PIPE CLAMPS.
GET ONE NOW
AND SAVE TIME, MONEY AND WORRY!
FOR SALE BY STOREKEEPERS, IRONMONGERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
M
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET ON REQUEST.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
1 $GOpe?l) and %rftewaftb Prodticfls.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE.
NM
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2149
Thursday, April 21, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


I HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for- 1021? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 42S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Adtt.
“The Early Brush Catches the Germ.”
i| BRUSH EARLY
WITH . X
TOOTH/PASTE
KILLS DENTAL DECAY GERMS WITHIN 30 SECONDS.
A SAMPLE TUBE FREE, DEPARTMENT B
iLJit
a—
!
MR
iISH+HrTT^
ili'l'i
MANGROVITE Leather Belting.
Under severe conditions, on main drives or on any pulley in
the machinery-room, the manufacturer may rely on
-MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
giving the utmost service and functioning perfectly' always.
It’s super-frictional grip and elasticity, so essential in’ a
belt, makes Mangrovite Leather Belting pre-eminent as a
power transmitter, it is now being sold at greatly reduced
prices and immediate delivery can be had of any size up to
12in. wide. Our staff of experts is maintained to attend to
your belting requirements, and conduct repairs at any time
to suit your convenience.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney.
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co. Ltd.. Fremantle.
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Ltd , Adelaide.
Victoria & Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co , Melbourne.
THE YANDOO.
THE 7th F.A.B. Magazine (vol. 3), 200
pages, 270 photos of exceptional interest,
reproductions of journals printed in the firing-line,
three big, four-colored maps of Northern France
battlefields. Price 3/-, postage 6d. extra.
No Aussie Artilleryman should he without it.
YANDOO MANAGEMENT, c/o Sil Kohu,
110 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
N
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
M
Watef*¥r£etn’s
Foi^te^k
\\
The busy man
wants —and must have—an abso-
lutely efficient pen. The pen that
pleases him beyond measure is
Waterman's Ideal, the world's
best pen.
|Three Types—" Self-Filling,” « Safety ” and
“Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands. Of
Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.-
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Comet
Kingsway, London, England.
i
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,"
jos, Clarence Street, Sydney.'
GRASSHOPPER
OINTMENT
Draws Out the Poisons.
Impurities in the blood produce many ailments, including boils, ulcers, carbuncle,
bad legs, certain forms of eczema and rheumatism. Albert’s Grasshopper
Ointment does not drive these poisons back into the system, where they would
be likely to attack the lungs, heart, liver or other" organs. Owing to its
powerful absorptive properties it draws the impurities absolutely out of the
system. This restores the blood and skin to a pure, healthy state, and causes the
boils, ulcers, pimples, eczema, carbuncle, etc., to heal up and disappear. The
Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment, having perfect confidence in its efficacy,
urge its use in treating all maladies due to poisoned and diseased blood. The
written testimony of a countless number of persons who, during the past half-
century, have used the Ointment with beneficial result, renders it impossible to
doubt its surpassing value in treating all blood and skin diseases. The Ointment
is absolutely harmless and contains no injurious ingredients. PLEASE
BEWARE OP SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier, and for those who suffer from
headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded to purchase any substitute preparations.
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT AND PILLS are sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
ALBERT & CO., 73 Farringdon Street, London, ENGLAND.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs.
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
What the Medical World says:— The Lancet
‘•Proved to be as effective baeterieidallv as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET" LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES a* an
ANTISEPTIC,
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers: or
Post-Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
UJu
0^
KOJJT
AueTAAU^gi
we
GeiOUQK
•*ZKTTt
ms
Mensunic
ON
KU»«MJ
'mimten'iaii
The Red Page
Punctuation
It is told of Oscar Wilde that, staying in
a country house, he talked at dinner of hav-
ing done a hard day’s literary work. On in-
quiry, it appeared that the sole result of a
morning spent in polishing his manuscript
was that "I took. a comma out.” "And in
the afternoon V” “I put it back again.”
-Ihe story is usually told as an example of
monumental futility; but—apart from slow-
ness of thought, because, for good or ill,
the decision ought to have been made within
two minutes —it shows a conscientiousness
more deserving of praise.
h or the comma is the backbone of punctua-
tion, and punctuation is like air, or health,
or water. Only when it ceases to be good
do we appreciate what we have begun to
miss.
Yet one recalls a Bulletin article by
Mary Gilmore which denounced commas.
J he eommonsense of a usage-knowledge of
words” was to take their place, and in par-
ticular C. J. Brennan, "wisely parsimoni-
ous of them, is, she thought, “paving a
tribute to eommonsense in the reader.”
Which is much the same as urging that a
road frequented by all classes of wayfarers
should be left without lights, direction-
posts, milestones, or bridges, as a tribute
to the eyesight, power of observation and
aginty of those who use it.
There happens to be handy a new book
fd literary essays which is about the limit
in misarrangemeut of commas. This kind
of thing: “The theatres do not as a rule
cater for this section and when they do, they
are not adequately supported.” There
should, of course, be a comma after "sec-
tion’ ; also either another after “and” or
none after "do.” That two-or-none rule is
simple, but it seems a constant stumbling-
block to the modern printer. “Certain writ-
ers such as Lord Bristol, sought inspiration
m Spanish tragedy.” That would do well
enough without a comma at all; but if it has
any there must be a pair, after “writers”
and Bristol,” with the effect of a paren-
thesis. Those misplaced commas jar when
you strike them, but to be left without any
at all may be worse. Says the same essay-
ist: “Those in power throw contempt on all
who criticise as creatures socially unfit.”
n ell, anybody who criticises in that way
deserves, contempt, perhaps; but I fancy
the author meant instead that the powerful
despise all critics, and a comma after “criti-
cise” would give that effect.
Punctuation can be vital in far simpler
cases. Everyone knows the tale of the
school-inspector who found on a black-
board "The schoolmaster says the inspector
is an ass,” and quietly put in commas after
the second word and the fifth. An Aus-
tralian novel, after describing the heroine’s
romantic experience beside a camp-fire in
the bush, makes tin- odd statement that “she
never smelt wood-smoke again, but the
memory of that evening came back to her.”
The deceptive comma should not he there,
of course. A whole class of sentences must
depend entirely on the comma for meaning.-
Thus: "The storm having stopped the pro-
cession passed along”; "the officer having
cursed the orderly wrote a complaint” ; “the
rebel force having surrendered the town was
no longer of any importance.” A single
comma after the participle, if we mean one
thing; a pair, after the nouns, if we mean
anpther. One instance of a different - kind,
from a new novel. The listeners at an
open-air meeting "heaved sighs of satisfac-
tion when the speaker at last sat down and
wrapped their rugs more closely around their
limbs.” I don’t believe he did that, really;
but if they did it themselves a comma after
“down” should say so. Again, “he gave it
to his daughter, who was married,” implies
that he had only the one, and describes her
status; omit the comma, and there is a clear
suggestion that lie had other daughters who
were not. As for “still,” "then” and “now”
at the beginning of a sentence, followed by
a comma they are mere introductions, with-
out it they have their full value as adverbs.
Similarly, in "I am miserable indeed” the
last word is really forcible, but a comma be-
fore it robs it of all its effect.
It is now obvious why the Law tries to be
independent of punctuation. As a fact, it
makes ample use of the full ston. the colon
and the parenthesis, but the comma it pre-
fers to ignore. And rightly so, for an import-
ant document must not let its meaning vary
with a tadpole sign which might equally
well have been put in by a careful drafts-
man, or a careless copyist, or an unscrupu-
lous interested party. An English will-case
turned on London houses “situate in Bullen
Court, Strand, and Maiden-lane.” Was
“Strand” a mere direction as to the neigh-
borhood of Bullen Court, or was it meant to
cover the testator’s other houses actually in
the Strand ? The Court held that the presence
of the commas was a circumstance of im-
portance. and the Strand houses went with
the rest.
But, of course, the sense should be clear
without any punctuation at all. Anybody
but the most careless would have had either
“near” or "in,” before the mention of the
Strand. A law draftsman would probably
dress one of the ambiguous sentences above
given, according to meaning: “Whereas the
rebel force had surrendered itself now there-
fore the town was no longer of importance,”
or "Whereas the rebel force had surrendered
the town now therefore the said force was
no longer”—etc. Clear meaning is everv-
,thing, and style doesn’t matter.
It seems to follow that all punctuation is
arbitrary, optional. There is no copyright
in it. Taking your favorite author, we can
drop in or omit stops—commas in particu-
lar—just as we think fit. regardless of what
anyone has done before, and without being
accused of forgery or malicious damage. Most
people are intensely careless, not to shy intol-
erant. of them. I remember one legislator
who had a sense of style, and used to call
attention to grammatical niceties, till once
he was rebuked, on rising in committee, with
a scornful “Has the honorable member dis-
covered another misplaced comma?” The
intention clearly was that lie was a futile
waster of time, and after that he handed his
verbal corrections to the Clerk of the House,
without arguing about tlnm at all. An-
other legislator tells me that in his early
days he asked what was done about punetua-
tion, and received the airy reply: “We leave
all that kind of thing to the printer.”
There are other. symbols, of course. The
full stop has lost much of the old import-
ance which its name implies. When we say
that anything else, such .as a motor-car or
an undertaking, has come to a full stop, we
certainly don’t meant that it will start off
again in a moment. In Shakspeare’s day
the actor who found that symbol in
a speech was likely to make so long
a pause that the next speaker would
think it time to cut in. Thus, in the
early edition of the Plays a long speech is
broken up by mere semi-colons, quite inade-
quate to our ideas. Even now there are
not nearly enough full stops to a page
(except in Kipling). Add the colon, which
our ancestors used arbitrarily for a fairly
long pause, but which we now keep to intro-
duce quotation or speech; the note of ex-
clamation, used by some prose writers, as a
cackle to indicate that they have just laid
a joke, and by some poets—Owen Seaman
in particular—to give a fictitious air of
strength to a final line: the three dots, which
ought to denote something actually omitted,
but which 11. G. Wells —followed faithfully
by all the younger novelists —uses con-
stantly at the end of explanation or argu-
ment, implying “I could expand the idea
further, but you can now follow it out for
yourself.”
But the unfortunate, the unconsidered
and ill-treated comma is tin* master of them
all, and the use of it is rapidly becoming a
lost art. Perhaps the worst treatment it
ever received was when an Adelaide paper
made it masquerade as something else. Gar-
ments “for ladies, maids, children.” said the
advertisement; and the soulless printer
pushed the commas up till they became apos-
trophes. and offered to cater for “ladies’
maids’ children.”
S. TALROT SMITH.
Baudelaire’s Birthday
A century ago on April 9 there was born
a man destined to be the evil archangel of
French poetry and the patron saint of her
criticism. In a single, slender book of
poems, “Les Fleurs du Mai,” lie managed
to box the whole compass of a sinister crea-
tion which at once called forth a magni-
ficent eulogy from Swinburne and from
Victor Hugo the remark: "You invest the
heaven of art with we know not what deadly
rays; you create a new shudder.” Baude-
laire, "the most scrupulous man of letters of
his age,” spent his whole life in writing one
book of verse, one book of prose, some
criticism —the sanest, subtlest and surest
his generation produced—and a translation
which is better than a marvellous original.
He practically discovered the composer
Hector Berlioz, and acclained Wagner when
the rest of Europe hooted. He was the intel-
lectual parent of Rimbaud, Verlaine,
Huysmaps and Laforgue in France, of Verlme-
ren in Belgium, of Carducci and D’Annunzio
in Italy, of Swinburne, Rossetti, iSymonds
and Yeats in England. He championed
Manet and the impressionist painters;
and his impetus is directly seen in the work
of Felicien Hops, Aubrey Beardsley and
Odilon Redon.
Charles Baudelaire was born in Paris
the only child of a man of 02 and a woman
of 27 who, on the death of her first hus
band, married General Aupiclc, an ambassa
dor to Constantinople. Baudelaire receiver
a good education; but having failed to obtain
a degree at the University, and quarrelling
with Aupick, he was packed off on a long
voyage to Asia. When he reached his rnajo
rity he inherited a small fortune of some
75,000 francs, which he at once proceedec
to squander. Settling in Paris, then the
lupanar of the modern world, he ruinec
his health and smudged his soul, and was
soon heavily in debt; for, like Catullus and
Villon before him, Baudelaire, became a pas
sionate lover and hater of the flesh —that
pale and perishable thing, a woman’s body
Women, in fact, were his angels of destruc-
tion —women who hid the depravity of theii
souls in the perfection of their bodies. A 1
his works show the ironic discoloration of
despair. But his actual life was not so
spectacular as some scandal-mongers woulc
have us believe. Maxime du Camp, the
"dead dog” of literary criticism, is largely
responsible for the Baudelaire legends. That
Baudelaire acquired his pathology from Poe
(whom he translated); haunted the strange
by-ways of the city with his ear always
at the keyhole of new sensations, and
turned his soul into a cemetery of sorrows,
wo know as facts. He even joined the
“Hashish-Eaters” at the Hotel I’imadon.
But he never dyed his hair green or became
a blaspheming drunkard or a cattle-dealer,
as Du Camp asserts: and the gossip about
his bringing back a beautiful black Venus
from his travels proved to be nothing more
than a sordid liaison with a cabaret singer,
Jeanne Duval, who robbed and betrayed him,
but whom he could never shake off. In
truth Baudelaire’s later life was one of pro-
tracted labor. Haunted always by debts and
the clamor of passions, he worked strenu-
ously at literature, like Balzac, and Gautier
and all men chained to the inkpot for their
livelihood. He made his life a triumphant
advance in the wrong direction.
Gauguin said once that an artist must be
either a plagiarist or a revolutionary; so,
with the iconoclastic scorn of youth’s ideal-
ism, Baudelaire chose the latter vocation.
He worshipped evil for the sake of paradox,
and cultivated “flowers of evil” as poisonous
as henbane and deadly nightshade. His
mind, which was a marriage of the sickly
and the sublime, refused the soft music of
adulation; and with a daily avalanche of
ghastly cynicism he tore down the masks
of hypocrisy and whispered sweet songs of
decay and lamentations over the degradation
of the flesh. He knew a ; ll forms of intellectual
intoxication, its mordant joys and morbid
hallucinations; for he was a connoisseur
in concupiscence and a casuist in confessions.
He founded the cult of the corpse. “Damned
Women” and “The Corpse” are pages torn
from the book of Hell. There is little won-
der that he was prosecuted for his “Flowers
(Continued on page 25.)


N
\A
■■:■'■■■■
i
mm
Nas
Dross Goodsprices quoted
hero coll lor comparison -
Consider a don or Quality
willprovo Value Incomparable
Woollen DRESS GOODS.
VALUES THAT CHALLENGE.
All-Wool Tropical Suiting, In Saxe, Navy, Putty. Mol®,
Grey and Nigger; 50 inches PRICE 21/- yard
Costume Cloth, Winter-weight in Navy, Brown, Saxe.
Cardinal, Bottle and Grey; 42 inches .. PRICE 6/11
Costume Cloth, in Bottle, Wine, Navy, Brown. Grey and
Saxe, 48 inches PRICE 8/11 yard
Satin-Paced Mohair Cloth, in Saxe, Grey, Navy, Putty,
Bottle and Mole; 54 inches TRICE 17/6 yard
FOR WINTER COATS.
Top Coat Materials, Velour Cloth, in Purple, Wine and
Navy; 54 inches PRICE 21/6
Cream Pleece Cloth, with colored stripes and checks;
54 inches PRICE 14/6 yard
Plain Cream Blanket Fleece, 54 inches. PRICE 21/- yard
FOR SMART WEAR.
All-Wool Ottoman Cloth, in Saxe, Grey, Mole, Navy,
Biscuit, Putty and Nigger; 40 inches wide.
PRICE 14/6 yard
Silk and Wool San Toy, in Mole, Grey. Fawn, Saxe.
Putty and Navy; 40 inches wide .. PRICE 14/6 yard
All-Wool Navy Gabardines, 52 inches wide.
PRICES 17/6, 21/- yard
All-Wool Navy Gabardines, 52 inches wide.
PRICES 25/-, 26/6, 30/- 31/6, 35/- yard
All-Wool Sedan Cloth, 54 inches wide, in Putty, Nigger,
Bottle. Navy, Mole, Fawn, Grey and Brown.
PRICES 21/-, 23/6, 31/6 yard
TWEEDS AND CLOTHS.
Heavy-weight Woollen Tweed, Grey, Green and Brown
mixture; 42 inches wide PRICE 5/6 yard
All-Wool Chevron Cloth, in Saxe, Navy, Nigger, Mole,
Grey, Bottle ; 42 inches wide PRICE 9/11 yard
All-Wool Drap De Alma, all New Winter colorings; 44
inches wide PRICE 10/6 yard
Wool Costume Cloth, in Ruby, Brown. Bottle, Navy,
Grey, Black; 42 inches wide PRICE 8/11 yard
Wool Tweeds, British make in stripes and checks,
Tweed colorings; 40 inches wide.
PRICES 6/6, 6/11, 7/11, 8/6 yard
Cream Clydella, heavy weight; 44 inches wide.
PRICE 7/6 yard
Donegal Tweeds, in Fawn, Grey and Brown mixtures;
54 inches wide PRICES 11/6 and 13/6 yard
Striped Suiting Materials, for Ladies’ Coats and Skirts
in Grey, and Grey and Black mixture; 54 inches wide.
PRICE 9/11 yard
QUALITY SERGES.
EXCELLENT VALUES.
All-Wool Cream Australian Serge, soft finish; 60 inches
wide, PRICE 19/6. 42 inches wide, PRICE 8/6 yard
Cream Hopsac, 42 inches wide PRICE 8/6 yard
All-Wool Fine Coating Serge, in Vieux Rose, Nigger,
Saxe. Grey, Wine, Fawn, Bottle and Brown; 42inches.
PRICE 12/6 yard
All-Wool Fine Coating Serge, in Navy, Brown, Bottle,
Mole, Grey; 42 inches.
PRICE 9/11 yard; 44 inches, PRICE 12/6 yard.
Navy Suiting Serges, all wool, fine rib, 54 inches wide.
PRICE 18/6, 26/-, 27/6, 29/6, 32/6 yard
NEW COVERT COATING.
Covert Coating, in Fawn, Saxe, Vieux Rose, r-atty,
Steel; 52 inches PRICE 14/6 yard
RELIABLE SHOWERPROOFS.
Showerproof Covert Cloth, in Fawn, Khaki and Brown
shades; 54 inches PRICE 13/6 yard
Write for Fashion Book.
The style revelations of the season are
admirably portrayed in our Fashion
Book. A leisurely perusal of it will
interest and delight you. Copies are
posted free.
Fashionable Black Dress
Materials.
COMPARE QUALITY AND PRICE.
Resilda, 44 inches PRICES 12/9, 15/6 yard
Roxana, 40 inches wide PRICES 9/6, 12/6
Radiania Voile, 42 inches wide.
PRICES 5/9, 6/6, 6/11, 7/11 yard
Arinure Cloth, 42 inches wide .. PRICES 5/11, 9/11 yard
Silk Mixture Poplin, 40 inches wide.
PRICES 7/11, 9/11, 12/6, 14/11 yard
Satin Charmeuse, 38 inches PRICE 11/6 yard
Crepe de Chine, 50 inches PRICES: 9/11, 13/6
13/6, 11/e, 15/9, 16/6, 21/-, 23/6 yard.
Italian Cloth, 54 inches PRICES 3/11, 4/6 yard
SMART BLACK COAT FABRICS.
Fleece Cloth, 54 inches wide PRICE 13/6 yard
Velour Cloth, 50 inches wide PRICE 18/6 yard
Blanket Cloth, 54 inches wide PRICE 19/6 yard
Velour Cloth, 54 inches wide PRICE 21/6 yard
All-Wool Amazon Cloth, 50 inches wide.
PRICES 16/11, 22/-; 54 inches wide, 20/-, 21 A
Melton Cloth. Widths 42 50 inches
PRICES 6/11 8/11 yard
All-Wool Ottoman. Width, 42 inches.
PRICES 14/6, 16/6 yard
CASHMERE: Widths 40 44 54 inches
PRICES 6/11 7/6 11/9 yard
Serge for Costumes. . Width, 50 inches, PRICES 15/6
and 19/6; 54 inches, 18/6, 21/6, 26/6 yard.
Gabardine. Widths 50 52 54 56 inches
PRICES 21/- 23/6 29/6 31/6 yard
Astrachan, 48 inches wide..PRICES 25/-. 32/6, 35/- yard
Pony Cloth, 48 inches wide PRICE 36/6 yard
Caracul, 48 inches wide PRICE 22/- yard
VARIETY IN TARTANS.
All-Wool Tartans, 42nd only, in Mid and Large Checks;
42 inches PRICE 10/11 yard
Wool Mixture Tartans, in 42nd, Gordon, Argyle, Mac-
kenzie. Hunting Stewart; 40 inches.
PRICE 8/11 yard
COTTON TARTANS.
All-Cotton Tartan Checks, In 42nd, Forbes and Mac-
kenzie; 44 inches PRICE 5/11 yard
COTTON DRESS GOODS.
The Buyer’s Opportunity.
Cotton Dress Tweed, in Grey grounds, with Black
Stripes; 40 inches wide PRICE 3/3 yard
Cotton Dress Tweed, heavy weight Stripes and Checks,
in Grey, Reseda, Putty, Brown, Naw grounds; 40
inches wide PRICE 5/6 yard
THE NEW BLOUSINGS.
“Twillana,” the new Winter Blousing, in Dark grounds,
with Stripes and Checks; 28 inches wide.
PRICE 2/9 yard
Winceyette Blousing, in the New Season’s Designs,
Cream ground, with colored Stripes. Width 32 inches.
PRICE 2/6 yard
New Winter Blousings, raised hack. Dark Winter color-
ing. latest Floral and Stripe designs; 27 inches wide.
PRICE 1/6, 2/2 yard
POPLINS UNDERPRICED.
Mercerised Cotton PopPn, solid weight, highly finished
in Saxe, Cornflower. Brown. Cardinal. Nigger. Henna,
Grey, Amethyst, Mole, Navy, Black, Pink, Sky,
Vieux Rose, Reseda, Bottle, Cream. White; 39 inches
wide PRICE 3/11 yard
Cotton Coverts, in Fawn and Khaki shades; 54 inches
wide PRICE 7/11 yard
LININGS KEENLY PRICED.
Merveen, highly mercerised finish, in White, Cream,
Champagne. Silver. Grey, Mole, Pink. Vieux Rose,
Sky. Saxe, Navy, Cinnamon, Nigger, Black; 28 inches
wide PRICE 2/3 yard
Merveen, in Silver, Grey, Dark Grey, Brown, Nigger,
Navy. Black: 38 inches wide PRICE 3/3 yard
Chiffon Sat’n lining, for Coat-lining, in White. Ivory,
Cream. Sky, Saxe, Nattier, Navy, Pink. Brown. Mole:
38 inches wide PRICE 4/3 yard
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
We pay carriage on Fashion Goods and
Family Drapery to any part of N.S.W.,
and to the nearest port on Interstate and
Island Orders.
Rich and Lustrous Silks.
GOLD AND SILVER TISSUES.
Plain and Brocaded Gold and Silver Tissue, suitable
for Evening Wear, also Millinery purposes.
Plain Gold, width 20 inches PRICE 22/0 yard
Plain Gold, width 24 inches PRICE 28/6 yard
Brocaded Gold, width 20 inches PRICE 20/9 yard
Brocaded Gold, width 24 inches PRICE 30/- yard
Gold Ground Floral design, 20 inches. PRICE 25/6 yard
Gold Crepe effect, 20 inches PRICE 22/9 yard
Plain Silver, 20 inches PRICE 22/9 yard
Silver Ground Floral design, 20 inches. PRICE 25/6 yard
MERV MOUSSELINE.
jierv Motisselne, a beautiful, soft, clinging silk, bright
rich satin effect, adaptable for day or evening wear
in Shades of Vieux Rose, Flesh Pink, Silver Grey.
Mauv». Lime. Saxe, Nattier. Brown, Mastic. Violet,
Eau-de-Nil. Nigger. Grey, White, Cream, Gold, Sky.
three shades of Navy. Width 37 inches.
PRICE 18/6 yard
CASHMERE DE SOIE.
Cashmere de Sole, a nice soft make of silk with a dull
finish, an exquisite range of select evening shades
including Canary. Eau-de-Nil, Pink, Helio, Cham-
pagne, Reseda, Sky, Flame, Ivory, Maize. Width
3S inches PRICE 19/6 yard
ALL-SILK “MILANESE.”
All-Silk “Milanese,” suitable for Lingerie, in shades of
Pale Blue. Ivory, Pale Pink. Width 54 inches.
PRICE 30/- yard
Colored Japanese Silk, in shades of Navy, Royal, Vieux
Rose, Champagne, Pink, Salmon, Sky, Brown. Saxe,
Canary, Buttercup. Orange, Gold, Helio. Violet. Grey,
Nil. Jade, Emerald, Reseda, Fawn, Mastic, Sapphire,
Mole, Silver, Moss, Bottle, Henna, Cardinal, Ruby,
C er is e
23 inches wide, PRICE 3/3; 27 inches, 3/11 and 4/6
Colored Jap Silk, in shades of Navy, Sky. Salmon.
Width 36 inches PRICE 5/11
White Jap Silks, 27 inches wide. PRICES: 2/11, 3/3
3/6, 3/11, 4/3, 4/6, 4/11, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6.
Black Jap Silk, 27 inches wide. PRICES: 2/11, 3/3,
3/0, 3/11, 4/3, 4/6, 4/11, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
White and Black Jap Silk, 36 inches wide.
PRICES 3/11, 4/6, 4/11, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Spun Silk, British make, 29 inches wide, White grounds,
colored Stripes PRICE 9/11
Polonaise Lining Satin, in shades of White, Cream.
Steel, Black, Bottle PRICE 9/11 yard
FAMOUS LOUIS VELVETEEN.
We have just received direct from the manufacturers
a shipment of this distinctive and popular fabric, which
is famed for its dependable qualities and the beauty
of its Chiffon finish. Eminently suitable for day and
evening wear, also for children’s garments.
We have an extensive range of colorings to select
from, including:—
Saxe, Henna, Nattier, three shades of Navy, Vieux
Rose, Myrtle, Cardinal, Ruby, Wine, Golden Brown,
Mid Brown, Nigger. Beaver, Grey, Violet, Mole,
Olive, Copenhagen. White, Cream, Gold, Black, Jet
Black. Width 22 inches PRICE 8/11 yard
Mid Brown, Nigger, Navy, Black, Jet Black. Width 24
inches PRICE 9/11 yard
Wine, Mole, Brown. Vieux Rose. Saxe, Nigger, Light
Navy. Sapphire, Dark Navy, Black. Jet Black. Width
27 inches PRICE 13/11 yard
Blue Black and Jet Black. Width 33 inches.
PRICE 14/6 yard
MAIL ORDER SERVICE.
The efficiency of our Mail Order Service
ensures complete satisfaction with every
order received. Promptness in delivery
is a feature. Write for Patterns, they are
posted free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


an
. :
:
,
* ibr.
:- f ' s . • '«■***,
««W y
> - - mu >
When anything;
interests you
KODAK
»
Turn the incident into a picture that
will last for ever and bring back the
joy of the moment every time you
look at it.
Kodaks and Brownies are splendid
companions at home, or on holiday
bent. You can learn to use any model in half-an-hour and have the
pleasure of an inexpensive pastime every day in the year.
Handy models taking the popular size pictures, x 3£ inches, are—The No. 2 Box Brownie, 18/6; The No. 2 Folding Auto-
graphic Brownie, 58/-; and The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior, 98/-
Other Brownies from 14/6 to £5/15/-, and Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/- are described and illustrated in the Kodak Catalogue.
Ask for your copy. Of all Kodak dealers and t
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba ; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth;. "The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
of
Look for the Dog Trade-mark.
To hear the world’s greatest music at its best, play “His Master’s
Voice” Records with “His Master’s Voice” Needles on an “His
Master’s Voice” Instrument.
Ilis Master’s Voice
The perfection of “His Master’s Voice” reproduction is proved by the
fact that such celebrities as Heifetz, Melba, Paderewski, Caruso,
Moiseiwitsch, Galli-Curci, McCormack, record exclusively with this
great organisation.
Caruso writes of his latest records:—
"I am indeed satisfied with my new records.
They are magnificent, and I congratulate you.”
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments range in price
from 11 guineas to 85 guineas.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
“His Master's Voice,”
Read. Trade-mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
S


PINKETTIS
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MN
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Sold by all Leading Stores in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
LEARN BY POST, AND
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free
Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE
(Near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS.
A Jeweller’
Business
M
Fine Diamonds and
Sapphire, set in
Platinum, £l5.
A high-class jeweller’s business depends for
growth on its reputation. Few of our people
have an intimate knowledge of the values of
Gems, or of the thousands of articles of a
jeweller’s stock.
Hence a high-class jewellery business to be
successful must be built on foundations of
absolute reliability.
Reliability on statements of qualities.
Reliability on statements of values.
Reliability of wearing features.
Reliability on the latest fashions.
In short, on CHARACTER. As our business has
shown increases every year for forty years past
(except 1914) we feel that the public accords
us a good reputation for reasonable prices and
reliable goods.
Fairfax S Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Used the
World Over
N
MN
MOTOR
...CARS
3
GREY
HAIR, the
tell - tale
symptom of
old age,
need no
longer be
e n d u red.
Father and
son can be
i n d i s tin-
guishal le—
both hav-
ing the
same youthful walnut hair.
Perfectly harmless and
easy to apply. No injuri-
ous effect. All chemists.
285
m
i
A
»
M
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
fir'
Tooth Paste
f A TRIUMPH IN 1
CENTAL RESEARCH.
imdenta Tooth Paste is composed of
ingredients particularly beneficial
to the teeth —each component part
contributing to dentifrice perfection
JNot only does it impart the
whiteness of driven snow to
the teeth, but it is a safeguard
against the germs of decay.
Sold by all chem-
ists at 1/- a tube 4
—a price only pos-
sible because of its
local origin.
I
H
m*
MOTOR
SPIRIT
Of course 1 use Plume
Plume is giving satisfaction to
thousands of motorists who appre-
ciate its punch, its uniformity, and
its cleanliness.
Plume is a powerful dr ving
force ; it is rich in heat units and of
great energy ; steep hills only serve
to prove how good it is.
Plume also gives that extra mile-
age that makes such a difference to
the petrol bill; motorists sav it gives
them a "greater run for their money.
Plume is the spirit of accom-
plishment-ready for its work, day
in and day out, the year round.
If you don’t know that Motor
Spirits are not all the same, turn in
at the dealer who displays a Plume
sign, and join the great army of
satisfied Plume users.
Just ask for Plume-
y
V
o
»*»
I
UJ/y
my
- X /
» 5?
Vacuum Oil Company
Proprietary Limited
P 11 A
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
' SMYTHS
ORIGINAL
BALBRIGGAN
HOSIERY
ESTABLISHED 1780
ZaJTIG G
.AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
HALLETT, PATERSON C Co.
"PENPOLD MOUSE”
116 Queen Street Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Carbon Tool Steels.
BRAND “F.S.”
For Milling and Boring Tools, Screwing and Drawing Dies, Pressing and
Coining Stamps, Taps, Reamers, Drills, etc. Stocked in Round, Square
and Flat Sections.
BRAND “E.Z.H.”
For large Milling Cutters, Taps, Reamers and Dies for various purposes.
Stocked in Round, Square and Flat Sections. Also large assortment of
Forged Discs.
PRICES ON APPLICATION. ORDERS promptly attended to.
THE POLDI STEEL WORKS,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Message.
All night long the river
Sings a tender tune
’Neath the green, green willows
And the pale, pale moon.
What is the river singing
To tree and moon above?
To lovers, laughing lovers,
’Twould seem a song of love.
All night long the river
Seems to sob and sigh
’Neath the green, green willows
And the wide, white sky.
Why is the river sighing
To dewy blade and leaf?
To hapless, hapless mortals
’Twould seem it voices grief.
All night long the river,
Rippling onward, pleads
’Neatn the green, green willow
And the Jong, lithe reeds.
Why is the river pleading,
As though with burtbened breast?
From all that toil and trouble
’Twould seem it craves for rest.
All night long the river
Speaks in many tones
To the green, green willows
And the cold, hard stones.
More varied is its message
Than e’er was sung or writ;
For love and peace and sorrow
They all are voiced by it.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Woman’s Part.
Gold is the. drowsy day and opal-white,
With dazzling clouds against the poignant
blue
Of vivid summer skies that veil the might
Of autumn’s misty fingers breaking
through!
Ah, Tyrian day! my dreaming thoughts
take wing
Past dingy house and stolid suburb street-
Out where the pagan winds of bushland sing
Mid amber wattle sweet.
Of days when flame of passion’s blinding fire
Lit the cold eyes of melancholy fate ;
When Life, a troubadour of love’s desire.
Came singing to my wakening girlhood’s
gate—
Days when the God within me thrilled to
hear
The rich, slow prelude of imperial Spring,
Long since, ere Grief came close with lips
that sear
And hands that burn and cling!
Bending my glad youth to this passionless
Acceptance of accepted formulae,
This muffling mask, Life’s drab unlovely dress
For the fair nakedness of things that be—
I, w r ho am flame in the great wind of Life,
A dryad, meet for passion’s mastering.
Front here smug emptiness and futile strife
With longing lips that sing !
There may be solace in the things that are—
The street, the suburb, and Love’s gold,
time-greyed—•
For dusky bush-tracks beckoning afar,
And youth and passion’s dawn so soon to
fade.
It may be that these all perforce must die.
And men outlive life’s fairy lights that
shone.
Ah ! yet not less beneath the autumn sky
I mourn a glory gone!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
A Deserted Garden.
On the barren hillside
Where the soft winds strew
Flakes of Autumn’s amber
Once a garden grew ;
Rose and honeysuckle.
Gold the lupins spill,
Poppies in a scarlet host
Marching down the hill.
Under weed and bracken
Still the poppies blow.
Marigolds are rioting
In a splendid row 7 ;
And by old box borders
(Tall and very thick),
Runs a little crooked path,
Built of rusty brick.
Whither looked the windows
Of the vanished home';
Northward to the mountains?
South, where long seas foam?
Whose the feet that travelled
Down the crooked way,
Whose the long-dead hands that plucked
Pinks and poppies gay?
Somewhere in the roses
Is the secret locked,
By the faithful flowers
Questionings are mocked :
But w 7 hen winds of twilight
Stir the tangled grass
Little ghosts of long ago
Down the pathway pass.
Clear the lupin lights them
With a torch of gold,
By the ragged borders —
Little ghosts of old,
Love and hope and sorrow,
Silently they pass,
Down the little crooked path.
Through the tangled Brass.
MAOBILAND.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


• '
The Largest Turbo-Generator built in England to date
% y." 2
9
vf'V?'
*
-
V.:
sa
1
%
*
Mm
mm
1
W,
**•
J
SH
.
iH
*
it
S life®
4*
lit
’ 1 1
1 VMM mum
vJ
&
&
SI
-Si;
mm*
30,000 k.w., 1500 r.p.m., 6600 volts, 50 cycles Turbo-Generator installed
at
This is the largest Turbo-Generator built in England to date, and was manu-
factured by THE BRITISH THOMSON-HOUSTON CO. LIMITED.
Rugby, England.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
N
35-45 WENTWORTH yWENUE (
.SYDNEY o
NvTa7DaN[ 116 QUEETM STREET,
vgOUSM, MELBOURNE
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
M


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42.—N0. 2149.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1921.
Price 9i>.
DEFINITELY SCRATCHED.
UNCLE SAM: “Say, you can quit firin’ them ’tarts. I ain’t goin’ ter love her.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Maci.eod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, "Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney. X.SAV., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
/■or d, l 10 s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
oil contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
•1000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction , or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received cie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IT. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.-’i;
E. T. Mule, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,’’ 51 High
Holborn, London, 1 V.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetoivn and Johannesburg; Havana Mouse, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada.— -Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary. Alberta,
U.S. A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Eric Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago: Uni-
versal News Co., 74 West Madison Street. Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago ;
Clark Street Reading Club, HI N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco : Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle : Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, 42nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City. Los Angeles, Chas.
Olson, Pershing Square News Stand, Los Angeles:
George Hussey, Central News Stand, 103 East sth
Street, Los Angeles.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.' — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route.
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 81oz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1921.
THE 19th ITEM ON THE BILL.
“19. A determined and resolute policy to people
and develop the north of Australia.”
There are altogether 22 clauses in the pro-
gramme of the Federal Country party, and
the populating of the North gets a bare, bald
mention in No. 19. It looks like an after-
thought. By “the North” is commonly under-
stood the Northern Territory (523,620 square
miles, of which 426,320 lie in the tropics)
and the tropical parts of Westralia and
Queensland (723,000 square miles). The
Territory must be peopled, else the Common-
w'ealth, which directly rules it as well as the
Canberra region, must stand out as a failure
in the art of government; also the Common-
wealth, which directly owms and is landlord
of nearly the w'hole of it, flatly refusing to
sell any portion of its vast estate, must
stand out as a bad landlord and a misfit in
the squire business. Then population must be
found for the whole tropical area, otherwise
the White Australia idea is doomed. The
North will become black or brown simply be-
cause Australia’s handful of people can’t
keep out Asia, and outsiders will cease to
support a policy which events have made to
appear impossible. After that the blackness
or browmness of the North will spread to the
South through the impossibility of policing a
line of demarcation. In the North the whole
destiny of Australia is at stake, and in
addition the policy of public land-ownership
is on trial on a bigger scale than anywhere
else on this earth. So it is a pity that the
Country party should dismiss the matter in
tw’o lines near the tail-end of its list of prin-
ciples and platitudes, leaving it like a small
crag in a great desert, and doesn’t even
trouble to say what it will do in its day of
pow'er to fill the North. And it is a pity that
the Labor party, which has even more at
stake, being wedded to public land-ownership
as well as to the White Australia idea, should
be equally bald in detail. Some obvious
things might be done for the North. New
States might be carved out there, for, empty
as the land may be, two areas far bigger and
somew'hat more populous than Tasmania
might be marked out in Northern and Cen-
tral Queensland alone. The depopulated
country might be endow'ed with Home
Rule within the Empire—the Home Rule
which is said to be such a necessary and in-
fallible specific for depopulated Ireland that
rhe politics of Queensland and N. S. Wales
are mixed up with it till this country seems
more like Antrim than Australia. The
Federal capital might be planted up there, it
being more important to assert this country’s
position as a tropical white Commonw'ealth
than to put the metropolis alongside Austin
Chapman’s domain. But among all the
people and parties which demand that inhabi-
tants should be found for the top of the map
there is a lamentable lack of suggestion .>f
ways of finding them.
# # * *
The Northern Territory under direct
Federal control is losing its people, its money
and its industries at such a rate that there
is likely soon to be nothing left. Savings
Bank deposits are a fair test of general
wealth, and the Territory’s deposits at the
date of Knibbs’s last return (September 30,
1920) were £l2 19s. 7d. per inhabitant, the
lowest in xlustralia and less than half the
Commonwealth average. Three years earlier
they were £2O ss. lid., which was well up to
the average. It is the only place that is
steadily on the down-grade. There is a
suspicion that the census will show the whole
North, governed as it is, like a distant foreign
dependency, from the huddle of capitals in
the South, to be on the down-grade so far as
inhabitants go. But there is no doubt
about the isolated Territory, with no railway
connections and no local government, run by
bored and jaded theorists about five weeks’
journey away, and used as a gigantic experi-
ment in the way of bureaucracy, leasehold-
tenure and old-womanly supervision. It isn’t
the climate which makes it unprofitable, for it
wasn’t a particularly disastrous speculation
—in fact, it was on the road to be a paying
one —until S. Australia was induced to sur-
render it in return for a railway which hasn’t
been built. The Federal territory at Can-
berra, with the same direct Federal super-
vision and the same leasehold system, is also
losing population, and is the same sort of bur-
den on the taxpayers. The Federal '•uthority
is owner of four railroads, nearly 1800 miles
in all, three in temperate regions and one
tropical, in addition to its two freehold
estates (426,320 square miles in the tropics
and 98,240 miles elsewhere). As it doesn’t
make working expenses out of any one
of them, let alone interest on loan
money, the system and not the weather must
be held responsible. There is nothing against
the North on the evidence save isolation and
government by very remote and ill-selected
absentees who could hardly make the Koh-i-
-noor pay for its own axle-grease.
* * * *
Something may be explained by the fact
that the Commonwealth’s career as a great
land-owner and a great railway-owner and a
captain of industry generally has been almost
wholly under Labor Governments of the new
or machine type, or else under the govern-
ment of a small fierce aristocrat who had his
whole training in the Labor school and, ex-
cept over the matter of Australian defence
in no way departed from it. The same type
of State Labor Administration made the
Queensland railways, once highly profitable,
almost as unpayable as those >f the Common-
wealth. As the wreck happened equally in
the tropical and non-tropical parts of the
country nothing was proved there either
against the North as a place with great
possibilities, though much was proved against
the Southern management. Another such
body originated the meatworks at Wynd-
ham (W.A.), situated 1700 miles from
the authority that is supposed to manage
them. They cost £BOO,OOO instead of the anti-
cipated £250,000, lost £120,000 last year and
do less than half the w'ork expected of them;
also it costs nearly as much to kill a bullock
at Wyndham as the animal is worth. That
score against the tropics is balanced by the
record of Cockatoo Dock, Sydney. And it
was under the same sort of management that
the costly meatworks in the Territory had
their brief life. They weren’t publicly-owned,
but trades-union bosses took practical pos-
session of the country, the Government being
a whole continent away, and their rule was
wild, casual and disastrous. Australia’s re-
cent visitor Conan Doyle, tearing his mind
away for a moment from his spooks and
myths, said in effect and very truly that Aus-
tralia’s public services are numerous and
rotten, that they don’t belong to the people
so much as to the employees and strike
organisers, and that they don’t exist for the
national good but to provide jobs. Bryce in
his “Modern Democracies” added that Aus-
tralian politicians nowadays are an ill-
educated and machine-made crowd and that
Parliaments, like Federal railways, exist
mostly to furnish jobs. This isn’t, necessarily
a reflection of the ideal of public ownership
of national utilities any more than it was a
reflection on the early ideals of the Church
that it became a landholding tyranny, that
the bishop and abbot business became a rich
profession, and that control gradually drifted
from Peter, the earnest and penniless fisher-
man, to Borgia, a. married celibate, a gilded
aristocrat and an agile poisoner. But when
high ideals get into and stay in the worst
hands it is sometimes necessary to abandon
them for something lower but more thief-
proof. Government in Australia. and
especially in some parts of Australia, has
degenerated into an alms-giving proposition,
a bestowal of doles and sinecures in exchange
for votes, and the basic-wage is everything
while the basic-work is iust about nothing.
The country districts are depopulated because
it pays a very large class to live in the cities
to be near the alms- and job-givers. State
Enterprise being the founds Hon of f he jobs.
And the North has the last chance of any, for
it is furthest from the alms-givers and its
people haven’t a chance to mob the Cabinet
which is the source of all good things and the
dispenser of alms. It represents alien land-
lordism raised to the nth degree, being
governed by people at varying distances of
from several hundred to several thousand
miles. The leasehold system with which city
theorists endow'ed the Territory appears to
have hindered rather than helped settlement.
Man, being an animal of prejudice, apparently
prefers a freehold to a lease, though he may
pay as much in land-tax as he otherwise
w’ould in rent. In other words, he likes a
flutter in unearned increment, whether it is
a good horse to back or not. He doesn’t
want to be a lodger in some vast wilderness.
It is pleasant to know that the Country
party is as unanimous about doing something
for the North as all other parties. Also it is
good to find that it stands by the White Aus-
tralia policy, which seems to have solid
theoretical friends everywhere save in the
Seamen’s Union. Still, it is a pity that some
party doesn’t present a comprehensive policy
for the North and doesn’t make this most
urgent of all questions something better than
the 19th item on the programme.
THE EMPIRE’S DARLING POINT.
Professor Goode’s recent repetition of the
oft-made claim that the Saviour was the first
Bolshevik, or Communist, stung Archdeacon
Gerard D’Arcy Irvine, of Darling Point,
Sydney, like an adder. “I notice,” wrote
the scandalised divine, “that Professor Goode
is to address a meeting of ‘ministers of the
churches on the subject of Bolshevik Russia
as he Saw it.’ 1 shall not be there.” But the
Saviour unquestionably was a Communist,
and the disciples practised Communism for
many years aner Ills death. His pronounce-
ments concerning the sort of people who live
at Darting Point are explicit. "Woe unto
you that are rich,” He said, “for ye have
received your consolation”; and, again, “It
is easier for a camel to go through the eye
of a needle than for a rich man to enter into
the Kingdom of God.” The rich are in-
structed to sell all they had and give it to
the poor; to entertain, not those who visit
Government Houses, but those who sleep in
Domains; and to do many other admirable
things which neither Archdeacon Irvine’s
congregation nor any other dreams of
attempting. The spirit is willing in many
eases, no doubt, but the flesh is weak. It
is no easier for a successful money-changer
or other business-man to divide up his gains
amongst the unemployed in Australia to-
day than it was in Russia when the Lenin
regime began, or than it has proved during
the 1900 years that a large proportion of
the human race has been testifying to the
principles of Christianity with their lips and
denying them by their acts. The blood which
has been shed of late years in the attempt
to teach mankind universal brotherhood and
charity and the filthiness of lucre would
have horrified the mild abstractionists whose
writings are to blame for it, had they lived
to see Russia’s Extraordinary Commission
and Revolutionary Tribunal at work. But
the record of the Churches is no better.
“Consider,” said Philip 11. of Spain to the
Netherlands, through his envoy Egmont,
“whether some new' way may not be devised
of executing heretics by which all hopes of
glory—that powerful incentive to their
impiety—might be precluded.” “I deny,”
wrote the Presbyterian leader, Cartwright,
in London at about the same time, “that
upon repentance there ought to follow' any
pardon of death. Heretics ought to be put
to death now. If this be bloody and
extreme, I am content to be so counted
with the Holy Ghost.” By “heretics”
Philip understood Protestants and Cart-
wright Catholics, but in other respects
their point of view was identical. Believ-
ing implicitly that what they preached was
best for the human race they acted as
Lenin and Trotsky are doing; and there
is logic in such conduct. What are a few
deaths if the world may be saved either
spiritually or materially? Instead of irrit-
ably denying that Communism is what it
is, would it not be better to state the real
objection to it, w'hieh is that, like every other
counsel of perfection, it is outside the ambit
of practical politics?
* * # *
The melancholy truth is that human beings
in the mass will not voluntarily give up
their possessions to the needy and love one
another in an Internationalist spirit, whether
enjoined to do so by clergymen or by com-
missaries. The Church had its golden age.
of course, in that era before sectarianism
w r as born, when the pagans marvelled at the
way Christians loved one another. Bol-
shevik Russia is said to have enjoyed a
brief manifestation of the same spirit. But
the history of thousands of years goes to
show that such feats of virtue are only
spasmodic; and in any event they occur
chiefly amongst the poor and despised—
amongst those who have little to give in
this world and all to get from the next. Pro-
fessor Goode’s reminiscences of Russia have
no more than an academic interest for Aus-
tralia, for the simple reason that Austra-
lians are in all respects the antitheses of
Russians. The proportion of illiterates in
Russia has always been enqrmous: in Aus-
tralia it is negligible. Russia, in Professor
Goode’s own phrase, is “grossly supersti-
tious.” No such charge can be levelled at
the Commonw'ealth. Australians chafe
under authoritarianism of any kind: no
other form of government appears likely to
succeed in Russia for generations to come.
And, above all, Australians individually are
as rich as Russians are poor. The Austra-
lian savings bank credits amount to over £25
per inhabitant —man, woman and child. The
local wa'ge-rate is the highest in the world
when the purchasing power of the money unit
is taken into consideration. A Protectionist
tariff excludes most of the goods manufac-
tured by our sweated brethren overseas, and
an Alien Immigration Restriction Act pre-
vents the sweated brother from coming here.
Proportionately to its population. Australia
has produced more champion cricketers,
swimmers, tennis-players, boxers and athletes
generally than any country in the history of
the world. In short, whatever test may be
anplied. the Commonwealth reacts to it in
the same manner; it is the leisured Dives
amongst the nations. Yet until 1914 it had
not been required to fight for its existence;
and until 1910 it had not attempted to pay
for its defence in any real sense of the term.
Nor is it doing the latter now.
* * * *
What Professor Goode would possibly
like, and what some of our own Inter-
nationalist prophets admittedly desire, is
for Australia to make a start on
the path of righteousness by cutting
adrift from the British Empire. This
would be the quickest of all roads to that
poverty which, as llazlitt has remarked,
“when it is voluntary takes on an heroical
aspect.” This country with its 5.000,000 in-
habitants. its obsolete fleet, and its un-
equipped army would learn what it feels like
to be an emigre within six months. Australia
is not the remarkably productive land it is—
it produces more per head of population than
any other—owing to excessive merit or in-
dustry on the part of the inhabitants. It is
an easy-going, sportive place, on the whole,
with a constant tendency to become more so.
It may be safely guaranteed to provide ease
and comfort for any industrious people, white,
black or brown, who inhabit it. In all parts
of the world to-day are Lazarus nations as
eagerly ready to enter the Commonwealth,
once the only barrier that keeps them out is
withdrawn, as certain types of indigent pri-
vate citizens would be to burst into a great
bank if policemen were abolished and the
strong-rooms thrown open. There is another
though less direct way in which much the
same results could be achieved. We might
do what Tolstoy and Kropotkin counselled
no less than the Gospel of St. Matthew—
inaugurate a new social era in which all men
shall be brothers and there shall be no poor
and no rich. But there can be no Interna-
tionalism under a system which shuts out the
colored races who outnumber the whites al-
ready by two to one. A White Australia is
the negation both of Russian Bolshevism
(whose representative men are Mongols) and
of that doctrine which teaches that all men
are brothers in the sight of the Lord. With
the influx of the hungry hordes from overseas
(in India alone 40,000,000 are permanently
on the verge of starvation) a new problem
must arise. Will the new-comers work 44-
hours a week and no more, stand out for a
generous minimum wage and strike if it is
denied, and in general behave like white
hr other-workers? Or will they live as Asiatic
workers always have, and be satisfied with
the hours and wages of Asiatics? There can
be no doubt about the answer. Under
Internationalism, real Internationalism, the
Australian unionist with his plentiful and
good food, his well-made clothes and his
sports and pastimes, would be as much of an
anomaly as a land monopolist in modern
Russia. The Australian worker knows all
this fully as well as W. M. Hughes knows
that he possesses £25,000. Mr. Hughes
does not propose to divide his fortune amongst
needy Australians, as someone naively sug-
gested he should when he got it; nor do the
Australian workers intend to parcel out their
inheritance amongst needy foreigners.' Pro-
fessor Goode’s pleadings and Archdeacon
Trvine’s denunciations are alike superfluous.
Australia is the Empire’s Darling Point, and
while humanity remains upon its present
materialistic level there is no likelihood of
Darling Point sharing its goods and chattels
with Woolloomooloo, unless under compulsion.
AN AMERICAN WARNING TO LABOR.
If Labor politicians gave more time to the
study of history and less to the study of
racebooks their party would have a better
chance of rising from its ruins. They could
learn a great deal from the story, for in-
stance, of the U.S. Democratic party—a
party in character and history strangely like
their own. In 1828 Andrew Jackson
floated into the Presidency on a wave of
radical democracy similar to that which, in
1910, placed Andrew Pisiier in power with
42 seats out of 75 in the House of Reps, and
23 out of 36 in the Senate. The war which
was to smash the Democratic party very
nearly arrived four years after the American
Andrew’s advent to office, just as the
Great War, which has disrupted Labor, actu-
ally occurred four years after the triumph
of Fisher. But Jackson’s resolute atti-
tude in 1832, when South Carolina went
looking for trouble, postponed the appeal to
arms until 1860. For 20 of those 28 years
the Democrats were in power. Then came
the war, and the party went to pieces. The
Southern Democrats became the soul of the
Confederacy. Part of the Northern Demo-
crats, like our Labor Nationalists, supported
the Union (albeit they were not allowed to
capture the Republican organisation as
Hughes and Holman did that of the Lib-
erals) ; but, after the. early enthusiasm for
war had evaporated, the majority behaved
much as the “official” Laborites did in this
country—that is to say, in a lukewarm and
equivocal fashion. When the struggle was
most desperate they started a peace agita-
tion. They impugned the Government’s
motives and resisted its war measures. They
tried to defeat conscription by inciting mob
riots. Finally, in 1864 —only a few months
before the end—they pronounced the war “a
failure” and made peace-at-any-price the
issue at the Presidential election. It was
a frightful blunder, but the A.L.P. Confer-
ence came to the same calamitous conclu-
sion in the fourth year of the world-war.
In each case the enemy laid down his arms
while the country was resounding with paci-
fist assurances that he couldn’t possibly be
licked, and the party of defeatism was thus
made ridiculous.
* * * *
The Democrats had elected a Presidem
in 1856. They didn’t elect another until
1885. After the war they became obsessed
with the wrongs of the South, just as the
A.L.P. has become obsessed with the wrongs
of Ireland, and the chronic grievance of a
minority is a poor substitute for a national
policy. The evil reputation of Tammany
(we have the budding promise of it in the
A.L.P.) also damaged the party. And the
Democratic platform got cumbered with
economic heresies (“free silver,” for
example 1 as injurious as the current Labor
notion that there is an inexhaustible wage-
fund, and that everybody can become rich by
getting rid of the boss, or by doing as little
work as the foreman will let him. Mainly


for those reasons the party that used to
dominate the U.S.A. has won only four
Presidential elections in 60 years. When
Harding has completed his term it will have
held office for 16 years out of 64. And
even then the Democratic Presidents have
generally had to contend with a hostile inajo-
ritv in Congress.
* * * •
These, of course, are the commonplaces
of history. But in the Labor party’s present
state of mind even commonplaces have their
uses. The party has a hazy impression—
being addicted to believing what it wants to
believe—that the recent defeats to which
it has been subjected in Victoria, Westralia
and Soustralia are slight, temporary reverses
caused by "a conspiracy of the capitalistic
press.” It comforts itself with the assur-
ance of its newspapers that “Labor must
triumph, because it is the people’s cause.”
The American case illustrates the fallacy
of this reasoning. No party, however popu-
lar, can command success or inspire faith
without works. Once it leaves the broad
path on which it advanced to greatness,
defeat will be its portion. So long as it con-
tinues on the wrong track, its victories will
be rare and of exceeding brevity. Labor
can only regain its old supremacy by re-
turning to a healthy nationalism and to sane
and honest conceptions of government. If
it doesn’t drop its fatuous pacifism, its maun-
dering internationalism, its intense absorp-
tion in other people’s business, its dalliance
with go-slow and the “socialisation of indus-
try.” its servile subjection to the machine
and its glorification of rich parasites like
Wren, it may conceivably be reduced to im-
potence for 20 years at least. And it will
deserve no better fate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Paying Too Much for Cheapness.
•■Everyone is interested in the cost of
living," said the Argus in a recent article
designed to resuscitate Freetrade, “and the
debate on the tariff in the House of Repre-
sentatives will not therefore be followed only
b.v those to whom high duties are a personal
advantage.... A new spirit has arisen, and
the old catch cries will not stand against
the ascertained facts.” The “ascertained
facts” are that certain goods can be got
cheaper from abroad. The information is
not new. In fact, the only new feature of
the situation is that, relatively, the helot
peoples are working harder and for much the
same old miserable wages—some of them for
less—while there are many more of them,
so that there is an unparalleled quantity of
cheap goods available. Our late Allies the
Belgians are toiling long hours on a pre-
mium system: British manufacturers are
unable to get within 15 per cent, of
them in their chosen lines. The Empire’s
present Allies, the Japanese, can imitate
practically anything on the Australian
market, at a figure which defeats British
competition—lmperial preference and all
thrown in. To turn elsewhere, our late
enemies ask nothing better than to be given
the chance to pay their war-debts in goods.
If a reduction in the cost of living is the
prime need, the Commonwealth, to be con-
sistent, should tear down all barriers and
let Asiatics and Huns struggle for our cus-
tom to the exclusion even of British workers
whose standard of living would debar them
from entering for such a contest on level
terms. But, in the first place, we have war-
debts of our own; and, secondly, all parties
are agreed as to the necessity of an army
for local defence. Few who acclaimed the
A.I.F. realised that from the beginning of
the Great War to the end ours was a naked
army. Brawn, brains and bravery—Aus-
tralia gave of these with a lavish hand. But,
having lived too much according to Argus
rules of conduct hitherto, it could not
put one battalion into the field whose rifles
or uniforms or hats or haversacks or water-
bottles had been made in Australia, nor a
single 18-pounder or Howitzer battery whose
guns, harness, waggons or limbers had come
from their users’ native land. In 1915 and
afterwards our soldiers went to the guns,
the aeroplanes and the ammunition. In any
war on Australian soil, under existing con-
ditions. the immense impedimenta of an
army on active service would have to be
brought here—at a time, perhaps, when
Britain was in difficulties, or when submarine
developments had made transport work un-
certain.. That is the position which. Free-
trade, or. for that matter, anything short of
drastic Protection, is going to perpetuate.
And the bribe offered is German machinery
at assigned-estate figures or Japanese goods
of an even cheaper variety than we are beine
offered at present. The sale of a birthright
for a mess of pottage is a bargain compared
with it.
4k :
The Whole Garment of Fish.
Two delegates from the N. S. Wales Labor
Council have gone, or are going, to England
to warn off immigrants. Possible comers
will be informed, no doubt, of the facts. And
the chief of these is that Labor has been in
command for six years in Queensland: for
nearly 11 years (with one break) in N. S.
Wales; had a long run under Scaddan in
Westralia and a good spell in S. Aus.; and
has been in charge of six Federal Ministries
ouf of 13. Also that at the present moment
2.800,000 of the population out of 5,300,000,
including those of the State that the delega-
tion comes from, are governed, especially as
regards lands, railways and education, by
allegedly the most advanced Laborites yet
discovered. They will add—perhaps—that
most of the land belongs to the State, and
that in one compact block (the N.T.), almost
four times the size of the British Isles, the
private landlord is prohibited ; further, that
the railroad-owning capitalist has been almost
wholly and the shipowning one partly elimi-
nated. Then they will explain how, with all
this, Australia is an utterly rotten place and
one to be avoided like poison, pestilence,
false doctrine, devils or serpents, not for lack
of space, for no white man’s country has a
twentieth of its spare space, but just from
rottenness. If people must leave crowded
England it is 200 times more crowded than
Australia they had better, it will be ex-
plained, go to some country where there is
Jess room and a worse climate, but where
capitalistic Governments run the show and
railways belong to private millionaires. At
the beginning of the century the Tories were
the Stinking Fish party and went about like
roaring lions warning people that Australia
w r as a dreadful place because Labor rule was
coming. Now’ the mantle of Stinking Fish
has fallen on Labor itself —in fact, it has put
on the whole garment of Fish—and it warns
all and sundry that Australia is a still more
fearsome place now that Labor rule has come.
So Laborites w r ith whom the delegates will
get most credence will probably stay away,
while others with whom they carry no weight
at all will come along as usual.
Not a Mere Matter o|* Business.
“It would be better to pay Australia’s contribu-
tion into a family fleet than to run her own inde-
pendent navy.”—W. Watt in the Federal Parlia-
ment.
The most dangerous weapons in the politi-
cian’s armory are abstractions. The more
obviously virtuous and sensible they are,
usually the more trouble they bring.
“Liberty, Equality and Fraternity”—in
those three words is contained the gospel of
human happiness. Yet the phrase calls to mind
little but violence and misery extending over
most of the century that has elapsed since
it w r as coined. “Self-determination” was to
solve all the world’s troubles after the w ? ar.
No one exploited the principle more vigor-
ously than Li.oyd George so long as it
remained an abstraction. When it came to
making the doctrine effective in Ireland,
India, Mesopotamia and a dozen other places,
big and small, he found the thing impractic-
able. Of course, it would be better busi-
ness, in the sense of easier finance, more
especially at the present time, for Australia
“to pay a contribution into a family fleet"
rather than run a local navy. Any fool
can see it. Britain has all sorts of facilities
for docking and repairing the capital ships
which, despite the submarine school, look like
holding their own for years to come. Aus-
tralia has none. Britain has the highly-
organised training system.'and the means of
carrying it out, which the Commonwealth
lacks. Australians are reluctant to go to
sea; Englishmen are wilting, and likely
to become more so as unemployment in-
creases. By every abstract rule this country
ought to scrap the navy which saved it in
the late war; direct its sailors to remove
their uniforms, get into overalls and become
producers; and by the annual payment of
a reasonable sum to the British Admiralty
evade all responsibility as regards the blue
water. But such a policy means that
the Commonwealth will never get to
work seriously on a naval machine, com-
plete from fop to bottom, of its own;
that Australians will not learn to sail
the seas and fight on them if necessary;
that they will never play the game, but only
pay to watch it. There is no question about
an Australian Navy becoming British for
the purposes of a world-war. as the R.A.N.
did; no question, either, about its being
trained on lines to admit of immediate co-
operation with the R.N. But it must be
Australian. Any other aspiration represents
one of those abstractions which, however
admirable they may appear on paper or
in the forum, cannot be translated into a
workable policy for a work-a-day world.
And especially a. world of men and women
Avith strong national feelings. .The history
of the A.I.F. ought to be evidence enough
on that score. Why, the time came when, so
far from hiring a part of the British Army
to fight our battles, we felt very uncomfort-
able about hiring even one general, albeit
he had been associated with our troops from
the outset.
+
A Case Where Extremes Didn’t Meet.
Baravell, Premier of S. Aus., must haA*e
smiled grimly last week when he read a tele-
gram from the humorless Fuller, of N. S.
Wales, congratulating him “on behalf of the
National Party” on the Liberal victory in
the Wheat State. For Barwell was the
man who burst up the Coalition arrange-
ment in S. Aus.; and as a result of
his determination to play a lone hand,
S.A. Nationalism has been annihilated.
His success is a condemnation of
Fuller’s strategy. The S.A. Liberals kept
their organisation intact, and succeeded at
the polls; the N. S. Wales Liberals sur-
rendered their organisation to Holman and
his seedy following, and went down to de-
feat. In all probability Fuller would be
Premier of N. S. Wales to-day if his party
hadn’t burdened itself With the fatal leader-
ship of Holman and Graiiame, just as the
Commonwealth Liberals would almost cer-
tainly have won the 1917 and 1919 elections
if they hadn’t had their legs pulled by
Hughes. When Cook and Fuller allowed
the Liberals, who had the "political destinies
of the Commonwealth and N. S. Wales in
their hands, to be'absorbed and directed by
the remnant of another party, they blun-
dered egregiously, ' with evil consequences
both to Liberalism and the country. Bar-
well went to the other extreme. Dissolving
his alliance with the Labor conscriptionists,
he fought them at the polls. And there being
neither proportional representation nor pre-
ferential voting in S. Aus., they were caught
between the upper millstone of the Liberal
Union and the lower one of the A.L.P. The
result was that only one of them was re-
elected, although they polled more than
25.000 votes. Coneybeer. the Speaker, and
Anstey, one of the late Peake’s Ministers,
Avere among the victims, and it is a misfortune
they didn’t merit. The Liberals were en-
titled to revolt against the Labor conscrip-
tionists running the National Party, but they
Avere not entitled to Avipe them out under an
obsolete voting system. Between these un-
desirable extremes there Avas an honest com-
promise, Avhich was to let them have repre-
sentation in Parliament (and in the Govern-
ment also if a modus vivendi could be
arranged) according to their voting strength.
That is the course which has been followed
in Westralia since 1917, and it has Avorked
well. S. Aus. will not gain politically by
the disappearance of a group Avhich took a
manful stand when Australia Avas up against
it. and Avhich has over 25.000 adherents. The
least the Barwell Government can do is to
a-ive it n chance to come back by passing a
Preferential Voting Act.
Further Developments in Price Fixing.
According to the Irisa rule of the road, when
two trams meet on the same line both of
them must stop till the other has passed.
The same law applies when one tram meets,
and that is what troubles the present N. S.
Wales Cabinet —it is always meeting itself
in unexpected circumstances. When it was
young and skittish —a happy, unsophisti-
cated kitten playing with a ball of figures—
it made a name for itself by adding its own
guarantee of 2s. Gd. per bushel of wheat to
the Federal guarantee of os. and promising
to pay in the cash it hadn’t got. Then the other
States had to be beguiled into fixing the
price of wdieat for local consumption at 9s.
per bushel to cover the guarantee and ex-
penses. It was cheap at first. If the
farmer had sold to the local consumer at
the world’s price he would have got at the
time about Is. Gd. more. But soon the Wheat
Board w r as selling millions of bushels to the
Germans at a fixed price delivered in Ger-
many which will yield net probably less
than 7s. 7d. It was also selling cheaply to
Chinese and others. Australia, of course,
w r as still paying 9s. As a result the grind-
ing of wheat into dour for export stopped
short, for it was impossible to grind flour
out of nine-shilling Australian wheat and
sell it in competition with flour ground by
foreigners out of six- or seven-shilling Aus-
tralian (and other) wheat. The value of
exported flour was £8,900,973 in 1919-20, so
it was a big industry that was suddenly
blithered out of existence because Storey
and Dooley wanted popularity and votes.
Flour mills began to close wholesale or to
work half-time for the local market only,
and employees (there are about 4000 of them
and many have families) began to -want
food-tickets or loan jobs on the new rail-
way from Ballyphool to Ballyruin, or both.
After the business had been knocked side-
ways and endw'ays it was decided that the
millers might have cheap wheat (wheat at
the world’s market price) to grind for ex-
port and dear wheat to grind for the Aus-
tralian market. So the price-reducing Min-
istry which began the trouble met itself
coming back on the same line of rails. No
one seems to know how much harm was done,
either, by stagnant management in keep-
ing wheat back when prices were high. In
N. S. Wales, which had the biggest crop
(over 55,000,900 bushels), there certainly
were tales of grain in mountains bogged at
railway stations everywhere, while on an
average three hired inspectors (all good
Labor men) called each day to inspect each
empty silo. N.S.W. Treasurer Lang boasts
that his Government has done more than
any other to find work for the unemployed.
With his Government’s capacity for manu-
facturing unemployed it had to do so or it
would have been eaten alive.
•» •
The “Arcadian Post” or “Daily Angel.’
A sort of prospectus of a Government news-
paper is in circulation. No less than 33
names are attached. They include those of
eight Labor newspaper men and one maga-
zine man, all the Workers and the Social-
ist being represented. There are six pro-
minent Labor politicians among the signa-
tories and three obscure ones. Secretaries
and ex-secretaries number four (one
“nationalist Association,” two “Peace Alli-
ance” and “Society of Friends’). Uni-
versity life is represented by two —a pro-
fessor and an assistant registrar. Then
there are two musical ladies, two preachers,
and a solitary manufacturer whose name is
wholly unfamiliar and whose factory and
brand of industry are unfamiliar also. It
'may be that the manufacturer represents
the experience and sterling, not to say
gigantic, business capacity which are to
make the journal pay, but he looks a very
lonesome lion in a den of mixed Daniels.
The leading feature of the proposed daily
paper (or rather six dailies, one in each
State), with its own cable service, is that
it is to wholly despise the commercial, sor-
did or solvent aspect of things, and if it
can’t get advertisements it is to say that it
scorns to have them. The bleeding country
is to stand the loss which, w T ith the separate
cable service and the new’s-collecting agen-
cies that will find the true facts for the cable
to carry, shouldn’t be more than half-a-
million a year to begin with. The manage-
ment is to be in the hands of an “Editorial
Commission,” or bear-garden or Donnybrook
Fair, “free from political control.” In other
words, Parliament, which can’t help being
political, is presumably to find the money
but have no voice in the management. As
the nine Labor editors can-hardly be trying
to raise a huge subsidised competitor with
which they will have to battle for a crust,
an inference is that they expect to have
well-salaried positions on the Editorial
Commission or free fight. The politicians
(with views to expound) and the parsons
(with gospels, to spread) probably have
their hopes, too —not of jobs, perhaps, but
of support. Whether, the bear-garden being
“free from political control,” the bears will
fix their own w’ages as Parliament does and
collect them out of the takings (if any) is
not explained. Certainly if politicians fix
their salaries that will be control; and
there isn’t going to be any control. The ven-
ture is really to be run by angels and sera-
phim, and cherubs sire to turn the machine
and saints to set the type. It is to provide
“opportunities for the expression of all
shades of opinion w’orthy of discussion by
citizens of intelligence,” which means that
it is to be absolutely unbiased, like a
corpse—barring that the Editorial Commis-
sion may decide that no shade of opinion
except raging Bolshevism is worth discus-
sion by citizens of intelligence, and that
all citizens barring its own kind have no
intelligence at all. It is also “to provide
for the publication of all news of public
interest,” just as the various Workers and
the Socialist don’t, the Commission knowing
best what is of public interest. It is to
“furnish space for official Government news
of an executive* or non-party character,”
which the alluring Government Gazettes
do now’. And it is “to institute an inter-
national cable service of unquestionable in-
tegrity and reliability,” the men who send
and receive and interpret and select the
news being free from sin, deeav or mortal
taint, dressed in white garments' and haloes,
feeding solely 0 n the Bread of Life and only
drinking out of the Jordan. The point
missed is that even an immortal cable-
grammer, replete with manna and Jordan
water, could do no more than the present
earthly sort does—pitch his tent in London,
Paris or New York, get the run of the news
which the big local capitalistic papers gather
in from all parts of the earth (much of it
by swapping items with other capitalistic
papers), send the best of it along and trust
to Providence. A really big paper would
require paid correspondents by thousands
to work any other way, and then it would
miss things like the assassination of the
Austrian archduke at Sarajevo through not
having an office at Serajevo. In fact, it
might miss a whole war now and then. To
show their absolute freedom from bias and
their . toleration for all shades of opinion,
the signatories utter a hearty denunciation
of the existing cable services as exciting
“scepticism and contempt”; but as the big
Sydney Labor daily never started and is now
seven years behind time there is nothing
better in the way of services to compare
with.
■ ♦
Dead Babies.
The late lamented baby has been of late a
great institution in Sydney. The official in
fantile death-rate is the number of deaths
of children aged less than one year; after
that it becomes child mortality. In December.
19110, for every 1000 metropolitan intants
that came into the world 121 went out of
it again, which was nearly 152 more than
the average. January (102 per 1000) und
February (72) were also worse than the
average, blit not so much worse. When
Knibbs collected the material for his last
published book of statistics (up to 1919)
Sydney had a worse record for infant deaths
than Adelaide, Perth, Hobart or Melbourne,
that being the order of healthiness. This
was natural, for Sydney has the biggest
population and is proud of it; is growing,
bloating or congesting faster than any other,
and is proud of that also; and crowds the
great mass of its people on a smaller area
than does any other Australian city, and is
possibly proud of that as well, though little
is said about it. When Knibbs made up his
table Sydney had a worse tale of dead in-
fants than even mouldering old Home with
the accumulation of thousands of years of
corpses underground. Yet there lias been
no epidemic of late sufficiently noteworthy
to attract attention—the city infant just
dies on a rising scale, especially the
increasingly numerous illegitimate infant,
whose brevity is proverbial. The fact is
that the making of new homes for people
to live in has slumped amazingly except the
making of high-rented rabbit warrens or
tenement houses euphoniously described as
flats. Some of the reasons are to be found
at the Trades Hall, on the premises of the
Sydney Labor Council, in the Fair Rents
Court and in Parliament, and some else-
where. One way and another the building
of houses to rent has become a fool’s game,
and the kind of man who used to be a land-
lord, often with empty premises on his hands
to dispose of cheaply, now buys Govern-
ment securities which the crazy loan policy
has made ridiculously abundant, absurdly
cheap and at the same time very remunera-
tive from the interest-bearing point of view.
Thereby this man escapes obloquy, it hav-
ing become the custom to talk of a landlord
as Jews were talked of in the Middle Ages.
At the same time the policy of attracting or
driving people to the city runs on. Every
railway is laid out for the purpose. Every
railway rate is faked to make it more pro-
fitable to move a factory from any country
town to Sydney than to build a new one in
a country town. The site of the Federal
capital is fixed so that it may be a suburb,
adjunct and feeder of Sydney. The politi-
cians who weep tears of blood over the need
of Home Rule for Ireland weep tears of
rage when any section of their own State
demands Home Rule, so that it may open
new ports and create new capitals to relieve
the pressure on the crowded baby-murdering
metropolis. Thus the slum-houSes become
older and more obsolete, germy, unhealthy
and slummy, for even the most diseased pre-
mises can’t be destroyed, being better than
no premises a.t all. They can’t even be
vacated for a thorough cleaning. Likewise
they become more crowded, and more people
sleep in a room, and the sexes are more
mixed in a room, and the room becomes a
handier place for an illegitimate baby to be
born in and for any sort of baby to die in.
And the Church, which is as dry-rotted with
habit, red-tape and formalism as the State,
urges a greater attention to dogma as if
dogma was space and ventilation. The
breaking-up of the big State, so that new
centres may grow on up-to-date principles
and relieve the pressure on the old ones, is
really a more pious matter than the Thirty-
nine Articles and the Westminster Confes-
sion. for the herding together of humans
does more in a generation to destroy decency
and promote the more unsightly varieties of
sin than all the priesthoods are likely to
repair in a millennium.
♦
Pre-judging Criminal Trials.
Charles Speecilley was tried and convicted
last week in Sydney for murdering a police-
man - The defending barrister opened his
address to the jury with a legitimate pro-
test. He complained that the police had
found Speeciiley guilty and conveyed the
fact to the public long before the accused
man was arraigned. The public was kept
informed, through the press, of every detail
likely to tell against the suspect.' “Put
your hands up, Charlie,” the arresting con-
stable was reported to have said; “we’ve
got you.” This suggested (1) that
opeechley was known to the police; (2)
that lm was known to be a dangerous charac-
ter. Roth suggestions were .correct, of course.
-Hut the public, which supplies juries, has
no right to be told such things. The photo-
graphs which were published by the papers,
combined with the comments in the letter-
press, pretty well completed the case for the
Crown, on the ancient principle that a nod is
xr as a wink in certain circumstances.
£ Ue fl same things happened in the case
of Digby Grand and Jones, who were
hanged some years ago for murdering a
policeman—a crime of which one or other
was certainly guilty. Here the police im-
pressed on the community, in divers ways,


T*i e Farmers'& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A t,straEa
M
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO.OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
that they had got the right men; and they
wound up by dispensing with the official
Crown Prosecutor and briefing C. E. Pil-
chek, K.C., so that there sfiould be no lack
of skill or zeal about the fight for a convec-
tion. It is all understandable enough. The
police lose a colleague and a friend. That is
bad; but the knowledge that such crimes if
committed with impunity must endanger the
lives of all of them is worse. Tney arrive,
therefore, at the conclusion that the use of
any means is justified by the end in view;
and they stick at little, from applying ‘‘tfiird
degree” methods to making use of a sensa-
tion-mad daily press. If the police were
infallible their practices would be justified ;
but on no other grounds. The right and
equitable procedure—the only one which,
while offering the Crown a reasonable
chance of punishing the guilty, can guaran-
tee the innocent due protection —is very
different. The aim should be to make the
public talk not as much about the case as
possible but as little. This is in the public s
interests, as well as in those of justice and
of particular accused persons. The object
might be at least partly gained if it were
made an offence for a paper to publish the
photograph of any accused person before
conviction —a matter which is being pressed
now by the Penal Reform League ,n Eng-
land. Most of the illustrations starred in
connection with any particularly unpleasant
crime, from the humble terrace house With
its cross to show the room in which the
victim died, to the ghastly exhibit in the
Mort trial which the Sydney papers got
from the police, serve no useful purpose
whatever. And three parts of the pre-trial
gossip is pernicious, while the fourth is
superfluous. Under existing conditions
British justice, which assumes an accused
person to be innocent till the contrary is
proved, has few points of superiorly over
the Continental convention which assumes
the opposite.
The British Coal Strike.
After threatening terribly for a fortnight
the British coal-miners’ strike partially col-
lapsed on the discovery that the other big
unions were not such enthusiastic supporters
of the row as they were supposed to be.
That lack of enthusiasm is quite understand-
able. The miners demanded the permanent
nationalisation of the whole industry, as
recommended by the Sankey Commission,
with a view to keeping wages up to the war
level —the level paid under the temporary
nationalisation in war-t.me. There is no
other reason —nationalisation is Uu more
use to the rank and file than brutalisation
or intercolonialisation unless it keeps wages
up. If it reduced wages it would be utterly
accursed. The Government was weary of
the whole business and wanted to hand the
mines back to the owners from whom they
were borrowed. Since July, 1919, it has
put up the price of coal four times, and
against that it made one temporary reduc-
tion (in mid-winter) on household coal only.
Coal for use in London only was raised
2s. per ton in January, 1920, and another
Is. Gd. in March, and in May, 1920, the all-
round price of house coal had 14s. 2d. per
ton added to it, while factory and railway
supplies were raised by 4s. 2d. per ton.
Thanks to the huge local prices and the pro-
fits of the export trade, and a subsidy of
£15,000,000 during the year from the Trea-
sury, things dragged along. But the profits
of the export trade vanished, for Ruhr coal
poured into France, and Yankees and Ger-
mans undersold the British elsewhere, and
it became a question of either stopping
export, which would have closed up a num-
ber of mines, or taxing the British person
to supply foreigners with coal sold to them
at a loss. The laying-up of ships in the
slump reduced the demand for bunker coal.
As prices dropped many factories had to get
eheaner coal ns well ns chenner raw materml
or close. And the people, with that last addi-
tion of 14s. 2d. per ton to their fuel, clam-
ored also, and said that if this was nation-
alisation then nationalisation wasn’t up to
much. The miners, who get the high wages
and also have their own coal free, went into
the fight for permanent nationalisation of
the mines with their whole souls. The rail-
way men, who see very little hope of having
their industry nationalised and who pay
for their domestic coal, were less enthusi-
astic. And the mass of artisans, who not
only pay for their dear coal but find it one
of the factors which make their iobs precari-
ous, were dead cold. All workers are
brothers, of course; but now and then some
of them get an inkling that the brotherli-
ness of others wouldn’t run the length of
swapping pay-envelopes. Even shearers’
cooks have harbored that idea now and again.
The Put-upon Parson.
“The services of the clergy are imaginary.”
wrote G. W. Foote. “And their payment
should be of the same descript ; on.” It is bard
to believe that church-going Australians will
subscribe to this view of a proselytising
atheist. Yet actions speak louder than words :
and the most venomous anti-clerical could
hardly fix an average figure for the remunera-
tion of the Commonweattii's parsons more
miserably inadequate than the existing one
which, in practice, is fixed by the congrega-
tions. The liiShop of Tasmania remarked
last week that "even road-sweepers in some
parts of the island are being pa.d better than
clergymen.” Other more or less unskilled
laborers —wliarf-iumpers, for example —do
infinitely better, financially, and there is, of
course, no comparison between the lot of an
industrious artisan and that of the man who
ministers to the artisans spiritual needs.
Foote’s gibe had not much meaning even in
its or.ginal application, which was to the old-
fashioned sporting cleric of the English coun-
ties. Directed at the strenuous Australian
parson, who is expected to do a thousand
wearisome things in addition to preaching
and praying on the Sabbath, it is absurd.
Yet not only does his tiock pay him on the
basis that he is worth little more than a
coolie, but in addition, whenever there is a
decently-paid-church job going, his superiors
take the same view. The scandal of the im-
ported bishop and archbishop has been
chronic since the middle of last century,
when Australian churchmen began to appear
whose characters were quite as forceful as,
and whose organising gifts were greater than,
those of most who arrived from abroad to
supervise them. The decision of the Anglican
Board of electors last week to offer the
archbishopric of Melbourne to a provincial
Canadian archdeacon is thus only jn accord-
ance with precedent. How much juster was
the method adopted in another army! When
the A.I.F. was in its infancy the staff was
SLUMP FEY Eli,
almost wholly British, and it agreed that this
was a fair thing, for with the except-on of
one or two brilliant permanent soldiers Aus-
tralia had no one with the technical know-
ledge requisite for the work. But as the
war went on men of military ability appeared
in the Australian force, the imported staff-
officers were gradually eliminated, and by the
time General Monash took over in 1918 not
a single Imperial man was at his H.Q. The
change was in the interests of efficiency, in
addition to being a concession to the spirit
of equity and to the self-respect of the
A.I.F. The same reasons exist in favor of
Australian clerics getting the staff-billets in
their ow’n churches, in addition to a living-
wage while they are qualifying for them. And
if they had the fire and pride which charac-
terised most of the Diggers they would quickly
succeed. They need a little more of the spirit
of that Peregrine ds la Grange, Protes-
tant martyr and pioneer, who, as Motley re-
cords, galloped to his field-preaching on horse-
back, and fired a pistol-shot as a signal for
his congregation to give attention.
In a pathetically feeble attempt to smother or
buy off the New State or Home Rule move-
ment, the Sydney Government has promised
to “consider,” next session, a railway from
Glen Innes to Inverell and another to Guyra.
Both have been considered pretty steadily
since Captain Cook’s day and they are tough
old things that can stand a lot of thinking
over. Some routes were inspected last cen-
tury. They may now even be passed and put at
the* foot of a "long list of urgent works all
waiting for loan money. They may, indeed,
be built as branch lines many years hence,
and furnished with rolling stock that Sydney
doesn’t want, with a time-table made in Syd-
ney, and with rates devised to br.ng the traffic
to Sydney. But the North wants a main west-
ern line, like that from the N. S. Wales capi-
tal to Condobolin, connecting with a Northern
port, whereas neither Glen Innes. Inverell
nor Guyra is a port. And it wants to put the
work at the head of its list —not the tail —
and manage the affair itself. There is a
difference between having a thing done by
people who want it intensely and by people
who loath it. just as there is between the
pace of a racer bound for home and an in-
curable jibber going away from home.
A sozzled fireman was sentenced to death
the other day for shooting the lady who
brought the drinks in a Sydney wineshop.
Of course he won’t be hanged (no one ever
is hanged in N. S. Wales nowadays) ; never-
theless, the habit of getting blithered in
wineshops and pumping lead into strange
females grows monotonous, and something
emphatic ought to be done about it. The
case once more suggests strongly that the
dreadful dives in which rotters of both sexes
(largely undisciplined youths and young
married women off the chain) get hoggishly
tight on the cheapest and fieriest sort of
grape-juice, and which infest every mam-
land capital, should be abolished and the
business of selling wine in glasses reformed
altogether. Australia is producing ligat
wines lit for the palate of an emperor. The
industry is, potentially, at least, of enor-
mous value, and if the wine people knew
what they were about they would see that
their excellent hock, ehablis and so forth
were vended only in clean and reputable
al fresco caf6s on the French model. But
they take little interest in the retail side
of the business, and hence the Australian
wineshop is often a villainous den in which
the wine is as bad as it can be. and the cus-
tomers are little Letter. And the ill repute
of these appalling places is extending to the
industry that suffers them, so that they are
becoming powerful agencies to shackle pr<*
hibition upon Australia.
The waking up of the sleeping dog at Cocka-
too Dock, Sydney, has been so thorough that
some people think the place will never again
settle down to its natural rest. But it almost
certainly will. Cockatoo wasn’t made of set
purpose and the site wasn’t selected for its
advantages. Like the break-of-railway gauge,
and the Canberra capital, and the size and
shape of the States, and the dog’s-hind-leg
ways of Sydney streets, and the loan disease
and the method of selecting Ministries. Cocka-
too just happened. Convicts were sent there
first.in the bone that sharks would eat thorn
when they tried to escape. Being a gaol the
place got into the way of being and re-
maining Government property. It got the
habit of being official. The convicts were set
to do a little levelling and filling in lest they
should be too happy and because the work
was suited to their intelligence. Places for
boats were made because people were always
coming and going to inspect or flog the con-
victs. Then a little repairin'* was done, and a
little building of little wooden ships. And
when big steel ships were wanted it would
have been another cruel insult to the big Ma
State capital to take its dock away. To build
on a small island when there is so much big
mainland, and a hilly surface where there is
so much flatness, means a lamentable ex-
pense in dragging men and materials to and
fro and up and down, and time is lost, and
work is badly done for lack of space. But. the
Bible curses him who removes his neighbor’s
birthstain or something of the sort, and this
is a case in po ; nt.
■ ♦
Impassioned fervor is an asset and a help
towards office, but it isn’t a perfect sub-
stitute for knowledge and plodding indus-
try. The favorite attitude of the young
political lion of the Fiiieixy or McTiebnan
brand is that of Camille Desmoulins on
the table in the Palais Koyal garden when the
famous oath was taken —with a pale, in-
tense expression, burning eyes, body sloped
backward and a voice shouting “On, on!’’ or
“Erwake, erise!” or “Forward, you have all
to win and nothing to lose save your chains’’
—the last the cry of Tom Mann. But after
five-and-a-half years of this the Brisbane
Engine-drivers, Firemen and Cleaners’
Association has complained that there is
hardly a sound locomotive left even about
the city. The boilers almost all leak, and a
common device is to put horse-dung or saw-
dust into the water, so that the sediment will
make a temporary stopping of the holes. As
this won’t answer when the holes become
gulfs, a deputation tried to approach those
in authority to see if the shout of freedom
couldn’t be interspersed with a little plain
business management and some repairs. Min-
ister Fi belly declared once that the rail-
ways weren’t intended to pay. But they
weren’t intended to be patched with manure
either.
“Te Pana” considers the indentured coolie at
close quarters:—
Just back from revisiting Fiji, where I formerly
lived for years, I am more than ever convinced
that the Indian coolie should be relieved of his
cane-knife and shipped home. Morally he is out-
side the decencies of description. The sins that
brought clown fire on the Cities of the Plains are
ramoant. No established marriage laws obtain. A
Hindu woman will stay just as long with a man
as it suits her. When a biped appears who can give
more jewellery she departs with him. A woman’s
“family” sometimes represents as many “husbands”
as there are children. Girls enter the oldest pro-
fession at a very early stage. They may be married—
that is, purchased by some man from their parents—
when seven or eight years old. They are then under
the care of their husbands’ people, who try, by
selling the child-wife’s virtue, to get back as much
of the purchase-money as possible. When the girl
is 12 or 13 she commences to live with her hus-
band. Shortage of women—4o to 100 males is
allowed in the articles of indenture —leads to
immorality and that brings homicide in its train.
The Indian is quick-tempered and revengeful.
When badali is uppermost in his mind no considera-
tion has the slightest weight except the carrying
out of his design. Once that is accomplished he
will tread the plank to the scaffold with perfect
equanimity. To make matters worse the Fijian is
being hard put to it to withstand the persuasive
powers of Khabim Khan and Co. There are many
native converts to the bosom of Islam ; which is
bad business. Not that the Fijian is worth much;
still he makes a better man as a Methodist than as
a disciple of Moiiammbd. And then there is the
matter of the mixed marriages which naturally
follow from this association.
“Mu.jik” after strolling in the park:—
About 100 of them are gambolling in the horse-
play of youth. Another 50 or so take it easy on
the grass, with papers, cigarettes and poker. Three
young men followed by a figure in brown stalk into
the foreground. The gentleman in brown blows a
whistle. The noise produces a crackling explosion
of jokes. The three young men push in amongst
the crowd demanding “cards,” and after more push-
ing and persuasive remarks disentangle the mob
into lines. Pensively looking on while the stationery
is gathered up, the one in brown at last receives
the pile, and drawing a pencil begins a sorting
and signing performance. It lasts 20 minutes. The
lines have meantime dissolved into groups. Indi-
viduals detach themselves and go for short bike
rides, or a game of leap-frog or something. Fifty
per cent, are smoking hard. The whistle again, and
more applause. Further struggles to form lines.
“Put those cigarettes out,” shouts the gentleman in
brown. Loud laughter. The young men hand the
cards hack again. “Tenshun! By the right, dress!”
The lines langnidlv close up. More individuals
saunter away. More whistle. More applause. “Ten-
shun! Dis-miss!” They bolt like rabbits. The
senior cadets have had a day’s drill. The incident,
duly docketed and countersigned, goes along to
headquarters as a record of the determination of
Australia to train for whatever may happen next.


€
i
jQu.sira.licL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN TEE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Emit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING ROOMS or
PRIVATE ROOMS at Luncheon.
Dinner or Supper—All meals served
a la carte. Order early and avoid
delay.
MN
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:
Edmund Jowett had his brief bit of glory in the
Reps, last week when his harmless motion for ad-
journment was sent to a snap division before the
time allowed for the argument had run out, with the
result that Hughes’s Whips were caught napping and
the Nationalists were two men short. Despite the
fact that Fowler’s vote was accidentally given to the
majority, whilst Watt and Francis were also handy
to render first aid to tire afflicted Cabinet, Hughes
chose to regard the whole business as an insult and
hauled his followers into a caucus to discuss the
position. It was a bit of theatrical bluff which
Hilly emphasised by wearing his deepest scowl when
he encountered members of the Farmers’ party in the
lobbies. He alleged that the incident was “unprece-
dented,’’ though it was, only last year that
McWilliams, then leader of the Agrarians, carried a
similar motion against him. On that occasion, how-
ever, Hughes didn't tear about the lobbies with the
alleged resignations of himself and his Cabinet stick-
ing out of his pockets, but continued business next
day as if nothing had happened. This time he saw
an opportunity to create a situation for bludgeoning
the Country party into some promise of support dur-
ing his expected absence in London, but the manful
words of Dr. Earle Page in the Reps, last Friday show
that William miscalculated. Still the Farmers are not
likely to be caught voting solidly with Labor while
the Priminister is in London. Should a snatch vote
occur again the more conservative of Earle Page's
squad will probably get lost in the eoal-hole until
the division is over.
The short-sighted members of the Gum'tree
party in Federal politics have decided to be
solid against duties on imported agrculturai
machinery. Yet but for local makers there
would have been no new machinery during
the war-time, and consequently very little
agricultui’e, and the Gumtree party would
have lived on rabbits and bark.
Vic. Liberals are cock-a-hoop at the results
of the S.A. elections. They think the Cocky
party in their own Assembly will now think
twice before joining with Labor to oust Law-
son. The Hayseeds retort that the badly-
organised F. and S. party did better over che
border than it was expected to do, and remind
the scoffei’s of Mackrell’s re-election for Upper
Goulburn when forced to face the electors a
second time on a technicality. Lawson, they
declare, has as' much to fear from the rump
of his own party as from any other section
in the House, and they hint that if John Allan
moves a no-confidence motion next session
he will first have a written guarantee <>f
support from a sufficient number of Lawson’s
nominal followers.
Hughes’s precious dignity got in the way
of public business again last week, and the
tariff was held up for another week or so.
Few things could be more unfoi’tunate than
that. Until the tariff is settled a hundred
industries will go slow. Take account-books,
for instance. Practically all that are used
in Australia to-day are made here; but
manufacturers know that a very small
change in the tariff would throw the whole
market for the cheaper books into the
foreigners’ hands; and strings are being
puLed hard to bring the change about. So
until the tariff is settled the manufacturers
are not getting in stocks of raw mater ml,
and work is slack and prices high. One
way and another its spoilt-kid Prime Min-
ister costs Australia a nice penny.
The electors having deprived him of two
Ministers —the Attorney-General and an
honorary—Premier Mitchell, of Westralia, is
going to carry on with six instead of eight.
Baxter, the other honorary, who has been
quarrelling with the powerful Farmers and
Settlers’ Association, has been dropped, and
Colebatch is to be Minister of Justice as
well as State Secretary. There will be no
successor to Draper, but Westralia is used
to doing without an Attorney-General.
Maley, M.L.A., for Greenough, moves into
the Cabinet as Minister of Agriculture.
He is a C’.P. man, like Broun and Seaddan ;
in fact, it is virtually a Hayseed Govern-
ment, for all the Ministers are country mem-
bers.
It was a poor advertisement for Australia’s
robust self-helpfulness that an unemployed
deputation from the engineers’ union in Syd-
ney waited on Peter Simonoff, the Bolshevik
THE HALF-TRUTH THAT IS WORSE THAN A LIE.
THE MENTOR : “It's all yours by right, comrade. Everybody else who shares it with
you is a parasite.”
THE HOD CARRIER: “What, the architect, the manager and the engineer, to say nothing
of the man who found the money?”
THE MENTOR: “ Don't be an idiot. If it wasn’t for you there couldn't be any building. ’
Consul, to ask for jobs in cold, bleak, war-
worn, unintelligible Russia. It also asked if
the mostly-Asiatie, half-Tartar and half-
frozen State would extend the paw of charity
in the shape of free passages, with keep for
wives and families until the husbands could
send them some paper roubles to go on with.
Simonoff said, as any consul would, that his
country was a good country, well-governed
and teeming with roubles and work, but as
x’ogards the paw of charity there was nothing
doing. Thus hope being cut off the engineers
should do the next best thing and find out
what is wrong with Australia and what sort
of mess they or their friends have made of it.
There are some people who don’t want
George Georgeson to get well, and a few who
are terribly afraid that he will. Pi’obably
N. S. Wales Ministers are not among the
few. but they are certainly being made use
of by them.' For months past Georgeson’s
doctors have been urging that he should be
taken away to Maoriland for a change; but
though a passport can be got —in fact, has
been authorised—-the State Government
now stands m the way. And argument will
not shift w'hoever is responsible—nor even
a proffered £20,000 bond that the sick man
will return if he is alive. Yet no charge
has been laid against Georgeson. It is
pretty certain, though, that if Georgeson
does recover he will tell a story that will
do a few' political and other reputations no
good. And whether Georgeson is allowed
away or not that story is very likely to be
told,* since the man’s condition, physical
and mental, has vastly improved during the
last couple of months.
The Queensland timber business is on the
floor listening for the count, and that of
N. S. Wales isn’t much better. Unless the
House of Reps, does something more strenu-
ous than the millers expect, they will go
out —for the time, at any rate. While their
owm costs have been racing up, American
costs have tumbled ; and on top of that there
are tens of millions of feet of timber at
U.S.A. mills which is being thrown on the
market wherever a market can be found. A
bit of extra Customs duty is being asked
for, and it may help; but it will not be
enough—either wages will have to be cut
for work at and around the mills, or a lot
more work will have to be done for the old
money. Figures have been carefully kept at
various mills to show the shrinkage of out-
put. Thus at one where 34,000 ft. was for-
merly produced per 48-hour week, the output
has 'fallen to 24,000 ft. per 44-hour week.
In other words, go slow on top of an S p.c.
reduction of houx-s has produced a 30 p.c.
reduction of output.
Some flattering things were said at the
A.L.P. Conference about the Labor-bossed
Sydney Council. This was Cecil Last’s con-
tribution :
You want to know why we took in hand the mat-
ter of electing the Lord Mayor? Well, I’ll tell you.
The Moore-street extension scheme was on. There
was to be a little commission of £lOO,OOO. But
that seemed too much, so it was reduced to £40,000.
Wasn’t it time that the executive stepped in and
took a hand in the business when that kind of thing
was going on?
There were several Labor aldermen pi’esent,
or in the neighborhood, but no one seems
to have interrupted the speaker with a brick.
They are not hypersensitive, these worthy
representatives of the struggling musses.
No Dreadnought was ever tougher.
It is now costing the taxpayers of IS.
Wales £4OOO a week (£208,000 a year) to
feed and clothe the miners of Broken Hill
and their families; and there is a steady
howl from the ‘workers” that the relief
isn’t sufficient. The mines, of course, are
closed down. The State has a Board of
Trade, and some poor sort of inquiry has
been made on the spot; but nobody knows
exactly what the position is—whether the
mines couldn’t work at anything like present
metal prices and wage rates, or whether
the margin is narrow. If it is so narrow
that it can be bridged, then it ought to be
bridged by a reduction of wages; if it is so
wide that it can’t be bridged by a reduction
of anything up to 15 or 20 p.c., then the
inhabitants should be offered a pass-out
check along with a notice that the relief
will stop, so far as Broken Hill is concerned,
a month from date.
It is an ironic fact that so many British
coal-miners are in their present distressful
condition because at the “Khaki election”
they mostly voted for the virtual starvation
of the Hun. Before the war the coal exported
from the U.K. to France was equal in value,
year by year, to all the other chief products
i iron,' steel, woollen manufactures, cotton
manufactures and machinery) combined. To-
day France is taking no British coal because
two million tons a month are pouring in from
the Ruhr (German) mines, under the treaty
of peace. The narket has been given away
with a lb. of French revanche.
The coming of Count Limburg Stirum,
formerly Governor-General of the Dutch East
Indies, was accompanied by a remark from
the gentleman that Australia should be better
known in the Dutch East Indies. Where-
upon Massy Greene at once opined that a
trade-commissioner should be rushed to the
scene of action. The Minister for Trade mis-
understands the courteous Dutchman, who
of course means that so many consignments
of Australian goods have arrived in Java in a
bad condit'on, chiefly because of faulty pack-
ing. and so many other consignments have
arrived that were not up to sample, that
Australia has now a very bad name there.
It ought to have a better, as the Count says,
but a highly-paid commissioner will not pro-
cure it. A little more honesty this end
would.
The Launceston Marine Board is begin-
ning to feel a little less like a cold-blooded
murderer who does the job for the sake of
a few pounds. Its dredger Ponrabbel 11.
(Captain Wm. Manning and a crew of 15)
had just turned up after eight months’
bucketing. Nine days after she started from
Glasgow on August 7, she ran ashore on
the coast of Portugal. Towed to Gibraltar
for repairs, she was laid up there for 10
weeks. Then a fresh start was made, but
she sprank a leak, and was forced to anchor
under shelter of Cape de Gata (S.-W.
Spain). The crew manned the pumps and
pushed on to Malta, where the leak was
caulked up and a steam pump installed.
Then the syncopated voyage was resumed.
The average speed for the trip was 5J knots.
The first Ponrabbel was sunk by the Emden
in the earlv days of the war, but the money-
grubbing Board decided to risk a few more
lives rather than give an Australian engi-
neering firm the job of building a successor.
The Ma State is flooded with one of its
per.odical lamentations about old, unclean,
dilapidated, infectious and overcrowded
schools. The Ministry, of course, blames
the previous Nationalist Government, whose
3! years of troubled existence broke the
continuity of what would otherwise have
been 10| years of Labor rule. But old age
and dilapidation don’t fall on either schools
or roads in a day, and some of the decay
must date back further perhaps even than
the beginning of the McGowen Cabinet in
1910. The position is that the law compels
Australia, junior, to go to school, and when
he gets there it puts him and twice as many
others as there is room for underneath a
lean: and next to a big germ ; and complaints
pour in alike from poor spots like Sawpit
Gully and the affluent-looking Sydney suburb
of Ashfield. Curiously enough no one seems
to recall the case of a fairly rich town flying
off the handle and passing round the hat and
building a school for itself —one big enough
to provide for a good many years ahead.
The loss of time, which is money, in agita-
tion is terrible. So are the losses in postage
stamps on letters to the Minister, in fares and
bootleatlier in looking him up, and wear and
tear of the town hall in denouncing him.
Several town halls have already been w r orn
out. All these and the children’s health
might be saved, and they would nearly pay
for the academy.
“H.H.”: Common report, which is some-
times an uncommon liar, has it that there
will be a State election in N. S. Wales about
September, that the Ministry will be disen-
cumbered of Storey, Dooley and Mutch, and
that a safe seat and a portfolio will be found
for Lord Mayor Lambert. In fact, that
Lambert will do what Ryan might have done
in Federal politics if his party had been
in power when he arrived, Tudor being to
the extremists as superfluous as Storey.
THE TWENTY-FIFTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once more the day comes round, the day that thrills.
When, on those frowning Ari Burnu hills,
Our sons and brothers quit themselves like men.
This was a nation then.
A nation with a history and a soul—
They lenew it, as they struggled to their goal;
And we, too, caught the vision as we read
What they had done, the living and the dead,
And felt the pride of fealty to a State
Tested in fire and destined to be great.
That was Australia, for it had not then
Hearkened to brazen faction-breeding men.
That was Australia,' not this fevered clime
Plagued by the tumults of an older time —
This paradise of bigot and of Bolsh,
Of ’Enley, Kay Bee Hee, and Tommy Walsh ;
This home of brawling exiles and of cranks
Whose watchwords are “Destroy” and “Loot the
Banks” ;
This haunt: of pacifists with poisoned darts,
Peace on their lips and hatred in their hearts;
The land where feuds of party and of sect,
Of race and class and faction rage unchecked I
Six years ago! But we can still go back.
It’s not too late to tread the nobler track.
Else may some Manchu Grote or Gibbon say:
“This nation flowered and perished in a day;
For in the judgment stern of History
Australia died, too, on Gallipoli.”
x.s.w.
WODGH.


“AND A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM."
“Mr. Hughes is in favor of a renewal of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance that will he acceptable to Great Britain, Japan and the United States."


OIL
SWITCHES
K 6
Type “B.Ti.” oil break
switch, 650 volts, capaci-
ties 1000 to 3000 amps.
TRAFFORD PARK. MANCHESTER.
Australian Offices:—
M William Street, Melbourne.
it Martin Place. Sydney.
TT
Agents:
Elder Smith & Co., ltd., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
Turnbull & Janos, X.td., Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Emplro»
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
THE FIRST DUTY a Man owes to Himself and his Family is to
MAKE HIS WILL.
SECOND only in importance is the
SELECTION OF AN EXECUTOR.
A Testator can at once Relieve himself of anxiety concerning such selection by
Appointing the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
which has had over thirty-four years’ experience of the duties of an
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
Write or Call for Booklet,
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of ceil-
ing and roofing materials, etc. Apparently
the co. paid £04,289 for goodwill, and later
items brought the total to £05,702, at which
figure it now stands. In the following table
goodwill is not reckoned as an asset: —
Dividends.
r 1
Net Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1912.. 30,405 2800 91 p.e.= 11,646 15,959 23,094
1913.. 34,071 2800 10 „ „ 12,259 19,012 4,082
Reserves.
1914.. 32,877 3821 10 „ „ 13,599 15,457 11,375
1915.. 23,635 5600 74 „ ~ 10,694 7,341 18,716
1916.. 20,450 5600 71 „ ~ 10,694 4,156 22,872
1917.. 22,810 5600 8 „ ~ 11,407 5,803 28,675
1918.. 22,931 5600 9 „ „ 12,834 4,497 33,172
1919.. 25,961 5600 10 „ „ 15,739 4,622 37,794
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 „ „ 21,784 486 38,280
1921.. 45,837 5600 12J „ „ 37,500 2,737 41,017
The first column of that table does not do
full justice to Wunderlich net earnings; and
particularly is that so with respect to the
latest entry. The brothers Wunderlich were
among the first employers to put labor on
a co-partnership basis. Varying amounts of
profit have been set aside from time to time
to provide “staff-partner certificates” and to
pay divs. and bonuses thereon: the £405
of 19.15 grew to £2328 for 1918. to £7215 for
1919, and fell to £2450 for 1920, while dur-
ing the past year no less than £19,575 was
appropriated for the purchase of certificates
and £1279 went to pay 7£ p.c. on employees’
scrip already in existence. There are now
staff-partnership certificates for £35,305,
equal to nearly one-tenth of shareholders’
capital. With this stake in the business,
employees have an incentive to further the
interests of the co. The amounts required
for share and dividend distributions to em-
ployees are not shown in the table above,
and since last year the employees received
altogether £20,854, the actual net profit dis-
closed was £00,091, compared with £30,320
for the previous year. The co. has thus
had an excellent time: apparently the three
businesses acquired two years ago—Dura-
bestos, Ltd., Wunderlich and Steelart, Ltd.,
and Grant and Cocks, Ltd. —have come into
full earning, while profitable employment has
evidently been found for the £BO,OOO of new
capital raised during the 1920 financial year.
How gross profits have behaved is not shown
by the published accounts, which give merely
net earnings after meeting all exes, and
providing for depreciation, etc. But on
total average funds (including the em-
ployees’ interest) last year's disclosed net
profits gave a return of more than 12| p.c.,
and this combined with the fact that em-
ployees received in shares and cash an
amount equal to almost one-third of these
net earnings is eloquent evidence as to the
success of Wunderlich’s efforts to solve the
problem that is turning most employers
grey.
Wunderlich, Ltd., was at first chiefly in-
terested in the manufacture of metal ceil-
ings, but its enterprise has taken it into in-
numerable side-lines. Expansion over the
period covered by the first table has been
very rapid. Here is a comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures:—
1912. 1920. 1921.
Shareholders’ capital . . £162,591 £379,666 £380,000
Employees’ capital . . 14,040 35,365
Liabilities .. . . 51,162 38,244 52,913
Freeholds .. . . 52,416 151,559 167,219
Leaseholds . . . . 10,493 9,659 4,052
Plant, etc 34,020 108,926 126,240
Stocks 55,970 136,396 138,371
Book debts . . . . 35,965 64,342 70,811
Cash and investments. . 4,227 13,675 25,973
Others assets .. . . 5,097 2,923 2,782
Including the employees’ interest pur-
chased out of profits, more than a quarter-
million of new capital has been introduced
during the eight years. Note, also, that the
business has been so soundly financed that,
despite the great expansion, liabilities have
increased by less than £lBOO, the whole
of the debts representing probably nothing
more than current trading accounts. Loaded
at the beginning with £65,702 of goodwill,
the co. did so well that it soon put substan-
tial assets in place of the airy-fairy no-
things. The 1912 balance-sheet showed fixed
assets with a book value of £96,929 and a
surplus of liquid assets over and above lia-
bilities of £50.097. The latest accounts give
properties and plant at £297,511 and a liquid
surplus of £185,024. That shows the busi-
ness to have been built up by about £335,500.
New money put up by shareholders has
assisted that expansion with £217,400; so
accumulated profits have provided about
£llBlOO, £35,365 of which has been set
aside for the benefit of employees. The paid
capital of £380,000 is made up of £BO,OOO
in 7 p.c. prefs., equally divided between firsts
and seconds; the balance of £300,000 is in
ordinaries. After payment of latest divs.
each of these ordinaries had the backing of
slightly more than 275. of tangible assets
(book value). # #
Kemptiiorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
1909.. 116,962 7 p.c. =£14,000 £lOOO £1,962 £38,692
1910 16 707 7 „ „ 14,000 1336 1,371 40,063
1911.'. 18,225 7 „ „ 14,000 1500 2,725 42,788
1912.. 19,191 7 ~ „ 15,515 1500 2,176 44,964
Premiums on shares issued .. 3,750 48,714
1913.. 21,544 7 p.e.= 16,083 2500 2,961 51,675
Premiums on new shares .. 4,375 56,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c.= 17,453 1275 51,543
1915.. 23,459 7 „ „ 18,541 1500 3,418 54,961
1916.. 24,730 7 „ „ 18,550 6,180 * 61,141
1917.. 25,575 8 „ „ 21,200 4,375 60,01 b
1918 30 329 8 ~ ~ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,i20
1919 : 33,520 8 „ ~ .28,917 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 90,828
1920 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9,275 100,103
1921.. 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
This 42-year-old co. has made big changes
during the past few years. There was a
time —and all the men who can remember
it are not yet bald-headed —when, if the
farmer manured his land at all, he. went
to the stable and the pig-sty for his fer-
tiliser. Since then, the chemist has been
busy, and now he goes to Kemptiiorne, Pros-
ser’s and the like. Two chemical fertiliser
works have been established by the co., one
in the North and one in the South, and a
third, midway—at Hornby, near Christ-
church —is going up slowly, and should be
producing by the end of the current year.
Twelve months ago these works, as well as
the warehouses, were short of stocks. After
the Armistice everybody had to go short. But
there soon came a time when shipments
arrived even before they were expected; and
this, coupled with the abnormal prices paid
for them, has made this year’s balance-sheet
look very different from last year’s. Here
is a comparison:—•
1910. 1914. 1920. 1921.
Capital . . £200,000 £263,656 £367,140 £395,378
Liabilities .. 59,442 54,082 76,650 225,651
Stock.. .. 149,622 186,693 188,874 301,120
Factories, etc. 103,193 101,489 140,114 209,750
Book debt's.. 53,513 69,342 105,283 103,001
Cash, etc. . . 4,373 22,120 133,976 140,555
That first line requires, however, a word or
two of explanation. As the first table shows,
there was an issue of capital at a premium
in 1919-20, and on Jan. 31, 1920, £32,948
had been paid on account of calls made but
not due. During the past year £50,000 of
these calls has become due, and the pre-
payments are now only £BBlB. There is
now less than £5OOO of allotted share-capi-
tal to be got in; but there is another
£lOO,OOO authorised. As the capital has
been quite inadequate to pay for even the
factory extensions, let alone ihe new stocks,
the co. has gone £149,001 further into debt
during the year. Still, that is not serious
considering that (1) the co. has £125,703
in cash, war loans and "other investments”
(and, by the way, it’s a pity that “other
investments,” which may mean almost any-
thing, should be carpet-bagged with war
loans), and (2), though the works, ware-
houses, etc., may not be overstocked, future
stocks of the same volume will certainly not
cost so much money.
Of course, the management has a difficult
time ahead of it. More difficult, perhaps,
than most managements. First, there are
those heavy stocks to be got rid of on a
falling market. Whether much if any profit
can be shown on the sales will be partly
governed by the vigor with which stocks
purchased at the top of the market have
been written down but of past profits. If
they haven’t been written down out of past
profits they will have to be written down
out of future ones. And future ones are
not going to be so easily made. A concern
depending upon a city connection might be
able to maintain very high prices. But
there isn’t much hope for a concern whose
connection is with primary producers.
Neither in Maoriland nor in Australia has
the city population yet realised the extent
to which wool, meat, wheat, metals and
timber have fallen in the world's markets.
Either present wage- and other price-levels
in the cities must fall, or. if the primary
products don’t recover, the primary pro-
ducer must give it best. He certainly can’t
afford to pay abnormally high prices for
all that he buys while selling what he pro-
duces at slump rates. It will take some
time, no doubt, to restore the balance, and
while it is being done Kempthorne. Pros-
ser’s, among a thousaind others, will have
to watch their steps. But they have a fine
business and a business still capable of
great expansion. Indeed, expansion by them
or others in the same line is a national re-
quisite. Something has been said lately
about over-production. Well, we haven’t
over-produced, anyhow. We have gone
further and further into debt; and when you
go into debt it simply means that you have
been spending more than you have been real-
ising. And if there is over-production in
any line the man who can last longest is the
one who takes the most help from science.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dividend (10p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
July, 1913.. £10,973 £10,745 £228 £49,011
Jan., 1914 . . 12,777 12,336 441 49,452
July, 1914 . . 11,945 11,844 101 49,553
Jan., 1915 . . 11,701 12,034 49,220
July, 1915 .. 11,476 11,350 126 49,346
Jan., 1916 . . 10,817 10,971 49,192
Unclaimed divs. transferred to
Reserve Fund, £2OOO . . 51,192
July, 1916 . . 9,915 10,142 50,965
Jan., 1917 . . 10,964 11,030 50,899
Unclaimed dividends, £l3l .. 51,030
July, 1917 .. 10,625 10,317 308 51,338
Unclaimed dividends, £ 578 .. 51,916
Jan., 1918.. 10,808 10,478 330 52,246
July, 1918 .. 10,605 9,966 639 52,885
Jan., 1919 . . 12,992 10,965 2027 54,912
July, 1919 .. 10,432 10,394 38 54,950
Jan., 1920 . . 17,127 13,547 3580 58,530
July, 1920 . . 15,074 12,136 2938 61,468
Jan., 1921 .. 15,855 13,625 2230 63,698
The co., which will hold its 100th half-
yearly meeting towards the close of the current
year, is the swell among N. S. Wales co-op.
concerns. It does not attempt to cater for
the poorer-paid, for whom cost-price distri-
bution is mostly needed: the Civil Service
occupies a commodious leasehold in the most
expensive section of the city, and its turn-
over is chiefly in high-class goods. In addi-
tion it runs a popular luncheon- and tea-
room. Paid capital is £27,784; and net
profits for the past 12 months were not far
short of £31,000. But that, though very
gorgeous-looking, is illusory. More than
£03,098 of reserves have accumulated; so on
total funds the past year’s net profit actu-
ally represented a return of about 33 p.c.
Most of the explanation of this handsome
result lies in the fact that the co. has not
to provide funds to finance extensive book
debts, while nothing has been invested in
freeholds. Turnover in relation to funds is
in consequence very large: during the 12
months to January 31 cash receipts totalled
almost £551,000, exceeding six times the co.’s
funds. This shows the expansion of the
business over 20 years:—
Cash Gross Profit Work- Proportion
Re- on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses to
ceipts. etc. penses. Receipts.
Jan., 1900.. £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15.0 p.c.
Jan., 1905.. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15.2 „
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.9 „
Jan., 1915.. 178,027 48,077 34,024 19.1 „
Jan., 1920.. 262,443 65,911 46,368 17.7 „
July, 1920.. 260,841 66,191 49,490 18.9 ~
Jan., 1921.. 290,046 72,374 54,641 18.8 „
At one stage during the war exes, were tak-
ing slightly more than one-fifth of total re-
ceipts ; but though wages per half-year have
moved from £22,583 to £35,144 in three
years, and cartage, the other big item, now
takes £8289 instead of just under £6OOO,
selling-prices have been so adjusted that on
the latest turnover exes, take a smaller per-
centage.
Of the latest half’s net profit of £15,855
a div. at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. took £1389;
and £12,235 was distributed as a bonus on
cash purchases, equivalent to a rebate of
2s. in the £. This suggests that outsiders
assisted shareholders’ bonus considerably,
for apparently £167,811 of the half’s takings
of £290,046 were other than cash sales to
constituents. Still, the large tea-room har-
vest, on which no rebate is allowed share-
holders, clouds this calculation. Liabilities
at Jan. 31 totalled only £47,072 —less than
a normal month’s trading. The co. is itself
able to pay cash to wholesalers; and by this
means £3095 of discounts were garnered last
half.
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) :
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- lial Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb. £ £ £ £ £
1908.. 24,135 5 p.e. = 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909.. 17,551 5 „ ~ 12,500 5,051 46,045
1910.. 25,072 5 „ „ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911.. 35,637 6i „ ~ 15,625 16,057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 74 „ ~18,750 27,527 50,000
1913.. 50,968 74 „ ~18,750 32,218 50,000
1914.. 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 50,000
1915.. 50,114 10 „ „ 25,000 25,114 50,000
1916.. 32,161 10 „ ~25,000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22,348 6$ „ „ 15,625 4,750 1973 54,384
1918.. 32,174 85 „ ~21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 „ „ 25,000 7,294 54,384
1920.. 32,468 10 „ ~ 25,000 7,250 218 54,602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 174 54,776
Profits have fallen again, and the bump
has been worse than the table indicates,
because only £11,016 has been charged
against the past year's income to provide
for repairs, bad debts, etc., compared with
£13.527 for the previous year, while £4505
less has been paid away in (or set aside for)
land and income taxes. “Gross profits on
sales” and rents produced £80,414 for 1020;
for the past year, £71,040. The beer-drought
at Broken Hill, where this co. has a brewery
and many pubs, is chiefly responsible for
the poorer harvest; the directors report that
business elsewhere “continues to show a
marked improvement.” After paying 10 p.c.
to shareholders the accounts show only £174
added to reserves; but that probably does
not give the true results of the year's opera-
tions. As mentioned above. £11,916 of the
year's income went in repairs, etc., but in
addition £4600 has been clipped from profits
to write down plant and rolling-stock. Heavy
writing down has been proceeding for some
years, so that the £4776 visible additions to re-
serves over 10 years probably do not repre-
sent the full excess of earnings over out-
goings, including fair maintenance. Reserves
are labelled as nominal above because until
recently the amount of capital represented by
intangible assets was not ascertainable. For
goodwill £60,000 had originally been paid, but
that item has now been got down to £5OOO.
While profits were being employed to write
down goodwill considerable amounts were
also being set aside for depreciation and con-
tingencies. There is no less than £56,400
in a “freehold depreciation fund,” though
apparently repairs and replacements have
been otherwise provided for. The result has
been that while brewery and other property
has been maintained in good order, large
liquid assets have piled up and liabilities
have been reduced. This illustrates how the
liquid position has altered over 10 years:—
1911. 1920. 1921.
Assets apart from fixed
assets £73,073 £153,243 £158,247
Liabilities .. .. 235,637 193,290 224,789
Excess liabilities £102,564 £40,053 £60,542
During the past year there was further out-
lay on properties, which with plant and
goodwill now stand at £448,434, and the co.
went a little deeper into debt again. Never-
theless, an improvement of £90,000 in the
liquid position in 10 years has been a good
performance. How much the co.’s true posi-
tion has been strengthened after distributing
average annual divs, of 9 p.c. is not, how-
ever, certain, because one can’t swear how
much of the £50,400 in the freehold depre-
ciation fund is a mere set-off against wear
and tear that has actually taken place. As-
suming that the breweries, properties and
plant are worth the full £448,434 at which
they stand —which seems probable in view
of the amounts provided for maintenance,
etc., out of each year’s revenue —then after
payment of the latest div. there were net
tangible assets with a book value of nearly
£360,000 to represent the quarter-million of
paid capital. But, again, some of even the pre-
sent written-down value of the properties and
plant hangs on the continuance of pub
licenses; and though the world doesn’t seem
to be racing towards prohibition at the
moment, one can never tell. There is going
to be a lot of whipping-the-cat presently.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land) : —•
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. serves. serves.
1910.. £1869 10 p.e. £l2OO £669 £5537
1911.. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 6518
1912.. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 717 7235
1913.. 2020 10 „ „ 2000 20 7255
1914.. 2102 10 „ „ 2000 102 7357
Written off, £BOO .. 6557
1915.. 2366 10 p.c. = 2466 6457
Transferred to capital, £6OOO 457
1916.. 3423 10 p.e. = 3150 273 730
1917.. 3042 8J„ „ 2934 108 838
Dec.,
1917.. 3425 9i„ ■„ 2848 577 1415
1918. . 307 1 5 ~ ~ 1845 ( oqo ia<i7
Written off, £lOOO ) 104 ‘
1919.. 2648 5 p.c. = 1845 ( _ 14 - 0
Written off, £lOOO J
1920.. 2126 21 p.c. = 956 1170 2620
The Ipswich Gas. Co. has been having a poor
run, yet as the directors are not talkative
it is difficult to ascertain why the div. rate
has got down to 2| p.c. for the past year.
As in N. S. Wales, gas profits are regulated
in the northern State, but Queensland got
its Act on to a more business-like basis from
the beginning: the gas referee is instructed
to fix the price of gas on the basis of cost
of production, plus fixed depreciation allow-
ances, plus 81 p.c. on funds actually em-
ployed in gas production. In the case of
this co. it appears that satisfactory re-ad-
justments of prices have not followed. The
experience over three years since capital was
increased to £36,000 has been as follows: —
1918. 1919. 1920.
Gas sales.. ..£10,539 £11,502 £11,412
Residuals, etc. . . 874 693 981
Total income ..£11,413 £12,195 £12,393
Expenses.. .. 8,336 9,547 10,267
Profit . . . . £3,077 £2,648 £2,126
So while gross income has improved by only
£9BO, exes, have advanced £1931, a matter
for concern in a little £36,000 show. The
latest profit would have been ample to have
repeated the 5 p.c. paid for the two previous
years, but apparently the management re-
quired funds for other purposes: £750, equal
to 2 p.c. on capital, has been put aside in
a repairs account. Depreciation allowances,
judging by the gradual reduction in the book
value of fixed assets, are included with exes.
Though the latest div. is very slender, the
co.’s position is comfortable enough : at the
balance liquid assets totted up £3300, and
liabilities amounted to £l9OB.


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST notTTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4sd.
{9d. (minimum
16/-, 20 words)
Canada
.. 2/4 1/2
j 7d. (minimum
(11,8,20 words)
U.5.A... ..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Pern, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Resnlations tnav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. Ml' W MM*. Manaeer in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street. SYTIYP.V.
If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, von are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulbnrn Street, Svd-
ney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * •
Before installing your water conduit investigate
the merits of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe, which is far
cheaper than metal, both to lay and maintain, and
is absolutely reliable. “Pioneer” Pipe has a carry-
ing capacity from 15 to 20 per cent, greater than
metal pipe, and this capacity remains constant.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Burns Bay Road.
Lane Cove.— Advt.
* * * »
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and- prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * * ♦
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt,
* # *■ *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• * * #
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uson ft Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writ*
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
• * • *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-prdducts ; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
♦ * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby ft Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. —Advt.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
fLj
M
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
HEAD
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
C. L. Garland has taken up a subject
often dealt with here, viz., the manufacture
of sulphur from Australian ores. (Heaven
knows why, but The Bulletin was offici-
ally censured for referring to the subject
during the war! Even now the public has
a poor idea of the extent of the autocracy
established under the Hughes Government,
and encouraged and in many cases personally
extended by the little tyrant.) In a circu-
lar to members of the Federal Parliament
Garland says that between 1910 and 1919
Australia paid the foreigner £1,721,669 for
crude volcanic sulphur :
The bulk of this comes from an Asiatic country
where the miners work 10 hours per day and for
less than one-sixth of the pay received by Australian
miners. Thus the present policy results in the find-
ing of employment for foreign Asiatic miners and
forces our own miners into the ranks of the unem-
ployed. In America, even before the war, no less
than 1,301,000 tons of iron pyrites were used in the
manufacture of sulphuric acid in one year.
Garland—many years ago M.L.A. for Car-
eoar (N.S.W.) —has discarded his old Free-
trade habits and approves of a duty of 80s.
per ton on imported sulphur and an equiva-
lent duty on sulphur-bearing ores in order
to “utilise local ores, make the country self-
contained in peace and war, increase wealth
in the country and the employment of Aus-
tralian workmen.”
* * * *
• Prime Minister Hughes and his friend
Higgins having “solved the metal problem”
(that is to say, having got for Australian
metals less than market price during the
war and left them with fewer markets after
it), the precious Metal Exchange notifies
that “the embargo on the exportation of
ores, scrap metals, etc., has, in view of the
state of the metal markets and the general
economic position, been removed.” Even
now, however, the costly and superfluous
(so-called) Metal Exchange is to be kept in
existence. “Permission to ship will now be
obtainable as a matter of course on registra-
tion with the Metal Exchange of the con-
tract of sale.” Over nothing was Hughes’s
leg so well and truly pulled as over the
metal business. Unfortunately the public
paid—more than all, the metal producers—
a few men unquestionably made great for-
tunes, and another little lot got good billets.
The manufacture of good billets was one of
the four great war industries. The others
were the manufacture of (1) munitions, (2)
lies, (6) reputations.
“An Old Mine Official” writes: —
The prospectus of Lucknow Gold Mines, just issued,
ought to rank among the curiosities of literature.
The indefatigable Hill End Marshalls figure in it,
and they out-Marshall themselves. What would New-
man and Warnford Lock have to say if they could
hear, and what will “black Jack” Collins and
Irwin have to say when they do hear, this: “It 's
apparent that neither the geology of the field nor
:he deposition of the gold was clearly understood at
the time the mines were worked”? All the Govern-
ment geologists and most of the leading mining
engineers of the world have investigated Lucknow,
but all their deductions from scientific knowledge
and from comparisons with similar deposits in other
parts of the world are to count as naught against
the assumptions of men who, judging from their
report, have never seen the Lucknow workings. For
contradictions, absurdities and improbabilities this
report would take a lot of beating. In one para-
graph it is stated that “prospecting and development
became confined to a very limited area. Very little
systematic search was attempted in any endca or to
either pick up the known worked reefs at greater
depths or to find new reefs further along the contact
rone and parallel to the worked reefs.” And the next
paragraph says that “it is impossible to describe in
detail the extensive workings of the area, consisting
as it does of a great many main and auxiliary shafts
and many miles of drives and crosscuts.” I can
testify from personal knowledge that Warnford I.c k
spent not less than £20,000 in prospecting work in
the deep ground before he committed himself to his
final report, in which he practically recommended
the abandonment of the mine. It would be well
for the gentlemen who are responsible for the report
under review to get a copy of Lock’s report and
plans, and it would be something worse than im-
pertinence if, after carefully studying them, they
persisted in their statement that the geology and
mineralogy of the field were not understood. No
more elaborate set of mine working plans was ever
prepared than that which was once to be seen at the
Lucknow office. In connection with his report Lock
asked me to measure up the length of drives and
crosscuts indicated in the plans, and if my memory
serves me aright it was nearer 40 than 30 miles.
Fancy this water-logged derelict being tackled by
such a tinpot company as it is proposed to form !
An extraordinary statement this: “In six years the
output was over £850,000 w T orth of go’d. This
was obtained without any elaborate equipment.”
There was at that time more machinery to the
acre on the surface at Lucknow than there was on
any other gold-mine in Australia, and as for air-
wlnclies and air-pumps and other appliances under-
ground their number was legion. Here is a sample
of absurdity writ large: “What searching has been
done seems to have been in the soft, easily-driven
serpentine, where it would be only the merest chance
that the reefs, occurring as they only do in the
diorite, would be intersected.” Naturally, if the
reefs occur only in the diorite, it would be something
more than a mere chance to find them in the serpen-
tine. The prospecting work at the Darcy shaft is
said to have cost £40,000 (it must have been con-
siderably move), and this work “failed in its object
through the lack of understanding at the time the
complicated nature of the gold deposition since
made clearer by subsequent work re.ealing much
new evidence.’’ Where was this “subsequent work”
done, and if it revealed this wonderful new evidenc°
why was it not taken advantage of by the then owners?
The prospectus states: “From the report of Messrs.
Marshall Bros, it will be noted that it is estimated
that £5OOO will.be required to test their theory as
to the enriched zone. It is anticipated that the
application and allotment money will be sufficient
to provide the necessary working capital to test the
theory.” As the capital to be raised on applica-
tion and allotment is £6OOO, and as vendors are to
take £2ooo out of that, and as the company lias
to pay “all preliminary and formation expenses,
including brokerage,” it is not easy to see where
the £5OOO is to come from. The money is to be
spent to “test their theory.” The problem is to
find the theory I For all the Aladdin-Uae wonders
which they have to offer the promoters ask for the
insignificant number of 40,000 fully paid shares out
of 100,000 and £2500 in cash.
Mt. Morgan has recently been getting its
coal from its own property at Baralaba, in
the Dawson Valley field, instead of from
Blair Athol, thereby saving nearly 200 miles
haulage. The loss in freight to the Depart-
ment was sufficient to draw comment from
the Railway Commissioner the other day when
he was tackled by the Railway unions on the
question of retrenchment.
n * * «
The principal cos. on the Oaks field
(N.Q.) have been working on very thin
yields, excepting possibly Thompson’s Oaks,
which had a good crushing recently. The
parent Oaks put through 400 tons worth
Its. (id. a ton, and Mountain King followed
with 540 tons which went just under Bs. a
ton, while its previous crushing of 480 tons
just touched Bs. It shows what could have
been done on some of the old fields. Charters
Towers, in its halcyon days, often paid 10s.
to 12s. a ton for crushing alone, and, of
course, left stopes severely alone that could
not face the high charges current.
Figures supplied to the Arbitration Court
by (Queensland State mining-engineer Jack-
son in the claim of the State arsenic-mines
showed it was costing about £5O to produce
a ton of white arsenic at Jibbenbar, so that
the Government is practically giving it away
at £lO a ton for pear-destruction. Any sur-
plus over pear requirements is available for
the public at £5O delivery at mine. It is
intended to install an extra flue, but the
question of furnaces will stand over, as it
is doubtful whether the ore reserves in the
present lode warrant the outlay. There are
several arsenic lodes in the vicinity which
have not yet had a pick in them, and those
will bo investigated first.
« » « •
The Hidden Treasure reef may help
Clark’s Gold-mine, Charters Towers, to a
longer life, as, althougn the end is not yet
in sight by any means on the main reef, it
probably runs into a neighboring lease in
the vicinity of 1100 ft., and they are now
down on the shoot at 900 ft. The Treasure
is out in the hanging wall of the main reef,
and, although small, yielded very rich ore
in the Towers’ early days. Clark’s is put-
ting in a couple of connections to the bot-
tom of the Treasure workings to see if there
is anything worth following down.
Mount Coolon (Q.) goldfield is- dull at
present, and the Native Bear is supplying
most of the ore. They are erecting a new
winding plant and making additions to the
mill, and will handle a bigger tonnage
shortly. Quinn Bros, are putting up a
10-head battery to crush ore from the
Reward claim, and Mount Coolon Extended
expects to get a move on soon.
* * * *
The State smelter at Chillagoe (Q.)
ceased ooerations recently, the crew has dis-
persed, and many small shows which were
sending silver lead and copper ore to the works
have been Hung up. i\ umbers of the men
are seeking work around the Atherton table-
land, but few are finding it. A fair amount
of employment could be given, but settlers, as
a rule, cannot pay the award wages—about
£1 a day. A change has occurred also at
Irvinebank. The general manager has left
and the works are being run by the account-
ant and a working-boss at the mill. The
township is dull these times. Bailing is
going on at the Vulcan and will go on for
some time yet. All round the district are
parcels of ore at the mines, while tons of tin-
oxide are in the mills, owners refusing to sell
at present prices. What little is being sold
is stream-tin and that only in small lots. The
wet season is allowing of the gullies to be
raked a bit more, but apparently the output
won’t be equal to that of recent years.
* * * *
Deep lead work at Ararat (Vic.) staggers
on. South Langi Logan went cap in hand to
the Treasury while McPherson was away in
London looking for a loan, and got a promise
of £2500 on the usual Government-grant
basis. This will help the eo. to drive down
the gutter a bit further in its chase after gold
a long way from the source, though that isn’t
reckoned good alluvial practice. Then New
Langi Logan wants more cans out of sup-
porters after a 12 months’ run of stoping
wash. Pumping and labor have sopped up
everything, even with 1 joz. ground panelled.
The position at this mine isn’t as bad as at
the South Langi, for 1000 ft. has been driven
ahead under the gutter. To drain it. rises
have to go up and cross-drives be put through
the lead. Some gold will be got while this is
being done, but with costs on the Iliggins-
Powers level, 2d. a month will not be enough.
Jim Maekay asseverates that the mine is too
good to lose now that labor is more plentiful
and prices of stores are falling. He tips the
old No. 1 shaft workings to go an ounce to
the fathom. As he has been Dumping lower
down the gutter since long before the war, a
lot of til’s ground should be drv, wherefore
he should plant men there instead of carrying
out any scheme of extraction in the new
ground until its greenness disappears. Share-
holders must take the flutter or let the mine
go to a standstill.
* * # #
Last four weeks’ run of the Bendigo Amal-
gamated resulted in 34000 z. coming from
8955 tons, but tiOOoz. was from the plates and
the tributors, with mineral helping averages.
Constellation is top again with a 13dwt. run
of stone, Carlisle having eased off to BJdwt.
material. It still ftirn.shes the bulk of the
stone, and as the ouartz is eheaplv broker the
grade pays. Lately things looked a bit blue
till colors of gold were got in the stone under-
foot at 12(i4ft. Stone in plenty is being w’on
at the Nelson shaft, but it does not afford
even the encouragement of the patchy sniff
that supports the miner at Monument Ilill.
The, old Hercules looks less like a winner than
it did a fortuight ago, when a yield sprinted
up to the 2oz. mark. Meantime the reef has
shrunk from 10ft. to 4ft., and it is to be
followed overhead to see what lies there. A
patch also may be got under the slide which
is showing at the other end of the level.
* * * *
From Westralian Mines Minister Scaddan :
“Oot Bird” (B. 10/3/’2l) draws attention to a
proposed flotation of a co. with £lOO,OOO capital to
search for oil in the Commonwealth, and mentions
that one of the inducements offered to the public
is an exhibit of “flow oil from the S.W. Westralia,” to
be seen at the office of the promoters in Adelaide. No
one could desire more than I do to see oil flowing in
this State, but I like to keep my desires subservient to
my wish to protect the general public from exploita-
tion. Whatever wild cats have meandered over this nart
ot Australia in the part, they have not done so under
the fatherly protection of the Government authorities.
There is no desire on my part to throw cold water on
any scheme for prospecting for oil here or else-
where, and I offer no expert opinion as to whether oil
is likely to be discovered here, or whether it is
beyond the bounds of probability, but perhaps it
would be as well to let you have at first hand a few
facts for the benefit of your readers. No information
has been received here that flow oil has been dis-
covered, notwithstanding that all lights of occupancy
require the holder to report quarterly to the Mines
Department on the work done. The whole of the
rights of occupancy granted in the S.W. of Westralia
expired on March 31 last, with the exception of
one, which expires this month (April). It is worth
while mentioning, too, that the Mining Act Amend-
ment Act of this State, passed last year, provides
that the holder of a license to prospect for oil shall
report any indication that renders the presence of oil
probable, and failure to report same makes the
license liable to cancellation. It. is significant, there-
fore, that, whilst flow oil alleged to have come from
the south-west of this State is on view in Adelaide,
nothing is known of it in Westralia, and it is incom-
prehensible that the occupants of a known flow would
take such risks with their license. I base myself seen
one prospectus in which it is stated that “negotia-
tions are now proceeding for the acquisition of valu-
able leases in Western Australia, where oil is definitely
known to exist. Telegrams and letters have already
been received accepting the company’s offer for such
leases.” There are no oil leases granted by the
Government of this State and any person trafficking in
such tenements at the present juncture is pursuing a
shadow. lam not one of those pessimists who thii k
there is no possibility of an oil discovery here, but a
sense of public duty compels me to write this for the
benefit of those who may be misled ; and I can add
there is no authoritative announcement that indica-
tions of oil have been found.
* * * *
A cry from the wilds of Welshpool (Vie.) :
During the last six years Government boring at
Hedlev and Gelliondale has proved over a billion
tons of brown coal, all of which, it is stated, can
be won by open cut. This is probably the greatest
undeveloped asset the State possesses. The Gipps-
land southern railway runs right through the field,
and with the advantage of a good port at Welsh-
pool, already connected with a Government three-
mile line, both railway- and water-carriage is avail-
able. The Government has its Morwell scheme to
finance, and no doubt that will prevent it from find-
ing the capital to undertake any immediate develop-
ment of the field. But surely it would be worth
advertising to the world on account of its potentiali-
ties even if only as to oil and byproducts.
* » * *
Mclntosh Reid, of the Speck’s geology staff,
has been examining the Mt. Cygnet coal
measures east of Cygnet on the Huon River.
The place might have slept as long as Rip
Van Winkle if Gepps hadn’t set up the
Electrolytic Zinc at Risdon, near Hobart.
Reid says that the Cygnet’s pot was pushed
over when Plutus intruded the Cygnet and
Gray ranges through its seams. Most of the
coal was burnt up then, and what was left
was tilted more or less abruptly. Still, there
are one or two good sections, the best being
Harvey’s block, which is being worked for
the benefit of Risdon. Reid’s view is that
it is eminently suited for metallurgical pur-
poses. It doesn’t look enticing. Ash is
high (23 p.c.), and sulphur is a factor
(0.5 p.c.). The seam is under 3ft. thick, so
it takes 180 acres to give a gross 485.000
tons. Some 60,000 tons have been mined
already, and cutting out 25 p.c. for losses
300,000 tons remain to be got. Outisde this
area another 1000 acres contain 1,500.000
tons of coal described as workable. Anyway,
things look to be good enough in the 180 acres
for the present little co. to be replaced by
something that will give the field a working
chance on a fair scale.
Ulu Yam Tin Dredging, Ltd., was formed
early in 1919, and that was about the time
when, as everybody knew, prices were soon
going to come down. The old dogs who had
been travelling the hard Malayan road for
some years and who had this show in hand,
reckoned £42,500 would equip it with one
dredge, which would mean a debt of about
£lO.OOO. But Ruwolts weren’t so optimistic
as the directors, and refused a contract
except on the basis of works cost plus 10
p.c. This has run into £63,000 f.o.b.
Melbourne, as against the first estimate
of £35.000. To that must be added about
£22,000 sea freights and Malayan costs, and
this with incidentals will put the co. £58,000
in debt to start with, instead of the expected
£lO.OOO. But while these costs have been
climbing tin values have been falling. We
don’t talk about £4OO any more; last week’s
London quotation was well under £l6O, and
that is a figure which the managing director
doesn’t care to mention when he conies to
estimate profits under various conditions. At
£l7O London he thinks these profits should
for the first 10 years be £13.600 p.a.; at
£2OO, £20,000; and at £250. £28.000. But
that doesn’t make any allowance for depre-
ciation or amortization. Also, it assumes
that costs will be sd. per cub. yard as against
the old pre-war 4<1.; and the extra penny
doesn't seem any too liberal.


Irs iKa /uturc our GovarworS >j
will ncott b«2i cKosen fcrc diplomacy
and social position, but bec&usct
ikey m allround sports.
E.y.p<z.rfs f«sTing> Jke dade-’s*
staying power /or Rugby*
vAhd/ot Bowls -
“ Thoyrc. °ff- ”
Tcz-sf ing fba candid adc/s
Ability /or Crickad-
1 prewrna 'ftaS Vw Vus /aileJ in test too.
Would you r <er .Po you ihinkjSiir,ytou could se« your
to jjoiog out as Governor to Queensland ?
CHOOSING- THE CRIMSON THREADS.
“Australian Governors are a sporting lot, and show themselves eager to enter into all the sports of this pre-eminently sporting community. They believe
in themselves taking part instead of merely looking on.”


ft
r>V
Good To me
LasT Dim*.
ABBOTS
LAGER
Tfit?]3p<?r w'f/ioufdß/Vffl.
73r<?wp</from Pureffa/tillopr Oniy
4-89<
W. Chorley 8 Co. Ltd.
N
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
J*
LADIES’ 8
CENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPCRES
•At
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
*Dec
V«
MN
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage.
Do you experience that awful loneliness onl'
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your fnena=
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, m
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading ta
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before vou our FREE 1 RIAL OFFER.
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Through a gallery reporter’s spectacles:—
For the sake of the great interests involved Watt
asked the Reps, last week to guarantee the Hughes
Government immunity from attack whilst its head
was away at the Imperial Conference. The appeal
was made in a memorable speech—one of the best
Watt has ever delivered. It impressed many with
the notion that William Alexander could take
Hughes’s place in London without the other William
being greatly missed. Watt’s golden baritone,
poured out with the true orator’s regard for rhythm
and style, is gracefully appealing compared wdth
the raucous barks in which Hughes conveys his
thoughts to the world. Considering, further,
Hughes’s autocratic habits and uncertain temper,
the probabilities are that in the delicate negotia-
tions centreing about the suggested continuance of
the Anglo-Jap alliance, Watt would make the better
deal for Australia. He has a more attractive per-
sonality and superior bargaining powers. Moreover,
Watt w’ould also consider Parliament, which Hughes
tends to ignore when he drifts into the society of
statesmen abroad.
Dr. Henry John Cody, of Toronto, who has
had the Anglican mitre dangled in front of
him, was able to withdraw himself sufficiently
from the spiritual life to enter the Ontario
Parliament and become Minister of educa-
tion. Parsons are not barred there as in Vic-
toria. Although he has an Irish name Dr.
Cody is said to be as far removed from Mel-
bourne's other archbishop as Cork is from
Belfast.
Hughes must have scarified his Whips,
Burchell and Storey, for the blow he received
in the Reps, last week. No doubt the \\ hips
did all they could, but looking hurriedly for
votes in an emergency calls for the nose of a
bloodhound and the activity of a cat with a
tin on its tail. Storey recalls neither of
those animals: he is more like an old and
brooding neddy. Burchell is younger, but his
increasing adiposity prevents him from whizz-
ing about with his former agility. Anyhow,
one vote was missed, and the man wanted was
talking placidly on the House steps when the
bells rang. lie made a desperate sprint to
do his duty but missed the division by about
an eyebrow.
There will be only two lawyers in the new
S.A. Assembly, and each has held office.
Barwell is his own Attorney-General. Bill
Denny, of the Opposition, held the same
post under Verran years ago. Of the other
lawyer-politicians Parsons lately retired on
accepting a judgeship, and Blackburn, whose
V.C. earned him a ready seat in the last
Parliament, had had enough of it after a few
months. J. H. Vaughan, Attorney-General
in his brother’s Ministry and soldier since,
had a try at getting back, but shared the
common “Nationalist” slump.
“Feniculum”: Talking about appropriate
names, there are (or were) these three
men living alongside each other in Maori-
land —Ilaverbier, Schicker and Besick. They
should have been hotel-
keeper s, but weren’t.
They were wowsers, and
lived in a prohibition dis-
trict.
ANOTHER HUMILIATION.
“Mr. Hughes is off to England next month.”
“Good gracious! Surely arrangements
might have been made to bring England
to him.”
H. P. Colebatch, who leads for Premier
Mitchell in the Westralian Leg. Council,
and was Premier himself for a few weeks,
crossed over to attend the annual meeting
of the A.M.P. Society, of which he is a
director. A pressman with Broken Hill
and Westralian experience, Colebatch made
his mark in politics as a critic of the
Scaddan Government, and now Scaddan and
he sit with their feet under the same table.
Politics are full of little ironies like that.
He writes and speaks admirably and used to
be a champion chess player, but bowls is
the only weakness he has left.
Went west at Hong Kong the other day,
at the age of 56, good Australian Captain
George Eedy, son of the late Captain John
Eedy, who taught navigation at Sydney in
the '’seventies and ’eighties. Captain George
sailed in the wind-jammers Ellen, Jenny B,
Altcar, Pacific Slope and Florence Treatt,
and then transferred to steam. For many
years he commanded vessels of the China
Navigation Co., including the Changsha. It
was on this steamer that Gov.-Gen. Northcote
made a trip to Port Darwin, and Eedy, who
Avas rather explosive, used to fascinate the
little Lord with his tales of the China coast,
very gory tales told in very Australian lan-
guage. He had, in point of fact, seen some
wilcLdays on that coast. He was an officer
on tlie Namoa when she was attacked by
pirates between Hong Kong and Swatow in
1891. and in a general mix-up he got a
bullet in the arm. The skipper’s hobby
was collecting old china, and there is on
show at Sydney Art Gallery and Techno-
logical Museum some fine samples of his
excellent taste.
Swinburne having pulled out of the con-
test for the Melbourne Province seat in
the Vic. Uppah Chambah. H. I. Cohen,
K.C., has secured the official Liberal nom-
ination, beating Dr. Barrett. T. It. Ashworth
(oracle of the Employers’ Federation) and
T. N. Levin, a political neophyte. Norman
Bayles would not submit himself. Apart
from the support of the N.F. and A.W.N.L.,
Cohen will naturally have the Chosen with
him, and as he is president of Old Scotch boys
a Caledonian rally seems likely. It is also
whispered that Bung is sympathetic, and
if that be true J. D. Pearson, the South Mel-
bourne pub-keeper who is Labor’s selection,
will have his work cut out to make as good
a showing as he did against ’Enry Weedon.
Sternberg is the only Jew now in the Vic.
Parliament. Not so many years ago there
were four in the Assembly and three in
the Council.
Storkey, V.C., has passed his final law
exams, in N. S. Wales, and is ready to breast
the bar. He has been his Honor Wade’s
associate lately.
Time’s little joke. The late Edmund Webb,
M.L.C., had an abiding hatred of Rome and
all its works; and now Halthrop, his old
home, at Bathurst (N.S.W.), has been bought
by the R.C.’s, who intend turning it into a
hospital to be run on the lines of the one at
Lewisham. The house, which stands in 95
acres, is on the road to the Lagoon, and has
been in the Webb family for half a century.
Last week it was announced in the
’apenny press—or what used to be the
’apenny press until ’apennies ceased to be
worth the trouble of carrying them—that a
Queensland birdman had died leaving his
British fiancee £OO,OOO and a station, and
that the lady was coming to live on the
station. Apropos, the Queensland authori-
ties morosely suggest that she may have to
catch it first. So far it has eluded all
attempts to locate it. But perhaps a rail-
way station was meant.
The firm of which Gaud Mayor Swanson
is the head has got the contract, (at £207,0001
for building the Commonwealth Bank on the
Old Exchange site in Collins-street. Things
like this have helped to make the Swansons
prosperous. They have concentrated on two
or three big jobs instead of scattering their
forces and weakening their supervision.
Judging by the plans. Collins House, oppo-
site, will be dwarfed when the big bank
pokes its ridge-pole into the atmosphere.
“First Old Man’’: The mummer has to put
up with a lot of banter regarding the bold
advertisement he gives himself, or which is
given him by the press-agent. But even the
clergy don’t object to a little limelight. For
example, the Argus spread itself the other
day over the “offer understood to be accepted”
—ultra-theatrical all this —of the arch-
bishopric of Melbourne by Canon Cody of
Toronto. Followed a column of eulogy of the
new prelate—with portrait—ending up with
the new man’s Canadian “press-notices” !
W. B. Carr —“Doctor” to his intimates —
has been elected president of the Stock
Exchange of Adelaide for the 18th year. It
is easily a record ; George Aldridge, his pre-
decessor, held the chair for 13 years, and
W. J. Roberts had a similar run in Mel-
bourne. In his lighter moments, Carr is
chairman of the Amateur Athletic Associa-
tion of S.A., and lie lately gave up the chair-
manship of Adelaide Racing Club to go on
the committee of S.A. Jockey Club. At one
time he was sporting editor of the Regis-
ter, taking that post when Moxon Cook left
for Melbourne to join the Australasian.
Of the 19 S. Aus. Labor politicians expelled
from the party for supporting conscription,
only one, Peter Reidy, will sit in the next
Assembly. Even Coneybeer has gone, and he
had had 28 years’ continuous service, having
been Minister of Education in the Verran
Government and Speaker for the last six
years. In past elections his sociability and
good humor had always stood him in good
stead, more especially his ability to sing a
good song, but the split vote settled him at
last. In the chair Coneybeer’s absent-minded-
ness was a draw-
back. He was apt
to mix up a mem-
ber’s name with
the name of his
constituency and
to call on “the
honorable member
for O’Flaherty”
to give it lip.
But his successor
—whoever he may
be—won’t address
O’Flaherty in that
fashion. O’Flah-
erty was defeated,
too.
LANGDON
BONYTHON. of
the S.A. Adver-
tiser, who has
undertaken to give
£40,000 to Adel-
aide University .
Maley, the new Westralian Minister of
Agriculture, belongs to a family so numerous
that they used to take on neighboring ham-
lets at cricket —Maley Brothers, of the
Greenough Flats, v. Bangemall or Noclta-
neena. They are nearly all farmers, and
two of them are in the Assembly.
“Jean”: The loneliest white woman in
Australian territory is Mrs. Smallwood, of
Yam Island, Torres Strait, a fertile but
malaria-stricken spot, about TO miles from
Thursday Island. She has devoted her de-
clining years to the care and education of
the natives of Yam, and is rarely visited by
white people other than missionaries. When
a native cutter brought a rumor to Thurs-
day Island one morn-
ing that the white
Avoman Avas dying.
GoA’ernment - Resident
Foxton, accompanied
by Surgeon Kevin
Bryne, R.A.N., of a
warship then in port,
sailed in a small boat
to Yam. The doctor
found that she was
much too ill to be left
unattended on the
island; so, after he
had given her what
relief he could, natives
carried the sick
woman through the
surf and placed her
aboard the boat. She
lay in the shadow of
a sail on the torrid 70-
inile voyage to Thurs-
day Island and hospi-
tal. arrived alh’e, and
six weeks later was
discharged. Of course,
being the Avoman she
is, she at once re-
turned to “her people.”
T. RUST, the new
chief president of the
A.N.A.
When Keith Murdoch arrives from Eng-
land as editor-in-chief of Melbourne Herald,
Guy Innes will be his coadjutor.
An amiable shepherd was Rabbi Jacob
Lenzer, who has passed out after ministering
ever so long to the Chosen in East Melbourne.
A Russian by birth, he was so long in Aus-
tralia that all bis sympathies were with his
adopted country. His Hock was latterly not
so wealthy as in the days before the Hebrew
exodus to St. Kilda.
The Great Mortgagee has foreclosed onThos
William Baker, an Orange (N.S.W.) pioneer,
after letting the mortgage run for 75 years.
Baker once employed William Morris Hughes
as an odd-job man on his farm, and was in
the habit of handing him out a testimonial
as a handy man. Billy drifted in with a
monstrous swag when the farm was short-
handed, was promptly given a job, and be-
fore he left mended all the abandoned tin-
ware in the place.
From a friend of the late M.L.A.: —
“Solomon M.” (13. 7/4/’2l) says “Brookfield got
his first nomination because be had been in gaol.”
Well, some of his opponents had been in gaol, too,
so he must have had other qualifications. But if
Brookfield was elected primarily for the reason
alleged, what was it that caused his re-election by
such an increased vote? Certainly it was not a
belief in his legislative utility. “I can do nothing,”
he told his constituents. “Parliaments are futile.”
No; he had a remarkable personality, and it was
that which won him elections just as it gathered
around him so great a circle of friends of all shades
of political opinion in Sydney.
“Starboard Watch”: Parson Robt. Earl
(B. 7/4/’2l) was not the only navy officer
to discard brass buttons for the collar that s
worn back to front. Commander George
Seton. R.A.N., recently resigned from the
Naval College to go sky-piloting in the
Islands. In his spare time he studied
homoeopathy so as to be able to cure Black
Brother’s physical as well as his spiritual
ills. Off-duty he conducted Bible classes,
but the college officers’ Avives alone com-
prised his audience (a weekly picture-show
is the only other amusement at Jervis Bay).
A hater of the cursed der-rink, he acquired the
great parsonical asset of eye-rolling through
having to Avatch thirsty brother-officers make
the wine-steAvard work overtime. The cheer-
less Admiral King Hall (whose flag-lieu-
tenant Seton Avas) is credited with having
inspired him with his zeal for the Cold r l ea
cause. A one-time prominent English foot-
baller, Seton, at any rate, will make a manly
parson.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” looks back: —
Apropos Michael Dwyer, the Irish insurgent (B.
14/4/’2l). A grandson, Father John Dwyer, was
chaplain at Darlinghurst Gaol when O’Farrell, who
fired at the Duke of Edinburgh, was there. The
lunatic concocted a story of a Fenian plot in
Sydney, which Parkes professed to believe. W hen
O’Farrell told his yarn Parkes had the late Sam
Cook outside the cell door taking notes. The
“Kiama Ghost” Avas the result. Father John got
from O’Farrell a complete denial of his previous
assertions, and on this being published the priest
Avas promptly “sacked” from the billet of chaplain.
For years afterwards he was parish priest at St.
Benedict’s.
THE MODERN GROCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie simple porcupine lias quills,
The gentle grocer stabs with bills J
And till his payment is complete
lie rules the price of all you cat,
lSXcept your milk and meat and bread
And cabbage and tomatoes red
And other sundries small and few,
For which some other bills are due.
The grocer’s bills are in the main
The largest cause of public pain;
For seldom in such days as these,
Howe’er a man may seek to please,
Can he, when other sums are spent,
Achieve a final settlement ;
And so his efforts still amount
Merely to something on account.
The grocer smiles and all is well.
As merry as a marriage bell
His scales go up, his weights go down,
The coffee in the bag is brown,
The tea is black, the sugar white,
And everything is marked all right;
For he whose cash is overdue
Accepts the fact that one makes two.
If it were said that four and three
Made eight he would at once agree,
Nor ever ask the rising state
Of figures on the grocer’s slate;
Nor if his bacon should consist
Of slices from a camel’s wrist,
Salted and smoked a dusky grey,
Would lie have very much to say.
Conscience makes cowards of us all,
Except when bills are very small;
And so the grocer calls each day
And gets our order on his way.
He seldom growls, he never strikes,
But gives and charges what he likes —•
Which to his victim’s cringing soul
Feels somewhat like a pauper’s dole.
The essence of this song was sung
When wine had loosed a grocer's tongue.
“The secret of the trade,” said he,
“Is never let your victim free.
Whate’er he asks for he may get,
But hold and keep him in your debt;
For wealth flows freely from the fount
Of something often on account.”
I said, “Oh, man of soap and tea,
Your heart is large, your ways are free.
To Heaven your path you surely win
Per medium of your sugar-bin;
But tell me in your noble way,
How debts can make your business pay,
Or how, while debtors sadly moan
But fail to pay, you pay your own?”
He drained his- glass, he closed one eye,
The red spots danced upon his tie.
He said, “You fancy that the trick
Relates to old arithmetic.
Such methods served, I understand,
When flour was chalk and sugar sand;
But in these better, nobler days
Pure food alone is sold —and pays.”
“But how?” I said. As one who links
Wisdom with hope he called for drinks.
Then in a whisper thin and clear
Three inches from my tilted ear
He said, “The truth about my trade
. On which my humble gains are made
Is plain without a turn or twist —
I’m a damned good ’psychologist.”
k.s.av.
P. O. M.


AUSTRAL” TAILORING makes you
look your best. To look well is to
feel confident. To be confident is
an advantage in any assemblage—business or
social.
But, service matters also. “Austral” Tailoring
gives length of service as well as quality of
service.
“Austral” Sac
To Measure, of All-Wool Australian
1 weeds and Worsteds.
In Brown, Blue and Grey Checks
and Stripes.
9
£5/-/-, £6l-1-, £6/15/-
£7|ls|, £9/9/-,
£lO/10/-, £ll/11|-
Vo any address throughout Australia we
send patterns, together with tape-measure
and forms for self-measurement free on
request.
GOWINGBIOT
PIONEER DISTRIBUTERS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
486-494 GEORGE STREET,
1-17 ROYAL ARCADE
(Opposite Queen Victoria Buildings).
Branch Store at 304-306 George Street
(near Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A wide choice of color-
ings, textures and weaves is
offered and the qualities of
“Austral” Suits will always
be found particularly attrac-
tive at the prices.
Care is taken in every case
to give full effect to the
personal tastes and wishes
of the customer. This is one
reason why “Austral” Suits
remain satisfactory to the
wearer.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS and COUNTRY.
.Jfcft«-
4
k
VA2
V J
h M
■
>n
< ini-- ft:
:: 1
* .
IS
" ft':
ft
&
: vV-'
'
' i, ft
ir / Hfe $» r»£ o
K # *$ /» * jy ?»> 4>
Itsir 3B@Si»-V V~fj
v'-ft
$ - «». *
ft ft. : ft.
■
&
nj ” s
ft'- «■
....... Ss.t*.
ft Vi
ft.' ;
ftjft ftft
Hi .v:.
, . : «5
US
>,•/
M M
r- * • j .
¥ W .3 % l&JFi
.-„ . ■
i
A .:..-
:
* 1 p
. «
if- .,„ ft :j - J
||i|
MM
>
vft: ftftgftft
ft ■ • .
I mm&
;' r
ftft-v V'ftft'. - ft. •'•
■->•
E«S
:.. e -
ft ft. i
ft.. - ■ ■ ■: ■■,:.
■ft-.ft:
ft; ft ' '
m
.
a
ft
•Lm
W
ft:
ft m
ii
■:
pi I
ft
■
, :
■.a».a
fflBimm - Wk
Hi
f v ' ■-:.ft^ >? ftft:
5
' ft ftftftft ft ft?
..
: ft
.
.. . ft-ft
' ?>Z
ft '
;:
/f ft
BilllSiii
ft;-,:,
ftftftftftft
vmmmi
llSflliliiii
ft
mmmmmL,
• * VfVy W? !
- |f | {ft | •dsft---/ 5


Distinctive Dress Clothing.
Peapes’ Ready-to-wear Dress Clothing is
characterised by that minute attention to
detail of material, cut and finish usually
found only in the most expensive made-to-
measure garments.
The cloths utilised are of that reliable fast
black dye that stands the test of time.
The facings are of the finest French silk that
will not easily shine or cut.
Dress Suits, Ready to wear £l2/12/-
Dinner Suits, Ready to wear—
£lo/10/- to £ll/11/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside
leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
-h*
If
m
U
lr t ■ ?,>
&
YG
L
rOORD 8l son
ToHDOM. emoland. 1 '
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fa
DT
Swift & Coi»um»> JLltl., Australasian AgeiitN_j6_jjj_Ciarence^tet>»^&Mincyj
SORELLE,
T. & G. Buildings, Park Street,
ANNOUNCE
they are now holding their Autumn and Winter Sale at the above
address.
There are very special reductions in charming Evening and Day
Dresses, Coats and Skirts, and Millinery.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
Out of the ghastly horror of the Kal i-
munda (W.A.) tragedy, in which a well-
to-do orchardist, suffering from melancholy
since the death of his wife, tried to make
an end of his family and cut his throat,
stands the amazing coolness of the youngster
who survives. The demented father shut
himself and the two boys in a room and
told them “We are all going to Heaven to
SHE UNDERSTOOD.
SHE (driving for the first time): “Let me
see, Maurice, which side do I keep to?”
THE CHAUFFEUR: “To the left, miss.”
SHE: “To the left? Oh, yes, I remember,
and to the right coming back.”
meet mother.” The younger boy tried to
run out, but the madman caught him, and
cut his throat with a razor. Instantly me b y
shammed death. He explained afterwards
that he knew if he moved his father “would
kill me properly”; so he lay still while
lie saw his elder brother’s throat out and
the father make an end of himself. Then
lie fled to a neighbor and told the gruesome
story.
* * •* *
“Gown”: Sydney will not grieve over
the decision of the University undergrads
to cut out the Commemoration Day proces-
sion. Some races have the gift of making
fools of themselves in public without pro-
voking the wrong sort of smile. Austra-
lians lack it. The foolishness is said to
have been inspired originally by the Oxford
and Cambridge “rags” in London on Boatrace
Night. But the latter are excused if not
justified by the fact that most if not all
of the revellers are either wholly or partly
blithered. Idiocies done after nightfall under
the spell of the grape are often endurable
perpetrated by sober lads in the glare of
a midday Australian sun they puzzle and
exasperate. Another feature which distin-
guished the annual Sydney riot from those
of the English Universities, the Quartier
Latin students and so on was the fact that
all sections and classes of the community
had to vifew it. The Frenchmen confine
themselves to Montmartre, the Britishers to
Leicester-square and environs, and both
localities have strong stomachs. Ninety per
cent, of every procession staged in Sydney
for years past was as unobjectionable as a
curate’s joke; but the strength of all such
shows is in the most disreputable item, and
on that basis the undergrads’ frivol invari-
ably stood condemned. All that its passing
indicates is that the Australian youth is
a poor clown. It is nothing to worry about.
• * * *
“Ex-Tourist”: Yes, the Aussie was “a bit
rough” in his fighting methods at times (vide
Yankee Admiral Sims’s book). One Digger
I have in mind never missed Ins little moment
of ecstasy in any stunt we were engaged in.
When I knew him fiist, in pre-war days, he
was chainman to a surveyor out Tiunbo
(Q.) way. He got his D.C.M. with us as a
sergeant at Pozieres, was given Ins p.ps tuier
Albert, and completed his active-service record
with a posthumous WO. at Bullecourt. His
military career was meteoric, but he lived
every hour of it. At Flers in the dreadful
winter of ’l6 he had one iovous hop-over
that I remember. It was one of those “silent
penetration” stunts and we hadn’t stumbled
far through shell-holes and water and broken
barbed-wire in the dark before we were
among the enemy machine-gunners and a
fairly strong support of Prussian infantry.
I remember a wraith in the frozen starlight
just ahead of me parrying a German bayonet
with his bare hands. I saw a rifle jerked
violently aside, and as I pushed on I passed
two men locked in each others’ arms like long-
lost brothers. Some minutes later, as I was
picking my way back with a bullet through
the elbow, there was an apparition covered
with mud and with half-frozen water dripping
from its garments crawling out of a slippery
shell-hole. Some object, half submerged,
floating in the dark and stinking pool below,
looked like a man’s back. I peered in the
gloom and recognised the sinewy form that
reared itself on the lip of the shell-crater.
“Did you get him?” was the only sort of fool
question I could think of on the spur of the
moment. All passion was gone from the face
and voice of the bedraggled form that an-
swered : “Yes —I drowned the scrxbztch.”
* « « »
“Gregor”: “Xenia’s” interesting little par.
(B. 17/3/’2lj concerning Japanese activities
in the seas between Asia and Australia a
couple of centuries ago recalls another of
their exploits in the
fifteenth century. This
was an expedition tto
Java somewhere about
1450, when they sud-
denly descended on that
peaceful island (in those
days known as 110-ling
or, to give it its older
Chinese name, Sh6-P’o),
and, after plundering
the capital,. carried
away the king, who was
never heard of again.
The loot comprised sil-
ver, pearls, precious
stones, mother-of-pearl
shell, cornelian, rhino-
ceros-horn, ivory, gold
and ladies. They went
as suddenly as they
came and a year later repeated the ex-
ploit in Sumatra; but here they received
the father and grandfather of a hiding, just
as they were getting away with the plunder.
In fact, the history of Asia seems to indicate
that it is a habit of the energetic little men
to drop suddenly on somebody.
* * # •
“Henry Ilorsecollar’s” speculations;—
A vexed question has been raised by the death,
aged 75, of Kitty O’Shea, afterwards Kitty Parnell.
Did Gladstone know everything in advance, or was
he the elderly, gushing innocent and child of Nature
that he professed to be? Was his horror when he
learned that Parnell had played the giddy ox with
another man’s wife genuine, or did he ciickle in-
wardly Ike a whited sepulchre? Gladstone wore
exactly the same kind of collar as Pecksniff and had
the face of Don Q,, the magazine brigand. His
whiskers were a whcle essay on morality—or white-
wash. In all his long life no one seems to have
accused him of doing anything to the command-
ment that leads to the Djvorce Court —anything that
Victoria and Albert the Good could have d'sap-
proved of. He was said to have all the domestic
virtues save that of having his clothes made at
home by his wife. In this respect he also re-
sembled Pecksniff, and didn’t at all correspond with
Disraeli, whose pomatum and ringlets gave him away.
SCll, he was closely associated with all the mem-
bers of Parnell’s party after he became a convert to
Home Rule, and it seems that almost every one of
them knew the reason of Parnell's disappearances.
They also knew why Kitty’s complaisant and objec-
tionable husband, Captain O’Shea, had a consti-
tuents found for him, and that Parnell was one of
the Captain’s sources of income. Why the Cap-
tain suddenly “blew the caff” has been variously
explained. But Gladstone’s profession that he didn’t
dream that there was any gaff to blow, having been
too busy cutting down trees and digging up Greek
roots to take his unspotted head out of the clouds,
excited a lot of ridicule. It was pointed out, among
other things, that he knew Mrs. O’Shea well enough
to use her as a political agent, and that to know
her was a liberal education. Still, if Gladstone
hadn’t struck the correct attitude of horror Vic-
toria would ever afterwards have shuddered at his
approach, and Albert the Good might have sat
up with a pained expression in the silent tomb.
He lived up to his cellar and his whiskers and the
best traditions of the Nonconformist conscience and
THE BUSINESS WOMAN.
“Marry me and I’ll make every blessed thing
I have over to you.”
“It sounds all right — but—will I have to
keep you?”
Mrs. Henry Wood's novels. He swore off Parnell 1
as if he was drink and wrecked the Home Rule
movement in doing it, and when he died he left be-
hind him a halo as big as a circus.
* * * *
From a city consulting-room :
When i read the first account of the Tozer murder :
I immediately thought of sadism. Who but a sadist
would lie and wallow in her victim’s blood? The
fact that no one took the trouble to point out this
most important fact speaks very ill for our judicial
system ; it is a monstrous thing that counsel for the
prosecution and all in court should sit quietly by
and listen to an abominable attack upon a murdered
man whose whole life had been an act of courage,
who had been wounded nearly to the death in their
defence, and against whom there was not a word of
evidence but the statements of a crazy woman.
I fear that the trial was but another instance of
the secular combat between Medicine and the Bar.
The two professions look upon the world from oppo-
site points of view; they have never been friendly,
and most often there is a veiled hatred between
them, for each must necessarily despise the other.
The Bar-man wants to win his case at any cost; the
question of truth or justice is, or appears to be, of
minor moment to him. The Medicine-man learns
from his earliest lecture to test carefully the truth
of what he hears, and to put the interest of his sick
patient before everything else. Medical etiquette, of
which such bosh is talked, is nothing more than the
principle of the Golden Rule, and this is directly
opposed to the principles of the law-courts, which
are, “You must win your case, whoever suffers.”
The doctor must cure his patient if he can, what-
ever the sacrifice to his own ease and comfort; the
barrister can lie, forge, call false witness, commit
any infamy, so long as his possibly guilty client
escapes the hands of justice, the only condition
being that he shall not be found out. How else are
we to explain the monstrous contradictions of justice
that made old Haeckel shake his head with shame
whenever he read the law reports ? Gould not Mrs.
Mort have been found insane without the disgusting
slanders east on poor Tozer? Was it necessary to
blacken his defenceless character? Was there not a
man in the court who had a conscience sufficiently
active to make some little effort to ascertain the
truth ?
Doctors live in glass houses. Not a month passes
but some wretched crazy woman tries the effect of
her “sex-complex” upon them, and from the time of
Hippocrates onward the profession has learnt how
careful it has to be with women. To its credit few
doctors a: e weak enough to put themselves in theii
female patients’ hands, and the bitter cry of poor young
Tozer, “Why did God make these neurotic women?”
is echoed by every general practitioner from the
time he hangs out his shingle till the earth falls on
his coffin. Yet there lives a man who could twist
that cry to Tozer’s infamy! And no doubt there
are members of his profession who envy him his suc-
cess! And, even worse, the members of the Bar are
probably the leading men in the country! It is
difficult for an ordinary honest man to appreciate
their psychology or to understand how their con-
sciences will allow them to sleep at nights.
* * * *
“Mator”: The old voyagers who tripped
about the Pacific a hundred years or so ago
were a casual lot.
and not given to
erecting imposing
monuments to com-
memorate their
own efforts. One
of them was the
navigator who in
1767 annexed the
Bismarck Archi-
Selago (now New
Iritain and New
Ireland) and did
not even leave a
visiting-card with
his name and ad-
dress. Instead, he
recorded the act of
annexation on a
piece of board,
added the date,
and, after nailing
the board to a
tree near Kawieng,
departed. It was
only a few years
ago that the board
was found, and not
until quite lately
that it was re-
moved to a place
of safety. It
would not be a bad
idea for the Gov-
ernment to begin
collecting such of
these relics as are
strewn about be-
fore time obliter-
ates them. Near
Madang, in ex-Ger-
man Territory, are traces of an old Spanish
ship of the 16th century—l saw brass cannon
and an anchor which, I was told, had been
lying for years on Vulkan Island.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: A hunt club used to start from
Brazenor's Cattleyards Inn at Alfredton,
near Ballarat in those days, and, arrayed in
all the glory of the conventional English
fox-hunter, speed over the fences after a
fragrant red herring. One day the master
of the hounds, a buxom stockbroker named
Hind, struck a post-and-rail fence out near
Haddon, and came a cropper. While he was
digging dirt out of his face and trying to
realise his position, he discovered Parker’s
big white bull coming at him, head down
and blowing smoke like a locomotive. Hind
picked up his feet and ran along the fence
looking for a place to duck under, it being
too close a call for a climb. But the bull got
him and hooked him, and hoisted him over
the rails. Parker nicked up the infuriated
UNSELFISHNESS.
GRANDFATHER ( finishing his lecture) :
“Would yon like me to pray for you?”
ROSE : “Well, if you think God’s very miser-
able about me, it MIGHT cheer Him up."
stock-jobber. “It was your red coat, man,”
explained the owner of the bull. “You
couldn’t expect him to stand that coat.”
“Coat be d—d 1” roared Hind. “Look for
yourself”—exposing a great rent in his
pants. “You can’t say my trousers ever
did him any harm !”
(Continued on page 18.)
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind is lost, the light is like the kiss
Of some chaste maiden exquisitely calm;
All things are green with a most healing balm
For eyes grown weary in the flaming bliss
Of summer’s bannered and triumphant gold.
Cool dreams stoop near and gather where they list
All that a heart may hold
Of airy-clear and temperate amethyst
At evening in the memory-haunted mist.
Apples, whose fragrance is a melody,
Are laid on bracken in a darkened room;
White in the dusk the last pale roses bloom
Like moths too full of sleep and mystery
To heed the candle, yellow through the vine.
I am as one who walks upon a floor
So velvet soft and fine
That rustling of the robes dead lovers wore
Makes a great echo at the curtained door.
The long year folds its hands in holy peace,
Strangely and sweetly at this quiet close.
Deeply it breathes; and on a breath it goes,
Content with many thoughts to dream and cease.
Autumn is death; and Autumn is so sweet,
So tingling sweet where valley clings to hill,
Her hair about his feet,
That I who knew Spring's cry and Summer’s will
Sit in the quiet, wondering and still.
rr.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


THE AEOLIAN VOCALION
IS THE HIGHEST DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHONOGRAPH.
<l.
m
> m ■
mm
f*
I
' .
827;: •
2f®BMfi -x'fx
M s* *
■ : .
■ mi
u *
J- -
3HSH •
: -
~., -.>«***
’ *.
m,mm
i *.i“»
:
i iwi
W :
4 *
1
m
Mp'S
• <
.. SUMPS
i m
W ’ r*
• '■
■
§
11
■
I i 8
wu
«:
1
■JtJ"" ->f‘i '
H
»w®a
\
K^MBI
A
t
MW
m
a
•6 3$
ijfcf 1
I o
in
it!
m
<»• .» ; - ,;
: ■
■
!>■."” T;* 7 . » . ? :-f> ! V- v/;
Sw*f''V>v V* *'.#/*-V ' **’
.. £ /:. \vV a*..- *
= ■
• a? '-•>*• :
/ /. .** > V V** *** W,
. ,* ,W * • ,;. - s .
IN richness and musical depth, in delicacy and
clearness of tone, the VOC ALION is supreme.
In the VOCALION you have not only the advan-
tage of listening to the instrument as a regular phono-
graph, but in addition you may control the expression
by means of the wonderful GRADUOLA. With
this fascinating device, you may put your own feeling
into every record you play.
SOLE MAKERS
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
and at 252 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE Sr * BRISBAN E
RUNDLE ST. (cr. Cawler Place) ADELAIDE
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me Art Catalog of the Jleolian
VOCALION explaining how I can secure one by
moderate monthly payments.
Name -


THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels.
Sole Agents for Australia:
F. LUBRANO & CO. Limited,
48 Young Street, SYDNEY.
537 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. [2
STAG
LAGER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management >. ’ Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Hath
De I.uxe *n most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Calvo” : Jacko had us temporarily baulk' d
on the road to Gaza and was peppering us
pretty severely. About dusk a burly cor-
poral, who in pre-war days was a station
overseer in the Biverina, was told to take
two men out and see what sort of country
lay to the right of the Turkish positions. Just
at dawn he returned and reported that the
country “out there” was great and would
run two sheep to the acre without any
trouble.
. * , * 9 * *
“1/321”: It was church-parade at a camp
in England, and the usual Pommy sergeant-
major bustled round like a cat on hot coals,
falling-in the various denominations in
iheir proper places. A batch of Diggers who
had arrived only the night before stood in a
group -watching the shoAV. Finally the
s.-m., having disposed of all his pommies,
came fussing over to them and in a \ r oice
full of importance said, “Well, Avhat’s all
this? Who’s who here, eh?” One hard-
bitten Aussie looked at him solemnly for a
minute, then drawled, “Well, just to give ’er
a blanky start, I’ll be Doug. Haig.”
“Solomon M.” : It is announced that the
State Savings Bank has bought a big block
in Castlereagh-street, Sydney, facing Martin-
place, and proposes to build an expensive
new bank on it, the present structure having
been outgrown. That, presumably, makes an
end of the City Council’s proposal to ex-
tend Martin-place right through to Mae-
quarie-street, and it will remain indefinitely
A\ r hat it is—a line Avide stump of a highway
Avith one dead-end in George-street and the
other in Castlereagh-street. The much-needed
improvement might have been made had not
DESERVED IT.
DAUBER: “ What do yon think of my portrait
of your wife?”
HUSBAND: “ It serves her dashed well right!”
the majority in the Council, which rages
exceedingly against Private Enterprise and
the capitalist, tacked on to it a proviso that
a Private Enterprise firm of architects should
be employed on the job and get 3 per cent, on
the cost. The anger of the aldermen when the
deal was opposed or even inquired into seemed
so badly to need explanation that the first
Royal Commission appointed by a neAv Gov-
ernment should be for the purpose of investi-
gating the Martin-place proposition. It
should have the Avidest possible powers, be
composed AA’holly of JeAVS (for the HebreAv
nose is long and smelleth far), and one of the
JeAvs should be a sanitary expert and supplied
Avith a keg of disinfectant, it being cheaper
that Avay than Avhen bought by the bottle.
A THOUGHTFUL HUSBAND.
“ John, I found these silk stockings neatly wrapped up in your overcoat pocket. Can you
EXPLAIN?”
“ Easily , my dear. Don’t you know you birthday comes next month?”
“Wealsman”: Gone out of business, the
Sir George Arthur pub, Hobart, which has
been “licensed to sell fermented and spiritu-
ous liquors” since IS3S, or thereabouts. The
two-storeyed grey stone building standing on
the bank of the liivulet—-Hobart’s equiva-
lent of Sydney’s old Tank Stream —will in
future harbor some of the nursing staff of
the General Hospital, the Government hav-
ing bought it. The morgue is next door. The
site was in 1811 handed to Captain James
Kelly, a mariner who circumnavigated Tas-
mania in a small boat in 1815, and put a lot
of new names on the map, including Kelly
Basin, at the head of Macquarie Harbor.
In the late ’twenties and early ’thirties
Kelly (then a pilot) lived in a small brick
cottage (still standing) at the back of the
ex-pub.
* * it *
“Sixenate”: Even James, the N. S.
Wales Divorce Judge, who must be getting
hardened, gasped a little when a petitioner
told him that her husband had
Drought another woman to the
house, and had lived with them
both. The wife explained that
the reason why she didn’t leave
—in fact, didn’t do anything—
when the other lady hung her
hat in the wardrobe was that
she had no money, knew no one
and had nowhere to go. Yet
a more extraordinary case was
heard in another jurisdiction
recently. Lothario was pirated
by a widow with a house of her
own, and, deserting his wife,
went to live with her. The de-
serted one, having found the
address, stored her furniture,
and, forcing her way into the
house of her rival, insisted
upon staying there. Then she
vamped her own husband. The
Court complaints came from
the widow, who declared that
the curious couple had combined
and put her into the street while
they continued to enjoy her pro-
perty. To which the wife re-
torted, in evidence, that the cat
could have her dirty old house;
the only reason she had re-
mained in it and expelled its
rightful owner was that she
thought the piratical widow
should be punished for stealing
an honest woman’s husband. Evidently the
magistrate coincided with this view, for he
merely ordered that the property should lie
given up. ignoring the widow’s claim for
damages and rent.
* * * •
“Centurion”: “Friday Island’s” story of
the naval officer who did himself so well that
he thought he was ay turtle (B. 7/4/’2l)
recalls a yarn told by an uncle who was on
the Australian station in the old Falcon in
the late ’sixties. He and a guest had so im-
proved the shining hour in the wardroom that
AA’hen they came on deck, about midnight,
the guest fell off the gangway into the still,
star-reflecting waters of Farm Cove. The
boat was not yet alongside and the host gazed
owlishly over the gangway. “Have y’ fallen
doAvn?” he hiccupped querulously. “No, up.
you damned assh,” came gurglingly from the
water. “Can’t y’ see I’m shwimmin’ among
th’ —hie —starsh?”
: On murder and the movies:
Doubtless the shooting of Dr. Tozer will be made
into a moving-picture. The influence of the pit-
-1 ohers is visible in every phase of it, from the lady’s
hectic correspondence to the slabs of Yankee emo-
tionalism heaved at the .jury; Even the police were
infected by the prevailing movie-mania: witness,
among other things, the solemn scenes at Long Bay
prison—so adequately rehearsed by the victim of
circumstances that she used to devote a whole hour,
to curling her eyebrows. Probably if it hadn’t
been for the U.S. “star-film” and the ideas it puts
into the silly heads of loafing, self-indulgent women,
who are thereby encouraged to brood on their
“souls” (i.e., their passions), when what they mani-
festly need is Work —if it hadn’t been for the fre-
quent “picturisation” (beastly word!) of a dis-
traught but fascinating female who pistols her be-
trayer and makes a romantic appearance in the
dock, thence to be delivered, amidst wild applause,
by the dumb eloquence of a granite-faced pleader
with St. Vitus’s dance, poor Tozer would be alive
to-day. Yes, we are bound to have a movie of the
tragic business. The public expects it and the
authorities deserve it.
“Ex-Dig.”: Probably every A.I.F. unit
bad a Stiffy and Mo; but I doubt if any of
them possessed a Stiffy who was quite as
stiff as ours, or a Mo who so persistently
helped him through his difficulties. If there
was any trouble going Stiffy was sure to
be in it, or, at all events, to suffer for it;
and his penalties mounted up so high that
he never had any pay to draw. It was for-
tunate for Stiffy that Mo had the knack
of accumulating coin, and never tired of
the one-sided partnership. But it seemed as if
the lay of the luck had changed when Mo got
knocked and was sent home. That was three
years ago. I met him again to-day. “Ever
see Stiffy?” I asked. “Of course, I do!”
he said. “The poor cow’s in hospital with
a broken arm—it’s the fourth accident since
he came back—an’ I’ve got to look after his
wife and kids.”
* * * *
“Murkah” on late theories about wireless:
The ether-wave Hieory of radio-transmission is
being discarded, and signals are now said to be
conveyed by earth-currents. This has much more
cominonsense about it. There is no need for the
very fanciful layer of ionized gas in the upper
atmosphere by which the signals were said to be
continually deflected back to earth, and which was
called the Heaviside layer after its alleged
discoverer—though, of course, the layer, which
was supposed to be 40 miles up, was never
really “discovered” at all. Prior to the
Marconi trans-Atlantic experiments all the ex-
perts had declared that the signals would fly off
into space instead of following the earth-curva-
ture. Particularly was this thought to be certain as
the Atlantic Ocean between Ireland and Newfound-
land piles up a mountain of water 120 miles high.
But they didn’t, and in the first-past-thp-post guess-
ing competition to explain why they didn’t, Heavi-
side won. Nevertheless, for transmission purposes
the engineer’s advice is “higher and higher!” till
the latest aerial towers exceed 1000 ft. This seems
illogical; but a certain electrical effect cannot be
got without height. A mechanical analogy would
be to say that a mass (representing energy) would
make a wider splash if dropped a mile into water
than if dropped 6ft. And, naturally, the greater the
initial jolt the further will the consequent waves
travel. At most of the great F.uropean and Ameri-
can stations reception is accomplished by means of
insulated wires buried a foot or so underground,
though the costly towers are still required. This
underground reception is free from several disad-
vantages inherent in the overhead method. Atmo-
spheric disturbances (j-es for short) are absolutely
done away with. Also, it allows of much sharper
tuning— i.e., greater selectivity—an important item
in a world where radio-waves are starting to jostle
each other. Further, in the case of trans-ocean
stations, if you bury the wire precisely facing the
one you want to receive from, practically no other
station than that one will “come in.” Recently
in U.S.A. five wires were buried 10ft. apart, each
facing a European station. The five were then
worked simultaneously while a thunderstorm raged
overhead. So-called overhead reception was only
possible at any distance because aerials were always
grounded; the signals flowed up from the earth —
not, as has been supposed, from the aerial down.
Reception by aeroplanes is always over short dis-
tances, for which ether-waves suffice. But they soon
fade, and for any considerable distance the earth
itself is the medium.
* * * *
“Globe”: The number of times "No data
from W.A.” is tacked on the Aveatlier fore-
cast Avould suggest that the telegraph lines
from W.A. are suffering from chronic inter-
ruption ; but the real cause is the casual-
ness of the Meteorological Department. The
forecast is issued about noon, it being then
1.0 a.m. in W.A.; exactly one hour having
been allowed for the collection in Perth
of data from thousands of square miles and
its transmission to Melbourne. This is ask-
ing too much of the telegraph. And although
the data is arriving about the time the fore-
cast i* issued, the radio stations for that
day and evening tell shipping there is “no
data from W.A.” I once handed the fore-
cast to the captain, and lie said before read-
ing it: “Cyclone off Noumea. No data from
W.A.” He was right to a word. We were
in a windbag and making Fremantle in a
gale that Avas long after spoken of.
* * * *
“Jacan”: It happened one morning in a
quiet sector doAvn on the Somme in ’lB, our
particular opponents being Bavarians. The
night before there had been a heavy lI.E.
barrage on Fritz’s trenches, but this morn-
ing everything was silent. As orderly-officer
I had the job of inspecting listening-posts,
and on arriving at one the sentry beckoned
me to look over. There in the grey light I
saw a b ; g Fritz, big even for a Bavarian,
“kamerading” as per regulations, and advanc-
ing toward our trenches. He caine on
practically to our parapet, and there seemed
to hesitate, lie sidestepped for perhaps 10
seconds, then falling on his knees he took
GOOD RIDDANCE.
DENIS: “You know, I'm frightened to ask
your father for you.”
DENISE: “ Well , you shouldn’t he. He says
I'm frightfully extravagant.”
one of the bombs swinging at his belt,
extracted the pin, dropped it beneath him
and knelt well over it, his face buried in
his hands. I can’t say the ensuing sight
shocked me greatly ; but I have often won-
dered at the motive.
GLAD FINISH.
[Fon The Bom,etin\]
I’ve had my fling, come what come may,
However near the end may be.
Through many a full delicious day
I’ve had my fling. Come what come may,
I’ll wear no penitent’s robe of grey,
Nor whimper through the dusk. You see,
I’ve had my fling, come what come may,
However near the end may be!
N.s.W. -JOSEPHUS Q. H.
CHEERY SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Never need the spirit falter,
Evil days or fair;
Never while the heart beats
Need one know despair.
Always there is hope to guide us
Down the winding way;
Joy is waiting round the corner,
Gold’s just breaking through the grey—•
Let's be gay!
Life is not all cake and kisses,
Merriment and ease,
Though to-day Dame Fortune bmiles,
Soon again she’ll tease.
But there’s always something doing,
And the world is Avide;
We can make a game of trouble,
Take it in our stride—
Love will bide.
We won’t mope among the ashes,
Darkling skies or blue.
AA'hen things wound and vex us,
Love at least is true.
Pan is piping in the shadows,
And the glancing feet
Of our dreams move to the music.
Singing Hours entreat,
Calling, calling to the music,
To the rippling, pleading music—
Life is very sweet.
N.S.AV.
FRANK MORTON.


Bond & George 5
“SUBSTANTIAL DROP”
IN TAILORING PRICES
iMT?
Mif
IS!
Plf
Dakin? House
CentrnF Raihvny
. p*
O'
/
mmmm
/>
%
9//
51
Mail the Coupcn
Right Away and
you will receive
Patterns by
Return Post.
LOWE’S
Pay
Carriage
All Over
Australia
N
t>
imitet)
Merchant Tailors, Sydney
Do you know Lowes? At least 700,000 Australians do 1
They know us for the fact that Lowe s Sell It For Less at
all times. To-day we are quoting Tailoring Prices lower
than any other Merchant Tailoring Firm in Australia, and
strict accord with the drop in world s prices for woollens
fur range of VALUES ARE WELL WORTH YOUR
IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION.
Remember that Lowe’s Ltd. are Merchant Tailors, with an
Authorised Capital of £lOO,OOO, and with a 25-years’
reputation for reliable mail-order trading. We have a stock
of £50,000 worth of materials, and we made 20,000 suits
last year.
Here are some examples of Lowe s Drop-in-the-Market
Prices, and we invite you to send for our big range of patterns:
A SPECIAL £B/8/- ENGLISH
WORSTED-TWEED SUIT TO
ORDER, NOW ......
£5/18/6
In Smart Blue and White, and Grey and White
Pencil Stripes.
A £9/9/- PURE INDIGO ALL-
WOOL SERGE SUIT TO
ORDER, NOW ...
M
A Genuine West of Enerland Pure Indigo
All-Wool Serge, of exceptionally hard-wearing
quality.
A SUPERIOR £ll/15/- WEST
OF ENGLAND PURE WOOL
WORSTED Suit to Order, NOW
£9/9
Fine, Smooth, Long-wearing Worsted, in Smart
Bird’s-eye Checks and Neat Hair-line designs.
And in addition to the above, we are also selling
Fancy Suitings and Serges at the following
Substantial Reductions.
£5/15/- NOW £4/4/-
£6/6/- NOW £4/15/-
£7/7/- NOW £5/5/-
£B/8/- NOW £6/6/-
£9/9/- NOW £7/7/-
£9/17/6 NOW £B/8/-
£ll/15/- NOW £9/9/-
£l2/12/- NOW £lO/10/-
£l3/13/- NOW £lO/18/6
£l4/14/- NOW £ll/12/6
Wo
23
George
Street
Write for Patterns.
No matter whether you live ten
miles or 10,000 miles from Lowe’s
we guarantee you satisfaction by
mail, or will refund your money.
Fill in this coupon, cut it out, and
post back to-day.
Oxford Street
N
MN
Merchant Tailors, Sydney.
GEORGE STREET, right
through to PITT STREET;
DARING HOUSE, at Central
Railway Station; and OXFORD
STREET, SYDNEY. NEW
STORE: BOND and GEORGE
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Algo HUNTER STREET,
NEW CASTLE.
&
&
#
O
sS
o
a
<5
Lowe’s Ltd.,
Sydney.
Please send me patterns of
Lowe’s Tailoring at “Drop-
in-the->larket” Prices, as
advertised.
PRICE ABOUT
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 21/4/’2l


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
fflGEWOfttoj
JHEXTRA HIGH GRADE 4/
READYRUBBB)
3J K. 'IOWA'S & CO., Sydney* Agents.
N
This marvellous discovery has
worked wondrous cures with
numbers of Eczema sufferers,
bet it do the same for YOU !
All skin troubles also cured by
this remedy. Special generous
sample from Ligmolliene Co.,
Malyon’s, Sturt Street, Bal-
larat.
LA*
ALL CHEMISTS
CUT OUT THIS A«?
£SEMD WITH Ifc #
FOR SPECIAL SAMPU
A Signal Success
*3
wmsitir
The TOP-NOTCHScotcK
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Te Whare”: Comparatively few wild
birds use the same nest twice over in a season.
Willy Wag ((black
fantail) does so occa-
sionally, but rarely.
I’ve found his cobweb-
covered incubator
stuffed with another
brood after the de-
parture of the first,
and, in one instance,
after a cranky fan
(white-shafted fan-
tail) was robbed ol
her first clutch ol
eggs, she laid another
set in the same nest.
But the yellow-throat-
ed scrub-wren (devil
bird) renovates her
long pendulous incu-
bator season after
season, until it gets
so heavy when rain-
soaked that it breaks
from the twigs to
which it is suspended
and falls to the
ground. There are in-
stances in which the
lyre-bird, which builds
an enormous nest in-
volving much labor,
has renewed an old
one and used it the
following season; hut
as a rule the freak-
tailed fowl builds
afresh. The lazy hawk
fraternity, again, com-
monly uses the same
nest year after year.
The wedge-tailed eagle
does so regularly, but
the brown hawk sometimes commandeers an old
magpie’s (crow-shrike’s) nest, makes a few altera-
tions, additions and repairs, and rears a brood
without bothering to build for itself.
* * *
“Momokeni”: Does any Abo. know any-
thing of the carnivorous tastes of marsupials? I
have a pet magani (Papuan wallaby), which I
bought fi om a native, who told me to feed him on
bread and tea. He soon became very tame, has the
inn of the house, and shares with the cat and dog
at their meals, bullying both. It struck me as
peculiar that he should be fond of chicken bones,
for which he will leave all other food. Recently we
had a plague of grasshoppers, many of which were as
much as three inches in length. He considered these
a special delicacy and caught and ate them vora-
ciously. Upon expressing my astonishment, my
cook-bov asserted that this was “magani’s own
fashion,’ and that in their W’ild state they eat meat
whenever possible, scratching for grubs and not dis-
daining to eat a dead animal if they find one in
the bush.
* * * *
__ “Dingohanna”: “Doctor lodine” (B.
17/d/ 21) asks for the record time for sinking a
pint of beer. I don t know of any record-breaker
at sprints with a pint, but I have a nomination
for a long-distance championship. He was a tra-
velling tinker, and he ambled in to the railway-
construction camp at Nowa (East Gippsland) one
evening about the middle of 1915, and announced
that he would back himself against the best beer-
swiller in the camp. He failed to find another
candidate, so proceeded to give an exhibition on
his own. He hoed in and settled 11 pints straight off
the reel, but broke down on the twelfth. He spent
a disturbed night afterwards, but was right-end
up next morning.
“’Possum”: “Topo” (B. 17/3/’2l) makes
a song about one Bryan Hart, cutting up red-gum
and red-box trees for the Benalla butter factory,
carving out six cords of 2ft. wood in 16 hours. He
would not be able to keep my wife going with fire-
wood when she is baking the usual weekly scone.
In Tasmania about ’95 or ’96 two men, Charles
Connors and Hughie Jones, cut sft. firewood for a
day of nine hours, inclusive of one hour for crib,
for a wager. The wood was manuka, and Connors’s
men stacked Jones’s wood while Jones’s men stacked
Connors’s wood, and a blinking lizard couldn’t get
into any of the stacks. When the day’s work was
finished and each man’s lot measured up," it was found
that Connors had put together 24 cords, and Jones
23 colds and a few feet. Jones is keeping a pub
in Coolgardie. Connors I have lost the run of alto-
gether.
“Alex.”: A cow owned by James Mcln-
tosh, Blinkbonnie, Warwick (Q.), was found dead.
A post-mortem brought to light two calves in an
advanced stage of decomposition, and two brown
snakes, measuring over 20in. each, were found be-
tween the calves. D’you know how they got there?
“Claroyamo”: Can “Jim Carew” inform
me whether his friend’s prolific Strawberry (B.
24/3/’2l) has been made a grandmother by any or
all of her four daughters? My reason for wanting
to know is that very few cockies will retain or
knowingly purchase for dairy or breeding purposes
the female of a mixed twin-birth, owing to the big
risk of her proving sterile.
“Audio”: I have never been able to fathom
the mind of Mrs. Binghi of Westralia regarding
her maternal duty. A child born at a most awk-
ward and inconvenient moment is carried by her
for miles and well cared for as a matter of course.
Another, born when she has ample leisure to give
it every attention, is ruthlessly buried alive, choked
MUST BE ANOTHER KIND.
THE SMALL ONE : “S’pose you've got a little
hoy?"
MISS OLDBIRD : “Oh, no, Johnny."
THE SMALL ONE : “S’pose you’ve got a little
girl, then?"
MISS OLDBIRD : “No, Johnny."
THE SMALL ONE (who has been thinking it
over): “Well, what sort have you got?”
with sand, or killed by exposure and neglect. If
a mother died in childbirth on the fields, it was
the universal practice, if the blacks were far enough
away form the authorities, to bury the piccaninny
along with the woman. And the amazing thing
about it was that the other lubras didn’t seem to
mind.
“O’Kell B.”: Although “Murranji” (B.
31/3/’2l) is right as to the horse-contest in Bris-
bane in 1906, I will back the knowledge of “XXX”
about Lance Skuthorpe’s riding. After that Brisbane
affair I financed and partly managed Skuthorpe’s
show up to Longreach. In everv
challenge or exhibition with a
strange horse “Skewy” stipulated
“light saddle with three-inch knee-
pads.” It was Dick Skuthorpe who
did the no-pads stunt. Yet Lance’s
method of riding is the only right
one. He recognised that the best of
riders must have some hold on a
really clever buckjumper. Before
Skuthorpe taught me better I was
one of the bogus “balance” riders,
who held on by the reins while affect-
ing that superior contempt for one
using a monkey strap. Yet the chief
difference is that the alleged balance
riders make nearly all the outlaws
by the fearful torture they inflict
through their desperate holding on
to a youngster's mouth. I regard old
Lance as Australia’s Equestrian King.
Waite and others may have attempted
to imitate him by throwing away
their reins when they had one they could manage
to really “balance” ride ; but a strange clever buck-
jumper made them hang to the reins like a politi-
cian to a portfolio.
“Ellenbee”: I don’t know much about the
natives of Papua practising abortion, but the Roro-
speaking people go even further than that, and pro-
duce sterility in women by the use of some drug.
The men readily admit that such is the case, but
disclaim all knowledge of the drug used or the
method of administering it. They say: “It is the
women’s secret, and they will not tell.” I delved
a good deal and found plenty of cases appearing
to substantiate the assertion, but gathered no real
information. One woman said that when she was
approaching puberty her mother gave her something
t °..^ n " k a " d explained that she did not want her
child to suffer as she had done. This woman told
me she was dosed with the juice of pohama, a
feathery-topped cane, not unlike sugar-cane, which
grows along the banks of most Papuan rivers. I
gathered from the lady’s smile as she gave me this
part of the information that she was openlv prevari-
cating so that I might cease from questioning
Medical science says sterility cannot be managed
by means of drugs. The women smile and sav that
doubtless the doketa knows many things, but not
everything. The whole matter explodes the idea
that a woman cannot keep a secret, for here we
have not one but hundreds of women keeping their
secret inviolate.
* * * *
>Sarg : Hayseed’s” par about wind fol-
lowing the direction of shooting stars (B. 17/3/’2l)
gives me the fluke. Doesn’t this bewhiskered obser-
ver know that on a favorable night stars can be
seen streaking in almost every direction? I shudder
to think what would happen to the frillies on the
line if “Hayseed” was right. Further, imagine the
area from which a shooting-star can be seen; and
if “Hayseed” contends that the wind blows evenly
in one direction all over such a vast space, it’s time
he stuck rigidly to his profession.
* *
Pe Pana : Dangerous insects and worms
are few and far between in the Fijis. Venomous
centipedes are the worst, but their bite is more
painful than dangerous. They are gregarious, and
I’ve seen more of them—dinkum ones—in a Suva
Pub than in the tropical bush. Seven or eight
inches long, black with red legs and feelers horribly
active, they are always ready to snap their jaws
if touched. Wood centipedes are common. They
are hideous, ill-smelling creatures the size and
shape of a large sausage, and are not active, being
dangerous only to a bare foot or hand. This they
burn as if with carbolic acid wherever the skin
touches. These loathsome crawlers are compelled to
live in the shade, as the sun is fatal to them. Scor-
pions, up to four inches in length, arc like flies in
certain areas, and are hotter when they sit down
than the business end of a hornet. Apart from the
centipedes, however, any ordinary bailiff in leaving
his card is far more irritable than the insects of
Fiji.
* * * #
liiddyson ’: “That's the trouble witli me,”
drawled Demster, “I’m so infernal slow. Too slow
fei a funeral, I am. AVhat chance of a weddin’
then? The girls ain’t got no use fer a slow cove—
slovv as I am. There was once a gill I wanted.
’T ’appened about a year ago. I saw her when i
was standin’ on the Tank platform, when the up-
train went through. t saw her just as the train
was movin out. She had her yaller ’ead stuck
outer the winder of the carridge, and she grinned
as she passed, a big, ’ansomc sorter grin, full of
white teeth, and she had a tremendis ’appy look
about her. All of a suddin it comes over me—
-1 liat’s the girl for you, Andy Demster.’ I makes
a dash at the train, misses a hold, and gets meself
spilled along the platform. Too slow! I sits
down and rubs meself, and thinks it over. I can’t
let that girl go, coz it’s plain she’s the on’y one on
earth. Well, I makes a break, hires Pike’s motor-
car, and we does a dash after the train. But the
luck ain’t with us. and we don’t get her till she’s
'i riftin into Gmnleigh at the end of her run, three
hours later. The guard he knows me, and he recol-
lecks the girl. ‘W hy,’ sez he, ‘that piece got off at
Bull run. She’s goin’ to be a barmaid at Redford’s
Hotel.’ Bullrun is the nex’ station to the Tank.
I’d overshot me mark about 80 mile. Back we goes,
ENOUGH NOT TO BE AN ALSO-RAN.
HIM: “I want to come first in your affec-
tions.”
HER: “Well, you do fancy yourself! You
ought to think yourself lucky if you get
a place.”
licketty split. It’s 10 o’clock afore we reaches
Bedford’s, and the gin has gone to bed. At nine
o’clock nex’ mornin’ I gets a intro to her, and asks
her what chanst I’d have. No chanst on earth.
She’s bin married five }'ears.”
(Continued on page 22.)
THE COCKATOO’S APOSTASY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Misses Turnbull, Jane and May,
Possessed a snow-white cockatoo.
It pleased them much to hear him say
The many pious texts he knew.
They had prim ladies from the church
Sit at his feet about his perch.
Ray stood for dove-like purity.
His crest, a halo of pure gold,
Shone o'er his reverend and he
Would never stoop to scoff or scold,
But in soft accents most refined
He voiced the treasures of his mind.
The Misses Turnbull, spinsters prim,
Had taught the cockie all he knew.
To church they often carried him,
And he remained the service through.
The Reverend Baxter stroked his head,
And “Let us pray I” the parrot said.
Then Martin came to live next door.
A cockatoo this person had ;
Pure white was its exterior,
But inwardly that bird was bad.
The creature’s sayings, shrill and plain,
Were shocking to both May and Jane.
Their goodly Ray they gathered in,
And chained him in the garden ground.
Alas! the vulgar bird of sin
Unseen would often saunter round
To crack a filbert-nut with Ray,
And sort of pass the time of day.
They’d preen themselves, and chew and chat,
And short and sharp was every word
The Nut would level at the cat.
Ray marvelled much at what he heard,
But “Let them curse, I will not,” said
The pious Ray, and wagged his head.
Whene’er The Nut an oath let fall
Ray straight retorted with a text.
“My friend,” said he, “swear not at all!”
Whereat The Nut seemed rather vexed.
He spread himself to swear and curse,
Then tried Ray’s holy text and verse.
One night the ladies had to tea
The Reverend Baxter and his girl.
Ray took his stand, a word said he
That caused the pastor’s hair to curl.
Jane choked upon her toast, and May
Slid down and fainted right away.
THE SPENDER.
THE SKITE : Bought a little car yesterday—
nice little thing, too.”
What Turnbull’s bird said after that,
Oh, parson, tell it not in Gath !
The Reverend Baxter seized his hat,
And fell upon the garden path.
His daughter stuffed her both ears full
With snowy tufts of cotton-wool.
It seemed ’twas then the cookie’s aim
To curse each tradesman to his face,
And fill his mistresses with shame.
They were the scandal of the place,
And friends who one time went to pray
To scoff and gibe remained away.
Then on a daj', to their amaze,
The cockatoo stood on a limb,
And spake some words of pious praise,
And half a long Wesleyan hymn.
Jane took the cockie to her heart ;
They packed, and hastened to depart,
For fear the many devils grim
That had misled him all this time
Once more would enter into him.
The bird quotes Psalms and Sankey’s rhyme;
The sisters never dream it’s true
That they have Martin’s cockatoo!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


“BOOKSTALL”
AUSTRALIAN
NOVELS.
The Commonwealth’s Greatest Series of Authors.
The N. S. WALES BOOKSTALL CO., LTD., is the only
Australian Publishing House which is regularly introducing
new novels by local writers. New volumes by
FOREMOST AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
added monthly.
Over 100 First-Glass Novels Now Available
1/3 each. 1/4£ posted.
Total sales of “Bookstall” Novels now
EXCEED TWO MILLIONS.
Call at the nearest Bookstall or Bookseller s and ask to
be shown the latest “Bookstall Novels, or write for a
Complete Catalogue (free).
ALL AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
Written by Australians. Illustrated by Australian artists.
Printed in Australia.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
3
S'
gf
Shirts
m
%
J
NS
n
'm.
m
Wm
n
-rnnns^'"
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them—in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns—whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safeguard.
AS 62
See l-Kis b _ r *" d
hire
acii
on
m
a
%
<5
A-C
a
21? Mat®
lh mu rill nmn
You can shave with ease
As often as you please
with the
Gillette
Safety Razor
The tender skin which re-acts so unpleas-
antly to frequent shaving by ordinary
methods finds solace when the Gillette is
used.
The Gillette leaves the most sensitive skin
cool, comfortable and velvet-smooth.
No stropping—no honing.
Standard Set in neat leather case . . 28/6
THE GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA LTD..
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
£s
SCOTCH
is just as familiar and as popular
as it is in its native Scotland.
In these days of scarcity it is only by the most careful husbanding
of stocks we can hope to maintain regular (if inadequate) supplies. But
nothing will induce us to impair the unvarying quality of ‘ P.D.’ Whisky.
%m*£? <!■
Kt
M
ftltl
Dawson
&MNOED WhlSHt
A
-»=®
Igy:
Of Historic Lineage
and Wor Id-wide
popularity.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch — everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, LTD.,
82*84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.


Brewed at Home
St
jl Ay
it
Its
A Tin of “BEVARA” BEER contains the exact
quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast, etc., with
simplest instructions to brew TWO GALLONS of
Non-Intoxicating Ginger or Hop Beer; Pale, Malt
or Bitter Ale and Stout. The Finest Drink in Aus-
tralia—BAß NOTHING. SOLD AT 1/6 PER TIN
by all City, Suburban and Country Stores in Aus-
traiia. 0 R POSTAGE PAID FROM
M. R. GREEN, Carlton, Victoria.
If
Better
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
WILSON’S EAR-DRUMS
MAKE THE DEAF HEAR.
MNM
N
M
A wonderful little de-
vice that fits into the
ears without the
slightest discomfort.
Invisible when in-
serted—so tiny, so per-
fect, that you forget
you are wearing them.
This marvellous in-
vention was perfected
by Mr. Geo. Wilson,
after years of suffering
from hopeless deaf-
ness. They enabled
him to hear perfectly And this miracle has
been repeated for thousands of other sufferers.
Mr. R. WATT, Wallacedale, writes: “I have
been using Wilson’s Ear-Drums for man}' years,
and I have derived great benefit from them. I
would not be without them for twice the price,
as without them I can hear nothing, so you
can understand how I value them.”
We get hundreds of letters like these. We
will post a booklet if you wish, but we advise
you to waste no time in getting and using the
Ear-Drums. The price is £1 Is. complete.
WILSON EARDRUM CO.,
H. WILKINSON, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mention this paper.
“W. 0.”: The first initial of “A.X.” (B.
24/3/’2l) must surely stand for Ananias. There
has been no cedar-tree in the Lismore (N.S.W.)
district within the past 40 years that would cut
anything like 30,000 ft. of timber. Before that time
there were certainly some giants. Old hands still
speak of a 10ft. cube having been sent to the Paris
Exhibition, and I remember walking across the
huge-winged stump of a long-felled giant measuring
20ft. in diameter. The biggest cedar log cut in
Lismore within the last two decades was at the
British Australian Timber Co.’s mill and measured
20ft. in girth. Mi- brother was manager of the
mill at the time, and the log attracted much notice;
but scour the whole of the Lismore hinterland now,
and there would not be enough red cedar found to
make coffins for the Abo-liars of one Bulletin issue.
“A.X.” also speaks of white cedar being more plenti-
THE HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
“Is Lorna’s husband much older than she?"
“Oh, yes! Why, he’s twice her real aye, and
three times the aye she says she is.”
ful and taking the place of the red, whereas in
reality the white is now so scarce that it is practi-
cally only used for veneering.
“Dean”: “H.Y.E.” need not doubt that the
bullrout’s sting is poisonous. I saw a boy stung
on the toe by one, and the whole foot turned blue
and swelled. He suffered horribly, and had to get
medical treatment.
GETTING READY FOR WORSHIP.
MISTRESS: “ Maggie, I think I’ll take one of the children to church this morning
Maggie: "Yes, ma'am."
MISTRESS "W hich one do you think would go best with this dress?"
Notice posted on a tree by a Dago cocky
in the Mackay (Q.) district:—
Thes is not a pubaleek rode. If thes gathe is not
kep streekly shut it will be colsed.
“Dr. Nil”: About dogs (to change the sub-
ject), put this in the coincidence
museum. A patient of thi3 pill-roller,
who came from, say, Buckin’ Brumby
(Q.) to stay with friends hereabouts
(S.A.), had occasion to send one of
the latter to me with a message. She
arrived at my place accompanied by
a puppy (a young dog, I mean).
My chief cat was parading her show
kittens on the lawn that evening and
went for doggie like an H.E. shell.
This naturally drew my attention to
him. and I said, “Hello, that’s a
kelpie, isn’t it? 1 seem to know the
breed.” The lady owned the soft im-
peachment, but she did not own the
dog —-that belonged to the other lady
from Buckin’ Brumby. I said, “The
first kelpies I ever saw were imported
by Gerald L. Kemp, the sheep-dog
expert and white man, deceased.”
“Yes,” said my visitor “it was from
him that Mrs. Buckin’ Brumby got
the puppy’s parents.” Another coin-
cidence. Sometime during this cen-
tury I was writing death certificates
in the country within 100 miles of
Adelaide. One of my ex-patients had
a Cocker spaniel that took a fancy
to roosting on my kitchen doorstep.
Later, when I came to hoist my
plate in the Queen City of the South,
I was looking for a house to buy,
like a fool. We (I mean myself
and Mrs. “Nil”) walked up to the
front door of a likely wigwam for
sale, and were accosted by a Cocker
spaniel, who reminded me that we
had met before and renewed our
friendship. When the owner of the
house (and dog) told us his terms
he took £5O off the sale price spon-
taneously—because I “knew the dog.”
It had been his son’s!
“Imbaga”: “Ragar’s” yarn about the
Papuans who bury a dog under their house recalls
my first visit to the upper Musa country years ago.
The houses in the villages were each provided with
a long sloping trough, made of a sago-palm split
in halves, and leading from a small hole in the
house-floor to the ground, six feet below. While I
was wondering what the dickens these shoots were
for a supercilious dog emerged from the scrub,
strolled leisurely up one of them and disappeared,
with a yawn, to take his siesta in the house. Then
I tumbled. On the Mamba, whence I had come,
the dogs had dashed well got to climb a ladder like
the rest of the family.
“H.C.S.”: Re the toxic properties of Aus-
tralian and Indian snakes. On page 157 of Lucas
and Le Souef’s book, “The Animals of Australia,”
there is a paragraph that states: —
The nature of the poison, more particularly of
the black snake, has been investigated by Professor
C. J. Martin and Mr. J. M. Smith. By an ingenious
device they succeeded in collecting the venom free
from mucus and saliva. They separated the consti-
tuents, and by careful experiment determined that
tlie toxic properties were restricted to the proteids
present, and finally to two albumoses soluble in
water and in dilute salt solution. They found that
the virulence of the poison was considerably greater
than that of the cobra. Thus l/1000th grain of
dried poison dissolved in 1 per cent, salt solution,
when injected into a vein, invariably kills a rabbit
of five pounds weight in about a hundred seconds.
Fortunately the quantity voided at one time by the
black snake is insignificant when compared with
that obtained from the average cobra or rattlesnake.
The latter discharges at a single bite five to ten
times as much venom as the experimenters were
able to procure at any one time under the most
favorable circumstances from a black snake six feet
in length.
So the virulence of the poison from the black snake
is actually much greater than that of cobra venom.
* * * *
Munro Hull (N.Q.) writes: —
The Abo. man who said that “Hull’s tick-resistant
cattle lose their resistance when they lose condition,
and then need dipping just like ordinarv cattle,” is
not telling the whole truth. Naturally as the con-
dition of the animals lowers so does tlieir resistanee,
and as their condition rises so does their resistanee;
lienee, during the height of the summer, when the
ticks are rampant, this resistance is also at its
maximum, and, per contra, in the winter months (out
dry time), when the cattle lose condition and carry
a lessened resistance, there arc no ticks to worry
about, particularly as the summer swarms of young
ticks have failed to come to maturity on these
cattle. In no case have I ever had to dip these
cattle, and perhaps the best proof as regards the
value of this natural tick-killing quality lies in the
fact that during our last drought I lost three old
cows, as against losses of fifties and eighties in
neighbors’ herds. My stock only had shortage of feetl
to suffer; theirs had the continual drain of regu-
lar infestations of ticks in addition. Theirs be-
came too weak to c-limb out of the dip; mine never
needed the ordeal.
“ J.R.K.” : If it’s a tost of endurance that’s
on allow me to lead in a mule owned by Frank
Willond, a packer of Ilerberton (Q.). This mule
got away from the rest of the team packed with
two hundredweight of tin ore. All efforts to catch
her failed ; then after two days and nights she was
found in the ranges with all her load intact and
not much worse for her experience, for it took a
first-class horse and equally good rider to run her
down.
“6T6”: I fancy two or more eaglehawks.
working together, will beat most of our native
animals. 1 think I just missed a hectic scrap re-
cently. Riding up Lome Creek (N.T.) I saw two
eaglehawks, one perched in a tree, the other flutter-
ing on the ground. On principle (there might have
been someone sick or dead) I rode up close to have
a look-see, and I came across a large-sized, good-
conditioned bush tom-cat just dead. But the birds
hadn t had it all their own way, the hawk on the
ground had one of its wings hanging by a thread.
~ * *
T.Y.T. : Bryan Hart’s six cords of 2ft.
wood, in 16 hours (B. 17/3/’2l) is not a record,
even though the 16 hours were crowded into “one
day. ’ Scores of Gippsland axemen, who do not
pose as champions, cut their three cords in eight
hours. Tlie wood they cut it from may not be
quite so hard to chop as red-gum and box, but
the stringy, woolly messmate is a darned sight
harder to split. I have seem 4} cords knocked out
in eight hours, but it was from soft, green pepper-
mint.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Jim Carew’s” (B. 17/3/’2l)
horse that entered a deserted hut and inadvertently
closing the door on himself starved to death, reminds
me of an old-man crocodile that visited the killing-
pen every night after a beast had been slaughtered
at a cattle-station on the Albert, .just outside of
Burketown (N.Q.). One night he evidently kicked
the rough bush gate back into position with a
sweep of his tail. There was only the one open-
ing, and the slab rails of the pen were Set too
close to allow of his scaly nibs's departure. The end
took place at daylight next morning, with the arrival
of the storekeeper and a Winchester.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: If any Abos. are thinking
of getting a supply of goanna-oil in readiness
for the winter rheumatism, etc., now is their time,
as the go. is always fattest in April and May.
Open the go. lengthwise, and you will find the fat
hanging to the intestines and looking like bunches
of small, yellow grapes. Remove this carefully,
place in a tin and melt in the sun, not over a fire.
Keep watching the fat, and as it melts dilute with
about one-third of turpentine. Store the oil in a
cool place til) wanted.
* * * •
“Relay”: “Centre’s” trouble (B. 31/3/’2li
is that he uses the term “reflection” too loosely.
The power of light after reflection from a plane
polished surface, preferably metal, is very nearly
equal to its original strength. But the moon isn’t
a plane surface, nor even polished. Let “Centre”
try the strength of light reflected from an ordinary
piece of paper and he’ll be somewhere near it. The
angle at which the light hits the reflector also has
something to do with it; at a certain angle the
quality of the vibrations is changed. Thus the
moon-light is not of the same quality as the light
that reaches the moon.
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
“I understand your people treat him as a
son?”
"And my sisters as a brother —poor devil ! ."
“Bill B.": Ever had a feed of alligator
flesh? Binghi offered me a choice portion of the
tail, and it was the nearest thing to veal that I
have yet tasted.
THE BURGLAR’S LAPSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Several times he has been caught in a burglary
because he got drunk on the premises he burgled,
and therefore was easily captured. The Chief Justice
told him that if he had drunk less he would have
been a better burglar.”— tVestralian item.
When I was but a simple child
My gran’ma cautioned me:
“Oh, Willie dear, be not beguiled ;
If you’d attain celebrity
Your self-respect you must not lose—
When cracking cribs cut out the booze 1
‘‘On moonless nights, when with your kit
You start,” dear gran’ma said,
“With jemmy, torch and eentrebit”—
She stroked my curly head —
“You’ll soon be boobed ii you get shiek,
Your goal will prove a gaol, my chick.”
I quickly rose to eminence
With precepts such as these,
Success attended abstinence —
I burgled banks with ease.
My relatives, with pride elate,
Shared all my swags of cash and plate.
My morals were exemplary;
They called me Wowser Bill;
The lessons learned at granny’s knee
Supported me until
I marred a promising career
By mixing burglary with beer.
The learned Judge who tried my case
Explained to me with tears
llow Parliament had been my place
Had I refrained from beers.
“The sozzled crook is off his dot,"
Said lie, “lie’s shot in if he’s shot!”
Take warning by my painful fate—
Brink lemonade or tea.
Then every job you undertake
Will spell prosperity.
M here drink is William Sikes' obsession,
It brings disgrace on the profession.
N.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
“Bill Bowyang”: I recently travelled over
a dry stage with Binghi, and when I suggested that
he procure water from the roots of trees he admitted
that he knew of no vegetable which would supply
the moisture. It was not always so. The Western
Queensland blacks occasionally obtained the fluid
from the mallee. The roots, which are often 20ft.
long and half the thickness of one’s wrist, were
torn up, cut into lengths a couple of feet long, and
placed upright in a vessel of some sort. A small
quantity of excellent water would quickly drain
from the timber. The needle-bush, which grows on
the sandhills in the Darr and Diamantina country
(Q.), was also a plant from which Binghi obtained
water. I knew a swagman who owed his life to
the needle-bush. In a sorry plight owing to thirst
he met an old gin who quickly found one of the
plants, tore up a root, peeled off the bark, put one
end into a billycan and blew into the other end;
and the swagman was surprised at the quantity of
water that came out of the root in a wry short
time. This plant should be better known, especially
in a dry time, when the bushman is frequently ex-
posed to the risk of death, by thirst. The vegetable
has no leaves but is covered with needle-like Bpines.


fjf'
\
m
7
±7
X
IS
OCOXQ
0
lists S
DUNLOPS REDUCED IN PRICE
From the 18th April motorists will be able to purchase all sizes of Dunlop
motor car covers and tubes at a considerable reduction on previous prices.
This means greater value, and less cost per running mile, for . .
D
TYR
will still maintain their high standard of quality, thereby ensuring cheaper
motoring to users of these dependable and long service tyres.
HERE ARE
SOME OF THE
BEADED EDGE COVERS
N
M
Sizes in Inches
STRAIGHT SIDED COVERS
33 X 4 912 0 10 7 9 25/6
35 X4l 11 13 6 13 18 9 32/3
33 x4i 10 16 9 13 0 6 31/3
34 X4i 11 15 0 14 0 6 31/9
New Lists available from Dunlop Agents or on application to
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


Cl
o
m
o
0
'
**s
feSfeS.
O
O
D
0
0
o
p
3
0
gjkyiMiiiiimiiMiTl
R
Ste**
un)nni)nmimn»iinniimniniiiiiiniv
Si
wmm
a
IF the front wall of an “Ideal”-warmed home was removed,
and the house tilted up as shown in the diagram, you
would see in a flash the effectiveness, comfort, health
and economy of the “Ideal" heating system.
Ideal & Ideal
I radiators I Boi lers
You would note one central hot-water boiler, heated by
wood, coal or coke; a simple system of pipes conveying hot
water from the boiler to the radiator in each room; a Spring-
like, healthful warmth free from draughts diffused by the
radiator there; a commendable absence of soot and grit from
decorations, carpets and curtains; and learn with satisfaction
that the cost of heating an average-sized room ranged from
one half-penny to one penny for 24 hours; and that the
expense and fatigue of cleaning were also reduced in the
same proportion.
For new or old buildings. Expert information gratis. Call
or write.
324-330
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
’*JOHN
WBW
pm
IP
6 SON-Pty. Ltd
391-403
Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
We Specialise in tHe Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
under guaranteed efficiencies for
W aterwor Ks
Sewerag'e
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging, etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.)
Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co,
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supplj
of Aust. Ltd.
Co.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fencliurch Street.


ps*\
'r' A
Fife’s schnaP^
Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
tybrteL
m
1
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
i
COUCHS )/
COLDSM j
vJi !£?.._ csou ’
troueuj
X*
affections.,
w
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
(3
m
of Evil.” Yet the perfection of his work
remains a rare and dazzling chrysolite in
the crown of literature. Other poets have
written more perfect sonnets, and some
have made a music more subtle and ethereal.
But Baudelaire sings with a troubled volup-
tuousness ; his sonnets are free and sonorous,
mingling colors, sounds and perfumes with
the sad turpitudes of outcasts, monks and
criminals whose chief malady is ennui. His
poems sing of tropic days and gloomy nights,
of stealthy shame and twisted terror, of
women and worms, of incense and verdigris,
with sometimes an undertone of mysterious
beauty, soft and soothing like the whisper of
a child murmuring its happiness in its sleep.
Ilis taper rapidly burnt low, and in 1866
he was taken to a sanatorium to endure the
slow tortures of aphasia. Ilis body was
paralysed and his mind weakened: a great
soul smitten and scourged, oppressed and dis-
heartened by all-pervading desolation, but
invested now with the dignity of immor-
tality. tie was the Dante of Decadence.
REG S. ELLERY.
The New Style in Sex
Recent showings in erotic fiction prove
that the sex silhouette has changed. Nau-
seated by the super-voluptuosity of the baby-
vamp, fashion has turned the hose of coiii-
nmusense on that exuberant arid flamboyant
mode and chilled Cupid into rigidity. "In
Defense of Women,” by H. L. Mencken,
which, of course, doesn't profess to be an
imaginative work, though much of it is pure
fiction, may serve as an example of a back-
number sex-fashion book. The woman for
whom Mencken couches a lance in “de-
fense ’ (mind the spelling!) is as out-of-
date as a Merry Widow hat or as G. B.
Shaw himself. Blow the froth off
Mencken and you get Shaw; skim the scum
off Shaw and you get Nietzsche; drain off
the lees and settlings of Nietzsche’s melan-
choly brain and you get Schopenhauer. The
verities of the genial German person’s
philosophy remain, but it has irked at least
one woman-reader to feel the old familiar
pinpricks of his pessimistic grouch under
the supposititious caress of Mencken’s ironi-
cal “defense.”
Perhaps the movies, in their hatefully-
vulgar vampire, described in lurid, full-page
ads. as a “man-eater,” have made that style
of sex attraction so common that the reac-
tion has set in as a consequence. But the
baby-vamp’s ideals are those which Mencken
allots to all women over nine and under 90.
and those ideals are not now le dernier cri.
Fashion’s decree points to a man-hating, not
man-eating, taste in her who would be a
follower of the true vogue in heroines.
Sylvia Scarlett reached through sex-weari-
ness her integrity of soul,' and Sylvia is a
new “line” in heroines. Her qualities of
mind are those which attract men least.
Hergesheimer, in “Linda Condon.” has gone
back to the splendidly null frigidity of a
marble statue. It is worth noting that, as
an explanation of Linda’s attitude towards
Pleydon, the author can only feebly murmur
"Platonic,” which, to say the least, is not
new. There is, in fact, though the fashion
that has just gone out denied it strongly, a
virgin fierceness in most young girls. Hence
had the huntress Dian her dread bow. The
latest novels bring forward this aspect. It
is a step in advance of the other, because it
raises spirit above flesh. Shelley’s “Epipsy-
chidion” gave the keynote.
FLORENCE BAYERSTOOK.
Obituary
Now that the Australian theatre —what
there was of it—has definitely gone west,
chased by the dime-novel melodrama-film
and Cockney pantomimes called plays, a
requiem falls due.
Beyond the invariable delight of infant
minds, old or young, in the acted word
joined to the violent or grotesque, the Anglo-
Celt is not dramatic. His theatre was exotic;
even his master-workman borrowed his struc-
tures from oversea. Nor does he feel that
necessity for a “curtain” and a climax in the
routine incidents of life so present in the Gaul.
Hence the play, never counting socially for
much in England, counted for still less in
Australia, being at best little more than an
imported excrescence, like the top-hat or
the lackey’s livery. An alleged biography of
the Australian stage would be a record of
the passing visit of the imported mummer,
and of the imported sentiment, mannerism
and twang. For the local company with
local actors devoted to Australian plays
never eventuated ; and that for lack not of
local talent but of local demand. The town-
ship bushie, seeking to pass the time, auto-
matically forms a sports club ; or, should he
be a Taffy miner, a choral union. Amateur
theatricals, though easy to contrive, are not
even considered; for while anything real
with a contest in it appeals to the Austra-
lian, it is not so with a pretending or a
fake. He talks horse, cricket, politics and
even poetry, but never plays or players. Yet
there is a residue of hush women who love
maudlin sentiment, and when congregated
on Show days they may be numerous enough
to provide an audience for the peripatetic
Thespian; otherwise, outside the artificial
life of our cities, the play and the player
have small welcome. And the instinct
prompting that rejection by a lonely people,
eager in other ways to acclaim any* form of
excitement, has a sane basis. The past suc-
cessful play, like the present successful
him, was glaringly untrue to life; and when
in degree the play is made true —as in some
Repertoire productions—it ceases to attract.
Before the spread of the printed word, a
mind with ideas used the stage as a vehicle
for expression. Now such a mind only uses
sucii & moans as an outlot for payablo tripe.
Of all historical professions that of the
mummer is, perhaps, the most degrading;
for the habit of personating someone else
appears, not, as theorisers have assumed,
to give a measure of that character to the
personator, but to viciously weaken his own
personality. Thus to personate a saint does
not make for saintliness; to he “a heavy”
does not make a scoundrel. It is to personate
at all, over any long period, that in the
. majority of instances proves disastrous.
Years ago, when I was offered dramatic
literary work, 1 was warned by an editor
old in experience that at that time only two
Australian theatrical managements were
to be trusted out of leg-irons. And now,
after years of personal acquaintance with
the grease-painted holders of “the mirror,” I
have no word of commendation ; for amongst
the profession the rule seems to hold that
the better the actor the more unstable his
character, and the less dependable. This is
the inference based on the history of each
other as told by the theatricals themselves.
The complacency with which they recount
each other's slackness, the vanity present
in stars or would-be stars, and the tolerance
in each other of the grossest perfidy, seem-
ingly indicates a wreckage of moral stand-
ards as part and parcel of the profession.
For it is not to be assumed that the actor
or actress was morally any better or worse
than the average person before adopting the
soul-blighting career.
Vanished are the dreams of an Australian
theatre, local in writers, producers and
actors; for the only show-houses with a
financial hope in them are in the maw of the
importer of oversea successes. And he is
not going to risk the bird in the hand for
the two in the bush. As a business propo-
sition. why should he? He is no judge of
possibly successful plays in MS., nor does
lie know anyone who is. Every producer or
manager of note at the time turned down the
script of that Golconda, “The Alidnight
Wedding” ; and it was to fluke rather than to
judgment that, after long delay, “On Our
Selection” and “The Waybacks” were pro-
duced. But there is little chance for such
flukes again, for the public desire for mum-
ming has not kept step with Greasepaint’s
financial estimate of his attractiveness. There
is one off-chance for the original local play ;
provide it with a very fat part (all the fat,
if possible) for some local actor-manager
with a financial “angel,” and inordinate
vanity may attempt the uncommercial —the
vanity voiced by the late Beerbohm Tree,
who spoke for all his kind : “I can stand any
amount of flattery if it’s fulsome enough.”
Pass the miming men with more than
woman’s weakness, and none of woman’s
worth! Pass this decadent survival of a
barbarous age! Pass, unregretted, a craft
demanding a degradation of those traits of
character for which honor and honesty has
most respect!
PLAYWRIGHT.
The Valor of Ignorance
And G. C. Dixon in rejoinder:—
Somehow Mr. Bedford always reminds one of
Ambrose Bierce’s definition of the adjective “posi-
tive” —“mistaken at the top of one’s voice.” He
begins his amiable contribution, “A Critic Without
Performance,” by asserting that I have “perverted
facts” to suit my criticism. My reply is that, while
Mr. Bedford may express any opinions he thinks fit,
I should be obliged if, in the present controversy, he
would confine himself strictly to facts. “The Eng-
lish novel is mostly dull and heavy, and the English
short-story doesn’t exist” ; “excepting Wells and
Maurice Hewlett and maybe Neil Lyons, there are
no living English fictionists worth a second thought”
—these are the passages on which 1 based my cri-
ticism of Mr. Bedford’s article. Each of them is, and
was, quoted with literal accuracy, so where is the
“perversion” that he complains about? If, as he
now pleads, he was referring only to “men still pro-
ducing,” why didn’t he say so in the first place?
Perhaps he was too busy proving his theory that the
technique of writing is to be learned only by making
mistakes.
But even if one concedes that he meant what he did
not say, Mr. Bedford still fails dismally to establisn
his case. Indeed, with every additional sentence
he flounders deeper in the mire. “Masefield and Gals-
worthy are fiddlers on one String” ; “Compton
Mackenzie is merely not the worst of the tribe of
English writers who have nothing to say and say it
more or less attractively”; “surely Mr. Dixon does
not claim Barrie or Bennett as big men” ; “Jacobs,
the machine-made humorist, author of a great number
of short stories each like the other”—these are a few
more of the jests which, if they do no credit to
Australian criticism, at all events add to the gaiety
of the Australian public. They prove again—if
proof were needed —that Mr. Bedford, having no
critical faculty, is quite unfitted to criticise any-
thing. The blaring, tin-trumpety dogmatism which
is the very negation of the critical attitude sounds
in every line. He can’t even allude to Charles Reade,
who doesn’t enter into the discussion at all, with-
out dragging in the phrase, “author of the finest
novel in the language,” regardless of the fact that
real critics find it impossible to decide between
“Pamela,” “Tom Jones,” “Esmond” and “The Cloi-
ster and the Hearth.” Mr. Bedford does not even take
the trouble to read the men whom he criticises.
Surely even he could not fail to see some slight
difference between the Jacobs of the comic night-
watchman and the Jacobs of those grim masterpieces,
“The Brown Man’s Servant” and “The Monkey’s
Paw”—two of the finest things of their kind, I re-
peat, in the language. And Barrie and Bennett, it
seems, are not “big men.” Can Mr. Bedford name any
one in Australia who overtops them ?
Mr. Bedford’s theory of technique is as vague
as his idea of criticism. “A man doesn’t learn
technique by ‘study’ (if that means imitation, and
what else it means Mr. Dixon doesn’t say),” he
declares. Mr. Bedford’s notion that study neces-
sarily means servile imitation is as quaint as his
ignorance of the fact that nearly every great stylist
in the language has picked up his technique from
his predecessors. Lamb, for instance, caught his
manner from Burton, Fuller and Browne; Macaulay
followed Hazlitt, Gibbon and Hallam; Swinburne
borrowed from Tennyson. But, then, Lamb was
only Lamb, while Mr. Bedford is—well, Mr. Bedford.
One word more. “What has Mr. Dixon done, any-
how?” demands Mr. Bedford, with the courtesy
that one expects of a gentleman who refers to
admirers of English fiction as “fools,” and to a
well-known writer as a “word-spoiler.” In its
utter irrelevance to the point at issue the question
recalls the usual resort of the urchin who, worsted
in argument, falls tack on “Garn, who’s got red
hair, anyway ! ” Mr. Bedford’s assumption seems to
be that only those who “spin yarns” have the right
to criticise. It is of little, use pointing out that this
test would exclude nearly all the great critics of
the world, from Longinus to George Saintsbury, for
I don’t suppose Mr. Bedford ever read a line of any one
of them. If spinning yarns like Mr. Bedford’s “Silver
Star,” filled with crude dialogue, crude action, crude
characters (the coach-driver is so natural and Aus-
tralian that he wears a bowie-knife at his belt, can
see as well in the dark as in the light, and is called
“Buck” Crawford) —if the spinning of this stuff
alone qualifies one to appreciate style and thought
and form, then I hasten to advertise the fact that
of such qualifications T have none. I leave readers of
Mr. Bedford’s novels to judge how inestimable is
my advantage.
A Satchel of Books
The Black House, by Roy Bridges (Hodder and
Stoughton). A bustling boy’s yarn about old-time
smugglers, wreckers and buried treasure, capitally
related, and holding the interest to the last word,
Bridges, an Australian, grows bigger with every
novel. His feeling for character is excellent, and his
strong and colorful prose makes a picture of every
scene.
The Work of Laura and Harold Knight, a folio of
eight paintings by an artistic married couple, admir-
ably produced in color, with a foreword by Ernest
G. Halton. Both Knights—they are represented in
the Melbourne and Brisbane galleries—-are honest
craftsmen who deal in clean color and have a fine
sense of atinostdiere; and these reproductions give
an adequate idea of their work. The folio is the
first of a series of “modern paintings” to be published
by The Studio, which promises to be of considerable
artistic interest provided it steers clear of the gang
of ultra-modernists who. in the Court of Art, should
rightlv come under the head of drunk and disorderly,
... , , . , , ~ . ~
fuel to Jutland , by Commander Georg von llase
(Skeftington). One more contribution from the Ger-
man side to the endless controversy on the battle of
Jutland. Von llase was first gunnery-officer on the
DerfHinger, Germany’s largest battle-cruiser in the
action, and his impressionistie-eum-technical de-
scription is really a vivid and arresting picture of
what happened when hell broke loose in the North
Sea. He credits Beatty with an “excellent tactical
manoeuvre” when he carried out his outflanking move-
ment in the second phase of the battle, and he says
Jellicoe “acted perfectly rightly from a strategic
point of view” in disengaging his fleet at. nightfall
and not re-opening the battle on June 1, because the
very fact of the British fleet remaining “a fleet in
being” inevitably led to Scapa Flow! There is a
similar touch when, after thanking Hirnmel that the
battered German ships were able to “withdraw out ot
the lion’s claws ’ on May 31, he is almost tearfully
regretful that the battle wasn’t continued the next
day and fought to a finish. But it is a valuable
addition to the war-books.
Sheep, Farm and Station Management, by E. 11.
Pearse (Pastoral Review Proprietary). An admir-
able work for the sheepman, by a recognised antlio-
rity. It is addressed to the newchum as well as the
old hand, and there are useful chapters on clearing,
water supply, fencing and the destruction of rabbits
and dingoes. Numerous illustrations and diagrams
are also helpful.
Commonwealth Parliamentary Handbook. A third
edition of a work very valuable to Australian poli-
ticians and pressmen. It contains among other
things portraits of all Senators and M’s.H.R., past
and present, and a record of all the Commonwealth
elections from 1901 to 1919.
Reflections on the World War, by Th. von Beth-
mann Hollweg (Thornton Butterworth.) The dis-
mal apologia of a broken old man—he died a few
months after it was published. Europe, he says,
drifted into war, and he dolefully admits that he
was one of the chief drifters. When the catastrophe
was inevitable he tried to avert it according to his
lights, “but all efforts for peace were bound to fail
against the strong will-to-war of Russia —a will that
England could not soften.” There is nothing very
new in these memoirs of an honest but weak and
muddle-headed Minister and nothing very convincing.
Florence Ruchanan, by E. Jones (The Australian
Board of Missions, Sydney). The story of the “Little
Deaconess” is here simply told. Miss Buchanan,
though suffering and in poor health, made herself a
power and an influence among the assorted South
Sea Islanders, Japs and Chinese about Torres Strait.
Her gentle and courageous life deserves such a record.
The Red Flame, by Lady Miles (Hutchinson). A
poor “first-novel” and a choice sample of slovenly
writing and worse printing. The action is mostly in
Northern India, and if British military life there
produces many of the sort of women that Lady Miles
draws, the sooner Ram Chinnier can get along with-
out a British army the better.
Ursula Finch, by Isabel C. Clarke (Hutchinson).
This well-written story, which roams between Corn-
wall and the north of Italy and has some fine word-
pictures of both, was not written for the Orange
Lodge. Both of the principal characters ’vert to
Rome ; and Miss Clarke finds joy in making them do
it. In spite of the great change-over the story runs
quite smoothly and was very well worth writing.
The, Hand in the Dark, by Arthur J. Rees (John
Lane). This claims to he a detective story of rare
literary quality; hut although some of the characters
are well drawn, the writing is clumsy and the hook is
overloaded with references to historical matters of
■which the author lias a splendid ignorance. For in-
stance, the Moat House stood on the site of an
ancient Saxon castle; hut Saxon England never got
nearer the building of a castle than the construction
of one small tower which Scott describes in the notes
to “Ivanhoe.” The problem which is set in so much
verbiage is to discover the perpetrator of an unusual
sort of murder ; and although the tale drags in the
tolling, the guilt is at last fixed on the person who
seems least likely to have done the deed.
Nancy’s Story, by Marie Van Brakkel (Beatty,
Richardson and Co., Sydney). A simple little story
without much plot or purpose. There is no color, no
characterisation and very little to sustain the interest.
All is quite harmless; and the evil dentist who
occasionally gets drunk loses a perfectly Insipid wife
by way of punishment.
Jackie, by Countess Barc.vnska (Hurst and
Blackett). Jackie is a dancer who wins through
many adventures to success and a satisfactory hus-
band. Well written, hut melodramatic, and the
color is laid on rather crudely.
Inky Way
“Rep”: According to the cables -Louis Esson’s book
of plays has been well received, special praise being
handed him tor “The Drovers.” 1 suspect he
got a lot of the material in it from his half-brother
Frank P. Brown, who spent many years up north
droving and chasing buffaloes, niggers, crocodiles,
mines and things. lie has written some stuff himself.
Louis is a very careful worker, which is a sort of
family birthstain—his uncle, the late John Ford
Paterson, used to sit for two hours at a time gazing
at a canvas, after which ho would arise and add one
more brush stroke. Louis Esson’s methods are some-
what similar.
Hobart Mercury's illustrated weekly, the Tas-
manian Mail, which has led a life of respectable
unobtrusiveness under the editorship of P. 11.
Thurston tod the last dozen years or so, now proposes
to mend its pace. Fred Usher, of the Mercury stall
becomes editor, while Thurston takes over the job o'.
Merc, representative at Launceston, vice 11. Judd,
who joins the head office as chief of staff. The
Mail’s chief competitor for the sixpences of the
Speck’s cookies, the better-illustrated Weekly
Courier, issued from the Launceston Examiner
office, has been pushing itself into districts right at
the Mail’s door, so to speak, and Usher has been
commissioned to repel the invader or perish in the
attempt.


A Look Before a Leap
is ji wise precaution, lint it invariably pays
to take this step.
Send your Kangaroo. Rabbit. Fox, Goat,
Whiptail and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen Only, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
TOP MARKET VALUES. PROMPT RETURNS.
DICK’S
TRADE
NM
MARK
For Power at
Lower Cost.
If you have a drive in your plant that demands
a belt which must withstand abnormal condi-
tions of dust, dirt, steam, excessive cold,
fumes or splashing water, Dick’s Balata Belting
will transmit all the power at the lowest pos-
sible cost. It will do its work easily, without
racking vibration and without strain.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor. York & Wynyard Bts., SYDNEY.
681*3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE,
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
■ —a// the year round.
At all seasons a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings is an in-
dispensable possession. The ex-
perienced cyclist knows tbe value
of tbe service for wbicb B.S.A.
Fittings are famous. For easy,
smooth running they are unrival-
led, while reliability and long
service have made them world-
famous. See that your bicycle is
built of genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
A
3. ■
The Trade-
mark of the
world’s
most famous
Bicycle.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
past free to
D. Y. RENNIE
( Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
a
“5
y
CONTINUOUS STAVE-WIRE WOUND
Mj
•snowing discharge from pipe at end of
section.
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe gives a
greater volume of flow than
any other water conduit —in
fact, the longer it is kept in
service the greater the volume
becomes, the co-efficient of
friction having decreased. This
quality should be of special
interest on GRAVITY FLOW
LINES. Government tests
have proved that Wood Pipe
Avill convey constantly about
15% more water than a 10-
year-ohl metal pipe, and about
25% more than a 25-year-old
metal pipe.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUS-
TRATED BOOKLET, which
also deals with the manufacture
of our famous WOOD TANKS.
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
In the Matter of
GREAT COBAR LIMITED.
Sib Arthur F. Whinney, K.8.E., Receiver and Manager, London.
William Hobner Fletcher, Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
TENDERS are invited by William Horner Fletcher, the Receiver and Manager in
New South Wales for the Debenture Holders of Great Cobar, Limited, for the
k.v.ichase of the following assets, namely:—
Freehold Lands, Leaseholds, Rights, Machinery and Plant, Tools,
Stores, Rolling Stock and Sundries, Trade-marks, Goodwill,
Business and Undertaking of Great Cobar Limited as existing at
the date hereof, excluding Live Stock, Book-debts, Cash and Bank
Balances and Records, but including Freeholds and Leaseholds
and Copper, Gold, Silver and Coal Mines and Mine Plant, Tools,
etc.; Offices and Cottages at Cobar, Wrightville and the Peak, County
Robinson, and at Litligow, County Cook; Leaseholds and Freeholds
at Cobar, Wrightville, The Peak and Litligow.
Railway Sidings at Cobar and Litligow.
The Vendors reserve the right to sell any asset by private treaty before tenders
close and to elect whether tenders shall be accepted.
(1) As a whole. (2) By lots.
Tenders are being called for simultaneously in England and Australia. The Lots
are more fully described in the schedule which, with Conditions of Sale and forms of
tender, may be had on application to the undersigned, or to: —
Messrs. David Fell & Co., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Mr. W. H. C. Chappie, Great Cobar Limited, Cobar.
Mr. John Evans, Great Cobar Limited, Lithgow.
Tenders endorsed as provided in the Conditions and addressed to the Receiver in
the ease of tenders from Great Britain and Ireland, or the Local Receiver for tenders
from elsewhere than Great Britain and Ireland, must be in the hands of the Receiver or
Local Receiver (as the case may be) not later than noon on Fifteenth day of June, 1921.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Dated at Sydney this First day of February, 1921.
Equitable Building,
350 George Street. Sydney.
W. H. Fletcher.
Local Receiver and Manager in New South Wales.
llllyis
■
'
“The Scrutton” Lathe.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR MOTOR GARAGES.
CALL AND INSPECT THIS TRIUMPH OF ENGINEERING SKILL.
6in. Centres, 6ft. Gap Bed, Self-acting, Sliding and Screw-cutting;
Takes 1 in. Black Bar through Hollow Spindle;
Has Back Gearing and Independent Feed Shaft;
Admits 3ft. 9in. between Centres, Gap swings 20in. dia. x in. wide
in front of Face Plate;
Apron Gears run in Oil Baths.
Complete with Face Plate, Driver Plate, Change Wheels and Countershaft.
SCRUTTONS LTD.,
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Agricultural Society of S. Aus. finds
that it really must drop the Autumn Show.
It means a loss nearly every year; also, it
possibly weakens interest in the Spring fix-
ture. So the March affair will in future cut
out all the livestock, and be just a collec-
tion of the fruits of the season held under
cover in the Jubilee Exhibition.
“Bill O’C.” : Appropriate business names?
Well, these are all well-known butchers of
8. Aus.: Bone, Lamb, Mutton, Hyde, Ide
(presumably his Cockney cousin), Lean.
Cheek, Cutting, Hart, Gibbett and S taker.
Another branch of the meat-and-bone pro-
fession —dentistry—furnishes some oddly suit-
able names. The quaintest so far I lately
read on a plate in a north-western N.S.W.
town —Pugliese, which, being pronounced in
good Dago, is simply “Pull-ye-aisy.”
“Ake Ake” : Brown, the head of a depart-
ment in a well-known Sydney commercial
house, approached Ins chief lately with
the news that Jones, one of their biggest and
most valued customers, had been presented
with a son and heir the night before, and
suggested that the firm should fittingly
acknowledge that small person’s arrival. The
chief agreed without demur, and asked
Brown to select a silver mug or something
and send it to the infant with the firm’s
compliments, After a few seconds’ silence
he added, as Brown turned to go: “But leave
it for a day or two —wait and see if the
child lives!”
* •* * *
“J.H.A.”: “Good Australian” (B.
17/3/’2l) says “dehydration is on the way.”
It is—but it’s riding a slow horse in regard
to the dehydration of peaches. The proper
method of drying them is to dehydrate them
without the skin, which isn’t done in Aus-
tralia. The half-peach dries in a ball-shape,
and is a much more saleable article. In
addition to the plants mentioned by “Good
Australian” two are being erected here (Too-
lamba. Vic.), one by the Tongala Fruit Pro-
cess Co., the other by Young Bros., Ard-
mona. Each plant will cost £6OOO, and be
capable of dealing with 30 tons daily. This
ought to prevent a recurrence of this year's
glut, when peaches were fed to horses, cows
and pigs, and thousands of cases rotted on
the ground. Which reminds me. During the
glut I saw a cqw eating ripe peaches She
gulped ’em down whole. Then during the
remastication of the cud she coughed the
stones on to the ground. Fact, I watched
her.
* * * *
“J. Caiger”: “Lahore” (B. 31/3/’2l)
seeks to show, on the authority of two Gov-
ernment inspectors, that potash is not of
much importance to Australian agriculture.
It has been proved to the utmost satisfac-
tion of practical farmers and orchardists
that it does pay to use potash—in the right
way. During the war the stuff was not
available, and growers 'of citrus fruits par-
ticularly felt the loss of it, as their trees
suffered, in many cases severely, and the
fruit deteriorated. When Alsatian potash
became available about 18 months ago,
growers of citrus fruits, potatoes, sugar-cane,
etc., at once secured supplies because they
knew the value to them of potash as a plant
food. This notwithstanding the greatly in-
creased cost, the French company now pro-
ducing potash having put a very high price
on its article. It is not suggested that the
use of large quantities of potash per acre is
necessary, but the addition of a small quan-
tity in conjunction with phosphoric acid and
nitrogen is advisable under certain condi-
tions. The two inspectors quoted by “La-
hore” do not condemn potash as useless —
they only claim that potash by itself has not,
so far as their observations go, given in-
creased yields.
* * * *
“Dragon Isle” pictures Papua scratching
its head: —
The collapse of the rubber and copra markets has
filled Austral-Papunns with pessimism ; and to add to
the general depression the market for M.O.P. gold lip,
black lip, and turtle and trochus shell is not rosy, while
bfehe-de-mer has fallen with a thud. It costs here
well over a shilling to tap and manufacture a
pouhd of plantation rubber for which latest (March)
market rate is ll jJ. in London —and freight, charges,
etc., have to be added to the cost of production!
Copra is quoted at £l2 a ton in Moresby and
Samarai and it costs about £l6 to “manufacture.”
London rate (March) is £26 15s.- —the freighters are
the only profit-snatchers at this price. The Papuan
export duty on copra is 255. a ton, which at present
rate scoffs nearly 5 per cent, of the London market
price. No wonder the planter wears an air of gloom !
If the depression continues for long gloom will be
his only garment, for lava-lavas cost ss. 6d. each.
r lhe plantation companies are reducing labor staffs,
while rubber-tapping has ceased almost everywhere.
Moresby and Samarai are full of unemployed planta-
tion assistants, waiting to get to Australia. The
recruiters of native labor are feeling the pinch, for
reduction of the labor forces on the plantations means
no further orders for recruits. Business is slack, but
prices of food and apparel, etc., are still in the
cerulean dome. The only hopeful thing on the horizon
is the idea that the new bores shortly to be sunk
near Popo and lokea (about 80 and 100 miles west
of Moresby) by the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. will prove
productive. Conditions are said to be very pro-
mising. Meanwhile the Government is trying to pry
a further £20,000 from the Commonwealth ro
augment the yearly subsidy of £30,000 on account
of local administration, which shows no sign of any
decrease in expenditure.
UNTIMELY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas moonlight, and the prowling Mat
Discovered in a bound’ry ience
A nice, fat lamb of Cowan's that
Was caught, and could not journey thence.
Il'i swiftly cut the sheep away
And bore it on his shoulder home.
'Twas in his mind that from that day
No more the little lamb should roam.
Dut Tim, his father', at the door
Met Mat. Reproach was in his eyes.
“Pwhat’s that?’’ said he. “You’re stealin’ more
Of Cowan’s stock. 'Tis sore surprise!
“Me breath is short, me legs is bad,
Me sight is dim, me back is bent.
Ye know it breaks me ould hearrt, lad.
To have you stealin’ meat —in Lent."
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


I
I
r~7
□
TTiili
jpdand
POR heavy or bulky merchandise, the flat
Platform Lorry is most favoured. This 4-ton
Leyland Overseas type is used extensively
by Merchants and Manufacturers, Customs and Shipping
Agents, Carrying Companies and similar concerns.
Its capacity is great, and it performs the heaviest work
in a sure, speedy and exceedingly economical manner.
mm
m
■ /r .
It ’a a lona lone that has no
LeptanU.'
LEYLAND LOGIC
This 4 ton O.S. model is built to withstand
strain of all kinds. Frame, Axles, Springing,
are all scientifically built to this end in common
with all Leyland Chassis. The wheels even,
are made from the same Steel as used by the
Admiralty for its Destroyers and are constuct-
ed in such a manner that the load comes on a
flat face and not oh the rivets. Get full par-
ticulars of the Leyland exclusive features.
Prompt delivery from stock.
LEYLAND MOTORS Ltd.
London Bank Chambers,
Martin Place, Sydney.
Victorian Agents;
PRESTON MOTOR PTY. LTD,
Hi&h St., Preston, Melbourne.
HEISSLER
The Better Battery
It is the Heissler Plates that
make the better battery.
They are treated by a patented
process so that the high capa-
city and long life of the
battery cannot be impaired by
rapid current discharge.
These plates supply the great strength
and ruggedness essential as a basis for
an automobile storage battery.
Every part and appliance of the Heissler
Storage Battery is subjected to the
severest tests for strength and reliability.
Economy and service are guaranteed by
the use of the Heissler.
Types for all Cars now available.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence SI Sydney
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers.
Telephones: 99(57-8-9.
Telegrams: “SYVITCHOX.”
...
-
THE “RUWOLT” CAST STEEL STANDARD ROCKCRUSHER.
TYPE RA, SIZE 16in. x 9£in.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
THE "ROWOLT”
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
THE LIGHTEST, STRONGEST AND
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
ON THE MARKET.
ALL the Essential Parts, including the
MAIN FRAME, PITMAN and SWING-
ING JAWHOLDER are made from the
finest-quality Toughened CAST STEEL.
The JAWS are made from our high-grade
MANGANESE STEEL.
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.


N
~"x largest selling
quality pencil in.
the wovlcL
VENUS
Vpencils
M
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and urn
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PEN Cl US.
Sold Everywliere.
CHATEAU
TANUNEA
Standardly ft ft Hospital
BRANDY
2
a*
#>V
m&;
,^ v - ,y
w"i
StiSS
rif.-itf &*&
m
f >.
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co.. Ltd., Sydney
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
N
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
&h/n
YES!—Yon Car?
Easily Mark any
GARMENT or MATERIAL
to ensure You Protection
'against loss, and individuality
jby using
(KH
Unlimited scope, easily sewn
on. any Name Woven in Fast
Color.
Prices : 12 doz. 7/6,
6 dor. SI - —3doz. 3/6.
Be sure and ask for CASH'S
at all Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Ply. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St. Richmond, Vic.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
\\\\
SimjJeWatf
The simple and practical way to polish
and preserve finished surfaces is to use
Johnson’s Prepared Wax with a cloth.
You need no brushes, sprays nor mops.
Just apply the wax with a cloth and then
polish with a dry cloth. With very little
rubbing you can produce a lustrous polish
of great beauty and durability.
ft
is more than a polish. It is also a wonderful
preservative, for it forms a thin protecting film,
which preserves the finish unusually well
Use Johnson’s Prepared Wax to polish all your
furniture, woodwork and floors. You will thus
add years to the life and beauty of the varnish,
covering up all surface scratches.
rr
■
JO**SO*l*
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
can be had in both paste,
and liquid form—paste
for polishing floors, Wood,
oil-cloth, tile, etc; liquid
for polishing furniture,
woodwork, motor cars,
etc. Ask your dealer for
Johnson’s* Prepared Wax
and begin to enjoy the
simple way.
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON,
379 Kent St., Sydney,
N.S.W.
F. W. Stephen, who knows more about the
railway lines of S. Aus. than any other man.
gets the reward of long service at last by
succeeding J. C. R. Moncrieff as Chief-Engi-
neer for Railways in that State. He cannot
expect to hold the job long, for he has
been in the service since IS7G. Before that
he was in Victoria.
Corindliap, a tiny Western District vil-
lage in Vic., has provided a permanent head
for the Chief Sec.’s Department and a Chief
President for the A.N.A. In his younger
days McPherson, the Under Sec. of Vic.,
was a State-school in the haml'M.
and Tommy Rust, the A.N.A. chief presi-
dent, was one of his pupils.
“Pougo”: Went west the other day. at
Manly (N.S.W.), Victor Daley’s old friend
Dan Ilogan, the Village town-clerk. Horn
at Paddington 51 years ago, he entered the
service of the local council as a young chap,
and soon became assistant council-clerk.
Later he missed the job of council-clerk only
because he w r asn’t married. Then, 21 years
ago. Manly grabbed him and lie town-
clerked there till the end. He was the first
secretary of the Paddington Cricket Club
when electorate cricket was inaugurated,
and was keen on all branches of athletics.
Of rare tact, kindly nature and straight
as a die. Ilogan went out a remarkably popu-
lar man.
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.), which has been
filling them up in celebration of its centenary,
was laid out by Surveyor-General Oxley, in
1819, and a settlement was formed there by
Captain Allman (48th Regt.) on March 21,
1821. In 182(5 it was appointed a place to
which offenders convicted in N. S. Wales
and already under sentence of transporta-
tion skould be sent. Among those packed
off there were Watt, of the Gazette, whose
ticket-of-leave was cancelled for an attack
on Major Mudie. and John Knatchbull. who
was sent up for protection. Watt was
drowned at Port Macquarie and Knatchbull
was hanged at Darlinghurst for murder.
“Machete”: William Archer, critic, play-
wright and translator of Ibsen, not only
spent his early days in Queensland, but
was born there. The Archer family was
well known in the early years of Queens-
land squatterdom, and the main branch is
still at the old station homestead, Grace-
mere, near Rockhampton, where the lake is,
as always, a sanctuary for wildfowl. The
Archers have a curious history. Originally
Scottish, the family was transplanted like
many others of its kind to Norway, and
remained there, but kept up its connection
with its motherland. One of the family
designed and built Nansen’s famous Polar
ship, the Fram, and it was from this Nor-
wegian connection that William Archer drew
his mastery of the Norwegian tongue and
of Scandinavian literature.
With its usual blatant intolerance the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. Conference refused to
remove the ban on It. D. Meagher and other
conscriptionists, and declared that no politi-
cian or candidate w T ho had supported con-
scription would ever be re-admitted to the
Labor movement. This is rough on Bill Ang-
win, M.L.A., and the other Westralian Labor-
ites —about two-fifths of the party, including
the rank and file —who worked enthusiasti-
cally for conscription, have never recanted
and never been expelled. If Lambert, Laz-
zarini and Co. are getting rusty for want of
a heresy hunt they might tackle Angwin—-he
is the most popular Labor member in West-
ralia, and has about the safest seat. But
the attitude of the Westralian A.L.P. would
be one of cold ferocity, for if there were any
further split in that body there would soon
be no Westralian A.L.P. left.
“P.0.M.”: Ireland is doing a lot besides
fighting the police these days. Very many
of the fines, varieties of flowers introduced
in recent years have come from the Island
of Saints. The best strain of anemone to
raise from seed is “St. Brigid”—the Irish
poppy-blossomed windflower. The best
white Watsonia is “O’Brieni”; and one of
the finest of the yellow trumpet daffodils is
“Ard High.” But it is in the rose list that
Ireland specially shines. Here are a few of
the magnificent things: “Irish Elegance,”
“Irish Fireflame,” “Irish Harmony,” “Irish
Afterglow.” "Killarney,” “Killarnev Brilli-
ant,” “Killarney Queen,” “Molly Sharman-
Crawford,” “Tipperary,” “Ulster Gem.”
“Ulster Standard,” “White Killarney,” “Earl
of Dufferin,” “Ards Pillar,” “Ards Rover”
and “Climbing Irish Fireflame.” If at the
present moment all roses were cut out ex-
cept those of Irish and Australian origin w r e
should miss a lot of old favorites, but the
garden would lose nothing in brilliance. The
blights would probably be bitterly disap-
pointed. though, for nearly all the Irish and
Australian roses are such strong growers
that they laugh at the pests that torment so
many French, English and German sorts.
“II.II.”: I came across some things the
other day which recalled an old recitation,
“The Candidate.” He is addressing the
electors of a stodgy English town: —
I have been a councillor in this ’eve town for years
and twice 1 ’eld the dignity of mayor and wore the
robes of lioftice. Doorin’ my term 1 did heaps to make
this ’ere town the visin’ young industrial metrollops
if is. I was one of the founders of the ’Ome for
Jmprobables—l mean Impossibles—that is to say,
Ilincurables. Doorin’ my term we raised the levels
of many streets to himprove the drainage. As the
drainage drained into the ’ouses and the helevation
was ’ard on the ’osses we lowered ’em again.
Sometimes we lowered ’em more than we ’ad
raised ’em. It was also doorin’ my term that
we made the big artificial lake in the park with
birds drownin’ in it. Afterwards we made a cause-
way across the lake to carry the traffic. When the
traffic became so ’eavy, owin’ to the growth of our
young industrial metrollops, that the causeway
couldn't carry it we made a subway hunder the lake.
Finally we filled up the lake to make more room for
the van of progress. All these things tended to the
prosperity of this young industrial metrollops. When
the Prince of Wales visited us doorin’ inv term of
hoffice his Royal Highness was graciously pleased to
remark that he never heard of hanything like it in
his life.
What reminded me of it was the spectacle
of a Court at Sydney abolishing the fixed
price of potatoes to help the producer after
fixing it to help the consumer, and recom-
mending to itself that its own milk fixture
should be removed, and being paid for first
getting in the way and then getting' out
again.


M
N
Renewal of Willard
Threaded Rubber Insula-
tion scarcely needs to be
given a thought. But that
of ordinary insulation
must, at least once before
the battery is worn out.
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation gives far
better protection to
plates and is the only
kind that can be depend-
ed on to last as long as
the battery.
will
STORAGE
BATTERY


In Itchy Pimples All Over
Body, Cuticura Heals.
“I suffered untold agony for six
months with dry eczema. First oi
all it started with itchy
pimples. I scratched them,
especially in my sleep and
I they spread all over my
body in eruptions. It near-
ly drove me mad, and my
clothes irritated it.
“1 tried many remedies
and could not get cured. I then sent
for samples of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment and bought more with the
result that I am completely healed.
(Signed) Ben Wakeling, Gladstone
St., Bellambi, N. S. W.
Use Cuticura Soap and Ointment
for all toilet purposes.
For sample each address : "R. Town* &
Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Sgiir’Cuticura Soap »haro» without mug.
Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
MN
t'"v eyV ( f
M
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED.
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
(Wholesale only).
K. BUCKMASTER.
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street.
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
In these days we all have
to Keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
M
Keep Your MILLING CUTTERS Sharp.
NM
If your Milling cutters get dull quickly
the quality of the work varies, while
constant re-sharpening decreases the
output and increases the cost of pro-
duction,
“Capital” High-Speed
Milling Cutters are made from the
highest-grade Sheffield Steel, specially
prepared for hard wear. The excel-
lence of the steel gives a keen cutting
edge that lasts a long time and turns
out better and more uniform work.
Prices, etc., on application to
Department “A.”
THE- EAGLE and GLOBE STiIEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of “ Ultra-Capital»» High-Speed Steel,
879-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
361 Latrobe Street. MELBOURNE*
16 Boulder Road. KAIXSOOKLIE.
Uliff Street, fIIRMANtLfi.
John Held & Nephews, BRISBANE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE.
Euul Cray, Ltd., Nt,IICABTLK.
ft. L. Milligan. Collins Street, IIOBAIST.
N
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
b v CHHISTOPHKR
.JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
I'or quick and easy shav-
ing use fills famous
Razor, which is of I lie
finest quality and lias a
world-wide reputation.
.^G'STe*
Price 10/8 of
representatives,
all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
, Norman Baker & Longhurst, sft York Street^Sydney^
STETSON
~//
1 "vj h
1.1
- \
/r<
m:
pi j ,
MYSTIC
<=3
fcs.
XAMINE your STETSON
Under a Microscope
and you will see neither warp nor
woof, but a fine close meshed material,
denser, softer, more durable than any pro-
duct of loom or needle.
In the making Of a STETSON, oiily the
finest furs, obtained after arduous Search
and high-bidding (for fine furs are also
eagerly sought after by the World*s Lead-
ing Fashion Authorities), are used. And,
since every STETSON is hand finished,
it stands to reason that a STETSON
must be correctly styled, possess lasting-
shapeliness and unusual durability.
See yourself as others
see you —'neath a
STFTSON
<ole Australasian Agents:
*. B. SHEATHER & COY. LTD., Sydney, N.S.W
THE HAT of TO-DAY
WITH CHARACTER, SHAPE and
STYLE.
TT WILL GAIN THE APPROVAL
OF MEN WHO SELECT
CRITICALLY.
GREY, with light binding,
r '™ 35/-
i
m
■ /
✓
■>/
314
George Street (near Hunter Street)) SYDNEY.
‘‘Longshanks” : Are there any shorter sur-
names in Australia than these two—Re and
Ey? The first is borne by a family in Elgm-
.street, Carlton (Vic-), cm e °f whose aaem-
bers passed out the other day; and the
second is on a signboard at Dimboola.
On account of shortage of work the Engi-
neers in Sydney propose a reduction of
hours so that the jobs may go round further.
Plainly the Engineers don’t believe in the
stupid but fairly-popular theory that reduc-
tion of a man’s hours doesn’t mean reduction
of his output.
“Dicky” Adamson, headmaster of esley
College (Melb.), who is now off on a trip
to Europe, made an expensive effort as a
pioneer in Australian aviation in 1908. He
imported a Wright biplune, having engaged
Pourpre —a French pilot recently decorated
by his Government for a daring flight to
Africa —to handle the machine. It "’as
haugared in an open field at Digger s Rest,
and numerous attempts to get it into the air
were made; but the gusty weather or some-
thing proved beyond the experience of the
pilot, and only one "flight” of 50 yards was
accomplished.
Except that it hasn’t any money to speak
of, the N.S.W. Rural Bank is just about
ready to start off in opposition to the Com-
monwealth Bank: the Dooley Government in-
tends it to be in relation to the State Savings
Bank (with which for the present it will
operate) much of what the Commonwealth
Bank is to the old Post Office Savings Bank.
But its most immediate use will be, not
to lend the expectant cocky money, but to
catch the expectant cocky’s vote in the next
general election.
While thunderous people like Loughlin
and Lambert seek to divert attention from
their own schemes by offering to save the
Ma State from the big landholder and
absentee, the great properties are passing.
Graduated land taxation represents the con-
tinued dropping that wears away a stone.
The Albury district saw the break-up of its
last big freehold (Bulgandra) the other day,
and it. wasn’t anything wonderful as Eng-
lish ideas go—only 14,334 acres. Almost
every big freehold between the Murray and
Murrumbidgee is in process of subdivision
when buyers can be found, which isn’t
always.
Not regarding it as a good investment to
pay £72 for the right kind of clothes to go to
Buckingham Palace when he was in Loudon
as Melbourne’s Gaud-Mayor, Henry Weedon
hired a suit at four guineas for a couple of
hours, lie comforted himself probably with
the thought that Craven, M.L.A., and a ic.
Minister had done likewise. On the Wav
back to their pub the three called at a
photographer’s and were “taken. ’ “But
where did Weedon get the chain?” otic of
the trio was asked. “Oh, he hired that, too,
and a mighty good imitation it was,” the
economist replied.
Names, including that of Lord Mayor
Lambert, of Sydney, President of the
A.L.P., are flying round in connection with
the N.S.W. Agent-Generalship. The difficulty
is that, the first day after a change of Gov-
ernment, the appointee may be recalled, and
Hall, whose appointment the Storey Cabinet
repudiated on the plea that a Ministry isn’t
bound by the signature of its predecessors,
may be reinstated. In other words, the re-
pudiation may be repudiated. Another mut-
ter talked about concerns the lumpers who
coaled the transports and hospital ships in
the 1917 strike when the anti-war or pro-
llun party refused. The Dooley Government
has ejected them under the name of “scabs”
from the old Model Lodging House and given
it on a 10-years’ lease to the strikers. But
when the change comes some people say that
the 10-years’ lease will be torn up like
Hall’s lease of his job and the old crowd
will he reinstated the same as Meagher.
An underworld item :
Contrary to popular Sydney impression—as a
matter of fact, almost Everything is contrary to popu-
lar impression—the old-established trade of park-
prowling is going as strongly as ever. It is neces-
sarily a well-organised business. For half a dozen
predatory ruffians to fall over each other in the
attempt to reach one couple would be to defeat the
end at which all six aim.
At a given hour the Club meets near where phil-
anderers are accustomed to pass. The C.O. details his
men, one to each pair; no more, no less. Cursing or
rejoicing, as the case may be, the spotter takes up
the pursuit; but whatever his emotions, he does not
disobey. The discipline has an active-service touch
about it. Flappers are the least profitable. One club-
member on being given six flappers running resigned
and went back to shop-lifting, on the principle that
a succession of losers often sickens a man of horse-
racing. A flapper’s bag usually contains a used tram
ticket, her handkerchief, a couple of hairpins, an old
novelette (original price Id.), a piece of time-worn
chewing-gum and her tram-fare home. Elderly ladies
of the sort that wear faded black dresses and jemima
hoots are the Broken Hills of the profession. They
have a habit of carrying most of their valuables in
the large patent-leather receptacles they affect. As
the years go by their stock of gold chains, rings
studded with synthetic rubies, chain-bangles with
gold lock attachment, slave bangles, Nellie Stewart
bangles, lockets (with or without hair), brooches,
cairngorms (if of Scotch extraction), crosses (if of a
devotional temperament), and other realisable assets
grows and grows. An evening comes when the lodger
suggests an outing. Sentiment conquers. The black
bag is seized by him who lies in wait, a tram is
boarded, and that night in some humble Surry Hills
dwelling a collection is appreciatively inspected which
would do credit to a jackdaw.
The effective practice of the calling demands a
certain amount of skill. Hidden away in convenient
clumps of shrubs are lengths of telegraph wire with
hooks at the end. The lovers having been tracked
down the practitioner gets his wire into position.
The hook grips the handle of the hag. The* rest is
simply a matter of caution and of inattention on the
part of the owner. Nothing comes amiss. A hat. A
pair of gloves. Many a young man has found it
hard to believe himself sober on starting from the
embrace of his beloved at a rustling noise, only to
see his coat —laid aside owing to the warmth of the
night—moving rapidly off into the bush untouched
by any human hand.
The prowler is no fighter. On being challenged
he bolts. It is the height of bad form to use a
revolver, as was indicated by almost every witness in
some recent proceedings. And he makes good money.
Cash, not pornography, is the lure. Some of the
State’s most prominent burglars have substituted
running-shoes for jemmies of late years.


% 11
CORRECT LINES
The foundation of good dress, like the
foundation of good art, is an under-
standing of proportion and grace of line .
M
The most beautiful line
of awomans figure is
the graceful curve from
the armpit to the an-
kle. The beauty of this
line determines the ef-
fectiveness of all your
clothes.
A recognized authority on women’s dress has said
that if you would have an infallible guide to
determine what is becoming, you must master the
correct line of the individual figure.
Study yourself; conserve the flattering lines of
your figure and subdue the inartistic details. Shun
the artificial in corsetry. The ‘ ‘tight waist” or
the appearance of obvious corsetry is conspicuously
unsmart; if there is a bit more indication of waist-
line in some of the accepted Autumn and Winter
modes, it is gained by the skill of the costumiere
who fashions the clothes to follow more closely
the lines of the figure so the accent at the waist
becomes largely a matter of optical illusion.
As more and more women have come to a
knowledge of those things that are the funda-
mentals of all good dressing, the demand for
Gossard Front Lacing Corsets has grown amaz-
ingly. There is not a type of figure, however un-
usual or difficult to fit, but can be successfully
corseted in these original front lacing corsets,
and in them women of every type have found
complete expression of their ideas of becoming-
ness and good taste.
1
GOSSARD
Front Lacing ,
CORSETS
are sold conditional upon your complete satisfaction.
The high standard of Gossard manufacture which
has been so conspicuously a part of Gossard
service and which has been so consistently
maintained permits you to buy every Gossard
Corset with the confirmed assurance that it
is worth every penny you pay for it —worth
it in style, worth it in comfort, worth it
in wearing service.
You will find Gossards at those stores that
merit your confidence by offering only
merchandise of unquestionably superior
quality.
The H. W. Gossard Co.
Largest Makers of Fine Cirrstty
Chicago New York London Toronto Sydney isusnat AI9S
Westclox
Jack o’Lantern—Radium Dial
Against the velvety bl ack-
ness of the darkest night,
Jack o’Lantern hands and
numerals glow brightly.
The radium compound
glows constantly. It is at
your service any time, day
or night, yet it lasts for
years. Jack o’Lantern
renders twenty-four hour
service.
All Westclox are strong
on punctual, faithful ser-
vice. The trade mark has
come to stand for service
and timekeeping.
Westclox Big Ben, 27/6; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6; America, 12/6
Jack o'Lantern Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-; Glo-Ben, 22/6
Boyproof, 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
ill
3* 02. NET
J
Never Be Without
A Tin of Each!
Not a day passes but
you find good uses for
“REX” HAM PATE and
“REX” VEAL & TONGUE PATE
Everyone enjoys these appetizing meats
for lunches, picnics, suppers, etc.
They are all pure meat, minced fine,
delicately seasoned —ready for instant
use.
You will revel in their fresh inviting
flavors.
Packed in Australia. Sold Everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
J 112 C


A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, engraved “Butterfly”
design, 60/-
' .
A. Saunders’ Entrfie Dish, pure silver-plated A 1 quality, highly
. burnished, 70/«
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver-plated AX
quality, highly burnished, plain design, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £fl.
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Flower Stand, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure silver-plated A 1
quality, highly burnished, daintily engraved,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Presentation Inkstand, polished English Oak,
pure silver-plated mounts and fittings, English cut-glass bottles,
complete with drawer, £l2/10/-
A. Saunters’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure silver-
plated A 1 quality, highly burnished, bead edging,
£5/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
FIG. 760.
FOR MAKING BORE DRAINS AND REMOVING COUCH-
GRASS, BULRUSHES, SILT, &c., FROM EXISTING DRAINS
TRADE
“CHAMPION”
MARK
BROUN PATENT DELVER
A PROVED SUCCESS
The Transport Wheel attach-
ment enables the Delver to be
drawn about by one horse.
This Delver is the invention of
a practical man, and gives
results. Many already in use
in N.S.W. and Queensland.
,-fis
FIG. 761.
New Drains can be made with-
out first having to plough, and
for ordinary delving only 8
horses are required.
Drains can be cleaned out
without increasing the size of
drains.
SOLE SELLING AGENTS:
British Australian Machinery Company
Limited '
Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Union Bank Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane, QTd.
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
«?!%
-■ai /
\7
/ -A
tfY:
FIG. 76


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S chief theatres.
O J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HEII MAJESTY’S,
THE LILAC DOMINO.
CRITERION.
THE SIGN ON THE DOOR.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
Grand opera house, Sydney.
Direction I. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Evenings at 7.-to. Mutinies Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
(by arrangement with the Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh)
THE WONDER SHOW OF THE WORLD,
C HIT CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Five years in London, still running.
£20,000 Production £20,000.
300 Artists 300,
Plans at Nicholson’s.
WI RT H BROS. CIRCUS.
Sole Proprietors: WIRTH BROS., LIMITED.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
At WIRTHS’ NEW HIPPODROME, IIAYMARKET.
Absolutely New Company of All-Star American,
English, Continental and Oriental Artists.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
Legal _N oticea.
mO THOMAS CLAFFEY, brother ofPat-
**• rick Claffy or Claffey, deceased, and
formerly of Melbourne, Australia, and all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
22nd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send into the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of December. 1921,
your claim to the estate of PATRICK
CLAFFY OR CLAFFEY, who died intestate
on or about the 27th day of February, 1920,
failing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO MARY CLAFFEY, sister of Patrick
Claffy or Claffey, deceased, and formerly
of Dunedin, New Zealand, and all persons
claiming by, through or under her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
22nd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send into the undersigned on
or before the Ist day of December, 1921,
your claim to the estate of PATRICK
CLAFFY OR CLAFFEY, who died intestate
on or about the 27th day of February, 1920,
failing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ROBERT ALEXANDER JONES and
any children or grandchildren of his
and all persons claiming by, through or under
any one of them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
22nd day of March, 1921, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send into the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of June, 1921, your claim
to the estates of WILLIAM RAMSAY
JONES, ALICIA CATHERINE JONES
and ELEANOR JONES, all late of Aramoho,
New Zealand, deceased, failing which the
estates will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1921.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Public Notice.
TO MARY THOMPSON HOSKINS (nde
McDonald) formerly of Nanango in
the State of Queensland wife of Fred Charles
Hoskins.
TAKE NOTICE that I FRED CHARLES
HOSKINS your lawful husband hereby
declare that I have not seen or heard of
you since the Twenty-Sixth day of May
1914 and that I intend to re-marry if I do
not see or hear of you on or before the
30th June 1921.
FRED CHARLES HOSKINS.
Yarriman Creek, Queensland.
Amusements.
LLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
H. M. THEATRE, BRISBANE.
Australasian Representative: THIGH D. WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
u
NIONP I C T U K
II 1C A T It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST'S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
A musical play with an intriguing plot.
IRENE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The Greatest of all Musical Comedy Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes HridtreL
CLAIRE ANDERSON in
THE PALACE OF DARKENED
WINDOWS.
LEE KOHLMAR in
THE SECRET GIFT.
Prices as usual.
KINO’S THEATRE. MEIItO U K N E.
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN 1). O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
TO W N HA J, L, MELBOCBN E.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
Messrs. J. & N. TAIT announce the return visit of
the N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA and their distin-
guished conductor HENRI VERBRUGGHEN.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, FRIDAY,
30th APRIL. 2nd MAY. 3rd MAY. 6th MAY.
SATURDAY, FRIDAY SATURDAY
7th MAY. 20th MAY. 21st MAY ('Matinee')
Season Tickets (transferable). £2/2/-
Reserved Seats, 7/6; Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-.
Plan at Allan’s.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG in
MID-CHANNEL.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at s.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITAGRAPII, PATUE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
BRITANNIA ~ THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
We Desire
to Buy
N
Platinum, Cold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Tearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6. lt
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Commissioners: —
W. 11. O’M. WOOD (President), H. D. HALL, J. H. DAYIES.
RURAL BANK DEPARTMENT.
CURRENT ACCOUNTS OPENED to be operated on by cheque.
FIXED DEPOSITS ACCEPTED at 4% interest for 6 months.
4i% „ „12 „
„ 5% „ „ 24 „
DEPOSIT STOCK ISSUED bearing interest at 4% and repayable
on 1 0 days’ notice for every £1 0 and
3 months for every £lOO. Maximum
notice 2 years.
THE FOLLOWING BRANCHES NOW
undertake all the above classes of business:—
Barrack Street, Sydney.
Bathurst.
Burwood.
Dubbo.
Goulburn.
Leichhardt.
Lismore.
Mwdgee.
Newcastle.
Newtown.
North Sydney.
Redfern.
Southern (Haymarket).
Tamworth.
Wollongong.
All other Branches of the Bank accept Fixed
Deposits and issue Deposit Stock.
Further Branches will open current accounts in a few weeks’ time.
Deposits in the Rural Bank Department will,
after providing for necessary reserves, be lent
to agricultural, pastoral, rural or primary
producers or to persons carrying on industries
immediately associated with rural pursuits.
Head Office,
19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
16th April, 1921.
By order of the Commissioners,
A. W. TURNER,
Secretary.
MN
ABBEY
SHOES!
A lot of style, a lot of comfort, a lot of
wear for a very reasonable price!
By choosing Abbey Shoes you get the
utmost in quality and value.
We take especial care to ensure a per-
fect fit.
Here is
ABBEY’S SPECIAL,
the Highest-grade Tan Willow Bal.,
which we stock in half-sizes, narrow,
medium and wide fittings. In the mod-
ern made-to-order style.
■Tan
Glac<s Kid
Box Calf .
PRICES:
57/0
52/6
45- & 637-
POSTAGE EXTRA,
Write for the illustrated Abbey Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O.and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Public Notices.
You who can see—Remember me.
LINEN CHEST FUND
(In aid of R.V. Institute for the Blind, St.
Hilda Road, Melbourne.)
FIRST PRIZE.
Magnificent Chest of Household Linen
supplied hy Messrs. Buckley and Nunn,
and valued at £2lO.
1 Handsome Pale Blue Down Quilt, Best Quality,
all Silk, filled with Finest Quality Down. Valued
at 20 giuneas.
1 Very 1 ine Hand-made Belgian Point Lace Bed-
spread, full double-bed size. Valued at 25 guineas.
12 Hemstitched Double-bed Sheets, best quality
(linen finish).
12 Hemstitched Single-bed Sheets, best quality
(linen finish).
2 Hemstitched Embroidered Bedspreads, double-bed
size, Irish Linen.
1 Hemstitched Embroidered Bedspreads, single-bed
size, Irish Linen.
1 Pair Irish Linen Pillow Shams.
2 Pairs Embroidered Pillow Shams.
2 Marcella Quilts, single-bed size.
12 Plain Pillow Slips, linen finish.
6 Hemstitched Pillow Slips.
6 Hemstitched Linen Pillow Slips.
12 Hemstitched Face Towels, pure Irish Linen.
18 White Turkish Bath Towels.
6 Striped Linen Bath Towels.
2 Colored Bath Mats (1 pink, 1 blue).
2 Hound Scalloped Damask Cloths (pure Irish linen,
for round tables).
1 Linen Damask Cloth, 24 x 3 yards, scalloped edge.
1 Plain Damask Cloth, 2x3 yards, pure Irish linen.
2 Dozen Pure Linen Serviettes.
6 Doyleys, scalloped edge. 6 Tray Cloths.
2 Pure Linen Embroidered Supper Cloths.
2 Afternoon Tea Cloths, Irish linen.
2 Hemstitched Damask Carvers.
2 Hemstitched Embroidered Sideboard Runners.
1 Linen Cosy Cover
2 White Muslin Embroidered Cushion Covers.
3 Round Crochet Lace Centres, hand-made.
1 Fine Belgium Point Lace Tea Cloth, hand-made.
3 Selvyt Polishing Cloths.
1 doz. Dusters. 1 doz. Floor Cloths.
1 doz. Dish Cloths. 1 doz. Basin Cloths.
12 yards Forfar Tea Towelling.
SECOND PRIZE.
Handsome Wardrobe of Men’s Clothing
supplied by Messrs. Chas. Lane & Co. I’ty.
Ltd., and valued at £lO5.
Wardrobe.
Dress Suit, made to order.
Sac Suit, made to order.
2nd Sac Suit, made to order.
Overcoat.
2 Dress Shirts.
4 Day Shirts.
2 Singlets.
2 Underpants.
2 Pyjamas.
Dressing Gown.
4 Cashmere Half-hose.
2 Silk Half-hose
1 doz. Collars.
1 doz. Handkerchiefs.
1 pair Gloves.
1 pair White Gloves.
Travelling Itug.
Umbrella.
Hat.
Cap.
Ties, etc.
THIRD PRIZE
Fully Mounted Royal Bengal Tiger Skin
valued at £B4.
Tickets 1/- each.
Applicants for tickets must enclose stamps
for reply.
To be drawn June 21, 1921.
MISS JANET MOXHAM, Hon. Sec..
317 Collins Street., Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 2267.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived tho Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Havy men.
Used since 1596. FOR Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
iusist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.


FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni-
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
The Standard
All-British Fountain Pen
M
THE
s'-
T
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD , f BUNHILL ROW, LONDON,
Australasian Representatives : NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, Sydney & Melbourne
ASK FOR ONOTO !NK BEST FOR ALL PENS
Bond’s Australian Made
Triple
Wear
Hose
is definitely
Guaranteed
not to ladder,
hole or tear.
Made in
heavy Plated
Artificial Silk
5^
a-
%
X, v k
El v
and 4 times the Weight and 4 times
the Strength of any Silk Hose money
can buy. Triple Wear is
easily your Best Hosiery
Investment at
12/11
PER PAIR
Geo. A. Bond & Co.—All States & N.Z.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Lilac Domino”
Criterion “The Sign on the Door”
Palace “Nightie Night”
Grand Opera House “Chu Chin Chow ’
Tivoli Moving Pictures anti Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
New llipronnoME Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Irene”
Royal "The Maid of the Mountains”
King's “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
♦
Whatever America may lack in literary
culture, it is all there with the machine-made
drama. So once more, in “The Sign on the
Door,” now at Sydney Criterion, we have a
play in which all the situations dovetail with
a neatness that would delight any cabinet-
maker. In the prologue the heroine is
struggling for that which is dearer than life
in the private room of a shady restaurant,
and being involved subsequently in a police-
raid. The three acts which follow cover the
hours between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. on the one
day, and into them the lavish author has
crowded an attempted abduction (the victim
being an ingenue and her aggressor the person
who was so unpleasantly prominent in the
eafd scandal) ; the foiling of the villain by
the virtuous woman whom he landed in the
aforesaid scandal (she is now the ingenue'*
stepmother and the wife of the hero) : her
threatened exposure of the habitual seduc-
tionist, and his murder by the scandalised hus-
band. After the murder, which is so organ-
ised as to look like suicide, the lady is acci-
dentally locked in with the corpse. Had she
paused to think she must have known that
the family would be safe with any jury in
the U.S.A. ; but she loses her head and there
is a distressing scene in which much damage
is done to the furniture. Then the explana-
tions begin, and the way is paved for a happy
ending. Apart from the assumption, psycho-
logically weak though melodramatically sound,
that a man is more likely to believe a black-
guard whom lie distrusts than the wife he
honors, this is a good play of its sort. There
are no dull moments, never a halt in the
action, and hardly a redundant word of dia-
logue. Out of the lava-flow of staccato speech
a gem is occasionally thrown up. For ex-
ample: “It’s wonderful how many women go
to a man’s bedroom to fight for their honor.”
* * * *
The acting has a deal to do with the atmo-
sphere of credibility which invests the fevered
production. Maude Ilanaford is wonderfully
convincing, in her tenser moments. Dorothy
Seacombe is a charming flapper whose eager-
ness to be destroyed may be condoned on
the ground of extreme youth. Charles White
and William ,T. Kelly are unimpeachable as
conventional villain and conventional hero
respectively. John de Lacy, though his
method never varies, is equally satisfactory
as detective or “crook.” On this occasion he
is Kick Callahan, conductor of an apartment-
house. H. R. Roberts opens as an efficient
waiter and winds up as a dignified District-
Attorney ; and several minor pai*ts are
pleasantly and capably filled.
At Sydney Opera House “Chu Chin Chow”
continues to be good to look at. There are
“Irene, ” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Chester Clute as
“Madame Lucy."
moments, indeed,
when it would be
more convincing
could it be seen
and not heard, but
this is a censorious
world. The mis-
er ea n t who re-
marked that Chu
was merely “T h e
Forty Thieves” re-
Asched has been
sentenced to have
his carotid severed
by Arthur Styan’s
scimitar.
“Nightie Night”
—so called because
of the general pre-
ference for pyjamas
—r ages prosper-
o u sly at Sydney
Palace. It is a
mirthful business
in which Joseph
Coyne, described as
a married man of
good intentions,
gets involved with
persons of both
sexes who are not
married, and whose intentions are, there-
fore, questionable. Some diverting dia-
logue is supplied by an American who speaks
English, an Australian who speaks American
and a lady who speaks Australian with
French and American trimmings. And there
is a general consensus of opinion that the
lady’s pyjamas are well filled.
The critic at a Sydney show: —
A visit to the Education Gallery in Loftus-street
leaves the impression that the annual show by the
Society of Women Painters is mainly an exhibition
of antiques and crafts, the pictures being there
mainly to make a suitable setting. The craft section
is certainly the stronger, and a splendid display.
The pictures do not reach a high standard. A gen-
eral impression is that only a limited few of the
exhibitors are fully aware of what they are striving
after, and amongst them are some who see technique
as the beginning and end of art. A first interest in
technique and a half-hearted interest in the other
qualities will never make a masterpiece. A hundred
years hence they will call this, in art, the Mad
Technique period, for the great majority of artists the
world over are sliding down to oblivion because they
make their every picture an exhibition of their
mere cleverness in the handling of paint.
Technique first, and the truths of tone, form and
color anywhere—so we have such pictures as Miss May
Gibbs’s “Stooping Model’’ (No. 51). No normal eye
could resolve the background into a wall, or anything
else but a shower of brush marks which the stoop-
ing lady appears to be making an effort to dodge.
Mrs. Rix Nicholas, who has pride of place in the ex-
hibition, seems also to be mainly interested in tech-
nique, although occasionally she sinks it for the
greater interest—a study of light, as in “From My
Terrace, Mosman’’ (No. 15), and “The Little Green
Gate” (No. 1C). These ai-e her best; but even here
the application of paint could have been still less
conscious and the color more truthful.
Others of the few who appear to know what they
are after centre their interest in color. Not the
truth of color, but a formula applied to Nature. It is
not necessary to exhaust the whole gamut of a full
palette to obtain good color, and Miss Gladys Owen
and Miss Alice Norton might pleasantly surprise them-
selves if one day they
attempted to record a
phase of Nature with
a palette limited to
four or five colors. If
the liberty of increas-
ing the fulness of a
color is taken, the
assessment of its tone
val u e, already the
most difficult problem
in painting-, becomes
greater.
It is a pleasant sur-
prise to come on pic-
tures like those of
Miss Olive Birkenhead
and Miss Constance
Moner. The object of
both appears to be the
natural and humble
one of faithfully at-
tempting to record
something seen, and
theirs is the healthiest
painting in the show.
Both seem to regard
the truths of tone,
form and color as of
equal importance, and
neither has any false
ideas about the im-
portance of technique.
Of the remaining 36
exhibitors a few would
seem to have a vague
idea of where they are
going, and are sin-
cere in their attempts.
“Irene” at Her
Majesty's , Melbourne.
Rawdon Blandford as
Lawrence Hadley.
But sincerity and patient effort are not alone suffi-
cient to produce art of a high standard. You must
first know what you are doing.
At Sydney Tivoli “Dinty” is the “First
National’s” current attraction. Wesley
Barry plays the freckled-face news-kid who
supplements his trade in papers by helping
to outwit an opium-smuggler. The smuggler,
by the way, adopts an idea of Edgar Poe’s
—the guillotine that sends his enemies on a
voyage west. A novel prelude is acted by
three nippers who seem to have stepped out
of the picture for a frolic on the stage. Wm.
Faversham, a gambler with the cards against
him, passes “The Sin That Was llis” on to
a priest. However, the sin didn’t belong
to him at all, as a death-bed attempt to get
right with the Almighty reveals. The pic-
tures are flavored with variety turns, and
in this section Fred Collier catches the
applause in a net of song.
::: * *
The ape-man who inhabits the Sydney
Lyceum’s calico this week is calculated to
give 00 shivery thrills per minute, and a
sigh of relief goes up when an enterprising
reporter is told to “go get it.” Dainty Viola
Dana in a supporting film is a twin-sister of
Cinderella. The Strand tends to develop into
an Alaskan tourist bureau, both pictures
having their setting in that cold country.
“The Silver Horde” is a Rex Beach story of
the salmon fisheries, and Pearl White is the
“Tiger Cub,” though at heart she is really a
little fluffy kitten. At the Crystal Palace
Nazimova is “The Brat” who ties her garter
in public. “Oh, Boy !” a screen adaptation of
the musical comedy, is rollicking at the Lyric.
The Globe features “Heliotrope,” in which a
convict-father- gives up his life to shield his
daughter from his wife. It is no lavender
story. The same house shows Enid Bennett’s
shapely legs in “Silk Hosiery.” The Aus-
tralian girl is a dreamy mannequin tins'time.
At Melbourne Majesty’s a rush for
“Irene” has not set in yet, but is neverthe-
less inevitable. The story compels popu-
larity. When news gets noised abroad that
three gals from the Bowery are going to
show that they could cut as much social ice as
the same number of maidens from sth
Avenue provided they could get the same
sort of clothes, the demand for “Irene” is
bound to rise rapidly. A doctrine so com-
forting to the vast majority of the popula-
tion can hardly fail to catch on. In “Irene”
nothing counts save clothes, and clothes
count for everything. Even the heroine’s
husky parent, clad in the raiment of a re-
cent pictorial advt., strikes the insipid
young capitalist as an acceptable mother-in-
law.
“The Welcome Stranger” continues to
strike terror into the township at Melbourne
King’s. Also Lizette Parkes blows in on a
gust of scandalous rumor, just to give a
show of woman-interest to the career of
Isodore Solomon, daughter Essie being a
damsel of no importance, and Mrs. Trimble
(Margaret Sutcliffe) being of even less
importance than Essie.
At Melbourne Royal the king of comic-
opera brigands will go on introducing himself
as the new Governor until further notice,
and the Maid of the Mountains will con-
tinue to denounce him owing to his sudden
infatuation for the girl in mauve. Mean-
while the mystery of what happens to the
real new Governor remains as unsolved as
ever. Melbourne begins to fear that the
captive new Excellency and suite must have
died of starvation ere this.
Melbourne Princess’s re-opens on Satur-
day, after a week’s emptiness, with
“Tommy’s French Wife.” Nellie Bramley,
presumably, will be the lady.
Melbourne Tivoli is screening a very pic-
turesque melo. this week in “Nomads of
the North,” wherein the hero flees before a
forest fire, together with wife and baby and
the big teddy-bear that acts as guardian
of the home when father is away. There is
a story and a lot of fine pictorial stuff in
“Nomads of the North,” but a tricky pro-
logue, which introduces silent humans on
the stage as though they were ghostly movies
on the screen, fails to account for itself in
the first instance or justify itself as time
rolls on. Norman Lindsay’s bears direct
attention to a series of ingenious comic
stunts; and one of the arduous duties of the
orchestra is to accompany Elsie Treweek in
a somewhat rough treatment of “Ah, Fors.”
from “Traviata.”
Melbourne Majestic programme, which is
now embellished by the sweet voice of Paul-
ine Bindley in operatic selections, has the
eterilal Connie Talmadge active again this
Aveek, along with “The Masterman,” whom
the customary haunting female proves to be
a bit of putty painted to look like a crow-
bar. Frank Keenan has to suffer this expo-
sure in five reels. At Iloyt’s the leading
shudder concerns the wandering affections of
a Jap lady in “The Breath of the Gods.”
The drama travels from the U.S. to Japan
and contains a lovely hero called Pierre le
Beau. Also there is “The Daughter Pays,”
with a plot which has been the basis of many
films. Still, the acting’ of Elaine Hammer-
stein compensates for the familiar happen-
ings. At the Britannia Hornung’s “Dead
Men Tell No Tales” is shoAving a lofty con-
tempt for probability, and the Meiba is
engaged in picturing Thomas Meighan hurry-
ing through as “Conrad in Quest of His
Youth.”
This week Hoyt’s, Melbourne, are offering
a peep at “The Palace of Darkened Win-
doAvs,” Avhere Claire Anderson goes poking
an inquisitive nose and is beset by a Rajah
Avith a purple reputation. Claire looks like
a candidate for the colored noble’s harem,
but an American hero wrecks the design at
the most interesting moment and robs the
audience of a supreme sensation. The pro-
gress of a small Dutchman, Avhose humility
Avithers with the growth of his income, is
related in “The Secret Gift,” whilst “On
Avith the Motley” makes the eye restless with
the shifting scenes of a circus and the good
looks of the Italian leading lady. Melbourne
Majestic compares ancient Rome with
modern times in “Madonnas and Men.” The
Yankee producer gets the atmosphere of
both periods Avith a reckless display of gladi-
ators! and American clothes, but the
attempt to present an ancient story with a
20th Century parallel becomes rather
wearisome Avhen bits of each tale are alter-
nated in the film. Kingsley’s “Westward
manv a ü bl^ei ' appeal, and there are
wkm- o -r i n t l a r out ' The Misleading Ladv,”
erem Bert Lytell asserts his manhood
a primeval way. Melba supporters are
Rs arrav of h ,f ch . e£ face o£ Bill Hart with
its array of homicidal expressions in the
Cahforman yarn, “The Testing Block!” The
Britannia is the address of “A Perfect
toreJf'.he aD c d „S redS *" »"*» “ “
** * *
,J'>i £ red Moverley’s elocution would have
leceived warmer recognition at Melbourne
Athenaeum on Saturday if she had shown
Her ter 11 C A l ® i n r the selection of her items.
Jiei all-Australian programme was an
admirable idea, but she wasted an excellent
™ c r e trying to make commonplace matter
onnl?H- e ‘ - In V6lSe of higher literary
cheers piquancy brought a houseful of
Two Melbourne picture-shows:—
Dora Wilson makes progress as a pastellist, though
the spinal displays Sn her pictures are still monoto-
nous, and she is too fond of folding up her figures
in an attitude of hopeless grief. Thus in “Australia
Dolorosa” a nude goddess, viewed from astern, drooos
in abject melancholy over the Australian flag. Another
“Nightie Night,” at
Sydney Palace.
Marjorie Bennett as
Mollie Moffat, the
jealous wife.
one, “Triste,” is just
a clump of heaving
flesh unfairly tinted
by the profuse yellow
light capriciously in-
troduced at the corner
of the picture. “The
Blue Lantern” also
gives a false theatrical
glint to the contours
of another comely
maiden. In her less
artificial manner Miss
Wilson’s good drawing
enables her to produce
some effective studies.
“Pomona” gets a vote
of confidence for her
patent desire to look
her best without any
exaggeration of her
obvious charms. Other
nudes —notably “The
Slav e” —a r e excel-
lently modelled, except
in the case, of “The
Dryad,” who isn’t be-
witching for all her
shapeliness, and is
further disqualified for
sitting on an object
suspected of being a
candle-box draped in
blue plush. Two or
thr e e portraits o f
young ladies are ad-
mirable, and some bal-
lerinas are exciting for
their brilliant gar-
ments and their com-
plexions of pink and pearl. The show is in the
Fine Art Gallery.
Sydney Ure Smith’s exhibition of many familiar
etchings at the Decoration Gallery includes some
brilliant pencil drawings which had served as guides
for the color- and tone-values in his subsequent work
with needle and acid. In the cases where the pencil
study can be compared with the etching, the print is
not always superior in beauty. In the etching of
“The Towers of St. Andrew’s,” for instance, the artist
misses some of the quality noticeable in the pre-
liminary run with the pencil. Practically the same
difference in performance is demonstrated in “Boat
Sheds, Mosman,” the first study being good enough to
stand on its own as a delightful piece of drawing.
All the same, the etchings are very attractive and a
number of bookplates add to the charm of the show.
*
Dorothy Brunton, who as a matter of his-
tory had her first speaking part at Adelaide
Royal, has been spending a happy week
there with “Baby Bunting.” It is popular
even to the point of turning away money.
The lady’s breezy assurance suggests Nellie
Stewart and Maud Fane in turns, the great
personal popularity of Frith helps to carry
through the farcical situations, and Hettie
Hartley’s too solid form falls upon fellow-
conspirators with marked effect. The danc-
ing is great, but Madge Elliott could make
her acting part more effective by the simple
expedient of speaking up. Nat Phillips, Roy
Rene and Amy Rochelle have all stayed on
from pantomime to give the variety season
at the Prince of Wales a good start; the
Artois brothers are graceful athletes, and the
nine “Wonders” are fine child-dancers. There
is much stoush on the screen these times.
Snowy Baker at West’s is in a good Austra-
lian picture as a jackeroo who starts as a
johnnie and has to ride and fight his way to
recognition. Charles Ray. at the Majestic,
is a champion lightweight in the jolly “45
Minutes from Broadway.” Eddie Polo at
Wondergraph also has some remarkable
stunts, but the most striking thing at this
house is Barrie’s “Half-an-hour.” packed
with sensations.


Insist on
the Murdoch-made
Coat Sweater
BUYING direct from the Manufacturer you avoid all
dealer’s profits and get a better article at a lower
price.
MURDOCH-31ADE COAT SWEATERS are made in Murdoch’s own
workrooms. These ideal winter garments are warm, comfortable
and fashioned for long service—the cuffs are double, close knitted.
Neat, flat seams, no frayed edges, taped shoulders—everything to
ensure perfect shape and good wear.
“Costs Little.
Saves Doctors'
Bills."
Here are a few representative
values—
Men’s Coat Sweaters, in Navy or
Mid Grey. V Front or Polo Collars.
S. Men’s and Men’s 4 ftll
O.S., 21/-; Ex. O.S., 22/6.
iiti
m
i mm
m.'
Superior-quality All-Wool Coat
Sweaters, in shades of Brown,
Heather, Khaki, Mid, Dark
or Light Greys. V Fronts.
S. Men’s and Men’s . .
30
O.S. and Ex. O.S., 31/6.
With Polo Collars, 1/6 extra.
If ordering by Post address your
letter to DESK R.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
! MURDOCH’S
in Park St. Ltd., SYDNEY.
"The World’s Largest Men's
and Boys’ Wear Store.”
WHAT IS IT!
miuruiHHH
V
WEARS BETTER—LOOKS
BETTER—FITS BETTER-
WASHES BETTER.
“TAFFATWILL” has the appear-
ance of “All Wool’’ Taffeta. Rich
cream grounds with smart striped
effects of Blue. Ilelio, Black and Grey.
“Taffatwill” Shirts never lose their
smart appearance, and must appeal to
the man who takes an interest in his
appearance.
Sizes 14in. to 18in. Neckbands.
USUAL
PRICE
15/6
Men’s “Taffatwill” Pyjamas.
Usual Price, 27/6; Special, 21/-
Uadies’ “Taffatwill” Blouses.
Usual Price 15/6; Special 12/11
“Taffatwill” by the Yard —•
. Price 3/6
'm
|S*S
SHIRTS
SPECIAL PRICE
TWO WEEKS ONLY
(3 for 37/6)
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage.
Cor.
Swanston
and
Bourke
Streets,
Melh.
THE
PTy, LTD.
Write
tor
Patterns.
DO YOU DANCE?
This season will again see dancing at its height,
and a great impetus will be given to the
impromptu at home. The newest and latest
Fox Trots, Hesitation, Tango and One-steps
complete with Jazz variations can be played with
correct rhythm and in strict dancing time on the
'•HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
and
COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA
Instruments. You can dance as long as you
like to this music. Call in and inspect these
magnificent instruments for yourself. We have
many thousands of records to choose from.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE, NEWCASTLE.
i*rj
S££
&
VW
K
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
and
PRICE LIST.


llilliwnn,,,,
lUllll
mu
|lllllllllllllllultllillllll!ll'lllllll!l!lll|
dePIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74f Si*., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
'fo/Kkstf 215-17 Mansion SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane -^- —--
159 George St,West. Sydney.
CAPITAL 5.200 000 ‘Phone City 932s ,
General l*lQHQgQr‘.
I 111
'■'IWIIHIII
uMiimiiil
THE “A CSTRAJLI AN
REVIEW” says: ‘‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and T. C’o. Ltd.”
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Bill from Botany”: The posy presented
to dainty Oecile Spong by The Bulletin in
the notice of “Nightie Night” takes me back
a few years, and rather justifies an opinion
I formed in regard to her capabilities when
I judged an elocutionary contest at Deep-
water (N.S.W.). in w'hich village Cec.le
lived with her parents, her father being in
charge of the education of the Deepwater
kids. Though only nine years old she won the
blue ribbon of the contest. Cecile soon
blossomed as the village Sarah Bernhardt,
and was the star of many a local production.
Her marriage with young Cecil Spong, the
brother of Hilda, meant a move from the
home-towm to Warwick, where she soon won
honors upon the local amateur musical
comedy and dramatic stage. Then when the
war started Cecil, the young husband, “w'ent
across,” and later Cecilc turned to the foot-
lights with the hope of making good for her-
self and another little Australian.
“CHU CHIN CHOW," AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Eily Malyon as Mabubah (Ali Baba's wife).
“C.C.D.” : Allan Wilkie took from Hobart
one of its best musicians. Bradshaw Major,
who conducted the orchestra at the Camnbell-
street theatre, so impressed Wilkie that he
engaged him as musical director for his com-
pany. Major organised the Lyrics, an ama-
teur concern which raised much money for
various war-time funds. Afterwards he went
soldiering himself and stuck it till the big row
petered out.
“E.F.” : James Hay, a Victorian by birth,
who has been making good in G. and S.
opera, is the first Australian light tenor to
act a leading part as neatly as he sings it.
The sweet, artistic little warbler ought to
i be praised as much as possible for his his-
trionics. Tenors like it. When Courtice
: Pounds was in Melbourne, years ago, he just
hated to be spoken of as “the tenor.” His
complaint was that this understated his
accomplishments. “I’m an actor and dancer
with a. tenor voice,” said Courtice, who has
since then been accepted as an admirable
Shakspearean clown.
“Royce Rolls”: The J.C.W. combine has
initiated one reform that has enraged the
Ushers’ Union. No longer can those spry
young men and girls “reserve” unreserved
seats and sell them again for a silver coin.
All seats unreserved at the box-office are
ticketed by the management, and any per-
son can secure numbered tickets therefor by
handing over the advertised price at the
theatre. It has been a heavy blow to the
tipping business.
“The Stage Doorkeeper”: We were doing
Shakspearean stuff, and our Orlando was a
picturesque imported youth whom the small
weeklies invested with the attributes of the
late Don Juan, a home-destroying, heart-
breaking Dago, I understand. In point of
fact Orlando was
a rather self-con-
tained youth, too
pretty himself to
take any particular
interest in beauti-
fu 1 woman, bu t
evidently he felt
called upon to live
up to the tradition
created for him.
Heaps of letters
came along ad-
dressed to the fair
Orlando. The
rack behind my
door would b e
stuck full of them,
for all the world
to see. One day a
tough-looking party
in a straw' sailor
and a knitted fas-
cinator called for
Orlando at the
stage doo r. She
seemed very angry
about something. I
said the hero of
the piece w'as then
on, and was mot
obtainable for love
o r money.” “O h.
you go and tell
h i m,” said th e
dame. “He’ll sen
me fast enough.”
“And who are you,
anyhow?” I asked.
She drew her
"Nightie Night," at
Sydney Palace.
Lance Lister as Phil
Burston.
fascinator about her, ran her eyebrows up
into her hair, and said. “I?—I am the lady
who writes his letters.”
From a London first-nighter:—
The Firm has the Australian rights of “A Southern
Maid,” which has been replaced at Daly’s by “Sybil,”
with the much-boomed Jose Cojlins in the name part,
and Huntley Wright (long absent from thi9 village)
as chief purveyor of moss-grown gags. A fairly large
section of the gallery received the show with derision,
but as it is well staged and expensively dressed it
will probably run a year or so. Irene Vanbrugh (easily
the best comedy actress England possesses) has just
returned to the West-end, after a long absence, in
“Mis’ Nell o’ New Orleans,” a cast-iron Yankee “fan-
tasy,” which only the lady’s delicate art saves from
the fate it deserves. “The Skin Game” was followed
at the St. Martin’s by “The Wonderful Visit.” a
dramatisation of H. G. Wells’s story by St. John
Ervine. It proved a tiresome and very wordy visitor,
and is to be withdrawn after a run of a few weeks.
Marie Lohr continues to show bad judgment in her
choice of plays. Her “Fedora” was an obvious misfit;
then came “The Hour and the Man,” a melodramatic
affair peopled by unconvincing politicians. Lauder
(who has just been patted on the shoulder with a
sword) is back at the Palace, drawing big houses to
hear the songs he sang in Australia, several of which
are new to London. Chevalier has also returned to the
’alls after a long absence. “My Old Dutch,” “Knocked
’Em in the Old Kent-road,” etc., are received with
frantic applause. Cyril Maude is about to revive
“Grumpy,” and Courtneidge, back from Australia, is
putting on a new musical show, “The Rebel Maid.”
Viola Tree is doing “The Tempest” at the Aldwych
with Henry Ainlev as Prospero. Ambrose Manning,
last seen in Australia in “The Whip” and “Via Wire-
less,” makes a capital Stephano. Dorothy Dix, who
appeared in the Sydney and Melbourne productions
of “Ben Hur” and “The Speckled Band,” is the
heroine of a dramatisation of Hesketh Pritchard’s
‘Don Q. at the Apollo; Sara Allsarod is in “The
White-headed Boy” (an excellent Irish comedy) at
the Ambassadors’; and Jack Waller (who ran the
Butterflies,” and after leaving the Commonwealth
was reported to have been killed in India) and
Cecilia Gold are Supporting Robey in “Robey-en-
Casserole,” which was manufactured and produced by
Waller. Hugh Ward is here, staying at the American
Club and telling interviewers how he entertained
the little Prince. He has acquired “A Night Out,”
“The Naughty Princess,” “A Little Dutch Girl,”
“Lord Richard in the Pantry” and “French Leave” for
Australia. All have proved commercial successes, and
that is about the best that can be said of them.
“Ancient Playgoer”: “Ancient Prompter”
(B. 14/4/’2l) has strayed a long way out of
his box re Haddon Chambers s “Tyranny
of Tears.” liaddon was not the type to
accept anyone as his “affable familiar
ghost.” The few who knew him really well
knew that “The Tyranny of Tears” was his
best work because it came straight from the
heart —was “taken from life.” As to the
suggestion that he plagiarised it from
Davies’s “Mollusc,” the fact that the latter
was written and produced several years
later is sufficient refutation. The whole
delightful correspondence between the two
began with an ironical letter written by
Chambers on the morrow of the production
oi the “Mollusc.” It ran to this effect:
“My dear Davies, —1 have been reading the
press notices of your play ‘The Mollusc’ and
will be glad if you will be so good as to lend
me the manuscript in order that I may try
and discover if there are any points in which
it differs from my ‘Tyranny of Tears.’ ”
Then the fun began.
“Fax”: Talking of vaudeville salaries that
Pickards used to pay, 1 can endorse the st;rte-
ment of “Pongo” (B. 14/4/’2l) re the exag-
gerations of rumor, though I never heard of
rumor crediting Cinquevalli with £3(O a
week. Ilis first (1899) engagement, which
he accepted partly for the sake of the ln nlth
trip to Australia, was not for £BO a vrk,
as “Pongo” suggests, but for £OO, including
time spent in travelling tc and from Eng-
land. Rickards kept him longer than his
threw in a couple of benefits.
Ibe £ooo paid to Chung Ding Soo was in
consideration of Soo providing his own com-
pany and appointments. The Paul Marti-
netti Co. was another of Rickards’s big
speculations, and in that case he repented
his enterprise. But his first ventures in
high-salary importation were most encour-
aging, and from that time he was always
on the look-out for an expensive “star.”
Twenty-five years ago he imported Charles
Orodfrey at a. salary that would have been
bigger had the misguided songster been less
unsober, and soon afterwards he gave Chirg-
win an engagement of 26 weeks at £lOO a
week. It looked risky considering that
Chirgwin’s was an old-fashioned “nigger
minstrel” turn, and his performance had
practically nothing in it save banjo and vio-
lin playing, with falsetto singing and a few
soft gags. But Rickards’s judgment was
sound. The personality of the minstrel was
bkeable, and he filled the house for weeks.
Xhe engagement paid Rickards, and was joy
to thrifty Chirgwin, who sent £lBOO of sav-
ings to England before his six months were
Up ' £?H ie Ll °.vd’s little lot in later years
was £l2O a week, and bracketed with this
was a substantial salary paid to another
performer at Marie’s stipulation.
“Bill O’C.”: Critic William Archer’s
alleged success as a dramatic author in his
comparatively old age would not be so sur-
prising were it not for his own earlier
adtniss on of incapacity. Here is his
confession in his “Plays‘and Play-making,”
republished in mature life:—
How conies it that so many people, and I am
among the number, who could not write a play to
save their lives, are eager to tell others how to do
it.... .It may be asked why, if I have any guidance
to give, I do not take it myself instead of instructing
others in the art. This is a variant of an ancient
and fallacious gibe against criticism in general. It
is true that almost all critics worth their salt are
stiekit” artists, but no person of commonsense would
hold it a reproach to a critic that he is a “stiekit”
playwright* Assuredly if I had the power, I should
write plays instead of writing about them. On the
other hand, there is nothing to show that if I were a
creative artist I should be a good mentor for be-
ginners.
And he also has this to say about his best
effort m original work:—
I remember once, in a momentary access of am-
bition, trying to invent a play. I occupied several
hours in (as I believed) creating one. When I had
at last modelled it into coherency, I stepped back,
as it were, from my mind and contemplated it as a
whole. It seemed strangely familiar and it was only
after cudgelling my brains for some minutes that I
found that I had re-invented “Hedda Gabler.”
Archer runs a big risk now of being told by
fellow-critics who have not written books
that his earlier judgment of his prowess was
not to be despised.
“Fax” on the days that are dust:—
As far as Australia is concerned the day of the
amateur comic-opera company is past ard gone
Never again will there be the organisations that
existed when J.C.W. had not more than one musical
co., and Seaside shows were practically unknown. Then
there was so little scope for stage-struck lassies and
lads that the “crack” amateur eo. selectors had anv
amount of talent to choose from. The star ama-
teur of to-day could have a foremost place on the
professional stage nest year, if she cared to take
it. Speaking of Melbourne only I remember per-
formances by the Lyric Club which in most respects
would compare favorably with any but the very
best musical shows we get at high prices these
times. Society (with a capital S) smiled upon the
Lyrics. When a rehearsal clashed with a Govern-
ment House ball the rehearsal had to stand aside.
Henry Wrixon was their president; John Madden
and Softgoods Sargood were among the vice-presi-
dents. Old Zelman was musical director, and Mrs.
Green ballet mistress, the ballet including the pick
“CHU CHIN CHOW," AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
George Gray stone as Abdullah.
of her pupils, with her daughters as soloists. And
no professional dancers on the stage then were
more accomplished than Mrs. Green’s young daugh-
ters, or quite equal to them. Take the cast of “Mar-
jorie,” produced by the Lyric Club at the old Alex-
andra under John Wallace’s direction. The girl in
the comedy part was Mabelle Davidson, who subse-
quently, as Mabel Darley, played principal soprano
parts in Williamson opera. Harry Atkinson (after-
wards Fitts) was to the cast, and McNicol Turner
and solicitor Norman Bayieß, the dandy legislator
of later years. \\ hen “Lelamine” ran a week at
Melbourne Princess’s, with Lord Shaftesbury in the
cast, amateur Rose Musgrove made her first appear-
ance in public. Circumstances permitted of selei t
gatherings of bright young people who would these
times be scattered over a number of professional
companies of various sorts. J saw the amateur
crowd that Johnny Wallace was stage-managing in
Melbourne the other week, and my heart bled for
him. The material wasn’t there. The legs, arms
and countenances of the chorus ladies were far
below' the Lyric standard, and it goes without say-
ing that the average quality of the voices was not
so good. For that matter, no J.C.W. chorus of late
years has compared with the crowd, headed by the
Esdailes, that sang behind Santuzza in the first
Australian production of “Cavalleria.” Why, girls
reckoned hardly up to the highest J.C.W. chorus
standard of 25 years ago would be snapped up by
some pierrot manager to-day. What chance, then,
is there of organising a really attractive amateur
opera co. ? It can’t be done in Australia.
“Epacris”: “Nulla” (B. 17/8/’2l) recalls
various tragic happenings during the reign
of Nellie Stewart. Here is another. Whilst
she was at the old Lyceum jdaying “Ma Mie
Rosette,” poor old Alex. Brodie passed away
during the first act. I have an idea that the
principals knew all about it before the end
of the performance.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Ellen Terry has been
celebrating her 73rd birthday, and her friends
signalised the occasion in practical fashion
by presenting her with a cosy flat in the
heart of Theatre-lnnd. Hitherto she has in-
habited an old Georgian house down Chelsea
way. Now she will be surrounded by play-
houses within easy walking distance, and
when she pulls up the blinds o’ mornings she
can gaze across Charing Cross-road at the
statue of her old friend and chief, Henry
Irving. “I shall have one long ’busman’s
holiday,” she says.
“8.J.” (London) : “Robey en Casserole,”
described as a “kaleidoscopic innovation” and
manufactured by Jack Waller, who ran “The
Butterflies ’ in Australia, is only scoring an
imter at the Alhambra. All sorts of labored
stunts are being worked lately in an attempt
to make various revues “different,” but
they are mostly just the same—except, as
in this case, when they manage to lie a hit
worse. Two people disguised as chefs enter
the stalls and bang dinner gongs before the
show beams; the curtain goes up on an
illuminated casserole, and when the lid is
removed characters supposed to represent
various flavorings and condiments emerge. It
is all very elaborate—and unappetising.
THE DUMB, DRIVEN GALLERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In theatres these shiftless days
I very much lament
The gallery’s more placid ways,
Its pitiful content.
Whatever comes, whatever goes,
They in the higher flights
Sit huddled in their patient rows;
And nothing says, and nothing throws,
The gallery nowaniglits.
Once in a while perchance the play
Good entertainment lacked;
The actors moved in such a way
You felt they should be smacked.
’Twas then the gallery arose,
And playfully derided,
Which gave full pleasure to all those
For whom the drama and the pros.
No pleasure had provided.
To-day a power is set above,
Good order there to keep ;
And shilling patrons seem to love
Where often they should weep.
And should a god attempt to cry
His anger, minions come
And throw him out. Alas! say 1
There’s left no true vox populi —
Vox Dei too is dumb!
The flight of wit, the caustic jest,
The egg they saved from tea,
No more with poignant strength attest
The critic faculty.
All comment’s barred. I think that they
Who stage the day’s sensation,
Now chloroform in some quaint way
The hapless patrons of the play
Before the operation.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


—<llfl
1.1
a
5^
a
cr
r<
i«i
///rY/'Z/fr
w
&
c
«U
iV$S>3&
Z
V/
<&
\v
T’
/
'S.
I
§5
P»
723
*s^
S>
?
rv
£
/
ilvltl
C
m
*Vu
i\\
/<W
%
Y,
6
r^~
s^-
(/J
From Georoe the Third
To Georoe the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong.
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NS. IE SIAM.
Bangkok Merchant : Hullo ! Johnnie Walker, I was just going to the
Club to call for you/
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
; .'I
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIUP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special wtii s k y
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WHITTY
'4
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
m
IMPERIAL OHS
HEL
h
RSPIR
HIOHLY INfIAHHAftU
CMCtTM «O»nV«UAN nAOt
V/s/ss/fr.
JO! ROSS RIFLES
Special high-power Sporting Rifles, for big-
game shooting. Cheapest and most reliable
303 rifle obtainable.
Price £6/10/-
B.S.A.
The best .22 Cal. take-down Rifle, 200 yards
range, fires short, long and long rifle cart-
ridges. Reliable bolt action, 95/-
WINCHESTER RIFLES.
All Models and Calibres.
Write for free Catalogue.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Nerves engendered by Comber’s bowling
lost Sydney the grade premiership. The wicket on
which they failed was far superior to the one on
which Waverley got 191. The Boneyarders had a
very successful season in all grades. They won the
first and second, and were runners-up in the third.
Their greatest find was 11. Jones, though Caswell won
them the last match. Gee got little support, and
Middle Harbor wanted 12 runs to catch Gordon when
their last wicket fell. The Village captain, playing
under a disability, put up a stubborn fight. Garner
struck a patch, and Wests were unable to reach
’Varsity’s mediocre score by one run. The students
went in again, and, with the exception of Hesslein
and Bardsley, who each got 55, failed badly against
the wiles of Russell and Dight. Wests, however, had
not time to get an “outright.” Owing to O’Keeffe’s
80, Paddington beat Petersham by 17 runs. The
rest of the side, except O’Brien, a last-wicket stick-
up, could not face Scott (5 for 47). Light stopped
Balmain (299) from walloping C. Cumberland (95
and 85 for 9) by an innings. Time saved Norths
against Glebe, for whom Morgan made a splendid
67. Punch was the only Northern batsman to show
form against the versatile Morgan’s trundlings.
H. Comber, who brought the debacle on Sydney is
a finely-built Aussie of 30. During the present
season the best he got was a place in Waverley’s II
team till the departure of Carter and Hendry with
the Australia XI and Forssberg and Kippax with the
Maoriland tourists. He repaid the compliment with
the great slaughter of 7 for 24. Comber owes much
of his bowling to baseball, and he exploits the base-
ballers’ “swerve” so well done in past years by the
late Frank Laver (Vic.) and M. A. Noble (N.S.W.).
Waverley’s success was only the second in 23 years
of premierships, the other occurring in 1902-3. Sydney
was runner-up then top. But Waverley has been
runner-up in five seasons, so its success was earned.
“Mat”: “W.E.F.” (B. 14/4/’2l) hit tbe
nail regarding the drabness of Sydney premiership
cricket. This year’s premiership table loudly pro-
claims the need for an overhaul. Of 11 rounds of
matches Waverley won six and lost none, Sydney
won five and lost one, Gordon won five and lost
three, Paddington won four and lost one. None of
the other eight won more than they lost; and Glebe
and Middle Harbor (each with two wins and six
defeats) and Central Cumberland (won two and lost
seven) were deplorable. For years the same condi-
tions have prevailed, and if the N.S.W.C.A. persists
in the foolishness of adding four secondary clubs to
the list, it is certainly going to still further pull
down the standard. The Association might well fol-
low the lead of the football authorities in this con-
nection.
The Adelaide cricket premiership again
goes to East Torrens, as in seven out of the last
nine seasons when cricket has been played. The
heroes of the past are gone, and the present team is
well-balanced rather than sensational. In it are
Arthur Richardson, Middleton, Loveridge, Townsend,
wicketkeeper Schultz and the A.I.F. men Stirling
and Murray. The last-named ended the season with
a hard-hit 119 not out. The runners-up are North
Adelaide (C. E. Pellew, Gehrs, Ambler, Phillips,
Power). Jose (Uni.) made most runs and had the
highest average, 115. Richardson’s was 113, and
Pellew’s 72. Williams (Port) took most wickets,
heading Loveridge by -one, but his average (15)
was beaten by Murray and Whitty in the little work
they did. The veteran Travers, who was the best
bowler in Adelaide as long ago as last century, has
come on astonishingly with the bat. He is the only
man to head both batting and bowling averages for
a club (his is Adelaide), and in the last match of
the season he scored the first century of his career.
Rain postponed the finish of the cricket
semi-finals in Melbourne on Saturday, so another
day’s play will be necessary to decide who shall be
in the final round. Saints, who knocked off the
Saturday before last with 4 for 316, added 99, Hot-
chin completing a chanceless innings for 189. North-
cote’s star bowler, Hartkopf, who had previously
gathered a couple of expensive wickets, pitched up
some deceptive stuff that gave him another five at
a total cost of 113 runs. ’Cote, opening in the half-
light of a dirty afternoon, lost Carroll for a duck in
the first over. Rain then ended the proceedings, and
’Cote went home to consider the problem of making
416 minus one of its best bats. P’ran have a better
chance against Melbourne. They are now 135 behind
Melbourne’s total of 298 with six wickets in hand,
but as they have lost four stars in Thompson, Love,
Healy and Stevens, their chance of victory depends
a lot on Willis and Ellis, who are now 44 and 20
not out.
Herring, who made 69 for Melbourne in
the unfinished semi-final against P’ran, was specially
brought from Maryborough to stiffen the M.C.C. on
the batting side. Herring is an old Melbourne
Grammar boy, and when playing for his school was
something of a phenomenon. Against Geelong Col-
lege in 1915, for instance, he knocked up 238,
another youth, J. C. Sharp, registering the huge
score of 506 not out. A rash of centuries adorns
Herring’s by no means long record, one of his best
innings being 153 for the combined public schools
against Melbourne in 1917. Herring, who will play for
Melbourne next season, seems a certainty for inter-
state selection sooner or later. He showed promise
as a tennis-player at Grammar, and in one inter-
schools championship got into the final, only to be
licked by brilliant Jack Hawkes.
“II.B.”: Stanley Francis, a 15-year-old
Melbourne lad, is captain and star bowler (left-hand)
of the Tooronga-road State School (Malvern). His
team won the metropolitan premiership this season,
and he took 100 wickets for 324 runs —average 3.21.
He also played with the Malvern Sons of Temperance
Friendly Society team. They likewise became pre-
miers, and for them he bowled 701 balls for 70
wickets at a cost of 210 runs —average 3. A world’s
record ?
* * * •
In M.L. A. E. Liddicutt topped the
Aussie batting aggregate with 727 runs (av. 60.58),
and took 38 wickets at 17.28 each. Vernon Hans-
ford (captain), with 61.11, alone had a better bat-
ting average; and another left-hander, Jimmy Bogle,
was third with 481 (av. 40.08). With the ball,
left-handers P. Ilornibrook (81 at 8.91) and 11.
Ironmonger (59 at 10.98) were the stars.
* * 1* *
To meet the exes, of the just-departed
Australian XI the Board of Control last week de-
manded £l3OO each from N.S.W., Victoria and S.
Aus., £l5O from Queensland and £lOO each from
Tasmania and Westralia. Tasmania didn’t get a
match with Douglas’s men, owing to the wharfies’
strike, while the Queensland and Westralia fixtures
were local. The other States got record gates. On
a membership basis N.S.W. pays £l3O per man,
Victoria £325, and S. Aus. £l3OO.
C. Brice, who captained M.L. in the re-
cent tests v. Australia, is an all-rounder. He this
year skippered Petone (which won the Wellington
district championship) and was on top in both
batting (388 runs, averaging 26.1) and bowling
(64 wickets, averaging 8.79). Wicket-keeper Cate
in nine matches caught ten and stumped five.
FRANK BROGAN, the hard-hitting light-
weight, who outed the “Filipino Tiger."
Frank Brogan, lightweight champion of
N. S. Wales, has been finding it as difficult as Sid
Godfrey did before him to catch the eye of the
Sydney Stadium management. His work on Satur-
day liight should remove any prejudice that may
have existed. If Flores, the Filipino, has had many
hidings as comprehensive as Brogan provided him
with, then his persistence in the fistic profession- is
sheer heroism. He didn’t win a round against the
hard-hitting Australian, and-in the seventh collapsed
to a right to the head and had to be carried to his
dressing-room. As Flores was making a good show-
ing when he lost to Godfrey on a foul, it looks as
though the Auburn lad would have his work cut out
to stay the distance when he encounters Brogan.
The feature of this year’s amateur boxing
competition at Sydney Stadium was the showing of
R. Finlay (lOst. 61b.), who in the middleweight and
welterweight divisions downed respectively G. h.
Boyce (Uni.) and E. J. Pearce (Surry Hills).
Finlay is a bald-headed veteran with a stiff leg who
has been prominent in amateur ring-craft, reputedly,
since the Cain-Abel struggle. The heavyweight
final was between C. T. Jardine, a 14st. 71b. squatter,
and A. T. Hannam (12st. 41b.), a sawn-off giant
with most of his poundage in the region of the waist-
line. The pastoralist won, Hannam being unable to
reach up to him. In the lightweights E. Thompson,
the Coogee surfer, who holds the Australasian title,
was much too good for E. J. Pearce. Jack King,
who was winning amateur championships in Cap-
tain Cook’s time, had to struggle to gain a points
decision over C. Hopner—he is still in his teens—in
the bantam section. The judges were unanimous,
but the crowd thought otherwise. H. C. Young
(featherweight) won the first couple of rounds
against G. A. White, but in the third he was
knocked down and rose all but out. White fool-
ishly let him recover, with the result that he went
on and won the last round and the judges’ decision.
Three contests were decided at Sydney
Stadium on Monday night. In the first Ces Stone
(lOst. 131 b.) outed E. McLeod (list. 61b.) in exactly
'2 seconds. The big fight followed between Harold
Lewis (list. 441 b.), a chocky unknown, and Jack
Harrison (list. 61b.), an English visitor, who claims
to be the Lonsdale-belt holder of that name. If he
is it can only be remarked that his residence here' has
ruined him. The contest went only four minutes,
in the course of which the overseas champion was
downed thrice, and on the last occasion remained prone
till the conclusion of the count. Joe Lawler (Bst.)
and Jack Davis (7st. 121 b.) fought in their stocking
feet. Otherwise they bore no resemblance to one an-
other. After enduring Lawler’s ill-treatment for three
minutes Davis signalled to the referee that so far as
he, Davis, was concerned the fight was finished. Total
fighting time for the three bouts, 7min. 12sec., which
for collective brevity is probably a record in the
annals of Fistiana.
Some easy money was picked up at the
recent Onkaparinga (S.A.) race-meeting. At one of
the new half-crown totes on the flat the gong was
not heard, and the windows remained open all
through the race—and after. When No. 5 was
hoisted as winner, the glad tidings rapidly spread
that tickets were obtainable still; and apparently it
was only the fact of a clamorous crowd all wanting
the same number that woke the vendors from their
trance.
» e * *
Woodland Bells, winner of a trotting
handicap at Perth on Saturday night (utility ’orses
race by electric light in Westralia), paid a dividend
of £l5O 10s. on a 10s. s.o. tote. Her price in
the ring was ten to vuu, that being the trotting
lkev’s limit. In the Western State there are two
10s. totes —the s.o. machine and a place implement
with an equal division —and big dividends are com-
mon. In N. S. Wales, where, in deference to Moses,
the absurd 60-20-20 p.c. arrangement obtains, they
are as rare as patriotism in politicians. At Rand-
wick and Rosehill the backer of a placed horse often
loses on the transaction. In Westralia, thanks to
the 33J p.c. distribution, that seldom if ever happens.
* * * *
H. W. T. Lee, pioneer and sportsman, has
passed the Judge’s Box at Gladstone (N.S.W.). In his
youth he was a fearless rider, and mounted on one of
the half-dozen bullocks he had broken to saddle and
bridle he was counted among the sights of the dis-
trict. Breeding blood stock was his pet hobby, and
Sydney yards generally held some of his horses at
stud sale time. With Young Australian he won the
Grafton Cup 38 years ago. Rifleite, St. Ilario, and
Cardinal Beaufort, sire of Red Cardinal, were among
his best-known stock.
» * * *
Horses from Tassy have mostly shaped
so poorly on the mainland of late years that two-
year-old Skirling looks positively brilliant. The
filly arrived in Melbourne only two or three weeks
ago, but sbe quickly made her mark at Aspendale
Park and Moonee Valley. At the Vic. Club meeting
at the Valley the slippery daughter of Popinjay was
giving 3st. to some of the runners. On each course
she had tbe advantage of the berth next the rails,
and was able to hold it from start to finish. Along
with Skirling came Thrapple, a t'our-year-old in the
same ownership; but whereas the stable appeared
to think Thrapple a better thing than the youngster,
each day the youngster won a race the stable com-
panion, at a very short price, could only finish
second. #
The three-year-old Rouen, who finished
behind Duo and Sasanof in the Trentharn (M.L.)
Gold Cup, was more in his class in the Longburn
Handicap at Manawatu last week. Another three-
year-old to run well at the same meeting was Lis-
towel (Absurd —Lysistrate), who was t"hird to Duo
and Gasbag in the Wellington St. Leger. Golden
Bubble, who finished behind the Absurd colt, tias
been gelded since lie ran against Elfacre, Artillery-
man and Richmond Main at Randwick, and is now
said to be the best four-year-old in the Dominion.
Ewen Allison, one of the wealthy clan
whose numerous racers clean up most of the prizes
worth while around Auckland (M.L.), has found his
Australian purchase, Some Boy 11., hard to train,
and he is for sale at 300 guineas. The Cyrus (imp.)
horse won at his first time of asking in M.L. After
that the handicapper and the hard going combined
to settle him.
In the final of the English covered-courts
tennis championship at Queen’s Club (London) last
week, W. C. Crawley beat Randolph Lycett after a
match which occupied the astonishing time of 34
hours—a world’s record. Crawley is an Oxonian
who belongs to a family that has been prominent at
tennis rackets for decades. The English youngste'
put up a great struggle against Gobert, the holder
of the title, but the Frenchman was too good and
won (6 —2, 6—4, 4 —6, o—6, 7 —5).
* * * *
Randolph Lycett will play for England
in the coming Davis Cup. He snowed excellent tennis
in Australia, particularly in doubles, in which his
tactics were those of a master. But he has improved
even on his Commonwealth performances, and is pro-
bablv now one of the best half-dozen in the world.
In fact his great development as a singles player has
increased his chances of downing Tilden if Britain
should reach the challenge round for the Cup. During
the great struggle for the Wimbledon championships
last year Lycett worried the American in the most
strenuous battle of the meeting.
The final practice matches between Syd-
ney Rugby League Clubs were decided last Saturday,
when Easts triumphed over Wests by 23 to 12 ; Glebe
defeated the Dockers by 10 to 8 ; Souths walloped the
baby St. George by 14 to 12 ; and Newtown prevailed
over ’Varsity by 24 to 7. The competition matches
which commence next Saturday should provide stirring
sport, as all eyes are on the coming English crusade.
* * * *
Ballarat Central Bowls Club was the first
to exchange visits with Adelaide; it and the Oval
team have periodical matches for a challenge shield.
At Easter a team of six rinks descended on Adelaide,
but lost two games of the three played. For the
home side were playing old cricketers Blinman, Pet-
tinger, and John, Clem, Arthur and Roy Hill.
* * * *
Frank Dobbie (Glenferrie Hill) defeated
McLennan (Middle lark) lasi week in tbe »ic. bowls
champion of champions’ match by 31-21. McLennan
in the early stages led by 17-15 ; but Dobbie, playing
a “long” game, romped away later. Awhile back
Dobbie defeated W.
Ley (Brighton) by
"1-25 for the Victorian
Singles. Last year he
also won the cham-
pion of champions’
title, and, with M.
J. Collins, the Vic.
pairs.
• •
Some veteran \ T .
S. Wales bowlers met
on the City (Sydney)
green last week. They
were 42, and their
ages aggregated 3300
years. Seventeen 'were
four-score or over.
The struggle for the
rink medals was stren-
uous and ended in a
dead-heat between .7.
Williams and J. Ca/ddy.
In the two extra ends,
Wil3iams’s four won.
It was a case of youth
being served. This
rink totalled but 310
years— be»n»- easily the
most juvenile of the
10 competing.
F. BOBBIE, the
well-known Vic.
champion howler,
who won the
champion of cham-
pions' tourney
recently.
The best swim in Sydney’s club cham-
pionships on Saturday was put up by Keith Kirkland,
lie took the Spit Club’s 100yds. title in (iOsecs. The
Junior 100yds. event, resulted in a dead-heat between
J. Brooks and J. E. Burns. Their time (04 3-ssec.)
beat the previous best for the race by 2-ssec.
* * * *
N.S.W. Surfing and Life-Saving Assoc,
brought off its postponed championship carnival at
Bondi last Saturday. Newcastle won the march
past with an exceptionally fine squad. The 100yds.
beach championship fell to J. Waterer, of the North
Steyne Club. North Steyne took the Rescue and
Resuscitation event by the narrowest of margins
from Coogee and Newcastle. The Alarm Reel
Championship was annexed by Geoff Wyld, erst-
while All Schools and Country champion swimmer
(he represented Manly on this occasion). Collarov
captured the 400yds. Relay event.
Sydney’s open-boat enthusiasts decided a
General Handicap on Saturday for which 40 ama-
teurs nominated. Thirty eventually faced starter
Wally Douglas and the Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair-
Shark Beach-Shark Island-Pinehgut-P. and O. buoy
course. Disaster overtook Atalanta, Irex, Victor,
Arthur, E.M. and Aussie. Ena (Bmin.), well
handled by R. Shipway, poked her bumpkin ahead
of the leaders soon after the commencement of the
final punch to windward at Pinchgut, and although
closely pressed by Warrigal (lOimin.), with E. de
Wall up, over the concluding half-mile, brought the
bunting down with 13sec. in hand. Warrigal headed
Thelma, the Middle Harbor representative, by 48sec.
for second place.
* # * *
In S.A.’s amateur athletic championships
at Adelaide Oval W. 11. Clarke won the heavy-
weight final. Fiegert, the holder, who had already
won the middle-weight, couldn’t give away the weight.
Goodman threw the cricket-ball 109yds. The times
on the track were poor except Monteith’s 51 4-ssec.
for the quarter, which just beat cricketer Pellew’s
previous record for the State. A. B. Jones did the
quarter over hurdles in 60 l-ssee. The long-distance
events were contested mostly by veterans with Eng-
lish experience. Terrell won both walks, the three-
mile in 23min. 35sec. ; Rumsby won the mile run,
and later finished 2nd in the three-mile; and another
glutton ran three and then walked three, being placed
3rd in each case.
* * » «
Five clubs represented by 41 athletes
turned out for Botany (Svdney) Harriers’ opening
distance-run over the novice cross-country course on
Saturday. 11. R. Turner (Botany) just downed F. S.
Clark (South Sydney). Time 32min. 26sec.
Killara (Sydney) open golf tourney on
Saturday brought out most of the N. S. Wales cracks.
Tom Howard put in the best amateur card—72. W.
C. Sturrock (73) and Eric Apperly (74) followed.
In the 36-hole handicap for pros., D. G. Soutar got
a double 70, but A. W. East (plus 8), with 70 and 71,
lifted the event, Soutar’s handicap being plus 10.
Charlie Campbell, of Leura, did a round in 69.
* * * *
Miss H. Brown defeated Miss A. Kirk-
patrick (holder) for Sydney Ladies’ Rowing Club
championship on the Parramatta River last week
after a race in which there was never more than a
length between the boats. The event carries the
State title.
THE DISGUISE HABIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T. Henley, M.L.A., claims to have effectively dis-
guised himself as a priest.”
“Who is he?” asked Juffkins, his eyes on the Ring,
The reference being to me who’d displayed
Poor form, although billed as a “Pugilist King
Equipped to put Darcy himself in the shade.”
“He says he’s a boxer,” said Smiggs in surprise.
“I fancy, however, he’s here in disguise.”
“Don’t tell me,” cried Smigg-s, “that’s the champion
Spot Barred,
Who’s toiling along at the tail of the hunt.”
“It is,” answered Juffkins. “His name’s on the card.”
Cried Smiggs: “Why, he ought to be furlongs in
front!
My view is we’re being deceived by our eyes,
And this is some other horse here in disguise.”
“He’s drowned!” exclaimed Smiggs, as the motionless
form
Of Wiff, the Fijian, was carried ashore.
“He said he could swim through swell, current or
storm.
I doubt if lie’s ever been surfing before.”
Said Juffkins: “That also is what I surmise.
His costume is simply a sort of disguise.”
The same thing is seen in all branches of sport;
Our Governors gaily competing at bowls ;
The eminent jockeys whom common report
Makes out to be honest, reliable souls—
Each, much like Tom ’Enley, consistently tries
To baffle the world by a subtle disguise.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


DON’T BE MISERABLE!
N
Don’t be weak and puny!
Don’t be always ill!
Don’t shorten your days!
Don’t let ill-health conquer you!
Enjoy Every Minute of Life
by keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health and strength life will open out new vistas for you, business
will be a pleasure, and you will take a keen interest in everything
around you.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker can help you to a full realisation of
the joy of life, if you take up his
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture
It is emphatically not a “strong man” course, but a series
of simple, enjoyable, graduated exercises that will bring into
play the neglected muscles, steady the nerves, help you to
breathe and develop properly, and make all the organs of the
body perforin their functions correctly.
Thousands of grateful pupils all over Australasia testify to
the wonderful benefits they have received from the simple
course prepared by Australia’s Champion Athlete. No
apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to suit
particular individual requirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all
about the course and contains many valuable hints.
If you send this advertisement with your name and address
across it, together with three stamps for postage, the book
will he forwarded.
For better health —Send to-day !
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
468 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the lIAIIBOU FRONT, with its own BEACII
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
.Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
4% Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
‘B*
oO
\T
rtO*
WRITE FOR
FINNEY’S
Fashion Book
Shows all the newest in Women’s Wear,
Men’s Wear, Boys’ Wear, Furniture and
Household Drapery.
Posted Free.
FINNEY'S, Brisbane
BOSTOGK’S DRY GLEANERS
maintain Suede Leathers in their original freshness and pliability. A
perfect dressing.
5
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
For White, Black and Colored Suede Shoeware.
Colors: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey, Champagne,
Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
DOUGLAS
MANUFACTURED BY
DOUGLAS MOTORS LTD., Kingswood, Bristol, England.
EASTER, 1921. —The “DOUGLAS” again proves its excellence, winning the Senior and
Junior Tourist Trophy of Australia Races.
delivered immediately" 31 m ° dels ° f the famous British “Douglas” Motor-cycle can now be
93 H w P i wi . tk g ' speed clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
otiiv Wlth 3-speed gear (as illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards,
-j-ii.i. st LCIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
e Patented” horizontally opposed “Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to all
uougias Motor-cycles, is so well and favorably know that it needs little explanation. The
Horizontal twin engine is the most suitable for motor-cycle practice. It certainly gives less
*” n th „ an a, ? y engine with less than four cylinders. Douglas Motors Ltd. have so perfected
this type of engine that it has become universally popular.
,-n„o-i! he Miiv ODG jj S ” is exceptionally easy to learn to control in congested city traffic, or over
on iK, sandy or bush roads, or across paddocks. It is very economical, giving
result of the mL> t 0 gallon, exceptionally light on transmission, chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result 01 the even, steady pull of the engine. _
frame, wheels, etc., are exceptionally strong and reliable.
„ h ,„ d o e * lgn , ed f ™ nt f< ? rks are “the last word” in comfort and strength, and being adjust-
aoie to wear, are almost everlasting.
any amount of h , SS an J p !f pOW - er . to , take - vou where any motor-cycle will. It will stand
7 More “nniwAl™! and de P reclates less in value from hard riding than any other make,
more reliability aft a wer ® ™ed in the Great War than any other make. They have won
records. " 7 d speed contests than any other British motor-cycles, and hold many world’s
which" iotor e cyse y to Ur Sy. yOU Sh ° Uld get fuD pal ' ticulars of the “DOUGLAS” before you decide
Sole Agents—
Street, Ii?T>NEY ILLIAMS BROS ’ Ltd - 213 ’ 215 « 217 Elizabeth
ViCt °MELIS?URNE ania: ACME CYCLE CO ” 355-357 Lonsdale Street,
South Australia: GUARD BROS., 21-23 Gouger Street, ADELAIDE
Queensland ;^^VES TCOTT , HAZELL & CO., 5 233-235 Elizabeth Street,
ftrifse’s
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
NOBEL’S
M
SPORTING
BALLISTITE
Field 8 Match
CARTRIDGES
N
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
The Newßurberrys
Are Here.
JUST
ARRIVED
DIRECT
FROM
LONDON—
A splendid shipment of
the latest Burberry
styles has just been un-
packed at Lincoln-
Stuart’s.
In these world-famed
textures, which have won
a reputation absolutely
unique for unrivalled
WEATHER RESIST-
ANCE combined with
their marvellously
LIGHT WEIGHT and
perfect, hygienic ventila-
tion—Burberrys are the
coats par excellence for
fashionable Autumn
Wear —and a wise pur-
chase —now.
IF YOU CAN’T
CALL — WRITE
WE PAY FREIGHT.
W,
01
J! J Ji
iigiQijll
I 1
mi
2SS
7
Lincoln, Stuart (& Co.
PTY. LTD.,
244-254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


READY-FOR-SERVICE
RIDING TROUSERS.
RTI Ba-bed Wire Cloth, specially imp'rted
for hard wear. In grey or drab. Price, pr., 27/6
RT2 —Bush Twill Riding Trousers, in fawn,
drab, and dark olive; also a neat herringbone
pattern in medium olive shade. Price, 21/*
RT3 Extra Strong Khaki Drill Trousers, ser-
viceable lor farm or station work. Price, 18/6
RT4—Farmer’s u'ual serviceable fawn canton
mole Trousers, 22/6. Bett.-r quality, .. 25/*
RTs—Summer weight Plain and Twill Gabar-
ette Riding Trousers in medium and dark tawn,
closely woven, give splendid wear. Price, 25/-
RT6—Medium we ght cotton Riding Twist in
fawn only. Price, per pair, .. .. 2'/ /6
RT7—Superior quality Wool and Cotton Rid-
ing Twist in drab, medium and dark fawn. 45/- /
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
mmll'K
A >
arffe
\
ftPi
km
m
v,.
‘•V
//
*IIL
Va
mu
SSL
When the little folks are “Cronpy,” and
fretted by couching- fits, wise mothers
know that Bounington’s Irish Moss will
not be thrust peevishly aside by little
hands, and called nasty medicine.
is , pure and palatable
“-little peop.e wIU take
k readJ y. and soon
°® to nor-
mal health.
r
IRISH MOSS.
“Acs car-
SOLB EVERYWHERE.
8A.25.
ILOTT
nim«mi
SSggJßSe.'ag
!SSOnThsiw
SJnuwtxMoa
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
NOW
OPEN
The Governor and Lady Stradbroke gave
two receptions last week. The weather
obligingly allowed them both to be out door
parties, and supplied a hot wind for Thurs-
day and a cold west wind for Friday. The
host and hostess entrenched themselves in
a gorgeous three-sided marquee lined with
red-embroidered Oriental stuff, and looking
like a stage-idea of an emperor’s war-tent.
Lady Stradbroke wore amber-dripping
draperies and a big circular hat, but her
usually happy smile was wearing a bit thin
toward the end of the second reception.
A Noah’s Ark crowd stepped two by two
along the path before the tent, and each
couple was carefully looked over by five offi-
cials before being delivered unto the hand-
shake of vice-royalty. Guests’ names were
taken by two dinkum khakied Aussies at the
bend of the path and handed on to a pretty
aide. The pretty aide walked tlu’ee paces
to a severe military big-gun, and the big-
gun murmured the name to someone still
more pompous, who repeated it triumphantly
in the ear of the delightfully dapper Eari.
The Earl himself is a friendly sort of bloke
and smiles cheerfully at all this tommy-rot.
Their ordeal over, the guests reached the
terrace, where a band made pleasant blare
and blew the people down the stone steps
to the lower terrace. Two marquees flank-
ing this terrace and full of food had an
amazing attraction for the mass of the
guests, who broke for them madly, using
brollies and sticks to make headway. Within
quarter of an hofir almost the whole mob
was huddled within the tents like a flock
of sheep; and the wide gardens were left
to the few.
An imposing person among the scattered
wanderers was Captain Crawford, a Scotch
visitor in the gorgeous panoply of the Black
Watch. And a bunch of jolly Jacks came
in from the Brisbane —the boat which had
just brought Admiral Grant back from
the naval talkee-talkee at Singapore.
The Stradbroke lady and various models
of wealth and fashion have given their bless-
ing to the new Anglican scheme to build a
Boys’ Home at Hawthorn. This is the first
receptacle for stray and difficult nippers that
the Church has contemplated, and there will
be a determined effort to collect the £30.00)
which it is expected to cost. Apart from
direct subscriptions, cash will be raised m
various time-worn ways; there is even talk
of testing the effect of a few jazz-parties.
The Rev. Eric Thornton, of St. Kilda, is
organising the raid.
For the first time in Melbourne vice-regal
history press photographers were warned off
the grass at last week’s Stonington garden-
parties. One camera-man was literally
pushed out of the entrance gates. Whoever
is responsible for this foolishness, it is likely
to imperil the Stradbrokes’ popularity if
persisted in. Doesn’t everybody know that
photos in the weekly papers are the main-
stays of royalty? The Prince didn’t push
photographers out of any garden gates.
There have been heart-burnings among
those who expected invitations to the garden-
parties or afternoon receptions,, or whatever
they were, at State Government House, but
did not receive cards. The forgotten felt ■
none the better on hearing the names of
some of the remembered. Still, it is impos-
sible for every new man to have a Better-
not Wallington on the staff.
Bishop Elsey, of ICalgoorlie (W.A.), will
shortlv embark on a matrimonial adventure,
his bride being a P<§fth girl, Miss McLean,
daughter of a nor’-west squatter now de-
ceased. Romance met his Gaiters at sea.
on the return voyage from the Lambeth Con-
ference just before Christmas. The mar-
riage is set down for April 27. Bishop Elsey
is very youthful looking, and is in fact still
in the late thirties;
Johnnie Campbell', the Melbourne Gram-
mar boy who pulled an oar in the victorious
Cambridge boat, signals from across-seas
that he has made a matrimonial appointment
with a daughter of the Union Bank’s gen-
eral-manager Chambers. The young man
couldn’t have wasted much t ; me. for the
Chambers family arrived in England only
last month. In the last year of the war
Johnnie cast aside his Grammar cap to go and
fly for his country, but he only got to Blighty
in time for the Armistice. He lost his father,
one sister and two soldier-brothers during
the war-years.
Inez, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Stanley
Argyle, was married last week to Herbert,
son of Dr. Lillies, at St. John’s. It was a
cheery affair; the bride and bridegroom and
the bridesmaids and their grooms were ail
very youthful, and as much mus.c was
packed into the service as possible. Inez
wore a simple, exquisite gown of ivory satin,
with a little hoop of orange blossom holding
the draperies, Her train was lined with
pink georgette, and her Limerick-lace veil
had been worn by her mother and grand-
mother before her. Four pretty bridesmaids
fluffed along in the pinks and blues of
hydrangeas. Betty Argyle, Fon Elison,
Cecile Mann and Dorothy Walsh were the
pink-and-blue girls. There was a recept on
at Halstead, Toorak. the Argyle home. Mrs.
Argyle was smartly frocked in a one-piece
gown of soft crspe de Chine, with a big hat
of black chiffon velvet. Mrs. Herbert Lillies
was in navy georgette.
Greta Laidlaw, daughter of the Kilora
Laidlaws of Hamilton, married her Major
Lancelot Lewis at Scots’ Kirk, a week ago.
He is a son of John Lewis, one of S. Aus-
tralia’s numerous political squatters. Dr.
Alexander Marshall was the parson. Thj
church had every pew-post mounted w'tl
shower bouquets, and cactus dahlias, tube-
roses and autumn foliage filled the place With
heavy perfume. The small bride was impos-
ing in deep ivory satin With a heavy couyt
train of gold brocade. Gold tissue lined tlio
train, and ribbons of it tied the gladioli
bouquet. Bea Laidlaw and Eileen Hurst,
bridesmaids, sported pale yellow satin and
gold gauze veils. Two small girls in many
lace frills carried the ends of the train. The
show was as gorgeous as an Oriental pro-
cession. The wedding tea was just as
elaborate —even the dress posy for each
guest was served in a small gilt bandbox.
Violet Bowes Kelly is to be married to
J. R. Hay on April 27 at St. George’s,
Malvern. There will be a big party at
Moorakyne, which is next door to Stonmgton.
MacGregor Knox, the late William Knox’s
third son, sends word from overseas of his
engagement to a Dutch girl of apparent
social importance—the youngest daughter of
his late Excellency Jonkheer Van Eys Van
Leinden and Madame Van Evs Van Leinden
Haugest, Baronne d’Yooy (she doubtless
owes the latter title to a second hubby). The
poor girl should give three cheers at the
prospect of being able to write her
name in four simple letters. MacGregor,
who was once engaged to a Melbourne miss,
left one leg in the British gunpits. where he
picked up an M.C. and bar.
Lady Grey Egerton—the ex-Lady Rupert
—is coming to Australia again, and is due
here in the Spring.
Mrs. George Fairbairn has been one of the
hardest workers in the Alfred Hospital
Appeal. Senator George, her husband, has
been president of the
hospital since 1909,
and in the interven-
ing years both of
them have given
much of themselves
and their money to
the institution. All
their clan are inter-
ested, too, and there
is a probability that
they will endow a
Fairbairn ward. The
hospAal is always
filled to overflowing,
and at the time of
writing no less than
517 cases are vainly
clamoring for admis-
sion. The present
building - extension
appeal is for £51.000, and about £34,000 of
it is in sight. Sol Green promised £4500
.if the £51,000 was in hand by April 30,
and Mrs. Fairbairn is now leading a large
committee of women that threatens to do
something desperate in order to get that
£4500 from Israel.
More venturesome than Peacock was when
he was head of the Government, Premier
Lawson has had a little air-trip in a sea-
plane. Flying-man Andrew Lang, who is
making a coastal survey for Lebbeus Hor-
dern, of Sydney, met Law'son in East Gipps-
land and offered him an exceptional oppor-
tunity of viewing the Lakes. Castlemaine’s
Pride was delighted, and it made a good
finish-off to his health-trip.
A personage whose petulance shakes the
nerve of the strongest and highest of his
subordinates struck a surprise in the shape
of a new office-boy the other day. Three
times the great man had rung the bell for
the youth, and when the latter strolled in
casually he received the full force of the
language that had been waiting to blister
.him. But Clarence didn’t cower and bolt for
shelter. Instead, he opened h ; s own bead and
poured out an opinion of his chief which
could only be published on an asbestos brick.
After the nipper had retired with dignity,
the paralysed autocrat called in his eonfi-
dential aide and said: “Mr. Blank, watch
that boy. There’s something in him.” “Yes,
sir,” answered Blank, who had overheard the
outburst. “and he doesn't minu letung a utile
of it out.”
One of Hughes’s Ministers spent some of
his early lire in the Cow industry, and talked
Cow to anybody who would listen. Once
he so sermonised a city visitor on the beauty
and productiveness of the animal that the
boted traveller departed next day. But be-
fore he went he added to the texts adorning
the Cow-idolator’s kitchen a placard read-
ing: “What is Home Without an Udder:”
Adrian Holland left Australia a few years
ago to make England acquainted with his
musical gifts. A brilliant pianist when he
departed, he has
since soared into the.
lofty comoany of
orchestral conduc-
tors, and latelv did
several weeks with
the Carl Rosa Opera
Co., using his baton
with all the wisdom
of a veteran. Of
immediate interest
to his countrymen
is that he may re-
turn to the Com-
monwealth as solo-
pianist with Clara
Butt, though Melba
has an eye on the
young man and talks
of annexing him for
a tour. Incidentally,
he is a possibility for the conductor’s chair
in the Australian tour of “The Beggar’s
Ooera”; and. then again, he has been offered
a professorship in the London College of
Music. All of which shows you that he
has built up a rather formidable reputation
overseas.
Professor and Mrs. Lyle’s elder chick
Mary has just secured her medical degree,
together with the Kate Leir scholarsh’p.
With three sister medicoes she will now
gain practical experience as a member of
the Melbourne Hospital indoor staff. The
brainy Toorak girl will not have to rely on
her brass-plate to scare the wolf from her
threshold. Dad has a nice little income of
his own, and mother was one of the wealthy
and woolly Western District Millears.
Gen. Grimwade and his family, after defy-
ing the summer at their Frankston home,
closed the season with a two-step frivol, and
will now face the winter in a flat in the
South Yarra end of Toorak-road. The Gen-
eral lately acquired an almost historic row
of white terrace houses in Doinan-road,
facing the Botanic Gardens. These have
been removed to make way for a super-
luxurious flattage.
Bob Cain, whq since the war-drums ceased
throbbing has been sheltering from the hor-
rors of British income-tax in the Isle of Man,
is coming on a visit to his native Melbourne.
Robert, our one-time Beau Brummell, did his
war-work first as an Aussie Red Cross Com-
missioner, and later as an English cavalry
officer. One Cain brother lies under a wooden
cross in France.
When last heard fi'om in London David
Low r and Harrison Owen were planning a
voyage of exploration in Germany.
The return of Willie Moore to Melbourne,
after nine unluckily-timed years in Lon-
don, is a reminder of our advancement
in the things that William had at heart.
When he wrote his booklets on art and
artists there were no one-man exhibitions
to speak of. Buyers of Australian pictures
before the war were neither numerous nor
liberal enough to make painting profitable
for more than two or three. Expensive art
publications had not been attempted in Mel-
bourne, and the Fine Art Society and
“Decoration” did not exist. He was a
Bohemian propagandist in advance of his
time. When a little crowd of WilFe’s
friends squeezed into the Oddfellows’ Hall
to see three little playlets of his very own.
Melbourne had not yet arrived at a Reper-
tory Theatre. Moore, with his Australian
dramatic art message, was in advance of
Gregan McMahon with his Ibsen and Ber-
nard Shaw. At one of his cosy Bohemian
nights at the Turn Verein Hall, where things
were done on a larger scale than at the Odd-
fellows’, apostle William produced Louis
Esson’s first play, “The Woman Tamer,”
and a very entertaining little thing it was,
with Maisie Maxwell as the young person
who didn’t get tamed. Now there is a Mer-
maid Play Society, undreamed of in the
dark ages ere “On Our Selection” was
dramatised, which will produce a full-sized
play by Louis Esson presently. Australian
art and the drama are no longer in sore need
of a spruiker, thinks Willie Moore; but he
hopes to find a ready market for one or two
chatty books which he has in hand.
Annette Kellerman’s latest picture shows
the wonderful figure (often and all of it)
to tremendous advantage, and should in-
struct the Australian matron in the gospel
of nil desperandum. For Annette was a shape-
less mermaid when she left Australia, and
though close up to 40, now sports a figure
tliat looks 20. She has not been so success-
ful in keeping the 10 claws of time from her
face, but even in this respect she is a singu-
larly girlish, middle-aged lady. The dame
who seeks youth in the same way must be
prepared to put up a tremendous fight. Keep-
ing young is the Kellerman game, and it is
exacting and most strenuous. It is based on
the principle that you cannot eat too little
or exercise too much. Bed in excess is as
fatal as board. Blankets are terribly fatten-
ing. She advises: “Sleep on the tick.”
Living on tick is another aid to the matron
who wishes to keep thin, but Annette over-
looks that.
Meldrum has sold his much-talked-of
Mannix portrait to the R.C.’s of Haw-Haw-
thorn. Several attempts were made to get
the portrait for various R.C. institutions
but they all lacked push and collapsed. Tom
Burke, who besides being a land dealer ’s
a devoted R.C., saw a chance of helping on
the parish funds b.v “art-unioning” the
Arch, instead of the usual “jinker and har-
ness,” and next day Meldrum had £250 to
help pay his debts.
At the Caf6 Chantant to be given for the
Florrie Young Memorial there will be an
excellent programme of music. Robert
Chisholm has promised to sing; also Zoe
Wencke, Dorothy South and Robert Jewett.
Sassiety is taking up the tables and inviting
its friends to tea on the 21st at Buckley and
Nunn’s.
Arthur Robinson uses the State motor-
cars very little himself, but other Ministers
and members do not spare them. The con-
stant riders are not a bit thankful to the
Attorney-General, therefore, for the contrast
he drew the other night for the A.W.N.L.
at St. Hilda. “When a State Minister
wanted to travel from one department to
another,” said Robinson, “he used the two-
penny tragi, whereas the Federal Minister
bought a Rolls-Royce.” There are, as every-
body in “the game” knows, instances in which
State Ministers have spurned express-trains
even for long journeys and taken the motors
instead.
By the passing of R. M. Fraser, the
Presbyterians lose one of their finest mission-
aries. He was the pioneer of Epi, in the
New r Hebrides, and worked there for many
years until compelled to go to Hobart in
search of health. Owinsr to the shortage of
men, he returned to his island at the age of
bb, but soon went under. He was a master
of the native languages and did a lot of
translation.
Adelaide has a word or two to say:—
His Ex. is suffering from an old throat trouble,
and he has been forbidden speech-making in the open
air. Lady Weigall took his place and opened the
Autumn Flower Show.
Charles J. Landseer, of Milang, was married at St.
Peter’s, Glenelg, the other day to Ida Lankes, late of
Dover, England. Jean Pile bridesmaided and H.
Landseer best-manned, and when it was over a few
immediate relatives and intimate friends fed at the
residence of Mrs, John Pile. The newly-weds are
honeymooning in Melbourne.
Last week the first Harry P. Gill memorial medal
was presented at the School of Arts and Crafts, North
Terrace. This particular disc is to be awarded
annually for the best example of applied art executed
by a student, the design to have an Australian motif.
The first of the series was won by Rita, daughter of
J. H. I.oughhead, of Glenelg, her work being an
artistically carved table top. She shared the prize
money with Mary Catt, who made a clock frame in
art needlework. '
Mrs. John Melrose and daughter Lily, of Ulooloo,
left the other day for Melbourne, to be present at
Major Lewis’s wedding. Prior to the bridegroom’s
departure the staff of Bagot, Shakes and Lewis pre-
sented him with a cheque as a wedding gift.
Over a hundred people responded to Miss Audrey
Wells’s invitation to a song recital in which the
vocalist proved that her sojourn at the Albert-street
Conservatorium in Melbourne had not been time
wasted. Her deportment was as commendable as her
singing. Tea was drunk by,the guests amid artistic
decorations in the Lady Colton Hall.
Keith Power, son of the D. H. Powers, who used
to own a sheep-station in the North, arrived by air
from Melbourne on the 13th in his own machine. He
did the journey in 7 hours 24 minutes, against heavy
head winds, after having made the flight from
Adelaide in 5 hours 11 minutes. Keith was educated
at St. Peter’s .College and Geelong Grammar, and was
taught to fly only in January last by Butler and
Kauper.
Adelaide tennis enthusiasts are bewailing the fact
that our star player, R. V. Thomas, has been
appointed manager of the Falkiner Electric Com-
pany, which means that he has to go and live in
Sydney.
Brigadier-General Artill, leaves for Sydney on May
2, and Lieut.-Col. Ridley also leaves for the eastern
States early in May. Major Hardie has already gone
to take up a new military appointment in Melbourne.
L. H. Howie is back at his post as head of the
School of Arts and Crafts. He served in France with
the engineers, and since then has been retained by
the Australian War Records, for which he has done
30 or 40 water-colors.


naif-dozen piece Tea Set. Variety of designs.
Crown Derby China, £l2/ 12/« to £2l.
Crown Derby China.
NCLUDED in the Firm’s choice selections of
Diamond and Gem Jewellery, Gold and Silver,
Ivory and Tortoiseshellware, etc., are some
exquisite representations of Crown Derby and
other well-known chinas in specially-selected, exclusive
designs and patterns. These embody Tea Sets, Coffee
Sets, Tea and Dessert Plates and Black Coffee Sets with
Trays. Sets may be had also in Silk-lined Leather Cases
for presentation purposes. A choice range of Crown
Derby has just been added, of which the Firm will be
pleased to furnish full particulars and prices.
Mm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
No Separate
Stropping
Machine
Required.
#3*
K
I
It is a Comfort
to shave with a blade as keen and perfect as
that of the “7 o’clock” safety razor. But to be
able to keep such a blade in its pristine sharpness
from day to day and from week to week is more
than a comfort —it is a real joy.
In no other safety razor (except at twice the price)
can the blade be stropped except by removing it
from the frame.
STANDARD SET (No. 20). Heavily silver-plated razor,
complete in handsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest lancet steel blades
15/-
Of all high-class dealers.
V*
o
Safetyßazo
I\
Managing Agents for Australasia: —
RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD,,
Denison House, Sydney.
BUCKLEY’S
(THE SHRINE OF FASHION)
Smart Frocks of Charm and Distinction.
For variety and beauty of texture, coloring and design, one will
indeed have to journey far to find the equal of these fascinating
garments.
Come if you can and see them for yourself. If not, post your order
with every assurance of satisfaction.
THmiinp' Dinner Frock, carried out in Black Georgette over
White. The bodice has a cross-over front with small frillings of lace
round the oust. Jet bead finishings at neck and shoulders. The skirt
has panel effect with frillings of lace. A suitable style for a matron.
Price
gns
tn
\
YC 21
YC22
YC Z<+
i
YC. 23
Y C 2 2. Charming
Semi-Evening Frock,
i-i Ttliok rr " < *etas.
Sleeves and frills of
Georgette. New long
dcsig.i in Saxe and
ribbon belt to finish.
waist with pretty
Black beads, and
Price 7 gns.
Yo23.—Dainty Semi-Evening Frock, in
Cr(?pe de Chine. Cordirigs on shorlders
and at waist, pretty embroidered design
in contrasting color on bodice and skirt.
In Lemon, Pink, Rose, Saxe or White.
Sizes, S.W. and W.
Price, £4/14/6
YC24.—Dainty Semi-Ev<vning
Frock, in good quality Geor-
gette. Frillings of Georgette
down bodice and skirt. A con-
trasting Velvet ribbon finishes
the waist. Pink, White and
Blue. Sizes, S.W T . and W\
Price, 79/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL DRAPERY GOODS.
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne
PEANUT BRITTLE
C/jo/ce yWi/t Co/f/ection
v -v
K
£**«>
&
m
packed in I*-
Tins.
S/6 EACH
POSTAGE 6? EXTRA
Sent to any address /n dustraf/a.
. Only /Jdc/ress
162 pitt St. SYDNEY.


Under
Royal
Warrant
M
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
N
>HAMPAG#t
OiarlesHeidsie*
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club).
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M.. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
MN
rr 7au6m.
ans
EXTRA HARD
FLOOR
STAINS
Distinguished for Beauty
of Finish, Free Working,
Hard Wear.
Ask your storekeeper jor Tankman's.
The
Wentworth Cafe
M
affords perfect
facilities for
e n t e rtaininff,
whether it be
for ceremonious
social functions
or for the
merry im-
promptu dinner
dance.
Dinner Dances nightly 7 to 11.30.
Special Dinner Dances Thursday and Saturdays.
Tea Dances every afternoon, 3.30 to 5.30.
The entertainment will charm you. Book a
table. City 9931.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeprof
Hostery
The Feminist Club lunched and toasted
Miss Rose Scott, late International Sec. of
the National Council of Women, who after 50
years of work in the interests of women now
retires from her old activities. Miss Preston
Stanley, the club’s president, summed up the
life-work of this great citizen, a work which
commenced with the Women’s Suffrage
League, and embraced every reform for the
betterment of her sex. The guest read her
reply, which was a human little document.
William Shakspeare, it seems, has to take the
bhyne for Miss Scott being a suffragette. It
was an introduction to “The Taming of the
Shrew,” read at the age of seven, which
roused in her feelings of rebellion. Her resolu-
tions, made then at “the age of reason,” stood
for life, and she had the joy of watching her
early dreams come to almost comnlete fulfil-
ment. Always gentle (oh, wise Rose!) she
conquered where others of her sex failed.
J. D. Fitzgerald summed up the guest as
“best of citizens, and best of Australians.”
The “Friday Nights” of the past, when
followers of the arts foregathered at Miss
Scott’s home, were the theme upon which
Mrs. Holman reminisced. A record of this
luncheon now reposes in the Mitchell Library,
for J. 1). Fitzgerald secured the guest's bright
little memoranda for the archives.
_ The Cumberlege child, Diana, hostessed a
kiddies’ party on the Melbourne on Satur-
day afternoon, and by three-thirty that flag-
hung vessel glistened with spears and hat-
chets, pistols and bows and arrows, the
equipment of the Red Indians and cowboys
and Robin Hoods who were keeping the slide
working overtime or dancing sedately with
the butterflies, the pierrettes and the village
maidens, not to ‘speak of the terrifying young
person who suggested French revolutions and
guillotines. Fortunately it was a blazing
afternoon, for Diana herself walked as a
Hawaiian maid in a short grass skirt, some
tattoo markings, a string of beads, a pink
bloom over one ear, and a trail of flowers
tangled in the spikes of the grass skirt.
Tall C’hristabel Tickell wore a fascinating
Folly rig-out; and a Roberts infant of two
or three looked like a pink souffle in layers
of pink tulle and sophisticated ribbon
shoulder-straps. Mrs. Gordon Bray brought
a large-eyed Robin Hood son with her; Mrs.
Sep Levy was escorted by a small nephew
who suggested Ben Hur in spite of the
crimson cloak of- a Roman General: Mrs.
Henry Hill Osborne, in pink Swiss muslin,
had the Last of the Mohicans (nephew Rupert)
and the Knave of Hearts (nephew Peter) to
look after; a blonde Wallace child made an
interesting early-Victorian study; and a
Kelso-King little girl had a pair of very
expensive silk stockings to meet the hem of
her pink fluffiness. Mrs. Pitt-Rivers, in a
hat and frock wherein the nalest pinks and
blues merged into each other, was accom-
panied by a tiny Boy Blue son; and that
polished naval gentleman. Dumaresq, looked
in for an hour, bringing Mrs. Dumaresq in
sage-green. Late in the afternoon, when the
strangeness had worn off, the 50 or 60 small
children broke up into exploring parties,
and having gained a new thrill from climb-
ing up the slide and crawling over the guns,
and having stained their costumes beyond
the powers of benzine, came to the end of a
perfect afternoon.
The problem of how to house our home-
less gi’ ls was partly solved by the opening
last week of the Girls’ Friendly Society
Hostel at Forest Lodge. Lady Forster, in
dark grey charmeuse and self-colored lace
draperies, with a tulle hat that had touches of
blue, made the opening address, and his
Grace dedicated the building to
the rites of the Church of England. Neces-
sity forced the hostel to open its doors to
the homeless five weeks ago, and now
it has its full complement of 40 boarders.
By arrangement with the Government 20
other beds are set apart for emigrants and
travellers. The hostel, which owns no class
distinctions, is a fine, cheery, bright, airy
building, where most girls have their own
room 1 and a hot iron can be got just any
time to press out crumpled finery. Tariff
for bed and board runs from a guinea to
30s. per week. The most cheerful feature
of the opening ceremony was the number of
well-filled little blue bags of collected coins
handed to Lady Forster by representatives
of various branches of the G.F.S. Winifred
Docker is secretary, with Mrs. Wright pre-
sident. Six thousand pounds was spent on
the building, and about half the sum is yet
to be found before the G.F.S. can call the
place its very own. The speakers at the
opening included Justice Gordon, whose
mother, now in England, was the founder
of the society in Sydney, having as an asso-
ciate-worker Mrs. Alban J. Riley, of Bur-
wood.
There is “Art, Ancient and Modern,” at
the exhibition of the Society of Women
Painters at the Education Gallery. It in-
cludes pictures by members and a loan col-
lection of craft-work that rather overwhelms
the rest. Most of the art is not superlatively
anything. Strong in color and line, Mrs.
Rix Nicholas’s pastels and oils dominate
that side of the show, though there are plea-
sant bits of bush and sea from the brushes
of Mrs. Hedley Parsons, Alice Norton,
Gladys Owen and Mrs. A. M. Parsons.
Queenslander Frank Payne created somewhat
of a debut-record by selling her four clever
efforts on opening day. Though she is daily
within the sarcophagus of the Sydney
Museum, with its "dust and preserved dead,”
Phyllis Clarke’s three little mementoes of a
Fijian holiday have animation. A new de-
, parture for May Gibbs is a portrait study.
To swell the loan collection came curtains
from Damascus, embroideries from China
and brasses from India, these last upon a
Spanish shawl. Fans of the centuries, lace
mellow with the passing of the years, old
china, antique glass, needlework and ancient
jewellery and a “handkerchief of Marie An-
toinette” furnish a contrast to Fijian wea-
pons and aboriginal war-spears. Governor
Davidson contributes the “dinner equipment
of a dusky monarch” —two short wooden
spoons attached by a lengthy wooden chain.
Whether the latter is to steady the hands
of the unwise diner or to make the path of
the souvenir-hunter more difficult isn’t clear.
Lady Forster was in black satin with
blonde lace draperies at the official opening
of the Society of Women Painters’ Show. Her
Ex. makes punctuality a virtue, with a lean-
ing towards the minute before, and already
the tardy have taken notice. Mrs. Parsons,
Gladys Owen and Mrs. Rix Nicholas bade
the guest welcome, but there seemed no
materialisation of the customary bouquet.
In soft tones and fluently Lady Forster spake
her pleasure in the exhibition and her de-
light with Australia and its beauties.
Joan Rolin, the pretty, sparkling-haired
daughter of Judge Rolin, has become en-
gaged, to her own and everybody else’s satis-
faction, to Billy Owen, the young son of
Lunger Owen. The two have known each
other for ever. Joan has done a lot of war
work at home —work that, ranged from
hanging out the washing at Rose Hall to help-
ing in the casualty-ward at the Sydney Hos-
pital. She is a first-class cook, too, and
inherits a lot of dad’s thinking powers. At
16 years old Billy ran away and joined the
A.1.F., and his family could only guess where
he was till he wrote to them from inside a
suit of khaki.
Joan’s cousin, Jill Rich, is in the whirl
of excitement, too. Her promises have gone
to Ashley Hooper, from Melbourne, who is
completing his engineering studies at Syd-
ney Uni.
Miss Eleanor Weston has a fine war-service
record. At the South Coast Red Cross
Home, the Bomaderry Hostel, she first mat-
roned the big staff
of Voluntary Aids;
then the Diggers’
Home at Sans Souci
claimed her ser-
vices ; now she is
back with the
V.A.’s as matron of
the recently-formed
V.A. Club, which is
housed on the top
storey of the Red
Cross headquarters
in Jamieson-street.
New activities find
the large army of
girl-aids drifting
from their old plea-
sant companionships
and interests, and it
is to preserve and
foster these that the V. A. Club was estab-
lished. The popularity of the movement
brought gifts of furniture from dismantled
Red Cross Homes, and various shops sent
along things useful and pretty. Unpre-
tentious but comfortable, the Club has a
big lounge, a dining-room where 40 can
be seated, and a small dressing-room. Here
can the V.A.’s foregather at a membership
fee of ss. a year, and though yet in its
infancy lunch-time finds Miss Weston and
her co-worker Constance Scott Reed min-
istering to the wants of an almost-full house.
Dame Margaret will pronounce the words
of official opening shortly, and hand the
Challenge Competition Shield to the success-
ful detachment. Monte Luke-Falk studio
photographed Miss Weston.
Phyllis Sherwin, of Bondi, a daughter of
that J. F. Sherwin who helped to build up
the fortunes of Paling’s piano house, was
duly transferred to W. 11. Mann, of the
Repatriation Department, Auckland, last
week. Her gown was of ivory silk crepe, silver
tissue and georgette, with a rare old lace
veil. Her sisters Sylvia and Valerie, one
in heliotrope and the other in eau-de-nil
georgette, were topped by black tulle hats;
and small niece Helen Westcott in lace frills
and rosebuds was the other one of a charm-
ing trio of bridesmaids. The reception was
purely a family re-union at Jocelyn, Bondi.
The boundary fences between Uardry and
Tupra were broken down earlier this month.
Presbyterian padre Robertson, of Hay, had
the contract. And when he had finished the
job Andrew Agnew Neilson Mills, third son
of the late Charles Mills, of Uardry, found
that he had handed over his housekeeping to
Mary Gleeson, daughter of the late Patrick,
of Tupra, ’G'room’s mother is still of
Uardry; bride’s is at Tullock, in Hay.
Wedding bells rang one day last week
for Maurice Sussman and Rachel (“Baby”)
Marks, daughter of Mrs, J. Marks, of
Winona, Stanmore. The Jewish rites were
celebrated in the conservatory of Winona.
Clouds of white georgette with gleaming
diamente, a train of Limerick lace and a
tulle veil made a fascinating bridal array.
A dinner followed the ceremony, with jazz-
ing afterwards. The ’groom uses a pen
very neatly. His bride was one whom the
big army of Voluntary Aids claimed during
the war-time.
Sing a song of babies, wee babies, of
babies walking, of 60 babies, well cared for,
and it will do for the song of the Infants’
Home at Ashfield, whose annual meeting
has just been held on the spot. Dame Mar-
garet presided, and brought. Diana and
Daphne; and while the meeting was in pro-
gress there was joy-riding in the vice-regal
car for some toddlers. Through the fete
recently opened by Lady Forster at Miss
Edith Hill’s over £6OO found its wav to this
Home’s fund.
With her mind on the Ryde Home for
Incurables, pianist Beryl Starling last week
extracted some good coin from her admirers,
and. incidentally, gave them the worth of
the money at the Conservatorium. Searl’s
cheered the platform’s barren waste with
palms and yellow blooms, and to the pianist’s
finely-rendered numbers —especially a Les-
chetizky left-hand study—were added sougs
of Lilian Gibson and Leonard Mars.
Oscar Wilde’s “An Ideal Husband” re-
introduced the Vagabonds at St. James’s
Hall. This well-established amateur com-
pany gave a creditable performance, which
recalled memories of the Brough-Boucicault
treasures of the past. Honors went to Ida
Gough for a brainy presentation of the
vamp, Mrs. Cheveley; the husband, who
ceased to be ideal, found Rupert Pearce with
some histrionic perception ; and Hugh Don-
ald (Lord Goring) is highly commended for
his work in Act 111. Altogether a good
show, by which the building fund of the
Surry Hills Free Kindergarten is the gainer.
Success, financial and social, attended the
first of the series of dances for the C. of E.
Havilali Home. The Paddington Town Hall
housed the jazz, and the frocking was quite
up to the best efforts of Society. Mrs.
James Ashton wore plum-colored' taffeta.
Garnets twinkled in Mrs. Sep' Levy’s ■showy
coiffure, and black sequin net clothed her.
Golden-brown charmeuse gowned Mrs. Wal-
ter Brunton, daughter Evelyn jazzed in
shimmering blue charmeuse, salmon pink taf-
feta suited brunette Joan Rolin, and Mrs. E.
Steele (Bananaland) featured one of her
favorite tones of henna in a bouffant frock
of taffeta.
In aid of St. Brigid’s, C’oogee, many youths
and maidens jazzed and one-stepped at the
Paddington Town Hall. Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
Mrs. Ussher and Misses Brightmann and
Stabback secretaried a very pleasant little
dance, excellently organised. Mesdames
Ryan and Ussher wore black gowns, and the
former added an evening coat of pink geor-
gette gold-embroidered. Miss Cahill, just
from the U.S.A., showed that evening gowns
over there cover more than they do here at
present. Her apricot taffeta had a some-
what high corsage and almost elbow sleeves.
Violinist Donald Mcßeath’s brilliant tech-
nique and fine tone did not avail to attract
anything of an audience to the Town Hall for
his final concert prior to his return to
America. The Australian violinist deserved
better of his fellow-countrymen. The en-
thusiastic reception he had when he appeared
as John McCormack’s assisting artist led him
to believe that one good house might be his
portion, but unwise is he who puts his trust
in the memory of the public. South Aus-
tralian Topsy Donneau, who has made
accompanying a fine art, showed at this con-
cert the sympathetic, facility she brought to
the virile Daisy Kennedy’s recitals. Iris de
Cairos Rego, wfith a crimson rose brighten-
ing her black gown, added some well-played
pianoforte solos to the programme, and Haig'n
Jackson raised his cultured baritone.
Caroline Lundgren, whose affaires d'amour
have been puzzling a Melbourne jury, first
struck this country in the early days' of the
war, when “the poor Belgians” were in the
boom. A pretty little woman with a sweet
little singing voice, she soon found a svm-
pathetie manager, and toured Australia as
"the beautiful Belgian soprano.” though
when she was in trouble it wasn’t to the
Belgian Consu! she went but to the Swe-
dish. One or two Governors' wives made a
luss of the interesting exile, but the public
refused to be thrilled, and the manager lost
money. Coming to Sydney Caroline (or
Lilianne, as she called herself) essayed
musical comedy, but her ambitions were
shattered by the verdict of a dyspeptic
critic, who wrote that her voice wa<
“almost big enough to fill a telephone-box.”
After that the lady became a circumstance
at a fashionable flattery, her cavaliere ser-
vente being a romantic Hollander who made
sauces for a living. A divorce case fol-
lowed, and then the Governors’ ladies who
had been cajoled into patronising the fugi-
tive from Flanders felt rather sorry for
themselves.
This is Bertha Lawson, 8.A., daughter
of Henry, who has reached her majority
and the degree almost simultaneously.
Bertha won a
scholarship from the
North Sydney Prim-
ary to the Girls’
High, and a further
scholarship carried
her on through the
Arts course. Though
she has also taken
Constitutional Law,
she is likely to fol-
low the Inky Way.
for literary talents
run on both sides of.
the family. At the
mature age of nine
she wrote a poem
which Tiie Bul-
letin printed. The
photograph is from
a very fine pastel
portrait by Florence Rodway, done before
Bertha aspired to the Uni.
Mrs. Egerton, wife of his Ex.’s new private
secretary, will arrive with her small son in
Sydney this week, and go to the bungalow
adjoining Government House. With them is
th(> Hon Lady Egerton, Major Egerton’s
mother, who was on the committee of the
Overesas Club during the war. and liked the
Australians so much that she wanted to see
more of them. She will be the guest of Dame
Margaret.
Lord and Lady Airedale, whose family
business is iron and has nothing whatever
to do with dogs, are, with her daughters,
the Hon. Enid and the lion. Thelma Kitson.
boiling the billy at Bondi. They came to
visit a daughter in Victoria who met and
married a Digger during the war and is now
a dinkum Aussie.
Maoriland mourns the passing of a big-
hearted philanthropist, Mrs. .John Stead.
Mayoress of Invercargill. Hers was a joy
to make others’ troubles lighter, and the
reward came in many friendships. One of
he) 1 sons is W. J. Stead, widely known as the
brilliant three-quarters in the “All Blacks”
football team which toured England in 1905.
Mrs. Arnst, mother of those fine champion
athletes Dick. Jack (killed in France) and
Walter, also died recently in M.L.
Sheriff Veale, of Alameda County, Cali-
fornia, who is in Sydney on an extradition
case, is genial as to disposition and sparse as
to thatch. Though he has a fair girth for a
man below medium height and is verging on
00, at a recent convivial evening he danced
from 9 p.m. till 4 a.m., and won a waltzing
competition en route. The cheery little chap
is scheduled to return to the States by the
next boat, and is praying that all malefactors
of Alameda County may escape to Sydney,
provided he’s given the job of chasing ’em.
Mary Charlton, a youthful pianist of more
promise than most, is booked for her first
recital at the King’s Hall. Mary is a 16-year-
old daughter of Canon Charlton, and is a
pupil of Vern Barnett. A good technique
and the rare gift of a perfect ear are quali-
fications which should make for a fine artist.
The Greig Concerto in A minor (with her
teacher at the second piano) will be the
chief feature of her programme. Governor
Davidson extends his patronage.
Plays in pantomime, according to the tra-
ditional methods of 1 Delsarte, will give interest
to Miss Grace Stafford’s students’ recital
next Saturday night at St. James’s Hall.
With the aid of Stuart Mack. Miss Stafford
herself will depict the progress of the “tender
passion on a railway journey,” while the
students will ’mime the harrowing stories
of “Red Riding Hood” and “Bluebeard.” To
picture-acting is accredited the revival of the
almost forgotten art of pantomime. Varied
recitations will give Miss Stafford a further
chance to air the knowledge acauired during
her year in the Free Dramatic School and
the Central School of Speech at the Albert
Hall. London. The students’ cot at the
Alexandra Hospital for Children will be
helped by this entertainment.


LiiH
14
n i
m
r
l \
■i : ;
K /
I V'/Vn'
liL .*
;»,v
U f
ifl
r
/s)
i J
*v v
n
JT/l
1
w
A
5®
x
W IV J
Tv
L £
t ,1
Qt; a . S S 3
50
m
V l
A)
9*
t
II
\\\ ►smifKf.-Julii.is
V .Sfudios.
lnstruments in One
The Beale Player-Piano is no less a beauti-
ful piano because its usefulness is increased
by means of a player action.
On the one hand, a superb instrument for the techni-
cal musician. On the other hand, a perfect playing
technique for those who are musical but have no
manual dexterity.
The trained musician finds inspiration in classical mas-
terpieces which are too intricate for any except the'
very proficient. With the player-piano he is able to for-
get technicalities in the joy of personal interpretation.
The untrained musician experiences all the pleasure
of music any time, for any length of time. His re-
pertoire is the world’s best, and he plays as his
mood dictates.
Regardless of whether you want a piano merely for
those members of your family who can play—or are
learning—consider the advantages which very little
extra expenditure will bring in the way of a player-
instrument.
Our little booklet "Advantages for Yourself” covers
many points of interest in Beale construction. Write
for a copy.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the c ßeale
Showrooms .
333 George Street, Sydney.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTDt
Factories:
-47 Trafalgar St, Annandale.
BRANCHES
New South Wales : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn,Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all-
Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. West Australia : J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Quensland) LIMITED
00-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


n
i
GOOD JUDGMENT
aruf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty It meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cethro Pty. Ltd ♦ 50 York Street.
Sydney
LEARN DRAWING!
NM
N
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Simple
lessons in
the prin- „
ciples of black
and white work
and design have
been prepared by
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist, enabling
you to study art in
your own home.
This
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING
teaches you with-
out drudgery how
to apply your
talent, and how to
make big money
besides learning a
fascinating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s Money
in the Pen,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.,
gives examples of
the lessons and
samples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent you on re-
ceipt of your
name and
address and
three stamps
to cover post-
age.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
45 UNION HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
IN THE MATTER of the estate of
ROBERT CONDRON late of Tauranga
in the Provincial District of Auckland in
New Zealand, Laborer.
ALFRED CRACKNELL (a nephew of
the said Robert Condron) formerty of Bun-
dara, Australia, and more recently a member
of The Australian Imperial Force, is re-
quested to communicate with the Public
Trustee, Wellington, New Zealand, relative
to his claim to share in the distribution of
the estate of the said Robert Condron.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN CRONIN father of John
Thomas Cronin and formerly of
Christchurch in the Dominion of New Zea-
land and to all persons claiming by through
or under him.
Pursuant to aD Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
18th day of February 1921 you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the Ist day of July 1921 your
claim to the estate of John Thomas Cronin
who died in France intestate on or about the
13th day of December 1917 failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 23rd day of
February 1921.
G. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
EUREKA
Horse Rugs
For 15 Years Acknowledged
the Most Satisfactory
Stay-on Horse Rug .
If Rug gets at all displaced by rolling, a few strides taken
by the horse brings it back into position again.
Made in extra heavy canvas, lined Kersey.
sft. 6ft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
66/6 67/6 68/- 68/6 69/6
WRITE FOR SAMPLES OF CANVAS USED AND
OUR FULL PRICE LIST OF RUGS. WE HAVE
THREE OTHER STYLES OF FIXING, AND FIVE
QUALITIES OF CANVAS.
For cash with order we send not less than 6 Rugs Freight
Free to any port or railway station in N.S.W. For smaller
orders add 2/3 per Rug- for freight, and we refund difference
if any. For parcels post add 2/9 per Rug.
rius
VUREKA
PATENT
(711
DON'T measure horse along the back.
We want the full length of Rug, so
measure horse from centre of chest to
buttock.
GET OUR SADDLERY
CATALOGUE AND NEW
PRICE LIST.
WE ARE
POLO SPECIALISTS.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
395 Gearge St., Sydney.
r
\
ritisrv
THe A 1
rd
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car has fulfilled
every demand expected of it. It
has unusual power, and is especially
economical in running costs.
2 and 4-Sea ters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street,
SYDNEY.
""''"Ill
mil'""
mm'
11111111""'
|BWW p
0
(t*
i
llllillllllll)
<Jfl
With this good pipe
Make the days care-free
And life a carnival.
SMOKE A
the perfect pipe.
MANY POPULAR SHAPES.
CN SALE EVERYWHERE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except o* a hostile character} will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.T.M,: Ten thousand curses on the man
who jambs his typewritten lines so dose together.
. ...F.M.: Better let the two of them have it out.
... .Ragar: Yes, you were probably right; but it
might be very unsafe to mention the Fly River
plantation where the trick was played on the natives.
.... Rangitoto: Poor, both in manner and matter....
A.C.S.: You make turgid verse of all the old common-
places that dull people say on wet days, and then
wonder if it’s poetry.... Ecce: The man who wanted
to murder Japs but cried over a dead horse needed
better handling... .J.R.: “Commentary” goes
feebly.... Pierce B.: The subject’s no good, and the
verse is very rough.... Val: Nothing there except a
piling-up of words that have no beauty C.C.N.;
Fair verse which only says the obvious thing....
J.K.M.; Idea of a man hanging on above a chasm
three inches deep has moss on it....80ju River:
Far too rugged A.R.F.: Doesn’t get near
F.A.M.: Not for us La Dab: The bare
bones of a tale... .Yarramalong: It moves too
clumsily... .E.J.0.: Not enough in it... .11.V.G.:
No u5e....1v.G.: “Follow On” has a lilt and not
much else.... Duncan C.: Not well enough done....
Oliver B.: “The Mallee Hospital” is a fine little
etching:—
One never knows when one’s time is due
To be brought into a place one dreads;
Often gets knocked without more ado,
Perhaps hanging on to the last thread.
Over roads only fit for our blacks.
For miles patients have to be brought in;
One gets often more than one’s whack,
But, oh, you mustn’t call it sin.
At last! At last! Into the hospital vqu lob,
The sister and nurses all on the spot
Thinking whether your heart still throb.
For one cares not what’s what.
Then a ring and soon the doctor is in
With a smile as broad as a tin-plate;
The sister tell 3 all without and within
As the doctor strokes your pate.
All day and all night through
The nurses are patiently waiting on you ;
The least little sound they’re flirting around,
To see if you’re all right, sleeping nice and sound.
Ah 1 Then the mother of all is that dear sister.
If anything is to be done or to be won;
The sister, God bless her,
As she streaks in like the morning sfln!
... - Cad’s Lesson: No use to us... .E.P.L.: The verse
doesn’t tarry it Henry M.: “Evening” is a well-
enough constructed pie, but hasn’t enough meat in
it—.3l3: Poor, thin sort... .P.8.P.: “Dear old
Autumn” doesn’t score enough points.... Arthur R.:
“Wireless Romance” and “Ideal Husband” both fail
by a little... .R.J.8.: Misses, but not by much....
L.C.R.: “Pearls” is pretty enough, but what does
it mean?... .Chunjoberru: You can’t rhyme “meek”
with “feet” unless you dislocate your ear... .C.C.L.:
The book was not published by The Bulletin, and
is now out of print....P.M.: That writer is a lady...
F.A.L,: The lines are rather young, but there’s a
lot of promise in them J.M.S.Y.: No use pouring
in stuff of a kind we never print F.J. (Red fern):
Even a long string of puns if they are feeble enough
may drive the righteous to drink... .A.E.K.: The
girl you really need is one with sufficient con-
science to keep you from making verse like that....
A.S.H.: Your “melodious midnight moans” are no-
thing alongside those which the horror of the thing
produced in this office.... D.H.C.: Dreary... .T.R.C.:
Not up.... Pinto: The Zoo is almost as feeble as
it could be made.... John N.: Suitable for singing
at a second-rate smoking-concert &8 years ag0....
Bul-bul: Thanks for the good intention. Unfor-
tunately we can’t use good intentions... .The
Wowser: Theme has been better handled 1756 times.
... .Kangaretta: “Song” won’t d 0.... Don Three:
“Sailor” and “Press Day” miss.... Nod: Bad verse.
....H.C.H.: Sent on for a second reading... .E. 8.:
(Murrumbeena) : Doesn’t get near J.C.: Correct,
dull verse on an old theme... .Francis D.: Also ran.
Peter R.: Ancient joke Herr B.: Just misses.
... .T.A.8.: Much too long-winded... .Central: Give
it up P. 8.: You start nowhere, and end at the
same place Pard: The greatest virtue of all Is
brevity Nez: Badly needs disinfecting 1C.L.8.:
>You’re on the edge; try again E.McM.: Yon’ll
do it yet... .Canegrass and Sliprails: The Bul-
letin pays for what it uses; send claims for pars to
accountant Stan: Lacks point.., .Claremont: “Go
Slow” is among the barely possibles R.M.:
“Whare,”' though conventional, might have got
through if it had been a little better done....
Rosary: Why don’t you tell the story yourself? No
need to put it into somebody else’s mouth, especially
when that Involves quotations within quotations....
0.T.N.: 'There is no official censorship now. But that
doesn’t give a paper the right to throw insults reck-
lessly at neighbors E.E.C.: We can’t swallow :he
monkey. Otherwise it is a good yarn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.J.8.: Silhouette covers a multitude of sins....
J. : Drawing faulty and penwork lacks decision...
N.L.: Nothing in it.... Mike: Not Angelo, by any
chance? W.J.C.: Appalling V.C.: Blue-ink
scratches on crumpled note-paper of no interest....
F.C.K.: Not up....N.D.: The worst drawing to
date... .S.E.T.: Look at his feet—and hers....
K. : Not a hope... .G.G.: Curiously uneven work;
are you copying? Al. C.: Characterless J.C.:
Let Duleie learn drawing... .A.J.Mc.: Misses....
E.H.T.: Wooden... .Delia: Hopeless... ,A.R.; Why
those spats?... .8.E.H.: No good C.C.: Mine
joke been done, with variations, before Alex.:
Better stick to your shearing H.C.L.: But that
stone is not rolling... .N. 8.: Both joke and drawing
feeble....C. Mack: Hedgehog barred because of the
vast number of placards he has to carry. A cartoou
shouldn’t have more signboards than can be taken in
with one sweep of the eye.
“E.F.”: In devastating the banks of
creeks the dredge occasionally does something
interesting. Working in Forest Creek, Castle-
maine (Vic.), the other day one unearthed
the skeleton of a man whose decease probably
dates back to early digging days. The oldest
inhabitant reckons the lawful owner of the
bones was buried in the shade of a
giant gum that grew on the creek-side. The
poets of the period always insisted on plant-
ing their heroes where leaves rustled overhead
and green grass grew all round. They never
saw the day coming when the devastating
dredge would lay bare the hero’s framework
and the disturbed sleeper would be viewed by
a coroner’s jury and then be reburied under
an open verdict


Shinplng
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
vvith Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT 9. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246.
4247,
4810.
2,4, 0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco.
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. APRIL 27,
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies, tfc.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES- K I?’
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP K C M G •'
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORT D
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED. ’.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.009 4 5
All new business since 180$ specially protected.
I >l hectors —Geo. Kdwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. )\. Gray, M.L.C.: .lames Love Ksa. ■
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital 000 000
Capital Paid Up £R2OO’OOO
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: Herbert It. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Si.y, LLD.; Frank N. Yakwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.0.:
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carb.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
, BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Cine] Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.'
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125*000
Ordinary Shares 2,*250,*000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(INCORPORATED 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital £625,000
Reserve Fund 600.000
T . £1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625.000
£1.850 000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with S 3 Branches and Agencies in that State.
Hondo* Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc..
Canad ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
RETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—-
MAKURA, THURSDAY, sth MAY, NOON.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
SAILING FROM WELLINGTON:
TAHITI, 31st MAY.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, 26th May.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 23rd JUNE.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
r
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
irips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
OF
Director*:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
President.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Charles Biimie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithful], Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French KBE
11 end Office—George Street, Sydney, London Office—29 Threadneedle Street" EC
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Panua and r’ondon’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. P L 0 ° '
Cnlde remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collet.ed. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,500,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
M
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager;
H. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Rirchln Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parrs Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
fl eorge hotel,
Malbourne,
LMrvcst Hotel Accommodation la Australia.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sails from
Sails from
Sydney.
Melbourne
Wed.,
Sat.,
April 23,
noon.
April 27,
4 p.m.
Sat.,
April 23,
2 p.m.
Tues.,
April 26.
Fri.,
April 29,
6 p.m.
tCOOMA...
(Melb. only)
Sat.,
April 30,
noon.
fWYREEMA
(Melb. only)
Tues.,
May 3,
3 p.m.
IBOMBALA.
(Melb. only)
Sat.,
May 7,
Steamer.
KATOOMBA
‘Canberra..
(Melb. only)
JWODONGA
(Melb. only)
JDIMBOOLA
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
Pty., Ltd., 01 Pitt
St. (Tel. 7566).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Melbourne Steam-
ship Cot , Ltd.,
42 Pitt St.
(Tel. 8212)
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 360 George
St, (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Btmda-
r.l -*■ "" ville jor outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Te 1.6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
uiaco j. aoijcugciat
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
.Carries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parkei LIM
, Magnirioent
' Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
Eor full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levufca” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald.
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T» E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYItON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.-•
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 pTm..
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:-
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address,;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Ulacklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritiffies Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Port 3).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary,
borough, Tiimdaberg, Bowen and CoOlciown.'
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


SAJI9MM
'SP
,M\
mini
w
(M
'm
IM i
I m
i \B\
Get a packet of
the new
WRIG LEY'S
FZ.
JUICY FRUIT
CHEWING GUM
~Z£
and taste the luscious,
long-lasting flavour of
this delicious chewing
sweet.
AM three are refresh-
ing—the most econom-
ical and (ong-iasting
sweet-meat you can buy.
EVERY MEAL
WiTTrrnTrfflfffflll
6 m
Bars in
each
packet
AFTER
NM
N
M
for 3d,
CHEW IT
**■ nil 1J 11
N
Made In
Australasia
JWRIGLEYSv
DOUBLEMINT
. GUMr ■!
5/s
Al 7?
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
MN
The CLUB REIL
One of the finest blended Cigars
ever produced in Australia.
Tiieh, but refined fragrance.
ACTUAL SIZE.
6d.
All First-class Hotels
and Tobacconists.
If unable to secure from
your Tobacconist, send for
a Trial Box of 25. Post
Free, direct from —
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sydney,
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Proprietary.
The NEW EDISON
Re-Creates with
perfect realism.
After all is said and done, the
best phonograph is the one
which reproduces music with
the greatest similarity to the original.
The New Edison literally Re-Creates music-—gives a result so
perfect, so lifelike and emotional, . that you feel you are
listening to a living artist. In fact, its performance cannot be
distinguished from the original.
Full particulars will be sent, post free, on request. Write to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON,' LTD., $64-372 BLENT STREET, SYDNEY. -
\
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
£
“J. marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/2 ; other States, 2/2.)
20 =
NM
“Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Riile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or lons rim tire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, holt action, ladder rear sight; length of riile
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b -
Freight Paid. OU;*
c.
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Riff*, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, ami is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, IBin. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/"
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/S.)
MN
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and poiver.
825. Savage Hi-P6wer Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapereef barrel, take down, weight 6Jlb., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l4 14
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
M
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
lil3. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long or long rifle cartridgesweight, about 551 b. ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/6
mimrrrUam
827. New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It has full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv' shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weightabout TJlb. Freight paid
N
“A cheap and reliable weapon.''’
132. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F..
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for lon® rifle cart-
ridges, case-lmrdened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
M
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length oC barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 531 b __ ;
Freight paid,
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC- CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth : hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
NM
Rl4. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 3S-, 44-calibre, central tire, full or half
magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Carrel Freight paid,
BIG. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 3S- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel, weight about ojlb Freight paid,
£B/15/-
£9
£7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any address
ac
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


PLAZA TALCUM POWDER
Keeps You Fresh and Dainty from Head to Toe.
Neutralises the Odor of Perspiration.
The perfume of Plaza Talcum
Powder is an elusive delight
which simply charms. Not the
odor of a single flower, but that
chosen from a bouquet of a dozen
flowers, blended to charm
and delight.
In beautiful glass
containers, Price 1/9
Sold by all Ch9mist3 and Stores,
or sent post free
ipon receipt of
the price by the
Sheldon Drug Co.
Ltd., 131-5
Clarence
Street,
Sydney.
£ A •; v
■ i
/ *
/h ,n
■ :
V-llfe
1
/>
Ilm«
•'
Jl
■ x' ..
i
iflfli
SSI
- v
'
H
■ r. •;
SI ■
L
■till
mm j
- SI
:
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
m
VAI
LO
BRAND
.WEED, SCRDJL
TREE KILE®
[poison]
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs .
10,6; 1 lb., 2/-; $-lb., 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb., 9d.; i-lb 6d
extra. Interstate. 1 lb., 1/2; i-lb., Bd. extra. ’
Manufactured in Australia by A. VICTOR LEGGO £? CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY . BRISBANE
••
€
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY,
TWPW Razor
has a reputation throughout Australia
for Easy Shaving and Reliability.
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the “Plum”
Razor, and being practical tradesmen they know just
the kind of edge required for an easy shave.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
I Have a Memory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE a memory
Of such an hour as this, when the full
moon
Was gold above the tree-tops, and the night
Was Hooded with a mystic glowing light,
As clear and beautiful as any noon.
I seem to see
The gleaming marble pillars, yellow-veined,
That stood within the spacious courts and
ball 3. . . , ni
The whiteness of the ancient tlalace walls.
By dreaming, tender, moth-gray shadow
stained.
The mellow air
Was fragrant, and the evening breeze was
cool; .
There was a happy sound where water fell,
And chimed, as softly as a far-off bell,
From the old fountain to the lily pool
That glimmered fair
In rippling silver. Through the lattice bars
I looked upon the garden at my feet,
And saw the night was beautiful and sweet.
And kind the moon, and full of peace the
stars.
From far away,
Deep in the darkness that was jungle spread
On every hand, there came the ominous
sound
Of the black panther from his hunting
ground,
Silent and swift and angry and unfed.
Who sought his prey.
The stillness quivered. Death without was
lord.
And there was Fear among the forest trees,
But I had little thought at all of these,
Of deer caught drinking at the river ford,
As swift I turned.
And crossed the polished, wide, mosaiced
floor,
The chequered pavement, and the. stately
stair.
And, with the jewels shining in my hair,
Hastened along the silent corridor.
The lamp flame burned,
And filled the room with moving shadows.
Gold
And purple silks hung there, and cushions
made
Of satins soft and beautiful were laid
On rugs Bokhara wove, of worth untold.
And there was set
Upon their amber, jade and amethyst
A table of pale carven ivory,
Turquoise inlaid, that held a filigree
Basket of silver, full of fruit sunkist,
A cobweb net
To catch the garden spoils. Against the wall
A mirror set in beaten silver stood.
That showed the lamp, the floor of polished
Avcod,
The divans, and a woman slim and tall.
A shimmering veil
Concealed her features : ornaments of gold
And lustrous pearls and emeralds she. wore;
Her dress was rich and whispered at the door.
And gleamed in every glossy broidered fold.
Her slim and pale
Young arms and feet were gold and silver
spanned,
And jewelled sweetness tinkled as she went.
Her hair was fragrant with a subtle scent,
And gems were sparkling bright on either
hand.
The glowing flowers
Of the poinsettia burned a dusky red
Beside her. jasmine stooped, caressed, and
climbed
Above the tuberose, whose blossoms chimed
Each moment’s mystic loveliness. Soon sped
Those happy hours
Of sweet enchantment. Beauty such as this
Was poignant, like a knife-thrust at the
heart;
The pale blue lotus lilies seemed a part
Of sorrow that was beauty and was bliss.
And, in the shade,
There waited one, hid from m.v memory’s
eyes,
Beneath the swaying palm-leaves’ glossy
green,
Now silvered with a moonlit fairy sheen —
The mist of distance on the garden lies.
The visions fade.
Faint are the nightingale’s sweet melodies.
The scene grows dim. and now is gone, alas !
But thus I know that once it came to pass
When the full moon was gold above the trees.
VICTORIA.
GRACE DTHEL MARTYR.
The Street of Magic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T ORTH and south in Sydney city runs
the Street of Magic. Beginning on
the eastern slope of the spine of
the town, it continues southerly to flat
country, then over a gentle roll to an old-
time gully, then butts against an ancient
sandhill to end stunned. Northerly its
western edge falls away to where -was once
the Tank Stream. and now is a more sub-
terranean place—the Stock Exchange. It
was laid out by bullock-teams crawling pain-
fully upwards from the cliffy banks of Syd-
ney Cove.
Once the street of solicitors, legal and
courtesan, and of houses once held by rum-
sellers. forestallers and other respectable
tradesmen of Old Sydney, it became the place
of harpies, livery-stables, little music-halls
and public-houses. Now it is Theatre-street,
Newsoaper-street, Automobile-street; street
of palaces licensed to retail fermented and
spirituous liquors: street of afternoon tea.
mostly from Scotland and Manhattan, and
not from China; street of restaurants that
charge like wounded buffalo; street of specu-
lators. street of get-rich-quicks, street of
fakirs and Street of Magic. It is the hunt-
ing-ground for schemers; and men of the
bush home to it as pigeons to the cote. Any-
where in the Street of Magic a blind man
can throw a brick and hit a story.
* * * *
The long summer day paled from red to
gold to amethyst; and a large, fat woman
shaped like a beehive sang as if to speed
the parting guest of daylight. But as her
voice was what it was, her performance
threatened also to issue a writ of eject-
ment to the night, so that the feat of Joshua
might have seen a repetition in part. The
man who came out of the Press Club build-
ing listened to the woman shaped like a
beehive singing at the galvanised-iron fence
of the ancient Model School of Governor
Macquarie’s time, and reverberated it with
all kinds of peculiar echo-eft'ects. He was
so full of fermented and spirituous liquors
that his auditory nerve was paralysed, and
as he listened to the singer who was shaped
like a pyramid his eyes filled with tears: —
“ ‘A fisherman and his child were drowned,’
Came ringing through the town;
The father an’ chi-ild
Were under the ti-ide.
An’ grief did mourn aro-u-und;
An’ the sorrowin’ mother did cry al-o-u-u-d,
‘O Gor’, it cannot be,
For in the deep I see them Still,
Their milkwhite for-or-orms I see!’”,-:
“Beautiful,” said the full man. “Splen’!”
And he crossed the road to the singer.
“ ’Twus the voice
Of their Gor’
They heard as they sank in the deep ;
Come t’ Me,
1 love thee.
An' My precious still I keep.”
“ ‘Come to me, I love thee,’ ” interpolated
the full man in ascending crescendo.
The singer stopped. She was a very bad
singer, but believed in that she called her
Art.
"No geutleman’d int’rupt a lady singin’,”
said the fat woman indignantly, and held
out her hand for alms.
The full man checked his tears, gave her
a shilling and drifted northward; the bee-
hive woman returned to her voice and
offered for Bonnie Annie Laurie to lay her
doon and dee. Annie Laurie seemed to bring
a complete change of feeling to the full
man; he-laughed heartily, crossed the road
diagonally, and went through the swing
doors that opened to a saloon containing
much liquor and a parrot, the air heavy
with memories of old roystering belonging
to the Oid Colonial days. That did not seem
to suit t the full man ; he took but one drink
and came out to the hot sandstone pavement
again. He was not tall —boyishly slight;
he had a short, dark beard with a touch of
red in it, a laughing mouth, a straight nose ;
his checks wer_e freckled above the beard;
eyes as beautiful as ever looked from a
human head—gay, pathetic, humorous, ten-
der eyes. He was a man with a story-book
life: lived on stories, and found stories
wherever he went —Tom Whaley, a writer,
a poet of sorts, finding a romance even if
he but turned over a flat stone or dug his
boot-toes into moss.
He looked up and down the street for a
fribndly face, saw none, congratulated him-
self that the burning sun had gone to camp
behind the Blue Mountains, and that the
night was coming with coolness in her
southern wing. That led him to the con-
sideration of the night in poetry, and the
poem finding it necessary for reasons of
rhyme to use the sea, Whaley was reminded
of sea-food. At that he straightened him-
self, squared his shoulders and turned into
King-street, murmuring “Prawns.”
He fared sumptuously, and having pru-
dence and foresight acquired a garlic sausage
with a neat loop of string around its collar
as a necktie. Whaley carried the sausage
swinging from his little finger. Dinner and
the garlic sausage had changed his tearful
intoxication to a tender melancholy; he
went into the Street of Magic again, and
the vision of a middle-aged lady who had
caused herself to appear a flapper when
viewed from the south by making her skirt
curt, led him onward to the place that had
received her —the oldest of the palaces of
carbonic-acid gas and “Scotch.”
The Most Vulgar section of the great cara-
vanserai was almost deserted ; the open cafe
nearby was filled with its habitues, among
them Gus the joker, pretending to be a
captain of the German mercantile marine,
to the indignation of the well-fed loyal-
ists about him. From the Most Vulgar
section the suburban ladies who drink cock-
tails until 5 o’clock and then hurriedly
leave to buy cold meat for the husband’s
dinner had departed to their duties of per-
functory matrimony, and Whaley had the
choice of a hundred seats. He took the
nearest one in the nearest corner, and sat
down to smoke and then to doze in the half-
dream induced by liquor, his garlic sausage
safely in his pocket among the poems. He
returned to complete consciousness, hearing
the voices of a man and a woman in the
other corner of the wooden isthmus that
separated the One from the Two. Whaley
could not see them, but his habit was to con-
struct people he had never seen from voice
or description; and, greatly interested, he
entered into this new amusement.
“You were born for happiness,” said the
man in a rich, fruity voice,, as if he lived
on an exclusive diet of carbohydrates, and
Whaley set him down as a fat man with
three chins.
“I know, I know; but you don't know
how he grates on me.”
“Aha !” said Whaley to himself —“married
and not understood ; fair and big blue saucer
eyes.”
“He could never understand you,” boomed
her companion. “Never!”
“He’s changed so,” said the woman.
“Once he was my slave, devoted to me—he
did anything I asked him. Now he only
asks questions.”
“It was all he was fit for. That sort of
man is only happy when he’s eating out of
the hand, and lying down and pretending to
be dead, and then jumping up to catch sugar
on his nose.”
“I'm so unhapnv with him. He’s so un-
educated —so crude.”
“Then come now.”
“Oh, I couldn’t! I must say goodbye to
him.”
“What! Say goodbye! Nonsense —write
it!”
She was evidently a student of what the
public like —the man-part of the public, any-
(Continued on next page.)


REPORT FROM
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE. F.R.G.S
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met Soc., F.R.C.1., late Government Meteorologist
of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to the Government
of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, Eng., writes the following unsolicited
letter, the original of which may be seen at our office:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—
Port Pirie,
South Australia.
Some weeks ago I must have caught a chill, and thereafter I suffered agonies from backache. A
friend suggested that I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did. lam now about to state a
simple fact, and that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured me. This testimonial is entirely
unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanity, and for no other reason whatever. “The
proof of the pudding is in the eating,” and you may be sure that I am grateful, inasmuch that I am now able
to continue my nightly scientific lectures in ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
> (Sgd.) CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., '
Scientific Lecturer.
Pain in the back is the kidney’s signal of distress. If this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—
for kidney sickness first shows itself in pains and disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too.often hidden until fatal kidney disease or
diabetes has set in. Suspect the kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination,
weak heart, dizzy spells, headaches, bloating or neuralgia. What you want is a special kidney medicine—not an experiment, but one that has
stood the test for years. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve weak, congested kidneys —cure backache—regulate the urine. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have been curing lame backs and sick kidneys for years. Doan’s Pills are made from only the purest drugs, and are absolutely
non-poisonous. They are used and praised all over the civilised world.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
how. Her voice, when she replied, expressed
admiration of him and depreciation of her-
self, as if she had said, "You are so strong.
You must kill me if you want to. But, if
you don’t mind, please don’t behead me with
a crosscut-saw.” Her actual words were:
"How masterful you are! You make me
almost afraid of you. But I couldn’t go
right away without preparing him for the
shock. Not to-night, at all events —not to-
night.”
“You must have dinner with me, anyhow.”
“I can’t refuse that. But he’ll be wait-
ing. I must ’phone him.”
“Don’t do that; he’ll want to know where
you are.”
“But I must ’phone.”
“Give me the number. I’ll get a waiter
to do it.”
“It’s XO 6589.”
“I’ll fix it,” said the man.
Wbalcy heard him push his chair back
and the sounds of his approach, and saw
as he passed that his construction of the
man was not quite correct. The Lothario
was dark, plump and aggressive, yet oily;
but he had only two chins, and he walked
like a man used to getting his own way.
“XO 6589,” repeated Whaley—“the soup
thickens.”
Awaiting the denouement be ordered a
drink to clear his head, and immediately
found that it made him merely reckless. He
had just made that important discovery when
the plump home-wrecker returned, saying that
he had given the waiter the simple message
that Mrs. Crabb was dining with friends;
and then the suburban wife-stealer led her
from the sheltering corner to the entrance
of the caf£, and Whaley saw that his con-
struction of her was almost all true —a fair-
haired woman with a golden skin like a
peach, and big, appealing blue eyes; eyes
almost as large as the cart-wheel eyes of
the dog in the fairy tale.
The plump man led her to the cafd en-
trance, and that noisy hall of feeding swal-
lowed them.
TheD did Whaley, chuckling at his half-
virtuous and all-interested intervention, seek
the telephone booth, and as he moved the
alcohol seethed in him. At the moment
he would have thwarted all the schemes of
other men for the mere enjoyment of mis-
chief. He spun the call plate of the auto-
matic ’phone, and, the age of miracles hav-
ing returned for the moment, XO 6589 re-
sponded immediately.
“H’lo,” said Whaley to the ’phone. “ ’S
Crabb?”
“Yes,” replied a voice very hoarsely.
“What are you, Mr. Crabb?”
“I’m a master plumber.”
“Where at?”
"Forest Lodge. But what d’y’ want to
know for?”
“ ’S your wife fine, tall, fair woman —
face liker peach?”
“How dare yer? Who are yer?”
“Friend —name o’ Whaley. Is she? Big
blue eyes—blue dress?”
“Yes —whatchcr want?”
“She at home now?”
“No, at dinner with friends.”
“With /fieri’, Crabb the plumber—not
frien's. Know a big, dark chap, fat an’
cheeky, like a shopwalker full of meat?”
"Yes. Is he with her? Damn him!”
“Dining here”
"Where? Tell me, I’ll kill him!”
"No rear—won't tell. No kuiing t’night.
Bowl her out, take her home. Dead finish.
She’s only a fool —thinks she’s misunder-
stood. But I’ll meet you.”
"Where?”
"Comm’wealth Bank, half an hour?”
“Twenty minutes—how’ll I know you?”
_ “Look for sl.ght man, short, dark beard.
I’ll know you—l know plenty plumbers.”
"If you’re pulling my leg I’ll beat you to
a standstill. You know plumbers, by cripes,
do yer?”
“Be p’lite or I won’t be there.”
“No offence. I’ll come. I’ve got to find
out.”
Whaley rang off, returned to the Most
Vulgar section, had another drink, and
then leisurely took his way to the
rendezvous, after feeling his pocket for
the garlic sausage and finding it still
alive and well. With the unerring in-
tuition alcohol gives some men, Whaley
selected Crabb from the dozen foot-passen-
gers who approached him, and recognised in-
stantly why the saucer-eyed woman had
labelled her husband “crude.” His nose was
crudely red, a very danger signal—or, as the
fireman put it, “well alight.” Not the
plumber’s occupation only kept the home-
fires burning on that obscene altar, unless
t his plumber used his nose in lieu of a solder-
ing iron.
“Mr. Crabb, I think.”
“That’s me,” replied the plumber. “What’s
yours, and what’s the game?”
“Whaley’s the name, and the game is a
blue-eyed lady whose name is Crabb, and a
fat, dark chap with a frock-coat and a dog’s-
head pin in his tie.”
“Damn him!” said Crabb, his Vesuvius
nose threatening the kind of violent eruption
that makes all the peasants start praying.
“Where is he?”
“Lead yer to him d’rec’ly—directly,” said
Whaley, enunciating with painful exactitude
the end of his speech. “Cumraunava drink
firs:.”
Crabb’s eyes glistened.
“But it’s six o’clock.”
“Nev’ min’ six o’clock. Town's wide
open, when y’ know; pro’bition only pro-
hibits the poor.”
He led the way and ordered the drinks.
“Where are they?” said Crabb, again
gloomy, the whisky having disappeared.
“Tell me first, have y’ had any suspicion
before ?”
“Yes, at the plumbers’ picnic I saw him
sitting with her on a #ock —-on a rock, by
God.”
“I see, like a rock python.”
“No. Like a snake —like a damn snake.
I’ll kill him.”
“No fear; this is close season for rock
pythons. Don’t kill him. Get a divorce.”
“I can’t; it’s my fault. I spoiled her
till it was too late. She had me hypnotised.
I told her so often how superior she was t 6
me. At last she believed it. When I woke
up she told me I rebelled against her.”
"Not rebellion—revolution. Eh, we’ll
make him revolve.”
"By cripes, yes. How?”
“Co-respond'n’—make him co-respond’n’,
and then subedit him for damages.”
“Not me ! I ll kill him —it’s easier.”
"And y’r widow ’d marry somebody else.
No good. Have another drink.”
The plumber had it and became tearful.
"Never touched this stuff hardly till me
home life went, and it’s worse since. She
could square anything she does by looking
at me and saying I’m crude.”
“Nev’ mind, ol’ chap, your game’s divorce.
Decree nisi."
“D’vorce? It’d be in all the papers.”
“No papers. Decree nisi, and make it ab-
solute at 40 miles an hour —take the Mel-
bourne express, and don’t stop till you get to
Perth.”
"But I can’t,” said the plumber tearfully.
“What about me contracts?”
“The . contract that’s defaulting on you
most,” said Whaley, “is the marriage con-
tract. And the best arbitrator is distance
—great speed—change of venue —adjourn-
ment sina die."
“You’re talkin’ rot,” replied the plumber.
“I’ll just sock him in the eye and take her
home.”
“Sssh, here they are.” said Whaley. “Have
it your own way. Whack the rock python or
decree nisi, just as you like.”
The Rock Python came from the cafd
with Saucer Eyes, and when he saw the
plumber the Rock Python exclaimed some-
thing, and immediately tried to dwindle him-
self to a worm. But Saucer Eyes lost all
her nervousness as she saw her possession,
and almost ran to him.
“Oh. George, how good of you to call for
me,” she gurgled, her hands upon bis arm.
And then the plumber made her respect him
for always.
“I want you,” he said to the Rock Python;
and the Rock Python, afraid to show him-
self afraid, came to judgment as Whaley
searched his pocket for pqper and pencil to
make a note, and finding the garlic sausage
instead, withdrew it from its seclusion.
“What’s the matter?” stammered.the Rock
Python.
“My wife’s the matter,” said the plumber.
“Divorce.” said Whaley. “Forty miles an
hour—speed—distance. Decree nisi made
obsolete.”
Mrs. Crabb ye’ped.
“No decree nasty made obsolete fftr me,”
said tho plumber.
“You take my wife to dinner, will y’?” and
struck the Rock Python upon the nose.
Saucer Eyes yelped again, and clung to the
plumber to save him from the terrible retalia-
tion of Lothario. But there was no fight in
the Rock Python. He feared the loss of
dignity more than a beating, but he didn’t
like beatings either, and a punch on the nose
is grievous. Further, he had no reply to
that one of the two unanswerable arguments,
which is “What have you to do with my
wife?” The other unanswerable argument
is “Get out of my house!”
The Rock Python turned to flee, and in
that moment lost the last shred of his d:g-
nity in the laughter of the drinkers and the
cafd diners, who had seen the shrewd blow
of Whaley delivered with the hard garlic
sausage on the Rock Python’s head.
Proud of the deed, Whaley immediately
made himself an object of hatred to the
people he had befriended by loudly stating
the cause of the feud.
“’S all right, Mr. Crabb,” he said. “I’ve
killed the Rock Python with the jawbone of
garlic sausage. Take your wife home,
Crabb, and keep her in her place and be
happy ever after. And if she plays up again
’decree nasty made obsolete,’ as you say.”
“Take me away, George,” said Saucer
Eyes. “Who is this man?”
“He knows,*’ said Whaley, who was “this
man” so scornfully mentioned. “Rock Py-
thon’s cleared all right. Let’s sing the ole
song—■
‘Dearest, the day is over.
Ended the dream divine;
I mus’ go back to your wife.
You mus’ go back to mine.’ ”
“I don’t know him,” said Crabb, retreating
with Saucer Eyes. “Never saw the feller
before.”
“ ‘Blow, blow, thou winter wind, Thou art
not so unkin’ As man’s in-grat-ingratitude!’
Nev’ min’,” said Whaley. “Bring’s ’nother
drink, waiter.”
They fled from the benefactor as if he were
a new disease.
The waiter who had been flagged from the
office remarked on the existence of six o’clock
closing, and, being pressed further, stated
that Whaley was. for that night only, irre-
vocably committed under the Dog Act.
Whaley arose with a display of super-
dignity. made the Indian sign over the estab-
lishment, and walked into the Street of
Magic. Then he thought of the Rock Py-
thon and grinned at the judgment of his
Honor Mr. Justice Garlic Sausage.
“Decree nasty made obsolete.” said Whaley,
and walked northward, the salved half of the
garlic sausage dangling on its string.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Pot Pourri.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Between your ivory fingers fall
The withered rose-leaves of the Spring;
The jar is delicately wrought—
’Twas once the love-gift of a king.
Of royal blue the china is,
Where scrolls of gold and silver cling.
And as the rose-leaves drift, your eyes
Are deep and dark with coming tears;
Your unkissed mouth is tremulous
From looking on the barren years,
As one who by a closing gate
The distant, dying hoof-beats hears!
Oh. dry your eyes, Felise, and leave
The withered petals, while you list
To tale of newly-budding flowers
That break like dawning through a mist—•
There are fresh lovers in the world
And other kisses to be kist!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORBEST.


\
m-
Sir
sam
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE. WfcSTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 FeatherBton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us'and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease 1 and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the . trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Cotiins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any
Bulletin
Manager,
illustration appearing in
takes your fancy, write to the
you price for it.
TANKS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Fry them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small PHl—Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must -
bear signature
N
CARTER'S
ITTLE
i
!
I
'
. •. ': • -,<■ ,-v.’ .V :•.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Under four times
the size of this
picture.
The Decca is only 111 inches
square and weighs only 12
lbs., yet it has a more powerful
tone than the largest Cabinet,
Instruments.
It is clear and natural in reproduction,
needs no case, and is ready to play
immediately opened.
Why not buy a Decca and have music
wherever you may be ?
3 Models :
Leather Cloth .. £9 10 0
Fibre 11 10 0
Cowhide.. .. 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
From All Music Dealers
STANLEY E. GREEN
Auttralian Agents
STRENGTH OF
SHIRLEY PRESIDENTS
The extreme measure of strength
is given to these nature-fashioned
braces. The hollow tubing is made
of non-rustable brass and by its
adjustability with the swivel it takes
the strain off the wearer, the braces
and the wearing apparel, giving
maximum strength with minimum
strain. Look for the name “Shirley
President” on the buckles—this is
your guarantee.
* a
t i
• For Sale by Good Dealers Everywhere.
VHMi.
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z,
“A SUR£ SHIELD”
—a reliable protection—against the attacks of indigestion is to be
found in Beecham’s Pills. Confirmation of this comes from all parts
of the world. The long record and the high reputation of this success-
ful preparation should inspire every confidence in those who have yet
to take it for the first time. Beecham’s Pills bring speedy relief to
those suffering from lassitude, biliousness, sick headache, constipa-
tion, poor appetite and other signs of stomach trouble. Furthermore
if these pills are taken from time to time even when there is freedom
from any special ailment or indisposition, they will greatly assist in
maintaining fitness and condition thus proving “ a sure shield ”
against the attacks of that great enemy of the general health—
Indigestion. Preserve your strength and vigour by using
pttts
Sold in boxes, labelled lQ£d., ls-Hd and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
1
HORLICiCS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH, BUCKS, ENG.
In sizes, of all
Chemists an d
Stores.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb Supply—
JAIIRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Bu i 1 d er s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO. /
681 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated- paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
M
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
&
•9
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
80 OIL
Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model SI Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (1)T
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levci>
(3) magazine removal safety.
For. Shooting Rii
N
C-9
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.;
"" thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber. i
Cartridges, .389 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
•s is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
. caliber.
5 *«ll
'""Ml.
min,
'"•/in
"****»
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D, Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
"Wire Strainer
16
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patentedl
»•»*
:<■ ''
12/6
M
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
N
simplicity, lightness
Dreadnought is
Titan Manufacturing Company.
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


-rSx
V,
Hk
Wl
i*m
Vx
Ki
WmßfiffinTl
i i
lll.^ll)lllllllilllln»iililiiiTiliiMiiilHMi‘ , iil|
m
mrmm'
y))m/nnii»;))»ni; n 1 I ;in m i/*i/)n)i)iii)tiiiMniHfnmiifMnii)nni l< H/ii/u/iiiinnUHi)iUj ) HJiliii l i(i)tiirn > nn tinn\iuiTm"rnrn" h?
hjiilh
m
m
I
§§iS
ss?
W -
m
1 A
mtcsji.
im
m
M
m
m
m
m
:
0
I
U%
m
EV
'"'o
£
sa
Sc
aess;
3*
5=
,
i 3
s®?
3
oS**
I
41
as?
3
M
i
m
tii
I
i
* 3
a
ss :
Pi
=*
s&
Sit
ffl\ll l ll ill i uiTilu in i|ifi
niimiiiniiiiiiiiliiuKiimii
(7(1111
IMWI|l!lf|l|IMMllfl/llll
tilil
nmi
mill
‘gm
mu
m
Mill
23
;
M)
K
&/&C
m
Mellowness is that alluring perfection of flavour that begets the happy smile of appreciation. Dewar’s never
robs one of pleasure—be the anticipation ever so great. Its charm of flavour is elusive and exclusive-
soft. rich, and yet crisp.
