

A GRUELLING TEST.
“RELIABILITY” IN EXCELSIS.
m
rsT!
\
£E2
ft
G 3
£
Under the auspices of the Royal Automobile Club a
Reliability Run was held on Friday, May 1 3, from Sydney to
Bathurst, returning on the following day; total distance, 288
miles.
The weather conditions were as unfavorable
well could be, and the roads, in many places, in an
state.
Despite these handicaps our two entries scored a
RELIABILITY TEST.
Maximum Points Allowed, 200.
CHANDLER SIX ——FULL POINTS
CLEVELAND SIX FULL POINTS
This result confirms our contention that the CHANDLER, while not having any pretentions to being a “freak” or “stunt”
A THOROUGHLY RELIABLE MACHINE
which will transport you from one place to another on time with comfort and despatch—in short, will “keep faith.”
The same remarks apply to the CLEVELAND SIX, which is really a Baby Chandler, and incorporates all the best points
of its predecessor.
>3
can supply for IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
STANDARD MODEL SEVEN-
PASSENGER CHANDLER
SIX TOURING CAR for
£845
We can also SUPPLY AT ONCE A
STANDARD MODEL FIVE-PASSENGER
CLEVELAND SIX
TOURING CAR for
n
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
GARAGE AND SHOWROOM,
147-51 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Agents for New South Wales.
HOWITZER BATTERY GO., Melbourne, Agents for Victoria.
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., LTD., Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
T. KENNEDY, Launceston, Agent for Tasmania.
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2155
Thursday, June 2, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1021? It will be sent post
free to any address on application,
DYMQCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
HAVE YOU USED
THE BEST
DENTIFRICE?
ol
PASTE,
TOOTH
If not, write to
EUTHYMOL DEPT. B, Box 224 G.P.0., Sydney.
Free sample will be posted to you.
mangrovite
LEATHER
BELTI
w SAVE money with this belt.
roity yeais experience in specialised belting manufacture has enabled us to produce a belt that
possesses every essential necessary for the maximum delivery of all power generated.
. .... MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
18 ? laitnful servant to the manufacturer, working consistently, and minimising the running
costs, u.ur experts are maintained for your convenience; consult them on any of your trans-
mission problems.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
Charles Ludowici,
Managing Director,
•19 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
South Australia: John Held & Sown, I,td., Adelaide.
\Vextern Australia: Gibhs Itright & Co.. I,td.. Fremantle.
&
: -
iH
i§.i
CBJ)
folic! King Smoke
was a merry old bloke
when he called for his
H
The Kingly smoke
A royal time is assured when you pack a
GBD with your favorite tobacco.
You’ll treasure this pipe o’ pleasure because
of its cool, sweet-smoking qualities.
Made in London from thoroughly-matured
French Briarwood, shaped and finished by
experts.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
HORLICKS
HALTED
MILK
!> a Food-Drink which maintains
health and strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system,
'lake HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of MHc, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.AV.
HOBLICK'S MALTED tfILKCO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
m
is
ii m
“3£
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and ali particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centnrtea
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
;; “iiituiiuah.-
TTsed since 15»G. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FAILINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England*
Insist or “Singleton* "—refuse all substituted.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS ! COLDS ! INFLUENZA I
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
MwwnantreKu
©SON
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning jn the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were’observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug. ■ ■ .■
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s'Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Authors
What little I saw of authors ou the other
side gave, me the impression that they we
a disgruntled lot; too much money seemec
to have unsettled them, and they appeared
have a craving for something that tl
limited world is unable to supply. I w
one of a small dinner-party one evening a
the Reform Club, where everything seeme'_
to go on well-oiled wiieels. On the opposi
side of the table was a man with one of t
most aggressive chins I'd seen —he had lar
penetrating eyes and the pushful manner o
a successful commercial traveller. ■ln co
trast to his pugnacious appearance his voi
was thin and high-pitched. This was Amok
Bennett, author of “The Pretty, Lady,” the
the book of the hour, and “The Title,” flit
the play of the hour; and probably that vei
day he had been sorting out Ins'“Things Tha
Have Interested Me,” now the gossipy boo
of the hour. I’d like to tell you that A 1
Bennett ordered pheasant, but he didn’t. II
asked for plain mutton. On the other ban
when the waitress brought it, lie didn’t si
“Thank you” or anything ordinary like tha
No! He rather haughtily described a circ
round the mutton and said: “Take awa
that .” No one, including the girl, seemed
know what “that” referred to, but the youn
woman returned with the plate ridded of a
the gravy. “I didn’t mean the gravy, ]
meant the fat,” said Mr. Bennett in a hig
key; and once again the plate was take
away, to be brought back with fresh grav
surrounding an island of fatless mutton. Th
topics of conversation were post-impression
ism, the Art Theatre at Moscow, the Loudo
stage and, finally, politics. “What’s happene
to 11. G. Wells V” asked someone. “Oh, he’
got the sulks,” said Mr. Bennett. ‘Tie’
annoyed that the Government will not d
what he tells them to do.”
I first saw' Bernard Shaw rehearsing h
“Androcles and the Lion” at St. James
Theatre. Although his hair and beard wer
quite white, what struck me was his fernarl
able energy. He moved about like a youn
man of 20. He bad very definite ideas as t
what he wanted and saw they were carrier
out. He talked so much that the rehearsa
didn’t finish till two in the morning. Latei
when I had the opportunity of meeting him
I asked him where he had gained his know-
ledge of stage technique ; and he told me thii
it was from the last of the old stock com
panies which still existed in Dublin when h
was a young man. Seeing always the sain
company in a round of plays, there was no
mystery about the personalities of the
players, and he was free to observe how thr
dramatists and the actors got their effects
Asked which \\mre his most successful plays
he said “Pygmalion” had the best run in Lon
don and “Alan and Superman” in America
this he attributed to the acting of Airs
Patrick Campbell in the former and Robert
Lorraine in the latter. He was very pessi
mistic about the prospects of a Nationa
Theatre, but he thought if a racecourse am
a football-ground could be associated wit!
the project, the British public would raise the
money.
Chesterton is a genial soul, but he grew
sad when he referred to the state of English
politics; he didn’t mention one hero iu the
House of Commons. He spoke highly of
the political cartoons of Will Dyson, and
referring to Australia, said it had shown
that a country could have a self-goveruing
community without an aristocracy. He is
known v to the many as the author of several
successful volumes and to the few as the
editor of the New Witness, in which -he
endeavors to effect some measure of social
and political reform. He is orthodox to this
extent that he believes in the Church, British
Beef and British Beer. When a young jour-
nalist asked him how he got the effect of
spontaneity in his articles, he replied: “I
have a pint of beer (ha! ha! ha), then I
have another pint (er! er! er!) and then
the little article is finished.”
One author I had the pleasure of meeting
was Morley Roberts, who once worked out-
back in Australia, and on the occasion I
treasure he spoke much on the influence
of the bush. “When Australians realise
that their own country has a quality of
atmosphere and color peculiarly its own,”
he said, “and when they cease to be under
the influence of the Royal Academy, they
will paint landscapes which some day may
be the admiration of the world.” Asked if
he had read any recent Australian verse, the
novelist said he had come across a volume
by Dorothea Alackellar, who, lie thought,
showed a rare sense of color in her descrip-
tions of the bush ; and there were the love-
verses of Zora Cross, which he described as
“beautifully courageous,” He became de-
pressed when asked about his own vogue.
“It’s like billiards,” he remarked. “You
think you're doing well when you’ve made
a hundred break, till von find another man
has scored a thousand.” He too suffered
from the gloom of success.
WILLAM MOORE.
Noll
On April 4, 147 years ago, Dr. Turton
asked Oliver Goldsmith if his mind were at
ease. “No, it is not,” Goldsmith answered,
and, turning his back on the doctor and the
world, died. Presently the news went abroad
in the narrow circle of artistic London, and
Johnson and Burke were stricken with grief;
it reached Joshitn Reynolds, who threw’
down his brush and went silently out of his
house; even Garrick ivas stiffened to-a sad
naturalness off the stage. Later the news
travelled beyond the narrow circle, and the
old and the poor, the beggars and the riff-raff
of squalid London, came and wept on the
stairs of his lodgings for the Irish spend-
thrift of laughter. These missed him most;
and surely just as much for the sudden
smile as for the stray, expected shilling.
Wayward and purposeless his ghost seems
to drift into literature and to drift out again.
All the other ghosts of his time laughed at
him and loved him. To all and sundry he was
“Noll”; to all his own world, “poor Noll ”
His bad luck at cards ; his vile taste in dress ;
his stammering inadequacy in society; his
blundering impulsiveness, vanity and general
want of decorum and control—all these were
proverbial in a period in which most of them
were anathema. No man cut so poor a
figure nor left, it seems, so deep a memory.
No man in the history of letters did so much
and was so little. He wrote the truest satire
in the language, its first verse-pastoral, one
of its immortal comedies, and the best novel
up to his period and for long afterwards. A
large-minded critic wrote “Polite Learning,’'
a keen-eyed man of the world “The
Traveller” and “Beau Nash,” and a swift
and ready journalist the “Chinese Letters.”
There was much more to come, but at 4G he
died.
The tradition that the man of letters is
a shadow, a nothing, and that his work is
his only contribution to Cosmos is really ex-
emplified very seldom in history. Goldsmith
is one of the few examples. His life was a
shambling folly, a patchwork of half-formed
desires and intentions at the mercy of the
first wandering whim changing the direction.
He was born at Pallas in Longford in 1728,
his father holding the poor living of Kil-
kenny West. He went to Trinity College,
Dublin, which expense was borne by another
parson, his uncle Thomas Contarine. Stupid
and inadequate from the beginning he made
no progress at the university, and, carpeted
for some small irregularity, wandered away.
He lived in Dublin till funds gave out;
started vaguely down the road, and was
halted, hungry and desolate at Cork. Here
at a wake a girl gave the starving stranger a
handful of peas whose flavor, he says, was
ever sweet in his memory. His brother Henry
fetched him back to college, where he took
Lis 8.A., and obediently to his uncle tried to
enter the Church. But the bishop wouldn’t
look at the awkward tongue-tied candidate.
The long-suffering Contarine gave Goldsmith
£5O to study law in Dublin; but Goldsmith
went gambling with the money and lost it.
More was raised to send him to Edinburgh
to study medicine; but after 18 months no-
body would look at him there. So he
wandered again, tins time to the Continent,
and haunted the tables round Leyden—and
lost .steadily—-Until February, 1755. No
strong impulse coming he followed the wind
again, his armory against the world his youth
and his flute and nothing more. He travelled
on foot through Europe, playing his flute for
his bed and board as the other minstrels be-
fore him.
Returned with the B.M. of Padua, an
interlude in London nearly landed him in
gaol. He stood for examination by the
College of Surgeons which had the choosing
of a doctor for Coromandel, and was of
course rejected. The editor of the Monthly
Review (the strong impulse having at last
arrived and forced Goldsmith to write) lent
him a suit of clothes in which to be examined.
Goldsmith, disappointed and hard-up, pawned
the clothes, and the editor threatened to gaol
him. But from this lowest ebb he moved up
until the end.
After some desultory journalism the “In-
quiry into the Present State of Polite Learn-
ing in Europe” appeared, followed by “The
Citizen of the World,” the “Life of Beau
Nash,” and a “History of England,” all in
fairly rapid sueession. Goldsmith was intro-
duced to Dr. Johnson, and by him to the
Literary Club, the undeniable hallmark. In
170-1 “The Traveller” came out; two years
afterwards, ♦The Vicar of Wakefield”: “The
Good-natured Man” in 1707; the “Roman
History” in 1708; and “The Deserted
Village” in 1770. In 1773 the historic
triumph of “She Stoops to Conquer” filled
Covent Garden and London with applause.
“Grecian History,” “Retaliation,” and an
unfinished “History of Animated Nature”
complete the list.
His life doesn’t matter. As his income
grew bigger so his outgo swelled to meet it;
he died £2OOO in debt, so it more than met it.
He was a timid, hysterical gambler, a bon
vhant without the necessary digestion, a
foolish fop without the necessary taste, a
devil-of-a-fcllow without any credentials. And
his purge was the limit of his indiscriminate
charities. All that is nothing.
Articulate only upon paper he is the most
natural genius in English literature. No
simpler or sweeter style has been used before
or since his day, and no style more ex-
quisitely cunning and graceful, even in this
day or dramatic cunning and grace. All
that ho tried to be in person he is immortally
in letters. Yet he was much in person with-
out any trying—much more than a famous
fop or gambler or devil-of-a-fellow. It was
Johnson’s brother who died, and Burke’s and
Reynolds’s and Garrick’s; and the brother of
all that broken flotsam who came weeping
to the stairs.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Passing of the Freelance
A large proportion of the matter contri-
buted to Australian papers during the last
40 years which has endured, or is likely to
endure, has been turned out by the free-
lance ; consequently it may be admitted that
he is a producer worthy of some special con-
sideration. Of late years that consideration
has been of such a nature as to land the
lone hand in Australian literature well' on
the road to extinction. Whereas 20 years
ago there was a considerable contingent of
outside writers supplying the papers with
prose and verse of uniformly excellent
quality, the company is now decimated, and
very few recruits are coming forward to take
up the good work.
Paradoxical as it may appear, I am driven
to the conclusion that the greatly improved
condition of newspaper men within the Com-
monwealth is mainly responsible for the
fading out of the unattached contributor.
The well-meaning efforts of the Australian
Journalists’ Association to improve the lot
of the freelance have resulted' in this rapid
transition of' the clan to which men like
Harold Grey. Victor Daley, Steele Rudd,
Dorrington, Favenc, Lawson, Banjo Pater-
son and Bedford belonged. The fact appears
to be that under awards gained by the A.J.A.
(Continued on page 25.)


A
a
Anthony Horderns’ Unequalled Values
Anthony Horderns is the most popular store' for Men s Requisites
because it thoroughly anticipates and successfully meets the needs of
—gives them style in excellent quality apparel without additional
cost and the biggest possible value in everything they require.
Mail Orders are
executed quickly and
efficiently. Send for
Catalogue, “Men’s
Matters.” This is an
admirable part of
our efficient service.
We Pay Carriage
on Men’s Wear to
any part of N.S.W.;
to nearest port on
Interstate Orders.
Carriage on Sports
Goods is extra.
35"
©
. I
*•
Wt/s
ll
st
i
mp*
&
J;;P
,V
a N
U
V
!k
The “HORDERNIA” Sac Suits
Offer Incomparable Value.
Men who wear “Hordernia” Suits look
stylish—have the well-groomed look of
men who take a pride in their appear-
ance. Excellent quality Tweeds of choice
designs are utilised for the development
of “Hordernia” Suits, and in their smart
style, splendid workmanship and perfect
finish these admirable garments appeal
to economising men who demand
apparel of distinctive style and utility.
The “Hordernia, ’’ as illustrated, All-Wool Australian
Tweed, newest designs in Grey and Brown effects.
Coat with 2-button, outside breast pocket, centre
seam, no vent. Vest: Medium opening, 4 pockets.
Trousers: Side and hip pockets, plain or cuff
bottoms.
PRICE 85/-
Other PRICES 70/-, 85/-, 95/-, 110/-
llllllllllllllllllllllilllllll llllilll II t
Anthony Horderns’ for Reliable Sporting Outfits.
Sportsmen with a quick eye for Quality and Value in their Sporting
Equipment favor Anthony Horderns’ as their shopping centre
where they can get everything required and at unequalled values.
GOLF REQUISITES.
*>-sin Sit. Anrlrpw’ii Onl f fll
Forgan St. Andrew’s Golf Clubs.
21/- each
18/6 each
Brassies
Irons ..
Simpson’s Carnoustie Brassies—
-19/6 each
Simpson’s Irons. Cleeks, Colters,
Putters, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons
18/6 each
and Mashies
Spalding’s Morristown Driving
Mashies, Cleeks, Jiggers . . 12/6 each
Dunlop Golf Balls—
-1.4/6 doz.; 1/3 each
Arch Colonel Balls—
! 7/- doz.; 4/-each
Dimple Colonel.. 17/-doz.; 4/-each
SLAZENGER’S TENNIS
RACKETS.
The La Belle 25/-
Tlie Demon , 55/-
The Whitehouse 63/-
The Ideal 75/-
E.O.M. Special 85/-
Doherty Special (Qx 67) 87/6
Lambert I). Strung
(Qx 76) 90/-
I.Z 95/-
Slazenger’s Highest-grade
Backet —The Patterson 95/-
SPALDING’S TENNIS RACKETS.
The Champion (Qx 65) 50/-
The Universal (Qx 68) 33/6
The above two Backets are
made to our own specification
and can be thoroughly recom-
mended.
The .Lakeside 36/-
The Vantage .. 43/-
Tlie Surrey 17 6
Tournament 48/6
The Gold Medal 70/-
Special Service Backet.. 57/6
Tull Size Backets—
!)/-, 13/6. 19/6
Backets Be-strung,
English tint—
-14/-, 17/6, 32/6
In Japanese Gut 7/6
AYRES’ LAWN
TENNIS BALLS.
Championship, covered,
stamped “I l ’. H. Ayres.”
1921 .. 36/-do*.; 3/-each
Dunlop Covered Balls, 1921
30/- doz.
Ayres’ Court Covered
Balls 25/- doz.
Ayres’ Court 1921 Balls
25/- doz.
Dunlop Play Balls., un-
uncovered—
-12- doz.; 1/- each
Slazengrer Covered Balls,
1921 (Qx 75) .. 36/-doz.
The Raglan Overcoat — Belted Style.
As illnslrated. is a SDmrd.V'fssliionpd find ooinfortatdo -
fitting garment favored by discriminating dressers.
Expertly cat and designed with belt and strap enffs, it
conforms to the demand for distinctive style and utility.
In Gabardine.
PRICES £5/5. -. £7/15/-, £B/8/-
Also in All-Wool Tweeds of attractive designs.
PRICES £5/5/-, £6 'l5/-, £7/7 -
The Raglan Overcoat —Unbelted style.
As illustrated, is a commendable style suitable for all
occasions.
This popular garment ensures perfection of comfort
and is designed with easy “slip-on shoulders,” buttoned
to neck or step collar, patch or vertical pockets, strap
or turn-back cuffs, centre seam or vent, lined with check.
In Gabardine.
PRICK 75/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-
The Raglan Overcoat^lfl^ 5 -
In all-Wool Australian Tweeds, dark shades, in Brown
or Grey Mixtures, with step collar only.
PRICES 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/V
In Higliest-grade English and Scotch Tweeds, with step
collar only.
PRICES 147/-, 168/-, 189/-
Treneh Coats, cut with full skirt, designed with holt
all round, convertible collar, vertical pockets.
In Fancy Tweeds of neat designs.
PRICES 105/-, 126/-, 117 -
In Fawn Gabardine, lined wool check.
PRICES 105/-, 126/-, 130/-, 117/-, 168/-, 189 -
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Always
carry a
Kodak
It is easy to carry a
Kodak in the coat
lifS 1
ISol: V. :*? iLli *-
-■ . .'
*(■ • ■»
■PjgajSli
-V
nte //> !jj«
// ••',
»
/«
•w
* f> .
'I
*N.
r *% I
?'\ f - 4 11
;s*» '«■■■*
,W; ' * ,
<&*£• •'...• Ss
! >•
pocket or carrying-case when you go for an outing, and the
Kodak picture story of your “doings” not only gives fun in the
making, but in its album form becomes a permanent delight to
you and your friends.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid amateur model, easy to use, and it makes
good photographs from the first. For pictures 2\ x4J inches. Price £5/3/6.
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-. Ask for the Kodak Catalogue.
'
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Kuthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville ; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Plioto Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.z.
His Masters Voice
Gems from Grand Opera.
There is a brilliance, a colorful quality in grand opera, that alone wholly
satisfies the musical soul.
Besides, it is to this sphere of art that all the world’s most wonderful singers
devote their gifts.
To hear them was once an enviable joy. To-day they can be heard anywhere
at any time on
“His Master's Voice
Solos and concerted numbers from all the famous Operas, rendered by such stars as Melba, Caruso, Tetrazzini,
Galli-Curci, Farrar, Ruffo, Alda, Kirkby-Lunn, are reproduced only on “His Master’s Voice.’’
Your music-dealer will be pleased to play some of these lor you, to demonstrate the perfect tonal quality,
the rich volume of these wonder-records.
GRAND OPERA TRIO.
10-inch record, 7/-
~ —lls9—“Faust”—Trio from Prison Scene, Act V.
THE GRAND OPERA COMPANY.
10-inch record, 7/-
4626 —Anvil Chorus (“II Trovatore”—Verdi).
12-inch records, 10/-
• 04617 —Gems from “Aida,” Part I. (Verdi).
04618 —Gems from "Aida,” Part 11. (Verdi).
04568—Gems from “Carmen.” (Bizet).
04539—Gems from "Cavalleria Kusticana”
(Mascagni).
01.>64—Gems from “Faust” (Gounod).
-054024 —Sextette (“JGucia di Laramermoor” —
Donizetti).
04527—The Bridal Chorus from “ (Lohengrin”
(Wagner).
04575 —Gems from “II Trovatore” (Verdi).
04537—Gems from “Jlignon” (Thomas).
04553 —Gems from “Pagliacci” (Leoncavallo)
04573 —Gems from “Rigoletto” (Verdi).
04573 —Gems from “Tales of Hoffmann’
(Offenbach).
04619 —Gems from “Traviata.” Part I. (Verdi)
04630 —Gems from “Traviata/’ Part 11. (Verdi)
A BEAUTIFUL “CATALOGUE OF MUSIC BY INTERNATIONAL ARTISTS”
has recently been issued. The book measures x 6A inches, comprises 255 pages printed on heavy art paper, and contains portraits,
biographies, and lists of the most .successful numbers of all the greatest musical notabilities. Price 2/6.
In conjunction with the above Catalogue, a Booklet entitled “OPERA AT HOME” is issued. A short description of each Opera is
given, and a few words devoted to the story of each record. Price 2/-
Botli these Books may be obtained from any accredited “Ills Master’s Voice” Dealer.”
Instrument Catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
“Bis Master’s Voice’ 1
Read. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
0
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.


PINKETTIS
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
mn
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete.
Full Directions with
Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a Free Speci-
men of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
tid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London. W. 0..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppj.t—
J ARB AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
esj PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
3
m
Grey hair is
the outward
manifestation
of old age.
Be young
again by
seeking the
aid of this
w ondf rful
Stain, which
offers grey
hair a youth-
ful coior of
walnut. As-
suredly harmless, permanent and
waterproof. All chemists. Get a
packet to-day.
rr
n
I WALNUT STAIN
MEXICAN
n
Tooth Paste
CARE FOR YOUfn
TEETH.
Eudenta is a dental luxury, a safe,
antiseptic dentifrice that cleanses
without harming - the enamel.
Though luxurious it is priced
at a necessity level.
1/- per tube.
ASK YOUR
CHEMIST.
m
fa
m
;§H
II
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
POISON
Weed
sen
Tree K
l
°«R*CT
LECGO
'••ini ina
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Manufactured in Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs.
10/6; 1 lb., 2/-; =|-lb., 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb.. 9d.: 4-lb., 6d
extra. Interstate, 1 lb., 1/2; 4-lb., Bd. extra.
O ‘Yes, Always Laurel’ Q
‘Always Laurel,” that is the secret of successful
lighting.
Always, Laurel will give you a brilliant, yet soft
white light, soothing to the eyes and satisfying in every
way.
L 6a
r/iuitfL
m
mm
Laurel is smokeless and
odorless, and does not char
the wick.
It
Just say “Laurel. ’*
LAurelKerosene
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prayer to Trees.
Trees tall and fair and sweet,
Trees strong and slender,
Trees ’mid whose boughs life s best dreams
mate and meet,
Dear trees so grave and tender;
Gallant, far-spreading trees that toss gay
plumes
Of dalliant challenge to the high, clear sky :
Trees dappling honeyed light in little rooms
Where youth and love sit close with
ecstasy.
Companionable trees
Whose soothing spell
Enwraps me delicately through years like -
these
When faith and joy and love go down to
Hell;
Trees that through barren nights
Croon with the winds for me a lullaby,
Then stand, when rosy dawn sheds new de-
lights,. .
In magic arabesques against the sky.
(The murdered trees
With tragic pleadings mute
Lie by the wayside, solemn witnesses
Against our cruel spite, no more with fruit
And blossomy verdure sweet to bless the
day—
Great trees and splendid stricken in their
prime,
Plucked from their heaven, shamed, and
hidden away
By man, the knave of Time.)
Oh, comrades, brother trees
That have on me bestowed
Your morning smiles, cease not your wizard-
ries
Of gentle peace now 1 go down the road
Which ends in that last Silence! Brothers
dear,
Long have we joyed together. Now my
feet
Are heavy as my heart, old trees, bend near
And lull me till the quiet is complete !
Trees fair and sweet and strong.
Trees grave and tender,
Join with me in a last exultant song,
A song of no surrender!
Trees mightily set in earth,
Nourished by God’s deep breath.
Grant there may be of courage still no dearth
When I swing out with Death !
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.
A Child’s Song.
When I go up to Paradise
I mean to take with me,
Instead of prayers and weary sighs,
A magpie’s melody;
A pallid cuckoo's tender call,
A thrush’s ringing bell,
That saints may know how sweet is all
The world where mortals dwell.
And if the good God thinks it wrong
And frowns across Ilis staff,
I'll loose the kookaburra’s song
And make all Heaven laugh.
N.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
Treasure.
The poet of a milk-white maid has sung,
Who hid her wealth beneath her golden
hair,
Once long ago in sea-kist Brittany,
And no one knew, save only Death and she.
I too have precious treasure, rich and rare,
But ’tis not bound my braided hair among.
Unknown, unguessed within my secret soul
I keep it hid inviolate and will keep,
Like riches heaped within the splendid gloom
Of some old palace, or the ancient tomb
Of bygolie kings, where silence sighed to
sleep
Long since, nor ever laughing sunlight stoie.
Mine is a dazzling house of treasure, where
I hold my hopes untarnished, all aliame
With lustrous beauty, and my rainbovv-hued
Desires; still thoughts I have that, silver-
dewed
With wonder, in the scented twilights came
To close my drooping eyelids unaware.
Gold are my joyous fancies, gold the gleams
Of hapny memories. I have not spent
One jewelled part of them. Itich days to be
Will bring new wealth of loveliness to me,
And every night whose wide and starry
tent
Is stretched above, aglow with sheen of
dreams.
I love the blue and silver tissues spun
Of visions, iridescent, glowing, dyed
In royal hues; the pulsing opal-fire
Of brave deeds I would do: the great desire
Of courage, ruby-hearted. These I hide
Deep from the burning splendor of the sun.
All that I dream of, all I long to be—
Joy, fear, love, worship, every sacred thing,
With aspiration’s uncut gems, the bright
And shining crystal of each ideal, white
And diamond clear, and sorrow’s pearls—
I bring
And lock my heart upon them, miserly.
And no one knows that this is really T.
And no one knows I am so rich in dreams.
And golden, glittering hopes. Alone I touch
These shining hidden things that are so much
Of me. My store unrifled glows and
gleams
Unguessed. and so it shall be till T die.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.


■ -
••
mm
■* -V
■■■■ i
A
i V ' ; ■■■■•■. ■ v >’ . - y
• .
. r, ■ ... . v > ■
* *
::
mik-.
- i ri
iH
Haw***
I |
-:■
;
*
33®
»?••. ?r-
J:.-*
€3§
?***
~ - . . »
iM
m
’
H
m
11
- -■. ,•
v
1
A
m
HI
euss
F«ME&
..
PliilJl
f.<
Pi-//
ftSiS
- « A.
: «s
fW
'
'
** '•
• «
iSH
J i
* \
m
' r jW.
~
-mP
. 3
Hnn«^
I
«
gp
si*
MBI
rflffil
s
' ’ ■ ■
tlf
,-S.
am
v
WKBt
v ■
—the buyer of a Motor Car
should consider value, quality &. efficiency !
1-PURCHASING a Car is one thing! Getting what will suit you is another! There
*■ are many matters that require your consideration before making your selection.
You know for what purpose you require a Car and what price you are prepared
to pay for it. Here are some facts that will bring home to you the l advantages that
will positively follow your buying an
ESSEX
Price, £595
We have a limited number of these high-grade Cars,
which we are selling for ,£S9S—ONE HUNDRED
POUNDS LESS than anyone else in Australia will
sell you an Essex Car for. This Car sold at £695 and was worth it. “ Over-
contracting” has necessitated our clearing stocks to make room for further shipments.
At our price—£595—the Essex is wonderful value, and no other First Class Car in
this country can compare with it in that respect. Remember: You save ,£lOO in .the
initial purchase, an equivalent to some years’ motoring for nothing!
Quality.
The Essex IS a high-grade Car—looks it—and its endurance proves
it. The remarkable Transcontinental record between New York
and San Francisco (3347 miles), when Four Essex Cars separately
negotiated this severe trip in the average time of 4 days, 21 hours, 32 minutes, each beating
the previous best record by nearly 2 I hours, is evidence of this. All told, the Essex
Cars covered 13,388 miles (travelling day and night), at an average speed of 29 %
miles an hour. To localise this great feat—lt would be equal to four cars being each
driven from Adelaide via Melbourne and Sydney to Brisbane and baek again, in less
than Five Days. It is the greatest Endurance run by motor cars known in automobile
history. Only highest quality could endure such a terrific test. They were just the same
model as those we are now-selling at the reduced figure of £ 595. In Australia the Essex
has already won fame—in Endurance and Reliability Trials, Hill Climbing Contests,
Petrol 1 ests, &c. In fact, its records in this direction stamp it a remarkable car, and in
every motoring centre its quality is recognised and appreciated,
c
The day of the big heavy car has passed, giving place to the
more scientifically constructed, highly efficient, light car. By
the use of only the finest steels and materials, strength is
maintained and useless weight cut out. Every ounce of metal that is essential is there, and
the result is Durability, High Efficiency, and Reduced Weight. It costs less for petrol and
tyres to run a car of this description. Furthermore, the Essex, owing to its up-to-date
methods of construction, is a remarkably flexible car to handle, one seldom having to drop
down from the top gear, upon which it will creep along at walking pace in traffic, or roar
up the steepest hill at racing speed. Its engine is rated at 18 h.p.; yet, when desired, it
will give over 50 h.p.; so no wonder few cars can touch it for speed in hill climbing. Its
springing is in keeping with the rest of the car, being fitted with those “whippy” springs
desired by all motorists, but seldom found on many cars. The Essex springing ensures
absence of shock, comfort for the passengers, and long life to the chassis and body work.
Control.
Simplicity itself! The Control of Engine, the GearChanges*
the Brakes, the Electric Starting and Electric Lighting, are as
simple and efficient as it is possible to make them. Provision
is even made for controlling the temperature of the water System, by means of
a radiator shutter—thereby always ensuring highest efficiency from the engine.
Having slightly touched on the most striking features of this latest of Light
Cars, we would like you to read the interesting details in our ILLUSTRATED
ESSEX CATALOGUE. From it you will learn of the fine lubricating system in
the Essex, and many interesting particulars of the Engine, Transmission Gear, &c.
Now Would not an ESSEX suit your requirements ?
Immediate Delivery. Trial Run with pleasure.
DON’T DELAY. The Supply is limited, and
the price is only a temporary reduction to clear stock.
CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
KELLO W - FALKINER Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell Street, Melbourne


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 42. —No. 2155.
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 1921.
Price 9d.
THE LOYAL TOAST.
“Gentlemen, I give you ‘The Disloyalty of Labor’ —coupled with the names of the 30,000 Australian Laborites who died for the Empire in the war.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
•‘Australia lor tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnev. X.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street. •
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only.)
Cor £ 1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
uil Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manage/,
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part o) the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say,
MOO words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
■will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—-i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. 'The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies oj The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival oj each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
I}.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; 'The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue. West Calgary, Alberta.
tl.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago; Uni-
versal News Co., 71/ West Madison Street. Chicago:
Golden Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Clark Street Reading Club, V/l N. Clark Street,
Chicago. San Francisco; Wheatley News Co., Kearney
and Market Streets, San Francisco. Seattle : Liberty
News Co.. Seattle, Washington. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Schultz News Agency, Bryant Park; Schultz News
Agency, 102 West )/2nd Street, New York City. Los
Angeles: Chas. Olson, Pershing Square News Stand,
Los Angeles; George Hussey, Central Neivs Stand,
105 East sth Street, Los Angeles. Quaker News Co.,
Oil North Franklin Street, Philadelphia, Penn.
Egypt.- — Jacques. Horn ,(': Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.-— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of Tiif, Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 81 oz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 2. 1021.
THE DANGER OF DISRUPTION.
In the estimation of the Liberals, who were
the Nationalists of the period, Lord Dudley
ruined himself at the outset of his career as
Governor-General. The Dreadnought move-
ment had been started as a counter to the
Labor party’s policy of an Australian navy ;
and those who were making a political trade
of Imperialism claimed (as now) that not
to be anti-Australian was to be hostile to the
British connection. Lord Dudley, acting
under instructions 'from the Government
which had appointed him, declared at a big
Club dinner for the Australian policy, and
was immediately suspected of being a traitor,
more or less, to the Union Jack. The pre-
sent occupant of the office and some of the
State Governors have evidently been directed,
as Lord Dudley was, to take their "social
popularity in both hands and bring the
Jingoes of the Commonwealth to reason be-
fore serious damage is done to the stability
of the Empire. Downing-street was in favor
of the R.A.X. from 1909 onwards because
the threat to British naval supremacy by
Germany called for the massing of every avail-
able R.X. ship in the North Sea or there-
abouts. The German menace has been
removed, but another and a greater one has
appeared. The British Empire is probably
unbeatable by any imaginable combination
of outside enemies so long as it stands
together in peace and amity. It is. by the
fostering of internal hatreds that it will be
disrupted, if it ever is. There is nothing
more likely than that the Governors, whose
pacific words aroused the fury of the baser
sort of Nationalist last week, have been
warned by the Crown to discourage mischief-
making as Dudley was warned to discoun-
tenance the Dreadnought movement.
Australia is probably as anti-revolution-
ary a country as there is in the world to-day.
But unfortunately, after all great wars, me
law-abiding State of this month is liable to
be the anarchic one of the next. This
cable, which arrived last week is instructive
in the circumstances -
i Paris advises that the General Federation of
Labor has received a serious set-back. The Mod-
erate leaders were overthrown by the rank and file,
who decided to detach themselves- from the Amster-
dam Internationale and join that of Moscow and
to prepare the French proletariat for a revolution.
The railway men, by a majority of 1000, carried
a resolution for a class-war along the lines of the
Russian revolution.
W hen tne war ended, and for a long time
afterwards, 1- ranee was very little more in-
clined to Bolshevism than Australia. Before
the German invasion Socialism had been
represented in the Deputies by 500 members
in a House of 590. After the invasion
Guesdk, the anarchist, joined the Govern-
ment and Albert Thomas, tne pacifist, be-
came head of the Ministry of Munitions.
The French have as many reasons as Aus-
tralia to shun a class-war. They have little
to fight for amongst themselves. The rail-
way employees, for example, are tiie best-
paid workers of their class on the European
continent: that is to say, they are in a
position to buy more necessaries—compris-
ing coal, bread and wine—with the wages
they earn. There are 5,(500,000 landed pro-
prietors in France, and only half a million
who own more than 50 acres. The French
know that if they become involved in a class-
war now they will soon he under the heel
of the German, just as the people of this
country know that serious internal trouble
is likely to land them under the heel of Asia.
If a revolution conies in France it will be
due on the one hand to the Jingoes who
measure every man’s patriotism by the size
and frequency of the curses he hurls at the
Boche, and who pretend to see an insult to
the tricolor in every moderate scheme which
is advanced in connection with the German
question; and on the other hand to those
who are seeking to make political or journal-
istic or financial profit out of the turmoil
so produced. It is the same in Australia..
There never was so much inflammable
material at the disposal of the political
incendiarist. There never was such a good
reason why he should keep his matches in
his pocket.
* * * *
Though the war did not come to the Com-
monwealth most of its reactions are already
with us: such as ruinous taxation, unem-
ployment, devaluated money, poverty-stricken
ex-soldiers and newly-enriched stay-at-homes.
In face of this situation, which is familiar
after every great war, and which is oniy
remarkable to-day inasmuch as each calamity
is on a vaster scale than was ever known be-
fore, a section of the workers is talking
direct action in order to bring about higher
wages combined with decreased production.
There is the ghastly Irish question, which, as
H. Duncan I-lai.l says in “The British Com-
monwealth of Nations,” “for more than a
century has been slowly spreading poison
through the veins of the British Common-
wealth, and in the last few years has begun
to threaten its very existence.” And there is
another potentially disruptive factor. W.
M. Hughes has gone to his London mansion,
with his publicity man, his lien over the
world’s cables and his head in the air, to
demand for the Commonwealth a status
which it certainly has not earned by its pre-
paredness for warfare. The ILA.N. has been
allowed to fade away, chiefly .because the
Nationalist party needed the money which
would have kept the Navy efficient, for such
purposes as buying votes. The A.I.F. Re-
serve has been disbanded and soldiers of the
type of Monash are militarily unemployed
in the interests of the clique whose members
influence Senator Pearce. Yet the apparent
intention is, not only that the Common-
wealth should cut loose from the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council (which,
says the Prime Minister, '“has not proved a
satisfactory tribunal”), but that it should
set up its own chancelleries, where its am-
bassadors will direct the issues of peace or
war, presumably without reference to the
British Government.
It is hard to picture a set of political cir-
cumstances more delicate, and hence more
favorable to the designs of the malcontents-
who exist in every community, and who in-
crease naturally as economic conditions grow
worse. Plainly the qualities demanded
by those who, not being malcontents, are in-
a position to reach the large, excited ear of
the multitude, are patience, good-humor and
tolerant eommonsense. The educational
movements of the past 40 years have made
Australians voracious newspaper readers;
and though they are cynical about that
sturdy friend of reaction, the anti-Labor
leading article, yet they are easily stam-
peded by unscrupulously manipulated news
items. If sheets like the Argus and the
S. M. Herald were run by Abe Lincolns
or Lord Greys, Australia would not only be
fairly safe from a cleavage with Britain; it
might even do a certain amount to sweeten
the relations between other parts of the
Empire, to the common benefit of all. Under
the direction of such wise and temperate
characters the yells of rage uttered periodi-
cally against England by Eamon Padraic
O’Toole would be disregarded : and the exile
would only be reported on the Irish question
when he had something constructive to say.
Judd, Garden and the rest of the Red Flag
brethren would not be given more space
than most Federal Ministers, as they are at
present. Their remarks are rarely of any
value except for the purpose of scandalising
the ignorant into voting against Labor. The
herd of poor parsons who are struggling to
climb out of insolvency or obscurity on the
back of sectarianism, and the fourth-rate
politicians who are trying to get into Parlia-
ment, or remain there, by the same ancient
imposture, would be left unreported, since all
they do is to provoke scorn in the educated
and hate in the illiterate. Unfortunately
there are no Lincoln's or Greys in
this Australian journalism. All are for
the party and none are for the State where
the State's interests collide with those of
the W. M. Hughes of the moment. And
the paradoxical result is that any Governor
or other high official who is in the confidence
of those who are running the Empire, and
who pursues the policy laid down by them,
stands a very good chance of being de-
nounced as an intriguing, scoundrel.
ANOTHER SUBSTITUTE FOR WORK.
There has been another meeting—at Bris-
bane this time-—to seek a substitute for pro-
ductive, self-supporting work ; and as usual
it discovered a stupid old busted substitute
which it imagines and fiercely declares to be
new. The meeting called itself a “special
conference of delegates” from “Labor and
industrial organisations”; and it resolved
that man can never live and be happy
and rich without working until Parliament
passes a “Nationalisation, Purchasing i/owet-
or Credit Act.” As a basis' the Queensland
S_tate Government was invited to issue
£5,000,000 worth of small notes if it had the
power, and the Premier was instructed to
find out if it had the power. In all the
20 years of Federation tnese people appa-
rently hadn't read the Constitution, and
found out that State Governments have no
note-issuing powers whatever. H the hard-
driven Premier of Queensland hadn’t the
power it was plainly the view of the con-
ference that he should find it, or act without
it, or else be classed as a lukewarm member.
The proposed small notes were to take the
place of silver and copper just as big notes
have taken the place of gold. Yet no one
imagines that the people of Queensland regu-
larly carry £7 worth each of silver and
copper about with them, as in that case the
father of new twins would have to carry
£2l worth to keep up the average, the twins
having no pockets. So it is a scheme to add
by force £7 per head of paper currency to
the £5 per head which the community now
keeps in circulation with difficulty. The
issue would be big enough to disarrange all
business and to double prices by the simple
process of depreciating itself at least one-
half. And it would make Queensland the only
known country bar perhaps Russia with no
hard money or money that was good outside its
own borders, for even in roadless Albania,
where there is as yet no national mint,
foreign coins are plentiful. It is (or was)
to be paid out in exchange for “public works
and services,” public works built out of
loans and paper being the one blessed insti-
tution on which the “worker” can get the
full value of what he produces twice or
three times over. The most furious blither-
ing hasn’t shown how he can get such a
thing at Mount Morgan, where things are
fixed by the price at which copper can be
sold abroad, and even 500 millions of small
irredeemable notes wouldn’t alter the situa-
tion by a hair’s breadth.
*' * * #
The rising tide of the anti-work igno-
ramuses has closed or helped to close or is
closing many things in Australia. It has
practically shut up Darwin, which produces
nothing now but theories and chimeras, and
where the great Labor boss will travel miles
when he hears of a man working so that he
may urge him to strike for double wages
and for overtime rates all day. It has made
a wreck of Broken Hill and Port Pirie and
Mount ' Morgan . and Mount Lyell. It has
helped the stoppage or almost complete stop-
page of Chillagoe and Cloncurry, and Port
Kembla and its smelting industries are in
their death throes. It has to a great extent
destroyed the export coal industry, which,
though it wasn't a very desirable business
as it was a using-up of irreplaceable capi-
tal, nevertheless brought some much-needed
money into the country. And though it has
closed many things it has opened nothing
save its month. Its one notable failure has
been at Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.), where
the copper-miners have apparently decided to
ignore the paper-money madmen who sit in
offices and order that work shall be sus-
pended and families shall starve until the
Millennium. The fact that South Aus. has
quite numerous sane intervals is, inciden-
tally, a reason why the N. Territory should
be promptly fastened to it by transcontinen-
tal railway. The Territory requires to be
early connected with some place if it is to
get population to make a show of an argu-
ment for a White Tropical Australia, and
to connect it with Queensland as it is now
would be too much like turning a sewer into
the water-supply.
The situation is partly the outcome of
that disaster by which Australia was not
made a compulsory-service country during
the war. If it had been the Labor movement
would now be in very different hands, and
Ministries which are helping it, to rush Aus-
tralia to shame and ruin would never have
existed. It is fairly safe to say that there
is no country in the world which supports,
for its population, such a herd of trades-
union secretaries and organisers, all aspiring
to be politicians even if they have to cadge
for nominations to some despised Upper
House; so many aspirants in the ranks for
secretaryships and organiserships; so many
politicians who have arrived by these means
and are afraid that if they relax their fury
they will be pushed out by the secretaries
and organisers behind, all armed with fresh
promises; and so many of the latter who
have to keep themselves in evidence by shout-
ing for new chimeras and showing new ways
of being rich without work lest the rush
overwhelm them in their turn. When a wolf
has made his way to the leadership of the
pack he has to be the fastest wolf or else go
down and out. In the same way among the
loud, unreasonable, well-paid disturbers who
are just now trying to hang on by preaching
the destruction of industry and the stoppage
of production and the persecution of every
employer, however just and generous, there
are many who see a dismal fate impending if
they slacken speed. Several have the prospect
of falling sheer from the fleshpots and the
limelight and the advertisement to their old
prosaic jobs. A few might change their coats
and become privates in the rival political
army; but the majority haven’t even that
prospect. They never showed any striking
cans city save for a squalid variety of
machine politics where the mental calibre of
the competition is low, so they have no inter-
mediate station to drop to, but must fall the
whole way. Scott s Brian de Bois-Guie-
bert was in much the same position when
his Meph istopiiei.es pointed out to him that
if he reduced the pace and developed a con-
science he would drop from being heir-pre-
sumptive to the Grand Mastership of the
Temple and land in one act at the position
of a homeless adventurer selling his sword
to anybody who would buy. Brian saw the
point and decided to stay wicked.
* * * *
Yet Australia has in proportion to popula-
tion more profitable and self-supporting
work to do and more of it left undone than
any other country on earth. The evidence
lies in the incredible and increasing mass of
imports which have got a thousand miles
ahead of anything the country contrives to
pay for with either goods or gold. A great
deal is made of the increase in the number
of people employed in local industries (partly
because it often takes three men to do what
was once done by two) and the increased
value of production ( measured not so much by
quantity as by fancy and temporary values).
But the imports show that production is fur-
ther behind, or extravagance in consumption
is further ahead, than ever before, and the
borrowing to pay for imports increases,
and the army of unemployed grows. And
the new school of ignoramuses puts every
possible ban on anyone who attempts to till
the gap between production and consumption
and thereby supply self-supporting work at
union or more than union wages. At our
time the worker of the* rank and file had two
main hopes. lie might rise to be an em-
ployer himself or he might draw a prize in
Tatt.’s. But the increase of taxation makes
a prize in Tatt.’s much less worth having
than it was once, and to become an employer
is now a thing accursed. He is a “capi-
talist” even though he may own practically
no capital, while the rich man who isn’t a
steady employer and a promoter of self-
supporting industries, but makes great
wealth by dealings in land, can be an accept-
able and highly-paid Labor Minister and a
denouncer of capitalism. The employer is
maligned almost more fervently than the
oppressors of Ireland; is haunted by in-
formers and dealt with by special courts,
and is told incessantly that the only fitting
treatment for such as he is confiscation of
all he possesses. Any man who expresses
contrary views too freely is in a fair way
to be shut out from his union. There are
cases of men being fined (or of their em-
ployers being fined) for working when they
should be at the pony-races. Around Sydney
and other towns the scarcity of workmen’s
cottages to rent is still severe, and at the
same time it is alleged that 20 per cent, of
the Sydney building tradesmen are out of
work. Yet the Fair Rents Act, passed as
a war measure in 1915. was supplemented
by the Fair Rents Bill, introduced as a
peace measure in December. 1920. And
no one knows where the madness may break
cut next. The idea of an army of small
employers, or even of small independent
workers who are only occasional employers,
outside the well-drilled ranks of unionism
and beyond reach of the rattan of the Trades
Hall drill-sergeant, doesn’t fit in with the
new scheme of things. At the same time
the new scheme of things is a poor and
resource!ess substitute employer, except in
the building of loan railways and the manu-
facture of paper currency.
MAORILAND'S MANDATE PROBLEMS.
The war and the League of Nations have
between them set Maoriland a bundle of
problems in Samoa, and the most urgent of
them the question of labor—is agitating
all classes in the Dominion. Nearly all the
talk is in sympathy with an endeavor to ease
the lot of the white man. Hardly a word is
said in respect to brown brother, the native-
born, and. his views upon the varying phases
of Maoriland, control.
4 section adversely criticises the native's
attitude, and labels him as lazy, indolent and
a blot on the tropical landscape. Hut even
as the German was, .so is this class purely
self-interested. It sees in the native merely
a means to an end. He is a divine gift, a
ready-made machine to dig the earth and
garner the harvest for the white man. But
to his disgust the white man tinds that the
Samoan will not work. And the white man is
very annoved in consequence. The first part
of the problem is “Have we a right to make
him work?” Nature has been kind to Jione
Samoa ; it has cast his lot in a pleasant
place. He has but to scratch the soil and
it provides him with all he needs. The
tall cocoanut palms bending seawards over
the white beaches, the swaying kapok-trees,
the bread-fruit and the sun-burnished
bananas furnish him with food and drink
and covering. Beyond this his wants are few.
A day or two’s work and he can cut enough
copra to provide him with a new lava-lava
and buy himself a colored singlet. Not that
he really wants this European skin-covering.
Hut the missionaries have told him that such
things look well, or something of the kind, and.
simple soul that he is, he occasionally likes
to play up to these good men. He can, how-
ever, see no reason for grubbing about in a
steamy plantation, and being kicked and
cursed and howled at in order to raise a
cargo for the monthly steamer. He knows
nothing of the outside world, and cares less.
Trade development means little to him. If
the white men want rubber for their motor-
tyres, cocoa with their supper sandwiches and
fine oils in their toilet soaps, the white men
are at perfect liberty to get busy and pro-
duce the raw materials themselves. He
doesn’t want any of these things. Win - ,
then, should he toil to Droduoe them? He
would be just as happy if there were no store-
on the beach, and no white strangers persist-
ently urging him to wake up and get work.
He doesn’t love the yellow-skinned coolie from
China, because lie is apt to cause trouble
with his domestic arrangements. Still, he
puts up with him because his presence tends
to keep the white man quiet. View. then,
the Samoan in the aspect of a man who has
attained to the glory of what trade-unions
the world over are seeking for their mem-
bers to-day—the right to live comfortably
with a minimum of physical exertion.
But if the native inhabitant will not work,
what then shall Maoriland do with its man-


dated territory? Two answers have been given.
Britain m control of Tonga protects her
interests against any "foreigner and allows
the natives to,go very much their own way,
even to follow their own methods of govern-
ment. The Tongans are, in consequence,
the most contented of ail the Pacific
islanders, and the only dread in their daily
lives is the fear of a confederation of
British islands in the Western Pacific, with
headquarters in Fiji. With the aid of a few
white men they rub along very nicely, and
the stork has a big lead on the scythe.
Elsewhere, however, unwilling to allow
chances to make money go by, Indian,
Chinese and other coolies have been intro-
duced. This was the policy of tin' Her-
man in Samoa. He cultivated Jiqne Samoa
with great thoroughness. He billed him
with a poll-tax and a hut-tax. But, seeing
that he was indisposed to work, no time was
wasted in seeking other labor for the planta-
tions. At the same time the German built
stores and filled them with sewing-machines
and bicycles; and the Samoan's eyes glis-
tened and the perspiration dripped frbm him
as he toiled to make money to buy these
things. In his shrewdness, the German
(■rented a need, and at the same time had
due regard for Germany's economic future.
But though he thus got some labor from
the Samoan, industrially the native was dirt,
and the Chinese did the real work of the
plantations.
Now the powers that control Samoa want
to force labor for the first time on the
natives. It will, no doubt, hasten divi-
dends: part of the problem that faces Maori-
land is whether it will not also hasten the
end of the Samoan. On the olie side is the
argument that work will do the native good
—that it is just the thing he needs —and
the example of the Dutch administration of
Java is quoted. It took all the generations
before 1800 to give the East Indian island a
population of three or four millions. Since
the Dutch brought peace to the island and
taught the natives how to work, and gave
them science for a helper, the millions double
every generation, until the three or four
millions have become 35 or more. But, if
the Dutch get benefits from the island, the
natives at any rate work for themselves.
There are, except here and there, no white
taskmasters over them. It is not the pur-
pose of those who seek to set JioNe Samoa
at work to do it, for JIONE’S benefit. Asiatic
labor being no longer viewed with favor in
the Pacific, Jtone is to earn dividends instead
for the white man. He doesn’t want to
do it. What right have we to force the
labor upon him, in his own home —we, the
interlopers?
TE PANA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bad Girl of the Family.
Thanks largely to the hoppy, jumpy,
rpckety Hole, the members oi the new
League of Nations are horribly worried.
The U.S. (through its representative)
made the trap, wasted a year of other
people's valuable time over it while
The Hun recuperated, and then went
away and left its friends in it. When the
institution first assembled it represented
eight nations, including unreliable Greece,
wnich has restored me iioheazollern
queen; Spain, which was neutral in the war
and not even friendly ; Japan, which went in
to consolidate its position in the Pacific, but
sent no armies; and Brazil, which was an
ornamental friend only. These four, with
Belgium, France, Britain and distracted
Italy, met to keep the world’s peace : —met
with no common or joint army, navy, police,
treasury pr Government. To the west they
saw the heels of the retreating Yankee Re-
public disappearing in a cloud of dust. To
the east i they saw Poland doing a song-and-
war-dance on the horizon, and presently
heard it shouting for help. There have
already been several annoyances with Lithu-
ania, a spot about the size of Ireland, which
was for a while, ages ago, attached to Poland
by marriage, and which Poland wants to
attach again. Then the combustible
scarcely-hatched republic flounced into a wrtr
with Russia. The provocation was great,
for Bolshevik agents pervaded the country,
but it wasn’t a time to give way to generous
anger, as Joseph Pilsudski did, and rush
into war without assured allies. A ruler
like Louis Y Alois of old, the Universal
Spider, when he came up against such pro-
blems or worse ones, used to broOd by the
palace fire and spin webs, and presently his
enemies found that they had been bitten from
behind by parties unknown, and had also
lost their money and eaten something that
disagreed with them. The republic slid to
the verge of Sheol, but got out of the trouble
by hard fighting and with a good deal of
aid from France, chiefly in the way of arms
and the loan of officers to steady the enthu-
siastic but untidy battalions. Next the fizzy
State cavorted into trouble with Germany
over the rich mineral province of Silesia.
Silesia was Polish before 1355 —no one knows
for how long; Bohemian from then till 1478;
Hungarian from 1478 till 1526; Austrian
after that till 1763; Prussian from 1763 till
1018; and chaotic since. The League of
Nations ordered that a plebiscite should be
taken in the oft-stolen province to see
whether it wanted to be Polish or
German, or what parts of it wanted
to be one and what the other. But
the League didn’t promise to be bound
by the plebiscite ; it was merely seeking in-
formation. The results weren’t so favorable
as the Polos had hoped, partly, it may be, be-
cause their secret agencies didn’t drum up
voters so skilfully as the Iluns; partly, per-
haps, because the Polish connection died very
long ago; partly, it is possible, because to tie
up with Poland seemed like getting into very
explosive company. One theory is that
Bilesia, if it had a third issue to vote upon,
miaht have declared a preference for linking
with Bohemia (Czeclio-Slovakia), the
steady-going new State on the south-west,
rather than with Poland on the north-east or
Prussia on the north-west. They had ail
been its masters at one time or another.
Anyhow, the situation for Poland was far
from hopeless, and a brilliant diplomatist
would have lied and smiled and saved some-
thing out of the mix-up. But Poland started
performing on the battlefield again, though
its Government professed to be whollj tiee
of responsibility. And, largely by reason o
this hurried, picturesque, wayward Bad on
of'the Family, the tie between Britain and
France has been strained. It was inevitable
that these two should view the situation
differently. . Britain has gained a good deal
out of the war, for it has cleared the Hun
away from its frontiers in Fast Africa, \\ est
Africa, Papua, and among the Pacific isles,
and has got rid of it in China. In fact, it
has got rid of it everywhere, and the Hun
fleet,' the one I Inn thing that threatened its
very existence, is no more. I ranee, on the
other hand, hasn’t got the Rhine frontier-
tlnv only defensible line it could get in
Europe, and one on which it has a much more
recent historical claim, and also a more
ancient historical claim, than Poland has in
Silesia, or Prussia either. Its frontier is
indeed, almost as weak as it was before tin'
war. The disappearance of the Ilun fleet
doesn’t help France as it does Britain. It is the
Hun army that troubles France, and nobody
can be quite sure that the Hun army isn t
merely in concealment. Nobody saw it sink
in deep water. Besides, France has its
desolated area to keep it in mind, while
Britain has no wasted region and begins to
forget. France is therefore desperately anxious
that the Bad Girl of the Family should bo a
strong buffer to keep Russia and Germany from
drifting together some time in the future and
forming an overwhelming State: and the
ownership of Silesia would make her strong.
But so long as neither Germany nor Russia
has a navy, it matters not much to ,T. Bum
how or where they drift. So there are com-
plications enough to worry any League, l’f
onlv the Bad Girl hadn’t made the pace so
fast!
WWMIIIIIIII - - ——9
The Tariff a Farmer’s Tariff.
To a minority of Australian farmers and a
few sec-tionalists with Freetrade leanings
in the Country party, the tariff is merely aii
instrument for the enrichment of city manu-
facturers. The utter fallacy of this belief
was illustrated in a striking fashion last
month, when the House of Representatives
devoted the best part of a week’s work to
giving increased protection to primary in-
dustries menaced by foreign competition,
Among the items on which new duties were
clapped were bananas, barley, broom millet,
canary seed, citrus fruits, eggs, hay and chaff,
honey, hops, lucerne seed, maize, olives,
onions and rape seed. In the raising of
these articles, and of kindred products like
sugar, scores of thousands of farmers are
engaged, and if the tariff were wiped out
many if not most of them would find
their occupations gone. Without a tariff
there would be no sugar industry, no banana
industry, no egg industry—an attempt was
recently made to Hood the market with
Chinese eggs, but the Customs Department
frustrated it—and the impressive develop-
ments of the last decade in the production of
dried and citrus fruits, cheese, condensed
milk, confectionery, candles, cornflour, glu-
cose, pineapples, peanuts (to some a source
of cheap burner, but a useful industry),
macaroni, vermicelli and numerous other
farm-grown and factory-handled articles,
could not have occurred. And the tariff
is the farmer’s shield against the introduc-
tion of imported pests, such as invaded the
land in droves when Freetrade was the pre-
vailing superstition. Hence we find the
N. g. Wales millet-growers asking for a
thumping duty on broom millet from
Southern Europe to keep out the corn-
borer. The tariff also protects the pro-
ducer from the nefarious importer of in-
ferior seed. Until recently lucerne seed
was admitted free of duty, and tons of low-
grade stuff rolled in from 8. Africa, some of
it, according to statements read in Parlia-
ment, being palmed off on unsuspecting Aus-
tralian settlers, and the balance re-exported
to Maoriland and sold there as prime Hunter
River seed, a device which temporarily de-
stroyed a flourishing little trade. And when
a primary industry is in danger of being-
wiped out by foreign imports, it is not Free-
Arade that is asked for, but high Protection.
'Take the position of the Victorian onion-
growers, as stated by Gibson, M.H.R. :• —•
No industry is suffering more severely. At present
the price of onions is £3 per ton. Taking the
yield at. six tons to the acre the onion-grower’s
return amounts to only £lB, while his costs are
more than £3O per acre. Australians get most of
their onions from Japan. The'total importations from
that country for 1919-20 were 55,245ewt., valued at
£39,326. From the United Kingdom we got only
62cwt., valued at £6O; from M.L., 7892 cwt., valued
at £4363 ; from other British countries, 49cwt.,
rallied at £6l ; from China. 32cwt., valued at 450 ;
and from the U.S.A., 3053 cwt., valued at £l69').
Thus the enormous preponderance of imports came
from Japan. Japanese onions are grown under con-
ditions which, if the Australian consumer were aware
of them, would put an end to his desire to purchase
the Japanese product. The cultivation is carried on in
very small lots, generally in back yards; and 1 am
not willing to indicate the kind of manure used.
The Australian industry requires adequate protection,
or it will le crushed.
Gibson asked for a duty of fis ( per ewt. on
foreign-grown onions' and got it. He is a
member of the Country party, and the public
expects to hear less in future from the dis-
gruntled minority of his colleagues about the
iniquities of the tariff. A tariff which can
save a body of farmers from the extinction
to which Freetrade would inevitably condemn
them deserves something better than the
cheap gibes of Prowse and; Gregory. In
truth, the fiscal policy of the/Commonwealth
is a policy for the producer. It has saved
him in the past from being exploited by the
makers of foreign machinery and imple-
ments,’ it is saving him at present from the
operations of cheap-labor competitors and
dumpers—and there would be a 1 ruinous
amount of dumping in these distressful times
if the tariff didn’t prevent it —and it is pro-
viding him all the time with the best and
safest of all markets, a home market. The
war and the post-war Hump have shown
how utterly impossible it is for Australia td
continue its old. heedless, and shiftless
dependence on foreign markets.
♦
The Cult of Lawlessness,
Dear Butxettn. —It has often been said
that contempt of the laws of the land
and of the rights of others —call it what you
like —i$ foreign to the Australian tempera-
ment, and will never get a footing in the
Commonwealth. My contention is that it
has done so'already. Consider these mani-
festations of the past few weeks:
General Ryihe (Assistant Minister for Defence)
states publicly that “no one will ever carry a Red
Flag past him” —implying' that he will either ille-
gally destroy it or commit such an assault upon the
person that he will be unable to carry a flag’.
Walter Marks, M.H.R., states to a Royal Com-
mission that if called a “loafer” it “would be a case
of shooting-irons” with him.
The S. M. Herald prints a letter from a reader
who intimates that he will immediately assassinate
anyone who burns a flag or whom he suspects of
doing so.
The R.S.S.I. League instructs the Acting-Premier
of N. S. Wales “to prohibit the carrying of a Red
Flag”— an order which would be unenforceable in
law, as the League, whose President is a barrister,
must know.
Practically all the Sydney papers incite their
readers to attack certain sections which are acting
well within the law and their rights, and the meet-
ings of the unpopular section are broken up and
the speakers (amongst them several Diggers) are
injured.
Several hundred University students burst into
Sydney Government House (where they have no
more right to go unasked than they have to invade
the Union Club or a private house), and make a
fool of Governor Davidson, who has the same claim
to keep unimpaired whatever dignity his job may
have left him as any other member of the com-
munity.
Another batch of undergrads puts the Governor-
General in a position which no rational person will
believe that one of his years and standing can regard
as other than humiliating.
It will of course be said that these acts can-
not represent contempt of the laws of the
land and the rights of others, because the
persons guilty of them claim to be hostile to
such things’ as Bolshevism, anarchy, etc.
The Mohawks and Corinthians of the 18th
century used the same argument when re-
buked by London magistrates for kicking in
the front doors of the citizens and insulting
their women-folk. It was only “Pretty
Fanny’s” aristocratic way. But the Lon-
don burghers declined to accept this point
of view, and when they began to organise
there was bloodshed. What Australia’s
anti-Laborites who are engaging in disorder
and defending it seem to overlook is that
the creation of a tradition of contempt of
the established rule of law (whether the
same be good or bad) is tin' deadliest stroke'
that can be aimed at Property—and the best
turn that can be done to the battalions of
revolt. If Mr. Marks, M.P., has a right
to use shooting-irons on being called names,
so has Judd. If a Tory newspaper has a
right to foment lawlessness, so has a Radi-
cal one. If undergraduates have a right to
surge into the dwelling-places of Governors
in mobs, and force those officials to dance
to their piping, then roughs without their
educational advantages may be expected to
follow suit. Wbat the well-to-do are claim-
ing, as a matter of fact, is a form of the
Norman Right of Soigneurie—a superstition
which was supposed to have got its final
quietus at Runnymede in 1215. —Yours,
etc., A Non-Political Lawyer.
—
The Repat. and Pensions Offices.
While the R.S.L. in Victoria was flying off
the handle the other day about two ex-Dig-
gers wlio had got into trouble with the rail-
ways and been locked up, these statements
were being made in Parliament
Mr. Charlton (N.S.W.) said that hundreds of
returned soldiers were complaining that, despite their
disabilities, their pensions were being reduced or
ta'ken away altogether. The State Repatriation
Boards were doing all the mischief. Instead of
appointing local doctors to do their work, they sent
their own officers to examine pensioners. In nearly
every oase where these officers recommended reduc-
tions or discontinuances the local doctor’s opinion
was against them and in favor of the soldier.
Mr. Blundell (S.A.) quoted the case of a soldier
with an injured spine who had his pension stopped
when he started work. The man was unable to con-
tinue at his occupation owing to his injuries, but he
was refused a further pension, although he had a wife
and two children dependent on him.
Mr. Axstey (Vie.) said it was impossible to secure
any satisfaction from either the Pensions Department
or the Mar Gratuity Department. Even members
of Parliament themselves, when they took up a case,
could obtain no satisfaction. They saw the Minister;
he promised to help, but the officials would not even
move when the Minister asked them. In 99 oases
out of 100 it was impossible to get a definite answer
from either department.
Mr. Lister (Vic.) quoted the case of a soldier
suffering from shell shock, heart trouble and fits. He
was discharged from hospital without any pension.
It was not until he had made application that the
“generous*’ department gave him 10s. a week for
himself, a wife and two children. He was totally
unfit to follow his pre-war occupation.
The general public may be amazed to learn
from Mr. Charlton that officers of the Re-
patriation Boards, who are mostly ex-mem-
bers of the A.1.F., are “in nearly every case”
less sympathetic to disabled soldiers than
civilian doctors. But the public may remem-
ber that the Repat. officers have jobs to hang
on to ; and then it may understand. Ail
military departments are autocratic, intoler-
ant of scrutiny or criticism, and servile in
the face of authority. They tend to attract
in peace-time the type of expeditionary who
fought for freedom at Horseferry-road or
one of the overseas bases. This class of
warrior has little use for the combatant
Diggers, from whose derision he suffered
during the war. The M.P. who tackled one
of these gentlemen on behalf of a disabled
fighting-man who had had his pension pared
down to starvation-point, or abolished alto-
.gether, would be fortunate to escape ,a
haughty rebuke: he would certainly, as
ANSTEY found, “obtain no satisfaction.” It
was to deal with just such injustices that the
It.S. League tvas formed, and last week’s
revelations in Parliament are a measure of
its failure to date. It should long ago have
marked down every Repat. officer who had
any connection with a case of the sort
referred to, and agitated to have him ousted
and replaced by an official who was capable
of looking upon the war-wreck with an eye
at least as kindly as that of a doctor who did
not go to the war. The duty has been
shirked chiefly because the executives have
been allowed to become appanages of Hughes-
ism: hence much suffering amongst the
victims of the war, and much eyewash such
as that above quoted about the outrageous
wrongs done to able-bodied Diggers who elect
to travel without tickets.
Dog-in-the-Manger Australians.
Thus Boyd Cable from London: —
Cannot something be done to muzzle those lunatics
who are seriously damaging at this, end the good
name of Australia and imperilling its very exist-
ence as a white man’s country ? Here is a sample of
the sort of thing I mean. Ross Smith in a lecture
he is giving nightly in London shows some excellent
pictures of Australia and makes a point of stating’
the good openings for the right class of men there.
But on top of this we get cables saying that
some Labor leaders declare there is no room for
immigrants in Australia, that unemployment is rife
and that Britisher’s are not wanted. What is the
truth? Does Australia want more white population,
or does she not? If she does, they can be roped in
now from this country by thousands —and the right
class of man and woman. If she does not, then
the Loan ha' mercy on her!
Whatever divided opinions there may be in Aus-
tralia about wanting immigrants, I suppose there is
no such division on the question of a White Australia
policy ; but the No-Immigrants-Wanted crowd appa-
rently do not realise the trouble they are stacking
up for the country on the White Australia side. It
is illogical to shout one minute that Australia has no
room for more population, that any more people
coming in must starve for lack of employment and so
on, and the next minute howl that if Australia is
thrown open to colored or tinted immigrants they
would soon flood the country. If the Mo-Immigrant
tot maintain that white immigrants would starve,
and brown immigrants so thrive that they’d over-
run the country, they are producing an excellent
argument for those who insist that Australia is for
the most part “a black man’s country.”
But if a country like, say, Japan offers to lake all
the risk of her surplus population landing in Aus-
tralia and supporting themselves and doing well
there —as Japan no doubt would most cheerfully and
eagerly do—it bumps badly all the arguments that Aus-
tralia can't support more people. Will your No-
Immigration idiots get down to the simple fact that
you can’t have it both ways? Either Australia wants
more population, in which case it is lunacy to keep
yelling that there is no room for more whites; or
she can’t support more population, ,in which case
there is no earthly reason for forbidding the
entrance of people who say they can support them-
selves, and whose Government is willing to take all
the risk of maintaining them there. I’m. as keen on
a White Australia as any man, but I can see only
too plainly at this end how damaging it is to a
White Australia policy to have constant cables
coming- here that a white man has no hope if he goes
to settle in Australia.
The agitation of collared races for permission to
settle in Australia is not going to decrease, but is
certainly going to get louder and more strenuous in
the near future, and to meet it you will really have
to get a more reasonable and honest argument than
this crazy one that “We want to reserve Australia for
an all-white race, but there is no room in Australia
for any more whites,” which is about what the pre-
sent wail against immigrants comes to.
You know, we know, and the whole world knows
that there are “empty spaces” by the million acres
in Australia. We know, you know, and again they
know, that those empty spaces can, will, and must
support a huge population. You are bludgeoning to
death all the efforts of good Australians wherever
they may be who are anxious to support the White
Australia policy.
It may be true that there is lack of employment
in Australian cities. It is certainly true that there
is heaps of room in the country, if Australia will
oisen the ways to it and give men a chance to
settle there. This, soon or late, is what you will
have to do, and the sooner the better. It is
maddening to read cables again that there were
hundreds of suitable applicants far a few blocks of
land, and that nearly all the applicants could not be
provided with the land they want. Is there no land
available, or that oould be made available? We
know, .you know, they know, there is. If you don’t
get busy and make it available, somebody else will.
For you will have proved your own incapacity. And
you will hate to get out.
—
Scrapping the Mistakes.
Rear-Admiral Clarkson, one of the rulers
of Australia’s navee, is an engineer-admiral
who rose from the hammer and anvil rather
than a quarter-deck officer who descended
from the peerage. So when he spoke his
mind about Cockatoo Dock in Sydney Har-
bor, and incidentally about Williamstown
in Hobson’s Bay, he spoke as one having
authority, and not as the scribes and the
pure-merino brass-hats. The two things
that are supremely wrong with Cockatoo
are (1) its situation and (2) itself. As
regards the former it has been known for
almost as long as there have been dockyards
that a Government’s great shipyard and
arsenal shouldn’t be planted on the busiest
commercial harbor that can be found, and
in the middle of the biggest city that can be
found. It shouldn’t be on a commercial
harbor at all, and if possible there should be
no town near except an official settlement,
though in crowded lands this arrangement is
difficult. Certainly no country which takes
its defence seriously would have a naval
place like Cockatoo on its mind, nor Wil-
liamstown nor Jervis Bay, the last because
it has been earmarked as the commercial out-
let for the Federal capital. The dockyard
that is in the middle of a city is liable to be
surrounded on land in war-time with a
rabbit-warren of spies and dynamiters, yet
the surrounding country can’t be cleared of
people as a precaution, without destroying
the city. ,It may be approached from the
water by all sorts of surprise vessels in dis-
guise, yet the harbor can’t be cleared without
destroying the commerce. If it is girdled by
strong defences it can’t fire its guns in anger
without mixing up the ’ metropolis that is
spread all round it in the mess. In addi-
tion, land is ridiculously expensive in a city.
And on top of all Sydney is no ordinary
city. It is a hilly place, and there isn’t one
large flat spot in it for ship construction on
a big modern scale. Cockatoo is a mere
rocky islet, rather larger than a pin’s head,
where there isn’t room to construct any vessel
worth mentioning. Indeed, the result of
the whole policy of having petty yards in as
many cities as possible to gratify local
vanity, instead of one thoroughly competent
concern with a home of its own, is that, in
an important sense, Australia has no yard
at all. According to Rear-Admiral Clark-
son, if a war vessel a trifle larger than the
Australia should fall sick in these waters, it
couldn’t be landed for repair anywhere nearer
than Hong Kong, and if it was very sick it
might not live to reach there. The States-
man’s Year Book for 1920 mentions one
British light cruiser which is bigger than
the Australia; two light cruisers as big;


Ti c Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
and 35 battleships that are larger, one of
them (the Hood) 23,400 tons larger. As no big
vessel can be repaired here, it is certain that
none could be built here, so the out-of-date-
ness of Williamstown and Cockatoo are made
conspicuous. About the Australian work-
man the high official made no complaint
whatever, though he might be better if he
worked in better surroundings and out of
earshot of the red-flaggers of a big political
town. But he was emphatic that both Syd-
ney and Melbourne should be disqualified,
and that the Commonwealth should set up
a first-class establishment of its own where
there is deep water, plenty of fiat, cheap land
and no big civilian population. He held
that Cockatoo should be scrapped as a place
where good, big naval work is impossible and
where the loss will be eternal. Some wit-
nesses said bitterly that the Naval Depart-
ment “took no interest” in Cockatoo, but it
doesn’t seem to be a place that any ship-
builder could take much interest in. Cer-
tainly its original owner, the N. S. Wales
State Government, got into such a condition
of mind that its only interest in Cockatoo
was a desire to sell it to tlie Commonwealth.
The naval officers had it passed on to them
under hitter protest, and now the only thing
to do is to pass it on, if not to the junk-shop,
at any rate to some concern that doesn’t aim
so high as the building of warships.
♦
Ma State’s Two Nominee Houses.
On May 20 it was here foreshadowed that
the present N.S.W. Ministry may try to
lengthen by its own Act the life of this Par-
liament and its own term of office. The very
next day some evidence was forthcoming
that this paper had foreshadowed rightly so
far as the will was concerned, even though
the way may be wanting. According to Syd-
ney Telegraph : -
Junee. Thursday.—The Minister for Health and
Motherhood (Mr. .UcGuui) arrived here this morning
from Wagga. In the course of conversation he
said he was favorable to prolonging the life of the
present Parliament to allow the party to complete
advisable work initiated and proposed.
Pretty plainly an idea is being set afloat
that the party should refuse to quit at the
end of its term and stay on doing things that
the community wouldn't tolerate if its self-
governing rights hadn’t been stolen from it:
for if they were things it would tolerate, then
no thief or thieves need go to the trouble of
stealing its rights from it. The Government,
which is a professed hater of nominee
Chambers, has already turned the Assembly
into one to some extent. According to the
law, all casual vacancies are filled by
nominees, who thus reappear in the llous* -
for the first time since 185(5. There is
already a .small batch of them making
laws for the N. S. Wales people, and the
method of carrying on is so cleverly
devised that there is no chance of any party,
least of all the Government party, losing any
of its membership while the Parliament lasts.
No matter how enraged the country may be
at the deficit, the huge loans, the wheat-
bonus default, the raising of Ministers'
salaries, the Profiteering Act, the proposed
land confiscation, the increased income-tax,
etc., it can’t say so at any by-election. A
proposal that the Assembly should be made
wholly nominee—that the crowd in office
should just re-appoint itself for a long or
short or indefinite term or for ever and take
no account of the people—would be only a
legitimate extension of this policy. But
what exactly should be done under the high
treason laws to anyone who may thus form-
ally propose to steal the people’s liberties?
A life sentence seems indicated.
♦
Correcting the Incorrigible.
Sam Mauger, as president of the Victorian
Indeterminate Sentences Board, made pub-
lic some interesting figures last week. The
Board’s aim is to cure rather than to punish,
and with that end in view it got 452 con-
victed persons released between the passing
of the I. S. Act and the middle of last year.
Of these 298 <l cl not return, while 154 re-
lapsed. The Board takes care “that until
the men are thoroughly educated and trained
they shall not be released,” and believes
that under its scheme “if a man has a spark
of manliness in him it is fanned into flame.”
Yet 34 per cent, of these selected cases not
only reverted to crime but were detected and
convicted. In view of the police shortage
in Victoria, the jury-squaring habit, (he edu-
cation provided by the Board (which by im-
proving the criminal’s intelligence must
make him proportionately less likely to be
caught), and other factors, it seems likely
that a good many more go wrong than right.
Such facts and figures powerfully support
the case of the doctors who claim that crime
is a disease, and do much to overthrow the
arguments of the opposing school of lawyers
who contend that deterrent sentences are
the community’s best bulwark against the
malefactor. Scores of special cases will
readily suggest themselves in support of the
medical theory. Fear of punishment would
never have kept Mrs. Mort, of N. S. Wales,
from being what she is; nor could any term
: of imprisonment exorcise her homicidal pro-
clivities. 15ut, so far, irresistible impulse
towards crime is only recognised in a court
of law where emotionalism enters into the
business. And by no means always then.
In an English criminal court the other day
Justice Darling vehemently rebuked Sir
Robert Jones, the alienist, for asserting
that a certain murderer was not responsible
for his actions when he did the deed. In
a more enlightened age than our own it
will no doubt be admitted not only that
certain unfortunates are murderers because
they can’t help it. while being in all other
respects sane, but that other unfortunates
are thieves, forgers, burglars, etc., because
they are built that way. When that day
comes courts of justice will be administered
at least as much by specialists in mental
diseases as by lawyers. The alienist’s job
will be to decide, on the medical history of
tin accused, and an\ other available evi-
dence, whether he should stand his trial as
normal, or be ser aside for treatment as a
mental defective. The mental specialist
and not the Judge will fix the term of the
offender’s segregation, and will decide on the
treatment he receives while segregated.
Under the existing rough-and-ready system
it is a matter chiefly of money and social
influence whether a homicidal lunatic goes to
a gaol or to an asylum. As to the predatory
lunatic or the sexual lunatic, the half-wit
or the cretin, the lawyer usually has all the
say. All that these people learn in gaol is
that it is an unpleasant place; and the
only use many of them make of the trainin'*-
THE GLUTTON.
THE WEARY WAITRESS: “Will lie never be satisfied?”
they get is to turn it to devices for escap-
ing the clutches of the law on a future occa-
sion. Inevitably till they die they are a
misery to themselves and a menace to the
community. The right preventive of a very
large proportion of the more serious crime
in our midst is not more police and more
criminal courts, but more mental hospitals.
—❖ — - -
“Gregor” goes out after the anopheles :
Tim Bui.r.KTiN’s mention of malaria-hosts in Aus-
tralia (19/5/’2l) sounds a timely warning as to the
danger threatening this country in the form of
returned-soldier sufferers from the disease, most of
whom are supposed to be cured, but many of whom
are still active foci of infection. The Southern
and temperate portions of the continent are not lack-
ing in the varieties of anophelirue, which are known
to be transmitters of malaria, and all that is required
to bring the disease in an endemic form is a few
years of inaction, during which the mosquitoes
may infect fresh hosts from the original reservoirs of
the parisitie organism. At St. Kilda (Melb.), for
instance, within the past three months, seven or
eight different anopheline varieties have been de-
tected, .and Heaven only knows how many hosts there
must he living in this particular suburb. On the
outskirts of the city are stagnant 1 iwaterholes and
sluggish-running streams in which the insect breeds
literally by millions, one spot, in the vicinity of
Mordialloc Creek, alone furnishing enough malarial
carriers to infect half the metropolitan population.
The Federal quarantine regulations, devised to deal
with returned-soldier patients, are all right as far
as they go; but that isn’t very far. For instance,
medical practitioners are required to report by
telegraph to the Director of Quarantine any cases
of malaria in winch the patient is a former member
of the A.1.F., the idea being that a survey may thus
be made of the incidence of all cases, and definite
knowledge obtained as to the whereabouts of hosts.
But for every case seen by a doctor there are dozens
that are not, for in these the sufferer doses himself
with quinine and aspirin, and goes to bed until the
attack has passed. W hat is needed is concerted find
determined action on the part of the municipalities;
these, by destroying all breeding places for the
anopheles, could wipe out the danger in a year. But
it must be done now, not five years hence, when the
disease has grown to vast proportions.
♦
M hen the House of Reps was raising the
duties on imported chocolate and confec-
tionery Massy Greene, Minister of Cus-
toms, mentioned with a cheerful grin that
Cadburys, the famous Freetraders, who are
establishing extensive factories in Tasmania,
wanted them higher still. "They have asked
for more,” he said, “but I haven't given it
to them,” imposts ranging from 35 to 45
per cent, ad cal. being, in Greene’s judg-
ment, a fair thing. And then some other
humorist recalled that Cadburys and Frys
(also enthusiastic Foreign-traders) had im-
plored members to have chocolate placed
on the free-list in the 1914 tariff. The
growth of the Australian sweets industry
under the stimulus of Protection has been
impressive. Before the war most of the
lollies consumed by Irene of P'ran and
Doreen of Pyrmont were imported. In
1913 nearly 5000 tons of foreign confec-
tionery came into the Commonwealth, the
value being declared at £571,950. But after
that year the Australian factories got to
work so energetically that confectionery has
almost disappeared from the list of imports.
All that came in last year was (15,5001 b.,
valued at £9570. On the other hand there
were considerable exports of the Australian
article to the Pacific Islands and the East
Indies. Naturally, in the expansion of this
protected industry work has been provided,
directly and indirectly, for a large number
of Australian citizens —factory-girls, pack-
ers, printers, box-makers and so forth, be-
sides sugar-growers. Another result of the
Australian fiscal policy is the building of the
Cadbury factories. And the fact that the
Cadburys, after examining the family’s bug-
bear at close quarters, think so highly of
the dreadful thing that they want more of
it, more, indeed, than a Protectionist Cus-
toms Minister is willing to give them- —
well, it makes The Bulletin wonder if
there are any real Freetraders left in the
.world.
“Murkaii” on a wireless riot: —
Prior to the war the tangle of wireless-waves on
part of the eastern coast of Australia made radio-
working difficult. For this the total lack of organi-
sation was responsible, rather than the amount of
traffic, which wasn’t really great. Ships jostled each
other; it was common to hear half-a-dozen vessels
calling Sydney Radio at once. Thus it took five or
six trying hours (ship-radio is mostly done between
6 p.m. and midnight) to handle a traffic that should
have been put through in two. Then the war came
and quietened Australian radio to such an extent
that the stray vessel with a coded time-of--arrival
message to get rid of had the whole Tasman to do
it in. Now the old state of affairs is returning,
but worse than ever. In pre-war days radio was
regarded merely as a curio; “good-bye” and “fond-
est love” constituted most of the traffic. Nowadays
passengers on both Australian and English ships use
it extensively. Vet there would be no congestion
but for the Commonwealth Radio Branch allotting
to land-stations the same wave-length (tune)
as that used by ships. For instance, Towns-
ville works nearly continuously from 6 p.in. till
midnight with Woodlark Island and Rabaul. ith
;■>."> k.w. behind a note like a bull, he roars right
down the coast, inconveniencing every station, ship
and shore, for a thousand miles. It isn’t as if there
was any special virtue in the 600-metre ship-wave ;
it suits ships on account of the modest amount of
wire that it is possible to string between masts.
Townsville's most efficient wave is about 1250 metres.
On this tune he, would be absolutely inaudible to
ships even in liis vicinity, and ship traffic that now
circulates via Townsville could he sent through Bris-
bane or Rockhampton. Townsville would thus Jje
left free to attend to the ever-increasing volume of
island traffic. After sundown ships should never call
the land station. Instead, lists of shipping in the
vicinity should be furnished to the coast stations
at Sydney, Melbourne and possibly Brisbane. Ships
could then be given “Go ahead” in rotation and
work would proceed smoothly. This is the practice
in the English Channel and off New York Harbor-
the world's most crowded radio areas. It is for
reasons like those mentioned that Australia Radio
fails practically every time it is called on.
“Doctor lodine” : The cables concerning
the death of an old man allegedly rejuvenated
by a thyroid-gland graft draw attention to the
danger of the indiscriminate use of this drug
without medical supervision. Thyroid-gland
extract has valuable properties, but now tlmt
newspaper prominence lias advertised it, it is
regarded by the gullible as a panacea for
everything from obesity to lack of vitality.
But at any rate when the extract is used
accurate - doseage can be given, whereas no-
thing of the kind can lie guaranteed with a
gland graft from one of the lower animals,
whose tissues generally, when grafted to
man’s, slowly absorb. This absorption pro-
bably took place in the old-young gent, in
question, for we are informed that no trace
of gland-graft could be found post mortem.
Dither that or else he was rooked by the
operating surgeon, and auto-suggestion did
the rest. In unskilled hands thyroid is a
dangerous drug, and, being obtainable over
the counter without formal registration in
the chemist’s poison-book, it should bo re-
garded as a potential criminal weapon. Its
sale should be under the same official control
as morphia, strychnine and other valuable
but dangerous things.
♦
The theory of Earle Page, that in
a very few years there will be only about
a shilling’s worth of real assets or real pro-
gress to show for every £ spent on repatria-
tion excited protest a week or. two ago, but
already it looks like an over-estimate. The
business of buying the experienced Smith’s
land with loan money at a high price and
selling it to the repatriated Brown at a
higher one creates no more land and no
more fertility, though it leaves ;a thick
sediment of mortgages where they didn’t
exist before. But something tangible was
expected from the vast outlay on house-
building, yet this promises to be the worst
disappointment of all. There was, of course,
the usual centralisation of management in
the Big City, and no one but the Veiled
Prophet in the Big City was allowed to do
anything. The man in a country town who
saw condemned bricks that could be crumbled
between the fingers put into the house for
which he had to pay an indefinite price mighr
get into violent communication about his
wrongs with the Personage in the city, and
the answer was silence. If lie sji,w his walls
being made of green timber lie might com-
municate still more furiously, and the
answer was. more silence. If doors wouldn't
close, and floors were at such an angle that
furniture would hardly stay still, and drains
had been forgotten, lie might communicate
to the bitter end, and the reply was all the
silence going. The market lias long been
bare of money through the drain of new
loans, and the huge payments for imported
goods, so the Government was practically
the only source to apply to for building nionev
-very dear money. Also, it was practically
the only house-supplier, for in some States
legislation invented in the city had killed the
old industry of building small houses for
renting purposes. And the solitary house-
supplier with two or three hundred thou-
sand scum re miles to look 'after was a sort
of Hidden Influence in a central office
something cloudy and unreal, with agents
whom it apparently eoukln’t control, while
they had subordinates under them whom tkev
eouldn’t control either. And when the vic-
tim who received a first-rate hill for a tenth-
rate house tried to find something nalpable
to complain to he found himself talking to
space.


WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. *
| S S W MONT de PIETE -
fe D - $ I C9Y LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200,000 ‘Fhone City 5325
fir&/?c/?es Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle, N-SW-71517 Swanstom 5t Vic
40 Adelaide St.,Brisbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh St.. 159 George St.V/est, Sydney.
Joseph lV Hill, Genera! manager,
w
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
At Lithgow (N.S.W.) the other evening
Governor Davidson said that there really
were not many disloyalists in the State, and
he urged that you couldn’t make men more
loyal by perpetually denouncing them as dis-
loyal. Whereupon Weaver, a Nationalist
.M.1..A., gave the unholy business away by
saying that the Governor had better be care-
ful —he was trespassing on the edge of party
polities. Xothiny is sacred to these party
bosses; they are as ready to drag patriot-
ism in their gutter as they are to drag reli-
gion.
N. S. Wales Ministers have made some
vague references to public-service retrench-
ment. All that any of them will do in this
direction until an empty till drives them to
it is quite harmless. The service was
never in greater need of a thorough overhaul:
the job ought to be done by the Public Ser-
vice Board, but, thanks to George Fuller
and the Holman Government, the P. S. Board
is a joke, while' the P.S. itself is a tragedy.
The head who tries to get rid of an incompe-
tent man these times is soon made .to feel
very sorry for himself, for every Minister in
the Cabinet is liable to fall upon him for
making trouble and imperilling a vote; hence
waste goes unchecked and discipline hardly
exists.
That “special conference of Labor and
industrial delegates” which met at Brisbane
to devise substitutes for work, and proposed
that the State Government should issue
£5,000,000 in notes, had another string to
its bow. It •resolyed if the note scheme
failed “to request the Government to estab-
lish a Queensland State Bank whose func-
tion should be not the issuing of notes, but
the creation of an institution on which the
Government may draw its own cheques” —
apparently it has hitherto been drawing
someone else’s cheques —“for the purpose of
carrying out public works.” W ell, thank
Heaven, that is easy enough. Ground-floor
premises can be got without any trouble; a
painter would put up the sign in an hour :
and capable officials and stationery could
be supplied from the Treasury. A forenoon
would suffice, and unlimited cheques for
public works could be drawn in the after-
noon, and they could all be back next morn-
ing with an endorsement to the effect that
there wasn’t a cent in the place.
The signboard of the Nationalists has
come down from a door in S.A. Parliament
House. There are none of them left, and the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association.- which has
just started to grow, gets the room. Peter
Reidy is the only member without a room to
go to. At present he calls himself a Min-
isterialist, but without allegiance to the
party of the present Liberal Ministry.
Hughes’s mania for sending bicyclists and
bughunters on expensive exploring trips has
been getting some advertisement. One of his
expeditions has been lost for several months,
at a cost of £5OO a week, in the main street
of Rabaul or thereabouts. Another—that of
Birtles, the bike-pusher—has come to grief
somewhere along the North-South railway
route, and nothing remains but burnt debris
of a £l2OO Government car. Birtles, who
is to get £5OO from a grateful country, was
a sort of advance-courier for a mob of
junketing politicians who are presently to
fare forth in a fleet of other Government
ears. Australia wouldn’t mind losing a few
cars if it could manage to also lose some of
the politicians who sanction and profit by
such expenditure. But you can t lose that
sort of legislator.
The Queensland Nationalists are short of
a leader, “Bishop” Barnes having dropped
out. There is an idea of offering the too
to Arnold Wienholt, M.H.R., and another
suggestion is that Tom Robinson should be
asked (at 67 l to take it on. But in each case
there would be the difficulty of providing the
new man with a safe seat. W hoever gets
the job—and it looks like being Elphinstone
or Fletcher—should be a man prepared to
work in with the Country party without
worrying about formal alliances. lhat is
the course Jimmy Mitchell has adopted in
Wegtralia, and Jimmy, though he leads one
of three groups and that not the strongest,
is Premier. And the entente eorjtofc that
keeps him in office has survived two general
elections. Also the Labor Opposition is hope-
lessly outnumbered.
In 10 months of a year of booming revenue
the gaseous Sydney Government has achieved
a deficit of a million. Over in Maori-
land, which has about the same population
as the County of Cumberland, the financial
year has closed with a surplus ol £6,12-1,000.
And during the same period £13,000,000 was
paid into the Discharged Soldiers’ Settle-
ment Fund from past surpluses, whereas
every pound spent in X. S. Wales on soldier-
settlement was a borrowed scrap of paper.
But the Windy Isles are run on business
lines by red-faced persons, chiefly of Scot-
tish descent. ; They have inherited a tradi-
tion of financial honesty, and frugality is
in their blood. They don’t give their days
to the devising of schemes for the pauperisa-
tion of their supporters, and their nights to
whining about the wrongs of Ireland.
THE QUEUE.
“The Agents-General anticipate that the close of the Imperial conversion scheme (announced in the
recent Budget) on Saturday will clear the way for Australian flotations, it is believed that a joint S.
Australian and Tasmanian loan will be floated in June. A Victorian loan, N. S. Males and westralian
flotations will follow.”— Cable.
From the Federal Gallery
When the tariff is completed, Massy Greene
should present an illuminated address to Labor mem-
bers Anstey, Matthews and Dr. Maloney, whose per-
sistent support has been very valuable during out-
breaks of Freetection on his own side. These Labor -
ites are prepared to go all the way with the Gov-
ernment, recognising that the question of making
Australia self-contained dominates all the side-
issues regarding monopolies and exploitation which
are diligently introduced by other members. Mat-
thews, who ought to be anchored home by his
neuritic leg, is always in his place pounding the
half-baked economists of the Cocky corner. Maloney
has raised a rich voice for high duties, and never
misses an opportunity of pressing the view that no
country can hope to prosper with a revenue tariff.
But the greatest spruiker for Protection is Frank
Anstey, who, having recovered from his recent sick-
ness, finds his irony more penetrating than all the
heavy artillery of his friends. The way he made
boomerangs of Freetrade arguments the other night
Showed that his extraordinary gift of ridicule is still
intact.
The State meatshop has come to Sydney.
By doing business only in crowded districts,
cutting out the cost of delivery (everybody
must call for the meat) and giving no credit,
it hopes to do well and enlarge the number
of grateful civil-servants who will vote the
right ticket. But thinly-peopled districts
will be supplied by the old chop-merchant,
and people who can’t get about as well as
they once did will still rely on him or lead
the vegetarian life. Come to think of it, a
postal system which didn’t go as far out-
back even as the suburban fringe, and which
made everybody call for the letters or do
without, should also pay all right.
Premier Mitchell, of Westralia, is going
on a tour to glance at some of that half
or three-fourths of his huge domain that
neither he nor any other Minister has ever
seen —the part that they govern by hearsay,
as some old Ciesar wallowing in Home mi
have governed Britain. Only they govern
it in a more cumbersome way, for London
is 500 or 600 miles nearer to Rome than
Wyndham is to Perth, and the Komain main
roads were better, and if Cfesar had no rail-
way Mitchell hasn't either for most of the
way.
Beeby, of N.S.W., is in the first flush of
judicial youth. Having little or no know-
ledge of the iron trade or of any other
manufacture, and no experience in handling
men except such as may be gained by direct-
ing a tame clerk in an office, lie cheerfully
gave a judgment the other day for reduced
hours which is likely to add £70,000 a year
to the total expenses of the Hoskins iron-
works at Lithgow. That is the sort of thing
that happens when a Judge, instead of inter-
preting the dry letter of the law, has t.i
use bis own brilliant initiative about mines
or blast-furnaces or balloons. With the
tame clerk in view he held that it would be
quite easy to drive the men harder and get.
as much work out of them in 44 hours as'
in 48. lie, apparently, also held, as usual,
that to an employer a mere matter of £70,000
a year couldn't be a serious difficulty. Pro-
bably he was of opinion that Hoskins could
compose a poem or do any other trifle if
really put to it. That reliance on the gigan-
tic intellect of the capitalist makes a heap
of trouble.
The Vic. State Government, after its long
hiding in recess, is to be called to account
for the apparently free hand with which the
Melbourne Gas Co. raises the price of its
goods whilst reducing the quality below all
precedent. But if there were any honest
intention to give local politics a warm bath
and a scrub the opponents of Lawson could
easily get to him on a full exposure of the
Coal Board fake. One excuse after another
has been raised for refusing to dissolve this
home for politicians' nominees. The Coal
Board had only a thin pretence of neces-
sity in the beginning, and for some time
past there has been no vestige of reason for
it, save in rumors of a shipping strike to
happen next July and tales of present coal-
shortage circulated by interested parties.
With the advent of winter every Melbourne
suburban householder learned from the local
coal-dealer that not a hundredweight of coal
could be supplied to him until his formal
application in writing had been “passed”
by the Board, this autocratic regulation
being of no use whatever io the coal-trader,
no safeguard to the public, no benefit to
anybody save the army of officers drawing
salaries. How long is the game of bluff to
last? A crowd of salary-grabbers has been
added to the Government service, and is
being kept there under false pretences be-
cause Lawson fears to cut it adrift, and
Parliament is winking at the wickedness.
When a Sydney Minister gets tired of the
sight of the monthly debit balance and of
the massive policemen who guard him from
a thankless proletariat, he awards himself a
paid holiday. There’s nothing like a paid
holiday to make one feel that all is for the
best in this best of all worlds. Then does
the unemployed meeting fade from the land-
scape, and the heart expands and the out-
look seems good, and when a reporter looms
up the traveller talks like this —as Dunn,
Minister of Agriculture, did in Westralia
the other day :
No doubt about it Australia is prosperous. Take
Sydney, for instance. Every night all houses of amuse-
ment are simply packed, anil you have to book well
ahead to get a seat at any respectable show. Isn't
that a sign of prosperity V
It all depends. The man in charge of the
Government labor i exchanges reports that
there were 7500 out of work in Sydney at
the end of April. That was 500 above the
March figure, and the May return will be
larger still. If a crowded picture-show re-
presents prosperity, what does a crowded
labor bureau represent?
Pope Benedict XV. has issued some kindly
advice for the healing of Ireland’s troubles.
According to the cabled summary, he said :
It would be opportune if the questions at issue
were referred for discussion to a body of men selected
by the whole Irish nation. When this conference
had published its findings the more influential Irish-
men could determine a settlement in a sincere spirit
of peace and reconciliation.
It sounds easy; but —
The North-East of Ireland and the rest of Ireland
(which are both very restless) flatly refuse to agree
as to what is “the whole Irish nation.”
Neither party wants peace until it wins, which is
the spirit of the fighting man all the world over.
(At a time when there were four Popes reigning at
once they felt the same way.)
Nobody wants reconciliation, save in the sense
that each is possibly willing to bury the hatchet if
the other admits that he is licked.
Still, it is always good to have somebody
on hand who knows so little of the difficul-
ties that he is willing to say “Try!” Aus-
tralia talked of the difficulties of federation
for 30 years; and it got no for’arder until
it listened to some other Pope who said that
the only way to federate was to federate.
In the rear 1912-13 the Priminster's De-
partment spent £44 on cables abroad. In
1914-15 the amount was £366 and in the next
financial year it was £5l less. Then Hughes
decided to win the war, and next year his
advice cost the country £3576, which leapt
to £6569 in 1917-18, and to £12,499 in
1918-19. As the Commonwealth Govern-
ment pays a lower rate than the ordinary
citizen, some idea of Hughes’s allied ver-
bosity and vanity can be obtained from the
foregoing figures.
Uncle Sam is at least frank. By sticking
closely to trade during three-fourths of the
war he acquired nearly all the loose ehahge
on earth. So the battered nations go to him
for loans as he used to go to .1. Bull 60 or
70 years ago. But the new Administration
warns bankers to discourage loans that are
to be used for the repair of the wrecked civi-
lisations, and only to look favorably on those
that are to be spent in buying Uncle’s goods.
Unfortunately too much success in this line
may make Europe bankrupt, and that is a
condition it could only get out of by repudiat-
ing its debts and telling Uncle to whistle for
his money.
Replying to a deputation which called
upon him to talk about the red flag, the
irrelevant Mister Dooley, Acting-Premier of
N. 8. Wales, said that people are allowed to
advocate a republic in England ; and advo-
cates of an Australian republic are common
enough. But what’s that got to do with it?
The red-flaggers are as much against repub-
lics as against monarchies—that is to say,
they are against the institutions that are
common to both. White republics are now
far more numerous than white monarchies,
but the red-flaggers haven’t helped to set
up or hold up any of them, though they
pulled one down—Kerensky’s.
THE INTERRUPTION,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The recent interruption of the cables was due to
electric storms in the sun.” — Cable.
The latest trouble of the worried suu
Suggests a little rest for bored mankind
If all electric currents ceased to run
And word from Europe took a month to find.
No telephone, no telegraph, no lies
Mixed with the little grain of daily truth
We might sit down and- think and grow as wise
As some old dreamers of the world’s lost youth.
And as we thought, we might conclude at last
That something done beneath the spotted sun
Was better than our plan in seasons past
To merely wait for something to be done.
And when the storm no longer messed the wires
And cables movett again beneath the seas,
Far eyes would scan o'er revolution fires
One nation working" like a hive of bees.
N.B.W.
G. STREET.
THOUGHTS ON MAY 24.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If there be traitors here who hate this flag,
See that they do not burn it yet a while.
It must wave wide, for one has come to brag
And talk with patriot ardor by the mile.
Salute the emblem! Freemen proudly flew it
On stricken fields —by George, we’ll see you do it!
Nay, do not burn these triple crosses proud;
It has another purpose here to-day.
The children greet it with their plaudits loud
And stand, bored stiff, in impotent array.
Nay, do not burn the flag. This man who patters
Has need of it —to talk it now to tatters.
x.s.w.
P. O. M.


•1 Y>u dont Seem to remember me */
2. By jov« 1 It's years since I—,1 —,
How are you ? tf
3 Fine , Last lime i Saw you.,
yp
you were. — ~
• Yes I remember,
20 * I was . "
5
Would, you. care
for a ?"
7
Mind fbe Car !
Ok the w ifa.'s
fine.. u
6. <r ßy Jove yes.,
my shoui . And
How's the wi/c. ?
Erj by tha. way ,
wHad are you doing now l
_ <<
9. Me ' OK Im clerking
up at ike Income. Tax. Office, '*
10. " Oh are y Q u ? t! "
THE PARIAH.


ST
M
IW
lbs
1
*» 1
|
J
*SLI[
lL
■
V
1
S
<$ §
*•
COSMOS
Give a brilliant’ bur sof b
•liqhh < Th(?q strong
Idsl'inq dna economical
COSMOS
•K2C
L-
ers
1C
CO.. LTD
ELECTRICAL
n
21 Elijabdh 51 Melbourne
obtainable
db dH elpctaicdl shores
m
304 Kent* 5t Si^dnpif
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <og> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zin*
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTV.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Mar., 13.. 233,530 12*p.c.=187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalisen. ■ t = « niq
•Sept.,’l3.. 255,440 12* p.2.=203,125 52,315 j ’
Mar., ’14.. 263,761 12* „,, 203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept.,’l4. . 256,361 12* „„ 203,125 63,230 165,891
.Mar.. ’15.. 272,708 12* „ ~203,125 69,583 235,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 1
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji |- 235,474
and N.Z. Co. stock), £3,250,000 j
Mar., ’l6. . 261,250 6*p.e. --211,250 50,000 285,474
Sept., ’l6. . 143,004 64. .... 105,625 37.379 322,853
Mar., ’17.. 145,758 6* ~ ~105,625 40,133 862,986
Sept., ’17.. 186,502 fit ~ ~ 105,625 30,877 393.863
Mar., ’lB.. 142,641 61 „ 105,625 37,016 430,879
Sept.,’lB. . 137,816 6 1 „ ~ 105,625 32,191 463,070
Mar., T 9.. 147,611 8 ~,,138,125 9,486 472,556
Sept.,T9. . 130,012 6 ~,,105,625 24,387 496,948
Mur., ’2O. . 159,553 8- ~,.138,125 21,428 518,371
Sept.,’2o.. 171,642 8. „ ~ 138,125 33,517 551,888
Capital returned, £650,000
Mar., 21.. 195,922 12* p.e.= 162,500 33,422 585,310
'Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
The published accounts do not show so mag-
nificent a profit. They give net earnings m
the Commonwealth as £.131,789, to which is
added £23,508, divs. from lhe Fiji subsidiary
and inrerest on tax-free War Loans, a total
of £.155,297. But a whisper in the chair-
man’s speech to shareholders moves the
“Wild Cat” to add another £40,025. Chair-
man E. W. Knox (the- C.S.R.’s old g.-m.
now sits at the'head of the Board, ex-Ctiair-
man 11. E. Kater having retired to a seat
at the table) told shareholders that in addi-
tion to the 15s. per share dividend recom-
mended, a further ss. per share, represent-
ing the amount of div. to be received on
the C.S.li.’s holding in the Fiji subsidiary,
w ? as also to lie passed out. For reasons best
known to the management, it arranged that
this div., which the parent was to get from
the Subsidiary, should be paid directly to
the parent’s shareholders, “not through the
books of the old company.” How they man-
aged it The Bulletin does not know’, but
the manoeuvre is tantamount to telling the
office-boy to collect his wages from one of
the firm’s debtors and say no more about it.
The “Wild Cat” prefers, however, to see
the trifle of £40,625 go through the C.S.R.’s
cash-box in the regular way, and so includes
it in the last, line of the table above. And
what a glittering line it is! Never since
the old co. was split in two six years ago
have such fat results shown up, nor at any
time have shareholders participated in such
a gorgeous dividend banquet. From the
pareut co. and the parent co.’s interests in
the subsidiary shareholders get £162,500 for
the past half: in addition they get six
months’ interest (£97,500) on their holding
of subsidiary prefs., altogether £260,000.
Nor does that give the full measure of the
prosperity, for while the parent concern
admits to have done well —and there may be
a good deal which it does not admit —the
subsidiary has had the time of its life.
Here is its record to date: —
C.S.R. Co. (Fiji and N.Z.). Ltd.: —
Net , ——Dividends •, To Re-
Mav.,. Profits. Pref. Ord. .serves. Reserves.
1916.. 328,830 6 6 202,500 126,330 126,330
1917.. 340,201 6 6 210,000 130.201 256,531
1918.. 338,147 6 6 210,000 128,147 384,678
1919.. 308,403 6 6 210,000 98,403 483,081
1920.. 297,784 6 6 210,000 87,784 570,865
1921.. 461,979 6 19* 243,125 218,854 789,719
Usually this co. pays 6 p.c. on the quarter-
million of ordinaries held wholly by the
parent; but instead of £15,000, on this occa-
sion the parent gets £48,125, though its
accounts are apparently not to be permittr l
to acknowledge it. And note the volume of
surplus profits available for reserves after
making the recoi’d distribution.
The figures above are those disclosed ; but
how much has been going up the sleeve?
Only those inside can have the slightest
idea: but it can be taken for granted that
the big concern, which only half-a-dozen
years ago shook out 3] millions of inner
reserves, has been storing away profits be-
yond the gaze of the curious. In neither of
the tables above are the reserves for depre-
ciation and renewals taken into account,
and their gro.wth is interesting. The latest
book value of the parent’s refineries, mills,
land, tramways, etc., exceeded 3-j millions;
those of the subsidiary, more than 2| mil-
lions. And this is how the replacement and
depreciation fund of each concern has ex-
panded: —
C.S.R. Fiji Co.
1916 .. £578,974 £lOO,OOO
1920 . . 960,113 416.875
1921 .. 1,013,265 503,865
Precisely how much of that 11 million will
be required to cover replacements not met
out oi current revenue cannot be guessed, oi
course. But there is a good deal more than
meets the eye in all the figures above; share-
holders were recently told that the Fiji co. s
disclosed net profit was the “sum left after
providing for the premium payable to the
preference shareholders in connection with
the proposed return of half their capita I’
a matter of 255. per share, or a trifle of
£203,125. It was also remarked that the
directors had “placed at suspense account
a sum that can be used for writing down
lhe cost of two factories in Fiji.” This
displays the glitter of the Fiji and Maori-
hind end of the business in another way :
1920. 1921.
Assets apart from fixer) assess.. £2,428,241 £3,788,469
Liabilities .. .. .. 45,155 143.485
Liquid surplus .. .. £2.383,086 £3,644,984
Including the interim dividends the year’s
operations showed an increase of liquid sur-
plus of more than !•> million, the book value
of fixed assets meantime increasing by
£130,000-odd. It is an almost incredible
performance. The parent co. at Sept. 30
last disclosed a liquid surplus of over two
millions.
These huge liquid resources —and cash and
gilt-edged investments form a large portion
of the bundle; —explain to some extent the
proposals for the return of capital. A large
proportion of the parent’s spare cash, the
directors allege, would have found employ-
ment in Queensland mills and other enter-
prises if the Northern State had not been
so Bolshie-inclined. Things being what they
were, the Board returned £4 per £2O share
(£050,000) towards the close of last year,
and tlie parent’s capita) now stands at
£2,000,000 instead of the former O’, mil-
lions. But note that while shareholders
have had £4 per share made available for
them to invest elsewhere, their dividends
have been larger than ever. And in the Fiji
concern, whose scrip came to the old C.S.R.
holders without any payment in cash, there
is a proposal to hand back £lO of each £2O
0 p.c. pref. share, plus a 255. per share pre-
mium because some people had bought in
the market at a premium, an “un-
wise” action, the directors remark, “for
which the eo. was in no way responsible.”
This return of capital was proposed
in November last, but that it is intended
to go on with the distribution is evident
from the recent setting aside of the amount
of “premium” in a suspense account.
Royal Commissions have come and gone,
but the big C.S.R. remains unshaken and
is now’ more prosperous than ever. So far
as the Commonwealth and Maoriland are
concerned its selling operations have been
controlled by the Governments—at least,
prices have been fixed. But the arrange-
ments have apparently suited the co. excel-
lently; so much so that the Dominion Gov-
ernment has been requested to extend its
“control” another year. The C.S.R. is never
without its troubles, though. Chunder Loo’s
cousin in Fiji is nowadays worrying the
management. He is no longer cheap. He
goes on strike, and now demands 2s. per
hour —double the standing rate in Fiji in
pre-war days. He is also very scarce, for
the eo. has not yet been able to prevail on
the Indian Government to permit a resump-
tion of immigration. Failing a supply of
labor‘the C.S.R. declares that sugar-produc-
tion in Fiji “must in the early future suc-
cumb.” “tinder such circumstances,” share-
holders are told, “you will not be surprised
about the action taken to return half of
your capital, nor to receive our assurance
that we shall endeavor to set to order our
affairs that, if the business be broken up,
you mav in due course receive the other
half.”
The Western Australian Insurance
Co
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913. .£1,233 5 p.c. = £5OO £733 £473
1914.. 215 Nil 215 688
1915.. 20,512 6 p.c. = 3,600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6,. 3,600 23,363 40,963
1917. .183,332 7 „„ 4,200 179.132 220,095
1918. .377,787 10 ~10.000 367,787 587,882
1919. .142,781 15 ~ ~15.000 127.781 715,663
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000 695,663
1920.. 56,601 lOp.e. =lO,OOO 46.601 742,264
Securities written down, £43,637 698,627
'-Apart from Life Department.
This young Australian insurance office has
developed the bad habit of giving a very be-
lated record of its doings. Its latest accounts,
covering the period to June 30 last year,
wore not attested by the Perth auditors un-
til April 30 —just 10 months afterwards.
Yet a big concern like the Queensland Insur-
ance Co. generallv has its balance-sheets in
the hands of proprietors within six weeks
of the closing of its accounts. The W.A.
Insurance was the audacious infant which in
the early days of the war made for the Big
Smoke and proceeded to back the British
Navy to the last thread of its bootees. Gam-
bling hard in marine business which older
and more staid offices would not touch it
rapidly gathered business, and the more it
won the deeper it plunged. So from a co.
with an income of only £1790 in 1913 it had
by 1918 developed into a concern which
handled premiums by the million. Here is
its extraordinary underwriting record : —-
Net Loss Expense
Premiums Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1915.. 52,061 17,424 16,074 33.4 „ 30.8 „
1916.. 180,716 116,763 40,118 (>4.6 „ 22.2 „
1917.. 727,868 522.21.7 27.095 71.7 „ 3.7 „
1918. . 1,142,001 739,044 48.132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1919.. 629.044 445,011 68,689 70.7 „ 10.9 „
1920.. 590,467 438,830 97,342 74.4 „ 16.5 „
•What would have happened to the co. if Wil-
helm’s navy had been nearly as successful as
bis armies The Bulletin shudders to think.
But having gambled with amazing success,
the W.A. Insurance is one of the Common-
wealth’s underwriting concerns which can
now swank its affluence. From a little co.
with £4O,(XX) of capital and no reserves
worth mentioning, it has grown into one with
a paid capital of £lOO,OOO, and accumulated
surpluses of more than £700,000.
1 The table above shows how revenue has
fallen off since Fritz’s retirement. The co.
now for the first time separates operations
in various lines of underwriting, and this
tabulation can be presented to detail the
business handled last year and also to show
how the profits in the introductory table were
arrived at: —
1 Income. Losses. Expenses. Surplus.
Fire .. ..£158,156 £85,575 £48,776 £23,805
Accident .. 30,617 13,423 10,016 7.178
Marine . . 401,694 339,832 38,550 23,312
£590,467 £438,830 £97,342 £54,295
Add other interest from investments .. 9,575
£63,870
Less Exchange loss and portion income tax 7,269
Profit as per table.. .. .. .. £56,601
Last year’s underwriting can be further
particularised in this way:—
Claim Ratio. Expense Ratio.
Fife .. .. 54.8 p.c. 30.9 p.c.
Accident .. 43.8 „ 32.7 „
Marine .. .. 84.6 ~ 9.6 ~
All the figures, however, deal with a period
which has gone into history and call for
little comment. But something can be added
concerning the disposition of the large sur-
plus with which the co. emerged from its
war gamble. With the fire branch it has
left £93,994 of reserves, or £31,331 more
than the 40 p.c. of premiums which it is
usually considered desirable to hold against
unexpired risks; the accident branch has
£12,096 of funds, or just the usual 40 p.c.;
but the marine department has been pro-
vided with £393,909 of funds, an amount
which exceeds last year’s premium income.
The backing of funds for each branch is thus
good, and in addition to these departmental
reserves of half-a-million is £lOO,OOO of paid
capital and £300,000 of uncalled capital.
Last year the directors decided to write
down securities, and they now appear "at or
below market value,” £43,637 of surplus being
swallowed in the process. Here is the tally
of assets compared with those of the previous,
year and just prior to the war:—
1914. 1919. 1920.
Government securities . . Nil £304,868 £144,211
Mortgages, etc £38,255 118,706 350,600
Debtors and agency
balances . . ... 1,014 217,483 230,564
Cash, etc. . . . . 1,172 315,987 295,808
Odds and ends . . .. 204 3,481 5,753
There are now £1,026,936 of assets, but on
the other side there were creditors for
£193,290.
The W.A. Insurance now has a life branch,
and £20,000 was passed over to assist it.
The co. has not been rushing business, though.
Premium income for the year was £3359,
£2099 of that being premiums on new policies
assuring £9O 2lt. The department’s funds
amount to £25,019.
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
. To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept.,’l3. . £8,653 74 p.c. = £5259 £3394 £39,826
Mar.,’l4. . 6,365 7* „ ~ 5248 1117 40,943
Sept.,’l4.. 5,021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar.. ’15.. 5.008 *6 p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3,655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar.,’l6.. 6,014 7 .. ~ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept., ’16., 5,936 7. ~ ~ 4898 1038 44,885
Mar., ’17.. 8,081.10 ~ ~ 6998 1083 45,968
Sept.,’l7.. 7.968 10 ~ ~ 6998 970 46.938
Mar.,’lB.. 7.741 10 ~ „ 6998 743 47,681
Sept.,’lB.. 8,037 10 „ „ 6998 1039 48,720
Mar., ’19.. 7,970 10 .. ~ 6998 972 49,692
Sept.,’l9.. 8,212 10 ~ 6998 1214 50,906
Mar.,’2o.. 9,821 10 ~ .. 6998 2823 53,729
Sept,,’2o.. 10,093 10 .. ~ 6998 3095 56,824
Reserves capitalised, £52,587.. 4,237
Mar.,’2l.. 11,183 10 p.c. = 9641 1542 5,779
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
Nearly a year ago the directors announced
their intention of capitalising practically the
whole of visible reserves and of issuing the
bonus scrip in the form of £1 shares paid
to 10s. The distribution was made during
the past half, holders getting three contribs.
paid to 10s. for every four fully-paids. Paid
capital is now therefore £192,820 instead or
the former £140,233. Gross profits have
also moved up—for the past six months they
were £52,179, compared with £43,832 for the
first half of 1920. All through the Great
Trouble Nicholson’s continued to do fairly
well, notwithstanding that so many people
were withdrawn from production and that
the Commonwealth’s participation in the war
was very costly. This shows how the co.’s
gross profits have behaved over each 12
months ended March 31 for eight years-
-1914 . . £69,544 1 1918 . . £65,089
1915 .-. 56,507 | 1919 . . 71,831
1916 . . 50,772 | 1920. . . 83,261
1917 . . 55,875 | 1921 .. 98,690
Those figures would not have been possible
had the Commonwealth been called upon to
pay a reasonable part of its war costs as
they were incurred. Payment of the bills
was deferred, however, and, instead of the
public having been asked for Andrew Fisher’s
"last penny,” the Commonwealth financed its
war operations almost wholly out of loans,
and thus created a false prosperity. The
higher prices received for our wool, wheat,
metals and other products also helped. The
public considered itself so much better off
that more people were able to purchase
pianos and glad-rags, and traders in these
lines have experienced unprecedented turn-
overs, despite greatly increased prices. The
result has been that Nicholson’s is now giv-
ing shareholders dividends equal to 13J p.c.
p.a. on their old capital, and though, because
of the higher cost of everything, that does
not mean much more to them than the pre-
war 7 i p.c., they have been an extremely
fortunate crowd.
llow Nicholson’s will fare in the difficult
years ahead The Bulletin does not know.
Not only have the war bills to be met, or
side-stepped, as they fall due, but the interest
on those bills is alone a formidable handicap.
And the retailer is not likely to have exten-
sive loan spendings to assist liis trade for
some years. Much of Nicholson’s business
is done on the t.-p. plan, and while conditions
are favorable (as they have been during the
12 years or so of heavy loan expenditure)
instalments are easily collected, few bad
debts are incurred, and practically no second
hand goods are thrown back on traders. But.
something worse than loss of profits might be
experienced in a period of acute depression.
To what extent this co.’s assets are pro-
tected against a fall in values is not ap-
parent. But, having capitalised profits,
apart from the £5OO set aside as a reserve
against bad debts, there are now visible re-
serves of only £5779 to safeguard £192,820 of
capital. The co. is at present loaded with
abnormally .large stocks, they and hire-pur-
chase debts accounting for no less than
£319,740 of the total assets of £366,459 as at
March 31. Liabilities were in consequence
unusually high, £157,717 apart from a
£22,250 mortgage on freeholds.
* * * *
The Union Trustee Co.: —
Onii- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1909.. £4,804 5 p.c. = £3,691 £5,763 £598
1910.. 4,275 54 „ „ 4,060 5,978 628
1911.. 6,332 6 „' „ 4,429 7,881 084
1912.. 5,960 6 „ „ 4,429 9,412 724
1913.. 6,499 6 ~ „ 4,429 11,482 698
1914.. 6,409 6} „ „ 4,798 13,093 717
1915.. 7,440 7 „ „ 5,168 15,365 707
Premiums on new shares, £4,014 19,379 707
1916.. 9,273 7 p.c. = 7,000 21,652 711
Written off investments, £2,188 19,652 523
1917.. 9,735 71 p„e.= 7,500 ’ 21,887 523
1918.. 10,889 84 „ „ 8,500 24,276 604
1919.. 12.119 94 „ „ 9,500 20,895 709
1920.. 12,420 10 ~ ~10,000 29,315' 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,315 734
1921. . 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
The year’s net profit from trustee operations
was £14,212, but £1458 more came from
realisation of investments. The Union held
1013 deferred prefs. in the Australian De-
posit and Mortgage Bank which had cost £93.
The old derelict has gone into liquidation,
and the £1458 is the surplus over and above
book value which now shows in the Union's
accounts. That is equal to 34d. per Union
share. After paying 10 p.c. to shareholders
the directors decided to dig into the current
surplus profit for a further Sid. per share;
and this, with the A. D. and M. plum, will
provide a bonus addition of Is. per share to
scrip. This will make the 100,000 50s
shares paid to 22s. —£110,000.
The Union is one of the Australian trustee
concerns which do not reveal the extent of
their trust business. Also, it was the jrst
to conduct operations in more than one
State; in fact, until two years ago it was
still the only trustee co. which had gone
directly into business outside its home bound-
aries. It got to work in Victoria in 1885,
opened up in Queensland five years later, and
made a start in N. S. Wales seven years
ago. Additional capital has boon got in
since the Ma State was invaded, and that


If your house is wired for electricity, and vou are
having trouble with your door-bell because' of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being: annoyed needlessly,
rha famous little Wayne Bell Ringring: Transformer
u ill ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once hems installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company
corner Wentworth Areriue and Ooulburn Street Svd-'
ney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.—Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams A Co.
Tins asbestos covering prevent* loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
4.i per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Vim. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents. Svdnev.
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
The important city of Seattle, U.S.A., is famous for
its pure drinking water. This water is conveyed to
the city through parallel lines of continuous Wood
Stave Pipe, for a distance of 22 miles. “Pioneer”
Wood Pipe is serving with entire satisfaction many
Australian cities and municipalities. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.
—Advt.
iri A se?Si?,!'Treas 'IT ° f Asbestos is found
ii sei penune areas. Ihe Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Yolk'nnl'u® “Asbestos House,” corner
A.°.' k '"id Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large nuZ
titles, and prospectors knowing of 'likely debits are
advised to communicate with this company.—Advt.
CrST^;- H , aVe V ° U an klea worth patenting’
a Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Cakflereagh
pa leius. —Aim'.' " C °" mlonwealth and foreign
LASH? rs
Place,’ Sydney';' H ° USe > Mar ‘"'
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Fm-ei.r,, r> . .
obtained. Codmson ACo Cnliino "ist
bourne, and Adelaide Thirty . 9 3 ' eet ’ ?f p l-
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt, Practice. Write
«*KF£§SS *"*»«• ■=»"•
Q»«. f dneV.- 4 “". L ' p, ‘"“' r *<“> Co’., Circular
* * —Advt.
«» ,'K
rtd or- n Wnte J or Pahtmnlars. 11. B. Selbv ACo
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
W
YC
L
BOORD^so^
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DTi
- Swift
fc Company 1,t<1.. Anstralasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sv,ln»v'
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
mw
m
HEAD
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
''" nn,!K ' , " r ': rs “VALLO" Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONnFACE INVITED.
has helped earnings, which have, expanded
very rapidly:—
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1595 .. .. £ 7,799 £4,151
1900 .. .. 5,927 -4,5«1 •
1905 .. .. 8.910 5.489
1910 .. .. 11,840 7,505
1915 .. .. 17.818 9,728
1919 .. .. 38.920 21.420
1990 . . . . 37,029 24.009
1921 .. .. 42,910 25,705
That table does not give the full extent of
income, lor, as with most big trustee offices,
portion of the corpus commissions is set
aside and brought into account either durum
the currency of the trust or when the eo. has
completed the services for which it had
been paid in advance. A trustee co.’s in-
come is derived from four sources: (1) a
charge on the corpus of an estate (24 p.e., a-
a rule, for an estate up to £50,000).; (2) 24
p.e. commission on all income received on be-
hall of estates; (.'>) commissions from sett.l -
incuts, attorney services and other odds-and-
ends ; and (-1) interest on its invested funds.
This comparison shows how the Union's
own investment interests have expanded with
the aid of capital and accumulated profits:—
1900. 1915. 1920. 1921
Capital . . . . £73,822 £73.822 £lOO,OOO £lO5 000
Liabilities .. 144 1,231 0,084 •>(: 7
Premises .. Nil 50,474 83,925 84 014
Public securities 39.214 32,732 52.008 52 803
Mortgages and
debentures .. 28,009 1,724
fash, etc. .. 3,915 7,117 2,235 2,301
Sundry debtors
and sundries .. 4,394 1,000 2,805 I.OOG
It had, at the latest balance, more tlnm
£H(),0t)0 of net assets which stood as a guaran-
tee to clients that their instructions would
he followed and their belongings not mis-
appropriated. Besides which there is an
uncalled liability of Bs. per share (£40.00(1)
as a further protection, and also another £1
per share (£100,000) which shareholders
have made themselves liable for if the worst
should happen and liquidation should be
ordered.
The State Savings Bank of S. A us. has
declared its rate of interest payable for the
past year at 4|. This is the highest since
the had old days of 1802. At the same time
jt raises its rate to mortgage borrowers from
•>£ to o—‘which0 —‘which is still well below the local
rate outside. But, then, the Savings Bank
lends orily half of the value fixed by its own
valuations.
“Old Banker” finds a new trouble :
The decision of the High Court in the case of
Kendall v. the London Bank is one chockfnll of
interest to bankers, men of business and students
of commercial law. The facts, briefly, are that a
person with the fictitious name of Howard walked
iflto the then London Bank in Sydney, representing
himself as an indent agent, and opened an account with
£5 cash and four crossed cheques, three of which
were marked “Not negotiable,” the total of his
deposit being £ 200-odd. About a week later this
fictitious indent agent made a further deposit of
cheques amounting to £331 into his 'account,' apd
included in this credit was the plaintiff Kendall's
cheque, which was simply crossed, without any words
which might limit its negotiability.
The plaintiff had posted this cheque to the Com-
missioner of Taxation, and it had been stolen by
Howard along with others while in the course of
post. Howard quietly withdrew the £5OO-odd and
disappeared. Kendall then sued the Bank for the
amount of the cheque lodged hv Howard and' col-
lected by the defendant bank from Kendall’s bankers.
The bank, as .in similar circumstances in the-past,
relied on Section S 8: of the Federal Bills of Exchange
Act, which protects hankers if they accept stolen
cheques—even “not negotiable” one's—for credit of
a customer “in the ordinary course of business and
without negligence.”
The whole case, however, turned on the ■ point
whether the fictitious indent agent was entitled to
be classed as “a customer” in terms of the' Act.
I lie Court held that the hank should have made
more inquiries before it opened the account, should
have visited the. address where his office was supposed
to be, and should have communicated with the
drawers of the cheques which were tendered as a
first deposit. The Judges decided that the bank was
not entitled to class the man as a “customer,” as it
had been negligent when the account was opened.
The general practice of Australian banks is to use
ordinary precautions, without inspecting- the family-
tree, when opening current accounts, and not to
accept any specially crossed paper as a first deposit.
But, of course, once a man has opened his account
a bank is powerless to prevent his paying in stolen
crossed cheques to his credit. The iatest decision
places the further responsibility on banking institu-
tions of establishing the identity of each new con-
stituent. English banking practice is very conser-
vative on this point, and in some af the very old
establishments a man must he introduced by an
influential constituent before he is accepted as a
client. The banks in Australia henceforth will have
to exercise care and make proper inquiries before
accepting new constituents, so that if any trouble
crops up they may be'able to satisfy the Court, and
thus claim shelter under the protective section of
the Bills of Exchange Act.
Boola Boola Petroleum and Natural Gas,
floated in Melbourne to prod the Traralgon
district (Yic.), went to registration in
March, and early next month it hopes to
notify the Federal Government that it 4s a
•‘possible claimant” for the £50,000 prize.
1 ue Cioidheius Diamond 1 Rilling Co. has a
0000 ft. percussion boring plant under way
tor the concern, and drilling is programmed
to start on or about July J. Operations
are to be under the control of J. B. Weger,
who has had drilling experience in various'
oil-producing countries. The co. has given
him a contract to drill not metre than
oOOOft., but Weger figures on 2500 ft. being
enough, and that "within four months
of the commencement of drilling operations
he will be down to oil, unless progress is
hampered by unforeseen circumstances.”
I'm.olu 800 la acquired the oil options held
by the_ South Pacific Petroleum Co. over
about .jOUU acres of freehold in the Traral-
gon district. The agreements provide, that
*he lessor, of the land where oil is found
shall receive IB p.c. royalty on production,
a further 21 p.c. being distributed among the
lessors on whose land bores are not' put
down. The co.’s nominal capital is
£• >((,l l(Jt), in shares of £1 each. The vendor
syndicate took 1 0,0(10 shares and £lli(iit cash,
ami • >l,OOO shares were ottered the public.
How many were taken up has not been dis-
closed, but there are still a number avail-
able at par for the speculatively inclined.
I>» rectors are to receive no fees "until the
proposition is proved.”
( Cue of the few remaining lights of old
C. P. I Rolette's fading days is the Sons
of (iwalia (W.A.), which, having got down
to over 3330 ft., is finding out what T. A.
Rickard has always preached: that depth
in mining means a failing-off in metal con-
fonts. Twelve months’ work down to and
including the No. 25 level has added so little
ore. and what there is of it is so poor, that
London does not think it worth while to
include a mine-manager’s report, or to
whisper what ore is actually in reserve.
Perhaps tin l co.’s veteran chairman will Hate
out the figures at the annual meeting. Be-
fore fire wiped out the plant, the mill put
through 1d0,220 tons for £255,234 of gold,
o! which £7 < represented premium.
Costs took £105,000, of which ‘the tax-collec-
tor grabbed £16,310, or more than went to
shareholders. Another shilling div. might
have been paid, but it was thought better
to earmark £20,000 for development and new
plant. Insurance cos. paid up nobly for the
destroyed plant, and Bewiclc-Moreing, who
are still general-managers, are pushing ahead
with the new mill.
The position of Ives’ Reward f\V.A.) is
bad enough now, but is likelv to become
worse. The co. has to find £OOOO for the
executors of the deceased manager and ven-
dor, Alf Ives, by September, besides six
months’ interest on £14,500 worth of 8 p.c.
debentures issued to the promoters. Even
if this money is found, the co. will want
£14,500 and another half-year’s interest to
redeem these debentures on December 31
next, and also funds to carry on with mean-
while. OffieiaJ reports claim that one- big
hdo worth lodwt. has been proved to a
depth of 100 ft., and that other payable
formations have been exposed on the pro-
perty. Similar values and prospects were
reported at the time of flotation, but two
independent samplings gave very different
results. In fact, the average was not more
than odwt. Since then development work
lms shown the lodes to be extremely caprici-
ous in their gold value.
* * * •*
White Hope shares spurted the other day
on a report that the co. was nibbling at ail
option on the Carbine mine, about 30 miles
north of Coolaardie. This show has been
owned since 1003 by the; local storekeeper
and another, and down to the. deepest point
reached (450 ft. ) lias produced over £lOO,OOO
of gold. But it has been worked in such a pri-
mitive way that its present condition,
coupled with tlic patchy nature of the de-
posit, does not give it the appearance of a
suitable venture for a co.
White Hope (lift, which failed at Hamp-
ton Plains, is now trying to make good at
Daylesfqrd (Vic.). Several reefs nro
alleged to traverse the lease, learning is said
to have located gold in places, and in one
part “splendid” dish prospects are claimed
to have been got for a considerable length
along the reef. .
Some interested persons in Perth recently
whooped loudly about the value of a new
coal find at Wilga, east of Collie, and there
was some talk of options being hawked in
Melbourne and Adelaide,. An analysis of
samples obtained from a Government bore
has, however, proved the deposit to be
overburdened with moisture, to have a calo-
rific value less than the Collie product, and
to contain a high percentage of ash
* * * *
London support for Kalgurlis has weak-
ened because it is believed that the direc-
tors are unwilling to put the co. into liquid-
ation, hut. instead, propose to hold on to
cash in the hope of securing a new pro-
perty. Now that the mine has been prac-
tically worked out, some shareholders are
urging the Board to call a special meeting to
consider future policy. Liquid assets are
equal to about lOs. per share, while guesses
place the value of realisable assets at be-
tween 2s. and 7s. per share.
A gale is blowing through the Mary Mac
homestead. Manager \Y. li. Yale has had the
pluck to say that the falling-off in the grade
of the ore above the 150 ft. level, coupled
with the fact that the W.A. Arbitration
Court has added 88 p.c. to wages, means such
a call on this Laverton (W.A.) mine that
he sees no hope of putting up a credit mar-
gin. Yale's ■•painful duty” would have been
unnecessary had the ore held up to sample
but the fall in grade convinces him that, wo.ie
wages and stores are so costly he cannot
advocate the further expenditure of share-
holders - money. The Board, on the other
hand, talks of the ups and downs in grade
experienced in the past, and its inclination,
therefore, is to go ahead with the handling
ot the big make of stuff. But Yale has done
Ins duty to shareholders, a rather rare thing
with mine-managers nowadays, by telling
them the truth as - lie sees it. (if course,
exchanges have favored .gold of late, but
the movement has not made up for the load
that the Arbitration Court has cast upon
the industry. Even if mining in the Mary
-Mac is suspended for the time being, as pro-
posed by Vale, In' can go ahead on the big
dump of tails that stand as a record of other
triers who have sought to get a crust out
o! the show.
* * * «
New Minnie Moxham, near Mareeba
I • was re-opened last month, and atten-
-5. lon , a , t onee "Ben to the extension of
the 186 ft. level west, which for 40ft. showed
a reef varying from 2ft. to sft. and prospect-
ing 2oz. to the ton. Treatment formerly
was on a verv small scale, with a cradle
crusher, Wilfley table and rock breaker, but
the management reckons to reduce the former
high cost of milling b.v dismantling the 10-
head battery at Mareeba and re-erecting it
at tb<> mine. The lode has been proved to
be 4tt. wide at a depth of 2:10ft., so it is
strange that the show has never been worked
on a larger scale. (Tushings from 1014 up
to the present have averaged between 2oz.
and 3oz. a ton, hut that is not altogether a
guide to average values. Concentration is
necessary, as the antimony in the reef pre-
vents cynniding of the ore as mined. The
installation of suitable crushing machinery
and development well ahead should lift this
mine out of the ruck of small producers.
Golden Hill, Ltd., Ravenswood (Q.), has
gone into liquidation. The shareholders
were disappointed with results, the 26ft. of
lode in the crosscut averaging just under
:>dwt. Ample financial backing might have
made all the difference, as a Bdwt. average
might he made to return a small profit with
open-cut mining and a big crushing turn-
over. Low-grade propositions are not popu-
lar in JVorth Queensland, though.
Blair Athol coalfield (QJ, which has
never had such a slack time before, will
shake^ off its inertia in the next month or
so. The Government has arranged for coal-
shipping facilities at Brbadmount. and the
work is being pushed on at full speed so
that the cos. will get a slice of the export
trade that has lately slipped out of their
hands.
The Sardine, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), has,
after recent developments had proved dis-
appointing', apparently struck the continua-
tion of the rich shoot for which it has been
driving. A crosscut 4;>ft. in the No. 4 south
level, at a depth of 170 ft., has disclosed 30in
going 20 p.c. tin. Should the find prove'to
be a continuation of the reef met above, it
will mean that the Sardine is assured of
l«i()ft. ot backs.
From a man on the spot:—
I do not,think that the Agnes silver-lead mine at
Silver Valley, Herberton district (Q.), has the pros-
pects a Bulletin- writer (B. !4/4/’2l) talks of.
Its shoots are short, and they rapidly become dirtv,
showing zinc and iron. In my opinion it is only a
working-man’s mine. The tributors, who were let
in on the ground floor, after repairing shafts and
exploration work abandoned the show- because of
insufficiency of ore and owing to the presence of
iron and zinc.
* * * *
“Shareholder”: What has become of that
liquidation dividend promised about two
years ago by St. Mungo Copper (Q.) ? The
mines were closed years ago, owing to the
ore petering out, and then the slump in
metal prices put the finish on them. There
was supposed to be about Is. per share
cash in hand; but that is the last heard of
it.
*'■ * * *
Apparently King Island Seheelite has
dodged liquidation. Alec Campbell says in a
circular that a scheme is on foot to re-open
the mine and run it for profitable production
on material other than seheelite. Probably
this refers to the limestone, which might go
as flux t.o iron smelters. Owing to cessation
of mining, the eo. dropped £4OOO-odd in the
last half-year, but it still lias liciuid assets
of £10,27*J to sot against liabilities of £l4OO.
So there is plenty of cash in the till to keep
board fees and Secretary John Brandon’s
salary going a bit longer.
* * * *
_l hi Yam has successfully unloaded its
2;>,00U reserve shares, which were offered
at par. The Commonwealth took 0000, the
balance went to Malaya. The erection of
the dredge is proceeding, and production
should begin in September. '1 lie plant will
have a good block of pound ground to bite
into from the start.
Tyrconnel North is still scraping round at
Blackwood (. \ ic. i for a shoot of gold. The
latest news is that it has bumped into a
cross-course, after having been deluded into
thinking that in this benighted district any-
thing longer than a sl>ft. shoot could come
in without something adverse happening.
Little Bobs Huberts says that the shaft is
to go down another 80ft. or 00ft. to try the
eastern leaders and -so get a fair extent of
hacks. But it is all talk. Even with the
tunnel stone thrown in the eo. has nothing
to show worth while.
New Guinea Copper Mines, Tahira, near
Curt Moresby, has reduced staff consider-
ably, and there is talk of a shut-down when
the newly-completed ore-bins at Bootless
Inlet are filled. The line to Dubinin is laid
and ballasting is being proceeded with. The
harnessing of the Rona Calls is tipped as
due some time next year. The cessation of
development work on this area has hit
Moresby very hard indeed. With the rubber,
copra, copper, beche-de-mer, shell, pearls,'
turtle-shell and henfp markets lifeless, Papua
generally is having a bad spin.
* * * #
“Half-Moon”: Horn Island (Torres
Strait) doesn’t carry much of a population
now. A few Manila men exist among the
cocoa nut-trees on the northern side, and
that is about all. Twenty years ago it was
a sort of El Dorado to Thirsty Island. A
mill was in full swing, there was a pub and
the optimism of the mining community even
ran to a church. But the show petered out.
Now a move is on to give the hills another
chance, and it is likely that soon the mill will
crush again.


TASTE.
“Hothouse growths wilt in the open air, and tariff-forced enterprises are liable to a similar experience.”—ARGUS.
MRS. ARGUS: “Thank ’Eaven, I was brought up to know the difference between a nice, nat'ral garden and a hartiflcial ’ot-'ouse weed."


‘Homy looKiitg at Yom"
JS*
ABBOTS
l LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
nt
7
v/,
m
J.HX
9
nm
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 rears of dailv u=e, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you cur FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 Georgre Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and .supply experienced Drillers, and advise
OTI matters appertaining to testing for
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
.Tune birthdays:—
Justice Hood /Vic.), 75, on Ist; Hr. David Bardie
(Q.), 65, and Minister W. B. Propsting (Speck), 60,
on 4th; Mrs. Jeanie Gunn (“We of the Never
Never”), Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 52, on sth;
Senator General Glasgow (Q.), 45, and W. M. Marks,
M.H.R., 46, on 6th; Prof. G. A. Wood (Sydney
Uni.), 66, and J. .T. Knight (Brisbane Courier), 58,
on 7th; Bislup White (Willoclira), 62, and Agent-
General T. A. C'oghlan, 66, on 9th; Alex. Peacock
(Vic.), 60, on 11th; Judge'Herbert (Papua), 61, and
Senate-President Givens, 57, on 12th; Statistician
G. H. Knibbs, 63, and Prof. Harry Allen (Melb.
Uni.), 67, on 13th; Federal Crown Solicitor Castle,
61, on 16 th; Henry Lawson, 54, and Bishop Maxwell -
Gumbleton (Ballarat), 49, on 17th; Senator Best
(Vic.), 65, and Vic. Education Director TaJte, 58,
on I8th; Senator General Elliott (Vic.), 43, on
10th; Brig.-Gen. W. Martin (Speck), 65, on 21st,
Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh, 84, on 22nd; Mel-
bourne Town Clerk Ellery, 49, and Minister Tom
Pasc-oe (S. Aus.), 62, on 23rd; ex-Mayor Aikman
(Melb.), 62, on 24th; Adelaide’s Mayor Moulden, 45
on 25th; General Monash, 56, on 27th; Speck’s
Senator Keating, 19, on 28th; Brig.-Gen. E. A.
Wisdom, 52, and Vic. Director of Agriculture
Cameron, 55, on 29th.
“Dan.de Non”: In Melbourne there’s a
bank manager named Robb, and a teller who
signs “M. Bezzill.” A cripple, recently de-
ceased, bore through life the mocking title
“Abel Bodey.” One Job Holder lately applied
to me for work; he had been with-
out: it. for some
time. My milk-oh
unblushingly says
his name is Water-
man, and a flapper
who rece n 11 y
sought my help to
get a maintenance
order against, her
betrayer had the
name of Bride.
UP TO SNUFF.
SEPTUAGENARIAN:
“Come on, dearie,
we'll have no end
of a pood time. A box at the Vulgarity
Theatre, and .'tapper and a dance after-
wards."
DEARIE : “Not to-night, Antonio! You want
my thyroid gland. I know!"
A tailor goes to the Federal Gallery:—
Mr. Jowett. who lias consented to wear a
£5 suit built of materials made in Australia, has
been described as the best.dressed man in the Reps.
Yet he is no Beau Brummel; he is merely the mem-
ber who looks least likely to have slept in his clothes.
His garments are good, but he is such a man of
affairs that he forgets that creases are delicate things
liable to fade without a valet’s care. Furthermore,
he overlooks the fact that coat pockets crammed
with documents throw a contour out of drawing and
''make him resemble a little boy who lias looted an
orchard. No, llr. Jowett cannot be accepted as a
well-dressed man. Now that Mr. Willie Kelly has
gone, a tailor’s eye lingers. most -lovingly on the
tall figure of Captain S. M. Bruce. This Adonis is '
absent just now, but when he was in the House
the perfection of his outline showed the part that
the trouser-press and. creasing-iron played in his life.
When a N.S.W. Public Service age-
regulation brought about the retirement
of H. W. Potts as principal of Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, the State lost a man
with any amount of energy left; and Lindley,
Walker and Co., the wheat-buying firm,
snapped him up. He now goes to U.S.A. to
pick up the latest ideas, so that he can give
advice to the farmers with whom his firm
has dealings.
“Centurion”: “Starboard Watch” says
(B. 19/5/’2l) that Admiral C-ressweli’s
naval experience
wa s confined t o
the “30-year-old
gunboat Protec-
tor.” The gallant
Admiral while in
Queensland, earlier
in his career, fre-
quently ventured
on hoard the local
navy, which con-
sisted of the Pal-
uma and Gayun-
dah, launched by
Lairds of Liver-
pool in 18 80.
These craft had the
silhouette of a flat-
iron and w ere
about as handy in
a seaway. Never-
theless, the Pah
urn a fought Aus-
tralia’s first naval
action of modern
time s, early in
1014, against a
smuggling trepang
praliu off the N.W.
Coast.
Dr. BALDWIN,
of the Melbourne
Observetory.
Ribera] party in South Aus. has made
. A. Hamilton its cliairman, on the prin.-
eiple that the reformed poacher makes the
best gamekeeper; for when he was manager
of a co-operative bakehouse in Bendigo, m;
sat. in the \ ic. Assembly as a Labor man.
Ihe new secretary to the Liberals is Ilndd, a
young Adelaide manufacturer who earned the
M.L. in the war.
It isn’t often that a young man of 25,
fresh from taking his degree, is offered a Uni.
professorship; still less often that he refuses
it. Charles Jury, of Adelaide, however, has
been the one and done the other. He showed
great promise in literature while still at
school in Adelaide, and at Oxfprd—after
being badly wounded in the war, where his
only brother was killed-—he took last year
so brilliant a degree that: the new Chair of
Lnglish Literature at Adelaide was offered
'M? 1 - worth £llOO a year; but he can
alford to take his own path, and he says he
prefers'producing literature to teaching it.
A library lizard’s tribute:—
•ludge Backhouse, of the N.S.W. District Court,
was 70 last Saturday, and automatically his long
association with the judiciary came to an end. A
week before his time was up he fell ill on the
Bench, but he was able to spend his birthday in a
convalescent’s chair. The .Judge is an omnivorous
reader. Nothing in the way of literature comes
amiss to him, from the frothy, evanescent stuff
to be found in Scribner’s or the Century, to the
profoundest literary criticism. I saw him nearly
every day for many years at the Sydney Book Club,
where, seeking his daily union, he made his breezy
appearance in the morning, and after a jfevv minutes’
chat sailed out on the same wholesome breeze.
He was easily satisfied; in the jargon of the library,
he was “no trouble.” (The other two classes of
subscribers to a book club are (2) the troublesome;
and (3) the d—d troublesome.) One of his hobbies,
and their name is legion, is a hand-printing press;
every year for many a year he has on this printed
a couple or so of verses (his own) suitable to the
season of Peace arid Goodwill for distribution among
his friends.
. Robert Stout, Chief Justice of Maoriland
since 1809, has been made a PjC. lie is
an imposing patriarchal figure, was born
in the Shetland Islands 77 years ago, and
has spent 57 years in M.L., whetfe he made
his start as a second master at the Dunedin
Grammar School. lie has four brainy sons
in law and medicine.
_pied, at 73, Arthur Evans, of Launceston
(las.). His father was the accountant who
went over to pull the National Bank of
las. out of its troubles of the "sixties.
Arthur Leans spent his life in the bank's
service, and retired just before it was bought
by the Commercial of Australia. He was
a dilector of Bischoff for 20 years.
1 etherick, who at 44 gets the ruling party’s
nomination tor Chairmanship of Committees
m the South Aus. Assembly, has always
earned his living in one of two callings that
don t seem to blend. He used to be purser
on A. b.A. boats, but of late has been a
bookseller in a country township. H e is a
nephew of the ancient Melbourne bibliophile
who presented a remarkable library to the
Commonwealth Parliament.
“Ah, a good name!” said the Judge as
he wrote'. “Trollope,” the name given bv a
witness called in the Sydney bank clerks'
case the other day. “No relation, I sup-
pose, to the novelist, eh?” “A grandson”
said the witness. The judicial eyebrows
went up at. least-lliii. The Trollope son
\vas a Band Board chairman in the Far
West of N. S. Wales in the days when a
Hickens son was practising there as an agent
in Laud Board inquiries.
ni77 C eiS who WHS a Vic. detective from
till IJU.) came to the end the other
day. lie had had a fair innings, as he drew
pension for .Hi years after leaving the force
Pii • Ward helped to run down the
Kellys in 1880, and after that was in several
big cases in Melbourne. Easy-going
friendly, plucky and free of malice, he
was as pleasant a sleuth as the force fur-
nished; and his methods were quite unlike
any ot those known to “the pitchers.”
The late N.S.W. Methodist Rev. Woolls
Rutledge was on the Inky Way before
mounting the pulpit. He used to own a
newspaper, at oration (N.S.W.), and for
a time was a pressman at Newcastle.
/ ,. iil > l Kyau, retired farmer of Brighton
(Vic.), who lately willed his soul to God,
his body to Tower Hill and his heart to
Lome, was a plagiarist. An Irish statesman
is ciedited with having made a similar dis-
position of any property rights lie had in his
soul and heart 74 years ago. While he
possessed only £243, Ryan allocated about
tour times as much, including £lOO to “the
1 ope of Rome.” It looks as if his Holi-
ness’s share will dwindle to £25 bv the time
he gets it.
Went west at Wairoa .(MX.) the other
ctay James Hanna Smyth, old-time gold-
digger and fighter, aged 89. Born in Ire-
land in 1832, Smyth emigrated to Australia
and panned for gold at Ballarat. Then came
the great Maoriland rush to Gabriel’s Gully
bO years ago, and Smyth followed the crowd.
But he didn’t strike a good claim and in
IXO4 he joined the military settlers at
As sergeant-major in “Fraser’s
iff h ting lif ty he fouffht at Tehntcno
ivariomiromi and Pukemaire, where he was
Later he "entered politics, and in
18 <1 was a member of the first Wairoa
County Council.
Robert Henry Head, who passed out at
, ? n iNlu , e Island, spent 55 years on the
lonely speck. Married to a native woman,
he raised lo children, and practically solved
the problem that has baffled most'fathers of
halt-caste youngsters—he educated them awav
trom their homeland. Eldest son Harry was
a crack rifle-shot, and once represented
Maoriland at Bisley. In his early days
Head was in the employ of “Bully” Hayes
but the sea gangster made the pace too hot
tor the young man, who was of a religious
turn of mind. An old beachcomber at. Aloft
once summed him up: “Head? Oh, yes!
The best blanky wowser in the islands.” And
so he was.
J. R. Osborn, lately dead in Adelaide,
was, before misfortunes fell on him, one of
the »State s most prominent racing owners.
With Meet Admiral, True Scot, Step Out
and others he won all the chief local races
except an Adelaide Cup. Invading Victoria
frequently, he took across Thunder Queen,
winner of the S.A. Derby, and won the
; ictorian Oaks; also Footbolt, a useful per-
former which had won both the Citv Handi-
cap sprint and the long Birthday Cup in
Adelaide, beat Wakeful at Caulfield'at weight
r> r J T,S racin » name was “Mr. J.
Kowen. Osborn was for years chairman of
the Burnside District Council, an Adelaide
Racing Club committee man and one of the
original members of Adelaide Abattoirs
Board.
From an angry genealogist who writes in
green ink:—
I repeat, “Carey” notwithstanding (B. 19/5/’2l),
that William (Wilhelm) Henry (Heinrich) Lambert,
the appellation of Sydney's Lord Mayor, is pure
Saxon. There is nothing Irish about either fore-
name or patronymic. And my statement that there
has never been an historical Irish Lambert to set
against ‘the historical English and German members
of the elan isn’t disproved by “Carey’s” assertion
that there were Lamberts in Erin, with a eoat-of-
arms and the device “By following I acquire” (how
exquisitely appropriate!) “in the early days of
Ireland s settlement. I don t dispute the existence
of these Lamberts who acquired by following, like
Bill o’ the A.W.U., but none of them ever attained
the dignity of being mentioned in history. Any-
how, there is nothing to show that they didn't
reach the Vernal Isle from England or the Conti-
nent in “the early days of Ireland’s settlement,”
whatever that may mean ; on the contrary, the name
His Ewcellewey BILL LENNON, who is
having another little innings as Lient.-
Covernor of Queensland.
and the coat-of-anns indicate that they were inuni-
giants. “Carey s’ conjecture that “the Saxon Lam-
bert was the outcome of the emigration of one of
many Irish families to the Continent during the
period of the penal laws framed by England” is utter
balderdash. In point of fact, Lambert of Hersfeld,
the first illustrious owner of the mayoral cognomen,
lived and wrote his German chronicles a century
before Strongbow’s time.
Richard Butler, at the age of 70, makes an
effective return to politics in South An*.,
where he has been Premier and prettv
nearly everything else except Attorney-
General. Peake pushed him overboard in
1918 on the report of a Commission which
found fault with his control of the Wheat
Scheme, and he lost his seat in the Assembly
too. But it was generally recognised that
nothing beyond blunders had been proved
against him, and now that he has regained
a seat the Liberal party in power has agreed
to nominate him for Speaker, in succession.to
t oncybecr. But it remains to be seen
whether his quick temper has mellowed
enough to make him a proper man for the
new job.
After 87 years Inspector William Bain
has retired from the Tas. police force. His
most exciting job came at the time of the
big Mt. Lyetl disaster in 1912, when he put
in some good work. He used to be the
Speck s best long-distance rifle-shot.
e x-' , Gasset, Hull, who retires shortly
trom JN.S.H. Mines Dept., entered the Tas.
z 11 -j 1 c Service in 1880, and was admitted
the Speck’s Bar in IS9O. Joining the
N.S.W. Service in 1892, he became secre-
tary to innumerable Commissions; but
his most, memorable job was the consolida-
tion ot the multitudinous Mining Acts and
regulations, which resulted in the Minina
A, t of 1906. When Ik- isn’t at work ho
is a Lirmean Society councillor and hon.
sec. oi the Zoological Society. His hobbies
are birds and stamps, and he has published
remarks concerning both ferocious subjects.
"fluart.’: The old Gallipoli unpleasantness
between the 14th and Kith Battalions mav
have been at the back of “Poinpey” Elliott’s
mind when lie spoke scornfully (B. 12/5/’2lt
about the command of the 14th being given
to Margolin, who was a Kith man. But Mar-
golin was no “illiterate Polish Jew.” Orl the
contrary he was one of the finest soldiers
in the A.N.Z.A.C., and certainly its most
accomplished linguist. He got his training
in the Russian army and had travelled iii
many lands before he struck Westralia in
the nineties. When war began he was
a cordial manufacturer at Collie, but quitting
the aerated-water business lie made good
time to the recruiting depot and soon quali-
fied for a commission. And it didn’t take
mm long to overcome the prejudice occa-
sioned by his foreign accent and appearance.
Un the Peninsula—and lie was there from
first to last—he proved himself so thorough
a soldier and so all-wool a man that he be-
came the most trusted officer in the battalion
- mnd it was the battalion of Murray and
McCarthy, famous in Gallipoli for its
machine-gun section and in France for its
four V.O.’s In short, he embodied the finest
qualities of his ancient race, and the best tvpe
of Hebrew is a brilliant and ingratiating
cliap. ,\ o 16th Battalion man will stand by
and see a brick thrown at Margolin without
throwing two bricks back.
MRS. JEREMIAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Minister for Customs is an optimist of a
somewhat dangerous character.”— Argus.
It's a terrible thing for a man to sec
A future as bright as bright can be;
Blear-eyed, my dears, you should be, like me,
And the Freetrade cause assist
By painting a drab and dreary scene,
And dismally dirging the might-have-been;
And cussing meanwhile young Mr. Greene
For a dangerous optimist.
The times are hard, my dears, it’s true,
And you, like me, should your duty do
By prophesying, though things look blue,
• They’ll be bluer ere long; for (list!)
Protection, as often I've said before.
Spells Ruin. The prices of things will soar
To the breaking-point; which will lie at the door
Of our dangerous optimist.
So come and enjoy yourselves, my dears :
Let’s mingle our sighs and groans and tears,
And order in time our several biers,
For much longer we can’t exist.
To our last long home we will gladly go
In the cause of gloom, for we get no show
When the country’s run by a fiscal foe
And a dangerous optimist.
VICTORIA.
E. T.


*7ha Standardised
THE CITROEN CAR
Creates World’s Record
for Petrol Consumption.
Copy of Cablegram received to-day from Paris:
24th May, 1921.
“INTERNATIONAL GRAND PRIX CONTEST IN
FRANCE CITROEN CREATED WORLD’S RECORD
FOR PETROL CONSUMPTION WITH FOUR-
SEATER STANDARD CAR DOING 62 MILES ON
6f PINTS PETROL, BEATING 43 COMPETITORS.”
Royal Automobile Club Petrol Consumption Test:
To Jenolan Caves, Bathurst and return. Total
distance: 288 miles.
“CITROEN MADE THE HIGHEST SCORE
WITH 39.05 MILES TO THE GALLON,
NEXT BEST BEING 32 MILES TO
GALLON.”
Plainly, results such as these are possible
only in a car of most perfect construe-
tion, with engine and carburetter that
utilise every atom of fuel carried. In
addition, the Citroen Car is equipped
with the famous Citroen Double Helical
Gears that effectively transmit 98 per
cent, of the power generated. The quality
of the Citroen Car is seen in its silent
running and floating comfort, as well as
in its extreme economy of operation.
,v / W
Iv
/
r
y
No Back Axle
Troubles with
Citroen Gears
n
m
n
BY TEST TEE BEST.
——MMBK-' '
-<•••”
r
:.V
5£
m
jgiiipi®
f i s
/
. -V-
-fee
HfflHl
ill!
ip
m
w&fc** xms?»
. 111 n Mllllllllll m 111111111111 n 11111111 n 111111111111111111111111; 111 m 111111 11111111111111111111 1 1111111 111 11 il il 11 1 i 11111111 ! 1111 * -
Agents
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Clifton Hill,
Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Moncrieff Engineering Co., Light Square,
Adelade.
QUEENSLAND:
Webster’s Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc., Christchurch. Leyland Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. Crowle, Limited, Crowle House, 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Peapes Sell Shirts at Less Than
k />
ffiiffiM'
2
Cost Price.
Peapes have bought a manufacturer’s stock of stout
Oxford and Zephyr Shirts in blue, black and helio
stripes on white grounds. They are finished with
soft double cuffs.
The material alone in each of these shirts would
cost 8/6 to-day at the seat of manufacture. Add to
this, cost of thread, buttons, linen neckbands, mak-
ing and shipping charges, and at Peapes’ exceptional
price—
-9/6 each, or 3 for 27/-
—the value is apparent.
No more than six will be supplied to each client.
See them in Peapes’ windows. They are on sale next
Tuesday, 7th June.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size of collar usually worn.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
W.ChorleytfCo.Ltd.
m
TAILORS and
OUTFITTERS.
Jt
LADIES' 8
GENT.’S
RIDING
BREECHES
and
JUDHPORES
■j*
313 George St.
SYDNEY.
FOR LUNCHEONS
and DINNERS
all roads lead to the magni>
ficent Dining Hall of the
Hotel Sydney
Half an acre of charming Roof
Garden.
Splendid Orchestra.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Nibs”: At a periodical dinner held by
commercial men in Melbourne the knight in
the chair asked the son-in-law of a former
Australian statesman to lead off the talk by
narrating the most embarrassing position
f that was tellable) in which he had ever
found himself. After a minute of hard think-
ing, the man who had a father-in-law said
that, desiring to hear Lloyd George at a big
meeting in England, he provided himself
with sixpeun’orth of eatables before taking
his place in the queue for a long wait. When
the door was opened and he was just about
to enter the hall he heard a peremptory order
given to "Arrest that man.” Immediately he
was seized, taken away and his bulging
pocket was searched. They had expected
bombs: what they found was buns!
* * ♦ •
The reflections of an autumn tripper:—
I have just escaped from a boarding-house in the
Blue Mountains. It was a fearsome experience. I
was the only representative of the oppressed half of
creation among 17 women. And all the dear things
would do between meals and sleeps was to knit
jumpers, take aspirin and talk proudly about their
operations. In the lamentable condition of the wool
trade the jumper craze should doubtless be encour-
aged. Every week thousands of resolute women enrol
themselves in the multitudinous army of skein-
spoilers, a fact which is bound to have a steadying
influence on a sagging market. Not only this, but
when the fashion changes the discarded garments
will be Ivandy to scare crows or shine boots with, so
if your money is invested in the startling thing in
scarlet or emerald green that an enthusiastic female
is fabricating, there is the consolatory feeling that
you are backing it both ways. As for the operation-
talk, it is, I suppose, one of the inalienable privileges
of the sex. There is a type of matron who will be
dismissing her ailments at the last trump. The two
great illusions of woman are her doctor and her
dressmaker. But this universal aspirin habit has
got me thinking. It is alleged to be harmless, but
is it? I have seen women who have flown to the
aspirin-phial for relief from a headache exhibit all
the symptoms of intoxication—grow petulant,
morose, even dazed ami silly. No doubt they have
overdosed themselves, but there lies the danger, for
aspirin may lead to alcohol, or opium, or cocaine—
which is damnation. If Australian women gave up
loading their stomachs between meals and abandoned
the digestion-ruining practice of drinking tea with
meat, they would have no occasion to swallow
aspirin, as they do, by the truckload.
“Selloc”: On Sunday morning there had
boon trouble between my disreputable artist-
friend Butterwag and his wife. Mrs. 8., in
a ragged kimono, was seated in the kitchen
engrossed in the
“In Memoriam”
poo m s in Satur-
day's Akgus, and
he r husband was
seeking distraction
in a game of two-
up in the back
ya. r d w ith his
neglected - looking
infant son, when
Bill Suker pushed
his head over the
fence and proceeded
to give details of a
pea-rifle accident in
which his eldest
boy had been in-
volved. Later, But-
terwag shuffled up
the garden path,
leant listlessly in
the kitchen door-
way and addressed
his wife softly:
“J list seen Bill
Saker, dear. He
reckons that young
Bill’s life was
saved by the button
th a t th e bullet
struck.” Mrs. B.
scented a peace
overture. “Well,
what about it?” she
snapped. “Nothing
dear,” murmured
Butterwag, as he
hitched at his cala-
mitous trousers and
moved away, “only
the button muster been there, mustn’t it?”
Two seconds later a dirty-grey dishra'g,
badly aimed, soared over the fence and stuck
against next-door’s kitchen window.
“Pater”: There is no moral that can be
fitted to this incident which happened the
other day in a Vic. country school. An in-
spector, who is an enthusiast in personal
hygiene, asked every child who owned a
toothbrush to stand. All rose except one
George Washington, who received a severe
reprimand for his uncleanliness. In order
to drive the rebuke home a harrowing
account was given of the evils caused to
the molars by the fermentation of particles
of food, and reference was made to the pre-
valence of bad teeth among Australian
youngsters. Finally, those who had never
had toothache were asked to stand. A
solitary kid clambered to his feet. He was
the one who had no toothbrush.
"Patrnus’': A remarkable reunion took
place on a recent trip of the Wyandra from
northern ports to Sydney. Someone noticed
that there were on board two passengers
named Bott, a lady and a young man. As
they were not travelling together, and the
name is uncommon, he introduced them to
one another, thinking that they might be
some kind of relations. They were—mother
PROOF POSITIVE.
“The chap at the end’s a rebel.”
“God bless my soul, is het”
“Yes, I heard him call for Irish stew in a restaurant on Empire Day.”
and son. They bad not seen each other for
14 years, and the mother had heard that
her son had been killed at the Front.
“Kahminyah” : For sheer nerve I’ll back
this. At the School of Aerial Gunnery at
Turnberry in Scotland, where the budding
pilot was taught to shoot from the air, a
“dog fight” with camera guns was going on
between ’buses of various types at a height
of 6000 ft., when a Dell. !), carrying two,
collided with a Sopwith Dolphin, carrying
one. The big two-seater hit the Dolphin’s
tail and broke it off, whereupon the nose of
the single-seater went down and the machine
hurtled earthwards at a terrific rate. To
the amazement of all watching it, the pilot
crawled out of his seat and worked his way
backwards along the fuselage until his
weight balanced that of the engine, and by
alternately swinging his body up and down,
he managed to glide to earth in a series of
swoops. He crashed, but within a month
was flying again. The DeH. 9 meanwhile
had crashed and both pilot and observer were
killed. A third death came of this too.
One of the flight commanders dashed off on
a motor-bike to where the double-seater had
come to earth, and at about 50 miles an hour
ran head-first into an army lorry. We
literally scraped him off the radiator.
“Figurehead” on a new sort of sick call:
It is proposed that the new wireless signal
KDKF shall take precedence over all yells except
the universal SOS and be used by vessels not carry-
ing doctors in the event of serious cases of illness
developing at sea. It is weir to send out, urgent calls
if typhus, meningitis, smallpox ,or other epidemics
break out aboard doctorless vessels; but what about
the receiving ship’s doctor? Is he to diagnose the
malady from the report seht and make up the
prescription—and if so is he going to be paid for it?
And, supposing that he is to be paid, who is going
to pay him, and when? Even a ship's doctor must
live; though how he manages to do it is sometimes
a mystery. Further, the Australian shipowner has
always dodged carrying doctors, and -there is no
reason to believe that he has suddenly changed. The
Fiji liners, which carry from two to four hundred in
crew and passengers when full, are still making
seven-day voyages without a qualified quack, and
the coasters are doing likewise, though the voyage
from Adelaide to Fremantle in some of them occupies
the best part of a week—more than sufficient, time for
a whole crew to develop a disease and die without
proper medical attention. In the circumstances might
not the new wireless signal be used as a subterfuge for
doctor-dodging in future to the detriment of the
crews and travelling public? Captain Davis, Director
of Navigation, has the matter under consideration,
and before he agrees it should be made clear that the
general acceptance of the new code word does not
exempt vessels from carrying qualified medicoes.
If it turns out that doctors are still not to be
able profit, for rendering a "necessary ser-
vice” and mentions burial of the dead as one
of the services. A cedar coffin is not a
necessary commodity, nor are any of the
usual trappings of woe. But the other day
a complainant came into the court with,an
undertaker’s bill for £2O and urged Beeby, J.,
to declare this an extortionate demand for
“necessary services.” Before the Bench got its
second wind the Bar was wrangling over the
meaning of "burial of . the dead.” One wig
insisted that burial was the simple act of
putting a cadaver into an orifice and filling
the hiatus with earth. The other insisted on
the Court taking notice of the practices of
civilised communities and sorrowing relatives.
The point was whether obligation rested
upon anyone to provide a corpse with a
coffin, and during the argument it transpired
that a citizen could be buried as effectively
in a paper envelope as in Queensland maple.
Beeby decided against the body-and-hole
theorist and held that “burial” included
“funeral.” But. realising that he was m
danger of dropping in himself, he also held
that when the relatives of a deceased ordered
cedar and silver and black animals and pro-
fessional ghouls, “necessary services” were
cluttered up with irrelevancies. The effect
of the Act is, therefore, to make profiteering
in the cheaper sort of funeral a little danger-
ous; but if you go beyond about 505., his
Honor Beeby can’t see any extortion on
account of the smoke-screen of irrelevancies.
“Dalby”' Wandering around my suburb
the other day I noticed about a dozen
youngsters having a great old time on a
verandah. Being interested in kids I felt
compelled to ask a. little girl sitting outside
the gate how she came to be out of the fun.
“We’re playin’ ‘Mothers and Fathers,’ and I
ain’t born yet,” she lisped.
supplied on ships trading' under the Australian flag,
why could not the services of a leading physician
ashore be retained to diagnose and prescribe by
radio for the siclc at sea ?
“Quill": X. 8. Wales Anti-Profiteering
slot not only deals with "necessary com-
modities,” it also provides fine or gaol for
anyone proved to have sought an unreasou-
(Continued on page IS).
PUTTING HIM WISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Josephus Q. Daniels, formerly U.S. Secretary of
the Navy, is writing a book explaining how Viscount
Jeilicoe could have won the Buttle of Jutland in a
decisive manner.” — Cable.
Josephus Q. Daniels discovered in his Kew York
office.
Enter Janitor.
Josephus Q.:
What say! The Viscount’s waiting on the mat..
Do tell! Why, Hike him in, you gazaboo!
Enter Lord Jeilicoe.
Josephus' Q. ( genially ) :
Attaboy, Vike! Sit here, near my bew-roo.
The cuspidor is over by the wall.
Now, touching that effete old fleet of yours-
JisljUooe ( protestinyly ) :
It shepherded a million Yanks to France.
Your colleagues let the world know that themselves.
Josephus :
Can that there Hooscvelt punk! She doesn't go.
Take it from me; we ran that job ourselves—
Right here, Sirree, from little old Noo Yark.
Enter Hiram K. Ecliloss.
Viscount, know Mr. Schloss; my Sekkatry
And one who as a Naval Expert stands
Out on his lonesome in the Champeen Class.
Working here, N ike, young Hiram K. and me,
We’ve figured out just what you should ha’ done
To k.o. FTitzic in that Jutland scrap.
The Squarehead ships lie here by my see-gar;
That che\yiu’-giim of Hiram lv.’s is you.
The buttle starts. Instead of fiddlin’ round.
Duckin' and claimin’, feintin’ and the like.
You drives straight in to land your king-pin blow.
Wide open to the world, your point exposed,
You swings a right upon the Boehe’s jaw.
STIŔING TALES.
“You had quite a color when you were takl
ing to Mr. O'Stoppit."
"Well, mater, you know the sort of talk
Mr. O'Stoppit cousiders light concersa-
tion!"
Puss me that highball, Schloss. You get home here
(The highball is the flagship of the Huns),
Sink both these dimes and blow that stick-pin up ;
Burn thisyer hat of Hiram's; smash to bits
His rubbers (they’re the cruisers of the foe) :
And tearing on, through mine-fields and the like,
Bombard the harbors of the Fatherland—
What’s that? You’re feeling sort of sick inside!
Oh, boy! We’re peeved, dead peeved to have you go.
Look in another day when you are right:
We’re always glad to teach you guys to fight.
(Exit Jetlicoe hurriedly.)
x.s.w.
JOHN B. D.
THE SQUAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The women of New York are carrying whole birds
as handbags. .. .Furs are out of fashion.”
Put golden handles to a living pig,
And women would not fail to bear it far,
Obedient to the monthly whirligig
Which shows who the Best People really are.
So, in the lawless wilds where dollars play.
With naked spine and war-paint on her face.
Goes the great squaw and proudly bears away
The emblems of her prowess in the chase
Has she not hunted down some haggard man
And kept him toiling in the money-mill
\\ ith bulls and bears and other beasts, to plan
The payment of her fierce white-savage bill?
x.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


THE AEOLIAN VOCALION
IS THE HIGHEST DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHONOGRAPH.
m ■ :S
SB , /
■ .
: ■ -
ifsF
m
iST'-^aSSr
Spa4.«E.|
m -a.*-
A*
-:v
P 11
jMte ;
*> .V
iftl~ .»4
ittfeKHn
-1
■ *** *'
■f-
Ww
it
iggigi
\ : $
f .iemt *
**' '
4 »**
/
*7 '"“'-‘"•ww,
X » j
*
I
mmmo9
&
-
: ■ *.* :
«■ ■ ; -
r. v ;
%
* ' '
...
»: » s-
-4* ' . *h. /
--=v :
m
211
% i
:
Tmrrwi *
- mm
-It
iiiili
.
*
* <*
IS
I
mm.
mm
Vim
w
* >?• -sf
jp
S '■:-> , is*
IN richness and musical depth, in delicacy and
clearness of tone, the VOC ALION is supreme.
In the VOCALION you have not only the advan-
tage of listening to the instrument as a regular phono-
graph, but in addition you may control the expression
by means of the wonderful GRADUOLA. With
this fascinating device, you may put your own feeling
into every record you play.
SOLE MAKERS
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
end at 252 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE 436 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
RUNDLE ST. (cr. Gawler Place) ADELAIDE
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me Art Catalog of the Jfeolian
VOCALION explaining hou) / can secure one by
moderate monthly payments.
Name .


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantl.v-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
.Managing Director.
1"
m
BROOKS 890 \
A saddle that will increase
your mileage by reducing fatigue.
You realise how
truly enjoyable
cycling is when
your saddle is a
BROOKS
n
A fully illustrated
Catalogue will be
sent on request.
bb mi
J. B BROOKS & CO.. LTD.,
134 Criterion Works,
Birmingham, Eng.^^|^
STR(a
LA6ER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
"Ex-Dig.”: The man who gets in among
the veterans, to whom the Commonwealth
Coa eminent gives a dinner in Sydney every
.May 24, is liable to hear yarns about all the
wars ol the last 70 years; for there are pre-
sent men with ribbons for the Crimea, the
Baltic, Indian Mutiny, China, Abyssinia,
Led Liver (Canada), Maorilaud, Zululand,
Afghanistan, Boer War, Egypt and Soudan.
One of the most interesting ancients at the
last gathering recalled the battle when the
rebel Peruvian turret-ship lluasear, which
had turned pirate, was brought to bay on
May 29, IS< i, by 11.M.5. Shah, the first
warship fitted with the Whitehead torpedo,
ihe scrap lasted from 1.15 till (i p.m., ami
m the course of it the pirate tried to ram
the Shah, hut was driven off bv broadsides
•'See that young chap over thereV” said the
ancient as he told about the action. ‘Tie
was there, too—powder-boy.” The young
' chap was a bare GO.
Lilly T. : They have their own version
of Lord Ullin’s Daughter at Coy’s, up the
river from Nagambie (Vic.). One day Cole,
a smart young sleeper-cutter, arrived at
I immiiis s boatslied in a breathless condition
with a slim woman of 30. "Hurry up!” said
('ole. "I want, you to row us over.” Tim-
mins pushed his punt into the stream, and
they had gone about 10 yards when Cameron
came tearing down the bank to the water's
edge. “Man, man,” yelled Cameron, “I'll
gi ye twa shullin’ if ye'll comeback.” “Three
bob to go on !” snapped Cole. “Three-and-sax-
lienee if ye'll come back,” panted Cameron,
“hour _ shillings,” offered Cole. "Five
shullin’,” Availed Cameron, “For peety's
•sake,, man, yon’s my wife the bln'guard's
riuinin off wi\ 111 gi ye five good
to Come back.” “Seven-and-six,” shouted
Cole, while Timmins hung vacillating be-
tween. the two. “Any further offers?” said
Timmins, addressing Cameron, but . the
Scotchman was dumb. lie stood a picture
ol despair as the boatman bent to his oars
once more. “Seven-and-saxpence!” gasped
Cameron when Timmins returned, "I didna’
tlieenk he set such store by her.”
“T. 0.1.”: Exchange Corner, Bridge and
I itt streets, Sydney, has recently changed
hands at £57,500. At one time it was the
property of the Hordern estate. A thirst'-
thoroughfare was Bridge-street in the olil 1
days. In the mid-’fifties this corner was
SUCH A LOAD OFF HER MIND.
“Well, my clear, Eve just had my life in-
sured for a thousand."
“Oh, how sweet of you! Now, I shan't hare
to tell yon to be careful everywhere you
go."
occupied by a building intended for a pub,
and next door in Bridge-street John Smith
kept the “Help Me Through the World.”
Three doors up was the Thistle, kept by
James Kelly, and next to him was Richard
Ward Nov ill. of the Dolphin Inn, Next him
again was Baron Cohen, a bullion broker,
who later also put in a beer-pump. A few
yards west Thomas George Blunt had the
“ 11 John I- ranklin; at the Old Synagogue,
the now occupied by Owen Cox’s pile,
D. S. Gordon sold wines and spirits whole-
sale: and on the George-street corner Charles
Bath kept the Currency Lass. Verily the
Drunks’ Paradise!
GETTNG A GOOD WORD IN EARLY.
"Naucy, why must we be kind to the poor?"
"Please, teacher, because in these dogs any of them might beroine righ."
“T. 11.” : “D.F(B. V.)/o/’2l ) says that
I»uckland (Tas.) claims to have the finest,
•stained-glass window in Australia. There
is another Speck claimant, Longford, which
that a window in its Anglican church
is the finest m all Australasia. It; was pre-
sented h,\ the late Charles lteid, and designed
>y tin- late William Archer, of Choshunt Do-
loraine.
Ihe Oldest Inhabitant”: The Agricul-
tmal Society of X. S. Wales' celebrates its
centenary in 1922. 1,, its library are—or
were two (piaint-looking little volumes:
"The Prospectus, List of Sub-
scribers, .Rules autl Regulations
of the Agricultural Society of
-New'South Wales, instituted on
■ uly ~r, 1822,” and “The First
Anniversary Address of the
Society, read July 11, 1823.”
Lach is of about 25 pages
in old-fashioned type, and
was turned out by Robert
Howe, Government printer. The
yearly subscription to the so-
ciety was 20 dollars (£5), and
there was a separate subscrip-
tion fund for the purpose of
introducing from England and
elsewhere improved breeds of
cattle, sheep, etc., and a second
fund for tho introduction of
lrmt and flower plants and
seeds. The first show was held
at Parramatta in October, 1822,
when £lOO was distributed in
prizes. The best shepherd and
the best farm-servant also got
prizes. The officials at the foun-
dation of the society were: Gov.
Brisbane, patron; Col. Sec. Gis-
borne (who owned a wooden
leg), vice-patron ; Judge Barron
Field, president; Samuel Mars-
den, m. Cox, Robert Town-
son, LL.I)., and Hannibal Mac-
nrthur, vice-presidents; Rilc.v
and Waller. treasurers: and
Alexander Berry and George
J-homas 1 aimer, secretaries. The committee
included Newcastle delegates, and the sub-
scribers totalled 118. It is • sometimes
claimed for the society that it is Sydney’s
oldest surviving institution, but the Benevo-
lent Society is its senior.
“Moe" tells a panicky tale : ,
During the year which followed the exploits of
the German raider olf, the principal topic on most
of the Now Guinea ont-stations was the course of
action to be taken by the garrison in the event of
a visit from the ship. The wireless men knew
what they had to do, for their instructions were
explicit—to carry away the code-books, after de-
stroying the instruments and blowing- up the ma«f
One morning somebody at our lonely station sighted
a faint smudge of smoke on the horizon, and evenone
simultaneously suggested' jokingly that it was a
'•:uilor. As the smudge drew closer, and it was
seen to be coming' frota a large vessel making straight
lor ns, the joke looked less like a joke; and when,
halt' an hour later, she turned out to be a cruiser,
and neither Australian nor Knglish, the joke wasn’t
a joke at all. A hurried consultation was held,
and it was decided that Hilt, the operator, should
call her up, and, failing a favorable reply, she should
be considered an enemy. There was no answer
at all to Bill’s query. That settled it. By some
stiolce of luck the 0.0. ordered the destruction of
the instruments to be left until last, the blowing up
of the mast being the first, job. A couple of pllugs
oi dynamite were inserted under the cement block
in which the mast was set, and before the wondering
eyes of the niggers, who were' convinced that, we
wore all mad, the fuse was lit, and the pole
crashed. At this stage the 0.C., who had been
watching (lie cruiser through the station telescope,
announced that she had. hoistecl the Japanese flag;
and a little while afterwards she anchored in the bay
and a Jap officer came ashore to pay us a call. AY"
showed him around, carefully steering him away
from the ,scmi-wrecked wireless station, and in the
afternoon the cruiser departed. Then we set. to,
under the direction of Bill, to rig up something
witli which the station call at 9 a.m. the next dav
might he answered, pending- tin- re-erection of the
demolished mast. That job was finished, with per-
spiration and bad language, two or three days Inter,
without headquarters ever being any the wiser. But
thenceforth it was a perilous business to mention
“raider" on that out-station.
"T. Traveller”: From my camp I lmd seen
him (lodging about in a clump of sapling
scrub, evidently keeping a sharp look-out
on the house up the rise. Ilis actions struck
me as suspicious, so I sneaked round and
coming in by the front panels, knocked on
the back door of the house. A tall, rather good-
looking woman of .Tl answered. "L want t >
warn you, mndamc,” said I—’’there is a man
lurking over in the scrub, who appears to lv:
watching this house. He lias a gun.” “Oh,
,\es, thank you, answered tin- woman, "that
will be my husband. He is idiotically jealous
ii“ e ‘ r is watching to sec if any men
call. ’ Ten seconds later came the bang of
a gun. I jumped indoors, and fled through
the front passage. Ahiin u to later the man
with the gun came out, looking wildly to
the right and left. I was in a log as he
ran past down the track. I remained in the
log. i had a feeling that he was looking for
mo..
* * * *
Sixenate : I think the Australian gets
his casualness from his mother. The latest
youngster whose birth received an advt. out-
side the usual column arrived in a motor-
car. in the middle of a heavy storm, through
which the auto was trying to battle to get
the lady to hospital at Young (X.S.W.).
Only the other day a nipper was born in a
city-bound train; and scores of cabmen can
tell hair-raising yarns about thoir experiences
with casual mothers who have delayed the
trip to the hospital until the twelfth hour.
I sually the youngster born in these circum-
stances survives and becomes a sturdy citi-
zen. The natural hardiness of the mother
which leads to his unceremonious entry into
the world lends him stamina to see the thing
through. But he sutlers badly sometimes
from the names thrust upon him. One
young Sydneyite bears the unchristian title
of Thomas Alanlyferry Bradleyshead Blank.
The two middle names are a reminder to him
that the verv first thing he did in this placid
world was to metaphorically upset a ferry-
boat.
“Skvrider" : Our disreputable town drunk
is always clean-shaven. Whatever his con-
dition otherwise, he never appears with more
than two days’ stubble on his face. It had
me guessing till I dropped into my barber’s
the other day and found George in the next
chair enveloped in beer-fumes and lather, and
the hairdresser's boy scraping laboriously at
his chin. The boss enlightened me. "1 get
him to conic in three or four times a week,”
lie whispered. "It's good practice for the
kid, and it don't cost George a bean. He
got a bit nicked at first, but the boy is
coming on well, and will be able to take on
some of the regular customers soon." 1 hud
always wondered how fledgling harbors learnt
their job.
"S. Snell": It was in a smoking compart-
ment of the ordinary from Albury, and a
comfortable little game of poker was going
on. At \\ aiigaratta Grant got. aboard, and
when Bell fell out of the game the new-
comer chipped in. But Jcrold's treatment
ot him was so cross-grained, even openly in-
sulting, that he fell out after a few hands,
and when the train stopped at Seymour made
his way to another compartment. "NVh.v
were you so vicious with poor Grant?”
asked a brother drummer. "He’s a very
decent little fellow." "Here, that’ll do!”
snorted .lerold. "1 get enough of that at
home, lie was my wife’s first husband!”
"(’hurchwarden” : 1 ’rosy parsons who com-
plain of empty pews should follow the plan
adopted at St. Vincent’s, Ashfield (X.S.W.f.
Twenty minutes are allowed for a sermon
and then a boll is struck, after which a
two-minute bell brings any long-winded
pilot hack to earth. L have never seen a
preacher fail to leave off before the third
ding. The church is always filled.
*' * * *
“Debrac” : Certainly abolish the death
penalty in time of war—except, if you like,
for offences tor which tin? civilian suffers
the like. A man must he blamed and some-
times dishonored to keep up discipline; blit
why shoot him for wlmt lie can't help? I
know several eases of men who fought for 111
months and even two years, hardly missing
a turn in the line, and then cleared out. It
was more than flesh and blood could stand,
and they had reached the breaking-point.
Hue chap fought for In months without a
break, 'and was looked . upon as a Cheer-up
Society. Then he deserted, was caught,
pardoned by the colonel, and cleared off
again. He finished the war in the clink.
THINKING OUT HIS FUTURE.
OLD ROSSFNOSEE. : "Abe, how would you like
to be Proue Minister ?”
YOUNG ROSSENOSE : “ Farder, I cannot tell
a h e I would rather be the Secretary
of the 'Treasury.”
Thi.s is what had happened. He had had two
mends, brothers, and the three were
in a bit of a stunt. One was killed, dying
m a horrible fashion. The brother went
sdly as he watched, and the nerve of the
third cracked up.
LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N'.S.W.
Life's a weary serving maiden
Hanging round the place,
ith a broom and bucket laden,
And a smutty face.
Heedless of her heritages,
Round she slops her clout,
1 ill the master Death, for wages,
Comes and kicks her out.
ZORA CROSS.


ua
o
SBS
m
- ' " 3#**
-
P*
«i««
' >
i»a»
mm.
y.
,5*
11
i > 0»i
IllllilBIBi®!
Patrician. Adam.
He vnlewhite.
Sheraton.
COMMUNITY PLATE has the triple re-
commendation of unusual elegance, daily
usefulness and astonishingly long life. The
four beautiful period designs, illustrated, tell their
own story, convincingly, during fifty yeais ol
guaranteed daily service.
Available in single pieces or whole services. Many charming
pieces for the serving of special foods.
On Exhibition and Sale at Leading Jewellers and Shops
Maker* also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY
RELIANCE PLATE
'Gu-jranfeed for 25 years)
Oneida Community Limited
Kstablisbed 1848
THE BANKING HOUSE. 228 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
Makers also of
ONEIDA COMMUNITY
PAR PLATE
(Guaranteed for 10 years)


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco
-*iy3z
PubbML, . I
f >
■t) B. TOWS» &. CO., Sydney, Asrenta.
Suffer Eczema
No Longer!
Numbers of happy people,, now cured, are
testifying to the wonderful curative power of
the marvellous discovery,
LIGMOLLIENE
Eminent members of the medical profession
recommend it, which is yet further evidence
of its great value. Your chemist sells it at
5/0 and 7/6 a tin, but if you cut out this
with 1/6 postal note to
LI&MOLLIEYE CO., Malyons. Sturt Street
Ballarat, a special sample will be sent j - ou
UGMOLLIENE SOAP
All ladies who would attain a clear, soft
beautiful skin should always use this care-
fully compounded soap, 'it improves the
complexion.
Price 1/-
A Signal Success
ISJ
King George NT
57 WHHmir
TJieTOP-NOTCHScotch
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
PLOUGHIN’ TIME.
[Fog The Bulletin.]
E\ery farmer has been made to earn his bread by
sweat of brow
Since old Adam broke new land an’ learned to
call his horses names;
Hut I don’t perspire these mornin’s when I'm
startin’ out to plough,
With the hoar-frost like a coat of paint on grass
an’ chains an’ hames.
1 go gropin’ with a lantern, wadin’ deep -in stable
soup,
Feeliu’ slow with frozen fingers for the snaps on
couplin’-thains,
Splashin’ round an’ round the horseyaad like a
bloomin’ circus troupe,
Dodgin’ heels an’ hidin’ winkers as I clutch at
flying manes.
When my feet are cold as marble, an’ my breath
like puffs of smoke,
W hen my eyes an’ nose are weepin’ an’ a fire
burns in my ears,
When my stiffened hands can hardly hold the lines to
lead my yoke,
then I in glad to light my sizzlin’ pipe ail’ wait
till dawn appears.
Have you ever watched the mornin’ mists like cur-
tains backward rolled
From the shiv’rin’ skies, an’ ghostly trees, an’
paddocks black with mud
While the sun, in striped pyjama-suit of red an’
pink an’ gold,
Turns the dewdrops into diamonds, an’ the pug-
holes into blood?
II s a time that ought to fill the mind with poetry
an’ art,
An’ with high ideals about the work that day-
light always brings,
P USHED 'N BIT TOO FAR.
"Be this 'ere stick upright, mate?"
"Iss, and mare'n straight-'e be leanin' bit
this way."
But it also is tii i
make i!t 1 f Ploughs an teams to
on T ’ • ,
■, he , • reln " S . an See that each hor *e
tightens up Ins swings.
Tb-rmio-b ii.. i_ , , ,
' * || ° , on - an . lonely winter’s day, in
weather foul or fair, .
as i scratch the past from Nature’s page, an’
write of times to come,
-mo a bnght mirage my fancy runs across tho
pad , ka bar ° .
tin l almost see the ripened wheat an’ hear the
stripper’s hum.
.
So I sing a snatch of song an’ whistle encores to
my team,
Or I smoke to cheat the appetite that every cocky
grows,
Build a wheat-stack in the air, an’ dream the farmer’s
daylight dream,
I ill the sun’s red disc ploughs west an’ leaves
long shadows as lie goes.
Then 1 get my hot mob' home an’ dried before the
last beams fade,
With a fellow-feelin’ watch in’ while the grafters
rush their feed,
An’ I almost give a whinny when at last I make a
raid
On the table Set by generous hands to satisfv my
greed.
Ploughin ! Ves, it brings its troubles, frost an’ rain
an’ weary toil,
But the hope that crops up daily in tlie health}
farmer's breast
Helps to lighten all the hardest work of turnin’ up
tha soil
W ith the faith that every coinin’ season’s yield
will be the best.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. STRIPPER.
* * * *
"Sudah Jatoh’’: Break it gently to
“Bouragi” (B. 5/o/’21) that “lofty criticism” ‘is lost
on him re explosives. He couldn’t say “infusorial
earth,” consequently he blundered with “infusorial
clay.” Kieselguhr, or infusorial earth, more rightly
known as diatomite, is a thin, porous fossil shell of
microscopic size shaped like a shallow boat or disc,
and is chemically a hydrous silica. Clay, on the
other hand, is roughly defined as a naturally occur-
ring earthy material whose chief physical character-
istic is plasticity, and it is chemically a hydrous
silicate of alumina. Clay is refractory, not infusor'al.
The finest infusorial in the world' is trucked from
Talbot (Vic.).
* * '< *
“Friday Island” : “Momokeni’s” experi-
ence of the effects of drinking cocoanut-juiee
differs from mine. I have never been called upon
professionally to treat any case of alleged kidney
disease from thii cause. Personally, too, month
after month 1 have drunk on an average the juice
of three coacbanuts daily with no ill effects. As
the myth was brought under my notice during a lay-
men’s discussion, 1 kept under observation 12 cocoa-
nut-juice devotees. Urinalysis (chemical and
microscopic) failed to detect kidney inflammation.
Constitutionally they showed no signs of it, nor did
they complain of any symptoms.
* ■» *
“H.V.E.”: From the description, I think
the bird “somewhat resembling a magpie-lark,” men-
tioned recently by “6Jfl” as appearing in numbers
on Barkly Tablelands (N.T.), was the practically
cosmopolitan turnstone. This bird is usually seen
on the sea-coasts, but at times resorts to the margins
of inland rivers and lakes,
just as pigeon-gulls often
do. The turnstone wears
dark- brown and white
except when it is in its
wedding-dress (worn only
in the Far North), and
then it favors black and
white. It i/i somewhat
plumper in form than the
more elegantly shaped
magpie-lark, and a little
smaller. Some people
know it as the sea-dottrel.
It may have been attracted
to Barkly Tablelands
owing to the season being
as “OJ6” writes, one of
the wettest ever known,
and there would conse-
quently be plenty of feed
for water-birds about the
surface-pools, which harbor
aquatic insects, snails, etc.
Shallow lakes formed in
parts of W.A. after heavy
rains are usually the re-
sort of many nomadic
birds, including knot
snipe, stints, grey-plover,
etc., and probably turn-
stones also. These mighty
wanderers are always on
the look-out for a restaur-
ant, and, like the white-
brovv e and wood-swallow,
which scents out quarters
where the chafer-beetle
has buzzed forth in his
npllions, they usually suc-
ceed in finding one.
“Veronal”: Lieut. Breton, quoted by
Majoribanks in “Travels in Australia” (1847), tells
of a man who, bitten by a death-adder, died in a
few minutes, bleeding from ears, nose and mouth,
and the whole bod y so °n became putrescent. The
abos. on being bitten immediately suck the wound,
this observer says. Another of Binghi’s dodges is
to stand in cold water deep enough to cover the
part bitten, so as to prevent the venom from r,r-
dilating freely. Hodgkinson, writing in 1845,
cites the case of a man on the Williams River
who was bitten by a brown snake and died in a
quarter of an hour. This is sudden for the brown
devil, but a tiger-snake in which the bands are
not apparent may be mistaken for (he brown by a
novice. Majoribanks reckoned the venom of Aus-
tralian colubers a nerve poison, rapidly causing
coma and gradually affecting the nervous system.
On the other hand, American rattlesnake bite causes
“violent swelling, intense pain, and a livid hue
over the surface.” This traveller found more snakes
tban flowers at Botany Bay, and considered “Serpeh-
tine Bav” would have been a better name for it.
"Rainbow": The other day a big hare
ran close to me m open country making for the show-
ground a quarter of a mile away, ami immediate*
afterwards a large eagle came flying after her. The
ea„le swooped, but directly ho got within 20 cards
puss sat up quite erect and faced him. The huge bird
instead ot striking with its talons, as I experted
settled on the ground 50 yards in front of the hare’
between her and cover. Puss made a little detour
WHERE THE RACE IS AOT ALWAYS TO THE SWIFT.
PUNTER: “Short odds for that hat-raclc! He hasn't Hack try's chance."
BOOKIE: “ Hasn't he! The judge's brother is rulin’ that 'orsc."
around the sitting bird and continued her race for
the timber. This performance was repeated six
times, till the hare ultimately reached cover. It
seemed to me a ease of each being afraid of the other
the hare when running away and the eagle when puss
sat up prepared to defend herself. Just before the
bale got to the safety of the trees, the eagle was
joined by his mate, but she merely soared high over
head and took no active part in the affair. The eagle
is a bully, and may kill a defenceless lamb, but a
hare prepared to fight —nevert
* * * #
“•‘503”: Re growth of hair and nails after
death. I can vouch for the nails, anyhow. On
August ?, 1918, while laying assembly tapes in
Accrochc Wood, preparatory to the stunt on
tiie Bth, I came across a wrecked Sopwith and the
remains of its ill-starred pilot. The latter’s finger-
nails were at least half an inch longer than nails
are ordinarily worn. As far as I could judge death
had taken place six or eight weeks previously.
* * * *
“To Pana”: The Samoans sav that 354
days pass between the comings of the palolo, a
marine worm which times its movements to a nicety.
The worm lies all the year round in cracks of
ceitaiu reefs at no great depth below the surface,
and the floating palolo are parts of this larger worm
which are thrown off one day in the year. The
natives have a peculiar method of timing the appear-
ance of the delicacy. The chief mail of a village has
a basket hung from a rafter, and nine red and green
feathers, three leaves and nine black stones. Each
day he drops a stone in the basket and on the tenth
all are turned out and a feather put in their place.
On the hundredth day, nine feathers and nine stones
are turned out and a leaf takes their place. When
the basket holds three leaves five feathers and four
stones, the palolo is due next evening. And it’s a
pound to a shilling that it arrives.
* * * #
“Murkah”: “Porry” asks (B. 5/5/’2l)
why the too-soft axe hardened after the interview
with the lightning-flash. To be capable of harden-
ing, steel must contain between .5 and 1.5 per cent,
of carbon, the degree of hardness depending on the
proportion of carbon in actual combination with the
steel. Note that steel is not hardened by the mere
piesence of “free” (i.e., chemically uncombined)
carbon. Combination of the free carbon with the
steel is effected by heat followed by air-cooling.
Plainly the axe contained sufficient carbon for harden-
ing purposes. It is evident that the original harden-
ing process was faulty in not being carried far
enough. The necessary heat to finish the job was
provided by the lightning-flash, while the cool air
that rushed in to replace that heated by the flash
was the cooler or quencher. Water-cooling is not
necessary. In fact, there are several brands of tool-
steel on the market that nay be quenched by cold-
air stream only.
“Aragun”: What bullocks make the best
workers? Devons are undoubtedly.the fastest movers
and the best pullers, but they are too uuifteady, and
their liability to bolt renders them practically use-
less for hauling logs in rough country. One of the
best -teams I’ve seen was composed mainly of Ilere-
fords, with a few Durhams and a couple of black,
white and brindles (hat were merely bullocks. They
were slow-moving, but they had plenty of weight,
and they could hang on to a thundering load in
places where a goat wouldn’t venture.
"Karo": If "Ellenbee’s” men with swags
(B. 12/5/'2l) are rare sights in Papua, they are not
so on the old German side of the island-con-
tinent, nor even in the Papuan territory lying along
the easternmost German border. In 1916, in M a dang,
1 saw a recruiter carrying a swag; and it was the
boast of Habctr, former Governor of German New
Guinea, that he had carried his swag from Eitape
to \\ ilhelmshafen, and from there on to Finc-hafen.
Val. Ackerman white-ants ti popular idea :
“Sassafras’s” belief (B. 31/3/’2l) that white
ants cannot live unless they have direct contact with
the earth is popular, hut has no foundation in
luet. Suspicion was first raised in my mind sonic
years ago when 1 was inquiring into the price of
honey. It was stated by one bee-fanner that lie
had had hives,:destroyed by white ants, although there
was no connection with the earth at all. I decided
to test the statement. At Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.),
where I live, I obtained a log a foot through, which
was infested with ants, cut it into foot lengths and
placed the pieces on top of an iron tank. The next
day all the holes in the ends were stopped up, and
three months later I split up one of the pieces and
found the ants us lively as ever. Three months later
again I split up another piece. As it was winter
the ants were not very lively, but there appeared to
he as many as ever. Three months later 1 split up
another piece, and found the ants as lively and
numerous as at first. Three months later I cut up
three remaining pieces and found the position the
same, except that there were a number of small
ants which appeared to be young ones, and all
were as lively as the day I first cut the log. As the
wood remained on top of the iron tank for the
vvhole period they had no more direct contact with
the earth than they had with the moon; and they
had no moisture either, other than the rain which
fell on the wood. As the logs were round, practicallv
IT WOULD BE WASTE OF TIME.
MISSUS : “Why don’t you learn to write.
darky! It's really quite easy!"
TACKY: “N o good to me, missus. Can’t
plurry well read!"
all this would run off. Whether thev can "-et into
wood without contact with the earth in the first
place J of course, do not know, hut anvone can
test it for himself and prove that, once in the wood,
they can live for ants' ages without contact with
either the eartn or moisture.
(Continued on page 22.)


THREE NEW NOVELS
“BODGER AND THE BOARDERS,”
by Ernest F. Q’Ferrall (“Kodak”)
The most humorous Australian book published in recent
years. Includes several of the author’s best stories which
have appeared in “The Bulletin.”
“THE MYSTERY OF WALL’S HILL,”
by Sydney Partrige and Cecil Raworth
A capital story of Australian adventure and mystery.
“TAP-TAP ISLAND” - - -by J. M. Walsh
Thrilling Island adventure.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
The same price as over 100 other First=class
Australian Novels in the “Bookstall” Series.
UNIFORM WITH ABOVE—'
‘‘The Poems of Adam Lindsay Gordon.”
A complete, carefully-revised edition of the famous
poet’s best work.
“The Bulletin” Book of Humorous Recitations
and Other Verses.
AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING
in six entirely independent volumes,
by CHARLES WHITE.
“GARDINER, KING OF THE ROAD.” “MARTIN CASH.”
“BEN HALL.” “THE KELLY GANG.”
“CAPTAIN MOONLITE.” “JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER.”
All Bookstalls and Booksellers
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
9
s/i.
V,
-
Gillette
—the razor that shaves any beard in
the minimum of time with absolute
safety.
Just turn the handle for a light or
a close shave.
No stropping—no honing.
Standard set in neat leather case, 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
THE GILLETTE RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.,
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors:—
S. HOFFNUNG k CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
MADE IN
CANADA
n
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
LEVIATHAN OVERCOATS
Entire Colossal Stock of Leviathan Overcoats Now Offered!
A sacrifice of Overcoats without parallel I
Thousands at Deeply Reduced Prices. A
profusion of materials and styles impossible
to describe.
Popular All-AVool Dark Grey
Cheviot Overcoat. With velvet collar,
belt all round, with buckle, raised
seams, and vertical patch pockets.
Unequalled for service.
Extra Special, 95/-
OUR BIGGEST
VALUE SPECIAL.
The Celebrated Tasmanian
Blue.v and All-Wool Grey
Cheviot Coats, smartly tailored ;
single-breasted styles, Hy
fronts; some have belts all
round; others plain or ball-
belts, with deep vents.
Drastically reduced.
The Coats We Are
Proud of . . 99/6
IMPORTED OVERCOATS
British Mauufaetlire- Specially
Selected for r l'lic Leviathan.
New English Model ('oat, latest
London Style, for walking, motor-
ing and travelling, features double-
breasted front, and plain or helled
hack. Colors: Greys, Browns and
Fancy Mixtures. Csual Price, 1110/-
sale Price, 110/-
Superior quality, 147/-
Now 126/-
Sinart Double-hreusted London
('hosiers, in Dark Grey coating,
stylishly tailored, very dressy. Csual
Price, 10 guineas.
Sale Pride, 8 gns.
Also in Single breasted styles—
Sale Price, 8 gns.
GENUINE BURBERRYS.
The Famous “Slip-on Slimber,”
smartly tailored from best quality
Gabardine of silk-like texture, half-
lined with rich, shot silk, storm
collar. Burberrys are very light in
weight, and efficient weather resist-
ers. Usual price, 0 guineas.
Sale Price, 8 gns.
ffm
S 3
1
mn
Winter Catalog Now Ready. Write for Copy.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T**
Leviathan
iPty.
I Ltd.
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
This
*^^ShiiiSL
For the Business Man
Made in Australia
/See Hiis
/brand on
' each shirt
The business man who seeks distinc-
tiveness in his Shirts will find in
Thistle Shirts all that his whims call
for.
Neatness of patterns—a touch of
refinement in the materials a finish
that suggests workmanship far better
than the ordinary —all these will win
him to Thistle Shirts.
Thistle quality, insisted upon at all
stages of manufacture, will make
him a real Sticker for Thistle Brand
at all times.
m
ss
%
ft
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD.
• Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
Insist on Thistle Shirts.
No Substitutes can
possibly give the same
satisfactory Wear and
Service.
AS 61
\
s
X
X
§
am
!
m
A.
%
1
V
t
1
1
\\
?//


DEAFNESS
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will he glad
to hear of a simple and scientific device which will
restore your hearing, no matter how old you are.
m
Wilson’s Ear Drums
are the only device in
the world that will re-
fract and focus waves
of sound upon the
drum-head, and assist
the hearing power
where any ,sound can
he heard. They vi-
brate sound where the
natural ear drums are
entirely or partially
destroyed, perforated,
scarred, relaxed or
thickened.
The price is £1/1/- for the Outfit. Use order
form below, mid Outfit will be sent at once, with
full instructions.
WILKINSON & 00.. lit loin 1-t, 178 Collins Street-,
Melbourne.
I Mease send complete Outfit containing a pair
of Wilson Conmionsense Ear-Drums, for which
T enclose .£1/1/-
N ame
Address
A BRITISH INSTITUTION.
Like the Pillar Box, the Onoto Pen is a British Institution. Like the Pillar
Box, it is British-made, perfectly simple to use, and always ready for your
letters.
When you take the cap off, you find the ink
in the nib fresh and moist, so that with an Onoto
you can start writing at once. And by a twist of
the head you can regulate the ink How to .suit your
handwriting—fast or slow, light or heavy.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use. It fills
itself in a flash from anv ink supply, cleans itself
itself in filling and CANNOT LEAK.
THOMAS DEIA RUE & CO. LTD
Bunhili Row, London.
Australasian Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LOXCHU^ST,
Sydney and Melbourne. .
Ask for Onofo Ink —Best for all Pens.
- -
o
TK£ 1 D
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.5.W.
AX IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT. with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. -1 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
4% Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
“Ivanhoe” : "Tun” (I>. 3/5/'2l) Inis gone
to a lot ol' figures to show me he doesn’t know what
work is. lie is a slow toiler who can’t shift two
shovelsful of earth in eight seconds, and "Tun”
allows for only one. The chap who did the trench-
digging is ready to do it again—and have some time
over to pull the legs of both "Tun” and myself.
‘“Jucky Roo” : I cun go one better than
“Sir Spen” <B. 12/o/’2l). At lYagga some years
ago one of Permewan Wright’s draught-horses col-
lapsed in the shafts at the sight or smell of one of
Wirths’ elephants; and he never came to.
“Rangun.yab” : "Do Tut I’oer” (B. 5/3/'2l)
asks if any Abo. knows of a full-blooded Chinese who
is a good all-round horseman. A little while ago
a Chinese was horse-breaking in N’umurkah (Vic.),
and if lie was unable to master a horse you could
bet your socks no white man could. The only time
he was known to get a fall was when an outlaw
cleared out with him in the break and landed him
on his head on a hard metal road. He is now em-
ployed as a driver in Melbourne, and has, I reckon,
the best team of horses in the city.
* * . *• *
“Ruggedin VVun”: I have heard many argu-
ments as to which is the loneliest job, but J vote for
that of the fencer. The boundary-rider gets a trip in to
the station for the rations, or else has a visit from
the ration cart. Not so the fencer. He carts his
grub out with him when he goes on to the line, and
there lie stays until the job is finished. The station
may be umpteen miles from anywhere, but the fencer
is about 20 miles farther in the wilderness. A mate
and myself haven’t seen more than one visitor in
five weeks. Our mail is left in a tin on a fence
about 11 miles from our camp, and that is the
only link with the world. Our one visitor was the
chap who came about the census ; but he would only
come once in a decade. Strewth ! Have we to wait
another 10 years for a second visitor? At times I
am so sick of the sight of my mate that I could brain
him with a sauce bottle. Is it any wonder that we
have a bust when we do get into a town ?
ONE OF THE WARWICKS.
DUCKLET I : “He comes of very good family.”
DUCKLEY II: “One of the aristocracy?”
DUCKLET I : “Yes. Claims he's directly
descended from Billy Hughes’s Warwicks
egg.”
“Cam Cox*’: A lien sitting <m a dozen
eggs was visited by a goanna, who devoured three
before he was discovered and despatched. On his
being opened to secure the fat, the eggs were found
to be intact'. They were replaced in the nest and
duly hatched. Remarkable as it may seem, although
the eggs were “by lieu out of goanna,” the offspring
were just plain chicks.
“Cleveland” : "Recoil,” “Bouragi” and “Dud-
lyngil” should all be ordered off for their loose hand-
ling of high explosives. Xitro-glycerine was once used
in its raw and liquid state for blasting purposes ; then
a means of stabilising it in solid form was discovered
by Alfred Nobel. The absorbent used for this purpose
was, and still is in the case of dynamite, an infu-
sorial earth called kieselguhr. The value of an
MIGHT BE WORSE.
CURIOSTTY SEEKER: “It must be terrible to have to spend most of your life in orison?"
LIFER: Oh, it isn't so bad, mum. We only hare visiting days once a month.”
absorbent depended on the percentage of pure nitro-
glycerine it would hold under varying conditions of
temperature iand handling, and, as this was relatively
low in the case of kieselguhr, other absorbents were
found in wood-pulp in the case of ' gelignite, and
gelatine in the case of blasting-gelatine. For com-
mercial purposes kieselguhr absorbs 42 per cent.,
wood-pulp 52 per cent., and gelatine 93 per cent, of
nitro-glycerine, but the explosive is put up in differ-
ent percentages for the various kinds of material in
which it is to be used. In many -mines nothing but
blasting-gelatine is used, and this is because the hard-
ness of the rock defies the puny efforts of any of the
others. “Dudlyngil" gets clean off the map when be
brings cordite into the argument, because this is set.
into action by a spark, and the hurry-up is produced
by the expansion of gases originated by actual com-
bustion, which is also the case in all blasting aud
sporting powers. Dynamite, gelignite and blasting-
gelatine, on the other band, are fired by concussion,
the result being detonation, or the sudden over-
throwing of the very delicately balanced forces pre-
serving the chemical and physical equilibrium of
the compound.
“Northumbrian'': “Jim Garew” (B.
28/4/’2l) asks if it is possible for a dog to kill
a porcupine. 1 saw a sheep-collie kill nine hedge-
hogs in one afternoon in the North of . England.
He was hunting them out himself, and we bad to
stop him at last, as he was bleeding so much. He
rolled them onto of the nest on to their backs, and
when they opened out he got lii.s teeth in their
throats. By the wav', on the subject of dogs, we have
still to import the gamest underground, worker —
the Bedlington terrier.
“W. 8.": I\c “Jim CarowV’ inquiry (B.
28/4/’2l) about dogs killing porcupines. T had
a fox-terrier that .would kill any porcupine on open
ground where he could scratch to get at the unpro-
tected part of the prickly chap. Among rocks or
roots of trees 1 thank it would be an impossibility,
as the pore, can dig in very effectively. I have
found the remains of porcupine at several hative-
dogs’ lairs, and I don’t think the dingo finds all
his porcupines dead.
'( airnsite : Apropos tlm two banyans
which cost, with other items, £499 to remove in
Darwin (N.T.). The -public might be better able to
judge whether the cost was exorbitant if the exact
extent of their spread was given. In North Queens-
land scrubs I have come across many single speci-
mens that I wouldn’t undertake to wipe off the
landscape for £499. ] know of one spot, not a
thousand miles from Take Eacham (N.Q.), where
there is a group of four covering quite 10 acres.
‘“Troehus ’: Can any Abo. give me points
about this? Up here in the N.Q. coastal Never
Never we get swollen and itchy feet and hands, and
can t locate the cause. Moreover, the itch shifts
about say, from heel to toe or from calf to ankle.
Of course, we go a good deal barefoot. Some attri-
bute it to handling pineapple plants; others to a
hairy caterpillar. I have tried all sorts of “rent-
cdies” and consulted doctors, but they did ho gold-.
The ''('suits so far are from a strong perman-
ganate solution put on hot. The itch is so intense as
to amount to pain, and I've seen a man with tears
coursing down, his cheeks, rubbing his sole on a
concrete brick. first time I struck it inv right
foot swelled up till it felt as big as a Cornish
boiler, and for two days 1 did more scratching
than a poultry -yard.
To. Whare ’: Even sharks fall in at times
and swallow more than they can digest. One
bloated monster, caught near Tathra, on the south
coast of N. S. Wales, had two large balls of hair
in his tummy—one red, one white. . Many cattle
were previously drowned in a big flood and swept
into the sea near his beat. The shark had eaten
poor Blossom and Cherry, and digested all but their
hair. lie had also on board the bony, double-edged
saw from a pavtly-assimilated saw-fish: but this
was turning into gelatine and would have completely
digested in time. From another shark captured oil
the M.L. coast a long fisherman’s boot and a seal
long were taken, while a tnird monster swallowed
a balloon-fish, to -which some sportive pearlers had
attached a bottle to keep it on the surface. (The
W .A. balloon-fish is a beast of the toad breed, grows
to about 2ft. in length, and is reckoned poisonous.)
“Bukawaqa”: “DudlyngiPs” (B. .3/5/’2l i
bomb thrown at “Recoil” took after the'first syllable
of his, lianie. “Bouragi's” criticism' is also in the
same class. Dynamite. Hie old original. . A simple
25 Per cent, (by Weight) of a “non-explosive absor-
bent” (infusorial earth or kieselguhr) and To per
cent, of nitroglycerine. Gelignite, on the other
band, is 100 per cent, explosive. “Dudlyngil” is
rather out in his analysis. Gelignite up till 1014
consisted of nitroglycerine, 60 to 62 per cent. ; gun-
cotton, & —4 per cent; potassium nitrate, 28 20
per cent.; woodmeal, 7—B per eeiit. Since 1014
sodium nitrate has been for potassium
nitrate. It is the mixing of the liquefied gun-cotton
with tlie nitro-glycerine that causes the gelatinisa-
tion. Admittedly the “wave of detonation” of dyna-
mite is slightly morg rapid than that of gelignite,
.and it is this that makes the former give slightly
better results for fish murder, as claimed for it by
Bouragi” in his original par. Dynamite as origi-
nally manufactured up till 1916 has disappeared
from the world's markets. Early in that year the
Ministry for Munitions, to conserve stocks of nitro-
glycerine, prohibited to a certain extent the manu-
facture of commercial explosives containing more
than .10 per cent, of n.-g. The manufacturers, there-
fore, turned out a 10 per cent, gelignite, and as
dynamite required entirely different plants for manu-
facture, all were dismantled, and have not been re-
erected. “Bouragi” is welcome to his “hoggins” of
2 the so-called dvramite now available in Australia.
It is as like the original as the “gelatine” described
I by him is to the soluble gun-cotton used in the manu-
facture of gelignite. It consists mainly of sawdust,
sodium nitrate and a bad smell, with varying per-
centages of nitro-glycerine, being marked on the
, cartridge wrapper “2."> per cent, dynamite,” etc.,
according to the percentage of the n.-g. content.
The Americans call all their detonating commercial
explosives “dynamite”-—perhaps this is where
“Bouragi” gets his hoggins. -Most of the old miners,
when they don’t call an explosive “fracteur,” call it
"dynamite,” simply because dynamite was the first
detonating solid invented. Further, as to strength.
Faking 100 as the unit of strength of the old origi-
hal dynamite, “Bouragi” and others will find that
50 per cent, gelignite is represented by 102 to 1021.
and standard gelignite (t.<\. 00 —02 per cent.) by
lio to 112, the last-named being fully 10 per cent,
stronger than dynamite. As for comparing the quick-
ness of ballistite with gelignite, I would advise
“Dudlyngil.” if he knows any female member of
society as fast as gelignite, to avoid her and pick
up with one as slow as ballistite by comparison. There
is not a rifle, gun-breech or barrel made that would
fire two cartridges charged with gelignite. Vet bal-
listite, all hough a nitro-glycerine explosive, has been
“slowed down" so much by (he inventors—Nobels—
that it can be used in properly-loaded cartridges in
any sporting gun or rifle made.
"Lofty” : lias any southern pratl-quack ever
struck this Birdsvillo disease among horses? Or
is it localised in this district of Western Bananaland?
It broke out on the Georgina lasf year, and a severe
epidemic swept over the surrounding stations. Some
places lost 50 per cent, of their horses, and had
the other 50 on sick parade. It seems to pick
good seasons for its attacks. Symptoms: General
dopey appearance, dragging of hindquarter, and walk-
ing roulid and round till exhaustion and collapse.
Death usually follows within 21 hours, bocals know
neither cause of nor cure for the disease.
“FYT”: Queensland, whatever else may
lie her sins, not only has a long list of pro-
tected fauna, bid enforces the observance of the
taboo. A fortnight ago a bird and animal “exchange"
nf Brisbatte Was hauled up for offering for sale
painted Hitches anti Other protected birds. Though
the nominal defendant was ,-i lady. I*. M. Cherry
imposed a tine Df ClB and Cl 7 on two! charge!?)
With costs totalling c 7 17s. (id. In default, board
and lodging for three months was suggested. If
only magistrates would handle the watered-milk cases
in the same vigorous fashion our indigenous babies
might have a chance to survive, as well as our birds.
"W. (Mb”: "Tji wed” (B. 28/4/’2l) says a
little girl died at Merriwu (N.S.W.) 20 minutes
after being bitten by a death-adder, I live in N.
Queensland, wllet*e twtl Of my sisters Werfi bitten by
these adders, ill the first IhstSncb my father Htjfllied
iighttires, tlietl ctit, sucked and rubbed ordinary
salt into the bite. This was 10 minutes after the
girl was bitten, and to-da.v she is the mother of
sturdy N.Q. kiddies. The other sister was bitten
by a 20-inch death-adder, and I immediately appllied
the same treatment, only substituting permanganate
of potash for salt. About three hours afterwards
the child had a slight attack of vomiting; but that’s
all that happened. Of course,.us a N.Q. Judge said
the other day, we are a thick-skinned lot up here.
THE CALL ETERNAL.
THE MAN BELOW: "Eh, Bill, 'urry up down
yer wanted on the telephone!”
“Tilcaneu” (Argentine): “LTH” (15.
18/U/-S0) that “Ito.v.lyV- tort* »e,« mar.
lOin.. from tip to tip of wing was not full grown
-ij ~ . • . , , , .
* ,tber ’ °" a b '» h «**y knoll here we got a condor
that stretched the tape to lift 9 Lin and was so
i- ' .
heavy that a grown mail coultl not lift it on to his
horse.
ANNIE MAKES A CATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Wilson went in to his girls. His brow was dark
with rage,
And with a mighty oath said he: “I’ve smashed that
fellow L’age.
He wished to marry one of you, and put it thus to
me—
‘Oh, any old one no one wants is good enough for
me.’
“1 booted him from out the place, and passed him
on to Jim,
And Jimmie kicked him further, and then sooled the
dog on hitn.
An ‘old one no one wants,’ indeed! I made the
rascal sore.’’
Then Annie gave a little screech, and hurried from
the door.
Now Annie was his eldest girl, and very plain was she,
The old one no one seemed to want. Unmindful of
her tea
Site chased Tom Page across the Hat, and back the
fellow led,
And giggling she presented him. “We’re just en-
gaged!” site said.
VIOTOIiIA.
DIDO.


m
m
* ' ' ' r V v 'Jf •
"""PHROT
IPl# MMRM
A A A
*
-
> .
IB
•*»
»
K
•Vf
rf fr
***&A-' MA'
I *
SKI
>.Vt v ’
F #
#
m
~\ - .i
MP&
m
u«
/'
£ <
r'.-W
i:
wJ J J»
>«
«k
A %
. :
..: *
tl
V ■■: •■ ■■"
lllllas^
Sf«f«
I
I
:
mhKkkmmm
w&m k mfm
i ifA ..v.- . x $
' (|l lI M ' :: ' ' ; IIB^SiSIS
v‘ ■ ''tv, ■ .... S'.
f ; : $ , i ■* >*•!.•■ J
.. I
SSs
vlv
- ■'•'■■&s - ■ tttW SjSMJsM*
_ ■ mmm
l 4 sv' ‘ v *?!
w
■
; jliii \v ’ r
t * 4*?* i l , Jnn 3
IliwiSl
r* -• “•' a;’
■ i i
!£l
M
. ■;
s*w
UsM
■H
WET:!
m
: ■■'"
wsrnm
mmm
:fs'*■*'.*
sNcNNaSSsRiBBSi
t'H- *
.: ...:,
.
%
• -
■-;1
v' ; ?tf§i
• •'•*
*&, -
*
Sr\<7Ur\s
crfoact ?\x) J\xrxxJffju
(f
reacts dsoJ&m* P~rxi ds Jo /Acl-^xJ^
rX <' Ct^xj
<Jo
/ , 9<>
AcXXr*, AolcC
£lAjl t&jLrrv /c*-c-
/ ft/-
Cc><UjU*> -J > CU\jLCLCJ2sz>
&s*jL<XxJ~
JAju* JxCLCt <fo
Cr% ?y^JCe^ p v
WA*/- < vN/ JjcKjl CXj/xrxjtJ-
is* ffijis jAuLJ^oCcrry-xj
If I*™ 1 *™ (nft^
D
D
for Service §■ Economy
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES And N.Z.


ELECTRICAL SERVANTS.
The Latest Domestic Relief.
m
There are in the U.S.A.
115 manufacturers of
Electric Clothes-Washers,
manufacturers of
Dish-, China- and Cutlery-
Washers, ao manufac-
turers of .Electric Ranges
and I a manufacturers of
Electric-Ironing Machines.
Our special representa-
tive travelled 7000 miles
in search of the best.
He inspected the majority
of the makes, and got
opinions of hundreds in
America about these de-
vices. Our stocks com-
prise only the best.
50% of our Ironing-Machines,
100% Of our Kitchen-Washers,
25% of our Clothes-Washers,
00% of our Vacuum-Cleaners,
sold in one month after arrival.
We use them ourselves.
All about them from:
WG WATSON eC°L td
279 Clarence Si Sydney
(Next to the Town Hall.)
H?
IS
rev;
KS
nii
&
i
LV
m
m
//
i 1
»/'\=
A dependable
“Safety” at a
Popular Price
7 °^ C K
Safety
Razor.
The 7 o clock is wonderfully simple in its construction
and use—no loose parts, cleaned in an instant, and
Stropped without removal of the blade. It is used by
many men who could afford a far more expensive razor
but prefer the efficient simplicity of the “ 7 o’clock.”
Complete with razor, special strop in hinged parti-
tion as part of the case, and six lancet steel blades
15/-
Of all high-class dealers throughout the Commonwealth.
Sole Agents for Australasia, RALPH ABERCROMBY, LTD.,
Denison House, Sydney.
.
I
h
WM
ns
Jevland
r J'HIS 3 ton Overseas Type Chassis has keen built
specially to conform to Australian conditions.
High efficiency radiator; special ventilation to the
Bonnet and a I3in clearance ; same size wheels
and tyres throughout ; are a few of the exclusive
features of the Overseas type.
n
mn
“The Leyland makes long
distances short”
LEYLAND LOGIC
The radiator has a 40 per
cent, higher efficiency than any
other radiator of equal dimen-
sions. It consists of a num-
ber of vertical copper tubes
pressed through thin sheets of
steel into one solid block. It
has top and bottom tanks de-
tachable and accessible for
cleaning. All models are fit-
ted with high tension mag-
netos and Overseas models are
constructed to haul trailer
loads. Prompt delivery from
Stock.
LEYMND MOTORS I/TD.,
London Rank Chambers,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Victorian Ag nts: —
PRESTON MOTOR PTY. LTD
High St. Preston, Melbourne
pms
4
cs
NET
OZ
&X
Never Be Without
A Tin of Each!
Not a day passes but
you find good uses for
“REX” HAM PATE and
“REX” VEAL & TONGUE PATE
Everyone enjoys these appetizing meats
for lunches, picnics, suppers, etc.
They are all pure meat, minced fine,
delicately seasoned —ready for instant
use.
You will revel in their fresh inviting
flavors.
Packed in Australia. SoLd Everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
11120


fke
Purest
Spirit
irv tHe
H
m. 4
r'
NAP^ 6
SCH
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G* HEARNE & Co* Ltd*
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
HT
*5
e?S
m
%
?~S
Jl LUNG
TUOUBLO
j \b=s? coughs pr \
r )&<?
CROUP fljs**
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
space-rates have been improved to such au
extent that newspaper proprietors, linding
outside aid more expensive, are demanding
more and more of their staffs, or proving it
more profitable to hire men by the week tlian
to pay them by the inch.
I might quote instances of papers, once
sources of considerable income to the free-
lance, now wholly closed to him, or offering
only driblets of space. It may be true that
the writer, of admitted excellence can still
find a fairly ready market for the best of
which he is capable, but no man in Australia
can make a fairly good living out of his best.
It was the columns of paragraphs, the frivol-
ous and easy articles, and the rapidly-written
topical verses that paid the baker and the
gas-man, and left the bard with a fair
amount of leisure for building the loftier
rhyme, and giving due attention to the fram-
ing of an excellent story once a fortnight or
so. For the lighter facile matter there is now
a small and, it appears to me, a diminish-
ing market, and never had the Australian
writer greater need 'to look abroad for
adequate means of earning his daily bread.
To be sure, there are increased opportuni-
ties for staff appointments for qualified men ,
but the true, ingrained freelance knows that
this means more than the sacrifice of his
literary liberty—it implies certain degenera-
tion. Which of our song-birds has sung his
living songs within the office cage, and bound
by the conditions of a regular job? How
many of the Australian yarns that Aus-
tralians are reluctant to let die have beep
pitched in such conditions., I know of none,
but I do know of bright young writers who
abandoned noteworthy performance and loot
all promise after accepting the regular re-
wards and restraints of a steady iob in the
editorial department. It would have been
far better for these, considered as men of
letters, had their daily demnition grind been
on a heap of blue metal by the roadside, or
in the Manchester department of a Flinders-
lane warehouse, occupations which do not
eat the literary vitality out of a man. How
is the freelance in journalism to be pre-
served, assuming that there is any one out-
side the scattered ranks desirous of his pre-
servation —a not very lively possibility, since
even the good men who display great earnest-
ness and zeal in the cause of the magpie and
the ’possum do not give a dump for the Aus-
tralian prose writer or the poet, examples
of our native fauna more certainly threatened
with oblivion?
You cannot have a close season for poets,
and the gun license will not help our tale-
bearers in the struggle for existence which
has resolved itself into a battle for subsist-
ence. The simple expedient, so successful
in the case of other mental and manual
laborers, of raising rates of pay to establish
a living wage, acts in diametrical opposi-
tion to the good intention by rendering the
freelance unemployable from the point of
view of the newspaper managers whose
bright eye is for the dividends.
The salvation of the freelance lies with
editors, and if they are not propitious the
residue of a fine body of men will presently
be a few scribes in Government or other
billets who wile away their leisure with
literary ‘ exercises, and a contingent even
smaller, men who have no opening for escape,
and must needs content themselves with
monetary rewards that the primitive hand
who carries the offal from the slaughter-
yards to the pig-farm would repudiate with
noisy derision.
E. D.
Rabbis and Sundries
Australia’s profoundly learned and agree-
able visitor, Chief Rabbi Hertz, mentioned
quite a number of interesting matters in liis
lectures, such as that Palestine is rather
bigger than Wales, that the unnavigable Jor-
dan plunges down 27 rapids on its way to
commit suicide in the Dead Sea, and that
there are no vowels in the Hebrew alphabet.
The last isn’t surprising, for Asia (like
Africa, where the Hebrews lived a good deal)
is a storehouse of quaint things. There are
races which have two languages—one which,
they speak but never think of writing and
one that they write but never think of speak-
ing ; races with special languages for the
clergy or the peerage ; languages without any
alphabet or any grammar, and some without
any sense. There are sign languages neither
written nor spoken nor printed, and there are
whistling languages and languages made out
of arrow heads and written on tombstones
which, if ever spoken at all, must have been
Spoken by people with pointed teeth. Also
there is one lengthy bit of language in
Belustan, high up on an overhanging cliff
quite inaccessible from above and too lofty
to be reached by ladder from below, which is
said to be a record written bv an ancient
king in a balloon, though some hold that it
was done with a telescope.
But what the erudite Rabbi most prides
himself on is the durability and imperishable-
ness of The Race, and that is what most
Hebrews are proud of. Exactly how much
there is in this it is difficult to say. The
remote Hebrew was rather a clubable person.
V nen he went to Canaan he did a pre-
liminary slaughter under the orders of
Joshua, who proposed to wipe out the indi-
genous population; but when that restless
person had gone to have the first long repose
be ever enjoyed the people settled down and
boarded and lodged and intermarried. Solo-
mon intermarried about 1000 times with 1000
nameless women. One of the books of the
Kible is named after a foreign woman who
David’s grandmother, and Solomon was
tne son of a lady Hittite. In fact, the
Hebrews seem to have intermarried in such
a friendly way that they absorbed in time a
score or more of tribes, mostly "ites” of one
sort or another. They drew the line at
practically nobodv except a Philistine, and
Sauuson didn't draw the line even there. That
large part of the Ten Tribes which, went to
Assyria seems to have sunk its identity much
sooner than the Irish who went to New York,
and a great many of the Two Tribes that
were removed to Babylonia stayed there
when the ban was removed, preferring
civilisation and peace to a Covenanter s job
among their own barren hills. Finally a
huge section of Jewry shifted to Alexandria
and mostly assimilated out of all knowledge.
Them the Hebrew ceased to be clubable
and assumed a proud and aloof aspect, like
a rich bear with a sore head. It. was a
wonderiul performance, hut it is lucky for
the world that it is rare. If all the races
that can be found in historv had put on the
Hebrew garment of imperishableness, the
world would probably lie occupied now by
1,500,000 nations of 'lOOO people each, all
Chosen, all proud and reticent, and at least
500,000 of them not speaking to each other.
Supposing all the Ilivites, I’erizzites,
Buzzitbs and Wliizzites and all the Moabites.
MosquitobiteS and Bunfltes that Israel
found when he brought his language with no
vowels in it to a land rather bigger than
Wales had developed his noble qualities of
separatism and immortality, there would pro-
bably be only 1000 Hebrews now, because
there wouldn’t be room for more, and there
might not have been mothers for more.
Family pride is said to be a noble quality,
but. the Hebrew only found the chance to
have it through other tribes being more
reasonable and not haring it. And in the
welter of nations and walking empires the
synagogues of sorts wondd be as plentiful as
tabby cats and would stand on each other’s
heads.
If some chemist ever finds a metal which
can’t be dissolved, fused or amalgamated he
will probably remark that it is a very curious
substance, but that it is lucky all metals
aren’t like it.
The theory has been advanced that but for
the Philistine conquest the dissipated tribes
might never have been a real people at all, but
might Juive drifted away into different orbits.
Philistia was the last straw which led to a
sort of union, a sort of hereditary kingship,
and, in time, to the founding of a sort of
Hebrew Canberra at Jerusalem. Previously
tlie capital—when, there was one, which
didn’t always, happen—was on the self-made
king’s saddle or in the prophet’s tent. For
about 20 years (so far as can be guessed)
the king was a woman and ran her gay
metropolis under a tree.
The same kind of thing has been said of
the Scottish Highlanders, the Welsh and the
Irish, though as regjards the last-nafcned
Rabbi Lambert, of Sydney Town Hall, would
deny it furiously. The Scottish Highlanders
consisted of more tribes than Israel, and
they had neither king, capital nor cohesion,
though the tribes had hereditary rulers.
When a few clans combined to invade the
south they went home if they lost the first
battle, and if they won it they went home
also to store their plunder. So the general
lost his troops either way. In consequence,
during all the years when the men of kilts
ranked among the very best fighting men in
Europe, they made no permanent conquests.
They were as divided in 1745 as in 1045.
The separate records of Wales were even
more incoherent, partly because they ended
sooner and the kings and sub-kings and half-
kings .and chiefs were an unfixed lot. As for
Ireland it mostly lived the tribal life like the
Scottish Highlanders, hut it recently in-
vented the idea of being a nation and the
idea that it alw/ays had been a nation, which
the Highlanders haven’t done yet. Probably
it has attained a real identity just as solidly
as Jewry. It also had chiefs, sub-kings, pro-
vincial kings, petty kings and at times cer-
tainly it had a High King who rose rather
casually, like the Judges of old Israel, and
had such power as he could hold. For a
time, too, it had a definite capital at Tara,
but this was abandoned (which was a weird
proceeding, as the metropolis then went on
the wallaby track), and the temporary union
dissolved. Dublin was a city built by Norse
invaders and was more or less foreign, so it
didn’t take Tara’s place. Still, Ireland has
vastly more art and literature than the other
two Celtic states put together.
So It happened that the first person who
established a durable hereditary rule in Ire-
land was a Norman (if she wasn’t a Tudor
woman), and the first to do so in Wales was
a Norman, and the first in the Scottish High-
land was a German (though a Dutchman
made an effort),’ and the first in Hebrewdom
was at least quarter Moabite, while his suc-
cessor was half Hittite.
A good deal of this is irrelevant to Rabbi
Hertz and a good deal is irrelevant to Rabbi
Lambert, but it all helps.
JAMES EDMOND.
Pride of Paladins
Voltaire makes one of his characters dis-
parage history as a study, saying among
other things: “What does it matter to your
son that Charlemagne established the twelve
peers of France?” And, since Voltaire is
pleased to be ironic, we must assume that
even he believed that it did matter.
It is a long time ago, far enough away to
lie even more misty than the future, now
enlightened by the joint efforts of Einstein,
Freud and Conan Doyle. Victor Hugo lifts
one small corner of the veil in “La Legende
des Steeles,” wherein lie tells the story of
the five-day-long fight between Oliver and
Roland, names destined to become famous in
the minstrelsy of the Lingua Franca.
It would have been indeed strange had
so accomplished a craftsman as Hugo sought
to re-tell the story of the paladins in their
last battle at Itoncesvals. Turoldus had
already collected the varying accounts which
must have existed in “The Song of Roland,”
that immortal epic of “the grandeur of de-
feat.” which was sung even by the jongleur
of William the Conqueror at the battle of
Hastings.
Now Captain Scott Moitcrieff has given us
the first adequate English translation which
preserves the original form of the song, an
achievement far more difficult than ordinary
translation, even if metrical. For the form
of “The Song of Roland” consists of stanzas
of varying length composed of lines with a
very exact measure, almost all of them
single-moulded, complete in themselves, and
—herein lies the greatest difficulty—neither
rhymed nor blank, but relying on the agree-
ment of vowel-sound. Almost any habitual
reader of verse knows the jarring effect usu-
ally produced by assonance; but the trans-
lator has succeeded in using it to add to
the charm of the narrative. English is not
an assonant language, and in many places
he makes use of successions of rhymes which
perhaps serve to eliminate the distaste
ordinarily occasioned by this trick of com-
position.
The song itself is a well-told tale of a
valorous struggle against impossible odds; it
embodies all the old chivalry and the old
faith in a righteous cause against the pagan
Saracens. It is pfe-eminently a song of
lusty and vigorous manhood. Not without-
cause did John Masefield quote from “The
Song of Roland,” at the commencement of
each chapter of his “Gallipoli.” Nothing
could have been more exquisitely apt.
REX BOUNDY.
A Satchel of Books
Captain Macedoine’s Daughter, by William McFee
(Martin Seeker). The tale of a curious love adven-
ture, told by a marine engineer in a strain of
wistful romance and philosophic questioning - that
recalls Conrad in its supple and colored style. The
girl especially is brilliantly drawn, and the con-
trast between her and the dim and rigid wife of a
tramp-steamer’s skipper is presented with an illum-
inating turn of phrase that reveals the author as
an uncommon writer. This is his second effort, and
his third will be awaited with interest.
Thuvia, Maid of Mars, by Edgar Rice Burroughs
(Methuen). Burroughs, who made his name and
fame with Tarzan of the Apes, has switched on to
Mars, and this is the fifth of his romances of the
little Earth whose seas have dried, leaving behind
them monsters that give the few remaining humans
an exciting time. The advantage of shifting the
venue to Mars is that impossibilities don’t exist —
the only limit to the possible lies in the imagination
of the author. Edgar Rice Burroughs manages to
make the wonders seem not impossibly wonderful,
and that is the highest praise that can be given to
this sort of romance.
The Education of Eric Lane, by Stephen McKenna
(Hutchinson). This is the second volume of “The
Sensationalists,” whereof the first was “Lady Lilith,”
and as the author announces another in preparation
he is apparently engaged on a serial novel dealing
with a select crew of Society idlers who live on their
emotions through 300 or more pages of generally
smart prose.. The leading lady of the present book
is Lady Barbara Neave, a neurotic person of vam-
pirish intentions who forces herself on Eric Lane
in the first chapter, invades his room and creates
a situation that a discreet author usually finishes
with a line of asterisks. All the same, she is
a haunting creature, who. despite her ornate impro-
prieties, has a queer reality here and there.
O’Rourke the Great, by Colonel Arthur Lynch
(Hutchinson). The writer is that very remarkable
Australian (he was born at Smythesdale, Vie.) who
has academic qualifications to be civil engineer,
lawyer or doctor of medicine, yet prefers to be a
man of letters some days and other days a politician
and a soldier —his best-advertised appearance as sol-
dier was when he gave his services to the Boers in
their last great struggle. A man of amazing versatility,
even his pen runs in a dozen directions: his published
volumes include Something in English and something
in French; something of poetry and something of
prose; something creative and something critical;
history and fiction; sonnets and a new system of
psychology. “O’Rourke the Great” is “a novel” ;
yet it is not so much a novel as a good-natured
description of an election campaign in Ireland —and
it is all' the more strikingly good-natured because
Arthur Lynch has not only lost his seat in the House
of Commons but got himself into very hot water
for flinging himself into a recruiting campaign at a
time when the recruiter wasn’t received with three
c-heers in some parts of Ireland. It is really a eapi-
tr' study of the Irish character, written with sym-
pathy yet with frankness, and with some incidental
pictures of House of Commons and Dublin Castle
characters and life that add to its interest and value.
Modern Economic History, by Herbert Heaton,
M.A., of Adelaide University, makes no claim to be
more than an introduction to the subject, with
special reference to Australian problems. Thumb-
nail sketches, most of them remarkably comprehen-
sive, are given of modern agricultural developments
abroad, and land settlement in Australia; of trust
and industrial movements all over the world (the
latter being traced from the machinery epoch of
the Industrial Revolution); and of every adventure
in Socialism down to the Bolshevik state. Only
on fiscal questions does the writer betray bias: he
can see no virtue in Protective ’ tariffs. The style
is clear, and the work should be valuable to those
who require a reference-book setting forth the broad
movements in industrialism during the last two
centuries.
The Inky Way
“W.G.J.”: I nominate Harry Rudd, of the Tweed
Dairy, Munvillumbah (N.S.W.), as the youngest
editor of a daily newspaper in the Commonwealth.
He is all of two months over 21 years—and is
turning out a good paper, too.
“P.C.P.”: Me for a bomb-proof shelter if the
Aurora Australis comes any further north. Hobart
Mercury, referring to a recent display, says that an
interesting theory in regard to the Aurora is that in
effect it is “a bombardment of electric irons from
the sun.” It’s right enough for Mars to shoot elec-
tric signals our way, but when it comes to the sun
heaving ironmongery at us it’s time to take cover.
“S.T.S.”: J. H. Curie, of “The Shadow Show,”
has a remarkable metaphor in his new book, “This
World of Ours.” He calls the period 1880 to 1906
“the Elizabethan age of gold-mining. The un-
approachable Rand was Shakspeare; Kalgoorlie, so
richly veined, ,yet doomed to an early death, was
Marlowe” —and so on, round the world’s best shows.
My luck must have been out. The mines I struck
were all! metaphorically speaking, “Bohemian” Coles.
“0.K.”: The line that made Joseph Addison’s
fortune has attained immortality. The other day a
member of the House of Commons, talking of the
threats of the “Triple Alliance,” said that the agi-
tators for “lightning strikes” “will soon realise that
they cannot control a whirlwind nor direct a storm.”
That figure of speech was Joe Addison’s great stroke
of luck. He was a hard-up scholar in his thirties
when ,a friend recommended him to the Government
of that time of political patronage as the sort of
man to write a high-falutin’ poem on the Battle of
Blenheim. The uncompleted poem that came along
to . the Government censor concluded with a lauda-
tion of the Duke of Marlborough:—
“Calm and serene he drives the furious blast;
And, pleased the Almighty’s orders to perform,
Rides on the whirlwind and directs the storm.”
The stilted production was the kind of stuff that
an Addison could grind out by the yard; but the
storm and whirlwind idea did the trick. The author
received a sinecure billet right away, and a year-
later was an Under-Secretary of State. Also, the
wav was naved for a triumphant staging of the tra-
gedy of “Cato,” in the literary suet whereof Addi-
son contrived to drop a few raisins which posterity
rolls around its tongue.


o ir»
Note the
Label
on this
Bag.
SKIN-GETTERS! It pays to .••consign l'ox,
Kangaroo anti other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or, Brisbane. LTD.
i Onlv, Regular auctions. Prompt Returns.
1-3
Salesmen
m
nm
High-Speed
Chain Hoists
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—J 915.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Clears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Cataloyuc "IS.’'
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8406 (6 Lines)
RIDL A
O
1
MOTOR
BICYCLE
FITTED WITH
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
The smooth running, ease of con-
trol and ample power of a B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle is a revelation. A
long acquaintance with a B.S.A.
will demonstrate the sturdy and
scientific construction which en-
sures the unfailing reliability and
good service which can be confi-
dently relied upon from B.S.A.
machines.
Letters of appreciation from riders
in France, Burma, Australia, F.gypt,
etc., etc., show that B.S.A.
machines give consistent good ser-
vice under the exceptional con-
ditions of colonial motor cycling.
All B.S.A.
parts are
guaranteed
interchange
able.
8.8. A. 6 7li.p.
TWIN
MODEL.
J
n
Write for full particulars and Handbook to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Lid.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents : BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney,
Built to Stand the Drive of the Busy Shop.
BROWN & SHARPE
AUTOMATIC
GEAR-GUTTING MACHINES
V
will stand up under the most
severe service.
Daily these machines are produc-
ing the world
over a quantity
of quality gears
that adequately
fulfil the de-
mands o f the
most discriminat-
ing.
Send for Catalog Nu> Itt*, listing mil' complete lliie.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
Australasian Agents,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Dci>t 0
Wire that Coils Cold
and Retains its Set.
Whenever a strong spring that will stand continuous
hard work is needed, you should always use our
HARD-DRAWN SPRING WIRE.
It is Widely vised throughout the Commonwealth, aS well
as in Great Britain.
It (‘an he Safely relied on; llnd the statement that It will
Coil cold is guaranteed.
Any quantity can be supplied, in all gauges from 4 tt> 141.
Telephone City !)B(j3 or 7SIO for further particulars, of
write to Department "A;”
m
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Ccmpany Arthur Balfour & Co, Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
Sill-381 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
261 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
16 Boulder Road. KAJLGOORLIE.
48 Cliff Street, FREMANTLE.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., NEWCASTLE.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE,
•lolin Reid & Nephews, BRISBANE.
R. L. Milligan, Hobart, TASMANIA.
H
a
m
1
a
r>
5
CONTINUOUS STAVE -WIRE WOUND
showing discharge from pipe at end of section.
Wood I’ipe is used to furnish
light, boat and power at the
summit of the highest mountain
in the United States —the rea-
son being its ease of transporta-
tion and une(]milled adaptabil-
ity. The wire-wound Pipe for
this installation was conveyed
with ease up the steep sides of
the mountain and installed with
('ipial facility. Machine banded
“Pioneer’’ Wood Pipe is fur-
nished in sizes from L’in. to
l!4in„ and Continuous Stave up
to lOSin. internal diameter, the
former being supplied complete
with couplings—the latter ready
for assembling. “Pioneer” pipe
is much cheaper than metal
pipe.
All inquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry* to Fig Tree).
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Nigel Brock, who hits boon comunuitlei-iu-
chief of several profitable seaside shows, is
now concentrating on the Java Industrial
hair to happen at Bandoeng from September
iff to October !> next. Brock and his partner
have secured a. pavilion 80ft. by •Tift., and
they are parcelling out the space among Aus-
t raiiau manufacturers.
* * * *
A Devonport 1 'has.) fitrmer lias raised a
pig weighing Newt. sJqr» 141 b four-year-
old Tumworth. This hefty grunter’s nninmta
was imported from Britain, and the old lady
had Ijoen in Tas. only ti few weeks when this
prize-winner appeared. lie also makes a sen
voyage -to Melbourne—-as nobody Wants a
porker of such dimensions in bis native State.
* . -X- * *
•“Twee”: Here’s a ease of another Aussie
jam-maker who did his bit in war-time to
ruin the reputation m! Australian potted
goods across setts. On being opened the tins
disgorged their contents in three layers—first
water, then pulp, lastly crystallised sttgalS
The whole consignment was sentenced to the
scrap-heap, but was rescued by an enterpris-
ing restaurant-owner. He secured a gilt-
edged bargain. He poured off the water and
used the pulp for puddings. Then he washed
the sugar, hundreds of pounds of it. and
thereby side-tracked the Food Controller.
“Laddie” : I suppose no other bank build-
ing holds the record of one in Xatiniuk
(Vic.). Before the amalgamation of the
Colonial with the National, it was occupied
by the former. For a certain time after
the amalgamation it had the National’s sign
up. Next, the i.ondon blew along and
altered the nameplate. Now, that institu-
tion having been amalgamated with the
E., S. and A., the building gets its fourth
occupant. And all within two and a half
years.
* * *■ *
"Lenoelire” : Recent Bulletin pars spoke
of the Huns’ hoard of gold at KabaUh Such
as it was it disappeared long ago. While
the Australia and the rest of the fleet were
standing off Simpsouhafen at the capture of
the colony in 11)14, the Hun officials in
Ilabaul and Toma were busy transferring
the bullion to the north coast, where the
Scharnhorst was awaiting it. A few hundred
twenty-mark pieces were in circulation about
the colony, but nothing more than that did
the Germans leave behind.
“C. Coral”: "Trade” tobacco is now about
four times the price it was in the old beche-
de-mering days, and the islander finds that,
with the price of fish right down, he can’t
luxuriate in the weed as he used to. Conse-
quently he is growing more of the native
product. The Torres Strait people claim
that tobacco is indigenous, and that they
possessed a knowledge of it long before
"white man he come” ; but that it was intro-
duced by Spaniards or Peruvians three or
four centuries ago is within tin* bounds of
possibility; Formerly the natives had
flourishing tobacco gardens, and there was
keen competition among them so far as pro-
duction and quality were concerned.
“LILA.” : Whatever it may be in the city,
the Diggers of the country are cobbers still.
Last fruit season, when the jam companies
refused to buy peaches, the Kyabram (Vic.)
branch of the R.S.S.I.L.A. formed a fruit-
pool. With the aid of the Soldiers and
Sailors’ Fathers’ Association, they
approached the Fed. Treasurer, and got the
guarantee of an overdraft for £5OOO to pro-
cess 2000 tons of peaches.. The finished
article was on view lately at the Soldiers
and Sailors' Fathers’ Association headquar-
ters in Melbourne, and is declared to he the
finest pack ever put up in Australia. Any-
way, for the sake of the old man who hacked
them, the boys tried to make it that.
* * * *
“Te Pana” : In the King Country (M.L.)
the turban and an insinuating grin below it
are already familiar features of the land-
scape. The semirings of India via Fiji are
actually beginning to swamp the white
laborer and the white cow-attendants. On
the surface Bam (blunder appears to be a
cheap proposition: but when it takes five
spindle-shanked coolies to do as much work
at fencing, ditching, and other solid jobs as
one hefty white man, the hank balance
suffers. The discolored immigrant, however,
is not content with that class of labor. He
is in on the empty-bottl'e business, cuts hair
at reduced rates, and sells fruit at cheaper
prices than Ah Pong. Ilis fascinating ways
with Maori women in some parts of the
country call for a swift application of the
hoot. The Returned Soldiers’ Ass. is hot
under the collar in that matter. It is up
against any influx of brown, black or yellow
and is demanding the repatriation of all
Chinese and Indians who have entered M.L.
sinep 1014. And the R.S.A. has powerful
lungs.
THE CHEAPNESS OF AUSTRIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In Austria more than eight kronen go to an
English penny; before the war 24 kronen went to
the pound. s ’-—'Ecstatic statement oj a tourist.
Jieside the Danube it is good to lie
And. watch the Spring come up the happy wood ;
If yow have three-alid-sixpence you can fly
Jn, tall extravagance to match your mood.
men met in battle lutrsh and rude
A boh was something better than it seemed;
Hut now for beauty, pleasure, wine or food
A bob is more than ever tourist dreamed.
e Keen on tlie scent of bargains comes the throng.
One fiver looks an income for a year;
And penny millionaires can drift along
In giddy crowds and be what they appear.
You whisper nothings in the sweet girl’s ear
And know that tuppence will supply her needs ;
You ask your friend to turn his thoughts to beer.
And tanks, not tankards, call for thirsty deeds.
What hope for our Australia's empty lauds
W hen one may buy a palace of some note
Eor just about the price he sadly hands
A Sydney trader for an overcoat?
It is so easy there to keep afloat
In something simple, like a good champagne,
Tliat half the empty world may rush the boat
And seek Vienna by the fastest train.
K.SAV.
P. O. M.


wz
nm
The Briton Overseas
remains British—through and through—never losing
his nationality—nor his characteristics. Above all,
he retains the tastes and predilictions of the Home-
land, and prominent amongst these is his taste for
£
SCOTCH
-A
0 lON 3
NOSMVQ
• JIL
Wherever Britons do
congregate you will
find this famous Scotch
Whisky a brand of
Historic Lineage and
world-wide popularity.
As familiar in the far
corners of the earth
as it is in its native
Scotland.
By careful husbanding of
Stocks wc hope to main-
tain regular (if inadequate)
supplies. But nothing will
induce us to impair the
unvarying quality of “P.D.”
Whisky.
Everyone s favourite
Scotch — Everywhere!
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
82-84, Great Clyde Street,
GLASGOW.
Westclox
Jack o’Lantern—
Glows the Time
With Jack o’Lantern
near your bed you can
open your eyes any time
at night, and there glows
the time.
No fumbling for a match
or a light switch; just raise
your eyelid. And if you
sleep through the rising
hour, Jack o’Lantern calls
you punctually, pleasantly,
persistently.
And during the day,
Jack o’Lantern’s radium
dial is easy to read.
The name Westclox on the
dial warrants its dependa-
bility.
Westclox Big Ben , 27/6'; Baby Ben, 27/6; Sleep-Meter, 17/6; America, 12/6;
Jack o’Lantern Luminous, 25/-; Baby Ben Luminous, 35/-; Glo-Ben, 22/6;
Boyproof 15/-; Pocket Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
p
<-v“
r
%
tf
\
y
tt:
(
r>
"V
n
wi
O'
r*7
CATALOGUES ARE FREE.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR THEM.
AN EVENING OF SHEER DELIGHT
FOR THE CHILDREN.
EVERY child should be brought up in an
atmosphere of music; it will develop the
finer instincts in mind which are most
receptive to influence. Nothing could be more
satisfactory for the father or mother than to spend
the last half-hour before bedtime with the little ones
playing their songs on the player-piano. All the
nursery rhymes can be obtained with the words
plainly written, and the time and key can be easily
altered to suit their childish voices. With a
VICTOR PLAYER PIANO
or any other player-piano from Paling’s in the home the children can
be taught to love music. It is a mistake to think that a player piano
will cause them to neglect their practice. It has been proved conclu-
sively that the player-piano is a great incentive to study, and children
learn to play the same music they hear on the player-piano.
n
338 George St.
SYDNEY.


m
(Jhe largest selling
quality pencil in.
the world
VENUS
V PENCILS
nm
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere,
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
StaTv3arcL& & Hospital
Bfft&NDY
*92
•T'T "",1.
mm-ttfkg-
- «> a as
A rich, pure,
health giving
spirit, of
the highest
medical
character.
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
Tucker & Co., Ltd., Sydney
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
n
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YounfcLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
This is the BEST
Way to Mark
all Linen
w
r-
-+M}
I
m
MU
mm
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz.7/6—6 doz. 5/- —3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH
PTY.
LTD.
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND, VIC
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
Used the
World Over
E 5
MOTOR
...CARS
'A
/
S£i
jOHNSONs
CARBOKi
remover
- ror '
pETROf
Ihgihes
motorcars
MOTORCYCLES
11ARINEENGINES
SPARKPLUGS
>ATINT A»KIIP rOH.
Free your Car of
Carbon the Easy
Way—through
the Exhaust
Carbon Deposits can be
removed easily and safe-
ly by using Johnson’s
Carbon Remover. No need
to lay up your motor car when you follow this
satisfactory method. After one application your
car will run as it did the first 500 miles, and you
will secure maximum power and speed from the
minimum amount of fuel.
JOM
ggofl Behoves
is a harmless liquid to be poured or squirted
into the cylinders. Contains no acids and does
not affect lubrication or interfere with the oil in
the crank case. It is widely used.
Johnson’s Carbon Remover cures 80 c/ » of engine
troubles. It increases power, improves accelera-
tion, quiets your motor, saves your battenes,
lessens your repair bills and reduces your con-
sumption of petrol and oil.
No mechanical experience is necessary to use
Johnson’s Carbon Remover. You, yourself, can
obtain satisfactory results in five minutes. See
vour dealer today Get a tin of Johnson s Car-
bon Remover and learn for yourself just how
easy the Easy Way is.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, NSW
Sleuth and Ferguson, the “firebrands” who
led the Broken Hill strike of ’9l, and were
gaoled for it, were spruiking together in Syd-
ney Domain the other Sunday, in opposition
to the Bed Bags. They would have will-
ingly done it in ’9l, too, if there had been
any Bed Bag worth spruiking against.
“Merino”: There isn’t any obvious rela-
tion between leg-shows and sheep.. Yet the
shapely limb does its bit towards helping
along our wool-growing industry. Tights are
supposed to be made of silk: but experi-
ence proves the most suitable material
to be the very finest merino wool. It is flex-
ible, sufficiently warm even for the less torrid
shows, and absorbs perspiration in a way
that silk does not.
Another variety of servant has been de-
veloped. Her name is May. She was an
underling, and soon betrayed a lack of sunny
qualities that tended to the great unpopu-
larity she presently enjoyed in the family.
Then arose a disturbance in the kitchen.
The mistress intervened, and obliged May
with a week’s notice. “Pooh!” said the
domestic, “who cares for you or your week’s
noticeV I am bettor dressed than you, 1
am better looking, 1 play the piano better,
and I speak better English. If everybody
had their deserts I would be missus here.”
The first real train —a goods—rolled into
Bombala (N.SAV.) a few days ago, and pas-
senger traffic will probably start when there
has been an opening, 37 speeches and a
banquet. There is no need to hurry. It
is only 34 years since the first survey of
the line was made, and so many were made
afterwards that they came to be regarded
as a joke by the blue-noses, who continued
hauling their products to the seaboard with
great unconcern. The majority of them
will still do that, availing themselves of the
cheaper water freightage. What they wpnted
was a short, direct line to Twofold Bay;
what they’ve got is a long, terribly circuitous
line to Sydney.
The “Economy Conference,” engineered at
Bale and Warrnambool, and held in end-
bourne under the wings of the Taxpayers’
Association, was a dull, drab affair; and
the absence of young men was specially not-
able. The discussion was lifeless, the criti-
cism purely destructive and no new idea
was emitted. Even if it couldn’t have struck
the suggestion of reducing the absurd size
of every one of our seven Parliaments, on
the principle that the fewer the members
the fewer will be the demands for billets and
bonuses and grants, the Conference might at
least have ordered a pamphlet to be thrown
over every fence or pushed under every door
giving a reprint of Commonwealth Auditor-
General Israel’s annual report. Every year
that neglected public officer shows how hun-
dreds of thousands might be saved.
“0.K.”: Any member of the Vic. State
Parliament having no strong wowser vote to
bid for might fill a long-felt want by calling
a meeting to protest against further advertis-
ing of Mannix. The large majority of non-
Catholics are sick of all this talk about re-
quiring Mannix to take an oath of allegiance
ere he can land back in Australia. Many
• Catholics also .would gladly forget, if they
could, the prelate’s very name. Why, then, *
does the press continue to play into the
hands of the mischief-maker by publishing
his speeches and the yells of other self-
advertisers who protest against them? The
sane majority takes no more real interest
in the relicl prelate than it takes in bitter
sectarians or pudding-headed “patriots” who
pass futile resolutions in favor of his re-
moval, or exclusion, or arrest. Mannix is
looking fur notoriety. Dead silence would
put him on the same footing as a temperance
lecturer ignored by the press who, denied the
advertisement his soul thirsts for, is left to
teetotallers only, and they know by heart all
that he has to tell them.
A report on Bolshevik Bussia by an Eng-
lish committee summarised the case: —
The committee doubts whether so much human
misery has ever been the lot of any nation. In the
history of the modern world there is no parallel
for the power of officialdom in Russia.
But Australia moves on to challenge it. For
instance, when a union meeting was held at
Mount Morgan (Q.) about resuming pro-
duction the voting under the stern all-seeing
eye of union officialdom was unanimously
against work. When a secret ballot was
taken the votes were 7—(» against work and
547 in favor. The union policy is aimed at
always getting the strike started by a vote at
a sudden meeting held under the official eye
and with the official party in strong force,
leaving the ballot till afterwards if one
is taken at all. The Anti-Profiteering and
Fair Bents and Land Confiscation schemes
bristle with clauses about trials without jury
and decisions by Government officials sitting
without appeal. Labor members like Higgs
who offend party officials are disqualified by
officials without appeal to the people who
elected them. One Big Union officials issue
remarkable ukases just like any other bureau-
crats. Bo the thing progresses.
Concerning an old Australian astronomer:
In the Church of England Cemetery at Kincumber
(N.S.AV.) I found a tumble-down wooden palisading,
inside of which choked rose bushes struggled for life
among long rank grass. At one end, leaning
drunkenlv, was a dejected-looking tombstone, upon
which, by close inspection, might be deciphered the
inscription
Sacred to the memory of James Dunlop, F.R.S.,
London and Edinburgh, Member of the French In-
stitute and Astronomer Royal at the Observatory,
Parramatta. Born in Ayrshire, Scotland, 1798.
Served with Sir Thomas Brisbane. Died at Boora
Boora, Brisbane Water. September 1848.”
Sir Thomas Mitchell wrote thus: “When our late
King’s Astronomer at Parramatta, Mr. James Dunlop,
was assisting the fitting out of an exploratory expedi-
tion, destined for the interior, in 1835, he could not
find in the blacksmith’s shop at Parramatta a pair of
pincers that would grip the 'cistern of a mountain
barometer he wanted to unscrew and repair. To the
amazement of the surrounding smiths, he thrust the
useless pincers into the fire, set the bellows a-blowing
with the hand of a master of the craft, and very soon
produced upon the- anvil the form he required for
the purpose. Mr. Dunlop was a remarkable instance
of original genius. Originally a mechanic, his' mind
rose to the noblest object Of human pursuit, and
whilst at the Observatory at Parramatta he was the
referee on all subjects connected with astronomical
phenomena ; much information did he afford on other
subjects, even in mechanics.”


*3
£gsj | ; i
STORAGE
BATTERY
Every minute a battery
works there is evaporation
going on, but it affects the
water only—never the acid.
No matter how old the bat-
tery may be it has its full
supply of acid, and that
acid keeps its strength un-
less some of it happens to
spill out. Water is the only
thing that should ever be
put into your battery and
only enough of that to keep
the solution covering the
plates.
nm
n


CUUCURA HEALS
CH LD’S FACE
And Head of Red Blotches,,
Skin Red and Inflamed,
“When my son was about three
months old I noticed red blotches
on his face; they grew
worse and at last all his
face and head was affected.
They used to irritate him
so that he could not sleep.
The eruptions appeared
scattered and the skin was
red and inflamed.
“I was advised to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and sent for a
free sample. I bought more and in
about six weeks he was healed.”
(Signed) Mrs. H. H. Lipschinski,
Roberts Town, S. A.
Rely on Cuticura Soap, Ointment
and Talcum to care for your skin.
Soapls.,Talcumls.6d.,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
>.tiiVw
'ToV-x
”/7
is 'Arm
lI^ZM
:y
m
m:
m
Nature’s
Sweetest Gift
Just the unsullied breath of
lovely flowers, sweet and
lingering and true —Zenobia
Perfumes bring you that with
peerless fidelity and charm.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley is the
very soul of the flower; among per-
fumes of its kind it stands supreme.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom
a delightful perfume; delicate,
unobtrusive, refreshing. The
choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock
a revelation in perfumes. The
very breath of this sweet-scented
flower. A great Zenobia favourite.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA. LIMITED.
Loughborough, Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia :
(Wholesale only),
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
O, dimes and dollars! O, dollars and dimes!
Life is a struggle in these hard times.
Frantic financing wreck's caste and class,
Soon we’ll be living- on leaves and grass!
Wages increase, but we wince, you bet,
When we consider the goods we get.
But the goods are as good as the cash,.be sure,
When buying Woods' Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POS 111 FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET* OTTR PRICE LIST NOW.
‘TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Winter Underwear.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED.
SCOTCH ALL WOOL.
Vests.
.‘»9in.
23/-
Underpants.
:>9in. I
23/3 J
Less 59c i dozen.
Less 10% i dozen.
ALL SIZES IX STOCK.
nm
314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
xm
IR.JL^JL.TTO
A
“It’s a STETSON!”
Clothes may make a mail but a hat crowns
the effort.
To the thoughtful minded, personal pride
dictates the exercise of extreme care in
the selection of a hat.
Choose a STETSON and by the congratulations
from “ HER” and your other acquaintances, the
excellent fitting qualities, the lasting shapeliness
and unusual durability you will have reason
v to be proud of your decision. -
Sole Australasian Agents: P. B. SHEAXHER COY. LXD., Sydney, N.S.W.
L llr^ii h l ! tjy! % I llWli ill 1 •»
Waterman’sldea , ,
-r* f
How much did
O M
you say /
Don’t trust to memory over
prices or figures, Write them
down with Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pen. Carry one
with you wherever you go.
Three Types—“ Self-Filling, ” “ Safety ” . ana
“Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Center
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia : HAROLD D. DIXON,
xoj, Clarence Street, Sydney.
n
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & C 0... at their
Western Works., Sheffield.
I'or quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor., which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
T£a^
cj
Price 10/C of all stores,
representatives, Norman
If unable to procure send postal note to their
Baker & Tonsrhurst. 50 York Street. Sydney.
Diogenes lived in a tub, but Hobart Town
.Tack, a citizen of Sorell (Tas.), was more
up to date, for he camped inside a galvanised-
iron tank. He had one other habit that
marked him off from the ordinary ratepaying
citizen. He could drink a glass of beer
while standing on his head.
“T. 0.1.”: Talk about close elections, this
one would take some beating. For the
Brisbane district in 1554 Arthur Hodgson
and Dr. Lang were the candidates, and there
was a tie. Colonel Prior, the returning-
otticer, gave his casting vote in favor of
Hodgson, but old Bob Cribb found a flaw
and got a new writ. This time Lang was
returned by one vote. In those days Queens-
land hadn’t been separated from N. S. Wales.
"J.F.K.": “F. 8.” (B. 7/4/'2l| can see no
redeeming features in Queensland’s State
butcheries. Defalcations there may be, but
not by way of giving overweight to customers.
In Townsville recently the manager detected
a. shophand giving 2oz. overweight to a
prominent union official. The manager
promptly sacked the shophand for careless-
ness. Of course there was a strike, but tin*
Government upheld the manager and closed
all its Townsville shops until the hands saw
the light of reason and returned to work
unconditionally.
Charley Bryant, who, was an official
artist with the A.I.F. in France, returns tc
the sunshine on the Ceramic, due in Sydney
about the middle of June, lie began to
earn his crust as a clerk in the William-
street branch of the Bank of A'. S. Wales
when l-lilder was an accountant there.
Studying under W. Lister-Lister, lie ex-
hibited for some years at the Royal Art
Society; and then he moved on to London,
where he won some distinction as a marin**
painter. A member of the Chelsea Arts,
the Savage and the London Sketch clubs,
Charley has always received the glad
hand from his follow artists; and the bur-
lesque stunts that he and Hassall used to
give at the Saturday-night shows at tin*
Sketch were a big feature of the programme.
The Vic. Licenses Reduction Board has
awarded only £12,000 altogether to the
owners and occupiers of the 10 pubs in the
two licensing districts, Xunawading and
Boroondara, which went dry last October.
Of course there is tin outcry—tin* owners in
particular say they expected much more. But
what in the value of a license which, as it
were, hangs by a thread? Yet if the
authority which has the fixing of these com-
pensations takes what is, no doubt, tin* hard,
practical view with regard to the value of
threatened licenses, there is going to be a
horrible shortage of accommodation for
travellers, because owners will not put up big
buildings that are liable to have most of
their value destroyed in a few years, and the
charges will be governed by the scarcity.
The kiddies’ games reflect passing events;
and now the shattered marriage tie and the
frequent revolver become tin* subject of
“pretend.” “Let’s play married,” was the
first we heard about it, and this roused curi-
osity 'sufficiently to cause us to look at the
lanky girl who allotted the parts in the game.
She' elected to be the bride herself, and,
having chosen for her ’groom a youth with
one leg stockinged and the other bare,, told
him to find something to do for a pistol to
shoot, her with when he caught her with a
red-haired youth who was to be the other
man. She made out quite an interesting
cast, including a policeman; but still one
child was left in the cold, and complained.
“Oh, you can lx* tin* private detective,’ she
said, solving the difficulty. Is this the pictures
or the Evening Blues and the nightly Sin?
N. S. Wales used a new and complicated
preferential-voting system at last, general
election, and as a result an almost inextric-
able tangle has developed in filling Brook-
field’s old seat for Sturt. Prior to tin* last
election there was a Labor split on the
Barrier. The “industrialists” formed a
brand-new body, running Brookfield, O’Reilly
and' Hynes. The official Labor nominees
were Davidson, Wright and Webb. After
the race the placings were* Brookfield, David-
son and Nationalist. Doe; but Jabez Wright,
was close up fourth and full of running.
Hynes got 45 first-preference votes and
O’Reilly 34, but the latter received practi-
cally all Brookfield's surplus. Now the “in-
dustrialists” want O'Reilly appointed to the
vacancy, and have passed a resolution to this
effect for submission to the Speaker. <)n
the face of it Hynes seems entitled to the
seat, unless the Clerk of the House decides
that the late Brookfield was not a “party”
at all but a Government supporter, in which
case the nomination would go to ex-ALL.A.
Jabez Wright.
“Skyrider”: It is announced that Goul-
burn (N.S-W.) is again to become an im-
portant military centre. Its most famous
gold-braided episode was the court of inquiry
opened on Dec. 30, 1573, to investigate the
charges made by members of the Goulburn
Volunteer Rifles against their commander,
Cant. Rossi. The captain, who was an Italian
Count, but better known in N. S. Wales
as a breeder of fine horses, believed in the
doctrine of the divine right of officers, and
though lie did wonders in the way of organ-
ising the corps he ruled it with a rod of
iron. He was charged, inter alia, with
assaulting two members of the corps, dis-
missing on trivial grounds two 'others, in-
creasing the subscription to the company,
publicly reprimanding a corporal and even
attempting to dissolve the corps. After
a six days’ sitting the Court exonerated
Rossi of most of the charges, but said he
had shown a want of tact and prudence, and
it would be better if he were relieved of the
command. It was added that he should not
be punished, the worst that could be said
against him being that he had worked “not
wisely but too well.” Rossi, however, failed
to see the point, and wrote to the Governor
telling him so, and it took Hercules Robin-
son, backed by the Executive Council, some
weeks to get rid of him, the last document
in the case being practically a writ of dis-
missal. To-day Rossi’s flag hangs in St.
Saviour’s Cathedral, and there is a stone to
his memory in the same church. His Italian
mansion, Rossiville, once the show-place of
the district, is now a farmhouse, and Straw-
berry grazes over the lovely grounds.


O-iim
UixaiiigD:
W
.
■ m
jjjjg
i
£■
Gt£°
IT
flenrv
r c c o r d s
cjcclusivel i
T) r /^(?
Columbia
Grafonola
For orchestral music and chamber
music the Grafonola is unequalled
HE great conductor raises the baton.
Attention!
Every member of the vast orchestra is
alert. The baton descends and the players
are galvanised into life!
Whether there issue an avalanche of sound
or a half-heard whispering pianissimo, the
audience is gripped at once.
To be a good conductor requires special
qualification. To be a great conductor-
one with a settled, international reputation
—demands a profound musicianship and a
strong personal magnetism.
Sir Henry Wood has demonstrated his great
gift of leadership by the manner in which he
impresses himself on every player, colors
his mind and inspires his actions. This
great conductor is the focal point which
collects the mult farious streams of sound
into one torrent of triumphant harmony.
Orchestral music is perhaps the most popu-
lar. Witness the appreciation of any
audience during orchestral numbers!
Moreover, the great composers —the Olym-
pians—wrote their greatest works for or-
chestra. Without it, their grandest mes-
sages could not have been sent out. With-
out, it the great concertos, symphonies and
overtures would have been impossible of
proper rendition.
With the Columbia Grafonola, not only Sir
Henry Wood’s successes, but numberless
others, are available to you. No need to
go away from your own land —not even
away from your home.
The Grafonola brings the the whole world
of music into your very room.
The perfect encore —a Columbia
Record on the Graf on ola
Columbia
mn
r-
magic notes
Columbia
Records
of Sir Henry Wood's
successes:
L. 1006 (Shepherd’s Hey, No. 16
(Percy A. Grainger)
(Symphony, No. 4 (111)
Scherzo .... (Tschaikowsky)
L. 1021 (Tannhauser—“Grand March”
(Wagner)
(“Coriolan” Overture in “C”
Minor (Beethoven)
L. 1027 (The Valkyries: "The Ride of
• the Valkyries” ... (Wagner)
(The Twilight of the Gods—
" Song of the K h i n e
Daughters” (Wagner)
L. 1067 (Till’s Merry Pranks (A
Rogue’s Rondo) Part 1
(Strauss)
(Till’s Merry Pranks (A
Rogue’s Rondo) Part 2
(Strauss)
L. 1071 (Elgar Concerto in “B” Minor
for Violin & Orchestra
(Elgar)
(a) Allegro, (b) Andante ....
With Violin solos by Albert
Sammons.
L. 1072 (c) Lento, (d) Allegro-Molto ..
With Violin solos by Albert
Sammons.
L. 1148 (Capriccio Espagnol. Part 1.
Alborada; Scena e Canto Gi-
tano. Part 2. Fandango; As-
turiar.o (Rimsky-Korsakoff)
L. 1172 (“L’Apprenti Sorcier”—Scherzo
(The Sorcerer’s Apprentice) .
(Dukas)
(“The Flying Dutchman”—
Overture (Wagner)


Saunders’ Solid Leather Kit Bag, Nickel
Locks and Clips, 16in., 30/-, 40/-
Saunders’
Writing; Attache Case, fitted with necessary
conveniences. £4/1.0/-
Others, £3/10/-, £5/10/-
w 1
h. <%-
sf# 1
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush and Comb, plain design,
hand burnished, finest quality bristles, in silk-lined case,
60/-
U TD -CLU TJX c
Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite
Handles, pure Silver-plated Mounts, -1 07-
Others, 45/-, 50/-, 55/-, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing pieces. Sheffield
Steel Knives, Xylonite Handles, pure Silver-plated Spoons and
Forks, etc., A quality, in Oak Case, £35.
Others, £l5/10/-. £l7/10/-. £2l. £25.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805=815 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit Case, doth
lined, Nickel Side Locks, Leather Handles,
Capped Corners —
20in., 75/-; 22in., 80/-; 24in., 85/-;
26in., 90/-
Saunders’ l/idy’s Work Basket, leather top, fitted
with all Sewing Requisites, £3/5/-
f
BRITISH IHAIIUFACJ'URE
A. Saunders’ Cent's \ Dressing Case, sohd leather,
with every convenience, 55/-
fitted
m
sr
Electric Lighting for Country Homes.
PLENTY of good light is a real necessity on the farm most mornings
and every night throughout the year.
Electricity provides .the safest, cleanest, most convenient and best
artificial light procurable. It gives you the same lighting facilities as
are enjoyed by your city friends.
An electric-lighting plant on your farm or homestead is not an
expense. It is a paying investment, and will permanently increase
the value of your property. It will provide a constant source of current
ready for instant use at the turn of a switch. In addition to lighting,
it will furnishpporerw r er for Electric Fans, Heaters, Laundry Irons,
Washing Machines, Pumps, Grinders, Clippers, Separators, Churns, etc.
Both of the sets shown here are so simple that a child can op< t a e
them with perfect ease and safet y. , Current may he used while f
generator is running, or it may he use 1 from the storage batteries w lien
the plant is idle. An automatic signal indicates when the storage
battery is nearly discharged.
Next time you are in town, ca II on us and ask for a demonstration.
We will gladly give you full parties liars, and an estimate for a complete
installation to suit your particular requirements.
Interesting literature is available for the asking,
and address NOW!
Send your name
LALLEY- LIGHT
The Ball-Bearing Electric Light Plant
FILM
rp«&-
yidfflir
p®
LALLCV m STAKrfS i LIGHT
it 8.. —■
1000-watt
capacity.
Supplies
40 to 50
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Plant is
27in. long.
14in. wide,
21in. high.
JOHN
"'//////''
1
£/'"///
0
V,/'-
21
////////////////Z
IN
rv/.
Ir
%////' v»-
& SON-Pty Ltd,
391-403 Bourke St., Melbouirne
324-330 Pitt Sydney
1250-watt
capacity.
Supplies
60 to 70
16-c.p. lights
continuously.
Occupies a
floor space of
x
12 kin.
1


From the S. M. llekai.d :—•
Whence did this army (the A.1.F.) spring? Did it
come from the disloyalists of the community In
Digger slang it may be replied: "No chance! It
sprang from the highest patriotism and from the
sense of responsible citizenship which he.ped to
launch the first Defence Act imposing compulsory
training as the democratic duty of all.
That is so. It sprang from the first Defence
Act, which the S. M. Herald said over and
over again was a disloyal measure, intro-
duced by Labor disloyalists, with the object
primarily of cutting the painter and making
Australia a republic! And the Herald and
its tribe never change; for the same old
party purposes they are still branding decent
patriots as disloyalists—and thereby doing
their best to make them so.
“B.”: Ilarcourt’s Force that was in North
Russia in 3019 was a mixed team all right.
There were Australians, Tommies, S’Afri-
cans, Maorilanders, Canadians, a Yank, a
Russian, a Frenchman and several ex-
Scotch and Irish Guardsmen. There was
also a Dane who was in F.S.A. when the
war broke out, and enlisted in the Canadian
Seaforth Highlanders. One of the K’At'ri-
•ans joined the camp in England wearing a
kilt, but he had never been any nearer Scot-
land than Euston Station. Several of his
cobbers couldn’t make themselves understood
in English, and spoke Dutch among them-
selves.
Amusements.
JB YI) N K Y’S CHI E F T HEATRE S.
*' J. C. Williamson, I.td., Direction.
OFFER:
I-IEIt MAJESTY'S.
. t ■ ' . ;
FIREFLY.
CRITERION.
SCANDAL.
PALACE.
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
ROYAL.
ANNETTE KELLERMAN.
y>l (> N ric:ti: i: io iii i<: ,\ tit k s
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, OLOP.E, LYRIC EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING'S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Amusement*
AU, ..\ WII,Ji I E MlAKsl'li VUEAN
PKOD.UCTIOXS.
THEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Season- Ending June I.Y
\n»triil:isiiin Representative-: HUGH I). WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J.
C. tVHAIAMSOX, LTi)., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
REVIVAL OF THE POPULAR SUCCESS,
GOING UP.
THEATRE ROYAL.
Tiie Greatest of all Musical Comedv Successes,
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S Til HAT It IC. MEIItO ST U N E
Direction, J. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS OF
JOHN D. O’HARA and JULES JORDAN in
WELCOME STRANGER.
The Play of Unexpected Thrills, Plan at Allan’s.
Hoyts theatres, Melbourne
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Rridir***
GLADYS WALTON in
RISKY BUSINESS.
Also
OWEN MOORE in
THE CHICKEN IN THE CASE.
Prices as usual.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
jy| A.IIC.STIC Til HAT it 10, JIELIiOI UNE
COMMICXUING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
' in
THE SOUL OF RAFAEL.
Matinees daily at 2.50. Nights at S.
Q 1 ACiARI U SI, MICI. 15 O 1 It XK.
ICE SKATING.
EVERV AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS . . 2<i
EVENINGS 2/3
TO«N HA L L, M E L 15 O l It X E.
* Direction J. and N. TAiT.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINIST.
JASCHA HEIFETZ.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday). -II NK 2.
SATURDAY, JUNE 4, and MONDAY, JUNE f,.
Plans at Allan’s.
|y|ICI.KA THE AT RE;. MICLISOL KMC.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGUAPH, PATIIE
WORLD and SICLZNICK.
Do you enjoy
good music?
The marvellous realism
of the New Edison
crdu
m.
means good music and the art of great artists
can be enjoyed in the home.
The NEW EDISON
gives n result so perfect, so complete and so lifelike that the Re-Creation
cannot be distinguished from the original music when both are heard in direct
comparison.
The New Edison catches the very soul of music. That is why the heart of the
music-lover responds to a Re-Creation by the New Edison, even as it responds
to the art of the living artist.
Let us send you literature describing this wonderful musical instrument —post
free, on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
|g 1(1 TAN NIA '•’HISATKK. .\I ICLItG Lli Mi.
Tin-: latest and best in
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
pom EXT HA WATSON RECITALS,
• Commencing SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 4.
in TIIE PLAYHOUSE.
MONDAY. .JUNE 0 (King’s Rirth-lay).
Special Extra Recital.
POPULAR PATRIOTIC PROGRAMME.
SYDNEY. KING’S HALL. JULY 2.
3/-, 2/-. 1/- (plus Tax). Plans at The Pianola.
CARLYLE SMYTIIE.
Government Notices.
WAR GRATUITY HOARD.
NOTICE.
A CLAIM has been Indued by a dependant
for payment of War Gratuity in
respect of the services of the undernamed
soldier, who is required to communicate with
the District Finance Officer, 6th Military
District, Anglosea Barracks, Ilobart, on or
before June 1(i, 1020, failing which the case
will be considered by the “Prescribed
A uthority.”
(’LARK. JOSEI’II EDWARD, No. 402,
L/Corporal, 4th Machine Gun Battalion,
A.I.F.
(Sgd.) W. W. ALDERMAN, Lieutenant-
< 'olonol, Agent for "The Prescribed
Authority,” War Gratuity Board, Hobart.
CENTRAL WAR GRATUITY BOARD.
. NOTICE.
A CLAIM has boon lodged by o dependant
for payment of \Vui? Gratuity in
respect of the services of t.he undornamod
soldier, who is required to communicate with
the Central War Gratuity Board, Victoria
Barracks, Melbourne, on or before June 16,
1021, failing which the cane will be con-
sidered by the “Prescribed Authority.”
CLARKE, RAMI'EL JOHN, No. 2221), Cor-
poral, 12tli Battalion, A.I.F. «
(Rgd.) CHAR. V. WATSON, Lieutenant-
Colonel. Chairman, Central War Gratuity
Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
We Desire
to Buy
m
Platinum. Gold, Silver, in any quanti-
ties, for melting purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Diamonds, Pearls, Emeralds and other
fine Jewels we desire to buy.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
“WEE MacGREGOR”
Portable Petrol Drag Saw 8 Power Plant
Cuts ten times more wood than two men.
Send NOW
for details,
which are
Post FREE
il
m
ml
m
m
MS
m
mi
Also Drives Pump,
Chaffcutter, etc.
Wee MacGregor is just the outfit
that farmers have been waiting
for. No more slow, laborious
clearing with cross-cut saws.
Wee MacGregor cuts ten times
as much wood as two men, and
gets your land cleared in no time.
No matter whether logs are on a
slope or level, Wee MacGregor is
adaptable to all positions—one
man operates it—two men can
take it anywhere. For clearing
land, it is worth its price alone.
But Wee MacGregor is never idle. Its reliable
4-H.P. Engine will drive the pump, chaffcutter,
feed-mill, separator, sawbench, grindstone, or
any other machine. It pays for itself in no time.
Simply feed Wee MacGregor with fuel and oil,
and it works hour after hour and never gets the
tired feeling. Engine is sturdily built and
equipped with Water-proof Magneto, assuring
a quiet, certain start in any weather.
The Wee MacGregor Frame is
strongly built of hard wood to stand
any strain. The Patent Saw Holder
saves time and money, and is exclu-
sive.
Wee MacGregor is made in Australia, and we
guarantee its efficiency and reliability. Send for
full particulars now.
Full particulars from
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PARKE <& LACY CO.
60 CLARENCE STREET* SYDNEY
LTD.,


J
MS
r
n
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber's.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
'e-wf
vamm
Ml
n
//
COCOA
/
MILL S :
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE COUTH,
Victoria.
Agents:—
A. VICTOR I. KG GO & CO.,
7 Hamilton Street. Sydney.
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
MUNICIPAL DIRECTORY FOR 1921.
•30th Edition. 792 pages. Crown Bvo.
Replete with full information—
COMMONWEALTH,
STATE OF VICTORIA.
MUNICIPAL.
WATER SUPPLY AND IRRIGATION.
ARNALL & JACKSON,
Printers, Publishers, Lithographers & Bookbinders,
478 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A PRETTY GIRL IS
LIKE A MELODY.
We have them in -thousands, for every
taste. Real Photos—S tunning
Beauties —Snappy Pictures.
A magnificent photogravure of Austra-
lia’s Venus, post ..free 5/-
Or the matchless series of 12, £2/2/-
PASADENA ART Co.
Central Chambers,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.'
Hek Majesty's “Firefly 1 *
i hiteriox “Scandal”
Palace "Nightie Night’
Royal i. Annette Kellerman
Tivoli Moving Pictures and Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Going Up”
Royal , “The Maid of the Mountains”
King's “Welcome Stranger”
Tivoli Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciabium Ice Skating
Totvx Hall Jascha Heifetz
♦ :
After another visit to Sydney Cri.: —
When the curtain was raised sufficiently to expose
ihe double-bed to the view of the gods, the imita-
tion Constance Talmadge in the tier below me put
the brake on her lower jaw and slowly ceased her
chewing; the elderly gentleman beside me, who had
been craning his neck to view the entrance of Wealth
into the boxes, glanced at the bed and let his eyes
linger until, in response to an augry command from
the tiers above us, lie sat down hurriedly; Warm,
chocolatey breath, striking the back of my neck
with a cadence that indicated a fluttering- heart, told
me that the bed had impressed tile lady above and
behind me; on my remaining side, the lady whose
engagement ring 1 had admired during the interval
looked shyly at the bed, then, hands clasped, diverted
her gaze to Heaven. Not a word had been spoken
on the stage.
The old gent, on my right was straining like a
dog in the leash when the action commenced. After
two minutes of small talk he shook his fist at the
characters and exclaimed, as though disgusted and
disillusioned, “Aw, fork, nothin’ but tork!” A
moment later the maid rushed towards the bed, and
gleefullx cried, “All, ze bed!” The old fellow
nudged me with his elbow and chuckled with satis-
fuction; the chocolatey breathing became gasps;
irom the bride-to-be came a long drawn-out sigh: and
Constance was fidgeting against my shins.
Soon it was apparent that the audience’s appetite
was for bed and nothing but bed. It got plenty
of what it wanted.
When the leading lady was brought three square
inches nearer to nudity by getting her shoulder-strap
rudely torn off, a thousand bodies sat bolt upright,
and 1 received a shower of chocolates from behind.
But (another blow!) the undressing was completed
off-stage.
While the lady was slowly making her way from
her dressing-room to the bed the silence was un-
broken save for a cough from someone who had
held his breath too long. She got into bed. The
man advanced towards (lie bed; Hardly anyone in
lire gallery was breathing now, A few words from
the man, and then he threw the key on the heel
aud left the loom. Curtain. For a. second the
house hfld its applause, as though expecting some-
thing when the curtain was raised again. A Digger
had commenced “Now, in Puree in nineteen-nineteen”
"CHU CHIN CROW,"
AT SYDNEY OPERA
ROUSE.
Arlhur Stpan as Chu Chin Chow, the
robber chief.
- A burst of applause drowned the rest of his
sentence. When quiet came his friend replied:
"They’d never go that far out here.”
“Scandal” will be a success until the property-
man mislays the bed.
“Firefly” continues to draw well at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, though not a wowser has'
been near the box-office for the last 10 days.
Wowserdom has been attracted elsewhere
since certain features of the show un the
street were emphasised in the press.*
The advent of a real bedroom comedy in
the same street hasn’t blunted the Sydney
public’s desire to see “Nightie Night” at
the Palace. There is no double-bed in
"Nightie Night,” but there is a suit, of
pyjamas, with a lady therein encased.
There is also one .7. Coyne, and Coyne is
an actor of parts.
One clerk in the Federal Revenue Depart-
ment has a permanent overtime job handling
amusement taxes while Sydney Tivoli’s
mixed programme continues. This week Ivy
Shilling has* appeared in an old “Lilac
Domino” favorite, and in a dramatic piece of
footwork as a midnight burglar. “Peaceful
A alley,” starring Charles Ray as the lanky
rural hero, manages by sheer merit to just
hold its own against the local Selection
comedy in town. A varied vaudeville troupe
is wedged between Ivy and Charles, or,
rather, was until Ivy wrenched her shoulder.
That mishap will keep her out of the bill for
a few days.
Sydney Crystal Palace and Strand are
feeding their audiences on a diet of Chris-
tian slaves. At the Lyceum and Crystal
Palace Madge Kennedy proves that as a
shopgirl she can trade in commonsense as
well as corsets; so the blue-blooded family
decides to overlook the shop. The Lyceum
spends what time it has over with Frank
Keenan, who i.s first a political boss and
next a high-minded mill-hand who breaks the
record for obstinate jurymen by holding out
for 157 hours against a murder conviction for
the woman he loves. Finally he narks the
jury by confessing he did it himself. At the
Globe and 1 lay market Dorothy Dickson has
a good run for her wealthy husband's money
before “Paying the Piper,” and the same
address finds Dorothy Dalton making a
novel use of a dictaphone in a breach-of-
promise case. And Rudd’s “New Selection”
has settled down for a crowded week at the
Lyric and the Strand.
*
Light opera in picture frames: —
The work of Blarnire Young is the light opera on
tlie stage of Australian pictorial art. As in the
other light opera there are occasional glimpses ol
truth; but it is so adulterated as to almost pass
unnoticed. llis work, like that of Miss Thea
Proctor, though giving more than a hint of the
ability behind it, generally belongs to the really,
good smart-magazine-cover department of art, and
probably does not pretend to be more than that.
Perhaps, if viewed on any other than a wet, dis-
mal day, naturally conducive to a serious frame of
mind, these pictures might please as delightful unre-
alities ; yet they are not quite that, for both artists
appear to waver between Hat decoration and realism,
and occasionally attempt a mixture with poor re-
sults, as in Blarnire Young’s “Painting the Ship’s
Lady” (No. 12), where he makes his background
a .carefully-modelled building, with a foreground of
large figures which might have been cut from colored
paper and glued on; and again in his “Plight”
(No. 2), which has realistic people and a donkey,
but a sky which, owitig to his peculiar water-color
texture, suggests it blue blanket and a grassy hill
that looks like an upright piece of green baize.
Both artists at times drop fiat decoration for attempts
at more actual representation; and here Miss Proctor
is seen at her best in “Blue Sofa” (No. 31), which
has some quality of light, but is careless. Blarnire
Young does the same thing in one or two of his
rolling landscapes. Both appear to be making an
attempt to put joy. into art; but if it is possible
along their lines, the result, to be entirely success-
ful, should instil joy, no matter what the mood of
the observer. Given the aforesaid dismal day and
the consequent serious frame of mind, something
of relief comes in turning to the less pretentious
work and frank realism of Miss Bernice Edwell’s
miniatures. “An Australian Artist” (No. 11),
“Padre” (No. 2) and “The Altar Server” (No. 30)
are her best. All are well-painted heads, equally good
in tone, form and color, and certainly the best
work in the exhibition at Gavfield Shaw’s rooms in
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
K' :£ a:
Superlative executive ability is the con-
spicuous feature of Jascha. Heifetz, who com-
menced a season of recitals at Melbourne
Town Hall last Saturday night. Technically
the youth is already a master, and critics
will have to rummage the dictionary to find
an adjective sufficiently novel and arresting
to describe this astonishing side of his art.
lie travels with almost triumphant nonchal-
ance through the weird complexities and
tortuous scintillations of a Paganini Caprice.
He is equally brilliant in Brahms’s “Hun-
garian Dance No. 7,” and he pours out notes
of flawless musical contour in the “Melodic”
of Tschaikowsky and in the quick, hectic
disturbance of Bazzjni’s “Ronde des Lutins.”
Rut it is Mendelssohn’s well-known “Con-
certo in E Minor” which reveals Heifetz’s
quality as a musician. On Saturday he
played the piece with an unblemished tone
and beauty of performance that inevitably
captured the ears of fiddlers who understand
the fine effort the composition calls for. In-
cluding also in his programme Handel’s
“Sonata in D Major” and Auer’s dainty
arrangement of Chopin’s “Nocturne in E
Minor,” Heifetz demonstrated that his de-
velopment from the prodigy to the virtuoso
has-left him without any spectacular charac-
teristics. In fact, he is a rather aloof
young man, from whom sutlie would welcome
a stronger suggestion of personality or tem-
perament coloring the great music that comes
from his bow.
Now that “Maid of the-'Mountains” has
turned 150 nights at Melbourne Royal, it
seems a fjir thing to expect Chisholm to
get a little more curve into his action, and
take a lot of rasping twang out of his
intonation. His good baritone singing is
still very much in advance of the rest of his
performance, and one feels that the young
man has not been trying his Hardest to learn
to act in an unbecoming uniform. Further
effort is all the more called for because his
ditty with the chorus-girls in Act - is
absurdly misplaced.
"Going Up,” _ revived’ at Melbourne
Majesty’s for a few nights, has Dorothy
B run ton to give a faint air of newness to
its female sider. The best side -of “Going
Up,” however, is wholly masculine, and the
supreme moments of this comedy with tunes
in it are those devoted to the agonies of a
"SCANDAL,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The bed stirs the Major (H. R. Roberts)
to reminiscence.
restless man with an enlarged grimace, who
is getting couched in aviation by a face
almost equally appalling. It is liot a bad
comedy; but, somehow, the combination of
William Greene, Field Fisher, Frith, Wil-
loughby, Millie Engler, Madge Elliott, Cyril
Ritclmrds, etc., has never cut much ice in
the estimation of exacting theatregoers, and
the gaiety of Dorothy Brunton would make
little difference in the general effect even
though she had twice as much ginger and a
louder singing voice. “Going lip” is for
12 nights, and then a new piece tries its
luck.
“Welcome Stranger,” at Melbourne King’s,
has reached the last-nights stage. Jules
Jordan’s idealised picture of phenomenal
Yiddish imperturbability maintaining itself
under incredible conditions, and making excit-
able Gentile imbecility sing small, will last
until Thursday of next week, June 9. On
that occasion Lizette l’arkes, says the advt.,
will make her last appearance an the Mel-
bourne stage, where she has so often uttered
sounds of sorrow and bemoaned her cruel
fate. Persons desirous of witnessing Lizette’s
final sufferings from false suspicion must
hurry up before Marie Tempest arrives on
the 11th.
At Melbourne Tivoli this week Katherine
Macdonald relieves the monotony of upper-
crust social life by marrying a burglar, and
so forth; and there is a Max Bennettcomedy
that is rampageous drivel. On the vaude-
ville part of tho_ bill Moon and Morris,
formerly of the King’s panto, are amusing
before they begin to dance, and weirdly
graceful afterwards; alsp, Devon Brock is
a pleasing baritone singer until he forces
his voice, and Eleanor Crane has a promis-
ing idea of how to sing vaudeville songs with
a male accompanist at the piano.
Two Melbourne color-shows :
Portrait- and figure-painters are not conspicuous
in the Vic. Artists’ annual show at their galleries
in East Melbourne. Leslie Wilkie sends a study of
a girl in a pink dress which is acceptable, though
it hasn’t great charm of color or composition. Ber-
nard Hall hangs the bust of a lady whose red hair is
out of tune with her background, while her chilly
flesh sets one shivering. Miss .P. Hurry’s portraits
(Nos. 2 and 110) are uncompromising in the style
made familiar by Meldrum, whereas W. Rowbothani
pursties a line of his own in his colorful canvas of
niggers going to market. Miss A. R. Dent, has
turned a mild and popular Scot into a fierce High-
land chief who looks as if he would leap from the
frame at any moment. Miss H. Irvine revives her
splashy manner for a picture of an elderly lady
with a pale blue kimono. “The Morning Walk,”
by G. H. Growcott, exhibits a nice girl in a white
fur stole, but artistically -she is only tolerable. The
discreet views of semi-nudes in pastel by Miss Dora
Wilson are received with thanks, and Miss Gumbrae
Stewart deserves an honorable mention for the un-
dressed beauty crouched beside a superfluous Chinese
vase. Among the landscapes first prize for quantity
goes to F. G. Reynolds for a vast and exuberant
study of Melbourne’s Henley. The artist isn’t suffi-
ciently fastidious in his palette to make a success
of the subject, but the posing of a couple of apples
in the foreground discloses that his appetite for
detail is unusual.
Arthur Streeton is represented at this show
by a beautiful view from Barrett’s Point, Portsea,
but his “Ocean Solitude, Lome,” is marked by over-
emphasis of the brilliant blue sea. George Lambert’s
one exhibit is “The Black Hut,” a small undistin-
guished canvas whereof the salient feature is a
well-drawn horse. George Bell's English landscape-
are not startling, but his still life of a couple of
roses in a glass is an excellent bit of painting. Tlic
bright red chimney and shrill blue roof "of a farm-
house damage the repose of Norman Mac George’s
“Country Hillside,” and R. Taylor Ghee adepts a
bilious attitude towards the Flinders-street Railway
Station and the Yarra Swinging Basin. C. Hampel
is the author o i an appealing little landscape, much
more veracious in its sunset effects than Walter J.
Anderson's stodgy effort in the Central Gallery. W.
D. Knox maintains his affection for panoramic land-
scapes where everything is set out in its Sunday
best and even bogs are given a cheerful disposition.
Arthur Boyd has a more realistic study of moonlight
on water than his more romantic namesake Pen-
leigh. Septimus Power contributes a proud bit of
horseflesh with a dapper gentleman thereon, and IV.
Beckwith Mclnnes reveals his broad and confident
craftsmanship in the green, purple and clay trim-
mings of a stretch of river bank. E. Buckmaster
scores in “Mists of the Evening,” a carefully con-
sidered picture of silver and gloom which he dis-
covered about the electric-light works on the Yarra
at Richmond. A couple of small landscapes, wherein
the bright background seems to peer between the
branches of the trim foreground trees, earn full
marks for .1. J. Collins. George Benson’s “Wood’s
Point,” Harold Herbert’s “Across the Paddocks.”
Daryl Lindsay’s “Mount Morgan,” and some sketches
by R. W. Sturgess and W. M. Whitney are the cream
of the water-color section. Miss Christian Yandell is
still expert in pen and ink, and “The Magi” and
“Fauns and Centaurs” demonstrate Napier Waller’s
cleverness as an illustrator in color. Miss J. C.
Traill is the most imaginative of the etchers, but
there is little worth noting in the sculpture, barring
Harold Parker’s vital head of his father.
People in search of a sunbath this wintry weathe"
shouldn’t visit the landscape exhibition by John
Rowell at the Melbourne Athenaeum. The artist, who
uses a restrained brush and the morbid Meldrum
palette, pictures bush shacks, church roofs, solemn
old roads and drooping trees with all the ardor for
dull things which distinguish the school. The effect
of his work is therefore rather depressing, though he
is an undeniably promising painter who discloses his
best art in “New-mown Hay,” “Stacking” and other
faithful wheatfield studies. His still lifes are also
good, a siinifle little effort, “Marigolds” (No. 38),
affording one of the few flashes of bright color in
the show.
The Huyiphi’ey Bishop Co. Inis been
ordered by General Desire to stay on for it
third week at Adelaide Royal. It has all
the usual features —a ventriloquist. male
quartette, soUbrette work, man and girl at
the piano, and so on. Joseph Brennan and
Ida Newton are the only old friends, and the
newcomers are a uniformly sound crowd.
Another variety show is at. the Prince of
Wales, where Walter George and Co. have
charge of half the programme with “tabloid"
musical comedy. Alexander Watson, at the
Town Hall, jumps from Dickens to Tennyson,
from Shakspeare to Banjo Paterson, and
does it with ease. In pictures “The Betrayer’’
at West’s scores by its Australian interest,
the scenes Hitting from Rotorua to Coogee.
The central idea is not pleasant, but all ends
well. John Cosgrove is remarkable as being
“GOING UP” REVIVAL, AT HER
MA'JESTY’S, MELBOURNE.
THE Author ( Alfred Frith) and the aviation
coach (Field Fisher) watch the fight
of an imaginary aeroplane.
the only comic fat man who ever developed
into a conventional villain : also for spending
much time on the floor, the nearest able-
bodied person always sending him down for
the count when he starts to be villainous.
But why has good Australian acting been
entrusted to a Yankee producer who makes
a rejected lover say to the girl “You threw
me down pretty hard.” and a Sydney banker-
say to his rival: “I’m out to get you?”


Long-Life Footwear
Murdochs Famous
“Armourite” Boots
a \ KMOURITE” is the finest Men’s Footwear
JL\ value extant!
Added Co the elegance of outline and smart
stylish finish, these boots possess special wear-
resisting properties that prolong the life of
each pair.
“Armourite” Soles are subjected to special treatment
during the tanning process, which impregnates not only
the surface but the whole of the leather with extraor-
dinary wearing properties.
MEN’S BLACK BOX CALF BALMORAL
AND DERBY BOOTS, fashioned in speci-
ally-selected Box Calf of enduring quality.
Fitted with “Armourite” Welted Soles.
Made on . easy-fitting, natural-form last,
roomy and comfortable. A shapely model
that will render excellent service.
Murdoch’s
Good Value
326
When Ordering be sure and
state Size, and Address your
letter to DESK 11.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
MURDOCH’^
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
" The World’s Largest Men’s
and Boys’ Wear Store.”
£7^
25
m
\ i
JP,
i
] A
Mi-
•V.,V
*
K.X
j c 3skt?& t* * ?»;
:>.4 W*
i
J7aV-»
at
\ ?S
>
c&c
ry \
Vf
*\ V 'JM' ,-'^%X
***
SV*
V W
• s \ $ /; |& ; »•;Jr
L 7
' ' V \
: x i
S\;jf. #
'■s
n tfIHL .
u
f I ! 8 #JVv
k 1 p£z
h.'.
X
f /
x.. -;*•
-*'■<
...\
► kx
1:7
wKr**a m
£
\
(SO*
X V
(.8
' X v\ .*
i v v>
*v\' >\ ;
**' K Sj jl\/>
X*
.NX
f#, ijffj
W
F\N:/
\:f
W 'J
V-.*/
F A
V . v >' .£
ws*} 6LV
iori
& f
«
.V
k*9
* v
- *
«?.■
t/
M
NX
■ .*■•>
!3a
*»'!*»>} ; 4
*'3T
:
f "X ! X
A N -X
5?
ml/'*?/ •?. .‘fsNJfc. n*Y 7
.-v • «,. ' L'.'- BxT~X •• \l!„
rw.l
itf) /i®!
-W/'
rn
. Hx #
The enormous difference in
value between a fabric which
fades and one which is fadeless
is obvious.
The colour element in
SUNDOUR
UNFADABLE
FABRICS
is indestructible, thus
ensuring lasting harmony
in home furnishings.
Sundour is mode in a
great variety of fabrics
including Casement Cloths,
Damasks. Tapestries, Reps,
Chenilles, Madras Muslins,efo
also
sundour Washable Rugs
for Bathroom, Bedroom or Nursery
Of s// the best FurnishrrJ
Morton Sundour £6ncsJ
(Trade Or A,) Qr/i's/c .
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
m
WILLIAM
Packed always in red boxes.
Prices:—
3 56, 7/6, 12/6, 20 -&30 -
Post free to any address in Australia.
ERNEST HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
m
VM
Touch the
BLUE-JAY
corn with
and it goes
THE “Blue-Jay” method is
simple yet scientific*, easy
yet efficient, painless yet a
permanent cure for the worst corn.
The moment a “Blue-Jay” Plaster
is applied, the pain stops. Wear
it with complete comfort for 48
hours, and the corn is loosened
and comes right away. Only very
tough corns need longer treatment.
“Blue-Jay” is a scientific prepara-
tion. The man who produced it
had made a life study of surgical
dressings. Note the illustration
below!
The felt pad, marked “A,” re-
moves pressure and stops the pain.
Tiie wax, marked “B,” acts on the
corn alone, and nowhere else. “C”
is a rubber-coated, moisture-proof
tape, which adheres snugly and
securely.
s
Blue s jay
The Scierv+i+ic
Corrv Er\der
“BLUE-JAY” CORN PLASTERS, 6 in Packet
“BLUE-JAY” BUNION PLASTERS, 4 in Packet . . .
All Good Chemists will supply
1/6


Whole
Pearl
Necklets
33003-
From £t()/10/- op to
£3OOO.
we sell large numbers of. We handle Pearls
in great quantities direct from the shell to the
fascinating finished Necklet. We export them
to various parts of the world. Handling them
in large quantities at. the source of supplies,
and only for spot cash, enables us to produce
the fine strings at prices lower than in London.
We think we entry the largest stock of loose
pearls in Australia, and amongst them are
many notable gei%s of great size and rare
beauty.
Just now we are specialising in producing
specially fine Pearl Strings, with Diamond
Clasps, at £lOO each. They are superlative,
values. Others range from £lO/10/- to £3OOO
each.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Missing Friends.
TXT I LI. JAMES STITT, last heard of at
VV Moree about two years ago, or any-
body knowing his whereabouts, communicate
with Messrs. Fraser and Oliver, Solicitors,
Tumut, who hold money for him.
AY. .T. FRASER, *
Solicitor, Tumut.
Missing- Friends.
L.E lIARIA KELLY, lute of Ireland Street, Bright,
rv Victoria, widow. deceased. Let EDWARD
KELLY, a son of the abovenatned deacesed, at once
communicate with the undersigned and he will hear
of something to his advantage.
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
| Street, Melbourne.
The Shoe Polish Super Excellent.
Rostock’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formula of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
THE SIGN OF T
PERFECTION I
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox' Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Nigger Brown Cream, in Bottles and Tubes, Nigger Brown
Paste, in Tins, are now on Sale,
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
the awful cost of indigestion.
KEEPS THOUSANDS POOR, WEAK
AND DISCOURAGED'.
Many stomach sufferers are continui t»-
trying new ‘"remedies" for indigestion and
similar troubles, and they waste pounds hi
this way in the course of a year. Others
try expensive diets in order to secure a little
relief from their distressing complaints.
Usually it is all in vain, and they only get
more hopeless than ever. Why don t all
these folk adopt the advice* of those who
used to suffer but who now eat what they
like, and take Bisurated Magnesia? It's so
very safe, sure and speedy! Half a tea-
spoonful in a little water after meals, and
pain is impossible. Just think of it....t0
be abie to eat what you fancy and know
you're not going to be doubled up with pain
afterwards. But you must have Bisuratea
Magnesia, so look on the package for the
trade-mark word “BISMAG”; it is there
for your benefit and ensures your getting the
product that drives the' pain away.- —A pvt.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Than don
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Fax'’: How significant is tin* Combine's
withdrawal of tlio free-ad mission privilege to
actors —especially at matinees —which had
been a rule of the profesh from time imme-
morial ! The new difficulties put in the way
of press people whose names are “on the
door - ’ merely indicate indifference as to what
the papers think or sav of the stuff which
is coining along. Hut the exclusion, of
mummers from matinees is an innovation
with a meaning of its own. A manager who
regarded acting as an art would he glad to
know that the members of another co. whom
he might want to engage, sooner or later,
were watching the best available talent at
work arid picking up points. .V free entree to
a good show was a lesson to every intelligent
mummer, and almost any show contained hits
worth the student's noting. Nowadays,
seemingly, the idea is that there’s nothing
or very little to he learned from poor perform-
ances of dud pieces, and an actors’ union is
disentitled to all the managerial courtesy it
can’t get.
"CHU CHIN
CHOW." AT
SYDNEY
OPERA
HOUSE.
G. K. Souper as Kasim Bobu.
“U.K.'s” Inflections at a funeral: —
The late Lady Bancroft, 36 years .after her retire-
ment from the stage, seems hardly worth talking of
as a modern theatrical topic. But so much nonsense
has been written about her by people only recently
born that some plain truths should be said about the
epoch-making lady. Though brought up to the
stage she was restricted to characters in keeping
with her diminutiveness. Nor did she wear well, and
probably her elderly appearance at the alleged age
of 46 was the principal reason for the retirement of
the Bancrofts from the management of the Hay-
market. Still, people continued to speak of her as Marie
Wilton, the jolly little actress of yore.. Her success
was based on her previous association with old-
fashioned burlesque, yet she was soon able to kick
away the ladder on which she mounted. In April,
18G3, she and H. J. Byron opened the unfashionable
house with "La Soinnambula ; or the Supper, the
Sleeper, and the Merry Swiss Boy.” But H..J.8. was
never again called upon to write aught for Marie
Wilton after Tom Robertson had caught the fancy of
the town with his light comedy of “Society.” We
"SCANDAL,"
AT SYDNLY
CRITERION.
Sutherland
York (Cyril
M ackay )
launch ex a
lore speech.
look :il a Robertson comedy these times —even
“Caste," the best of them and wonder why they
should ever have seemed delightfully new. natural
and entertaining. In truth, they introduced human
interest in a new sort of way. They created a new
school of light-comedy' writing, wherein was always
a strain of popular melodrama, and they supplied a
passing want. It was lucky for the Bancrofts that
they bad Charles lteade’s adaptations of SardouV
earlier comedies to keep their management in the
boom when Robertson died. By their productions
for 20 years, not by their individual histrionics or
personalities, did Marie Wilton and her ever-inonocled
husband make a lot of money. Aided by favorable
circumstances (including a brainy, high-minded hus-
band), Lady Bancroft was a godsend to the theatrical
profesh when it badly wanted lifting out of the mud.
She founded her fortune by risking the production,
the best her limited means would afford, of a Robert-
son comedy which all the old managers in town had
turned down with contempt. And then her manage-
ment started to raise the standard of wages.
“Nella”: I went to “Chu Chin Chow,”
as in duty bound, and have no complaints
as to the show. lint I wish to register my
kick at having to purchase a mass of valu-
able misinformation. “Do not buy if seal, is
broken,” runs the solemn warning on the six-
penny programme, and on breaking the steal
on my sixpenn’oTth I found these mendacious
statements: (1 ) Vera Pearce was playing
Zahrat-at-Kulub. (She wasn’t.) (2) G.
Villiers Arnold was playing the Cobbler.
(lie had been buried some days previously.)
(.”>') Louie Pounds was playing Alcolom.
(She was not on the premises.) There were
other glaring discrepancies, but those were
enough for sixpence. In the happier days df
free programmes a neat printed pink slip
invariably informed patrons of any change
in the cast. The only kind* of change that
concerns the management now is the play-
goer’s spending silver.
“Norbell” : The colored lady whose embon-
. point is an outstanding feature of "Chu
Chin Chow” is Bertha Miller, once a shining
light of the Fisk Jubilee Singers. They call
her Little Bertha now.
“O. Blin”: 1 have a recollection of seeing
the late Villiers Arnold on the Sydney-Mel-
bourne express one night. He was bent up
and doleful in the next compartment, and
was bewailing the loss of his "little boy.
"You haven’t seen him,” he said as I inter-
rupted his grief, and I answered that I
hadn’t noticed any stray infant wandering
about. “He’s not a kid, you fool,” explained
Villiers. “lie’s Joey, my priceless cocka-
too.” The absent bird turned up in the next
division of the train at Albury the following
morning, and the meeting between the pair
showed Villiers’,s unsuspected resources as
an emotional actor. He took cocky to Mel-
bourne and kept it at his pub, from which it
often emerged for an airing on the arm of
his wife. Mrs. Arnold (Pearl Ladd) used
to take it with her to the Princess’s Theatre,
where she was playing the Fairy in the Ful-
ler panto of “Cinderella.” Subsequently its
visits were discontinued. I am not sure
why. but I fancy that Joey's use of his
favorite expression, “Cut it out,” when
Stiffy and Mo monopolised the stage cause!
demoralising enthusiasm among the rest of
the company.
THE -RHYME OF THE RAPID SWITCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Iliad and the Odyssey are full of heroes' tales
Of tiood and field and storms at sea ; and of heroic
males
Who calmed the hull and elephant, and made the
lion meek;
For ere the days of records, the thins a man would
speak
They'd straightway canonise as fact, and blazon
forth the lit'
Of heroes without witnesses who daily went to die,
And i then came back to tell the tale (first hot-air
merchants they)
Of Colchis, Helen’s beauty and such fictions of the
day.
And the lies of famous journeys are tlie blots on
hist'ry's page,
Of the ride to York by Turpin to escape Defective’s
rage;
Of how the accursed Juris and Direk and also “He”
Carried from Client to Aix the news of some tom-
foolery ;
And lies of all the blokes who rode since man be-
trayed the horse
To carry fool-; to market and flic jockeys round
tlie course.
Hut their stories pall before this truth that ye
shall quickly hear—
Nobler lioctivigation than the stunt of Paul Revere
The tale of Francis Talbot, and the splendid story
which
Tells how Northoote unto Footyscray worked the record
Rapid Switch.
Now, Xorthcote is a quiet place, north-east of
Collins-street -
That street of Creator Halhirat where winds and
wowsers meet.
it has a tram and pictures, a town hall and pig-
geries,
And wowsers walk about and let their whiskers fan
tlui breeze.
At Northoote callous men do tan the hides of beasts
that died
When at Hie grisjy abattoirs the fienehers stopped
beside ,
The fallen bullock and the cow, and drove their keen
knives home —
A bloodier sight has not been seen since the worst
days of Rome.
At Northoote, also, while tlie. wowser’s hymn deflects
the breeze,
A hundred Golerts’ dying yell's come from the pig-
geries,
Where men with beetles and with knives for little
piglets lurk.
Arid scald and manicure the hogs to end their bloody
work.
And all these —men and wowsers —they love the pic-
tures well;
In their ensanguined business, that reeks of death
and Hell,
They dream of Mary Pickford and the weary Tal-
madge three,
Of Fairbanks, Mix mid Gish and Pish, and all the
» stars there be;
And for their loyo of pictures their only rivals are
The little smelly towns that lie beside tlie stagnant
bar
Of dank Saltwater River’s sulphuretted hydrogen,
And the hides and bone* and phosphates that destroy
the souls of men.
How they love 'their moving pictures with then-
hearts and eyes and heads,
Seeking Art to find Nepenthe where tlie hone-mill
odor spreads!
Now, 1-1. J. Carroll had a film that all desired to see —
“'l’lie Girl Who Lost Her Marriage Lines” (imported
oversea) ;
A tale of marriage in God’s sight (but not the regis-
trar’s),
A tale of lost certificates, which most belief debars ;
A tale of one who listened to tlie tempter —curse
him yet !
Curse his manicured moustaches, and his constant
cigarette 1
But think ye how tlie owner of a super-picture feels
When he’s only got one copy of a winner in six
reels !
There was left to solve the problem but that grit
and genin'; which
The flying motor-cycles showed to make the Rapid
Switch.
At Nortlicote all the wowsers and tlie tanners and
the slaught-
Erhouseinen to the pictures had their wives and sweet-
hearts brought;
Playing handies while the villain with the constant
, cigarette
Sneered at, jeered at the betrayed girl, who is
maybe sobbing yet
(Though I've noticed that betrayed girls in real
life will ween them sore
Only when betrayers leave them anti betray them
never more) ;
Eating up the wakened maiden who had lost her
marriage lines
While Footscray shows impatience by rmlc sounds
and ruder signs.
Frank Talbot’s motor-cycles lay conchant ar the hall
To switch the film to Footscray ere the gods’ high
angers fall ;
The bravest rider or them all, with black and glit-
tering eye
That said he’tl switch that film in time, or nobly
he would die.
Gimlet his. name —Carp Gimlet! Ah, let the scroll
oi fame
Be incomplete until in brass it shall record his name.
“Reel One, Reel Two,” said Talbot, “now are safe
upon your back
In bag of waterproof that you shall safety nothing
lack ;
The lubricating-oil is yours, the petrol's in the tank;
Ride thee, Carp Gimlet, swiftly by cutting, bridge
and bank :
Ride swiftly unto Footscray and save a picture-show
That cbe before the midnight shall scattered be and
low :
Be thou a gale, Carp Gimlet, a tempest through the.
town,
To save that show from nasty men who work the
boiling-down.”
Carp Gimlet turned and kissed the hand of Talbot
then and there.
“They call me ‘bore,’ ” said Gimlet, “but death for
you I’ll dare,
“best worse come to the manager who waits in
Footscray town.
Whose life is in the hands of men who work the
boiling-down.”
He sprang into the saddle; and, were DircU and
•loris there,
He'd made them look like dummies as ho cut (lie
wintry air—
K.ves shrouded by,his goggles, leather enfolding him.
Sped like a locomotive that black-eyed rider grim.
Ilis pace so furious that ’twere safe to back him
now and here
To put into the discard the stunt of l’aul Revere.
* * * *
The mud splashed over Carp's mudguards and up to
his goggled eyes;
But that is naught to the grit of the man, steadfast
until he dies;
Beneath his shaking saddle with the sound of a Lewis
gun
The exhaust of his cylinders streamed and smelled —
and Footscray was foredune.
His roaring engines swallowed the miles into North
Melbourne town,
His exhaust left behind him a Christmss-card like
the smell of the boiling-down;
Nor throttled down in tlie crowded street was she —
steered on margins flue-
With the endless explosions spurring him, Carp
Gimlet, along the spine.
it was Friday night in North Melbourne, when people
go out to buy,
And prams hold cabbages and pork and babies in-
clined to cry ;
Through the crowds of the late-night shoppers—old
women, police and dogs—
Through the danger of the light-haze and the shadows
enhanced by fogs,
Goes -sturdy and brave Carp Gimlet, though police-
men shout and squeal,
He speeds through the town to the blacksoil that
chain's him wheel by wheel.
But courage and genius ever win through the wildest,
roughest time.
And Gimlet, facing the sleety dark and racing through
mud and slime,
< Comes at last and in time to the manager who-
waits in Footscray town,
To save his life from the patrons of Art who work
at the boiling-down.
“Bless thee, Carp Gimlet, bless thee,” said the man-
ager, sobbing his joy.
“They would have ta'en my innocent life, but for
thee now, my boy;
Had’st not arrived in time, oh, Carp, the Show it had
gone to smash —
And glad am I beyond the wildest dreams of the
After Cash.
Go back for the last of the picture, the fifth and
the ultimate reels —-
And T pray that the third and the fourth may be
here hard on thy flying heels.”
Carp Gimlet nor stayed nor halted, but sprang to
bis saddle-tree,
And bored through the smoke-screen of boiling-downs
that scent the adjacent sea;
And roared over bank and through cutting and into
the stream of mud,
To bring Culture unto Footscray, and Art to the
Men of Blood.
And soon in a windy hollow, there passed him, up-
ward and o’er,
The cycle of him bound south with the next reels
numbered Three and Four.
And that was the earnest of the night. In spite of
policemen’s wiles •
And fat old ladies who got in the way, Carp Gimlet
swallowed the miles.
Of the dogs he killed and the winded cops, and the
fluttered dames he scared —
bet these be told at the Judgment Day when secrets
all are bared.
But there is the fact, that Carp Gimlet, in spite of
policemen’s tricks,
Switched the film of the Girl of the Marriage Lines;
reels one, two, five and six.
Now all is quiet at Footscray town, and at North-
cote all is peace;
For the slaughtermen and the wowsers all have seen
the great release
Of “The Girl Who l.osf Her Marriage Lines’’ and
suffered shame thereby
(Though 1 think that the people who thought it
shame are out for a blue-black eye ;
And none but myVielf are so wondrous pure that they
can afford to shout—
For people that talk ;rtiout others might get their-
selfs talked about).
But all is quiet except the smells that fatten by
Footscray town ;
At rest are the men of the phosphate-works and
the men of the boiling-down :
For they .saw the first release of “The Girl Who Lost
Her Marriage Lines”
Because Carp Gimlet rode his course, despite police
designs.
* * ■* * ’
Frank Talbot called Carp Gimlet and said, “I shall
not forget
This splendid deed for your duty's sake—ours is a
splendid debt';
By mountain-dank, by Scarp and bank, by hill and
dale and Hitch,
You rode unfalteringly the race nor stopped to have
a pitch ;
By city street, by leafy lane, by hillock and by ditch,
You took the films to Footscray town, the record
Rapid Switch ;
Gold cannot pay your service ; your wage shan't
higher go ;
But here I give you gratefully a ticket for our
Show.”
A tear welled in Carp Gimlet's eye; but that tear
did not fall.
lie knelt to Talbot on his knee, there in the pic-
ture-hall.
Among old programmes, papers and crackling pea-
nut shells -
l inav not saj the words he said ; such tales an
angel tells.
But while men can remeiiiher for Carp there'll he
a niche
Among tile heroes, for'the man who made the Rapid
Switch.
viCTOIUA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


m.
m
' . V s
mm m
§ . ..Wi
mm
>* *
fm
f
\\
3Si
i
.
L'
m&mmm
i . !
; r
::>■ ::
k-.v "••
<••'• 11 n
2**45
n
IN the days of Royal Egypt, merchants
from distant countries brought, on
camelback, jars and skins of the
precious oils of the Palm and the Olive.
These were for the beautiful women of
Egypt, who, versed in all the arts o f the
toilet and the bath, well knew the virtues
of the wonderful Palm and Olive oils.
SI aves blended the oils, and to their use the
regal women of the land of the Pharaohs
owed the retention of their facial and
bodily charm.
Palmolive Soap is, to-day, the combination
of these same splendid oils—purer, better
blended, more convenient in form—which
preserved to the women of the past a youth-
ful freshness and beauty long beyond the
decree of time.
PALMOLIVE
SOAP
sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
mm
ran
%
%
V


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHIIP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special Wli i sl^
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED. Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTY
makers;
SI
k'-U
!*'• -p.X> •*' •
SSS
mm
\m
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
Q
«U/
aw
.303 ROSS RIFLES
Special hitch-power Sporting Rifle®, for big-
game shooting. The most reliable .303 rifle
obtainable. Price, £6/10/*
9m.m. BROWNING F.N. RIFLE
This high-power Browning Automatic Rifle is
also a splendid big-game firearm. Cal., 9mm.
Price, £l3.
WINCHESTER RIFLES
Cal. .303 high-power Rifle, £l2/10/-
Cal. 20/20, 32, 38, 44 Rifles, full or half
magazine, £B/10/-. Carbines, £7/17/6.
Cunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
lu the First Test, played at Notting-
ham, the Australians provided the answer to iiioso
who had criticised their draw at Oxford. There was
all the difference between manoeuvres and genuine
warfare in the two performances. The Australian-
Oxford match is hardly regarded as a serious affair
even by the University, more especially when it
falls in Eights week, as it did on this occasion.
Rowing is llic fashionable sport at Oxford, and the
C.lier and Isis have many more attractions than the
second-rate cricket ground across Magdalen Bridge.
In the Test England was beaten all along the line.
Winning the toss Douglas opened on an easy wicket,
but found no one capable of exploiting it to any
purpose. The innings closed for 112, the bowling
of Gregory and McDonald having proved deadly in
conjunction with almost faultless fielding. Howell
and Douglas opened for England against Bardsley
and Collins, who immediately demonstrated tltat
there was nothing wrong with the wicket. Bards-
ley’s 66, made in classic style, was terminated by
a l.b.w. decision which seems to have been faulty.
Collins, Macartney and Gregory also got their pads
in front, the last of them at a time when he was set
and scoring freely. The innings closed for 232,
that .occasionally useful bat Carter going in sixtli
wicket down and collecting 33, which was the next
best to Bardsley’s. England could do no better
than 147 in its second shot (Knight 38 and Woolley
34) and Bardsley and Macartney knocked up the bal-
ance without difficulty. Australia the winner by
10 wickets and 3 runs.
An anonymous assailant of the Austra-
lian XI in the London Observer possesses all the
smugness and lack of humor which produce so much
ill-feeling amongst the unreasoning masses of his
native land. Speaking us an English gentleman to
“England’s guests in her own house,” he tells the
visitors that they have reduced cricket to the level
of trade-unionism ; that they are persons who resort
to “subterfuges” ; that, their behavior is “unsport-
ing" ; that “they are all take and no give” ; that,
“unlike a large number of the Englishmen,” they are
mere professionals; and that if they don’t mend
their ways they won’t be asked to England again.
All this because they play from 12 to six, and de-
mand a rest before each Test so that they may play
up to their true form —a principle which A. C.
Maclaren has often urged on England. “Three days’
rest,” Maclaren wrote in the Daily Express only
last Saturday, “should be imperative for all our
players, both before and after the Tests.” The points
which the Observer’s specialist in gentility misses
are that the Australians, if guests, are emphatically
paying ones ; and that if they are pros, they are no
more so than some of England’s classiest amateurs.
What the Jeames Yellowplush-like contributor to the.
London paper really means, though he doesn’t say
it, is that most of the Australians are artisans, and
being artisans it baffles as well as enrages him that,
they should not humbly do as they are told by their
social betters. It is a point of view that members
of the A.I.F. constantly struck in young fellows
from Balham and Clapham who, serene in the pos-
session of one pip and an education acquired at the
Margate Grammar School, were ever ready to warn
Digger field-officers against doing that which,
in the Observer’s perfect phrase, was “graver still,
a breach of good manners.”
The Maoriland ’Varsities’ team met the
Sydney students on Saturday, after having a gruel-
ling game earlier in the week against a strong
Metropolitan team. Although palpably outplayed in
all departments by their fresher opponents, the visi-
tors, by the efforts of Aitken and- Wiseman in the
hacks and Harty and Cabot in the forwards, made a
draw of it. S.U., although markedly superior in the
forwards, only took scrums as they came, which was
chivalrous but scarcely football. In the second half
the M.L. wings awoke, and Cabot was invariably
able to get round and Collar Morgan with the goods.
The backs improved also in their handling of the
ball, but the defence was solid. Nothiing. of Sydney,
was very dependable at fullback, and used both his
feet well. Sheehan had most to do with the two
tries scored, and Farquliar was brilliant at times
with the ball, but needs to improve in defence.
Among the forwards, Hoskins and Kendall were
prominent in the open, and Fowles played a great
game both in and out of the scrum. On the whole,
’Varsity gave their best display this season. Unfor-
tunately for them they don’t meet such a light pack
of forwards in the competition.
In Union football in Svdney on Saturday
Carr, Dawson and Doutreband. the Easts’ three-
quarters. combined too well and bad too much loot
for Wests. Also, their superior forwards enabled
A. Walker to get the ball persistently. G. Walker,
at full back, answered all questions, besides adding
the possible to three tries. Wogan and Lane, among
Wests’ backs, did most towards spoiling Easts’
game, and Feriilev and Davis, in the forwards,
worked with-a will*. Result: Easts the winners by
30 to 17. Another .one-sided game was the Glebe-
Balmain —North Sydney clash. The Shoremen, really
a one-man team, were without Humphreys. Nobody, •
except Oatley, tried to stop Mayne. The G.-B. wing
grounded the hall four times. The two Loudons and
the misplaced Oatley stemmed the tide to a certain
degree, and for tlie winners tlie two Friends, the
übiquitous Buchanan and Gwynne played clean,
sound football. In the Hanly-Newtown scramble the
Village backs were well fed and completely out-
played tlie Newtown division. Mingay was kept
very busy and did his work well, and Dawson
showed great pace. Eyre outdistanced the other
forwards. The pick of Newts, were Judd, the full
back, Scott, tlie half, and file bullocking McKay.
Tht) opening half of the Balmain-Eastern
Suburbs Rugby League match at Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday was dull. East secured from
the scrum, but. the rearguard could make no headway,
and lemon-time saw the premiers leading by two
penalty goals, both the work of Jim Craig. In the
second spasm the Surfers attacked like terriers, and
narrowly missed scoring (1) when Cameron grassed
Robinson in 'Main's “in goal,” and (2) when Rex
Norman failed to hold an easy pass on tlie black-,ami-
gold line. The Dockers now took a hand. The van-
guard headed by Schultz raced after a boot by
Fraser, blocked kicks by Ives and full-back Rigney,
kept the ball at toe, and eventually crossed in with
Watts scoring. Craig raised both flags. ’Main
9 points, East 0. The Surfers now brought Watkins
out of the ruck to assist the backs, but the Dockers
checkmated by bringing Latta into tlie three-quartet
line. From a scrum in the black-and-gold 25 Kauf-
man sent to Caples, to Watkins, who missed, as alv>
did Ray Norman, but quick as thought the blonde
wheeled, recovered the leather and sent to Hume,
who scored. Rex Norman failed to convert. Bal-
main 9, East 3. Tlie Surfers hammered away and
were presently awarded a free kick within 'Main's
25. Caples booted higli over the Dockers’ line, and
the speedy Holmes got under it and registered. Rex
Norman hoisted the hunting. Balmain 9 points, East
8. Rex Norman soon after had an easy chance at
goal from a penalty, but failed. Craig'and Russell
also missed from fair spots, before Robinson, obtain-
ing from a down at half-way, whipped round the
blind side, sold Rex Norman a beautiful “dummy”
and lobbed a good transfer to Robinson, who galloped
40yds., bumped Ray Norman into oblivion, and got
there. Russell failed. Balmain 12, East 8. Craig
sooii after hoisted his- third penalty goal. ’Main
14, East 8. The Surfers made a dying spurt, but
to no purpose. Tom McMahon refereed faultlessly.
The 22,000 spectators viewed the struggle in discom-
fort, inevitable in view of the ground. In the other
games Norths downed Newts, by 27 points to 11 ;
Glebe obliterated Wests by 20 points to 6 ; and St.
George pipped 'Varsity on tlie post by 10 points to
16. The ltabbitos had tlie bye and journeyed to
Orange, where they walloped tlie locals by 24 points
to 10. With a lead of one point and only two more
teams (Wests and St. George) to account for. Norths
seem to have the premiership won.
The vanguard of the XIII who will appear
for N.S.W. v. M.L. at Sydney next Saturday have
all previously repped for the State, excepting
Ted McGrath, the ex-Bananalander. The selections
which satisfy most are F. Rule and Jim Craig.
Rule, prior to the middle of last season, played junior
football. To-day he is the soundest centre three
playing the game in N, S. Wales. The side to oppose
the Bananalanders prior to the big game is more
open to criticism; Herder on form shouldn’t have
been considered, and Fraser at full back is usurp-
ing tlie position which has been earned by Rignev,-
the Surfers’ custodian. Fraser played in tlie full
back position for. the first time this season against
Easts last Saturday, when Rigney, who lias filled
the position faultlessly in every match to date,
proved his superior. Dudley Seddon. like Rule,
plays his first rep. game, and like Rule was also a
junior last season.
BLINKHORN,
the North Sydney
three-quarter who
plays against
Maoriland on
Saturday.
The Melbourne-South football game -on
Saturday was an example of what ought to have
been done, but wasn’t. With South 16 points in
arrears 10 minutes before the end, many spectators
departed, missing the choicest play Of the day; for
South, determined and systematic, piled on 2 goals and
3 behinds. and were after the winning goal when the
bell rang—-69 points to Melbourne’s 70. Souths’
marking was brilliant and their combination good,
but tney can’t kick. The previous week-end ’Roy's
barrackers got so annoyed ai the Maroons’ defeat by
Richmond that they put the boot into umpire Norden
—one of the best in the League—to such purpose that
he retired from the industry for good. Last Saturday
a new man held the scales as between ’Roy and
Carlton, and he also failed to please these ill-regulated
supporters, though he fortunately escaped actual
assault and battery. Both sides used their weight.
Roy led by a point as the timekeepers readied for
the bell and the barrackers were giving tongue, when
a lucky Carlton shot made the game a draw —50 all.
The Richmond “tigers” went down to Geelong and
struck trouble, having all their work cut out to keep
the scores level to half-time. After that Geelong
■ played a man short, Gross being carried off the ground
damaged, and tlie loss nerved them to such strenuous
effort tiiat they got the Tigers down and kept them
there, finally scoring 79 points to Richmond's 62.
’Wood encountered the ’Dons and polished them off in
methodical fashion, notching 71 points to Essendon’s
54.
In 1909 when Elsternwick Park (Vic.),
abandoned as a racecourse, became an unsightly
quagmire, a golf club leased it for a links. Tlie
Club spent £lOOO a year on improvements, including
drainage, and now 350 players, one-third of whom
are women, make it their week-end Mecca. The
other day the Club was threatened with ejectment
unless it agreed to give up Saturday afternoon and
holiday p.tay in order that cricketers and footballers
may gambol in safety in its reclaimed spaces. The
citizens around the
park are annoyed at
tlie spectacle of the
motor-cars that bring
“outsiders” to the golf
links, and tin*.'', depre-
cate so much exclu-
siveness for a paltry
e9O a year. To a
man the trustees are
wi t h the golfers.
Knowing this the resi-
dents roun d e d up
Snowball a n d Egglc-
stone, M’s.L.A., t o
help them make a big
noise in Mini s t e r
Oman’s room. They
had nearly won over
the Minister to their
side; but when lie
heard the ease for flic
golf dub and trustees
lie got back to his
base. In a week of
two he will have the
battle out on the
ground. Brighton
Council has an equal
any with Oman, and
the betting is slightly
on the golfers at pre-
sent.
J. V. EAST, the
Melbourne profes-
sional, who accom-
panied Kirkwood
to Europe.
Granville caught their iirst hiding in Syd-
ney Soccer on Saturday at the skilful feet of l’yr-
inont. Stone Osborne and McLean found the net
for Pyrmont; Granville didn't score. Veteran half-
hack Alick Mill, who pleads guilty to playing for
30 years, was the rock on which Annandale crashed
against Eastern Suburbs. in the other matches
Canterbury smashed Gladesville (4 —0), and Bal-
main Fernleigh jumped on Campsie Thistle (3 —0).
The premiership is now in an interesting stage—
Granville and Canterbury (8 points), Pyrmont and
Balmain Fei’nleigh (7) and Eastern Suburbs (6) all
being in the running.
* * * *
Under Australian rules North Sydney
clashed with Newtown before a record gate of the
season. Norths’ high-marking and field-work were
great, and their big men—-Fitzmaurice (last year's
Essendon champion), Ryan and McGrath —kept the
ball out of Newtown’s grip. Two u#»utes before
time Furlong (Newtown) missed an easy chance in
front of the goal; and Norths, putting on their
seventh goal in tlie last second, won by 52—44.
Railway handed Easts their first defeat this season
by 57 —37. Railway excelled in straight kicking.
Paddington fell like an avalanche on Svdney. Scores:
84—29.^
Adelaide football looks like having an-
other exciting season. With three rounds played,
Sturt was the only club without a loss, and Gleiielg
(a new club carved out of the over-sized Sturt) the
only one without a win. Further, many of the
games might fairly have ended in a tie, the winners
having none the better of the play, but getting
home by a straight kick or so at the right moment.
* * * •
For the N. S. Wales National Coursing
Association’s Dewar Cup at Rooty Hill last week,
Bonnie Jean was favorite at 3to 1. Next eatne Self
Determination and Achieved’s Image at fours and
Comrade at fives. These all survived the first round.
The heavily-backed Comrade went down in the first
ties before' Never Known, about whom, at card-call,
100 to 1 was called without a taker. Achieved’s
Image lost interest in the proceedings after an
interview with Prince Hope, while next round the
mysterious Never Known settled him. In the
opening course of the second ties Bonnie Jean
and Self Determination met. Jean the winner.
Never Known faded out before Brindle Lady, who
in the semi-final gave the favorite a tight go. The
other finalist was Quick Sally, quoted at 50 to 3
at card-call and the outsider in every course. The
run-off between these two produced a terrific con-
test from which Bonnie Jean emerged half a point
to the good. Naturally, both are by White Hope.
For the Traill Stakes Hazeldene never left the issue
in doubt, winning her courses all one way, and dis-
posing of Drew’s Hope in the final. The Dewar Purse
went to Maureen, and the Plate was divided by
Tommy’s Love and Called Back. Which was a good
thing for Tommy—he had just previously run the
heaviest course of the meeting.
Adelaide ’Varsity sports this year were
notable only for the running of L. V. Pellew, the
cricketer who lately visited M.L. and brother of
the Australian XI man. The latter won The als-
round cup in 1914. L.V. took it last year, and eveu
more easily this time, winning the hundred, 220,
hurdles and quarter; in the last he trotted home
alone, and no time was taken. J. W. Chapman won
the hammer, weight and high jump.
Iu Sydney Uni. inter-collegiate cham-
pionships last week Wesley College achieved a well-
deserved win. In 1919 Wesley was second to St.
Andrew’s. Last year these colleges dead-heated with
16 points each. This year the totals were: Wesley
23 points, St. Andrew’s 19, St. Paul's and St. John’s
three each. W. H. Hutton (Wesley) monopolised
the sprints—looyds. (10 4-osec.) and 440yds. (82
2-ssec.) —and was second to H. tt. Anderson (24
l-ssec.) in the 220yds. L. W. Tunley (Wesley)
cleaned up the distance events — 880yds. (2min.
6sec.) and mile (4min. 58 3-s'see). Iu the high
jump the Harbison brothers filled the top places.
jamito, who has improved so much -of late
that his Island compatriots are unlikely to knou
him when he re-enters tile ring amongst them, en-
countered Tommy. Noble, of England, at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. “Uxoriousness is a
mocker,” quoth the sage, “where strong men battle
for supremacy within the hempen square.” And
so Mr. and Mrs. Noble found it —-he in opposition to
the strenuous Asiatic; she directing anxious glances
and cries of warning from a ringside seat. So occu-
pied was Thomas with the business of re assuring his
wife that lie seemed to forget occasionally that
Jamito was there at all; but the latter invariably
reminded him of the fact in a most forceful manner.
There was really only one period when Noble looked
like winning—when, in the sixth session, he fouled
Jamito unobserved by Joe Wallis. Had the colored
youth not obeyed the orders of his seconds and
pulled himself together. Noble would have achieved
one of the most unmerited victories on record. As
it was he was well licked in about 16 of the 20
rounds fought. Noble’s most conspicuous asset is
liis pluck. He took his hiding like a thoroughbred.
* # * •
lii Melbourne on Saturday night, George
Mcmlies, the Sydney flyweight, battled brilliantly
for nine rounds against the Victorian Jimmy Sem-
niens, who was taller, heavier and longer in the
reach, and then darkness enveloped him and a harsh
voice said “Out.” It was level pegging until the
sixtli round, when Sexnmens landed a shattering
uppercut, and after that Mendies was second best.
The spidery Sydneyite is far and away the cleverest
flyweight in Australia, but, like Jimmy Wilde, he
has to fight featherweights or go without matches.
And lie hasn’t Wilde’s stamina or ability to take a
punch.
Hunting opened in Victoria last week with
a meet of the Oaklands pack under Captain Hobson,
and tlie Melbourne hounds are scheduled to follow
suit this Thursday. Hunting, which has long been
dead in N. S. Wales, slumped even in the southern
State during the war, but its prospects for this year
are fairly good. They would have been better had
not an epidemic of distemper carried off most of the
young stock of the leading pack.
A second-rate mob faced tlie barrier for
tlie City Handicap at tlie Adelaide Race Club’s
meeting on Saturday, and Meddiek’s horsemanship
alone got Redique clear of the crowd. Some of the
same field look part in the last race, the w.f.a. i’ark-
side Slakes, over a mile and a furlong, and the same
jockey had ah’easy ride on Crusader, another ol
Titiimens’s stable. The Green Seal gelding Minchin-
bury lias proved a success in tlie rOle of a jumper,
and easily won the Victoria Bark Hurdle.
At the Batmmiland T.C.’s Autumn .Meet-
ing on Saturday three of the winners were by the
prolific sire Syce (imp.). Pah King declined the
w.f.a. King's Plate in favor of the shorter distance
and less formidable field in the Hamilton Handicap,
and just landed it under punishment from W. 11.
McLaclilan. The Plate field included Arch Marella
and Varieo, but Fairy Bob and Master Warkon were
most fancied. The champion son of Fairy Gold, how-,
ever, lobbed home. The Mooltan gelding Doondi
sprang Another of his surprises in the Ilighweight.
Syceoiielie ran the field oil' its legs in the Stradbroke
Handicap, and this did not suit Hie Sydney visitor
Remmon. The Victorian jockey Killorn got outed for
a sixer for his riding of Tweedsmuir in the St. Leger,
and in addition was placed second to Grichka, bv
Syce, before his connections could collect.
In the opening round of N.S.W. golf cham-
pionship foursomes on Saturday, Eric Apperly and
E. .T. Pope did 79, next to R. T. Armstrong and G. T.
Balcombe’s best card of 77 ; and in the second they
shattered all previous records with 74. Southern
States champions F. G. Murdoch and Ivo Whitton
had tlie next-best aggregate (157), and Tom Howard
and P. Sydney Jones totalled 159. The rest were
nowhere.-
* * * #
At Southport Beach (Q.) recently, over
half-a-mile, Geo. Clark (7-h.p. Harley-Davidson) did
82 m.p.li. (previous best SI m.p.h.) and D. Griffith-
(4-li.p. Indian Scout) did 02 m.p.h. for machines
under 600 c.c. The latter was an improvement of
3 m.p.h. on the previous figures.
Maoriland A. A. Association has endorsed
Peter Munro’s shot putt of 45ft. lin. as a Dominion
record, and also asked for recognition on the Aus-
tralasian “book.” It beat the effort of F.. R.
Caughey (America) in 1914 by in. The world’s
figures are 51ft.
Baseball is taking hold in Adelaide as a
winter pastime. Gaines are being played between
1,30 and 3 p.m. on the Adelaide and suburban ovals
as a prelude to the football matches, and tlie public
is being educated in the fine points of pitching,
striking and base-running and sliding. Many of the
State’s leading cricketers play to keep their eyes in
for the summer. Devotees of the diamond have been
finding their clubs very expensive this season, a-
they have to pay 18s. eacli for the American sticks,
which are liable to be only useful as firewood after
a match. Recently, however, a local man has been
on the job and he is turning out fine clubs from
Australian wood at seven bob each.
* * * *
Everard Browne, one of the best-liked of
Victorian sportsmen, has had to resign from the
V.A.T.C. committee on account of ill health. The
tall, spare son of Rolf Boldrewood was a crack polo-
player and an assiduous hunting-man a decade ago.
He never had much success as an owner, hut no
one in the State knew more about the game of racing.
FRIENDLY ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Kirkwood lias startled the critics. .. .One of them
remarks apropos of his famous feats of skill: M
extend to Kirkwood a piece of friendly advice. Golf
is a dignified game, and 'the golf courses are not
music-halls.’ ” — Cable.
Remember, J.H., when you’re out on the links,
You must cut out your comedy capers ;
At your antics each right-thinking Britisher shrinks,
Either that, or tie writes to tlie papers.
These vaudeville tricks leave you open to blame;
I’ray, remember that golf is a dignified game.
A cricketer-person may bowl with his head,
And not indecorous appear;
A footballer isn't considered ill-bred,
Even when lie revolves on his ev.r;
But pantomime golfers we sternly disclaim,
Recalling that golf is a dignified game.
All Chaplinesque stunts you must wholly eschew,
For the slapstick’s a club that’s deleted;
Shun the rubicund nose of the music-hall, too,
And blue pants which with red are reseated.
W here you come from, no doubt, these may add to
your fame,
But to Englishmen golf is a dignified game.
.N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


YOUR GREATEST ASSET
mbi
m
in business and in social life is good health. The man who is not
physically fit cannot expect to take his rightful place among the
men who "get there.”
Rood health is the keystone of efficiency, and efficiency is the
keystone of successful business to-day.
(Jet fit and keep fit by the Raker
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
The exercises are simple, enjoyable and directly beneficial
to the nerves and muscles that control the most important
organs of the body.
This method of individual instruction has benefited thou-
sands of sufferers and restored them to perfect, glowing
health.
if you wish to enjoy the success in life that physical fit-
ness ensures, write your name and address across this adver-
tisement. cut it out and send it, with three stamps to cover
postage, and you will receive a copy of the interesting book,
‘Health and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all
about' this simple system.
Take action to-day!
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia)
492 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
A M
IS
I MM
a »*«
mtmM/
'LI ' tn l‘mnct»ia< c ' ‘i'''P M jA^
DOUGLAS
The Motor-cycle which is Always Ahead!
This British-matte Motor-cycle is still maintaining its reputation for outstanding superiority,
reliability, speed and economy. Pre-war success arid war predominance are being eclipsed by
post-war achievements. On road and track the Douglas is forging ahead and proving its efficiency,
the latest post-war models made by Douglas Motors, Ltd., Kingswood, Bristol, England, can be
delivered immediately.
Before deciding—sec the 1921 Models of the “Douglas” and realise the supreme features which
commend it to traveller and tourist.
oVV, P i. ' 1 ' "itri 3-speed gear, clutch and kick starter, either with or without side-car.
7-i tt MODEL, with 3-speed gear (as •illustrated above), but with large enclosed mudguards.
2J-H.P. SPECIAL, 2-speed gear Model.
The “patented” horizontally opposed
• Douglas” twin-cylinder engine, as fitted to
all “Douglas” Motor-cycles, is so well and
favorably known that it needs little explana-
tion. The horizontal twin engine is the most
suitable for motor-cycle practice. It cer-
tainly gives less vibration than any engine
with less than four cylinders. Douglas,
Motors, Ltd., have so perfected this type of
engine that it has become universally popu-
The “DOUGLAS” is exceptionally easy to
control in congested city traffic or over rough,
hilly, sandy or bush roads, or across pad-
docks. It is very economical, giving 90 to 100
miles to the gallon, exceptionally light on
transmission chain, gears, tyres, etc., the
result of the even, steady puli' of the engine.
Frames, wheels, etc., are exceptionally reli-
able. The new designed front, forks are “the
last word” in comfort and strength, and being
adjustable to wear are almost everlasting.
Sole Agents—
New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., Ltd., 213, 215, 217 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria and Tasmania: ACME CYCLE CO., 355-357 Lonsdale Street.
MELBOURNE.
South Australia: CARD BROS., 21-23 Gouger Street, ADELAIDE. .
Queensland: WESTCOTT, UAZELL & CO., LTD., 233-235 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE.
"a.
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
Xew South Wales: A. Leplastrier & C 0... Sydney; Queensland; Australian Machinery
Co.. Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Searfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New Zealand:
Blair. Reed & Co.. Wellington; Malay States: Bunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND" FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Sold Everywhere.
-1 dreary place would be Ibis earth
II ere there no little people in it.
The song of life would lose its mirth
II ere there no children to begin it.
There s no mirth in a child stricken with
ill health—chest troubles, for instance.
Treat a delicate child to a course of
HYPOL
and watch for fun and frolics.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Do not delay a single day. Avoid serious illness
by using HYPOL.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
=KYNOCH=
AMMUNITION
*22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
BURBERRY TOPCOATS
For PROTECTION AGAINST
RAIN, WIND, COLD—
THE BURBERRY
One of the most popular
designs in these world-
famous Coats is “The Bur-
berry,” as here shown.
Being a garment ideally suit-
able for wear in all weathers
and on all occasions—the
Burberry ensures complete
immunity from the effects of
wintry storm and chill. At
the same time it is hygieni-
cally self-ventilating and airy
light—neither a burden to
wear nor a trouble to carry.
Irreproachable in workman-
ship and design, excelling
both in quality of texture
and artistic tones —there is
no overcoat so absolutely
efficient in regard to com-
fort, liberty, protection and
distinction as “The Bur-
berry” the recognised
aristocrat of the Overcoat
world.
We have been duly and
properly authorised and
appointed Burberry Agents
for Melbourne, for Toadies’
and Gent.’s Coats.
We have all the latest 1921
models now to hand. Call
or write us your needs to-day.
II!
LINCOLN, STDART 8 CO.
PTY. LTD.,
Specialists in Men’s Wear,
244-254 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


2 •“«*
SRl —Fur Felt Hats with double
edges; brims 2| ins., fairly flat.
Colours, dark slate, and steel grey,
with black or self colour bands.
Price 25/“
Distinctive Headwear
for Men.
Price, will not make a hat suit you! Besides being
distinctive it must have another attribute —that of suit-
ing your particular personality. To ensure this it is
essential to have a wide range of styles to choose from.
SR2 —Carrick’s English Fine Fur Felts, a distinctive
dressy shape with curled brims, 2f ins. wide; cut edges.
Colours, fawn, steel, grey, slate, and light grey with self
or black bands. Prices 45/- & 55/-
SR3—Tweed Caps, in one piece, flat top style; assorted
patterns in fawn or grey effects. Price .. .. 10/6
*
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
The Store for Men.
We pay
Carnage.
Box 497,
G.P.O.
~ . fi. i .pm
*IIUIU
c
Pju*e and palatable
-—-little peop-le will take
It readily, and soon
be restored to nor-
mal health.
When the little folks are “Croupy,” and
fretted by coughing: fits, wise mothers
know that Bonnington’s Irish Moss will
not be thrust peevishly aside by little
hands, and called nasty medicine.
1
IRISH MOSS.
VJ case» of Whooping Cough,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
8A.25.
uni
ssowThsisi
S' K33DVUHV3
S. HO i dhTn MO 9
gsssHssaris
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
[?] Her Ma[?]Y'S [?]
William Mitchell-Thomson, tlie second
barbnet of his line and member for r the
Maryhill division of Glasgow, who was made
a minor Minister (Parliamentary Secretary
to the Board of Trade) by Lloyd George re-
cently, has been identified as the husband of
Madeleine, second daughter of the late Mal-
colm McEaclmrn.
The mayoral reception to Heifetz was more
gloomy even than such things usually are.
Gaud Mayor Swanson greeted Jascha wit a
a ponderous flight of leaden-winged words,
and Alderman Cabena made flowery refer-
ences to Tait-Williamson philanthropy,
whereat, Frank Tait and Phil Finkelstein
beamed outwardly and winked inwardly. In
responding to his health, which was drunk
with unmusical honors, Heifetz, whom one
suspects of a secret scorn for all .such flum-
mery, wasted few words and only one smile.
The Heifetz family lined the walls in portly
solemnity. Ida Adams, who is a physical,
social and conversational asset to the Com-
pany Heifetz, was .spirited away from
Spencer-street direct to her suite at Menzies’.
Jascha Heifetz couldn’t complain about
the size of his reception at the Town Hall
on Saturday night. Every item was a huge
success, and the immaculate, unsmiling, un-
bending genius must have become footsore
going back to the platform to take his recalls.
The cream of the musical populace banged
their hands to pulp in appreciation of the
musical icicle, but he only thawed once, and
then he let his mouth slip accidentally in
conferring a faint smile on one of the Taits
in front.
Heifetz, however, is very agreeable and
unspoilt when he discards his platform man-
ner. Apart from his music, he is just a
big boy, who, despite the jam that has been
lavished on his achievements, still regards his
own g'ory with almost cynical moderation.
Nothing brings the tired looks quicker to his
face than being dubbed the "second Paga-
nini.” Nor was he brightened up the other
day when a resourceful dame gave an appeal-
ing twist to the compliment by suggesting
that Paganini was "the Italian Heifetz.”
‘‘Oh, that’s not new.” said the bored youth :
“several critics have already confirmed your
suspicion.”
Following the example of Edward 1’.,
when he was here 1 ” months ago, the Earl
lias let it be known that he doesn't want any-
body to dress up for the levee on King’s
Birthday (to-morrow). "If you want to
shake bands with me at State Parliament
House, come in your everyday business
suits,” is the message from his Ex. But
so that the place won't look too much like
the Stock Exchange vestibule, the hint has
been given to anybody who owns a uniform
which he has not outgrown to give it an air-
ing.
The Victorian Artists’ Society hung its
talent on the walls of the Albert-street gal-
leries a few days ago, and art-loving
humanity crowded the room while the G.-G.
made an opening speech. Lady Betty and
Aide Anson accompanied his Ex., the former
gazing at the exhibits with serene appro-
val through her tortoise-shells. Artists
were there in full force, many painting Dig-
gers peppering the throng with other notables,
such as connoisseur Sugden and composer
Fritz Hart. Those who hungered and
thirsted retired to the vestibule, while special
china was set in a private apartment for the
committee and a selected few.
Mrs. Ned Chenery, who is a sister of Mrs.
George Chirnside, returned to Aussie* early
last year with her small grand-daughter,
Brigid Newbery. The idea was to fatten
the child up in this land of milk and honey :
and when little Brigid has put on sufficient
weight grandmamma will take her back to
her parents. Iler dad, Wilfrid Newbery, a
son of the late Cosmo, has just got a clean
bill of health after being long laid aside by-
war wounds.
By the way, the eldest of the late Cosmo
Newbery’s daughters, who married an Eng
lishman named Cockell and settled in China,
now signals across-seas that they, have
acquired one of the ex-Empress’s palaces for
their own use. The Cockells’ 12-year-old
only chick died in the yellow land when dad
was away helping to worry the Huns.
Though Sumner Locke has been, dead
three-and-a-half years, a little In Memoriam
booklet, prepared by Kathie Prichard, Maisie
Maxwell and tnree other sisters-m-iniv. lias
just come to ligut. The delay was all ror tic
best, perhaps, for bright little “Summie, as
she was called in her flapper days in Mel-
bourne, died during the very darkest winter
of the war, when nobody's thoughts lingered
long on the sadness of her life s story. 1 lie
press-women who canvassed for subscriptions
to cover tile cost of the little volume are
now selling it, all money derived from the
sale to be for the benefit of the little box
who came into the world as his mother
slipped out. One of the pieces in the
artistic souvenir is a set of verses, straight
from the heart, written by her in a private
hospital a week or so before the little one
arrived.
Victor Wcinarski, who got the call
suddenly while ,on the way to attend a
patient at Mornington, was a member ot a
clever family and his should have
been longer, for lie was only 50. He went
from the Grammar School to the \ arsity,
and when the guns began to boom be threw
up his medical practice at North Melbourne
and served with the A.M.C. in Egypt. Ihe
County Court .Judge is a brother.
Werribee is mourning Father M. lleany,
of St. Andrew’s, who has just passed out.
In 15 years he built up the parish carved
out for him and wain general esteem. A
bishop, a couple of vicars-general, and a big
contingent of priests took part in his
obsequies, lie was buried in a specially con-
structed vault in the church.
Betty MacMeickan, who flitted off last year
on a visit to an okl school-chum, Nina Gat-
liffe, who is now the wife of an Indian officer
named Robinson, landed back in Sydney
the other day. She will shelter at tin l Clive
Fairbairns’ squattage on her way home.
During her trip she looked in at Sumatra,
and was the only Britisher on the boat—
which, perhaps, is why someone aboard
pinched all her jewellery and loose cash.
This popular miss is a grand-daughter of the
late Naval-Captain Payne. The Paynes led
the first Social Brigade in the ’eighties, and
entertained lavishly at Osmington, now a
private hospital in South Yarra.
Noiiie, third daughter of late Speaker
Frank .Madden, marries Colonel M.L.A. Bour-
eliicr on June US. He was best man to her
sister Sheilafi’s husband, who broke the ice
in a large family of pretty girls. After the
wedding the old home, Mooroolbeek, goes to
the highest bidder, and an exodus, already
begun, completes itself.
Unlike her more famous namesake,
Florence M. Young, who returned from the
Big Smoke on the Ormonde, is more closely
associated with the Church than the Stage,
being second in the maternal line of descent
from that Joseph King who for 50 years
looked after the soul of Black Brother in
the South Seas for the London Missionary
Society. She is the daughter of J. B.
Young, State Repatriation Commissioner,
and was chosen by Melbourne ’Varsity to
represent it at an international pow-wow of
Christian Unionists in Switzerland. Her
passport took her far : she studied conditions
in Vienna on starvation diet, and now sle-
w'd! plead on behalf of the broken children
of Austria and Hungary. In Switzerland
she fraternised with another namesake,
Jung, the cardinal of the psycho-analysts.
This is a Talma, photo of Mrs. Walter
Goxen, wife of the Brigadier-General who
is the Big Gun at
the head of the Aus-
tralia n Artillery.
She is one of tlie
senior vice-presi-
dents of the Soldiers’
Wives and Mothers’
Friendly Union, and
sh e worked tire-
lessly for Anzacs’
dependants through-
out the war period.
-V Queenslander, she
spent her girlhood
in Thursday Island,
where her late
father, Mr. Boan,
held an official posi-
tion. Mrs. Coxen
will have a busy
lime next-year
chaperoning her two pretty elder girls, who
are to “come out” in the spring.
After two years in the States —she went
over with Cyril Maude and his “Grumpy”—
Stella Payter came home by the Ventura full
of enthusiasm for acting as seen in U.S.A.,
but much more enthusiastic about weather
as seen at this end of the world.
Many and affluent have been the farewell-
parties to Adele and Gladys Wertheim, who
with mother and brother Guido are on the
outgoing Niagara’s passenger-list. The
final was at the Lyceum Club, where Emily
Dyason Scott was hostess and dispensed
music as well as tea and cakes, and Mrs.
Norah Streeton and her fiddle helped.
Dr. Bill Davis is the latest candidate for
the matrimonial stakes. The bride-to-be at
present signs her surname Delaney and her
home town is in the wheat country.
The Miller lady is trying to rouse public
interest in the Church of England Homes for
Boys. She is calling meetings at Glyn,
her Toorak home, to dee kit* on the best
method of help.
Now that her two elder daughters are
married and packed off, Mrs. \Y. J. T. Clarke
is giving her attention socially to young
Wilma, just out of school. This fledgling
and brother Trevor gave a swanky youthful
jazz-party at mother s place recently. Some
of the young fry from the families of the
Winter Irvings, the Baiilieus, the Grey
Smiths and the Mills were in the whirl.
The David Syme Research prize for 1921
has gone to Dr. X. Hamilton Fairley for
his inquiries into the family doings of the
lj,lharzias, whose address is Egypt.
Xellie Yeitch has been seriously ill, but
is now convalescent. She is staying with
Mrs. George Langridge, and the two are
packing off to the Western District when
doctor's orders permit. Miss Veiteh is that
perpetually young lady who demonstrates in
herself the value of physical culture. She
now coaches in physical jerks young people
who are the daughters of her earlier pupils.
And no one can discover a change in her
youthful looks.
Marion .Jones, the artist who managed to
bag the elusive Hilly Hughes for three sit-
tings, has settled down in London, with a
studio in Chelsea. The young person won
the Clarke travelling scholarship from Mel
bourne, and since then has been wandering.
Violinist .fdsephi, who has revolved in Mel-
bourne musical circles for .'l2 years, has
gathered bis cigars and his wonderful collec-
tion of art antiques under his arm, and is
now rummaging round for a congenial perch
in Sydney, where he has accepted the job of
Secretary to the Swedish Consul-General.
Josephi was lured by the fact that the
C.-G. is a collector and connoisseur, too.
Also he has it on good authority that there
are cigar-shops in Sydney. Josephi’s work
in Melbourpe consisted of a queer mixture of
teaching, concert management and law. He
is a lonely bachelor whose one constant com-
panion is his tiddic.
The former Beechworth girl who married
Ivo Bligh, the cricketer, arid became Viscoun-
tess Darn ley is attracting notice in London
as a water-colorist. Specimens of her work
have been thought good enough to be ex-
hibited at Walker’s galleries in Bond-street.
During the war the Darnleys turned
Oobham Hall, their picturesque old Kentish
home, into a hospital for wounded Aussies.
Cobhnm is famous for its Vandycks.
Who says our tramway servants are not
polite? In Bourke-street the other day an
old fellow, when asked for his fare, pro-
duced two coppers from his mouth. The
conductor was equal to the occasion. Un-
ostentatiously flicking off a check-ticket he
wrapped the scrap of paper round the two-
pence and dropped the coins in his bag.
\o duchess could have done it better
While the Education Department was
trying to explain away the singing of a
harmless hymn, in the Maffra State school,
the kiddies at Albert Park school inflicted
two sacred melodies on Governor Stradbroke
on Empire Day, and his Ex. listened to a
prayer as part of the programme at Canter-
bury school. Director Tate, the custodian
of the free, secular and compulsory system,
was present: and if he says anything it will
not be from the housetops.
If Attorney-General Robinson had not
boasted recently of the self-denial of State
Ministers as to motoring nobody would have
noticed the brand-new car his Government is
now running-—said to have cost £l2OO or
thereabouts. Gompared with other State
Governments and the Oomimonwealth, Vic-
toria is not extravagant with its cars; but
its economy is nothing to go into raptures
about.
Bucketsful of rain couldn’t wash back the
crowds that flocked to the two-step of dance-
teacher .Slaweski’s senior pupils at St.
Mary’s Hall the other night. Some came in
taxis, but most in goloshes. The host earned
three cheers by suggesting that as he, single-
handed, couldn’t introduce all his guests to
one another, they should consider the thing
done. I-t was a cheerful frivol, the floor and
orchestra being A 1 and the supper a decora-
tive affair. Slaweski, by the way, is a
nephew of old friend Paul Bibron.
New Town, Hobart’s big suburb, has a
handsome municipal building left on its
hands now that it has linked" up with the
city_; and a community club, on the latest
American lines, is taking possession of the
vacant offices. The moving spirit is Wilson
Bailey, once well known among Sydney press-
men, but now at the head of a Hobart busi-
ness. His Ex. is to pronounce a blessing,
and Premier Lee is taking a lot of interest
in the new idea.
At the smoke night of the Old Xaverians
at the college on Saturday, Cofien, K.C.,
president of the Old Scotch Collegians, who
was the principal gubst, showed that he could
be good company. Wilson Dobbs held up
Ins end well as tne Old Melburnians’ deputy,
and mentioned that he had helped as a lad,
in IS TO, to rub down some St. Pat.’s college
athletes whom he then admired. Dr. Maur-
ice Maegillicuddy and lawyer W alter Xoohey,
both Xaverians, made things sparkle a bit;
but it would have been a dull evening with-
out the visitors.
And bang goes another tuppence-ha penny
a week! Age and Argus, which have been
selling themselves for three ha'pence- —except
on Saturdays, when they have been a
ha’penny extra—have decided that they
can’t do it any longer, costs having refused
to undergo the expected shrinkage; so now
it's to be tuppence every day.
Edwyn Hames, photoed here by Monteath,
has caused a stir in musical circles by win-
uing a scholarship
for three years at
the ’Varsity Conser-
vatorium. He came
in as an outsider,
and, though pitted
against the Uni.’s
second-grade experts,
captured the prize
easi 1 y. The boy
started fiddling at
10, and during his
training under A. J.
Parkes, the parent
of Cecil, he raked in
every medal obtain-
able at the Ballarat
competitions. Young
Ilames is now 18,
and as he is con-
sidered to have made
record progress in the time he has devoted
himself seriously to music, his future ought
to be worth watching.
Carlyon, of the Esplanade Hotel, gave his
ballroom and the service of his minions for
a supper-dance last week, to help the Blind
Appeal. The Mayor came with his lady, who
wore a regal-looking black velvet gown. Ex-
Mlayoress Stein was in radiant rags with a
I’arisy jazz hat on one ear. Lesley Madden,
in lily white, was at a table-for-two with her
devoted young man. Mrs. Russell Gabh’s
dress was exquisite—a yard or two of pale
orchid velvet topped by a pale gold head-
dress. Mrs. Cox and Mrs. Hewison received
the guests. Mrs. Cox was heavily jetted
from her jazz hat to her toes, and Mrs.
Ilewison showed off some wonderful Oriental
embroidery on her soft black dress. Miss
Cox sported a georgette frock that tried to
reach her knees, and two of her limbs
blushed through fine white silk stockings.
Claire Baillieu Hared in gold tissue and
cerise, arid Mary Baillieu’s tight black
satin had waterfalls of tulle cascading down
each side. Mardi Syme was a picture in pale
lemon tints of brocaded georgette. Mrs.
Automobile-Club Lambert was a busy helper
in black fluffy draperies. Mrs. Fred Army-
tage wore flares of rich black moire, and
Mrs. Teddy Armytage was in black georgette.
Mrs. Ted Duckett was in black. It was
a most frqcky affair all round.
Adelaide passes on a word or two: —
The large new pavilion just completed on the Glen-
elg .Oval was officially opened by his Ex. the other
day. and afterwards he bounced the ball to start the
match between Glenelg and N. Adelaide.
The nurses of the Adelaide Hospital gave a ball
to entertain their friends. It was held in the big
dining-hall at the Nurses’ Home, Frome-road, and
the supper-room recalled Egypt, with its Eastern
rugs and palms and brasses.
Two S. Australians who met and married in Eng-
land returned to Adelaide by the Ormonde. He is
George Cowan and she a daughter of John Lewis.
The lady, bent on war-work, went oversea in 1915,
started as a scullerv-maid, and without influence
rose to the position of an area-superintendent, and
had control of the canteens in the southern com-
mand, numbering 300. Her husband became Chief
Commissioner of the Australian Trench Comforts
Fund in succession to Col. T. S. Woodburn in 1919.
His Ex. has just received an intimation that King
George has granted the Imperial Service Medal to
Miss Anna Maria Cliffe, late matron of the Adelaide
Gaol, who retired a couple of years ago, after being
in the service since 1877. It is believed that she
is the only woman who has been awarded this medal.
One of Adelaide’s well-known .racehorse-owners has
passed out at the age of 69—Joseph Rowe Osborn,
partner in the firm of Thomas Hardy and Sons, wine
merchants. He was one of the founders and the
first captain of the Norwood Football Club, and was
keenly interested in all sport.
Adelaide’s French Club, the Alliance Franchise,
has been thrilled by the presence of a fascinating
French madame, a member of the Humphrey Bishop
■ Company, now showing at the Theatre Royal. She
arrived with 12 crates of Parisian frocks and dia-
monds insured for £5OOO. Then it is said that
she was a shining light in Russian society, and was
present at the jolly little dinner when Rasputin
: was put out of action —a story which has meant a
rush on the part of the fair sex for inside information
; about the unclean gentleman with the long, greasy
, hair and the come-hither eye.


rararoal RUMMOND’S have just added to their large
i|| selection of Solid Silver and Silver-plated Ware
a selection of extra high-grade Quality Cafe
Trays and Salvers. These are particularly
suitable for Wedding Gifts and Presentations, and are
represented in a variety of sizes and chaste designs.
Mm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Lower Prices for
BUCKLEY’S SUITS
By challenging every item of expense in the making, and through our
buying organisation embracing the opportunity of securing woollens for
cash at a time when markets
were below replacement values,
we are able to off or
14 & 16 Gn. Suits
(or
£9/19/6
Made to Measure
The materials are all im-
ported fabrics, consisting of
real Scotch Tweeds in un-
limited designs and colorings,
West of England Worsteds
in check, diagonal and mixtures,
also Indigo Blue, Saxony and
Cheviot Serges.
Buckley’s Suits
are always uni-
form in quality
and price. N'o
matter whe r e
you live the cost
is the sain e,
bee a use we
pay carriage.
If unable to call,
write for Pat-
terns and Self-
in e a s u r ement
Form posted
free.
*
/II
y&y,
"rTII
nrif! n&i f •*■ •' •
RSa*
«SR|£
**SS»
§fc«
Softs' \^s
>c»v-
r^wwato.
pcvv^r-r-X'
%V
nm
BUCKLEY E NUNN LTD. BOUNCE ST MELBOURNE
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO any post office
RAILWAY STN.OR PQRI
IN AUSTRALIA
TRADEp Q X
CUARA/NTEED
CAUTION When buying these celebrated Serges
protect your own interests by seeing
that the material is Branded every two yards with
our Trade-mark. Without this brand you are not
buying the genuine Fox Serge.
FOX BROTHERS £C9 LIP
WELLINGTON , SOMERSET,


Under
Royal
Warrant
m
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck;
nm
H 3
l^.
champagne
Q>arl£sHeidsie(K
Reims
*ggsS3o>
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Austraiaeian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY I.IMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
M. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
n
Bond’s Australian Made
Triple
Wear
Hose
is definitely
Guaranteed
not to ladder,
hole or tear.
Made in
heavy Plated
Artificial Silk
$
L 'ST
and 4 times the Weight and 4 times
the Strength of any Silk Hose money
can buy. Triple Wear is Artj A A
easily your Best Hosiery I // I
Investment at
Geo. A. Bond & Co. —All States & N.Z.
Hold your special party at the
Wlntworth Cate
n
%
V-A
W
l\
A 3
> WA
SNAP.
SPARKLE and
NOVELTY.
Dinner Dances
nightly, 7 to
11.30.
Special Dinner
Dances Thurs-
days, 7 to mid-
night ; and
Saturdays. 7 to
11.50.
Tea Dances
every afternoon.
Telephone—
City 9931.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
I >id you ever realise that you can lie
dressed from bead to heel in clothes manu-
factured in your own Australia: that you
can live in a house furnished from attic to
basement (that’s only picturesque language
for the eternal flat) with things made in
Australia from Australian woods; that your
bath-heater and stoves, your pots and your
pans, your men-folks’ pipes and your own
cigarettes and sweets can all bear the “Made-
in-Australia” brand? It’s been the wildest
fascination all this week looking into the
shop windows —it sent the same thrill run-
ning up and down the good Australian’s spine
that “God Save the King” gives General
Rosenthal. It has, if you are a patriot, filled
you as brimful of national pride as Henry
Lawson’s songs of the Dardanelles. And, by
the way, don’t forget that the beautiful toys
and woodcraft you saw in the windows are
Hie work of those same boys who have come
back home. Put the “Made-in-Australia”
stamp on your shopping-list, and the man
behind the counter will have the goods on
his shelf.
The last Heifetz matinee filled the Town
Hall with sleek furs and feminine purrs.
The theatrical profession came strongly to
the party—Rene Maxwell, Marie La Varre,
Arthur Styan and Ivy Shilling; and Emelie
l’olini and her husband were down from the
farm. Marie Tempest looked in; arid the
new star Levitzki sat in the front seat. The
very last encore was the haunting Schubert
“Ave Maria,” the piano part of which Chot-
zinoff, of the heel-length, prune-colored top-
coat, plays divinely. Jascha, by the way, has
two diversions —cards, which he plays badly ;
and jazz, which he loves to make a romp
of. The family party haunted the Went-
worth on Jascha’s nights off.
Annette Kellerman is back in Sydney, vivid
and emotional, fluid as water and quick
a.s flame. She is slim and dark, with a
complexion that pales and flushes under the
stress of her staccato speech. A Keller-
man aunt gave her a welcome-home party
at the Australia the other afternoon, and
Annette clothed her naiad figure in jersey
silk of bright rose, the skirt composed of
tier on tier of thick silk fringe. Old friends
of the family and her own school-chums —
she was a St. Vincent’s pupil—were in force
to greet her, and there was a general mur-
mur of “Do you remember, Annette?” or
'‘Annette, have .you forgotten?” and Annette
always did remember and never had for-
gotten.
Annette, who is really Mrs. Sullivan, is
going to make Sydney take notice of her
dancing. She has worked at it four hours
a day for the last four years, and that
sticking a thing out was the key of her
swimming success. It kept her going
in her famous attempt to swim the
English Channel —even after her bath-
ing-suit had cut its way into her flesh and
until sea-sickness finally overpowered her —■
and later sustained her when she swam
the Danube for 23 miles, a record that has
never been beaten. Old friends at the party
recalled ‘ that Annette’s mother looked very
like the Annette of to-day when she arrived
in Sydney 40 years ago with luo mother,
Mrs. Charbonet. In their early days the Char-
lionets lived in a tiny wooden house in Vic-
toria-street, and when the grand piano was
in there was room for not much else. Still,
the Charbonets held piano-recitals in their
little home to which the upper layer of Syd-
ney came, and when the sitting-room over-
flowed the guests sat on chairs, often lent
by neighbors, in the little strip of garden.
Later the mother and daughter lived in
Macleay-street, and the Sunday-niglit con-
ceits were a feature of Sydney until Ann-
ette’s mother became Mrs. Kellerman, when
a move was made to Phillip-street, where
the | Kellerman Conservetorium was started.
’File Red Cross Exhibition in the Town
Hall drew its hundreds each afternoon and
evening. The soldiers are making so many
thifigs that the sections had to be crowded
together, and this made it rather difficult
to see the workmanship to advantage; but
the. sea-grass furniture, the toys, the tweeds
and the basketware made fascinating dis-
plays which riveted the householder’s atten-
tion. The Junior Red Cross joined forces,
and the clothes and jams and preserves
made by the youngsters will mean comfort
and joy for many a sick soldier’s kiddies.
The platform was, like Annie Laurie,
“breasted like the dove,” with the snowy
whiteness of the little Red Crossers’ uni-
forms, and forming the background for them
was their own Crimson Cross. The Forster
Excellencies were present on Empire Day,
she wearing her blue-feathered hat, he look-
ing more than ever like a dashing movie-hero.
The Cook lady, Mrs. Mackinnon and Mrs.
A. E. Mitchell were some of the energetic
workers that helped the success along.
Lady Bancroft, who died in London last
week, was well known to many Australians.
She and her picturesque husband, Sir
Squire—who was the first and only actor to
be elected to the King's Club, the Marl-
borough—were great friends, amongst others,
of the Frederick Lassetters, and often stayed
with them at Villa Margherita, on’ Lake
Como. As Marie Wilton she made a tre-
mendous amount of money by producing the
Robertson comedies to delighted audiences.
She was a short, stout and extraordinarily
plain woman —her face resembled that of a
French toy bulldog—but her humor and high
spirits gave her an unforgettable charm. A
son was well known in Sydney about a dozen
years ago.
Willy Kelly, who gave up the safe
Nationalist constituency of Wentworth to
Wally Marks when his health broke down,
is on the incoming Niagara. While abroad he
has written a three-act comedy intituled “The
Triumph of Instinct.” The theme is the old
one of the compelling force which drives even
the wisest of us into the matrimonial tomb.
All the characters except the butler Mont-
gomery talk remarkably like the author when
lie is in good form and in the presence of an
appreciative audience. When old Bill Lyne
threatened to spank the exasperating youth
from Woollahra in the Reps, and the
Speaker turned on the old war-horse with
chiding words, Kelly intervened. “Leave
him alone, Mr. Speaker,” he urged.. “We
know on high authority that you cannot put
new wine into old bottles.” That is the
Kelly wit, quick and dry and cold, and there
is plenty of it in his play. A London pro-
ducer is thinking of “giving it. a fly” at a
West End theatre.
The MacCormicks do not often give a
party. The doctor considers the practice
extravagant. However, when they do, it is
an impressive affair, and the list of guests is
more or less a measure of Who’s Who in
the fashionable world of Sydney. Last
week was one of these occasions, and Knoxes,
Stephens and Massies were there in force.
The MacCormicks’ extensive home at Point
Piper has a real ballroom, which is
unusual these days, and it was gorgeously
decorated with arum lilies. The Colin
Stephens’ pretty girl Helen made her debut,
and among the good-looking married women
were Lady Loughborough and Mrs. Pitt
Rivers.
This is Judith Fletcher’s picture of Bernice
Edwell, whose delicate miniatures are the
charm of two little corners of Gayfield Shaw’s
rooms. Bernice, who
is really of Mel-
bourne, studied in
Sydney with Full-
wood as her first
guide and the Royal
Art Society a.s her
second. Then Paris
and the Colorossi
Studio became her
world for two years,
and the year she left
Paris the Sal o n
bought two of her
miniatures. There
are four of the deli-
cate studies in our
own Gallery, and two
at M elb o urne—
one of these is ex-
<iovernor Stanley’s
daughter Pamela, her cropped fair hair a
graceful contrast to her black velvet frock.
This year several examples of Miss Edwell’s
work have been taken by the London
Academy.
With the coldest day of the year ice-skating
came back to Sydney once more, and young
and old, goldilocks and baldhead, answered
the call of the Glaciarium and took to the ice
with a whoop when the “General Skating”
signal flew up. Courageous school-boys and
-girls pulled themselves around by the wooden
railing: and other small boys, very retrousse
as to the back view, and all elbows from
front range, cut figures among the elderly
ramrods. Boys brought their best girls, and
girls brought their gayest jerseys, and there
was a rush on the skate deposit, where the
old hands had left their ice-runners all sum-
mer, no doubt to prevent the moth getting
in. A dark girl looking like a Spanish
senorita, in a yellow jersey and a cream
skirt, was the most striking figure in the glid-
ing throng. And after the first enthusiasm
was whetted there was tea for all on long-
tables down the side.
The Wesley Collegians didn't have their
jazz in their own domain, like the other
Uni. houses, but took their pumps and their
girls to the Wentworth, where the big cafe
mingled the purple and gold of the College
colors with its own white and gold: and
the Mayor of Manly and Mr. Mutch would
both have been happy, for the Union Jack
and our own five stars were given equal
prominence. One of the smartest dressers
was Mrs. Clayton, who was all gold and gold-
green tones; Jean Curlewis was a fluff of
henna tulle; and the Scott-Fletcher miss was
in soft white satin. Old students with their
wives and crowds of young things made the
night merry.
The clans foregathered at Paddington
Town Hall last week, when the Highland
Society skirled out its invitations to the
dance. This is the first time in years that
the craggy society has unbent to such tree-
volity. Banquets and smoke-concerts and
the Highland Gathering have been con-
sidered sufficient diversion; but this year
the jazz laddies and lassies have had their
way, and it was a great night for the Mac-
donalds and the Camerons, the McPhersons
and the Stuarts.
Other parties of the week were the Alfred
Turnbulls' on Friday evening and the Shir-
ley Old Girls’ in the hall of the old school
at Edgeclitf.
The Musical Association will have spent
all its substance in riotous living if the stars
continue to arrive in such galaxies. Only
a month has passed since it burst into song
and sandwiches at Farmer’s to greet Heifetz,
and last Friday night it had an encore for
Levitzki, piano-player. Levitzki has a narrow
head that suggests a cottage upright, and
wears side-levers that make him look like a
young toreador. After a lengthy musical
controversy between violin and piano in-
structed by Henry Penn and Coad, and some
tuneful outbursts from Mrs. Eustace llol-
royde, guests were asked to pass single file
before the young man, who gravely shook
hands with each —if ever he becomes a
prince by marriage he’ll know just how the
trick is done. The room was as crowded as
the Zoo on a Saturday afternoon, such is the
lure of the lion, lleul Society was repre-
sented by pretty and musical Mrs. Pitt
Rivers, who confined her hair with a bandeau
and was mostly blue and silver tones in her
frocking; with her sat Justice Gordon’s wife
in black and gold, and a little lady in a
black-plumed hat who talked voluble French
Mrs. Talbot and her sister Bernice Vere, the
film-actress, sat in the front row of chairs;
Mrs. de Beaupuis, in dull blue and old-rose
silk, brought her handsome mother, Mrs.
Kerr, who in black silk, a lace cap and a
lace scarf defied the years and enjoyed tin 1
party with the youngest; Mirrie Solomon and
Alfred Hill looked as though they were busy
composing a. life-harmony; and Topsie Doe-
nan wrapped her red cloak about her. Topsie
and Donald Mcßeath, by the way, are on tin-
way to wealth, having lucrative engagements
at. the picture theatres.
Every seat in the big Opera House was
booked beforehand for the theatrical matinee
for the hospitals. Many of the wily
women ticket-sellers had their clients’ seats
assured before the plan opened to the public.
The boxes had been raffled and brought in
£BO each. All sorts of loot had been gar-
nered before the day. Mrs. Hugh Ward
held a vegetable market during the week-end
under John Chinaman’s own .symbols in the
Opera House vestibule; Mrs. Nelson and
Mrs. John Hunter sold nearly £l5O worth
of tickets between them ; Reach’s bought £2O
worth of seats and sent refreshments for the
orchestra : and Chinatown had its afternoon
off watching strings of actress-laden limou-
sines driving up to its own theatre.
Walter Bentley expounded the staging of
“Hamlet” at the Education Building the
other night to a room crowded with girl-
aiul boy-students and groups of men and
women who bore the unmistakable brand of
teacher. Now and then the old player burst
into declamatory tones when the music of
a special passage proved too much for him.
11 is fervent “Oh, that this too, too solid
flesh would melt” took on added significance
when a moment later he told his listeners
that in the days when he played Hamlet
his waist-line was in the early twenties.
Have you any gramophone records to
spare for the Waterfall T. B. Sanatorium?
The winter evenings are long and dull for
the men, and the secretary sends out an SOS
for games and playing-cards, in addition to
the machine-music. I’arcels put in the
special carriage on the 2 p.m. train Wednes-
days and Thursdays and addressed to the
secretary will go free of expense.
The King’s Cross was the first camping-
place for Rudd’s “New Selection,” and the
comfortable Darlingliurst theatre was
crowded with the guests that the Chamber
of Manufacturers had invited to see the first
screening. The film is forceful and human,
and the advance of the Rudds up the social
ladder was a joy. Lottie Lyell, who sat in
the audience in a navy-blue cloak and a
high white ruff that tickled her chin, was
the sweet heroine of the love interest, and
married her returned soldier, to the delight
of us all. As Nell Lottie hadn’t quite the
scope that Doreen gave her, but her work
is graceful and natural, and producer Ray-
mond Longford is made thereby a happy
man. The returned soldier of the picture
helped his really-and-truly mother up the
stairway to see what her boy looked like <>n
the screen; and Ada Clyde (Mum Rudd )
was another of the front-seaters.
Through the generosity of the members
of the City Tattersall's Club, over 100 con-
valescent little ones at the Royal Alexandra
Hospital were given a good deal of pleasure
by a picnic to Sandringham. The Club
supplied 20 motor-cars, which conveyed the
children from the city, round the Domain
and out to Sandringham, where they were
catered for with all sorts of amusements.
Talma shows you Mrs. Bennett-White,
organiser, stage-manager, wardrobe-mistress
and character-actress of the Cheer-oh Girls,
an d formerly the
widely-known Meta
Ilayter, leading lady
of the Bank of
N.S.W. Dramatic
Society. B> etor e
origin a t i n g the
Cheer-oh ve n i ur e
Mrs. Bennett-White
played a line round
of parts as an ama-
teur in .farce and
comic ope r a. I n
15)15 she tried to
knit socks, feeling,
as she puts,it, that
she had to do some-
thing for the boys;
but after her first
attempt she took
pity on them, and
decided that she could utilise her talents to
better advantage. The Cheer-ohs were the
outcome. A few of the originals have left
the company, but most of them are with
her still, though last week some of them
went west as far as Dubbo. Every railway
line in the State has been exploited by tin 1
Girls, and Brisbane and Hpbart have also
been visited. They have netted £15,000-odd
for charity and patriotic funds so far. The
North ('oast is to be toured in the spring,
and on Thursday, .Tune 2, at Chatswood, they
will give a Bov Scouts’ benefit for Harry
Mac Donnell, who is ill at Waterfall.
Captain Harold Vale, another Australian
who served with the British Army, intends
to set the wedding bells ringing. lie was
with the 12th Siege Battery, Royal Garrison
Artillery, and helped to throw over the heavy
stuff that paralysed Fritz, far back, at
Arras, Bapaume and Ypres. The French
handed him the Croix de Guerre at Ypres.
lie belongs to a well-known Sydney family,
and has invited Vera Foster, a dainty Syd-
ney blonde, to join it.
Old North Shore C. of E. Grammar boys
are holding their annual dance, to help pay
for the Memorial playing grounds, in the
Paddington Town Hall on June 13.
Eustace Townley Pinhey’s bride was Freda
Dove, and she is the youngest daughter of
Horace Dove, of Sunbury on Thames, Middle-
sex. Eustace was senior resident at Bt.
Vincent’s up to March, 1915, when he went
to England in the R.A.M.C. After serving
in France as .surgeon with the Artillery for
12 months, he was appointed to the staff
of the Bethnal Green Military Hospital,
where he remained for three years. He then
became senior resident of the Hackney infir-
mary, and has now been appointed medical
officer of the Institution and Infirmary of
the City of London Union at Bows.
.V Brisbane P.S.:—
Alice Duncan, the eldest daughter of Mrs. \v.
Duncan, of Mooraberrie station, was one of the six
buds who bloomed at the Downs Picnic Race Club
ball. This child has an extraordinary gift of de-
scription ; not long ago an account of a drought-
stricken station, written by her, appeared in a Bris-
bane daily, and for once in his life the dweller in
cities realised something of what the Outback
was suffering. »
Another recent del), is Jean Grant, the equally
pretty sister of Mary, the Prince’s favorite Queens-
land partner.
Hon. Mrs. Brodriek gave a tea at Government
House on Thursday last, and daughter, who is now
convalescent, helped to pass the flowing teacup.
Next day Mrs. J. C. Garrick retaliated with a jazz-
party at Lennon’s.
Our Ex. left on Sunday night on a tour of the
North. Plain Bill Lennon will be his Deputy in
town.
There have been several shivoos in honor of the
S. Aus. University boat crew, who are in Brisbane
for the rowing races. Mr. Cardiff, a Sydneysider,
was host at a dinner at the Belle Vue, and Dr.
and Mrs. Malcolm Cameron gave a jazz party.
Edward Cahill, father of Teddy, the Queensland
pianist, died on Saturday night. He wat one of the
pioneers of the Beenleigh district.
Tempe Pigott, the Queensland actress who war
formerly with the Buckler-Paget Co., is touring the
Western States, U.S.A., with a dramatic co. The
only other woman in the cast of their principal piece,
“John Ferguson,” is Eileen Robinson, a little Sydney
girl who also was with the Buckler-Paget group.


<r Engulf d in ocean’s deepest wave”
(Wagner’s ”Flying Dutchman”)
The great musician —pianist, violinist, singer
moves us to profound depths of feeling
with his artistry; his emotional qualities. By
his technical dexterity we are merely awed—if we notice it at
all. One appeals to our inner sense of consciousness— intel-
lect, if you will—the other to our intelligence only. The New
model Beale Player-Piano is not so much an instrument of
tremendous technique as it is an instrument of interpretation
1 echnique it has, certainly, as all good musicianship rests on
a foundation of adequate technique. But its devices for in-
terpretive control of that technique provide the characteristic
which will interest you most. The Beale is a musicianly
instrument supplying a means of expression to the inarticu-
late musician. It has no limitation for artistic playing other
than that of the operator’s own understanding of his theme.
oA descriptive illustrated booklet, sent anywhere post free.
BEALE g> COM PANYIP?
Showroom
340 George Street, SYDNEY
Head Office and Factories:
i*47 Trafalgar St., ANNANDALE
BRANCHES—N.S. IV.: Bathurst, Orange,
Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, and Wagga.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania.: Williams Bros.,Hobart; Maples,
Launceston. 5./?.:John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
IV.A. :J. A. Thomson Co. Limited, Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay
■>nd Cairns.
*%-r
■* IH ' . h m
. ;>> 4 *"/ \
Ms,* HI 4 J PSp! f m
, , fzmmmsmm
ll If. f
H ~. -■ ?- A 'wLfll
*lll
f ,i " ' ' ‘ ■nmMM*.
iUSQmpfap
» 7
■N
■
Aft
<
:
ms
as
:f
.ft ■
§1
;
- i
J k
%
■'■■■:■■ ; : ft?:
:
' .' ~ ft; ~ . V ?;.. ~
,
.
1
Irak
'■ ' -
A :
11
1 ’'. I
fA
--x->.
M
I ■: ':.
w
■k
& ':
:
mmm
A
.^"ic/ws
■
■
. .
m
■■HI
• f
g gsgs ggggs
Hi
■ Aft l
rfl
iSIII
iSSHK
■
«
. .'
AIMMAA
Bi iil v *
' ft A
mp*
Wi 3 ***
. ..
;. -:' ; . 'ft ':
ftApYtA^
■MH
•>
-
fmmlklmmmM
•ft :■
11
>aVaA5
:mm
m
:
ft.: 1
Awl
I
Alt..
■
•.
8
Aft::
'
■lißlS | •- Mw I il
■f
■ft'' v
V
Sftfc
S'?-:
af. ■ . ; W; a
. , .
:
A A' VV
.: .. >•


Jv /
*
GOOD JUDGMENT
ancf
GOOD TASTE
prompt the selection of
Holeproof Hosiery
TN its beauty it meets the exacting
requirements of the most critical
taste, and is a blessing to thousands
of women who have been freed from
darning.
Offered in pure silk, silk faced and lisle
styles, in a wide range of prices.
SOLD BY LEADING
DRAPERS EVERYWHERE
Indents and "Wholesale thru
"Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd * 50 York Street,
Sydney
mn
i~Y
a
w
sm
ferrae
Simple les-
sons in the
principles
of black-and-
white work and
design have been
prepared by Mr.
Harry ,J. Weston,
Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, enabling
you to study art
in your own home.
This
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
teaches you with-
out drudgery how
to apply your tal-
ent, and how to
make big money
besides learning a
fascinating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s Money
in the Pen,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.,
and gives examples
of the lessons and
samples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent you on re-
ceipt of your
name and ad-
dress and three
stamps to cover
postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
54 Union House, SYDNEY.
.■rz=±-_i
(Ml
George
St. Kilda.
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Lariceht Hotel Accommodation
in Australia.
in these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schtite, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
n
THE
WINTON"
SEND YOUR HEIGHT & WEIGHT.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Far above my
Expectations
THE FOLLOWING IS AN EXTRACT
FROM A LETTER FROM
BARMEDMAN
“The ‘Winton’ Saddle has turned out
far above my expectations, and more
than fulfils anything you claim for
it. It is absolutely the king of stock
saddles, and gives the comfort and
ease of a park saddle, with the added
security of a stock saddle. The nar-
row waist and kip flaps are very
comfortable, and the skirtless seat
cannot be bettered. To my surprise
I am able to ride with longer length
of stirrup than I could with knee-
pads lower down. In two weeks it
has not a seat in it in which I could
ride 50 miles or 1000 miles with equal
comfort. Ao wonder it sells.”
The price of the “Winton,” fitted
with folded girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups
is £l5/10/-, freight free, for cash
with order to any port or rail-
way station in >«’. S. Wales.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, “Leather House,” 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
“When ooM winds blow” on wings of snow,
Awl bring wild winter in their train.
When gulls sUini low where white crests flow
'N'eath mists of drenching rain,
All nature then grows grey and drear,
And cold's we all endure,
But world-wide sufferers feel no fear
With Woods' Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Public Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.
/'aORRESPONDENCE invited from MELBOURNE
L, and SYDNEY houses desirous of representation
in South Australia. Live selling organisation.
Specialty lines preferred.
T. W. KIMBER & CO., LTD.,
Royal Exchange, King William Street,' Adelaide.
THE POPULAR TRIO
Three brands of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the
Commonwealth, viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The Half Reil
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price Od. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 28/0; Box of 100, 46/-
Post I'ree all over Australia.
mn
m
nm
n
mn
m
n
CRAIG &AITKEN 5 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigcir Factory.
u
?
L
i
■'VnT*
ner
Tour
To Sun n o ,
Oueenslum
The Riviera of Australia.
Melbourne to Cairns —via Sydney, Brisbane,
Port Alma, Flat Top, Bowen and Townsville.
Travel in June, July and August
and avoid the Southern Winter.
Sunshine and Calm Seas.
Magnificent Tropical Scenery.
Barron Falls.
Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook Channel.
Large, Fast, Modern, Commodious Steamers fitted with wireless.
Canberra, Wyreema, Cooma, Wyandra,
Bombala, Wodonga, Arawatta.
Roomy Cabins and Spacious Promenade Decks. Cuisine Unsurpassed
Leave Melbourne every Wednesday and Saturday
and Sydney every Tuesday and Saturday.
Full particulars on application to Agents, viz.:
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.,
35 Market Street, Melbourne; 350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne; 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice, (except of a hostile character will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.T.: On the contrary it is the most
natural thing in the world that these Governors should
take that stand ; for in “Conservative” England the
more loyal you are the more certain you are that
self-advertising people who use the Flag for their
own purposes are “bounders” and “no class”....
N.P.: Hate to rob Livingston, M.H.R., of the honor
of being one of three S. Australian pastoralists who
“started the frozen-meat export industry of the Com-
monwealth 25 years ago by arranging a trial ship-
ment of frozen mutton.” The business has been run-
ning for 40 years, and 25 years ago the N.S.W.
exports alone already amounted to over 20 million
pounds... .Aloysius K.: “Shifting Muck” isn’t a
had picture, but it takes too much canvas.... Oleo:
It, has all been said before.... Paddymelon: Prema-
ture. .. .B. A.L.: This one has earned its space:- -
In our village there is a man
who steals .from folks whene’er he can;
which is quite often, for you see
there's fools alive like you an’ me.
His roguish methods never fail,
an’ I’m told that inside a jail
he’s not set foot, except perhaps
with more sanctimonious chaps
he’s visited to see the sort
who less fortunate luive been caught,.
He keeps the local store, this thief,
an’ 1 tell you it’s my belief
it’s not the oidy thing he keeps ;
for when away from home he sleeps
in a bedroom behind the store;
a light’s been seen quite late; what’s more
two shadows, on the blind. This may
be false, or may be true, can’t say,
but this I know, there is no doubt
that in (lie sugar he serves out
’cross the counter, with smile so bland,
there is a quantity of sand.
Still you can see him each week on
Sundays, at church, where he’s deacon,
singing hymns, an’ praying, kneeling,
But next week he goes on stealing.
... .E.D. (R and wick) : The whirling thing narrowly
misses. ... W.K. (Mosman): Vou’ll have to grow up.
. ...Deirdre: “Trumped” is a bit too impossible....
A.C.A.D.11.: “Lost Friendship” is too weak to carry
one along with it. .. . F.< ’. B.: No use. ... Anthony F.:
“Heredity” has no thrill 1.M.5.Y.: Not a pulse
in any of them J.E.R.H.G.: Glib verse, but it
says nothing fresh. .. .C.K.: Very poor yarn in
very awful handwriting. ... W.K.lv.: No use to us.
. ...Alf P.: The “She-oak” mourns in common-
places. .. .Oliver B.: We like the agricultural item
best: —
It’s at it again, boys, just about time,
As time waits for no one;
Get your land in prime,
Don’t wait till your neighbor’s done.
Now’s the time to push on,
To push on with a will;
Hurry along now, Jim and Don,
For there’s plenty of weeds to kill.
Don, you had better go on the drill,
Jini’ll go on the plough ;
“What! over those darned stumps? Oh. —11!
You want me to have a row?”
Weill, Jim’s a bit sore of going on the plough,
He reckons it’s a blanky cow;
So between the two 1 know not what to do ;
All I know is it’ll have to be got through.
.. . .E.R.P. : “Morals” misses 1.5. L.: Yarn too
thin and involved. ... Bill O’B.: Dull sermons are
no use. .. .T.M.K.: No value. . . .Ellen T.: “The Other
Lily” is rather artificial. .. .Norman M.: Not nearly.
. ...A.E.G.: “Fifteen Years” may be true, but isn't
attractive. . . .Clark S.: “Rhoda” doesn’t Catch hold.
....Kathleen B.: That sort of thing has been done
better so often. . . . W.C. (Ned Land) : Horrible. . .8.C.:
(Milson’s Point): The gold-making yarn hasn’t the
touch. .. . A.J.L.: Not enough there.... Leo: Very
lame verse.... Mary N.: It goes very lumpily... .
A.A.A.: You haven’t got enough story in it
A.JLN.: Falls down in the first stanza.... Roberts:
Julius Caesar came back and got the surprise of lii>
life at seeing trams! Doesn’t se'em a specially bril-
liant idea when you consider the sort of surprise
he’d have got if he discovered a whole continent ruled
by Billy Hughes. . . .lvalamos: Very poor. . . .llrllerive:
The best of the natural history studies to date:—
Upon a garden path
A bull-ant 1 did spy,
Gleefully bound for underground,
Bearing a writhing fly.
j In a crevice it disappeared,
With the spoil of its morning roam ;
True and bold to the proverb old,
That charity begins at home.
.. . .S.E.J. : Not for us J.F. (Vaucluse) : Misses,
but not by much E.E.R.: A crude yarn, all naked
emotion with no shades... .C.0.H.: “Hay Fever must
go back. ... J.T.C.: Picture-show yarns of impossible
criminals dodging ridiculous police are no use to
us. . . .Imogen B. : Not up. . . .F.N.: Shockingly bad.
. ...Herm: Have another try. .. . E.M.K.: “Sweet
Lavender” is too commonplace... .Edna P.: Not
enough in “Sun on the Roses”.. . .L.P.J. : “Benjamin
couldn’t be much worse.. . .K.G.M.: Doesn’t get near.
...,L.G. (S. Melb.) : As you say, it’s “a miserable
little bit” M.H. (Papua): That idea of striking
a grand' attitude, waving an arm at the sea, and
ordering it to do things in loud phrases, can only
make the reader angry.... Bralgali: Limping verse
without an idea... P.J.A.: Fails badly.... Frank 11.:
Crude and melodramatic.... Haka : “Qualified Quack”
does not make a yarn.... William B.: Horrible....
Alice F.: You don’t seem to have much of an ear
for rhythm.... A.M.8.: The makings of a story.
See if you can’t brighten it....C.H. (Pentridge):
Why those lines of,dots in the middle of sentences?
....Mag: What on earth do you mean by “Strake
off the torpor from the dope of revolution”?....
J.T.H.: Notice will shortly appear. . . .Hilda B.:
Don’t cate for it....Whare: It doesn't make a yarn.
. . . .A.C.R. : Nothing there. .. .Caley : “Parade,” dis-
miss. We’ve seen you too often. .S.H.D.: Hardly
enough in “Motto” to carry it that distance. But
it has some pretty good pqjches. .. . Trifler : Near
it. but not quite.... Estaminet: Trick worked and
received publicity in Sydney some time ag0....
M.E.A.: Not sufficient interest.... Tom: Scat!....
Eshari: That argument's finished.... K.G.S.: Misses.
.... Sea Gull: Weak.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.L.: Pen-and-ink isn’t your long suit. . . .T.W.D.:
Wooden.... Rough Stuff : Somewhat. ... S.M.D. : Too
bad, also. . . .H.W.: Easily the worst of the week. ..
5.11.: Nothing in it. . . .F. 8.8.: Can't be done....
A.T.: Don’t do it again. . . .A.L.: All miss.. . .K.F.:
Too jambed up....Kew Pea: Got to learn bow to
handle your pen yet.... June: Old joke weakly illus-
trated J.J.C.: Ditto J.J.: Right off the tar-
get. ... S.M.S.: Why send them here ?. .. . M.V.M.:
That’s not a heifer —it’s a bunvip. .. . F.Y.: Not up.
R.McG.: Too scratchy broaden 0ut....P.C.: Try
again.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information, regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
'Jel. City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
liy way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 29,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited j
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000 i
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; K. Il’ i
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP K C M (I ■
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.O.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 258 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Blanches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 797,198 10 0
Reserve Fund 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Depu-U Stock 3.091.069 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love,
Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—- M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N, Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: C. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Douns Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ..,£529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,521,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixpd periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .625,000
£1.850.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Caiudian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 9th JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
NIAGARA, THURSDAY, 11th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z). f
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
.Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can lie seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara J alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
BIARAMA, 23rd JUNE, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 28th JULY.
MAIL MA, 25th AUGUST.
For Ilhistrntpd pamphlet, regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM KIU CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mn
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
"trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.'
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Directors:
WALES.
- £1,058,260
3,350,000
4,958,260
£13,266,520
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thonnis Buekland. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; S. E. Eaiclle.y, Esq.
Head Office—Georgre Street, Sydney.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M,D.
The lion. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office—29 Street E C
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Panua and Tendon
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. P Condon,
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up .. £2,500,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,220,000
Reserve Capital .. £2,500,000
£7,220,000
V
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout Kew South Wales and Queensland.
-London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers ihe Bank of England; The London County Westminster
Perr s Bank. Limited: Barelavs Bank. Limited
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
and
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Earliest and Most Successful
Mutual Tiife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. . . . . £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds . . . . . . £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000.
Fire Insurances effected on ail classes ot
— Buildings. Stocks, Furni-
ture. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks . Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
. , . Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
The
of various classes.
“United” is an Australian Institution
BAUTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping.
i Inter-State Steamship
i Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Runbury, Geraldton
I and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
i ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACIiAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
JCarries Ist and 3rd Class Passengers.
STranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parkei L
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HIIDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience lor the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney L 8 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"["HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger clue in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:-
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA. MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, applv
BURNS. PITILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
‘‘lroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
JSlacklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). . .
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooldown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


1 (
*l*
uWlliii .‘y-
I\
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The Standard Car is designed expressly for
the Owner-Driver, particularly the one
driving in all weathers over the roughest
roads—and gives faithful service.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
STANDARD MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
COVENTRY
AGENTS . r. PHIZACKEiiLEY
108-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
British.
MM
The
All
m
£> LIGHT CAR e .
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “Mattamac”
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Re.use' any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac."
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
1
’"0
oMUIS
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
z.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The “ Mattarnac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z .
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE >
.■S& \ .
m
%
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Drawings
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful representations of the Feather-
weight “ Mattamac" Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with B,elt as
illustrated, 21$oz. Weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
21 soz.
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write to us. We will send you, post free, the “ M attamac ” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET.
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) (gj)
The “ MATT AM AC ” TRAIfE MARKS art registered through out the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION..
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
nil metal, very strong.
Pries 2, - post free.
“SUNGL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
m
FKS*
»w
JJ2O. The Cert Co.'s D.8.8.L. tiun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30iii. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left elioke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered, /l^/O
Delivered, ;£C JSI-
- The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with \ bolt
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
Send
CATC
The
for copy of “SURE
II" Anglers' Guide.
Fisherman's Vade
Meriun.
m
BtB. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.1j. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib. weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
m
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Ciun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Alb. 1/S / 3 /«»
Tested for Mi to Powders Freight paid, v/.
f
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeatin
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-dow
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
3 J 3
*l5/15/-
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
n
barrels, both choke,
beautifully engraved
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 23in. cartridges,
, weight about TJlb Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC
CLEANSING
HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra),
Steven’s
5.8.8 X. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
m
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 3din.
walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. 88 -F.Wtnr Freight paid,
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


CARE FOR YOUR SKIN.
Keep Away Winter’s Ills
by Using REXONA,
the Skin Remedy of the Age
Small
size,
1/6.
0® S '\
\Y
JSoolKmg - A
A - Healing \\
jplniiseplic Ointment xvv
jj(jr^ ics ? rtbiololely v
4 Hcaii j Reliable ~
L. M
A
inximnxnzniii
vs
a. Rel.aoie Rented* lor oil eruption* and irritation* of the
»<;.n Eczema. Pimple, bore*. Chilblain*. Chapped hand*
ficturiQ oi bleeding Pile*. Cuts. Bum* Bnu.se* .Vald*
Bad Leg*. Sling* ol Insect* and all kind* of Inflammation
Proprieto
REXONA PROPRIETARY^
ANY
Large
size,
3/-
IVinter winds play havoc with the
skin —chapped lips, rough faces, chil-
blains, cracked and bleeding hands all
result from exposure to the wind and
weather, and cause an unnecessary
amount of suffering—unnecessary be-
cause Rexona <he Rapid Healer pre-
vents just these discomforts by healing
the injured skin and protecting it from
the evil influence of disease germs.
A small abrasion may become the
germ-infected area that threatens health
itself.
A timely use of Rexona prevents
small injuries from becoming painful,
and its action is so prompt that
Rexona lias made its name known all
over Australia as the Rapid Healer.
The triangular pot, with its healing,
soft green ointment, should be kept
handy on the dressing-table, so that
every member of the family can have
access lo its wonderful healing power.
All Australia Uses Rexona.
Never u day pause* but that Rexona scores another triumph over those serious
troubles of life—Scalds, Burns, Sores, Bad .Legs, Piles, Pimples, Blotches. Nasal
Catarrh and Rheumatism. The dainty little triangular pot of Rexona the Rapid
Healer contains a combination of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing anil healing
properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age. because it destroys the harmful germs
thuf may he present in a sore, pimple or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing
any contagion of the blood, and at the same time causes a new, healthy skin to
grow. Rexona immediately reduces the inflammation and pain; it acts as a distinct
stimulant to the pores of the skin, and sets up a healing action immediately that
increases day by day. Bad leg sores that have resisted every other treatment
succumb almost immediately to its wonderful influence., while for Piles there is
nothing its equal.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
■'C
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
20,000 Overcoats to Choose
from at Lowe’s “Drop-in-
the-Market”
Prices
Order by Mail stating
Inside Sleeve and Chest
Measure.
Lowe’s Pay Carriage all
over Australia.
)NE EXAMPLE OF LOWE’S
BIG VALUES.
English Tweed
Belted Overcoats,
PRICE &5151 - Post Free.
This is a good, comfortable, warm, medium-
weight English Tweed Overcoat, in the popular
belted style as illustrated here. Double-breasted,
Raglan sleeves, convertible collar, full-belted
waist and good, roomy-fitting skirt. The class of
coat you can wear all through the winter. We
can supply all sizes for men in a nice shade of
Grey.
£6/6/- Value —NOW at Lowe’s “Drop-in-
the-Market” Price, £5/5/- Post Free.
Write for Lowe’s Catalog of Overcoat
Styles, at Lowe’s “Drop-in-the-
Market” Prices, Post Free to Any
Address in Australia.
ADDRESS MAIL ORDERS TO
Department “B,”
Lowe’s Ltd.. George Street.
Sydney, X.S.W.
swe'
nm
Four Bis Stores in SYDNEY—one in
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Il
m
m
m
The Halting Place.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM the night’s remission, morn after
morn,
Dragged by our heart-strings into
the day,
“Thus far and no farther!” we plead forlorn,
But the sun has signalled, and we obey ;
Only a glimpse of glorious calm
Reveals for one doubtful moment’s grace,
Shadowy, shining, and steeped in balm,
To the tired soul, its halting-place.
Half-way on the road from sleep to waking
Is the little garden of purple flowers;
Lilac filmy with dew-drops shaking,
Dim wistaria’s dreamy showers,
Soft-leafed sage, and —bewitched, uncertain —
Grey-blue eyes of beloved heartsease:
All of them veiled in a starshine curtain,
Unresting wings of the Silver Bees.
’Neath royal anemones, violets dark
Look up through tears like the gaze of
Hope;
And columbines, foxgloves, irises stark,
Velvet verbenas and heliotrope,
Sweetpe’as with pinions of amethyst
That never flutter, their rest too deep,
Are still and vague in the grey of the mist,
In the garden half-way from the world of
sleep.
And oh, to linger, and oh, to listen 1
But the path leads straight to a wicket-gate
Away from the spell-weaving wings that
glisten.
Round bells and chalices delicate —
Away from the whirring and gossamer shim-
mer
’Twixt languid petals and hidden hives
Where the Bees of oblivion dart and glimmer
In a pause of purple, between two lives.
Jn the quiet that is neither waking nor dream
They glance and hover, with endless drone;
Beautiful, dreadful and strange their gleam
And the ring of their fateful undertone.
What is your secret, glittering things,
Here where the hesitant soul holds breath?
A lullaby magic your murmur brings:
The gift of forgetting, the sweets of death!
And beyond the gate, in the morning sunny,
Wait strong sorrows and ecstasies;
But oh, for a sip of your silver honey
Of no remembrance, wild Silver Bees !
To know no burden of thought and motion,
Entranced in the purple flowers to stay
Where the last faint wave of the slumber-
ocean
Sinks in the untrodden sands of day !
Half-way on the road back to Ivnown-too-
well,
To the world where trouble forgot in sleep
Is waiting to pounce like a leopard fell
On shrinking shoulders, that eyes may
weep,
Pale viola, clematis, rosemary-bloom
Ring the changes on twilight hues,
And the Bees’ wings weave on the lavender
loom
A veil of light—but we may not choose.
For sterner paths for our feet are waiting.
And loved ones moan for our helping hands
In the day where men are wrangling, hating
And hastening—whither, none under-
stands ;
And noon is a tumult eager and weary,
Sun-dust on the dawn tranquillities;
Dare we to hearken and ache for the eerie
Sinister sweetness of Silver Bees?
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Previous and S’Samuel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN accordance with a mutual wish un-
expressed but perfectly understood by
ex-felons, my faded little friend Pre-
vious Convictions was vaguely waiting for
me next afternoon on the lower step of my
front verandah at Leeton. It was on the
shady side of the house, too, and not over-
looked. Previous never seemed to make
or put in an appearance; he always faded
into appearance, just as he faded into
absence. He had his faded, solid-looking
swag with him, the dumpiness or drum-like
shape of which had puzzled me on his first
appearance. He was “humpin’ his drum’’
all right, in his faded, west-o’-sunset way—
maybe I am too. I looked along the bank
of the irrigation channel across the road
and thought I caught a glimpse of Dotty’s
hat low down behind a tree where he might
have been sitting waiting for Previous.
I had sent the Little Landlady up to the
town on a message to a place where I knew
she’d spend two or three hours with another
Lowland Scot of similar convictions—a fact
which I believed to be also ex-feloniously
understood between Previous and myself.
The voice that came from Previous
sounded firmer to-day; and, in a haunting,
irritating way, sardonic —at least, at first,
and if such a term could be applied to him.
“Well, how are you to-day, Previous?"’ I
asked.
There was no answer.
“I said ‘llow are you getting on, Pre-
vious?’ ”
There was something like 1 an impatient
movement of Previous’s humped-up, defensive
shoulder. “What do you care?” he said.
There was no resentment in the tone. He
might have been referring to one of my own
real or imaginary troubles.
"Why, what’s wrong with you to-day, Pre-
vious?” T asked.
“f)h. I beg yer pardin,” he said, rousing
himself as though wearily. “It's only a say-
ing I got. I thought you remembered that.”
Then he went on : “The first time I come--
that was the day before yesterdays—l seen
another bloke down near the fence prunin’
fruit-trees; so I says to him, ‘Can you tell
me where I’ll find Mr. Henry Lawson?’ T
says—‘l b’lieve his place is somewheres about
here,’ and the bloke lie looks round an’ says,
‘Why, there’s ’Any now, across the channel,
talkin’ to another old woman.’ he says.”
“Shut up, Previous,” I said, “and get on
with the yarn. You haven’t told me your
story, yet.”
“Oh. that'll all come out in the evidence,”
said Previous, with a faint tinge of bitter-
ness. “It always does.
“Well, I told you how me and Dotty come
to leave Sydney an’ how we got this far.
As soon as we were on to the Murrumbidgee
Dotty improved a lot. It seemed he d been
on the old river some time in his young days,
and when he smelt it he started to thieve
fishing-rods and -lines from over a fence in
Narrandera that I’d left him sittin’ against
while I looked up a likely store to buy grub
in ; but I caught him at it, and made him put
’em back, an’ bought some tackle in u store
where I got flour and stuff. We follered the
river from near this side of Narrandera. We
had some bread, an’ plenty of Hour an’ tea
an’ bacon, an’ I knew a little of the game, so
we was all right—l learnt something of it
in the cookshop an’ pantry in old Darlin'-
liurst Gaol, you see, and afterwards
batchin’ in stables, where I had a job after
I’d chucked goin’ crook.
“But I needn’t have bothered. Dotty knew
that blessed old river if he didn’t know any-
thing else. As soon as we come to the first
good fishin’ hole —an’ a weird, wild, three-
witches place it was, too, with steep dark
banks and old blasted trees lookin’ over the
top—he made a shrimp net with a little cask
hoop an’ a piece of scrim he’d brought along,
an’ started to fish, lie could sling out the
lines, too, an’ showed me how. The fish only
seemed to bite in just two spots, wherever
we camped, ah’ that’s what always puzzled
me. The first thing Dotty caught was a little
black mud-turtle —caught, it by the tip of the
tongue. Dotty took the hook out careful, an’
put the baby down gently on the top of the
bank with its head towards the river. Don’t
ever tell me a turtle is slow—'(hat one
never touched anything till it touched water;
it went just like a Swaller flyin’ low.
“When that turtle got. over its fright, a
mile or two down the river, it must have
told all the other turtles to drive the fish up
to us, wherever we was, out of gratitude, for
we never went short of fish while the season
was on, an’ we even got a few after it was
over. I’ve seen Civil Service johnnies an’
tourists come out in motor-cars an’ sulkies
on Sundays an’ fish both sides of us and
in between, with telescope rods and reels an'
all that sort of thing, and never catch
nothing. And there was me an’ Dotty, with
two old elothes-props and sardine-tin openers
for sinkers, pullin’ out bream no end. I
useter sell fish to those johnnies when their
tarts wasn’t lookin’.
“An’ now I’ll give yer a hint. Fish the
rivers with shrimps and the creeks with
worms. The river fish don’t know anything
about worms —they’re too slow; but worms
come natural to creeks. Them johnnies had
burnt out their boilers diggin’ worms in the
sun all the mornin’. Dotty never used one.
But, look here —lie always put tiro shrimps
on his hook; the first tail first an’ the second
head first, coverin’ between ’em the whole
of the hook. Something the same as what
the D’s used ter do when they wanted to
ketch us.
“Dotty would gut the fish and rub in
coarse salt to keep ’em fresh, and lay ’em
on beds of wetted charcoal under the shady
side of old burnt-out shells of trees where
the bush fires had bin, with a wet bag over
’em to keep ’em cool. And I'd sell them
to rabbit-camps or hawkers, and id
swap them to the station-cook or store-
keeper for tea and sugar and bread and
other tucker. One day Dotty got a rabbit’s
heart and caught a Murray cod that night,
and took it along to the station-cook in the
morning before 1 was awake; and I’m dashed
if he didn’t come back with a single-barrel
breech-loader he said he’d borrowed from
the cook, an’ a brace of wild duck. Gawd,
my heart was thumpin’ up in me throat fit
to smother me. I thought Dotty had started
thievin’ again, just when I was havin’ a
bit of peace of mind.
“It was along behind old Sam
McCaughey’s homestead station, and I sup-
pose you know how Old Sam hated guns
goin’ off an’ poachin’ behind the Mansion,
so I couldn’t believe the cook lent Dotty a
gun at all. I took Dotty back with the
gun to explain him as well as I could. The
men’s huts was in the old homestead —all
panelled windows and doors—and the cook
was a fat, jovial little man, like an old-
fashioned sea-cook. I showed him the gun
an’ started to explain. But he’d lent Dotty
the gun all right. I couldn’t understand it
at all. I’d noticed one or two of the men
wink at me, but I couldn’t make it out until
presently. I seen that the cook was another
Dotty.
“He lost his billet next week. ‘Bad bread.’
They always drop their billets in the same
old ditch- —bad bread. I believe a bloke that
can bake can travel all over the world for
nothing, an’ come back with a few quid. He
wanted to come along with us, but I couldn’t
be expected to have two Dotties on me mind
at the same time. Just while we was talkin’
they come wheeling Old Sam himself round
for an’ airing. His props had gone crook
on ‘him, you know. Ever see him? No?
He was a big fat man. like George Reid, and
he looked something like George Reid, too ;
but, then, agen, he didn’t. Ilis face was just
the real old squatter's that used t,<> come
to a livery stables I worked at in Sydney
when I was a youngster—when they useter
come down at Easter and stay at the old
Royal that’s a returned soldiers’ club now.
The sort that managed their own stations.
“ ‘Travellers?’ asked hid Sam.
“ ‘Yes. S’Samuel,’ I said.
“ ‘Where are you making for?'
“ ‘Hay,’ I said. ‘We've been campin' on
the river a bit.’
“ ‘I know yer have,’ said Old Sam.
“It didn’t sound very promisin'. But then
lie said. ‘Where did you get the cod?’ and
that sounded better.
“ ‘What bait did you use?’ be asked when
I told him : and I told him that, too. I also
worked up courage to tell him that Dotty
caught the cod : and he looked sideways at
Dotty just as if he’d seen him or something
like him before. 'I thought so.' lie said.
Then, to himself like. *1 wish my legs were
as good as my head.’
“But I didn't know whether / did—or,
at least, not just then.
“Then I said, a bit nervous, ‘I believe
my father was born on one of your stations
in Victoria. S'Samuel.’ I’m blest if I know
wliv I said it.'
“ ‘Now what was his name?’ asked Old
Sam after a short think—as if he'd been
trybV to remember if himself.
"This stumped me; but I said ‘Smith.’
(Continued on next ?cge.)


Every
Task
arsur-A
I
i
"I
m
1 j/jji
j j
Z3lr
C**R Wt?
i -=
wV V'v lf.
■■//Wv
mi
Every Picture
» Tells aStory"
a Painful Effort.
At all times of the year there are many odd jobs about the
home that every well man likes to do. But no man or
woman with a bad back enjoys doing anything. There’s
surely something wrong when every day brings morning
lameness, sharp pains when lifting, and a dull, tired state.
Likely it s kidney weakness. Don’t neglect it. It’s easily
corrected at first, but delay may encourage gravel, dropsy
or dangerous kidney disease. If your back aches and kid-
neys are disordered, get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This successful remedy is recommended so strongly by
people you know that you can use it with real confidence.
SYDNEY PROOF FOR SYDNEY PEOPLE.
PERMANENT RELIEF BY DOAN’S PILLS.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, Oa Tebbntt Street. Leichhardt, Sydney,
says:—“Some years ago I had a very bad attack of disordered kidneys,
and as a result suffered agony from backache and rheumatic pains
all over my body. I was often so bad that 1 could hardly get about
the house, every movement giving me increased pain. My rest at
night was very disturbed, as it was impossible for me to lie in one
position for any length of time, owing to the nagging pain in my
back. My ankles and arms swelled a good deal, and were very painful
if I touched them. I had no energy for anything, and was really far
from well. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me,
and after taking a course of these grand pills I was completely cured.
It is two years since I was cured, and I have had no return of kidney
trouble since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Osborne says:—“Ten years have elapsed
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. and I am still well, a
fact that speaks volumes for this splendid remedy.”
Walter Niddrie. Oowper Street, Harris Park, Parramatta,
says: I suffered terribly with my kidneys. The worst symptoms
were backache and rheumatism. Sometimes I would be doubled up
with the pain and unable to move. Hearing Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills very highly spoken of as a cure for all ills arising from disordered
kidneys. I decided to try them, so got some at once. They acted
splendidly, a few bottles banishing the backache and rheumatism
entirely, and giving me complete relief from pain. Previous to taking
these pills I would often sit down and it would be fully ten minutes
before I could get up again to a standing position. I was unable to
stoop to lace my boots in the morning, and my wife had to do it for
me. I am quite free of backache and rheumatism now. and I con-
sider that without Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills 1 would have had
to give up my billet.”
Nineteen years later Mr. Niddrie says:-—“I have been free of
backache and rheumatism since Doan’s Backa< he Kidney Pills cured
me nineteen years ago. I never suffer with my kidneys now. and am
in splendid health.”
J
Backache
Kidney
n
Doan's Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
“ 'Yes,’ said old Sam, 'l’ve heard of him.’
“An’ right there poor old Dotty had one
of those flashes that I’d noticed once or
twice since we come on the river, and I
could have killed him for it. ‘And l close
up croaked on one of your stations in Noo
South, S'Sam,’ says Dotty.
“ ‘lndeed,’ said Old Sam—‘what station
was that?’
“ ‘Tooraly,’ said Dotty.
“ ‘What year?’ asked old Sam.
“ ‘I don’t know,’ said Dotty.
“ ‘What was the name of the manager,
then?’
“ ‘A man named James was boss-over-the-
board,’ said Dotty, quite prompt.
“Old Sam nodded. Presently he asked:
‘And what did you nearly croak of?’
“ ‘lt wasn’t your fault, S’Sam,’ said Dotty.
‘lt was curry-an’-rice an’ the heat-wave.’
“I looked at Dotty hard,” said Previous,
“but his strange face was gone and there
was nothing but his silly, vacant, patient,
good-natured grin that is natural to him now-
a-days; and I felt relieved. I'll tell you
why afterwards.
“ ‘Ah, well,’ said Old Sam, ‘if you get
another cod, bring it up and they’ll put it
in the ice-chest. I’m expecting the Gover-
nor ui).’ And he signed to them to wheel
him away.
“And—all well,” reflected Previous, fin-
ally disposing of that good Australian squat-
ter, all of the Old School. “!■ liked Old
S’Sam, though he was a Bilfast Orangeman,
and I have other convictions besides rne
previous ones. And I wisht his legs ivux as
good as his head. Or his heart, for that
matter.
“ ‘Yer all right now for a week or two,’
said one of the station-hands to me. ‘The
cook'll give yer all yer want. An’, say, yer
ran hang on to that old gun for a few days
fit’s mine, so keep it dry)—in case yer want
to have a shot at something; yer mate, for
instance. But shoot a bit down the river.
I’ll get yer a few more cartridges.’
“I thanked that chap, but I didn’t take
the gun. llow was I to know if Dotty
wasn’t goin’ to get a different sort of rat
an’ mistake me for a blue duck?
‘‘The cook gave me all we wanted, an’,
what’s more, some jam and butter an’ bacon
an' eggs. Yer don't gel them on the outback
stations. Dottv baked tin* ducks on the coals,
like he baked the tish, and we had a real
good tuck-out for supper. Then I had about the
first long, sound, ‘happy sleep I’d bad on the
track, an’ woke up to the smell of bacon an’
eggs that poor old Dotty had ready for me.
He’d fried ’em on the blade of an old shovel
they’d used for diggin’ worms, with plenty
of butter for the eggs.
"It wasn’t long after daybreak, and l laid
back again after another pint of tea to have
a last snooze before the sun got up much
and made everything hot. It’s hotter in the
mornings out there. Oh. but I mix tired —
clean knocked up, but happy about things;
about being free* from trouble and all me
previous convictions, and havin’ Dotty cured
of his thievin’, whether for me or for any-
body else: so happy that 1 dreamed about
>t. But the sun or something woke me, an’
I set up an’ missed Dotty. I heard a scuf-
fling on the bank an’ got up—an’ just in
time. Dotty had been back to the loosin
paddicks across the old Hay-road and thieved
a red cow with a new calf, and brought 'em
back home to camp to me 1 And toe cow
chased me into the river, where I got horned
on a snag; which was pretty near as bad
as gettin’ horned on a cow, with the current
running like that.
“When I got out, all over black mud, the
cow had gone back up over the bank to
Dotty and the calf, and was out of sight: and
after a bit Dotty comes back to camp with
a billy of fresh, frothy milk, an’ the sickenin’
silly smile of a poor idiot brother. So he’d
gone in for cattle-liftin’ now, an’ I supposed
it'd be robbery under arms next, for my
sweet sake. And milk spoils tea that’s made
in billies by the camp-fire, an’, besides, this
milk was too new and yellow for anything.
So it was the same old, senseless, useless
business all over again.
“But how in blazes —there, I nearly swore
—but, anyhow, how anyone but a natural-
born loony could mess about with a more’n
half-wild rial cow with a new calf—and on
foot with bare hands, too —without gettin'
ripped up, I dunno. And she wasn't no
potey nor shorthorn neither. Perhaps the
two loonies recognised each other —like Dotty
an’ the cook. Or, perhaps, the cow felt the
same sort of respect for the loony—the
‘ ’dieted of God’—as what a Dago does,
while the civilised Anglo-Saxon only laughs
at them—or else torments ’em.”
A bark of anxious, yearning interrogation,
changing quickly into a joyous yelp of recog-
nition, from dog Charley, chained up and
suffering at the side of the house—also for
his previous convictions- —warned us that tin*
Little Landlady was coming home across the
back charnel.
_ “See yiv agon!” said the voice of Pre-
vious with no change or suggestion of hurry.
“Tell you why I brought Dotty from the
river ’nother time.”
1 went through the house to the back door
•to look, and when I returned the, little man
was already fading into absence round the
big sun-whitened front gate-post.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Chronoscoop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
muE gentleman from Babylon explained
I that he had no wish to take up my
time, but he was anxious to put before
me his scheme for the conservation of water
in the lower Euphrates valley.
Let me explain. Smithson had just made
his great discovery ; and 1 was the first to
be allowed into the secret. lie came along
at 11 o’clock at night to tell me: but he
assured me that it wasn’t 11 o’clock or any
other time necessarily. I said it was neces-
sarily bedtime: but he convinced me that
even that was a case of misplaced confidence
in a system now ended.
What Smithson had discovered was that,
time was a permanent substance —not an
idea, but an actual material substance 0f an
attenuated kind akin to the human aura,
metallic vapor or an unimaginably nne kind
of silk. In a sense it was wound up on
clocks and almanacs: but clocks and
almanacs were really ideas, inasmuch as time
couul be wound up without them, and, being
substantial, could be unwound again.
bmithson had earned the matter far
beyond theory. He had invented a small
and simple instrument something like a re-
volver in shape, which you could hold up
your sleeve and, by a slight manipulation of
hl J e , tn f, ers held between the first, second
and third fingers ot the lext hand, you could
instantly wind and unwind time so that you
were enabled to place yourself in any period,
past, present or to come. lie called the
machine a ehronoscoop, and said hi- expected
to make a million-aud-a-haif out of it.
"Try it,” he said. "It's quite simple,
One experiment will do more to prove the
truth ol what 1 sav than hours of explana-
tion.” "
“Have a whisky?” I said.
“No, but try it.’ The thing won’t hurt
you. See, I’ll show you the way.”
He put the thing up his left sleeve, closed
his eyes, and fell into a sort of trance. A
moment later he pulled it out and handed it
to me.
"The puli of tlie third trigger brings you
back. There’s no difficulty and no danger,
Yes, I’ll have a whisky, thanks. Woh, plenty,
plenty.”
1 was persuaded to try the machine. In-
stautly the gentleman from Babylon ap-
peari'd. 1 cut him off with a sharp pull ol'
my third linger, but kept my eyes closed and
the ehronoscoop in its place.
tried again, juggling with my first and
second lingers and experiencing the sensation
of being in two fast railway trains going m
i 1 lleient directions at the same time. Sud-
deniy 1 saw where l was and released the
eiision. ........
Ihe afternoon was impossibly bright. As
a man 1 had thought that those afternoons
mmo ' *b memory : now 1 saw that
memory was correct and that things
vf ■ ' tn ' • hnt , IHWi,V l H Wi, V raUl 'i'
l H 1 7 ~ltC h
smiled in anticipation, tor I knew exactly
what was going to happen. It was the
proudest day of my life—the day that, plav-
ing in the first eleven of the old school for
the first time, I had made off not out. Often
had 1 remembered that time; once or twice
I had told the story, told it, in a modest wav
with due regard to detail, but with the re-
marks proper to the occasion about the glori-
011 s uncertainty of cricket.
l blocked the iirst ball. The second clean-
liowled me, taking the off-stump.
I t wasn't right. I knew It wasn’t right:
but I walked back without protest. 1
couldn’t protest. Everything went on auto-
inatically. Somebody said, "Hal’d luck!” as
lie passed me. It was Jupp going in—young
Jupp who still owed me two shillings. I
remembered the fact and wondered if he had
ever paid me in the days that followed.
I took off my pads and talked to some fel-
lows I remembered. The game went on a
long time. Jupp carried out his bat for 5-“>.
1 pulled hard with my third finger and came
back.
“Well?”
“This thing of yours is a damned liar,
Smithson.”
"No fear.”
"Either it's a liar or I've been telling my-
self fairy tales all my life."
"Oh. vou found that out already, did you?
t t 011 IO that> tou ."
'HI-ive a wlnskv '’’
We ‘ had lwo \’ u j talked about the possi-
bilities of the ehronoscoop.
» Bv j ove r j said sud denly, "lend me that
thing again, Smithson.”
. . T . ,- »> . u , ~ ,
. *? "f 8 ., rushing tin ough dajs and
dj mg hither and tlnthei, n t ooking
T n g v Ava - v * } X ' UB in tc> tbe tuture
a dUh' tbo tai, and had to ca e ullj pull
back and work along by count ol days.
"ben I became certain or my place and time.
was at Band wick. I asked the people, to
m, ike sure, and they all gave me the same
answer. It was the big race or the day, and
1 put a whole fiver on Permanganate. 1
knew it wasn't real money I paid, so it didn’t
matter. Shaving Brush, a rank outsider,
"on. I came back with the tip.
"Kind out anything?” asked Smithson,
"Yes, put your boots on Shaving Brush.”
"I have.”
"Lord,” l said, "this thing will make us
a fortune.”
"1 wish I was sure of that,” lie said. "I'm
taking it to America next week, but there
may lie difficulties.”
"What difficulties can there be?”
"Oh, you never know,” he said, and helped
himself to another whisky,
When I said good-bye to Smithson and
w islied him all luck, I had begun to have a
|qf U , doubt about that tip for llandwiok.
I)id f j ll|(p mak( , 53 1M)1 ollt „r did I? Was
sonu . trick in the thing'that prevented
it truth? Was there any-
thing really in Smithson’s idea about time
• this mae hine anot her mode of set-
ti tha Hl , b coi.scious miml to woilc? I 10-
melllbel . ed reading somewhere that the sub-
(.onS(.i()lls inilJ( , x * onld work to a conclusion
I'm", any data given. If the data proved
wrong, the conclusion would be wrong. 1
,• , i r , , , . .
,l " 1 " 1 / l * el t ' oull( « b .° v t Brush,
>s " ! ”<>t to Kandwick with live pounds
111 m - v pocket instead of the fifty I had 111-
tended. There a remarkable tiling happened,
1 asked live different people where I wm
and what was the date. I suppose they
thought me mad; but I was much madder
before the day was out.
Did Jupp really make fifty-three or did
1 ? * B"t my liver mi Permanganate. Shav-
ing Brush romped home.
So the tiling did tell the truth, after all.
But if mattered little whether it did or did
not. Smithson, the greatest discoVeror of
the age, never reached America. The wreck
of the Washingtonia is too fresh in every-
body's mind to be recalled. Smithson wa-
among the 300 who perished. 1 renmmbei .•
what he told me of possible difficulties. I
suppose the infernal machine had told him
of Ins own death.
But I wish I could have a look through
it at next Melbourne Cup.
GEORGE STREET.


W M
-
J
t
■
3 SI
.
K
i
«***£
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to- 3uit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BAA 4 14.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AOSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. 9
N.f. Office—03*107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
VIotgrteM Office-98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alii CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER, TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep, it, and the trial costs' you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability t.c
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up yo*:. liver with
Small Pill-
Sm«ll
Dose —
Small
Price £
mn
CARTERS
ITTLE
Carter’* Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young —purely
vegetable.
OECGV
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
This is the compact little phonograph that you
can take with you anywhere and that will
stand the stress of travel and weather.
Went through the war with distinction.
Plays all makes of records ; clear re-
production and rich natural tone.
No loose parts —no case—ready
to play immediately opened.
3 Models:
Leather Cloth £9 10 0
F.-bre II 10 0
Cowhide ... 15 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia
Hu
From Ail
Music-dealers.
STANLEY E. GREEN,
LTD.,
Australian Agents
fcj
m
Shirley President Braces Are as
Flexible as a Reed
bow unto the arrow is. so are SHIRLEY
PRESIDENT BRACES to the body. They
inake for erect, graceful figures, yet give and
bend and sway, obeying every demand of the
figure in movement without in the least retard-
ing the free, easy action.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Ix>ok for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
label: «< SH j RLEY president"
Ccmjhantf
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870 2 Cable Addresst President
nm
SEEchaMS
f*T> i
You must eat to live and as long as your stomach
digests and assimilates its food, sickness seldom
attacks you. But hasty and careless eating frequent-
ly interferes with the digestion and starts digestive
troubles. Good health depends so much on the
condition of the stomach, that unusual care should
be taken to keep it in good order. To maintain
A Healthy Stomach
take Beech am’s Pills at the first sign of a sick
headache, indigestion, biliousness or constipation.
A dose or two will usually right the trouble, tone the
digestion and improve the appetite. Made entirely
of medicinal herbs, these pills act naturally, without
any unpleasant after-effects. For more than seventy
years, the timely use of Beecham’s Pills has helped
men and women in ail parts of the worn- to avoid
many of life’s ailments and keep a healthy stomach
In a Healthy Body
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens. England.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-Hd and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
igerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling /actor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the -great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
AH
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE &l SINCLAIR LTD
•t
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And a.t Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
/
/MJf
V
7/
/
/
V-
'//r
V///A
c-14-
SEE
n
Remington “Wetproof”
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over.
“NEW CLUB”—with black powder loads.
“REMINGTON”—a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB”—known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability.
“ARROW” —thecartridgede luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other features making
it the highest type.
There are four types or kinds but only one grade—
the HIGHEST.
All cartridges loaded at our factory are now
being treated with the Remington special ex-)
elusive, patented "Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Bex 686, C.P.0., Melbourne
V
•JV'
& AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum r
Craig & Aitken are Sole Agents for the
“Plum” Razor, and being practical trades-
men they know just the kind of edge
required for an easy shave. PRICE 12/6 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Pair in Double Case, Vulcanite Handle.. 25/-
Single Itazor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
“Plum” Strops each, from 10/6
Stri
m
Post Free
nm
(Patented)
«•»
If
each
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
n
'
Ff *
lightness and excellence ol tfct
ought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company.
N*rm*n*y RmmN, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


in* »( «n 'saiuas -isavmx nmvM aiNNHOr
c3l
M
B
\
5?
\
r i m
us
<r.
/
K
o
%
o
//
25
V
\
_/v
x
V3
v\r
//
%
y^
From Georoe the Third
To Georoe the Fifth -
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Stiff going strong.
Johnnie Walker: “That is fine produce. I calculate there are one hundred
bananas on that bunch.”
Tourist: f< One for very year of your existence.”
Guaranteed sain® quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
