

“Che
W)
jm mm mm ■ ■
' ■?<
: : ' i.; ■ iSSiS;
!«? V -vK-l
, IS*):’'.
; •-
■ir®! : ..?.. 'J
» ■
Jm§i
'
mfe # -
MM
XS
MB
$ jni
#$ >
fw »« * >s
V, £JV *
;■?
) * <W W; M
■
>. •:
' •' dM
: iv 1 \rd
■
«
H
■ ,^-
Ifi
i
SsiA
■'
il
W-M
§81
•fe
A’ ■f
@3
■
if
i ?
X
Just as the hall mark is a guarantee
of sterling silver, so is the trade mark
G-E EDISON on an electric lamp an
assurance of its sterling quality.
Look for this'trade mark on
all electric lamps you buy.
ďf
d
ď
f
d
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
ďf
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
Phone : City 3510 Box G.P.O.
BRISBANE, Q.— -The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—-Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE, S. A.--Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
Phone : Central 2646 Box 538 G.P.O.
PERTH. W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd.," Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
NEW ZEALAND—-The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN
LE-<
The Bulletin
Vol. 42.—N0. 2166
Thursday, August 18, 1921.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission bv I as a Newspape


HAVE you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt
MM*
r
i?
Mangrovite Leather or
Rawhide Belting
lias all the tractable pliability so essential in belting
equipment. It keeps on taking- the punishment of
mam drives and the side slapping of shifters, and
stands up to all conditions of manufacture*
The elasticity and pliability of the selected hides
from which Mangrovite Beltings are manufactured
aio all retained to the right degree hr the special
Mangrovite tannage. ' ' 1
Our engineers are ready with facts and figures to
prove'its adaptability under all circumstance*
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director ’
49 York Street (Wynyard Square). Sydney. ’
Victoria : Corbett, Derham Co., 337 Little Collins St Melb
South Australia : John Reid & Sons Limited, Adelaide
Western Australia : Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle
Tasmania : Henry Clark & Co. Ltd . Collins St Hobart
r,
:~u
Hume
Motor jpirif
\ %we
f flume
m
Motor Sp
*
x:
N*
ar,
\
m
h
P 6A
Or,
&
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P™ L™
PL: ? ME
MOTOR
SPIRIT
Dependable Always
When the traffic policeman signals “Come On**
—when the moment comes for the sudden speeding up
of your car, will she fail you, or respond to the call?
It depends largely upon the quality of the Motor
Spirit, in your tank.
If you are using Plume Motor Spirit, you can be
sure, of an instant pick-up, because it vaporises fast,
and is the livest spirit you can use. Plume is always
uniform aud dependable, and puts the full horse power
of your engine at your command. or easy starting,
sweet running, and more miles, use Plume.
next you go to fill up,
oil’ll know then why it
motorists.
ask for Plume,
is so popular with
fern
£ v > t.
‘C4
s
Eight-hour Art Union S Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under Sanction of tlie Attorney-General.)
DRAWN OCTOBER 29, 1921.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
Chance for 1921.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1920 won by W. M. Neilsen,
Market Street, Sydney, for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
Tickets from Local Agent in.all Towns, or direct from
Arthur W_ YAGER, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
POPULAR TRIO
of Cigars stand out prominently to-day as the Finest Blended Cigars in the.
viz:—
The Monarch
The Club Reil
The
All first-class hotels and tobacconists. Price 6(1. each.
Box of 25, 12/6; Box of 50, 23/9; Box of 100, 46/-
Post Free all over Australia.
HI
CRAIG &AITKEN , 654 George St, Sydney
Distributors for the Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when • buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
Prevention of Consumption.
03 j?
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
d
The Red Page
Scott
Sit! Walter Scott said “My oaks will out-
last my laurels” ; and Archibald- Stalker, in
his recently-published "Intimate Life” of the
great romance writer, agrees Avith him. It
is the fashion, indeed, to say that Scott is
dead in a literary sense, and still more the
fashion to declare him no poet. But both
statements require qualification. Ilis view
of the age in which he lived was probably far
more correct than that of many of his con-
temporaries. Chieftainship was not dead,
though its form had changed; and though
it may matter little whether "Cessford owns
the rule of Carr” or “Ettrick boasts the line
of Scott,” there has never been a moment
since Sir Walter dreamt lii.s dream when
the hereditary leader Avith a heart to feel
and a mind for leadership could fail for want
of a folloAving. If hereditary leadership has
no logical foundation, it is at least quite as
deeply implanted as Scott believed it to be.
But. his real clan, the clan of which he is
still leader, Avas larger than Ettrick, Avider
than the whole Scottish border. He opened
a great gate leading to a broad and splendid
thoroughfare; and along that way countless
thousands have followed him with delight.
His popularity in his own day—a popu-
larity which Byron sneered at, but tried hard
to share —was very honestly Avon. Take the
opening canto of “The Lay of the Last Min-
strel,” .and compare it with anything that
had previously Iwen Avritten in English. It
is not long before you come on faulty lines,
not long before you feel a certain pomposity
of rhetoric which is fatal to poetry : but
there is much essential poetry there all the
same. The picture is clear; the feeling for
the life and Avays of the Middle Ages creates
an atmosphere which lifts the reader far out
of the commonplace; and though examined
line by line the verse is very poor, in the mass
it is as rich and splendid as some great
tapestry wrought by artists avlio had small
idea of the shape of a horse or a man, but a
magnificent feeling for decoration. Nor are
Scott’s lines ahvays faulty and weak. In a
kind of breathless eagerness to tell his story,
or at any rate to get on Avith the descriptions
essential to the story, lie is not heedful of
his words, but there are phrases that live and
passages that are nearly perfect in their sim-
plicity. Thus in “Marmion”: —1
With speed their upward way they take,
Such speed as age and fear can make,
And crossed themselves for terror’s sake,
Still hurrying, tottering on.
Or in “The Lay of the Last Minstrel”: —
The tables were drawn, it was idlesse all;
Knight and page and household squire
Loitered through the lofty hall
Or crowded round the ample fire.
The staghounds weary with the chase
Lay stretched upon the rushy floor.
It would be 3 very hard in the metre chosen
to write more simplV and perfectly than this;
and to write simply and directly was not
considered much of a virtue until Scott
showed the Avay.
There are fashions in poetry as in other
things, and Scott is long out of fashion. But
Palgrave was no mean judge of English
verse; and when, with Tennyson’s assistance,
he compiled his “Golden Treasury” of poems
most worthy to live, it is remarkable that he
gave Scott a great deal of space. In the
day of Palgrave and Tennyson he Avas just
as much out of fashion as now; yet to these
men, taking the broader vieAv of our litera-
ture from age to age, there was much that
demanded a place of highest honor. That
Scott can never come back to the place he
once filled is evident enough ; but it should
also be fairly evident that something of his
best has lasting quality, the dignity, force
and sincerity Avhich will make new readers
turn to it Avith surprise and pleasure in
every age. His oaks will have crumbled to
dust before his best verse shows any sign of
withering.
But apart altogether from his relative
place among our great singers, Scott has a
glory of his own which none can take from
him. More than any other 'writer he holds
the golden key that opens the door to litera-
ture. When a youngster finds Scott he is
on the Avay to sup with all the immortals.
The child mind finds in him a Avhole realm
of romance .and wonder. His very faults are
all of service in his mission as trainer of
the out-of-school class. He has a story to
tell which is rendered the more fascinating by
what more critical readers may regard as its
crudities; he has a verse movement which
makes a safe bridge between a mere jingle
of words and a more delicate and musical
metrical treatment. Thousands of boys get
their first love of verso from Scott; and
those who read him Avell in childhood are
rarely guilty of the grosser abuses of metre.
His oaks are very small herbage compared
with the great trees of romance and imagina-
tion Avhich have groAvn from the seed he
planted.
Scott’s prose is largely a thinning out and
extension of his verse. He is not a stylist
in any good sense; yet he is a good writer
in the best sense. The story was more to
him than the method of it; but often the
history behind the fiction interests him most
of all. For that reason he is one of our
best historians—not the less worthy because
often prejudiced, and inaccurate because pre-
judiced. When history was only concerned
with kings and Avars he gave us real pictures
of the real people of the times in their daily
lives. Thus hi.s estimate of Charlls 11. is
probably bitterly wrong, but his picture of
England in the time of the Merry Monarch
is true even in minute detail. It has been
rather the custom to praise Scott the novelist
and decry Scott the poet: but it is his quality
as a poet that makes his strength as a writer
of prose. His Scottish character stories are
a small achievement beside his glittering
romance. The whole pomp of the Middle
Ages marches through his stiff embroidery
of Avoi’ds: and while the flags are flying and
the drums beating a true knight is just a
true knight, and can do as Avell without a
character as any Y.C. hero of our own day.
A poet’s estimate of himself is apt to be
extravagant one way or another. Even
Sfiakspeare hints in the sonnets that lie
mightn’t amount to much. Keats declares
that the “roll of mighty poets is complete,”
to his own exclusion : Tennyson speaks of
himself as “Avearing but the garland of a
day” ; Avhile Macaulay—on the strength of
two or three lines of real poetry in a great
mass of rhetoric —believed that his “Lays of
Ancient Rome” represented the best work
done in the decade that saw Tennyson,
Browning and Mrs. Browning touch their
highest. Possibly Scott had some mental
reservation when he compared his oaks and
laurels; possibly some epic hope of writing a
grander poem in Avoods and fields obscured
his vision. In any case, the oaks are now
at maturity and Avill stand for another
hundred years unless cut down to make hoe-
handles for a Bolshevik Britain; but the last
minstrel ‘‘who -sang of Border chivalry” Avill
continue to sing longer than that.
D. M. W.
The Scottish Stock
The admiration for Scottish stock ex-
pressed bv J. H. Curie in "This A orld of
Ours” is echoed by €. W. Saleeby in certain
admirable essays recently published. Yet the
admiration is toned down by notable dilu-
tions. If Saleeby, who wash kind of medical
attache to Lord Rhondda in the Ministry
for Food, is to be believed, the Scottish race
' which lias done such yeoman service to the
cause of human progress bids fair to fade out
through a failure in its natural increase.
A few years ago Professor Arthur Keith,
Curator of the Hunterian Museum of the
Royal College of Surgeons, gave the world
some striking facts. In the United Kingdom
the English and Welsh constitute 79.5 per
cent, of the population, the Irish 10 and the
Scots 10.5 per cent. The Irish and Scots,
however, have always migrated more freely
than the English and Welsh, and, as a con-
sequence, of 60,000,000 of Anglo-Celtic blood
in the United States, the English and Welsh
are some 50 per cent, and the Irish 40 per-
cent. But inside the Empire the figures are
very different, the Scots having emigrated
so largely to the-Dominions that their de-
scendants constitute no less than 24 per-
cent. of British Canadians, 22 p.c. of Maori-
landers and 15 p.c. of Australians. (The
corresponding figures for the Irish are 7, 18
and 23.) Further, •‘recruiting was so success-
ful among men of Scottish blood in the
Dominions that among colonial troops more
than one in four, probably one in three, might
be counted as a Scot.” Since, then, this
Scottish stock is of such high Imperial value,
second to none in colonisation and Imperial
defence, the future supply of the material
is of grave Imperial concern. But one
can get no comfort from Scotland’s vital
statistics, which have become lately the worst
in her history, quite apart from the losses
of Scottish and Scot-descended soldiers. The
bh-th-rate in 1915 was 23.86 per thousand —
so much the lowest on record as to be 3.1
less than the average of the preceding 10 years.
Meanwhile the death-rate and, more signi-
ficant still, the infant mortality were simply
calamitous. The latter, 126.5 per thousand
born, was the highest since 1901. In Edin-
burgh the birth-rate in 1915 was less than
18 —only half that of 40 years ago—and it
has since continued to fall. It was less than
15 in 1917, whilst the infant mortality
showed no appreciable improvement. In
1915 the birth-rate of Edinburgh was lower
than that of Paris, and the infant mortality
higher. There has been much raising of
pious hands in horror at the state of things
in France; but France to-day is apparently
no worse than Caledonia. Yet it is worthy
of note that in 1915 in the towns of Dollar,
Aberfeldy and Melrose no infants died, while
in slum-ridden Dundee the figure was 210
per thousand.
It is surely astounding that Edinburgh,
a city whose University has sent her medical
graduates to every part of the Empire, should
tolerate so deplorable a record. Nowhere
are the churches more numerous or power-
ful, and nowhere are the slums more horrible.
It was in Edinburgh that Simpson intro-
duced chloroform to relieve parturition; it
was there that Bannatyne began the study
of ante-natal pathology and therapeutics and
that Lister proved the value of antiseptic
methods in cases-of puerperal fever. Yet
this city in 1915 had a birth-rate of only
17,9 per thousand people, and, though the
summer was cool, an infant mortality of 132
per thousand births.
It must, be emphasised that the year which
Saleeby has had under review (1915) was
a year of unprecedented prosperity in Scot-
land. There Avas no poverty. Money
flowed like water • there had never been so
much money available for motherhood. There
was the maternity allowance, separation
allowance and philanthropy. Yet the in-
fant-mortality rate rose to 126.5 per thou-
sand. Searching for causes, the Medical
Officer of Health stated that the infants
were not so Avell when born, that they Avere
smaller than usual and weak. There was
much infantile “debility and malnutrition,”
so-called. “These are really syphilis and
ante-natal alcoholism, as a rule, and will be
so recorded in the coming time. In 1915
maternal spirit-drinking was the curse of
Scotland, that great country, the only part
of the Empire that really believes in educa-
tion.”
Saleeby has only one recommendation, viz.,
that a “piece of Imperial eugenics” be
adopted and the immense excess of women
of child-bearing age be relieved by emigration
to the Dominions, “where women are rare.”
Women, howevei, in some of the Dominions
are bA’ no means so rare as he imagines.' In
Southern Queensland- —which no one can call
a thickly-populated country —there are about
a thousand more Avomen than men in the
Brisbane and suburban area alone. But while
on its past records Scottish immigration
might still be Aveleomed. in spite of our own
possession of surplus females, the question
Avill arise whether the new Scottish rac-e. the
product of the conditions which Saleeby
stresses, will’ have the qualities of the old
and be worthy of the same Avelcome. And
that doubt implies that Scotland has a duty
greater than merely shipping off its surplus
women. That duty is to establish conditions
which will make the race what it Avas —AA-hat
(Continued on page 25.)


ď
WHITE TABLE DAMASK.
Keliable-quulits Damasks, in a choice range
of designs.
Widths oSin. G6in.
Prices .. 7/9, 8/6 7/3, 7/6 per ya.
Width 70in.
Price 8/11, 9/3, 9 /11 per yd.
DAMASK CLOTHS.
Sizes... 2x2 yards. 2 x 2 A yards.
Prices 19/6, 22/6 25/-, 28/6 each.
Size 2x3 yards.
Price 30/-, 35/- each.
SERVIETTES.
Sizes.... 22 x 22 in. 24 x 24 in.
Prices 25/-, 27/6, 32/6 32/6 doz.
HEMSTITCHED LINEN SUPPER
CLOTHS.
Sizes 45 x 45 in. 54 >; 54 in.
Prices. . 45/- 63/-, 84/- each.
Cx 222
C222 — Dinner Cruet (as
illustrated), Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, with 4 Cut
t»lass Bottles, complete with
Mustard Spoon.
Price .... 40/-
Othcrs at various prices:
28/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-,
45/-
Cx 183
CxlB3—Pickle Stand
and Tongs, Silver-plated,
plain design.
Price .... 32/6
Anthony Horderns’ Valves
Pass Unchallenged.
Of all her household possessions the housewife is
prouder of her table appointments than anything
else. At Anthony Horderns’ you select examples
popularised by their intrinsic worth, wide diversity
and choice designs. Anthony Horderns’ unequalled
values accentuate the pleasure of buying, and prove
irresistible.
Cx 241
Cx24l PiO Dish (as il-
lustrated), Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, suitable for
use as Vegetable or Entree
Dish.
Price .... 75/-
Silver-plated Pie
Dishes (not illustrated).
We are showing an attractive
range at the following prices:
50/-, 60/-, 63/-, 70/-,
75/-
C'x 228
Cx223—Lunch Cruet
(a;: illustrated), Silvcr-
plated on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut-Glass Bottles,
complete with Spoon.
Prico .... 37/6
Ox 275
Cx27s—Salt Cellars, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, bowls
Gilt inside, complete with
Spoon - .
Price .. . 19/6 "air.
Silver-plated Salt Cellars
(no; illustrated).
Prices. . 12/6, 13/6, 20/-
Cx ICI
A Choice Assortment of Cabinets of Cutlery,
Spoons and Forks, best Sheffield make,
fitted for 6 persons (as illustrated).
43 pieces, including Stainless Table and Dessert
Knives, Shear Steel Carvers .... £l9/10/-
45 pieces, do., do., do £lB/10/-
45 pieces, inclining Stainless Table and Dessert
Knives, Stainless Carvers ....... £2l
90 pieces, includin'; Shear Steel Table and Dessert
Knives and Carvers, with Sil. ferrule Fish and
Dessert Eaters £37/10/-
Fitted for 12 persons—lll pieces, including Stain-
less Table and Dessert Knives, Shear Steel
Carvers £37 / 1 9/-
80 pieces, including Stainless Table and Dessert
Knives and Stainless Carvers £4O
Cx2l 9 Butter Dish (as il-
lustrated), Silver-plated, Crystal
Gli s, including Knife.
Price 35/-
Cx 238
Cx23B — Entree Dish (as il-
lustrated), Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, plain bead
mounts, size 11 in.
Price .... £5/10/-
Customers ordering
goods by mail are
assured of prompt
expert attention by
our trained staff.
Ox 67
Cx67—Nut Dish & Crackers
(as illustrated), Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver.
Price 457-
Other examples at 48/6, 65/-
Cx 290
Cx29o—Tea Strainer
(as illustrated), Silver-
plated on Xickel Silver.
Price 7/6
Carriage Paid on
Electroplate and
Family Drapery in
N.S.W.; to the near-
est port on Interstate
orders.
Cx 308
Cx3GB—Flower Stand (as illus-
trated), Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, spray effect, Va -es removable
for cleaning.
Price 45/6
OTHER FLOWER STANDS
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
CxS67 Fl6wer Stand, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver, spray effect,
Va is removable.
Price 32/6
CxB3—Flower Stand, Silver-plated
on Nkkel Silver, Height 11 Ain.,
Vases removable for cleaning.
Price 90/-
Other examples at the following prices:
52/6, 67/6, 72/6.
f
Cx 84
CxB4—Asparagus Dish
(as illustrated), Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver,
complete with Sauce Boat
and Serve?.
Price . . £5/10/-
Silver-platetl Aspara-
gus Dishes (not illus-
trated).
Prices: 80/-, 95/-,
105/-
Cx 220
Cx22o—Pickle Stand and
Fork, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, Out Glass Jar.
Price 35/-
Othev examples at 27/6, 30/-,
35/-, 37/6.
0x163
?rs,
eases—
-6 pairs, Xylonite handles .. 73/-, 97/6
G pairs, Pearl handles 90/-, 100/-
12 pairs, Xylonite handles ’. . £<j
12 pairs, Pearl handles,
£7/7/-, £7/15/-, £B, £lO
«-P-
-<■£>
U 139
Ul39—Dinner Service, Wedgwood (as
illustrated), Yieux Rouen, conventional
design, blue and rose colorings.
26- 54- 58- 70-pce. Set
£7/10/-, £l5, £l5/10/-, £l6/15/-
Dinner Service, English manufacture,
Venetian stock pattern, round dishes,
light blue and chrome colorings. An at-
tractive design.
32-
£7/10/-
41-piece Set.
£l2/10/-
Cx 316
Cx3l6 — Butter Dish (as illustrated),
all Silver-plated on Nickel Silver.
Price 22/6
SILVER-PLATED BUTTER
DISHES
(not illustrated).
Wo have a choice selection of dainty Butter
Dishes showing in pleasing designs. ' Quoting
other prices: 23/6, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-
mm
'
Cx 624
Cx624—Case, containing (j Dessert
Knives, with Xylonite handles, and
6 Silver-plated Dessert Forks
(as illustrated).
Price 52/6
(Not illustrated.)
t x 263—6 Afternoon Tea Spoons
and 1 Sugar Spoon, in Case.
_ £ ric « 37/6
1 ' r ruit Salad Servers, in pleasing,
assorted designs, in handsomelv-lined
Case.
Price
50/
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limbed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Many people who have never had
anything the matter with them in
their lives make it a practice to
take a dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills on Saturday night. It
is a sound idea, and accounts for
their keeping in good health.
As impurities collect in the healthiest of people,
germs that might develop into something serious
are swept away, and the whole system put right for
the week’to come. A habit of this kind is the secret
of Good Health among thousands who make it
a rule to look after themselves and who do not allow
their health to be undermined by carelessness or
neglect of one of Nature’s more important functions.
They Make You Feel Brighter.


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
d
Hand Embroiderer
37/6 Complete. FU Et“ry e Mach ! i.^‘ th
Send a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
MALCOLM LANE, SYDNEY,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
m
m
JL
mm
Wi‘wi*
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water eteaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-lIOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
For the Heads
School Children’s Heads in
particular.
Dands Nursery Pomade
Most effective for keeping scalps free
from nits and other unpleasant in-
truders.
Remember the name—DANDS.
If unobtainable locally, send 1/- to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Proprietary Limited,
349 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Elastic
Rupture Troubles
and Truss Troubles
If you are ruptured don’t add to your worry by
wearing ari old-fashioned, ill-fitting, cumbersome
truss. If you do you have Truss Troubles then, as
well as Rupture Troubles. Make the best of matters;
the trouble is not serious if you wear a comfortable,
efficient safeguard like THE DEXTER BLAST K.
TRUSS.
THE DENVER ELASTIC TRUSS is different from
others. It is a specialised Safeguard, comfortable by-
reason of its soft elastic bands, and efficient because
scientifically constructed.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
SEND FOR OUR FREE TRUSS PAMPHLET.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
tielts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Cominomwaltt)
XT?#
9J I*
Bank of Hustralia.
A branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, for the
conduct of both General and Savings Bank business, has been
opened at
No. 81-97 Flinders Street,
Moore ParK, Sydney.
Banking and exchange business of every description transacted
within the Commonwealth. United Kingdom and abroad.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
at all Branches, and 3195 agencies at Post Offices throughout the
Commonwealth of Australia, Territories of Papua and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands Protectorate and other Islands of the Pacific.
Deputy Governor, James Kell, Esq.
Governor,
Sir Denison Miller, K.C.M.G.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
ď
f
d
STOCKWHIPS.
BEST IN AUSTRALIA, made of selected Kangaroo Leather,
with solid Kangaroo Bellies —Brown and White, Black and
White, Black and Tan, or Kangaroo Green Hide.
Mailed free all States. Make Postal Note ox - Money Oi'dex’ pa Table to
D. & W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD
The Big Ironmongers, Next P. 0., FITZROY, VIC.
ďf
d
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED OVER 35 YEARS,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Plum Baz&v
CRAIG & AITKEN, Sole Proprietors.
The “Plum” Razor is the only Razor used
in Craig'fc Aitken’s Model Hairdressing
Saloon in George Street. Hundreds of other Hair-
dressers use only the “Plum,” which is the best
evidence of its easy-shaving excellence.
PRICE 12/6 —POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in order for two years, free
of charge.
Every cabinet
is a
Period[ cabinet.
No matter which model New Edison you
decide upon, you are sure of a beautiful
piece of woodwork—with all the purity
of design and honesty, of craft that
characterised the golden age of furniture.
Chippt'idc’e, William and Mary, 1 Gth
Century, Sheraton (Inlaid), Jacobean,
Louis XlV.—each contribute a cabinet
for the housing of the “Re-Creating”
mechanism of
II KlPill
Interesting literature is sent post free
by THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 36’,-S'H
Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW EDISON
“ The Phonograph with a Sou/.”
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waitangi: Weeping Water.
Why weep Waitangi’s waters as they flow
T'hrougn the green land?
Dark on the hills the mighty forests rise,
By blue skies spanned.
Gold on the uplands sways the ripened corn;
Gold on the plain,
The stately elms, disrobing, east their leaves
In the soft rain.
Light mists spread silver canopies on spur
x\nd mountain crest;
High the great kauris tower, in kingly pride
Slade manifest.
Over mossed rocks the witch-whito waters
leap;
The floating spray
Swirls on the dim pools where the brown
fish swim
A rainbow way.
This is the land of legend and of song;
In days long gone
The fierce volcanoes belched a flame-lit pall,
And no sun shone.
Here the great chiefs came down and swept
the earth
In tribal strife.,
And the high-hearted pioneers began
Their new, lone life.
With storied heritage and beauty cast
With squander hand,
Why weep Waitangi’s waters as they flow
Through the green land?
MAORILANO.
LILLA GORMHUILLK McKAY.
The Brown Road.
No sound of strife or commerce rings
Through all its lisrht and shade;
It knows the sound the woodland brings,
The dip and whir of glittering wings,
The tender feet of forest things
That claim it unafraid.
At morn it. sees the splendid hills
Massed purple on the blue,
And then, perchance, at times it thrills,
When bird-voice answers, calling rills,
And all the great bush slowly fills
With pulsing life anew.
It goes adrowse in noonday’s heat
Through giant gums asway;
It knows in night’s deep hush complete
The wild bush-creature’s footsteps fleet.
And sometimes, too, the spirit-feet
Earth never knows by day.
Then one who has the sight discerns
The loveliness of dreams;
To silvered lace the moonlight turns
The shadowy fronds of falling ferns,
And magic for an hour returns
To roadways and to streams.
Then free from human feet and care
The Brown lioad calls its own:
The quaint wood pixies gather there,
The elfin folk with shining hair,
And shy-eyed dryads, strangely fair,
Who claim this hour alone.
It holds the balm for human pain,
A healinv deep and true;
For Nature spreads her secrets plain
In ways where God and Silence reign.
Oh, Tired Heart and Weary Brain,
The Brown Road runs for you!
N.S.W.
N. A. EvANS.
Dead.
You look so still and calm and ah! so wise
Tuat could I say the word to bid you rise
And Jive again and breathe, my lips were
dumb;
I always thought that Death with fingers
numb
Plucked at the body,* wrenched the life away
And only left the sorrow and the clay.
And yet it does not seem that this is so:
Death’s taken all your color and your glow,
But he has left you happy and at rest;
Although your lips are pale it seems a jest
Has made you glad with sudden boundless
mirth —•
Perhaps you saw the humor of the earth!
We are but schoolboys all the days we live;
There is no wisdom that the years can give
To make us fully grown and truly wise;
The roof upon our schoolhouse is the skies,
The lessons which we learn are never done
And knowledge comes with each day’s risen
sun.
To-morrow sees our wisdom of to-day
Branded as folly to be put away;
The fond illusion of the eve just dead
By the dawn’s light is thin as cheapest
thread;
And who can surely say the moon is more
Than just a disc of cardboard silver’d o’er?
It seems the wisest man’s the greatest fool
Since he believes for him there is no school,
And shuts out life with lessons still tin*
learnt; .
And wiser is the fool with fingers burnt
In striving to catch moonbeams of delight
Bewitched by the mad magic of the night.
An hour ago your soul was prey to fears,
Your eyes were mortal and were salt with
tears;
The world was more than you could under
stand;
Then with the logic of his mighty hand
Death brushed your worldly ignorance from
you—
You learnt, why grasses grow and skies are
blue!
If I were granted power to bid you rise
I should stand dumb and turn away my eyes!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


m
'A
r^rN-
■
*>&•
>
f*i
A
«C
7f
o
JSr
a? /
€4
-
awa
)X


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol, 42.—N0. 21 (JO.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 1921.
Pbice 9d.
JUDGE CANUTE BEEBY HOLDS COURT.
His Honor considers an application to raise the tide 18in., the same to be retrospective and date from the 1st day of August.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Cos., Ltd., at the Office of the
Cos., 214 George Street. Svrlnev. X.8.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERM Si TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 IC,a. you can have. The Bulletin sent
regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid. To any address
overseas, £2.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IFhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return (i will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
rending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ISlack and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fo > as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received a,e those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I;
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Uolborn, London, 1F.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
-lan ; and others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Cos., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Book
Shop, Hastings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver,
8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News Cos., 103 A
Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Cos., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevhrde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Cos., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Quaker News Cos.,
312 North Franklin Street, Philadelphia. Penn.
Egypt.— Jacques. Horn & Cos., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Cos., Peddcr Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Cos., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Cos., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva ; narry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.,
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz. , lid.; Bloz. to lOoz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z ., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz. , lid., and
id. each additional Soz.
THE COMMONWEALTH ELECTORAL
LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper
which needs a signature under the Common-
wealth Electoral law, S. II. Prior, J. B.
Dailey and J. E. Webb, of 214 George-
street, Sydney, accept the responsibility.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 1921.
THE RETURN OF THE BOSS.
The Acting Prime Minister announced after
a meeting of the Federal Cabinet a few days
ago that “the Prime Minister would arrive
in Melbourne about the first week in October,
well satisfied with his work at the Imperial
Conference, as a whole. The only thing
is that he has not been able to get all that
he was fighting for.” It is a suggestive com-
mentary on our present system of govern-
ment that the electors of Australia do not
vet know what Mr. TtutßiES fought for or
what he got —that, in point of fact, he was
not authorised, except by himself, to fight
for anything. It was understood in a general
way that he would try to secure the Com-
monwealth’s quota of the indemnity, or as
much of it as possible, and that he would
not agree to anything prejud'dally affecting
the White Australia policy. But, practically
speaking, he took a free hand away with
him—“took” advisedly, since he did not
pay the Parliament which is his crea-
ture the compliment of acquainting it
with details of the demands he in-
tended to make. In the past nations
have known autocratic government under a
king—as Engjaud did under the Tudors,
Russia under the Romanoffs, and so on.
The chief objections on the part of the gov-
erned to this system were (1) that the
supreme power could involve them in distaste-
ful wars, or in situations leading to such
wars, and (2) that offences were liable to
be created by proclamations, regulations, etc.,
which were unknown to the common law.
The royal autocracy was gradually whittled
away in England till with the arrival of the
Georges the Sovereign ceased even to take
part in Cabinet meetings. Democratic rule
made its appearance; that is to say, the
voice of the sovereign people became audible
and their desires were made effective in Par-
liament. This boon was, however, continu-
ally being nullified by an institution which
everybody feared and detested, but no one
was able to scotch. The secret diplomat
stepped over tEe hea3 of Parliament and took
the judgment seat which the monarch had
vacated. “It may sound absurd,” remarks
George Young (“Diplomacy Old and New”)
“to compare the posit.on of a Grey or' a
Curzon with that of a Romanoff or a llaps-
burg, but in the main essentials they are the
same. Both work within an inner ring of
junkers and tchinovniks and an outer ring
of ‘interests.’ And both, owing to the control
of all the international relationships of the
world being centralised in the Foreign Offices
of the Great Powers, can with the best of
wills bring the worst of wars on mankind.”
Nominally the British Foreign Secretary
does not make war, and is amenable to Par-
liament. In practice, of course, the situation
is very much otherwise. Nominally, Mr.
Hughes commits the Commonwealth to no-
thing without the consent of the Aus-
tralian Parliament; actually, whether on a
domestic issue such as the extension of war
precautions legislation for years after the
end of the war on whose account the device
was resorted to, or whether on an inter-
national one such as the appointment of
officials with ambassadoi’ial powers in Wash-
ington or at the British Foreign Office, the
Prime Minister’s word i.s known to be law.
Democratic government has gone the way of
the royal autocracy; and as one outcome of
the war for freedom, Australia is suffering
from and threatens to be permanently
afflicted with government by an official em-
ploying the methods of secret diplomacy.
* * * #
The principle by virtue of which Mr.
Hughes wields the power he does is nearly
as old as the Renaissance. The diplomacy
which produced the late war originated at
about the time Machiavelli wrote his
“Prince”: its basis being the foreign dele-
gate with full powers and occasional discus-
sions on international questions. It became
recognised by the world eventually that such
a system could only lead to the oppression
of the weak by the strong, and to ill-feeling
between aIL parties, and De Groot offered a
solution in the form of the first instalment
on record of international law. International
law has been immensely amplified since the
appearance of “De Jure Belli et Pads.”
Nevertheless the danger which it was de-
signed to remove is still in evidence, namely,
the professional pleader who is sent abroad
to fight for his country with his tongue, and
usually winds up by making it more dis-
liked or feared, or both, than would have
been the case had he stayed at home. The
spectacle of one man doubling for months at
a time the parts of Prime Minister and
foreign ambassador is in itself offensive to
constitutionalists. For one thing it is the
negation of joint Ministerial responsibility.
Australia’s present Prime Minister has not
only been performing this feat for years:
he admittedly intends to continue doing so.
And he has managed, further, to bluff Parlia-
ment into accepting the view that as he is
Australia abroad so he is Australia at home.
His shrill tones have hardly done threaten-
ing America in London before they are to
be heard directing menaces at “disloyalists”
(meaning those who are opposed to his
methods of administration) in Melbourne or
Sydney.
* -K- -X-
Apart from the fact that Australia wants
no diplomatic czar in any circumstances, it
may be safely said that W. M. Hughes is
a particularly undesirable sample of the
phenomenon. He is too unexpected, too tem-
peramental. Britain entrusted Disraeli
with some of the functions which W. M.
Hughes has arrogated to himself; and Bis-
marck. on a limited number of occasions
spoke for Germany. But with such men,
whatever their faults may have been, the
nations concerned knew as well what would
occur as if they had set a couple of machines
in motion. The Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia, like the colleague who is acting for
him just now, has been everything at one
time or another, and nothing for very long.
He was a Freetrader; he is a Protectionist.
Pie was a republican; he is a flamboyant
monarchist. He used to assail the Trusts:
he now defends them. A cable message last
week announced his conversion to anti-
socialism. He appears to have suddenly real-
ised that State ownership involves waste and
extravagance; as many another resident of
Britain, whose name is never destined to get
into any newspaper, has been doing of
late. But there is another side to the
picture; and it is characteristic of the
Commonwealth’s fluent and emotional dic-
tator that in his enthusiasm for renovated
movements he missed it. Munitions, shipping
and food were all run by the British Gov-
ernment during the war, and nothing is surer
than that, if they had been left to Private
Enterprise, the Empire would have perished.
The truth is it is absurd to dogmatise in a
large, general fashion about socialism being
all wrong and the other thing all right, or
vice versa. There is a deal to be said for
each where conditions and the hour are fav-
orable ; and no one was more insistent on
the po ; nt than W. M. Hughes dux*ing the
1907 Federal election, and afterwards. It is
this very lightness of conviction that makes
him such a danger in the role he elects to
play. There was no balance in his adminis-
tration of the War Precautions Act; no bal-
ance in his yells against the resumption of
trade with Germany at a time when the
whole country knew that unless Germany’s
former enemies renewed trade there could be
no indemnity; no balance in his imnudent
suggestions that all who disagree with him
are hostile to the King and anxious to dis-
rupt the Empire. Many of the character-
istics which he displayed when he was a
professional dmnago?ue cling to him as a
29th-centur.y Henry Vlll.—notably a ten-
dency to be influenced on big questions bv
irrelevaneies. In short, if he is not to land
this country in serious trouble, he needs the
control which he has been able to evade
almost entirely of late years.
But the general will finds little or no ex-
pression in Parliament, which is the only
body constitutionally empowered to control
him. The contempt entertained by members
for public opinion has been cynically shown
by their acceptance, without a single effec-
tive protest, of the War Precautions Act
Repeal Act, and by their indifference to the
public outcry directed against the recent
salary grab. The second betrayal was, of
course, part payment by the Government for
the first, and it is a continuing wage paid
to both Houses for submission in the future.
The Cabinet does not control or so much as
influence the Prime Minister even when he
is in Australia: it is too feeble. And for
the same reason Parliament could not control
the Cabinet, even if it was disposed that
way. Provided a Coalition M.H.R. or
Senator does not criticise the Government
too drastically on a measure of importance,
and, in any event, is careful to avoid defeat-
ing it, he knows he may go on drawing his
£lOOO a year and perquisites in the present,
and be sure of getting the Party nomination
in the future. And so long as the Party
nomination is retained, election is certain in
most of the anti-Labor seats. The main
stand-by of the modern political boss is the
circumstance that many people hate names—-
“Labor,” “Sinn Feinism,” “Romanism” and
the like —more than they love freedom and
justice. It is the foundation of the Party
swindle, and the explanation of W. M.
Hughes in his latest translation. And so he
returns well satisfied with his trip and with
life; and so he will presently go away again.
The people who are supposed to sway his
movements have as much' real influence in
the business as they would have if they were
dead.
THE SICK MAN OF POLITICS.
Parties come and go. They have their
little hour and cease to be. Where now are
the Populists, Whigs, Know-Nothings and
Federalists of America? Where the Peelites,
Buttites, Radicals, Liberal-Unionists of Bri-
tain? Where the Freetraders of Parkes
and Reid, the Conservatives who sustained
Gillies and Tom Mcllwraith, the once-
dominant squatter parties, sfill more remote?
Gone like last year’s snow! To some it
will seem the wildest extravagance to sug-
fest that Labor is in danger of joining the
ismal procession, but stranger things have
happened in history. Labor, once the Spoilt
Child of politics, is now r the Sick Man.
The Labor party is weaker now than at
any time since 1906. It fluked office last
year in Queensland and N. S. Wales, but,
given a clean roll and a moderately equitable
arrangement of seats, it could not now carry
any State. In Victoria, S. Aus., Westralia,
the Speck and the Commonwealth it has
been horribly defeated. In the north-eastern
State, where a minority-chosen Labor Min-
istry still clings precariously to its portfolios,
it has just lost Maranoa, a seat it had held
for 20 years, and in the municipal elections,
with adult suffrage obtaining for the first
time, its candidates were beaten 10 to one.
But the effect on public opinion of these
repeated lickings is less serious than is that
of the chilling materialism which has taken
possession of a party once renowned for its
ideals. Parliament is no longer regarded
as a means to a great end, “the cultivation
of an enlightened and self-reliant commu-
nity,” but as an end in itself, and a particu-
larly sordid one at that. Labor politics have
become an easy-money profession the requi-
sites for which are an impenetrable hide and
an indefatigable jaw. The liquor and gambl-
ing interests are strong in the councils of
the party, bitter personal and factional feuds
rage at every “conference,” and the Tam-
many wirepuller is such a recognised insti-
tution that when an A.L.P. returning-officer
declared a selection-ballot invalid on the
ground that there had been wholesale per-
jury and personation he was promptly over-
ruled and disqualified from acting again.
Apparently it is not an offence, nowadays, to
do crooked things in selection-ballots, but it
is an offence to say that crooked things have
been done.
•w *• * *
During the war, as everyone knows, the
party split violently on the conscription
issue, and the breach has never been healed.
What everyone doesn’t know is that the
expelled conscriptionists had an army of
sympathisers in the trade unions and some
even among the Labor Parliamentarians.
Loyalty to old associations or fear of the
consequences of rebellion kept these men.
nominally at least, in the A.L.P. (albeit
many unionists have ceased to vote for Labor
candidates), but the expulsions were secretly
resented and the arrogant and intolerant
gang responsible for them became objects of
dislike. Fuel has been heaped on the smoul-
dering fire of hostility by the pacifist, Bol-
shevist and, in some cases, rabidly anti-
British sympathies with which the A.L.P.
has willy nilly been identified under the new
regime. And now another struggle has be-
gun between the moderate and extremist
sections into which the party is divided, and
its fate hangs in the balance. At the All-
Australian Congress of Trade Unions in
Melbourne recently the extremists were in
the ascendant, and a series of resolutions
in favor of pacifism, internationalism
(which implies the scrapping of the White
Australia policy) and socialisation (which
means pledging the credit of the nation to
buy up industries for despots like Walsh
and Willis ) went through flying. These
resolutions, it is true, are not binding on the
party as yet. They have been referred to
another conference, which is to be held at
Brisbane on October 10, and which will have
the final say. But already the extremists
are declaring in the Labor press, of which
they have absolute control, that the new
policy of Marxism and brudderly love will
be adopted en bloc. If so, there is nothing
more certain than that there will be another
split—in fact, the proceedings of the Mel-
bourne Congress have nearly caused a split
in the Tasmanian branch of the A.L.P.
alreadv.
• * • «
Australia has been very nstient with the
A.L.P. It has stood things from that nnrtv
that it would not stand from any other. It has
tolerated the ruinous excesses of Labor finan-
ciers and the wild attempts of doctrinaires
to make every citizen a Government em-
pJoyee. But one thing it will Uot toler e “
and that is treachery to the White AustralS
uleai. If Labor drops the White Austra a
policy it will itself be dropped. It ma Hu J
on for a year or two if the cranks .Fn i
blatherskites and hands-uppers who infest ij
stick to the old label, but the process,
dissolution will be rapid and complete. Should
the demented programme of the three ists—
pacifist, socialist, internationalist— be adopt-
ed at Brisbane, the moderate LaboritesWill
secede. In that event they will probably
unite with the expelled conscriptio'nist sec-
tion to form a new democratic partv and
there ought to be a future for a party of
that nature if it went in for scientific taxa-
tion and honest finance. But there can'be
no future for a party that would leave this
w hite continent naked to its colored enemies.
THE LAMENTATION OF
LIDCOMBE.
Lidcombe, near Sydney, may be nothing very
extraordinary as a iilaee, but a remark came
from there recently, per medium of the town
clerk, which is calculated to reverberate all
through Australia and possibly even wash an
echo up on foreign shores. It was to the
effect that, owing to increased N. S. Wales
railway charges, of which there have been
three in recent times, with the possibility of
quite a nuinuer more, people are leaving to
live in the city, or closer to the city, and
depopulation has set in. If the necessity
getting to the slums, or to place?
which will be slums when the movement
cityward has lasted a while longer, is felt
at Lidcombe, 10 miles away, it is naturally
felt a great deal more at the rising centres
of depopulation that are a hundred or several
hundred miles away. If Lidcombe is too far
(in money, not in time) from the only place
inside 300,000 square miles where there is
capital, big industry', big commerce, political
preferment, profitable political jobs—in fact,
the only place fit for a person with large
ambitions, and the one that everybody with
anything to lose must keep his. eye on lest he
be ruined by freak legislation" when he isn't
looking—the “provincial” towns are further
away both in time and money. It is-owing
to this movement that, though Joseph Oak
ruthers says he settled small new holders on
6,581,000 acres of N. S. Wales between 1895
and 1899, there were only 1,169,029 acres
more cultivation or grass to show for it, and
even that began to disappear. Thanks to
the same movement, 1,700,000 acres of culti-
vation and artificial grass wandered off the
N. S. Wales map between 1916 and 1919
that is to say, 1,900,000 acres of cultivation
became grass and then 1,700,000 acres of grass
became nothing in particular. And owing
to similar causes, whatever they may be, a
great many of the 21,890 soldiers repatri-
ated on the land in the mainland States up
to a recent date, at a cost of £24,697,213.
will probably disappear out of the scheme of
things. They are not more fixed than other
agricultural human beings. In fact, con-
sidering the financial burdens they start
with they will probably feel more inclined to
vanish than even ,1. Carrutiiers’s set-
tlers of 1895-1899, who had less debt, lower
interest rates, smaller railway charges, and
often shorter distances.
The N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners,
being asked to explain the disaster of Lid-
combe, replied with a statement oc tne
average rates per passenger and per ton of
goods for 191-t and 1920 in the Ma State
and in 16 foreign countries. They claim
that, though they have put up passenger
rates 52 per cent, in six years, they are still
the lowest on the long list; also, though
they have put up goods rates 40 per cent.,
N. S. Wales has still the lowest goods
schedule bar those of the U.S.A. and Canada.
In 1914 the N. S. Wales charges for goods
were higher than the average, being actually
twice those of the U.S.A. and Canada,
and for passengers they were a little above
some others. But other countries have
rushed up their charges enormously, especi-
ally Russia, where the goods rate was 3s.
lOd. per ton per 100 miles in 1914 and
£6 15s. lid. in 1920. Now, considering
the charges paid, apparently without diffi-
culty, in countries like Britain, Denmark,
Sweden and Switzerland, it looks as if the
Ma State could easily double its prices, and
give up having railway deficits, and build
new lines out of the earnings of old ones,
and also pay off some of ■ the debt —unless
there is something rotten about the State. If
there is, it is presumably the same rotten-
ness which afflicts some other States, lint
it is quite evident that the position admits
of no high finance of the sort. In fact, it
seems that the rates are at one and the same
time too low to pay and yet high enough
to be ruinous to settlement over a large
part of the country. And when the 44-
hours system is adopted (to say nothing of
the next increase of wages), and there are
more bankrupt bits of road on the list, and
the Treasury is unsfble to do any lavish sub-
sidising because of the absorption of all its
available funds in child pensions and other
pensions, it appears that the only way to
make the X. 8. Wales railway system pay
will be to put up charges to a point at which
settlement will almost cease and revenue
stop. Which may seem a paradox, yet it
isn’t any more paradoxical than the rest of
the business.
* * *
One of the difficulties of the situation is
the payment of wages that are high accord-
ing to European but not according to Can-
adian or United States standards. Another
is hours of. work that are short according to
all except Australian standards, and possibly
the employment of more bands than ®r e
necessary even with these hours. Retreno.i-
ment is' a thing that loses votes, though
superfluous provision of jobs doesnt always
gain votes; at any rate, it gains thep toi
only a short time, after which the inevit-
able burst of wrath and ingratitude ensues.
A third difficulty is the necessity of paying
an exorbitant dividend on the whole bor-
rowed cnp'tal. It wa« £o 10s. °<l. nej- c .
for N. S. Wales in 1910. It was £4 2s. 6d.
in 1919. What it is now is stdl an nnnnih
l'shed mvs-orv, but the renewal of old loans
at an advance and the floating of new ones
at about 61 per cent, have probab y pnsnea
the average up to nearly 5 per cent., and an


average of 6 per cent, may be reached in time.
Even now the dividend which all Australian
railways are pledged to pay on their capi-
tal is about a world’s record. Finally, the
building of new works having degenerated
into relief business, there is far too much
capital on which to pay far too much in-,
terest. But though all these woes may force
charges up much higher, no matter what hap-
pens to Lidcombe, charges are not high ac-
cording to European or South American
ideas, but are really very low. And if
settlement is being prevented or killed off by
goods rates which are much under those of
Britain and Switzerland, the only inference
is that, on the average, the goods have several
times too many miles to go. In a country
the size of the really desirable part of N. S.
Wales, with all the ports utilised and 16
towns of 50,000 people apiece carved out of
Sydney, leaving 100,000 for the metropolis,
no producer need be more than 50 miles
from some sort of a market. Then he could
pay probably double the present figures, and
the Department could wallow in affluence,
and the producer could wallow- also—at least
in moderation.
* * * *
A Minister lately remarked w r ith gloom
that there are altogether too many lines in
N. S. Walps on wdvich it is only possible to
find excuse for one train a day, and one
train trying to earn an interest bill which
10 would find a serious matter is a
futile spectacle. There are stacks of such
roads, and thete are also new ones built on
go-slow principles with high-priced money,
materials and labor where the “mixed”
toddles bn its unprofitable way only three
times a week, and would be little missed if
it went even less frequently. Such are the
stretches from Dubbo to Merrygoen (62
miles), Parkes-Narromine (69 miles), and
Nyngan-Cobar (82 miles). Then there are
the two-trains-pbr-week affairs like the
Broken Hill-Menindie (74 miles), and the
one-train per week undertaking from Con-
dobolin to Trida (129 miles). The spectacle
of one or even two “rnixeds” per week trying
to earn their own expenses, the repair bill,
and 5 or 6 per cent, interest on over
£600,000 by loping over a plain full of
nothingness isn’t edifying; but in the
struggle against the unemployed ghost N. S.
Wales is filling up with such spectacles.
The making of them brings loan money into
the country and furnishes slow but well-pa : d
employment to the unemployable. The Ma
State possesses one bit of railway wdthin 38
miles of Sydney which is capable of losing,
after the absurd interest bill is paid, £l3OO
per mile per year, and another not 95 miles
distant that is equal to losing over £lOOO.
They have been doing this sort of thing
without turning a hair for 57 and 28 years
respectively. It, has one little line with a
dropping capacity of £2600 per year on
each 1760 yards. And it has 3000 miles
of line can eat up an average. of
£240 per mile each year. Yet only at four
points—Bourke, Cobar, Trida and Broken
Hill-Menindie, which last is an isolated sec-
tion with a point at each end—has railway
enterprise got beyond the fringe of the really
poor country. So that there is room for a
still larger disaster yet—a disaster that can.
of course, be veiled behind proposals labelled
“development,” “settlement,”.“the absorption
of the unemployed” and so on.
EDUCATION?
Giving evidence before a Westralian Royal
Commission, Edward Wittenoom main-
tained that expenditure on State secondary
schools is both impolitic and wasteful. “O'he
money should be spent on backblocks schools,
technical and agricultural education. The
State should not go beyond practical and
elementary education.” Further: ‘‘The ex-
pensive educational efforts of .N. S. Wales
have been a failure.”
That these words have come to educational
experts as the jarring thud and the sicken-
ing jolt is only natural, because it is quite
unusual to speak definitely of actual results
of educational systems. It is not done.
While the taxpayer does not expect any im-
mediate profitable return for cash spent on
schools, he mostly has a vague idea that the
final though indirect benefits they bring
must be as valuable as they are far-reach-
ing. And as it would be almost impossible
to follow each boy from school with a foot-
rule and measure up the good and harm such
a really produces, the idea remains
vague. Someone tells us that ours is one of
the finest systems in the world. That is
enough. He ought to know. We are con-
tent. Therefore, Wittenoom is a discon-
certing person, to say the least of him. To
speak of educational undertakings in the
light of definite results is something we did
not expect. But to Aveigh us up and find
those results not only poor but actually
harmful —it is too much !
With nearly every Public Department
feeling in its hip-pocket for the shilling it
may have mislaid overnight, with most State
enterprises gazing dejectedly at their cash-
boxes, the taxpayer may easily turn the
disquieting thought into blank dismay by
trying to tell himself:
(i) What is the object of an educational system?
(ii) What do we pay for ours?
(iii) What do we get for the money?
The desired results of education, of course,
will always vary in detail with nations,
climates and creeds, but the general object
the average sensible community aims at
would doubtless be to properly train citizens
of the necessary types and in the required
numbers to adequately maintain and develop
that community. Thus a State might expect
to have in 1930 (say) 500,000 useful citi-
zens, and after a careful scrutiny of its
especial needs, its industries and its general
activities, might consider it expedient to
have LOO,OOO skilled agriculturists, 50,000
reliable mechanics, 10,000 sailors, 30,000
clerks, agents,_ shopkeepers, middlemen ; 9000
lawyers, dentists, teachers, clergymen, doc-
tors: 9J9 politicians, hoboes, parasites and
sundries: 1 ha s ry Bolshevik. These figures
are not intended to apply to any particular
State. Some States may need more hairy
Bolsheviks than farmers; some don’t. The
a State can really decide
■what types of citizen it needs its educational
objects can then emerge from the above-
mentioned haze and have a straightout chance
of success.
Edward Witte doom's accusation is not
merely that N. S. Wales is spending too
much money. Indeed, if an educational sys-
tem turned out workers in agreed-upon pro-
portions, or even in a rough approximation
thereto, the cost could hardly be too high.
The charge is that what is spent is not to-
wards the proper objects, and in that sense
is wasted.
To be candid with ourselves, a real eduea*
tional programme based on our own needs is
a thing very hard to find. N. S. Wales, for
its part, imported a system—rather a tenth-
rate one at the time, by the way—and since
it is always easier to import than to make
our own, the importing habit, in ideas as
well as in commodities, has kept on growing
till now it seems almost incurable. With
our imported silk stockings, imported clothes-
pegs, imported politicians, we have grown
quite used to the imported idea that the
words “education” and “university” mean
practically the same thing. So that the
good old worn-out platitude, with last cen-
tury’s cold porridge frozen on its beard, came
duly to hand as expected in answer to Mr.
Wittenoom —“Every boy and girl, rich or
poor, must be given the same chance of
reaching the threshold of the University.”
It is by thus sidestepping the real question
that the waste mostly occurs.
Thousands of children are annually urged,
coached, crammed, examined and otherwise
pushed on towards the same old sacred
Threshold in the mistaken idea that they
are being given some vague “equal chances.”
A large percentage of them soon have to turn
round and do some real work which is in no
wise aided by their schooling. For them the
years when they might have been learning
how to do that work and how to be happy
while doing it have been more or less wasted
through striving towards the Threshold ; and
they become in desperation unskilled workers,
unscientific farmers—unskilled anything—
mediocre citizens at best, attempting per-
haps in after-life to acquire the know-
ledge they badly need and with which
they should have started. Had this
knowledge been available at first, there
would have been little waste were 10
times the present Education vote expended.
Without it, there is a fearsome waste not
only of the State’s money, but also of the
individual’s effort and opportunity.
Politicians with a superficial knowledge
of the subject often believe that the correct
way to make an unsuccessful business change
magically to success is to, pour more money
over it. “Technical education is being de-
veloped” is affirmed in defence. “In this
direction we spend £125,000 annually.” So
there! That is Wittenoom’s answer! And
next year let us spend £500,000, and the fol-
lowing year £5,000,000, and so on. We shall
then be almost perfect.
See how it works out. Take the ordinary
country school of (say) 400 boys and girls.
About 60 may pass the Qualifying Certificate
examination each year. Probably 30 of them
thereupon “leave school.” Goodness knows
where they go or what knowledge they take
with them with which to commence earning
the elusive crust, or even what “equal
chances” they enjoy of getting on to the
Threshold. The other 30 begin their second-
ary education. Each year sees more drop-
ping out —some because they cannot stand
the strain of cramming, others because dad
needs their help in keeping the family alive
by any old form of work—and joining the
other 30 in outer darkness. They just fade
aWay. If five or six scholars capture Inter-
mediate Certificates the school is doing well.
And this is half-way to the Threshold. Sup-
pose two or even three actually get to the
University—what of the 60 and their “equal
chances”? Does it not smell suspiciously
like sacrificing 58 to benefit the fortunate
two?
The remedy naturally is to spend more
money, have more schools, more teachers,
and in time get the whole school population
on to that Threshold. A few more High
Schools will be needed, some more special
jobs for more imported specialists, a few
more trips to America, and possibly the
Threshold may have to be enlarged. Then
shall we have more doctors than patients,
more lawyers than victims, more teachers
than taught, more pulpits than pews. There
will be scarcely any common folk at all ex-
cept, perhaps, the man who sweeps the
Threshold ; but that will not matter much, for
everyone else at least will at last be enjoy-
ing “equal chances.”
SILEETA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
—♦»
Premier Lawson’s Attitude.
‘‘ o , Liber ty» wha * loans are floated in thy name!”
Maaame Roland with improvements.
■^/ I f,.P ro S ramrae on which Premier Lawson
ot Victoria, procured a dissolution and went
to the country when the Assembly was less
than a year old, is a definite and emphatic
declaration against every avoidable form of
what is now called State Enterprise. State
Enterprise—the elimination of the private
middleman, gambler, profiteer, monopolist,
forestaller and all the rest —is as good as
ever. But when it falls into the hands of
political adventurers and boodlers who have
more than the rapacity and not nearly the
capacity of the private person, it becomes as
unlike to the real thing as the Inquisition
was to the Sermon on the Mount, or as a
lynching in Alabama is to the Statue of
Liberty that overlooks New York Harbor, or
as the Soviet paper money is to the Com-
monwealth Bank. The name of Public
Enterprise, or religion, or freedom, or high
finance may be retained, but names don’t
signify much. Lawson’s attitude is that
he is no miracle-worker or divine purifier,
and he refuses to take superhuman chances.
He was defeated because the Labor party,
which wants the same sort of wholesale
State interference —or, rather, interference
by union bosses —that Queensland and N. S.
Wales have indulged in, combined its forces
with the Country party, which is principally
concerned about State control in the matter
of wheat, but was willing to accept support
from any likely quarter. Lawson’s idea is
to stick to the old policy under which rail-
ways, telegraphs, telephones, postal affairs
and the management of the public estate
were about the limits of Government trad-
ing, and he declares that wheat pools were a
war measure pure and simple, to be aban-
doned now that the war is over. He might
be prepared to reconsider nis position it mere
was presented for his inspection some clean
and nonest variety of Big State Socialism,
but, considering the varieties which are on
View, he wants to keep Victoria out or it in
his time. Certainly he has some excuse.
Queensland and N. S. Wales have both
started racketing on the new or semi-
Buisuevik road to Paradise. They have
spent a fearsome amount of money and
bought an awful amount of misery, loafing
and pony-race with it. They have become
the centres of the unemployed trouble and
the unemployed have arrived under the new
regime, in fact, they have become hunger
dep.ts. Their taxes are double those of
Lawson’s State —the one which has kept
most carefully away from their policies—
and the great increase has come under the
new regime. Their debts in proportion to
population are enormous beside Victoria’s,
their record of deficits is high; their credit,
as shown by the recent struggles in the loan
market, is low. Tales of roll-stuffing, of
weird intrigues for office, of strange dodges
connected with the getting of party nomina-
tions, of 13 politicians with record salaries
in one Ministry, of recriminations, make
sober men chary of the party which has
made wholesale Public Enterprise its
peculiar property. The Labor politicians
of Victoria don’t in the least degree
condemn or repudiate these unsavory
and obscene happenings. Rather they
profess to regard Queensland and N. S.
Wales political Labor as it exists to-day as
a clean, bright, shining example to be fol-
lowed. They want to get into power that
they may do likewise. Looking at the ruins
of the Northern Territory a Federal Minister
has recommended the abandonment of Public
Enterprise pubs and ships, and possibly even
of Public Enterprise land-ownership, while
the Public Enterprise meatworks at Wynd-
him (W.A.) have practically abandoned
themselves, through strikes and hold-ups.
These inatters also tend to make the
Premier of a State which is still
reasonably sane keep clear of the general
madness, and wait till some way can
be found of being State socialistic with-
out being mad. The stately edifice miscalled
Public Enterprise lacks two things—a floor
and a roof. It is also rather short of walls.
Nothing, not even the door-knob, really
belongs to the State. It is all mortgaged to
the private capitalists who lent the money.
At one time works were inortgaged for all
they were worth. The average new work in
Queensland or N. S. Wales, being built on
sham philanthropic principles by lavish poli-
ticians who buy votes with loan money, is
often mortgaged for twice what it is worth.
While an enterprise remains in private hands
it cleans up its losses as it goes along—in the
Insolvency Court at the last recourse. The
creditors compel this. When it passes into
State control the losses accumulate for ever.
No matter how much loan money may be
lost in bad investments it is never paid off
out of revenue, but the liability accumulates
at compound interest for ever to crush Pos-
terity in the dust. On top of this, trucu-
lent patriots of the A.W.IJ. and other bodies
reach out for more and more job-control of
the nation’s alleged property, until owner-
ship by the nation means little more than
that the alleged proprietor pays the losses,
meets all demands and is everybody’s dog.
Br’tish railways, nominally owned by private
capitalists inside the country, regulated by
Parliament under the Cheap Trains Act and
other laws, taxed by the Central Government
and heavily taxed by local bodies, so that
they have to contribute largely to the
revenue whether they pay or rot, are really
much more State-owned than the Australian
systems, or any Australian publ’c works,
nowadnvs. In fact, the more things the
•State takes over the more things are exempt
from taxes, and the more slips from
the hands of the People’s Parliament into
those of the A.W.U. and such institutions.
r ♦—
The Forgotten Art of Work.
The deputy-manager of the Commonwealth
Bank has discovered a specific for Australia’s
economic ills. It is an old-fashioned medi-
cine, and is to be taken in substantial doses
six days a week; and its name is Work. The
trouble is that the country has been reduced
to such a condition by over-indulgence in
borrowing, importing, centralisation, Direct
Action, limitation of apprentices, price-
fixing by elderly city lawyers, and go-slow 7
that there are thousands of persons who
can’t do the sort of work that is wanted,
nor get the sort they w 7 ant. And there are
other thousands who have got out of the
working habit, particularly at Broken Hill.
For upwards of two years the Broken Hill
miners, or the majority of them, have
existed on private and public charity, with-
out doing a tap in return. It is light-
heartedly assumed that men who have led
this leisured and useless existence for so
long a period will turn to as vigorously as
ever when employment is available on their
own terms. That, at least, is the opinion of
the N. S. Wales Labor Government, which has
distributed over £120,000 among the “unem-
ployed” of the Barrier since July, 1920, and
never even asked them to do a day’s toil on
the roads. But W. J. Garnett, of Toynbee
Hall, has no illusions as to the effect of
prolonged and bonused idleness on men with
corns on their hands. He has been doing
social work in London’s dockland for 18
months, and these are his remarks:—
A section of my district is being ruined by doles.
Work has become abhorrent to many, and the
amount of lying and fraud resorted to'to avoid it
would make angels blush. The borrowing of pawn-
tickets to add to their own heap for the visitor to
inspect, the concealment of possessions when the
visitor may be expected, and of the fact that the
family is in receipt of free borough milk, of relief
from the guardians, of assistance from the Mayor’s
fund, and even of the out-of-work donation— a u
these are of daily occurrence. So are the statements
that they are attending the hospital (they did go to
it once, two years ago), and that they have never re-
ceived any assistance from any other charity (when
they have been kept by charity for nearly a year).
And with all this the public-houses are as full as
ever, and whereas the man in work has his pint of
beer the man out of work is often found to call for
a “double Scotch.” And there seems to be no
diminution of interest in the “latest results.” The
cinemas are full at every change of pictures, and in
the football season everyone seems able to travel
miles to a popular match. If we are ever to get the
idea of work into the minds of these people we
must cut out the doles.
Allowing for longitude and latitude, an im-
partial observer on tie Hill, or at Sydney
or Brisbane, might set his hand to all that.
But in one important respect there is a
difference. Garnett notes that “moderate
Labor in my area has changed its view, and
now heartily dislikes all these charitable
doles. It regards them as tending to pre-
vent the true betterment of the people who,
so long as doles exist, flock to obtain them.”
By contrast the “moderate” N. S. Wales
Labor Government has increased the amount
of the Broken Hill dole to over £lO,OOO a
month.
More About King Log at -Melbourne.
The present Sydney Government is driven to
many inventions in order to find money for
distribution as largesse to people who are
expected to give votes in return. They will
probably forget their gratitude when the
novelty has worn off, and they may even
consider the fact that they have received
doles a reason why they should receive more
doles, and may turn and bite the hand that
spoonfed them with greater fury than if they
had never been spoonfed at all. But that
is a side issue. The great matter ahead,
apart from the huge deficit and a few dozen
other lions in the path, is to find funds with
which to pension widows, orphans and chil-
dren generally after the first pair in the
family. The only scheme that has been
advanced so far is the crude one of a lottery,
the idea of selling pardons or permits to
commit sin or even crime not having been
quite arrived at yet. It would have to be
a stupendous octopus of a lottery, with
every inhabitant of the State, even the
smallest baby, taking pounds’ worth of
tickets every year, to produce half enough.
But it is proposed to do the best possible,
and, though compulsory ticket-buying isn’t
mentioned yet, it is announced that the Gov-
ernment will prohibit the people of the State
subscribing to lotteries in any other State.
It seems really time that, the Federal
King Log at Melbourne woke up and said
things—King Log who seems to have for-
gotten liis own existence and still more for-
gotten that he owes a duty to his subjects,
now annoyed by all sorts of petty tyrants.
The whole course of the Commonwealth’s
history is a sermon, or a series of sermons
each more lurid than the last, on the folly
of the policy of large States which permits
any overshadowing and truculent vassal to
exist. In the United States, thanks to the
policy of subdivision into small areas, the
most powerful member of the brotherhood
commands only 10 per cent, of the member-
ship in the Lower House, and not 2 per cent
of the Senate. In Australia N. S. Wales has
practically 40 per cent, of the membership of
the Lower House, and its politicians are de-
manding 40 per cent, instead of the present
one-sixth of the control of the Senate.
Things approach to the disastrous condition
of pre-war Germany, where militant Junker-
ridden Prussia owned 253 votes out of the
455 which made up the two Federal Houses
and supplied the Kaiser to boot. In fact,
it threatens to become a question whether
Australia owns the States, or whether one
masterful State owns Australia.
The Australian Navy.
“Late R.A.N.” on a chloroformed navy:—
I have to agree sorrowfully with The Bulletin's
remarks about recruiting in the R.A.N. (B. 7/7/’2l).
The Australian Navy bag beome a “duel.” Before
the war we were called by the R.N. the “Harry Tate
Navy,” and those of the older navy who joined ns
were looked upon by their contemporaries as courting
professional damnation. The war raised our stocks a
bit, and there is no doubt that the Pacific operations
helped to make us self-respecting. What failures
there were in the way of not bringing the Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau to book before the tragedy of Coronel
can safely be laid at the door of those whom the
Commonwealth Government in its wisdom chose from
the R.N. to lead us. (The shrieks on the Australia’s
wireless night by night were quite sufficient to tell
the Huns the whereabouts of the Australian Fleet.)
The Emden action and the subsequent operations in
the North Sea, Mediterranean and elsewhere all helped
to bring us in line with the R.N., and towards the
end of the war it was freely recognised that our
service, unit for unit, was fit to lie alongside the
Old Navy’s best. But after the war what do we
find? We promptly scrap our navy and put our
burden of defence on Britain. There is no building
programme—the Adelaide has long since become a
farce—and most of our useful ships, in the absence of
new ones, are put on the mud. Under the Hen-
derson scheme we equipped a Naval College at Jer-
vis Bay, a College which has turned out officers able
to hold their own with their R.N. contemporaries;
yet these men now are being offered every oppor-
tunity of resigning their commissions, as there are
not enough jobs to go round. With the regular
officers resigning owing to the lack of a future, the
bait of promotion for the rank and file becomes a
delusion and a snare. The delusion is so patent that
no Australian with any gumption will bind himself
body and soul to a service which fathers such a pal-
pable fraud. The lower-deck ratings are getting out
as fast as they can, and the Service, or the pitiful
remnant of w'hat was once a Service, is hard put to
it to fill their places. The administrative staffs at
the Navy Office (Melbourne) and the Garden Island
and Williamstown dep6ts are in full swung; in fact,
everyone who is not capable of doing a sea-going
job is drawing his pay and taking his ease, while
our sea-,going forces are an object of derision to
every naval power in the world. If we are to have
a navy, for Heaven’s §ake let us have something
that can go to sea and put up a. scrap, at least
against a raiding force! The three millions or so
which the Navy Board spends annually is merely
providing sustenance for a shadow.
*
When the Cow Men Come to Town.
The people of the N.S.W. Northern Rivers
have in preparation a petition to present
to the Legislature at the One Big City asking
for self-determination, otherwise Home Rule
within the Commonwealth. At least 13,000
petitions have been presented to the British
House of Commons in one year, and this sort
of thing has been going on in London since
the time of Ed. I. But it isn't known that,
either in England or elsewhere, the biggest
petition ever changed the legislative mind
when it didn’t pay the Legislature to have
its mind changed. Certainly no Irish Home
Rule petition ever did. According to pub-
lished information the document now being
prepared up Tamworth and Arjnidale way
will set forth that the North isn’t like Ire-
land, a burden, but is rather a big asset and
a dazzling milch cow. Big City politicians


Motor Car Steels
Large stocks on hand ot
CHROME NICKEL STEELS FOR AXLES
and other highly-stressed parts.
CHROME NICKEL and NICKEL STEELS
in bars and discs, for Gears, etc.
CHROME STEEL FOR BALL RACES.
CRANKSHAFT FORGINGS.
HIGH-CLASS ALLOYED SPRING STEEL.
Descriptive catalogue on application.
Poldi Steel Works
343 Sussex Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8704.
For levelling rough roads.
F«<B
SSSS
8175
Motor Cycle Saddle,
with double coil rear
springs and spring peak.
d
CATALOGUES FREt.
J. B BROOKS 6- CO., LTD., 134 Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
who didn’t really know, and who opposed
Northern Home Rule out of habit or cussed-
ness, must know after reading it. It will
set forth that the Big City Government will
lose control of 460,000 people when the
change comes about, which is more than
some members suspected. Then it will
allege that the New State has for 40 years
contributed £375,000 a year more to the
revenue than it has received back in the
shape of public works. In fact, the Big City
men will be told that the North is the one
rich uncle they have, and that he wants
permission to leave and disinherit them.
Finally, it will be alleged that such railways
as the North possesses are laid out to carry
the trade of the district not to local ports,
but to Sydney, for the latter’s great profit,
and that the Home Rule Government, if it is
allowed to exist, will knock that arrangement
also into smithereens. Whereupon the Boys
of the Old Brigade may be expected, when
they recover their breath, to say things like:
“What kind ot fools do you think we are?”
“D’ye suppose we’re in politics for our health?”
“Is this a bad joke or what?”
“Gosh!” *
On the lines of the programme vast numbers
of Northern Home Rulers are to travel to
Sydney along with the petition and make
monster processions in the streets. They
will spend a heap of money on railway fares
for the good of Mr. Lang’s finances. They
will spend a lot on board, lodging, shows,
tram fares and drinks for the good of the
Big City. They will meet some pickpockets,
some bookmakers, some spielers, some three-
card men, some painted ladies and some of
the kind of people who want to give gold
for notes. They will go back poorer. But
they won’t surprise the ruling men much
with the numerical strength of the move-
ment, because that is known pretty well
already. No one cares how strong a hostile
movement is if it isn’t quite strong enough,
and if it is s 0 orthodox that it won’t take
measures which make strength something
more than a mere counting of heads —if it
won’t go on the strike or the boycott, or
withdraw its members from the State Legis-
lature, or set up a Hail Eireann of sorts, or
otherwise break out in a fresh place. Stodge
has spoiled many a good secession. If Jero-
roam, who organised a notable old Home
Rule movement along his own Northern
Rivers, had been content to march in proces-
sion through the streets of Jerusalem with
a Hebrew petition under his arm, he might
be walking there yet.
Kitchener and the Censorship.
The war censorship has a lot to answer
for; but it is doubtful if any one outcome
of the system did half as much damage in
the same space of time as the maintenance
of the Kitchener myth. Lord Esher’s
book, “The Tragedy of Lord Kitchener,”
which was published last week, makes a
number of disclosures which were evidently
common knowledge at the War Office at
the beginning of 1915, but which under the
censorship could not at the time be re-
vealed to the people of Britain, whom they
so vitally affected : —•
The tragic spectacle of a great’man .called to a
great task, with the full consciousness that the powers
which had served him steadfastly in the past had
deserted him
His colleagues did not accord him confidence. His
steps faltered and his influence waned, and therefore
at the most critical moments he was hurried into
action of which he did not approve....
Unreceptive of new ideas, disinclined to adopt new
methods which lie did not originate, and slow to
take advantage of the experience of lesser men,
Kitchener’s mediocre reasoning and stolid approach
to obvious conclusions irritated his colleagues, and
destroyed their admiration and affection, almost their
respect.
It is heartbreaking to think of the good
men who would be alive to-day if those facts
had been revealed in time. For months
tip to May, 1915, the men in the field were
cursing the lack of shells, which was
no more than Kitchener’s lack of ability to
understand that they were needed. But it
did not suit the Government to have the
scandal ventilated, and so the official lie was
circulated for home consumption that all
was well; and the nation’s troops continued
to be blown to pieces in Flanders. It was
not till the battle of Festubert that two or
three influential papers did what they should
have done long before —defied the censor-
ship and told the truth. As one result the
shells were presently delivered, and the
supply was never short again. As another.
Kitchener was made a Knight of the Gar-
ter (the Order that has “no d—d merit
about it”), and was superseded by General
Robertson. From then onwards until his
death he filled the comparatively minor posi-
tion which would have been his months
before had a divided press not allowed itself
to be gagged. The disingenuous excuse
for the muzzling which they so long put up
with was that criticism of the nation’s
leaders weakened the British war effort.
Under the spell of this hideous lie little
Kitcheners, shoddy imitations of the con-
queror of the Soudan, sprang up all over the
Empire. "Mediocre reasoning”; “stolid
approach to obvious conclusions” ; weakness
ineffectively concealed by violent words;
contemptuous colleagues and even juniors—
all these manifestations were to be seen in
every Government department, on troop-
ships, in base camps, and even in the field.
At a time when the Empire needed its most
efficient men the system gave it a class of
man whose chief asset was a gift for getting
on well with his immediate superior.
Philip Gibbs, the war correspondent, pil-
lories the type in his recent book, and indi-
cates the class-spirit (the desire to deal
leniently with "dear old So-and-So”), which
perpetuated the calamity. Ten thousand
"dear old So-and-So’s” muddled along in
camps, or profiteered in controllers’ jobs, or
piled up needless expenses at supply depots,
and emerged with K.B.E.’s, 0.8.E.’s and so
forth, primarily because of the censorship
laws, secondly because of the lack of union
among the newspapers in the face of what
they knew to be a national peril. The cor-
responding position was bad enough in Aus-
tralia. But here the newspapers did at any
rate make something like a combined stand
when it was sought to push the outrageous
business a bit father; and the services of
W. A. Holman in that connection are one
of the things that must always be remem-
bered to his credit.
“H.H.”: In the addresses to Archbishop
Mannix on his return was included the
usual parallel between Ireland held by the
THE ROMANCE OF POLITICS.
“Here for a Good Old Loaf beneath the Bough,
With Whisky Flask, some Turf Reviews and THOU!"
—Omar Khayyam, Parliamentary version.
British and Belgium invaded by the Ger-
mans ; also between Mannix of Ireland and
Mekcier of Belgium. In justice to J. Bull,
however objectionable he may be, some differ-
ences should be noted. The Prussian invaded
a country which was never his and the inde-
pendence of which he had acknowledged and
solemnly guaranteed. J. Bull is in a coun-
try which he has owned longer than any of
his other possessions, and he never swore to
preserve its independence. Ireland has over
KM! members in J. Bull’s Parliament. The
Prussian gave Belgium no representation at
Berlin. J. Bull, within the last few years
before the war, when he was trying to
make complete reconciliation, lent Ireland
£100,000,000 at the lowest interest to buy
out its landlords, and he compulsorily cut
down Irish rents. The Prussian lent Bel-
gium nothing, but plundered it of money,
art treasures, forced labor and even desirable
girls. If he cut down anything it was the
forests. Mebciek carried on his campaign
on the battlefield of his own country, where
his life was in constant danger. Mannix,
12,000 miles away from his own country,
addressing his supporters in the most public
places, seems out of the worst danger zone.
In fact, the difference between the British
oppressor as represented in Australia and
the Prussian oppressor in Belgium is that
Mannix seems almost to own his oppressor,
and a Ministry composed almost wholly of
men of the Mannix race and faith rules the
oppressor—in the Ma State, anyhow—and
doubles his taxes.
♦
“Norman Gilbert”: “Morob” (B. 7/7/'2l)
craves elbow room for the medical stu-
dent, and is right in hinting that the
present clinical teaching is a farce.
In my day, only 12 years ago, the bed-
side classes were uncomfortably crowded, as
Prince Alfred was then the only recognised
hospital for Sydney students. Ten or 12 was
then an average number in a class, and the
personal examination of the patient fell to a
pushing few who by inhibition of decent Reel-
ing forced their way to the front. A few
years afterwards Sydney Hospital became a
Clinical School, and this for a time relieved
the congestion; hut owing to the increase of
students through Government scholarships
the relief was only temporary. “Morob’s”
suggested foundation of more hospitals which
could be used as Clinical Schools is sound ;
but it would be unwise to label them Uni-
versity Hospitals, as no sane patient would
allow himself to he removed thither if he
knew beforehand that he was to be man-
handled by multitudinous students. There are
already three hospitals in Sydney where use-
ful clinical work could be done —St. Vin-
cent’s, Lewisham and North Sydney—and it
should not be impossible to secure the consent
of the governing committees. A fine honorary
staff is already installed in each, and no doubt
these in return for the added status would
undertake the work. The present state of
affairs is grossly unfair to both student and
teacher. The handful of very busy men who
constitute our present clinical staff would be
glad to have their burdens lessened, and the
students would appreciate a little more in-
dividualism in their classes, even at the risk
of being taught by slightly less eminent prac-
titioners. Anyway, something must be done.
r *
As a returned Australian saw it: —
Nortiicliffe, of the Times, asked before he left
America what he thought of prohibition, replied that
he would say when he had seen a prohibition
country. But the state of the country where prohi-
bition is merely the law is worse than that of the
country where the law is enforced—if there could be
such a country. You can’t live in the U.S.A. many
months without finding that it is easy enough to get
spirit. The trouble is you don’t know what sort'of
spirit you are getting. A friend was invited to the
usual illicit “taste” at the home of an acquaintance.
The stuff seemed all right; but in the morning he
felt so shockingly ill he saw a doctor. The doctor
diagnosed it at once. “You’re the fourth already
to-day,” he said. A medical friend of my own pro-
duced a bottle of well-known Scotch. “I paid 15
dollars for it,” he said; “and when this has gone 1
shall have to pay more for another.” For the rich
prohibition doesn’t exist; for the poor it doesn't
exist either, but their substitute for sound beer or
spirit is wood-alcohol or “home brew.” There \va<
a commotion at our hotel one morning, and I ask d
what was the matter. A commercial traveller hurl,
it seemed, just been found dead in his bed. lie had
been one of a party of four who had been emptying
a bottle overnight. Others take to drugs. To what
extent the drugging habit has spread I don’t know
and neither does anybody else; but doctors in gen-
eral practice assured me that they had no doubt
whatever it had spread, and the multiplication and
glorification of drug stores seem to be strong evi-
dence that way. Of course you find doctors who arc
“dry,” and naturally that sort of case doesn’t rush
them, so their personal testimony isn’t worth much.
But the worst feature of all is the furtiveness which
the business has introduced, the willingness of other-
wise law-abiding people to break the law if the law
isn’t looking. The physical damage to the people
is doubtless bad; what you might call the spiritual
damage is far more serious.
But if you would get comparatively few people in
the U.S.A. to vote prohibition, you would get pro
bably less to voce for a return to the conditions of
the old saloon days. They are dead and past recall.
The only conflict now is between prohibition and
Government control ; and I should judge that if a
vote could be got it would be five to one in favor of
control. The latter system came into force a couple
of months ago in British Columbia, Canada, and 1
tested it in a fortnight’s inquiry at Vancouver. There
are no saloons ; the hotel bars are closed, and will re-
main closed. If you want liquor you get a license
and take it to a Government. depot, where you pre-
sent your ticket and have an entry of the goods
issued to you made on it. You may not drink on the
premises; and if you are caught drinking or drunk
on the streets or in public places, it is a fine of a
hundred dollars or so no five bob about it theie. T 1 ■
only question now is w'hether the plan should he
liberalised : there is a large body of what seems to lie
the best opinion in favor of permitting the owner
of liquor (got through the depbt, not the hotel) to
consume it with his meals in public restaurants.
“Country Medico” lectures young lovers:--
The attitude taken by many writers, professional
and amateur, regarding syphilis and gonorrhoea is
that the infection of a male or a female by either
disease will in time be the cause of still-born, mis-
shapen or blind babies, and very often broken homes.
I don’t deny this, because in a number of cases it
is true; but what I wish to stress is that while
notoriety is given to venereal disease as a home-
breaker a more potent enemy to a home is almost
neglected in the form of consumption. Both diseases
are notifiable, but one ean be had in- private, while
the other almost invariably betrays its presence by
the cough. I have seen it advocated that every man
should submit to a thorough examination to lie sure
of the absence of venereal disease before the marriage
ceremony is performed. This' is applicable to a
certain extent to women; but what should be-re-
quired in their case is an examination of the
chest to detect the presence or absence of lung
trouble before the ceremony is performed. Every
medical man knows the danger of pulmonary tuber-
culosis in pregnancy. The average city girl who
gets married lias spent a good deal of time indoors,
and if there is the slightest sign of lung trouble
pregnancy will bring the smoulder to a blaze with
dire results. The wife will keep well and feel
well until the baby is born, and then, strange to
say, the lung disease usually gets rapidly worse;
and the husband finds himself with a sick wife, who
the doctors say should be in a sanatorium, a new
baby, a new home and now no housekeeper. There
still exists in medical books an old adage regarding
pregnancy and phthisis that a woman with phthisis
can bear one baby fairly well, a second with diffi-
culty and a third never. Suppose the wife remains
for six months in a sanatorium and returns home
with the disease arrested. (Doctors do not now make
extravagant claims to c-ure it, but content them-
selves with staying its progress.) If pregnancy
000111-3 again the wife’s chance of recovery from her
trouble is very small. How many homes are left
stranded while mothers of families try to patch their
lungs in a sanatorium, and how many homes are
wrecked when the disease takes its toll of a young
life nobody knows or even suspects. All this can
to a great extent can —and should be prevented. It
should be made compulsory for a woman to prove
herself free from lung trouble before marriage, as
a man should have to prove bis freedom from ven-
ereal disease. Men engaged to women with a bad
chest history should be allowed to break the engage-
ment if they want to and should not be liable for
damages. If there is any suspicion of chest trouble
marriage with the girl is only courting disaster.
It is no use a man thinking his case will be different,
because it won’t, and he will have his life wrecked
as a proof. His wife’s health will always be in
danger, his children will be born with a predis-
position to the disease, while after a few years of
married life all he will have of his wife will be
her memory.


OnotoPen
Fills Itself in a Flash
Filling the Onoto is as easy as dropping a letter in the pillar
box, and takes about as long. The self-filling mechanism is
part of the pen, and so cannot be lost, like the fragile glass
squirts used with old-fashioned fountain pens.
The Onoto is the simplest pen to use, it cannot leak or
“sweat” ink in your pocket, and is always ready to write.
There is no other satisfactoy self-filling pen like the Onoto, so be
sure to g t an Onoto and not an old-fashioned squirt-fil ed pen.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London. E.C. 1.
Managing Agents:
KORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST
Sydney a nd Melbourne.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens
dfd
T'O
“Buy a Bundle
PLYWOOD.
There is only one “NATIONAL”
Plywood. There are many varieties,
but the quality of “NATIONAL”
3-Ply is beyoqd comparison.
Made of Queensland Timbers —Hoop-
Pine, Maple and Silky Oak. Sanded
and Unsanded. All sizes, the principal
size being 6ft. x 3ft. x 3/10in. There is
nothing better either imported or locally
made. Buy the best. Builders and Furniture
Manufacturers are guaranteed every satisfaction by using
“NATIONAL” Plywoods. Sold by all leading houses. In-
sist on “NATIONAL” brand and see the trade-mark is on
every sheet —it is our guarantee.
The National Plywood Co.,
Corinda, Brisbane,
Queensland.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
It was stated last week that the Sinn
Fein leaders expect the negotiations on the
Irish question to end in an equitable settle-
ment “by the Spring.” The inevitable bar-
jaining process may take longer than five
>r six months. Imt it looks as though the
end is now within measurable distance.
De Valera has been asked to take what
O’Connell, Parnell or .the Redmonds would
have given their eyes for —fiscal autonomy,
with a few reservations which are neither
here nor there. (An Anglo-Irish tariff war
would be bad business for either country.)
As a matter of national sentiment he is now
after defence autonomy. Given that, even
in a delimited form, he must drop his Maxi-
malist demands or lose most of his Irish sup-
port, and practically his Dominion s.vm-
lathisers. (If he gets a republic the Irish-
man in Australia will be an alien, of course.)
Sentiment is an enormous factor, more especi-
ally in Irish affairs: hut even Irishmen are
not going to commit industrial suicide for
it. Ireland, outside the British Empire,
would be compelled to either (1) support,
with no coal or iron, a fleet of imperial
proportions, or (2) resign itself to being,
not like Belgium, the cockpit of Europe, but
the storm-centre of the navies of the world.
By accepting the thing that Irish leaders
have been clamoring for during the past 100
years, Erin will get dirt cheap, that security
from invasion which no treaties or guaran-
tees have ever brought to a small nation
or ever will. It is real freedom versus the
lim shadow of the article.
Lawson and Peacock expect to win at least
34 of the 65 Vic. Assembly seats on
Vugust 30. They count on turning out Lind
(East Gippsland), Alison (Borung), Down-
ward (Mornington), and Bourchier (Goul-
bourn), all Cockies, but are not so sure about
Gleneig, Maryborough and Lowan, which
they lost in October, the first two to Labor,
the last to Cocky.
The Federal Cockies are so elated over the
party success at Maranoa that they are talk-
ing of contesting every Queensland constitu-
ency, bar Brisbane and Oxley, at the next
elections. They greatly fancy their chances
of unseating Groom at Toowoomba, and are
not pessimistic about Kennedy, which is now
Labor’s only seat in the big northern State.
Dr. Earle Page and a couple of others have
already started a preliminary offensive, and
it is possible that Mackay and Corser,
Nationalist members for Lilley and Wide
Bay, will appear under the Hayseed ensign
if the campaign becomes threatening. This
new activity, which will go to further
lengths in the Ma State as the months roll
on, isn’t making the Government feel happy.
The sporting shot which the Opposition
took at the S. Aus. Government over the
Address-in-Repiy brought the four Farmers
members into the limelight. The exact form
of the trouble was an amendment, moved by
Denny, that “this House is dissatisfied with
the paragraph of the Governor’s speech relat-
ing to the discontinuance of the wheat-mar-
keting scheme.” This brought the Cockies
against the BarwelJ Ministry, which, on
other points, they might very likely support-
On the other hand, Peter Reidy, the only
real Independent in the Assembly, talked
in favor of continuing the pool, and yet not
against the Government which dropped it.
Denny inquired: “Are you supporting my
amendment or not?” Reidy replied candidly:
“I am not. I believe the farmers want a
pool, and I am not voting against it. I am
voting against you. I don’t think your
motion will secure a pool, and if it did I
have serious doubts whether the country
would take a pool with you in charge of it.”
So Reidy voted in Barwell’s support. Denny’s
amendment was lost by 22 to 17.
Following on the recommendation of the
Labor Conference in Melbourne to establish
Labor dailies in all the capitals, and to raise
£360,000 for the purpose, the A.W.CJ. has
instructed its officers to collect a poll-tax of
10s. from its members. It has also in-
structed its general secretary, Ted Grayndler,
to give the rest of the year to Labor-daily
organising work; and Bob Ross will help
AT THE DOOR.
Everybody is advocating economy but nobody .seems to be [?] it.
THE THREE OF THEM: “After your!"
him in “publicity” and propaganda. The
idea is to merge all existing Labor papers
into one eo.—Labor Papers, Ltd. —with a
central bureau “in the interests of efficiency
and economy.” The idea of a central bureau
or boss is certainly wise. Without it nothing
is surer than that within two years six Labor
papers would be speaking with six different
voices, just as at present the two “official”
Labor weeklies in Sydney are throwing their
inkpots at one another because one thought
West Sydney offered a chance to get Fisher
back into Labor politics and the other seemed
to want a clear run for Lambert. But
whether the setting up of a central bureau
or boss or Lenin means autocracy or democ-
racy is another matter.
The Westralian system of State education
is modelled on that of N. S. Wales, and the
inevitable Royal Commission, headed by Peter
Board, who has been Director of Education
in the Ma State for 16 years, has expressed
high approval of it. Which was to be
expected. The system is so magnificent, the
Commission declares, that a lot more money
ought to be spent on it. That also was
expected. It is a way that Royal Commis-
sions have. Incidentally, the Commission
remarks pleasantly that there are 1000 pupils
in the trade classes at the Government tech-
nical schools and 2000 in the shorthand de-
partment. In effect, the system so profusely
lauded is turning out a plethora of animated
gramophones and an imposing deficiency of
skilled workers. Some people are beginning
to think that the Royal Commission industry,
as well as shorthand, is being overdone.
Speaking in defence of his policy of a
million new (loan) farmers on a million
farms, and in refutation of his critics, N.S.W.
ex-Minister Carruthers has observed: —
Mr. Loughlin... .says the cost will run into two
billion pounds, or £2OOO per man. 1 reply that in
1895 to 1899, when 1 was Minister for Lands in
this State, SI 55 settlers were placed on new residen-
tial holdings covering 6,581,000 acres, and the net
cost did not exceed £25 per man to the State. The
land was Crown land and cost nothing....
Lands Ministers are always doing that sort
of thing, but there is something lacking
in the adhesive quality of the settlers. Ruin-
ous distances to the only available port, lack
of railways to other harbors and lack of
prosperous little manufacturing towns to
supply handy markets are some of the rea-
sons. For years after Carruthers’s day the
most furiou's “settling” of farmers didn’t
counteract the leakage, and an actual decline
set in. Again, between 1916 and 1919
1,700,900 acres of N.S.W. settlement took
up its bed and walked. Loan policies can’t
stem a rot like that.
The two Houses of S.A. Parliament have
had one of their rare joint sittings. When
Senator Guthrie died last year, E. C. Vardon
was appointed temporarily to the seat, and
now the new Parliament had to make the
position regular. There wa.s no actual op-
position, as when the late Joseph Vardon
(father of the present member) was put up
against, and beaten by, J. V. O’Loghlin, 14
years ago. But Gunn urged that the
Liberals in power might very well have taken
the man next on the last poll for the Senate,
who was Grealey, a Labor man—an absurd
suggestion, party politics being what they
are.
West Sydney has been a solid Labor con-
stituency ever since it was a Federal con-
stituency of any sort, and when the party
machine chose the candidate the election was
over, barring the drinks. But though elec-
tion may be easy the path of selection is
rocky. It seemed a sure thing for Lord
Mayor Lambert, but when 55 selectors got
together to select, his majority was only five
—3O to 25. About a dozen left immedi-
ately with a shout of victory, and then arose
the usual stench. Someone said there were
only 48 lawful voters in the room, and that
the impostors had left shouting to avoid hav-
ing their credentials overhauled. The mat-
ter wasn’t gone into. It was nipped in the
bud by the Lord Mayor’s refusal of that sort
of nomination. So there is to be a ballot,
presumably with the usual aspersions. There
are so many of these that it might be well to
add to the six classes of persons disqualified
for Federal membership a seventh: “Any
person selected in advance by any selection
committee of any darned sort whatsoever.”
A suspicion that the Progressive party
was sliding into the hands of city lawyers
and secretaries clouded the minds of country
delegates to the N. S. Wales Farmers and
Settlers’ Conference. So when one of the
secretarial gentlemen arose and suggested
that three Progressive M’s.L.A. should be
added to the controlling council, on which
city interests are already over-represented,
such a clamor arose from the efforts of sun-
browned soil-ticklers to say “No” in the
loudest possible voice at the same time that
the secretarial gentleman looked quite startled.
Therein the delegates showed sound judg-
ment, and so also in shutting the gate against
the further admission of battered old hacks
and intriguers from other parties. There
are too many cattle of those brands in the
paddock already.
The N. S. Wales system of proportional
representation has some unexpected results.
For one thing it does away with by-elections:
vacancies are filled by the nomination of
somebody representing the same party in-
terest as the man who has stepped or slipped
out. Hitherto, when a member has become
bankrupt, or something has happened to him
which has driven him to resign, he has
gone to his constituency to be whitewashed.
That little opening is not now available. If
it were Ashford, late Minister for Lands,
would certainly resign and ask his cpn-
stituents whether they still want him as
their member. The Nationalists have
accepted his resignation as a member of
their party, so if he resigned it doesn’t look
as though he would get their re-nomination.
An explanation of the bad roads of N. S.
Wales is the want of enough people to make
them better. Outside the Sydney area there
are about 100,000 miles of alleged highway
(there were 97,297 in 1918), and 1,189,429
inhabitants to do the paying—about 12 to
the mile, and the 12 include the wife and
the baby, who isn’t much good with a pick-
axe. Outside the Big City and the country
municipalities there are about 92.000 miles
of sort-of-road and 664,502 people to be
responsible—say, seven to the mile, includ-
ing the old woman and the twins. Where
a country is dotted with small industrial
towns they contribute to the upkeep bill.
For want of them the history of a better-
class artery of commerce is that it is made,
is opened by the local member and a Minister,
and then is left pretty much to itself and
becomes a sort of tradition.
Ryan did something that even the thorough
German Socialistic party could not do, and
he did it off liis own bat. The German
socialists appointed a committee which sat
for years to seek out a basis of agreement
between the land-owning peasant and the
socialist. The committee never found it.
Ryan, in Queensland, propagated the theory
that the squatter and the middleman were
the small farmer’s enemies, and in 1915 he
won the small men’s votes. Thus he suc-
ceeded in doing what the German socialistic
congress could not accomplish in years. Of
course the squatter does not want the small
man to oust him, and the middleman wants
all he call get out of the farmer, or the squat-
ter, for that matter. So when Ryan told
the small farmer that he was up against
these two dangers —squatter and middleman
—he told the truth. But like a good general he
did not also explain that there was another
crowd which was worse than either of them,
viz., the Ryan dynasty, which has trebled
taxation since the squatter days and doubled
railway freights and fares. Even when lie
got down to the Federal Reps. Ryan did not
despair of still pulling the C.P. legs, and on
the whole he was not unsuccessful.
THE MONEY’S WORTH IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gentlemen, the King!” said Lord Viayor Lambert
at the civic reception to Dr. Mannix at Sydney Town
Hall. . ,
The Lord Mayor has asked Denison Miller, of the
Commonwealth Bank, to supervise the issue in London
o 1 the Cit.v Council's £2,000,000 loan.
Henry the Fourth was a Protestant king who reigned
in old Navarre.
Pond of the girls but pious withal, as Protestant
Renrys are.
On strictly Lutheran lines he ruled until there came
a chance
To leave his bleak and impoverished realm for the
prosperous throne of France.
The prize was his, the monarch was told, if he
turned his religion down,
For by French law no Protestant head could wear a
Gallic crown.
Did Henry hesitate l Not a bill He laughed and
said (alas!)
“I’ve been to Paris, and that’s enough. Paris is
worth a mass.”
William tile First was a truculent king who reigned
in Sydney town.
As tieri e a party as ever wore the mayoral chain
and gown.
Denouncing Britain’s Imperial schemes was Bill’s
especial bent
And horrible were the remarks he made about it-
Guvver-ment.
But things are rotten in Pyrmont, and in Woolloo-
mooloo they’re worse,
And the tyrant and the oppressor Bull keeps the key
ot the purse,
So Lambert suffers a change of heart and shouts with
the louder host.
The end will justify the means. Two millions are
worth a toast.
x.s.w.
TUART.
QUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The appeal that the question of the wheat pool
should be the only one before the electors on this
occasion is simply political guff.”— Prendergast.
' This “giving ’em guff” is a rule of the game,
Among men who in Parliament gather,
To further their party’s particular aim,
And fog the proceedings with blather.
Be he Liberal, Labor or Farmer who spouts,
With his eye on the end of the session,
He will argue as one of the “ins” or the “outs,”
For political guff’s his profession.
But rarely this fact from a player is heard
Concerning the game he is playing:
He shows his discretion, and mum is the word:
The truth he refrains from betraying.
Rude candor on this point is over the odds:
It amounts to a heinous transgression.
He deserves to be spanked on the lap of the gods
Who is false to his Party profession.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


“NOW, I WONDER WHETHER THIS DURNED THING AIN’T A BIT PREMATOOR?”


The Leading Power Transmitter Since 1858.
§gr%
%
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.
* Pioneer Tanners and Belting Makers,
117 York Street, Sydney.
INTERSTATE STOCKISTS:—
Aictoria: J. & R. r Madder, Melbourne.
a ! „ n McK ell, Port Adelaide.
Horace Summers, Perth.
Queensland: Hoey, Fry & Co., Brisbane.
Townsville: Burns, Philp & Co.
Tasmania: Chas. Davis, Ltd., Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon. Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of e very description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register. London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.SAV.
Branch Works in course of erection at W T est Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
-Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Net Policv- to Re- and Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1909.. 15,768 7,571 164 p.c.= 7,571 626 96,764
1910.. 19.355 7,890*174..,. 7,890$ 3,574 100,338
1911.. 989 8,491 16 „ „ 8,491 12,007 112,345
1912.. 22.251 9,294* 15 „ „ 9.294$ 3,062 116,007
1913.. 284 10,359* 16$ „ .. 10,359 5,666 121,573
1914.. 25.984 11,840 17 „ ~ 11,840 2,304 123,877
New capital got in .. £54,889 ( 749
Premiums on new shares 983 ) ’
1915.. 32.045 13,949 17 p.c. = 13,949 4,148 183,897
New capital .. •• £l2 183,909
1916- 13.955 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 189,510
1917- 14,812 10 „ „ 12,500 181,816
New capital .. .. £99 181,915
1915.. 14,593 12* p.c. = 15,652 9,232 191,147
1919- 15,243 12$ 15,625 6,455 J 97.602
New capital . . . . £25,000 222,002
1920- 16,998 12$ p.c.= 18,750 6,721 229,323
New capital .. .. £77,983 307,300
Premiums on new shares 27,408 334,714
1920-50,887 10,413 10 p.c.= 30,287 4,187 338,901
The div. rate drops back to 10 p.c.; never-
theless the return to shareholders on their
paid capital of 12 months ago is 15 p.c.,
reserves having been tapped for £75,000 after
the 1020 balance to add another ss. to the
1100,000 £1 shares then paid to 10s. That
took paid capital from £150,000 to £225,000.
At the same time 100,000 shares to be ptiid
to 15s. were offered holders at a premium
of ss. each, so the 10 p.c. on the new money
paid iu gives a return of 7% p.c. A further
100,000 shares were made available for the
directors to use as bait to attract new busi-
ness, and they hoped to get as much as 10s.
per share premium on that lot. One way
and another, during the year the Mercantile
Mutual’s funds have been augmented by new
share issues to the extent of £105,391 —
£77,983 of new capital and £27,408 of pre-
miums thereon. These additions have
effected a considerable improvement in the
position of the co. from the view-point of
policy-holders. Though funds 1-4 times the
size of annual net premiums are generally
deemed desirable, 12 months ago funds re-
presented only 117 p.c. of 1920’s premium
income. Now, though £22,000-odd more was
paid in by policy-holders during the past
year, funds represent 156 p.c. of premium
income.
The Merc, started nearly 44 years ago, but
for many years it was merely a steady
plodder, confining its attention to N. S.
Wales and Queensland, and also casting a
cold eye on anything but better-class risks.
Later, however, the co. moved into all other
States, and row Maoriland is receiving atten-
tion. Meantime the management decided that
the smaller profits to be won from business
less select than that to which it had formerly
confined its attentions was also worth going
after, and only two years ago -the Articles-
were amended to permit of marine under-
writing. though premium income was
not quite doubled during the 10 years
1900-10, the figures have trebled during the
past 11 years. The proportion of income
swallowed by exes, is much the same as it
was a dozen years ago, but the loss rate is
not quite so mild. Further details over
many years are appended:.—
Loss Expense
Premiums, Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
3895. . £34,333 £33,376 £34,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.e
1960.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
3905.. 50,534 32,051 26.961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1914.. 130,673 48.868 62,007 37.3 „ 47.4 „
1915. . 136,858 60,664 61,458 37.0 „ 44.9 „
1916.. 143,320 46,267 68,841 32.3 „ 48.0„
1917.-. 153,702 70,090 71,709 45.6 „ 46.6 „
1918.. 164,791 57.066 76,828 34.6 „ 46.6 „
1919.. 169,031 56.135 83,973 33.2 „ 49.7 „
1920.. 194,681 67,212 94,083 34.6 „ 48.3 „
1921.. 216,774 74,751 105,564 34.5 „ 48.7 „
The co. was extremely fortunate in having
got through the recent anxious period with
losses proportionately no heavier than for the
previous year. Most traders have been bur-
dened with abnormally large stocks of top-
price goods at a time when a general slump
was taking place; exporters have found their
markets very sick; and, altogether, not since
the early panicky war-days did the under-
writers’ nightmare, moral hazard, threaten
to become so active. Notwithstanding that,
the 12 months to June 30 terminated with
an underwriting surplus of £36,459, repre-
senting 3 6.8 p.c. of the year’s net premiums.
Rents and interest added £14,428 (equal to
4.6 n.c. on average funds), making the
£50.887 profit shown in the introductory
table. But this amount cannot be regarded
as profit wholly earned from the business
written during the period; many of the con-
tracts which contributed to income had not
expired at the balance, and the risks thereon
were still current. To provide against pos-
sible further losses, insurance cos. generally
hold in' a reserve for unexpired risks an
amount equal to 40 p.c. of the year’s pre-
mium income. The Merc, departs from the
usual practice, aud instead of providing a
reserve against unexpired risks, throws
that contingent liability upon capital.
After extracting the £75,000 for capital-
bonus, total reserves of 12 months ago
were reduced to a miserable £4323.
The premiums on shares and balance of
the past year’s surplus after paying divs.
have lifted reserves to £34,080; but on the
two-fifths basis £86,700 should be lying in
a reserve for unexpired risks. However, that
is a risk the shareholders take: it matters
little to policy-holders where their protection
lies, so long as it is ample and also in a
form which can be readily translated into
cash. For insurers the Merc, displays
£338,901 of funds, which exceed by £13,000
the aggregate losses of the past five years.
Its assets comprise: War Loan, debentures
and deposits, £166.309; cash, book debts and
agency balances, £50,611. In these two bags
there is altogether £216.920. Liabilities
totted up £36,263; so at June 30 there was
£lBO,OOO of more or less rapidly realisable
assets in excess of the co.’s known commit-
ments. In addition the co. had £25,207 out
on mortgage and £164,600 sunk in premises,
the latter mostly the Sydney pile in which the
Mutual Life of New York at one time
swanked.
* « * *
Winch combe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products salesmen
(the co. started with a deficit of £31,729,
representing goodwill less reserves trans-
ferred from the old co.) :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1911. . £20.214 6 p.c. = £11,212 £9,002 £22.727
1912.. 17,893 6 „ „ 12,345 5,548 17.179
1913.. 17.834 6 „ „ 12,345 6,489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 „ „ 12,345 8,755 2,985
1910.. 13,819 6 „ „ 12,345 1,474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14.403 7,408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 „ „ 14,403 8,197 14.144
1918.. 25.168 7 „ ~ 14,403 10,765 24,909
1919.. 26.216 7 „ „ 14,403 11,813 36,722
1920.. 26,360 7 ~ „ 14.403 11,957 48.679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 46,275
That £12,174 is the poorest profit for at
least 17 years. The table gives Winchcombe
Carson’s record since the public became in-
terested, and for the five years to 1909 the
prospectus which invited outsiders in dis-
closed that uet profits had averaged £20,774
p.a. Some of the troubles of the past year
are visible in this comparison of sales:—
Wool Total
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Turnover.
1909.. 104,676 477,180 9,106
1911.. 101,698 280,456 8,534 £2,002,434
1915.. 72.278 301,158 14,158 1,663,207
1919.. 137,167 270,893 9,731 3,954,670
1920.. 137,258 321,140 16,357 4,556,856
1921.. 61,756 264,921 16,523 2,342,496
The turnover was practically only one-half
that of the previous term. In almost every
respect it was a difficult period. The agency
cos. no longer had the British Government
acting as fairy godmother to the wool-clip,
and not only did prices slump heavily, but
for a time there was practically no market.
In addition were the troubles which usually
follow a drought. While commissions fell
off, the agency cos. received little, if any,
relief in expense-reduction. Winehcombe-
Carson’s accounts are not very informative,
and the relation of exes, to income is not
visible: one line of the latest P. and L.
account giving the £12,174 shown above is all
the directors have to say about earnings.
However, for the previous five years the co.
had stowed away £51,000-odd of profit, so,
though the 7 p.c. div. for the past year was
not earned by a couple of thousands, share-
holders have been able to live on their fat.
The 7 p.c. of the past six years has been
very moderate considering the nature of the
business and the reserves which are assisting
capital; and something a bit better can rea-
sonably be hoped for when conditions become
normal again. This shows in another way
how the co.’s position has been strengthened
by undistributed profits:—
1915. 1920 1921
Liabilities .. ..£135,602 £461,352 £290,954
Freeholds .. .. 152,146 160,856 157,719
Advances, etc. .. 157,189 505,048 339,686
Investments and cash 16,144 21,396 27,220
Consignments .. 12,587 1,654
Plant, etc 14,176 35,687 29,182
Advances include accommodation to clients
on account of wool and produce, stock mort-
gages, liens and sundry debtors, and the out-
sider can obtain no idea as to the general
quality of the huge bundle, though profits
are shown “after providing for bad debts.”
Despite late market troubles, the outlook
for such cos. as this has brightened consider-
ably during recent months. Australia is
again showing its extraordinary recuperative
capacity. Not so many weeks ago much was
heard of heavy stock losses in the long
drought, and of the heavy cost of saving
flocks and herds. The other day the N. S.
Wales Statistician issued particulars of
autumn and winter lambings, showing that
at least seven million lambs could be
reckoned on, and that a further three millions
could be expected in the spring. Average
mark.ngs have been the highest since 1913
very encouraging signs for the future of the
industry and of the agency cos. Expenses,
however, are a disturbing factor, but no more
troublesome than people iu other lines of
business have to contend with.
• • X »
The Australian Drug Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :—-
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £4,766 5 p.c. = £3,750 £lOl6 £10,252
1912.. 3,419 5 „ „ 3,750 9,921
1913.. 8,572 10 „ „ 7,500 1072 10,993
1914.. 8,875 10 „ „ 7,500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8,921 10 „ ~ 7,500 1421 13,789
1916.. 9,885 10 „ „ 7,500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 „ „ 7,500 2485 )8,659
Premiums on new stares. . 170 18,829
1918.. 17,084 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ „ 10,000 2010 29,173
1920.. 13,939 10 „ „ 10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ „ 11,250 221 33,333
Profits are smaller than for four years,
though for the past six' months £25,000 of
new capital has been at work. Former hand-
some profits had been made on a rising
market; nowadays prices are drifting back,
and no doubt nothing like the former margin
of profit has been possible. “Stocks are in
good condition,” the directors report, “and
are valued at cost, but where necessary are
reduced to current market price.” The pro-
fits shown for the year depend a good deal
on these stock valuations, and so do profits
for the current year, but probably the most
anxious portion of the period of price-re-
adjustments has been passed. Still, Austra-
lian Drug was got into a good position dur-
ing the years of fat profits: the div. rate
was not lifted beyond 10 p.c., and, though
considerable new capital got in meant more
flowing out in divs., during the five years to
1920 £19,000 or so of surplus profit banked
up. Hence, though the latest accounts show
net earnings barely sufficient to provide the
usual 10 p.c., the co. is well conditioned to
take a knock or two. Australian Drug is
a striking example of a concern which pro-
tected itself by holding on to most of the
abnormal profits won during the war period.
The cos. which have got into trouble recently
have been, in most instances, those which had
distributed the greater portion of their war
earnings, or had reconstructed under the de-
lusion that the abnormal conditions would
continue. This co. took advantage of
the war period only to expand its busi-
ness —particularly on the manufacturing side.
This expansion necessitated getting in the
£25,000 of new capital during the past year,
and as the new shares were issued at par to
shareholders the dividend return is very
sweet. But the additional capital has not
reduced liabilities, as is shown in this com-
parison, which also gives movements over two
five-year periods
Capital.. . .. £75,000 £75,000 £lOO,OOO £125,000
Liabilities .. 44,591 68,855 65,495 58,209
Freeholds and
plant.. .. 8.868 17,919 16,930 16,024
Stock .. .. 116,741 74,580 103,506 124,693
Book debts .. 66.576 71,210 . 73,669
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. .. 8,034 8,647 6,960 8,466
Net assets expanded from £89,052 in 1911
to £98,868 in 1916, and to £164,583 at the
latest balance. The latter five years, how-
ever, have been assisted by £50,000 of new
capital and £l7O of share premiums. But
whereas the earlier period was assisted by
£9816 of surplus profit, the past five have
been helped bv £15.545. Assuming that pre-
sent book values will hold, after payment of
the latest div. the co. showed net liquid
assets equal to 225. 9d. per £1 share, and a
further 2s. 7d. in freehold premises, etc.,
which, no doubt, are worth something more
than the figure at which they stand in the
books.
* * * *
George Farmer, Ltd., ham and bacon
curers. Ballarat (Vic.). The deficit of
£33,938 with which the co. began represented
£27,500 paid for goodwill and £6438 of pre-
liminary exes.:—
, Dividends. N
Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £33,938
1920.. 17,136 4800 10 p.c. = 4565 7 9Qfi - qsq
Adjustment payment to vendors, £4786 ) ’ 6
1621.. 17,228 4800 10 p.e. = 6000 6428 24,525
This business has been established 57 years,
and until two years ago was a private con-
cern. Most of the old interests were then
acquired by a public co., which paid £87,000
cash to the proprietors and allotted them
33,000 fully-paid £1 ordinaries. Independent
valuations assessed tangible assets at £92,500,
and on the strength of past performances
(average annual net profits for the previous
two years were declared at £15,271) goodwill
was valued at £27,500. The new co. offered
the public 60.000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1
each and 27,000 £1 ordinaries, both issues
being underwritten by the Dyason Pty. The
old proprietors thus continued to hold a majo-
rity of the ordinary shares, and two of the
Farmers are still in control of the old busi-
ness. The co. has made a good beginning,
profits having improved nearly £2OOO over
those of the last years of the old concern,
though no additional capital is at work in
the business. So after paying the pref.
divs. and 10 p.c. on ordinaries the eo. has
been able to write off the £643S of prelim-
inary expenses and accumulate nearly £3OOO
more tangible assets to protect the capital
formerly represented by goodwill. Balance-
sheet movements since the issue of the pros-
pectus have been as follows:
Prospectus. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. £5,751 £12,144 £3,922
Premises .. 17,500 17,500 19,090
Plant etc. . . 19,126 16,843 16,475
Stocks . . . . 14,087 38,698 31,516
Book debts . . 29,449 35,322 25,690
Cash, etc. .. 18,089 477 14,269
The co.’s position is very comfortable: at
June 30 there was a surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities of £07,559, which is consider-
ably in excess of the pref. capital, provided, of
course, stocks prove to be worth the figure at
which they are shown in the hooks and that
customers’ accounts are all they should be.
After payment of the latest divs. there were
net tangible assets to represent 12s. 6d. per
£1 ordinary share.
* * * *
Starkey’s, Ltd., brewers of ginger-beef'
and aerated-water, cordial manufacturers,
etc. (Sydney). The eo. began with £B9BB
of its capital represented by goodwill-
June, Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
£B9BB
1914.. £0,623 10 p.c. = £2BOB £3495 8668
1916.. 4,590 Nil 4049 8127
1916.. 3,065 Nil 4219 9281
1917.. 5,080 Nil 3476 7077
1918.. 5,735 5 p.c. = 2250 3405 7657
1919.. 7,780 7$ „ „ 3375 4068 7320
1920.. 11,581 10 „ „ 4501 4027 4867
1921.. 10,677 10 „ „ 4501 3443 2234
Starkey’s had another good year, so £2033
went to reserves after paying away' £4501
in a 10 p.c. div. Now but £2234 of the paid
capital of £45,007 is represented by the in-
tangible goodwill item, compared with £9281
only five years ago. Starkey’s is an old corn
cern which had become famous for its ginger-
pop, but it was passed over to a public co.
eight years ago. About that time working
conditions in the formerly sweated soft-drink
industry altered, and for a time increased
costs bothered the co. In 1916 a change of
management was effected, and since then the
business has been pulled together again very
satisfactorily. The large amounts written off
each year are a feature of the introductory
table. They represent allowances for depre-
ciation and breakages—strayed empties and
broken bottles being big items in the trade.
A few years ago, however, this problem.was
overcome by demanding deposits from the
public on the expensive and fragile contain-
ers, and at June 30 £2763 was held in this
way. In the following comparison of bal-
ance-sheet figures the bottle-deposits held are,
of course, treated as liabilities :
1914. 1920. 1921.
Paul capital .. .. £41,111 £45,007 £45,007
Liabilities (inc. bottle
deposit reserve) . . 3,536 3,829 3,435
Freehold buildings . . 10,656 20,451 20,697
Plant, etc 11,888 8,755 8,285
Stocks 11,930 17,967 16,667
Book debts . . . . 2,781 902 1,096
Cash, etc 1,686 395 4,976
Over the seven years covered by that com-
parison £10,041 more has gone into freehold
premises; liquid assets have expanded £5331;
but the book value of plant, etc., has de-
clined £3603. The tally of assets is now
£11,769 larger than in 1914. Meantime
£3896 of new capital has been called in to
assist the business, and liabilities have been
reduced by £lOl. So the co. had improved
its position by nearly £BOOO, apart from the
new capital got in, during the seven years
to June 30 last.
* * * *
Last week the “Wild Cat” mentioned that
a “partnership” scheme was being considered
by the New Zealand and South British in-
surance cos. Now a circular from head-
quarters reveals that a straight-out amal-
gamation is contemplated. They are already
hand-in-hand in America, and a “complete
partnership,” the directors of the two cos. de-
clare, “would materially further the interests
of both.” They can be easily welded. Says
the circular: —
The history of the two cos., whether regarded from
the point of view of a short or of a longer period,
shows that the underwriting profits of the one have
been just about equal to those of the other. The
only differences are that the New Zealand Insurance
Co. has a larger return from its investments, and has
an uncalled liability on its shares of £500,000
greater than that of the South British Co. These
differences can be adjusted by the South British
making an issue to its shareholders of 500,000 con-
tributing shares of £1 each, and calling up such a
sum, estimated to be about 6s. Bd. per share, as
would bring the one co. on an equality with the
other, both as regards interest-earning capacity and
capital liability.
The advantages of such a partnership are a co-
ordination of direction and management, a pooling
of experience in world-wide fields of operation, a
focussing of financial strength, and generally a
greater security alike to shareholders and clients.
A basis of equal partnership has been agreed to,
and as soon as possible after the close of the South
British financial year on 31st August, definite pro-
posals will be laid before the shareholders of each
co.


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but. little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. [2
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltuin Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical arid acid fumes. Wm, Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.—Advt. 12
*** - *
Water Systems and Irrigation Works. —Pioneer
Wood Pipe is more efficient and economical than
metal pipe. It gives greater flow for its diameter
than any other conduit and the capacity increases
with age, while that of metal, pipe decreases, Write
for our 68-page book. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Otfice ; tel. Cen. 5036. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol, etc.,
plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works plants;
coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants; blast
furnaces ; heating and ventilating plants, etc. Re-
presented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular
Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* -X- *■
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay (East).
—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby A Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (l>etween Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
■*•»*«
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. .Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, micsoscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place . Sydney.—- Advt.
Notwithstanding the depression in Mining, Sales of our
Patent CURVILINEAR CONCENTRATOR
are steadily increasing since its intrinsic merits have become
more widely known.
Orders have been received from the East and Great Britain, and the third shipment to South Africa
(one a repeat) has just been made,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND PATENTEES:
ia
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
MINING, GENERAL AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS.
Last week The Bulletin commented on
the proposals of the directors of Mockbell’s,
Ltd. (Sydney), that the vacancy on the
Board should be filled by the appointment of
C. E. Foxall, and that E. W. Foxall should
be re-elected auditor. Shareholders very
properly declined to agree that father and
son should occupy such positions; so C. E.
Foxall goes on the Board and a new auditor
is to be appointed.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Arbitration Court has
cleared the track for old Wallaroo and
Moonta to get to work again. The co. has
secured exemption for six months from the
operation of awards increasing the basic
wage. Some interesting figures were ten-
dered in support of the application. Pro-
duction costs on the basis of award wages
work out at £97 per ton copper, and as the
market is in the vicinity of £7O, Wallaroo,
if it was at work, would, with normal output,
be making a loss at the rate of approximately
£135,000 p.a. Exemption was granted on
the understanding that the co. will re-
consider the wages position if copper goes
above £77.
The Mt. Morgan hold-up still continues,
though an effort is also being made to secure
exemptions from wages awards like those
granted to Lyell and Wallaroo. There is
not the slightest doubt that Morgan would
lie at work to-day had not outside Bolshie
influences invaded the field. The Morgan
unionists (not forgetting the women and
kiddies) are martyrs to the tyranny of city
union-bosses.
Australian Fertilizers l’ty., Ltd., the half-
million concern floated by Mt. Morgan to
take over Shirley’s and Elliott’s manure busi-
nesses, has almost completed its works and
huge storage-shed at Port Kembla (N.S.W.),
and production will commence at the close of
this month. So far £225,000 of capital has
been sunk in the show, £25,000 more is being
got in, and further capital will be required
to finance operations comfortably. During
the dozen years since the Electrolytic Re-
fining and Smelting Co. began, Morgan has,
with others, established enterprises at the
South Coast port with nearly a million of
capital between them :
Electrolytic R. & S. Co £426,000
Metal Manufactures, Ltd 300,000
Australian Fertilizers . . .. 250,000
£976,000
The Electrolytic’s paid capital is £soo,ooo,
but £120,000 has been raised by debentures,
etc., Australian Fertilizers has been estab-
lished chiefly to assure an existence for Mor-
gan when the big mine fades out. It found
a natural home at Kembla, where phosphate
supplies can be dumped direct from the
Pacific and the Electrolytic’s plant will pro-
vide all power requirements. The huge shed
will store 30,000 tons super., and if necessary
space can be found for 20,000 tons more.
Victor Green, 29 years with Geo. Shirley’s,
is g.-m. of the concern.
* * * *
N. E. Giblin’s report on Ives’ Reward
(W.A.), though of the. damper type, is not
altogether condemnatory. On the Blue lode
the winze crosscut gave 51dwt. for 3ft„
for another 3ft. 16dwt., for 4ft. mullock and
for 40in. 8-idwt. A fair average was there-
fore got. The Middle and Red lodes do
not appear to be of much value, so depend-
ence has to be put mostly on the Main lode,
prospected so far by Nos. 3 and 4 shafts,
from which crosscuts have been shoved out.
In No. 4 21dwt. ore was opened on for 15ft.
at 58ft.; at 101 ft. the crosscut got sft. of
3dwt. stuff, but nothing else. Dense
pyrites showed in the deeper working,
whereas at 58ft. the pyrites carried gold in
big cubes. From No. 3 shaft at 60ft. the
crosscut went in lode matter from 40ft. to
75ft., and gave an average of 10.3dwt. In
a north drive 25ft. averaged an ounce over
55ft. and 171dwt. over 42in. for 20ft. No.
3 shaft is linked up with No. 6, and Giblin’s
advice is to get on to the lode off it, and
prove the mine by driving along the shoot.
His inspection shows that Ives’ Reward has
still a long way to go to get out of the pros-
pecting stage.
■* * * *
Great Boulder having decided not to
acquire Lake View South (W.A.), Associ-
ated Northern, which has been looking for
a new mine for years, recently took an
option over that show. But it, too, has
decided that the cost is prohibitive: the
vendors’ price was stiff, and in addition they
demanded that the purchaser should pay
Federal and State tax incurred in any deal,
estimated to be anything up to £25,000. Also,
there is the possibility that the new shoot
discovered in the South goes into Lake View
ground. The paralysing effect of the taxing
of the sale price of a mine—-regarded as
income by the authorities—has become
very apparent in the West. Except for
calls levied by a few hand-to-mouth shows
controlled in Adelaide and Melbourne, prac-
tically no capital for mining is going into
the State. Repeated appeals have been made
to the State Government to move in the
matter, but it does nothing.
Edna May Battler (W.A.) has decided to
give up. It took directors a long time to
discover that the show’ was not good enough
for a co., yet had a cold expert been called
in at the start they w’ould have had no
room for vain illusions. On the strength of
hints of 30dwt. erushings and early dividends
shareholders were induced to pay a number
of calls; but as soon as their patience w r as
exhausted there was another little job for
the tombstone-maker.
* * * *
Golden Hope South, which had its first
reverse at Hampton Plains, has now' re-
treated from Marvel Loch. A while ago
developments in the leases which the co. held
under option there were reported to be good;
now it is officially stated that prospects do
not justify further expenditure. That nowa-
days seems to be - the natural sequence of
events with Westralian ventures under Adel-
aide control.
Golden Mile Ore Channel Co., which re-
cently bored through values in two places
at the south end of the Kalgoorlie field, is
looking for fresh capital. Efforts are to
be made to get the public in, the main induce-
ment being the declaration that the
rock in which the values were struck
is similar to that out of which all
the gold on the field has b •• got. Practi-
cally all the country for miles adjacent to
the eo.'s ground was pegged months aao, but
beyond several ineffectual attempts at boom-
ing the “new field,” nothing has been done
by the holders. An effort is now being
made to force them to do some development
or get out.
It is fortunate it is midwinter in Mel-
bourne, otherwise H. Charlton Dods’s report
on the S. Aus. Oil Wells Co.’s bore at Mon-
tajup, near Hamilton (Vic.), might have set
the market ablaze. Dods’s affirmations are:
(1) Thick beds of carbonaceous shales
are present, containing the organic matter
necessary for the formation of enor-
mous supplies of oil —“so much for the
origin of the oil,” adds Dods; (2)
the series of strata are favorable for
the concentration of oil—“alternating sands,
clays and shales are known to occur,” says
Dods, “and in the Montajup district a thick
layer of basalt has sealed all below under
a cover undisturbed before”; and (3) petro-
leum actually occurs in a shallow bore, the
occurrence becoming stronger with depth.
Dods built his castle on oil-sands disclosed
“by lucky chance” while a local w’as boring
through the basalt for water. This oil-sand
is said to contain “visible oil in small per-
centage,” and so “the discovery at Montajup
means that payable oil-sands are likely to
be found at relatively shallow depths.”
“The presence of petroleum is now a fact,”
adds Dods, six samples taken to Melbourne
and tested by an analyst having confirmed
his field tests. Y r et there are sceptics still.
Among them are the State diamond-drill
staff, w’ho have been punching holes through
the basalt flows of the central and western
districts ever since alluvial leads were seen
to run beneath that cover. Of course, there
may be oil. Dods’s present bore is dowm
172 ft. He is to pepper 5000 acres, and if
more oil-sand and petrol show up the big
hunt is to begin.
* * * *
“Shareholder”: If the S. Aus. Oils Wells
Co. desires to secure more public money to
test the Montajup ground further, and
especially to test it properly with oil-drilling
(not w'ater-drilling) machinery, it will have
to abandon its present attitude of being
secretive and mysterious. As the finding of
petroleum is an event of surpassing national
importance, the directors w'ere in duty bound
(1) to publish the analyses of the samples;
(2) to send samples to the Mines Depart-
ment for examination; and (3) to publish
Dods’s report in full for the information of
the 2000-odd shareholders w'ho found the
£50,000 the co. has gathered and spent up to
the present. The log of the present borehole
from the surface to 175 ft. should also have
been published. As The Bulletin stated,
there is ’no need to get excited over the
Montajup discovery, nevertheless it is of
great public concern to learn its true value.
* * * *
Another heap of misfortune has been
shifted from the track of the Tasmanian
carbide co., and if luck holds the Gillies-
Diteliburn crowd may yet pull things
through. When London declined to put up
£150,000 to enable carbide-making to be re-
sumed, some big laps on the mainland w’ere
spread to catch the w’orks if they fell in.
They were disappointed, however, the Speck
Government finding the cash to finance
things. It furnishes £30,000, or £lO,OOO
more than the co. asked, but the extra goes
to w'ipe out the Commercial Bank overdraft
of £7OOO, and thus make the Government first
mortgagee. The 10,000-li.p. concession from
the State’s hydro-electric department is
whittled down to 7500h.p., thus freeing
2500b.p. for other purposes. Agreement con-
ditions are now so framed that the Speck
Government gets the whole bag of tricks
under its hand. Gillies’s old hydro-electric
enterprise had a full peck of troubles, and
they didn’t cease when the business w T as re-
duced to carbide-making. Some were due
to optimism, others to a 'vant of vision as to
the cash needed to put through all the big
things Gillies had schemed. But the con-
cern also had wretched luck in some respects.
The commandeering of electrodes by John
Bull, because he wanted them to help in
munition-making, was an early reverse: the
incursion of the Jap as a competitor when
the carbide-making was commenced w r as a
third. Now that the State has cashed up to
such an extent, it is up to the Government
to secure expert supervision to see that the
taxpayers’ aid is applied in the way that
up-to-date skill would demand. The Speck,
with the cheap power available, can assure
the concern a good run if no fresh technical
nigger is in the wood-pile.
* * * *
Magnet (Tas. 1 directors declare that
profitable extraction is not possible with
silver under 3s. and lead below £25 per ton.
Owing to the smelting hold-up, on this occa-
sion no statement of accounts is presented.
During the half-year ended February 3042
tons crudes were produced and gave 318 tons
concentrates. In addition 590 tons of firsts
were won from the ore mined. The total
yield was 63,9250 z. silver and 38.1.08 tons
lead, the recovery grade per ton of crudes
being: Silver, 1740 z.; lead, 101 p.c.. Little
work other than keeping the mine dry has
been done since March, but the driving of
the No. 14 crosscut, which is expected to cut
the lode at 390 ft., is now in hand. No ore-
reserve figures are published, but the quan-
tity is known to be small, due to an inade-
quate development policy in the past. In-
creasing zinc contents and a shortening of
the ore shoot are serious problems for the
future. The mine has been a prolific pro-
ducer, the 142,000 tons of shipping-ore won
having been worth 1] million ; but share-
holders have not benefited correspondingly.
The extraordinary meeting to increase the
capital of the co. has been postponed, owing
to lack of interest of shareholders. Calls are
now the order of the day to meet the monthly
outgo of about £6OO.
* * * •
Great joy is expressed in the Speck at
the cutting of the main lode in the long tun-
nel, at 300 ft., in the Federation, at Heems-
kirk. The lode has not been passed
through, so its width is not yet known ; but
it contains a Sin. seam of pug reported to
be worth 4 p.c. Lin. Engineer J. B. Lewis
declares that this important development
“should add at least 300,000 tons to ore
reserves,” but that estimate seems somewhat
premature: many hundred feet of rising and
driving remain to be done before this ton-
nage can be reasonably added.
* * * *
Brook Head tin, Avoea (Tas.), is once
more offered to the public. Bowes Kelly
and Gordon Lyon tested the ground about
1904 and turned it down. Nevertheless, as
much as £60,000 has since been asked for
the property. And notwithstanding the
groggy tin-market, the present owners are
wanting £50,000. From a mining point of
view, supposing tin values do exist, three
difficulties confront the show: (1) the
shingle overlying the wash; (2) lack of
cheap power; and (3) the dangers of pollut-
ing the South Esk River with tailings.
* * * *
Adelong Estates (N.S.W.), after having
experienced a very lean half-year, has had a
new trouble heaped on it. At the beginning
of this week one of the two dredges decided
on its own account to give up the struggle
with high costs, committed hari-kari at its
mooring and buried itself in the river bed.
* * * *
After all, Vegetable Creek Tin Co. has
not made a start with Webb’s silver-mine,
near Emmaville (N.S.W.). Tenders were
called for fuel for pumping, and some gear
was sent to the mines. But now headquarters
have called a halt. The co., however, still
holds an option over the show, and may do
something later on.
Another arsenic lode has been struck by
a couple of prospectors about four miles
from Emmaville (N.S.W.). The indications
are promising, and the usual rumors are
afloat that it is better than the Ottery lode
near Tent Hill. Anyhow, Cooper and
Nephews, who work the Ottery, are taking
no risks, and have secured an option over
the show.
* * - * *
A Charters Towers co., No. 2 Victory,
succeeded in raising some cash and has been
prospecting the Victory reef for any gold
left by the old co. This reef in the days
of the old Victory was worked from the sur-
face down to 700 ft., and kept the pockets of
its shareholders lined until they struck the
Brilliant, which was good enough to pay
out £177,000 of divs. in two years. This
was one of the richest patches on the field.
The new co. has got the reef at 100 ft., but
so far there is nothing that looks like pay
oi’e. Still, the shoots on this field were often
very patchy, and there’s no telling what a
little driving or sinking may open up. The
co. can perhaps get comfort from the fact
that the first Brilliant shaft went through
2in. of quartz, and it was months after that
they found that a 3oz. reef had been misled
by feet.
* * * *
Mt. Cobalt, 19 miles out from Mt. Elliott
is the one busy mining spot in the Cloncnrrv
district at present. The lode down to 50ft
is carrying very rich ore, which, with a little
handpicking, i s practically shipping-ore.
About 150 tons have already gone to Eng-
land. Most of the ore below 50ft. is mixed
with diorite and schist gangue, necessitating
concentrating, and for this most of the spade*
work has been done. There are to be electric
generators, air compressors and crushers,
and most of the machinery and concentrating
plant are already on the spot. An expensive
item will be the laying of two miles of piping
to bring water from the Mort River. A pro-
mising feature is that, though the ore has
fallen off in value at the 100 ft. level, the lode
has increased in size, averaging between 3ft.
and 4ft. for a couple of hundred feet along
the level. The co. should do well, as the de-
mand for the stuff has probably come to stay,
cobalt alloys replacing some of the special
steels.
* * *
Though adverse opinions have bet- i ex-
pressed regarding the Two Jacks, lvoonoora
(N.Q.), the co. is showing its faith by going
ahead, despite the low market. Powerful
pumping machinery was recent I '' installed,
and it is now possible U yet ~t the lower
levels. The show, as a io l \ is generally
regarded as of low '’e lu\ out there is a
body of good-grade ore to be taken out in the
stopes at 100 ft. level No. 3 workings, and
this will probably be tackled first.
* * if *
Ula Yam (F.M.S.) has its dredge almost
ready, and production should commence
towards the end of next month.


.Satitv* rd«s»y morning l .
Jones : l '
** Its toO w®t to
gyo in to work
Hii* morr»n^.
Sstor’d e»-y 6.j t +arnoor\ .
WV»«.r> Mrs BrcW*r*
/or
on har /ruit-
s^Ud. 9 ® Ex t^.
When Brown g>o<ts
in +o town to roo-a-t
his sifter or*
a* visit
Another
St*ta •
SmiiK- damons+t-jktmgJ
his i da-2x S of democratic.
equality .
SmiW> wViah an office, junior
triad to damonstr-ata.
Kis ida&s of
a^oihlity.
Sft.en jfrom our bfee-k window -
OUR NOBLE SELVES.


jor Lunch^SESJ
J and Di n nenal, I
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENXHD ORCHESTRA
Management
G T Cheeseman
if
t j
jss
<y-\ 'It o r^>lx«
91V >
crrnni
vCK
U-
i ,f ii
i—xit
14 f.
SB
m
CMtenJ
Looks Like
a Guinea Pen.
Acts Like
a Guinea Pen.
The Original British-made Lever
Filler. Made as well as a pen can
be made.
GUARANTEED FOR EVER.
I i/6 and 12/6.
SOLD AT ALL
STATIONERS.
The
CONWAY QTEWART
LEVER W FILLER
PEN.
SOLD AT ALL
JEWEUERS.
lIS
Jt I;
mm
m
pottle*
. , -
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH"
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents. f 4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
T. J. Ryan was 19 when he took his first
’Varsity degree; he was admitted to the
Queensland Bar in 1900, and entered Parlia-
ment in 1909. In 1919 he surrendered the-
Premiership of Queensland to enter Federal
politics. He was nine years in grammar
schools as teacher before being admitted to
the Bar, and he practised as a barrister for
nine years before being elected to Parlia-
ment. (
Hied in Sydney last week George Sar-
gent, the Apostle of Pie. Originally a
baker with premises in Surrey-street, he
conceived the idea of small pies and ouick
returns, and about 30 years ago opened his
first shop in Paddington opposite the Fire
Station. The penny pies instantly became
popular, and in order to be sure of supper
after 11 p.m. it soon became necessary to
“book your table.” The shop, which was
HUGH D. McLNTOSH.
patronised by ail the sports of the district,
was looked after by Mrs. Sargent, while her
husband did the cooking. A feature of the
proceedings in those days was the court-
martial. The sports, generally full of good
cheer, would discover something wrong with
the pies and immediately demand the
presence of George, or “The Colonel,’’ as he
was called. All kinds of appalling charges
would be levelled at his innocent head, his
wife in most cases being a witness for the
prosecution. Many a time “The Colonel”
was sentenced to be “shot at dawn,” but he
survived to increase his business enor-
mously, and eventually become rich. He
was 64 when the call came.
From the Federal gallery :
Blakeley, M.H.R. for Darling (N.S.W.), who has
been mentioned as a future leader of the Labor
party, impresses one as a young man who wouldn’t
lose anything if his remarks were wanned by a little
geniality. He rarely utters anything in which the
sensitive ear cannot detect an undertone of bitterness,
if not of venom. Though easily the most striking
figure of the younger- set, he hasn’t learnt the art of
smiling sweetly to soften the effect of his gibes.
When older members of the Caucus fail to score in
cross-fire, a jolt from Blakeley, carried by a pene-
trating; voice, will go right home and crumple up
some offender on the other side. Joe Cook and other
elderly Nationalists show their respect for Blakeley’s
sniping by running a temperature whenever they are
the targets for his interjections, and if he is answered
back he usually has another withering observation up
his sleeve. It is impossible not to admire his readi-
ness and astuteness, not to mention a mischievous
knowledge of the Standing Orders, but he plays the
party game for more than it is worth. Minor suc-
cesses in mere duels don’t win battles —a fact that a
man of his intelligence and ambition is bound to
learn before he gets much older.
Memory played a trick on the man who
gave Oscar Lines, the new g.ru. of the Bank
of N. S. Wales, the credit (or whatever it
was) of hitting Dick Sleath on the head
with a ruler during the big Broken Hill
strike of nearly 30 years ago. The hand
that did it belonged to one of Line S’s neigh-
bors, E. B. Cotton. Memory is a queer
thing. Of the half-dozen people who re-
membered it was Cotton and wrote to say so,
only one has bis initials right, and no two
agreed as to the bank he managed.
There has been trouble before now over
a barrister appearing in court when his
father was Judge; but a reversal of the
positions would hardly be expected. Paris
Nesbit, K.C., however, lately pressing a
charge in Adelaide Police Court for man-
slaughter against hospital doctors whose
patient had died under an operation, com-
plained that he had been unable to get a
summons granted by either the P.M. or his
own son, and had to go to “an intelligent
layman, who gave it to me as a matter of
course. I shall leave the Attorney-General
to deal with Mr. Sabine and Mr. It. G.
Nesbit,” said the K.C.
Bowden, M.H.R. for Nepean, whose
physique is not what Ryan’s was, reckoned
that bed was his best friend when a heavy
cold captured him, and he is now on the
mend after a battle with the complaint that
finished the other. Dropping into the Reps, to
toast the toes over a radiator, and then
dropping out into the blasts that howl down
the corridors when a high wind is blowing,
is not conducive to good health these wintry
days. The imposing Fed. Parliament House
must have the worst record for deaths and
invalids of any place of the kind in the
Commonwealth.
Murray Smith, the stalwart of the Free-
trade and Constitutional parties of other
days, will celebrate his 90th birthday on
October 29. lie was in his 40th year when
he first entered the Assembly half a century
ago, and he retired from political life nearly
21 years back. He was out of the House
for five Parliaments (1882 till 1894), and
during his absence served for four years
(1882-84) in London as Agent-General.
Tom McCristal, who is standing as a
Sosli candidate for West Sydney, went over
in 1914 with the Ist A.L.H., and was
wounded in both thighs at Lone Pine. After
the evacuation McCristal was mess steward
for the officers at Heliopolis, and if he is as
capable a union president as he was a drink-
dispenser, no wonder he was three times
elected president of the Sydney wharfies.
Tom was a conscriptionist in those days,
though he ’verted on his return to Australia.
_ A few months ago Ernest Heitmann, some-
time M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie, was carried off
the Adelaide express -so desperately ill that
his friends in the Federal Parliament were
informed there was no hope for him. But
Heitmann is the sort that is hard to kill. He
struggled out of the Valley of the Shadow
and took up a selection on the Loddon (V,).
Now he is Nationalist candidate for Eagle-
hawk, the town in which he grew up.
Jenkin Collier, Simon Fraser’s old partner
in railway contracts and squatting specs,
slipped over the border the other day at
Toorak. Coming to Vic. from Wales in ’52
when he was a stripling of 23, he took what
was going and soon blossomed into a railway
builder and general contractor. Then came
the Bananaland squatting ventures. One
project he, Thoipas Mellwraith and Fraser
had in view was that Queensland rail con-
nection with the N.T. on the land-grant
principle which The Bulletin mentioned
in a recent leader; but it didn’t come off.
Three daughters and one son inherit what
he left.
Hugh McKenzie, of Echuca, one of the
straight men in Vic. politics, comes out of
his retirement to oppose John Allan, leader
of the Vic. Cocky party for Rodney. McKen-
zie was in the Murray, Watt and Peacock
Cabinets, and his defeat was one of the
misfortunes of the 1917 election. The over-
turning of Allan would be the sensation of
the present Assembly campaign. The Law-
son party would be prepared to use all its
resources to help McKenzie if he would
accept such support. He may prefer, how-
ever, to have the ring kept clear for the bout
with the slow-going John, who is not over-
fond of the game or the fierce light that is
beating on him.
Gone, at a mellow age, to sell pianos to
the angels, Joseph Woodman, one-time Adel-
aide’s leading dealer in uprights and baby
grands. Arriving at Melbourne from the
Cold Country in his early twenties young
Joseph, nine years after, crossed the border
and opened a music store in Hindley-street.
Trade he moved to Rundle-street
and started importing higli-class instru-
ments. Those were good days, and he and
his handsome wife kept a hospitable house.
Loss by speculation was followed shortly by
Mrs. Woodman’s death, and the old man’s
latter years were spent at the Home for
Incurables.
A FAMILY FAILING.
. ‘Mrs. Lloyd George, wife of the British Prime
Minister, will on 15th inst. unveil a stained window
which Mr. Hughes has provided in the parish church
of his native village in Wales in memory of his
mother.”
Hughes: “You see, dear lady, I got my
angel disposition from mother; but it
was father gave me my face."
Edward Cairns Officer, the artist who
passed out on July 7 at Macedon (Vic.), left
his widow and children a little pile of
£lB,OOO.
Lewis Cohen intends having another shot
at the mayoralty of Adelaide. He has
already held it for the record total of seven
years, but not lately. Generally the suc-
cession is arranged in a friendly way among
the councillors; but the decision rests with
all the ratepayers, and anyone who has ever
served in the council is eligible to compete.
Invercargill puts forward John Stead as
claimant to the long-distance aldermanic
championship in Maoriland. When he was
defeated for the mayoralty recently after his
fourth term he had been 32 years continu-
ously in the council. He hails frae Scot-
land, and most of the populace in the
droughty town wear boots from his factory.
Among the names on the certificates to be
handed out by the N.S.W. Humane Society
on September 12 are those of Alfred Garner
Brennan and Thomas James Daley. Brennan,
whose parents will get the certificate and
medal, was the seven-and-a-half-years-old boy
who was drowned in an old brick-pit at St.
Peters when he plunged in to rescue a little
girl; Daley, at the other end of the age scale,
is a man of 68, who in spite of ill health
saved a child from drowning at Leichhardt.
The gap between this pair is filled with
many bright deeds ; perhaps the best of them
was that of Mrs. R. A. Lindeman, who, see-
ing the capsize of a dinghy in which a child
was playing on the Grafton River, swam
50yds. to the rescue. The thick weeds in
the river were worse than undertow, mak-
ing the place a death-trap; yet she got
through.
A line from Arthur Streeton:—
I was very interested in “S.T.S.’s” par about
“The Gridirons” (B. H/'B/’2l) and I’m wondering
who he is. He refers to No. 10 Hill-road, St. John’s
Wood, London, which is now our home, my wife and
I having lived there for IS years. I wish “S.T.S.”
could see the pleasant old house now'. There’s a
room upstairs, which I use as a dressing-room, with
five different decorative pictures by members of the
Gridirons: two by Leslie, R.A.; one by Hodgson,
R.A.; one by Storey, R.A., and one by Stacy
Marks, R.A. They are all subjects from Shak-
sneare. Alma Tadema, w-hose home was 200 yards
distant, used to impress upon me the importance of
preserving the pictures. Ada Crossley’s house is
almost Within stone-throw' of this old club-house, and
Bertram Mackennal’s place is also near by. Lords’
Cricket Ground is five minutes’ walk, and Piccadilly
Circus is within 20 minutes; yet is full r,f
old gardens, and thrushes and blackbirds wake us
up in the morning.
John Allan, who passed through the last
Wl at ? imbr , iki -,\ near Wiugham
(N.S.W.), on August 11, was one of the
pioneers of the Upper Manning. With his
dad he came to the district in ’5l, and the
old chap and his sous carved out a home
for themselves when big hearts and stout
muscles were needed and there was only a
bridle track between the Manning and
Stroud. John, just gone, made a close study
of the abos., and kept a diary which is brim-
ful of interest.
“Pompey” Elliott, Senator and General
always did speak his mind—and some-
times a more. He made Defence-
Senator Pearce very angry by likening
him to “a bear led by a ring through the
nose,” the imputation being that the
military clique in St. Kilda-road was
behind him all the time. It was the
same on the other side. During the early
stages of the Villers-Bret. action it was
reported to “Pompey” that Tommies
were going to the rear in droves. Where-
upon instructions were issued
to battalion commanders that
British troops going to the rear
were to be shot. Following the
custom the staff sent a copy of
the order to Divvy. In half-an-
hour came back the peremptory
command: “Cancel your mes-
sage beginning ‘British troops’
and ending ‘shot.’” No case
is quoted of the order,being car-
ried out, but “Pompey” claimed
that it stopped the rot'.
S. Officer, who is in the field
for Dundas (Vic.), is a son of
C.M., the grazier who repre-
sented the constituency from
1880 till 1892. It was thought
impossible, in those times for a
Labor man to capture the seat,
but Will Slater, a Digger, did
the trick in 1917, or rather his
friends did it for him, as he
was away at the big disturb-
ance. Slater’s personal popu-
larity is going to make young
Officer’s job a tough one.
William H. Hall, who died at Gisborne
(M.L.) last week, was a son of Edward S.
Hall, editor of Sydney’s first paper, the
Monitor. He went out at 85.
William A. McEvoy, who died at the
Burra (S.A.), the other day, was the dis-
coverer of the Mannahill goldfields in 1885.
In 1903 he was a member of Basedow’s ex-
pedition which explored the extreme north-
western corner of S. Aus. and the south-
western end of the Territory—an area
covering the Musgrave, Mann, Tomkinson,
Everard and Petermann Ranges.
Duffy and Rich, High Court Judges, are
to give Powers a hand as Deputy-President
of the Arbitration Court, but the main
object of their appointment is to enable
three Judges to consider the 44-hours-a-
-week issue. The first case is that of •, the
A.W.U. against the pastoralists, and both
sides appear to be satisfied with the trium-
virate.
“M.D.”: The wealthy Roland J. Pope,
M.D., F.R.C.S., a student of St Andrew’s
College, Sydney, 36 years ago, afterwards of
Edinburgh University,
where he obtained his
degrees, ardent de-
votee of cricket and
travelling companion
of Aussie elevens, man-
aged the final Test
vice Syd Smith, jun„
who is laid up in a
London nursing home.
Smith’s trouble is
acute inflammation of
the middle ear (vul-
garly termed a run-
ning ear), which his
medical advisers, fol-
lowing the prevailing
fashion in medicine,
attribute to pyorrhoea.
Hitherto, aural-sur-
geons have been satis-
fied to blame influ-
enza, scarlet fever
and measles as -the
chief causes of this
affection.
J. LEMMON, Labor
M.L.., Vic., whose
amendment in the
State House caused
the trouble.
,f Major H.”: I struck him first when he
was jackerooing in the Gulf (Q.) many years
ago; next on a troopship, wearing two
stripes; next on the Somme, wearing a star
and crown. Our most recent meeting was
on a cattle-station out on the desert (Q.).
He was the station gardener.
EDWARD OFFICER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though he is dead, by the soft light
And misty dusks of Macedon
Where the blue shadow creeps to-night,
lie still lives on;
And by the inland waters spread
In black lagoons beneath the gums,
Where through their drooping leaves the red
Dark sunset comes;
By the soft moonlight, flooding peace
O’er some old homestead in the West,
When men from all their labors cease
And turn to rest;
And by the sweep of morning’s wings,
Where the long plains reflect the sky—
As long as paint, to canvas clings
He will not die.
N.S.W.
McENSAY.


a
m
Navy Cut
Tobacco
In airligkl tins
W.D. & H.O.WILLS
4*
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
f
d
ďf


The Brogue—an All-Seasons Shoe
The Brogue Shoe is particularly versatile—being
appropriate for wear on so many occasions.
As a golf-shoe, for walking on sandy beaches, ship-
deck or across rough country, it is ideal because of
its stout sole and great pliancy. When fitted with
Phillips’ Rubbers this shoe is practically waterproof.
As illustrated, in Tan Willow Calf, stout double
soles, leather-lined back, extended medium round
last; a smart serviceable shoe 39/6
In Black Box Calf 39/6
Fitted with Phillips’ Rubbers, 9/- extra.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
ďf
PEAPES (a CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREEET, SYDNEY.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil-Well Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-Artesian
Boring Plants.
Having discontinued artesian boring con-
tracting, we are selling our 21 plants.
Bore Casing and Pipe up to lOin. diameter.
Stationary and Portable Boilers and
Engines.
All at sacrifice prices.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This modern and most Elegantlj-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare fa\or-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bat 1
Be Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Protoplasm” : I came a thud on my first
professional visit. It was a midwifery case
in an industrial suburb. Armed with a ton
THE MUMMER'S MISTAKE.
MANAGER: “Well, I can offer you the miner's
part in my new drama, ‘The Coal King's
Daughter.' What salary do you want?"
AC TOR (an optimist): “Oh, twenty pounds
a week."
MANAGER: “Twenty! Say, it's a stage miner
I leant, not a real one."
of theory, no practice worth mentioning, and
the inevitable big black bag, I sallied forth
looking, as I thought, extremely professional.
I was met at the door of the lady’s residence
by a gin-nosed Gamp. Not knowing the ropes
I meekly inquired for Mrs. X. “Yer can’t see
’er,” was the reply; “she’s in bed sick:
waitin’ for the doctor.”
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: A fair amount of war
gratuities payable in respect of dead men has
been placed in a trust fund, of which the
Deputy Commissioner
of Repatriation in each
State is trustee for the
benefit of the child-
ren ; and the money
will not be available
until the youngsters
need it for a start in
life. This action has
been taken where the
children were total
orphans or where the
mother had been di-
vorced or evidence was
to hand that the lady
was not behaving as
a lady should. Unfor-
tunately the gratuity
been handed over
and cash paid in scores
of instances where it
would have been bet-
ter withheld. One of
the worst cases con-
cerned a soldier Who
had not heard from his
wife —she had cleared
out —for six years
before his enlistment.
By another woman,
who had looked after
him well, he had two
children, and she was
“officially” his wife
until the first lady
turned up at military
h.q. and claimed the
allowance. The woman
with the young chil-
dren lost her money ;
and the soldier was
making frantic appeals
from France for better
consideration for her
when a bullet got.
him. Now the grat-
uity has gone the
same way as the sepa-
ration allowance.
* #
“Haga” : Asked in a Maoriland court the
other day how many wives he had, Henare
started to count on his fingers. On reaching
number two, he engaged in some fairly heavy-
thinking, and here the Beak barked : “Surely
you don’t mean to tell me you have more
than two?” “P.v eripes. yes, poss,” said
Henare with a rush, “I cot te tree wife —
him two dead.”
* * • *
“Fadre”: A little group of returned
padres have commenced a new venture of
faith, “The Community of the
Ascension,” the first Anglican re-
ligious Order for men, and have
chosen as their home the ruins of
the old residence of the bishops of
Goulburn (N.S.W.), Old Bishop-
thorpe, about three miles from the
town. Trusting to the future to
roof in the ruins of the building
that was burnt down about seven
years ago, the first members of the
community are camping in the
more or less intact stables and out-
houses. The pioneer is E. C.
Kempe, late Vice-Principal of the
Brotherhood of the
Good Shepherd, Dub-
bo, and later a padre
with the B.E.F. They
propose to work more
or less on the lines of
the famous Commu-
nity of the Resurrec-
tion, Mirfield (Eng.),
and will be available
wherever required in
Australia, probably at
first in parochial “mis-
sions.” They are all
experienced priests—
experienced in the best
field of all. the A.I.F.
—and their work is
not likely to be jeopar-
dised by any senseless
frills of ecclesiastical
asceticism.
“Mujik” has a look at it:—
There were four children, the eldest nine, the
youngest about as many months—all girls. There was
no light except such as drifted through the window
from a street lamp nearby. So candles were fished
from the mission-worker’s hamper and in the
illumination from one the pitiful act was staged.
The baby lay sleeping among some rags upon the
floor on which the mother had given it birth on the
joyous eve of Christmas. She was an Australian of
the third generation this mother, born on a Queens-
land run, big-boned and gaunt, with that odd pinch-
ing of the nostrils and drooping at the corners of
the mouth born of malnutrition—trapped with her
brood by the city, now in a single room. Her
broad, capable-looking hands move nervously up and
down the surface of her skirt as she stands by the
table. Her mournful grey eyes watch the mission
worker with wonder. There are little bits of under-
clothing for the children, a dress or two, a pair of
worn boots, a tin of dripping, a package of oatmeal,
some bread and a pot of jam. Perhaps the lot may
have been worth half-a-sovereign. It was a poor,
trumpery-looking heap, anyway; yet it made three
wistful kids more happy than they had ever been
SPOTTED!
“Haven't I met you somewhere recently ?”
“Quite possible. I sang at a concert in the
Home for the Weak-minded last week."
before. More happy than they will ever be again ? God
knows! What chance are they getting, growing
thus in the foetid air of a Sydney slum, cooped into
four bare walls or furtively standing about in this
narrow street? This one room has been their home
for two years. Before that they had a bedroom and
a. kitchen. But rents have gone up, the father has
longer periods of idleness. Life has become a daily
struggle for a crust. Sometimes there arc two meals
a day. Often, lately, there has been only one. Never
under any circumstances is it a meal in any real
sense. These children never see milk. They never
taste green vegetables. Eggs are never thought of.
Butter is merely a memory. They all sleep where
the carpet would be if there was one. Half-clad,
half-starved, they pass the weeks and months in a
destitution that ruins the body and smothers the
soul.
“Surely there are not many like this, sister?”
I ask as we get outside. “Not many like this?”
she echoes. “Why, there are hundreds worse. Come.”
There are four rooms in the next house that was
a hovel 20 years ago, and four families —17 people
when all are mustered for sleeping, of age ranging
from infancy to 74. There is not a picture, a booir
or a bed on the premises. Perhaps three blankets
might be found. The diet is invariable: bread,
dripping and tea six days a week; corned mutton
on the seventh. Thickened with oatmeal the water
the mutton is boiled in makes bosker soup !
And so the dreadful round of visits goes on. There
is one thing quickly noticeable —there are few boys
and girls over 12 or 14 in this abyss. They have
moved on or down or somewhere to fend for them-
selves. Their teeth have at least been well
sharpened.
* * * *
“S. Guram”: I suppose there are people
in Sydney who are not passionately inter-
ested in either homicide or horse-racing, but
the supposition is unanimously rejected by
the city newsvendors. Murder and the
ponies, to those ingenuous souls, are the
Alpha and Omega of journalism, and the
same persuasion is cheerfully attributed to
the other 899,000 inhabitants of the Big
City, without distinction of age, calling or
sex. When the shadows are lengthening in
Pitt-street and Martin-place “The Weights,”
“The Lars Race” and “ ’Orrible Tragedy at
Surry ’Ills” are the catch-cries most relied
upon by the purveyors of post-meridian prints
to sell their wares. “The Lars Race” is a
special favorite. It is a phrase hurled at
sports, ministers of religion, barmaids, bank
managers, burglars and members of the
W.C.T.U. alike. I was a witness to the
vice-president of the Baptist Conference being
tempted with it by two panting runners the
day Periwinkle won the 13.3 Welter at
Shysters Park. The moral agonv oi the
good man at the suggestion that ‘he could
possibly have anything to do with Periwinkle
or Shysters Park was depicted on his ascetic
countenance, but he- could not trust himself
to speak.
* * *
“Cam” : You meet the spirit that made the
ALT. m unexpected places. Blaggs’s lan-
guage -was the admiration of a whole divi-
sion, and he had general habits to match,
until one day a shell landing very near put
a full stop to a choice bit of his blaspheuiv
Either he connected the shelling with tlie
blasphemy, or his nerve went suddenly, for,
while we lay wondering when Fritz would
get tired, Blaggs, shaking like a leaf, mut-
tered things to himself which sounded more
like prayers than oaths. I met him again
lately, and, surprised at his refusal of a
drink, found that he was a regular attendant
at religious services. “Do you really believe
it all?” I asked, after a little talk. “I
hardly know; to tell you the truth,” he said;
“but I gave my promise that day in France
that I wouldn’t swear, drink or anything else
again, and I’m going to stick to it!”
* * * *
“De Oriel”: The Australian doesn’t waste
words. When we were showing in Ivaniva
(Vic.) a man approached the ticket box.
and said “Good evening.” “Good evening,"
replied the girl. “How much?” he asked.
“Two shillings,” she said. “Good evening"—
from him. “Good evening,” echoed the lass.
And they both went on to the next item in
the day’s programme.
*- * * #
“Wig” : Adelaide has laid down the valu-
able legal principle that Loafing on Mother
is not an offence for which an able-bodied
man can be prosecuted. The police charged
him with having no visible means of support,
and gave him a poor character in general.
The S.M., having heard his admission that
mother maintained him, helped in piling up the
opprobrious terms about his character, but
ruled that the Means are Visible —whether
they ought to be or not.
* * * *
“O.Iv.”: The bare announcement that a
man was arrested in Melbourne the other
day on a charge of fraudulent conspiracy 17
years ago raises the question whether Time
ought not, in many cases, to count as a puri-
fier of crimes against the cash-box. An habi-
tual criminal, certainly, might as well be
charged with one crime as another, but the
fact that a man escaped from -what would
have been justice long ago does not prove
that the same justice has held good for two
decades. Surely there should be a statute
of limitations for alleged criminals against
whom warrants have been issued. Probably
a once-fraudulent conspirator, living for
many years in danger of arrest for an offence
that costs six months’ hard labor, works out
his sentence twice a year regularly in con-
trition and regret, whilst the unscrupulous
millionaire, never having been in danger,
becomes a safer and more hardened sinner as
he grows older. The interests of the com-
munity, always identical with the interests
of justice, demand that unexecuted police-
warrants should be reviewed by the Attorney-
ONE OF THE DISADVANTAGES OF
HIS JOB.
THE RRV. D. BINGGGGS (to mysterious
lady): “Yen interest me very much.
Tell me the story of your life."
MYSTERIOUS LADY: “Oh, I couldn't —to [?]
clerggman."
Genera] every five years, or ofteuer. It is
all right for the mills of the gods to grind
slowly but grind exceeding small. The
police, however, are not gods, and it is not
right for them to be empowered to nab a
possibly admirable citizen on a charge of
having helped to defraud a fellow-Christian
years and years ago.
(Continued on page 18.)
IF THE FAIRIES WENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Fairies are to be banished.” —Soviet Educational
Order.
The Seven Swans have halted by the snow-white
steppes: 1 can hear them crying, crying on the
sleet-blind air.
The leprechaun has mounted on the phooka’s back ;
the corrigaun is weeping through her long gold
hair:
“Oh, you little Russian children, must we wave a
farewell hand,
Friendly fairies ol' all countries, to the big white
land?”
Puss-in-Boots is chatting to Le Souris Gris; they
forget that they are cat and mouse, so sad it
seems
They may not rest in Russia, they can never conquer
Russia —fairies that have wandered through a
whole world’s dreams!
The Genii play at snow ball as they wait the Lamp’s
command—
They could weave a spell of sunshine for this big,
cold land!
Green-jerkined Robin Hood, who died on Christmas
eve, turns where his English grave faces to the
sun,
In hide and seek of shadow of the dancing leaves,
down the echoes of his horn pleasant memories
run;
But he hears across his hunting dream a note ol' dis-
content —■
The earth would be the duller if the fairies went!
There are Little Men from Scotland and sheogues
from the rathe,
And there are gum-tree goblins from the still bush
path,
Trolls from old-time Germany, and witches from the
North,
And they hold a moment’s parley as they journey
forth!
“Yellow-headed little moujiks, early grey,
Will you blow a kiss towards us ere we pass away ?”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
~ :
»
m
*' • <s ,
'
-v
w. >
»■ !
.4.4
" V‘\*'
*8 V
»<r r>
v *?/<**££**
*5
V9S
*»«>*
.-
rac
8
whm
'
W*
'4.1
SI
,■■ : .
-
i *'. 04 ■
mm
V,;.
**;
SSSS
* z
w.
m
m
». '■
, <
v.
» -»
m
</ P
s£*
r* ,
%
■s
% .
m
m
m
pm
*§
m
m
; 4
*
!*<*
J-H.CutsNiWCHAn-
**
48t>3
£
No wine experts are readier than those of
our valiant Ally France to admit that Aus-
tralia produces wines equal to the finest
French vintages; in fact experience has
proved that the Australian soil—particularly
that of the famous Great Western vineyard
—is eminently suited for the growth of high-
class wines, and this, with the glorious Australian climate,
combines to produce a grape that is second to none in the
world for its quality and lusciousness.
The immense cellars at Great Western are the largest and
best-equipped in the Commonwealth, whilst the laboratories
are complete with the most modern appliances connected
with the industry.
"Great Western" Sparkling Wines have been
Awarded Medals and Certificates
throughout Australia and at Phila-
delphia, Paris, Bordeaux, Amsterdam,
and other Exhibitions of the World.
"Great Western” Sparkling Wines are
Obtainable at All Hotels and
Licensed Grocers•
Great Western Sparkling Hock.
This Wine is somewhat of the same character as Burgundy, but its
flavor is more piquant and delicate, with just a suggestion of acidulous
freshness, associated with marked softness and limpidity.
Sparkling Burgundy—Red Label.
This is a rich robust wine, possessing fulness, softness, homogeneity
and verve; makes an excellent dinner wine, and is an undoubted aid
in the treatment of those cases of physical weakness resulting
from malnutrition.
Great Western Champagne, Extra Dry,
“Special Reserve
A very fine and most excellent vintage with all the qualities of
roundness, lightness, body, vinosit.v and delicacy which are so
• essential in any good champagne. It has carried off with unfailing
regularity the chief awards at the principal Commonwealth Shows.
Distributing Agents:
SEPPELT & SONS LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide. Brisbane, Fremantle.
PERTH: Phil. Coyle.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Brown & Co.
TASMANIA: Irvine & McEachern.


amonds, £l3/10/-
No. 144. All dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
No. 131—
Exquisite design,
Diamond set,
£l7/10/-
No. 157.—Single Diamond. £7'lo/
Stewart Dawson’s Display of
Modern Diamond Jewellery.
These illustrations represent New and
Exclusive Designs selected from our varied
stock of artistic Diamond Gifts.
We cordially invite you to inspect at either of our Sydney
establishments.
Stewart Dawsok & (ogw)Ltd.
r%jjo Sydney Ssiablismenta :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER -±l2 GEORGE ST..
No. 151.—3 Diamonds, £l7/10/-
Xo. 140.—Aqua-
marine and
Pearls 40/- .
-/OJ/9T3F
‘spuoaißia
lIV—'OK
No. 156.—Single Diamond. £9/10/-
“Kelby”: The Niagara brought back sev-
eral Sydney dental graduates who have been
doing the post-graduate course at Phila-
delphia Uni. (U S.A.). The standard of
Sydney's dental school may be gauged 'by
the fact that of the first eight places in the
U.S.A. course this year six were occupied
by the Aussie students. A Sydney man
topped the list, only two short of the maxi-
mum marks. Here it is an unheard-of thing
for anyone to get even SO per cent. In view
of the controversy on our abnormally high
standard of examinations and the consequent
decadence of University sport and life, these
facts seem to indicate that the Sydney autho-
rities are somewhat overdoing it.
‘"Bav”: Not all the old square-riggers have
been replaced by jerry-built Yankee schoon-
ers. Every now and again a real old-time
three-masted, full-rigged ship looks in at
'Port Jackson. I saw orLe the other day.
She had imitation gunports painted in black
and white on the topsides and a good rake
to her sticks. The yards were all trimmed
and the sails in a harbor furl. She was get-
ting an anchor up as I passed, aud no puffing
steam windlass and rooking donkey-boiler
hoisted her hooks, but the crew were going
round the capstan in regulation style. As
we drew near I heard the last line of a
chantey across the water, but couldn’t catch
what it was. The chantey-man started an-
other, and this I caught: in full force. Alas,
for the old days! It avus “Aby, my boy,”
(hat he beefed out.
* * * *
"De Oriel”: I remember Harry Hawker’s
first exhibition in Australia. It was on the
Caulfield (Vic.) racecourse, and the takings
Avere over £-000. I helped to count them.
The display finished late, and as no bank
would re-open, five of us took the portman-
teau-full of cash to an upstairs room in the
DEFINITIONS.
THE LITTLE PRODIGY: “What’s controversy,
dad?”
THE L.P.’s DAD: “It’s one fellow writing to
a newspaper and denouncing what
another fellow didn’t sag.”
(juilol Hall, and placed it under a bed. Scul-
thorpe, who became mayor of St. Kilda, had
managed the flight, so lie slept over the
money, and a constable did sentry duty on
the doormat. Next morning three of us
motored the money to the bank. We had
m» police escort, and we chose Little Lons-
u ale-street as a short cut and the least-
frequented thoroughfare. The car broke
down the slums, and many fearsome-
lookmg blokes kindly assisted to re-start it.
i hey didn t know what our cargo was.
“N. 8.”: Where does memory end or where
begin? I have come across one man in
whom it would seem to be longer than his
life. He has never been out of Australia,
and, though not given to buying pictures, was
so impressed by a painting at a sale the other
week that be kept his bids going till he’d got
PART PERFECT.
GWEN: “ Tom proposed last night!”
GLADYS ( absently ): “ Doesn't he do it well?”
tlie item at about twice its value. He was
well pleased with his purchase, though he
couldn't tell why. Then an old family
friend sighted it on the wall. “Bless my
soul! said the latter, “that’s the valley near
our old village in Wales, where your father
lived before be came to Australia.” The dad
had brought, no photos of the place to Aus-
tralia ; but evidently the “print” in his brain
was passed to the .son.
* * * *
“Smike”: The revival of burglary as a
pastime in Melbourne suburbs has drawn
attention once more to the fact that the
average J. Hop is too busy on
other matters to bestow more
than a passing thought on rob-
beries. A good deal of John’s
time in outer Melbourne is com-
mandeered by the old-age and
electoral departments. He also
has to deliver summonses for
debt, look after jury-lists, keep
one eye on neglected children
and wear out the other in war
gratuity and other investiga-
tions for the Defence Depart-
ment. No doubt Melbourne
needs more police, but the pre-
sent crowd wotild be less futile
if they were relieved of mere
canvassers’ work. Moreover,
there would be more reinforce-
ments if the Commonwealth
Government were less insistent
on police protection. For in-
stance, half-a-dozen are regu-
larly found unemployment at
Federal Parliament House when
either Chamber is in session.
And let a deputation even of
church elders threaten to dis-
turb one of the Ministers and
the place glitters with helmets.
The poor peelers are stowed in
the damp tunnel under the front
steps, and spend long hours in vocal recitals
or euchre parties waiting for the riot that
never happens.
# * • •
“R.D.” on a dinkum synod:—
The Goulburn (N.S.W.) Diocesan Synod has more
than once set an example of patriotism. Three times
it has chosen as bishop a priest already working in
the Australian vineyard. Six years ago it refused to
pass the hat in England, and has stuck to that
decision ever since. Then, in 1920, when casting
round for a memorial in the Cathedral to those who
went west in the war, the Synod decided upon an
Australian memorial of Australian design and
materials, and executed by Australian workmen. It
is now rising, a wonderful stone chapel enclosed in
stone screens equal in workmanship to any modern
thing elsewhere, and a revelation to those who don’t-
know what Australia can do. The screens embrace the
lightest Gothic tracery and fretwork. The architects’
original design for these was for wood, but without
alteration of the dimensions the local craftsmen have
used Bundanoon stone, carving down the panels until
they are only one inch thick, and with mullions sup-
porting the tracery only five inches wide through
their thickest part. Two other decisions of the
Synod committee have given satisfaction to real Aus-
tralians, though some heart-burning to others. As
all the men who are to be commemorated made the
same sacrifice, their names are to be recorded alike,
without any distinction of rank or decoration; and
because the cost (about £5000) has been subscribed
by the bereaved all over the diocese, there is to be
no record of individual gifts on the structure.
* * * *
"Meataxe”: City Organist G. F. Hopkins
is installing in St. John’s, Launceston
(Tas.), the largest church organ in the
Southern Hemisphere. The new instrument,
which will have 4501. pipes controlled by
four manuals and pedals, 00 speaking stops
and 21 couplers, is being partly built from
the old organ, installed in 1801 by a London
firm (Brindley’s) from stock parts. One of
these parts, the sound board, bears an in-
scription—“J. Harris, 1720.” It has been
found that J. Harris was a son of a still
more celebrated builder, and that the only
organ he built in 1720 was for St. Bartholo-
mew’s, London. This was renovated in 1860,
and it seems Brindley’s made use of one of
these replaced parts for the order from the
Speck.
* * * •
“Ex-I)ig.”: Mateship? Jack, Tom and
Bill were mates in the Ist Battalion. Tom
was invalided home long before the end; Bill
was killed in action. When Jack returned
he went to call on Mrs. Bill, and found that
she had just died, and her relatives were un-
enthusiastically discussing what was to be
done with the three orphans. Jack clinched
the matter on the spot by declaring that as
Bill was his mate he intended to lake charge
of them. Having installed the youngsters
on his farm in the care of his mother, Jack
hunted up Tom, whom he found in a very
had way. Not long ago Tom died, and his
death not being the result of war sendee, his
wife got no adequate pension. Jack took the
matter up with the Repat., but failed. So
the other day he married the widow.
* * * »
“Bushwhacker”: “Kidwhacker’s” tilt (B.
14:/l/ y 2l) at the inefficiency of non-State
secondary schools seems to mask an effort to
lift the status of school-teachers to profes-
sional rank. Our complaint is that the civil-
servant type of schoolmaster is the really
inefficient teacher in the bush. What is
wanted is a teacher, or a system, that will
teach a bush boy how to use, as well as his
head, Ms pair of hands. A knowledge of
how to make even a good kitchen-garden
(one of the lost arts in N. S. Wales and
Queensland) would be more serviceable than
a knowledge of Latin; and the girl would
find more profit in learning the elements of
sound housekeeping than the latitude of
Karasehatka. As far as the R.C. schools
are concerned they can mote than hold their
own with the State institutions in regard to
scholastic training; but they, too, are open
to criticism for cramming pupils with know-
ledge unprofitable in after-school life. Last
summer I met McDonald, of Laggan
(N.S.W.), leading a troop of his boys to the
creek to teach them to swim. That was a
sight better than teaching them how Hora-
tius _kc pt th e bndg e . Again, I found O’Reillv
.f g i‘ °- chl ?, g his 'P«Pils how to mat'.
ax , e .- , Pick-handles (most of those bov«
wull have to earn their living with the axe
or the pick) It is for such teachers as
McDonald and 0 Reilly and the teaching 0 f
such things that the country is calling. And
because the highly-polished but mutton
fisted pedagogue and his costly system aren't
equal to meeting the call, I move that the
vote for the Education Department be re
duced by £l.
From an officer who was present as an
observer, and belonged to neither 13th nor
loth:—
The plan for the night-attack on Villers-Bret. wa
decided upon by Henniker (Bth British Div.), Hobb-
(sth Aus. Div.), Monash (who really had no status,
as the Aussies concerned were that day under the
3rd British Corps), and, I think, Butler (3rd British
Corps). The 13th Brigade moved as stated, but Glas-
gow had only the making of arrangements for his
own brigade attack. Elliott likewise, though Hobbs
may have consulted him. “Pompey” was not at Div'
lI.Q. when the scheme was discussed with Glasgow,
but the general plan had then been decided. The point
that Elliott did not plan the action is correct in the
narrow sense, but he told Hobbs what he wanted to
do, and Hobbs, who had a very great admiration for
his Brigadier’s fighting powers, had a very definite
voice in the final plan. The main points “Pompey” stuck
for were (a) a night attack, (b) no artillery barrage,
(c) a converging advance by the two brigades. All
these points were perhaps obvious in the circum-
stances and may have occurred to others as well.
“Pompey,” being handy all day, had certainly more
say than Glasgow, for the latter was not directly in
touch even by ’phone until he reached Bth Div. H.Q.
The official report referred to is probably that of (he
13th Brigade, and being cx parte cannot be taken
too seriously as against the 15th Brigade.
* * * •
“Neuron” : “Gregor” says (B. 4/8/’2l)
that there is only one institution in Mel-
bourne for the treatment, of venereal disease
in men, apparently the Public Health De-
partment’s Lonsdale-street clinic. At the
Alfred Hospital, Prahran, a special V.D.
night clinic for men lias been in existence
some years. For two years it lias been
accommodated in a new specially-designed
building used for this purpose alone. Ample
facilities for microscopical diagnosis are
available iu the general hospital laboratory.
Patients are not questioned or examined in
the presence of others. This clinic fulfils
two of “Gregor’s” three requirements,
namely: (11 Modern building, and (2) less
central situation. Unfortunately it has not
its own bacteriologists yet.
A SURE DRAW.
THE P ARSON: “The place is very quiet, Mr.
Mayor. It’s a pity we can’t work up
something to attract the visitors.”
MAYOR OF HOLIDAY RESORT: ‘Wes, terrible
quiet. Can’t you start an attack on our
morals, and denounce us as the wicked-
est spot in Australia?”
PARADOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was an old and sad-faced man
That sat amidst the city’s din
Upon the corner of a street,
Yet recked not of its strife and sin;
Upon his knee an open book—
A Bible in Braille type outlined—
And on his chest a placard large.
Proclaiming him “Deaf, Dumb and Blind.”
His trembling finger slowly traced
The words “A liar is abhorred.
And he who walks in paths of truth
Is the anointed of the Lord.”
I placed a shilling in his box.
And as I sadly turned away
His sotto voce caught my ear—
“ First blinkin’ bob I’ve had to-day.”
N.S.W.
H. C. HALLORAN.
THE ECCENTRIC FORCE OF GRAVITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“German prosperity is necessary to enable the
indemnities to be paid.”
The lip-train goes down,
And the down-train goes up.
If I meet you in town
Where ale festive and brown
Foams high in the cup,
Should I bid you drink up
You will drink the draught down.
By the iron of Krupp,
Which is down, which is up ?
We drank the war’s cup
And the German went down ;
Will the bump lift him up?
Which is up ? Which is down ?
N.S.W.
P. O. M.


S.X XIOO3W
d
Specialised StocK Foods.
A Meg'g'itt Feed for Every Need.
Meg'g'itt’s Cattle Food
Meg'g'itt’s Calf Food
Meg'g'itt’s Horse Food
Meg'g'itt’s Poultry Food
Meg'g'itt’s CHicK Food
Meg'g'itt’s Pig' Food
Each Food is scientifically proportioned,
intelligently and economically mixed;
composed of sweet, pure and wholesome
raw materials; properly balanced to give
maximum results.
Each Food is palatable, highly digestible,
contains an excellent variety that en-
sures maximum production, good health
and strength at a minimum cost consistent
with quality.
Different in Kind but AliKe in Quality.
Write to Department A for instruc ions how to feed.
Gait's
UNSeehoiu^
t fwl
nEocrnr u
paramatta
9?ie boy on the bag
Guarantees Quality *
ď
AGENTS-
,, „ rr o/T 4l /,#// Melbourne: Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth;
-Messrs, _ ’._ & Co Ltd. Hobart and Launceston; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane; ' The S.A. Farmers’ Co-op! Union Ltd., Adelaide. S.A.; Messrs. Johnston & Co.. Welling-
-7V7
UNSBSWIfty
AAEGGITT 9 :7 £
\ PARRAMATTA Jk ■mm
°fAeJboy on thebaq
guarantees quality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STKEET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
King George IV
im m WHISKY
saec
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
‘W eiry : When a pal of mine one night
last week went to tix up for the night some j'ou’-g
ducklings in a brooder, he found the family eat
nestled snugly in the affair, with the ducklings
walking all over her and some cuddled up
next to her tummv. Puss seemed perfectly con-
tent and Bill hastily counted the brood to see if a
good meal was the cause; but every quacklet was
there and proud in the unexpected possession of a
real live mother.
* * * *
“Puncher”: I can’t agree with “Fleming”
(B. 28/7/’2l) that ihe Hereford bullock is slow,
stupid and mostly lazy. He isn't as quick as the
Devon, but a good whiteface team, well handled,
will do a big day’s work. For years in the Speck
we always had a team of eight, all Herefords or
near-Herefords (some had a dash of Devon), and
whether on the road or in the bush they weren’t
easy to beat. As to making good leaders, a pair of
the Herefords beat most that I have seen, and there
wasn’t a lazy bone in their bodies.
“Jim Carew”: In spite of all we hear
regarding Binghi’s eating, he was careful to drink
clean water. Whenever he came across a pool which
looked undrinkable he would dig a hole on the
lower side of it, and sometimes endure agonies of
thirst until sufficient water filtered th)ough. An
old Barwon River abo. once informed me that Binghi
knew of a shrub whose branches, when placed in
water, quicljy sent all sediment to the bottom. But,
personally, I never came across it.
“Edd.vson” : One of the things that may
happen to a man in the bush. Browning was worK-
ing for Tilly, who owned the mill at Tallow Flat.
Browning was felling. He had gone to work this
morning after a day off clue to heavy rain. He
was taking off' his chat, when he heard a voice—
“ Help! Help!” Browning looked all about him,
and found himself alone. “Hello!” he called
“U#lp!” he heard. Browning looked on the other
side of the log. “What’s up?” said he. He hea’-d
faint words in reply, but could make nothing of
them. With his hair lift-
ing a bit, Browning went
after Gable and Smith.
These two could hear the
voice. Smith got down
to what seemed the closest
point. “Where are you?”
he demanded. “In the
log!” were the words that
came faintly to their ears.
But the log was solid.
“We’ll give her a turn,
anyhow,” said Browning.
So they got levers to
work, turned the log over,
and out of a trough-like
excavation burned in the
. side of it tumbled “Boots”
McGinnis who, kicked out
of his job at the hotel at
the township, had taken
to the bush track, found
this dug-out in the shel-
tered side of the log, and
dossed in it from the rain.
But the rain softened
the earth under it, and let it over, completely trap-
ping McGinnis. After wearing his finger-tips raw
he had contrived to dig a small opening for
air. It was sheer luck brought Browning to his
vicinity that morning after he had been 36 hours
in his terrible cell.
* * # *
“Grono”: Tell “Aragun” (B. 14/7/’2l)
that there died about 15 years ago at St. George (Q.)
a middle-aged abo. known as “Bally,” who never in
his life grew hair on any part of his tody. Further-
more, he had two sisters, full-blooded abos., who were
unable to pull each other’s hair, ’cos they had none.
* * » ♦
“Five Islands”: If many of them have
families like one found recently near Unanderra
(N.S.W.) it is no wonder the foxes are over-
running the South Coast district. The man who
tracked a vixen down found 14 little foxes in the
den. It may have been a joint household, however,
for cases have been known in England where two
vixens have pooled their families. The only redeem-
ing feature of the fox is that a good skin may be
worth anything up to 255.
* * * •
“Te Babarantiko”: I assure “Silosi” (B.
14/7/’2l) that he is entirely mistaken in saying that
the attraction of boats for each other in ruffled water
is negligible. It was loaded three-ton boats work-
ing on the open ocean in rough weather and ships
at open-ocean moorings in rough or any other kind
of weather that I referred to in my par.
“Tin”: “M.H.” (B. 2S/7/’2l) can boil
down that 281 b. turnip. J. Dudfield brought in a
blue-top to Orepuki (M.L.) the other day which
turned the scale at 32£lb.
“Te Whare”: Some cats become noted
snake-killers, administering the despatch by striking
No-legs on the spine with a fore paw until the
delicate vertebra are broken. Certain cats will eat
snakes ; others won't. Of writer’s two mousers one
SADDLE-GALLED.
"Why don't you wear your boots, Jack?"
“Oh, that pheller too plurry tight—gibbit toe sore back."
brought a small black snake home, but although
whales on lizards neither would eat if. On the
other hand, f have seen two neighboring tabbies
chewing delightedly at a section of a large black-
snake which had been blown in two by a gunshot. I
once saw a company of turkeys give a blake snake
about 4ft. in length a bad time, attacking it from
both sides and pecking some scjtles (body plates)
off the back; and just as the reptile was about
to take shelter under the flooring of a bush shanty a
rooster rushed up and administered several vicious
digs. .John Kookaburra isn’t the only bird that
knows how to deal with fair-sized wrigglers. Mag-
pies (crow-shrikes), butcher-birds, ravens and crows
account for many snakelets.
Nor -TV est : Put me> down among the
doubting Thomases re cats and rabbits interbreeding,
the cat and two of its alleged progeny mentioned
by “The Crank” (B. 21/7/’2l) have been shot. Cir-
cumstantial evidence certainly placed Thomas in an
awkward position, and the markings of the cat and
the rabbits were almost identical; but the alleged
progeny were found on close examination to be pure
rabbit from nose to scut.
* * *
“T.W.” : A Jersey cow on the experimental
farm at Glen Innes (N.S.W.) has been in full milk
for nine years from her first calf. She is giving
regularly eight quarts of milk per day.
CLOSE-FISTED.
“Sting HIM for a leer? Long Mae? Blime.
if he owned the whole solar system he
wouldn't give a bloke a flamin' worn-
out meteor."
“Black Bonnet” from near Cape York:
I stood in the kitchen, laughing with mv
daughters. One of them lay on the bunk, a bare
white arm above her head, I remember; the other
was busy about the stove. Scones were baking, the
kettle boiling; it was all vivid, well-lit and warm.
Wishing to go upstairs, I looked round for a
hurricane-lamp. “There isn’t one here,” said
bettc, turning the scones, and, remembering that I
had seen one just before dark in a shed near the
house, I set off to get it.
A little fence bounded the path from the door,
and it was so dark that I was glad of it, running
my hand along the top wire ns I walked. A few
yards and everything was black—below, above,
mound. I might have been wrapped in a pall.
Behind me the gleam from the kitchen shone faint
though miles away. The girls had stopped chat-
tel ing , the only sound was the note of one melan-
choly curlew, and that, too, seemed far off. All at
once I did not like it. But here was a post, taller
than the rest, projecting some inches above the
vii e. I his was but a yard from the shed and my
objective, the lamp, it was absurd to be afraid—of
nothing. Yet really I should never have allowed one
of the children to come out without a light—there
were snakes.
My hand was lifted to pass the post, when it fell
again and clenched. My heart gave a bound, and
seemed to cease beating. My breath went out like
a long sigh. My foot had caught in something that
hung and clung !
1 tiied to call, and found my voice was gone.
Only a carpet-snake would throw a coil, and they
are not deadly. Why then need I be so utterly,
horribly terrified? Perhaps I could get back. 1
tried. The thing held. 1 put my other foot back
a little, waited, and once more essayed to cry—
and failed. Oh, that awful inability to make a
sound!
I moved backward. This time the thing
gave and dragged after me. I kept my heel on the
giound, moving the foot quietly, expecting each in-
stant to feel teeth in my ankle or cold coils leap
up my body. Ages passed as 1 went backwards
towards the house. The sweat ran from my face,
and cold down my limbs. Once 1 stumbled and felt
the thing move, elastic, under my foot. X was past
reasoning, but at last perceived dimly that I had
entered the glow from the open door. I stopped
and made a superhuman effort to cry. The effort
hurt me, broke me. The sound was the dreadful
one people make who have horrid dreams. Three
times 1 repeated it. Then everything was blotted
put.
They had me on the bunk, and were fussing
about. As I grew quite conscious, laughing hysteri-
cally they showed me a thick old woollen muffler,
tied in a loop, which had been used to tie up the
terrier to the fence.
* * * »
Dusky Pish : \\ hen Sydney was very
young beaters used to go out and drive the kangaroo
fiom the plains of Ashfield and Leichhardt on to the
neck of the Balmain Peninsula, where sportsmen were
waiting to pot them. In 1800 a grant of 550 acres
was given to Dr. William Balmain, and there is a
tiadition that he sold it for 10s, to his friend Dr.
John Gilchrist, professor of Hindustani at Calcutta.
* * * *
‘J ay tee” : “H.M's” relerence to “fishing”
for birds (B. 21/7/’2l) recalls that once while fish-
ing at Semaphore (S.A.) for sprats 1 hooked one
and was hauling it in when a seagull swooped down
and swallowed it. I caught both fish and ’gull.
(Continued on page 22.)
LACHLAN GATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A-working round the Lachlan from Cargelligo to Hay,
From Condobolin to Booligal and back,
The roads point cheerily onward and we whistle on
our way
As the cycle speeds along the dusty track,
While the motor, sweetly humming, wafts the music
of our coming
In a rhythmic throb that lingers at our back.
Not the engine running hot’ll make us quickly close
the throttle,
But the sight of gates across the winding track.
Scarce a mile without a gate across the track!
Hold the bike to open gates across the track!
Lifting cycles on the stand’ll mean three hundred-
weight to handle
Every time you meet a gate across the track.
The silence of a lonely land is calling through the
mist,
While the silent trees lift grief-bowed heads to gaze
To westward where the endless shades of broken hopes
were kissed
By the setting sun and moonbeams through the
haze.
Then our souls lift to the calling of the solitude en-
thralling— «
'There seems naught to break the spell and bring
us back—
And the spirit of the far lands decks our brow with
sombre garlands
Till we’re jolted by a gate across the track.
There’s a five-barred gate to open on the tHaek ;
W ith a broken hinge it’s fallen on the track 1
Giving way to useless worry when you’re travelling
in a hurry
Only brings more gates to open on the track.
MOOCHIN’ ROVE', A.D. 1921.
TRAVELLING SHEARER: “Any sheds round
'ere?"
RESIDENT: “Yairs — one quite ’andy.”
SHEARER: “'Ow far?"
RESIDENT: “ Boodooloo—about 140 miles
across the ridge."
SHEARER: “Thanks, mate. I’m travellin’
light, so I'll just mooch across."
We muse upon Life’s problems, o’er the far-flung
haunting plain,
■On the whither of our wand’ring, and the why;
And thoughts come thronging, throbbing, in a
mystic, eerie strain,
While a Presence seems to overspread the sky.
Grip we then the vision clearer, Heaven hovers
nearer, dearer,
All the pettiness of Life is beaten back,
And the haze-faint distance splendid with Eternity
is blended
Till we see another gate across the track.
Dragged to earth by grinning gates across the track!
Leering, never-ending gates across the track!
How I hope the Record-keeper of the West’s a
heavy sleeper,
Or is deaf when watching gates across the track.
I’ve washed up greasy dixies for a greasy army cook,
I have shovelled coal beneath a burning sun;
But nothing else will haunt me like the sight
where’er I look
Of those endless whitebarred gates across the run.
If hereafter I’m repining ’neath the Dark World’s
murky lining
Where the greatest woes are laid upon our back,
1 11 be opening, lifting, shutting, ever opening, lift-
ing, shutting,
Opening hellish gates across th’ infernal track.
Oh, those devil-moulded gates across the track
Fiendish, nightmare-haunting gates across the track!
Gibbering in my dreams before me, dancing, point-
ing, shrieking, o’er me
There’s another gate across the track!
N.S.W.
PLODA LONG.


Motorists! Watch the Cars
You Pass on the Road-
You will find an enormous percentage of them fitted with the
sfitewaßb SEARCHLIGHT
No other accessory has ever met with such immediate and
unanimous approval no other accessory as ever e
universally fitted as an “extra” by motonsts-it has almost entirely
supplanted the ordinary “spotlight.
The Stewart Searchlight is built to appear as part of the car—not
an after-thought accessory. Its design is entirely different from any
other light and is fully patented. Will pick out street numbers,
sign-posts, etc. Indispensable for night driving. Projects a big,
brilliant beam of light that illumines the road far ahead.
No doubt your car is already fitted with the
Stewart Searchlight. If not, call on your
dealer and have it installed to-day.
Stewart Searchlights, Speedometers, Warning Signals, Auto-
ffuards, etc., can be obtained from all leading wholesale and
retail accessory dealers, including the following Interstate
Scrvicp Stations
a
mu
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
CORNELL, LTD., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay Street, Perth.
EXQUISITE BEHNING BOUDOIR GRAND
THE
5T
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, PRICE
LIST AND EASY TERMS WILL BE
SENT TO YOU ON REQUEST.
The tone of the BEHNING PIANO is one in
which sweetness and resonance are beautifully
blended.
Rich in those singing qualities which lend the
fullest musical value, it affords a wonderful medium
for the fine phrasing and beautiful effects sought
for in individual interpretation.
•
Its delicately responsive touch is a real aid in
obtaining the finely shaded tone effects that add
distinction to the performance of the accomplished
pianist,
WE INVITE YOU TO CALL
and inspect this superb piano and
test it in every way.
’S
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY..
AIN U rtl ,
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE, ROCKHAMPTON.


more you worry the sooner someone will
write your epitaph.
When you’re “run down,” nervy and inclined to worry over trifles test the
nourishing, invigorating effects of CLEMENTS TONIC.
m ' didn ; t “ n - a, “ h ° 1 “ “ d I. promotes restfol
sleep, calm nerves and hearty appetite.
CLEMENTS TONIC is sold in every town and city in Australasia.
"MaeD.”: Fishing: in the Murray at Cob-
nnn i landed a 2Alb. cod, and noticing a hard
lump in his belly, I investigated and found a live
mussel, shell and all, big enough to rebait my hook
witli, and catch a couple more cod. I have a couple
of witnesses to stand by my statutory declaration if
required.
* * *
“Ginger”: The next time “Hobo” (B.
21/7/21) writes about diggers standing up multi
tudinous bags of murphies in a day let him state the
tonnage of the crops dug. I’ve seen a 20-ton crop in
the Gippsland spud-country that went a stalk to the
keiosene-tin six stalks to a bag—and practically
no seed-potatoes in the lot. Sixty bags a day in a
crop of that kind where the murphies are about the
size of a small pumpkin is nothing for a ringer to
write home about, bet “Hobo” put his champions
Maladi and Dowio in a three-ton crop (where there -is
picking up to bo done) alongside Victor Whitehorn,
a Crook well (N.S.W.) digger, and I’ll bet beers on
V rotor, whose highest tally in that kind of crop is a
modest 42 bags.
* * * *
‘Centurion”: The burrowing snake of
Southern Palestine, mentioned by “Boorara” (B
28/7/’2l), is the horned asp. The Sinai desert w.is
lull of these vipers, which are very poisonous. They
are poor travellers when in motion, and not only go
under the sar.d, as “Boorara” says, when disturbed
but seem to prefer lying hidden in the sand, with
only the head protruding, waiting for rations *o
come along. The krait. of India is said to have
this habit of digging in, but the only other snake
I have known to do it is the South African puff-
adder.
* i.
* *
T.Vi. ’: I caught a large crayfish lately
which accidentally got one of its claws pulled off
at the first joint. I placed the cray in a tin of
water for about an hour, and on taking it out
found already a small but well-shaped claw—so
far, of course, only of jelly.
PARTICULAR.
MAMA OURNG-OUTANG: “Don't you dare
put that hat on your head —you don't
know who was wearing it!"
hou-TVest”- .My nomination for the
heavyweight turnip (“M.11.,” B. 28/7/’2l) is a
purple-top Swede grown at Tumbarurnba (N.S.W.) :
weight 291 b. minus roots and leaves. Three other
midgets from the same plot weighed 16, 18 and
221 b. and they were excellent eating.
Te TV hare”: Can any Abo.-writer identify
a leaden-colored snake about the size of an average
brown? It doesn’t correspond to the so-called grey
whip-snake, not being particularly thin in body, anil
differing in certain other points. I first met this
squirmer among rocks on a steep Monaro (N.S.W.)
bluff, and have seen him once since in the same
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION.
MOTHER (to local doctor): “I think 'Enery ’ere ’as got th’ Spanish hinfluenza. Wot’s
it worth if I let 'im go down th’ street an’ play with the other kids?”
quarter. A collie dog drew attention to the first
Specimen, having gripped it amidships. The dog
was not bitten. So far experts consulted have failed
to label this snake. The peaceable little whip-snake,
usually pale red-brown on the upper surfaces, was
fairly common about Balmoral (Sydney) not’ very
many jears ago, and I have also seen him neatly
coiled on sunny coastal bluffs. Sometimes he is
greyish, but not leaden-colored all over, like the
unnamed variety. There are, I think, still unde-
scribed and unlabelled serpents among our poisoners.
“Yalgun”: “Aragun” (B. 14/7/’2l) asks
ior the address of a baldheaded Binghi. I knew of
only one. He was of the Tooloom tribe, Upper Clar-
ence (N.S.W.), and was called Eubbrabool (bald-
head) by his tribal mates. Which is evidence that
he was a rare bird.
* * * *
“Fereti”: “Kai Viti” (B. 21/7/’2l) must
have gone round Fiji for 40 years with his eyes
shut. Though centipedes are by no means common
they are numerous in places, notably on and around
the lull at Nasade, Ba, where Mr. Williams has his
residence. In Suva in 1912 I killed one at my
house over 10in. long and as broad as my thumb.
“Hakru”: I’ve gambled on this being a
record. Reed, an orchardist, had a collie dog that
ran his mail service from Bendigo to his place of
abode in Strathfieldsaye (Vic.), a distance of seven
miles, every day for over throe years
* * *
‘ T). Frost”: Every once in a while a
bird or animal supposed to be
extinct turns up again. The
grass parrot, once thought to
have passed out, has lately
been recorded from two
widely • separated localities,
one in Vic. and the other in
N. S. Wales. I would not
like to give the exact locali-
ties; it might be bad for the
parrot. The chestnut-shoul-
dered parrakeet had not been
heard ox for 40 years, but
last year someone got hold of
three and shipped them off
to U.S.A., where rare Austra-
lian stuff is worth big money.
It’s long odds that other rare
Australian birds are being
smuggled out of the ConT-
monwealth.
“Mag”: “Werac” (B. 14/7/’2l) does not
uisprove my statement that wild animals rear only
the teat-equivalent in young. My reference was
mainly to marsupials; yet it applies to wild pigs.
“One teat one young” is the law, and no changing
irom teat to teat. Take a young sucker from a
domestic sow, and note how soon the teat becomes
dry, pioving that it is not used by the others A
dingo nfiy be different, but can “Werac” prove the
murdered lady had no sister or female mate in hunt-
difonvJpH re <? a i d - t 0 • the . mice ’ “ w erac” has certainly
mice d yil)g, ' ln home for interesting female
“Bouragi”: “Te Pana’s” sausage-like
“centipedes” with red legs, to which “Kai Viti”
takes exception (B. 21/7/’2l), are really millipedes.
The Papuan jungles are full of the slimy-looking
horrors, and they remain in writer’s memory as
about the only living things the Mambare natives
will not eat.
"Alex.”: On a farm I worked on at The
Don, Bowen (N.Q.), one of the milking cows was
serving refreshments to an 18-months-old calf of hers,
who was the sire of the cow’s own third offspring!
Ihe cow would never give any milk unless the
precocious youngster had first swig.
* , *
Another instance of what mate-
ship means in the bush. A gouger on the Lightning
Bidge (N .S.H.) opal field was struck by a fall of
earth and terribly crushed. There was no doctor on
the held, the nearest being 60 miles away, at Col-
larendabn. A stretcher was made and the broken
man carried thither by eight of his mates in relavs.
They did it in two days.
* * *
“Monaro”: “Doc’s” par (B. 21/7/’2l)
about those good Australians at
Lewis Ponds (N.S.W.) who car-
ried their injured mate 15 miles
to hospital, reminds me ol an
incident of the Palmer gold-rush,
still talked about in Cooktown
(Q-) after 4S years. A digger
got his leg badly smashed bv a
6-ton waggon and the nearest
hospital (Cooktown) was 150
niiles away. No vehicle was
available,' so a litter was rapidly
constructed, and 24 men, working
in relays oi four, carried him the
whole 150 miles, taking just over
a week to do it. The man lost
his foot and in no time was back
at his claim.
H.W.G. ’: The Leap, or, more properly,
the Gin’s Leap, is a mountain situated on the Mackay-
Bowen road, about 15 or 20 miles from Mackay (Q.).
In 1863-64 Mackay was just a few scattered houses
pubs mostly and stores—surrounded by cattle-
stations. The first of these was Kernmis’s Camp, so
called because Mr. Kemmis shore the Fort Cooper
sheep there in 1863. Their main cattle-camp was
where the Meadowlands sugar-mill now stands.
Greenmount was the next, owned by Stitt and Star.
Mr. Vince was in charge; Mount Vince is called after
bun. He was killed in a fight in Tommy Reid’s
pub. R. A. Johnstone then took charge; he was
well known afterwards as a native-police officer
Opposite Greenmount, on the other side of the
river, was Balnagowan, owned by Ross and Cook.
Mr. Ross was drowned while trying to ford the river
at night just near the station. The method of work-
ing cattle in those times was to break them in to
go to camp by the crack of the whip. It saved a
lot of riding. The creeks about the coast-runs were
for the. most part scrubby on both banks, and the
cattle had narrow tracks through scrub at the
crossings. The blacks used to plant themselves on
both sides of a track, whilst others would start the
cattle; and as the cattle raced through they would
spear them. It was not that they wanted food, as
game was very plentiful; it was just for killing’s
sake. After one of those raids I have seen 50 or 60
beasts with spears hanging to them—as many as
five and six in the one beast. Of those thev killed
straight out in most cases they took only the inside
fat. Those with spears hanging to them had to be
driven to the yard, and it often took two men to
pull the spears out, they were that facf ~
after one of those raids that a partt , Was
from all the stations to put a ,YY‘t ™ ade up
The blacks had been giving an extra IoW
and they had such a good escape in £
get * ™ To
Itmf rS po£e turne 0 d U up Par ? he ; Vi :v er f e o™eLthi 0 ™ e L th i
and had come in for rations So we Yoined fnT
and after a couple of days’ tracking the bS
camp was located at the foot of a mountain? It t.L
a slope-away on the north end, and terminated in
a Precipice at the south end-about 15.1 ft hji
as near as I remember—with a belt of scrub running
up the side. The blacks were camped on th
They did rU L°T flat Ule f ° ot ° f the "‘-"tain?
Jliey did not know we were out after them \v e
kept well back till night, then moved up a bit closer
and camped Just before daylight we surrounded
their camp, but by some mistake the mountain side
W * s left At a sig-nal given by the police we
all opened fire. They rushed for the scrub on the
mountain. We followed. It was daylight by this
tame. The blacks soon came out/on the open and
commenced throwing spears and rocks at 11* The
gins were higher up. T got one of their thin saplimr
spears through the calf of my leg. It was a willing
go. They put up a good fight, and it took us the
whole day before we drove them to the top. Whether
it was from fright or in an endeavor to escape I
don’t, know, but there was one gin who leaped right
over the precipice; and so it was called the Gin’s
Leap.
* * * *
I have a bald Binghi handy to
Moree for “Aragun” (B. 14/7/’2l) to inspect, lie
ifc a full-blooded Queenslander, and was at one time
tracker at Pallamallawa.
■* * * m
“Ivan Orfullkoff”: Sandstone (W.A.) has
a bald nigger, too—an old buck whose bald pate
scintillates in the sun like a lielio working overtime.
* * * *
“Ando”: I have seen a lot of potato-
digging both in the Wiurnainbool (Vic.) and Stanley
i/l’as.) district; and although the tubers grow luxuri-
antly there, the best performance I witnessed was
when the ringer on a good patch near Circular Head
dug, bagged and sewed 48 bags in a long day; and
even then a good percentage of the Stanley soil was
dumped into the bags along with the potatoes. Around
Warrnambool a digger is reckoned slick if ho aver-
ages 25 bags daily.
* * * *
Jim Carew”; An abo. who put me wise to
many bush dodges once told me that a snake never
recovered from a wound. Any break in the skin is
soon found out by the ants and flies, and death is
sure. Is there anything in it?
* * * *
V eronal ’ : A friend of mine, while rock-
fishing off the South Coast (N.S.W.), hauled in a
gannet ( Sulor serrator ) which had swallowed his bait.
On being landed the big piebald bird ejected several
small fish—mullet fry chiefly. Similarly a big
(Australian) salmon—so called—( Arripis trutta)
caught by me, disgorged a couple of red bream
CAUTION,
George, dear, you'd better not run over
this man we might get a puncture,"
(babj snapper), which had been neatly scaled while
passing the serrated apparatus in the; fish’s gullet.
But a pelican, in endeavoring to dine c|n a fair-sized
flathead, pouched for leisurely consunjption, got a
spine of the fish stuck in the lining of its pantry,
and died thus. I saw a black shag choke itself with
a Murray cod too large for its gullet. • Both carpet-
and diamond-snakes turn up occasionally with rabbits
or small marsupials stuck in their jaws, but seem
to suffe, no inconvenience, calmly awaiting the
smejlful disintegration of their prey.
* * #
“Dudlyngil”: Some people live behind the
times, and “Bukawaqa” (B. 28/7/’2l) is one of
them. He quoted from “The Book of High Explo-
sives,’’ issued by Nobels Explosive Co. (page 22),
and advised me to call on the agents evidently with
the object of perusing the page he refers to. I did
and (holy smoke!) found this book he uses as his
authority to contain nothing more than reprints of
articles published in the Times during September
and October, 1907 ! To make a comparison of the
component parts of gelignite made 14 years ago with
those of the present product is farcical. As for
‘Buk.’s” assertion that gelignite contains nitrate of
potash, after searching inquiries from the agents he
sent me to I find that this substance was used in
1907 for a short period only, not as a component
part of the explosive but to ensure successful detona-
tion, which is entirely another matter.
TO A HALF-DRAUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
\ou could take it ten miles if we made you,
Though killing you isn't our plan.
As you nod at the steady up grade you
Remind me of something, old man
Of the likes of yourself, before “Wipers,”
VVheie one limber was too much for mules,
Where the gunners were turned into snipers’
And ‘-'Get there!” revised all the rules.
When six donks got well stuek with the rations,
\\mlst fcritz gave the neighborhood tone,
We would hitch on your two near relations—
The} d shift the damn thing on their own.
Von wind-sucking cab-horse with loose lips
(Vou disdained to acknowledge his smirk),
He’ll be down in a heap when a shoe slips—
lie wasn t created lor Work.
Rut you step from your chest, deep and massive,
AVhf;re your neck’s cantilever sits firm ;
ind your eye is so full and impassive—
You make a man feel like a worm.
Clean-eating, clean-lying, clean-acting,
fi A gentleman you from the foal—
though they use you for garbage-contracting
And reckon you haven’t a soul,
When you’re done and you die and they’ve flared vou
And sawn off your hoofs for their glue,
Vou 11 trot off to the Master who made you,
And lie won’t think nothing of you.
M AORILAKD.
G. L. LEE.


.
<4*l
••
1
%
O
<L>
%v
■s>
vn
N3>
V
>T
fc
vA
®°
o-
4.
o
o
LARGE
y
?PHt
wW mm
on
zn
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality—a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
SrSTE(gPRpSS
CIGARETTES
N 9333 20-I/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET


*"'///
i j
*
C-V
■
A
tt&SFOJ’ '• tD
ss
%
m
..v.-7
,
J'\
&*
r?» i
; , V>' : r
TV
*aß
• J
<r :^
uwV, kWM *> %
fo
°*3>
--.
W
$
T *w *
WKIW
W7
> jtWi
*.■ V
1
*
V-v
S> -'V-
.
. -
J
ftsi
* &
a
fey.
.
r rt
:• * '•
ti-M
s~. f
it*l
-■■ V
ft?#*
vv fe
m
■
m
w»:«
It
siimpappn?!
Stout British
Fabric evenly
laid ply upon
ply, so that
each layer
takes its full
share of
strain.
Perdriau Tyres
TH E rugged strengh of Perdriau reinforced wails
comes from the scientific treatment of the stout
British fabric used, and the many plys evenly laid so that each takes its
share of the strain. The latest Perdriau Tyre, with its red walls and
black, wear-resisting tread, is delighting users throughout Australia.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney. 122 Flinders St., Melbourne. 217 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Grenfell St. and Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide. 312-14 Murray St., Perth.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
Wld.
Fife’s schnap^
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Vi'S
m
A Plain
Fact
V\ w i 1,//
/V
N
Ct, esT
cOV-®
/ / ' n l
f CROUP Jy
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street SYDNEY.
it was in the days before. so many of the
infants suffered from “debility and malnutri-
tion, so-called.” And in view of the tre-
mendous value which the Scottish strain has
been to the Empire—overseas particularly—
the duty seems to be more than local; it
seems to be Imperial.
P. AIREY.
A Literary Autopsy
For all who were interested in pure litera-
ture the great event in the early part of
1919 was the publication of W. N. i\ Bar-
bellion’s “Journal of a Disappointed Man.”
The book came into the worm with the aid
of the most accomplished and experienced of
literary accoucheurs, Mr. IL G. Wells, to
whom, as we all know, the birth of even
a new god, let alone that of a new genius,
presents no insuperable difficulties. Most of
the critics accepted Barbellion at the valua-
tion of Mr. Wells, and hailed the appearance
of a new bright star in the constellation of
Diarists.
“Barbellion” was a pseudonym. The name
was taken from a pastrycook’s shop which
the author of the journal, when living in Lon-
don, had occasion frequently to pass. liis
real name was Bruce Frederick Cummings,
lie was the son of a country newspaper re-
porter, and got his education at a small pri-
vate school. In due time lie became his
lather’s assistant at the newspaper office.
From the first lie had shown a keen interest
in natural science, and in one way or an-
other he managed to pick up a considerable
amount of biological knowledge. By the time
he was 18 he had written papers for scientific
journals of standing. After a heart-breaking
struggle Tie got the position of assistant at
the Natural History Museum, South Ken-
sington, from which bad health eventually
compelled him to retire. He was supposed
to have died in 1917.
Four editions of the “Journal of a Dis-
appointed Man” were called for in 1919; and
in November of the same year appeared an-
other Barbellion book, “Enjoying Life and
Other Literary Remains.” To this book tliere
is a preface by "H.R.0.,” who, as I under-
stand, was a brother of Barbellion’s. The
first 70 pages of it consist of what the
prefacer calls “Journal Essays.” These, he
says, had been omitted from the published
"Journal” in order to keep its size within
reasonable bounds. The rest of the second
volume is made up of papers of various liter-
ary and scientific interest. These latter
papers, says “H.R.C.,” finally dispose of the
suggestion that the “Journal” was not authen-
tic, but was the work of Mr. IT. G. Wells
himself. Towards the end of 1920 was pub-
lished a third and final volume, “A Last
Diary.”
Enters now into the scene Professor A. F.
Pollard, the historian. Professor Pollard is
the editor of History, the quarterly journal
of the Historical Association. In the number
of that periodical for April, 1921, he has an
article on the Barbellion diaries. The fact
that it is buried in the pages of the organ of
a learned society seems to have prevented it
from attracting much notice, otherwise it
must have caused something of a literary sen-
sation. Professor Pollard has come to the
conclusion that there is something very
mysterious about these diaries. He thinks he
can detect traces of the work of at least three
different hands in the final form of them, and
that they have been “assuredly informed by
a good deal of doubtfully justifiable emenda-
tion.” Nor is the Professor prepared to free
of all blame Barbellion himself. He is in-
clined to attach symbolical importance to a
casual confession which Barbellion makes in
the “Journal.” “I possess,” says the diarist,
“the qualifications of an artistic liar. Yet
I can’t regard such a story as a lie —it was
rather a justifiable emendation of an other-
wise uninteresting incident.” The story re-
ferred to here is told in the “Journal.” It
relates how, sitting on a gate one day, Bar-
bellion saw a man standing in a chalk-pit and
wielding a stick. It would be interesting, he
thought, if the man were in the act of killing
a snake. A*t dinner that night “the revised
version of the story came out quite pat and
natural, and obviously interested the
assembly. I added graphically that the man
was too far away for me to be able to say
what species of snake it was” (“Journal,”
p. 52).
It has been stated that Barbellion was be-
lieved to have died in 1917. This belief was
based upon an entry (in square brackets') in
the last page of the “Journal” —“Barbellion
died on December 31.” It is the last entry
on the page and is immediately preceded by
others having dates from the 14th to the 21st
October, 1917. It was allowed to stand in
the “Journal” as published in 1919. But in
the December of the latter year the London
Mercury announced that Barbellion had
died, not on December 31, 1917, but on
October 22, 1919. Moreover, he had resumed
work on the diary in 1918. Two further in-
stalments of it were printed in the London
Mercury during 1920, and the whole was
published, as “A Last Diary,” at the end of
that year. In this book Barbellion takes upon
himself the responsibility for the false an-
nouncement on the last nage of the “Journal.”
Both Mr. Wells (in a letter to a newspaper)
and the London Mercury protested that the
entry recording Barbellion's death was the
only falsity in the “Journal.” Professor Pol-
lard seems to think that they protest too
much. Plainly, he does not believe them ; he
will. walk their way only to the extent of
admitting that, though a hasty critic might
jump to the conclusion “that the whole story
is fictitious, there is obviously a substratum
of fact in Barbellion’s journal and diary.”
The Professor draws a parallel between the
life-histories of Mr. Wells and Barbellion
which is most curious. It seems to show
ihat no man in England would be less sur-
prised than he if it turned out that Air. Wells
was, after all, the real author of the
“Journal.” Though he may be right, and,
indeed, seems to me to have proved up
to the hilt, that the diaries cannot be a strict
chronological record, entered up from day to
day, of their author’s thoughts and life, but
rather a retrospective work of imagination,
his attempt to fasten them upon ells is
weak. But, above all, not even Mr. Wells’s
greatest enemy will suggest that lie
was ever much preoccupied with literary
style. The diarist, on the other hand, is in
this regard an artist of consummate accom-
plishment. The pages of Barbellion are sown
thick with jewels that glitter and flash and
scintillate with a brilliance that is almost
blinding. That Mr. Wells is not the author of
the “Journals” lam quite convinced. Pro-
fessor Pollard has proved that they are not an
accurate account of the daily life of Barbel-
lion. Granting that, there still ar<> hot-
ter reasons for believing than for disbelieving
that the books were written by Bruce
Frederick Cummings—a newspaper reporter
in early life, be it remembered, and one, more-
over, to the manner born. If a fact failed to
lit into the scheme of things in a way that
suited the artistic exigencies of Barbellion, so
much the worse for the fact. Art would be
served, even if, in its interests, the artist had
to immolate himself on the last page of his
diary.
HENRY MOLONEY.
Carlyle and Water
In Da iis to Co air, by Wulther Rathenau
(George Allen & Unwin, Ltd.), has run into
many editions in Germany. Whatever
literary charm it possesses in the original is
lost in the translation, which has been done
by Eden and Cedar Paul with a heavy hand.
The author presents himself as a mournful
old philosopher, devoid of national hatreds,
though much of this, his most important
work, was written during the war, with a
tedious habit of repeating thoughts and con-
clusions which arc not now. The interest
aroused by the hook in the FutbfiTapd may
be due to the fact that it reflects the chas-
tened melancholy of a beaten people: it
offers no hope to the present generation ot
Germans and little to the next. It will help
the outside world to understand why Ger-
many lost tin' war. Consider this, written
in no critical spirit, much less with any
derisive intent: —
The common soldier reverences the white hand of
the officer; lie willingly allows himself to be ordered
about; addressed with a friendly “thou” he answers
respectfully with a “you”; with eager goodwill he
throws his whole body into the salute. Towards a
cultured superior of iiis own stock he will display
this lialf-Unconscious idolisation only when the object
of his regard has earned the highest personal respect,
whereas we reverence the high-bred superior by
natural instinct. .. .Millions of persons in Prussia are
animated by this self-sacrificing and servile spirit
characteristic of the lower strata. As far as popular
psychology is concerned, these traits are of great
value. They fashion the most disciplined and organ-
isable man that we know.
The author can see the value of this conven-
tion as applied to an army, and he evidently
approves of something like it in social life;
but its presence in statecraft makes him un-
easy. He recalls the ominous circumstance
that Germany has produced but one states-
man in the past hundred years— he
“was not of unmixed noble blood.” In Eng-
land a Welsh solicitor can become Prime
Minister, and in France and America the
statesmen and diplomatists are drawn from
the ranks of commercial men, journalists and
the like. In the Germany of which he writes,
however: —
A young official applies for an appointment in the
diplomatic service. He bears a noble name, is
wealthy, has a distinguished appearance, belongs to
one of the best students’ corps, has been an officer
in a crack regiment and is known to possess sound
political views. He has the additional of
occupying a position at Court. It is difficult to
refuse the application of such a suitor, who, if he
had- lost his property or left the service, would very
likely have contented himself making a living by
selling motor-cars.
“In days to come,” concludes Rathenau,
all this will be altered, since “the most
powerful business enterprise in the world
would be hopelessly ruined wfithin a single
generation if it were compelled by its articles
of association to choose its responsible leaders
from a circle of a thousand families.”
Yet he has no belief in democracy. Salva-
tion is to be found in moral and intellectual
supermen guiding the herd in the way it
should go. Perhaps two-thirds of the book
is taken up with embittered complaints of
“mechanisation” and its results —the latter
comprising, it is alleged, something like
slavery for the worker, and the destruction
of the employee’s higher artistic and ethical
instincts.
A reflective person is horrified when he walks the
streets and studies the shop windows. Utterly hid-
eous, produced to satisfy vulgar tastes, foolish and
harmful, null and perishable, is for the most pan.
what he will see carefully stored, brilliantly exposed
for sale, and offered at high prices. Is it true and
is it possible that millions must slave to make, to
transport and sell these things, to provide and to
collect the machinery and the raw materials requisite
to produce them ; that other millions must slave in
order to be able to buy such horrors ; and that yet
other millions covet them and are reluctantly com-
pelled to forego them?
But Carlyle said all this much more pic-
turesquely half a century ago. He, too, hated
democracy and believed in government by a
handful of “heroes.” He loathed shoddy and
the machines by which shoddy was pro-
duced. And, like Rathenau, he believed that
moral reform, gradually permeating the
whole nation, was the only panacea against
the discontents of his time. There is an
attack on the hyper-civilised woman which
is as spirited as it is true. But it is a
paraphrase almost of Schopenhauer’s judg-
ment on the same phenomenon—with traces
of Max Nordau and Aristophanes. Roman
law comes in for a severe bludgeoning. So
deep is the author’s dislike of the principle
of mortmain that he thunders his objections
to it in two different places in practically
the same words. Interest is discounted here
by the fact that an English school of thinkers
had been pegging away at the same target
for years before the war; and more latterly
Arthur Penty, in “A Guildsman’s Interpre-
tation of History,” made the logical advance
which Rathenau shuns and called for the
dethronement of Justinian as a model and
the setting up in his place of some code based
on the Communism of the Early Christians.
Although “In Days to Come” is a ponder-
ous affair of long, involved sentences, and
although as an exposition of the ills that
afflict Society it has no claims to originality,
while it hardly attempts to indicate their
cure, yet it is stimulating by reason of its
humanity and the sincerity of the writer.
J. B. D.
Study-Books
In spite of paper-shortage, high rates of
wages and other current evils in the printing
industry, the output of scientific books and
works continues at as furious a pace as ever,
and every month sees the millions already in
existence added to. A huge number of them
do not claim to be text-books or, indeed, to
give anything new to scientific knowledge,
and an equally huge number are no more
than dry hashes of preceding volumes. Why
their authors have given birth to them has
puzzled many teachers —and pupils, too, per-
haps—but recent, remarks of a London pub-
lisher of technical works lets light in on the
matter. Complaining of the way unknown
writers on medical and scientific subjects
monopolise the printing-press, to the exclu-
sion of other and more eagerly sought-after
volumes, he explained that most of their
productions are published at their own
expense, and the selling-price is often insuffi-
cient to cover the cost of publication. But
the issue is generally a prelude to an appli-
cation for a job, either in a University or in
some Government establishment, for by an
unexplained psychological process the man
whose name appears on the title page of a
hook is looked upon as being a better man
than one who has not aspired to authorship,
though he may have done far more original
work.
In Australia there are occupants of pro-
fessorial chairs whose literary output is
simply prodigious. Not content with maga-
zine ajid newspaper articles, in which editors
are apparently content to let them hold
forth on all manner of subjects, from physio-
logical chemistry to politico-economic science,
from time to time they brine forth a hook.
Herein they occupy a position which is
probably unique in the literary world, inas-
much as before their brain-child has emerged
they are able, not only to estimate to within
a dozen or so how many of each edition will
he sold and to regulate the hook’s price
accordingly, but to ensure that it will be
sold, and, what is more, read and studied.
This is accomplished by tin; simple process
of putting it on (lie list of prescribed text-
books which must be read by the student in
conjunction with its author’s lectures. And,
lest a student attempt to do without it, the
subsequent examination questions, also writ-
ten by the author, are set largely with an
eye to the subject-matter of the book.
At the moment of writing I have before
me a volume which bears the name of a
professor in a faculty which includes some
hundreds of students, each one of whom, it
is safe to assume, has purchased the book
at a price altogether disproportionate to
either the cost of its publication or the work
involved in its preparation. An examination
of it is disappointing. There is hardly a
sentence, indeed a line, which is not to be
found in some other work. To one familiar
with the bibliography of the subject, it is
plain that whole sections have been lifted
with little alteration from the standard
works. There is even to be found a mistake
which occurs uncorrected in a well-known
English hook on the subject. There might
he some mitigation of the offence if the tran-
scriber made acknowledgments of his sources,
hut none such appear.
This book is only one of a number with
which the Australian market has been flooded
during the past 20 years. The usual stereo-
typed apologimn, that they do not pretend
to be text-books or manuals, but are simply
compact compendia, serving students as
guides to the more bulky literature on the
subject, becomes banal in the light of the
fact that students are encouraged to “cram-
up” wholly from them. The more dangerous
aspect is 'that those who learn to depend
entirely on them acquire the viewpoint of
their writers, regardless of whether or not
this viewpoint is sound. The Americans,
who, in spite of the cloud under which their
Universities rested until a few years ago, and
who, notwithstanding the ill-advised .scoffing
still directed at their progress in education,
are leading'the rest of the world in scientific
research, have recognised this danger of one
man dominating his students’ minds, and
have sought to avoid it by means of text-
books which are the joint effort of as many
as 15 or 20 writers, each an authority in
his own sphere. Thus a recently-published
standard work on microbiology is made up
of 82 sections, each written by a different
person : and a manual of surgery and sur-
gical anatomy is the product of 27 leading
surgeons and anatomists. These two books
are prescribed by most Universities in the
United States for students to read—a re-
freshing change from the state of affairs at
Australian Universities, where, for instance,
to mention only one case, the prescribed
text-book on pathology is the professor’s
typewritten notes, which he retails to his
classes at nine shillings a year.
GREGOR.
The inky Way
“Arthenicc”: A week or two ago someone in-
quired about an exciting incident aboard the old
Cutty Sark that Conrad has made a book about. I
don’t know anything about the affair, but the par.
reminded me that I saw the Cutty Sark in Capetown
in ’l7. She is the last of the old Aberdeen wool and
tea clippers left afloat; Taiping, Sir Lancelot, Ther-
mopylae all have gone, but Cutty Sark remains. She
is a Portugee now, and named Ferreira ; but you can
still see, engraved on the brass of the steering-wheel,
and oil the bell, “Cutty Sark, Aberdeen.” The cap-
tain, a swarthy fellow with gold earrings, told us he
had been offered £2OO for the bell, but had refused:
and he also said that the ship sometimes did 14
knots even now. Cutty fe'ark is a barquentine these
days. She was dismasted in the Mozambique Channel
and they were altering her rig when we were there.
She was in filthy condition. Pigs slept in the fo’c’s’le,
a monkey was tied to the taffrail, and dogs sat on
deck mournfully - scratching themselves. Poor old
Cutty Sark! Sixty years ago she was the fastest ship
upon the seas, and the pride of England’s merchant-
service.


if
MAXI
9 9
k
Leather Belting.
riant Owners who use “MAXI” on
every drive in their plants are those
who know merit, desire it and are will-
ing to pay that reasonable price that
conscious merit usually demands.
Our policy has always been to produce in
Australia the best in Leather Belting, regard-
less of cost. We have never deviated from
this system. Every length of “MAXI”
Leather Belting is Ouaranteed.
Write for Piicr List.
JAMES HAROIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,” .
Cor. York &. Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY
Wool-Shearing: Costs
have advanced and all other expenditure
with woolgrowing. The best way to off-set
increased expenses is to get full rates for
the clip shorn. Send Your Wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane. LTD.
Selling Brokers whose sales are unfailingly
on top-market levels.
SCENTS OF GARDEN & DELL
The great charm of
Zenobia Perfumes is their
absolute fidelity to Nature.
Whether it is the luxurious
odour of the gorgeous blossom, or
the dainty loveliness of the more
simple bloom, you have it in
Zenobia—perfect, appealing, last-
ing— a memory of the. homeland.
7ENOBIA
Three favourite Zenobia Perfumes are:
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume of the name.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley — dainty
and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night-
Scented Stock —
sweet as the perfume
of an old-world
garden.
Manufactured only by
ZENOBIA, Ltd.,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England
Agent for Australia:
K. BUCKMASTER,
15, O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
lOi
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
I
m
K
BA
HQNSS
UL
K- -
Si
&Ss>
Sfe'
s
O
■S'©
2£3
23,
The Essence of Economy
“We must economise!’*
This is the spirit abroad
to-day, but how difficult to
observe when furnishing
the home.
Here are the rugs that
will “back up” your resolu-
tion in more ways than one.
They not only save you
money but also time and
trouble.
Just lay them on the floor with-
out fastening of any kind—they will
not shift or curl at the edges. A
damp mop is all that is necessary
to keep them clean and bright.
The Gold Seal is on every rug;
it is a positive pledge of satisfaction.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft. 9 ft. X 10 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 9 ft.
9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in. 9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
3&GUAKANTEE
tamrAcrioM ooaiavtmd
OB Youn XOWCY WUI ,
u uniNou A
Sole Australian Representatives :
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, and Perth
Though in Aussie I’m back on the old bush track,
I’m unsettled and can’t remain,
Ever-languishing still for my loved Lucille,
My beautiful belle of Louvain ;
Alas 1 there’s a lot of us think like that,
And it’s hard on the lassies, I’m sure,
Who made us their pride, and our trenches supplied
Mith Moods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wa Soppi.y—
JAHR AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in nil parts of the world.
r/
>\7.
A-/
f-i
•«H
> #
%/
V. >*' .
‘C#L
iW!
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water. ,
Send 4d. for Sample to /
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26//
Jamieson St., Sydney. N.S.W. /*/'
In 3 sizes oj Ml Chemists //&'.
and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK(S
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENGL
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Bussiness, Robbery
Etc
HOME PIPE
CONCRETE
“Kboat” : “G. 8.” (B. 14/7/’2l) must not
put all the blame upon the Australian sellers
for the condition in whiPh his consignment
of sparkling wine reached him in Bombay.
The fault is more with the Aussie wharfie
and the shipping of it. I have seen 40,000
cases of benzine stowed in American ports
with only a rare cast; broken; that same
cargo given to an Aussie wharfie gang to
handle would show 10 to 15 per cent, of
damaged cases. The same applies to Aus-
tralian jams, etc., shipped abroad, with the
result that the labels come off, tins get dented
in a rough repacking in the ship’s hold, and
the stuff goes ashore to be unjustly con-
demned for bad packing anti labelling.
*** * .
“Fax”: The Vic. branch of the National
Roads Assoc, is arranging a series of meet-
ings to agitate for an earlv extension of “the
Prince’s Highway” from Melbourne to Adel-
aide, and the S’Australian branch is co-
operating, Propaganda work is awakening
the States to a sense of their backwardness
in road-making, and Victoria has consider-
able improvement to show already. In aid
of propaganda funds a Color-trails Route
Map of Vic. has been published by the N.R.A.,
and all country councils, progress associa-
tions, etc., are besought to assist the effort
to get posts colored on the “trails” in accord-
ance with the map. The P.M.G. has autho-
rised the N.R.A. to paint the telegraph poles
as desired —lft. width of trail color (green,
red, blue or black) against a broad band of
white. Where the're is no telegraph line the
route can be marked on other posts, or
rocks, or trees. The large route map, which
is a thing to be encouraged, is sold at 6d„
so encouragement doesn’t cost much.
* * • »
“Rovert”: Our local lawyer about, a
month back voluntarily gave some advice to
Johnson regarding a strange cow that made
a habit of invading his poultry run, and later
for this advice he sent a bill to the fowl-man
for a guinea. Last week Mr. Costs bought a
dozen leghorns from Johnson, and when tak-
ing delivery received a few useful hints from
the chook expert about feeding, etc. To day
the lawyer received this bill:—
To one doz. fowls, £3 ; to advice re same, £1 Is. :
total £4 Is.
Costs’ guffaws are still echoing through our
hamlet
**'*■*
“M.M.T.”: This happened to me at Sama-
rai. Having boxed un a few curios for the
folks at home, I applied to the Customs office
tor an export entry blank. “It will cost von
threepence,” said the clerk. Then he looked
at the list of the box’s contents. “You must
put down every single curio,” he added.
“Better take three blanks. You’ll need
them.” “Right,” said I, laying a shilling
upon the counter. He counted out four
blanks and pushed them toward me and
turned on his heel. “What’s the extra blank
for?” I asked. “Oh,” said he, over his
shoulder, “that’s your change from the bob.”
“Pick”: Millet brooms from Europe are
still largely sweeping Australian doorsteps.
Back in ’B4, when I was log-cutting for the
Coolumbooka sawmill (South Coast, N.S.W.),
my gunyah was shared for a time by a broom-
maker, who had contracted to supply a
Bombala storekeeper with brooms made from
a wiry plant that covers the extensive hill-
sides of that region. By the users his brooms
were reckoned quite as good and more last-
ing than the imported article; but the price
was 21d. more. So the manufacturer lost his
contract, and tons of excellent material have
been going to waste ever since.
THE SUNG OF THE SIXTY-MILERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
K.S.W.
Oh, do you know the little ships
That daily come and go.
The little sixty-miler ships,
That plug along on little trips,
Let winds blow high or low,
To Catherine Ilill or Wollongong,
lviama Town or Gonierong?
Oh, listen to my little song
And 1 will let you know!
Now did you see a little ship
Limp into Broken Bay,
A little sixty-miler ship.
That wallowed in the ocean's grip.
Up Barrenjoey, way?
From Sydney Heads she cleared out light
To make the Nobbys ere the night,
But shipped a sea that won the fight,
And washed her bridge away.
Vou never saw a little craft
Hove to off Norah Head,
A tittle sixty-miler craft.
With one big hatch, and engines aft, '
Bluff through a night of dread,
Coal laden down to l*limsoll mark.
Head reaching for the distant spark
Of Norah Head’s five seconds are.
When you are snug in bed.
But you have seen a little boat
Come home through Pyrmont Cate,
A little sixty-miler boat;
That Providence has kept afloat:
Which makes the traffic wait.
And Vet in spite of all delay,
You should be glad you’ve got to stay
Because yon know that, any way,
To-night she's safe from Fate.
Oh, learn to know the little ships
That daily come and go.
The little sixty-miler ships
That plug along on little trips,
Let winds blow high or low,
To Catherine Hill or Wollongong,
lviama Town or Comerong,
For each of them has got a song
That Sydney folk should know.
STANLEY O. BATT.


Iv b*
m
Miss Marie Tempest is not alone in
the appreciation of “Robur” tea —it
appeals to all who have a refined sense
of taste, and we think the No. 1 Grade
will appeal to you if you give it a trial:
it has a delightful aroma, a delicious
flavour, it turns a lovely goldy creamy
color with milk and it is very saving
tea to use.
THE “ ROBUR ” TEA CO.
James Service &. Co., Proprietors
«w;
■SEE
nrrn
r
When one looks for the reasons why the Hupmobfle is so generally regarded
as an exceptional value, he quickly discovers that beauty of design is one of
the foremost. The Hupmobile is always spoken as being an unusually
handsome can
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS,
Body Types.— Flre-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3%in. bore x 5% in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and —Electric —two-unit system
Ignition.—High-tension mageto.
Carburetter.—Adj ustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum rwt.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type— 7 plates.
Tyres. —Bls x 105 mm. Clincher, or 32in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color. —Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


.. ~ n
... mm mm
'A-' |
-v
7
m
A
m
S’
c
m
/
WHEN YOU HAVE A COLD.
Remember —There is one good remedy that can always
be relied upon to quickly, easily, and safely relieve and
remove all throat constrictions, coughs, hoarseness,
bronchitis and other bronchial troubles, which is
perfectly pure and absolutely sure, good for children and
grown folks too —that is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Granny Chamberlain
f
Dodgeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
Its preference is so pronounced
that cars of two, three or four
years’ use are eagerly sought for.
It performs faithfully over a long
period of service and its cost of
repairs is small and infrequent.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
DETOUH
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. Standardised Motors, Limited, Sydney.
Cheney Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth. Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Ltd., Brisbane.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
Alf Faulkner, just re-elected Mayor of
feoutli Brisbane by a vast majoritv, is no
new hand at riding in the whirlwind and
directing the storm. I n the palmiest days of
Queensland football, he was one of the'be-t
Rugby referees in Australia-his rival was
the late Major Jim Macmananiv, killed at
the Landing.
A prosperous little Adelaide land co has
just wound itself up. It was formed 10
years ago to buy Pile’s Paddock, in an
eastern suburb near the hills, and turn it
into Kensington Gardens, w.th a 40-acre
dark in the middle. The public came strondv
at the garden allotments. Shareholders got
their original pound per share back almost
at once, and have had two guineas profit.
T. P. Strickland, assistant chief electrical-
engineer to the Ma State’s railways and
trams, is to throw up his job in October, to
take the better-paid and more-responsible one
of chief electrical-engineer to the Melbourne
Tram Board. lie is only 45, and is a
bachelor of engineering of Sydney Uni. and
a master of science of McGill Uni., Canada.
Though born in X. S. Wales, lie acquired
much experience in Canada and U.S.A.
“Te Pana”: Ashburton, Maoriland's
original prohibition town, offers mild amuse-
ment to the stranger within its gates. (Ja
the arrival of the express train from the
nearest hamlet sporting a brewery, thirsty
citizens line up waiting their three-bottle
packages; and it is on record that there are
more claims for lost parcels in the arid town
than any other place m the Shaky Isles.
Masterton and Invercargill, other dry spots,
have breweries on their skirt-hems; less
fortunate Ashburton has to drag its liquor
some distance.
“Wodgil” : I am grateful to Senator Prat-
ten for getting a list of prohibited imports
published in Hansard. The new index is
too long to reprint, but it is interesting, even
fascinating. Consider what we owe to the
unsleeping vigilance of a Government that
refuses to let us be morally debauched by
the introduction, inter alia, of beerine, Bibles
(German), Bolshevik literature, carbide,
oornsacks, crystal balls, eggs (in liquid
form), electric belts, essence of gin and
rum, ferrets, imitation brandy, Maxim
silencers, Mattoi medicines, prospectus of the
Irish Republican loan, stoats and weasels,
suffragette bombs (whatever they may be)
and a song entitled “The Sinn Fein Volun-
teers.”
“T. 0.1.”: The late W. T. Waters, of the
“Golden Corner” (Sydney), was an Antrim
man, and the founder and first president of
the Ulster Association, of which I was a
member. A fundamental rule was that poli-
tics and sectarianism should be left on the
doormat. To-day the association invites
Copeland Trimble to orate at a banquet. But,
as a matter of fact, the wordy Irish visitor
is not entitled to speak for Ulster. Only
four counties out of the nine are exclusively
Union ; Cavan, Leitrim and Donegal returned
Sinn Feiners in 1918, and Fermanagh
(Trimble’s county) and Tyrone are divided,
returning two Unionists, one Nationalist and
two Sinn Feiners.
“Rio”: Some military men in Melbourne
are objecting to the arming of our Light
Horse with a sword. They contend tnat
cavalry is out of date and useless. This may
have been so in France, which is one of the
most enclosed countries in the world; never-
theless the Big War produced the largest
mounted force and the most sustained and
successful cavalry pursuit with the most
decisive results in history. Mounted com-
bats were common, and the decision to adopt
the sword was come to unanimously by tae
senior officers engaged, including many Aus-
tralians. Now the Commonwealth in her pos-
sible theatres of war has much country per-
fectly suited to mounted troops, and to abol-
ish our Light Horse because Flanders didn't
suit it would be stupid. In such matters
Palestine has more to teach us than the Low-
lands.
The first Mount Lyell Co. was formed in
1893 to take over the property from Grotty.
Dixon and others. The work done since then
has been gigantic. Dr. E. D. Peters, the
American metallurgist, reported to the direc-
tors in May. 1893, that there were then
delimited 4,(i00,(X)0 tons of iron and copper
pyrites, representing at current prices of
metals £15,292,500, with an estimated net
profit for shareholders of £7,012,500. At
the end of 1920 one part of Dr. Peters s
prediction had been proved in an almost
magical manner. The gross proceeds of
metals had been £15,009,116, hut only
£3,830,017 had been paid in divs. At Sep-
tember 30, 1920, reserves of ore were esti-
mated at 2,816,027 dry tons, which at the
present rate of smelting will take about 1<
years to exhaust. After 27 years’ working
the life of the mine cannot yet be prophe-
sied, as there must be a lot more ore to be
unearthed. Of the total output of the Alt.
Lyell mine so far, wages have taken 40 P-°-
and shareholders 25 p.c. It is remarkable
that only £89,100 of cash has been sub-
scribed as capital.
The ways of the “decentralisation” move-
ment, if it is a movement and not a retreat-
ing fossil, haven’t changed in the last H
years. A further instalment of the census
shows that the crowding of people into ax
capital cities is the greatest in Australia»
record or (and this is saving a big thingi
the world’s known record. The capitals have
gained about 650,000 people in 10 years:
the rural districts about 160,000. Metropoli-
tan population grew by 38 per cent, despit
much professed official discouragement.
Rural population, despite the spending ot
millions and millions of loans to put people
on the land, grew by less than 9 per cent.
It might not have grown at all save for the
Repat., which claims credit for 20,000 sol
diers and their families. This suggests that
the old settlement or decentralisation method
.is hypocrisy. The method consists of some-
body like Lang sitting down in the bigge>-
city, gathering to him there all the revenue
of 300 000 square miles of country, and urg-
ing people not to gather round the money--
just as he might tell flies not to gather round
the honey. There being not only twice a*
much revenue but twice as much loan mone}
in some of the capitals as there was 10 year-
ago, the crowd naturally gathers doser, ]U-
as the flies would. Men and flies are bunt
that way.


3
x
I
m
mm 3
t
j eiiV
*s
J
. ham
BACON. VEAL
and
T ONGUE
MnaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiumHnmD
WHEN APPETITES
NEED TEMPTING!
Serve “ Rex ” Camp Pie —enough in each
tin for five adults. No cooking or warm-
ing up wanted. It is made of the choicest
meats compounded, cooked and seasoned
in the tastiest manner.
Serve it with salad -there is nothing more
appetizing or trouble saving.
All grocers sell it.
PACKED BY—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
1885
r
p.
(J..
f/ / /
H'i
\\±
Shirts
FOR HOLIDAY WEAR
Made in Australia
Thistle Shirts for holiday wear will give you. the
utmost in shirt comfort.
Ask for them- in Tennis or Tourist style. You
are offered a most varied range
of attractive patterns —whilst the
cut of Thistle Shirts instantly
suggests the headwork of master
designers.
Thistle Shirts stand the
test of the tub and the
test of wear. They give
you longer service and
better service, and in
actual use they’ll quickly
prove their True
Economy.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS, LTD
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
Accept No Sub-
stitutes. The
Thistle Trade
Mark is Your
Safe guard.
AS 62
m
m.
j
W:
Mia
m
o*n each s ' lir
8
Sal
ae
b
V.
a,
£
3KS
m
&p iwfs
LA
-Nf/
High-Speed MACHINE TOOLS
MODERN WOODWORKING MACHINES
AT OUR COST PRICE.
THE LARGEST STOCKS IN AUSTRALIA.
STOCKS OF MACHINE-TOOLS COMPRISE:
Roots Blowers.
Electric Blowers.
Bar Cutters.
Lever Shears.
Magnetic Chucks.
Air Compressors.
Arbor Presses.
Hoefer 20in. Drills.
English 20in. Drills.
Bench Drills.
Sensitive Drills.
Foot Lever Presses.
Fly Presses.
Radial Drillers.
Electric Drills.
Wet Tool Grinders.
Foundry Grinders.
Belt Linishers.
Hand Metal Planers.
Mult. Spindle Drills.
Albany H. S. Drills.
Heavy Metal Planers.
Wells’ Univ. Tool Grinders.
Heavy Universal Grinders.
Brown Sharpe Surface Grinders.
Twist Drill Grinders.
Jones Shipman Univ. Grinders.
Sterling Hacksaw Machines.
Portable Slotters.
Portable Keyway Cutters.
English Metal Shapers.
14in. Steptoe Shapers.
20in. Thule Shapers.
Foundry Moulding Machines.
Denbigh Milling Machines.
Perco Bench Millers.
Brown Sharpe Univ. Millers.
Brown Sharpe Vert. Millers.
Steptoe Hand Millers.
Bathe Milling Attachments.
Index Centres and Dividing Heads.
Rhodes Shaper & Slotter Comb’d.
Foster Capstan Bathes.
Foster Turret Bathes.
Geared lid. Turret Bathes.
Barnes Sliding Bed Bathes.
4in. centre Britannia Bathes.
6in. centre English Mascot Bathes,
llin. swing Shephard Bathes.
in. x Bft. Picker sgill High-
Speed Bathes.
sin. x sft. High-speed Holbrook
Bathe.
6in. x 6ft. High-speed Holbrook
Bathe.
6in. x sft. High-speed Toolroom
Bathe.
7in. x Bft. High-Speed Toolroom
Lathe.
7 M in. v 6ft. 6in. Geared Head Col-
chester Lathe.
6 M in. x 6ft. Geared Head Col-
chester Lathe.
7M in. x Bft. Colchester Quick-
change Lathe.
7Min. x 10ft. Colchester Quick-
change Lathe.
13in. centre Colchester Surfacing
Lathe.
13in. swing x 6ft. bed Sebastian
Lathe.
15in. swing x 7ft. bed Sebastian
Lathe.
15in. x 7ft. bed Geared Head
Quick-change Lathe.
sMin. x 6ft. 6in. Monks Quick-
change Lathe.
8 M in. centre x Sin. Redman Lathe.
BMin. x Bft. 3in. bed W. B. Haigh
& Co. Lathe.
Bin. x Bft. sin. Ohio Q.C. Precision
Lathe.
9in. x Bft.. sin. Ohio Q.C. Precision
Lathe.
856 in. x 9ft. Denham High-speed
Lathe.
634 in. x 7ft. Denham High-speed
Lathe.
454 in. x 4ft. Atkinson V-bed Pre-
cision Lathe.
4Vz in. x 4ft. Bench Atkinson ditto.
854 in. x Bft. Graham & Norman-
ton Lathe.
10 J 4 in. x 10ft. Graham & Norman-
ton. Lathe.
956 in. x 10ft. Mitchell English
Lathe.
1254 in. x 12ft. Mitchell English
Lathe.
10 54 in. x 14ft. Stanley Heavy Eng-
lish Lathe.
12 54 in. x 16ft. Stanley Heavy Eng-
lish Lathe.
14in. swing x Bft. bed Cisco Q.C.
Lathe.
16in. swing x Bft. bed Cisco Q.C.
Lathe.
13in. swing x 6ft. bed South Bend
Lathe.
Polishing Lathes and Buffs.
Foundry Grinding Machines.
Automatic Screw' Machines.
Chatwin Screwing Machines.
ALL THE ABOVE AT OUR COST PRICE.
Quotations, Specifications, Illustrations on application. Mention this advertisement.
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Olarence St,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


V
P
Make Shaving a Pleasure
With Cuticura Talcum
After shaving with Cuticura Soap the
Cuticura way, Cuticura Talcum is an in-
dispensable adjunct. Antiseptic and pro-
phylactic, it is soothing and refreshing to
the most tender skin.
Soapls..Talcumls.6(li,Ointmentls.and2s.
For sample Soap and Ointment free ad-
R. Towns & Co., Sydney. N. S. W."
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug*
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Aii y Address
by tile Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.SM.
Postuge to United
States, 3d.
Let no loss or grief dishearten!
Life is but a chequered span,
Take it biting! Take it fighting 1
Take reverses like a man;
Let no difficulties stay you,
Keep your “punch” and you’ll endure,
Let no chronic cold dismay you,
Pour in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. — Advt.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
■ They are reliable.
The satisfactory service obtained!
from genuine B.S.A. Fittings is a
point which has gained the approval
of thousands of experienced riders
whose appreciation is one of the
most valuable proofs of quality and
reliability. Comfort and long service
are the chief features of all models.
Be sure you get a bicycle built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
k
B.S.A.
A Sign of
Quality.
Send for Catalogue and
particulars post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd. I,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will Quote you price for it.
Tube
nulikNewsom Valve
r. i ■
Uii
<:V.'
pi]
m
IT JUST
CANT LEAK I
The Colo Tube and
the Newsom Valve
form a strong combination. The valve
does not depend alone on air pressure
for its efficiency.
Exclusive devices effectively seal the
valve, and maintain a constant stan-
dard pressure .
Ask your garagt
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office
Also at
5-7 Barrack St., Sydney
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
For Infants
an all-important advantage.
Babies and growing children obtain from Benger’s Food
the great advantages of being reared on pure fresh milk,
lhese include healthful natural growth unchecked by the
under-nourishment which arises from unsuitable food.
d
Food
is always prepared with fresh milk, or milk and water
according to the age of the child.
It is specially prepared to adjust the milk to the delicate digestion
of children and invalids. All the great good in milk Nature’s
all-important food becomes available with Benger's.
• "Renaer’ii ’ ood and Hou>< to U « it."— A little work of authority on the feeding of
the aged, a moat interesting and informative booklet—post free . rorn
BENGERS FOOD LTD.,
A*
Bole Proprietor* and Manufacturer*: BENOEE 8 POOD. LTD., MAM CHERT
A smoke sign in letters three:
A good smoke—a good pipe—a GBD.
The smoke sign that indicates
to smokers everywhere a per-
fect pipe to fill at will with the
assurance of complete satisfac-
tion.
mmm
*
vj ?m
GBD
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
Irvine, C.J., by joining the council of
Melbourne Uni., has taken the first step
towards the Chancellorship, which was held
by his predecessor, John Madden, up til.
the time of his death. Meantime, fellow-
knight Macfarland is doing verra weel at
the head of the table.
“Little Willie” : On the way down to the
city from Tin Pan Gully he had heard some-
thing about an aerial-transport service, so
when he first saw the overhead tram-wires
he wagged his whiskers meditatively for a
while and then remarked: “I expec’ them’s
the lines the airships’ll run along.”
The man responsible for the challenged
decision that N. S. Wales pubs might legally
remain open till 11, W. G. Burton Smith,
S.M., is a native-born product of Maitland,
who in his youth was a very fine cricketer,
later won the Bathurst golf championship
and later still (he is 60 now) was a bowls
champion in Wellington and Mosrnan.
It was mentioned in the Senate the other
day that Australia is turning out large quan-
tities of whisky, but the produce of the
Australian distilleries is rarely to be seen
(in a recognisable form, anyhow) on Bung’s
shelves. According to Senator Pratten, the
solution of the mystery is that a great deal
of it is sent abroad. “Last year,” says
I ratten, “over 200,000 gallons of proof spirit
were exported to Great Britain. And I sup-
pose most of it will return to us as good
old Scotch.” It is a .safe bet that a lot of it
will.
Bio ’: Queer how the Greek fish-shop pro-
prietor seems constitutionally unable to
acquire Australian ideas of cleanliness. In
our .small country town a Dago lately opened.
He was civil, looked clean, kept good fish and
was well patronised. Then one day his next-
door neighbor saw smoke issuing from a cer-
tain small structure at the rear of the Greek’s
shop. Bushing round he shouted to the
steaka-da-oyst merchant: “Hey! Your back
premises are on fire.” Dago was quite un-
concerned. “No, no!” .said he, “that all-a
right—l smoka da feesh in there.”
“D. 0.”: My female relations had been to
the General Cemetery to do up the grave of
a beloved. They had tended it and deposited
on it a wreath, and Were at work on a
friend’s lot, when to their astonishment and
indignation they saw a woman go to the
former grave, take up the new wreath, and
carrying it to a mound at some distance be-
stow it carefully above her dead, where there
were already two or three wreaths and bou-
quets, all, as was subsequently proved, taken
from adjoining graves. Convicted of her
crime, the sobbing woman could only say:
It was the least I could do for Jimmie—he
was such a good husband to me.”
Homo”: Just-dead James Barley Sharp,
who had been Anglican rector at Brunswick
(Vic.) for 2.3 years, was often mistaken for
an R.C. priest. At Coburg once he buried
the victim of some turf disaster, a person
with a very Hibernian name, and, in the
presence of the assembled jockevs and other
mourners, made a touching oration. During
the ceremony there was a confab, between a
small stable coterie, from the midst of which
whispered “I bet yous” came at intervals.
Later one of the cognoscenti approached
®h. ar P and nervously asked him a question,
‘res, certainly,” said the parson cheerily.
“As a matter of fact, I am a priest, a'bd
was ordained as such, but I’m more com-
monly known as a Church of England min-
ister.” “Gorblime!” ejaculated his ques-
tioner, “ ’nd I just done in a lovely quid on
y’ over it.”
“beachcomber”: I was much interested in
‘Queenslander’s” par. re the possibility of
tinning Northern crabs (B. 28/7/’2l). And
what about making, better use of turtle-shell,
beche-de-mer, dugong and other tropical sea-
wealth V B€che-de-mer is probably worth
i 70,000 a year for export, though practically
no white man gets a job. Turtle-shell is
ravished by ail the colored ex-Australia
tribes, and dugong, quite the most original
of Australian sea-mammals, is nearly wiped
out. \‘et the Australian manhatee is almost
as important a.s the dodo and the moa, and,
indeed, more important, because it is not yet
slaughtered out of existence. Like the buffalo
in the Far North, which is being exterminated,
2°, on - e seems to think of our unique northern
fisheries in terms other than those of “be
damned to them !”
“Te Babarantiko”: As a matter of right
Australian workmen should have the oppor-
tunity to make their living in the phosphate
quarries on Ocean Island and Nauru, part-
held by Australia. It is never hotter there
than it is at, say, Broken Hill, and, anyway,
the working hours could be from 6 till 10
a.m. and 4 till S p.m.—two hours by electric
light; or on alternate weeks 4 p.m. till 1
a.m., and 1 till 10 a.m., with one hour’s
interval for a meal. For many years the
Pacific Phosphate Co. has worked men from
temperate Japan on wages and contract work
on Ocean Island from 6 a.m. till 5 p.m.,
breakfast- and dinner-hour allowed, and the
Japs grow fat physically while'their banking
accounts also swell. Chinese from temperate
China are similarly employed on Nauru.
White Australian workmen could certainly
do as well and better. Therefore—why not?
It was rather mean-spirited of the Vic.
National Federation to hesitate over endors-
ing the candidature of Speaker John Mackey
for Gippsland \V est because he had sprung
a surprise on the House by putting the no-
confidence amendment in sections. The
Cocky party had consulted the Speaker
beforehand, and of course he had to
respect the confidence of the Allan group,
just as he does that of Lawson’s party when
it consults him. Mackey didn’t do any
penance to gratify the Federation, but it is
known that he strode along to a couple of
Cabinet chieftains with a “What does this
mean?” sort of air, with the result that it
was explained next day by Lawson that it
was all a mistake —that Mackey’s name was
omitted accidentally from the first list
because, having been in the chair, he was not
among those who had voted against the no-
confidence challenge. Lawson was wise
enough to recollect that the Chamber was
still echoing the eulogium he had pronounced
on Mackey at the recent opening of the ses-
sion.


every Milestone-Therecßack
knows a
M
rack
•V'
i
J
/
■
m
«
#7
V
nr
m
*3k
i
w*
1
fg
!
X-N-l'M-
-1
n
5S®:
mm
38M
Uv
LC:
m
I
I.US
IMS
sM
a£,
JT
/
/
wm
m
■ •■■'
mm
i»
/
ilifw
s2By±
*3
€1
/
&!(
w*'\
wm
w
90//
-r
mm m
IM
Sp
SMS
£***
5*3
M
wm
f
m
m
rr
MELBOURNE
/
5*5
/
iiiiiii
m
m
£
/
-
■
2
m
y
m
/
/:
mm
m
m
■
Hi
/
U t-*'*
<f r
MILES
/ .
V/.
/
/
m
/
a.
/
,S ■*'
m.
.s
#z£mM
■m.
mm-
i[lii
m
s'
yt£&y.
09.
Wmm
■*z-
gin
,7
m
/
/
mwm
mmm
■m
Barnet Glass
£ Australian
TYRES


A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintilv enyraved,
20/-
loot. Gold, £2.
V. Saunders’
Emerald
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
l’earl Scarf
lln, 15ct. Gold,
£3.
A. SAUNDER
‘ I
A. Saunderr,'
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, ISct.
Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-,
A. Saunders' fine
doublc-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, loct.
Gold, £2O.
A. SauijdeiV
doiilde-e t Dianiord
Crossover Riny,
I See. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
tine Diamond
Start' Pin, Isct.
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-; heavier,
25/-, 30/-
loot. Gold, £2,
£2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18 t. Gold,
£l5, £2O, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£3O.
A. Saunders’ (ine-
quality, double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£35.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, 15 d.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
loct. Gold, £lO.
Smaller Diamonds, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
Milgrain Setting,
£25.
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’ Lady's solid Gold, Patent Expanding
A\ristlet \\atoll, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l2/10/-. loot. Gold,
£l7/10/-. £2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Geiit.'s fine
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders' fine, double-cut Diamond Bracelet, loot.
Gold, £3O. Larger Diamonds, £4O, £5O, £6O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Circle Brooch,
loot. Gold,
£4/10/-
Diamonds and Pearl,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diaraon 1
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring.
18ct. Gold, £25.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil King, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
Gold hand-made .
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, £4O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£25.
Seven Points of
“Billabong” Practice.
The “Billabong” is a favorite water-raiser over big areas of
Australia, differing in temperature, altitude and working
conditions. Some exclusive patented points of construction
show why it is the universal Mill—reliable under all conditions
—and why its straight-out mechanical simplicity allows it to be
sold at the price of an ordinary Mill.
1. Built stronger than is actually necessary for normal
conditions.
2. SAFE IN WILD WEATHER. The Patented
combined Speed Regulator and Governor prevents
racing, and pulls the wheel out of the wind when a
gale or storm blows; no broken sails or pump-rods.
3. Speed of the “Billabong” can be changed while the
Mill is working, to suit Summer-Winter or local
conditions.
4. Bearings are easy of access and can be renewed
without moving any gear.
5. Oil supply is controlled by the Mill, and oil is used
on the bearings only when Mill is running.
6. Ball-bearing bedplate, making the “Billabong” silent
in action; works without waking you. A satisfied
user from Gunnedah writes: “R is the quietest-running
mill I have ever seen; in fact, I think everything is
just perfect.”
7. Light working owing to direct centre lift and
minimum of friction between crank-rod and guide;
works while ordinary mills are spelling.
SEND FOR THE FREE “BILLABONG” BOOK IT’S
EDUCATIONAL, AND SHOWS HOW TO LAY OUT
A MILL AND PIPES FOR PUMPING FROM RIVER
CREEK, DAM, BORE-HOLE OR WELL.
■NHOP
ftu/tuttf'*
MfKS
6 SON-Pty.Ltd
324-330 Pitt St.
SYDNEY.
391-403 Bourke St.
MELBOURNE.
i
fiiSt
m


UAST DAYS!
A CHANCE OF
£3250 for 1/-
£lOOO
Katoomba Thousand
£lOOO
Drawing Extended.
GIGANTIC ART UNION
in Aid of
Blue Mountains A., H. and I.
Society’s Show-ground
Improvement Fund.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.)
£lOOO FIRST PRIZE £lOOO
£5OO SECOND PRIZE £5OO
£250 THIRD PRIZE £250
TOTAL PRIZES, £3250.
Drawn Wednesday, September 7, 1921
Winning Numbers Published Sept. 10, 1921.
1 /- ONLY—TICKETS—I/- ONLY.
By Post, 1/2. Two or more Post
Free.
5 TICKETS FOR 5/-
Each ticket has 150 CHANCES
and can possibly win £3250.
Tickets Obtainable from
N.S.W. Bookstall, all Branches; also Hair-
dressers and Tobacconists in £ity, Suburbs and
Country.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Main Street, Katoomba, N.S.W.
The Standard Remedy which haß outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army ami Navy men.
ďf
TTsed since 15!>6. FOR Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
Missing Friends.
T ORlMER.—lnformation is sought as to the where-
Av abouts of WILLIAM LORIMER, who left Bel-
laghy, Co. Derry, Ireland, for Australia about eight
years ago. Any person supplying information will
be rewarded. Brother inquires.
Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
SY I) X K Y’S CIII F, F TII EATKBS.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER:
lIKIt .MAJESTY’S.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
ROYAL.
OH, LADY, LADY!
CRITERION.
MR. PIM PASSES BY.
P
A I- A C 10 T II K A T It 10. Si V
Lessees: J. & X. TAIT.
Direction BAILEY & GRANT.
II N E Y.
ON OUR SELECTION,
STEELE RUDD’S GREAT WORK.
BERT BAILEY’S INCOMPARABLE DAD.
EVERY NIGHT. MATINEES WEDS, and SATS.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Allan wilkie siiakspeauean
I’KODLCTIONa.
NORTH ISLAND N.Z. TOUR.
Australasian Rrprescntaii\e: '•UGII I). WILSON.
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
UNI O N I* ICTi; It 10 I' II 10 Alli 10 >
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
ACK CARNOT’S PALAIS BE DANSE,
Beach Street, Coogee.
Every Saturday Night. Admission—2/-, Plus Tax.
ROSENTHAL’S JAZZ BAND.
Special late Evening Dress Night—Thursday,
August 18, 8 to 1 a.tu.
Admission 7/6, Plus Tax. Supper included.
Special Late Tram leaves Coogee Terminus 1 a.m.
Balloons, Streamers, Competitions, Take Tram to
Terminus. Tel.: Rand. 141.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPH COYNE and his Comedy Co. in
NIGHTIE NIGHT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Play that ran for THREE YEARS in
LONDON and 155 Nights in SYDNEY.
THE LILAC DOMINO.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
AI NO SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
GLADYS WALTON in
RICH GIRL, POOR GIRL.
Also
EUGENE O’BRIEN in
BROADWAY AND HOME.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
KlXfi'S TIIKA'l'liK. MISI.HOV It N R-
Lessees: BERT BAILEY & JULIUS GRANT.
Direction J.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Daring and Fascinating
Prices as usual.
& N. TAIT.
Cosmo Hamilton’s
Play, “SCANDAL.”
Plan at Allan’s.
G
I, A C 1 A
It I U >l. M ELKO VitN E.
ICE SKATING.
"EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
ADMISSION:
AFTERNOONS .. 2/6
EVENINGS 2/3
|y|A.)KSTIC THEATRE. MEI.KOUJtNK.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
HOUSE PETERS and JANE NOVAK in
ISOBEL.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gItITAN.MA THEATRE. tl 1'.1.K0 L iiMi.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PI Cl IJ It CS.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| EI.IIA THEATRE. Al EI.KOU ICNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PAHIE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Ruby and Dia-
monds, set in
pure platinum,
£lO.
Fine Diamonds,
set in platinum,
£3O.
A Jeweller’s
Business.
A high-class jeweller’s business depends for
growth on its reputation. Few people have
an intimate knowledge of the value of Gems,
or of the thousands of articles of a jeweller’s
stock.
Hence a high-class jewellery business to be
successful must be built on foundations of
absolute reliability.
Reliability on statements of qualities.
Reliability on statements of values.
Reliability of wearing features.
Reliability on the latest fashions.
In short, on CHARACTER. As our business has
shown increases every year for forty years past
(except 3 914) we feel that the public accords
us a good reputation for reasonable prices and
reliable goods.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
n ‘c"„h F oS“ 23 825 Hunter Street.
Missing Friends.
McMORRAN, JOHN. —Left Ireland for Melbourne
about 20 years ago. Anyone knowing where-
abouts of abovenamed (beneficially entitled in
deceased person’s Estate), please communicate with
BERNARD NOLAN, Solicitor, 408 Collins Street,
! Melbourne.
The DIGGERS’
LOAN.
The Commonwealth Government, in
its conduct of the National business, is
calling for a £10,000,000 Loan.
PREVIOUS PEACE LOANS.
The following sums have been expended on
the repatriation of soldiers: —
Land Settlement .... £26,000,000
War Service Homes . . 12,200,000
War Gratuities 2,800,000
£41,600,000
But all the money spent on Repatriation has
not been borrowed. In addition £11,300,000
has been paid out of Revenue for Repatria-
tion (General Benefits, Vocational Training,
Furniture Grants, Unemployment Susten-
ance and grants to men under special medi-
cal treatment).
THE MONEY WILL COME BACK
These millions are not lost. They have
created national assets. All that has been
used in Land Settlement and in War Service
Homes will be re-paid by the ex-soldiers. The
rest has put ex-soldiers in employment, and
has helped to make professional men, efficient
tradesmen, producers and workmen.
THE NEED.
The money is needed to fulfil promises
made to the soldiers when their valuable ser-
vices were in urgent demand.
A GOOD PROPOSITION.
The nominal rate of interest is 6 per cent.,
but as the Loan is being issued at £96 per
£lOO, the average yield works out at £6 12s,
per cent, per annum. This is 11s. higher
than the Second Peace Loan.
The rate of interest, the conversion rights
and the freedom from State Income Tax
make the loan an attractive business proposi-
tion.
LODGE YOUR APPLICATIONS
At any Bank or State Savings Bank.
At any Money Order Post Office.
With any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
JOSEPH COOK, Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury, Bth August, 1921.
d
f
mw
r
m
■
■
5
£>'v
mm
U
r-"
*@S5
Mit
P.I
Faster Work—Lower
Costs-Longer Service
Three important factors
in the Successful
Machine-shop to-day.
Kempsmith universal
MILLING MACHINES
stand for all three—fast,
accurate work, economical to
operate, and have the strength and
rigidity to cope with the severest
strains imposed by modern mill-
ing methods.
SOLE AGENTS—
Parße and Lacy
Co. Ltd.,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney


Pure Silk, Silk-faced, Fibre Silk,
Lusterised Lisle. Extra-stretch Top
in a Wide Range of Prices.
HOSE PERFECTION.
Specialised methods in designing and
knitting produce a closely-woven texture
of Remarkable Durability and Resplen-
dent Beauty unsurpassed for the money
by any Hosiery in the World.
TRY ONE PAIR.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Kov*^ AJESTY ’ S “The Maid of the Mountains”
Ckitkkiok ’; : • ‘‘Oh Lady, Lady ! ”
Palace .. U J,\ 11 ™ t asaes
Hoyt's ur Election”
L'kion Tji’eaViiVV Moving Picture*
Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOU COMING WEEK.
Ko?a“ AJKSTV,S “The Lilac Domino”
King's “Nightie Night"
tin uA & L ' clum • Moving
HKn ANN.V;:: Moving -Pictures
Majfsttp Moving Pictures
gucSmV::::. ••• Movi v- p J ct^
lce Skating
+
tlle Mountains” reminds
i-iduey that it has another grievance. The
ady arrived at Melbourne on January 22
the intention being that she should stay a
month or so-just long enough for board*
ing-house sopranos to learn how to massacre
, y is .Love —and then move on to
the city recognised by Dr. Mannix as the
capital of the Commonwealth. But with
selfishness Melbourne
insisted on the lady revealing her passion
**■ » Ww* at 188 p£K!
antes. I\ot till August 13 was she allowed
to pursue her Baldasarre, after the manner
ot comic-opera heroines, in Her Majesty’s
hj dney. It is grudgingly admitted, never-
theless, that the young woman was worth
waiting for. The Maid” is a show of un-
usual brightness and charm, and none the
S °a b ?£ aUS< V*n-j, s s , tl ' ikin fib' reminiscent
now and then of “The Pirates of Penzance.”
ihe libretto is skilfully and spiritedly writ-
ten, the music is satisfying always and some-
times hauntingly beautiful, and the work
of the scene-painters (which their names are
H R. Coleman and W. Coleman, jun.) is
m its way a triumph. Moreover, there is
nothing unsightly about the costumes or the
females ol the species more or less imper-
fectly concealed therein, and if the cast could
be stronger in some respects it is adequate
® , tlle , whole. Gladys Moncrieff supports
most of the weight of the piece on her shapely
shoulders. She sings exquisitely, and her
acting has a dash and finish that it formerly
lacked. Mione Stewart confirms the suspi-
cion that she is a clever conledienne in the
making, and first impressions of Myru
ivenham, a newcomer from Britain are
agreeable enough. Another stranger, in
Robert Chisholm, owes much to the
always-reliable J.C.W. chorus; still there is
ground for the current belief in his native
country that he owns a voice. Phil Smith
and Arthur Stigant have suitable comic
parts, Leslie Holland reappears (mercifully
as an old soldier), and the efforts of Frank
freeman, the captain of brigands, not to be
namby-pamb.v, deserve a better fate. Rov
Redgi ave, I red Coape, Edmund Sherras and
.John Forde also contribute elements of
brightness to a play that is confidently ex-
pected to run till Christmas.
v
The Rudds long ago decided to make Svd-
ney laiace their selection, and Saturday
night saw the same old lovers of these out-
backs filling up the seats and roaring with
laughter at the horseplay of the great wattle-
and-dab drama. But sandwiched in between
grotesque situations, Steele Rudd has placed
slabs of real human nature, and that is why
„ Ul ) Selection” will not die young.
Bert Bailey is still Dad ; Alfreda Bevan is
Mum ; Leslie Gordon and Jack Souter are
the drawling Dave and the mice-killing Joe;
and Dick Bellairs is once more a perfectly
detestable villain. The smaller parts are
capably filled ; and the box-office is making
no complaints.
Two people passed by in Sydney last
week—Dr. Mannix and Mr. Pim. The
doctor, who stuck to his biretta and his
(comparative) silence, made the most dust,
in tin? streets; but the other wandering star
has the benefit of Marie Tempest’s support
and that’s an advantage which any opposi-
tion show would find it hard to make a long
fight against. She is still at the Criterion.
❖ »r« * sjs
Sydney has never heard some of the music
of Faust” to greater advantage than it did
on Saturday night, when the Choral Society,
looking like a newly-frilled daisy with a
black centre, woke up the Town Hall with
echoes. The chorus work was particularly
fine, the two numbers “Red or White
Liquor” and “Light as Air” going with ,a
swing that caught up the enormous audience
to a regular midsummer storm of applause.
The Conservatorium orchestra gave perfect
musical support to the society, and con-
ductor Reginald Gooud batoned his work
and could call it good. Ralnh Errolle sang
the music of the heart-breaker Faust in a
way that showed why girls leave home.
Clara Holdgate was a pretty and birdlike
Marguerite, and Philippa Alston showed off
a perfectly good mezzo-soprano as Siebel
Carl Formes was the villain.
Ihe name of Mischa Levitzki again drew
a crowded Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
afternoon, when the young man with the
strong forearms and the-Tubber fingers linked
U P with the Conservatorium orchestra. The
most radiant of the afternoon’s performances
was the Chopin group. Sydney hears this
Mischa for the last time next Saturday even-
ing.
lor the N.S.W. State Orchestra Guaran-
tee h und students of the Conservatorium
last week engineered a good programme and
a full house. The chief offering was Rom-
berg s "Toy Symphony,” the third perform-
ance, by the way, under the baton of Rabbi
Cohens daughter Dulcie. Fresh interest
was added to the presentation by the appear-
conductor as the composer, in
_.Mn-century dress, and the players, “a
family of his descendants and their domestic
stall, ’ were costumed in early-Victorian and
other modes. Adrian Verbrugghen, who has
naost of dad’s humor and some of his musical
talent, was the butler-’cellist and shared
honors with Dulcie Cohen. Ida Turnbull
hmited some promising mellow notes in
lhe Spirit Flower.” Ada Brook, a little
pianist of the temperamental order, got the
ovation of the evening for her Liszt “Rhap-
sody. nor the rest there were choruses, a
minuet and some violinists, singers, and a
pianist of promise.
Sydney Tivoli still houses Wilkie Bard.
He is such an artist that even his dog-eared
gags win the loud laugh ; yet he couldn’t go
wrong if he noticed that it was near-Spring
and planted the seeds of a few new ones
Also showing: Irish storyteller, pair of acro-
bats, eccentric dancer and the Folly Girls.
But most appropriate these wintry nights
is Nina Gordon’s imitation of Lauder’s
Doch-an -Dorris.” P.S.—There’s a five-reel
American slapstick comedy film for those
who like that sort of thing. Others can go
to sleep. It makes no noise.
As its star attraction Sydney Lyceum
offers its patrons “Black Beauty,” a fine
bit ot horseflesh, and Jean Page shares the
screen honors with it. Black Beautv is
everything a picture-horse should be—loving
and kind, swift to run and sure to win.
Ihe Crystal Palace discovers May Allison
playing “Ihe Last Card” to encourage a
murderer to confess his guilt. The bloody-
handed villain remains obdurate till the
gramophone in the flat below strikes up “A
I erfect Day.” It is the last twist of the
thumb-screw, and it is with almost cheerful
resignation he turns towards) the chair.
Monte Blue once more enacts his “Perfect
Prune. ’ Meantime the Apollo higgles “The
koul of a Woman.” At the Globe and Hay-
market a kind of outback bullock-driver
“MR PIM PARKER BY,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION .
Ashton Jarry as Mr. Pirn, “only just a
passer-by."
lejirns hy a bolt from the bine that he is
the Faith Healer” of the age. Then he
sets out into the world, hi s passing marked
by a series of lightning cures that make the
ruble miracles sound worth twopence-ha’-
Pf n “y- But the usual fate of the man ahead
ot his time arrives when an ungrateful mob
comes close enough to a macadamised road.
At a Sydney picture-show:—
J. Muir Auld, who has hung his pictures at
Anthony Horderns’ Gallery, is a sincere artist and
tries always; but, limiting himself to less than one-
thiid of the range of his palette and beginning
with a subdued white, he attempts to record the
shimmer and intensity of Spring and Summer light,
and generally succeeds with heavy-leaden blue skies
in suggesting the atmosphere of winter, This limit-
ing of his medium is a greater fault in his por-
trait studies than the occasional weakness in draw-
ing ; but again he avails himself of but a third of
his resources, and gives us nothing of the glow of
flesh in full light—often there is, instead, a decided
muddiness. “Bush Ramble’’ (No. 33) is the one
exhibit that begins to shift the moods attendant on
the drab rounds of city life, and incidentally does
damage to its neighbors, because in this instance he
has let his medium out and in most of the others
he hasn’t.
* * * *
Melbourne, ignoring the evil report of a
daily-paper moralist regarding “Scandal” at
the King’s, has mostly decided that a bold
theatrical treatment of the eternal question
is none the worse for having a little sparkle
and a large double-bed in it. Types of char-
acter in “Scandal” harmonise nicely with
the story in their all-round exaggeration.
Nothing seems quite impossible except every-
body’s visit to the bridal chamber, where
Beatrix is so embarrassed. Lady relatives
drop in one at a time to gloat over the nature
of the apartment, and even the mock elderly
Major feels called upon to come and smirk
at the counterpane. And this when it is
nearly time to say good-night, and all good
bridegrooms are expected to be going to bed.
A little allowance can be made for the fact
that Trixey has always been treated as a
child, but on the other hand there is no
excuse for the intruders in leaving their
visits so late. For that matter, there is
never any valid excuse jJor the Major at all.
As presented by H. It. Roberts, he puts a
severe strain upon the probabilities. An-
other difficult item to account for is Cyril
Mackay as the would-be betrayer of inno-
cence, seeing that his seductiveness is glar-
ingly superficial, whilst the damsel expects
her young men friends to be “sports,” not
play-actors. The scene in the artist’s studio
loses a lot of conventional melodramatic
force through the loud, melodramatic manner
of Macka.v’s tender passion. For the rest
there is comedyworth considering in “Scan-
dal. The inevitable endipg is interestingly
delayed, and the third-act dialogue between
proud Maude . Hanaford and chivalrous
.rank Harvey is “just lovely” from a femi-
nine point of view—the only thing that mat-
ters in theatrical business.
* * *
•<w£' t i^' e^S“ rne R .°y al the management turns
Nightie Night” into day at two matindes
a week, so the earnest endeavors of Joseph
Coyne and co. are seed sown on good ground,
h arcical comedy that brings a wliite-pyja-
maca heroine into an empty wash trough,
and keeps reasonable explanation at bay for
two solid hours, is all right when some of its
lines are cast in risky places and the leading
comedian has fairly witty remarks thrust
upon him. Besides, the performance pos-
sesses a pleasing element of mystery. No
powers of observation could possibly discover
a reason why the Nightie girl, on being sur-
prised in a hearthrug, elects to roll herself
across the stage like a stone that gathers no
moss. Her proceeding combines the charm
of inscrutability with the atmospheric effect
of a circus.
* * *
tit Lilac Domino,” at Melbourne
Majesty s, continues to fly to drink and dice
tor means of entertainment. Furthermore, it
depends on baccarat and other games of
luck for a leading motive. If the three
young men didn’t get cleaned out in a card-
room they would not be tempted by a Mephis-
tophelean fiddler to decide which of them
-should capture the millionairess, and if she
were not overcome by mixed drinks she
would not be kissed by the baritone whilst
resting from spirituous liquor. Dodds and
Rene Maxwell are truly a hopeless pair of
stage characters as compared with the girl
and the man in a later production; and
Leorge Lee is a waster who flies to sausages
for succor in his hour of need. But these
shocking examples being associated with
music and sausages, no daily newspaper
attacks the morals of the situations. If the
music didn’t protect them the sausages would.
The prospect of inspecting Snowy Baker
and old Dad Rudd in new Australian films
drew a crammed house to Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday night. Snowy races
through Phe Jackeroo of Coolabong, ,, an
exciting yarn that begins in the Outback and
follows a crazy course in the Sydney under-
world. The Sydney section is introduced so
that the hero can rescue a nice girl from a
Cl '°°ks, and Snowy demonstrates
that he can turn a whole street into an
abattoirs for her sweet sake. In fact, he
never wastes a punch in filling the hospitals
with stricken garrotters, safe-breakers and
so forth, but the damsel (Kathleen Kay),
whom he clutches in the final, seems to afford
some justification for his violence. “Rudd’s
New Selection” reveals the same old mena-
gerie, though the tale has wearisome melo-
dramatic spasms that limit the humorous
opportunities of Dave and Dad. The mul-
titude would like to see less of the nominal
young hero and more of Dave, who, in the
person of Tal Ordell, is longer and more un-
gainly than the original stage type (Fred
ISsHltfl- ( S J. K
B Booth and •* '«?
scenes fB rt Bailey ln two or three
*'* *** ❖ J'i
Vaudeville is slowly returning to its kim>-
oni fur e . 00U . rae Tivoli. Some turns that
are filling in time just now have an air of
being borrowed by raw beginners from artist
AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Harold Kellaway, the dancer.
they have seen, and even the sketch contri-
buted by Brett and Emmeline Orford, who
are not beginners, is weak in the upper and
lower registers, and almost worse in the
middle. But the demand for vaudeville is
&®und to bring the goods. Meanwhile Ivy
Shilling makes two turns beautiful, the first
of them a dream of olden days and decora-
tive style, and ifte other a bewitching sug-
gestion of what a killing Sikes the lady
would be if she went upon the burgle. St
Clair, the Ilumpty Dumpty of panto times,
is another successful portion of the show
that precedes the movie, and perhaps the
picture titled “Jim the Penman” is enthrall-
ing to some people. To the person who
writes this notice the drama on the screen
is a cruel, up-to-date libel on the drama it
caricatures. Its absurd climax, in which a
job-lot of conspirators get drowned, shows
Lionel Barrymore wearing a fiendish grin
to keep himself from roaring at the joke.
the efforts of Gladys Walton in
Rich Girl, Poor Girl,” Hoyt’s (Melbourne)
are now able to face next pay-day without
a tremor. Gladys, who is a comparative
novelty to the screen, has a very winsome
personality which enables her to score in
a feeble and conventional story. Eugene
U Brien is also not well placed in “Broad-
way and Home,” another hapless yarn of
social contrasts, but here again the vigorous
work of the star makes the audience forget
to ask for its money back. The Majestic
l"L ?» kin / a splash with “The Small Town
Aa °. v is. u mild comedy with melodra-
manc trimmings, but it contains such a
quantity of Girl that there has been a re-
cord number of deserted firesides. Earl
YV imams in ‘ It Can Be Done” is the other
item on the programme, but Earl isn’t natu-
rally dazzling, and is further dimmed bv
contrast with the other effusion. A demand
„ , set * n at Britannia,
and Black Beauty,” a star neddy, seems
to supply the need. The Melba is continu-
1™ its discourses on matrimonial relations.
hap °iness 6 Wlves ” i,s the latest guide to
** * #
Sam Stern is obliging with a line of Yid-
dish humor at the King’s, Adelaide; the
iJamtys do some clever cycling, and the pro-
gramme, strong on the musical side, has
now had Otis Mitchell and his banjo added
to it. The Prince of Wales has a well-
constructed melodrama turning mainly on
a locked safe with the Body inside, but a
quick change to a Broken Trail in Canadian
|u°ws is imminent. At the Majestic is
nimed an old farce whose original name
the censor has banned ; but as one character
is tound asleep on a piece of bedroom furni-
ture* , 1 e an °tber reposes on a similar one
hard by, the puzzle does not take much
guessing. “The Inside of the Cup” is Win-
ston Churchill’s novel on the screen, show-
ing how the starving crowd was astonish-
ingly made, content by being allowed entry
into a fashionable church ; it began at Won-
dergraph, and is continuing at the Pav. But
at U est’s is a Wvlie romance of India, with
Aazimova showing how human emotions can
be Stronger than Death.”


mm
Electrically Welded Fabric
for Reinforcing
Concrete Roads
»». ■
m
An Interesting Photograph
Balmain Street, Richmond, Victoria, carries heavy indus-
trial traffic, and has a Concrete Road reinforced with No. 9
B.R.C. Fabric.
Photo shows washaway under road, 12 feet span and 8
feet deep for half width of road.
This washaway occurred three weeks after pouring concrete.
Traffic was carried on without interruption during filling in.
Suppliers to—
Melb. Harbor Trust, Commonwealth Railways, Queensland
Public Works Department, Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works, Melbourne City Council, South Melbourne
City Council, St. Kilda City Council, Footscray City Council,
Malvern City Council, Richmond City Council, Sydney City
Council, Newcastle City Council, Vic. Public Works Depart-
ment, Vic. Country Roads Board, W.A. Public Works
Department, etc., etc.
a.fl c.rabrle
ftfl.CSfirrup
"s
:
' -
s
Bars
all Commeroal
sec r ion
B.U.C Li^aTureS
iMiMin hintil
Urvtl"S
For All
Concrete
Construction
Work.
d
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Consulting & Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Vic.
Telephone: Central 3861; Sunshine 41.
Fabric
tvnji
ii mn mum
!P3«Eeasß«B«s«!ac«®ißse»»*i
Q’LAND . . .J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane.
N.Z JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland .
TASMANIA .T. TAB ART, Jun., Hobart.
W.A ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.
A
REED


—THE ESSENTIAL OF A
REAL COCKTAIL.—
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
VERMOUTH
ASK FOR THIS BRAND.
Stocked by all the Leading Hotels
and Civil Service Stores.
Insist on CINZANOS.
9
'C
w
When You
ask. for
Lager
•yABBOTS
"The Beer
without
a Rival”
f
W. Chorley & Co. Ltd.
31
m
J
MINIATURE DECORATIONS.
1914-15 Star, 3/6; Victory Medal, 3/6;
Gen. Ser. Medal, 4/9; Brooch for two
miniatures, 2/6; Brooch for three minia-
tures, S/6; Miniatures of all medals in
stock.
TAILORS AND NAVAL OUTFITTERS,
313 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Thae't & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exqirsite
POVERTY
POINT
“Hamfat”: Caruso’s love of gargle might
have had something to do with his death. On
his singing nights he would arrive at the
temple anything up to two and a half hours
before he had to appear; and most of that
time would be filled in with gargles and
snrays and throat swabbings. For all his
fame his seems to have been a sloppy sort of
existence. ,
“O. Blin”: The late Enrico Caruso left
behind him a considerable reputation as a
wit. The fact that lie was buried in a glass
casket is confirmation of his humorous re-
mark a while back that he would like to be
interred that way “so that people wouldn’t
throw stones.” That is not so good as his
smart reply when encountering John McCor-
mack unexpectedly in an American hotel.
McCormack, who was equally surprised,
opened with : “Hallo, Enrico, and how is the
world’s greatest tenor this morning?” The
Italian turned and asked sweetly: “And
since when has John McCormack become a
baritone?” Dennis McSweeney, McCormack's
WILKIE BARD, AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
W ilkie Bard, struggling co give information
from a Welsh railway-book.
manager, who told me that one, vouched for
another. Caruso was listening to the “try-
out ’ of a new American Faust in Boston,
and the songster’s effort to maintain his top
note whilst putting up a stage struggle
against the machinations of Mephistopheles,
who was lurking in the background, made
his face look overdrawn and haggard. “What-
ever’s the matter with that man?” said the
lady who sat with Caruso. “Oli,” answered
the Voice,” “he’s between the Devil and the
high C.”
“Smike” : The people who ai-e asking for
tunds for the Verbrugghen Orchestra would
have greater chances of success if they could
justify the amount alleged to be necessary
to keep Mr. Verbrugghen in a good humor. It
is said that, in addition to his £lOOO a year
as head of the Sydney Conservatorium, he is
to be guaranteed £25 for each of 100 concerts
in 12 months, which means at least £lOOO
more than would be required to get another
conductor of equal or greater capacity from
abroad. I’m sure Marshall Hall would have
been satisfied with even less.
A belated one of Howard Vernon’s :—-
W« had played “The Mikado” at Brisbane for five
nights, and on the sixth morning I was told that
two gentlemen wanted to see me on business. I
asked to have them shown in, and presently they
came, dusting their trouser-legs with their hats.
“We hear you’re sorter boss of the show at the
theatre,” said the foremost, “and we want you to
settle a little bet, if you will.” “Yes,” chipped in
the second, “it’s this way: is that tall bloke that
plays the hangman, or whatever he is, a Jap?"
"fie is not,” I replied emphatically. “Ah-h!” cried
the first speaker, banging his friend on the spine,
“that lets you in for the drinks. Good-day, mister. Much
obliged.” “Hold a minute,” said X. “What did you
say the tall fellow was?” “Oh, me?” replied the
winner proudly—“i knew all along he was a blankv
Chow.”
“0.K.”: The late Howard Vernon had a
brother Robert, a member of Alfred Dam-
pier’s company in the early ’nineties. Not a
bad actor was Bob Vernon. He played
principal villain parts in succession to Wal-
ter Baker, who had graduated in stage
wickedness before he joined Bland Holt’s co.
and took to virtue on a lavish scale. When
Dampier indulged in a Shakspearean Friday,
which was a habit of his at that time, Ver-
non would spend a holiday from evil courses
and play, say, Old Adam in “As You Like
It ; but crime was what he revelled in. He
stuck at nothing in the way of gruesome
accessories. His great opportunity came
when a bellowdrama called “Wilful Murder”
was produced at Melbourne Alexandra, while
Deeming was in custody. A note on the
programme ran as follows:
In placing this enthralling Drama of London life
before an Australian audience, the majiagiement re-
quests attention to the remarkable resemblancfe exist-
ing between its plot and the leading features of an
appalling atrocity now agitating the minds of Mel-
bourne.
I.he remarkable resemblance, of course, was
carefully provided by the management, the
opening act being written up to harmonise
with published details of the Deeming case.
Bob V ernon was the plausible fiend who
brought a bag of cement into a parlor, and
proceeded to dig a grave under the hearth-
stone—the scene was billed as “The Murder
on the Hearthstone”— before disoosing of
the missus. And how did Bob do it! He
knocked the lady down, preparatory to cut-
ting her throat, not with a noiseless cut that
leaves its deadly result to the audience’s
imagination, but with a c-c-c-ck that could
be heard all over the barn-like theatre. One
of my treasured recollections of the old
Aleck is the bending figure of Robert Vernon
feigning to apply a razor to the neck of his
victim, while dabbing his hands in red
ochre, smearing some of the berlud across his
victim’s neck, and making a noise with his
mouth like the tearing of a yard of calico.
Ah, we don’t get that sort of Murder nowa-
”Oys, as the old alehouse identity remarks in
Silver King” ! Those were exciting times at
the Alexandra. Bob Vernon played in “The
Scout,” which gigantic Dr. Carver, the Wild
\Vest rifleshot, produced with reckless stage
effects. The tank sunk in the flooring was
so deep that when Carter’s horse fell into
the raging stream through a bridge trap the
animal could swim ashore with the gallant
doctor aboard. On the opening night the
feat went oft' without a hitch, but the neddy
jibbed at the job next night, and for the
remainder of the season there had to be a
tresh and innocent steed every night. Aus-
tralia has never seen another drama so wet
and wild as “The Scout” wherein Vernon
played Cherokee Jake.
i?'”' Ha *; r y Musgrove, sen., manager of
Melbourne Royal, who was a youngster at
Howard Vernon’s first appearance at Mel-
bourne Opera House (now Tivoli), recalls
\ ernon’s great hit as a country lout in a
costume football match at the East Mel-
bourne cricket ground nearly 30 years ago.
Members of the teams were George Lauri
Wallace Brownlow, Charles Coghill, Irving
Sayles, Dan Barry, Leon Caron, and several
other notables of the time; and Flo Young
Nellie Stewart, Ida Osborne, Flora Graup-
ner, Violet Varley and Jennie Lee had
charge of various stalls and used all their wit
and beauty to ransack the pockets of a crowd
of admirers* One of the side-shows adver-
tised was a large dead shark, but the-attar
of decomposition broke up the queue that
had been waiting to see the monster. The
best joke of the day, segond only to Ver-
non’s in popular effect, was John Bryant,
long remembered as the cabby in early ver-
sions of “The Silver King,’’ who was got up
as a prize baby in short "soc-ks. pinafore and
numerous bows. He was 20 stone, and
owing to the cold day he had to be fortified
with whisky to do his turn. George was a
Gibraltar before he finished and went home
in a lorry.
“O. Blin”: At 12 years old Joseph Coyne
once played Little Eva in “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.” That, however, isn’t so remarkable
as the performance of Iloy Redgrave who,
to get a company out of a hole, did Little
” illie in “East Lynne” when he was 40 or
more. The infant engaged for Willie fell ill
during the performance, and the actor ven-
triloquised the lad’s dying accents from
under the bed.
“Pink”: Franklyn Barrett is trying his
luck with a problem picture after many
adventures with Australian bush produc-
tions. He has just finished “Know Thy
Child,” most of which he photographed at
Greenwell Point (N.S.W.). About the only
other sex film of local production that I can
recall is “The Woman Suffers,” an unhealthy
thing that the police blocked in one or two
States.
"Hex”: It's easy for American firms
operating here to be courteous and helpful
(B. 28/7/’2l) to people wanting to submit
scenarios. They don’t have the hopeful
writers swarming round them as the local
producers do, and, besides, they can dodge
all blame by passing on the turning-down to
headquarters. What I’d like to know is how
many of these American concerns have
accepted stories from this part of the world.
The leading Australian producers, Carrolls
and Beaumont Smith, are swamped with
amateur playwrights’ efforts, and of the
stuff submitted the greater part is hopeless
and the rest needs too much alteration to be
worth paying for. Anyhow, you can’t blame
a man for preferring to film a well-known
book when, by doing so, he saves half the
publicity battle. “The Sentimental Bloke,”
*On Our Selection,” and “The Man from
Snowy River” are examples of pictures that
packed theatres in the first place on the
strength of their titles. Even so, producers
don’t deliberately avoid all stories not taken
from published works. Only the other day
Beaumont Smith bought “Winnie from Wool-
loomooloo,” a scenario written by John Cos-
grove.
“MR. PIM PASSES
BY.” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Frank Allanby as Brian the artist lover, and
Graham Browne as the dismissed George
Marsden.
“Cornstalk” : “Alwyn’s” par (B. 4/8/’2l)
re Ray Maclean, brother of the Australian
lMitos, recalls that when Ray, aged nine,
was first taken to London by his father]
Teddy Maclean, they saw Little Tich in his
famous big boot dance. The nipper took an
immediate fancy to the turn, and the big
Jittle man gave the young Australian writ-
ten permission to reproduce the turn, a
document Ray still holds with pride.
. Turn ” : “Ike Pagliacci” (B.
4/8/21) says Wilkie Bard is the only trulv-
Lnglish vaudeville comedian of front rank
who has been game to cross the Atlantic.
He forgets Albert Chevalier. That brilliant
singer of coster ditties is as well known on
Broadway as in the Strand. Another “game”
one in days gone by was Dan Leno, than
whom no comedian could have been more
Lnglish. True, he was warned before he
sailed that the Yanks might not see his
humor. Ihey didirt. But he went, all the
same.
“Riom”: “Skyrider’s” par. 18. 11/8/’2l)
IT (N.S.W.) Liedertafel recalls
that the hrst dramatic societi - in that citv
was born in 1844. Lachlan McGowan, who
afterwards appeared in Europe and Ameri.
was one ot the parents. “ nca
~ , • The first scene-painter m.!
theatrical artist in Australia was John W«
liana Lancashire, a prisoner of the Crow,'
transported for seven years. In FebSrv
J-dS, he was further convicted of forging a ‘»
older for £1 10s. and sentenced to death bur
was pardoned. At the trial the three mill.
AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Hector St. Clair with his fiddle.
tary officers who sat on the case found Lan-
cashire guilty; but the three naval officers
thought he was not guilty. The vote of
Judge-Advocate Atkins carried the day
against him. In a petition to Governor
Hunter Lancashire said that he had been
painting scenery for a company of soldier-
comedians and was tactless enough to ask
to be paid. To this slip he laid the verdict
of the military officers. Lancashire was
originally a captain’s clerk in the Navy.
“Jeune Premier”: Mummers do get out of
grease-paint sometimes. I know of a musi-
cal-comedy mime who is these days a
drummer for a big boot firm and quite com-
fortable, thank you. Another, who was a
"legit.” at one time, travels with a patent
lock. Yet another is one of our best-known
photographic artists—Monte Luke. Of the
other sex most prominent is Mary Marlowe,
now making headway as a journalist, with
three published novels to her credit.
“E.T.”: “Case” (B. 11/8/’2l) is quite in
order in saying that Percy Marmont —now
to the fore in American pictures—is Eng-
lish. But he is out of it when he says that
Marmont appeared here in “The Boomer-
ang-” He stayed in this country long enough
to play in three pieces only. These wer;
“Fair and Warmer,” “A Little Bit of
Fluff” and “London Pride” —the last-named
seen only in Melbourne.
“Snell”: The Vincents had put on a touch-
ing drama at Melbourne Opera House. An
important situation in Act 3 hinged upon the
arrival of a telegram, and a small boy of
some ability, the son of a stage-hand, was
promoted to be telegraph messenger. He had
t° come in and say: “Important telegram
for Mr. John Peabody,” lift a biscuit from a
salver on the table, as a touch of nature,
and leave. Came a night when the small boy
did not respond to his cue. The leading
man Avandered round like a lost soul, the
comedian gagged foolishly. There Avas a
strained wait; then the stage-manager tossed
the necessary telegram into the room. “Ah!”
said the apt comedian, “the Avire at. last,
pushed under the door.” The message was
read, and important developments Avere fob
loAving, when the missing messenger dashed
on, his bag swung about his neck, his coat
torn, and with the appearance generally of
a gallant lad Avho lias survived a tram acci-
dent. “Important telegram for Mr. John
Peabody,” said he. Then in explanation:
“Went out fer sixpen’orth of beer fer father,
and had to fight another boy afore I could
get back.” The audience cheered that boy,
but he neA T er appeared again.
“O’South”: When the Strutter All-Star
Dramatic Co. played “East Lynne” at
Stringers’ Gully, it SAvept the miners and
cockies off their feet. For long after Lord
Mount Severn had been arrested and every-
thing tidied-up nicely, they continued to
clap and stamp. Several times Strutter and
the leading lady appeared before the curtain
and bowed, but the audience Avent on with
the disturbance. At last Strutter held up
a hand for silence and inquired what it Avas
they Avanted. “Encore! Encore!” Avas the
reply, and the clapping broke out afresh.
“Good Lord !” said Strutter, Avhen he Avent
behind, “Ave’ll have to give them the last
act over again if we’re to get back to the
pub to-night!” And they did.
WHEN MARIE PLAYS THE VIOLIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Marie plays the violin
Her slim brown fingers look to me
Like pixie-men that prance and grin
In sheer abandoned ecstasy.
I -watch thorn wheresoe’er they go,
These tiny shiny pixie-men;
1 see them curtsey very low,
And toss a kiss, and count me ten.
And next they scamper to a glade,
Where dreams the golden afternoon,
And, deep within the woodland’s shade,
They don their nut-brown satin shoon.
I see them step it, one, two, three—
A daintier measure ne’er was seen;
The music by a bumble bee
Is played through rushes slim and green.
Then next ] see them sailing down
A little silver singing stream,
In lacy boats of bracken brown,
Along the bend where lilies dream.
The frogs come out, a great array,
As they go sailing gaily by—
-1 laugh to see their quaint dismay
Reflected in the bulging eye.
And then I hear the pipes of Pan
Fall goldenly across the breeze.
1 see him too, half-goat, half-man,
Seated beneath the wondering trees.
When Marie plays the violin
Her slim brown fingers seem to me
Like pixie-men that prance and grin
In sheer abandoned ecstasy.
N’.S.V.
IVY GIBBS.


V-V;.;
?•
Virginia
Cigarettes
»
Cigarettes
MOUSy«K\ LTD.
P 1 CCAO 1 LLY, W.
manufactured by
GODFREY PHILLIPS'-!'.?
LONDON , ENGLAND.
nr HE PRINCE CHARMING
* cigarette is the Prince of all
cigarettes, and sets a new standard
of excellent quality in either popular
priced or expensive cigarettes. Perfect
tobacco, manufacture and packing go to
the making of this Charming cigarette.
IQA 9 - 2Q/*fg
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Agents: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
YHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROU
LEWIS & WflITTy MAKERS
d
ď
A SPIRIT OF
HIGH MEDICINAL VALUE
fd
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
All Hotels & Licensed Grocers
GUARANTEED
PURE
DISTILLED FROM
FINEST
AUSTRALIAN
CRAIN _
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The scratching of lolaus for the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase, when this paper had done him
the honor of expecting him to win, was doubly justi-
fied by Saturday’s results at Caulfield. Stable com-
panion Gazomp stood up to his long task like a
veteran and wun easily, whereas lolaus, starting at
even money for the Knowsley Steeple, came a long
way short of landing the stable double. Apparently
lolaus had gone off since the previous Saturday, and
anyhow, he would not, at his best, have been equal
to defeating his young friend Gazomp over the four
miles.
As to whether Haoma might, with a stand-up, have
downed the son of Gunner there is no convincing
evidence before the court. The S. Australian hurdler
wajs backed at the finish like a real good thing, and
after clearing the “treble” the second time he was
leading the field by 10 lengths or so. Half a minute
later the dashing pioneer hit a fence and his career
was over as far as his backers for this event were
concerned. Rosyth, who had been placed in both the
Australian Hurdle and Steeple in past years, broke
his neck in full view of the grandstand, leaving six
horses to fight it out to a finish. There was really
no fight to speak of, save between Wooloo and
Doiran for second place. Gazomp, never quite in
front till the last jump, won with lengths in hand,
whilst Wooloo struggled past Doiran just as he had
done in the Grand National last month. The same
pair took all the minor place-money in the two big
steeplechases, and hardy Doiran put up a record by
being placed for the fourth time in the two years
—second and third in 1920; two thirds this year.
Mountain God, with 12st. 91b. to carry, tired a
lot at the finish, and was well beaten half a mile
from home. The proposition was too tough for a
moderately good stayer who, to this scribe’s way of
thinking, was nearly all out when he won the
National with list. 51b. up. Mountain God is
hardly a champion of the Builawarra or Qrafnax
class, nor is he better than Sir Prim, also a National
winner, who carried 12st. 41b. into second place
when the time was 51 sec. better than on Saturday.
In fact, it was only the unrivalled rate of travelling
in 1919 that accounted for the extraordinary slow-
ing down of Sir Prim in the last 200 yards. Nor is
Mountain God as good as Jack Rice was over the
Caulfield steeplechase course when he ran second,
with 12st. 9lb. aboard, and the pace was as fast as
this year’s.
Time has been when a subsequent Cup winner
gave a hint of forthcoming form at the Caulfield
August meeting. Perhaps the win of Admiral Col-
li ngwood in the St. Aubin Welter was worth noting,
for the field included several nags that have been
heavily backed for the big handicaps at one time or
other. Daarewin wa3 placed behind the Trafalgar
borse, and among the also-rans were the seemingly
no-good Coq d’Or and Star Comedian; ab=o Strath-
redole, who has been backed, more or less, for next
Melbourne Cup, and was immensely over-estimated
as a Derby colt a year ago. Strathredole carried some
money again on Saturday, and ran rather worse
than usual, but there is plenty of time for the fine-
looking deceiver to come on if he be of a coming-on
disposition. Thus far punters who drop their stuff
have been forming all their Strathredole fancies on
hearsay. Possibly he belongs to the order of massive
brutes that are never what they look, or what fancy
paints them.
Elfaere put up a smart performance in
the 9f. w.f.a. Denman Plate at the Bananaland Turf
Club’s Exhibition Meeting, leaving Syceonelle two-
and-a-half lengths astern. She, in turn, was 10
lengths in front of Impeyan. Lord Morion, though
well fancied, ran indifferently in the Welter on Wednes-
day, wherefore he had few followers in the Exhi-
bition Handicap. However, he squeezed home in
front of the Snowy River horse Snow Star, with
Glenbern close up.
Coroglen, who was runner-up to Coalition
in the G. N. Steeple at Ricoarton (M.L.), won the
Beaufort Steeple on the second day, and Kenbali's
Birkenhead gelding Gladful succeeded in the G. N.
Hurdles. The all-conquering Mustard Pot, a gelding
by General Latour, on the concluding day added the
Sehvyn Handicap to his remarkable string of wins,
the exiled Explorer came to light at last in the
Sydenham Hurdles.
» * * *
The six-furlong Dundas Handicap at
Rosehill (N.S.W.) on Saturday was an impressive
guide to the form of several candidates for the big
Spring events .at Randwiek. Etive (Bst. lib.) was
favorite at 2’s, with Furious (7st. 131 b.), undoubt-
edly the best two-vear-old last season, next in
request, and there was also money for Myainley (7st
91b.) and Richmond Main (9st. 101 b), a’ few pounds
going on Gilray (7st. 121 b.) at outside odds. Green-
stead (9st. 111 b.) and Erasmus (Bst. 91b.) were
neglected. The two favorites were always well up,
but in the run home they could not pace it with
old Greenstead, who won with impressive ease by
half a length from the promising Gilray, with
Erasmus a fast-finishing third. The race showed
that the place-getters will all have to be reckoned
with in the rich Randwiek handicaps, but the failure
of Furious to come on has set the critics thinking
tiiat staying is not her forte.
* * * *
Jamito hardly won a round at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night against the veteran Mel-
bourne artist Bert Spargo. Spargo’s method was
to encouruge the eager brown youth to lead to him,
and then reply with left swings und right jolts, 90
per cent, of which landed on the precise spot at
which they were aimed. In the eleventh the Filipino,
who, though beaten, was never discouraged, tried
one of the whirlwind efforts by which he won so
many scraps in the past. The device failed on this
occasion, though it won Jamito the round. Spargo
wus too wary and Jamito was too enfeebled by pun-
ishment. The island optimist was still battling for
a knock-out and getting systematically torn to pieces
in the process, when the gong sounded the end of the
20th round. Joe Wallis unhesitatingly placed the
hays on the brow of Spargo. The winner weighed
out at 9st. and his adversary was a pound heavier.
Sid Godfrey meets Harry Stone for the light-
weight championship of Australia at the Itush-
eutters Bay establishment on Saturday. But in
the enervating North they now have a boy who, in
the opirifon of some good judges, is capable of
doing to both what he has already done to one of
them.
* * * *
Not many Australian pugs of the present
generation know how to fight the awkward cus-
tomer who shapes up right hand and foot foremost,
like Fred Kay, Frank Brogan and Peter Toohey of
old. Dick Johnson, the Vic. lightweight, is one of
the few. He is an intelligent vouth with a destruc-
tive right, and at the Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day the right, plus intelligence, won him his second
encounter with the burly Brogan, after he had dam-
aged his left in an early part of the mill. Brogan
won the first half-dozen rounds and was tough and
aggressive always. But the time came when he
couldn’t get away from Johnson’s right leads, hooks
and crosses. He looked dead to the world in the
thirteenth, but survived to go another round, in
which he was counted out.
BERT SPARGO, who beat Jamito at the
Sydney Stadium last Saturday night.
Australia’s tennis colts made short work
oi the Danes in the Davis Cup contest at Cleveland,
Ohio. It began to look as if Norman Peach would
come back without a game, but his defeat of Tegner
was very decisive—and Tegner is one of the best
players in Europe. Jim Anderson is being hailed
at present as a world-beater, but different opponents
in the next round may spoil his record. This week
Japan plays India, while our men wait a week; then
they will engage the winner at Newport. The Jap
champion Kumagae, by his driving, has more or less
revolutionised the game. He outdrove Johnston in
1916 in a five-set match, and made mincemeat of the
net-rushers of America, comoelling future aspirants
to develop their driving. Still Anderson’s cutting
may trouble him. Shimidzu is another splendid
driver, and last year he beat both the Lowes, the
finest drivers in England, as well as Gobert (France)
and many more.
* * * *
Queensland met X.S.W. at tennis at Bris-
bane last week without B. St. John, who was ill
with the ’flu. However, Radcliffe, a Rhodes Scholar,
recently back from Oxford, defeated veteran Horace
Rice and W. A. Clark in the singles, and with Smith
won three doubles. Christie won two singles for
N.S.W., and with D. Yeo took two doubles out of
three. Queensland the winners by 6 rubbers 16 sets
against 6 rubbers 15 sets in the singles and 5 rubbers
10 sets against 4 rubbers 11 sets in the doubles.
In the ladies’ matches the region where women can’t
live conquered—7 rubbers to 5.
THORP, Richmond's well-known hack
(Vic. League football).
The Australians had a simple task against
the feeble Kent team. On an easy wicket they
knocked up 676, Mayne getting his first century (157
r. 0.), while Macartney made 155 and Armstrong 102.
Kent’s resunnse was 237. Wishing to rest bin men
before the Test, Armstrong, Instead of making Kent
follow on, sent Pellew in with Collins. Also, he
picked Mailey for second-wicket down. The crowd
indulged in the usual barracking. The difference
between the barracking of our spectators and those
of England seems chietiv to be that the outcry of
the “hillites,” “bobbers” and so forth of these parts
is informal, while the yells of the English patrons
of the game are not. The Canterbury ground is a
beautiful spot in fiat nark-like surroundings just out-
side the ancient town which Henniker Heaton, of
Sydney, represented in Parliament for so many
years. It is only a couple of hours from the most
hideous, and yet perhaps the best ground in England
—lvennington Oval, where the final Test began on
Saturday.
Tennyson won the toss and elected to bat on a
wicket which was wet on top but hard underneath.
Russell and Brown began as though they were there to
play out time. Not till the Hampshire champion
Mead was ioined by his skipper did the scoring start
to move ahead with any rapidity. These two set
about McDonald and Mailov to some purpose, and
though both played a chancey game they got results.
Tennyson scored 51 and Mead had got to 182 n.o.
when the innings was declared with 8 wickets down
for 403. When stumps were drawn on Monday the
Australians had lost Bardsley, Macartney and Collins
for 162; and Andrews (whose fielding' had been a
feature of the English innings) was not out 59.
The Aussies’ 676 v. Kent has only been
beaten thi3 tour by their 708 for 7 v. Hampshire.
Armstrong lifted his aggregate to 1054, averaging
47.52—the fourth player of the XI to pass the
thousand. Macartney’s 155 made his little lot 2025,
and he is now again at the top of the averages
with 63,12 against Bardsley’s 61.66. Mayne’s 157
not out made him the eleventh of the 15 to get a
century. Macartney’s 2025 puts him within striking
distance of Victor Trumper’s record of 2570 (av.
48.49) in 1902. Bardsley’s aggregate is 1835, and
a few innings will make him the holder of the rare
record of topping 2000 runs in each trip to England.
The left-hander scored 2180 (av. 46.39) in 1909, and
2441 (av. 51.93) in 1912. The latter average is the
highest ever made for a completed season by an Aus-
tralian in England.
* # *• #
Thirteen of the 15 players (wicket-
keepers Oldfield and Carter are the exceptions) have
bad a turn at the bowling-crease with this Austra-
lian XI. But in Billy Murdoch’s third team to Eng-
land in 1884 (12 players and manager G. Alexander)
all. including the manager, did their bit with the
ball. Wicketkeeper Jack Blackham’s 1 for 8
headed the bowling averages. Alexander got 2 for 24.
* * * *
The Australasian Waterloo Cup decided at
Hamilton (M.L.) last week was won by the N. S.
Wales dog Drew’s Hope, with another Cornstalk in
Belle of Benalla third. Drew’s Hope is the property
of Dave D’Arcy, a Bega cocky, and his win should
be worth over £4OO.
* * * *
Forty-four lined up for N.S.W. 10-mile
amateur championship at Kensington (Sydney) on
Saturday. F. Guider (South Sydney) streaked away
in an effort to break the field up, but had to retire
at two miles. At four miles those with a chance had
shrunk to eight, and at six H. L. Sheaves (Souths)
opened out to crack them up. But they hung on.
At nine he streaked away again, and won by
14see. from H. S. Grandemange (Botany), with j.
E._ Bell 13sec. later. Sheaves’s time (Semin. 2€
3-ssec.) was 83 1-osec. better than his winning
effort last year. He has a short-striding, easv actiorn
runs with mechanical regularity, and finished in
excellent condition. For the teams championship
Botany (48 points) just got the title from Sooth*
(50). They were the only teams to finish.
After the race the selectors chose H. L. Sheaves
H. S. Grandemange, J. E. Bell. IV. Porter, H. r!
Turner, Reg Fitzsimmons and E. C. Chapman to
represent N.S.W. in the Australian 10-mile cross-
country championship at Victoria next month. If
should prove the fastest team N.S.W. has fielded for
many vears.
* * V
In Sydney Soccer on Saturday, Pyrmont
beat Gladesville by 3 to 1, and landed the first-
league premiership. The final points were Pyrmont
22, Granville 21, Canterbury 19, with the other five
nowhere.
* # # «
Queensland drew with N.S.W. Soccer XI
at Brisbane on Saturday. Maitland found the net for
the visitors in the first minute ; but the Northerners
goaled twice before half-time. Maitland shot another
goal after the spell, and so the struggle ended. Of
the 21 matches played N.S.W. has taken 11, and
Queensland 6. Four have been drawn.
* * ■»
Under Australian rules at Sydney on
Saturday Newtown and Railway nlaved a remarkable
draw—B goals 11 behinds (59 points) each. The
final term was a great struggle, and only in the last
minute did Finch (Newtown), from a mark, even
matters. Easts defeated Balmain by 112 to 4k.
After the inter-State match between Tasmania am]
N.S.W. this week-end, the semi-finals will be waged
between Norths, Railway, Paddington and Newtown.
* * * *
Westrnlm licked Victoria in the Austra-
lian Rules football championship carnival at Perth
last week by 52—47. Up to the three-quarter Vic.
led (43 —34) ; but in tile final spell Westralia udded
18 points to 4. On Saturday Westralia settled
S.A. by 75—65. The game was remarkable for
accurate goal-kicking, Campbell alone scoring five
for W.A. The “gates” of the two matches brought
in £3925. The previous Australian Rules cham-
pionships were won by Victoria in 1908 and 1914,
and South Australia in 1911.
* * * *
Saturday’s inter-State collision between
Vic. and S.A. on the Melbourne Cricket Ground
attracted 19,395 spectators. The Vies, were com-
petent and energetic; the Croweaters brilliant and
clever, and yet— Always the Gumsuckers fcave the
impression that they were only practising. ; Having
got the ball each seemed intent on passing it on to
a mate ahead; the last man seemingly booted it
through the posts because that was the customary
procedure, not that lie particularly wanted the goal.
Their opponents, on the other hand, were individu-
ally eager for sixers, the consequence being that by
the middle of the last quarter the Vies, had Required
15 goals 8 behinds to the Croweaters’ 6 goals 10
behirids. The position being then hopeless for them,
they were practically permitted to save appearances
by adding four more goals, so that the final tally
was 10 goals 13 behinds to Victoria’s 15 goals 8
behinds. The South Aussies are fine players, but
they lack one tiling—system—and that meaiis every-
thing. The “gate” of £916 should more than pav
exes.
* * * *
Old Boys, the only team unaffected by the
Sydney Rugby Union tour in M.L., downed Easts,
the runners-up in the competition, on Saturday. In
a game that was anyone’s all the time, Grayson and
Ford stood out. ’Varsity overwhelmed Manly, Mor-
gan. the Uni. skipper, being very snappy. Sheehan
also did good work. The Village forwards answered
every question, but were weakly supported; Wests
held Norths off, in a fast game, chiefiv by superior
back play in the second half. The Northern for-
wards, headed by Oatley and Leonard, monopolised
the play in the first. Glebe-Balmain were going
strong for the half-century against Newtown when
the final whistle blew.
* * * *
At Sydney Sports Ground last Saturday
Easts gave Glebe their first walloping in the Oitv
Cup senes. Ray Norman (Easts) hurt himself diving
for a try, and was replaced by J. Crowell, a second-
grader. Glebe’s casualties were Ogle Tootfev and
McGrath, their places being filled by Stapleton, Eves
and Ricketts. It was a runaway sort of show, tlm
Surfers steadily piling up the points until the tally
stood Easts 25. Glebe 0. The Reds at this stage-
worked to the Surfers’ line, and from a serum God-
Awl struggled across but Quigley failed at goal
Easts 2.j, Glebe 3. The final score was notched by
Wright, who sneaked across in the corner, Crowell
failing af goal. Easts 28. Glebe 8. Stan King, the
Surfers’ rake, was the best forward on the gr»-.
Hume was Easts’ best back, with Rignev next. F—
the rest the Rabbitos beat Newtown (26 —8), and
’Mains put Saints down by 33 to 8. ’Varsity cue e.eu
with the premiers—North (8 all). Wests licked
Bathurst by 14 to 10. I>ist and Glebe with 12
points each now head the list.
* * * *
Jimmy Devereux, the erstwhile North
Sydney and rep. Rugby League threequarter, returned
from England last week. He toured England with
the Kangaroos in 1908, and at the end of the season
got an acceptable offer from the Hull club upon the
completion of the Kangaroos’ tour.
* * * ♦
H. J. Wynyard, of Petone (M.L.), is
dead. He was one of the M.L. Rugbeians who
electrified England in 1888-89. During the tour this
side played 116 matches, won 92. lost 21 and drew
three. They were the pioneers of British-Dominion
football.
* * *■ *
Sydney Grammar defeated Scots by 26 —4
on Saturday, and so won the Great Public" Schools’
premiership. Grammar lost only one match in seven
this season, and scored 138 points to 36. Newing-
ton and North Shore were second with two defeats
each. In 31 years King’s has won 13 of these tour-
neys. Grammar 8, St. Joseph’s 6, Newington 4
and Shore 1.
* * * •
N.S.W. baseballers met Victoria on the
heavy Melbourne grounds last week and downed them
by 9—l, 11 —3 and 5 —4. The Ma Staters batted
in only eight innings in each match against Vic.’s
nine. Sid Gresham’s (N.S.W.) fine catching was the
bright spot in the series. Victoria’s pitching was
the weakest shown for many years.
PICKIN’ DOUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Me missus says a man’s a mug,
An’ chasin’ after trouble,
Wot’s bitten by the racin’ bug,
An’ tries to pick a double.
She also says of ’orses that
They’ll land yer in the inuck, see.
But good advice is valued at
Its cost, an’ ’era is buckshee.
Some chaps are satisfied, I know,
To watch the gay progression;
■While others just for places go,
An’ some blokes bet concession.
But not for mine! 1 try to ’it
The shinin’ South Sea hubbies
An’ so I always punt my bit
In little dub-dnb^doubles.
Some knows a jockey wot bestrides
A prad that’s “sportin’ silk,” mart.
Some tollers tipsters. Some derides
The pros—though not the milkman;
While others try to beat the books
By countin’ out each seven.
But I don’t go by form or looks ;
/ gets me tips from 'eaven.
Larst Choosdy night ole Mercury
(Who wouldn't dare to pimp us)
Blew in the door an’ says to me:
“Them gods on ’igh Olympus
’Ave figgered out a bonzer scheme
To beat the ’ighway robbers.
Gee! ’ow the Leger crowd’ll scream
When ’ome roll all our cobbers.”
“Greenstead,” ’e sez, “and Richmond Main!”
An’ thereupon skedaddled.
Yes, boys, I’ll be iri winnin’ vein,
Unless me brains get uddled.
So Saturday 1 means to go,
Forgetting all me troubles,
An’ deal the books a ’efty blow
By takin’ dub-dub-doubles.
VICTORIA.
MIRZA.


t \ ii Jim,
M
it
V
W///A
W/A
H
VZA
Vi
V
Tm
m
m
m
m
&
a
m
m
mm
4k
1
m
Hi
w
m.
f \\
4 A
4
f-
i
#T
S-'
&
/
f
vC
%
i<s.
%
B
illiilmi
Tm
rim
illlli
w
SPRING IS HERE
and the motoring season will soon be in
full swing. Of course, motoring is an
all-year-round sport, but it is certainly
more pleasurable in the Spring than in
Winter.
By securing your Chandler now, you
will have the full benefit of it through all
the pleasant Spring, Summer and Autumn
days.
No matter what your destination,
Chandler will get you there on schedule,
with the maximum of comfort and
expedition, and the minimum of anxiety;
for, if there is one thing that Chandlers
pride themselves on, it is their UNIFORM
RELIABILITY.
What One Chandler Can Do
Each and Every Chandler Will Do.
We can supply—FOß IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY—a Standard Model Seven-
Passenger CHANDLER SIX Touring Car
' £845.
Ring City 2567 and arrange a demonstration.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.
Garage and Showrooms,
147-51 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.


Permanent Hair Waving
Accentuates Attractiveness
The many advantages of softly waved hair are
too obvious to need much commendation. To
the smart woman, so important a part does it
play in her coiffure, that it has become quite a
fashionable craze. Farmer’s use a special, per-
manent hair waving process which produces
exquisite waves that remain the same even
after shampooing, and does not in any way
effect the growth, or destroy the natural sheen.
Appointments may be booked by personal
application in the Hairdressmg Salon, Third
Floor, or by phoning, City, Eleven Thousand.
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Box 497, Q.P.O.
Sk
1
f
d
X
A
iSS-
-1%
When the little folks are "Croupy,” and '
fretted by coughing- fits, wise mothers
know that Bonnington’s Irish Moss will
not be thrust peevishly aside by little
hands, and called nasty medicine.
lln??i re and palatable
"ill take
L‘ re adily, and soon
be restored to nor-
mal health.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BA - 35 -
‘jhfliwgtcris
F IRISH MOSS.
ILOTT
IOMiMGTQjfS,
CA»PACeCM i
IRISH " MOSS
wmm
su?iaxv
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
A Touch of
Paris in the
Heart of
Melbourne
Next [?] [?] [?]
Our Earl and the Countess have been
touring in Bananaland, and echoes are
reaching us of the party’s wonderment at
the immensity of the open spaces. A
sprightly flapper daughter of a squattoerat is
credited with having chattered this way with
a gent help: “What is the family name of
his Ex.?” “Rous,” was the reply. “Oh,
Rous. Then I suppose it’s a fair thiug to
call you a Rous-about?” Of course he had
to tell her that whatever she said was right.
As no Australian legs wore thought fit to
till the yawning gaiters of the .Melbourne
archbishopric, Micro is to be another impor-
tation —this time Harrington Clare Lees,
M.A., who is at present vicaring at Swansea,
iii Wales. Our forthcoming ecclesiastical
"pommy” is a little man of 51 with an im-
pressive scholarly record and a prolific pen.
He is married to a daughter of the manse,
but, as usual with Melbourne archbishops,
has no children. George Cranswick, who
bishes in Gippslarid, is his nephew. It is
said that Harrington Clare Lees was given
the tip that' he could have the Gippsland
or Bendigo gaiters, but at the time he pre-
ferred the smarter cut of the Swansea cloth.
“Who’s Who” convicts him of golf.
Saturday saw the final of the Y.A.T.C.
Steeplechase meeting at Caulfield, when
MacLeod’s Gazomp romped in and left the
backers of the unplaced favorite wailing.
The crowd was tremendous —the stand
packed all day, and the dusty lawn looking
like a country road invaded by a mob of
cattle. Melbourne can get itself dusty
half-an-liour after rain. In the shuffling,
seething mass a Smart hat or two managed
to liven the dull dressing, and one woman
swung a black-and-white wild-cat fur cape
into prominence. Maie Ryan was the smart-
est-tailored damsel in sight, as she struggled
along at her racing parent’s elbow. Mrs.
Ncwbigin sported a cheerful turned-up terra-
cotta hat. Mrs. Rogers Thompson was un-
ruffled in the exact pleats of her coat-frock,
and Mrs. Weston I’ctt was a handsome, tall
presence wearing the proud smile of a newly-
made grandmother. Dr. Joyce spent the day
smiling at congratulations on his engage-
ment. Mrs. Mayoress Swanson, a devoted
racegoer, wore soft brown sables that
matched her soft brown eyes. Charles
Hart’s little bride wore the duckiest thing
in blue and silver lids and a narrow sheath
of a coat-frock. Dresses were submerged,
however, in the wave of masculine business-
like tweeds.
Yet again ye Lord Mayor and Mrs. Swan-
son have entertained the wives of aldermen
and councillors at the quarterly meal. The
reception was held in the Mayoress’s rooms
and the food was spread in the council-room.
There was much brilliance of beaded embroi-
dery about the black gown of the Mayoress
and some 'gorgeous frocks frou-froued in
along with the aldermen. Mrs. Arnold
Westley’s velvets and silks were set oil'
with a jewelled flower wreath in her hair.
Councillor Bell’s two daughters took the eye
—the brunette in the severity of old-rose
brocade and the blonde in fluffy blue. Mrs.
Stein flamed out in Venetian red, a dull-
faced charmeuse that clung fashionably. Mrs.
Hennessy’s gown had a lot. of gold about it,
and she brought a pale blue daughter with
aslr-blonde hair and a vivid pink daugh-
ter wearing pink tourmalines. Dr. Smith
wore his little fair moustache and talked
politics. Councillor Collins had his soup
and then rushed away to make his maiden
electioneering speech. Alderman Davey
brought his daughter, Mrs. Charlie Beau-
champ, in a duck of a black gown. Mrs.
Aitken, in black, had with her a deb. daugh-
ter in champagne chiffons. Coffee and music
in the drawing-room followed the feeding,
and the men made continuous pilgrimage to
the Lord Mayor’s sanctum on some mysteri-
ous business.
To commemorate the third anniversary of
■the Big Push John Monash fed all the Gen-
erals available and the wivjgs of others who
laid served under him on that'eventful occa-
sion. Amid a blaze of floral decorations
daughter Bertha Bennett played hostess
very prettily in black lace with a bunch of
cherries on one shoulder. Her aunt, Miss
Monash, was the only unmilitary guest. The
host escorted the widow of General Bridges,
and General Gellibrand proffered an arm to
the hostess. The other big military guas
were Glasgow, Coxen, Elliott, Foote, Blarney,
Anderson and Grimwade, who brought
daughter Gwenda in mamma’s stead. The
name-cards were kookaburras for the men,
magpies for the ladies, and it was an even
bet as to which side the laugh was on.
The R.C.’s of Melbourne greeted their
homing archbishop rapturously. About
25,000 of them lined his route from Spencer-
street station to St. Pat.’s, on Eastern Hill,
and of course the spacious fane was packed
when the Te Deum was being sung with
fervor. The traveller, who looks thin and
tired, was not allowed much time to rest.
He had to open a new church at Kew on
Sunday, accept a demonstrative welcome at
the Exhibition on Monday, and put in an
appearance at the Lourdes lecture of Pro-
vincial Lockington, S.J., at Hawthorn on
Tuesday.
Mrs. Frank Tudor tries to keep cheerful,
though her husband is laid up and shows
little improvement from his recent jaunt to
New Guinea. He needs a long rest, the
doctor says, and she will have to watch her
own temperature owing to a touch of
malaria.
A cable mentions that Witley Court,
where the Dudleys entertained many Aus-
tralians until the rift appeared in the family
lute, lias been sold to a carpet-manufacturer
named Smith. Most of the estate proper
was got rid of some years ago. The house,
an immense place near Stourport, in Wor-
cestershire, is famed for its tapestries and
Georgian garden. Hinley Hall, the Dudley
family’s other seat, is close by in the same
county, and is much less costly in upkeep.
John Bowser, who is the Cocky candidate
lor his old constituency (Wangaratta), is
again the victim of the bronchial trouble
which handicapped him just after he took
the Premiership at the end of 1917. He
has had to cancel all election engagements.
When Dorothea Spinney does her next
Greek-drama dash in Melbourne she will
do it at the Playhouse, which the highbrows,
real and pretentious, have made their temple.
It will be the end of September before the
scholastic artist comes to light in cold classic
raiment, and perhaps the gods will temper
the climate to the poseful lady. But the
Playhouse at any time must be an uninvit-
ing spot for any but the most exclusive intel-
lects. The neighboring Yarra whispers that
it should have been the morgue. No ordi-
nary mortal ever dropped in casually for
entertainment, so its very name sounds satiri-
cal. Meanwhile Miss Spinney’s enthusiastic
harbingers hold their little meetings at the
Town Hall.
Mrs. George Fatrbairn is now taking
notice again after days of unconsciousness •
but the convalescence will take weeks. Her
anxious Senator husband had his troubles
increased by a severe attack of the ’flu. Son
Clive rushed down from his sheep in New
South to keep an eye on the invalids.
This is Broothorn’s effort to do justice to
handsome Jessie McMichael, one of Mel-
bourne’s most effec-
tive sopranos, who
has shown a gener-
ous liberality in the
cause of charity, and
in helping numerous
other good causes
during the last five
or six years. She has
appeared in grand
opera, and very often
on the concert plat-
form, and in addi-
tion she is soprano
soloist at Sco t s’
Church. The young
singer has been
through the hands of
Melba, and is re-
garded by the emi-
nent authorities as a
highly-finished product. Self-assertiveness is
the only platform qualification that she lacks.
Assisted by Harold Smith she is to give a
recital in the Collins-street Assembly Ilall
on the 23rd.
A note from an old school-mate:—
Tom Ryan won a scholarship in Dec., 1889, while
attending the Pretty Hills State School. This en-
titled him to attend an approved college, but had
to be renewed, competitively, for two years. He
first elected to go to Xavier, and at the end of the
first year just managed to secure a renewal. Pre-
vious to this some of his school pals had trans-
ferred to South Melbourne Col. (of which the prin-
cipal was poet .J. B. O’Hara), and in his second year
Ryan too went over. At the close of 1891 he gained
another renewal, being placed fourth on the list out of
the 15 successful candidates. In the same year he
matriculated from the S.M.C. Next year he did
Honor Classics, and at the close of 1892 he gained
Honors in Latin. It will thus be seen that all his
preparation for matriculation and Honors was made
at South Melbourne.
Up till the time he left for his own diocese
Bishop Foley was overshadowed by his
cousin and fellow-traveller, Archbishop Man-
nix. The Golden City gave him a real Bal-
larat welcome, and the Town Hall bells
clanged in chonis with the church chimes.
After doing England in general and the
second Test in particular, the Donald Mac-
kinnons have left for a European tour, which
includes a visit to the grave of Brice Mac-
kinnon, who was killed in the Great Smash.
The party will have a run through France,
Spain and Italy before taking the boat for
home. By the way, daughter Hilary, who
was married last year to one of the Reids
of Maeedon, has a daughter who already
threatens to outdo grandpa as an orator.
Those who learnt the way up to the Town
Hall supper room on festive nights of old
ought to inspect the apartment again to see
how it looks as the
abode of Art. Numer-
ous portraits and
landscapes iu oil and
pastel by Jo Sweat-
man are now hanging
there to warm the
eye of the artist and
incite the buyer to
feel for his cheque-
book. Miss Sweat-
man, who is here
pictured by Ruth
Hollick, is one of the
veterans among Aus-
tralian painters. Her
brilsli was taught
the way it should go
by Bernard Hall and
the late Fred McCub-
bin at the National
Gallery. She is a contemporary of the much-
discussed Meldrum, who won the Gallery’s
Travelling Scholarship quite a long while
ago.
After eight years’ strenuous work first as
chief of stall’, then as news editor and finally
as editor of Melbourne Hekald, Guy Innes is
to take a few months’ holiday, lie will leave
earlv in September for Honolulu to attend
the Press Congress, and will linger a while
in the lotus-eating isle. Then lie will have
a peep at the U.S.A. before returning to co-
ndjute with Keith Murdoch, the new chief
editor.
Walter Ivirby the other day put in his oar
to help the Benevolent Asylum at Chelten-
ham, a quiet corner that has been rather
out in the cold since the far-back days when
Lady Talbot fussed over it. Maggie Jarvis
(Mrs. Tom Reynolds) went and sang
“Bohfeme” duets with Kirby, and Vera
Carew, Dollv Stuart, Jo Forster, Frederick
Frpe and Miss Bouse all added music to
the party.
John Hop, whose job is to move on any
of the too-sociable folk on The Block, is
planting his feet more solidly than ever
these days. Some of the Very Naicest lately
lodged a complaint against John, and John
won. It began this way. A colonel and two
Sassiety misses were chattering in front of
a caf6, when “Move a-an, please,” said John.
"Do you know who Ai am?” asked one
horrified girl. “I know that it’s the likes
of you that gives a job to the likes of me,”
said John. Then Sassiety made its complaint
The Chief backed up his man and he won.
But the indefatigable trio managed to bring
the matter up a second time. The angriest
girl declared that John’s words had sug-
gested that she was a woman-of-no-import-
anee. Heavyweight lawyers were dragged
into the case; but again John was trium-
phant. At the finish the most argumentative
miss gasped with unbelief. “Do you mean
to say it is decided against me?” she asked
hysterically. “Sure enough,” she was told.
Now the poor darling has packed her Sara-
togas and flown to Colombo or Timbuctoo,
where the policemen will have no possible
doubt as to her importance.
Decorator Frank Walker and his wife
(she formerly trod the Inky Way as Hen-
rietta MacGowan) have a new scheme. They
have acquired a place in South Yarra which
they will turn into a Wonderfully decorated
dance-room and reception parlor. These
they will hire out for first-grade jazz or other
frivols. The place will be rushed by the
naicest flat- and villinites.
The State Treasury, which will want all
it can get this year to make ends meet, will
collect £12,000 or more from the estate of
Hugh Cameron, the wealthy grazier who
faded out at Orbost in May. He left close
on £127,000.
Mary Allen’s picture-show will open on
August 30 at Gill’s new gallery in Russell-
street. Dame Nellie Melba will speak the
piece. Rumor has it that painter Mary is
torn with indecision over her star canvas,
a full length nude. The question is will she
defy art by bestowing a few yards of gauze
upon the lady or shriek defiance at the
Philistines by showing her altogether in the
altogether?
The W. J. T. Clarkes are fare welling
daughter Nesta. She is off to stay with
her sister, whose husband is with the' Arrnv-
of-Occupation.
St. Pat’s Old Collegians’ Assoc, has elected
D. Wilson as its president and Rovston T.
Cahir lion. sec. Mr. Wilson, who is chief
clerk in the Master of Equity’s office, was a
pupil of the college in 1874. Mr. Cahir is a
law student at the Uni.
Past students of the Sacred Heart Con-
vent, Malvern, have arranged an at-home at
the Recreation Hall, Kew, for September 1
There will be 40 hostesses, and each will
bring five guests for dancing and supper. Ida
Moloney, of Elsternwick, is organising.
It was in the dim ramp coming from the
St. Kilda platform in Flinders-street station.
The tall gentleman saw the knobbly little
fellow edge furtively up behind a' young
woman, put an arm about her and give a
squeeze. Hardly had the little cry of alarm
escaped the lady’s lips before her assaulter
was laid low by a straight-from-the-shoulder
from the tall hero. “The lady might have
been my wife,” explained the avenger,
addressing the crowd. “She might have
been,” said the bad man, now on his knees;
“but she happens to be mine.” The tali
gentleman fled, with the knubbly fellow in
hot pursuit. Promiscuous gallantry carries
its risks.
This burst of cold weather recalls that
Evelyn Cook once caught a rat in a cage-
trap. i It was an Arctic night, and Evelyn
put her opera-cloak round the outside of the
trap to keep the rat warm. Then she heated
some milk and fed it to the victim. Next
morning at breakfast-time she gave it some
toasties. At lunch it put away a couple of
kidneys. Later a bit of cold sausage. The
following day the prisoner started on por-
ridge and buttered crumpets, and ended at
midnight with devilled almonds and claret.
So that in three weeks time Toorak-road
began to say, “Whaie, maie dealt Evelyn,
how feahfully thin you are!” And Evelyn
used to reply, “That’s nothing. You ought
to see the rat!” Here Evelyn would run
away to her Arts and Crafts job making
signs in the air of unutterable embonpoint.
Up at Innisfail there’s a tenor that should
attract some entrepreneurs to Queensland,
now that Caruso is no more, and John Mc-
Cormack is getting up to the forties. He’s
a young man from Roland Foster’s studio,
and his name is Sidoui; at present he is
cane-cutting, because he says he can earn
more in a day doing that than he could in
a year at his singing. Yet his top O’s and
D’s even are filling the vales of Innisfail
with delight and echoes, lie’s something of
an enthusiast, too. He walked the 15 miles
between his work and the township to hear
the Filippini Opera Company sing “Faust.”
A little Adelaide gossip:—
1 lie S.A. Tennis Assoc, engineered a successful
dance at the Town Hall to raise funds for the new
lawns at the back of the Adelaide Oval. The wife of
President A. ,T. Roberts and our champion (Mrs. Rowe)
received. The ballroom was a bower of almond
blossom, the programmes were unique—white letter
ings on a black ground—and several startling
toilettes made their appearance. The Police Ball
on the same night; in the Osborne Hall, Gouger-
street, was attended by His Ex., Ladv Weigall and
staff.
Word comes that Violet dc Mole, who has been
living for two years in France, scored a success in
the recent Sorbonne examination in Paris. She
specialised in phonetics and literature, and gained
diplomas in both.
A few days ago Ruth, daughter of Walter Hawker,
was married to Kyle Gault, son of the late Dr. A. H.
Gault, of Mitcham, at the little country church on
the estate of the R. M. Hawkers at Bungarce. The
profusion of wattle made it a golden wedding. Gold
figured even on the bridal frock. Bridesmaid
Margaret Murray was in maize georgette, while
little Philippa MacFarlane was in primrose. John
Cresswell was best man, and the Rev. S. 3. Boyd
tied the knot.
In response to the SOS sent out by the Children’s
Hospital, some of Adelaide’s busy bees have been
at work in the Town Hall kitchens making mar-
malade—oranges and sugar all given. The Mayoress
and friends at the end of a perfect week had canned
896 pounds.
The women of Glenelg are out to raise £14,000,
wherewith they propose to erect as a war memorial
a clubhouse for the accommodation of returned
sailors and soldiers of the district and to enlarge the
lown Hall. They have made-a. good start with a ball
at tlie Glenelg Palais Royal followed by a children’s
dance the next evening.
The town has lately been full of hefty young
women carrying hockey-sticks, the reason being the
carnival of the S. A. Women’s Hockey Association.
Teams came from Westralia, Sydney and Melbourne.
Tlie Mayoress gave a Town Hall reception for them
on the Monday, they were taken to tlie pictures on
the Wednesday and on the Friday they had a dance
at the Osborne Hall.
Two old residents passed out a few days ago. One
was the widow of the late Leopold C'onrad. Born in
Cornwall, but a colonist of 60 years, Mrs. Conrad
was an enthusiastic member of the S.A. Cornish
Association. The other was William P. Cavanagli.
who was for 40 years accountant with D. and W.
Murray.
Nurse Edith N. Reed, who has died at Keswick
Military Hospital, had a great record. An Adelaide
Hospital nurse, she enlisted when the war broke out
and was sent to the 31st Welsh Hospital at Deolali.
India, being afterwards transferred to an Egyptian
Hospital and then to the Digger Hospital at Dan-
mouth, England. Since her return she has been
staff nurse at Keswick. She died of a strange malady
contracted in India.


E. F. WILKS, Managing Director.
YOU!
Can Never
Fully
Realise
the
Tremendous
Importance
of
PEDAL TOUCH
as applied to the Player Piano
until you have Actually Played
the
GULBRANSEN
Zdua^oncertc
(The player with a soul).
When you hear this wonderful player piano
you will recognise a very great improvement
to other players; but —when you have actually
played it yourself, you will be astounded at
the ease with which you obtain hitherto un-
heard of results.
For durability of piano construction and tonal
perfection —coupled with amazing simplicity
of player control —the Duo Concerto has
never had an equal.
We give informal recitals daily,
and once a month an evening
recital, at which Sydney’s lead-
ing artists appear. Invitations
will be sent on application.
mm
mm
m
If through sentiment you would not care to part with your
own piano, we will convert it into an 88-note Duo Concerto
Player-Piano containing all the latest improvements.
Being nationally priced the Gulbransen means a tremendous
saving. Send for Catalogue B and Price List (Posted Free).
Cash or Terms.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
0
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET). TEE: CITY 10751 & 10758
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chappel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart—Launceston.
Aj
“ Where the Good Hats are.
ff
No. I—The1 —The “Murdoch” Velour.
The Last Word in Velour Hats. This smart model is equal to th*
best of the “fixed” price imported hats —at about half the price!
These dressy Velours are of rich texture and tine silk-like finish.
In smart styles, with 2 : [in. brims, fitted with soft sweat-proof
leather, and showing in an attractive range of latest shades—
Pearl, Silver, Grey, Mid Slate, Dark Slate, Fawn, and Biscuit, with
Black bands; also Nut Brown and Black, with self bands; silk-
lined. Sizes: 6§ to 7]. MURDOCH’S PRICE
30-
No. 2—The “Murdoch” Soft Felt Hat.
Made in Australia, and a challenge to any other Hat at the price.
Fashioned in good quality felt of fine finish. Shaped in a variety ot
smart styles and showing in shades of Smoke, Grey, Steel, lawn,
Cuba and Drab, with Black bunds; also in Black or Brown, with
uu |f Kanrle *•<■> 7V Reims. 2 tin. wide.
J 6
No. 3—The “Murdoch” Tweed Hat.
For everyday wear Murdoch's offer a special line of Men’s Shower-
proof Tweed Hats, as smart in style as they are dependable in wear.
Made from selected English and Australian Tweeds, featuring a
pleasing range of patterns, including many stripe effects, J
ever-favored Donegal mixtures. YOUR CHOICE
The finest Hat Values in Australia. When
writing for these Hats please address your
letter to Desk R.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
12/6
MURDOCH’S PRICE : jg
M
URDOCH'
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
“ The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
s
I
“SUBSCRIBE TO THE DIGGERS' LOAN."
Use
IT is recognized that the throttling governor type of engine
is the most desirable, especially for operating on kerosene.
The FULLER & JOHNSON Throttling Governor Petrol
Kerosene Engine is of the most approved design. In this
engine complete combustion of the fuel is obtained, and a
steady uniform engine speed maintained, at the same time
the automatic regulation of the fuel is always in proportion
to the load.
Characteristic of all FULLER & JOHNSON Engines, this
engine is “easy to start,’’picks up speed quickly, runs smoothly
and quietly, and can be depended upon to deliver its full rated
Brake Horse Power with a liberal margin.
It is the engine with the Big Steady Pull.
These engines are handsomely finished and can be fur-
nished either stationary or portable in the following sizes—
3, 5,7, 9, 12, 15, 20 and 25 B. H. P.
A post card addressed to the nearest distributor named below
will bring you full information on FULLER & JOHNSON
Engines.
ď
Id sire? 3,5, 7, 9> 12, 15, 20, 25 B. H. P. Stationary and Portable
DISTRIBUTORS
The S. A. Farmers* Co-operative Union, Ltd., Adelaide
Buzacott & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Buckeye Harvester Co., Melbourne
EASY TO START


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
annua
HE PLUS ULTRA
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY I.IMITEO, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club)
’Phone Cent. 4954.
HI. L. McRAE
Proprietress.
d
£
The "BULLY
1716
POST
FREE
Usually
25/-
ďf
Here’s a good-looking long-service boot in
GlacC Kid, exactly as pictured, now being
offered during our Sale for much less than
it is worth. Sizes, 5 to 10.
MATT, YOUR ORDER FOR A PAIR TO-DAY!
FINNEYS,
BRISBANE.
A WOMAN'S
LETER
Holeprol
Hostery
Melba left in a blaze of glory for Mel-
bourne, after banding the orchestra her
cheque for a hundred pounds to help keep
the flag flying and the triangle isosceles. The
send-off was the sort of thing that probably
happened to the Queen of Sheba when she
left Solomon’s Court. About two dozen men
sprinkled with women surrounded the Dame,
who was enveloped in a brown musquash
coat, a toque of the same, with a black
osprey fastened to its side with a blistered
pearl the size of ha1f-a-crown, thick brown
silk stockings and shoes. Sister Mrs. Box
and the faithful John Lemmone got aboard
with the Diva; an aide or two brought the
vice-regal atmosphere; and the multitude of
men stood bareheaded till the train moved
out
Melba’s unhappiest moment in Sydney was
when she saw an evening-paper “snap’’ of her.
self as she swung from a rehearsal. The
memory of it stayed with her all the way
to Melbourne. Arrived at Spencer-street the
photographer begged her to pause for a
moment while they clicked. “Sorry, can’t
be done,” she snapped, and dashed for cover.
Marie Tempest as the woman who is only
separated from bigamy by the width of a
herring-bone is one of the most delightful
creatures who ever walked the Sydney stage.
She has brought her art to that point where
a shade of tone denotes mockery as subtly
as the flicker of a wink. She is so exquisite
that a town-beauty society should build an
Art Gallery around her for the education of
all wives in the handling of husbands —their
own or somebody else’s. The night before
she left Sydney Melba and her party tenanted
a box to applaud the Criterion artist.
Died at sea, while on her way to Eng-
land in one of the Port liners, Countess
Morner, who before she married her Swedish
title was Mrs. Henry C. White, widow of
one of the largest land-owners in Australia
—there Avere White properties in Victoria,
N. S. Wales and Queensland. She was best
known, perhaps, for two things—for her
Titian hair, and for being the owner of
Beulah, now the Astoria, one of the first
flat-buildings in Sydney. Two of her daugh-
ters are married in England, and one is the
good-looking and philanthropic Mrs. Flem-
mich, of Toowoomba. A fourth was killed
some years back through falling over the
banister at their Rose Bay home. The
Countess’s only son, Roy, died after an
operation last year.
The Royal Art Society put some dash
into its conversazione last week, and
scarcely any of the guests left before half-
past ten. There was a fancy-dress compe-
tition that __ attracted all the young things,
and Mrs. Kelly, who was one of the judges,
brought her Bertie for support. He was
urbane and genially murmured “Good even-
ing” to everyone he met. Mrs. Bertie, as
usual since her return from Europe, har-
nessed up her head in a sort of gold trellis
that was connected from ear to ear with
drooping strings of brown beads. Her black-
and-gold lace dress finished just below the
knee, but regretted its abruptness and added
an afterthought of gold lattice-work looking
like a design for point lace that had been
braided and got no further. President
of the Society Oxnard Smith beamed on
all comers; sculptor Nelson Illingworth
brought his _ pretty daughter; John Long-
staff looked in to say cheerio; artist Coffee
sketched his ideas of a million men on a mil-
lion farms: Charlie Bryant was among the
lightning sketchers, and there was a loud
cheer from all when they heard that Hans
Heysen had won the Wynne prize for 1920.
When the Darlinghurst housekeeper was
half-way down William-street seeking cheap
meat the other morning she began to fear
she had met a Bolshie insurrection. Round
College-street, in front of St. Mary’s and
across Hyde Park, as far as the eye could
reach were blocks of humans. Up William-
street motor-cars dashed flying yellow and
green streamers. The man at the door of
the ham-and-beef shop assuaged the house-
keeper’s fears. “It’s Mannix,” he told her.
“My boss is off to meet him. I wish I
couldder gone.” Then leaning forward con-
fidentially : “Are you a R.C.? Well, they do
say ’e’s going to be Prime Minister of Aus-
tralia !”
The Hibernian Foresters or some such
came on the seene flying all their millinery.
The short-sighted man who had been watch-
ing the enthusiasm with gathering gloom
broke down at this point. “My Gawd!” he
groaned, “they’ve collared the Freemasons
now!”
So quietly that the whisper of it scarcely
passed Macquarie-street, Gladys Lethbridge
became Mrs. Frank Penfold-Ilyland at mid-
day on Wednesday of last week. Gladys,
who arrived breathless at the top of St.
Stephen’s steps at least three minutes late,
was entirely white lace, except for the bodice
part of her, which was of white satin made
jumper-wise, though it frothed into white
lace sleeves and a little lace frill just under
the waist-line. With this she wore a small-
brimmed black lace hat that sported a valance
of. black lace on its right side. Her one
bridesmaid wore a blue satin dress and a
cherry-trimmed hat that cascaded into
streamers of blue ribbons. Frank, who with
his brothel - shares the loot from Penfold’s
wines, was one of the most eligible and hard-
shelled bachelors in Sydney. His old friends
I)r. Langloh Johnston and eye-man Dr.
Corbin (just as eligible) cheered him from
the front pews. Will Kelly was another un-
tamed boy at the party. After the ceremony
all the guests tootled off to the Australia
for a wedding lunch.
A nearly-new engagement that Newcastle
is excited over is that of Colonel (Dr.)
Meredith, who is to link up with Betty Win-
deyer at an early date. Betty, who is the
daughter of Archie Windeyer, is a sonsy lass
and an old Church of England Grammar
girl. Incidentally, she is just about 20, and
her widower-bridegroom’s family is grown up.
Another just-eneaged girl is Barbara
Chambers, of Woollahra (her mother was
Vivie, one of the musical Fitz-Stubbs sis-
ters), who has promised to accept ex-soldier
Dalrymple Hay, of Yass, as her hero for ever.
Jean Hogue (her dad was one-time Min-
ister for Education, and a brother was the
well-loved “Trooper Bluegum”) has promised
to become Mrs. K. C. N. Gibbs, and is wear-
ing the usual diamond in sign thereof.
Congratulations to Mrs. Harry S. Levy
on a re-engagement were premature. “It is
not a, fact,” says the male head of the family
definitely: and this page is sorry that some
man is less happy than it was assured he
was.
Those who take golf seriously had their
revelry on Kensington (Sydney) links all
last week, when, between afternoon teas, 128
golferinas decided the State championship.
It was a sad time for the Misses; and they
crashed with monotonous regularity. Mrs.
Yuille, of Dubbo, who won the final com-
fortably, already holds the Victorian and
Australian championships. Misses Wray and
Boys were regarded by blushing tipsters as
the . probable finalists. They met in the
demi-semi-final. Miss Boys won a spectacu-
lar game by one stroke, only to be well
beaten by Mrs. Thornthwaite in the semi-
final.
Miss Eadith Walker hostessed the fare-
well tea-drinking that the Red Crossers in-
dulged in to honor Miss Farmer, who was
one of the first V.A.’s to ring the front-door
bell at Randwick hospital, and one of the
last to leave when the eviction took place.
A presentation table carved by her beloved
Diggers was tucked away by Miss Farmer
after the usual speeches had been made by
th£ usual group of men who religiously
attend the Red Cross tea-fights.
You’re just in time to say hello to Philippa
Alston before she comes of age. Philippa is
the bright Austra-
1i a n with the
Kirkby-Lunn voice
that raised itself in
the songs of Siebel
and Martha in the
Choral Society’s
production of
“Faust” last Satur-
day night. Also,
she has probably
more relations than
any other girl in
Sydney, and has at
least one coroneted
cousin. Her teacher
is Mrs. Slapoffski,
and (for the benefit
of admirers) her
guardian is solicitor
Ebsworth. Bernice
Agar is responsible for the picture.
The St. Vincent’s supper-dance at the
Wentworth last Friday night will pay a
good instalment off the furnishing bill of the
new wing. Mayoress Lambert, who was pre-
s;dent, brought her own party, and Olive
Casey and N. Brady dressed the secretarial
duties in two of the prettiest frocks in the
room, while Miss McElhone kept up the trea-
sury’s end in cherry-colored taffeta. Drs.
Connelly. Bridge and Hunter helped things
along; Nellie King, for once not the Martha
of the party, sat care-free and satin-clad at
one of the gaily-decorated supper-tables; and
vice-president Mrs. B. Reid entertained a
group of young things.
This year’s ball for the Mater Miseri-
cordise Hospital (North Sydney) is to be
held at jazz h.q., the Wentworth, on
August 22, and the attendance threatens to
be a record. Mrs. McGirr is president, with
Mrs. F. W. Fraser and the Misses Coffee and
Corlis as hon. secs. There is to be a jazz
competition with prizes, of course.
Dame Margaret simply can’t be kept away
from the Wentworth these days. .Perhaps
she's like Eve after total abstinence from
apple—obsessed with desire to chew it right
to the core, just to see if its flavor holds to
the end. At any rate, she gave whole-
hearted appearance and approval to the party
held there last week to help the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital. Bridge and jazz
were the attractions, and every woman who
has even had a raffle-ticket in the social
swim turned up to the spree. The Napoleonic
Mrs. Maclurcan, Mrs. Sep Levy and Mrs.
Brand saw to all the arrangements, and the
result was as smooth-running as a Rolls-
Royce. Dame Margaret foreshadowed Spring
in her pnmrose vest; otherwise her costume
and furs were cut out of a length of brown
Autumn. Mrs. Sep fastened a pink rose
under her ear, and for the rest was black
satin and feather opulence. Mrs. Fred
Waley, another handsome frocker, and little
Isabel Fraser rendered support to secretary
Mona Daley.
This is composer
Lindley Evans, one
of Sydney’s most
popular pianists. He
lived for many
years in South
Africa, and con-
triv e s to impart
some of the throb
of that big conti-
nent into his music.
The young man has
never been known
to refuse to give
his services for any
charitable entertain-
ment, and his in-
strument has helped
many a lame dog
over the stile.
The Paddington Town Hall fairly rattled
with gilded pills the other night when the
chemists, having snapped their shop-doors at
6 o’clock and grinned decisively at the now
obsolete night-bell, assembled with their silk
socks and pumps and best-girls for their
yearly celebration. The decorations were
carried out regardless, and all the scents of
Araby seemed to have flooded Paddington.
The frocking was so good that the onlooker
suddenly remembered with bitterness the
four-shilling bottle of physic that at one
time was a modest 2s. 6d. However, on with
the dance, to which Mr. McKinn, the presi-
dent of the Pharmaceutical Society, wel-
comed the guests. Another feature of the
frivolity was the number of young women
who added to their many other attractions
that of being qualified to mix a magical morn-
ing-after bromo-seltzer for the wild boy of
the family.
On the 31st of this month you’ll have a
chance to prove vour sympathy with the mak-
ing of fine babies for the finest country in
the world. The ball for the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital bursts into effulgence at
the Town Hall that night, and if you don’t
at least buy a ticket it will mean that some
poor baby has so much less chance of facing
life with a good start.
The farmers and near-farmers, w r ho had
talked themselves dry for a week in Sydney,
went gay on Saturday, when Kelso King
piloted 350 of them down the beautiful
South Coast to Port Ivembla, where ferti-
lisers are made. At lunch in the great
460 ft. shed chairman Kelso King told the
simple story of the establishment of the three
big enterprises—Mt. Morgan and the smelt-
ing and fertiliser works—and, incidentally,
of how he himself started life as a jackeroo.
Adelaide’s late Acting-Mayor George Pros-
ser brought his wife and a daughter to Syd-
ney as soon as he had got through his job
of proposing the Address-in-Reply at the
opening of the S. Aus. Leg. Council. While
the business-like head of the family has been
looking into the wonders of the Broken Hill
Prop, Newcastle, the others have been
at the Wentworth taking a friendly interest
in the jazz-annexe.
Enid Bennett (Mrs. Fred Niblo) is the
glad mother of a baby-girl. That was the
coming event which drew Enid’s mother back
to America so speedily a few months ago.
Sydney lost last week one of its finest
philanthropists when Mrs. Robert Sproule,
wife of Solicitor-General Sproule, died of
double pneumonia. She was a very active
member of various hospital auxiliaries, and
her unselfishness won her a large circle of
admiring friends—many of them very poor
in money but very wealthy in affection.
Mrs. Colvin, formerly Mrs. Theo Marks,
is returning shortly to Rangoon, where her
husband is an Indian civil servant. She has
been in Svdney for the past six months, and
will take her girl Katherine back with her.
The Y.W.C.A. Miss Macneil drew a light-
ning sketch of China at the Queen Victoria
Club on Friday afternoon when Mrs. Scri-
vener was the hostess—a sketch that was'
postively soul-daunting; of sewing-
machines, gramophones, physical culture,
baby shows, health campaigns, flying girls
and the new cry of the Westernised Chinese
maid, “One husband, one wife.” The audi-
ence seemed as though it could have put m,
With anything but the sewing-machines
plaimy .it couldn t bear to think of Pekinese
ladies in Magyar blouses, tube skirts and
wristlet watches And health “drives” and
baby show's! Incidentally, Miss Macneil
mentioned that an export in Better Babfes
Soon ft S^ 1I) K ed T -'°“ to China,
boon Di. Trubv King s humanised milk will
flow in a steady stream around all the earth.
Perhaps it is the milk of human kindness we
have read so much about.
The rush to enlist is simply wearing out
i t^T es ii 0 d tlO Guide office at
7?}. Castlereagh-street, but the secretary
(Miss Grace) cant get enough captains or
guides for her squadrons. Any girl who
feels she carries a field-marshal’s baton in
her lapsack is implored to interview Miss
Grace immediately.
Till last week the Y.A. Club was inor-
dinately proud of its pot-plants. It watered
them and pruned them and* washed them
and gave them as much. care as a mother
does her first-born. But one dav the Nemesis
of Pride stalked the Club. The man was
miserable and hopelessly shabby as he crept
down the stairs with a bundle of plants in
his arm, and some of the Red Cross heads
corning up pitied his wretched condition.
‘ Buy a plant, ladies,” he begged meekly
touching bis hat The ladies didn’t want
the plants, but a few silver coins changed
hands. It was 15 minutes before they found
that the meek gentleman had been trying to
sell them the pot-plants from their own club.
Brisbane has a busy week:—
The weather, which had been horribly like Mel-
bourne’s, beamed on our Show Week —beamed so
genidlly as to make heavy coats and skirts uncom-
fortable.
Wednesday was the big day at the Show itself.
The G.-G. and Lady Forster were there, the latter
in Marne blue satin and a beautiful brocade race-
coat. Our own Governor, opening the business,
mad? a few pointed remarks about the slaughter
of good timber in this State.
After the official luncheon most of the visitors
went on to Eagle Farm for the Q.T.C. Meeting.
Lady Forster baulked; she was booked for afternoon-
tea at the Women’s Club. Mrs. Lubbock and Mrs.
Pitt Rivers took the other turning, the former in
black crfipe de Chine and a demure black velvet hat;
the latter in black taffetas, embroidered in gold,
green and pink, with a large black hat touched
with gold.
There can hardly be a sound pair of slippers left
among the dancing set. On Saturday night it was
the Children’s Hospital Ball at the Belle Vue, and
vice-regals were there in droves. On Monday night
Society jazzed for the sake of St. Martin’s War
Memorial Hospital, the two Governors and party
helping in the good work. Some 40 matrons hos-
tessed the dance of the week at the South Brisbane
City Hall on Tuesday night. Pink shaded lights,
palms, mirrors and masses of bougainvillea were the
decorations. The G.-G., Lady Forster and their two
daughters, Sir Mathew Nathan, Mrs. Deverell, Miss
Sylvester Samuel, and a battalion of aides, arrived
early and were met by Mrs. Whittingham and Mrs.
Ross Munro. Many of the hostesses were country
visitors, and dozens of pretty station girls were
among the dancers. Saturday night saw the Anzac
appeal ball at the Centennial Hall. Everyone bought
a ticket, and besides Government House most of the
officers from the warships were there.
Several private dances also have happened. Miss
Myrtle Overell hostessed one in honor of her sister,
Airs. Rouse Bastard, of England. Mrs. Arthur Feez
gave another, about 100 guests being present, and
Miss Elma White had a jazz for the younger lot.
The opening of Parliament might have been fol-
lowed by an execution on the Palace square if
some kind soul had not caught, in mid-air, the large
bottle of gum that a sister of the pen accidentally
pushed off the Press table, which was immediately
above the G.-G. There was a big attendance; but
no longer do well-dressed crowds roll up. The
Judges, in poodle wigs and scarlet, gave the only
color to a dull affair.
Mischa Levitzki has been lavishly entertained. Mrs.
F. K. Brodribb and Mrs. A. H. Whittingham gave
him parties.
Lloyd Rees’s pictures and Wal Spencer’s book-
binding are at Jeanette Sheldon’s gallery in Preston
House. Dozens of visitors trail up daily to look at
the work of these Brisbane boys. Numerous little
red tickets adorn Lloyd’s pictures, and one —of
the Treasury Buildings, Brisbane—is being considered
by the Trustees of our infant Gallery. The G.-G-
-and Lady Forster are going there before they leave.
Mrs. Julian Mackay, who was Peggy Ferrier once,
gave an at-home at Lennon’s. The lounge was
bowered in roses for the occasion. Among the
throng were Mrs. William Collins, Mrs. Ross Munro,
Mrs. Alan Jeffrey, the Gilbert Wilson lady, and a
number of Downs people.
Other wild frolics at which the visitors have
been entertained include a meeting of the N.C.W.
(only Lady Forster was there), a tea at the
Women’s Club (two daughters supported her, and
Eunice Cochrane and Doreen Morgan sang sweetly),
a visit to Rosemount Hospital and the artificial-limb
factory next door, and a lunch given by Mr. Theo-
dore and the Ministers to the G.-G.
“The Little Whopper” was welcomed by a packed
house, and Blanche Browne was affectionately greeted
by her old friends; and there is so far no falling off
in attendance at the show.
The Earl and Countess of Stradbroke arrived in
Toowoomba early in the week, stayed the night
there, and then went on beyond Charleville to North
Comongin station for a few weeks’ holiday.


'
.'S*
r >
ill
1
11
• . j
W
I
v 1 • - i
>»« W r ->
I
• ppgi fglisS
:. 't \* '• -
. • ■
Wi
* A w
Pearl
Necklaces.
*
Hardy Bros,
specialise in Fine
Pearl Jewellery,
and have a choice
collection of -Pearl
Necklaces and
loose unmounted
Pearls of rare
quality and value.
These beautiful
Gems were never
more fashionable
than at present.
Pearl Necklaces
can be worn on
all occasions, and
form most appro-
priate Gifts for
girls coming of
age.
Prices range from
£2O to £3OOO.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St. f
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
BUCKLEY’S
(Melbourne’s Leading; Clotbiers)
IMPORTED SUITINGS
MADE TO MEASURE
df
X.
(5]
.'|l3>
Changing Conditions
Demand New Methods.
Our effort to meet the public
demand for a Suit cut to individual
measure and fitted with every care
has met with unprecedented enthu-
siasm; therefore, we have decided
to make it still further attractive by
including in this Exceptional Offer
a large consignment of
IMPORTED SUITINGS
in Neat Designs
Also an
All-Wool Indigo
CHEVIOT
of Excellent Value.
For the benefit of our customers
who live at a distance we have
arranged to reserve a quantity of
these Suitings—both Tweeds and
Serges—but you must act quickly.
Remember the price is the same, no matter
where you reside, as
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Send for Patterns and Self-measurement
Form, which will be sent post free.
BUCKLEY'S
(Buckley & Nunn Ltd.),
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
fiu?
Drastic
Reduction
in the Price of the
Ansco
Vest Pocket Camera No. 2
the camera which takes pictures 2£ x 3i, and from the
clear, sharp negatives of which beautiful enlargements
may be made to any desired size.
We offer this high-grade Roll Film Daylight Loading
Camera with Modico Anastigmat Lens F7.5, which
has been selling at £8, at the REDUCED PRICE of
£6.
Call or write for our latest price list.
“The House for GOOD Cameras,’*
386 George Street (near G.P.O.), Sydney,
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Invest in the Diggers’ Loan
Chocolates
Fresh from the Factory.
Mailed to you on the day
they are made.
Always in red boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
d
162 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
u
’ ■
. •- y-
■
■ v'V:
m
II
m
&
1
m&
EB
I 4
V «P?
• ■


LEARN DRAWING!
ur’H
r.''\
9
<1
There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Sinaia les-
sons in the ,
principles o f
black-and-white
work and design
have been prepared
by Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist, enabling
you to study art
in your own home.
This
POSTAL COURSE.
OF DRAWING
teaches you with-
out drudgery how
to apply your tal-
ent and how to
make big money
besides learning a
fascinating hobby.
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s Money
in the I’en,” which
tells all about the
course, fees, etc.;.,
gives examples of
the lessons and
samples of stu-
dents’ work, will
be sent you on
receipt of your
name and ad-
dress and three
stamps to cover postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
7l Union House, SYDNEY.
S/True Ease i^Wriung
W 'iTHE BRUCE”
STEEE —_ J
SHELL
PENS
©elected and recommended by
M R .James Bruce.■ Writing Specialist
nnd Writing Master to the prmcipa 1, ’
Schools of Sydney, N S W o manufactured
by the celebrated Pen makers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
'Sold hi/ all Stationers
\% olesale -Ai jex. Cowan & Sons t jn
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
A flashlight that
A MERICAN Flashlights have
many improvements over the
ordinary type. Their patented shock
absorber, their dual contact, their
non-short-circuiting case, all make
them superior. They will give you
long useful service.
American Flashlight Batteries,
too, last longer and give a better
light. They fit all makes.
Ask your electrical dealer to
show you the many different styles
and sizes. Always insist upon
"American”.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inc
30 East 42d Street, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of Columbia Dry
Cells, Automobile Storage Batteries, Car-
bon Brushes, and Carbon Specialties
COLUMBIA
F322114E
Established
1849.
Australian Mutual
87™?Stfsydney PfOVidChtSoCUty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
Tlie Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEULY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Laugh , and the world laughs with you!"
Is anything so sweet-sounding as a good, hearty, musical laugh?
If you find it hard to laugh, look to your health.
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
Pissis *>S
rEITIf, >EiJlli,
Don t let ill-health discourage
you.
HYPOL
can do for you what it has
done for thousands of others.
This famous Emulsion is a great solace in
sickness, especially chest complaints,
wasting diseases, the after-effects of
influenza or severe cold.
Doctors recommend HYPOL because it is a medicine, a food
and tonic all in one, and, more important, results are sure.
Promote Health and Buoyancy by taking
HYPOL.
Sold at all high-class Pharmacies and Stores.
Manufactured by Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop., Ltd., Melbourne.
f
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTO PHIS R
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
I'or quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
cj
E MPS^
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SION OF
AGOOD SHINE
Owing to the high and ever-advancing price of footwear, it is
necessary to obtain the maximum wear from vour shoes. You
can do so by using ROSTOCK’S SHOP] DRESSINGS, which
are made from ingredients which PRESERVE the leather, in
addition to giving a high polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey, and Dark Grey. In Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Nigger Brown Cream in bottles and tubes, and
Nigger Brown Paste in tins. Now on Sale.
BOSTOOK’S POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AU. AUSTRALIANS visiting Londou
should read the British Australasias,
(id. weekly—au illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information ’without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
BUILDERS and PLUMBERS’
WROUGHT-IRON PIPE
STARTLING PRICES.
GALVANIZED TUBES FOR WATER.
SIZES .... Jin. fin. 1 in. 1 Jin. 2in.
PRICE . -/5f -/6f -/10J 1/6J 2/1 per foot
BLACK TUBES FOR GAS.
SIZES .... fin. Jin. fin. lin. 1 Jin. 1 Jin. 2in.
PRICE -/4 -/5J -/6J -/9a 1/2 1/5J 1/11J per foot
GALVANIZED ELBOWS jin. -/ileach
GALVANIZED TEES..., Jin. 1/1 each
ALL THE ABOVE IN LARGE OR SMALL QUANTITIES.
TERMS LESS 3|- per cent. Cash with order as long as present
stocks last.
GET OUR PRICES FOR ALL YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
Wilfrid Falconer, Limited,
Builders and plumbers* Supplies,
Lackey and Pier Streets, Haymarket, Sydney.
RING CITY 3820; OR WRITE P.O. BOX 51 HAYMARKET.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and no MS. mill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.M.A.: The doctor earns that fee, as a
rule, if he earns no other. For the day when he sat
in a chair at the bedside and let the baby get itself
born is done. ... Edward E.: The little affair with
the Devil sounds too mechanical... .The Beer King:
It doesn’t make a printable yarn. .. .Xehtim: Hasn’t
even a resemblance to verse.... Ox: Lame little
things... .T.P.C.: “Manus” is a slmddersome horror
m wickedly abused rhyme. .. .11.M.T.: If we printed
it Mr. McTiernan would certainly fine us for selling
articles under weight.... AY. H. (Bagotville) : Dread-
ful. .. .C.M.R.A.: Lame in the feet and not very
strong in the head... .E.S.: “Dead Soldiers” begins
well, but the metre gets too wild and tangled....
Hesperian: The verse wallows and bumps in
thought while keeping upright in metre. Might
be worth re-submitting.... Rusticus: Not up.
. ...J.A.L.: “Sludge” is too weak... .G'.B.F.: The
lines ate mostly commonplace... .Eddie S.: “Shandy”
is too watery to draw a customer. ... H.K.W.: Not
nearly up... .G.V.M.K.: “Birth” premature....
Bellerive: That’s the real -stuff:—
The tough and roving swaggic
orows hardened to the track,
As he trudges weary journey’s
With he's blue.y on he’s back.
He dreams not ot golden fortune,
* Gay life and motor car’s,
A-plodding through the woodland
_ And camping ’neath the star’s.
Upon the grass he’ll resteth,
Heedless of rheumatic ache’s.
The darkness and the silence
. And danger of fierce snake’s.
Home-life to the rover
Would be like prison bar’s ;
He loves the open country,
And campin' ’neath the star’s.
....Eve A.: No use.... Ross: Don’t know where von
could place it Rex: Little skill and less iueie-t
Porro: First learn to think; the rest will be
comparatively easv N.C.M.: The “Nomad” won’t
do. “Bedouin” is plural; and may the curse of
ages rest on the man who first: wrote “wanderlust”!
W.McV.: Both fall short and both play ducks
and drakes with grammar David G.: Honestly, it
is rubbish.... Davey IT.: Nicely done, but we don’t
want it... .L.D.C.: Impossible to comment on copy'
weeks after it has been dealt with. “Color Line”
doesn’t strike us V.R.Q.L.: Very empty....
W.S.W.: Poor as the shadow of Lazarus. ... E.C.8.:
Yarn doesn’t quite do it Carnb: You have a
solemn sense of humor J.K.R.W.: Very old melo-
dramatic theme.... Halcombe S.: No use sending us
long, wordy novels. Read the paper: we print the
sort of thing we want—only we want it better...
Gertrude M.: “Dingbats” has possibilities. You
haven’t made the best of him yet.... Okay: Better
to do some singing first and explain why afterwards.
The seventh line halts badly. .. .George P.: It doesn’t
strike u 5.... I .ndy : “The Joke” hasn’t made much of
a yarn Yal F.: They lack originality of thought.
The one with the thunder in it is the best....
N.G.X: The grammar goes mad in the very first
stanza. .. .E.D. (Mitchell) : Don’t get near. .. .
L.M.R.: The “Thou” and “Thine” and “Wilt”
weaken the verse. Try to write naturally....
S.C.G.: Dismal fragment, with no originality and
little truth Betty: The metre of the “Little
Home” is a bit draughty W.S.W.: Very crude
- ...E.M.C.: Doesn’t amount to much... .H.M.D.:
Poor prose expressing obvious thought, and not
helped much by a stray rhyilie here and there....
f’.G.T.: You were badly advised. It is far too
wordy and discursive. ... A.L.: “Dreaming” reads
nicely ; but it is rather unsubstantial, isn’t it ?. . . .
Oliver B.: Seasonable item :
The seeding is over once again,
You can see by their smiles, the grin ;
With the warm sunshine and rain,
The cockies are pleased that it’s all in.
“Yes, if, looks all right, Milk, up till now,
But you wait ’till bye and bye ;
We still got to go on with the plough,
The ground is getting dry, dry.
“It’s all in the game, you know, Syd,
Our fathers and their father,
We’ll have to go on as they did.
Ay! What you think—rather, rather!”
Yes, they carried on and reared us,
But never a murmur did we hear ;
Nothing, then, to make a fuss ;
Can’t we do the same each year?
... .Moira C.: Not enough meat in it. . . .R.R.P.: Poor
work. .. .Marg. B.: Even though “they wandereth,”
we don’t believe that you “love to sit down any-
where.” There are places like antheaps where the
boldest wanderethers wouldn’t love to stay many
seconds June: Pretty little idea. But the verse
hardly carries it Bauff: As full of lumps as a
badly-made bed Colin B.: The metre falls down
too often Keith A.: No yarn in it Ethel W.:
Not up.... Charles V.: “Horace” doesn’t make a
story A.E.P.: Poor J.K. (Randwick): Use
some sandpaper on it....H.A.M: Disappointing verse
on a promising theme Paula: The “light’s en
chanted stream” loses itself Culaneilan: Needs to
be a lot better than that 8.1. E.: You have a
notion of metre; hut even a poem ought to mean
something... .Aloysius K.: An unpleasant trifle....
J.W.P.: Rather good of its kind; but it’s not a
good kind. .. .A.M.8.: Y'ou’re wrong. Where those
colleges go astray is in professing to supply the
ability— i.e., the brains. There is a shortage of first-
class journalists—and journalism A.H.G.: But it
was recently shown that agricultural implements
were dearer in M.L. under Freetrade conditions than
in protected Australia. Also, the list of manufactured
articles exported to countries which, according to
you, won’t buy our produce because it is too dear,
is almost as long as your arm. . . .C.W.G.: White
Australia is “a diseased prejudice,” is it? AYell, The
B. prefers even a diseased prejudice to a mongrel
nation with Communism tied to its tail....Mal-
vernian: Ruled out; but try again. .. .R.L.C.H.: Beer
....F.G.M.: 01d....H.H: Off the Bulletin’s track
....Toheroa: Both variations of pre-Adamite yarns.
.. . .Harr: All lack point... .Athol: Rather mechani-
cal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
I.O’B: Doesn’t show much promise.. . .G.H.:
AVhere’s the lady? R.C.: It is unsuitable
M.N.F.: Ruled out. .. .C.S.K.: Drawing faulty....
G.A.W.: Misses T.L.AV.: Too stiff H.AY.Z.: If
that’s original an art course might be worth while
. ...R.F.8.: A long way off the target.... F. 0.:
Still much too finicky in treatment. .. .D.C.H.:
You’ve achieved the smallest motor-car on record.
R.V.G.: Too amateurish yet A.V.8.W.: Misses
....Uphill: Terrible drawing... ,C.J.: Wooden....
R.E.C. : Kindergarten drawing ruled out D. 8.: '
Not up. .. ..


ShIPPtES-
ORIENT LINE
Luxe. Staterooms with bodsten -
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Ihn
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO..
Tel.— City 4246, 2. 4. (i Spring Street,
Sydney.
4247,
4810.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING AUGUST 31,
SONOMA.
10.000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO I
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting. ;
S.S. PULGANBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at ,
10 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. Oil Alt A SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m., |
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:— !
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Second Saloon on Steamer (Gentlemen only), and
Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY, i
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP j
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £400,000; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY 7 ,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES: E. H.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
.Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEYV
SOUTH YVALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 18fi3.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 798,003 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . • • 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.069 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love,
Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney : E. PRESCOTT W ELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . . • • • £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. •• •• £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman; George
J. Si.v, I.LD. ; Frank N. Yaiiwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. 'l'odman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 2,250.000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1.886,275
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. BEST- EQUIPPED STEAMEKS
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND IHE AMERICAN CU.mii
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, Bth SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 13th OCTOBER.
MAKURA, 10th NOVEMBER.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z>.,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States. Canada, or to Europe
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across' Al " erK ‘“- “ *°
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara 1 alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MARAMA, 25th AUGUST, 10 a.m.
TAHITI, 29th SEPTEMBER.
MARAMA, 27th OCTOBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
JSkaWKM wSSSffi SE
d
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE. COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, lor particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian-Trade.)
RUNIC 12.500 tons
SUE VIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC * ons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent' Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES * ons
IHEMISTOCLES 11,200 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
* SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
DIOGENES 12,500 tons
.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
D ALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from' £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, W’att & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability
ďf
- £5,000,000
- 3,425,000
- 5,000,000
£13,425,000
Directors ;
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Winnie. Msq.
Kooert L
The Hon.
Franc B.
The Hon.
. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Janies T. Walker.
S. Falkiner, Esq.
Heginald .J. Black, M.L.C.
tt r, i . a T? T.nidW F.cn General Manager: Oscar Lines.
n ld «\° r nffile—C eorae'l Street .Sydney. ° London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
Ca 357 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents world. Fore|gn places DT rk C T. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letted of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
d
Bank’'Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at nil Branches and Savings Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices through-
out a. and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Intereston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
37 Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.0..
Deputy Governor.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne tor Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
JDIMBOOLA
-sails from j Sails from
Sydney. | Melbourne.
Sydney Agents.
Fri.,
Aug. 19,
4 p.m.
Tues
Aug.
JBOMBALA .
(Melh. only)
| Sat..
|Aug. 20.
noon.
fWYREEMA . Tues..
Aug. 2:1,
(Melh. only )
*KAROOL.
s i'- 1 "-
Sat.,
; Aug. 27.
! noon.
Wed.,
Aug. 31.
•Canberra . . j S“t.,
(Mellt only) Aug. 27,
noon.
jLEVUKA. . Tues.,
(Melb. only) Aug. 30,
3 p.m.
•Zealaxuia. . Sat.,
Sept. 3,
noon.
FOR. BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAJ. BOVVIA ’
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, BumU
MAt*. and at TownsvilleJor outports).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
Wed.,
Sept. 7
Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Ltd.,
Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
! (Tel. 8213).'
i Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10CS4).
Mcllwraith,
MeEaeharn’s Line,
61 Pitt St.
j (Tel. 7566).
' Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 62211.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd..
7 Bridge Si.
(Tel. 10684).
liuddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
St. (Tel. 9568).
t\\ YAND It A
I§Bombala . .
(Omits
Bowen)
fWYREEMA.
§-Canberra .
(Omits
Bowen)
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith.
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
(Tel. 10684).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd Class Passengers.
fCarries Ist and 2nd Class Passengers.
M'arrie sl Ist and 3rd Class Passengers. - .
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker L=
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STFAAIERS TO NEW ZEALAND Regular «ulings
from Sviliiev ami Melbourne to Now Zen ami pons
„,°1 r ir e versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
STFAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
three weeks. Between Melbourne
■SmiM Melbourne; Brine:. Street. Syaney.
nippoOuseOaisha
ca tt FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, 10 \Y A h
YILLE THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
v»nat; a i, t itOUP, and YOKOHAMA.
Montniv saiimss j ucicant.'.
rhrough Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via .Japan.
via .japan.
Full particulars ot sailing dates, passage money,
h Burns! Philp anti Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
U’ll TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton. ’
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland 'Meat Export Co., Limited.
J'itzroy Estates Limited.
Itlacklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
p Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messaeeries Maritimes Co. (at. Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
New Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian lloyal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Franeiseo Service (Union S.S. Co.-aJ Queens-
Union U S.S P Co! ) of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Iludcfart!" Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Bnsbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also \gents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (l'ljr), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Coo lit own.
Heart Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydnev.
f
»• - '
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., X,td.,
35 Pitt Street. Sydney.


I
I
a
a
3
t=>
<034!
Foster Oil-Cooled
T ransformers.
Their standardised efficiency is as high as possible, con-
sistent with reasonable capital outlay. They show to
advantage in the initial cost, and also in the total cost
over a long period. Only the highest-quality materials are
used, and great reliability ha 3 been achieved.
The insulation is not affected by moisture or hot oil;
nor will it disintegrate under the influence of vibration.
indings are of double-covered copper for small
currents, and rectangular wire copper strip for
higher currents.
further particulars and prices on
REQUEST.
Manufacturers—POSTEß ENGINEERING
CO., LTD., Wimbledon, England.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY. LTD.
Head Office:
Sydney Office:
Workshop No.
Workshop No.
bourne.
172-6 William Street, Melbourne.
: 373 George Street, Sydney.
1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
2: Eerrars Street, South Mel-
I
d
ENGINEERS’ FILES REDUCED.
Here is an excellent opportunity to replenish your stocks of Engineers’ Files
effect ai quicrsaks ing ’ t 0 handlin S we have decided to reduce the cost to
You know the famous
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
Ikese files are made of high-class steel and
satisiactory wear.
are guaranteed to
BRAND
give long and
Send in your specifications, and let us fill your requirements at
or 7810. 1 detaiis address department “A.” Sydney inquirers
these reduced prices,
can ring City 9863
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney;
266 Latrobe Street, Melbourne:
48 Cliff Street, Lremantle;
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide;
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane;
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Neweastle;
R. L. Milligan, Hobart, Tasmania.
ETHOIT
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
ďf
8-H.P. UNIT PLANT
The Ideal Engine for
the Small Speed Boat.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with reverse gear on the same
bed. Perfect alignment is guaranteed. Its speed record up to date is
-1| m.p.h., driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in. hand V-bottom boat, turning
a loin, by 20m. propeller. We have stocks. Call or write now.
Prepare now for the coming season.
Notjong now and the boating season will be here. Now is “prepara-
tion time. Waiting will perhaps mean delay in getting iust the
engine you want. We can supply “Caille” Perfection Outboard and
, | n hoard Motors, also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2
free from" hSht ° r heavy duty - Catal °gues and particulars post
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address— << Brosbensoa. ,>
rs
c,
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
ď
“A marvel at the price.''
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle. -- calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., ?/3; other States, 2/2.)
26
f
“Simple and extra strong in construction.’'
1110. Winchester Single-shot Itille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges. 23in. heavy round steel barrel
p ain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rille
over all. 37Mn.: head from sight, with patent alloyed tip
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b. "
Freight Paid.
57/6
-
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Kit*, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, bv simply
unscrewing the thumb screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round. ISin. long, bored
uud rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
33/
d
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and poieer.
820. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre. 6
shot. 20in. round tapereef barrel, take down, weight Gilb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (TO
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l4 14/
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
imMm
f• i „
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
1113. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|lb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/6/-
*1
•' * , ,
—»
827. New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fh - shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target work. Weight
about 7ilb. Freight paid
ďf
“A cheap and reliable weapon''
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, It.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
d
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Ha miner less
Rifle, Model 10A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sfil>
Freight paid,
£9/10
MYRROHL
ANTISEPTIC
Made in
America.
CLEANSING
TOOTH PASTE
-HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums: prevents decnv; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
f
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1592
Model, 25/20-, 32-. 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 18.-/2 Model.
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
£B/15/-
£9/10/-
£7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sport Equipment List Post Free to any nddres *
. Tftfcfc <§immnns M.
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Pius
PHI
DHLS
(HUS
PIUS
Pius
OILS
PIUS
Pitta
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PIUS
PIUS
PIllS
PIIL3*
DILLS
PIUS
C'N
Ml
PIUS
PULS
PUL5
MUa
wua
r.w
pan
R I
Backache! Why?
Do vou rise in the morning with a gfoan? Do you feel [ ou
are getting old? Having made up your mind that you ait a martyi,
do vou vent your ill-humor on the family? After a while, the pa u
stiffness leave you, and you forget your troubles until £ he difficulty
ing, when the same dull pain in the small ot your back, the difficulty
of bracing your nerves, brings back all the dire forebodings of the • .
before.
This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim, and you are
starting on a long journey towards ill-healtli and
Kidneys are overtaxed with the work ot cleansing out the lmprn ties
from your blood. Each day there is an accumulation of waste which
must upset the body. It forms Uric Acid, and Uric Acid is he most
insidious form of poisoning that can take place in your bod} • ~1
number of ills to which it leads is almost limitless, and though middle
age is the most favorable season for their activity, even the younges
child often suffers, and sometimes dies from the different manitesta
tions of Kidney Trouble.
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, hut a relialdc.
specially-prepared remedy for Kidney Trouble, such as Dr. Sheldons
Gin Pills is the safeguard for your health. Dr. Sheldon s Gin 1 ills
stimulate your sluggish kidneys to reaction and assist the woik ol
removing impurities from your blood, which the kidneys have 1 -
unable to accomplish unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the
kidneys that: are filtering the blood that the work is done automati-
cally as by a perfect machine. Your back straightens up, the pulli g.
dragging reefing gradually leaves you; in the morning you can leap
from bed, feeling a glow of health and vigor, and meet life with u
smiling face. It is the duty of every man, not only to himselt, but
to the world at large, to keep his health in the proper condition toi
his dailv task; and for the victim of Kidney 1 rouble Dr. Sheldons
Gin Pills give just the little boost his organs need to make them bis
slave, instead of his being a slave to ill-health.
Gin Pills Will Help You |
If vou suffer with Pains in your Back or Sides, or have any signs
of Kidney Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the
eyes or hi the feet or ankles; if you are Nervous, Tired and Run
Down or bothered with Urinary Disorders, Dr. Sheldon s Gin Pills
for Backache and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will
relieve vou of your misery. You can secure an original bottle ot Di-
Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble from all
Chemists and Storekeepers.
D* Sheldon’s
G* 1 *
BANISHES \
BACKAChE.KIDNEY. BLADDEI
AND URINARYiTROUBLE.:
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
here
i
holds the
COMPRESSION
Compression good? Of course:
tha,.* Boil oi tiling you take for
granted. As soon as you have cause
to doubt your compression you re
likely to. get an uncomfortable feeling
about the whole engine.
Doubtful compression will knock
half the joy out of driving any car.
But there’s no real excuse for it.
When your cylinder walls become
“gummed up,” when carbon, gets in
the way, there’s generally just one
cause—faulty lubrication.
Texaco Motor Oil maintains perfect
compression because it has the neces-
sary stamina to resist the tremendous
temperature: and it does keep your
cylinder free from hard carbon.
Texaco Motor Oil lubricates your
cylinder wall with a smooth film that
holds the compression as the piston
rings slide up and down. Your engine
power depends on that compression.
Use Texaco Motor Oil and get the
power you are entitled to: take your
compression for granted.
Office Addresses of
The Texas Company (Australasia) Limited
Head Office, Sydney, with Branches at Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth, Launceston, Wellington (New Zealand),
Auckland (New Zealand). South Australian Agents:
Harris, Scarfe, Limited, Adelaide.
TEXACO
if
Historic and Prehistoric Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
WHO can tell us when dark Chaos
from her womb Australia
hurled.
Back before the dawn of Being, in the morn-
ing of the World-
Long before the lost beginning ot all human
hones and fears, , ,
Through the misty, dreadful darkness ot a
thousand, thousand years ;
Rocked in cradles of the Earthquake, nursed
bv weird aud awful Forms,
Lullabied by thunder-music in the wuu
Laurentian storms; ,
Back through immemorial Ages, tspace ana
Silences sublime,
Whence no dim historic pages tell us ot the
Elder Time'/ ■
All has vanished save the secrets which eter-
nal Mature locks
In the mountains and the valleys, in the dritt
beds and the rocks.
O’er the great Silurian tushes, children ol
tfie stormy deep.
O’er the great Jurassic flora the unmeasured
Ages sweep; .
Furious rivers, yellow waters, in the ocean
depths expire,
Far and wide the red volcanoes threw their
lava Hoods of lire.
Rolled the vast Cretaceous ocean from the
Gulf shore to the Bight;
East and west, by man untrodden, rose the
unknown laud in sight.
There Leviathan lashed the surges into
circling wreaths of foam.
There the ichthyosaurus sported in his deep
unfathomed home—
Storm-swept waters, wild and wasteful, by
no keel of vessel crossed ;
On that shore no human mother ever
mourned her loved and lost;
Sobs and sighs from caves and beaches, voices
of the mournful deep,
Like the World’s unhappy women, moaning
in a troubled sleep.
--Eons passed and lofty mountains heard the
ancient eagle scream,
While the Cainozic fauna fed by mighty lake
and stream.
There the giant nototberium the herbivorous
army rules;
There the Saurian paliinnarchus, tyrant of
the olden pools;
There the dark and dismal cavern where the
stricken victim groans,
As the fierce marsupial lion bites through
quivering flesh and bones.
Ages passed —a transformation through a
million years serene ;
Man, the monarch of the fauna, stalks across
the magic scene!
Man, the wild primeval savage, all the on-
ward changes rang
From the Troglodytic cavern to the spear
and boomerang.
Ages more—dark, unrecorded ages of historic
rest,
Broken by the wild white sailors from the
ocean to the west.
French and Dutch and dark Iberians, fair-
haired, fearless Saxon men,
Faced alike the unknown region, far beyond
the sailors’ ken.
Torres, Tasman, Cook and Flinders rise from
out that gallant band,
Honored names to future ages while the
nations’ records stand!
Recks it not whence came the valiant, what
the race or where the clime.
Honor all the brave sea-rovers, heroes of
the olden time !
Years again of silence broken when the land-
explorers came,
Men with equal hearts of valor, “arm of
strength and soul of flame” —
Sturt and Leichhardt, Gregory brothers,
Kennedy and Burke and Wills,
Mitchell, Stuart, John Mackinlay, each an
honored name that fills
One bright in memoriam tablet in the true
Australian breast,
That can treasure of its country all the
bravest the best.
All has changed; where rolled the ocean, that
unknown Cretaceous deep,
Stand to-day the peaceful homesteads in the
circling flocks of sheep.
Where Leviathan, ichthyosaurus held their
undisputed reigns
Roam a thousand herds of cattle over undis-
puted plains.
Where the seaweed waved and quivered with
the undulating deep,
Stands the mulga and the gidya in a silence
as of sleep.
Where the Saurian palimnarehus swam
around the ancient pool
March the groups of happy children playful
on their way to school.
Where the fierce marsupial lion roamed and
raged in search of prey,
Maids and matrons join the farmers in the
fields among the hay.
Where the gallant old sea-rovers sailed un-
known, uncharted seas,
Steel-clad steamers plough the surges, heed-
less of the tide or breeze.
Where the reckless old explorers faced mys-
terious solitudes
Railway whistles break the silence of the
grand primeval woods.
Where of old the dread volcano and the
rending earthquake shock,
Stand the mighty thunder-shattered silent
cones of trachyte rock.
We behold this vast Australia —born in Ages
far away,
Child of some dread Orient morning—in its
manhood of to-day.
Old sea-rovers, brave explorers, came and
vanished —time shall tell
They were worthy of enshrining where the
Earth’s Immortals dwell:
Wanderers through the Austral forests,
wheresoever Fate decrees,
Barrier Reef to Indian Ocean, Tasman’s
Isle to Timor Seas.
O’er the peak of dark Toressa the wild tem-
pests sweep their wings.
£>n the crest of Chooriechillam flow the
.sparkling granite springs.
Long-dead forms of long-dead ages sleep
there in their rocky shrouds,
While the storms draw lightning daggers
from their sheath of warring clouds.
In the solemn central desert, where remorse-
less Nature decks
Red sandhills and stony ridges with the cruel
spinifex;
In dark jungles of the tropics, where the
sunlight fitful shines;
On the grand old northern mountains with
lEolian harp of pines,
And the still-blue lakes reposing on the old
volcanoes’ breast,
Where the eagles build their eyries on the
lonely mountain crest;
Far, lone west acacian forests murmur to the
njournful breeze,
And the homeless rivers wander o’er the
basins of dead seas —
All the scenes our land possesses, shall we
them not sacred call
To that band of brave explorers who at first
revealed them all?
Honor then the old explorers, honor to each
stainless name .
That Australia proudly places in the highest
niche of Fame!
QUEENSLAND.
ARCHIE MESTON.
The Lovely Jezebel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
f i lIE orange sun rose from the sea be-
hind it as the cutter from H.M.S.
Emu rounded the high bluff of Bar
renjoey and turned into the bight of Broken
Bay and the mouth of the Hawkesbury.
Over to the right the stately mass of Lion
Island loomed, purple-green and red, in the
rosy light of the new day, and the gently heav-
ing waters, breaking in a fringe of foam about
the breast and paws of the vast stone beast,
gleamed with the pearly sheen of a windless
summer morning. Across the bay the high,
silent, wooded bills brooded mysteriously,
and seemed to frown down upon the tiny
cockleshell that intruded impudently upon
their solitude and loneliness.
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, R.N. he who
had had the adventure with the Gosport girl
called Pansy—stood up in the stern sheets
of the cutter aud scanned the reaches of
sunlit water that stretched before and <>u
either side of him. “Don't see any .sign of
her yet, Mathieson,” he observed to the
corporal of Marines. “She must be some-
where heregbout. ‘ln an inlet near the en-
trance,’ his Excellency says. Drawing a
document from his breast-pocket he opened
it and read it softly aloud, half ter himseli
and half to Corporal Mathieson. It was
addressed to the commanding officer of
H.M.S. Emu : .' . „
Mr. John Grono, of Windsor, has reported to Me
that on passing outward in his Schooner .from the
mouth of the llawkesbury yesterday morning, he per-
ceived a strange Brig at anchor in an inlet near
the Entrance to Broken Bay. He states that she
shewed no Flag, and that she appeared to be Reflt-
tin'r. As it is possible that the Vessel may belong
to 'the United States of America, I have to request
that vou will be so Good as to take steps to investi-
gate ‘her Nationality, and, should she prove to bt
Such, will make her a Prize of War. I am, out,
y’r obed. servant, L. Macquarie, Gov’r.
Mr. Wicks had been hastily recalled to
his ship, and despatched, with a boat’s crew
and six marines, to interview the stranger,
and had thereby been debarred from witness-
ing the expected triumph of his gamecock
Pretty Bill over a bird belonging to the evil
and notorious Tom Nutting, of the Good
Intent Inn. “Why couldn’t he have sent
the Naval Officer with some soldiers?” he
grumbled below his breath. “He’s always
making a d —n nuisance of himself. And us
preparing for sea, too!”
Past the entrance to Pittwater, and close
inshore along the wall of high hills that face
the island, the boat proceeded slowly. the
men were weary from their long pull, and
Mr. Wicks was hungry and sleepy. Break-
fast ashore, where some trickle of water
came down from the hills, and a rest for
himself and his crew, seemed to him to be
his first and most imperative duty. He
searched the shore for a landing-place.
At the first corner of the high promontory
they were coasting along is a little yellow
beach below the steep hillside and the gum-
trees that almost overhang the water, and
there Mr. Wicks decided to land. He turned
the boat’s nose into the golden sands just
eastward of the sharp corner, and presently
he aud his men were stretching their cramped
limbs ashore, whilst the corporal, at his
orders, served out a tot of rum all round.
They ate their salt pork and sea-biscuits
with good appetite, and presently, .curled
down upon the warm sand, were nearly a. I
asleep. A disgusted sentry, posted by Cor-
poral Mathieson, marched up and down past
the boat. Mr. Wicks lit his pipe, and, stroll-
ing along the beach, considered his plan of
campaign. .
A pleasant young man to look at, tins
“Pansy” Wicks, R.N. Like his friend Ensign
Calder, of the 40th, his looks were in Ins
favor. This was a fortunate circumstance
for both these pillars of the sister services
of Great Britain, for at times in their rela-
tions with the authorities that controlled
their destinies they stood in sore need ot
anything, of any sort, that would plead on
their behalf. It is no exaggeration to say
that nothing but the likeableness of their
individualities had preserved their services to
the Navt and the Army. They might both
have been utterly and hopelessly “broke,’
so far as their respective, careers in the ser-
vice were concerned, had it not been for their
pleasant countenances, their vitality, manli-
ness and good fellowship. For both, as even
the charitably-disposed Mrs. Macquarie has
recorded in her private journal, were “Out-
rageous Scamps.”
Mr. Wicks pondered his problem. If the
brig should prove to be an American ship she
would be his prize—and prize-money was a
happv windfall that one hardly looked for
in this part of the world. And if she fought
—well, so much the better. These were dull
days, and, like most of his contemporaries,
he' had seen much of naval , warfare —had
been a midshipman in the Victory at Tra-
falgar—and d ; d not regard the cutting out
of a merchantman as being any more seri-
ous an operation than breakfasting. He Was
vastly bored with existence since the depar-
ture of Pntrick Cfilder, who had an inven-
(Continued on next page.)


The
AUSTRALIAN CRICKETERS
Praise ZAM-BUK.
T he Australian Board of Control.
Hotel Cecil,
London, W.C.,
7th June, 1921.
The
Dear
Zam-Buk
LEEDS.
Sirs—
Co.,
have tery uiefuHt f“ Aust r?! ian Team
Ss,r£ r m ,x u “ z izt ■»“• *» -»*
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Sydney Smith,
Manager A nst ■ alian Cricket XL
Such valuable testimony as
given in the accompanying
letter from our touring cricket-
ers is one more confirmation
of the oft-repeated statement
that for bruises, sprains, cuts
and the hundred-and-one acci-
dents that occur in athletic
field, workshop and home
“there’s nothing like
Zam-Buk.”
It is Still Unexcelled as
The WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER
tive, ingenious and enterprising mind that
was mostly exercised upon the devising of
sportive entertainment for the pair of them
ot an agreeable, if risky, description. Mr!
Lalder had been at Windsor on detachment
tor nve weeks.
. He climbed a high rock near the extrem-
ity ot the point, and sat down to think Im-
mediateiy he rose up again and stood staring
at the water in astonishment.
Silently, save for the trickle of drippin°-
water from the flashing paddle, a small Solo-
mon Islands canoe “Tansy” had been there
and knew them—came gliding round the
point. It made the gentlest ripples in (he
glass-green reflections of brown and vellow
rocks and leaning eucalyptus. And in the
!!l Uoe . w « s the prettiest girl that he had
seen in New South Wales.
For a few moments, while the little craft
drifted gently, a beautiful face was turned
up to his. A mass of dark hair framed its
perfect oval. Soft brown eyes, wide open
and with a look of pretty apprehension in
them, held his own. The red lips were
parted in surprise, and there was a gleam of
even teeth. Some loose sort of gown, vividly
seal let, clothed her. Neither of them moved
a muscle for 10 heart beats.
gasped, and instantly the
paddle broke the mirror, and the canoe
swung round, heeling dangerously. Splash,
splash, splash—and she was away, paddling
furiously, and past the corner before the
dazed senses awoke.
Leaping into the sand “Pansy” ran towards
the boat. Get aboard !” he yelled. “Rouse
them, sentry—wake ’em up. Quick! Shove
her off.
When the boat passed the point, she
opened up the pretty inlet which afterwards,
being much frequented by the New Bedford
and other whalers, came to be known as
American Bay. Three hundred yards ahead,
and gaining, the girl in the canoe was a scar-
let splash in the scenery. And close in
under the cliff over which the waterfall
comes tumbling on to the beach, a black
brig lay at anchor, the sunlight sparkling on
tiie glass ot her cabin windows, one of which
was open to the morning. She showed no flag.
Steady, my lads,” commanded Mr. Wicks,
as the red dot in the canoe drew alongside
the strange ship. “Easy a moment. Look
to y r pistols and y’r muskets. We’re going
to board. .You, O’Meally,” to the bow man!
hook on in the chains, and the rest of you
mo aboard. Coxswain, you and
y Meally stay in the boat— and keep her off,
m case they’d seek to sink you with Jumps of
ballast. Lads, I think there’s a dollar or
two 0 prize money in this packet. But no
shoo tin till I give ye the word. (Jive way now !”
Grunting their satisfaction, his men bent
to their oars again—having buckled on their
cutlasses and looked to the priming of their
pistols- and in a few minutes the cutter
drew close under the brig’s stern, on which
her name, “Lovely Jezebel, Bos-
ton.” Mr. Wicks smiled.with delight when
he read this.
As they came close to the vessel, the great
red, clean-shaven face of a fat man appeared
at the open window, and a bellowing voice
roared out above them: “Get thee behind
me, Satan !”
Hardly were the words uttered before a
stout arm, whose list clenched a horse-pistol,
shot out of the window, and, with a bang
W , hlStie aud u cloud of white smoke,
the ball hummed by Mr. Wick's indignant ear.
Alongside! ” he yelled, and in a few' more
seconds O Aleally Had hooked on, and Air.
\Yicks was clambering up by the break of the
to c s le. Muffled yells and curses sounded
m the cabin aft, and a chorus of laughing
jackasses in the timber on the hillside
cackled and guffawed. The sailors, cat-like,
followed Air. Wicks over the brig’s bulwarks
and the marines, the.ir long Brown Besses
hampering their movements, came after them
m slower fashion.
When Air. Wicks had tumbled over the
high bulwark of the brig, and was just be-
ginning to run aft towards the cabin, whence
he had been justly outraged by the recent
pistol-shot, he was suddenly checked by the
appearance of the girl of* the canoe, who
walked calmly up the white deck to meet
him, smiling cheerfully. Behind her was a
group of men of mixed nationality and color
and as his eyes took in the scene it was
joined by another, an immense and powerful
negre. The roaring and bellowing in the
cabin had ceased. Instinctively, Air. Wicks
pulled off his hat, whilst he raised his other
hand, half turning towards them, to cueck
his men, who were on the point of carrying
the poop by storm. J h
“Good morning to you, Air. Britisher,” mur-
mured the lady sweetly, with just the sus-
picion of a lazy drawl in her clear tones.
Guess you ve a sudden way with you
haven’t you? ’
“Not so sudden, madam, as that of the
gentleman who has just fired at me.”
felie laughed. ‘‘Oh, wal now, Alister Officer
you sure mustn’t mind that. That was only
m ? J°Y ely I op. Pop s a vurry ser’ous-
minded man-vurry re-lig’ous-an’ right now
u s having a re-vival in the vurry worst
10 r'm' . ? - vc ! u know whom he took you for?”
thnJ AT in^Mr-* o i n lier was so catching
that Mr. M inks found himself smiling back
pistofshot fClt ° Vei ’ hiS reception with the
“No ”he said “Someone he has a grudge
against, I should think. Does he always
malm his number in that style?” ‘
_ *SP took you for the Devil!” she chuckled
prettilj, as she looked him up and down, with
approving, mirthful eves. Air. Wicks was
loolud upon approvingly by most women
-uess he s mistaken. You don’t look ’xactlv
like an angel, with that shooter in your
Sat'u*, J Ut >1 woul 1 d r n ’ t sa y you re-sembled
Satan any, either. My —what pretty soldiers
.vou ve got! Air you the Governor’”
She walked past him to where Corporal
Mathieson had his six men, with bayonets
fixed and at the ready, drawn across: the deck.
r , n , f Mada ! n ’ said Air. Wicks, finding it diffi-
cult to give a sufficiently severe inflection to
his words— Aladam, be so good as to tell me
where the master of this ship is.”
She turned to him with wide eyes, still
smiling Mai now.” she said siowlv, -guess
i don know who’s th’ master of th’ Jezebel
uut I guess I’m the mistress.”
()h!”
hr ' r?I 011 . see ’, Pop’s got moved
fi> th Holy Ghost an’ th’ spirit together, he
re-signs all worldly considerations, an’ de-
votes himself to his god. He tills himself
with th’ spirit. An’ tn’ spirit comes outer a
bottle labelled 'Rye Whisky.’ A vurry movin’
spirit, too. Makes Pop that pious ye’d never
believe.. He’s took so strong with it this
uiornin’, Sam there,” .she pointed to the big
negro—-“Sam’s had to tie him up an’ gag
him. Else we couldn’t hear ourselves talk —
Pop prays so hard, an’ testifies. An’ shoots
so frequent. A de-vout man, Pop is, when
th spirit’s workin’.”
.“Jou are an American ship?” Mr. Wicks
tried to hurl an accusation, but only suc-
ceeded in making his words .sound apologetic.
Proud to own it, sir. We air, sir, citizens
of the I -mted States of Amur’ca. We air
sons-—an’ daughters, sir—of Liberty—which
is unknown to you slaves of ee-fete monarchi-
cal constitootions. Er —give—me—Liberty—
e.r~sive me-—Death! The immortal Pat-
Tj C i , enry * sir ; Yes, sir—we are Amur’cans.
i roud to own it, sir.” She looked absolutely
handsome, as she drew herself up, with
fiu.-ued face and sparkling eyes, waving her
pretty arm to include the brig’s many-hued
complement. “We air citizens of Boston,
Massachusetts, Mr. Britisaer—where they
watter their tea !”
Mr. icks flushed also, but not with pride,
did n’t 1 like taUnt he had hpard before, and
_“ J am an officer of his Britannic Majesty’s
liness l<? Sidd ’ w ' t^l s< -»me attempt at state-
“ilfv//” she interrupted.
“By your leave, madam, we will go into
the cabin, and examine the ship’s papers. If
■you/ rather is unable to transact the business,
l shall look to you to assist me. After you
madam.” ’
He bowed, and motioned towards the poop
khe swept past him, her head in the air, but
laughter and mischief in her eyes. The rather
sullen group at the cabin door made way but
muttered angrily, as Mr. Wicks followed her
in. ,He turned, and hailed the corporal of
marines.
Place these under guard, Mathieson,” he
called. Shoot any who resist. The ship is a
prize of war.” F
The girl turned in the alleyway, a look of
surprise on her face. She seeifled to be about
speuk, but only paused a moment, giggled
softly, and went on.
Lo a .settee in the cabin a huge and angry
inan ‘ a y bound, with a red bandanna handker-
chief tied about his fat and somewhat un-
shaven jowl. He grunted and squirmed, heav-
ing his great paunch, and monotonously bend-
ing and straightening one round knee. Several
empty black bottles lay about, and the room
was a httJe untidy with the untidiness of
alcoholic neglect. But dainty muslin curtains
and a score of little feminine decorative de-
vices suggested that it was not usually so.
lhe girl went over to him, and looked at him
gravely.
. “Ye’ll do as ye are, Pop. Guess th’ gent’s
in a hurry. There’s no time for re-ligious up-
lift this mornin’. ’Ti s plain biz, which your
little Jezzy can look a Per better than vou
just now. Pray be seated, Mr. Officer-of-his-
Bntan n ic- Majesty’s-Na -r cc. ( Say, I like that
mouthful!) Here are the Lovely Jezebel’s
papers.”
She unlocked an iron-bound chest ™d t, , i-
out a bundle of documents Mr Wicks t k
S' ", nd ,f at .d°wn at the round fabh-
Whilst he hastily examined them the "ir
kept silent. Only, every now and again her
pretty shoulders shook with the silent laugb-
tu she could not suppress, as she reg-mlci
the back of Mr. Wicks s head garded
Presently he looked up curiously, and
asked her a question. “Why may T *wk'
miulani, has the brig such a strange name V ’
Quite seriously, and with an air of inno-
cence that the experienced Pansy always
swore was genuine, the girl explained.
"Y\al, you see, momma was a—well she
wasn t a lady. She cleared away with an-
other man an’ left Pop, after I was born
So lie called her Jezebel the Harlot an’
named me after her. An’ his new brig, too
An took to drink. An’ got re-ligious. Th’
drink s on y occasional, like now. but th’ re-
ligion s thar all th’ time. He’s a Fierv
Brethren, Pop is—-an’ I guess ’tis a creed
thats real, gen-00-wine, hot stuff. Sav have
ye heard of it? He lias to be cooled dowu
like this, every sometime. That’s whar
Sam, th cook, is real useful. But sav
lUister-Britannic-Majesty’s-Na-rec-Officer, a ll’
we prisoners? Do you make us captive’'
Must we go to your city in chains? l)o tell
it was some little time before Mr. Wicks
somewhat overcome by this amazing state-
ment:, found his tongue. At last he folded
up the papers and replied—his eyes avoiding
hers, and with a sort of sorrowful but-it
must-be-done-with-regret demeanor.
“I must take you to Port Jackson. You
are a prize of war. Governor Macquarie will
deal with you. I’m sorry. That’s how it is.
Duty, you know,” lie murmured. “We will
start immediately. I will order the boats to
tow the brig out. The nor’-easter is getting
up, and we’ll run down to ‘ Sydney in no
time. Believe me, madam, I am sorry for you "
“Guess it can’t he helped, sir. - We’ll go
quiet.” She smiled at him bravely, but lie
did not know that the tears in her’beautiful
eyes were tears of laughter.
The following week Ensign Patrick Oalder,
at W indsor, rolled on his camp bed and
yelled with laughter as he concluded the read-
ing of his friend Gregory Wicks’s lengthy and
doleful epistle:
■■•• She never said a Word, ar.d was Meak and
Genteel all the time. She is a hovelv Creature
Patrick. 1 brought ye Brig safe to Port Jackson
m .‘U hours, and anch’rd in 4 Fathom off the Cove,
making a Si.gnall to ye Naval Officer. He came
aboard, and She asked to lie taken to ye Gov’r. And
me Vaunting to everybody that wd. listen of my Prize
Money that was coming to me! ’Tis a sad store
of Decent. It seems when she got to Old Solemnity
she produced some other papers she had r.ot shewed
me. One was from ye Gov’r at ye Cape of Good
Hope telling of the signing of ye Treaty of Peace
and enclosing a Letter of introduction to Mr. Mac-
qunrie of Mr. .Tephthah P. Smaile—her pop, as she
calls him. What do vou think of that! ! ! The Gov’r
called me a Damned Fool, and everybody is vastlv
deverted, except me. The worst was,'before I knew,
I was so Assanine as to go and pay that roag
Dempsey for ye mare he sold me last month—me
regarding myself as a Man of Substence because of
the Prize Money I looked to have. You may write
me down, Patrick, as a Fool. But she is a Divine
Female, and if you come to Sydney you steer clear,
you Damned Leatherneck! She does not listen to
Reason, at least not your sort.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


V
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne. __
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Alii CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove wliat *ve stn
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL i
tf it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs yob
nothing. It is suitable for men, women wnd
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
with success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
have “ goodsk>oks ” if you take Carter'#
Small Pill-
Small
Dose-
Small
Price
1
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source, ot
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousne s s,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
m
gS"*’
Shirley
President
Braces Are
as Evenly
Balanced as
a Set of
Scales
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are made to fit
the figure from the raw yarn, which first goes into the
web. down to the sewing and trimming, which are all
designed with the one p6int in view —correct suspen-
sion of the trousers without binding or retarding the
graceful lines.
Look to your braces and buy SHIRLEY PRESI-
DENT. They make clothes hang better and more
gracefully.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
SJji&pender CcmSatu/
Shirley, Massachusetts, U. S. A.
Established in 1870 Cable Address: President
13
m
/
/"a
mMtm
mam
F
Remington “Wetproof”
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over.
“NEW CLUB” —with black powder loads.
“REMINGTON”—a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB” —known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability.
“ARROW” —the cartridge de luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other featur'es making
it the highest type.
There are four types or kinds but only one grade-
the HIGHEST.
All cartridges loaded at our lactory are now
being treated with the Remington special ex-5
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representatire, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
ALL THE TIME
ALL THE YEAR ROUND
ALL THE WORLD OVER
O
1
11
ER
>A/Vo
2
10
v
3
9
■
4
a
kf.-
m
6i
5
o£
o2nr
7
3*2
6
SOMEONE
IS TAKING
BEECHAMS PILLS
Safeguard you* heacth
otr j.Colfis Brownes
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MKIMCINE 108
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami in tiie Cough of IiHONCiUTiS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks KKVKUISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
hIC
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of dll Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 3/-.
Made in England.
Castle Steel Nuts.
Assortment of 50 S.A.E.,
15/-
Assortment of 22 S.A.E.j
77-
Assortment of 15 S.A.E.,
liMj
4 assorted
THBEAP
Bright Steel Bolts.
Assortment of 50 S.A.E., 20/-
Assortment of 12 4/9
BOWS !
Plain Steel Nuts.
Assortment of 50 S.A.E.,
12/-
Assortinent of 50 Whit.,
127-
Assortment of 20 Whit.,
4/-
r»e«l Hex
rUHtAtt /
Woodruff Keys
Assortment of 100,
12/6.
Ford Assortment,
3/6.
t* am
Stove Bbits.
100 Assorted., 6/6.
lift
Spring Washers
Assortment of 100,
2/6.
20,
Assortment
PLAIN
Um
Miniature but
Indispensable
Desiderata.
OR FOR A PLACE
CONFINED
CONVENIENTLY
IN
SCREW-TOP
CANISTERS,
FOR THE USE OF
MOTOR
REPAIRERS
IN THE TOOL-
BOX.
d
SEND FOR SOME
TO-DAY.
SWANS ltd.
304 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies.


II
BLACK .„ d WHITE
»»
df
"REAL SCOTCH.”
WHISKY
Guaranteed
■ lIIIBIIMIIIII l lHil 111 mill 1111 IIIIIIWIHill^srrrrvrmam.
the Produce of Scotland Only.
BOTTLED IN BOND
under the Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs.
JAMES BUCHANAN <& CO. LTD.
