

£4OOO for a Smile!
A Kansas City jury re-
cently awarded an acci-
dent victim £4OOO because
the face muscles that make
a smile were paralysed
permanently.
That jury put the value of
a smile into terms of £’s.
No other injury was
m
mm
1,1 Mu i .-I
...... ‘ ■ “J
m
suffered, except plaintiff’s
ability to smile.
Yet here in Australia are
many people nerve-
wracked and debilitated
with worry, overwork or
illness, who have almost
forgotten how to smile.
Are you a sufferer? Don’t
let it get too far—
Take
Clements Tonic
and Smile
There are neither opiates nor alcohol in
CLEMENTS TONIC. Its nourishing,
medicinal ingredients are suitable for
young and old. Try it; you 11 like it!
Your local chemist or storekeeper sells
CLEMENTS TONIC!
Smile from sheer enjoyment of the good
health, strength .and energy that
CLEMENTS TONIC imparts. Why suffer
another miserable hour with insomnia,
impaired vitality, weak nerves, anaemia
and similar ailments when CLEMENTS
TONIC will assist you to regain normal
health and energy?
Try it with Soda-water
'*• ' ’ ' 1 : * • ; ' : .... ; . „ s r . ' .: '■ ' , • , r X
At eleven o’clock or four, when you haven’t time for a cup o’ tea, take
CLEMENTS TONIC with soda-water! Tis an excellent “pick-me-up!”
Clemers'ts Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2215.
Thursday July 27, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
i
I f •.5
LSS3
m
L
COLDS
COUCHS
J
ms>up
LUNG
THOVBUa
J
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheet*
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT
(Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
ifeS!
m
ELIMINATE ALL DOUBT—
SPECIFY MANCROViTE LEATHER BELTING-
Expert selection of hides, scientific tanning by our
special Mangrovite process and expert supervision
over all details of manufacture have gained for Man-
grovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting a reputation
of which \ve are justly proud. Strong, flexible and
durable—with a tenacious grip on the pulleys—it is
a belt that is relied upon by experienced and success-
ful manufacturers. Consult our experts about your
transmission problems now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
A (wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NJuiVOASiLE.: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
PURE
BREAKFAST
'Cocoa.
A COMPLETE FOOD
FRY’S CHOCOLATE
“For Quality and Flavor.**
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
w
9
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
®f the Lungs.
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthoi
Jujubes has led to a number of imitation
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important.
bu - yi “S t 0 be sure and get
HUDSON S Eumenthoi Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thoi Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthoi Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthoi Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
A Propagandist Myth.
"Thee Memoirs of the Crown Prince of
Germany."
(Thornton Buttefworth. From Dymock’s.)
Ileirs-apparent, like their royal fathers,
are rarely given the chance to take a straight
view of their careers or their characters.
The world lies to them in the name of
loyalty. In the years before the war i ;
would have been something unpleasant, y
“ke treason for an Englishman to questit
publicly certain amiable qualities that we
attributed commonly to the Crown Print
lie was a near relation of the British roya
family; and so every well-behaved officia
and editor throughout the Empire emph
sised his geniality, his love of sport, li
admirable horsemanship (with creditab e
little stories of how the spirited lad w;
accustomed to defy his Imperial sire in tl
matter of military steeplechases—and wi
them in his turn too!), his devotion to h s
family, his capacity as a soldier. It is tru
that in private the knowledgeable were no:
quite so complimentary. Anglo-Indian civ
servants and officers who came in tone 1
natli him during his tour of their part of tl
British Empire told lurid tales behind thei
hands of his ways with the ladies. Bu :
criticism was tolerant, when it was not re
luctantly admiring and even a little envious
After all, most of these good men impliec
what was an occasional lapse into adulter
where the offender was of the blood royal
Men ot his station in life usually had erre
in that direction. Aye! and ,women, too
It was one of those caste-privileges to which
only Chadbands in white chokers and social-
wts IU . ties would think of taking open
exception. And so, in the eyes of the Brit
ish, right up to the autumn of 1014, tli
Crown Prince was a handsome, flaxen-haired
h.ue-eyed young god—with a few humai
tailings to make him lovable. Inside
month the propaganda which had made him
in the eyes of monarchists everywhere, un
made him and left him an obscene object
part-hooligan, part-Heliogabalus, from whirl
British Virtue turned nauseated am
abashed. .1 or the purposes of the war the
Crown Prince became, as a soldier, an im
becile and a cbward. His headquarters were
the permanent abode of abandoned females
P the dregs of Europe—such being the only
ones low enough to consort with him”) who
made day as well as night hideous with theii
vinous shrieks and curses. lie was a thief
and had sent, trainloads of plunder to Ger
many for bis personal use. He was practi
cMl.v a dipsomaniac. He had first conceive!
the idea of the German corpse-factories, ant
there was evidence that lie had shot iiioffen
sive prisoners with his own hand. In his
Memoirs the Prince stands out neither as
Olympian nor as fiend, blit merely as an
extremely commonplace character—one wlio
lias seen at close quarters every great per-
sonality and nearly every great event ii
the history of the world for the past If
years, yet has not a single inspiring or pene-
trating remark to make about any of them
one who is apparently not sufficiently imagi-
native to appreciate the agony that he, at
least helped to bring on so manv millions
of still-suffering Germans; and who thinks
chiefly, _if not entirely, of convincing an
apathetic world that, with all his little faults
and failings, he is a sportsman and a “good
?? r V. wI, ° loves his wife, his children and
Ins friends. Book at the weak, kind, stupid
face which smiles (or is smirks the juster
word?) out of a score of photographs iii this
book, and you will be disposed to grant his
modest claim. It is the futile countenance
that leans ingratiatingly over counters
wherever men of Saxon blood are found. As
to his passion for children, there is the inde-
pendent, testimony of a well-known Austra-
lian woman who travelled on the P.
a I 1( i .O. liner he boarded at the end*
of Ins Indian tour —an unexpected move
made under the spell of one of
his infatuations. He is said to have
acted as a kind of magnet to all the young-
sters on board ; and for their benefit lie pro-
duced a never-failing flow of stories of his
own children, of other children and of fairies.
Grant this one redeeming feature, and it
would be absurd to doubt that, as lie claims,
lie loves his wife and is loved by her. and
that lie has plenty of friends whose devo-
tion lias survived his downfall. But. though
most of the war-time charges become ridicu-
lous when viewed in the light of this book,
it is, nevertheless, a ghastly thing to think
thjit such a man should have had command
of an Army Group, not for weeks or months,
but for years. It is the reduction to tragic
absurdity of the liereditarv principle • the
grand exemplar of the length to which “in-
fluence” goes in armies. The German
armies, which seem to have boon riddled
with this particular abuse, would no doubt
have been demoralised and defeated long-
before 1918 had not the same sort of thing
been rampant on staffs and in the higher
commands in most of our armies. The follv
of putting responsibility into the bands of
men like the Crown Prince is really about
the only lesson of value that is contained in
his Memoirs.
Bolshevist Russia.
Red Dusk and the Morrow , by Sir Paul
Dukes, K.B.E. (Williams and Norgate),
is a book of valuable fact about
Soviet Russia that might easily be taken
—were it not for the obvious lona Mes
of the author —for picturesque fiction.
It is a narrative of exciting personal adven-
ture, an historical document of considerable
importance, and an essay on Communism
that is well worth reading as any of the
three. Its writer’s own vigorous personality
gives it-another aspect that is not less worthy
of consideration, and he writes so well, and
with such excellent descriptive powers, that
there is not a dull page in the whole of its
14 chapters. It is a book that takes a very
high place indeed in the vast library having to
do with the conflagration that Ims come into
being since this weary old world burst into
flame in August, 1014. One that might be
read again with, interest in 10 or 20 years’
time. One that is of the very greatest in-
terest at the present day.
Dukes had been brought up in Russia—
at least, it is to be gathered that he was from
certain passages in the book, though lie does
not say very much about himself—and
speaks . the language like a native. At the
time of the Revolution —Kerensky’s—he was
partly making his living by amateur jour-
nalism, and partly by giving lessons m Eng-
lish. He was an interested spectator of tl
events of March, lbl7, and some of his obse
rations on passing events seem to have com
under the notice of the heads of the Secrc
Service in England, for in whils
attached to the American Y.M.C.A. i
bamara, where he was employed in trainin
Boy Scouts, he received a telegram from thi
department requesting him to proceed a
once to London. Here he was asked if h
would undertake to act as head of the Bri
isli Secret Service in Russia, to watch an<
report upon the course of events, and to sene
any information to England that he migli
deem to be of importance. Having acceptec
lie managed to smuggle himself into Russi
at night with the assistance of the F-innis
outposts on the border. He was provide!
with a forged passport which, with deliglitfu
audacity, made him out to be a commissary
of the Extraordinary Commission itself, an
given three addresses in Petrograd where h
might find assistance. When he reached there
however, he found the latter occupied by tli
Bolshevists, who were on the lookout fo
him and his helpers, and only by the greates
ingenuity and good fortune was he able a
last to find shelter in the apartments of an
English merchant whose wife had just beei
arrested as a hostage. The Englishman hac
to clear out, and Dukes undertook the almost
impossible task of rescuing the lady ant
smuggling her over the frontier. Mainly by
bribery, but largely also by means of his owi
daring resourcefulness, he managed to do the
hazardous job successfully, and then returnee
to Russia —this time as a post-office official
llis next escape across the border was a
thrilling business indeed, though there is
not space to go into its details here. He
returned again as a peasant “speculator’’—
as the Bolshevists termed those who at-
tempted, contrary to their severely enforced
regulations, to carry on private trading of
any description. After a series of narrow
escapes from arrest, it finally became neces-
sary for him to join the Red Army, of whose
organisation and discipline he gives illum-
inating details that are full of military in-
terest. llis explanation of its officering by
ex-lsarists who had no choice in the matter
—so long as they possessed a single relative
for whom they might care remaining in Rus-
sia, and within the reach of the Bolshevist
authorities—does much to account for the
extraordinary efficiency of its component
parts, which were really trained by the
flower of the military leaders of pre-revolu-
tionary times. His final escape was con-
nived at by some of these “pressed” officers,
when lie was officially reported “killed,” and
enabled to get away by means of false certi-
ficates and passports. He came very near
arrest at the last, but his luck stuck to him,
and, after about two years’ service in bis
hazardous office, he was able to return to
England safe and sound.
The author says himself that lie lias been
obliged, for obvious reasons, to conceal almost
as much as he reveals. lie has many friends
in Russia whom he cannot betrav to Bolshe-
vist vengeance. But although lie has been
unable to give us the whole of his fascinat-
ing story, he lias given enough fo enable 11s
to form a pretty clear picture of life in
Russia during the first couple of years of
the Bolshevist regime. His intimate know-
ledge of the Russian character, and of condi-
tions of life in the country, both in normal
and abnormal times, together with his close
study of Communist aims, enterprises and
results, renders liis conclusions peculiarly
valuable. His observations upon Soviet
rule appear to be fair and dispassionate, and
at all times bis truthfulness and honesty are
obvious. He gives striking incidental
sketches of Lenin, the brain of the Bolshe-
vist organisation, and of Trotsky, its driv-
ing force, and always without prejudice.
But lie is clear and emphatic as to the Bol-
shevist regime being nothing but unscrupu-
lous tyranny, honeycombed with. corruption,
and regarded by the mass of the Russian
people as being a terrible infliction, which
they hope may be but the birth pangs of
that freedom they have so long, dreamed of.
The only hope for Russian Communists is,
111 liis opinion, that they may come to place
country before party. As to the country
and the people, ho has the highest faith in
both. Throughout the book lie writes as
one who loves the Russians, and deplores the
hideous misfortune that has overtaken them.
The Last of the Mockers
lf the I atican had desired to give Anatole
France what the Americans so gracefully cal’
a “boost”'it could not well have done bettei
than to place his hooks on the Index Expur-
gatorius. Indeed that reaction to the futile
Papal ban was duly cabled from Geneva
last week. Strict Roman Catholics will
doubtless observe the Pope’s decree. The
rest of the world—or that section of it which
does not already know his work —will turn
hastily to SI. France’s books to see what it
is that the Vatican so emphatically dislikes,
just as the reading public rushed things like
“Jude the Obscure, “Ann Veronica” and
“The New Machiavelli” immediately tlfey
were banned by the stuffier sort of English
circulating library.
Readers approaching Anatole France for
the first time will find much treasure, if they
have but eyes to see it: an imagination that
plays like a searchlight on the dark places
of the hearts and minds of men ; an instinct
for character; historic insight; a style that
is brilliant without ever becoming garish,
and, pervading everything, pessimism tem-
pered by ironical humor. “The last of the
mockers.” he has been called—“a Heine,” in
Mr. Holbrook Jackson’s fine phrase, “born
late and born French.”
But, as Mr. Jackson hastens to add, “the
mockery of Anatole France is not that of
the fool who has said in his own heart
‘There is no God !’ It is that of the wise
nan who knows all things are possible—even
God-—but who is always prepared for the
(Continued on /page 25.)


Jit
n
Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale
is Your Opportunity to Economise.
Ladies’ Gabardine
Raincoats Reduced.
IX42O.—SERVICEABLE GABARDINE RAIN-
GOATS, covert finish, wrap collar, which
fastens close to throat, patch pockets, belt at
waist, in Fawn shades. Usual Price, 29/11.
Reduced to 21 /-
IX43I.—USEFUL COTTON GABARDINE RAIN-
COATS, large shoulder collar, which buttons
high to neck if desired, inset or patch pockets,
all-round belt, bone button fastenings. Usual
Price, 39/G.
Reduced to 29/11
IX2O3.—PRACTICAL SHOWERPROOF COATS
in Cotton Gabardine, long roll or cape collar,
inset sleeves with strapped cuffs, patch
pockets, belt at waist, in Fawn or Reseda
shades. Usual Price, 45/-
Reduced to 39/6
IX6O9.—WOOL AND COTTON GABARDINE
RAINCOATS, large step collar, which fastens
cosily to throat, wide inset sleeves, with strap
at cuff, patch pockets and belt, Fawn or Grey
shades. Usual Price, 63/-
Reduced to 55/-
IX39.—WOOLLEN GABARDINE RAINCOATS,
smartly designed, with large convertible or
small tailored collars, inset pockets, belt at
waist, in Fawn, Reseda or Beaver shades.
. Usual Price, 99/6.
Reduced to . 89/6
Save on Corsets.
EC511.-—“IZOD” CORSET, in White
Coutil, for Maids, low girdle top,
medium length, two sets suspenders;
sizes 20 to 28 inches. Usual Price,
10/11 pair.
Reduced to 9/11
ECS3B.—“IZOD” MODEL, lightly-boned
low bust, medium Skirt, suitable for
the average figure; sizes, 20 to 28
inches. Usual Price, 13/11* pair.
Reduced to 11/11
ECSIB.—“IZOD” MODEL, fine White
Coutil, suit shoi’t full figure, low bust,
well boned, two sets suspenders ; sizes
20 to 26 inches. Usual Price, 16/11
pair.
Reduced to 14/11
ECS6I.—“IZOD” MODEL, suitable for
tall, straight figures, low bust, long,
extended hips; sizes 22 to 30 inches.
Usual Price 24/11 pair.
Reduced to 22/11
ECSSB.—“IZOD” CORSET, for stout
figures, low bust, long extended hips,
wedge busks, two sets suspenders;
sizes 25 to 32 inches. Usual Price,
25/11 pair.
Reduced to 23/11
ECIOI.—“HORDERNIA” CORSET, strong
White Coutil, for the average figure,
low bust, wedge busk, two sets
suspenders; sizes 20 to 26 inches.
Usual Price, 12/9 pair.
Reduced to 9/11
Bargains in Maids’ Wear
FxSO9O.—MAIDS’ SERVICEABLE COLLEGE
COATS AND SKIRTS, in Navy, Cheviot Serge,
trimmed cable stitching; size 9. Usual Price,
£3/19/6.
Reduced to 63/-
FxSO9I—MAIDS’ NAVY CHEVIOT SERGE
COATS AND SKIRTS, coat trimmed, patch
pockets and belt; sizes 6,8, 9. Usual Price,
79/6.
Reduced to 63/-
Fx2O6B.—MAIDS’ WHITE VOILE ROBES,
trimmed Valenciennes lace and insertion,
lengths 42, 45, 48 inches. Usual Price, 32/6.
Reduced to 22/6
Fx2OS6.—MAIDS’ WHITE VOILE ROBES,
trimmed tucks, lace and insertion ; lengths
42, 45, 48 inches. Usual Price, 35/-
Reduced to 22/6
MAIDS’ WOOLLEN SPORTS COATS, latest
fancy stitch, with plain roll collar, also
pockets and belt; shades Saxe, Navy. Usual
Price, 27/6.
Reduced to 21/-
MAIDS’ CREAM GABARDINE SKIRTS, large
patch pockets and buttons, wide belt; sizes
34, 36 inches. Usual Price, 17/6.
Reduced to 8/11
MAIDS’ SERVICEABLE BEACH SKIRTS, in
Pencil-striped Crash; sizes 34, 36 inches.
Usual Price, 14/11.
Reduced to 6/11
FxS4S.—COLORED VOILE FROCKS, trimmed
frills, black velvet belt; sizes 30, 33, 36
inches. Usual Price, 42/-
Reduced to 32/-
Fx369.—CHILDREN’S WHITE VOILE FROCKS,
trimmed insertion, square neck, folded belt of
self material; sizes 24, 30, 33, 36 inches.
Usual Prices, 21/-, 24/6, 25/-
Reduced to 17/11
In every one of its sixty departments The House
of Economy is more than living up to its name.
Economy it gives at all times —with the advent of
Sale Reductions comes the necessity for a stronger
term to describe the potentialities that exist for
money-saving. Discover them for yourself by
personal inspection or a perusal of the Sale
Catalogue—the effort will well repay you.
Savings in Footwear.
BRONZE KID COURT SHOES ; hand-sewn, pump
soles, full Louis heels; “The Paragon’’ make;
sizes 2 to 7. Usual Price, 42/- pair.
Reduced to 38/6 pair
TURNER’S BEST ENGLISH MAKE NIGGER
BROWN SUEDE COURT SHOES; hand-sewn,
pump soles, full Louis heels hand cut, bronze
steel buckles; sizes 2 to 7. Usual Price,
90/- pair.
Reduced to 79/6 pair
TURNER’S BEST ENGLISH MAKE ALL-
PATENT COURT SHOES ; hand-sewn, pump
soles, full Louis heels, best French paste
buckles; sizes 2 to 7. Usually 98/6 pair.
Reduced to 80/- pair
BEST MAKE BLACK GLACE KID LOW-
HEELED COURT SHOES; broad fitting and
pump soles; an ideal house shoe; all sizes
2 to 8. Usual Price, 26/9 pair.
Reduced to 23/6 pair
TURNER’S ENGLISH-MADE GREY SUEDE
BUCKLE COURT SHOES ; hand-sewn, pump
soles, full Louis heels, cut steel buckles;
sizes 2 to 7; Usual Price, 90/- pair.
Reduced to 78/6 pair
GREY KID COURT SHOES, full Louis heels,
pump soles ; sizes 2 to 5. Usually 52/6.
Reduced to 47/6 pair
WHITE BUCK LACE SHOES; covered Spanish
Cuban heels, short pump soles, smart and
serviceable. Usually 47/6.
Reduced to 37/6 pair
CELEBRATED “KANGARATTA” BRAND
NURSE SHOES, in Soft Flexible Black Wal-
laby Kid, with pump soles, low leather heel,
with rubber top piece; excellent values;
sizes 3 to 8.
Reduced to 13/11 pair
Reduction in Hosiery.
LADIES’ COTTON HOSE.
PLAIN BLACK, medium weight, British make,
Hawley l>ye, double heels and soles. Usual
Price, 1/10 pair.
Reduced to 1/6
PLAIN BLACK OR TAN, heavyweight British
manufacture, best Hawley Dye, high spliced
ankles, double soles. Usual Price, 2/2 pair.
Reduced to 1/10
LADIES’ LISLE THREAD HOSE.
PLAIN WHITE. Fine Lisle, British make, seam-
less feet. Usual Price, 1/10 pair.
Reduced to 1/6
PLAIN TAN MERCERISED, medium weight,
double suspender tops and soles. Usual Price,
3/3 pair.
Reduced to 2/6
LADIES’ ARTIFICIAL SILK HOSE.
PLAIN COLORED THREE-QUARTER ART
SILK LEG, non-ravel top, double Lisle sus-
pender tops and soles, in shades of Champagne,
Golden Brown, Mist, Nickel, Smoke, Steel,
Navy, Black or White. Usual Price, 4/9 pair.
Reduced to . 3/11
LADIES’ SILK HOSE.
PLAIN BLACK, WHITE OR TAN PURE SILK
THREE-QUARTER LEG, “HOLEPROOF”
Brand, seam at back, Double Lisle Suspender
Tops and Soles. Usual Price, 7/11 pair.
Reduced to 6/9
PLAIN BLACK OR WHITE PURE SILK
THREE-QUARTER LEG, seam at back.
Double Mercerised Lisle Suspender Tops and
Soles. Usual Price, 8/11 pair.
Reduced to 7/11
Write for Sale Catalogue.
A copy will be posted you free.
Every page is full of money-
saving suggestions.
Saddlery and Harness Reduced.
BOYS’ SADDLES, Bag Leather Seat and Pads.
Usual Price, £4/13/6.
Reduced to £3/6/9
BOYS’ SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Pads. Usual
Pripp £
Reduced to £3/10/-
STOCK SADDLES, Bag Leather Seat and Pads.
Usual Price, £4/16/-
Reduced to £3/10/-
STOCK SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Pads. Usual
Price, £5/6/9.
Reduced to £3/17/6
STOCK SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Bag Pads.
. Usual Price, £6/6/9.
Reduced to £4/10/-
STOCK SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Bag Pads,
Full Skirt. Usual Price, £6/13/6.
Reduced to £4/15/-
HTOCK SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Bag Pads,
Capped Knee Pads. Usual Price, £6/13/6.
Reduced to £5/7/6
BEST QUALITY QUEENSLAND PARK
SADDLES, Hogskin Seat and Pads, Serpentine
Knee Pads, Sunken Seat, Victoria Facings,
Skeleton Panel. Usual Price, £9/7/6.
Reduced to £7/7/-
SPECIAL HEAVY NORTHERN PARK SADDLE,
Somerset Pads, Victoria Facings, Skeleton
Panel, Extra Long Flaps. Best steel-plated
tree. Usual Price, £lO/13/6.
Reduced to £9/6/9
PECIAL HEAVY NORTHERN STOCK
SADDLE, Rolled Seat, very large Knee Pads,
Skeleton Panel, Victoria Facings. Best steel-
plated tree. Usual Price, £lO/13/6.
Reduced to £9/6/9
Fittings for the above saddles—
Prices, 13/3, 16/3, 21/- extra.
IMITATION RUBBER AND GOLD SULKY
HARNESS, fin. Swing Cheek Winkers, fin.
Reins, Breast Collar, lfin. Traces, 4in. Saddle,
lfin. Backhand and Tugs, fin. Split Hip
Strap Breeching. Usual Price, £7/10/-
Reduced to £6
SOLID NICKEL-MOUNTED BUGGY OR SULKY
HARNESS, 3 rows sewn, fin. Reins, fin.
Sensible Eye Winkers, lfin. Sewn Traces,
Folded Breast Collar, 4in. tiuggy Saddle, If in.
Backhand and Tugs, fin. Split Hip Straps.
Folded Breeching Seat. fin. Breeching Straps.
Usual Price, £B/12/6.
Reduced to £6/12/C
SOLID NICKEL-MOUNTED BUGGY OR SULKT
HARNESS. 4 rows sewn (as above). Usuai
Price, £9.
Reduced to £*
SOLID NICKEL-MOUNTED BUGGY OR SULKY
HARNESS, 1 row sewn, fin. reins, fin. Sen-
sible Eye Winkers, Scroll Draft Metal Haines,
lfin. Tugs, lfin. Sewn Traces, best Yankee
Spot-stitched Collar, 4in. Buggy Saddle, If in.
Backhand and Tugs, fin. Split Hip Strap,
Folded Breeching Seat, fin. Breeching Straps.
Usual Price, £9/5/6.
Reduced to £7/5/6
SOLTD NICKEL-MOUNTED BUGGY OR SULKY
HARNESS, 3 rows sewn (as above). Usual
Price, £9/12/6.
Reduced to £7/10/-
SOLID NICKEL-MOUNTED BUGGY OR SULKY
HARNESS, 4 rows sewn. Usual Price, £lO.
Reduced to £7/17/6
Carriage Paid on Family Drapery, Fashion Goods, Men’s and Boys’
Wear, Footwear, Jewellery and Electroplate in N.S.W., and to
the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
Fashionable Skirts
Reduced,
DIO3.—SMARTLY DESIGNED SKIRTS, in
Black or Navy Fine Serge, heavily embossed
at foot, ti’innned self-covered buttons. Also
in Fawn or Cream Gabardine. Usual Price,
89/6.
Reduced to 79/G
Out Sizes as above. Usual Price, 92/6.
Reduced to 84/-
DIO7.—WELL TAILORED TWO-PIECE SKIRT
in Coating Serge, self-covered buttons and
feather tucks, trimmed either sides. Black
or Navy. Usual Price, 59/11.
Reduced to 52/6
Out Sizes as above. Usual Price, 67/6.
Reduced to 59/6
D 552, D 564. D 557. DSSB.—FOUR DIFFERENT
STYLES IN ALL-WOOL SERGE SKIRTS, all
cut in smart straight lines, black silk mili-
tary braid is used for trimming, in Black or
Navy, Women’s size only. All one price, 21/-
Reduced to 18/11
DB33.—WELL TAILORED SKIRTS IN FINE
COATING SERGE, inset pieces in front, broad
belt and silk stitchings, in Black or Navy.
Usual Price, 63/-
Reduced to 55/-
D3II3.—TWO STYLES OF NEATLY-CUT
SKIRTS in Fine Coating Serge, Black,
trimmed pockets and shaped empieceinents,
Women’s size only. Usual Price, 29/11.
Reduced to 25/-
I)632.—EXCEPTIONALLY SMART SKIRTS in
Black or Navy Serge, with white stripe, knife-
pleated all round, finished narrow belt.
Women’s size only. Usual Price, 52/6.
Reduced to 46/-
Savings in
Undervests.
LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS, V-
neck, no sleeves. Usual Price, 1/11.
Reduced to 1/6
LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
round neck, short sleeves. Sizes 38,
40 and 42. Usual Price, 3/3.
Reduced to 2/9
LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
round neck, no sleeves. Usual Price,
3/3.
Iteduced to 2/6
LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
Fancy Fronts, strap over shoulder.
Very good quality. Usual Price, 3/9.
Reduced to 2/11
LADIES’ HEAVY RIBBED COTTON
Vests, Comfy Cut. Usual Price, 5/11.
Reduced to 3/11
LADIES’ RIBBED SWISS VESTS, in all
sizes. Usual Prices, 6/11 to 8/6.
Reduced to 4/11
LADIES’ RIBBED SWISS VESTS, Fancy
Fronts, with sleeves or without sleeves.
Usual Prices, 9/11, 10/6, 11/6.
Reduced to . 8/6
MILANESE VESTS, embossed or plain
fronts, in White, Sky or Pink, Usual
Prices, 36/-, 45/-, 48/-
Reduced to 18/11
LADIES’ WOVEN SILK VESTS, low neck,
short sleeves. Usual Price, 25/-
Reduced to 17/6
Bargains in Blouses.
STRIPED WINCEYETTE BLOUSES.
IXBS—STRIPED WINCEYETTE BLOUSES,
with convertible roll collars, in stripes, Black,
Blue and Pink. Usual Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 7/11
IXlO. STRIPED WINCEYETTE BLOUSES, roll
collars and turned-back cuffs. Usual Price,
4/11.
Reduced to 3/11
IX4.—STRIPED CAMBRIC BLOUSES, roll
collars and plain cuffs, women’s size only.
Reduced to 3/11
CREAM DELAINE BLOUSES.
IXIB6O.—CREAM DELAINE BLOUSES, with roll
or high collars, finished pearl buttons. Usual
Price, 17/6.
Reduced to 14/11
IXII.—EMBROIDERED DELAINE BLOUSES,
roll collars, plain cuffs, hemstitched. Usual
Price. 18/6.
Reduced to 14/11
IVORY JAP SILK BLOUSES.
IXI4I6.—EMBROIDERED JAP SILK BLOUSES,
roll collars and plain cuffs, hemstitched. Usual
Price, 16/11.
Reduced to 14/11
IXI4O7.—IVORY JAP SILK BLOUSES, with
long roll collars, finished tie ends, hem-
stitched, plain cuffs. Usual Price, 17/11.
Reduced to 14/11
IXIS.—IVORY JAP SILK BLOUSES, em-
broidered fronts and shirt cuffs. Usual Price,
19/11.
Reduced to 17/11
IX223.—IVORY JAP SILK BLOUSES, long roll
collar with scalloped edge, hemstitched, plain
cuffs. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 18/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.
Box 2712 G.P.O.


This illustration shows the full
size of the Vest Pocket Auto-
graphic Kodak, folded for
carriage in pocket or lady’s
handbag.
THere’s room in your pocßet for a
Vest Pocßet liodaK
Slip a V.P.K. into your waistcoat pocket! Be prepared for the
pictures which occur when your larger camera is at home. You can
carry your V.P.K. much as you carry your watch, so light and
compact is this dainty little Kodak. It is always ready for use when
you want it—the work of a second suffices to pull out the front and
press the trigger to secure the picture.
The Vest Pocket Kodak measures only 4fin. long x 2fin. wide
x lin. thin, and weighs only 90z., yet it takes splendid little
pictures 2f x If in., large enough to enlarge to postcard size
and upwards. And the V.P.K. is fitted with the Autographic
feature, which enables you to title your films when you make
the exposure. Price 47/6.
Order your copy of the August issue of The Australasian Photo Review to-day.
There will be a big demand for this issue—it contains color-reproductions of the
first three prize-winners in the “Velox Colors” Competition, and many interesting
articles, including two on the photography of the coming eclipse.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Kodak (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.,
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen
Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quav and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Thi<t illustration shows the Vest rochet Autographic
Kodak open ready for use ( two-thirds actual size).
Why not decide to buy
your Instrument NOW ?
Transform dull evenings at home into
hours of spellbound enjoyment, when you
can sit entranced by the world’s greatest
music, rendered as only “His Master’s
Voice’’ can render it.
You can never be lonely if you possess
“His Master’s Voice.’’ It reproduces the
original music accurately and naturally,
without any discordant scratching sounds.
It is significant that the world’s greatest artists: Melba,
Caruso, Kubelik, Paderewski, McCormack, Heifetz and
innumerable others can be heard only on “His Master’s
Voice.” They know how it preserves their gifts in all
their beauty.
When you want to hear the celebrities at their best, play
“His Master's Voice” Records on an "His Master’s
Voice” Instrument. You will thus obtain finest results.
“His
Master’s
Voice”
<Tfie most famous
Musical Instruments
m tfieWorfl
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments, each one
perfect in tone, range in price from 11 guineas
to 91 guineas. Write for Illustrated Cata-
logue, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Ills Master’s Voice/-'
Reg. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone,”
Rea. Trade-mark.


PIN RETIES
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do ; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
H /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Df. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery Is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL. INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
AUL. WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Btreet, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UneloJoby’s
yOATS^/
A delightful breakfast food
LIGMQLLIENE
For the Skin.
Every skin trouble,
whether superficial or
chronic, quickly yields
to the Liginolliem
treatment.
Ligmolliene is un-
rivalled for the treat-
ment of Eczema,
Barber’s Rash, Ring-
worm and all skin dis-
eases.
The
Chemists
Recommend
if.
All Chemists
5/6 & 7/6 tin:
or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
’A
Vn
•nii im
MALYON * SONS,
Sturt St., Ballarat.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
■ .*j»T5 *...•.■•.: s£?«,* Wifi
irpß - • •» ' I
V!
Beautiful
Walnut Hair,
An Added Charm indeed is
Hair of that exquisite Walnut
Shade so youthful and en-
trancing. Yet it may easily,
harmlessly and permanently
be obtained by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Assuredly waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
K 5?
38?
STr
Charming
and Distinctive.
Its flavor makes an instant
appeal to one’s sense ot refine-
ment ; its antiseptic qualities
to one’s eommonsense.
Truly may it be de-
scribed as “The Denti-
frice of Quality.”
At All
Chemists.
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
serious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselves,
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
famous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-forming,
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made l>y FELTON. GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
The Smoker’s Pipe Sign
When you choose a pipe, look for this sign,
GBD stands for quality, and assures to
every smoker a pipe that will give a cool,
sweet smoke always.
These world-famed pipes are made from genuine French
Briarwood —thoroughly matured—shaped by experts,
and neatly finished.
Get acquainted with a GBD to-day.
Many
popular
shapes.
From
On
Sale
Everywhere.
Trade inquiries invited to Box ido G.P.0.,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pure Beauty.
There is a beauty of the untrodden wild,
A loveliness exquisite to feel and see
In rolling woods and flowered virgin lea
That no man’s pest of meddling has defiled.
There is a beauty of old mountains piled
In soaring loneliness of majesty,
A beauty of air and great grave stars set
free
To bloom in space where only God has
smiled.
But when all life’s a weariness, and death
Seems the one refuge for the bruishd soul.
And quiet the one long-prayed-for para-
dise,
There is a beauty thrills the heart and breath
With joy divine, and makes the spirit
whole—
The beauty in a loving woman’s eyes.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
July.
July is like a lovely Spanish maid.
beneath the lemon-tree I saw her stand,
Her arched foot poised; within her slender
hand
The singing castanets with which she played.
Her grass-brown skirt was full, and, as she
stayed,
Robins flashed red across the yellow land :
And all the willow boughs at her command
Changed into golden shawls their lace of
jade.
She passed at dusk. I watched her turn
and dance
Among the violets, the while she drew
My cold, reluctant soul into her dream,
Softly seductive, of a Cid’s romance.. ..
Now, from Night’s skies of clear Castilian
blue,
Through lattices of stars her dark eyes
gleam.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Grindstone.
I held a spade—a blunted garden spade—
Against a grindstone’s face
That I might make a garden with its blade
About my dwelling-place.
And all at once arose a piercing sound
From out the tortured steel,
Of tiny fragments being torn and ground—
As though each piece could feel!
But I continued, heedless of their cry;
It seemed not much that there
Should be a few frail fragments doomed to
die,
To make a garden fair!
And so it came to me that thus, perchance,
Blunt men bewail their plight
Upon the grinding stone of circumstance,
When from the ages’ height
The spirits of the past can stoop and see
Earth’s garden grow and grow;
Can see the gloss of many a stately tree,
And immortelles a-blow.
VICTORIA.
L. LUCAS.
The Waiting Shore.
The reign of shadows is over and done,
And bright is the waiting sea
With the forethrown light of a hidden sun
And a splendor about to be.
The cliffs light up, the reefs and caves,
And a growing beauty shines
On the pine-trees fronting the rolling waves,
And the tall trees back of the pines.
On the ocean’s breast, like a dream of night
Surprised by the dawn of day,
There sails a ship, with her sails of white,
And her slender spars a-sway.
The gulls come winging in snow-white flocks
To the beach-sands, smooth and damp,
From the lone lagoons, and the island rocks
Where they made their night-long camp.
Far clouds light up, as though hedged around
With a host of golden spears,
As, 10, in glory ai’rayed and crowned,
The monarch of day appears!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Nomads.
Love’s arms cannot stay us
(Loved arms that delay us!).
For the tides of the sea are the tides of our
blood;
And what strength can bridle,
Hold back, or make idle
The power of the sea when its stream is at
flood?
The dream-blue of distance,
With secret insistence,
Ever speaks without utterance and sings
without sound,
And the call of far places,
Borne faint o’er wide spaces,
Comes potent as wolf-cry to wolf-mothered
hound.
Green wood-smoke blown over
A field of wild clover
Is sweeter than spikenard or sandal or
myrrh ;
But the sweetest land savor
Is robbed of its flavor
Where the white horses plunge without
bridle or spur.
All dangers and glories
Of legend and stories—
They wait at the bend of the long sunset
road:
The wanderers shall find them,
Shall snare them and bind them,
And the pack-horse shall bear them a-top of
his load!
Our comrade is Wonder :
We hear the seas thunder
O.n strands where the shadowy centaurs are
led:
The sunset our hearth is,
Our infinite path is,
The way of the living, the way of the dead.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


II
■
i'id
. .
... -■«/
<*»-*
Sm
■i'.-r'i
<*
4
%
r
mm
II
ms
i*5.S
•-.
p J**"
mx
m
! m
&
€O,
SI
■
a
s§
Si
;■>
S& 1
m
9
v
m
FORMAL DRESS
Either Ready-to■= Wear or Made=to=Measure
That a suit for formal wear be well and
fashionably cut is not enough. Combined
with that must be the conscientious skill of
expert tailors—so that your Dress or Dinner
Suit will keep its smart appearance.
Constant engagement in the production of
correct formal clothes has earned for Cowing
Bros, a reputation not easy of duplication.
It is our boast that we combine Good Tailor-
ing with honest fabrics.
Dinner Suits.—Ready to wear, perfect
fitting and correct in style, are made of
All-Wool Black Pinhead Coating, and
have silk-faced lapels. These may be
had for Eight Guineas —or hand-
finished and satin-lined throughout for
Ten Guineas.
Dress Trousers. —Ready to wear. These
are available in sizes to fit all normal
men in similar All-Wool Pinhead
materials. 45/-
Dress Suits.—Tailoring of exceptional
calibre is noticeable in Go wing's Full
Dress Suits Ready-to-wear. They are
obtainable in the same fine quality
All-Wool Black Pinhead Coating with
silk-faced lapels. Ten Guineas. If
silk-lined throughout, Twelve Guineas.
Evening Raglan Coats.—Pure Wool
Vicuna, with satin-lined sleeves.
Lapels silk-faced to bottom of skirt.
Price 189/-
White Dress Vests.—These are offered
in many smart materials. The more
frequently worn styles are:—
White Pique 17/6
Marcella 19/6
Silk Poplin .... 21/-
Dress Shoes.—Patent Leather Court
Shoes, with pump-sewn soles and bow,
may be had in all sizes at 22/6 and
28/6. Lace-up styles same prices.
Made to Measure.
A full range of patterns, comprising the smartest materials
for Evening Wear, together with self-measurement forms,
will be sent to any address on request.
Dress Suits, Dinner Suits,
Made to measure, £l2/12/- Made to measure, £ll/11/-
Dress Accessories.
Such accessories as Dress Shirts and Ties, Gloves and White
Scarves are available in too great a variety of style for us
to list them here. Our catalogue will be gladly sent post
free on request.
GOWING BROS LTD.,
4-8© George Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 George Street and at 454 George Street.
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL ORDERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Registered at tne uenerai Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transir ission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2215.
THU USD AY, JULY 27, 1922.
Price 6d.
ISHMAEL.
“You don’t seem to give that other chap much attention.”
“Ah, no, sir, no. It wouldn’t pay me—he hasn’t the price of a vote on him.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia lor the 'White .Man.”
I’rinted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnev, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months. £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; S months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon llouse, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Mole, Uolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 Migh
llolborn, London, IF.CM.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana Mouse, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Bastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Morn & Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Mong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
T’apua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Marry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commomvealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: J/OZ. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
'ffie'&tzllelz/ii.
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1922.
THE DISASTROUS FRIENDS OF THE
PROLETARIAT.
The tragedy of last week’s Sydney Trades
and Labor Council’s proposal that the
workers of Australia should “go slow” in a
diversity of ways, is not a matter of the
advice being generally taken, just yet. It is
that a large number of our Labor leaders
should be thus revealed as believers in such
pre-historic methods. There was a time —
and not so very long ago, either —when it
might have been fairly safe for Australians
to monkey with the machine which we call
Civilisation. A couple of generations ago
it was a much less delicate piece of mechan-
ism. There was no Asiatic menace. Aus-
tralia was primarily a pastoral and agri-
cultural country. If we had “cut the painter”
and started out on our own account we
would have been as safe from invasion,
probably, as the Transvaal was—till its
astonishing mineral wealth became widely
known. The Powers —they were all Euro-
pean in those days—did not need our gold
and wool so desperately as to be tempted
to send an expeditionary force half round
the world to take forcible possession of them.
We might have lived a more or less primi-
tive existence, bartering raw products for
finished goods, never attaining a, very high
standard of comfort or culture, but, on the
other hand, remaining fairly free from the
menace of national starvation—for a while.
That is to say, until the increasing hunger
of the armed coolie nations, white or yellow,
German or Japanese, directed their atten-
tion to our well-fed appearance. What we
did was to keep step with progressive civili-
sations elsewhere under the protection of
the British Navy. Ever since Federation
Australia has become more and more indus-
trialised ; the coastal cities have grown
bigger and the country towns smaller; in
other words, an ever-increasing army of
middlemen, operatives and their parasites,
has come to depend for subsistence, day by
day, on transport. The bush patriarch of
the bullock-dray epoch, who was able to
feed and clothe himself and his family off
his holding for 12 months at a time, if neces-
sary, has almost vanished. We have so
complicated our lives that if a serious hitch
occurred in the rhythm of industry to-day,
so that the wheat, the meat and the milk
ceased to traverse their accustomed paths,
thousands would be hungry to-morrow, starv-
ing the next day, and dead within a week.
The Trades and Labor Council scheme of
harassing industrialism wherever possible is
either completely senseless, or it is tile ex-
ploded old syndicalist policy of “blow upon
blow until the capitalist State is destroyed.”
The whole world knows, to-day, that wher-
ever anything untoward happens to a capi-
talistic State, the poor suffer ten thousand
times more than the capitalists, and continue
so to suffer until their revolutionary land has
struggled out of the collectivist morass and
on to the firm ground of capitalism once
again. This ever-present and ghastly risk
is the price we have to pay for the millions
of articles, home-made and imported—-from
picture-films to kerosene, from Havana cigars
and Scotch whisky to American tobacco,
Ceylon tea, Canadian salmon, and boots and
hats and clothes—which most of us have
long forgotten to regard as the exotic luxu-
ries they are.
* * # *
To say that the capitalist system, the sys-
tem which our Gardens are seeking to
dynamite, is here to stay as long as civilisa-
tion stays—and this is so, if only inasmuch as
capitalism offers the sole means of making
the world reasonably safe for over-popula-
tion —is not to deny that in many of its
aspects it is desperately bad. Unfortunately
it is nearly always approached from a politi-
cal angle—and a Party political angle at
that. This, although the problems which, if
solved, are likely to result in making capi-
talism acceptable to the masses, as well as
to the classes, are nearly all sociological.
The immemorial grievance of the employee
is that he is paid insufficient wages. Whether
or no capitalism can pay much more and
survive is at any rate arguable; but that
Labor can earn more, while drawing the
same old rates of pay, is indisputable. The
broad stream of working-class wages is
diverted from its proper course by three main
channels—drink, gambling and venereal dis-
ease. Not that the employing classes are
any more immune. On the contrary, they
drink more and gamble higher than the poor,
and every doctor agrees that V.D. is essen-
tiallv a plutocratic trouble. The difference
is in their incidence. An employer may
drink three times as much as his employee,
but what he consumes is probably six times
as good. An employer gambles in pounds
sterling where his employee only risks shill-
ings ; but the employer does it at Flemington
or Eandwick, where he gets the best avail-
able odds and a reasonably fair run for his
money generally, while his employee, who
never goes near a racecourse, is fleeced by the
agency of some s.p. merchant’s tout. The
capitalist almost invariably follows a seden-
tary calling, or is in a position to lead a
sedentary life, if necessary. To him venereal
disease does not, at any rate, spell financial
loss, much less ruin. The manual worker,
on being smitten by one of these complaints,
has first to fee a, to him, disastrously ex-
pensive specialist, and in many parts of
Australia it is not easy to reach one. The
treatment may require repeated visits. And
the first direction given will certainly be
rest —that rest which the working-man can
only take at the expense of the money which
buys his daily bread. If it were possible to
create a composite figure, representative of
those in the £5OOO-a-year-and-over class, it
would be found that the abovenamed factors
affect its income to a very trifling extent.
The rich man, like the poor one, dies of
cirrhosis of the liver from drink, or of
general paralysis of the insane from syphilis;
but he does it in comfort as it were. In the
case of a composite figure repr'esemting
the man in the £5-a-week-or-under class
drink, gambling and venereal disease take
an enormous toll —perhaps 20 per cent, of
the total income. These are the worst and
most persistent sweaters of the poor—not
the man who pays the wages, but the insti-
tutions which in many cases swallow up
nearly all of them before they reach the
wage-earner’s home —and if capitalism can-
not find a means of improving the position
in this respect it may perish and civilisation
with it.
* * * *
The reformer who stands in the extreme
opposition camp to men like Garden has
a recipe as simple as that of any anarchist.
The one believes in scrapping most of our
existing laws, the other in passing a flood
of new ones. Drink is to be abolished by
prohibition; gambling by the wiping-out of
racecourses and particularly those which
have totalisators; venereal disease by Crim-
inal Law Amendment Acts of ever-growing
stringency. Such ideals win cheers when
delivered with suitable gestures from stumps
and soapboxes, but those who applaud loud-
est realise often, in the unimpassioned atmo-
sphere of their homes, that they are imprac-
ticable—as impracticable as the Communist
ideal of an international arrangement be-
tween the workers which will impel the
Chinese to stay in China and the Japanese
to sink their nationalist aspirations so that
members of the Trades and Labor Council
may live free of Asiatic competition in Aus-
tralia. As soon as realities are touched it
becomes clear that men will always gamble
somehow; that they will always drink
intoxicants; and that, though they may be
delivered fairly easily from disease, no
human or other law will deliver them from
sin. Grant these premises, and the further
proposition that the typical worker sacri-
fices perhaps a fifth of his substance on
expensive and inferior drink, on costly
gambling, or on the struggle with prevent-
able diseases —or on all three—and it be-
comes clear that the worker’s income will
be greatly increased if his drink is made
better and cheaper, his gambling regulated, and
public clinics and prophylaxis-depots insti-
tuted both in country centres and in the
cities. It is significant, however, that none
of these reforms is ever undertaken by the
people who talk loudest of their sympathy
with the workers. The Trades and Labor
Council orators do not want the s.-p. book-
makers and their hirelings treated like two-
uppers by the police ; the poorer the wage-
earner is kept by one-sided gambling the
more receptive be is likely to be to argu-
ments in favor of measures of political des-
peration. The prohibitionists do not Avant
to see the workers going home sober after
consuming a reasonable amount of sound
beer, Ayine or spirits: they prefer to see
men acting as advertisements tor the illegal-
ismg of all drink as a result of being pois-
oned with pink-eye or crude alcohol. And
the Social Purity people are hostile to any
step likelv to lessen v.d. on tlie grounds that
a thoroughly diseased and ruined day-laborer
constitutes a standing proof of the folly of
sin. In short, the Avorker’s worst enemies
are some of the people who call themselves
his best friends. Iffiey could provide him
between them with the equivalent of very
high wages in a very short time; but they
jirefer to use him as a pawn for their oavu
ends; and, in the ease of the Trades and
Labor people, to risk making this country
an Asiatic dependence in the process.
FIVE DEFICITS AND A CURSE.
State finance is mostly a struggle to raise
the greatest amount of loan money, abso-
lutely or relatively, and achieve the biggest
debit balance. N. S. Wales won the Deficit
Stakes in 1921-22 with a total of £1,329,000,
Westralia (£719,600) finishing second and
Queensland (£188,500) third. Judged in
proportion to population Westralia was the
winner. But, unlike the other prodigals, the
Sunset State made a substantial contribution
(£283,700) to its sinking-fund. Kiotously
as it has borrowed since 1911, when a Labor
Government burst into office with proposals
for brushing the capitalist off the earth
by starting State enterprises with his money,
its Acting-Treasurer is in a position to
boast that the interest on the sinking-fund
balances the deficit, and its Premier that the
sinking-fund trustees have bought £0,898,000
worth of W.A. paper for £5,940,000. That
is what it means to provide against the day
of reckoning. Part of the money available
was invested in goldfields-water-scheme
stock. These transactions have been so
profitable that the Government, as Premier
Mitchell gleefully announces, is now in a
position to “save” £lOO,OOO a year by with-
holding the interest on £782,910 worth of
stock (it was purchased for £690,550) and
the sinking-fund contribution in respect of
the balance ; and of course it will do so. It
ia that kind of Government. The late
Forrest was the author of the goldfields
water scheme, and also of the sinking-fund.
He made the latter so fool-proof that his
successors have never been able to abolish
it, as one or two of them would have liked,
or to loot it for financing the construction bv
day-labor of a bridge over the Great Aus-
tralian Bight. But he couldn’t prevent their
borrowing like maniacs when they had the
chance. Had they run their country with
average ability and prudence it would owe
less per head to-day than any State except
Victoria, instead of a great deal more. It is
a. mournful fact that more than half the
Westralian debt has been contracted since
1911.
* * # »
Victoria, as usual, is the one State that
weighed in with a surplus. It is only a
small thing—£2s,ooo, McPherson says,
although there may be a few thousands more
when the accounts are adjusted)—but it
makes the pomp of Dooley and Theodore
ridiculous. For the Victorian revenue ( £l2
9s. 4d. per head in 1920-21) is small com-
pared with that of N. S. Wales (£l6 ss. 6d.
per head) and Queensland (£l6 15s. per
head). From the sale and rental of Crown
lands the Cabbage Garden draws less than
a third of the Queensland total and barely
a fourth of what N. S. Wales gets. Its stamp
duties yield about half-a-million less than
those of the Ma State. Its modest income-tax,
the lowest in the Commonwealth, if not in
the world, produces a mere £1 a head,
whereas the N. S. Wales impost turns in
about £2 a head and the Queensland one
approximately £3. In other words, Victoria
gets along with three-quarters of a million
less income-tax money than Bananalfand,
which hasn’t half its population, and three
millions less than N. S. Wales. When
Dooley increased his income-tax in 1920 the
additions were in most cases greater than
the full rates charged in Victoria—and they
haven’t been altered for six years. On
incomes from personal exertion the lightest
rate in N. S. Wales was fixed at Is. 3d. in
the £1 and the heaviest at 2s. 6d.; in Vic-
toria they are 3d. and 7d. respectively. By
piling these new burdens on the taxpayer
Dooley got another four millions in two
years—the N.S.W. income-tax receipts were
£2,308,000 in 1919-20; £4,399,000 in 1920-
21 and £4,177,000 in 1921-22—and if the
public hadn’t revolted he would have got,
as he threatened, about half as much, again!
But for all the benefit the country derived
from the expenditure of the four millions
it might as well have been chucked into the
sea. A lot of it was expended in buying
support for the gang in office—in subsidis-
ing the slow-down and right-to-loaf policies,
finding Government billets for a swarm of
Labor supporters and providing city con-
stituencies with half-price fish. The four
millions of new money notwithstanding—
and other millions were obtained by raising-
stamp duties, racecourse taxes and harbor
and tonnage rates, and by a 16 2-5 per cent,
increase of railway and tramway charges—•
there was a deficit of £1,774,000 in those
two years. Victoria, on the other haud, had
a surplus of at least £lBl,OOO, and it may
be more.
* * * »
How does Victoria manage it? What is
the secret of this State’s success in making
a modest revenue suffice for its needs, while
the States which tax ferociously have pro-
digious deficits? One explanation is that it
has never had a Labor Government, except
one of the stopgap variety, which was put out
of its misery in a few days. Hence the
taxpayers haven’t been required to support
arinies of manual laborers who refuse to
work—as Mt. Morgan did for 12 months, and
Broken Hill for nearly two years—at arbi-
tration rates of pay. Neither have they been
called upon to finance an per cent, reduc-
tion of output, owing to the Government
knocking four hours off the working week.
They have likewise been spared the “vigorous
borrowing policies” necessitated bv numerous
crazy experiments in State Socialism. Their
Government departments, therefore, are com-
paratively few in number and moderately
staffed, nor have they been taxed up to the eye-
brows to meet, the losses on ships, ferries, fish-
shops, coal-mines, copper-deals, freezing-works,
cattle-stations, sausage-stalls, pubs, imple-
ment factories, brickworks and political rail-
ways stuffed with two-up players who vote
the right ticket. In short, the reason why
\ ictoria can make ends meet on an income
which Theodobe or Dooley would scorn is
I hat it hasn’t indulged in collectivist gambles
or regarded the pawnshop as a substitute for
production. It has resisted the temptation
of living on loans. The result is shown in
the annual balance-sheets. Whereas N. S.
Wales and Queensland have to tax terrifically
to pay their interest bills, a moderate requi-
sition suffices for Victoria. Having borrowed
comparatively little and left vast reserves of
taxation untouched, it is in a better position
than any other State to weather the strenu-
ous experience that is in store for all. For
the trouble that The Bulletin foresaw and
strove to avert has hit Australia. Within
four years 146£ millions of State loans are
falling due, 32f millions this year. Only
Victoria, Westralia and S. Aus. have made
any provision to meet them, and it amounts to
precious little. The other three States will
be at the mercy of their mostly foreign credi-
tors. And it isn’t in the nature of those
gentry to spare a chronic spendthrift when
I hey have one in their power.
TREES.
We come of a generation that did not like
trees. The hardy pioneer is generally repre-
sented with an axe, and to him it was less
a tool than an implement of war. Trees
were the enemy, and he liked to be photo-
graphed beside a fallen gum, just as a big
game hunter stands with his foot on an ele-
phant or a rhinoceros, rifle at rest and his
face lit with triumph. Progress was visual-
ised as a felling of trees, and something of
the passion of a crusade invested the whole
business. The youngster was armed with a
tomahawk on his sixth birthday, and sent
forth, with the parental blessing and a few
injunctions about cherry-trees, to do battle
in the great war.
In the beginning it was a natural enough
attitude, of course. Land hau to be cleared.
But when a man concentrates on anything it
is liable to become a fixed idea with him,
and there is no doubt that the day’s work
hardened the minds of the old settlers into a
definite hostility toward trees. Towards the
native trees, that is. They were not the
same shape as European trees: they did not
conform to the accepted standards of beauty
in line or foliage; in addition they were stub-
born, sinister, tough to cut, and they hindered
the planting of corn and potatoes. Let the
axe and the forest-devil have free play,
then !
That early hatred for trees has been hard to
root out. In some townships Ave come upon
roads and streets so bare of natural shade
and protection from the wind that the local
councillors have been forced into a policy of
replanting. Planes and other importations
struggle timorously for a foothold behind
their barricades of rabbit-netting, as if fear-
ful of the cow that Avanders by night. “Orna-
mental” trees, the old people call them.
“Artificial” trees, the younger generation
has learned to say. A marked change, that!
It shows that the old hatred is dying out,
and in some of the memorial avenues native
trees have been planted, but it will be a long
Avhile before we look upon a patch of un-
touched forest Avith as much pleasure as on
a paddock of cleared land.
Watch people xvhen a bush-fire is raging,
for instance. Fire is regarded as a menace,
of course, when it threatens xvheatfields, hay-
ricks and houses, but when it SAveeps 0A r er a
piece of uncleared bush there is an obvious
exultation mixed with the anxiety in the
eyes of the lookers-on. The crashing of
trees invigorates them like the sound of heavy
rain falling or the plying of a thousand axes.
“It’ll do good, anyAA r ay,” they say, rub-
bing their hands. "It’s years since that piece
Avas properly burnt out.”
But will it do goodV Expert opinion says
that it Avon’t; that fire destroys the humus
in the soil and injures the bacteria necessary
to plant groAvth. Where once the natural
undergrowth flourished there spring up the
useless bracken fern and other undesirable
Aveeds. As for the young timber, Avhat is not
killed by fire is irreparably injured by gum-
veins in the Avood and a forest of young
tAvigs low down on the boles.
Fire is, to some extent, a preventable
scourge. It Avould be, at least, if it was
regarded as a scourge, and not Avith vague
superstition as a natural visitation, likely to
do good as long as it leaves your own houses
and cleared paddocks alone. Very feAv bush-
fires come from lightning. Most of them
have been lit by the hand of man, and the
bush-fire could be almost abolished as an in-
stitution in the timbered districts if there Avas
a general recognition that it was an unmixed
evil. But the superstition that it does good
is hard to destroy, and so AA r e have whole
stretches of landscape disfigured by scarred
and blackened trees that have lost both their
value and their beauty,
Value and beauty! The sense of each
must be appealed to in turn if Avhat remains
of our forests is to be saved. There is a
Avidespread belief that our supplies of timber
are as inexhaustible as the rest of our
natural resources, but the truth must be
faced before long that a large part of our
continent is destitute of any trees worthy
the name. Once the coastal regions are left
behind there are no leviathans. Mulga is
all very well, and so are the rest of the salty
shrubs, but they have very little value for
anyone save pastoralists. Millions of acres
of them in their virgin state will not compen-
sate us for the loss of those rich Queens-
land scrubs I remember seeing turned to
cinders as a boy, when land was being cleared
for sugar-cane. We must: have sugar, of
course, but those tropical Avonderlands can
never be restored. Cedar and pine, tallow-
wood and maple-—all made fuel for the fire.
Parts of Gippsland fared worse, for acres of
large trees have been hacked down there to
no end, apparently, but the triumph of the
bracken fern.
Our salvation from this mania lies in
esthetics. The generation that calls the
plane and elm “artificial” trees has begun
to see a beauty in the native flora. Thank
the artists for that, and some of the teachers
in the primary schools! It is not merely the


instinct of patriotism that has revealed the
beauty of the gum-tree to people : it is the
development of a truer sense of aesthetics.
Anything can be beautiful that has character,
and in their own setting the various types
of gum are as harmonious as the deciduous
immigrants, sheltered behind their palisades,
are discordant. The generation that cleared
the township streets of white gum and pep-
permint, planting aliens in their stump-holes,
was sacrificing its artistic sense on the altar
of its prejudice.
When once this mistake is fully realised it
will be easier to persuade people that the
preservation of forest areas is necessary. Not
all land is fitted for pasture or agriculture,
and trees have tjieir rights. Perhaps the
next generation will have rid itself of the
idea that a patch of standing timber is a
reoroach to the national energy—-but, by the
time it has grown, how much virgin forest
will have survived the bush-fire and the axe.
VAN[?] PALMER.
THE WINE OF THE COUNTRY.
Grotesque as is the policy of discouraging
the production of power alcohol from
Queensland molasses (B. 22/6/’22) and en-
couraging that of rum, it is not without a
sordid consistency. From the same rotten
motive ( i.e ., revenue) the Commonwealth
Government encourages the output of highly
fortified sweet wines—pqrt, sherry, madeira,
muscat —thereby promoting the drunkenness
that goes on in bars of the baser sort and
doing an injury to the dry wines—claret,
hock, chablis, burgundy—which contain rela-
tively little intoxicant, and which are far
and away the best wines that Australia turns
out. Without fortification sweet wines will
not keep. The fool-Government, therefore,
allows them to be fortified with 40 per cent,
of spirit, on which it levies an excise
duty. Grapejuice thus treated is a stronger
drink than whisky, softened, as it always
is, with soda or water. It has been said
that no Australian vigneron fortifies his
wine to the full extent permitted, but there
is no doubt that alcohol is added after the
beverage leaves the wineries by unscrupu-
lous vendors who do their own bottling.
This largely accounts for the swinish
sphere of so many wineshops. It also. ex-'
plains some advice once given to me in a.
moment of confidence by a man high up m
the trade. “Never touch sweet wine, he
said. “But you may drink dry wine with
confidence. The worst won’t hurt you, and
the best, in color, clearness and bouquet, is
equal to almost anything in the world.”
Bad port highly sophisticated is the staple
in all the wine-dives. George Borrow de-
scribed port as “a filthy wine,” and in my
amateur judgment he was right. It was im-
posed on the English centuries ago for poli-
tical reasons —the statesmen of the period
wanted to oblige their allies, the Portuguese,
and to spite their foes, the French —and the
English colonists brought the port-drinking
habit to Australia, where it persists in spite
of the latitude, and of the inferior quality
of the local imitation. In France, the great-
est wine-making country on earth, fortifica-
tion is prohibited by heavy penalties. Even
in Spain and Portugal dry wine naturally
produced is the national beverage; the full-
bodied, heavily-alcoholised article is exported,
mostly to Britain. Vignerons who have
gone abroad to study their calling, and who
have marked the absence of drunkenness in
countries where dry wine is the universal
drink —even children take it at meals, diluted
with water —return marvelling at the per-
verted Australian preference for the sophis-
ticated sweet stuff. One of them held forth
thus at a conference of grape-growers in
Melbourne: —
Dry or beverage wines are made from ripe grapes
the juice of which is allowed to ferment naturally
and normally, until practically the whole of its
grape sugar has been transformed into alcohol, which
remains in the wine, and carbonic-acid gas, which
escapes. About 90 per cent, of the wine made in
the world comes under this heading. We in Australia
grow wonderfully good natural wines; in fact, the
average natural wine of Australia is a long way better
than the average of that grown in any other country.
Nowhere in the world are there more up-to-date
cellars than in Australia. Our wines are made under
the most hygienic and scientific conditions. Why
is it, then, that the demand is not greater?. I
know that the taste of the British and their descend-
ants in the Commonwealth and MX. is for full
and sweet wines; but the British once had a taste
for dry wines, and they were consumed by everyone.
We should educate our people to. consume more of
these health-giving wines, and make them more
popular.
Tt is significant of the feeling among the
vignerons that the remarks quoted, and
others condemning the vogue of strong sweet
wines, were generally applauded. A delegate
pointed out that, since the Government was
largely responsible for the degradation of
the public taste, with all the evils therein
implied, it was the Government’s business to
take the first stride towards reform. He
suggested that the Government should be
asked to reduce the 40 per cent, maximum
of fortification at present allowed by one
per cent, per annum. Some such measure is
undoubtedly necessary, in the interests alike
of those who make wine and of those who
drink it. The industry is important to Aus-
tralia —last year the central State alone
produced 7,807,406 gallons, worth consider-
ably more than a million sterling—and,
rightly handled, it has splendid possibilities
of expansion. But its very existence is im-
perilled by the prevalence of bad wine and
of bad characters of both sexes who batten
on the sale of the stuff. By all means let
us have a statutory reduction of alcoholic
strength. But along with this should go a
ruthless campaign against the ruffianly type
of retailer, whose shon or bar is partly a
boozing den and partly a lambing-down
haunt for loafers and demireps. One con-
stantly hears of a publican being fined for
watering his whisky. But who ever read of
a vintner being prosecuted for selling the
knock-out decoctions vended by the canaille
of the profession—“wine” doped up to the
neck of the bottle with raw alcohol, and cal-
culated to make the drinker either a madman
op a wreck?
CHANMBERTIN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Manufacture of Consciences.
•‘Bildad” demands recognition for an exten-
sive industry:—
The rule is universal, and it has prevailed in all
,he ages. First you manufacture a conscience, and
then you demand that it shall not only be free to
exercise itself, but also free to express itself at the
top of its voice, and to capture the young and im-
pressionable and manufacture for them consciences
like itself. While recognising the principle of free-
dom for all sorts, shapes and sizes of conscience in a
general way, the State should still reserve the right
to inquire where any given conscience came from, and
whether it is natural or artificial. Also, the free
and enlightened State should draw this distinction,
that while anybody has the right to be a conscien-
tious revolutionary or anarchist or socialist, or any
kind of theoretical believer in murder, arson and ruin
whatever, he has not the right to teach these things
to his children, or to other people’s children, or to
youths or flappers, either by writing or by Domain
or Yarra-bank oratory. The children of a free State
belong to the State in the first place. They are its
principal asset, if not its only one, and the State
has the right to a predominant voice in the training
of its property. They will be running its affairs for
good or evil long after the voluble person who mouths
to-day about his sacred right of free speech is dust.
A statesman does more thay consider freedom of con-
science. He takes a long look ahead to see what the
next crop of consciences will be like.
The question of denominational schools —the sort in
which the denomination counts for a lot more than
the schooling—comes in here. They are factories for the
production of artificial consciences, which often work
with much more activity than the original article. One
of the most remarkable of all denominational schools
was the Academy of Janissaries —an affair which made
history for nearly 500 years. Early in the blood-
stained and immoral, though teetotal, Ottoman record,
some high Turk realised, or some alien with brains
told him, that a mere military aristocracy of thick-
headed fighters lacked staying-power. So a tribute
of healthy male infants was imposed on the con-
quered Christians, to diminish their strength and
prop up the ruling caste. The infants were fine
physical specimens, and they had no identity save
the artificial Turkish one which went with their new
religion. With careful training they became, on the
average, more Moslem than the hereditary Moslems,
and in that capacity—the capacity of irreconcilable
bigots—they did yeomen service to the cause of
slaughter. A_ Janissary, in the untrammelled exer-
cise of his conscience, which no advocate of freedom
of speech could deny him, was capable of robbing
and murdering any Christian on sight. Or, for that
matter, an entire Cathedral or Monastery of Chris-
tians. “The more the merrier,’’ was ever the Janis-
sary’s motto in this conenction. The downfall
of the famous institution came about for various
reasons, one being excessive pride, and another the
habit it acquired of butchering sultans for religious
laxity and other defects. The State turned against
it, just as in the 18th century Austria, France and
even Spain turned against the Jesuits and forced
Clement XIV. to sign the Dominus ac Redemptor
decree, which, if it didn’t exactly oust the Order, gave
it a good, hard knock. If the Turk had worked his
device to the limit he would probably have owned
the Old World. But then his Janissaries would have
owned him, and pride of race kept him to half-
measures. An international institution, like a church
or an anarchist union, is faced with no such difficulty.
The moral is that the child who is caught young
can be turned into a conscientious Jesuit, or Com-
munist, or Janissary, or Walsh, or Tom ’Enley with
equal facility. And in many cases the child doesn’t
require to be caught very young either. And once
made and developed he often has an insane desire to
spread like the prickly-pear, and to force his views
on others. No real Communist or Hibernian or
Orangeman has the least intention of allowing free-
dom of conscience to any sect but his own for a
minute longer than his own personal safety allows,
though he came into existence through being allowed
this good old English right himself.
A great deal is said and written in Australia, as
in England (by R.C.’s. here, by Anglicans there)
about the absolute necessity for denominational
schools and their claim, as a public necessity, to sup-
port out of the public revenue, because the State
schools are secular and “godless,” and consequently
unfit for consumption by the religious. As a matter
of fact they are only godless if godless parsons and
priests make them so. A liberal period is
allowed every week in which any cleric may
instruct the children of his own faith, though
he may not seek for proselytes, or throw mud at the
tabernacle across the street. And sectarianism isn t
spread through lessons in grammar, nor is it mixed
up with arithmetical problems.
The Socialist Sunday-school hasn’t asked for a
State subsidy yet, but doubtless it lives in hopes
that some future Government will take the matter
up and dot the land with Bolshevik academies to
turn out artificial consciences for the heaving young
multitude, and make the Soviet an institution. And
as the only way to re-convert the Janissaries (who
had a 500-years run) was to kill them off, it may be
the same in days to come with the heaving Bolsheviks.
A Police Magistrate Cuts Loose.
Hobart Police-magistrate Turner, in the
course of a meeting of the Public Service
Association, of which he is a live member,
made some blistering remarks under the
heading, “Commercial Practices.” The local
Chamber of Commerce— goaded into the in-
discretion by his suggestion that the matters
referred to would be treated with “easy tol-
erance” by the Chamber and others —wrote
asking for further information with a view
to “dealing with the matter so far as pos-
sible.” In reply the P.M., in his capacity
as “a wage-earner and one of the non-trad-
ing public,” congratulated the Chamber on
its change of front in regard to “safeguard-
ing the public against imposition and extor-
tion,” and offered some suggestions. One
of them was that the Chamber should secure
the services of State Statistician Giblin
and Economics Professor Copland to in-
quire :
(a) Why it costs 355. lOd. (4s. 4d. more than in
Melbourne) to purchase as much food and groceries
in Hobart as could be bought there in 1911 for a
sovereign.
(b) How far the prices of bread and groceries are
being artificially maintained?
(c) How far middlemen in the dairy produce busi-
ness, “artificially and therefore immorally,” raise
prices ?
(d) Why meat should be so dear in Tasmania
while the Federal Government is offering an export
bonus to ease the glut?
(e) What working agreement exists between drapers
and softsgoodmen ?
(f) To what extent the operations of the timber-
ring are responsible for high building costs and
soaring house rents?
(g) Whether the figures supplied [by the traders
themselves] to the Commonwealth Statistician coin-
cide with the prices charged to customers?
Turner’s concluding paragraph is a gem:
I think that with this information your Chamber
will have ample scope to deal with the matter of
rings and immoral practices, and is in an especially
happy position in being able to begin its inquiries
among its own members, who will, I feel sure, give
what information is best in the interests of commerce.
Beyond the publication of a couple of
columns of indignant but unconvincing de-
nials by shopkeepers, there has been nothing
further to report since but a deep silence.
The N. S. Wales Trawlers.
A favorite Australian method of bloatiug
the cost of government is to start a State
“enterprise” (the loan is understood), and,
when the smell ascends to high Heaven, call
in a Royal Commission to perform the post-
mortem. It would be an advantage in these
matters if the Commission preceded the enter-
prise, or if the liquidator got his appoint-
ment when the enterprise was launched. If
the public can’t have efficiency for its money
(or the lender’s money) it might at least
get variety. In the case of the Ma State’s
trawling industry the familiar procedure has
been followed, and there is also a certain
monotony about the facts. The undertak-
ing was begun with the usual contempt of
expense by the fluent Holman Government,
and was well on the way to insol-
vency when the fluent Storey Administration
took charge and made it a sort of annexe of
the A.L.P. Pnom first to last the capital
expenditure was £195,055. The losses
amount to £148,952 45., of which £33,000
was amassed in 1921-22. Were the outfit
put up for sale it might fetch £50,000, but,
considering that four of the seven trawlers
cost about £40,000 more than the price
agreed upon (they were built at Newcastle),
this is d-oubtful. When the Storey Gov-
ernment arrived it got rid of the manager
and appointed one Summergreene —known
to the A.L.P. as a good Labor man —to run
the business at £7OO a year, afterwards in-
creased to £lOOO. A question has arisen as
to a qoal contract, for which this gentleman
was responsible, along with Payne, the
Minister’s secretary. Before his advent the
trawlers had been getting trimmed coal from
Newcastle, and a first-class coal at that, for
£1 6s. 9d. per ton, less 2i per cent, discount
for prompt payment. Within a few weeks
he and Payne had altered all that. On Sept.
1, 1920 (Summergreene was appointed on
July 1), they entered into a contract with
a firm called the Whitmore Australasian
Sales Co., Ltd., for the purchase of coal from
Tyldesley, an article inferior to the New-
castle stuff, the price being £1 Bs. 3d. a ton,
the quantity 250 tons a week, and the term
five years. It is an instructive commentary on
Labor methods of doing business that two
temporary officers, one quite a new hand,
should be allowed ho commit the country to
an expenditure of £lOO,OOO. It appears that
“neither the permanent head of the Depart-
ment nor the Stores Supply Committee was
approached in the matter,” nor was the
Minister apprised of it until the Auditor-
General began asking questions. But the
transaction had other singular features,
which are thus summarised by Oakes, the
present Chief Secretary :
The Stores Supply Committee had arranged favor-
able coal contracts. However, the manager of the
trawling industry advertised on July 19 and 20
for tenders closing on July 26, no mention being
made as to the probable duration of the contract.
The old contractors were told verbally that there
was no necessity for them to tender. The Lithgow
Coal Association would have tendered, but did not
see the advertisement, nor was the usual course
taken of bringing the requirements of the industry
under the notice of persons likly to tender. At
that time Lithgow coal, which is superior to Tyldesley,
could have been obtained at 7s. a ton (i.e., £7OOO
per year) less. Prices, moreover, were then at the
peak, and neither the railway authorities nor the
Stores Supply Committee were” making contracts for
longer periods than one year. But this contract was
for five years. And although it provides that the
contractor is to secure all increases—that is, rises
in charges from whatever cause —there is nothing in
the bond about the trawling industry getting the
benefit of any decrease in freights, the cost of win-
ning the coal and so forth. No deposit was lodged
with the tender, nor was any asked for when the
contract was signed. And the document wasn't
referred to the Crown Solicitor.
Touching the mysterious party who landed
the mysterious contract:—
The Whitmore Australasian Sales Co., Ltd., is not
known in the coal trade. It had no office, and its
present whereabouts are unknown. It seems that
2994 shares in the co- were held by a Balmain
Ehotographer, and six shares of £1 each were held
y other individuals. Immediately it got the con-
tract it handed it over to another company. It has
evidently flown somewhere, but we cannot trace it.
The charge for trimming—3s. to 3s. 6d. per ton—-
was excessive, and freight was overcharged from the
outset. In a letter from the co. at the time of
making the contract it was asserted that the coal
would contain not more than 9 per cent, ash, but
the Chief Inspector of Coalmines reports between
14 per cent, and 15 per cent, of ash in such coal,
and the Railway Department’s experience of Tyldes-
ley coal is 19 per cent. ash. We could now secure
coal from the same districts as Tyldesley for 7s. 2d.
per ton less than the price fixed for five years in this
contract.
That is as far as the story has gone, but the
contractor has yet to be heard from. Pos-
sibly he has faded from this vale of mugs.
If not, and if he can be dug out of his
retreat, The Bulletin suggests that the
Royal Com mission should put a proposition
to him. Let him take the trawlers and give
the Government the contract.
«
The New Attitude Towards Legal
Bro w-beatin g.
As often as it is urged that the rules govern-
ing cross-examination in the courts —the
same to-day as in the time of Serjeant Buz-
fuz —call for an overhaul, the advocates
are either vociferously hostile or dumb. Yet
a change limiting the power of counsel to
behave offensively would probably be as bene-
ficial to the lawyers —or anyhow to the best
of them —as it would be acceptable to decent
laymen. The present position is that a bar-
rister or solicitor, once he has a hostile wit-
ness in the box, is expected to put to him (or
her) all sorts of unproven, and often un-
provable, not to say baseless, charges
as facts. Of course, the witness may
deny them. But mud sticks; and that the
truth of the old adage is well understood by
litigants is evident from the assiduity with
which some of them fee counsel for no other
purpose than to sling mud. The advocate
protects his honor by the fiction that if an
accusation is contained in the solicitor’s “in-
structions” there must be something in it;
and the attorney’s shield is that the client
made the charges against his enemy, and that,
therefore, they are sure to be more or less
correct. The ostensible idea, where such
rumors are used in court, is to test the credi-
bility of the witness. It is clearly right that
if anything has been proved to the detriment
of a witness, it should be brought out. But
it is equally obvious and just that where
nothing* has been proved, the witness should
enjoy the same privilege as the individual
who is directed to another place when he
enters the court. The Buzfuz habit!,
which is becoming so disastrously popular
with a section 'of the N. S. Wales Bar, is
doing more than tempt vindictive citizens
with money to go to law in order that they
may take it out of the hides of those they
dislike: it is beginning to make things intoler-
able for every advocate good and bad, fair
and otherwise. In a recent up-country cause
celebre the cross-examining K.C., on putting
to a witness a question about the latter s
domestic infelicities, promptly received an
answer embodying a stinging reference to his
(the K.C.’s) misfortunes in a similar direc-
tion ; while, during the hearing of the
McDonald case at Sydney Water Police
Court last week, such unseemly interludes
were common.
K.C.: Will you deny on oath that you have taken
people down?
Witness: I might put the same question to you.
K.C.: I am going to take you as a self-confessed
crook.
Witness: Don’t judge everybody by yourself.
K.C.: Weren’t you sacked on account of dishonest
practices ?
Witness: It’s a damned lie.
K.C.: You tried to have Kelsey, the Union secre-
tary, kicked out of his billet.
Witness: Yes, for being a sticky-beak.
K.C.: What is a sticky-beak ?
Witness: A chap like yourself.
There are two main reasons why this sort of
unedifying foolery is likely to increase, unless
the present latitude allowed to counsel is
restricted. One is that the modern witness
is a much more literate and mentally alert
customer than the person who went into the
box in Dickens’s day; the other that he has
little or no respect for “class” as such, and
a good deal of respect for himself. “Now,
Smith” —began a barrister authoritatively a
day or so ago. “ Mister Smith from you,”
interrupted the toiler: and it. was so. A
generation or two back a working-man with
the moral courage to take that stand in a
court dominated by his “betters’ would have
been regarded as a hero—or a ruffian. It is
because the type is now not the exception, but
the rule, that the legal profession will have
to alter its outmoded conventions shortly, or
be prepared to see the business of the Courts
degraded to a series of slanging-matches.
_
Don’t Talk About It!
Ettie Rout, from London: —
If you want to know how to reduce something to
nothing organise a society in England for the pro-
motion of some thoroughly good object. The process
is identical whether the object is birth-control, pre-
venting v.d., promoting free-thought or anything else,
and it consists simply in limiting and annihilating eveiy
possibility of the practical application of the prin-
ciples advocated. If the society allegedly desires
to promote freedom of thought, as the Rationalist
societies do, then it limits itself to flogging dead
horses, which were alive and kicking in the days
of Ingerroll and Buadlaugh, but are now mere
masses of phosphorescence. As for the practical appli-
cation of tiie vital principle of free-thought to any
of the present-day problems of politics, economics or
ethics—the permanent secretary will tell you plainly
that such a course would disrupt the society in-
stantly: the evils attacked must have been dead a
very long time, or the members would not be united
in attacking them. Similarly, many socialistic
societies are exclusive and even puritanical towards
modern sex problems, although obviously the very
foundation of all social life is the harmonious and
adequate satisfaction of normal sexual needs. One
of the birth-control problems of the very first im-
portance is undoubtedly the prevention of irrespon-
sible and extra-marital fecundity. Time has shown
that we cannot prevent extra-marital relationship,
while science has shown that we can prevent extra-
marital infants; and, generally, it is admitted that
for a grown man and woman to inflict the stigma
of illegitimacy on an innocent child is a cruel and
cowardly act. But nearly all birth-control societies
foam with righteous indignation when you tell them
that one good result of their efforts will be the
reduction of the illegitimate birth-rate; at the best
they consider this a back-handed compliment. As
for the methods of the v.d. prevention societies, they
form a highly interesting study. The first announce-
ment is that a society is to be formed for combating
or preventing v.d.; well-meaning ladies and gentle-
men stand up on public platforms spouting streams
of turgid eloquence like well-soaped geysers; public
sentiment —more often public sentimentality—is
aroused; and the gentleman who has chosen himself
as permanent secretary announces that he hopes to
get thousands of members (applause), and later on
a subscription of a guinea or so per year is men-
tioned. Enrolment of members then goes on merrily,
every member being congratulated on his or her
“courage” by the tactful and far-seeing secretary.
The first group of members is genuinely perhaps in
favor of preventing venereal disease by every prac-
tical means. But as the numbers grow, new mem-
bers explain that the subject is a very delicate one;
that the society must walk warily, or it may do
more harm than good by alienating the sympathy
of the respectable classes; that some methods of pre-
venting venereal disease may encourage vice—you
never know. Suggestions are made that it would add
to the prestige of the society if certain bachelor
bishops were made vice-presidents. The bachelor
bishops are taken on board the ship, nominally as
passengers, but invariably the first job they
allot to themselves is that of monkeying with
the compass. After that evolution goes on by suc-
cessive additions of thoroughly respectable and mutu-
ally cancelling citizens. By the time the organisa-
tion has become really important as regards size
it has become utterly unimportant as regards any-
thing else, and the earnest souls in it set
out t 6 form a new society which, in due course,
goes the futile way of the old one. From all of
which it appears that whatever is achieved of a
reformative nature in any direction will be the work
of individual propagandists—whether citizens or
newspapers—addressing themselves to the common-
sense and conscience of the nation, often to the
displeasure, not to say horror, of those who quite
agree that v.d., or what not, is an unspeakable curse.
That is the trouble in England. So many unspeak-
able curses are unspeakable—in public. Nor does
England stand alone, alasl in this respect, though,
it is undoubtedly pre-eminent. Such fatal reticences
are a sort of Empire heritage.
' •
The Industrial Quack.
Some day, and it can’t be too soon, there
must be ‘a fight to a finish over the claim
of any organisation to deny people the right
to work —which, in practice, is what many
Australian unions are doing all the time.
In other words, entrance to all unions must
ultimately be by examination, so that the
carpenter who saws wood efficiently may
have the same right of admittance to his
craft, on proof of capacity and not otherwise,
as the surgeon who saws human beings. As
matters stand, though the Trades Hall
variety of union claims the sole right to
supply men to the public, it gives no guaran-
tee of the quality of such men. There is an


T he Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustraIia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
implied warranty that they are of the same
way of thinking as someone of the type of
Mr. Garden, aiid that is all. As one result
this country turns out remarkably good sur-
geons and remarkably had paperhangers.
Quite a large proportion of strikes arise out
of this way of doing things; that is to say.
somebody sacks a thoroughly incompetent
workman, and he, having no special merits
to exist on, directs his union to insist that
he shall be reinstated. Failing which many
expert toilers, with families and a taste
for work, are hauled out on strike. Aus-
tralia exports some few simple manufactured
lines, and it has had poor luck with them of
late. Our flour recently caused execration
in South Africa and elsewhere. Australian
tinned fruits appear to have few friends left
abroad, and the complaints of Trade Com-
missioners and other high-priced institutions
concerning the poor and badly-mixed quali-
ties and the slovenly get-up of these wares
have been many and bitter. Australian cold
meat was lately quoted as selling in
London for half the price of the Argen-
tine article. As no sound local Nation-
alist will suggest that our mostly Pro-
testant and Anglo-Saxon cow is inferior to
a Spanish bullock steeped in the errors of
Rome, the dressing or shipping or preserv-
ing methods are presumably to blame. Aus-
tralian leather was once an institution. But
the exports, which used to be well over
£2,000,000 a year, have declined of late to
less than half that amount; and the other
day the Leather Trades Review, in record-
ing the return of a rejected shipment from
China, said the miserable quality of the
workmanship justified the worst that could
be said of it. The latest figures enable the
exports for the nine months to last March
to be compared with those for the nine
months to March, 1921. The drop in the
foreign sales of boots from £648,000 to
£98,000. and of liquors from £673,000 to
£285,000, implies an increasing lack of en-
thusiasm for Australian goods, and there
aren’t many more manufacturing lines to
base comparisons on. As the Roman “waxed
hot in faction while in battle he waxed cold,”
so a certain stamp of Australian toiler appa-
rently waxes cold on his job while he grows
boiling hot over his class-consciousness. And
the more he boils, and the touchier he gets,
the more encouragement there is for inferior
craftsmen to make class-consciousness a sub-
stitute for conscientious work, and the more
the industrial reputation of the country
suffers.
•
Northern Italy and Northern
Queensland.
“W.P.D.,” his panegyric :
The rate at which the Italians are increasing in
certain parts of N.Q. makes it possible that the White
Australia problem may be settled there in a few
generations. When I went to the sugar-growing
districts north of Townsville 17 or 18 years ago there
were practically no Italian sugar-farmers on the
Herbert or the Johnstone, or on the strip of coast
country between Cairns and Babinda. To-day there
are hundreds of farms owned by immigrants from
Lombardy, Piedmont and Venetia. As these people
make money they send home for their relations, and
as soon as the latter land at Cairns or Townsville
they hire themselves out as farmhands, remaining
wage-earners until enough has been saved to pay
instalments on places of their own. They give bills
for the balance, and these are rarely dishonored.
These North Italian peasants are a fine, hardy crowd,
who compare not unfavorably with Australian bush-
men, and whose physique averages better than that
of the British new-comer who lands here in one
of the big immigrant boats from London or Liver-
pool. See a gathering of them in the street at
Ingham or Halifax after a canegrowers’ meeting, and
you will notice how true to type they run; bar
difference in dress they look exactly as their fore-
bears of hundreds of years ago might have looked. It
is no great stretch of imagination to think of them
as a crowd of vintagers on the southern slopes of the
Alps. These Lombards and Piedmontese are a mix-
ture of the fine Latin blood with that of the Goths
who swarmed centuries since through the Alpine
passes and settled on the fertile plains beyond.
Since then the peasantry of North Italy has kept as
free from admixture with other races as any class in
Europe. There is a curious notion that the Italian —-
or “Dago” as the aristocrat of Little Bourke-street
or Woolloomooloo terms him —goes about with a knife
stuck in his belt, ready and willing to insert it into
the body of anyone who offends him. As a journal-
ist in Ingham, Innisfail and Cairns, it was my busi-
ness to know what went on at the police-courts of
those places. Of the criminal charges heard there-
abouts not 10 per cent, were laid against Italians,
and not one out of 10 of the drunks who appeared
before the P.M. was an Italian. On the Herbert and
the Johnstone Italians now predominate, and the
police records prove that they are a law-abiding lot.
Their efficiency as farm-workers can be reckoned at
100 per cent. Nothing but down-right illness will
stop an Italian from working if there is money to
be made, and Giacomo is very seldom sick. Italian
children get on well with those of British descent,
and quickly become good Australians. Giuseppe
Angelini is soon known as Joe Angel, and Marietta
Barberini will be hailed a:s Mary Barber. They
subscribe freely to local sports, shows and enter-
tainments, and you find them on hospital committees
and so on. But the main thing is that the Italian,
whether as farmer or as wage-earner, believes with all
his heart and soul in the gospel of hard graft. He
marries early, has a big, healthy family of young
Australians, and he is constantly adding to the
total acreage of parts of the North which other
white men seem notably shy of exploiting. As an
alternative to the peacefully penetrating Chows and
Japs I hold that Australia should welcome him and
his with both hands.
•
Our Meat Trade.
M. 11. Ellis replies:—
“Jimmy Trousers” (B. 13/7/’22), who thinks my
plea for a self-respecting Australian meat trade is
“ridiculous,” badly needs darning, and the argument
that wears him ought to be arrested by the beach
inspector for going about insufficiently clad. I admit,
as he says, that the Commonwealth put the whole
of its meat at the disposal of the British Government
during the war. It did it with both hands and feet
and its eyebrows, and got in return an unlimited
market and a scale of prices which would have
dotted the whole country with Rolls Royces and
racehorses where there had been none before, if it
had not been for Mr. Ryan and his income-tax. If
John Bull were to come along again to-morrow and
ask us on his knees for our meat on the same con-
ditions—unlimited demand at about 4jd. per lb. —
the rush to John’s sales depot by the meat producers
would make Australia cant up endways. For the
rest, I answer “J.T.” as follows:
(1) The reason that the Argentine is making a
profit where we are not is that, while we were mak-
ing a leaning-post of John (with both our hands in
his pockets), the Argentine was organising to be
first in the fray as soon as there was an open market.
(2) My friend remarks: “It is only lately that this
propaganda about the poor quality of our meat has
been in circulation, and it looks as if the Yankees
THE VAMP.
are responsible.” James has been sound asleep for
a very long time. As far back as 1913 my good
friend Ralph Maynard (secretary of the Australian
Hereford Society) and I were writing in exactly the
strain of the article to which Mr. “Trousers? takes
objection. We also, in 1914, carried on a lone-hand
campaign (in the pastoral press, that is) against
the American Meat Trust, which at that time wan
supposed in all polite meat circles to be a myth in
Australia. I do not remember that we were com-
forted at any stage in the game by the cheerful noise
of “Jimmy Trousers” hitching up his slacks and
saying the things which he is now shouting eight
years too late. I think if he will turn to the early
files of the Live Stock Bulletin —the official organ
of the pure-bred cattle societies—and read my 1914
articles therein, he will absolve me from any taint
of collusion with the Beef Trust in expressing my
views.
The fact of the matter is that it is not the meat-
works, American or otherwise, even now which have
publicly proclaimed the poor quality of our beef, but
the breeders themselves. So concerned was the Here-
ford Society about beef improvement last year that
it went to the expense of bringing the secretary of
the Hereford Cattle Society of England to the Com-
monwealth, and he confirmed their fears. He said
what I have said about our cattle quality. The
quality of Australian meat will be talked about in
contemptuous terms just so long as the present sys-
tem continues, and so long as a big percentage of
our cattle men take more interest in racehorses dur-
ing good times than they do in cattle. While my
friends and I were preaching the gospel of better
cattle in 1912-14 (amid the tongue-tied silence of
my Knickerbocker friend), two or three people in
the butter trade were preaching the same gospel in
Sydney to listening ears. Result —the whole butter-
manufacturing and -selling business was revolutionised
within seven years, and the N. S. Wales butter pro-
ducers have been able to go into the world’s market,
win the principal prizes at Islington Dairy Show, set
up a Co-operative Selling Floor in London, and offer
the buyers oversea a product equal to the very best
Danish, and dependent solely on its own high merits
for the high priee and regular demand which are now
assured for it. Australia can sell every pound of
butter she can produce in the outside market if she
wishes. No doubt the Food Trusts would as much
desire to control the Danish and Australian butter
supplies, as they are anxious, without a doubt, to
control meat. But they can’t. All the Danish
and 90 per ‘cent, of the Australian butter is manu-
factured co-operatively; and since they have the
cream of the-world’s butter at their backs, with a
market crying for it (as it is for the cream of the
world’s meat), Denmark and Australian butter pro-
ducers are in a position which would make the
average m.eat man gasp with envy. The Danes have
gone further than we have—their committee meets
every week in the season at Copenhagen, and regally
decides what England will pay for their butter. The
establishment of the Australian Producers’ Co-opera-
tive Federation in London, which in its first year
has sold two and a half million pounds’ worth of
Australian products, and the development of the
Massy Greene scheme for a national brand and
rigid grading', should place us in a position to do
the same in a couple of years. When the meat men
are prepared to organise on the same basis—us South
Africa began to do some months ago, and as the last
mail tells me Canada is preparing to do with chilled
meat —there won’t be any need for us to fear the
Argentine or anybody else, or to build our commerce
on such an airy foundation as a buyer’s gratitude.
Also, people who part their dundrearies to emit argu-
ments like my learned antagonist’s will be regarded
as fit subjects for appointment to the Legislative
Council.
©
In the Queensland Assembly the other day
one Fokde proposed that the Federal Con-
stitution should be amended to give the
Commonwealth power to cut up the over-
big States for closer settlement. An
Assemblyman named Peterson, weary, pos-
sibly, of this stock piece of hypoc-
risy, thereupon moved that Queensland,
instead of wasting its time on the
provision of useless advice, should cut itself
up as an example, which its present (State)
Constitution gives it every right to do, and
let the North and Centre have the Home
Rule within the Empire that they have de-
manded for the last GO years. The House
decided by a big majority not to use its own
power of subdivision in its own territory,
and decided by a Unanimous majority (there
wasn’t even a division) that the Common-
wealth should get busy with the authority
it doesn’t possess and is unlikely to acquire,
and go in for cutting up perhaps Tasmania
or Norfolk Island. In 1910 the late
Premier llyan (who had no appa-
rent hope of being Premier at the
time) stepped forward with a motion
for dividing Queensland into three
States. And on the last day of the session
the Assembly, in a moment of gladness and
knowing that nothing was meant, passed
this motion without debate. Ryan became
Premier in 1915, and it is now 1922. All
the progress made is that the House has
withdrawn the useless verbal assent it gave
12 years ago. Which is another evidence
that unless New Staters can find some way
of showing the Old Brigade that assent will
be a great deal cheaper than the other thing
the Asiatic person is likely to establish new
States in Tropical Australia while the white
man is still playing the fool.
•
“Milang” : A X. Territory official told me
recently that he was applying for a removal
“on account of the trying climate, and the
ill-health of his wife and children.” I asked
how he reconciled this with the fact that all
his family were in the best of health. Gov-
ernment officials, he explained, when they
came to the Territory, were forgotten in the
South. This caused them to be overlooked
when promotion became due, and long resi-
dence out back put them out of touch with
up-to-date methods, so that they were
liable to be back-numbered when a transfer
was obtained. “But we cannot give those
reasons for our removals,” he added. “It
would be a reflection on officialdom. The
only reasons the heads ever take notice of
are pleas of ill-health, so tve’ve got to make
out this place to be a white man’s grave.”
Which, of course, is merely, another argu-
ment for the railway, and for the right sort
of railway.
•
The taxpayers are getting used to being
fleeced for the benefit of the people behind
the two big party machines. And the
“good Labor men” and the “sound National-
ists” (i.e., those who are in the political
game for what they can get out of it) look
on any Government of their way of thinking
as their natural prey in a financial sense.
But what is surely the limit in the way of
Tammany hide was disclosed last Friday
during the trial at Sydney Quarter Sessions
of one Thomas Hopkins", a master carrier,
of Balmain. He was charged with an
offence against a girl of 14, the daughter
of one of his neighbors, and the police ten-
dered a letter of his in evidence
'Hon. C. Oakes, Esq.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to yon asking of you this
favor. lam doing it for a very deserving ease, and
as they have always been supporters of the party in
the past, hope that you will grant them this request
through me. I would not ask it only the father is
out of work and the mother has been in the Balmain
Hospital for four or five months, and during that
time one of her girls has gone astray, and is shortly
to become a mother. I ant asking you this favor to
supply them with an outfit of baby’s clothes so as
to help them in their time of trouble.
Hopkins made this request on behalf of
the child lie had seduced, as “secretary of
the Balmain branch of the organisation”;
and part of his exceedingly lame defence
was that he had been busy electioneering
for the Nationalist party during some of the
period over which the offences extended. In
one sense, of course, his moderation was
rather admirable. Others, Labor and
Nationalist, on no sounder grounds, have
asked their party bosses for thousands of
pounds sterling of the country’s money, and
not in vain.
» —-
“Bill o’Costs” : My sympathy goes out to
“Brugglesmitii” (B. 29/6/’22) in his failure
to get any enlightenment about the meaning
of an obscure statute from the Parliamen-
tary debates. The Judges, when forced to
interpret such puzzles, and ascertain “the
intention of the Legislature,” wisely refuse
to take any notice of the gabble which pre-
ceded their birth. Sometimes a member of
Parliament says to himself, or whispers to
his party, “This section doesn’t mean what
the mover thinks it means, but it is not our
business to put it right.” Or else, “Let’s
bait them with such-and-such an amendment;
it doesn’t really signify anything.” Apart
from the exercise of this sort of artifice,
much obscure legislation is due either to
clumsy compromise or a conspiracy of all
parties to dodge a difficulty by vague phrases.
Now and then, debates are only intended as
evidence that certain members were present,
awake and sober. I once prepared and
piloted through Parliament a private bill of
some importance and technical diffi/c,uljty.
Some months went to the preparation and
perfecting of it, and a leading K.C. branded
it with his expensive O.K. I felt proud of
my child when it was “laid on the table?’
“Here,” said I, “is food for reflection. We
shall see what an intelligent Legislature
thinks of its meaning and effect.” But, fol-
lowing the usual shiftless method adopted,
my bill was postponed from week to week,
while the Solons discussed controversial and
personal matters at great length and futility.
In the end it came up for all three readings
at 4 o’clock in the morning of the last day
of the session. All the members present
were asleep, or otherwise dead to the world;
but one of them stirred in his slumber and
observed, “The bill is very badly drafted.”
The Clerk or the Speaker mumbled some-
thing, and that was the sum-total of the
debate. If any inquisitive party ever wants
to know what Parliament intended by any of
the provisions of that Act, that is all the
information he will get.


A Stout Boot for Country Wear.
Peapes, with an eye to all men’s requirements, pro-
vide this strong, serviceable boot for country or wet-
weather wear.
Notwithstanding its strength and durability, it is very
soft and comfortable, being made of specially selected
leathers of the highest quality.
It has waterproof tongue, wide rope-stitched welt,
heavy double sole, and leather lining throughout.
In Brown ’’Ooze-Hide,” absolutely watertight. . 50/-
Or in Black ‘ 45/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size,
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Urn
Model 501 10/15 H.P.
Four-passenger Torpedo,
Standard, £595,
De Luxe, £620.
THE F.I.A.T. REPUTATION, plus
its PERFORMANCE in Reliability
Contests throughout Australia in re-
cent years, is your assurance of cpm-
plete satisfaction.
No other car can compare with the
F.1.A.T., for its consistent success
has put it in a class by itself.
We can now give immediate delivery of both Standard and De Luxe types in
beautiful shades of brown, red and grey.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
*73-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
'Phones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Although his majority has vanished and
lie has held otlice since April, 19iv>, l.ec,
Premier of Tasmania, refuses to go out until
he is pushed. Presiding over a meeting of
Nationalist and C.P. members who wanted
to talk coalition, he refused to let the Cockies
have a say in the choice of a leader. The
point being pressed, by way of a motion to
disagree with his ruling, lie declined to put
it to the meeting, saying that any objection
to his leadership would have to lie taken on
the floor of the House. In the result, Lee
will have to be “dragged screaming from the
tartshop,” as Deakin said of Hughes in 1909.
The Irish Free Staters have marched into
a few more publess and half-starved towns,
among them Limerick, Avith its memories
of Sarsfield and the violated treaty, and
Waterford. Cork is making a brisk attempt
to live up to its_ reputation of being “the
rebel city,” but is expected to change its
mind at any moment. When Cork falls De
Valera and his fellow-martyrs may cross the
Irish Sea and take their seats in the legisla-
tive halls of the tyrant and oppressor, to
which they were elected in 1918. Certainly
there is nothing to prevent them ; and odder
things than that have happened in the fret-
ful history of Erin.
Unless the earth opens and swallows the
Queensland Parliament the Brisbane tram-
ways are to be “nationalised” at a boom
figure with (> p.c. money. Also, the men
who kuoAv the job of running a tramway
system are to make way for a Board of
management consisting of eight trustees,
Bumbles, of course, whose qualifications for
the job, apart from being Bumbles, are that
they have ridden in trams often. Consider-
ing that Brisbane’s city and suburban coun-
cillors cannot even run a ferry service Avith-
out accomplishing a deficit of three or four
thousand per annum, the prospect of Bris-
bane’s _ street-car system proving a losing
proposition like the Perth outfit, which was
also “nationalised” by a Labor Government—
although money was a lot cheaper then—
is Avortli laying odds on.
“Gallery”: The most humorous and yet
the most searching criticism of the Wireless
Agreement, about which a storm raged in
the House of Reps, last week, came from
Anstey, M.H.R. Anstey is an extraordinarily
vivid talker. His sentences gush forth with
torrential fluency. In their fury they appear
the product of pure emotionalism, but if you
listen carefully you are soon convinced that
the brain has full conti’ol. Ironically he
compared the Hughes Government’s Wireless
deal with the celebrated one in which Lloyd
George was concerned a decade ago. In
other days a speech like Anstey’s would have
brought about a change of Government, but
the crowd in office, though sorely battered
and damaged in public opinion, can hang on.
However* one effect of the debate is that the
company is not to have a majority on the
board of directors in a matter involving
half-a-million of the taxpayers’ money.
Since the policy of the A.W.U. leaders
ceased to be Australian and became a cross
between Tammanyism and Bolshevism, the
union has had no luck. Its hold-up of the
Westralian pastoralists was a failure. So
was its attempt to prevent the resumption
of work at Mt. Lyell. Its infatuated in-
sistence on getting a quart of fluid out of
a pintpot kept Mt. Morgan idle for a year.
Dragging Queenslanders into court for re-
fusal to pay the Sydney newspaper levy (a
proceeding that had to be dropped, with
costs) also damaged the union’s prestige up
north. The newspaper levy has been a
fiasco, anyhow. Sinister statements are
on record about cronk ballots. And the
madness of the strike against Justice Pow-
ers’ award in the shearing case becomes
more evident every day. On Monday
Blakeley, the president, and others were
fined £6OO, with costs, for whooping uo the
demented business. An expensive bit of
gasconading, and the union pays, of course,
but the bill will be, nothing to what it will
have to pay, before the strike is called off.
for the general executive’s last and worst
blunder—until its next.
No Australian industry is more uncertain
than the cattle business. In 1894
land possessed 7,012,297 cattle—the record.
In 1903 the figure was 2,413.717. By 1920
it had risen again to nearly millions. The
late Robert Philp placed a Gulf cattle sta-
tion on the market about three years ago at
a price of £llO,OOO. The highest offer made
was £lOO,OOO and Philp turned it down.
To-day the same property would not fetch
£25,000. Perhaps it was on account of these
interesting fluctations that flhe Golden
IT’S ALL IN THE POINT OF VIEW.
How the man who takes an occasional g l a ss of beer appears to the tolerant eye of a
broadminded prohibitionist.
Casket Government determined to invest
nearly two millions of State funds in the
cattle biz.
Disturbed at the possibility of well-to-do
Victorians claiming large exemptions in re-
spect of family sickness, medicine and nurs-
ing under the little clause worked into the
Income Tax Act last session, at the instance
of J. W. Billson, Treasurer McPherson pro-
poses to have it amended to limit the deduc-
tion to £2O in any one year for a sawbones
and £lO each for the nurse and the apothe-
cary. He also will see that the concession
is made applicable only to incomes below
£BOl/
“Haka”: By way of reminding me that
my ; vote will be required presently, the
Ministerial press in M.L. is beginning its
triennial -variations on the old theme
In Australia oue hears nothing but good of Maori-
land’s Prime Minister. He is bracketed with the
late R. J. Seddon as one of the big men produced by
the Dominions of recent years.
Massey may be a big man physically, and
he may reign longer than Digger Dick, but
no man unless faction-blind would think of
comparing his record with Richard’s. Bill
led the political group that jeered while
Seddon was shaping M.L/s destinies by con-
structive statesmanship. What service did
for Seddon’s party sectarianism is doing for
Massey’s. In the last generation Maoriland
has had only two really big Priministers.
Dick Seddon was both of them.
“Gallery”: During the long argument on
the Wireless Agreement people learned for
the first time that G. H. Wise, was
opposed to the scheme from the beginning.
Wise told the Reps, how his scepticism re-
garding the claims of the Wireless Co. was
fanned by the comparative failure of certain
experiments. The Prime Minister, he inti-
mated, was aware of his opposition. That
being the case, it was up to Wise to resign
sooner than support an arrangement he
objected to, but instead of that he hung on
and provided Hughes with a good reason for
sacking him when the Cabinet was reorgan-
ised a few months back. Wise’s revelation is
interesting in arousing conjecture as to the
number of Hughes’s colleagues who have
stifled their hostility to his dangerous vagaries
in order to keep their billets. Seemingly
Watt’s honorable withdrawal after his argu-
ment with Hughes established a precedent
that lesser men are not likely to follow.
Alarmed at the growth of the Vic. army
of State employees (there are about 41,000),
Russell Clarke has given notice to move that,
with the exception of school teachers, no
more permanent employees be put on.
Brother Frank, who is Works Minister in the
same House, will probably let Attorney-
General Robinson speak the piece for the Min-
istry when the motion comes on. And
Robinson doesn’t see much to object to in it.
“Jack Horner’’: The decision of the Fed-
eral Meteorological Department to discon-
tinue the interchange of telegraphic river-
level reports has infuriated the Murray
settlements. For weeks on end these reports
are, to many, the one feature which makes
the daily paper worth while. South Aus.
depends entirely upon them for information
as to the necessity or otherwise for flood-
protection works on the lower river, and
subsidiary plants on some of the upper-
river areas to lift water to the main pump
ln low rivers. Some warning must
be had, or the water is in the lucerne patch
and the fat in the fire. It is also a severe
handicap to be unable to estimate the pro-
babilities as to the navigable period. The
stoppage of these wires is alleged to be on
the score of economy. If Hughes will send
me a stamped addressed envelope I will
forward, by # return mail, at least three
ways of saving the same amount of money
without injuring any useful member of the
community. One is that he should retire
from politics and go in for horse-breaking.
The five WestraJian politicians who have
been considering Bung and his business
handed this jolt to local option:—
t °- } he \ 921 P° U was illogical and
ineffective. Districts which are obviously over-
licensed carried Continuance; others with the smallest
latio of public-houses to population voted Reduc-
tion. At Kalgoorhe representatives of the temper-
ance organisations, breweries and the L.V A agreed
that at least 50 per cent, of the licenses in that dis-
trict should be abolished. Yet Continuance was car-
ried by a majority of 363.
The Vie. licensing system got an impressive
advt.:—
Mr. MeCallum, M.L.A., a member of the Com-
mission, reports that in each of the States he inter-
viewed Ministers of the Crown and the officials
charged with administering the licensing laws, and
they were unanimous in the view that the Victorian
legislation was the most modern and effective.
Premier Lawson has a bill on the stocks
to enhance the powers of the Licenses Reduc-
tion Board, and to prevent local-option polls
being held, as now, simultaneously with
Assembly elections. This Westralian report
—it is signed by two Nationalists, two
Laborites and a Cocky—ought to suggest to
him the wisdom of dropping local-option
polls altogether and letting the Board have
a free hand to continue its splendid work.
Concerning a young man who doesn’t look
happy:—
The Argus prophesied great things for S. M.
Bruce when he entered the Hughes Administration.
His sleek, well-dressed English was always pitchea
in a tone of gentlemanly independence, and Flinders-
lane regarded him as a strong man. Yet a few months’
association with Hughes has lowered him to the
level of the other invertebrates who discreetly echo
their Master’s Voice. He now sits on the front
Treasury bench, frequently reading papers or mak-
ing nervous entries in a notebook while some
Oppositionist insinuates that the decision to sell
the Commonwealth woollen mills is due to the
influences he represents. Of course, the Treasurer
is not to blame for that transaction, but still the
sneers go on, and satirical humorists of the Anstey
brand allude to the firm of Patterson, Laing and
Bruce as ruling the Commonwealth from Flinders-lane.
How long Bruce will endure this it is hard to say.
Perhaps when McPherson, the Vic. Treasurer, is
available for the Commonwealth finance portfolio,
Stanley Melbourne will decide that in a Cabinet
devoted to the development of Australian industry
an importer is somewhat de trop.
Mcßeath, Ivermode and Allan have declared
for a fixed bridge, instead of a movable
structure, over the Yana at Spencer-street
(Melb.). They made their inquiries and
presented their recommendation in less than
a fortnight, which is a record rate for an
Australian board or commission. The esti-
mated cost of the bridge is £ll>o,ooo, but com-
pensation will have to be paid as well to the
Harbor Trust, and arterial roads will be
required south of the river. The Trust wanted
£030,000 to enable it to fit up new wharves
in place of those it will lose between Spencer-
street and Queen's Bridge, but the Board
drily observed that those wharves were half-
a-century old. The tuunel-undey-the-Yarra
idea was put aside as utterly impracticable.
Before anything can be done the Railways
have to tell the Parliamentary Standing Com-
mittee how they propose to link up the Mel-
bourne, and Port Melbourne goods yards.
Clapp and co. may want a second bridge
alongside the road-traffic bridge, <>r a double-
decker structure. The Railway Commis-
sioners, the Tramway Board, and the Mel-
bourne and S. Melbourne Councils are the
bodies mainly to be stung for the coin re-
quired.
Greenwood, leader of the Vic. prohibi-
tionists, would like to become State Trea-
surer, but his chance is remote. A group
of his admirers circulated the story that
he had been offered the refusal of McPher-
son's. job when that canny person pulls out.
Judging by Greenwood’s recent gyrations it
unlikely, lie mounted the stump at
a P.S.A. gathering, and solemnly warned
Lawson and co. what would happen them
if they didn’t jump on the tote, stick to
the absurd local-option poll and give par-
sons the free run of the State schools. When
Ministers merely snapped their fingers
Greenwood went to the House, accused
McPherson of extravagance, and quoted a
string.of figures in Parliament to show what
a plunger Mac has been when he has been
earning a reputation for stinginess. Again
he failed to score. Neither in his treat-
ment of the Ministry nor in the latter’s
rather contemptuous attitude towards him
is there the faintest indication of an ap-
proaching alliance.
From “Deputy-Assistant-Secretary”:
But the Australian trades-unionist does not “re-
main a docile party when his self-constituted Labor
bosses levy on him for a newspaper to advocate
his interests” (“11.H.,” B. 20/7/’22), Not always,
anyhow. 1 can personally avouch that whole books
of tickets belonging- to one union have been returned
with the butts marked “Paid union fee; levy still
owing-.” In other unions, where the demand for the
10-bob newspaper levy has been made verbally, it
has been ignored almost unanimously. “A paper
of our own” was a notion that appealed strongly to
many unionists once. But that was before the
party went to Moscow, and before it was remarked
that fluent persons indisposed to toil were living
comfortably “on the game.” In these matters pass-
ive resistance is just as effective a weapon as a
vigorous kick.
Says Theodore, of Queensland :
Any man of physical strength with any spirit in
him should rather walk the soles off his boots than
ask for Government rations.
The trouble is that rations have been fired
at men who, but for the firing, would never
have thought of them.
MOUNT JOSEPH.
[For The Bulletin.]
"Australia House swank and snobbery take one’s
breath away. Joseph Cook, formerly a Lithgow
miner, was tolerably approachable as an ordinary
politician, but as High Commissioner he is about as
accessible as the top of Everest.” —A it exasperated
Australian in London.
lou can hardly keep co-workers at a distance
W hen you hold a union secretary’s job;
Von must lend an ear to all who need assistance,
For it’s suicide to swank or play the snob
When you pretty well depend for an existence
On the fact that you are cobbers with the mob.
Hut the job may change, and so,
It’s apparent, may the Joe
lie translated from the democratic light of long ago.
When you’re in the Parliamentary competition,
With office and its incidental oof
As the goal of your legitimate ambition,
You mustn’t hold disdainfully aloof
From your mates (or even from the Opposition),
Or your portion will most likely be “the hoof.”
Isolation doesn’t go;
Putting dog on queers the show;
Frigid hauteur with constituents turns a member’s
cake to dough.
Hut when proud Australia House receives your carcase
And your larder lacks no longer loaves and fish,
Vou may be as ultra-haughty as a marquis,
And as rigidly exclusive, if you wish.
Knowing well your reputation as a nark is
No abridgment of your term as High Commish.
Towering high o’er all below,
Even Everest, topped in snow,
Hardly gives intrusive callers more discouragement
than Joe.
u.s.w.
PIPARDS.


Pad a fi\r>a. Cav* Mono, is only *<zx.ovocj[ Jav->d •
W<z.’ll h«.«- a j/1y diV>o<Z.r f
Mon-j : for- Itxr. W>undr<z.dit> tliVr>a)
n Ar<2. you £>ure you c.a« H«ur>ry ? "
Pad : " T tKioVc 111 Joriog old Polly ivo caS<z. a.r>y'W->nog;
Kappa-ns . Ya.(r ncvarknow ?
1 Ab -H>a.r<i sloc'-S. off now. you wouldn't
r»c«6 2>bout aVo d •Wo cz. dvivivj'tb hro<Z ——
Cviipa*!
Alum •.’* Sta.ady H<z.ory l sUts Qdftvnfi
<^u«ck<2.r '.'
Pad : "All laavo- War to nr>a *v>4
k.«.cLp yttr Kjvrxds out cff il* ?
" '6,- *,t off
' u& A C-Wan ocl .
Vv By C l 1 Hold you Wide* £.r> your adol d ’!
u Wadi £*t><£.’s. sYoppo-d v>ow
•any way I'
Mum* Vl voinci Kanty . Wall tikWa it H>«. "town Sail tT ?
Pad ! *Cnf>«.e it ain't -Hvafr I'm Ik\okin »J®©ut,'rt* yooa* havin' +® w<a,ik kom<2. ."
THE NEW CAR.


\\W
(yapi
m
m
M ii
fm m
COSMOS
OTrrrD'
nee I
<sJ
213
Clarence
1C
ers
7 /
w
St
Sydney
V
RLECTBITaT>*.—/ /|f | . 1 —■ —’'Vn \ Tn\W\\\\ N
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
21 Eliseabol’h Sh
Mplboume
APE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Qelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety sus«
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPIE” Specialties
Flour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Wall Vents.
Spouting Brackets.
D Gate Batches.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels —Special Steel.
Watering Cans.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Spouting and Ridging,
Sewerage Pipes, etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descriptions.
Fry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank: —
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919. . £108,346 10 p.c. = £53,144 £55,202 £278,706
1920.. 104,673 10 „ ~ 77,274 27,399 306,165
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922.. 126,819 124 „ „ 99,952 26,867 368,827
The figures prior to 1919 are now of little
interest: the co. had for many years been
straightening out the tangle in which it
found itself after the ’nineties’ smash. By
1918 the management had shifted 85 millions
of debt. Profits disclosed as the clean-up
proceeded could not be taken too seriously,
for, having been much ahead of its pro-
gramme of repayment of old deposits, the
management took advantage of the oppor-
tunity to strengthen the internal supports.
The only mark of the old trouble in the
accounts nowadays is the £3,091,609 of in-
terminable stock, which carries only 3J p.c.
and represents the 15s. in the £ of old private
deposits which were funded. Among the
assets there are also interests —though they
are not specified—in old securities which
were thrown on the bank’s hands but were
afterwards floated into independent cos.
The Millaquin Sugar and Q. N. Pastoral
took over the canefield and cattle assets,
respectively, and under the direction of the
Q.N. Bank’s management have been de-
veloped into sound concerns. The introduc-
tory table goes back to the time when profits
once more became available for payment of
divs. Owing to the size to which the busi-
ness had grown, the magnitude of reserves
and the relation of the severely written-
down capital to interminable stock (which
ir, in effect, very cheap pref. capital), divs.
a£ the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. have been found
with ease.
When the clean-up was completed paid
capital was £480.000. It has since been
increased to £BOO,OOO by the issue of new
Chares at par, and as this is the co.’s jubilee
year a 2$ p.c. bonus is paid in addition to
the usual 10 p.c. to celebrate the event.
Until March, 1921, the National had held
the Queensland Government account, but it
was then transferred to the Commonwealth
Bank. There has, therefore, been a shrink-
age of deposits, but as the Government
money was always liable to be called for at
a moment’s notice these funds were not of
much use to the bank, and the account gener-
ally had not contributed to profits for some
years. So though the Government funds
helped to swell the balance-sheet their trans-
fer has not caused the management any loss
of sleep. Balance-sheet movements over two
decades have been as follows :— *
Liabilities.
1902. 1912. 1921. 1922.
Interminable £ • £ £ &
stock .. 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Other 0 1 d
debt .. 1,634,326 258,293
Bills, etc. .. 403,248 78,388 483,753 350,078
Govt, de-
posits .. 920,607 1,581,004
Other de-
posits .. 1,390,943 4,119,238 6,854,743 6,898,730
Liquid assets 2,151,804 2,986,866 4,220,942 4,056,621
Advances . . 4,911,852 6,412,347 6,972,710 6,994,272
Old accounts 573,317
Premises . . 277,808 297,128 398,425 500,411
It has been a remarkable rejuvenation, pri-
vate deposits now being five times larger
than those held 20 years ago. The abnormal
demands for accommodation by traders and
producers during the past two years have not
disturbed the sound position in which the
bank emerged from its old troubles.
At the end of June 11s. !in the
£ of all current liabilities was held
in cash, Australian notes, bills in tran-
sit, short-dated Government loans and public
securities written down to market value or
less. On paper the Q.N. is extraordinarily
strong from the point of view of its credi-
tors : the 9s. in the £ of liabilities not held
liquid at June 30 had the support of 19s. 3d.
of advances (book value) and premises
shown at Is. 4d. —altogether assets marked
dowm to 31s. 7d. to protect every £1 in its care.
This unusually strong support is accounted
for by the relation of funds to liabilities.
Including interminable stock, the Q.N. employs
almost £4,265,000 of its own money and has
the care of £7,248,800 of the public’s. While
other banks have had to raise new capital
to get liabilities within the prudent limit of
£8 of outside money for every £1 of their
own funds, the Q.N. is holding only £1 14s.
So it can carry a very much larger business
without having to call on shareholders for
further supporting funds.
The Bank of New Zealand: —
r —Dividend—n
10 p.e. Pref. Written
March, Profits. 15 p.c. Ord. Off. Reserves.
1912. . £356,183 £125,000 £25,000 £1,240,588
1913.. 342,530 125,000 40,000 1,418,118
1914.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,008
Premiums on new shares, £365,536 1,987,144
“A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 15 p.c.
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premiums on new shares, £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 335,801 236,507 50,000 2,118,605
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246,595
1918.. 386,607 237,500 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
“A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 174 p.c. i
1920.. 469,046 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
divs. 13Jp.c.
1921.. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922.. 682,043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
It was not expected that the past year’s
profits would be so large as those for 1921,
when exceptional exchange earnings and un-
usually good returns from London invest-
ments were helping. But this comparison
throws additional light on the matter: —
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1914 .. £714,076 £264,318 £61,267
1915 .. 755,240 284,525 74,548
1916 .. 801,337 307,148 137,096
1917 .. 964,911 330,228 198,052
1918 .. 1,106,442 352,250 346,385
1919 .. 1,217,153 371,659 386,273
1920 .. 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 .. 1.844.017 510,467 485,095
1922 . . 1,809,256 528,174 577,840
*Less provision for contingencies.
So, though net profits were £145,213 smaller,
gross earnings shrank only £34,761; but
working exes, were £17,707 heavier, and
taxation increased £92,745. Exceptional
earnings also helped latest profits: they in-
cluded surpluses on the book value of in-
vestments which matured during the period
and profits from the sal® of other invest-
ments which had been written down well
below their improved market values. The
maturing and realising of gilt-edged invest-
ments will for years be sources of large pro-
fits to the banks, insurance cos. and other
concerns which wrote down those assets to
the depressed market values of a couple of
years ago. To what extent the B.N'.Z.
was assisted in this way during the 12
months to March 31 is not ascertainable,
but as almost two millions of Government
securities were converted into cash the
amount must have been large: an average
appreciation of 5 p.e. on book values would
have given £lOO,OOO.
Besides £529,988 of 4 p.c. stock, the Maori-
land Government holds, in pref. shares, one-
third of the bank’s total scrip of £3,375,000.
It gets 10 p.c. on these shares, equal to 15
p.c. on the holding prior to the capitalisation
of reserves in 1920. The ordinaries’ 13£
p.c. div. represents a return of 20 p.c. on
their old holding. These handsome divs. to-
gether took £412,500, but £269,543 was left
for reserves, increasing them to £2,105,819
after writing £50,000 off premises. The
shrinkage of all balance-sheet groups was the
feature of the B.N.Z.’s year, but the press-
ure on its resources created in the first in-
stance by the heavy importing of the previ-
ous year was not relieved. Owing to slumped
markets the primary producer has required
assistance, and as merchandise and other
stocks were still abnormally large, advances
during the 12 months were reduced by only
£5,723,068. Meantime, deposits fell off
£5,799,052. Going back two years with the
comparisons deposits were nine millions
smaller and advances 5J millions larger. The
aggregate Maoriland banking figures have
shown some astonishing movements: between
.Tune, 1920, and January of this year de-
posits fell off 13 millions and advances in-
creased 5| millions. Still more remarkable
is the altered relation of advances to de-
posits. Apart from Government money, in
1920 the banks had the care of 54| millions
of the public’s money, and had lent 34|
millions, deposits thus exceeding advances by
19f millions. At March 31 almost mil-
lions were advanced, and deposits had de-
clined to 40i millions, advances being
greater by six nnllions-odd. This bank’s
experience since 1914 is set out in these com-
parisons :
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1914.. £989,882 £1,403,457 £18,070,613
1915.. 1,676,051 1,670,103 18,741,657
1916.. 1.862.823 1,767,410 23,556,677
1917.. 2,560,320 2,007,968 29,052,791
1918.. 3,312,995 2.329,569 30,437,937
1919.. 3,728,249 2.860,391 31,716,353
1920.. 5,765,337 3,708,305 37,661,611
1921.. 4,741,492 4,116,574 34.475,655
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 . 28,676,603
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1914.. £12,590,187 £11,360,486 £449,577
1915.. 14,227,407 11,849,166 451,867
1916.. 19,431,080 11,844,767 441,867
1917.. 22,082,870 15,746,485 450,813
1918.. 22,626,103 17,786,755 425,824
1919.. 23,948,301 18,865,038 399,867
1920.. 33,120,009 19,431,848 361,108
1921.. 18,922.513 30,506,629 337,469
1922.. 18,260,158 24,783,560 296,473
Maorilaud has much to be thankful for that
its bankers were too long-headed to be mis-
led by the prosperity of the war-years. Con-
sequently, without causing a stir, they were
able to meet 14 millions-odd of deposit-with-
drawals within a little over two years, and
at the same time find 11 £ millions to see
traders and producers through their troubles.
In some respects Maorilaud bore its war
burdens more successfully than the Common-
wealth ; the Dominion taxed harder when
boom prices were ruling, and a larger portion
of the war cost was met from revenue. But
the prosperity which followed the marketing
of its produce led many individuals astray ;
land values soared, and properties changed
hands at prices on which production for pre-
sent and prospective produce markets cannot
give a satisfactory return. In numerous
instances properties are mortgaged beyond
their slumped values; other producers who
added to their holdings at appreciated values
are now without sufficient funds. There have
been many failures, and in some instances
properties have been thrown on tire vendors’
hands. The many Maoriland cos. which have
for years been accustomed to working on
deposits from the public have also discovered
the danger of having funds which are not
definitely tied to the business: and under
protection of the moratorium, which expires
at the close of the current year, they have
been covering deposits by new share and
debenture issues. Meantime the moratorium
on mortgages has been extended to December
31, 1924. The worst of Maoriland’s troubles
have been overcome, and the proportion of
failures will not be large. The flood-waters
of credit are steadily receding, a couple of
good seasons and favorable markets should
restore conditions to normal.
Meanwhile the B.N.Z. position is thor-
oughly sound: almost half of all liabilities
is in liquid form, and the £16,434,000 not so
covered is backed by 24| million of advances,
which have been “carefully scrutinised and
adequate provision made for all possible
losses,” and premises with a book value of
£290,000, but “worth considerably more,”
large amounts having been written off this
account regularly for many years.
* * # «
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney), paper merchants and wholesale
stationers:—
t Dividends x To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. 5 p.c. prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves,
1816 £37,561 £4325 10 p.c.= £25,423 £7,813 £88,737
1917 40,861 4325 10 „ „ 25,423 11,113 100,850
1918 44,008 4325 10 „ „ 25,423 14,260 115,110
1919 47,028 4325 10 „ „ 25,423 17,280 132,390
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 82,390
1920 69,766 4325 10 p.c.= 27,923 37,518 119,908
1921 60,328 4325 10 „ „ 35,423 20,580 140,488
1922 61,338 4326 10 „ „ 40,423 16,590 157,078
Though paper prices slumped steadily through-
out Dunlop’s latest financial year, and are
now almost half those of 12 months ago, the
co. shows very handsome profits. They were
only £B4OO less than in the year of peak
prices; but that comparison must be con-
sidered along with new capital got in. Three
years ago there were 5 p.c. prefs. for £86,509
and £254,231 of ordinaries; in 1920 £50,000
of bonus ordinaries were distributed and
£lOO,OOO of new shares were issued at par
in the 1921 financial year. Also nearly
£75,000 of reserves were accumulated in the
three years, so the business is now assisted
1»V approximately £175,000 more funds than
three years ago. Twelve months ago the
directors reported that stocks then held had
been valued at “replacement cost or under,”
but taking into account the collapse of
values since, earnings have been aston-
ishing. Not only has the co. unloaded
its large and costly stocks at a hand-
some profit, but latest book values are
stated to have been taken at present “re-
placement cost or under, and adequate pro-
vision has been made for arty loss on book
debts or any fall in the value of the co.’s
investments.” New conditions appear to
have suited the management excellently:
owing to the preferential duties, most news-
print nowadays comes from Britain, where
the co. has wide connections. Consequently,
turnover is now reported to be larger than
at any period in its history, except in the
boom months of 1920.
The fall of prices has reduced latest stock
values to almost the level of seven years
ago, but book debts are still large:—
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. £18,994 £105.498 £161,187 £80,759
Freehold .. 88,516 80,598 80,598 80,598
Stock .. .. 187,314 219,940 276,351 192,719
Sundry debtors 180,452 202,957 332,932 293,425
Cash and
investments 17,348 129,620 122,406 181,591
Owing to the shrinkage the business no longer
requires the new capital got in, and no doubt
the cash position will be further strengthened
as customers’ accounts are liquidated. After
payment of the final div. there was £26,000
of cash in hand and £150,487 of War Loan
and shares in other cos., the two items
together exceeding current trading liabilities
by £90,700-odd. The co. is, therefore, in a
very snug position. There are net liquid
assets of £1 4s. 3d. per £1 ordinary, and
almost 4s. per share more in the book value
of freehold property. The public lias been
interested in Kdwards-Dunlop’s only since
1915, when, after about 30 years in business,
the shares were listed on ’Change. Since
the 1915 balance net assets have expanded
from £454,636 to £667,575, with the assist-
ance of £lOO,OOO of new capital; so after
seven years of abnormal trading surplus
profits have assisted the business to the
extent of almost £113,000.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gor.u Mining Co. (Q.) :
Mav, Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
1913.. £1,140,029 £738,899 £401,130
1914.. 956,542 680,190 276,352
1915.. 1,005,400 838,761 166,639
1916.. 1,264,792 978,011 286,781
1917.. 1,301,377 992,172 309,205
1918.. 1,233,983 981,234 252,749
1919.. 974,951 463,310 111,641
1920.. 1,013,761 881,945 131,815
1921.. 1,038,683 918,524 120,159
Loss.
1922.. 276,199 301,301 25,102
When the 1921 accounts were presented Mt.
Morgan had shut down owing to low markets
and high costs, and the big show did not get
to work again until March 13 of this year,
the unions having belatedly agreed to accept
a 20 p.c. reduction of wages on the Govern-
ment allowing up to £llOO per week freight
rebate as a wage subsidy. This levy on the
taxpayer enabled the workers to resume at a
wage-reduction varying from 5 to 10 p.c.
When the latest accounts closed at the end of
May the co. had been producing only 21
months, but the £25,102 loss shown in the
table does not disclose the true results of the
financial year. The period opened with 2528
tons copper on hand, valued, as Morgan has
always done, at £55 per ton. Old stocks
copper gave the co. £82,615 more than tin*
figure at which they had been taken in, and
premium on gold output of the previous year
contributed £62,496. So the year’s revenue
was assisted by £145,111 which should
properly be credited to other years. Pre-
cisely what loss was incurred last year can-
not be ascertained from the published
accounts. Combining the figures given by
the directors with those presented by the
accounts the results work out in this way:—
Revenue —
Surplus on sale old copper .. £82,615
Gold premium .. . . .. 62,496
Current production .. .. 109,731
Investments .. .. .. 18,362
Sundry income .. .. .. 2,995
£276,199
Expenditure —
Mining, smelting, realisation, etc. £201,880
Development and prospecting .. 16,008
Depreciation .. .. .. 41,205
Management and sundry exes. .. 15,856
Taxes 26,352
£301,301
Loss .. • .. £25,102
The 929 tons copper on hand at the balanc-
ing date were, as usual, taken into the
accounts at £55 per ton, so even in the
present depressed market a substantial sur-
plus over book values will assist results for
the current year.
Another view of results for the past 12
months is given in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1914. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Stocks .. £282,091 £359,829 £203,028 £89,306
Stores, etc. . . 129,755 180,539 235,983 222,439
War Loan . . 20,000 57,290 72,880 113,770
Cash & deposits 43,270 20,429 43,192 35,858
Investments . - 59,584 199,146 331,176 375,233
Book debts . . 43,682 84,386 99,894 101,403
£578,382 £901,619 £986,153 £938,009
Liabilities . . 100,019 262,265 185,556 123,546
Surplus . . £478,363 £639,354 £800,597 £814,463
The liquid position has never been stronger;
but no div. has been paid since April, 1920,
and portion of the increase must be regarded
as a set-off for depreciation of wasting assets.
Allowing for the surplus to be won from
selling the 929 tons copper on hand, and
valued at £55 per ton, and also allowing for
the premium on the 12,4920 z. gold produced,
the shut-down and subsequent operations
appear to have resulted in a loss of up to
£125,000, after providing for depreciation,
but not including income taxes.
The directors have very little to say re-
garding the financial results for the 24
months during which production was re-
sumed. The co. has failed £o attract an
efficient labor-team, and output has conse-
quently been restricted, so though overhead
charges “have be’en cut in every direction, a
loss is still resulting.’’ The outlook is not
at all bright unless production can be
increased: since work re-started electrolytic
has improved £4 to £5 per ton, but meantime
the gold premium has been steadily dimin-
ishing. Production for present markets most
certainly cannot provide the wages still de-
manded by the unions, nor can the Theodore
Government honestly continue indefinitely to
subsidise labor to the extent of £llOO per
week. That arrangement presumably will
continue until early in September, and unless
metal prices unexpectedly improve it will be
hopeless to expect the co. to carry the high-
wages burden.
The mine is still a big concern: known re-
serves at the close of May comprised
3,222,774 tons ore averaging 2.57 p.c. copper


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants,
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to 10in. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
the investment to meet the
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees. :
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
Scientific Glassware,
Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters and all Laboratory requirements for Metal-
lurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners. Sugar-mills,
Butter-factories etc., at Elliott Bros., Ltd., O’Connell
Street, Sydney. Quotations, post free, at request.—
* ~ Advt.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
A large manufacturer solved the problem of the
conveyance of brine and acids by using Pioneer Wood
Pipe, which neither corrodes nor fouls under the
action of acids or alkalies. Pioneer pipe is lower
in first cost, incurs (in many eases) no maintenance
charges, and delivers a larger flow than metal pipe.
Write for our 68-page book on the subject. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
• * * .
Inventors.— Have you a n idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
oourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Writs
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
”...
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen Equit
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’ ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
Sim on-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants •
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc’
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co. ’Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney. —Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Omv
(Ea3t). — Advt. 3
w
&
BOORD£So n
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
> *£Z2lt
&
DI
Swift A- Company- 1.td..-Australasian Agents. 26 HU Clarence St., Sydney'
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
F or Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
u reef
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
Brisbane,
Elizabeth Street.
and Gdwt. gold. In addition, there are large
bodies of ore outside those delimited: 16,015
ot the 00,528 tons raised since March 13 last
were so obtained. Financially, the co. is
very comfortable: at the balance four-fifths
ot the paid capital of a million was repre-
sented by the surplus of liquid assets over
and above all liabilities. The liquid assets
1118,495 of public securities,
I* . Saares and debentures in the
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting, £125,000
in Australian Fertilisers, £62,001 in Metal
Manufactures and £24,362 in other cos.
* * * *
How rapidly the electrical trade of the
Commonwealth lias developed is illustrated
by some figures disclosed when genial Alf
Kendall resigned from the managing-
directorship of the Australian General Elec-
tric Co. the other day, though he will still
continue on the Board in an advisory
capacity. Kendall joined the A.G.E. as
enaineer 19 years ago, and during his 10
year,s as managing-director annual turnover
has grown from £165,000 to £1,150,000.
* * * -
W illiam E. Slee, who succeeds H. Lipson
Hancock as general manager of the Wallaroo
ft nd Moonta, has spent all except three years
of lus mining life w T ith S. Aus.’s big copper-
shows. Born at Moonta on May 26, 1878,
he began as newspaper-boy for Adolph
Grummet, who made a fortune as a vendor
of newspapers and books. At 16 Slee’s 6ft
gave him a start in the blacksmith’s shop
at the mines, but a year later he went as
assayer to the Balaclava copper-mines
(rs.b.W.), which were being tested by Wal-
laroo. In 1898 he was back at Mbonta,
spent two years underground, and then trans-
ferred to the survey department at Wallaroo.
By 1904 he was assistant to the chief
surface-officer at Moonta, and two years
later became assistant-metallurgist at the
smelters. When D. H. Ladd, the American
expert who had been engaged in 1910 to con-
trol metallurgical operations, returned to the
U.S. in 1913, Slee was appointed manager of
the smelting works. He became assistant
general-manager two years ago.
* * * *
has made a special feature of
granting State aid for mining development.
From 1897, when the system was initiated,
until the end of 1914, the sum or ±424,210
was spent, made up as follows: Advances to
cos., £168,144; to miners for prospecting,
£59,514; boring (including plants), ±6x,550;
roads and tracks, £62,344; testing plants,
£23,443; races and dams, £8361; purchase of
cyanide patents, £20,000; mining exhibition
(Melbourne), £5896 ; schools of mines and
laboratories, £12,421; miscellaneous, £1531.
The statistics for this period do not disclose
what refunds were made. For the penod
from Jan 1, 1915, to June 30, 1921, full
particulars are given. The advances were
£239,626; repayments, £28,394; realisation
of securities, £40,178, and outstanding,
£50,182, leaving a balance of £120,8(2,
which had been written off. Treated merely
as figures these records would seem to indi-
cate a heavy loss, but the reverse may be
the case—probably is, when the positive
results from the cases where the aid was
attended with success is considered. Nega-
tive results may also have been of value in
determining that theories and expectations,
were radically wrong, and thus saving fur-
ther expense in testing them. Four alluvial
mines returned the advances in full, viz.,
Burnt Creek, Uunolly. £3500: Chalks No. 3,
Carisbrook, £5000; Chiltern Valley, £2500:
Duke United, Maryborough, £6500; and
all paid divs. after the aid was given. Only
two reefing cos. refunded advances in full —
Birthday Tunnel, Berringa, £921; Great
Columbian, Inglewood, £1750. On the oppo-
site side of the ledger the largest loss was
Prentice Freehold, Rutherglen, £23141. At.
one time and another this enterprise must
have cost not less than £150,000 in a futile
effort to drain an underground Murray.
Bores from the surface and from the under-
ground levels proved continuance f the
Chiltern lead, from which tons of gold had
been won close to the boundary, but years of
pumping showed no diminution in the inflow
of water. This work ought to have been
treated as an inter-State undertaking, as
to have traced the lead across the Murray
would have been of special importance to
N. 8. Wales. The late John A. Wallace,
some 25 years ago, talked of a scheme for
working the Quat Quatta estate on the N.
S. Wales side, and Mines Minister Joe Cook
committed the Government to a promise of
substantial assistance, but the project fell
through owing to the failure of the Prentice
co. to combat the water difficulty. Other
large failures were: Long Tunnel. Walhalla,
about £12.000; Charlotte Plains, Loddon,
£6000; South Star, Ballarat, £6748; Central
Plateau, Ballarat, £4784; Lord Nelson, St.
Arnaud. £4709: Sloane’s, Stawell, £3063;
Ellesmere, Bendigo, £7387.
# * *• *
Blue Consolidated (Bendigo) declared a div.
of 3s. last week, making a total of 65., or
£13,500, within two months, of which over
£ll.OOO was earned in that period. Last
week’s return was 4920 z. from 619 tons, and
1460 z. from the plates. Bears who sold
the stock at below £l, and wh~ are said to
be still “out” to the extent of 8000 shares,
must be feeling very sick at having to pay
out divs. on .scrip on which they don’t col-
lect, and which they can't cover, except at
a premium of at least 100 p.c. Mine-develop-
ments continue satisfactory, the 1540 ft. inter-
mediate level on the bedded veins is in 215 ft.
south in good values.” The drive north
rni the.sandstone spurs is “opeirng up well.”
Ihe distance between these points is 600 ft.,
and “still going strong both ways, and over
the full w dth (up to 70ft.) stopes have to
be taken off.”
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated has a prospecting
option over the Williams mine, at Yvandili-
gong, in the Bright district (Vic.), and re-
ported a development which “can be regarded
as quite satisfactory.” A 28in. lode has
been cut at a depth of 69ft., the estimated
value of which is between 2oz. and 3oz per
ton. About 25ft. higher up the lode was
loin, wide, and showed 4foz. per ton. Wan-
daigpng has been a fairly successful field of
small shows for many years. A later report
does pot read so well. The formation has
been driven on for 30ft. North face shows
dOm. ot .-stone “carrying fair values,” but in
the south drive values are low.
* „ •* * *
, Badalc has- turned down the Scamander
(las.) lode-tm show, values being thought
too low to justify any hope of profitable
working under anything like present condi-
tions. This ends its search for a genuine
un-show, and it has deeded to take over a
New Guinea gold-dredging proposition on
the basis of an eighth interest to vendors
m a company of 140,000 shares of fl
each and £lOOO in cash. The area is
71.) acres, and the co.’s prospector estimates
a . Profit of £14,850 per year, working two
shifts, bounds almost too good to be true.
* * * *
For the six months ended May 31 last
le Creek Co. (N.S.W.), with two
dredges at work, won £10,726 worth of
gold but showed no profit. Boor, tough
ground had been encountered by both
dredges, the average values being and
4.18 d. per cub. yd., with costs of 6.09 d. and
4.36 d. per yd. Boring ahead of No. 1
dredge has given average values of 8.29 d
over widths from 300 ft. to 600 ft., so next
half-year’s returns should show a good im-
provement. The co. has not paid a div
since May, 1920.
* * * *
. J- W. lioberts, on two recent tin flota-
tions :
Sympathy evoked by that “fellow feeling” induces
me to compliment battler F. J. Wallis on the suc-
cessful outcome of his long-sustained effort to float
the Kennedy’s Freehold Tin Sluicing Co., Emmaville
(N.S.W.). It is a most creditable achievement in
view of adverse tin-market conditions and strong
antagonistic influences. As far as it has been tested
the co.’s ground has no superior in the northern dis-’
triets as a tin-bearing area. The eo. starts under
most favorable conditions: the working paddock is
excavated, a fair supply of water is available by
gravitation, and a complete plant, which has been
purchased, ought to be put into commission in less
than three months. All practical considerations
pointed to this block as being a desirable adjunct
to the Extended Co.’s property. That co. had an
opportunity to acquire the ground, but an extreme
“hasten slowly” policy caused it to “miss the ’-bus,”
and I shall be much mistaken if it does not soon
have solid reasons to regret its inaction,
Ihe Grampian Hills Co. is a reconstruction of
the Carr’s Creek Co., which got into difficulties owing
to the purchase of costly, unsuitable plant. The
absurd State no-liability law left it no means to get
over these difficulties other than by the process of
re-registration, which meant a repetition of heavy
fees and stamp duties. Provided that the eo. can
make adequate arrangements for impounding water
in Vegetable Creek, and pumping it to the foot-
hills, it ought to be successful. Apart from the
sluicing areas,, portions of which are exceptionally
rich, there are possibilities in the way of lode-
mining in the mountain side, not only for tin but
also for silver, and, should a local market become
available, the mining of arsenical ore may be made
a source of profit. The co.’s operations will be of
practical interest, inasmuch as distinctive topo-
graphical and other conditions will necessitate wide
departures from the ordinary sluicing practice, which,
mechanically, hasn’t too much to recommend it.
* * * *
Dampton Celebration June figures were:
~* (* tons for £1860; working expenses,
41(10; gold contents of residues. 6s. 6d. per
ton. Celebration has now settled down to
normal working, and numerous small diffi-
culties that usually attend initial runn’ng of
treatment plants have been . overcome
The co. is making a profit of £l5O per
month. These results are disappointing, ami
show that, even with an efficient treatment
plant, no. profit is to be expected in West
raua until lOdwt. has been obtained.
On the joint boundary of Edna May and
Deeps at 4Soft. is a high-grade block of ore
serving as an underground breakwater hold-,
insr Dack from Deens workings an accumula-
tion of water 400 ft. in height. The good
gold content of the block has proved tempt-
n-ki£° e P s > which has recently been
nibbhng at it to some purpose; the last
parcel of, 800 tons returned ISOOoz. Ore-
breakmg is so dangerous that it has he-n
dec’ded that the block had better not be
further disturbed. But as final assays show
from i*oz. to 3oz. values, possibly some
arrangement between Deeps and Central will
be come to whereby both mines will be
worked conjointly with a view to mining t e
uch ore remaining. The cost will be great,
as a pumping plant capable of keep.ng Edna
, ay ' Central, Deeps and Consolidated dry
will be required, and 100,000-gailons-per-
hour plants against a head of 500 ft. will be
costly.
, -iributors in Boulder Perseverance make
the outputs from other Kalgoorlie'mines look
ympEgrade Their yield for June was 3930
tons for ±19,100. No other VVestralian mine
treating the tonnage can shov r a grade like-
tluit. How such a mine came to be let on
tribute is a mystery.
* * * *
■ Dalmayme Collieries (Tas.), giving up
the mea or getting S. Aus. Railways to buy
into its mine, is in a fair way to get the
rignt hand of Private Enterprise. Barrister
Moriey is handling the deal, and engineer
Richmond inspects the colliery and estimates
costs and the possibility of making Coles
Day the big port of the Speck’s East Coast.
Timber, cement and other things besides
coal are now the objectives. The scheme
includes building a 35-mile railway from
Dmmayne to Coles Bay. This was “flat-
earth’ Robertson's plan when he invited
English capital. Dahnaype, under Earthing
and McWilliams, later aimed to ship its
coal from a jetty at Piccaninni Point, opno-
site the mine, but Neptune settled that idea
m two storms: the jetty rocked with every
wave, and the mine shut down. As a result
the co.’s affairs became so tangled that
things seemed hopeless. How Moriey per-
suaded Adelaide is not told, but Richmond
is enthusiastic that he can raise big capital
™ e , r ,ww^ Morley hintd at a new co. of
£340,000 to hnd £220,000 on the basis
of deb. holders getting 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. for their stock, plus payment of
24 years arrears of interest. Present share-
holders can elect to take either share for
share paid up to 155., or three fullv-paids
foi\ every four now held. All parties in
the Specks new Parliament have agreed
to renew the land-grant railway enabling
Act passed for Robertson, and‘under the
Act the co. will get 2000 acres for every
mile of line built, rights to minerals and
timber, land for wharves at Coles Bay and
other oddments. The co. will thus evolve
from a pure mining co. into a coal and de-
velopment concern, with big possibilities in
cement ana decent ones in respect to timber.
Loftus Hills gave Dalmayne an irreducible
minimum of eight million tons coal, and
Bischoff Milieu double that total. Ash is
the trouble with Speck cdal, and there is
more .than a trace of sulphur to worry
about.
* * * *
Lindesay Clark has at last diverted the
Ringarooma River behind h.s Bfiseis tin,
mine (Tas.). Thus ends one of the most
t.ckush engineering jobs undertaken in Aus-
sie. For years the job had to be faced;
and a good many 'grey hairs were
added to Clark’s, head before he shifted the
stream out of his way. Ore-getting has
been almost at a standstill because tile face
of the big cut was up against the old edge
of the river. Now the stream is diverted,
Clark can go ahead. Just where he resumed
is a big bend in the ancient lead, and he
does not expect to get very good tin till he
can dig back to the gutter. He should pick
it up when it gets round the turn towards
Ringarooma hill. Of his reserve estimates
of 1913 he now figures there are left 921,000
cub. yds. overburden and 4J million cub. yds.
drift which are expected to give 3213 tons
black tin. Ivrushka’s flat has yielded 2882
tons black tin from 2.492,000 cub. yd., or
2.591 b. per yd. Clark expects to get out of a
block of SOO,OOO cub. yds. of lower drifts,
where he is now operating, between 000
and 700 tons - black tin. He follows
his usual plan of looking at the sun through
a smoked glass. So he warns that work
down the lead will entail a heavier lift, thus
using more water for mining and leaving
less for overburden removal.
* * * *
The Canary, at Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.),
which was mentioned on this page recently
as a highly , promising prospect, has so far
turned put up to expectations, and geologist
St. Smith,_ who was recently on the field,
has given it his blessing. The lode has now
been opened up to a depth of 60ft., and is
both richer and larger than the shoot at the
outcrop. Up to the beginning of this month
67 tons talvfen out of the show returned 25f
tons of. black tin, an average of 38 p.c. The
north level at 60ft. has shown up to a
3ft. width of rich staff, and the last face
exposed showed, 18m. of practically pure
tin. _ There is talk of a Charters Towers
syndicate taking an option at a price in
the neighborhood of five figures. The Can-
ary is. 24 miles up Qakey Creek from the
Sardine, so there is no doubt of the tin
being spread over a good area, and that
means that there ai-e prospects of further
good finds.
The perseverance, on the Woolgar field,
Etheridge (N.Q.), which was opened up a
a v S° with the help of the Mines
* S 2US } put throu "h its second
■A Q . g °t t>9 tons for 87oz. over the plates,
tmt-en ' rec k°nod to be in the concen-
iiie. average is about 205.. so
M . ! f r en to continue. There are sev-
;( l ,, ot , h ‘ ir . reefs ln the district that will pro-
bablj be given another chance.
* * * *
in Ipswich district (Q.) are
, a slack time, and only about
ah the output of two years ago is now
being maintained. The official railway re-
io9i S S^'lnii at L 0I; the first six months of
f 19h2 the coal shipped from Wool-
rMn& i was I§ 1 ’ 13 . 4 tons and 78,597 tons
J actavely and, with the exception of a
from loswicjf Rosewood district, it all came
n ** * *
PT .Z' l rade W BJair Athol (Q.) coal bright-
ened considerably during June, and for the
™™ e tor over 12 months the collieries
™* a “. work fS Practically full time. The
, JUmped trom 8900 tons in May to
u t° n . s June, which is getting back
towards what used to be the normal monthly
return from the field.
■E i lO - Connelly does Dr. Pritchard, B.Sc.,
exceedingiy well over the Torquay oil go.
* d | u f. es m a handsome picture in
T',!lol i <lf the P ros Pectus. Blocks of the
. exas gusher, as typifying “what is hoped
do mo ,!', Ud; Torquay, and of a geological
limn 6 T> a^ e n adornments more eye-catching
Intchard s own sober statement. He
the formations at Torquay
a . re , d th ? Canazoic series, that they are
rn?ooJ-Qi ammal n nd pla nt remains, and carry
minerals usually associated with oil and
petroleum. lie has definitely located a geo-
logical zone, and says that boring for oil
Prof g r»° n -i WJth ev f ry Prospect of success.”
, Y® vlc1 was also asked to report, but
inh . C^ U e i DOt Ket away from his ’Varsity
job , but he avows that Pritchard is a “dis-
tingmshed scientist.” That is a good deal
lore than can be said of some of the oil-
giants before the public.
* *
H,™ 1 WiHiani Morris Hughes sitting on
i -1 valv - e ’ Barling’s Rabaul
inspecting Syndicate is now after °-old
leas™ on the Waira River. If Darling
oil Ideas are as big as his pegging-out of
(hedging areas, it is no wonder that Hughes
itf ense f , l r f en • leases of miles
dfsb g 0 d , sho .wm’g ill almost every
m u ie ? and miles, are the draw. As
is a lode formation at Morobe
500 ft wide, in which Darling has got a
S? for F ospet ‘f fo sweeten up trace stuff.
xr the C ?u as . spent 12312 on prospect-
-111 h'. Now that it can get a title to its
milling blocks calls will be the order of the


SPRATS TO CATOH THE GOLDEN MACKEREL.
“Some members of the Federal Cabinet strongly hold the view that Parliamentary salaries should be reduced from £1000 to £800 a year, and it is rumored that they have converted the Prime Minister. As the next Federal
election draws near, members of the House of Representatives who participated in the shameful salary grab, just after the last appeal to the country, are beginning to show signs of uneasiness.”


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and L sher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Cai'lton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio
Telegraph,: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
or
“Won its favor thru its flavor.’’
K.B.
LAGER
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
INTERSTATE WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS OF K.B. LAGER:—
QUEENSLAND—Thos. Broun & Sons, Ltd., Eagle Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA—TayIor, Ferguson & Co., 127-129 King Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA—A. E. & F. Tolley, Ltd., 82 Weymouth St,., Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA—LioneI Samson & Son, Cliff Street, Fremantle.
TASMANIA (North) —Johnstone & Wilmot Pty., Ltd., St. John’s
Street, Launceston; and at Devonport,.
2
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1:j21 Model Meai-s “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of manv rears’
research by the Scientists at the Hears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 rears, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
, e l’, tc T free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
IREMS
"Lew Deer, who is pictured on this
page, joins up with Smith’s Weekly next
Tuesday, as circulation organiser. Starting
out as teacher of a bush school Deer climbed
the examination ladder till he reached the
top. Not liking the view, he created the
job of publicity officer and was the pioneer
or what John Haynes used to call the “poli-
tical dope merchants.” While acting as
Government publicity man he took on the
secretaryship of several Royal Commissions
as a sideline, ran the National Service
Lureau during the 1917 strike, organised the
Victory Celebrations, assisted to run the
1 rince of Wales’s welcome, and finally held
down the job of Chief Inspector of the
1 üblic Service Board. Counsel recently
referred to him with a certain amount of
truth us the Pooh Bah of the Service.
Keith Angas, of the S. Aus. cattle-breeding
family, is back in Adelaide after six months’
big-game shooting in British East Africa,
lie, was fitted out by two other South Aus-
tralians, Leslie Tarlton and Mara Newland
who live in Nairobi, and make a business of
JOHNLAGDON
BONYTHON,
proprietor Adelaide
TISER.
that kind of thing.
T h e expedition
ended in tragedy.
Angus’s w h i t e
companion was
Outram, the Eng-
lish soldier, whose
name figured in
our cables at the
rime. Outran! was
charged by a
wounded lioness,
and though the
Party put 14 bul-
lets into the brute,
the fusillade failed
to stop her in
time.
V Re “ JF H ” (B - on
AortncJifte s generosity to his staff. When
I was on the Daily Mail Filson Young was
editing, and one day Jlarmsworth (he was
“ ot i” the Beerage then) came i,n and saw
that xoung was ill through overwork. “My
friend, ’ said he, “what you want is a cruise
in the Mediterranean—you could go for three
for a couple of hundred pounds.”
Where in the world am I to get a couple
ul' hundred?” laughec^Young. “On the third
Hoor, at the accountant’s office. Give him
this note, bee you again three months
trom to-day. Good-bye !” On the other
land Xorthchffe had a kink about ambition,
in the sub-editor s room he bailed up a self-
complacent young man, and in his bullying
tone asked, What do you do?” “I look after
the paragraphs, sir. ’ "What salary are you
gettmg.' “hive pounds a week, sir.”
< ,rr, l ?r^' Ba t i sfied“Oh, quite, sir. quite.”
, el J’ rasped out the magnate, “if you’re
satisfied with £5 a week in this office, you’re
no good to me. Go to the accountant and
get a month’s salary.”
Janies Ousby, a Lachlan (N.SAV.) pioneer
pass-ed out last week at 82. The original
Ousby squatted at Wagoola, near Cowra, and
built the h itzroy Arms Ifotel in the town
during the governorship of Fitzroy (1846-
William Hubert Manning, barrister, who
le other day at 68, ivas a son of
\\ lifiam Montagu Manning, sometime N.SAV.
diet Judge in Lquity, by his second wife—
Dean Sowerby, of Goulburn.
f Ihe hrst wife was an aunt of the late B. R.
. Manning was an Oxonian B.A.
(M.A. of Sydney), and was called at Lin-
coln s Inn in 77. His practice was limited,
and his last big case was a watching brief
tor his father, in the great Yankee attempt
oM-,r^ nopohse 4 b e word “Maizena,” old
b William being a shareholder in Ure, Munn
and Young, maizena manufacturers. W.H.M.
U P chasing costs and became manager
of the Illawarra bteamship Co., of which his
uncle in the long ago was manager, and in
which the Manning family held large inter-
„ lh e widow is a daughter of B. F.
Nicholls, of Sydney.
“LEW" DEER, chief insp[?]etor of N.S.W.
Public Service Board, who is going back
to journalism.
From one of his friends:—
Charlton, the new Labor leader, is not deficient in
humor (B. 6/7/’22). He can make and appreciate
a joke with the best of them, but his health is not
first-class, and he isn’t always in the mood. Matt
"'as born at Linton, near Ballarat, in the early
’sixties. He got his introduction to coal-mining as
a lad in the Lambton (N.S.W.) district. He was
in W.A. in the comparatively roaring years from ’96
to 98, and knocked about the goldfields a good deal.
Then he joined the A.W.U., or the A.W.A., as it
then was. Keturning to Lambton, he soon made
himself known and felt as a strenuous unionist,
and in 1904 one of the Newcastle districts sent him
to the N.S.W. Parliament. In 1910 he dispossessed
Dr. Liddell as M.H.R. for the Hunter, and has held
that seat ever since. As a Labor leader Charlton
resembles J. C. Watson more than any other pre-
decessor. He keeps his head and won’t be flurried
or hustled.
The Voice that’ Breathed helped to put
through the Supplementary Estimates and
the covering Supply Bill in the Vie. Assem-
bly last week in a few hours. In submitting
the figures McPherson had a dig or two at
Greenwood for his Sunday • stump-oratory,
and Greenwood started off a debate that
seemed good for two nights. Then the Old
Hand oil the Treasury Bench passed the
word around that the favorite
daughter. May, was to be married next day,
and that, it was pp to the House to give him
a, day off. The bill was through by 10
o clock, and Mac. went home basking in the
goodwill of his fellow-members.
Matt must have forgotten the original
application of the phrase “accident of an
accident” wljen lie used it so glibly in refer-
ence to Thomas Hughes, the Sydney knight
i whose line Of descent' nobody has im-
pugned), during the Wireless debate in the
Bens. When the Duke of Richmond, in
1770, taunted Lord Thurlow, the occupant
of the Woolsack, with his humble origin.
Thurlow hit back by asking the dook whether
he didn’t feel that it was as honorable, to owe
a seat in the Lords to exertions in the legal
profession as to be the accident of an acci-
dent. As .Richmond was a descendant of the
natural son of Charles 11. and the baby-
faced Breton who was made Duchess of
Portsmouth, the House held its breath at the
directness of the smack. The phrase had
been allowed to get dusty in its pigeon-hole
till Watt dragged it out and made people
sneeze.
“Lexite”: Jack West go! his re-selection
as Labor’s nominee for Last Sydney in an
easy fashion this year. Bramston, the city
alderman, who got some unprofitable pub-
licity a little while back, was his opponent,
but could only rope in 90 votes against
West’s 352. West battled twice unsuccess-,
fully against George Reid, before that astute
politician saw the writing on the wall, and,
taking the High Commissionership, left the
third contest to S. T. Lees, who crashed
heavily. As a speaker, although improved
with his Reps, experience. West is as rough
as bags ; but he makes up by volume of voice
what he lacks in the way of dialectical skill.
Some August birthdays:—
Dr. “Joe” Vereo (Adelaide), 71, on Ist; W. R.
Beaver (Syd.), 69, on 2nd; Dr. Humphrey Marten
(Adelaide), 62, Knight Edward Miller (Melb.), 74,
and Canon Charlton (Syd.), 62, on 3rd; Colonel
Robert Christie (Q.), 39, and J. F. Bailey (Director
Adelaide Botanic Gardens), 56, on sth; Justice
Isaacs (High Court), 67, Dr. W. Chisholm (Syd.),
69, and E. A. Southee (Principal of Hawkesbury
College), 32, on 6th; Vic. Speaker Mackey, 57, and
Edwin J. Brady, 53, on 7th; Federal Minister Alec
Poynton, 69, on Bth; E. H. C. Oliphant (Melb.
Herald), 60, on 14th; Major-Gen. J. Gordon Legge,
C. 8., C.M.G., 59, and Prof. Grafton Elliot Smith
(b. Grafton, N.S.W.), of University College, London,
51, on 15th ; Prof. Rennie (Adelaide Uni.), 70, and
Colonel C. Hazel Elliott (Tas.), 40, on 19th; Federal
Minister R. W. Foster, 66, on 20th; Bishop Dwyer
(Maitland), 64, Albert T. Holden, Vic. Methodist
chaplain in the war, 66, Will Ogilvie, 53, and Speck’s
ex-Senator O’Keefe, 58, on 21st; Judge Curlewis
(N.S.W.), 63, and Biig.-Gen. E. F. Martin, C. 8.,
C.M.G., 46, on 22nd; Knight Dr. J A Cockburn (S.
Aus., ex-Premier and former Agent-General), 72, and
G. T. Allen (formerly of Federal Treasury), 70, on
23rd; Major-Gen. Knight J. Talbot Hobbs, 58, and
Dr. Walter Rosenhain, F.R.S. (formerly of Melb.),
47, on 24th; ex-Fedcral Minister P. McM. Glynn,
K.C. (S. Aus.), 67, ex-Judge C. G. Heydon
(N.S.W.), 77, and Colonel J. M. Corlette (N.S.W.),
42, on 25th; Science-Knight T. R. Lyle, F.R.S.
(Melb.), 62, on 26th; Prof. Angus (Syd.' Uni.), 41,
and Dr. E. N. Merrington, Presbyterian minister,
Brisbane, 46, and C. Gavan Duffy (formerly of
Federal Senate), 67, on 27th; Col. Walter Cass,
C.M.G., 46, on 28th ; Andy Fisher (ex-High Commis-
sioner), 60, and Brig.-Gen. J. H. Cannon, C. 8.,
C.M.G., 40, and J. S. Brunton (Bninton flour mills),
61, on 29th; Principal Macintvre (Syd. Uni.), 59,
on 30th; J. W. McGregor (wool merchant), 61, and
C. R. Long (Vic. Education Dept.), 62, on 31st.
Senator Bill Plain, Vic. N.F. president,
is much perkier now than when he first
entered the Vic. Parliament as Labor mem-
ber for Geelong. He was once credited by
a morning paper with trying a new fashion
m stonewalling, by making long pauses be-
tween his sentences, and sometimes between
words. Macaulay relates that when Bute,
i irst Minister under George 111., was
getting off his maiden speech in the
Lords he worked in long pauses, not
from hesitation but from affectation, causing
Charles Townshend, one of the Commoners
who crowded the bar, to exclaim, “Minute
guns!” In Plain’s case it was not affecta-
tion but groping for words that caused the
waits. The words roll more glibly off his
tongue these days.
“Aurora”: “Tiberias’s” list of A.I.F. men
entitled to wear the white ribbon of the
lolar Medal (B. 22/6/’22) needs extending
0 &,V,1/‘ Fl '^ av , Island’s” additions
(B. 29/0/ 22). Profs. Edgeworth David
aad, Griffiths-Taylor, Drs. McLeod and
Middleton, Ferrar (who has the Ferrar
Glacier named after him) and Le Gros
(Imperial Relief Antarctic Expedition) are
the names of a few occurring to me at the
moment that should be added.
A. G. (“Mudgee”) Taylor, N.S.W. Parlia-
mentarian and pressman, was responsible for
the worst outrage upon military decorum in
the history of Victoria Barracks, Sydney.
He was a gunner in the Permanent Artillery
when a parsimonious Government failed to
arrive with the clothing issue at the due
date. Due chill morning Taylor turned up
°«,R arade a b l ank ek “Take that thing
off. roared the Adjutant. Taylor obliged
and stood m the unpretentious uniform of
the Garden of Eden Grenadiers. “Put it
on again. Damme, what’s the meaning of
this damfooleryV” Taylor blandly replied
that his uniform had become so tattered that
bf* thought the blanket would be more seemlv
Aludgoe got two issues that morning—-a
full kit and 14 days’ G.B.
Lingering eight years after his retirement
trom the Vic. Leg. Assembly, George Graham
passed out at the week-end, and a mound has
been heaped over him in Numu-kah cemetery,
t or ol years he held his seat, first for Moira,
then for Aumurkah and finally for Goul-
bdiirne Valley. He was in the Munro,
Mnels, McLean, Murray and first Watt Min-
istries, and was Chairman of the Railway
Lommittee for a few years. In his boyhood.
in Linlithgowshire, he had a hard time in a
Jean home, and was on a whaler when 10.
lie was only IS when he came to Vic. in
Graham aided and abetted Shiels to
suspend Speight, Ford and Greene (Railway
Commissioners) 30 years ago, and, lest his
colleagues should relent, posted the fateful
letter himself late at night.
. T.R.H.”; The Yankee interviewer who
said the Asquiths are broke, and that Margot
is keeping the family out of the Insolvenev
WALLY MARKS,
M.H.R. Assistant-
Minister for
External Affairs,
and, in his spare
time, yachtsman,
prophet and
Imperialist.
Court by taking
to the lecture-
platform and
the inkbottle
in her old age, is
talking the usual
N’York press bel-
lowdrama. Asquith
has twice refused
the Lord Chancel-
lorship within re-
cent years—a job
with which the
Progressive Li b-
eral party wanted
to shelve him. He
made a fortune at
the Bar, and was
Home Secretary,
and for a long
time Prime Min-
ister. And she
was a Tennant,
one of the wealthi-
est families in the
connt r y. She
writes and lectures
to please herself,
and to keep her-
self in the lime-
light, which her
husband’s political
eclipse no longer
affords her.
P. 0.8. : The late George Charles Sim,
politician, journalist and gentleman, who died
intestate at Wynnum South (Q.), in May,
wrote his own epitaph, which has been for-
warded to a friend in Brisbane by his sister,
Margaret Sim, of Bradford, England :
Here lies the dust of George Charles Sim,
Who lived and loved and toiled and died.
What matters now the World to him,
Its pomp, its gallantry, its pride?
His sins Confessed, his wrongful deeds,
He sleeps in peace beneath the sod,
Relying not on Faiths or Creeds
But on the mercy of his God.
S.A.’s foremost politician has followed
the example of more than one pre-
decessor in knighthood, by fitting his second
Christian name into the handle. Henry
aforetime, in future he will be Newman Bar-
well. So, it may be recalled, John Langdon
Conython and the late John Winthrop
Ilackett rose from their metaphorical knees
when royalty touched their shoulders with
its supposititious sword as Langdon and
Winthrop respectively, the John being dis-
carded with misterhood. Colonel Alta-
mont (or Amory) in Thackeray’s “Vanity
1 air” had a touch of the same weakness.
“She called me Ferdinand,” he told Captain
Strong, when stressing the degree of intimacy
he had once established with a certain titled
lady. “I thought your name was Jack,”
grinned the captain. “Damme, Strong,” was
the reply, “a man may have more than one
name, can’t he? When I’m with a woman I
like to have a good one.” Similarly,' one
supposes, when the obligation falls upon a
politician of having to wear one of his front
names for a permanency, he likes to pick out
the most'imposing he has in stock.
Queensland continues to advertise its vile
climate. liecently Mrs. Jacob Sheffield, of
South Brisbane, succumbed at the early age
of 81 years. Arriving as recently as 1852.
she reared a large family, and left 20 grand-
children and 16 great-grandchildren.
Justice T. O’Sullivan, who was lately
lifted on to the Supreme Court Bencb m
Bananaland, was born at Ipswich 65 years
ago. A State-school product and proud of
it, he started first as a solicitor and developed
a nose for Costs as a barrister in 1000.
Bitten by political ambitions three years
later he was elected to the Leg. Councii and
won a super’s position in the Morgan
Cabinet. Afterwards he became the voice of
Warwick in the lower House, but he mislaid
his majority in the general elections of 1908.
During another period in the Council he
was a Minister for Stock and Agriculture
and Attorney-General; but he dropped poli-
tics for good on capturing a Judgeship in
the Brisbane District Court. O’Sullivan,
who is something of a writer, is part creator
of a heavy tome on the insolvency laws of
his State.
LEGS AND LATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The Rev. George Walters cannot understand why
flappers persist in sitting down on the Mosman boats
with their legs crossed. If there were no short skirts
there w’oukl be no display of legs on the Mosman
boats. Mr. Walters does not favor short skirts. The
legs are right enough. Girls cannot be blamed for
having’ nice legs, but in wearing short skirts thev
show a lack of modesty.” —Sydney Scn.
“The Rev. George Walters.’.. .author of ‘Joseph of
Canaan,’ staged at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney.”
— John’s “Notable Australians.”
The straddle uncouth
Of the debonair youth
With his trousered, inflexible pegs,
Is a sight that fatigues.
The display that intrigues
On the ferry, is feminine legs.
Not on ferries alone
Such allurements are shown —
A symmetrical limb never palls—
Every baidhead in town,
From, say, 90 years down,
Loves a seat in the “A” row of stalls.
Mr. Walters upbraids
All those short-skirted maids
Mho display fatted calves prodi (/all//,
Hut he shouldn’t inveigh
For, when he wrote a play,
The curtain came down on a ballet I
Though his “Joseph” was coy,
No wild, dissolute boy,
Still his Potiphur’s missus was flighty ;
And some of the girls
In the mad, Gyppo whirls,
Wore a costume of tights and a nightie.
That Old Testament show
Was successful, we know ;
And moral and Biblical, very;
And yet night after night
Quite its pleasantest sight
\\ ere its legs—as to-day on the ferry !
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


•* . «?• \ *?*' - . S'Jj? jsSl&s *
'"j'Lfj'" l •’•-i ’ ’ '
-
I H
• ••
sm
fferag ,P, ■ \. -:
-v ‘<
.
jf \**s '*’■*' *■' <
* ......
til ,;.2fv
MMi
fcr' 3 .<,. •
g f# ■ <
• ' V
W£Cj
■
- '/:>
r\ M wwP
“' .'d'W*#
> jSSSpy#^
wfcisi
m
m
ft ';"•
Hf , *M
W “- 4 I v
W -'••
Ml
■ .v*
\&/r.y. i
n
1
■
—«
-
V
t::
■■ ?••••.•
t * * :
• •
SSS—B»SMI3
"•©: : ii :: ;.::;■ 11/ ■ ■
,&imm
..
m
m


•. ... /-
m
m
It *
Schweppes
Schweppes’ Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of
winning a Prize.
Prizes
Each competitor must send in five labels
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest-numbers
ot the five labels will be the winders.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
hoveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars
;/ v /
Lffem
• CteCTCTWK—
Best for all Pens
SOCIETY
feome, at least, of the brain-meat that is
spent on wondering about the “epidemic of
crime” is wasted in search for the obvious.
J he absurdly, or insanely, lenient sentences
passed h.y many Judges and magistrates ex-
plain a whole lot. Whatever may be said
for or against gaol as a curative it is cer-
tainly a preventive. The assault-and-robbery
artist who gets and serves three years won’t
practise again for three years, while on a
tiuee-months scale he may, even if caught
regularly, which he never is, do 12 crimes
in the time. In other words, lie will be a
A MATTER OF TASTE.
"Is this soup or broth , miss?"
"Can't you tell by the taste?"
“No."
"Well, what's it matter?"
dozen criminals instead of one, and 11 of
tliem mamifactm-ed l,y some senile blitherer
on the Bench, who should be in ga'ol himself
tor breach of duty.
4
“Digger’s Batman” describes a big bluff:
The U.S. claims in
Sergeant Sam York, of
Tennessee, the man who
single-handed took ihe
biggest bag of prison-
ers during the war.
Foch is said to have
acclaimed the exploit
“the greatest thing
accomplished by any
private soldier of all
the armies of Europe.”
It occurred in the vicin-
ity of Chateau Thierry,
where the Yanks, in
advancing, were held
up by machine-gun
posts. York was with
a flanking party of 17
that got to the back of
the Germans. Nine of
these were killed aud
wounded early; then
York had the luck to
capture a German
officer, who professed
his readiness to sur-
render his men if the
shooting was stopped.
As a guarantee of bona
tides he blew liis
whistle, and 80 or 90
Fritzes “cameraded.”
There were more Ger-
mans between the
Yanks and their own
line, but York lined
his prisoners as a
screen, with the officer
at pistol-point in front
of himself, and deliber-
ately marched on the
intervening Huns. Fear-
ful of wounding their
own men, they gave in.
And the total haul was
132 prisoners. No doubt
it was a great bluff,
but it occurred on Octo-
ber 8, when the Ger-
mans were dispirited
and well on the run. York was given a farm by a
grateful country ; but at his own request further gifts
intended for him were pooled into what is to be
known as the York Foundation to establish farm
schools in the mountain districts of his native
Tennessee.
* * • •
“O.B.” (Berlin) : House and room ration-
ing is now law in Germany. Unable to get
accommodation at hotels here, I was billeted
by an obliging official on a private
family and found (1) that householders
are only entitled to do manv living
and sleeping apartments, and (2) that,
if they have any more, the authorities
may commandeer the rooms for the accommo-
dation of visitors. For a nicely-furnished
bedroom and a full-and-plenty ' ham-and-egg
breakfast I was charged 160 marks —at the
then ruling rate of exchange about 2s. 6d.
Here is another item (for which I am in-
debted to a German newspaper) bearing on’
Fritz’s way of accommodating himself to post-
war conditions: A mob of people, men#
women and children, took possession of a
large area of ground at Dusseldorf belong-
ing to the city. They first made trenches,
covered the tops, and lived in them. Then
they went in for dugouts. Later they stole
concrete and built bungalows, and, later still,
stole doors and windows. And there they are
at time of writing, paying no man anything.
Everything about the place lias been stolen
from someo.ne, even to the pot-plants in the
front garden and the fowls in the back yard.
“Bilbav”: A policeman’s cap was discern-
ible above the sea of heads outside the pic-
ture show, and I asked a by-
stander for enlightenment. "Oh,”
lie grunted, “the beat was trying
to burl into flicks on the groutor
and they’re sloughin’ him in.”
Fortunately, I was able to trans-
late, having encountered both
“burl in” and “on the grouter”
in war-time. Even “sloughed-in”
had some vogue as an indication
of what might have happened to
anyone who had collided too hard
with the military police.
* * * #
Father Clarke comes back :
I am loath to shove any more “Ne Temere” down
the throats of your readers, but the remarks of Chaplain
Green (B. 20/7/’22) require a reply. He thinks
that, while the Catholic Church is justified in pun-
ishing two of its own members who violate its
marriage laws, a Catholic who colludes with a non-
Gatholic in defiance of the “Ne Temere” decree tnust
escape punishment—presumably as a reward for his
disobedience. This surely is not logic. Marriage is
a mutual contract, and what affects one party must
necessarily also affect the other. Mr. Green’s second
reason “why the State should prevent, so far as it
can., the operation of the decree,” when boiled down,
amounts to this: That no one must question
the validity in the .sight of God and the
l-hurch of any marriage which the State allows.
hat is to say, it is not sufficient to
acknowledge the legal validity (as we all do) of
such unions; we must also acknowledge them as sacra-
mental marriages—and the Catholic Church (and, in-
cidentally, the Anglican Church) knows of no other
THE PASSION FOR DETAIL.
"Do you know it's 2 o'clock in the morning?"
“Ori', dar-ling. Whish mornin ’ is it?"
maniages among Christians. According to Mr.
Green’s argument, if the State should permit poly-
gamy (as States have done) and call the same
valid in God’s sight, no church must be allowed to
dissent. This may be good Erastianism, but it cer-
tainly is not Christianity.
* * * *
“Idealist” : The universal training scheme
under the reorganisation is an enfeebled
tiling—the forces reduced to
one-quarter their strength,
and the training cut down
to four days at home at in-
tervals, and six days in
camp, where the first day is
spent in reducing chaos and
the last in recreating it.
Still the great thing is
to make the best of it.
Here is a scheme pro-
pounded and followed by an
employer of my acquaint-
ance when selecting lads
for vacancies. All appli-
cants are required to bring
their record books. Profes-
sional qualifications are dis-
cussed first and the choice
narrowed down to several
likely lads, whose books are
then examined, and the em-
ployer selects those with the
best records and dismisses
those not required always
with the same words, “If
you waste my money in my
defence business you wiil
very likely waste my monev
in my private business.” iii
some cases a request is
made to the lad’s O.C. for a
certificate of character be-
fore the final selection, and
the employer finds that this
procedure pays him well. If
we all followed his example,
and insisted ou good entries
m candidates’ record books
before employing them, we
should be assisting our de-
fence business by making it
take its proper place in our
na tion a l life, while at the same time we
would be protecting our private interests by
securing the best material.
* * * *
“Kilang”: Recently my children were
issued with new school spelling-bo;oks,
arranged by the Chief Inspector of Schools
in S. A us. On each page is a list of words
which, the author declares, are pronounced
alike, though spelt differently, and among
them are: “hew and yew,” “except and
accept, “real and reel,” “whether and
weather,” “hue and you,” “patience and
patients, "whether and wether,” “wine and
profit and prophet,” “tracts and
tracks, ‘presents and presence.” Now,
whose fault is it that Young Australia’s slip-
snod pronunciation is sometimes denounced V
*
Kip : One of the minor unpleasantnesses
of Blighty leave was the discreditable-looking
Digger who bailed one up and “put in the
nips for a Bradbury or two. You could
generally distinguish A.W.L. cold-footers
who preferred the pavements of London to
the shell-holes of France, by their barefaced
effrontery and persistence. Was walking
down Regent-street with a cobber one day
when, on sighting us, one of these parasites
hastily uncoiled himself from a lamp-post,
and approached with a predatory gleam
in Ins eye. “Don’t unload,” my cobber whis-
pered. “I know this cove of old, but I’ve
learnt a gag since that will fix him—you
watch. Hie cadger had now planted him-
self right in our path, and his “Say, Dig.”
was the evident preliminary to the unfolding
:l e woe. But he got no further.
\\ ith a masterful assumption of wrath, my
mate growled out: “Cut it out, Digger,
J'ou take my tip and blankety well keep off
the grass. We’re working this part of the
street. ’ Later I had occasion more than
once to try the dodge. I found it invaluable.
* * * *
“Norbell”: At Katoomba (N.S.W.) Police
Court the other day, before two local J’s.P.,
John Gottwald, a garbage contractor, pleaded
guilty to repeatedly robbing the manger of
a work-mate’s horse in the local Council’s
stable. The chairman pointed out that the
maximum fine was £2O, and went on : “The
theft is little short of diabolical. To rob a
horse of its feed in the depth of a bitterly
cold winter is. a despicable crime.” A fine
ot £l5 was inflicted. Following on the
cases of the Bowral man who practically
cut a horse to pieces yet had his job kept
tor hun by the local Bumbles while he was
m gaol, and of the Paddington (Sydney)
ruffian who battered his pony into uncon-
sciousness with an iron bar and was released
under the First Offenders Act, those
Katoomba honoraries deserve whatever
public awards are reserved for pioneers.
* * * •
The three convicts in Adelaide whose
escape created such a stir never had a
chance. Press, police and public were all
on their track, and Nature tobk a hand,
hitting below the belt with a week of the
coldest and wettest weather the citv has
ever known. The reputed desperadoes hadn’t
outside help—as was at first imagined from
the ease with which they got away—and
PRO BONO PUBLICO.
"He believes that if he had his hair cat he would never
be able to play another note.”
“Well, someone ought to hold him down and cut it.”
had to rely for food and clothing on house-
breaking stunts in the Port Adelaide dis-
trict and along the shore towards Glenelg.
alien they struck inland for the market-
gardens on the Torrens. But an orange-
grove is a poor place either for board o>-
lodging in midwinter, and none of the three
seemed sorry when they were rounded up
at Payneham. Ryan, formerly a reckless
gunman in .Sydney, was so done that the
first act of his captors was to buy
him food. Next day. when he should have
been in the _ dock with the other two, lie
was in hospital with pleurisy.
(Continued on page IS.)
A BALLAD OF ABSORBED TRAMMIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some things there be that no man wots,
Such as what winds may seem to say,
Or \vaves that lap secluded spots
Where poets laze the hours away
To get material for a lay
From wildly speculative shots.
That’s pure imagination, eh?
My puzzle’s more prosaic, lots—
What are the questions of the day
When trammies gather into knots,
At every coign which use allots,
Whene’er through Sydney streets you stray,
These pavement Witanagemots
Uploom in uniformed array.
And some are grave and others gay,
Just as our legislative “pots” ;
But what the problems are they weigh
Outsiders ken no more than what’s
The meaning of a mystery play—
When trammies gather into knots.
The monitory finger dots
1 his point or that. The listeners sw r ay
That way or this. It may be plots
The penny section move to slay
Lest basic wage? fall. It may
Be merely football lore—or trots —
Or whether limbs that girls display
From shrunken skirts are dreams or blots
Upon the tramscape. Say, qui suit ?—
When trammies gather into knots.
Can it be measured eightpenny tots
Gainst which those kerbstone Burkes inveigh
1111086 rhetoric no reporter jots?
What is’t infuses such dismay
In that man’s tones? The price of crav?
Or recent Surry Hill garrottes?
Ho they debate, “Is Catts o.k. ?”
Or if Macdonell House dry-rots,
With such dramatic Yea and Nay
When trammies gather into knots.
Envoy.
I care not what wild waves may bray
Or zephyrs breathe in sylvan grots,
But tell me, someone, tell me, pray
What are the topics deemed au fait
At change of shift throughout the day
When trammies gather into knots.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■H
.
*
■■■:■ , -v —Tf .
■
ISISI
:
.
a^MpWBWgIMMMHI
-x^^gaas
hhrim
mmm MmMsl
l IP®
.<. ■
•■•fV .2
§§&Slf!!ss£
'iM
: «4i i
llß@®riY}vYlSS#K
si'**
■■■•..
- n
;\-i
■-r:-
PH?
ft; k
b«L A*- **
SKsKSSskSS-&£' ■■' ■■*«■■»N-- >'-
ft i§
/
. '- v:
i* ‘ • •
,
mm
MU
ft/.ftftft
:% *1
*&-
as m
■ 'ft;
■
ft*, 'ft
Wim m
K:V 1
' m v ; '*
Si? $2?
SI
eR
j
\ S
m
n\
M
.ft
Hi T^WPPgy/
f-Yz:-.!
.... 1
m
a mm
.
• : ii;
■ft- *
v\
i 4 ' :.^r'
HI
... • • :
- ’AM
.#
.., ■<*-
-
Certain, Safe and
always Dependable.
“The plants that work
without watching
JkJATTHEWS Full Automatic
Electric Light and Power Plants are
used as the illuminant in lighthouses in many
parts of the world. This duty is the most onerous
and most vital that a plant can be asked to
perform. But the MATTHEWS never fails. It
delivers a perfectly reliable service under all con-
ditions. It is the ideal plant for lighting homes,
farmhouses, assembly-halls, schoolhouses,
colleges, hotels and the like. It is easy and
economical in operation. The i Automatic Care-
taker” ensures that there is always a full charge
in the batteries, and the battery charging is auto-
matically started and stopped. There is ample
power for a multitude of household appliances
and motors.
22 Models —15 Lights to 5000 Lights.
Benzine or Suction Gas. Sizes 1 to 75 k.w.
DURO WATER SYSTEMS
AKE the home modern, sanitary, health
M
ful, comfortable and attractive to the
family. “DURO” Water Systems supply
fresh and clean water under a steady and
dependable pressure at the tap in the bathroom,
kitchen, laundry and water-troughs; also for
watering gardens, and for fire protection at a
surprisingly small cost.
They are operated by current supplied by the
MATTHEWS Full Automatic Light and Power
Plant, Town Electric Supply, or they can be
driven by oil- or steam-engine. These plants
draw water from dams, streams or deep bores.
Write us for Catalogue “E.”
■
!SIN
SOOTH BRITISH
BUILPINCS
US
0
'CONNELL. ST.
YDN E Y
Queensland Distributors:
J. B. CHANDLER & CO.,
169 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A Signal Success
<3
King George IV
WHUSKSf
The TOP-NOTCH”Scotch.
“For Ever Best/'
STAg
LR6ER
TOOHEY'S.
U.IY : Adelaide threatens to acquire a
name for other things besides culture—
wooden-headed stupidity, for example. Some
time _ ago a man deposited a fairly large
sum in o,ne of the: Holy City’s banks. One
day he blew in and drew a cheque for £lOOO.
After it had been initialled, it was handed
back to him, in accordance with the stupid
local bank system. He altered the “1” to
A and the “one” to “four,” drew £4OOO of
the best and hasn’t been seen since. Another
simple ruse was worked subsequently in
the same city. A draft for £1 was obtained
at a branch bank in N. S. Wales, converted
into an order for £l7OO, and promptly paid
|>.y a bank officer. The perpetrator in this
instance limped into the bank swathed in
lint, being ostensibly just from the hospi-
tal. Two days afterwards, when the fraud
was discovered, the only thing the bank offi-
cials could remember about the thief was a
mass of bandages and a strong odor of iodo-
form—both of which he doubtless shed after
he had collected.
* * * *
“Will C.”: lie “Tauwarra’s” defence of
hvncli-law (B. 13/7/’22). The impulse
winch drives the “white American” to join
with his fellows in wreaking summary ven-
geance on a .negro who has violated the white
man’s code is,_ in reality, only different from
a primitive thirst for blood about once in a
hundred times. Between the years 1885 and
only 20 per cent, of the lynchings were
even claimed to be the result of a negro’s
attack on a white woman. And out of 246
negroes lynched during the five years ending
with 1918, only 28 were for crimes alleged
to have been committed against white women,
lhe remainder included white men as well as
black, and white women and even girls. It
is significant in this connection that lynching
and other forms of crime go together in
Georgia, which holds the record for unautlio-
NOT HIS SORT OF TURF.
“Your hubby is very fond of the turf.”
“And yet I can never get him to push the
lawn-mower”
rised slaughter. And in that wild region 5.4
of the native whites are illiterate. One need
not be a one-eyed theorist or a Black Aus-
tralian to hate and dread Lynch-law, and to
see the weakness of “Tauwarra’s” defence of
that barbarous practice. If it is accepted
then the crime passionel of the jealous wife
or husband must be condoned, a.nd the mutila-
fions ot often inoffensive citizens bv masked
ivu-Kiux-Kiansmen. And the step from that
state ot affairs to anarchy is too brief to be
worth mention.
* * • •
Te Pana”: “J.C.” might have gone one
laither m his recent par. about the Maori news-
paper, Te Pihoihoi Mokemoke I Ku.yga a
te Puanui, and told the sequel to the seizure
ot the printing-press. At the battle of
NO MUSICIAN.
CURIO DEALER : “This warming-pan may he of interest to you."
COHENSTEIN: “Not the slightest. I couldn't play the bally thing if I bought it."
Orakau, a year after the raid on the news-
paper office, a party of British troops were
puzzled- by the nature of some ammunition
coming from the Maori lines. Gorst, the late
proprietor, solved the problem when he re-
cognised in the broadsides some of the “pie”
from his old ofiice. “By gad,” he is said to
have remarked as a galley of solid brevier
burst overhead, “there goes a column of
Spring verse!” Close at hand a subaltern
stopped a couple of sticks of Gorst’s “Essay
on Christian Fortitude,” and a moment later
a group of privates was flattened by the
deadly thud of a substantial instalment of a
two-column leader. By the way, E. J. von
Dadelszen, who passed out recently, and was
one-time Registrar-General of Maoriland,
was on the premises at the time of the Maori
raid. After locking the door he stood by
with the office paste-pot; but Hori called his
bluff, and Von stood helpless while the bul-
lock drays lumbered away to Kihikihi with
the printing-press.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: It is odd to note the influence
of a dramatic event on a town’s destiny.
Clunes, of all the Victorian mining towns I
have known, alone was kept clear of a regu-
lar Chinese camp in all these years. Even
when Creswick, next door, had a thriving
collection of hovels housing quite a large
population of Chows, Clunes at worst had
only a couple of Chows running
tail-end sluice-boxes from the big
batteries, and one family of yellow
heathens working a small cabbage-
garden on the banks of the Piper.
In the late ’fifties the women of
Clunes turned out in a determined
and united body, and beat off with
sticks and stones two or three
coach-loads of Chinese that the
upholders of unrestricted private
enterprise of the day were running
in to take the jobs of the white
miners on strike. The affair was
called a riot at the time, but men
rigidly abstained from interference,
thereby discouraging the law from
taking to guns to force an alien
population on the township. The
Chows seem to have been invested
with a horror of Clunes. Anyhow, they
never again sought to implant themselves
there in any multitude.
* * * *
“Lip” on some extra-smart Digger-
trappers :
A nark could make the way of the transgressing
Digger very hard. One night, in a camp in England,
a small-sized riot started. The insurgents finally
halted outside the orderly-room, when an officer
appeared on the verandah, wildly gesticulating, and
addressed the men. They listened awhile in
the darkness, and then sullenly dispersed. Next
morning, on the parade, no one, of course, knew
anything about the affair. The officer walked along
the ranks, picked out the leaders in the row, and
handed them over to the guard. He knew his birds
by the spots on their tunics and hats left by the.
ink from a fountain-pen his gesticulating hand had
held the night before. Another nark was more
scientific in his methods. The Q.M. was greatly
perturbed at the pilfering of goods from bales he
had ready packed for return to Ordnance. The
pickets seemed powerless, and the Q.M. was begin-
ning to lose sleet). The last straw arrived when a
case of Red Cross comforts destined for the officers’
mess disappeared. The Q.M. took counsel with other
starred artists. For several days nothing happened,
except the pilfering. Then, one morning, the medical
officer called a parade. There was an outbreak of
scabies, it was rumored. The m.o. examined each
man’s hands for symptoms of the disease. Suddenly
he stopped. “You might have washed the chocolate
off your hands before coming on parade,” he said,
indicating a number of brown stains on a Digger's,
fingers. The Dig. expostulated. He hadn’t had any
chocolate, he declared ; the marks had come on him
suddenly that morning, and, scrub as he would, he
couldn’t get them off. The m.o. examined the stains
more closely. “I think it’s serious,” he said. He
turned to the parade and asked if any others had
noticed the stains. Immediately a dozen stepped out.
“You’ll all have to go under observation,” said the
m.o. They went under observation—in the clink.
Ihe nark, a photo fiend, had coated the canvas cover-
ing of some bales rigged up for rifling the night
before with a strong solution of nitrate of silver.
The pilferers’ fingers had collected the moisture in
the darkness; and the morning sun had done the rest
« 0 S 35
“Austral”: In backbloc-k towns the shop
windows are popular for advertising purposes,
and our local weekly suffers in consequence.
But it has its revenge sometimes. The
other day, after reading a notice inviting all
and sundry to a “kitchen” evening in the
Town Hall, for a popular pair who were on
the brink of matrimony, my eye travelled to
the announcement underneath. It proved to
be a “For Sale”—a double cot and cradle.
Ihe editor would have arranged things better
than that.
* * * *
“Prospector” on considerations which may
determine the creed a man dies in:—
It happened in a W.A. goldfields town. Jack
Oully, a well-known old dryblower in the district,
had passed out, and there was some discussion among
his friends as to what particular section of the
local cemetery Cully would have wished his remains
to be accommodated in. But nobody had any idea
about the religious beliefs of the deceased, and at
first it looked as if the controversialists were up
against a dead end. Citizen after citizen was appealed
to, but nobody had ever heard Jack express the
faintest preference for any sect or religious organ-
isation whatever. Pots and glasses had been replen-
ished three or four times a t Peter Valley’s bar
before Skerricks, the local gravedigger, blew in and
was asked, as something of an expert, if he could
throw any light on the dark place. Skerricks drank
two pints and did some hard thinking. Then he
confidently asserted that Cully, although no church-
goer, had been a Presbyterian.' Pressed for reasons,
he admitted at first that he had no definite evidence
to offer, and it wasn’t till he had negotiated another
pint that he suddenly remembered that he had filled
up Cully’s census paper for him in April of last
year, the dish-twisting citizen being “no scholard,”
and that Cully had desired to be listed as a nominal
adherent of the church in question. As the two men
had been fairly intimate, this was accepted as con-
clusive, and Jack was duly laid to rest among the
corpses with which it seemed likely he would have
most in common on Judgment Day. It wasn’t till
some days afterwards that the community realised
that Skerricks’s attitude may not have been entirely
disinterested. In fact, it was Skerricks himself who
created the suspicion. Somebody asked him if he
was perfectly certain about the details in Cully’s
census paper. The gravedigger lowered a pint before
replying. “Well,” he admitted, “I might have
made a mistake about that; I dunno. But one
thing I am sure of,” he added, hammering on the
bar with the glass parody of a pintpot that W.A.
barmen pump the beer into, “it’s bosker sinkin’ in
the Presbyterian part of the boneyard!”
* * * *
(< T.W.”: Whatever may have been
“Slinga’s” Army experience (B. 6/7/’22), the
removal of rank marks from the sleeves of
delinquent n.c.o.’s is a well-established cus-
tom in Britain’s and some other armies. I
served with four regular battalions during
the clash, as a Tommy with one lot of Suf-
folks, as an officer with another lot, then
tiansferred to the Notts and Derbys (other-
wise known as Sherwood Foresters), ,and
finally attached for a few months to the
King’s Liverpools. With two of these bat-
talions I acted as adjutant, and it
was up to me to know, but ' I had the
advantage that all our C.O.’s were pukka
colonels, and knew every one - of the cere-
monial ropes. In all cases where our non-
coms, had to be “broken” the step “Slinga”
regards as an “imbecility” was taken. Had
we gone m for courts-martial at the furious
rate that seems to have prevailed among his
lot, possibly we would have found it con-
venient to let this bit of ceremonial slide.
Armies depend much on “imbecilities.” It
is a fond tradition with the Suffolks and five
other British regiments to wear roses in
their caps on the anniversary of Minden. To
people like “Slinga” that might look stupid,
but all ranks, in those regiments regard it as
a privilege, just as the Gloucesters cherish
tradition of wearing a badge on the .
back of the cap, and the regiments of the
principality insist on being called Welch,
not Welsh.
* * * *
Footslogger”: A form circulated in
connection with deceased soldiers lately
came., under my official notice. One of the
questions was: “What was his calling?” It
elicited some remarkable answers. They
ranged from “Ernie,” “Sergeant,” “His King
and Country,” to “Erysipelas.”
VERY NEAR, INDEED.
HE: "My relations have lots of money."
SHE: “They must he very close relations:
they don't seem to give you much."
“Magnoon”: The s.i.w. pars. (B. 29/6/’22)
remind me of one Bill, the souvenir king
of our outfit. Bill’s specialty was driving
bands, and one day at a Tommy dump he
got to work on a 15in. dud. While William
was attacking the driving band with a pick
and an old bayonet, he was challenged bv
a Woodbine major with: “Confound it, man
don t you know if that goes off you’ll be
marked s i w.?” “If this cow goes oft” cor-
rected Bill between belts from the pick “me
and you’ll both be marked R.1.P.”
BEATING THE GUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The westerly wind is wild to-night.
And the hours of dark are long,
But my ironbark fire burns late and bright
While, bright and early, I fain would write
A bit of a vernal song.
toi I know the length’ning days will bring,
" "’ild birds’ earliest pipe,
lhe stimulus that bids poets sing
1 heir annual ode to the balmy Spring,
It* they want to see it in type.
I heir notes may smother my puny lyre,
if I don't get in betimes,
Bor I lack the feeling and ’force and fire
that mark the best of the Backblocks choir,
And I’m often stuck for rhymes.
But the master-singer will keep his lay
Till the buds begin to burst.
Though winter, ’tis true, isn’t yet away
I smite the strings of my harp and say:
Ihe Spring may be coming any day,
And at least I’ll get there first.”
QUEENSLAND.
G. A. LLOYD.


*
$
f=v?
i‘4
iNW I ’'-!'
r/^fV*
&:5*J
fc**
lw>
S*»3F.
3^»
5X
siAa
aa
i
ts
&
x*
£*
m
In
S 3
&
S 3
■**f
%
m
rsr?
■y-.
11l 'll
fc>
!!)il
to
£*»
3?
lifftr
,<N>*
S 3
; .v.
it
EXTRA SPECIAL!
MEN'S SOX, All Wool.
Black Cashmere Sox, seamless feet, nice
weight. Wonderful value. Our Cut Price, 2/11
Square Deal Price 2/- pair
MEN’S ENGLISH-MADE ALL-WOOL
KNITTED SOX, in Heather only.
Usual Price, 3/11.
Square Deal Price 2/9 pair
Prior to
Stocktaking!
Men’s
Mackintosh Overcoats.
Smart single-breasted Mackin-
toshes, Raglan style. Most
reliable and absolutely water-
proof, in Navy or Fawn shades.
Keenly priced at 75/-
To Clear at ... . 35/6
OVERCOATS
AT SQUARE DEAL SAVINGS
Single-breasted Overcoats
Our Special ALL-WOOL Single-breasted
Styles, well tailored in Grey Check
Tweed, lined throughout. Finished with
full belt and buckle.
Usually 84/-
Square Deal Price
5916
THE “CHAMPION”
Dark Grey ALL-WOOL Cheviot Over-
coat is particularly well tailored. Featur-
ing single-breasted style, finished with
half-belt at back. A coat that is warm
and serviceable.
Usual Price, 90/-
Square Deal Price
796
Baltic Tweed Overcoat.
OUR SPECIAL HEAVY ALL-WOOL
BALTIC TWEED OVERCOAT, in dark
Oxford Grey, featuring half-belt at back, is
particularly smart and serviceable for travel-
ling and motoring. Absolutely waterproof.
Usually £5 /5/-
Square Deal Price
£4/14/6
Cheviot Overcoat
WARM, ALL-WOOL CHEVIOT OVER-
COATS, distinctive English models, featur-
ing the new inverted pleat at back, and half-
belt, in medium Grey shades. Exceedingly
smart and serviceable City Overcoat.
Usual Price, £B.
Square Deal Price
£6/12/-
vi.",
a aim
tm
s m
m
mil
sss
HfiKS
B
ms*
«(
SHIRTS! SHIRTS! SHIRTS!
Genuine English Cambrics.
Absolutely Fast Colors.
OUR SPECIAL CUT PRICE, 8/6.
Square Deal Price,
411
U ’ tkp SHIRT BARGAIN ever offered! Our Special Quality Cambrics,
FRFF S FROM DRESSING. An excellent washing material Shirts have reinforced
Lcks and “f. cuffs fait colors, in neat Blue Black and Grey fine-hne strrpes.
A limited supply available in all sizes. Grasp th.s opportumty!
PYJAMAS.
Men’s “Cozy” Suits.
Our Special Cut Price 14/6
Square Deal Price . . . 11/6
This Pvjama Material is well known for its
nice soft flannel finish. Ideal for Winter wear.
Very serviceable. These Pyjamas are well made,
finished with turn-down collars, pearl buttons
and girdle. .
Our entire stock of Pyjamas is drastically
reduced for quick clearance. ________
UNDERWEAR.
Usually 12/S
Square Deal Price ... 7/11
Here’s something special! Men’s ALL-WOOL
STNGLETS —a bargain-table full. Available in
all sizes, with long sleeves only. Absolutely too
good to miss for this cold weather. Select youi
supplies early.
PURE WOOL SINGLETS or UNDER-
PANTS, which will appeal to men _as excep-
tional bargain value. Medium weight, nice
soft finish ; available in S M. and Men s Sizes.
Usually 11/6.
Square Deal Price .... 9/6
O.S. 1/- extra.
Riding Breeches
and Trousers.
RIDING BREECHES, smart cut, in Suede
Drill, Olive or Khaki shades, splendid hard-
wearing material, self strapped and laced at
knees, expertly cut to ensure long service and
comfort. Sizes: 3to 7. Usually 19/6.
Square Deal Price .... 17/6
JUDHFORE RIDING TROUSERS, in splen-
did hard-wearing, serviceable Khaki Drill, use-
ful style, combining design of riding trousers
and riding breeches, thus dispensing with the
use of leggings. Well tailored, with cross
pockets and belt and loops. Ready for service.
Usually 217-
Square Deal Price .... 18/6
ALL-WOOL RIDING BREECHES. Abso-
lutely essential for camping is a pair of our
serviceable Whippet Tweed Riding Breeches,
available in warm All-Wool Khaki Color, laced
at knee. Usually 30/-
Square Deal Price . . . 28/9
IShe
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ORDER BY POST.
ktVIATHAH
PTY.
LTD.
Corner Swanston 8 Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.


Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Hilda.
Special arrangements can be mad? for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirrs
Thistle Shirts
& SONS LTQ
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents :
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTEALLA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
MURDERING THE LANGUAGE.
BUSH TEACHER : “What did they call this
place Jiggi after?”
BILLY: “Baal plurry name Jiggi! This
place Jiggi-Jiggi."
B.T. :" But everybody calls it Jiggi now.”
BILLY: “White phella chop about plurry
flash. Mine tinkit soon black phella
won't know his own plurry language.”
‘Sir Spen”: To the list of white women
who have taken up the running with abo. spouses let
me add the wife of Jimmy Governor, of Breelong
fame. After Jimmy had been hanged the widow
married a second abo. When last I saw her she was
doing the washing for sundry homes at Kempsey
(N.S.W.), returning to the camp o’ evenings. Her
second husband was more diligent than the average
Binghi, and eventually he left the camp and got a
block of land from the Crown, on which he did fairly
well for a while, though I have since heard the block
was forfeited.
“Saaedi”: The voice of outraged respecta-
bility was loud in Cockydom. Old Brown’s pretty
young wife had fled, and her fellow-flier was Brown’s
valued handy man. Riding past the farm shortly
afterwards, I saw the bereaved gent, leaning over
an ironhark gate, with his moody eyes staring* fixedly
up the track, and his straggling ziff fluttering un-
tidily in the breeze. Summoning my available
hypocrisy, I proffered sympathy. The resultant
blast of fury nearly blew me off the horse. “Yes;
she s gorn the blankety blank hussy,” he howled;
gorn and robbed me of the best flamin’ milkman
to be got anywhere in the blanky country for the
money! Recognising a sorrow too deep for human
condolence, I bowed my head in silence, and departed
down the track.
* * * *
“Pine-needle”: Is the sparrow-hawk in it
with this? In Mambour (Q.) there is one John
Mason who will squat directly behind a rifleman at
the butts, and locate his shots on the target
before it turns. He can do this up to 500yds. on a
dull day, and at the shorter ranges is almost infal-
lible at any time. He claims that he follows the
course of the bullet till the last few feet; but, at
any rate, the marker’s disc seldom fails to verify his
verdict.
* * * *
“Ivaitoa”: Yes, “Yaiwum” (B. 22/6/’22)
is quite safe in betting crows can be killed with
strychnine. Let him take a large beef bone, with
plenty of meat on, and slash the meat across with a
knife; finely powder the strychnine, sprinkle it in
the cuts and the crows soon will be fighting for
places at the feast. They don’t throw up meat
treated thus. But a far better way of poisoning
crows is to take a tablespoonful of S.A.P. to each
pound of dripping, mix well, and put on a gTeen
sheepskin or green-hide, and place some distance
from water. The mixture smokes, and this seems
to attract the birds. One dip and the stuff sticks
to their beaks, burns their tongues, and shortly after
they will be found dying and dead around the water.
I’ve poisoned thousands of crows by each of these
methods.
* » # *
“G.W.S.”: A Bananaland squatter and his
black boy drove a mob of horses about 100 miles to
the nearest town, and when the prads were yarded
the boss gave Tommy a pound with strict orders to
be at his hotel in the morning ready to start for
home. On the morrow the police sergeant, unable to
find a local J.P., got the squatter to sit on the Bench;
and the first delinquent brought before him was his
own black boy. His Worship, assuming his most
austere look and voice, said: “Tommy Tucker, j 7 ou
are charged with being drunk and disorderly—how
do you plead?” Tommy, who had always been par-
ticularly pally with the old chap, looked hard at the
cold, stern face for a moment, then remarked genially:
“Don’t makit a blurry fool of yourself, Boss.”
* * * *
“Papua”: I support “Colub” (B. l/6/’22)
regarding the “harmless” sea-snake that
twists about the waters from New Britain
to the west. The “bandy-bandy,” as the
Papuan settler calls him, is easily as
deadly as a black snake or a death-adder.
The black-and-yellow striped sea-snake is
common along the New Guinea coast;
Port Morseby is full of them—though
only one fatal bite is known of. They
have a nasty habit of basking on the
rocks and sands, both during the day and
also at night. Beatrice Grimshaw almost
walked on one near her house at Morseby,
arid to get there the reptile had crawled
at least 30 yards uphill. One was killed
in front of the Morseby post-office one
night while the people were standing
around waiting for the monthly mail to
be sorted. I don’t know whether, these
horrors go far out in the open sea as a
rule, but I have seen them over 100 miles
from land—and not a drop of grog aboard
the boat or me! Incidentally, “Colub”
did not see a sea-snake at loma (which
is over 100 miles from Buna Bay), be-
cause the sea-snake doesn’t live at loma,
which is over 30 miles from the sea. I’ve
lived at both places, to my sorrow. Be-
sides the black-and-yellow variety, Papua
has a red-and-black specimen that I have
seen only on the north-east coast in Col-
lingwood Bay. It has the same unpleas-
ant reputation as its cousin. But the salt-water
serpents that inhabit the Fijis (B. 4/5/’22) are a
different proposition altogether.
* * * »
“Solo”: Re animals dying from heart
failure (B. 15/6/’22). I was out shooting rabbits
in company with a cocky in Tasmania, and just as
I fired at a cotton-tail I heard a scrambling, and
got a sick pain at the pit of my stomach as I saw
a young calf fall. I thought I’d shot it, but there
wasn’t a mark on its body. Either the noise from
the gun or the sight of my cobber’s whiskers had
killed it, for it was as dead as a Melbourne Sunday.
* * • •
“Mag”: Tell “W. 0.3” (B. 15/6/’22) that
I have known an 18-months-old kangaroo to be still
financed by the mother, though he stood 2ft. 6in.
without his socks, and was far too extensive for his
cabin. Had there been an increase in the family
during the interim, though, he would probably have
been cut off at 12 months. A sure indication that
another teat is occupied is when a joey, still small
enough to enter the pouch, does not do so, but
intrudes his head only. No mother will allow two
occupants of the cabin at one time, unless it be
twins; therefore the elder is debarred. The time
a young Too occupies the pouch is about six times
the period of the parent’s pregnancy—six months.
ever P vGi f ;’,V (B ’ G/7 /- 2 ) had
wouldn’t .J 1 , 6 f , an ' ° f Malalta (Solomons) he
NO whnm a h( ? th 7 P< to , ™f ntlon the Cingalese of
Ln n ' T . irrfwi he ,^ hal ‘ s "’ OU 1n t touch. In the Langa
®‘ gon the sharks are treated by the natives
LOST COUNT.
“That little widow over there—what's her name?”
“Don't know. Two or three husbands ago it was Smith.”
as brothers indeed. Never a pig is killed but the
aquatic portion of the fraternity comes in for its
share. The natives swim among the sharks with per-
fect immunity from attack, and actually shove them
aside when they jostle black brother for his place in
the briny. When dynamite was used for fishing the
sharks arrived in force after a “shot” had been fired,
and the Langa Langa boys had to do some hustling
to retrieve any of the spoils. Their only danger, as
they themselves maintained and I can verify, was
that of a shark competing for the same fish; in which
case, if the nig. didn’t let him have it, the shark
might have absent-mindedly taken a hand or an arm
as well.
« * * *
“W. Blister”: There was a marriage in
our part of far western N. S. Wales the other day,
and all friends of the two families received pieces
of alleged cake. Ours arrived in an old-fashioned
tin matchbox, carefully tied with a strip of bullock-
hide. Inside was a piece of cardboard bearing the
inscription: “With Mr. and Mrs. Blobb’s complaints.”
* # # •
“Sucre”: At Lord John Swamp, in the
Warwick (Q.) district, a rooster took possession of
his old woman’s eggs—l3—held the fort for the
regulation number of weeks, and brought out 13
chicks, which he handed over to his missus, who had
never gone off the cluck. Every chick turned out
to be a rooster.
* * * *
“Turi Turi”: There’s an old maid farmer-
ette north of Auckland (M.L.), who has presented to
each one of her hens a husband all to herself. Here
in her district we are still arguing as to whether
this is generosity, innocence, or one of the sub-
conscious reactions of the psycho-analysts.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: “Borom” (B. 6/7/’22) is
correct about Binghi refusing to touch the belongings
of a deceased nig,—but only when the departed was
a member of his own tribe. While Binghi was
always careful to respect the traditions and spirits
of his own clan, he would always cheerfully loot
the belorigings of a stranger, whether dead or alive.
* * •* «
“Gagi”: Re the man-eating toru of the
Pacific (B. 22/6/’22). Among other legends is
one tttht he never eats the feet or ankles of his
human meals. He swallows the rest at a gulp, but
bites these extremities off like the stalks of a shallot.
Many of the older cunning divers maintain that the
young men who get taken by the toru are all too
scared to turn and clear from it, or are taken as
they enter the water head first, and have no time
to N think of escape. This perhaps is not as com-
forting to the young divers as it sounds. The old
divers don’t usually go down themselves. They
supervise, while their juniors take the risks.
“S. Q. Whyffe”: “Bean Stalk’s” par. (B.
22/6/’22) on the eight-vear-old 80ft. forest seedlings
on Fraser Island (Q.) recalls that the kauri-pine
on the island was about cut out 40 years ago, and
a Lands officer badgered the Minister into a replant-
ing experiment. About four years’ invaluable experi-
ence was got for £l2OO or £lsoo—enough to prove
the proposition. The scheme was dropped (it car-
ried no votes) about ’B6 or ’B7. It was reckoned
at the time that a kauri sapling of 30 years would
be big enough for mill timber, but that 60 years or
over would be a better age for felling; also that the
hypothetical results would beat Aladdin’s lamp. If
the work had been kept up and expanded till now, an
outlay of, say, £lO,OOO would have meant to-day
over half-a-million valuable trees, some fit to cut.
What an asset!
**. * ♦
“Sinbad”: We rolled out the other day to
search for some poor cove, a stranger, who had
been missing for three days. The mob increased
steadily, and by the time we’d been out 18 hours
between 700 and 800 men were scouring the hills in
small parties. At dusk six pf us, who’d been
together all day (although I only knew one of them)
THE MEDICAL PERIL.
“Is your son out of danger yet?”
“No, the doctor is going to make three or
four more visits yet.”
were having a smoke and waiting for the billy to
boil. One said: “Who the blankety blank is this
bloke we’re lookin’ fer?’’ I happened to have
remembered the name. His eyes bulged. “Gawd,”
he said, “that’s me!” I often wish the boys hadn’t
stepped on him till we’d heard his explanation.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE DOC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The doctor in the mallee lands
Attends to patients widely scattered,
An’ havin’ but one pair of hands
He’s in his buggy old an’ battered,
An’ drivin’ almost night an’ day
To answer calls for help an’ knowledge,
An’ mend the cracks in human clay
By rules an’ laws picked up at college.
The buggy’s saucered wheels get bumps
That make the spokes an’ rivets rattle
On roads ungrubbed an’ full of stumps,
As on through sand an’ scrub they battle.
The hood is torn an’ grey with dust,
An’ wrinkled like a brow with worry ;
But in the trap men put their trust,
An’ all it’s asked to do is hurry.
The buggy-pair is lean an’ tough,
Well-trained to long an’ steady pluggin’,
through wind-drifts deep an’ side-tracks rough,
With lion hearts like engines chuggin’.
They’re stayers when a race with Death
Is on the cards, with love for backer
When time is marked by mortal breath
Those mokes can make the pace a cracker.
But sometimes, at an easier pace,
They trot to help on immigration
By leavin’ at some cocky’s place
Another head of population.
The doctor’s bag beneath the seat
(At least so I was told by daddy,
Whose yarn I solemnly repeat)
Contains a newchum lass or laddie.
Our doc. don’t need a big brass plate—
For miles an’ miles in all directions
Each wheel-track’s headed for his gate
From all the farms an’ rough selections;
An’ every soul the old hood knows
As o’er some distant hill it’s risin’
Like some dim sun of hope that shows
At sea above the far horizon.
SOUTH AUSTBAMA.
STRIPPER.


BEST NOVELS by
Australian Authors.
1/- each (posted 1/2).
‘ ‘Bookstall" Series of Australian Novels.
Nearly Four Million Copies Sold.
HAVE YOU READ?
“The Boss of Killara,”
By VANCE PALMER.
“A Colt from the Country,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“The Squatter’s Daughter,”
Adapted from the famous play, by
HILDA BRIDGES.
“The Pearls of Cheong Tah,”
By S. W. POWELL.
“Rogues and Ruses,”
By CON DREW.
“The Oil-seekers,”
By jack McLaren.
“Equality Road,”
By VERA BAKER.
Beatrice Grimshaw’s South Sea Novels.
Edward Dyson’s Humorous Books.
120 Novels to select from. Write for Complete Descriptive
Catalqgue ( free ).
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
Vi . . ~~.
1 /y r""vs““ ;r-”» v 1 -~
-
V \
©
THE LIGHTHOUSES
The beacons which guard our coasts must not fail.
On their brilliance and clearness often rests the safety of ship,
passengers and crew.
“Light of the Age” supplies the bright, clear light in the lighthouses
along our coasts.
The clearness and brilliancy so characteristic of “Light of the
Age” has won for it a firm place in hundreds of homes.
“Light of the Age” is preferred because it burns steadily and
evenly; because it does not char the wick, and because it is
recognised that its clear, restful illumination is easy on the eyes.
Ask your storekeeper for it by name—“ Light of the Age.”
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TE
CO
"itiixias®
TT
nm.
n M mm
111
s'
pappy,Eve^
BEHNING
PIANOS
AND
PLAYER PIANOS
AT PALING’S.
The House of Behning was established in 1861. They have been continuously making
high-grade Pianos during the past 61 years.
The Behnings have specialised in Player Pianos, and are in the unique position of
not alone making the Pianos, but manufacture the Player mechanism in their own
factories as well. By doing so they are able to personally supervise the whole of
the construction and see that absolutely the best workmanship is incorporated in
every instrument. Call in and hear them. Catalogues free.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
a
i
338 George St.
SYDNEY?
Rockhampton.
Lismore
Newcastle


Every roll of genuine MALTHOID carries this label.
m
IN
3
ft
MALTHOID
MARK
TRAM
&
0
53
n
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Sydney.
3$
J-MC
HI
111
‘ltighi off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
Dhe Beer
Without a Rival"
FROM PURE MALT SHOPS ONLY
4000
“Bioko”: “Burraby’s” plover that grew a
daw on the stump of an amputated leg (B. 29/6/’22)
reminds me of a ewe of mine that had a leg cut
off just below the knee when she was a lamb. She
has now a decent foot on the end of the stump. But
this fine bit of work on Nature’s part is mostly
thrown away, as the stump is much too short for
the foot to touch the ground.
* * * *
“Spud”: Camels can swim all right (B.
20/6/’22). I rode the brutes for three years, and,
after the second Gaza disaster, what ’was left of us
were sent down to the Suez Canal for a spell, and
one of our jobs was washing our humpy hacks in
the ditch. I have seen a camel swimming with
ease, loaded with three Diggers. But they don’t
seem able to steer themselves in the water, and their
bows have to be pushed shorewards. Once, when
we were bathing some humpies in the Mediterranean,
one got out of his depth and headed for the open
sea. As a strong current was running, nobody could
get out to him to head him for the beach, and the
poor beggar was drowned after swimming for about
10 minutes.
* * *
“Sucre”: Toll for the passing of the
drover! Recently the owner of a mob of sheep in
Southern Queensland drove them 70 miles to a rail-
way station for trucking. Using no dogs and having
no help from horsemen he “motor-drove” the flock
without the loss of a hoof.
NO MAP REQUIRED.
NEWCHUM : “Haw!" How far is Crow’s
station from here?”
THE SUNDOWNER : “Follow that ’ere fence.
Then at daybreak strike off ter th' east
’an you’ll find a water’ole for a wash.
Yer putty sure to strike one of their
boundary fences about midday.”
“G'.W.S.”: A black tracker, on his way
from Forbes to Grenfell (N.S.W.), stayed at a way-
side pub for lunch, and while he was at his meal the
groom took his mount to run in the mail-coach horses.
Jacky was furious when he came out and found his
prad gone. Pulling out a big, turnipy-looking watch,
he struck an attitude and said to the publican:
“Look here, if that horse belonga me not back in 10
minutes I bin summons the whole plurry public-
house.”
“Saaedi”: Apropos recent Abo. pars about
animals seeking human aid in time of trouble.
Billy, a merino wether, was brought up as a
poddy on a western sheep-station until he was 12
months old, when he went out with the flock sheep.
He lived with them for three years, and completely
lost his identity in the mob. Then came a severe
drought. When things got pretty serious memory
or something stirred within the jumbuck’s headpiece.
Anyway, one morning Billy turned up at the station
homestead with a long face and a cadging yarn about
not having had a square feed for three weeks. He
had come for rations.
THE TEST.
“’E may be reformed, Missus Bluebay, ’[?] MAY. But wot I sez
is, can the leper change ’is stripes?”
“,T.” : “Aglum” (B. 6/7/’22) mentions
Binghi using mud as a curative for wounds. Well,
a fellow tripped over a timber-trolly in the Block
and Wyndham mine, Charters Towers, and collected
a raw wound 4in. by 2Ain. He was told that, as
he was working in a stope of heavy mineralised stone
he would surely get it poisoned ; but he plastered red
clay over the gash every shift, and not only did he
escape poisoning, but the wound healed rapidly.
* * * *
“Malokihi”: The semi-civilised Papuan is
a weird financier. My native cook-boy, who draws
his screw yearly, worried me so much for an advance
of £1 that at last I paid him, whereupon he imme-
diately handed back the note. “Oh, taubada,” he
explained, “that one pound I owe you long time;
close up I fright.” It appears I had lent him £1
the previous Christmas in a fit of seasonable gener-
osity, and had forgotten all about it.
* * » *
“Stellsby”: “Aglum’s” Cingalee shark-
challenger (B. 6/7/’22) wasn’t a hair-raiser. A
common sight at Levuka jetty was Brown Brother
diving for money at a vessel’s stern while a man-
eater, with attendant. pilot fish, cruised amidships.
Sncidentally, there was a white man at Gizo (British
Solomons), known as Alligator Jack, who earned
that name by successfully diving into a lagoon to
rescue his dog from the jaws of a ’gator. True,
Alligator Jack was always a bit eccentric; but I’ll
wager “Aglum’s” Cingalee wouldn’t have performed
the feat.
* * * *
“Snell” : Byrun had made it known in his
neighborhood that he was a buyer of good milch
cows, and one morning a stranger from Ragbag
turned up, offering a plump Alderney, which was
really Byrun’s own cow, one of two he had lost
in the preceding January, and only vaguely dis-
guised. It ended in Just, the would-be seller, stand-
ing his trial for cattle stealing and getting nine
months. When Just came out he sued Byrun for
four pounds, the reward the latter had offered for
the recovery of the cow.
* V # *
“L’Fou”: During the recent phenomenal
spell of snow at Kilmore (Vic.) a sparrow perched
in the kitchen wondering what things were coming
to, the weather never having behaved like that when
he was young. During the night he retired to a bed-
room and expired. Next day the house was invaded
by half-a-dozen sparrows. Whether they were the
coroner and his jury inquiring into the death, or
just a Bolshevik deputation demanding food and
shelter, I don’t know. None had previously ventured
further than the back verandah.
* * *
“Bioko”: Can Binghi blush? Out of eight
observers who attended to this subject for Charles
Darwin three said that abos. do blush, four that
they don’t, and one had his doubts. Can I get
any information from the Abo. council ?
“Wild Oat”: You don’t have to travel the
whole continent to find horny-handed women workers
(B. 29/6,/’22). The Hawkesbury district (N.S.W.)
i ii i *1 t i • u ,
is full of them. One I know is the wife of an
alderman who was at one time his V orsliip the
Mayor. Her long suit at present is felling tall
stiingies and tough ironbarks that keep the locality
in fiiewood. And dire necessity is not the compelling
force either. Her husband is in full working order,
and she has a single son.
* _ * * *
Rddysou ’: Lyons lived oil tlie liue from
Dunolly to Bealiba,
Vic. He was paying
a visit to the Old Sod
when the line was
made, and on his re-
turn, finding his pro-
perty bisected in a
way he had not
dreamed of, he was
furious, and he shook
his fist at every train
that passed through,
cursing vociferously,
and defying the De-
partment to come on.
One day when Tim
had knocked off split-
ting rails to greet the
oncoming train with
the vituperation and
contempt it deserved,
as a result of engine
trouble the train sud-
denly drew up. When
the guard jumped off
to ascertain what the
mischief ha d hap-
pened, Tim Lyons was
there to meet him.
“So yer man enough
to come on at last,
are ye?” said Tim,
and he smote the guard
a round-about right
on the ear. The
guard propped Lyons
in self-defence, an d
the two engaged in a
free and furious con-
test which waged with
violence and bloodshed
till the driver and
stoker arrived an d
hauled Lyons off his
prey, and held him
hard down. “What
the devil did you
attack me for?” de-
manded the guard.
“What fur?” shrieked Lyons, “What fur, is ut?
And you cuttin’ me maize paddock clean in two wid
yer damned train!”
* * - *
“D.F.”: A bird a long way out of its
latitude was a red-crowned fruit pigeon (Ptelinopus
swainsoni) lately shot at Bothwell (Tas.) and sent
to the Hobart Museum. This pigeon belongs to N.
Queensland, and migrates in winter down as far as
N. S. Wales; but no specimen has ever previously
been reported from the Speck, though strays of the
purple-crowned and top-knot pigeons, both purely
mainland species, have previously been recorded on
the southern side of Bass Straits.
“J.”: Re the growth of hardwood in N. S.
Wales. A spotted gum increased its girth from
4ft. 4in. to 7ft. sin. in 19 years, and an ironbark
Bin. in diameter was 12in. through in 22 years.
Locality, Quarybylong, via Cessnock.
* * * *
“Veronal” : A fairly rare marsupial, known
as Bernard’s kangaroo (Macropus bernardus ), homes
in the N. Territory and is
captured alive occasionally
and sent to southern zoos.
A batch of five was re-
ceived at Taronga Park,
Sydney, in 1918 from the
South Alligator River.
Director le Souef says the
male ’roos are raimented
in winter in glossy black,
which changes gradually
in summer to a misty-
black, while the lady Bern-
ard puts on light grey in
winter, but selects brown-
ish-grey for summer. An-
other marsupial seldom
seen is the nail-tailed
kangaroo (or nail-tailed
wallaby) of Westralia. It has a horny point at the
end of its tail, which it uses as a support in climbing
leaning trees, cliffs, etc.
• * a
“D.F.” : Bananaland has at last fallen into
line with N.S.W. and Vic. in limiting game-bags.
The maximum numbers of birds to be shot in a day
have been fixed at 25 for quail, 20 for wild ducks, 10
for wild geese, pigeons and plovers, and two for plain
turkeys and scrub turkeys. The only birds that have
not protection for at least part of the year in Queens-
land now are white cockatoos, cockatiels, galahs,
budgerigahs, rosella parrots, cormorants, crows, the
pied bell-magpie, and introduced birds such as spar-
rows and starlings. Queensland also has decided that
all trappers of and dealers in birds and animals must
be registered. ' The use of electric torches, flashlights
and acetylene lamps in killing birds or animals at
night has been prohibited.
“Wessel”: F. C. Morse, of Moree
(N.S.W.), a member of the Ornithologists’ Union,
says he had this from a most reliable man on the
Barwon River. He heard a pair of yellow-winged
tits that had nested in a vine on his verandah making
a violent noise one morning, and when he looked at
the nest he saw a large mantis grasping a tiny naked
bird in its arms and eating away at its head. He
was so surprised that he brought a friend to see
what had happened. When they came back the mantis
had gone, but on the ground they found four tiny
birds, each with a little round hole in the top of >cs
head through which the brains had been extracted.
* * * «
“T.P.”: The other day E. Bye and A.
Pearson, prominent Band of Hopesmen, caught a
monster yabbie in McKenzie Creek, tributary to
Wimmera River (Vic.). Measurements: Tail to
head, 18in. ; claws, Sin. ; legs, 6in. ; feelers, 9in. Its
color was light blue to creamy. They also caught
several babies with the map of giant grandma
branded all over them. The crowd at Horsham voted
it “a deep-sea lobster out of its bearings” ; but how
could it climb the Dividing Range to get into a
fresh-water river that never even smells the sea
from its start in Mount Cole to its finish in the
sandy scrub in far North-West Vic. ? Anyhow, what
is it ?
* * * *
“Malokihi”: Papuans still make fire in
three distinct ways: By (1) a stick rubbed backwards
and forwards on a grooved piece of softwood; (2) a
flexible strip of split cane pulled backwards and for-
wards under a piece of hardwood split at one end, and
tinder placed in the split so that it will ignite with
the friction of the cane; (3) friction caused by
drilling motion of a stick rotated by hand or string.
I have seen an old man obtain flame in 30sec. with
the first method. Yet people still buy Japanese
matches!
* * * *
“Orney”: To-day on the Upper Murray
(N.S.W.) I saw two eaglehawks swoop on to a day-
old calf and lift it clear of the ground. They did
it with apparent case ; but they seemed to have some
difficulty in making direction, so they gently lowered
the astonished new arrival again. No harm was
done to the youngster, and the birds made no further
attempt to molest it.
* # * *
“Trona” on the inwardness of Lizzie: —
The Ford that started up on its own (B. 18/5/’22)
was no miracle, though ' it’s not likely to do it
again. An engine always stops with one piston on
the upward compression stroke, but it usually
(though not quite always) kicks back a little, and
may actually come to rest in almost any position.
If there is a slight stiffness, such as a tight ring,
it may not kick back, but stop with a charge partly
compressed in one cylinder. The other piston on
the up-stroke will be in process of exhausting the
burnt gases from its last stroke, and the two cylin-
ders, of which the pistons are on the down-stroke,
will both contain gas, more or less explosive—one the
gas that it had been sucking in when the engine
stopped, and the other the gas that should have
exploded and didn’t, cither because the switch was
off or because the mixture was throttled down too
thin. Now, consider the -ignition system. The cur-
rent is supplied by an alternator, and the coils
give a series of sparks which usually start when
each piston is near the top of its compression stroke,
and continue until the piston is well down on the
explosion stroke. In this respect Ford ignition differs
from magneto ignition, which only gives one spark.
Now, suppose the car in question stopped without
the little back kick and had some half-compressed
gas in one cylinder, and “live” gas (though thin)
A MAD LIFE.
C OCKY (waiting for lull in traffic to cross
street ) : “Gripes! Don’t any of you
blokes take a spell for a smoko?"
in two opposite cylinders. The heat from the engine
would soon heat up these gases, and if the piston
behind the compressed gas was a very good fit, the
said gas under compression would increase in press-
ure, and the live gas would become more easy to
fire. The rest is simple. When the pressure of
compressed gas becomes sufficiently great, the engine
will give a belated back-kick; the alternator works
both ways, and if the “commutator” (which, by
the way, is not a commutator, but a distributor) is
in a suitable position, sparking will occur in the
cylinder that should have fired and didn’t, for the
second time, and this time the gas will be well
heated, and may explode, and —there you are.
THE WHITE COCKATOOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High, high above the stark grey trees
And the bed where the creek runs fast,
Like trails of torn white paper, tossed,
The cockatoos sail past!
High, high above the yellow plains!
The ploughed lands lie beneath,
And the long red ruts that have caught the rains,
And the pale grass yet in sheath!
I watch them scatter as they go,
With the sun on their wild, white wings,
Their leaders turning swiftly as
Each convoy dips and swings!
They merge into the faint blue sky
Until they seem to be
As a part of it, like the dancing flecks,
On the face of a summer sea !
And north and south I watch them come,
When the light of the long day wanes —
Out of the dusk a flurrying flight
Across the wan, grey plains.
Black, black against the rosy sky,
They beat on hastening wings,
To the lonely swamp with its rushes high
And its thin, weird whisperings.
A hundred hundred overhead,
With the swish of a restless sea !
And I would fly as they, and scream,
And spread my pinions free!
For I am for the far, wide swamp
With its unstirred silver reeds,
Where the black duck hides, and the rabbits romp,
And the bittern skulks in the reeds!
Victoria.
BECKY.


■
k-sm
wX. 1 4
HOG
.Vl-fi
'
I'PP i J
» iW"
v-k'i- <
BP* *■'■■ -
i«H
w
I
£>■ tm 1
j '§ <'
dm
it
S,:i ,ii
L’-Jj LJP
*; liiiPt'-•
Silwi 'im
.•v
. »’
SW&
y.VJL**
'
ir<
w*«
"»>»
•v*J ’ ' v&fe ¥*
f f .y& ¥i
*,«i
1-
>tf
I
-
rrrsrar jt r ss Tic
ar'y : F WT.
:
. "x'J*V kY •
.
. P f:
o o
unm
in respect to their quality,
strength and wear, has gained
a popularity amongst motorists
that only satisfactory service
could build up and maintain.
D
enable you to get the best out of
motoring. They satisfy tens of thou-
sands of Australian motorists—and will
satisfy you. Thousands of miles of
running is built into every. “ Railroad.”
DUNLOP
ALL STATES
RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
%
%


&
s>
r
m
m
m
i i
V
V
SCCC^
z
c
V
CE
PURE FOOD&
1
c«>»
Ham Pate
The Ideal Spread for
School Sandwiches!
Good for them—economical for you! There you have the
reasons for the popularity of “Rex” Ham Pate.
Try it! “Rex” Ham Pate as a Sandwich filling gives their
healthy little appetites plenty of encouragement.
Besides it is wholesome food—the country famed “Rex”
Ham with its inviting mildness and delightful flavor—pre*
pared so invitingly that no appetite could possibly resist it.
Its real Economy will quickly make “Rex” Ham Pate a
favorite in youi home.
“REX” HAM PATE IS “REX”
HAM IN MOST ECONOMICAL
FORM—TRY IT !
Sold by all leading Grocers.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F,J, 14 f
/
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
Ride a bicycle
built of
u
fi
m
<§>
□
FITTINGS
A MODEL TO
SUIT EVERY RIDER.
Whatever your need, there is a
bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
to meet it. The well illustrated
B.S.A. Fittings Handbook covers a
wide and varied range of bicycles.
A
THIS
TRADEMARK
APPEARS ON ALL
BICYCLES BUILT OF
B.S.A. FITTINGS.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
D
BTi
o
MOTOR CAR
The fine reputation of Dodge Brothers
Motor Car rests on Dodge Brothers
exceedingly close, careful and conscien-
tious manufacturing.
Their wonderful plants at Detroit are
models of scientific system and scrupu-
lous precision in shop practice.
The result is a motor car which is a
good, lasting and profitable investment.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
441 f
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Just Charming,
By “PHLOX.
A CAREER i s a jj right, Audrey, as
far as it goes; but I don’t think
it is sufficient to satisfy the aver-
age woman’s heart.”
“I suppose, Aunt, that’s why you gave
up your medical practice and married Uncle
Edward.”
“les. I was getting on in years when I
married. I had begun to feel that want of
companionship with someone I could really
call my own someone who was more to me
than a friend.”
"Those are my sentiments, Aunt. I feel
I have a more interesting career than most
women with a lectureship at the University
and my research work in archeology, but
there’s something wanting.”
4 And that something, my dear Audrey, is
a husband. I’ve been through the same thing
myself, and I know—it’s the same old story,
old yet ever new. I loved my profession as
you love yours, but alone it was unsatisfy-
ing.”
“Yes, Aunt. I realised that when I saw
Nita Anderson’s radiantly happy face as she
announced her engagement to be married;
then I realised that even a career does not
compensate for a life of single blessedness.
You remember that jolly girl wffio passed so
brilliantly in Arts! She’s going to marry
Professor Butler.”
And I think, Audrey, it’s about time
you looked around for a husband. You’re
not cut out for an old maid, though of late
you ve acquired one or two little prim ways,
and the average man does like a little bit of
fluffiness about a woman.”
•'What do you mean?”
I mean that you wmnt to take more pains
with your general appearance; fluff out your
hair a bit, and so on.”
“But I don’t happen to have fluffy hair.”
“Then you’ve got to fluff it; also to im-
prove your skin ; in fact, where Nature has
been deficient, supply the deficiency with
art. That’s what I do. But I promised
to meet Uncle at G o’clock, and it's nearly
that now I must be going. -Good-bye,
Audrey, and think over what I’ve told you.”
Audrey Johnson was thinking over what
her practical aunt had suggested when she
was interrupted by someone wrapping on her
study door.”
“Come in,” she called.
Professor Livingstone’s pretty wife
entered. She had come to ask Miss Johnson
to join in a send-off to Nita Anderson.
After this had been satisfactorily arranged
they talked of all kinds of things.
Audrey had often noticed what pretty,
fluffy hair Mrs. Livingstone had, and how
beautifully she dressed it. Why not ask
her for some hints on hairdressing?
Mrs. Livingstone felt quite flattered at be-
ing asked for advice by clever Miss Johnson.
“So much depends,” she told her, “on the
way the hair is shampooed as to whether
the hairdressing will be a success. Per-
sonally, I always use Stallax,” said Mrs.
invingstone, "and I find it makes the hair
beautifully glossy, fluffy and easy to dress.”
“And that’s just what I want,” replied
Miss Johnson.
“Do you ever use a hair tonic?”
“No, I’m afraid I’ve never given much
thought to my appearance, but I intend to
turn over a new leaf in that respect.”
“I can give you a recipe for a simple,
home-made tonic. You buy a package of
boranium from the chemist, mix it with
a quarter of a pint of bay rum, and rub into
the scalp occasionally.
“Do you know,” went on bright little
Mrs. Livingstone, “a little while ago I was
getting quite grey, and I happened to hear
a woman in a chemist’s shop ask for two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite and three
ounces of bay rum to mix with it. She
then turned to her friend and said that there
was nothing like it for restoring grey hair to
its original color. I thereupon ordered the
same, and now I haven’t the sign of a grey
hair.”
“I’m glad to know of that, too, for I’m
continually pulling grey hairs out of my
head.”
“But, Miss Johnson, when you begin to
look after your hair you must also look
after your skin, and I find that there’s
nothing like mercolized wax for keeping the
skin soft, clear and free from blemishes.”
“My aunt was telling me that I badly need
a skin food, but she didn’t tell me what to
use.”
“All the well-preserved women I know
seem to use mercolized wax. It contains
oxygen, and removes the old -worn-out skin
so imperceptibly and painlessly that you
don’t know the process is going on until
some fine day one of your friends will re-
mark, ‘I don’t know what you’ve been doing
to your skin, but it’s like a baby’s.’ ”
“Then, that’s certainly the cream for me.”
“Well, if‘you care to come round to my
place wheft you have time I will show you
a pretty way of dressing your hair. Relieve
me, my husband always keeps me up to the
mark, and is delighted to hear people whis-
per as we pass, ‘Look ! isn’t she just charm-
ing?’” *
Bicrolium Jelly for whitening the hands
—all chemists. — Advt.


TKe
Purest
Spirit
in the
VCbrlcl
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife’s schna*^
“IT STANDS ALON®”
wpowik
w
m
m
wm
wm
m
GENUINE BALATA BELTING.
If a scrupulous search were made
in your power-plant you would
possibly And that a good deal of
the power generated is being lost
through faulty transmission. The
use of a speed indicator will fur-
nish you with evidence that
DICK’S Original Balata Belting
delivers its full quota of power,
consistently, year in and year out.
The accidents that happen to, the
average belt —sudden breakdowns,
stretching, shrinking or slipping—are
unknown to DICK’S Original Balata -
Belting. It efficiently overcomes the
most abnormal conditions of service. \
Every thread of the belt is scientifi-
cally treated with Waterproof balata
gum, rendering it impervious to condi-
tions of dampness, heat, steam, dust,
etc. Its long life and absolute effici-
ency make it the cheapest-per-year
belting on the Australian market.
Write for Free Copy of the Balata
Belting 800 l Catalogue for
Engineers.
JAMES HARMS S COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY. - MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
York and Wynyard 581-83 Little Col- 30 Currie Street.
Streets. lins Street.
QUEENSLAND. ,
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, Brisbane.
worst, and can therefore afford to smile and
pity.” , ,
A close and exact, if somewhat cynical,
observer of human nature, M. France is as
penetrating and as subtle as George Mere-
dith. But he is more impersonal than
Meredith, possibly more truly artistic. Where
Meredith, like Thackeray, moralises and
passes judgment on his characters, Anatole
France stands apart with his satirical smile:
not foolishly contemptuous or pharisaically
thanking God that he is not as other men,
but amused with an amusement tempered
by pity and that not unkindly wisdom which
the French call “sagesse.”
All his works owe much to this faculty of
detached, ironical observation; a great deal
of his material has evidently been gathered
first hand. But to say, as one critic has
said, that all his books are “revelations of
incidents in a methodical and. reflective pil-
grimage through life interpretations of
himself, reminiscences of his own spiritual
adventures,” is probably going too far.
Oscar Wilde, of course, thought that all
art was autobiography ; and M. France him-
self has finely said that “the good critic is
he who narrates the adventures of his own
mind among masterpieces.” But the novelist
was speaking of criticism in the narrower
and commonly accepted sense; and, colored
though every page must be by his own per-
sonality, he would be the first to smile at
the suggestion that his books are entirely
based upon personal experience. He who
lived the life described in “The Red Lily,”
“The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard,” “Thais,”
and the rest would find even 70 years rather
crowded and over-hectic without making any
provision for the not inconsiderable task of
setting his experiences on paper.
Precisely what passages have brought the
great Frenchman under the Vatican’s dis-
pleasure I do not know, but it would not
be hard to select many that might give a
rigid churchman offence. For M. France,
though he is far too great an artist to use
the cart and trumpet, as Shaw did, for pur-
poses of propaganda, reveals everywhere a
creed that forms no part of Christianity,
even though it is not directly opposed to it.
Like Pater, he preaches a gentle Hedonism
which derives its inspiration from classical
tradition and culture rather than from the
more strenuous and disquieting gospel of
Christianity. A mocker and sceptic who
would have been completely at home in
Athens or Rome or Alexandria, Anatole
France is the legitimate successor of Heine,
a neo-classic who has in his composition
nothing of the pseudo-antique, the last of
the really great Pagans.
G. C. DIXON.
H. G. Wells and the U.S.A.
As official representative in Britain of
the Affiliated Lecture Bureau, I was sum-
moned to lunch the other day with the presi-
dent of the organisation—Louis J. Abler.
After a word or two he leant across the
table and said : “I want you as soon as you
reach England to see Wells. Offer him
from me a thousand pounds a lecture for a
series here next season.” A few days later,
while lecturing at one of the big eastern uni-
versities, I mentioned the incident to the
president, at the same time expressing my
surprise that the shrewdest lecture-manager
in the world should place such a tremendous
value on the English publicist. “He is worth
every cent of it and more,” answered the
president—and his statement was enthusi-
astically endorsed by all the professors in
the room.
Still later, the editor-in-chief of one of
the leading monthly magazines over here, in
my presence, referred to H. G. Wells as “the
greatest mind on this earth to-day.”
And, finally, I visited one of the leading
booksellers in New York City and asked:
“Who, in your opinion, is the living British
writer with the greatest appeal to the Ameri-
can reading public?” “Wells,” he janswered.
“But what about Barrie and Galsworthy.
Chesterton and Shaw?” “Fine, all fine,”
he answered, “but in influencing public
opinion, and in actual sales, Wells ‘has it
all over them.’ ”
After very careful observation I am con-
vinced that their opinion tallies in the main
with the opinion of the readers and thinkers
in this part of the world.
Perhaps if a vote was taken it would
show that Barrie is more dearly loved, and
George Bernard Shaw more widely read;
but (to use an Americanism) “on getting
down to brass tacks” it would reveal that
Wells has struck a deeper note and has
changed the ideas of more readers than the
Scot and the Irishman put together. Barrie
charms, Shaw amuses, but Wells leads.
Of course, he has his enemies. Not so
very long ggo I spent a night in Pittsburgh
listening to an enthusiastic English friend
acidly attacking what he termed “the un-
Britishness of Wells”; and quite a lot of
other Britishers in the States challenge his
patriotism. Many of the historians here,
too, cynically refer to him as “a good novel-
ist, but” And the socialists and inter-
nationalists accuse him of being a renegade,
a pussyfooter and a traitor. But these
are in the minority ; and there is no doubt
at all that the heart of the American
reading public, particularly during the past
two years, has been completely won by the
fascinating style and magnificent sweep of
the ex-shop-assistant.
It is this tremendous vision, this getting
right at the heart of things, this catholicity
of taste, and this conceiving of the world as
a great stage upon which we must all play
our parts, not rs individual players, playing
for individual local success, but as players
playing with the interest of the play at
heart, all the while cognisant of the past,
conscious of the present and regardful of
the future, which appeals to the imagina-
tion of the thinking Americans.
And, so, when he came to the U.S.A. last
November to report the “Dis-Arm” Confer-
ence in Washington, he, and not the visit-
ing statesmen, was the cynosure of all eyes.
The reporters, in legion, met him on the
quay when his boat docked in New York
City, the editors headlined on the front
page his every syllable, and in Washington
he was more sought after and more lionised
than Balfour or Geddes or Briand, or any
of the other “loud noises” of the confer-
ence.
With that keen penetration which char-
acterises all he writes, he saw that the one
discordant and unsympathetic element at the
Conference, the one nation wanting to throw
grit into the peace machinery, was France;
and, unhesitatingly, he said so, adding as
a footnote, that France was both predatory
and reactionary, and a menace to the world-
peace and economic regeneration. The London
Daily Mail turned him down in the name
of suburban Jingoism, but that he was right
in challenging France’s attitude, no student
of either the Washington or the Genoa Con-
ference, or the interval between, now doubts.
Meanwhile, his book on the Conference—
“ Washington and the Riddle of the Peace,”
which is really only his collected newspaper
articles—is running the printing-presses red
hot.
Perhaps Australians are not aware of
the fact that “The Salvaging of Civilisa-
tion” was originally intended as the basis
of the series of lectures which Wells was
contracted to deliver over here during the
lecture season of 1920-21. He fell ill, just
before sailing-time, and was compelled to
deliver the lectures through the pages of the
Saturday Evening Post. Afterwards they
were published in book form and created a
furore of comment. “Our civilisation will
not collapse in an hundred years or even
in a thousand years..../# is collapsing
now.” This is what has stirred America
more than anything else that has come from
any pen since the war. And when, during
his recent visit here, he remarked that New
York City was in grave danger, and that
in a few years, possibly, the skyscrapers
would be rubbish mounds to puzzle the
archaeologists of the future, he certainly
jolted the New Yorkers and set them think-
ing more than ever. And when some of the
critiques called him an alarmist, he simply
pointed to Petrograd, to Warsaw and to
Vienna, each of which is crumbling.
For over a year his “Outline of History”
has been the most talked of book here. Some
of the historians anathematise it, some ridi-
cule it, some praise it... . and all the time
it is a “best seller,” and is gradually work-
ing its way into every home. Irrespective
of the merits of the book, the author has
done what no other professional historian
has been able to do; he has interested the
average intelligent reader in world-history.
I am an evolutionist, not a revolutionist.
I believe that all changes come naturally.
I do not believe that bloody uprisings get us
anywhere. But I do believe that great
minds can “sense their times” and see
which way things are heading; and, seeing,
prepare the peoples of the earth for the
changes that are coming. In fact, I believe
that these leaders of thought, by directing
these natural movements into the right chan-
nels, and by preparing peoples for them,
can even clarify and accelerate these move-
ments of evolution. And it seems to me that
this is what H. G. Wells is doing—standing
on a mountain peak studying world-move-
ments and interpreting them for the common
people. And, at the same time, by urging us
to pay more attention to education, health,
science, research, etc., he is doing all in his
power to educate and prepare us for those
changes which, from time to time, shake this
earth of ours.
“History is a race between education and
catastrophe,” he has written. And in all
the preceding civilisations catastrophe has
won the race. Once again it is winning—
look at Russia, * Poland, Austria and Ger-
many—and the dry rot which is killing them
is spreading westward towards France and
Britain and America.
This is Mr. H. G. Wells’s great warning
to mankind, but his warning is shot with
rays of hope. We can still save things—
if we try enough, and in the right
direction.
TOM SKEYHILL.
A Satchel of Books
Suburbia, by H. M. Bateman (Methuen and Co.).
A series of satirical sketches -in which this master
of humorous black-and-white mercilessly pillories the
little poses and foibles of suburban society. There’s
a chuckle in every page—and the folio runs to 50
of them.
In the third edition of the Guide to the Austra-
lian Ethnological Collection (Melbourne Museum),
Prof. Baldwin Spencer gives us not only a compre-
hensive catalogue but, by reason of the explanatory
notes in each section, a valuable little handbook
of aboriginal lore. The volume is admirably pro-
duced and well illustrated by the Vic. Government
Printer.
The Stronger Influence, by F. E. Mills Young
(Hodder and Stoughton), is a story of perfectly lady-
like passion with South Africa for a background. The
heroine, although, as any vicarage would agree, a
thoroughly nice girl, falls in love with a strong,
silent detrimental who drinks. He is the Influence
referred to in the title, and the heartaches that his
wild, and occasionally imbecile, ways occasion in
Esme over a space of 300 and odd pages constitute
the chief interest of the book.
An Austral Garden of Prose, edited by Donald
McLachlan (Geo. Robertson and Co.). A new idea
in Australian anthologies and one difficult of satis-
factory fulfilment in a small volume; but the editor
has done fairly well with his choice of matter from
29 authors, though a hundred other writers could doubt-
less show him how the thing could have been
improved. The book was designed primarily for
school use, but, for all its inevitable scrappiness,
will find a place on many a grown-up shelf.
A Love Conference, by Mrs. Arthur Harter
(Heinemann). An Englishwoman married to an
Italian returns, after many years, to her native
land and meets an old friend, the skittish wife of
a politician. To her she relates the history of her
amour with a military attache to whom, while living
with her husband, she has borne a child ; and this
improving narrative, with interruptions provided by
the arrival of Mrs. Legislator’s lover and other
persons equally proper, is the whole story. It is
frankly tropical, but is told with some skill. The
moral is (only the author doesn’t point it) that
the washtub is the place for oversexed females who
think too much of what the ingenious scenario-
writer calls their “souls.”
Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis, by Prof.
S. Freud. (George Allen and Unwin). A course of
28 lectures delivered at the University of Vienna
by the arch-protagonist of psycho-analysis. For
those setting out upon a study of this branch of
mental science this book affords a good jumping-off
ground, because Freud goes on the assumption that
the reader at the outset knows nothing about it.
He confines himself to the three topics of psycho-
pathology of everyday life, dreams, and neuroses,
and he deals with these with sufficient thoroughness
to make it perfectly clear what the psycho-analysts
are driving at and to equip the student with a
reserve of knowledge that will enable him to tackle
with confidence the more advanced literature on the
subject.
Drawings in Pen and Pencil from Durer’s Day to
Ours is another addition to the admirable series
of special numbers of The Studio. The collection
of upwards of 150 drawings is full of interest by
reason of the comparisons afforded between the Old
Masters and those who followed them. Among the
moderns English draughtsmen predominate, but it
is explained that the book “is intended primarily
for the English public”—which, from the point of
view of the outsider, is a pity. 'The letterpress
is in the hands of George Sheringham, who, after
setting out with the remark that drawings are
things “to be looked at and .not written about,”
proceeds to write 24 rather provocative pages. Inci-
dentally, he remarks that “a drawing is a symbolic
arrangement of marks made by an intelligent person
with a pointed instrument on a more or less plain
surface.” Which is more or less humorous in inverse
ratio to the length of the reader’s hair.
Anna Colquhoun, by Katharine Burdekin (John
Lane), is only an Australian novel inasmuch as the
authoress, who is an English girl, married an Australian
soldier-barrister and writes in Sydney. The action takes
place on the other side of the world ; and it is the
manners and culture, and more particularly the music,
of Europe that absorb Mrs. Burdekin. There are
half-a-dozen characters drawn with a sure* touch, and
in a flowing, easy style which is full of individuality.
Notably that of the heroine’s amiable blackguardly
father. But Anna stands out as by far the most
vital of them. She is a pianist of genius, torn this
way and that between good and evil impulses; and
her punishment is a dreadful one. A sequel, in
which the skies brighten for Anna and for those
readers who have grown to sympathise with her, is
indicated in the last page. It is not quite the sort
of book that a modern girl of 18 would care to put
into the hands of her mother; but it will sell none
the less briskly for that.
The Return of Alfred, by the author of “Patricia
Blent, Spinster” (Herbert Jenkins), is a bit of
utterly impossible but quite readable fiction. The
hero, stranded by a railway strike, seeks shelter in
a country house at midnight, and finds himself, to
his amazement, recognised by old retainers as the
prodigal son returned from the wine husks and the
Flossies. Next day practically everyone in the village
hastens to identify him as “Mister Alfred.” He
can’t reveal his own name because of a quarrel with
his own uncle, who has disowned him, and he doesn’t
want to depart as abruptly as he came, because he
has fallen in love with a girl. So he stays and pro-
ceeds to undermine the theory that he is the prodi-
gal mauvais sujet by winning a village cricket
match off his own bat and his own bowling, and
knocking out a rustic Hercules in two rounds—the
real Mister Alfred apparently having been quite in-
capable of either making a run or knocking a hole
in a paper-bag. Everything comes right in the end ;
even the vanished undesirable being somewhat re-
habilitated in public opinion by the discovery that
he was killed in the war.
The Inky Way
Aussie, which was started by its present editor,
Phil Harris, in Flanders early in 1918, has pros-
pered greatly on translation to Australia. Its latest
move is to go after a M.L. circulation, and Pat
Lawlor, lately of the Sydney Telegraph, is going
back to his native Wellington to initiate the good
work.
“S.T.S.”: “Sowing New Seed,” the Orpen picture
which Adelaide Art Gallery rejected after hanging it
for some time, is now in the Pittsburgh (U.S.A.)
exhibition, with the words “of the Irish Free State”
added to the title. It is gratifying to find that the
New York Tribune gives exactly the same verdict
on it as the present writer gave in The Bulletin
when the Adelaide sensation was on. Charmingly
painted, admits the N.Y. critic. “But that is all.
As an excursion into allegory, the painting completely
fails to carry conviction. There is nothing imagina-
tive about it. It is merely a strange sort of poster.”
“R an( ] o i D h Rentless”- The amount of Australian
“ribbed amaztg lt
is brought home to me because I have to go
through all the leading English and American
papers, and, time after time, I meet jokes that
were differently illustrated a few months earlier in
Australian publications. And I have suffered a lot
myself. Only a week or so ago a story was re-
printed in an Australian paper which I have seen
in four or five American and English papers. That
story I was paid for six months back, and the beer
i bought with the proceeds is forgotten,
, . TT „ _ . . . ...
, (London): H. C. Davies, mining editor
'f. Vest Australian (Perth), who arrived here
fecently on a health and pleasure trip, discovered
t ia t while money for oil wells was being handed out
V 1 ? al ?. e Quantities for many parts ot the world,
Australia was hardly getting a look-in. So he
° work, and in a few days sandwichmen all
n\cr , London were announcing an article-by him on
in Western Australia in theAIWMfcEUM Times.
The Financial Times also published an article.
Jlu]ging by the letters he has received, no one had
ever thought of Australia as a possible oil-producing
countrv . Divies is now telling the Continent all
a hni,t ‘it
“Norbell”: I agree with “Telisford” (B. 13/7/’22)
that the use of the vigorous word “guts” as a
synonym for “pluck” is decidedly of pre-war nppli-
cation. Shakspeare used the more polite “stomach”
when dealing with cold-footer. “He which hath no
stomach to this fight, let bin) depart”—a warm
stomach is comforting to cold feet. But I certainly
was familiar with the word at school, which was
quite a while before the Hun cut loose. Apropos,
how very modern Shakspeare is at times. Take
the last line of the 144th sonnet: —
« Ti n nly ba( j ange l fl re niy goo d one out.”
T , ■„ . .. , ; , 7 „
llllH 1S <iu,te as wp-tp-date as a movie sub-title.
P.A.: The .Tap in Korea (B. 29/6/’22) is a queer
bird. One Pastor Kil, of Ping-Yang, had been
preaching against the evils of cigarette-smoking by
boys, "and was charged therefore with treason. The
prosecutor hit Kil to leg in this fashion: —
Pastor Kil preached against the use of cigarettes,
The manufacture of cigarettes is a Government
monopoly.
To speak against their use is to Injure ft Qovern-
ment, institution.
To injure a Government institution is to work
against the Government.
To work against the Government is treason.
Therefore Kil is guilty of treason.
Thig beats cven Bill Hughes’s War Precautions
“Veronal”: Australian book-collectors, of whom
there are few, rarely light upon treasure-trove, but
there are plums to be picked, up occasionally. Some
y ears ago I passed by Kipling’s “Soldiers Three” and
“" ? ce Willie Winkie” dressed in their original paper
covers in a second-hand (Sydney) suburban book-
shop. * bey were ticketed 9d. apiece,; 1 have periodi-
cally kicked myself over that lapse ever since. These
early products of the Kipling brain are worth money
now. I recently -bought' Stevensoh’s “Jekyll and
Hyde” in paper covers, published in 1888, and
thought I had done well .until I discovered that the
flrst edition of this Poe-lilce tale saw the light in
1886 f and that mine was the 16th edition! A year
or so ago , j n an American magazine, Richard Le
Gallienne predicted that Trollope would soon be
collected, and that flrst editions of at least two out
0 f ])js long list of novels would be worth 250 dollars
apiece. Writer has both' hooks named, but any
speculative collector may have them for the equivalent
of five dollars. Among"my literary treasures (though
it may be a fake) is the “Lost "and Last Canto of
Don Juan,” from MS. found (it is alleged) among
the papers of the Countess Guiccioli. In certain
respects it out-Byrons Byron.


n
TOP VALUES
*HNS
AT
Carsons
AUCTIONS
A Peep Into His Future.
Send your Rabbit, Fox, Whiptail and all
other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY It, & J. DICK, LTD.
THE BARKY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
SBl-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
m
S'.
-<. JS
7V7,
c-r
o ■&■,..■■
/mm
o /<p .. •
H/ \.t r j
» A/,
o .:
mi-
n
n
•c/
/'•;\q
U)
<>/ /
Nature has her
mome n t s of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
Zenobia Lilt op the Valley—a per-
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —t?>e
original perfume which, in name, his
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zenobia Niqiit
Scented Stock — a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Newson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckrnaster,
15 O'Ccnneil
Street, Sydney.
A
78N0814
Ulhtf
the
Valley
wmmm
London Address:
Pinners Hall, Austin J'riars,
E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing aboiit 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc DllSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with
the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PULVERIZED FUEL FIRING
Cuts Labor and
Fuel Bills.
Gives High
Efficiencies and
Capacities.
4
Send to us for
Bulletin No. 600
and all
Particulars.
Fuller Engineering Co.,
Australian Engineers’ Office, 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Elder, Smith (&L Co. Limited,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
msnwml
%
Send .your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
AND
''•CSjvmen p
€2>«7l
Footwear is Expensive.
Make your shoes wear longer by using this
high-grade preservative dressing.
BoSToCK'S
SHOE POLISH.
Puts life in the leather—and a sheen on your
shoes.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
REGISTER ED
TRD - MARK
Guaranteed-
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stairless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
iggp|
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery,
SKANDIA
Crude Cil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
gw’f
!s@p
m
m
m
mm
BsUH
ESi
*UM
(=====jTOWSgg^lMl»lWHgMa
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON (SL ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loftvas Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of Adelaide’s leading wool-and-pro-
duce firms has dropped out, Luxmoore, Chap-
man and Co. amalgamating with the still
bigger Bagot, Shakes and Lewis. Reuben
Chapman and his son H.W. go over with the
business.
* * * *
The current idea that Queensland is a
country that raises some sugar and wool and
beef and nothing else that matters much is
hugely mistaken. Out of 9,414,6411 b. of
butter exported from the Commonwealth
during March, Queensland sent away
4,065,4581 b., as against 3,318,5931 b. from
N.S.W., aiftl 1,917,2161 b. from Victoria. Bul-
lock values may be down to mitey dimen-
sions in Q., but Cow is mighty everywhere.
“Mirza” : Re the growing of Pa paver som-
niferum, the medicinal poppy (B. 15/6/’22).
I have seen a couple of very excellent speci-
mens of opium from North Gippsiand.
Analysis showed that these compared very
favorably with the best Turkish varieties
in possessing the two pharmacological re-
quirements—a high morphine content and a
relatively low narcotine content. But the
cash offered didn’t tempt either vendor, so
most of the stuff found its illicit way to Lil’
Buk-stleet.
* * * *
“Lip”: so many small tailors have been
hard hit by the high cost of men’s clothing
that it’s a wonder some of them haven’t
gone in for “turning” men’s suits. This
"turning,” which consists of taking the gar-
ments to pieces and re-making them inside
out, is part of the day’s work in the busi-
ness of many dyers and cleaners in England.
A tailor in a London suburb told me that,
nearly knocked out of business by the war,
he had added “men’s suits turned” to his
sign, and, in less than a year had re-estab-
lished himself —by doing nothing else. When
I saw him he had a dozen employees, all
going for their lives, inside-outing the civvies
of demobbed Tommies.
# ■» * »
“Hecagus”: "Sucre” (B. 15/6/’22) says
that Southern Europeans are picking the
eyes out of Queensland’s most priceless pos-
session, the Atherton tableland. This is not
so. I know the tableland from end to end,
and do not know of a single acre held by an
alien from the shores of the Mediterranean.
Time was when Asiatics did hold the
pick of the land, however, but by
lease only. Those days have passed,
and in place of the brown and yel-
low man one sees some of the dinkums of
1914-18. Meanwhile, Halifax, Ayr, Ingham,
Brandon, Mourilyan and Innisfail districts
are in the grip of a heterogeneous population
of Chows, Japs, Malays, Spaniards, Hindoos,
Italians and Greeks. In the towns men-
tioned one rarely—very rarely—hears Eng-
lish spoken.
* * ■» *
“Esquon”: In re “Gent. One’s” advertis-
ing—will the brass-plate soon be the out-
ward sign of the non-professional? In one
Melbourne suburb recently I noticed five
brassplates in succession which proclaimed
that behind them lurked respectively a sworn
valuator, a (non-legal) commissioner for
affidavits, a bootmaker, an estate agent and
a builder. A medico and a solicitor were
represented in shingles, the one a short,
narrow brass strip, and the other a 7in. by
sin. gentle reminder; on the other hand
there is an increasing number of suburban
legal practitioners who rent shop premises,
color the street windows and emblazon
thereon their “Barrister and Solicitor,” and
this practice is extending to the city. So
far no advertising matter is added, but the
hot-house of competition may yet force this
bloom.
* * * *
“Snell”: Sin Lee l , a small, puckered, pock-
marked, one-eyed Chinaman, had a monopoly
of the vegetable trade among the miners’
wives at Bonshaw, and did well at it until
an army of his compatriots came trooping
from Heaven knows where, and settled on
the flat near him. Two-thirds of them laid
out an elaborate vegetable garden, while
one-third sluiced the surface all along the
lower reaches of Brandy Creek. Sin Lee
promptly went down as a vendor of “cab-
bagee and gleen pea.” Still, he continued
to live by the creek above the township,
where its waters were unsullied by slurry,
and he still flourished. For a long time
we wondered what his new occupation" might
be, thinking that possibly he was denuding
the creek of black fish for the delectation of
the invaders. Then we came upon a few
of his traps, and found he was catching
great numbers of the water-rats with which
the creek was infested. It appears that
Lee was able to command such big prices
for the skinned, dressed and salted bodies
of the rats that his life was that of a
colored gentleman of luxurious tastes.
THE EDIBLE SHARKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Gruvel, a French professor of Natural His-
tory, waxes lyrical in describing the commercial uses
of the shark. Dr. Gruvel says that the flesh of the
shark is rich in proteids and phosphoric acid. The
powdered bones enrich the best fertilisers, and from
the intestines it is possible to get strings for musi-
cal instruments.”— Times.
Heigho! All city sharks I've known
Commercial uses boasted ;
They smiling sat, with hearts of stone,
The while their healths were toasted.
Rich sharks were they, sedate, full-fed ;
And never did I meet ’em
But what I wished their flesh were dead
That writhing worms might eat ’em.
They’d eaten humans in their prime,
The city sharks I speak of —
Devoured men’s substance in their time;
Made meals the meek and weak of.
Had 1 a cannibal’s desire
For human food, I’d claw it
And cook their flesh before the fire,
And gnaw it, gnaw it, gnaw it.
I’d grind their bones to make manure;
I’d rip them down the middle,
And tear sufficient gut, for sure,
Wherewith to string a fiddle;
And on those strings, so cold and grey,
Which erst were "sharks” inside of,
With wondrous feeling would I play
The tune the old cows died of.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


j p=^Lsi'
orb,
HE business man finds in music
his most satisfactory mental relaxa-
tion. It brushes aside the cobwebs of care
and lets into his soul a floodlight of
restful, soothing melody.
For those who cannot play, the player-
piano provides the means for enjoying
everything best in music, together with
the pleasure of personal rendition. The
New Beale Player-Piano provides the
prodigiously proficient technique requir-
ed for the execution of so many classics,
plus controls which are fully adequate to
the interpretive demands of the most
cultured musician.
Ask to hear one. We have ten auditoria where
demonstrations are given in utmost privacy
and comfort.
BEALE
AND
COMPANY
TTD
JLmJ • •
Head Office
and Factories:
1-47 Trafalgar St.
ANNANDALE
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BRANCHES — N.S.IV. : Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Taj.: Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S. A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
PV.A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE 6i CO. (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane,
Toowoomba Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay.


jWn»j
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world..
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Cvcm initio days of \
our C/ryndmoihers
v;
fa
anious household romedu
HTO Three Generations
throughout Australasia
the name ‘Wolfe's Schnapps'
has been a Household Word.
Its Perennial Popularity is
due to its remarkable
oAttractions as a leverage
and to the fact that by reason
of its Unique Medicinal Attributes
it Stands Supreme as a %emeaial
oAgent for Use in the Home Circle.
For Your Health’s Sake
Always Have a Bottle in the House
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
u A blessing to Humanity ”
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
Q
■
-■ 'iiiiiiuß
'
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from Ji-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
lastalifotime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
The Queensland National Bank Limited.
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE, 12th Julv, 1922.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED,
The Directors now beg to submit the Ninety-seventh Report, with the Balance-sheet duly certified
by the Auditors.
The Net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last, after allowing for Rebate on Bills
Current, Income Taxes, Land Taxes, Interest Accrued on Deposits and Interminable
Inscribed Deposit Stock, making provision for bad and doubtful Debts, and
including Recoveries, amounts to .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£128,819 0 7
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended 30th June, 1921 .. 16,959 5 2
Making a total of £145,778
Out of which interim Dividends at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum were paid, for
the Quarters ended 30th September, 1921, 31st December, 1921, and 31st March,
1922, on the following dates respectively:—
17th November, 1921
16th February, 1922
18th May, 1922 ..
£19,974 8 6
19,983 17 0
19,993 10 0
5
9
And a transfer made to Reserve Fund of .. .. .. .. ..
Leaving for distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum for the Quarter ended 30th June,
. 1922 (making a total Dividend of 10 per cent, for the year, free of Queensland
Income Tax)
Jubilee Bonus of 2/6 per share (free of Queensland Income Tax)
Special Contribution to Officers’ Provident Fund
Balance to be Carried Forward ..
During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Babinda (Queensland)
(New South Wales).
By Order of the Board,
and Wiangaree
M. G. HAYMEN.
General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED.
BALANCE-SHEET as at 30th JUNE, 1922.
Capital paid up . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 360,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 50,826 10 3
Interminable In-
scribed Deposit
Stock .. .. 3,091,669 4 5
£4,302,495 14 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 350,078 411
Deposits .. 6,898,730 5 2
£11,551,304 4 9
Coin, Bullion, Aus-
tralian Notes, and
Cash at Bankers £1,199,491 7 8
British Treasury
Bills .. .. 150,000 0 0
Commonwealth War
Loan (at or under
market value).. 539,760 0 0
Government Stocks—■
Victorian Govern-
ment (short
dated) .. .. 300,000 0 0
New Zealand Gov-
ment (short
dated) . . , . 700,000 0 0
Cash Balances .. 187,240 9 10
Bills Remitted and
in transitu .. 875,129 7 2
Money in London at
call and on short
notice .. .. 105,000 0 0
-£4,056,621 4 8
Advances to Customers on Current
Account, Bills Discounted, and other
Debts due to the Bank . . . . 6,994,271 15 9
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sta-
tionery 500,411 4 4
£11,551,30-4 4 9
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
For Year Ended 30th June* 1922.
To Interim Dividends*
paid 17th Nov., 1921 £19,974 8 6
16th Feb., 1922.. 19,983 17 0
18th May, 1922 . . 19,993 10 0
£59,951 15 6
Transfer to Reserve Fund . . . . 35,000 0 0
Balance at 30th June, 1922 . . 50,826 10 3
£145,778 5 9
By Balance from 30th June, 1921.. £16,059 5 2
Net Profit (after allowing for Rebate
on Bills Current, Interest Accrued
on Deposits, and Interminable
Inscribed Deposit Stock, and mak-
ing provision for bad and doubtful
Debts) 128,819 0 7
£145,778 5 9
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance .. £360,000 0 0
£360,000 0 0
By Balance . . . . . . . . £325,000 0 0
Amount transferred from Profit for
the year ended 30th June, 1922.. 35,000 0 0
£360,000 0 0
A, 0. LUYA, Acting Chairman.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
\Ve certify that in our opinion the above Balance-sheet is a full and fair one, exhibiting a true
statement of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the books on 30th June, 1922.
12th July, 1922. W. BULCOCK, F.I.C.A. ; ERIC G. MANSON, F.1.C.A., Auditors.
The usual ORDINARY - GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 17th August, 1922, at Noon.
BUSINESS: To Receive the Report and Balance-sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1922. To
elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
THE PERFECT MILK
lIFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the Tin
Your Grocer Stocks It!
“Coot”: Melbourne has had but five Town
Clerks —John Charles King, William Kerr
(founder of the Argus), E. G. Fitzgibbon,
John Clayton and T. G. Ellery. And the
greatest of these was Fitzgibbon'—if, indeed,
the term can be applied to the holder of such
a job.
Extract from a letter written from his
Scottish fastness by Will H. Ogilvie to G.
W. Seaborn, who owned the now-defunct
Parkes (N.S.W.) Independent, in which
many of Ogilvie’s verses saw the light:—
Our two bairns have gone off to school, their
governess has left, their mother has gone for a few
days to her mother, the cook has left, and I am alone
in my glory—though there are a housemaid and
some painters somewhere about the house. When the
wife gets back we’re off for a six-weeks’ bicycle jaunt
to the English lakes.
The Old Country struggles on. We have Is. off
the income-tax now and a cheaper postage, but it
is like taking a pound of wool off a camel that is
staggering under two greasy bales. The politicians
are still squabbling—a few, very few, people work-
ing, several millions are out of employment, either
by force of circumstances or voluntarily. Golf,
racing, boating, cricket are flourishing tremendously,
and nobody stops to think and the old boat rocks on
the river within sound of the cataract —and impend-
ing shatteration. “What a life!” as the worm
said when the garden-roller went over him the second
time.
“Azrim” holds a post-mortem: —
Which are the most ancient diseases? Sir Armand
Ruffer, the bacteriologist who lost his life on a tor-
pedoed hospital ship out of Salonika, conducted some
interesting researches into the ills of prehistoric
Egyptians while in Cairo. By special methods he
was able to soften the adamantine tissues of certain
mummies. Thin sections were cut, stained with
hsematoxylin and cosin, and mounted for microscopic
examination. The Professor identified the; pathological
results of pneumonia, atheroma, renal abscess, T.B.
of bone and hepatic cirrhosis in mummies of the
twentieth dynasty ( circa 1200 b.c.). He also found
the eggs .of the Nile-worm (Bilhar&ia) , recently
investigated so brilliantly by Dr. Fairley, of Melbourne
Uni. Dental caries and pyorrhoea alveolaris were
rife, and he concluded from the severity of the
lesions of the jaw that extractions and dentists were
unknown. Arterial disease was common, but the
coroner was unable to find any evidences of syphilis,
thus clinching the prevailing notion of its modern
origin. He is convinced that the dwarfs who were
so greatly in demand at the courts of the Pharaohs
were not a race of pigmies, but individuals deformed
by gross osseous lesions, notably T.B.
There are now four cos. busy looking for
oil in the Mersey Valley, north-west Tas.
Mersey Valley Oil Co. has been floated,
although its formation dragged somewhat.
Captain de Hautpick, the Russian engineer,
has completed three bores, and is drilling a
fourth prior to putting down a deep test-
bore. He is looking for the lagoonal struc-
ture so beloved by Cunningham Craig, the
famous petroleum geologist. The thickness
and regularity of the mudstones associated
with sandstones and petroliferous shales are
regarded as encouraging features of the ex-
ploratory work. Southern Cross Motor Fuel
Co. has opened up a 6ft. Gin. seam of tas-
rnanite, or oil shale, and is ready to install
its retorts now on the way. An Adelaide
co. is down 300 ft., 200 of which is composed
of mudstones, and Kingston Oil Wells Co., is
arranging to have one of its blocks bored.
“FI.” considers the magnificence of poli-
ticians :—-
In the House of Reps, the other day that canny
Scot, Fowler, waxed sarcastic about the bill Aus-
tralia had to pay for Senator Pearce’s attendance
at the Washington Conference. Fowler opined that
£5O a week should have covered George’s per-
sonal expenses, and £25 the keep of the Ministerial
satellites. But here Treasurer Bruce, in the r6le of
a travelled cosmopolite, cut in loftily. “You
couldn’t live in Washington for £5O a week,” he
assured the sceptical Fowler: “You couldn’t do it
unless you had no meals.” Assuredly nobody would
expect even such a sturdy democrat as Pearce to go
to an international conversazione with his crib, pre-
viously purchased at a handy food store, tied up in
a red handkerchief or nestling in a dinner pail. But
if it costs £5O a week to live in Washington, sans
set meals, it is time President Harding found some
other setting for disarmament conferences — : or dis-
armed the local hotelkeepers for a start. Fortu-
nately Australia sent only one delegate to Washing-
ton. One can only dimly estimate what the cost
might have been if Hughes had been given a free
hand and had despatched as many representatives as
China or Japan did.
Lance Stirling, the Cambridge-trained
pastoralist, who has for the last 20 years been
president of S.A. Leg Council, has written
to the Adelaide papers protesting against
a recent piece of legislation designed to cut
out the undesirable and useless bulls the
late Governor so heartily condemned. The
idea was that a registration fee would make
the farmer think it worth while to keep a
good bull, instead of the “three-cornered
mongrel” which Weigall was horrified to
find so common. But the fee is only 10s.,
a sum which is not going to affect the
farmer to the extent of making a costly pur-
chase. On the other hand, there is a £lO
penalty for not having a metal disc firmly
and permanently attached to every regis-
tered animal. Yet, bos domesticus, Stirling
maintains, will inevitably leave it with the
first rival # he fights or the first fence he
tampers with. In other words, every bull
is a fair cow, and not to be treated as a
lapdog.
Albert Dorrington (from London) : Thus
my little friend Takado Amado, who is
trying to found a socialistic Japanese news-
paper in London :
Everywhere the attempt to shut us out is
being practised. We tolerate Americans in this
respect. There is a shadow of an excuse for them.
Their country is acquiring large numbers of white
people. But there is Australia, and Lord North-
cliffe and Mr. Hughes. These two gentlemen are
trying to induce a few shiploads of emigrants to
satisfy the needs of an empty continent. There
is not enough gold in England to finance a scheme
of emigration that will induce 50,000,000 people to
settle in Australia. Japan would supply a great
number of plantation-workers if land could be even
leased there!
Amado’s outburst represents the instinctive
mental thrust of Japan’s landless myriads.
In my 16 years’ intercourse with British poli-
ticians, editors and military scientists on
this side of the world, I have never re-
ceived an answer to the riddle: —
What miracle of statescraft will succeed in lock-
ing up indefinitely the human flood that is already
far too big for Japan?
The men who propounded a similar riddle
in 1914, anent Germany’s desire for a place
in the sun, were told to collect butterflies
and give their imaginations a rest.


//
///
//
/.//
%
//
szw
m.
#
Y/j
w
ry
V/t.
7/.
/ /
m
va
ft
ft
U'V
W\
777*0.
A
z,m
W\
%
/l
'rV,
./
y/yjm
<///k
fi
r
1
I
wwMmMm
I
Better than Jewels
—that Schoolgirl Complexion
HOW to preserve it? the clear, smooth skin of
youth, radiant with health and natural colour.
How to keep it always, from school days to
wedding day, and from then on ?
Every woman seeks to solve this problem. For in the
possession of a clear complexion lies almost the whole
secret of charm. Clothes and jewels, however ex-
quisite, will never dim the radiance of a perfect skin
nor furnish compensation for its lack.
The way to skin-health and beauty is simple and yet
so sure. It is largely a matter of choosing the right
soap. For cleanliness is the secret of skin perfection;
not just ordinary cleanliness, but a thorough purifying
of the skin resulting from the use of nature's own
cleansers, the oils of the Palm and the Olive, the
bland and beneficial oils contained in Palmolive
Soap. These natural oils, lotion-like in their action,
yet penetrative in their quality, reach the minutest
pores, freeing them of all impurities that impede the
natural action of the skin.
Gently but thoroughly, with the finger tips, massage
the soft, creamy lather of Palmolive and warm water
into your skin, then first rinse with clear, warm water
and finally with cold.
At bedtime is best, for throughout the night, soothed
and rested by this simple exercise, and free from
irritation, your skin is enabled to perform its natural
functions. In the morning repeat the process and
apply a touch of Palmolive Cold Cream. Neither
powder nor rouge can harm a skin so perfectly
prepared.
Having experienced the perfection of Palmolive Soap,
you will appreciate the worth of Palmolive Cold
Cream; Palmolive Vanishing Cream; “Violet of the
Nile" and “Egyptian Rose” Talcums; “Palmole”
Face Powder; Palmolive Face Powder; Palmolive
Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo .
Sells everywhere at 1/- per cake from Ist August.
D
n
□
n
The guest-size cake of Palin olive Soap will be sent
post free, on request, by the Palmolive Company
(Australasia) Ltd., Broughton House, Clarence
Street, Sydney,
*
m
B
With a world of ancient toilet
arts at her command, Cleo-
patra depended on the sooth-
ing properties of Palm and
Olive oils to protect, improve
and preserve the natural
beauty of her skin.


Well Satisfied!
Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
H \RBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from ino.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiaids.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4% Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
-V
The Streptococcus
Brevis which causes
Sore Throat.
The Bacillus Influ-
enza which causes
Influenza.
Actual photo-micrograph* taken in the Laboratory.
These are the cause of
SORE THROATS
Disease spreading germs swarm
in the air in countless millions,
always seeking to attack through
the mouth and throat.
EVANS*
Pastilles
are the sure protection. They
resist the germs of Influenza,
Pneumonia, Diphtheria, Fever,
etc., the first symptom of which
is a sore throat.
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day*
At the first sign of a sore throat
take Evans * Pastilles.
Of all Chemists.
For Marking
all Linen —
M
Are a Boon in Every Home
for identifying any article or garment.
Any Name woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
l.ll 111 ~ 1111111■ H 1 ,1111 N 111 I'll 11 ■i J ;.! 'T-1 ■ll>l M : I i Hit illfll
imiiiiii.iiiwiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiMiiimrmT,, ... ~ ~.
Actual Size Name Style No. 6.
Pfices : 12dz> 71 6. 6dz> 5/-* 3dz 9 3/6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
J. & J. CASH £&
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
&
■
1
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the Avails of the blood-vessels and renders them stiff ami brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purity
vour blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
your blood of the poisonous
the most dangerous of all, viz., l T ric Acid.”
Hr. J. L. S. BOTAL
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ET A BLISS EME NT S CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or post free from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, So 2 KENT
STREET, Sydney, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet
containing Medical Opinions.
'/ *,///"
P
>^3-
/
/
Y r.
Well Satisfied!
(VdU
dilg
MOTOR
SPIRIT
PLUME
Easy siariinQ, svieel running, more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Plume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy startingquali-
ties, splendid pulling power,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boiling points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol working past the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. Whenordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
Forhighestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
PLuM£
tyfOß SPVP-'i
r VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP U-°T
ALDERDICE
Brassfounder
Warrnambool.
Specialties —
Plumbers’ BrassworK
Country and all Water Board Standards.
Windmill Pumps.
QUICK DELIVERY.
Write for Lists .
Doctor Rivett, wlio has followed Profes-
sor Masson in the Chair of Chemistry at
Melbourne ’Varsity, did great work in the
war in providing recipes for poison gas. A
Doctor of Science and a Master of Arts, he
started earning a crust as a school-teacher,
and later on in life married the younger
daughter of Alfred Deakin.
“T. 0.1.”: Re the old Launceston (Tas.)
identity solicitor Hobkirk (B. 13/7/’22).
A kinsman, J. P. Hobkirk, has left an inter-
esting book of reminiscences. He arrived in
Tasmania in 1852, and on the voyage out his
ship, the Heinrich, spoke the barque Ra jah of
Sarawak, from which they learned that
gold had been found in Victoria. Hob-
kirk dabbled in many things. He formed
a syndicate on six-months’ pro. notes
to build a theatre, but the thing fell through.
Val Hellicar, manager of the Bank of
Australasia (later general manager in Syd-
ney and now dead), asked him to launch
a club in Launceston, which he did. They
started in the National Hotel, then bought
P. Mills’s store in Brisbane-street, and built
on it, making a respectable club-house. Hob-
kirk was chairman of the committee for
some years.
“T. 0.1.”: On July 23, 1852—70 years ago
—-the Chusan, the first P. and O. boat,
arrived at Melbourne. On August 3 follow-
ing she reached Sydney, where a grand ball
was held to celebrate the event. The Chusan
was an iron screw steamer of 699 gross ton-
nage and 80 horse-power. She was a new
vessel, launched that year, barque-rigged,
and carried three guns. Captain Henry Dow
was commander. A public holiday was
observed on the day of the ball, which was
held in the Museum Building, August 26.
The Chusan polka was composed to celebrate
that event, and copies are still to be found.
“C.”: Tidings go around the U.S. that
after 11 years of law Minerals Separation
has compromised with the big shows in the
matter of flotation patent rights. The death
of John Ballot is said to have opened the
way to a settlement. Ballot was linked up
with a crowd which spread well over the
face of the mining globe exacting royalty
wherever they could, and imposing difficult
conditions as to rights over improvements
to the process by users. There are many
who still hold that the big legal fight which
brought Ballot victory ought to have gone
to Elmore. Then there was our own Potter,
who, whatever else may be said, opened the
door to all the patentees (except, perhaps,
ElmoreV who slipped in on his heels. T. A.
Richard speculates a lot whether the callow-
cell rights infringe Minerals Separation, and
pleads for a middle ground of agreement
where unhappy litigants - will have to pay
only reasonable royalty.
“Gallery”: Scullin, M.H.R. for Yarra,
promises to surpass the previous holder of
the seat in dialectical skill and driving
power. The other night he got on to the
subject of the proposed sale of the Com-
monwealth Woollen Mills at Geelong, and
old gallery hands sat up and took notice of
his masterful handling of a subject that
was dear to his socialistic heart. Scullin
would appear a likely leader, if he had a
bit more physique. But he is small, skimpy
and ordinary-looking, not even possessing
that curiosity of outline that makes a
stranger glance twice at Hughes. Another
handicap is that he wants to take the all-
red route to Labor’s objective, and that
eccentricity doesn’t command the admira-
tion of a majority of the party. Charlton
is a much safer proposition.
“Dunederra”: Kandos (N.S.W.) had a
day out last week, when one of the largest
blasts ever set in Australia was fired. For
three months compressed air-drills had been
preparing for this. One hole was 160 ft.
deep, and five others were 90ft., each being
6in. in diameter. Over 20 tons of gelignite
were used for the charge, which dislodged
30,000 tons of limestone. Under ordinary
circumstances two such charges are fired
each year, but this year Kandos is promised
three. Still, it is 'by no means a world’s
record. As far back as 1907 the enormous
weight of 120,000 tons of stone was dis-
placed at the quartzite quarries at Cher-
bourg, France. A tunnel Oft. x Oft. and
70ft. long was driven into the face of the
cliff, and at its end two branch tunnels were
driven to the right and left respectively.
These branches ended in chambers each
measuring 10ft. x 6ft. Eight and one-half
tons of blasting oowder and 2801 b. of dyna-
mite were placed in each and were fired, as
at Kandos, by electricity.
“Aristide”: Our old friend “Damaged
Goods” is going the rounds again in Vic-
toria, flaunting its never-failing slogan: “No
one under 16 admitted.” I am all for V.D.
being given the widest publicity; for pub-
licity alone will kill it. But shows like
“Damaged Goods” do harm, not only by
making a certain appeal to lascivious-
ness, but by leaving the plastic mind of
vouth with confused notions that the Red
Plague is bound up with champagne suppers
and ladies of the town, and that it may be
evaded by shunning such costly delights. The
truth is, of course, it is just as liable
to be found in an atmosphere of
cold tea and piety. Many of those with
rnonev enough to pay for champagne and
the like have also enough education and
knowledge of the world to be aware of the
way to sidestep V.D. Drink brings ruin
on its tens, so far as this complaint is con-
cerned ; but ignorance—or as fool-clerics and
old women call it. innocence—accounts for
its thousands. What is really needed in
every State is, not sporadic private enter-
prise efforts to eliminate this greatest of
curses, but an Act providing for
(1) The licensing of prostitutes and brothels.
(2) The establishment of prophylactic depots in
every big centre of population.
(3) Monthly lectures in all High Schools by medi-
cal men of standing (preferably elderly ones of some
individuality and strength of character) who will
handle the subject on its sanitary merits.
If the press and pulpit helped with publicity
work the great misery-breeder ought to be
in hand inside a generation.
“R.W.C.”: Was down at Outer Harbor,
S.A., in Jan., 1920, watching the disem-
barkation of Diggers and their brides, when
I was approached by one of the former.
After a little talk on the latest strikes and
droughts, mv new acquaintance asked:
“How long has a bloke got to stop on this
here repatriation stunt before they’ll get
him a job?” “It all depends.” I tempo-
rised. “What line do you follow?” “U-r-r,”
he said, pausing to take another bite out
of a buckshee pear. “I’m a casual worker
meself. but the wife’s a tailoress.”


These
Wintry Nights
when you have finished your evening
meal, and there is a bright fire burning,
a comfortable chair and good book at
hand, it is hard to resist availing yourself of the solace offering.
However, you pay the penalty for falling a victim to these
temptations, as in a few hours a stodgy, drowsy feeling
develops, and you reproach yourself for having been so foolish as
to sit over the fire all night. The close atmosphere and lack
of exercise have made your liver sluggish. Possibly you will
have a headache, and in the morning not feel much better.
Yet next night you will do the same thing with equally
unpleasant results. Under such circumstances try a dose of
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
before retiring. They will stir the liver
and assist in the digestion and assimi-
lation of food which is probably only
partially digested. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are also
invaluable in preventing
a common cold
if taken when the
first symptoms
develop.
They make you
feel brighter.
msTi
In!!!
I IB*
! i !
i
' i* t
il! I
h. j
Wf,
[ |! lilljj ! m[ pi I j ilj I
lIM 1 i !!!!!! ii
ii'iiiii'iiiii!!
U
iii!
iii
ii
li ß
i:i i il
iiiiiii
ilil llli i:|l!


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Octagon Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £l2/10/-
loct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s 9ct. Gold Hunting Key-
less Waltham Lever, £l5. Higher Grades,
£2O, £3O, £4O, £5O. Gold-filled Elgin
movement, 10-year Case, £4/10/-
20-year, £6/5/-. 25-year, £7/10/-
M
S'
*
&
V.MJ?
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, 40/-,
50/-; Solid Silver, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £5.
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin movement, £5,
9ct. Gold, £7/10/-
HIGH-GRADE WATCHES.
A. Saunders’
Bct. Solid Gold
Curb Albert,
£5/10/-
Heavier, £6,
£6/10/- to
£l2/10/-
Lighter, £5,
£4/10/-,
£4, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expandin?
Wri-'.''t Watch, full-jewellecl lever movement, £lO.
Othe, , £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10, £B/10/-,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade, Open-
face, Keyless Non-magnetic Lever Watch,
30/-. Higher grade, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-
A. Saunders’
9et. Solid Gold
Albert, £5.
Lighter,
£4/10/-,
£4,
£3/10/-
Heavier,
£5/10/-,
£6/10/-
15ct. Gold,
£7/10/-,
£B/10/-,
£lO.
Send for
Our
Free
Watch
Booklet.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wristlet Watch,
Silk Bracelet, Solid Gold Patent Catch and Mounts,
full-jewelled Lever Watch, £B/10/-
With Gold Patent Expanding Bracelet, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
We Pay
Postage
on
all
Orders.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Square Watch Wristlet, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £lO. Extra jewelled, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless
1-plate Lever, £4/10/-, £5, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-. Nickel Cases, £2/10/-.
Extra jewelled, £B, £3/10/-
I
2!
• 10
.8
4v
5A
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Expanding Side Bracelet and Leather Strap, £5.
X
mmy/'
fitrr'r?
aim
if-
I
ft
■rzm
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors-—polished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
inoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Waste—Liquid— Wowdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, See.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson’s
Wax —there is no substitute
S. C JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Amusements
CVI) N K V’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E S.
w J. C. WILLIAMSON’, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT,
(’IIITERION :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE BAT.
f PALACE:
PARLQR, bedroom and bath.
■T*IIE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
1 'PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
JULY—AUGUST.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking, House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
QX TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING NORTHERN RIVERS.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELDOURXE
1,1 ATTRACTIONS;
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 29,
THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
ING’S THEATRE, MELISO U R N L
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
DAL ACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“She has no equal.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
MatineCs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HAWA||
THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYCROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direcr. to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A."
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
424000 for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind."
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States.
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more, Post Free
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5 f
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at <£4ooo.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative effort
Ticke's can be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in 'ew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd or
direct from—
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Sec .
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 " Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BO UR K E STREET, ami LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
CHEATED HEARTS.
REGINALD DENNY in
THE LEATHER PUSHERS.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES'tIC THEATRE, M El, BOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE TALE OF TWO WORLDS,
A GOLDWYN FEATURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
TIIE EMINENT ARTISTS,
QUY MAIER AND LEE PATTISON
ill
CONCERTS OF MUSIC FOR TWO PIANOS,
ADELAIDE: TOWN lIALL, JULY L>7.
g HITANNIA THEATRE, .MELIK)URN E
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
|V| KMU I'IIEATKE, Al F 1.150 li KN IS.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
Hie productions of (JHAH.JN, VITAUUAPH, PAl'llk,
IVOIII.D and SkI.ZNICK.
.Miislr.g Friends.
IV! EAL. —William Francis Neal, who
came from England to Sydney some
years ago, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with this office.
Brother Alexander inquires.
JAMES SINNOTT.—SISTER KATE
anxious to hear. Write to TOM
EDS ALL, 12 Tennyson Street, Moonee
Ponds, Victoria.
171 STATE OF JOHN HOLMES CAMP-
JLLi BELL, late of Break Neck Station,
lea, near Masterton, New Zealand, farmer,
deceased.
Any person who has in his possession a
Will executed by the aboveuamed deceased,
or who can furnish evidence as to the exist-
ence of such T a Will, or that the deceased
executed a Will at any time, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned its soon
;e- possible.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVEHLEY PEN.*
MONARCH
YOURS—
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf cf the
filler used in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, blended to pro-
duce ;i satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d.
each.
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post froc to any address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club lieil Cigar Factory.
\
m
••••• .
on
enmen
JougltJor tobacco
in the days of the bucanneers they fought to
preserve a worth-while prize. The same choicest
Old Belt Virginia and Eastern Carolina Leaf
that reposed in the holds of merchantmen of those
adventurous days is to-day used in the manufacture
of Britain’s premier cigarette—•
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
20
-.2!-.
4^l
&
Obtainable from
all tobacconists
dhtfptoghout Australia.
,*r


NDASIA
SHAVING CREAM
K
Sr
J
THE LAST WORD AN
IN SHAVING LUXURV
FOR MEN
ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
How Do You Shave ?
Up, down or against the
grain, it’s all the same to the
IURHAMI-jUPLEX.
I Safe Razor I
This wonderful blade does
all it’s called on to do.
"J
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to votir dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor —feel it in
your hand —see how it balances —then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Criterion “The Great Lover”
Royal “The Bat”
Palace “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath’
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Naughty Princess”
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Palace "Spangles”
King’s - “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Age has withered none of the charm of the
Balfean airs in “Bohemian Girl,” but the
libretto, which is said to have been written
by somebody named Bunn, is so unconsciously
funny that m company could make it seem
seriously meant. The Vic. Opera Co.,
STIFFY AND MO AS JOCKEYS, AT
FULLERS' THEATRE, SYDNEY.
fathered by Mr. Hanstein. which has been
staging the old piece at the Playhouse, is
generally sweet in singing, and mostly pain-
ful in the walking, talking, costume and
make-up departments. One exception to the
rule of awkward self-consciousness is Ida
Ashton, as the grown-up Arline. She is a
bright, sprightly thing, with a graceful little
figure, winsome little smile, cute little
retrousse nose, and easy turn for suiting the
action to the word. When she warbles “I
Dreamt That I Dwelt,” in a pretty little
soprano, even stilted Thaddeus (who is a
real tenor, notwithstanding his legs) seems
to catch a whiff of operatic breeze from his
dainty intended. Looking like a damsel in
her ’teens, Arline is really a young matron
with two children to her credit. Ivy Seat's
would be an ideal Queen of the Gipsies if
her acting were as flexible as her melodious
mezzo; and the baritone and the basso have
good voices to plead for them. “The Heart
Bowed Down” is positively a fair set-off to
the baritone’s frosted moustache, which
never even suggests that nature has had a
hand in its growth. A ballet, coached by
Mrs. Wenmari, is more than passable, and
the Hanstein orchestra is quite up to the
work without being far above it. But the
Chorus! It confines all its exertions to the
music. Otherwise it toils not, neither does
it spin. And why did those good people at
the Playhouse last week imagine a vain
thing about their appearance as viewed from
the front? Had they no mirror in which
to learn the awful truth about themselves?
The patches of scarlet on some of the cheeks
set one blushing for one’s own artificial
roses.
Sfc sH
“The Silent Call” gets the popular vote
at Melbourne Majestic this week. The hero
is a dorg of incredible sagacity that practi-
cally reduces the leading man and maid to
the * position of supers. Irene Rich and
Ramsay Wallace provide the candy in the
Majestic’s second spasm, “A Voice in the
Dark,” and the
confectionery i s
supported by some
first-class sliu d-
ders. At Hoyt’s
“D own Home,”
crammed into
seven acts, is a
sort of social
panorama wherein
everybody strives
madly to make
every scene “a
scene.” The whirli-
gig of travel causes
many changes to
“Cheated Hearts”
on the same
screen, but eventu-
ally justice is dealt
out to the miser-
able hound who
metaphorically car-
ried an extra ace
in his boot. “The
Leather Pushers,”
who also have an
intermittent e n-
gagement at
Hoyt’s, are now in
Round four, and
Stadium support-
ers who come to
scoff remain to
pray for the gentle
creatures. “Hail
the W o m a n,”
At Melbourne Tivoli.
Georgie Wood as
Wee MacGregor.
a 11 e g e d t o b e
Thomas H. Ince’s crowning glory, is
having a week’s run at the Britannia.
“Boomerang Bill,” launched into New York’s
underworld at the Melba, is returning to his
starting-point at the behest of the usual
woman.
* * * *
Adelaide Royal (now owned outright by
Herbert Myers) sees the first Australian
production of “The Peep Show,” from Lon-
don Hippodrome, which Maxwell-Stewart
has come along to produce. It is possibly
the biggest thing in revue ever seen here.
It starts with a definite plot of a rocket
voyage to the moon, but the only result is
that the hero brings back a heroine with
him. They drop—with skilful use of cinema
effects of * cloud and wave—on the Scotch
coast, simply to allow a Highland spectacle
with Prince Charlie, the finest musical num-
ber in the show. Thereafter the story is
dropped without remorse. There are “peeps”
at Holland and at pre-war times with cheap
meat and plenty of homes. A Song Shop
brings in a dozen of the singers of 30
years ago in their individual successes,
"After the Ball,” “Trinity Church” and the
rest. Dickens Land is a great scene, with
over 30 of the familiar characters coming to
life and speech in it. There is an exquisite
toilet-table ballet. Finally Minnie Everett
has been given a free hand for a Persian
scene, in which Josie Melville does a fas-
cination dance, possibly a shade too Eastern
for the taste of Mrs. Grundy. But the Min-
istry of Waste act might be either cut out
or localised. Australia has plenty of poli-
tical wasters of its own.
The varied and heavy work is mostly in
the hands of five newcomers. Kathlyn Hil-
liard and George Baker are mainly two glori-
ous voices. They can act as well, and are
always attractive, but their manner has
hardly the breadth a spectacle of this kind
demands. It is noticeable that where clear-
cut character-acting is required they drop
out. Mona Magnet and Wakefield, on the
other hand, are two fine actors who can
sing. The lady has all the qualities to be
expected from one choosing that stage-
name, and Wakefield is a dashing Pierrot-
like figure. They are funny in a series of
disguises, and get a chance to show 7 strength
in an “Oliver Twist” scene. Dan Booker
is a hard-working little low comedian w T ho
pervades the whole piece, and gets countless
laughs without being too particular as to
the method. There is not much room for
anybody else; but Willoughby, Cambourne
and 11. R. Roberts seize any chances that
come their way, notably as characters from
Dickens. It is a great show, with some-
thing for every taste.
Concerning lithography:—
If Australian art is to take any lasting place in his-
tory, it will have to go seriously into the relative values
of mediums. How many, for example, realise that a
pen- or pencil-drawing or etching is an incomplete
statement? How many appreciate that no great
school of art was ever established on a medium, the
limitations of which excluded any one of the three
dimensions, drawing, tone and color?
The exhibition arranged by Thea Proctor at Gay-
field Shaw’s Gallery demonstrates the limitations of
lithography; but it also demonstrates that lithography
affords greater scope than its reproductive rival, etch-
ing. The etcher, however great his experience, cannot
judge accurately what his result will be, since he
does not see it until a print is taken. The litho-
grapher, if he excludes color and uses his chalk
properly, can see what he is doing throughout, and
—given a good craftsman to prepare the stone for
printing—may confidently expect that all he puts
clown will have lost only by the barest fractions in
the finished print. Not so when he attempts to state
color. Here each tone must be made up of certain
color proportions, drawn with black on separate stones,
to be printed separately over each other. It is already
impossible to judge to a fraction the accuracy of a
tone when with oils we state it on a canvas,
so it is obvious that the very compliealinn of
lithography when color is Introduced rules it out as
a medium for a full expression.
lire best tiung tri this show is F. Ernest Jackson’s
“Snow in London,” which deals with the three dimen-
sions, drawing, tone and color, and goes furthest
towards losing the flat surface in a suggestion of
space. The same quality is present in his “The
Garden,” Thea Proctor’s “Reverie,” Dorothy Hutton’s
“Chelsea Beach” and Louis Thomson’s “Kensington
Gardens” and “More’s Garden,” but they all leave
out color. These, and a dozen others, would make
for a high average standard by themselves. Unfortu-
nately, as with etching, an artistic trifle which would
be recognised as dueh if done in pen or pencil, has
its importance over-rated because it happens to be
a signed lithograph; and this show would not have
Suffered if many of the prints which are not artisti-
cally better than some lithographs we see as posters
on hoardings, had been left out.
-1-
The trouble with “The Pursuit of Pamela,”
which was put on at Sydney Theatre Royal
last week, and which is to be played again
on August 1 at the Criterion, was
a matter of the casting. Few ama-
teurs anywhere could have bettered the
performance of Mrs. Pitt Rivers as
Pamela. She has the comedy sense, plenty
of personality and charm, and she gets over
the footlights with the entire outfit. But
Ernest Watt, who has been very success-
ful in character-parts of staid, elderly gentle-
men in Repertory productions, was out of
his element as the lover. Alan Graeme was
a Puritan, no doubt; however, he had his
unregenerate moments —moments which he
expressed in his eyes and voice as well as
in his speech. Ernest Watt made him all
glum resistances, and the play suffered to
that extent. Sitting in the stalls was an
amateur who would have interpreted Alan
differently—J. B. N. Osborne. He stepped into
Julius Knight’s shoes in “Beaucaire” years
ago, and, all things considered, did remark-
ably well. If, as Seems likely, Sydney is
in for a generous issue of amateur show’s in
the coming months, it would be well to start
by fitting the right people into their correct
niches. The other performers w r ere weak,
judged even by Repertory standards, and
appear to have been chosen more for their
looks or something than their acting capa-
city.
$ $ v
At Sydney Tivoli on Saturday night Lee
White, wearing a beaming smile and a gor-
geous frock, stepped with Clay Smith into
the aching void left by George Carney. The
songs they sang and the patter they purveyed
were, perhaps, not of the highest order, but
the large crowd welcomed them home with
roars for more, and finally showered Lee
White with the output of half the florist
shops in town. Malcolm Scott is to pack up
and go soon ; but meanwhile he remains well
in th j boom ; and the rest of a lengthy bill
is finding favor with all.
% SIC $
Mary Miles Minter is at Sydney Lyceum
this week in “All Souls’ Eve,” and spiritual-
ists are deserting the seances to see her
double the roles of ghost and earthly maid.
The support is Wallace Reid as “The
World’s Champion.” Rialto offers “A
Rough Passage.” A hotch-potch of Gar.vice
and Gould. This house and the Haymarket
also present “Fools First,” the moral of
which is w’rapped up in the eighth command-
ment. Always w’orth seeing ds dainty little
Shirley Mason, who re-appqars in “Very
Truly Yours.” at Hoyt’s de Luxe, as a
typiste. In “The Scrapper,” which is show-
ing on Hoyt’s eii’cuit, Herbert Rawlinson
demonstrates the way in which a straight
left wins the right to the fade-out embrace.
Douglas Fairbanks is due at the Strand next
Saturday in “The Three Musketeers.”
“MAJOR BARBARA ,” AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Erna Living as Rummy, and Geoffrey
Haigh as Cholly Lomax.
IVAlvarez is still going strong at the Town
Hall, and the numbers of her hearers in-
crease nightly. The public enjoys the man-
ner in which the Peruvian contralto flings
back her head and aims her notes at the
top of the middle chandelier. Also, the
patrons of her art like her scintillating dress-
ing when she swishes and purrs like a tiger-
cat through the Delilah number; and to
the lady’s shears every baldpate in the house
would willingly sacrifice the mane he can-
not grow. The Carmen numbers never fail
to bring the house to boiling-point. Two
further concerts are booked for to-night
(Thursday) and Saturday.
Shaw’s “Major Barbara” is being offered
by the Repertory people at the Playhouse
all this week ; and though a trifle talkative
it holds more laughs than a season’s output
of the American-built comedies to which our
theatres are being acclimatised. In the knee-
drill business at the Salvation Army Bar-
racks in Act 2, Erna Living (Rummy
Michens) and Albert Collins (Snobby Price)
more than lived up to their repertory repu-
tations. Winifred Green, in the name-part,
was a fascinating Army lass; Bea Mac-
donald and Geoffrey Haigh fitted happily
into small parts, and Montgomery Stuart
was well cast as Andrew Undershaft,
the cynic, who, making his millions out of
munitions, regards the "turn the other cheek”
policy as nothing but propaganda antago-
nistic to his trade.
The first collected exhibition of water-
colors by the late Alexander McClintock, at
Melbourne Athenaeum, hardly justifies John
Shadow's effusive appreciation in the front
part of the catalogue. Certainly McClintock
had his moments of high achievement, but he
was also guilty of much commonplace work.
Following in the footsteps of the over-rated
John Mather, he often clung too faithfully to
Mather’s formalism with unhappy results to
his artistic growth. Mather might have
painted several of the low-toned and unimagi-
native bushscapes in the present show, and
there is one picture, “Billabong, Heidelberg.”
which could be ascribed to R. W. Bugg, an
even more ancient formalist in the handling
of water-color. McClintock’s best is
seen in subjects like “The Cattle Track,”
wherein the problems of light, color and
atmosphere are not beyond his means of
expression. In this picture the gum-trees are
genuine and have none of that lyric treat-
ment which makes many of Hans Heysen’s
bush impressions so unbearably sentimental.
McClintock also scores in “Sunshine and
Shade” (No. 83), an unusually radiant effort
for him, and tbei'e is a snapshot of cows
waiting in the shacktw of a haystack that
contains all the appealing tints of evening.
The dead artist used his brush, in several
portraits, and remembering the'difficulty of
his medium, one can’t grow querulous over
his view of a mother and child, though the
whole performance is obtrusively conven-
tional. A fresh-faced Digger and a little girl
called “Effiie” have more conspicuous merits.
Two nudes turn their backs on the audience
in No. 64, but they are thick-limbed and
bourgeois and the sea-beach around them is
tame.
SOME MELBOURNE SHOWS
Lo! at the Royal, this current week,
Are three short plays, whereof to speak
Were idle eulogy, for they
Will merely come and go away,
Scarce heeded by the fathead throng
That craves for tripey plays, and long;
For these are witty scenes in brief.
Of Irish joy and jest and grief.
Since Melbourne lauds them not, alas !
Like shadows must those playlets pass.
“My Lady’s Dress,” at Melbourne King’s,
Still stages divers folks and things
Hot love and hate and langwidge low,
Which tickles all the women so.
Yea, if you ask: llow comes a show
To score the true all-round success
Accomplished by “My Lady's Dress”?
The answer to .the question is:
The larf of Lisa, Jack and Liz,
Contrasted well with costumes smart,
And lurid shades of human heart,
Will do the trick—all sorts of vice
And virtue, mixed with ryebuck spice.
Her Majesty’s (see change of plan)
Trusts Gilbert, linked with Sullivan,
To fill the house till Friday night,
When “lolanthe” spells delight.
The dear old operas we learn,
Will to the Royal then return,
Whilst at Her Majesty’s the chief
Attraction will be Miss Monerieff —
Fair Gladys who, ’tis safe to tell,
Will do “The Naughty Princess” well
Up at the Palace Ada Reeve
Must, some years later, take her leave
With “Spangles,” which is proving still
A mine of wealth in vaudeville.
Her bill goes on as seems not strange,
Eight times a week, sans chop or change,
Whereas the Tiv., ’tis understood,
Keeps nothing long save Georgie Wood,
The Peter Pan, in whom appears
The air of youth, the art of years,
The urchin’s laugh, the nipper’s tears —
Small Georgie, most of all a lad
When wearing Wee MacGregor’s plaid.
To make an end to this wee rhyme,
Which might go on till summer-time —
’Twixt parting lips, that oft are purs’t,
Dame Melba sings on Aug. the First.
O.K.


:
■
a
as
sr
22
v-S r ' -
«SBa§
ffHB
■I
t?i
MHffi
j|
IllSpi
mui
I 11
lufl
I: | i
IliS
« as
Ills
I ; HIS
ll||^
mamsm
■■s
M gp*
:
I
%? §§
i. - ■
r HS
£ t :
B
B
SSI
lit
fJMMWWayii
Bliilflll!
;
■
' ' <' * ' , |jsH|
, I
iiiiiiia
V
*
sapssssp
.
m
y
mm
......
- ,:
adL?fe, .
a*
; !§W^l«§
m&m
as
PUBLIC NOTICE
Extract from letter of 11th January, 1922, received by
JAMES WATSON & COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
from their Principals at Dundee, Scotland. —IT SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF.
“The question of price must, as in the past, be based
on quality. We could, as you can understand, ship
cheaper whisky, but there does not seem any ultimate
advantage, either to our customers or to ourselves,
in doing so; besides, we would not associate our
name with the re-sale of Scotch Whisky three years
old. There is also the wider question of policy—
whether we are to come down to compete with the
cheapest, or whether we are to STAND on QUALITY
AT OUR PRICE. We believe we will gain prestige
by the latter course.”
WfttSOAs'No.
Now as Ever.
Standard Ag'e
10’Whisky
SUPREME.
- lO Years.
Ample PRE-WAR STOCKS
Held to Meet All Demands.
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Scotch Whisky Merchants,
DUNDEE, GLASGOW & LONDON.
Australian Branches:
SYDNEY,
26 King Street.
MELBOURNE,
453-455 Latrobe Street.
PERTH,
1 3 Barrack Street.


1.1
M
I
PR
Pi
i
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONT dePIETt
■=».£,■ . COY. LTD.,
74 Cdstleretidh St. 74
Phone City 9325.
Capital 5,300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera / Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is een-
erally regarded as a
vampire the chnrjre can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and T. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagrh Street, Sydney.
159 Georg:e Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
“S.S.” : The singer was English, the songs
were English, and the audience was English
too, or mainly so. The singer was singularly
defective, a short, perfectly-round man, who
resembled an animated fish-globe in evening-
dress. He was described in the vaudeville
programme as England s great ballad singer.
He sang one song, and the audience bore it
with some equanimity. He sang a second
song, and the people became furtively restive.
He commenced a third, and then out
of the comparative silence between yerse
one and verse two a deep voice, poignant
with distress, wailed: “Gorstruth, ole man,
don’t rub it in !”
“Thor” : Add 11. V. AYilliams, mentioned
Maurice Dudley, who
stage manages “My
Lady's Dress,” at
Melbourne King's.
bv “Diggeress” (B.
22/6/’22), to my
list of earlier
chorus men whose
fine example has
been mislaid by
present-day dum-
mies. A good
actor, as well as
a good musician,
Williams did sev-
eral small parts
with the Royal
Comics, and was
more than a pass-
a b 1 e Mephisto-
plioles in a pro-
duction of “Faust.”
Before he formed
the ma 1 e-v oi c e
choir in St. Igna-
tius’s, Richmond,
he conducted at
South Melbourne
R.C. Church, and
always got Wil-
liamson choristers
to assist at the
big ceremonials, if
available. II o w
many of the
flabby persons who
take up chorus
work as a side-
line to peddling
can d y or pearl
buttons would be anything but encumbrances
in performances of Mozart and Haydn
church music?
“Rann D.” : Stewart Macky’s play, “John
Blake,” which is to be produced by the
Pioneer Players in Melbourne on August 10,
ought to give the archaeologists a chance of
showing how much they know of Australian
history. The play opens in Sydney of the
early ’thirties, and the producers are ran-
sacking the public libraries to make sure
that the costumes are correct to the last
ruffle. Still, there is sure to be a- small
harvest of anachronisms to satisfy those
people who are pedantically inclined. And
even the youngsters know something of the
history of their country nowadays.
“Pink”: There’s nothing wrong with the
film market overseas when you get a local
production that is worth while. “Silks and
Saddles” is a case in point. That picture, made
in Sydney about IS months ago, was sold for
good money in the U.S.A., and is now running
well under its American title, “Queen of the
Turf.” It isn’t a great film by any means,
but it breaks new ground for the jad< d U.S.
film-fiend. And even the Yank seems to think
that he is retting too much of his own coun-
try on the screen. Anyhow, the buyers of
“S.lks and Saddles” have asked the pro-
ducers for more.
“Yarra Ben” : I wish the picture-showmen
would warm up their screens these
winter nights—their “palaces” are never
sufficiently heated to begin with. The pro-
gramme of the movie morgue I visited in
Melbourne the other evening was laden with
snow and ice. At the outset we were re-
galed with views of ice-yacht racing in
“MAJOR BARBARA." SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Francis Jackson as
Cusins, and Mont-
gomery Stuart as
Andrew Undershaft.
Canada. About half-way we saw how ice-
breaking steamers get to work on the frozen
Hudson River. As if that wasn’t full and
plenty, we were gorged in the second half
with a long reel showing the ice-bound
Baltic, “25° below zero.” I left the place
diddering, and that establishment has one
fool-customer the less.
“S.T.S.”: After all, the plot of “The
Sheik,” and all those other cave-man films so
popular with the flappers, can be summed up
in one word. It is the name given by
Brennan to his new hovering aeroplane.
“0.K.”: Quite the right comments on the
financial failure of “The White-headed Boy”
in Sydney and Melbourne were made by
Frank Tait to an interviewer who wanted to
know what he thought of it. A number of
people are always asking for unconventional
plays, with convincing characters, and when
such goods are offered the people who asked
for them don’t rush the shop. Had all the
scoffers at “commercial” drama g me to “The
White-headed Boy” it would at least have
been a fair success in both cities. One such
play, anyhow, should have been a success of
curiosity, although a succession of them
mieht have palled on intelligent understand-
ing. The Irish play has no variety in it,
no pleasantly humorous picture of outdoor
life, such as that of Willum getting his first
experience of kirk wardenship in “Bunty
Pulls the Strings.” Scawtch human nature
was more kindly staged in “Bunty” than is
Irish provincial nature in the play that
Sydney and Melbourne wouldn’t warm to.
Not that there is any insult to Oireland in
it. to explain the want of enthusiastic Irish
support. Change the accent and it would
do for a comedy of English village life. Deck
it in brighter raiment, and substitute the
name of some other capital town. for the.
Dublin they talk about, and this might, pre-
sumably. be a comedy of Roumanian or Bul-
garian life. Provincialism is the keynote in
“The White-headed Boy,” and the sentiments
of provincialism are pretty much the same'
in many countries.
“Record Room”: When Irene Vanbrugh
returns to Australia her plays are sure to
be whole eras more modern than those in
which she was seen with Toole. The vet-
eran comedian included in his 1890 list such
favorites of his youth as i’oole’s "Paul Pry,”
Morris BarnetPs “Serious Family,” and,
as farcical after-pieces, “Id on Parle.Fran-
G&is and Mark Lemon’s “Domestic Econ-
By r °n, Dion Boucicault (the
elder, of course) and Mr. and Mrs. Her-
man Menvale were among his later authors.
Hood features of those days were the fre-
quency of change (Toole varied his Mel-
bourne bill every Saturday night for eight
weeks), and the cheerful readiness of the
management to add a one-act piece, if neces-
sary, to give value for the money. Miss
Vanbrugh, then youthful, had her chief suc-
res m the emotional part of “Uncle Dick’s
fimu „ as a deceptive young dame in
Ihe Don and as the blind girl in “Dot,”
founded on ILckens’s “Cricket on the
Hearth. Toole’s people had to be versatile.
“Ardath”: “Stargazer” is right out in
his recent contention that George Tallis
was a dresser to J. C. Williamson at the
luncesss Theatre, Melbourne. Williamson
appeared only twice at the Princess’s during
TaiUs’s career as treasurer there—once in
the Irish play “Kerry,” and again as emer-
g?n?y Elton, who had fallen out
°t ( La Cigale through illness. William-
son s dresser on those occasions was, I
b ?i?. ve V. Percy Bell, now one of the vetei'ans
ot the I? inn s front-of-the-house staff at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, and well and favorably
known to , many pressmen. Tallis, of course,
had nothing to do with the stage. He had
a Heaven-sent genius for balancing ledgers
correctly, and was a great help at a t : me
when the commercial side of Williamson’s
enterprises needed expert attention.
r ‘‘ Rien zi”: There was no love lost between
Jupus Knight and Ada Ferrar when thev
Prnl aPP m, rfcd in “The Sign of the
Ciofes. Though playing capitally together,
their mutual antipathy caused a iot of talk.
JuJnis was widely supposed to be jealous
°n th f lady s Popularity, whilst she was
alleged to resent his abounding egotism and
dictfitona l attitude at rehearsals. During
their Melbourne season they were asked to
all sorts of social side-shows, but those in
the know never made the mistake of invit-
lng them together. One Sunday evening,
however. Ada went to a small 'and select
evening party in a classy suburb, and, to
her horror, was ushered innocently into a
room where the great Julius and' another
overbearing member of the same comnanv
were preening themselves in a circle of ador-
ing flappers. With one glance the actress
excused herself hurriedly. “I’m so sorry ”
she saul to her hostess, “but I’m getting so
tired of being thrown to the lions.”
t : on the pronunciation
of D Alvarez (B. 20/7/’22) is partly right
and partly wrong. As he says, the letter
z is pronounced as “th” in Spanish, but
m the brand ot Castilian spoken in South
America it becomes a very soft “s ”
Hence, her fellow-Peruvians would call the
lady Dahl-var-ays.”
, John F. Sheridan, referred to
h.V D. OC. (B. 20/7/ 22) as an “Irish
actor, certaimy played Irish parts, but
he was one of the chosen people. I was
With him on his first provincial tour in
England of “When the Lamps are Lighted.”
A ext to the Widow O’Brien, Pat Rafferty
“ -hhe Lamps,” was his favorite part!
John and his wife. Grade Whiteford, were
a wnys sure of a thunderous welcome at the
old Paragon Music Hall in Whitechapel-
road from the children of the Ghetto when
they appeared in “The Nursemaid and the
&oldier. Gratae made as neat a soldier
m those days as Ella Shields does now, and
pai oiered with Teddy Sinclair, she is still
going strong on the Moss Empire circuit.
, *'Noi'bell”: “Record Room’s” par. about
Dorothy’ (B. 20/7/’22) recalls that Cel-
lier, the composer, was wielding the conduc-
tor s stick for the Finn here when the
opera caught on in London. Years before
lus opera, “Nell Gwynne,” with a libretto
by 11. B. Famie, had been a failure at the
innces Theatre, Manchester. Farnie
modestly attributed this to Cellier’s music:
Cellier thought the frost was due to the
Late 1 ? o°n S Farnie ’ s libl ' etto -
Hater on B. C. Stephenson wrote a new
libietto for the Nell Gwynne” score, and
the rechauffe was labelled “Dorothy”
Nevertheless, the opera didn’t make a suc-
cess when produced at the Gaiety. The
press slated the management for leaving
Hayden Coffin without a song, and an old
2md« u yr « called ‘Old Dreams,” with new
woids by Stephenson, was pushed into the
second act as “Queen of My Heart.” Then
GV , L ™, e took the °P era to the Prince
of Wales Theatre (the “Dusthole”), and en-
Mane Tempest and Ben Davies to
d t o 1 5 e tofi ie /?n t V\ nd , C !. llier got back t 0 L °n-
Ws* Ufe find that 16 liad made tbe success of
, i 1 ! 600 ” : T wo moi ' e Australians who have
r g L°, abr /°L d *° T et fame and lucre are
Art Buckley (Mysto) and his wife. Buck-
ley has a card act, which, tried on Australian
managers, turned him in little more than th?
basic wage. Goffig to the TT.S.A. he dazzled
the exclusive Magicians’ Club at Chicago
rnJL I ? lei ?L ershl ? ls / ou f hl y 800), and was
rushed with contracts. Moreover, U.S. Sas-
siety has gone in for hiring “those wonder-
ful Australian mind-readers” and paying
heavily for the privilege. When Mysto sug-
gested a mind-reading turn to Australian
"impresarios” he was told that it wasn’t
wanted, inasmuch as importations could do
the business ever so much better.
“Buz Fuz”: “Wrinkles’s” explanation of
“the careless dabs of vermilion” affected by
one of the Mermaid Players (B. 6/7/’22) is
ingenious,- but ineffectual. An old circus-
lady, whose very craft would make her expert
Gilbert and Sullivan,
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Charles H . Workman
as Ko-Ko in “The
Mikado."
in the art of pre-
paring a dazzling
complexion, would
never use the
rougepot in a man-
ner that would
tempt a short-
sighted person to
break a fire-alarm.
If the author men-
tioned this in the
script—there is no
allusion to the
matter in my copy
of “Columb.ne”—
hi s acquaintance
with aged bare-
back riders must
have been about as
brief as his experi-
ence with the type
of lady who caused
all the pother in
his play. As to
the “odd habili-
men t s” being
"typical of a wow-
ser in an. old Eng-
lish town,” I can
pnly say, “Rub-
bish.” No wowser
following the occu-
pation of journal-
ism would wear
the garments I
have referred to.
If he was equal to
owning an evening-
, , , ~ Or dinner-suit, com-
mon knowledge would prevent his commit-
ting the dreadful solecism of sporting a pair
ot obvious evening pants with an alien coat
and vest.
"Orb”: A lot of greasepaint has flowed
over Australian mummers’: faces since “Dot”
Boucicault and his sister Nina first appeared
here in the ’eighties in their father’s Irish
dramas (B. 20/7/’22). I saw the
°JP en m S performance in Melbourne at
the Theatre Royal. The bill was “The
bhaughraun, the old man playing Conn
Dot limping around as the villainous Har-
vey Duff, and Nina wearing the red cloak of
a blameless colleen as Moya. George Tith-
eradge was the Captain Molineaux, and
Gerald Eyre was also in the cast —he died
in Melbourne during the season. Other
plays presented included “Colleen Bawn,”
The Jilt,” “Arrah-na-pogue” and “Kerry,”
Boucicault, senior, playing the title-role in
the flatter —a favorite part of J. C. William-
s°n ’ s -, Dion Boucicault pro-
duced The Shaughraun ’ at Drury-iane on
Nov. 6, 1875.
“Second Murderer”: In Sydney the other
day Gaston Mervale put up a quick-change
performance reminiscent of the London
vaudeville stars who do four ’alls a nwht
Sidney Stirling, reporting sick, Mervale,
when he had finished being Maestro Cereale
m < The Great Lover” at the Criterion,
IT 1 .' 1 ! I .*- , round to the Royal in time to take
Stirling s place as Reginald Beresford in
Ihe Bat. _ He did this at the matinee and
orri m *~ le Pluyed the part in
Ihe Bat in Melbourne. It is not a new
notion, however. Away back in ’B3, when
Ilie Silver King” was first produced in
Australia at Melbourne; Roval, Frank
Cates (Geoffrey Ware) and Ollv Deering
(Belcher) used to dart up Little Rourke-
street, when they had finished, and blow on
at the old Princess’s in “Miriam’s Crime.”
I myself, hired to strut in the two last acts
of a dignified J.C.W. production at the
1 rincess s, juggled a part in Act 1 of a
curse-you shocker at the; Hippodrome to
oblige a friend. I haven’t mentioned it.
hitherto, because the Firm have a not-unrea-
sonable objection to any of their ministers
holding two portfolios.
Stargazer” : In the old days it was quite
the recognised thing that one bad turn was
essential to a good vaudeville pro-
gramme, if only to hasten the departure
or the audience when time was about up.
Une such house-emptier was employed by
llarry Rickards for a long term. At any
rate, nobody could account for the presence
of the Rubber Couple with any more feasible
explanation.. One night while the bright pair
were damaging the welkin with horrid noises
supposed to be a Scottish song, and when
the rest of the audience was making hungrily
tor the exits,. one man in the stalls was seen
to be clapping his hands vigorously and
crying Encore ! Encore !” Harry Rickards
gazed at the spectacle with amazement, and
then sent an usher round to ask the fellow
what he meant by it. The: usher returned.
He says, sir,” said the lpinion, “that he
don t catch a train till quarter-past 11, and
he s stone deaf, anyway.” f
THE LARGEST CAT OF ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a long, thin, silent man with two outstand-
ing teeth
Protruding from his upper jaw, and none at all
beneath.
. Naught that he heard disturbed him, and nothing
that he saw:
When faced with terrifying things he merely mut-
tered “Haw!”
Before Macpherson’s lion cage the trainer, Otto
Benn,
Had voiced his great defiance to the gaping sons of
men.
He walked in with the lions, and the lioness's' fur
He stroked with an unfearful hand, and then he
tickled her.:
The lioness he held by one vast ear.
She her fangs, unsheathed her claws. He
called per “Pretty dear,”
And smoothed her back, her regal flanks. The
creature large and grim
Put on a sly expression and made goo-goo eyes at
him.
]
'Twas an a blazing vision and a thing to wonder at
To see the horrid lioness like an entranced cat
Roll over, a-nd put-up her paws and tenderness dis-
play, .
Until the fellow raised his hat and bowed and walked
away. [
We shouted him a lot of beer, we each tossed in a
bob.
Macpherson quite insulted him with offers of a job.
“How is it done ?” -ihe Scotchman cried, and he
continued: “Hoofs?!"."
Why is’t she ye, laddie, hide and bones
and boots?” ""' s :: •
‘‘For years I feared the larger cats,” the tall, thin
stranger said.
“And then 1 married Madame wlio’d already thrice
been wed.
Since then no tigress frightens me, I give my word
of honah.
I’ve lived with one, you see, boys—with an untamed
prima donna!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


?V‘
I.
jt*r
“Murdoch
Tailored
Your Suit —
and a Saving of £l/2/3!
By means of a fortunate purchase in
England Murdoch’s can make you a
high-class 5-Guinea English Tweed Suit
Tailored in distinctive fashion to your
own measures
for £4/2/9
Post Free.
You will like these beautiful weaves —so attractive
in quiet tones and refined designs. Send your name
arid address to DESK R —a Free range of patterns
will come to you by return mail.
URDOCH'C
In Park St. L,td., Sydney^^
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
' Pride of Ownership
A T , the office, club or at home
there’s a nice feeling about pull-
ing out your Eversharp whenever
you want to write. It’s a pencil you
may well be proud of—it adds the
refining touch of a piece of jewellery
Moreover, it is always sharp with-
out ever your sharpening it. It lasts
so long you may consider it a life
companion.
You can get your Eversharp in a
variety of metals, sizes and patterns,
with pocket clip,chain or ribbon ring.
for Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOAR'E, Ltd ,
Remington House, Liverpool St., Sydney
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOR POTATOES.
Manurial experiments in Potato Growing conducted last
season by the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture in seven
districts of New South proved conclusively that
mixed fertilisers containing SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
(the Richest Nitrogenous Fertiliser) yielded the highest
returns, the increase over No Manure” plots being as
under:—
Increased Yield Over Unmanured
Plots.
The Complete Fertiliser used per acre comprised:—
2£cwt. Superphosphate,
fcwt. SULPHATE OF AMMONIA,
fcwt. Chloride of Potash.
(See “Agricultural Gazette” of N.S.W., l/6/’22).
QUOTATIONS AND INFORMATION FROM
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY, LIMITED,
Equitable Building : : : : Melbourne
m
•v,
L 3
a
r ~
What Does Efficient Power Transmission
Mean in Your Factory?
It means more power actually delivered to your machinery for less cost
It means economy in operation—fewer breakdowns and a smaller repair bill
Ivor this rpnsnn *
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been specified for important and difficult drives in the largest mining and
industrial plants in Australia. The illustration shows the largest”belt
drive m the Southern the Bod Mill at the BrokSi Hill
Iroprietary Company s Steelworks, Newcastle, New South Wales for which
one 48-inch and three 34-inch Pioneer Leather Belts were specified.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Distributing Agents throughout the Commonwealth:
A & J* E - ladder, 409 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. .
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry & Co., Edward Street, Brisbane; Burns, Philn &
Co., Ltd., Townsville.
™V A T£ T J?. A L IA: Jehn McKel b Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
VI. ACS IKALIA: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Etd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
< 1 ——-
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
CADET 297/250 Cal. RIFLES
Fitted with NEW B.S.A. BARRELS. We still
have a limited number of these noted Sporting
Rifles. Tested, Sighted and GUARANTEED
ACCURATE UP TO 500 YARDS. Complete
with CLEANING ROD AND SIGHT PRO-
TECTOR.
RIFLES, 55/-. Cartridges 6/6 100.
B.S.A. .22 CAL. BOLT ACTION RIFLE, 24in.
BARREL. Take-down. For accuracy and ease,
95/-
F.N. BROWNING AUTOMATIC RIFLE, .22
calibre. Fires 8 LONG RIFLE CARTRIDGES,
Same as above, to fire 11 ordinary Short, 80/-
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOLS,
32 Cal. and 25 Cal. A home necessity,
£5/10/-, £5.
ROSS .303 MAGAZINE RIFLE. The cheapest
.303 obtainable, £6/10/-
Gun and Rifle Repairs done on the Premises.
Work Guaranteed.
C/J*
Sports Centre,
318 Little Coilins Street, Melbourne
SPORTINO
NOTIONS
Jolly Phast, who has list, in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle, won a race over the battens at
Aspendale Park on Saturday with 12st. 41b. up.
Moon rode the Waukenphast gelding, whose per-
formance was fairly impressive, and warranted the
short price offered (evens), although he hadn’t much
to beat. It is a coincidence that Roisel was first
home at Aspendale last year before he took the
big race at Caulfield. Front Rank, who is fancied
for the Australian Steeple, shaped disappointingly in
a scramble over the Aspendale jumps, but it was
afterwards explained that he had twisted a plate.
Pro Tern, the well-bred winner—he is by Comedy
King-Problem, dam of the flying Solution —wasn’t
nominated for Caulfield.
* * * •
Erasmus ran a good race at Itosehill on
Saturday, but pulled up so dickily that his chance of
seeing the post on Epsom or Metrop. day looks slim.
Topweight in the 10-furlong handicap, the brown
Linacre stallion was made favorite at 3’s, and, run-
ning prominently throughout, finished second to the
in-and-out Antonio mare, Dora Glen, a 10-to-l shot.
Hack in his stall he exhibited a badly-swollen limb,
which is going to give his trainer heaps of trouble.
Fit and well on the day Erasmus would take stousli-
ing in either race, but he is not the kind of nag
to back in doubles three months before the event.
Earl Palm and Jarnac, both serviceable steeds,
annexed the first and second divisions respectively
of the Flying Welter. It was Earl Palm’s third
successive victory, and he went out at 5 to 1.
Bgrosca, by Bardolph—La Mosca, landed a pot of
money for his stable bv winning the Granville
Stakes, his first race after a long spell. Nothing had
a chance with Barosca in the run home. A likelv-
looking customer, well down in the weights, this
horse should be worth following.
* * * *
A man of weight in the literal sense was
llarvie Cobcroft, who died suddenly in Sydney last
week. He turned the scale at 24st. A familiar
figure on the pony courses, Harvie was a native
of the Windsor (N.S.W.) district, the Cobcrofts having
settled at Wilberforce about a century ago. For
years he had been secretary of the Victoria Park
club, and he was a- walking encyclopaedia of ponv-
racing lore, a kindly one withal. He was 55
at the weighing-in.
* * * *
The public does not often hear details of
the “bonus” transactions between horse-owner and
jockey, but Loftus Moorhouse, of Adelaide, having
been thrown over by Mooney, the rider of Fiscom,
has given the incidental figures to the newspapers.
Mooney’s commission on the G. N. Hurdle win in
Melbourne amounted to £154. The owner added
£3OO, with a promise of more if the Mountain God
double came off. But Mooney found this entirely
insufficient, ard abandoned liis engagement to ride
Fiscom for the rest of the season.
* * * *
“Murranji” : How is this for a unique
performance? At the Clntlia picnic races held at
Richmond, N.Q., three horses out of the one mare won
six races out of six starts —two wins each. Delnois,
the oldest of the trio, won the big money, Bracelet
and Bangle. He is by Illinois out of” Delicious,
whilst the other two are by Dryos from Delicious.
They were all bred, owned, trained and ridden by
B. C. Carter.
“Ex-Englishman”: A filmed version of
“Kissing Cup’s Race,” the old recitation-verse, is
going the rounds of the movie-theatres and stagger-
ing all dinkum sports. When the filly is just foaled,
the owner is offered 500 to 1 about a race two years
ahead, and takes it in thousands. Backer and layer,
hero and villain of the story (call them 11. and V.
for short) are both young English noblemen. H.
is branded as a reckless gambler, but V., who risks
half-a-millioii, as u knavish, shrewd and calculating
person. During the two years’ wait, V. utterly ruins
H. by the simple process of cutting the cards,
double or quits. H. lias only the race to save him
arid the Girl from emigration. When the time comes,
a horse of V.’s own is (most improbably) the only
one named as threatening danger. Nobody suggests
any doubt about a young peer being able to cough
up half-a-million sterling on demand. Although
Kissing Cup is well in the market the owner gives
her little hope. It never occurs to him or the
stable that, with the filly going to the post fit and
well, he could lay off at 5 or 10 to 1 and stand to
win a fortune either way. Finally, with the race
and the wager his one chance against ruin, 11., with
the approval of his lawyer and liis trainer, sells
Kissing Cup per telephone to someone unknown, with-
out any stipulation for a start! To any dinkum
racing man, that finally kills the story; but the
public fairly “eats” it. Of course Kissing Cup wins.
And equally of course the buyer was not V., the long-
odds laver, but the Girl.
* » * *
“Winkle”: St. Stephen's harriers, winners
of the Victorian 5-mile and 10-mile teams’ cham-
pionships for three years past, are making prepara-
tions to raid Sydney in August. There is a sur-
prising number of talented runners in this club,
and Sydney teams will be kept busy if all tlie
following can make the trip: Tommy Vines, twice
Victorian 10-mile and 5-mile champion; F. W.
Rage, second in Vic. 10-mile and third in Austra-
lasian 10-mile cross-country championships, 1921,
and Vie. 2-mile record-holder; A. E. McMillan,
10-mile, 1919; J. E. Bell (formerly of Botany Har-
riers, N.S.W.), winner of 15-mile modified Mara-
thon, 1922; M. V. Boyd, Vic. junior champion,
1920, and second in Vic. 5-mile, 1921 ; W. 11.
Brown, a Vic. 10-mile winner and a former 1-mile
Australasian champion ; J. Hill and W. Stainfield.
Stainfield is the only runner named who has not
represented his State. He was first emergency
last year. Fifteen years ago the Essendon harriers,
then invincible in Victoria, sent a team to Sydney,
only to be badly beaten by the Botany club. The
tables were turned, however, when the Botany har-
riers competed in Melbourne two years later. Essen-
don then won handsomely.
* * . * * *.
Georges Michel, a Frenchman, had a go
at the Channel swim last week. Entering the
water at Cape Grisnez, he plodded along for Hit
hours and skied the wipe when six miles from the
Noith Foreland lighthouse. Two men only have suc-
ceeded in swimming the Channel—Captain Matthew
Stanley Webb, who did the job at his second attempt in
1875 ; and William T. Burgess, who got across 35
years afterwards. Webb swam the old-fashioned
breast-stroke, and liis time for the journey was 21f
hours. He covered 39 miles, including bis drift.
Burgess was 22 hours 35 minutes in crossing, but
covered nearly CO miles on account of the set of the
tides. He swam side-stroke.
* * * *
“Push Off” : Tom Morris, the Parramatta
(N.S.W.) professional, who went to Britain to have
a shot at swimming the Channel, will find another
aspirant there in Douglas Pitt, a N.Q. trepang fisher-
man. Pitt, the son of a Torres Islander and a
Samoan mother, is a wonderful waterman. Once,
when a cyclone sank his lugger, lie helped his wife
and child, both indifferent swimmers, to reach an
island four miles away. After a respite the trio set
out to swim to the mainland, about 12 miles distant.
The child died, but Pitt and his wife got through.
Pitt is after a £lOOO prize hung up by London
Daily Sketch. So are ex-champion Dave Billington
and other English swimmers.
* * # *
Despite the handicap of an injured ankle,
Mrs. Yuille, of Dubbo, again proved herself the
Ma State’s champion
skirted golfer. In the
Anal she heat Miss
Boys, after a great
game, by 2 up and 1
to play. The Dubbo
lady excelled in long
driving, and; is undoubt-
edly a player ot class.
The ladies’ foursomes
went to the Misses
Wray and Boys (92)
from Mrs. Witton and
Mrs. Barton (93) ; and
the mixed foursomes
were won by Ivo Whit-
ton and his wife with
the fine card of 84.
F.A.ALCOCK ,
friend of
billiardists
and, manag-
ing-director
of the bil-
liard-table firm.
North Sydney beat Balmain at Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday by 8 points (2 tries
1 goal) to 7 (1 try 2 goals). All the points were
scored in the second half. ’Main had the better
of the early play, but Horder and Blinkhorn were
a bit too fast for them at the crisis. South Sydney
downed Eastern Suburbs, who were without Cubitt
and Caples, by 18 (4 tries 3 goals) to 16 (4 tries
2 goals). It was anybody’s game until the final
gasp, East being short of a reliable goaler. Glebe
held a scoring bee at ’Varsity’s expense, totting up
34 (8 tries 5 goals) to 7 (1 try 2 goals). The only
surprise of the day was afforded by Western Suburbs,
who defeated Newtown by 15 (3 tries 3 goals) to
8 (2 tries 1 goal). It was West’s third win this
season. North Sydney have now a four-noints lead
for the premiership and it will take two beatings to
spoil their chance. In the City Cup competition
they are level witli South Sydney, 6 points each,
followed by Balmain and Eastern Suburbs with 4
points apiece.
“Tay Pay”: Yielding to appetising in-
ducements, Harold Horder has agreed to return to
South Sydney next year. Efforts to detach Blinkhorn
from North Sydney have, however, proved ineffective.
The mighty Thompson has been almost snowed under
with offers. But, unless the unexpected happens,
Thompson and Blinkhorn will still be in North's
passing machinery at the 1923 kick-off.
M.L. has sent another Rugby Union
team to Is. S. Wales. They are nearly all new men
as far as Australia is concerned, but seven got rep.
caps against the Springboks last year. E. A. Beilis,
a hefty- Wanganui forward, is captain. One of the
sides they will meet, a Metropolitan XV, will be
led into the field by’ Ward Prentice, the only active
player remaining of the 32 who toured with the
Wallabies in England and America in 1908-09.
Prentice has won honor caps at both Rugby and
cricket. He kept wickets for N. S. Wales, but it
was years ago.
* * * *
Saturday’s League games on Yarraside
were all won in those last few minutes that find the
weak spots and disclose the best-trained players. A
30,000 crowd pushed into the Fitzroy ground, and
loaied itself hoarse as the Maroons, after being
outplayed by Carlton, got into their stride, piled
on 5 goals, and ran out winners by 18 points—
-79 to 61. Play was fast and willing, and there were
many gaud.v high marks. Geelong, who have reversed
their former habit of keeping their best plav for
the home ground, brought 12,000 supporters up to
Essendon, and pleased them mightily by pulling up
level in the last quarter and booting two additional
goals in the final five minutes—o 4 to 82. They
thus handed the Dons their third consecutive defeat,
and bumped them down from first to third position
on the list. Collingwood went io South Melbourne,
and, largely’ through careless kicking, started the
last quarter 16 points in arrears. Then, perceiving
the absurdity of the position, they methodically
commandeered 27 more to South’s 3, and retired
winners by 64 to 66. Melbourne crashed before
Richmond, but only by 3 points—77 to Richmond’s
80 —after a struggle in which one player or another
was being laid out most of the time. Fitzrov are
now on top, with ’Wood next and ’Don third," each
but half-a-game ahead of the other.
*'* * *
“Tino”: “Winkle” (B. 20/7/’22) is quite
wrong when he states that Dave Macnamara’s longest
kick is 86yds. lft. During the 1914 carnival at
Sydney Cricket Ground, Dave won the longest-kick
competition with the astounding “boot’’ of 92yds.
and some odd inches. That was a place-kick. The
drop-kick record is held by another member of that
Victorian carnival team, Dr. Eric Woods, who still
plays the game at Albtiry (N.S.W.). In 1912, when
playing with Melbourne ’Varsity at the Carlton
Oval, Eric “dropped” a kick-off which measured
84 yards.
* * * *
“Winkle” : There are more ways of mak-
ing money than working at the Mint. At the Fitzroy-
Carlton football match an enterprising individual
passed old fruit-cases, at a bob a time, to spectators
at the rear of the dense crowd. He got rid of several
fruit-waggon loads during the afternoon, and, as he
was noticed collecting his stock-in-trade after the
match, it is certain the day proved more lucrative
to him than to any other person concerned in the
engagement.
* * # #
“Winkle”: Few’ footballers have been first-
class at both Rugby’ and the Australian game. Mes-
senger is one (B. 20/7/’22) ; Cliff Rankin, Geelong
forward and A.I.F. Rugby team full-back, is another;
and not least on the select list is Len Gale. Before
leaving for the war Gale played Rugby League with
the South Sydney second club. On the other side
he joined a Vic. unit, and was coached in Australian
rules by Percy Parratt, an old Fitzroy captain. On
his return he settled in Victoria, and was given a
chance with ’Roy. Though he handled the ball
crudely, lus dash and tenacity made him worth
his place, and since then he has improved so
rapidly as a rover that he is now regarded as at
least the equal of George Haines and Mark Tandy’,
the inter-State pair.
* * * ♦
“TJramao”: Maoriland is suffering from
football fever, and the contagion has left few grades
untouched by’ its fascination. At a country town
the other day we were treated to the sight of a
clerical barracker, who held a play’er’s coat in one
hand and utilised tiro other to give a megaphone
volume to his yells of encouragement. Suddenly
he was reminded by a funeral cortege passing along
the road that his place was at the graveside awaiting
the arrival of the corpse. Dropping the raiment
he was holding and gathering up his clerical coat-
tails, he sprinted across a paddock, commandeered a
bike, took a detour by a back street, beat the funeral
by several lengths, and with grave and reverend
mien met the cortege and performed the rites. On
his arrival back at the match he was heard to re-
mark; “That was a close shave.”
* * * *
Back from their tour of M.L., the Aus-
tralian Soccerites met a N. S. Wales team on Satur-
day and managed to make a one-all draw of it. But
the bovs-who-stayed-at-home were the cleverer side
and made openings which rattled the rep. combina-
tion. It was a brisk game, distinguished by bright
passing and clever footwork, and tbe smartest of ibe
forwards was P. Leonard, of Newcastle. He got
N.S.W.’s goal. The Aussies’ score was notched by
D Ward.
* * » *
“Pom-dig” ; Why isn’t Soccer more popu-
lar in Australia? It is a scientific game, attractive
both to play and to watch—particularly* to watch —
and is football in the true sense of the word. The
Australian, Rugby Union and Northern Union games
are all a mixture of handball and football, but in
Soccer the goalkeeper alone is allowed to handle the
ball without being penalised. Many Diggers of
my acquaintance became converted to the Association
game when abroad, but, owing to the lack of flrst-
class matches in Australia, their enthusiasm has
waned. A visit from a standard British team would
undoubtedly give an impetus to the game. I’m hop-
ing that the experiment will be made.
The M.C.C. selectors have picked F. T.
Mann, of Middlesex, to captain the cricketers shortly
to visit S’Afriea. Mann is 34 and is a hard-hitting
batsman. One of his best innings for the county was
135 oui of 238 against Worcestershire in 1913. lie
got cricket and Rugby blues at Cambridge. Mann’s
selection has excited the remark that inside two y’ears
England will have had three captains—Johnny
Douglas in Australia, Lionel Tennyson in England,
and Mann in Africa. Evidently the Cold Country
won’t rest till it lights on another Jackson or Warner.
* * ■» *
“Fender, c. Fry, b. Newman, 185,” has a
familiar look. It was not C. B. Fry, however, but
his son, making a first appearance for Sussex. C. B.
says the boy is worth his cricket blue at either
Oxford or Cambridge, but lie is not sending him to a
university. It was the highest score that Fender
has ever made and the hardest-hit. He scored 20
in an over, and 52 off 14 consecutive balls.
It took Hughie Dwyer about five years
and Walter Delamore about five minutes to get a
match at Sydney Stadium. The explanation is that
Walter is a Yank and Dwyer a common Australian.
Arriving in _ Sydney entirely unknown and with not
one professional engagement in his record-book,
Delamore caught a tram to Rushcutters Bay, ami
was promptly given a date with Dwyer. It got
about, that the stranger was shaping poorly in his
training, but the infatuated Stadium push persisted
in inflicting him on the public at 21s. Bd., 10s. 10d.,
ss, sd. and 3s. 3d. When the time came for Dela-
more to show his paces before a crowd that stayed
away in vast numbers, be proved to have no asset but
gameness; and Dwyer, a fast and skilful lightweight
who has been
shamefully ueglected,
was knocking cor-
ners off him when
the referee stopped
the slaughter in
the ninth. It was
a dreary’ exhibi-
tion of managerial
tomfoolery, but the
Sydney public has
got used to such
imbecilities and
knows what to
expect.
HUGHIE
DWYER.
Australian
lightweight,
who stopped
Walter Dela-
more, of
America, in
nine rounds.
By guarding the chin with his right glove
and thrusting out his long left —Bob Turner’s style
of boxing 20 years ago—Senimens, of Melbourne,
won a pointy victory over Grime, the -Sydney ban-
tam, in his home city on Saturday night. Grime
fought under the handicap of being half a foot
shorter in height and in the reach, but he plugged
a.way manfully, and in the 19th round nearly had
Semmens out. However, the Victorian recovered
quickly, and the decision in his favor was just.
« # * *
Through the inability of Lycett and
Kingscote to go to America, Britain has withdrawn
from the Davis Cup. This action robs the remain-
ing ties of a good deal of interest but immensely
increases the chances of Australia reaching the
challenge round against America. Also it promotes
Spain to the final struggle, though the hidalgos
have only had one match against India, whereas the
Australians, who have a’-eady beaten the Belgians
and Czechs, will have to v ailop the French at Boston
before facing Alonzo, De Gomar and co. The Spanish
players, who all appeared at Wimbledon, and dropped
out in the early stages of the strugle, should not
prove difficult to the Australians, though Alonzo is
quite capable of putting up a stiff fight against
either Anderson or Patterson. He is a good-looking,
imperturbable sportsman, very graceful in action,
and is likely to prove a surprise to any opponent
who follows the usual habit of hammering the back-
hand.
# * tt *
Uncle Sam is not going to try any fresh
talent for the Davis Cup whilst Tild'en aiid John-
ston are available. These champions, who a while
ago were announced to be retiring from the game,
will be America’s representatives in the singles, and
two other old reliables, Williams and Washburn, will
appear in the doubles, the youthful Vincent Ritehards
being apparently first emergency. Ritehards. who
beat Tilden in a sensational match at Rhode Island
a couple of years hack, was expected to get a place
in tlie American team before now, hut lie evidently
hasn’t yet reached the “future” which was said to
be handy when tennis writers throughout the State*
used to star him as a boy phenomenon. However,
he is young- yet.
* * • •
“15-80”: Tilden’s reported desire to play
Patterson for the world’s championship is regarded
in august tennis circles as lowering the game to the
level of pugilism, though, as there is no stake or
belt to be fought for, Patterson’s pride should not be
wounded by the challenge. On the contrary, the big
fellow should consider it a compliment to his increased
prestige in Tilden's estimation, and, failing a tussle
with the American in the Davis Cup or in the cham-
pionships that arc to follow, he should make an
appointment with him for any place and date he
chooses. To my mind, the match can have only one
ending, but it would produce a big gate and greatly
help the funds of the Australian Lawn Tennis Assoc.
Also, it might prove of some benefit to Patterson’s
moral, which has hitherto seemed unnecessarily low
whenever he has had Tilden on the other side of the
net. But Patterson, I fear, knows Tilden too well.
I frankly believe that when he commences a battle
with the Yankee, lie is half defeated by the suspicion
that the enemy lias the superior brains.
• « « •
' The S.A. Amateur Athletic Assoc, now
realises the financial value of the boxing champion-
ships, and gets some much-needed cash, by staging
them properly in a hail at night, instead of putting
them in as an open-air detail among the field sports.
This year’s events were mostly too one-sided for good
sport, and only one went the scheduled four rounds.
This was the heavyweights, in which Benz, though
only list. 911 b., had too much speed and skill for
Mazure’s 13st. 31b., and got a decision on points.
* # * #
Unable to agree about a date for the
world’s sculling championship Paddon and Arnst
have called the match off. Paddon wanted Septem-
ber 9 at the latest, and Arnst stuck out for 14 days
later. Darcy Hadfield wants another go at Paddon.
The M.L. sculler has the cash and is not likely
to be finicky over the date.
THE WIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We came together nigh the straight,
I heard the people yell.
I d watched the other from the gate,
And knew his tricks too well.
Full fifty 1 had on The Beau
At seventeens to one.
1 held my beggar’s head just so,
And simply wouldn’t let him go
While waiting for the run.
“I've got to win! I’ve got to win!”
I swore between my teeth.
The Beau he felt the spurs dig in,
The ground shot underneath.
We came together near the stand,
Hoofs thundered on the course.
My whip was whizzing in my hand,
But never did 1 let it land
Upon the willing horse.
“The Beau! The Beau!” I heard the cry
From men upon the rails.
“The Beau! The Beau! The Beau!” said I.
“God help us if lie fails!”
lie’s full of going, ear to ear
With Coleman’s Wandering Jew.
T gave The Beau a little cheer.
He saw the passage fair and clear,
And shoved his carcase through.
I rode as ne’er I rode before.
By Jove, upon that day
1 showed them what is riding lore.
’Twas science won the day.
The Beau came in a nose ahead,
The neatest thing I knew.
I took eight fifty out of Ned.
Excuse me, I don’t think I’ve said
I rode the Wandering Jew!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


sssa® 5
snf
HELP
V <<!
9
%
British
Made
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 col ststs of heavily
silver -plated. self - stropping
"Valet" Auto Strop Razor.
12 tested ' Valet
and genuine "Valet" Strop,
complete in durable case
lined velvet and OA/
“// you want a thing well done,-’
Do it yourself ”
I AM Valet Auto Strop Razor.
The man who believes in my motto and shaves himself
should use me because I strop myself. 1 do not require
stropping machines, I do not waste blades and I need no taking
to pieces. I look after my blades and keep them sharp myself.
1 am built that way.
1 am the complete shaving instrument —razor and stropping
machine combined. WTen you slide me up and down my
strop, my blade meets the leather first one side then the other
at the exact angle and pressure required to give a better edge
than is possible with any hand-stropped blade. Ten seconds
to do it. No removal of blade and as easy to clean as to strop.
Ask any good Razor Dealer to show you what I can do.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for
Australasia :
PHIPSON & COM-
PANY, LTD.,
42 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Of all High Class Dealers .
product of the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road. London. Eng.
The voord "Valet" on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates tie genuine
SOME DAY YOU’LL BE SORRY
that you cannot box. When you find
yourself facing the bully your size
and strength will not help you —-but
SCIENCE will. Don’t envy others
for their coolness and confidence in a
scrap. Be envied yourself. Think
how humiliating it would be to be
beaten by a man smaller than your-
self ; think of the jeers of the on-
lookers and the taunts of your pals.
When the day comes it will be too
late for regrets.
Leant.Boxing by Post.
Our system is simple, practical and thorough; it
embraces every punch, guard and counter known to
ringcraft. The student has personal advice and
supervision just as if he were attending the classes
in Sydney.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students testify their con-
fidence in the Baker Course.
If you want a copy of the interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” just write your
name and address across this advertisement and
mail it with three stamps to cover postage.
>8
(■X'lvAvIvAV
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
148 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
R.YNOCH
AMMUNITION
W*
KYNOCH
•22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
........
AUL BRITISH
For Buffalo
And Kosciusko
When you spend your holiday ’mid the snows CORRECT
CLOTHING is half the pleasure of the trip, and every item
here offered assures to the wearer a distinction of appearance
and the fullest measure of warmth and comfort possible.
FOR WOMEN:
The PALMERTNE COAT, a light, warm,
shower-proof garment, made to fit over all;
with inverted pleat under each arm for per-
fect freedom; in Gabardines and Covert
Coating, 55/-. BREECHES, ready for
wear in Gab., Coverts, Blue Twill, from
35/. PUTTEES, Navy, 3yds. long, 7/6.
PUTTEES, 7/6. HIGH-LEG i
BOOTS, in Black Box Calf, 30/-.
HIGH BROGUE BOOTS, Bin. leg,
in Black Box Calf or Tan, leather
lined, 50/-. GUM BOOTS,
21/-. PUTTEE LEGGINGS, for
Girls and Boys, 12/6: Ladies,
14/6. Spring Front Puttee Leg-
gings, Tan and Black, 18/6,
25/-. BRUSHED WOOL
SCARVES, from 18/6. BIBBED
CASHMERE HOSE, 6/11.
FOR MEN:
BREECHES, in all Wanted Tex-
tures, from 25/-, Strapped and
Laced. CANVAS BUTTON SPATS,
impervious to Snow or Rain.
Usually 15/-; Special Price,
5/.. LEATHER CAPS, 15/-.
BALACLAVA CAPS, 4/6.
TWEED HATS, 10/6.
TWEED CAPS, from
4/6; with Earlaps, 7/C.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, 18/6
to 25/-. PUTTF.ES, 7/6.
COAT SWEATERS, all
shades, 21 /-. HEAVY
ALL-WOOL KNITTED
1-HOSE, 3/6.
BALL OR WAITE Tl-DAY.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
£5
■'** L
sr.
■'jGMXZr*
H
5-5?
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD.
•* Specialists in Sporting Wear,
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Painful Foot Afflictions
successfully treated by a Qualified Chiropodist.
Foot worries impair one’s mental and physical efficiency.
However, there is no necessity to suffer such troubles.
Scientific methods of Chiropody painlessly overcome the
most serious foot ailments. Farmer’s invite gentlemen
to consult the qualified Chiropodist : located adjacent to
the Men’s Footwear Section, ground floor, Market Street.
Farmer’s :: Sydney
"The Store jor SMen.”
The Super
Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary Watches of the
age.
They are f-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balance.
They are specially made to stand ROUGH
RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order free of charge (breakages ex-
cepted) for two years.
Fairfax &. Roberts Ltd.
The Oddest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
Super Fx Sc R full-sized Oent-’s Op en-
laced Oxidised Steel Case Lever Watch,
with 15 jewels,
Meibourne
thatter
The Women’s Hospital Ball, in the Town
Hall on Friday, was a scrumptious affair.
There has been nothing to touch it since the
Prince was here. A mere 1700 people bought
tickets—dance tickets a guinea, look-on
tickets hnlf-a-guinea, and an extra tax of
lialf-a-guinea for the “special” supper. Most
of the food and drink for this special blow-
out was given, and some of the viands were
prepared by the Very Best Cooks in unim-
peachable suburban homes. The unticketed
were kept off this feed almost at the point of
the bayonet, though there were general supper-
rooms and buffets all over the place. A point
of attraction to flappers and their partners
was a placard, “Tower Boom Buffet, Is.”
The silk stockings that twinkled up that
long, winding stair were legio.n.
The ball started at 8.30. There was half-
an-hour’s wild jazzing and booking of dances,
then a pause for the Pageant. The J.C.W.
people, headed by Phil Finkelstein and
Jennie Brenan, were given a free hand in
arranging the show, and it went with the
precision of a stage revue. Two heralds
sounded blasts on long trumpets to announce
the arrival of Lady Stradbroke, whose poor
Earl was at home nursing the ’Uu. George
Allan piloted the Countess and the other
dais-ed folk were the Lord Mayor and his
lady, the president of the Hospital Commit-
tee, Mrs. Langridge, General White, Consuls
of all nations, and an imposing row of Hos-
pital Committee dames. John Bull led the
pageant with Britannia. They were an awe-
inspiring couple, as they came ponderously
up the room to the strains of “Buie Britan-
nia,” The lady_ was the Junoesque Miss
Merritt, from Kew, who is well over six
feet in height and built in splendid propor-
tion; and her partner, mining-man Percy
Cooke, matched her in height and impres-
siveness. Following them came the Nations.
Uncle Sam made a brave show, and the
Dutch clumped along in their clogs, the men
puffing delft; pipes and the fair-haired girls
knitting. There were- French girls, slender,
waisted flappers in tight satin bodices, with
the tricolor iu their satin skirts, and the
cheeky red cap of the Devolution on their
beads, and smaller fry in peasant dress.
The Chinese section was wondrously fine.
The gorgeous clothes were no mere theatrical
props, but the real thing, and the wearers
were Celestials all. One small Chinese
girl carried the elaborately-embroidered
flag of her distracted native land. She
wore (lame-color, and her blue-black hair
and ivory-tinted face were lit up by a
small pomegranate-red mouth. Every
female creature in the crowd wanted her for
a doll. The Scotch and Irish stepped out to
the strains of “Bonnie Dundee” and “The
Wearin’ of the > Green” respectively, the
music being inflicted in both instances by
pipers. The whole affair was theatrically
perfect, and even the balcony lizards agreed
that they had had their money’s worth. After
the Pageant, the jazzers got right to work,
and fancy dresses broke into a medley with
the usual jazz frocks. Maurice Gutteridge
bad a huge orchestra on the platform, and
lie wore out three new pairs of white kids
before his batoning job was through. So
many "extras” were interlarded that the pro-
gramme stretched out fill morning, though
many of the men of the national sets slipped
into evening dress and galloped off to St.
Kilda Town Hall to be in at the finish of a
Vacuum Oil folks’ whirl.
By some extraordinary oversight—no one
can place the blame —Japan was not repre-
sented iu the parade of allied nations at the
ball on Friday. The omission hit the
organising crowd like a heavy brick at the
final rehearsal; but it was too late to do
anything.
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside has gone back to
the sheep-run with her brace of winsome
daughters. Baby June, who counts her age
in weeks, caused consternation by arriving
in place of Bobert Henry, but she is so
fascinating that her parents’ hearts are
softened. Judith, the two-year-old, has been
doing a round of visits in quite grown-up
style. She has had mamma’s Bolls Boyce,
and has divided her time between the Hodges
home at Macedon and Mrs. Thiel’s big flat at
Melbourne Mansions. The two grandmothers
have been in ecstasies of admiration. Both
the Gordon Chirnside youngsters are pic-
tures ; but then they have the advantage of
having the prettiest young matron in Mel-
bourne for a mother.
Mrs. Lee Steere, whose husband owns
Eurythmic, is very much in the limelight
herself, yhe is a keen worker in the cause
of Woman, and she is going to speak on
"The Necessity for Women in Municipal
Life” in the Town Hall on July 31. The
masculine municipal authorities have lent
the reception-room for the revolutionary
utterances, and the Mayoress will give her
blessiug and presence. Mrs. James, Mrs.
Booth, Miss Cuthbertson and Miss Lee will
also air their views on the subject. The
National Council of Women are backing
them up.
Time ofteu hangs heavily upon invalid
soldiers, and Miss Philadelphia Robertson
and the Bed Cross Home Hospitals Com-
mittee, 44 Latrobe-street, Melbourne, have
sent out a S.O.S. appeal for people to
organise concert parties for the entertain-
ment of the stricken Diggers.
The Women’s National League gathered
all its forces to farewell and pelt with
bouquets its ex-president, Mrs. F. C. Hughes,
prior to her flitting abroad. The League
was born 18 years ago, and Mrs. Hughes
lias been at the head of its affairs since the
beg-imiing. She has suggested the names
of Mrs. Croker as president and Mrs. Frank
Greg Smith as vice-president. Mrs. Mc-
Cutclieon, the present v.-p., will not seek
re-election.
Shade of the great .original wowser—said,
by the way, to have been a Melbourne man!
The final and only general rehearsal of the
Pageant was held on Sunday. All the
gorgeous fancy-dressed folk tooted up to
the Town Hall in their motors on the Saw-
bath. And to make it more dreadful, nobody
said Boo —let alone 800-hoo.
The State C.J. is again in mourning—
this time for liis elder brother, John Mitchel
Irvine, a quiet, unobtrusive citizen who
never sought any reflected glory from his
high-placed relative. John Mitchel, the
lush'National patriot, whose expressed views
caused him some little inconvenience, was
an uncle of the Irvines.
A retail grocers’ conference, which has
been happen 'ng in Melbourneris one of those
things no woman should calmly ignore. The
conference advised its federation of aproned
profiteers to have nothing more to do with
"lines”—anything from pickled onions to
starch is a “line”—that do not return a
gross profit of more than 25 per cent. Also
it upbraided all chemists and drapers who
daie to sell groceries at reasonable prices for
‘draw’ purposes. Moreover, it waved its
hands approvingly at Government control of
sugar, provided that the Government con-
tinues to allow the family grocer "an ad-
equate margin” of participation in the spoils
ot control. The objection to an interloping
chemist ordraperis quite lovely, seeing that the
grocers themselves have lately been a thorn
in the flesh (or hide) of certain Dagoes who
are fcderalised for fish-selling. Until the
other week some of Melbourne’s haughtiest
grocery shops and “departments” helped the
swaithy sons of the Archipelago to maintain
the price of Is. 10d. a pound for M.L.
smoked cod. At the Dago’s, or at the
grocer s, it was all the same if you wanted
blue cod for breakfast—always Is. 10d.
Ihe price rose from a shilling during the
war and never fell. A week or two back
a large city grocer must have got his knife
into those who combine a foreign accent
incivility. He announced blue cod at
Is. 6d., and a day or two later the price
was down to Is. 4d., a reduction of 6d. a
pound on the standard price within a few
days. And now every observer of this
puncture of the smoked-fish monopoly is
praying that the Dagoes will retaliate by
selling sardines, or tinned salmon, at some-
thing less than the 99 per cent, profit de-
manded by the grocery trade. But it is a
lot to pray for.
n Tu, ls an A ? i V e -Mills portrait of Anna
Cuthbert, organising secretary of the local
movement m connection with bringing Bar-
narclo boys to Aus-
tralia. According to
the scheme submitted
to Kefir-Admiral Sir
Harry Stilenian at
the head office in
Kugland, the Austra-
lian committee will
undertake to con-
tribute at the rate of
approximately £lOO
per boy arriving i,n
Melbourne; will
place the youngsters
in suitable homes in
the country accord-
ing to the rules of
he Barnardo Homes;
and, in conjunction
with the Try Boys,
will establish a Hos-
tel. This latter will be available both for
new arrivals and for those who find them-
selves unhappily placed in the country. The
committee has planned to keep in close touch
with each youngster through letters from
the secretary as well as by personal visits.
Miss Cuthbert is well equipped for the big
part she has to play, Warm-hearted and
broad-minded, she is a woman of great energy
and business capability, and the boys will
have iu her a sympathetic and clear-eyed
nearer to whom they may carry their woes
it they have any. The association, by the
way, gave a small dance at Anzae House
the other evening, as a start in various
winter entertainments to raise funds, and
V ice-Admiral Sir Alan Everett was one of
the patrons.
Melbourne knows no more sterling patron
, the arts than James Dyer, here pictured
by Broothofn. For years he has been
president of the Vie. Liedertafel, and is bon.
sec. of the new
British Music Soci-
ety. In his efforts
to make Australians
appreciate the com-
posers of England he
has the help of his
wife, Louise Dyer,
who w T as the first
Australian medallist
of the Royal College
of Music, London.
But James Dyer
doesn’t confine his
aesthetic appreciation
to -music. He is
also a great lover of
pictures, and the
butts of his cheque-
book-tell the story of
his practical regard
Born in Glasgow,
for Australian work.
he came to the Commonwealth over 40 years
ago and made a reputation as an athlete.
Old friends still talk of his '‘putting the
weight” at a Highland gathering and para-
lysing the local champions. Nowadays, he
linds joy in gowff, fushin’, and nichts wi’
Men’s at the Melbourne Scots’ Club.
Mrs. Seymour, who was a daughter of
the late l'olice-Inspector Sadiier, had an
afternoon tea-party on Friday afternoon to
hear Melba’s Melbourne protegee, Wilma
Berkely, warble. All the best people were
there, and all seemed to be enraptured with
Wilma’s gorgeous voice. The little song-
stress doesn’t worry 'about the book-of-thc-
words, and seems to possess an endless re-
pertoire. The people just asked for what
they wanted, from the "Jewel Song” to
‘ Annie Laurie”—and got it. Auntie Ada
Casey, who trained Wilma, carries all the
accompaniments in her bead, too —which
saves an awful lot of bother. A voice
which can go on for a whole afternoon with-
out tiring struck the tea-drinkers as some-
thing approaching the miraculous, but
Melba explained that ‘‘it’s all a question of
how you breathe.” During the afternoon
Maordander Geddes aired a sweet but rather
throaty tenor between the Berkely items.
Medico Eddie Spowers's pretty little wife
spread afternoon tea-cakes and music be-
fore a very Tooraketty gathering at her
East Melbourne home on Thursday after-
noon. The hostess’s sister-in-law, Mrs Alice
Spowers, looked after the musical side of
things. Niece Hilda Spowers, one of the
prides of the Melba Con., warbled delight-
fully, and a daughter of Henry Parker, the
Westralian knight, aired an agreeable con-
tralto. Alice Spowers, who is a clever pian-
ist, provided the accompaniments and a
solo. Mrs. Norman Bayles brought along
a Maoriland niece, who reinforced the pro-
gramme with -a promising voice that is to
be polished at the Melba Con. The hostess
fluttered becomingly in dark blue crepe de
Chine, with a becoming blue and gold bro-
caded headpiece.
W. Mostyn Wright, who has figured in-
many repertory shows, hopes to derive mbfeS
advertisement from a dramatic recital at-
the Temperance Hall next Monday nightf
In addition to a couple of character studies
from Dickens and Shakspeare, he will appear
in Shaw’s ‘‘How He Lied to Her Hus-
band” and in Sclinitzler’s “The Fare-
well Supper.” He will play Anatol in the
latter morsel, with Ruby May as Mimi and
A. Durham as Max. The same lady will
be his wife in the Shaw playlet, and Alan
Murray is cast as the beautiful poet whose
dreams are finally shattered by her Subur-
ban complacence. Songstress Miss Pascoe-
Webb and pianist Mrs. James Lind Say will
fill in the gaps between the performances of
the principal man.
One of our most prolific writers is F. W.
Boreham, a Baptist parson, of Armadale.
Besides contributing regularly to the
Southern Baptist and other religious
periodicals,' he publishes at least once a year
a volume of his literary productions.
Although his books usually consist of semi-
or wholly-religious articles their "literary
craftsmanship wins them a wide public. As
a preacher and a lecturer Boreham is in
great demand, aud only recently he got an
invitation from the United States to lecture
there for six months.
Mrs. John McLeod, who died at South
Yarra the other day in her 89th year, was
well known about Balranald and Euston
(N.S.W.) in the old days. She came from
London to the Speck in 1836 with her
father, the late Captain Westwood, of
Ilobart, and after her marriage to John
McLeod crossed to Victoria. In ’64 she
accompanied her husband to Euston, where
he had the job of stock inspector. Euston
boasted one house at the time, and quarters
had to be found for them on one of the
stations. Trained as a nurse, Mrs. McLeod
for years freely gave her services to the
sick in a distinct 60 miles from a. doctor,
and she ushered many a young life into the
world. The aborigines soon learned to
appreciate the “medicine woman’s” aid, and
she was frequently called on after a tribal
fight or a night’s jamboree. Two of her
family still speak the Tarty Tarty language
well. After 35 years in the Euston district
the McLeods retired to Melbourne, where
the husband passed out 10 years ago.
Having whisked his Supplementary Esti-
mates through the Assembly early in the
week, State Treasurer McPherson took a day
off to bestow a blessing on his eldest
daughter, May, who has entered into a life
partnership with H. B. Shaw, a Vic. Western
District squatter. The requisite number of
“I wills” were said at the Congregational
Church, Auburn, a.nd the stately home of
the Finance Minister at St. James’s Park,
Hawthorn, was the scene of the post-nuptial
feast. The groom, who has shed his first
youth, is taking his bride to Papua for a
trip before settling down at the station home-
stead.
When a call went out the other day for
volunteers nearly the whole staff of the Agri-
cultural Department offered their blood for
Dr. Cameron, the Director, who had had an
operation for an internal ailment. Chris
Ryan, a senior clerk, and a son of Cameron
himself, were selected, and were tapped to
the extent needed to sustain the doc. after
the operation. Cameron has always been
a white man to his staff, and, naturally,
there was no'desire that such a man should
snuff out for the want of a pint or two of
blood.
Dr. John Frederic Cobb, who was buried
at Hampton (Vic.) the other day, landed in
Maoriland in 1863, and was at once given
the job of Government Medical Officer to
the Maoris in the Bay of Plenty and
Rotorua districts. As a member of the
Second Waikato Regiment, he served in the
Maoriland War, and then, in 1866, crossed
to Victoria and practised for many yeaiv in
the Western District and Ararat. Two of
his sons served in the S’African War, and
two in the Big Scrap.
Adelaide drops a line:—
The death of the Thomas dame is widely mourned. She
made light of long years of invalidism, and her
wide interests and quick sympathies kept her always
in touch with movements of the day. She was presi-
dent of the School for Mothers in its very early
days, and Was for years on the committee of the
• QueeuV Home and the Victoria League. Her
youngest daughter, Kathleen, was one .of the hardest
war-workers this State produced.
We are to have an offshoot of the Lyceum Club,
with Dr. Helen Mayo as its president and Miss
Daruley Naylor and Miss Annie Hornabrook as if'
secretary and treasurer. It is to be non-residential,
at first, anyway, with a modest two-guinea subscrip-
tion, and the committee has had luck in getting
rooms just opposite the ’Varsity on North Terrace.
The membership qualifications are much the same as
those for the parent chib in London.
lire fortune that Percy Grainger gets from liis
mother will go at his death to Cyril Scott and to
Mrs. Grainger’s sister, Clara Aldridge, of this village.
0. H. T. Rischbieth, who took a brilliant Arts
degree at the Adelaide ’Varsity, has been appoint'd I
Reader in Ancient aird Modern Geography at the
University College of Southampton. Ethnology is
Tils long suit, especially in regard to geographical
environment.
The Barwells arc back and have embarked upon
the usual dyspeptic orgy of welcoming lunches ami
dinners—or, rather, he has, most of the shivoos
being ot the “men only” variety, which she is merci-
fully spared. But, notwithstanding all the speeches
he is making, the Premier refuses to be drawn about
the new Governor.
Saturday’s Meet was at Kooyonga, the new sports
ground on the llenley Beach-road, that is to be
partly golf-course and partly tennis-courts, with a
rambling old house thrown in for. a golf clubhouse.
Herbert Rymill, who has done endless work for the
Seaton Club, is at the back of this 'Kooyonga venture,
which ought to boom. Since the Glenelg Golf Club
had to disband the capacity of Seaton has been
strained to bursting point. Incidentally, there is
a fine flutter in the dove-’cots of North Adelaide
because there are to be municipal links in the park
lands surrounding that affluent suburb.
The S. Aus. Orchestra and the Bach Society com-
bined for a concert in the Town Hall the other even-
ing, and every seat in the building was booked
beforehand. The conductor was Harold Davies, Mus.
Dpa., and there have been few finer concerts here,
and never before, for a local performance, an audience
so enthusiastic.
In the death of Miss Selina J. Keast, Adelaide loses
one of its best-known sportswomen. A racehorse
owner, she recently went to Melbourne to see the
performance of her hurdle-racer Dead Centre, and
while there contracted a cold which developed
into pleurisy and pneumonia, to which she succumbed
on her return to Adelaide. Miss Keast was recog-
nised at one time as the State’s most proficient horse-
woman, and was a popular rider in the Adelaide show-
ring. She was 51 when the end came.


liBHRTYA^CU
means more recreation, less fatigue,
and a cleaner, Healthier Home.
'// i I:;:!.;///// f illi i!i!!l;///
mz*.
V(}
!S
V/L
al
s>\
i
1
W
9
r ;
-'mM' v,
>1
fM MM
%/s
Nr"
*A\YI
1
'/////
m
/'lilt'
Wf.
r u
L
II
V
//i
'i ;
I «
sf
m
p
*r
/im
/ <•
<«
lils
iv
* If i
a
u*
Sx
Apart from any other consider-
ation the physical well-being of
the family demands the thorough-
ness of Electric Vacuum Cleaners.
Members of the family must not
be permitted to breathe the germ-
laden air that brooms stir up.
Neither should drapery and other
furnishing be allowed to collect
and retain the dust that brooms
scatter.
The Liberty Vacuum Cleaner
absorbs the impure dirt in a dust-
proof bag. Its suction will remove
the deep-seated dirt that destroys
the fabric of floor coverings. It
also cleans upholstery, tapestry,
inside bookcases, drawers and
other parts difficult to reach—no
dust can escape it.
Touch an electric switch, and
your cleaning operations com-
mence immediately. There is no
exertion.
The Liberty Vacuum Cleaner
means real economy through wise
expenditure.
The powerful suction does the
real work of cleaning, and is so
constructed that it cannot injure
the rarest and finest rugs.
, Do your house cleaning
electrically, which
means more re-
creation, less
fatigue.
Sewing with the Edison Sewing Machine invests this function with
dignity. It encourages home sewing, because it makes such work a pleasure.
Women who have operated foot-power machines need no instruction.
The entire mechanism is perfectly safe and trouble-proof. There are no
tired feet or limbs. It runs easily, quietly and rapidly.
Demonstrations in our Showrooms place you under no obligation.
Illustrated booklets mailed free.
Australian General Flgctric 0 ltd.
Mazda House. AVentwortli Avenue, SYDNEY. ’Phone: City 2510. Box 2517.
Also Queen and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: Cent. 2640. Box 538 G.P.O.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.


k
i Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Qttrksllfidsieot
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9?K|l.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Society in fur-clad and pearl-hung hosts
swept into the vestibule of the Royal the
other afternoon to help along the Violet
Matinee arranged by *Mrs. Pitt Rivers in
aid of the Crown-street Women’s Hospital.
The theatre was as fragrant as though it
had been steeped in beds of violets, for every-
where were dainty flower-girls in violet aprons
and caps, with trays laden with the modest
flower. Mayoress McElhone was in charge
of this side-show, which brought over £5O
to the fund. If you escaped from the violet
bandits you fell into the hands of the choco-
late pirate, and after she had wrested her
pound of flesh the programme-girl took off
another ounce or two. “Never mind,” said
one female Dick Turpin, “every cloud has
a silver lining.” “Yes,” growled her brother,
“it’s all right for you. You’ve got the
lining.”
The play, by C. B. Fernald, is concerned
with the matrimonial tangle of one Pamela
Belthorne-Dodder, who has run away from
an arid portion of the U.S.A. and her
elderly husband less than an hour after the
wedding ceremony. Money being no object,
she travels do luxe (off-scene) to Hono-
lulu in company with Alan Graeme (Ernest
Watt), each falling in love with the other
en route. After that the play resolves itself
for three acts into the emotional upheaval
of the English young man with the heather-
mixture name, who fluctuates between a
violent antipathy to being named as co-re.
and an equally violent desire to wreck the
Dodder home. In the meantime the lady
being actively pursued by bridegroom John
Dodder and his brother Peter, is forced to
change her address frequently and at short
notice —in the space of six weeks she appears
at Honolulu, Tsuboyama and Hong Kong.
This gives scope for some beautiful back
cloths" and colorful Chinese hangings. In
the fourth act, which doesn’t happen for
three years after the third, the impetuous
lover of the first part makes an entry that
could scarcely be described as dashing, being
wheeled on, soupd asleep, in a bath-chair.
However, his Pamela, who has travelled
across America in a special train, a magni-
ficent Kolinsky coat and a duck of a flame-
colored hat, leads him back from the brink
of the grave, and when the curtain falls
they have every intention of being happy
ever after.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, as the runaway girl,
dressed the part beautifully. Against the
blue of the Honolulu sea-line she wore a
cunning mixture of grey-blue cloth and satin
frocldng, and sported a poem of a blue
feather in her hat; and later on she looked
as faseinatihg as the Lorelei in her green
and silver draperies in the lantern-lit Jap-
anese garden. Mrs. Seppy Alison, as the
violet clad maid, Janet, played her small
part well. Helen Stephen made an attrac-
tive little Jap, Ume San, and Molly Owen
was a bright spot in the Alberta Sana-
torium ; while S. R. Irving and Eric Howell,
as the Dodder brothers, carried off the acting
honors among the men. An orchestra, under
Bertie Kelly’s baton, flashed out a spark-
ling brand of music, and when the graceful
organiser stepped before the curtain before
the last act to say “Thank you” to every-
body, beginning with Jack Brownlow, the
house simply rose at her.
From a box on the right side her vice-
regal parents and her tall husband smiled
their pride, and Melba, who sat in the next-
door box with her friends the Feakes and
Tommy Cochrane, gave the loud hand. From
the vice-regal box on the left side Lady
Davidson, Mr. Blandy and Miss Henderson
added their applause. Sam Hordern’s flap-
per daughters occupied another box. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, in a large befeathered hat, sat
with Mrs. Alec Gordon in the front of the
stalls. Mrs. Tom Dixson, Mrs. Herbert
Marks and Mrs. Sep Levy were other hand-
some dressers—Mrs. Sep perfect in every
detail, in tones of light fawn with a hat
wide at the side and a crown composed en-
tirely of softest coque plumage. In one
of the intervals Melba, who was entirely in
black, auctioned the dolls dressed by Mrs.
Dalgarno. Mrs. Tom Dixson bought one
for a trifle of 24 guineas, the G.-G. paid
11 for another and handed it back, and there-
upon Melba, sold it to herself for eight. The
third was given away to Mrs. Tony Hordern
for 10 guineas.
In the evening all the actors and actorines
concerned in the Pursuit of Pamela and a
few intimates, about 30 all told, were re-
freshed with dinner and jazz at thg Aus-
tralia by the Ernest Watts. The fair-
haired hostess wore an effective silver and
black arrangement crossed and barred like
a checker board, and Melba, who was _in
great form, wore wonderful green frocking
with diamonds spilled over it. The cut of
Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s skirt suggested a Persian
harem, and was built of o.vster-grey satin
veiled in flame-colored ninon. Another
striking diner was Mrs. 'George Vivers, in a
white creation that looked as though hands
had never touched it. George Lambert,
Theo Marks and the effervescent Tommy
Cochrane were others who ate according to
a menu embodied in the matinee programme-
cover, and whose dishes were named after
the members of the cast.
Pamela is to be pursued again on the
evening of August 1, in the Criterion, for the
same cause —but* at reduced prices. J. and
N. Tait are lending the theatre, and the
committee hopes to add thereby another £7OO
to the matin6e takings.
The news of Admiral Dumaresq’s death
made sad reading for those in Sydney who
knew him and his gentle, courteous ways. He
was in command in Australian waters from
1919, and his appointment ended only in
April of this year. Social Sydney will re-
member him as the host of many of the most
charming parties during the peace celebra-
tions and the Royal tour. Poor Dumaresq
was a great lover of poetry and music.
Justice Ferguson’s chick, Dorothy, married
her naval man, Lieut. Arthur Powell, R.N.,
at St. Stephen’s Kirk last Saturday after-
noon. The bride, in all the usual white satin
bravery, was attended by Doretta Russell
and Trixie Marshall. Lieut. Moore was best
man and Lieut. Drinkwater groomsman. The
bride’s father and mother superintended the
subsequent cake-cutting at the Queen’s Club.
Alick McNeil has resigned his job as
general manager of Garratts, Ltd.—he has
steered the big motor concern with marked
success for the past 11 years —and the staff
testified their esteem with the usual presen-
tation and pleasant speeches last week. Mr.
McNeil will still help to guide Garratts as
a director.
Beach Thomas swallowed the shell-fish
of welcome prised open for him by
the Institute of Journalists on Fri-
day. He is one of those tall men who
look as though they need trimming off
at the edges, and was obviously nervous in
spite of (or, perhaps, because of) the
Northcliffe aura which encompasses him. His
speech was a resume of the fight between
the Press and the War Office, told in color-
less tones with the aloofness of one who
views events from Olympus. Beach Thomas
didn’t exactly pull the martial feather from
Australia’s cap, but he took a curl
out of it with a severe admonition not to
forget that the Norfolks and the Guards and
the Worcesters and the Lincolns were also
in the recent disturbance. Evening News-
editor Knox, in replying, acknowledged in
chastened accents that the Australian Army
was only a “fieabite compared with the
English forces.”
This is an up-to-the-minute photograph by
Judith Fletcher of Mrs. Alexander Gordon,
who is organis-
ing the big Fair to
pay for the new
sports ground at
Cranbrook. Those
interested include
the wives of the
Premier, Surgeon
McCormick, Chief
Justice Knox, Sam
Hordern and a foot-
long list of other
names synonymous
with bank-balances
and social swank.
The Fair is kicking-
off with a brilliant
little art show, to
be held for two days
in the lodge at Cran-
brook. before the
official opening. Nor-
man and Lionel Lindsay, Sydney Ure Smith.
Gruner, Roy de Mestre and brother and
sister artists have promised canvases, and
already the idea is netting healthy cheques
for the cause.
The Justice Gordons staged a dinner-party
for Melba during the week-end, and had her
pet Feakes couple there to keep her purring.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, Charlie Biindock and
Jimmie Osborne were others who played a
bridge hand after the feeding.
The Hughie Mclntoshs gave a wonderful
spread at Belhaven last week, in honor of
D’Alvarez. Beach Thomas, P'hillip Proctor,
Manucci, John Longstaff and other celebri-
ties were there: and the cinematograph,
which is to lI.D. what the small brown
bag is to the suburbanite, was duly turned
on.
The dance of the week-end was the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron’s at the Kirribilli
Club-house. The grounds “fore and aft” were
a blaze of electrics in the gayest of Chinese
lanterns —“a bit too much light on the sub-
ject,” thought some of the youngsters who
strayed out for a look the dewy night.
The wide verandahs provided jazz floorage.
The supper-room sported a canopy of loosely-
interlaced poppy-red streamers, and the lamp-
shades were ot the same glowing tint. On the
table of the Commodore, Governor-General
Forster, was a little fuchsia-tinted posy for
her Ex. Mrs./Don Taylor and Mrs. God-
dard were responsible for the decoration
scheme, and were first-lieutenanted by Fred
Shrimpton. The Forsters, with aide De la
Cour in tow, strolled into the gathering as
unofficially as ordinary folks about 10 o’clock,
her youthful-tooking Ex. in silver-grey
brocade with pearl encrustments. Milsons
were present in force, the fair-haired
Marjorie wearing blue pompadour taffetas.
The Waleys and the Lloyd Joneses had par-
ties, and Captain Williams brought his tall
wife, whose slimness supported grey satin
frocking. Mrs. Alfred Milson wore hand-
some black trappings; and Gard Trouton
chaperoned a bunch of peaches, among whom
were Betty Crook, whose dark head glowed
above fuchsia-toned frocking. Josie Watt,
in white, and a tall McMaster girl, in bro-
caded taffeta, cut and swathed to give her
the benefit of every one of her inches. “Billy”
Coyle, K.C., was watched over by his wife
and a pretty, black-clad daughter. Mrs. Don
Taylor was another of the few exponents of
the smartness of sombre tones. Argie
Mitchell weighted her white satin dress with
a deep band of beaver. The Struan Robert-
sons and oldest-inhabitant Hungerford were
others among the hosts of parties which
refused to break up before 3 a.m.
This is Falk’s pic-
ture of Henry
Segaert, Consul for
Belgium in N.S.W.,
Queensland and New
Zealand. Apart from
his official duties he
is a keen amateur
actor, and he finds
an enthusiastic joy
in producing conti-
nental plays in aid
of Belgian or French
charities. Just at
present the consular
Thespian is busy
rehearsing “Kaatje”
(Katie), a lyric play
in four acts by Paul
Spaak, Director of
the Brussels Grand
Opera.
Melba talks of returning to Australia next
year and buying a house in Sydney in which
to spend her winters. Our climate, she de-
clares, is as fine as that in the South of
France. In the meantime her public fare-
well is billed for August 1. There will be
another unofficial concert for the soldiers;
and then she sails by the Naldera, breaking
her journey to visit Lord Reading in India.
Mrs. Ronald Gordon and sister Linda
Byron Moore are over in Sydney waiting to
pick up the Mataram for a cruise in the
Islands. Mrs. Gordon not long ago returned
from Moorea, which, she declares, to be the
lost Garden of Eden, and is now rushing off
for another look at the blessed isle. The
Australia is their telephone headquarters,
but Eadith Walker provided them with bed
and breakfast over the week-end.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers gave a tea-party
at Admiralty House the other afternoon
to the newspaper women of Sydney.
She said she wanted to say “thank
you” in a nice, intimate sort of way for all
they had done to encourage the popular hue
and cry in “The Pursuit of Pamela.” Mrs.
Tony Hordern was the only guest who hadn’t
the ghost of an inkstain somewhere in her
aura; but to make up she wore her pearls.
The hospital’s secretary, Mona Daly, was
present, and seemed in the glamor of success
to have resolved into a wreathed smile mur-
murous with honeyed words. It was a jolly
little party in spite of the butlers; a.nd not
the least part of the charm was the escort
from the man-o’-war steps by the dimpled De
la Cour. He, poor youth, was as outwardly
calm as Daniel in the lions’ den. and, man
alone as he was, even rose to the sublime
heroism of a joke. He informed one woman
that the barge held 50. “Not all sitting, of
course.” she murmured. “Oh, yes,” he
crisped; “what you might call confidential
like, but still sitting!”
The Bankers’ Ball is no rendezvous con-
juring visions of Rothschilds, Raphaels and
I’ierpont Morgans: its riches are mostly those
of youth and good looks, and the bulk of its
revellers are the dollar princes and princesses
on the staffs of the banks. Of course, there
are some plutes in the annual gathering—
financial heavyweights such as Denison
Miller and Oscar Lines. This function,
in aid of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
ticked off another success midway through
last week, and under Rock Phillips’s trans-
forming hand the Town Hall blazed with
bunting and streamers. The G.-G. couple
and Lady Davidson occupied the palm-
sheltered dais. Dame Margaret wore sweep-
ing blue brocades, and Lady Forster was
in Wedgwood-blue ninon heavily em-
broidered in silver. The Miller lady
draped henna satin with silver lace, and, in
addition to mothering a fluttering covey of
debs., chaperoned her daughter Lilian, who
was demure in grey taffeta. Miss Denison
Miller scintillated with the wings of a colony
of highly-decorated beetles, caught in the net
of her overdress, while sister Tennyson con-
trived an effective glad rag of blue velvet
and gold lace. Prince Alfred’s organising
secretary, Mrs. Charles Walker, wore an im-
pressive mixture of petunia and grey brocade,
while blue panne and silver clad the slimness
of co-worker Mrs. Gore-Jones. Gwen Marks
and Evelyn Brunton were others in the
struggling mass of dancers whose names
sounded like a list of brass-plates from Mac-
quarie-street and an Australian edition of
the Financial Times.
Lady Davidson, in smart grey cloth
wrappings that sported grey astrakhan
bands about the skirt and collar, lifted the
lid off Thea Proctor’s collection of litho-
graphs in Gayfield Shaw’s attic the other
afternoon. The prints came hot from many
of the best London stones, and comprise work
by Miss Proctor herself and nine others.
Among the most delightful bits is “The Re-
lease,” showing a pink-frocked, chignoned
Burne-Jones lady, who, with a gesture as
wide as the earth, is giving a bird its free-
dom. The room was as murmurous as a bee-
hive with feminines, and only an occasional
boom from a masculine throat for ballast.
The good-looking Thea combined navy-blue
tailorings, silver-grey footwear and a per-
fectly-shaped nose with happy results, and
was altogether unlike the self-portrait where
she stares out frigidly through horn-rimmed
glasses on a world that has done her no
wrong. Mrs. Cedric Campbell wore a skirt
striped like an awning, a wine-colored coatee
finished off with a shaker tie of beaver, and
trig millinery. Mrs. Alec Gordon, in snuff
browns, might have been the original Quaker
Girl. The Hughes lady, in heavyweights of
grey jersey silk, and son Roger’s wife, con-
valescent poetess Ruth Bedford, the speckless
Sydney Ure Smith, Julian Ashton and artist
Mrs. Edwards were a few of those who
debated the “Paola and Francesca” embrace
which the irrepressible young person from
Melbourne rechristened “Cloger Settlement.”
Citizens of Paddington take a practical
pride in their Royal Hospital for Women.
They set out to raise £lOOO to endow a bed
in perpetuity, and already they have the
required sum and a bit over. The amount
has been raised by various entertainments
and dances. Mayor Purcell, Town-clerk P.
H. Wicks, Alderman Green and Alderman
Gahan headed the big committee that seems
to know just how to get things done.
The Sydney Hospital Auxiliary has decided
to sweep aside the old-fashioned way of rais-
ing funds with jazz and chocolate-wheels, and
is now appealing for yearly subscriptions to
the tune of £2500. This is the amount of
the Macquarie-street institution’s little linen
bill. A big public eating was called the other
day to discuss this question of direct giving,
and Mrs. Maclurcan not only loaned the white
Wentworth ballroom for the speechifying,
but provided all the eatables for literally
hundreds of females. Dame Margaret, sup-
ported by Miss Henderson and a monster
presentation bouquet, set the ball rolling,
11. Y. Braddon, John Stinson and Colonel
Murdoch pointed out the financial soundness
of the new method compared with the old,
and Miss Preston-Stanley overwhelmed every
chocolate-wheel and art union in a devastat-
ing- flood of condemnation. During the
afternoon the first year’s fund was almost
entirely guaranteed. Mr. Bosch, of the
Bosch Barthel co., handed in a cheque for
£lOOO, and has offered another hundred for
every thousand raised. Organising-secrtary
Mrs. Watson 'Holdship beamed on her blos-
soming plan in a setting of black fox and
navy tailorings; and Ruby Board had the
pleasant job of passing votes of thanks all
round. Matron Kellett, Dame Alice Chis-
holm, Mrs. Clive Dangar and Mrs. Tony
Hordern were others who showed active
enthusiasm.
A Brisbane postcript:—
Last week Governor Nathan, through a mistake in
a notice of a highbrow gathering, was just saved
from walking into a meeting of the fiercely demo-
cratic body which proposed to “do away with
Governors.” He was hauled off in the nick of time.
Eddie Cahill and George Brooke took the Exhibi-
tion Hall for their farewell concert. Cahill revelled
In Schumann, Mozart and Rachmaninoff —and so did
his hearers. Norah Halford, the doctor’s daughter,
and Ruth Portraite supported the pair. A good
house, including the musical Governor, applauded
the performers, to whom various tea-parties had been
tendered during the week. Cahill and Brooke have
now decided to sail Londonwards in October.
Wattle Day was held for the Distressed Diggers
this year. Authentic stories of a soldier’s wife
dressed in sacking, and of the Digger, wife and babe
who spent a cold night under the bamboos in the
Botanic Gardens, helped to loosen purse strings.
The Percy Oowlishaws decorated their young
folks’ dance with bignonia venusta, many balloons
and peach blossoms indoors, and lanterns in the
grounds of their home at Bowen Hills.
The Maldwyn Davies’s tots had a children’s party
given in their honor by a doting grandmother the
same afternoon. A fishpond was one of the delights
patronised by about 50 kiddies of the fashionable
world.


SBtfi
&*.«■
§
.
■ '->v'
tyj .:•
•;iv
WE
<L.
iK
HER
/or
CONSISTENCY Op
aUALITY*
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
PRESENTATION SILVER
TEA & COFFEE SERVICE
Illustrated is a Reproduction of an Original Antique
Silver Tea and Coffee Service. It is Hand-made
and of Finest Workmanship.
Silver Tea Pot . .
~ Coffee Pot. .
~ Sugar Basin
~ Cream Jug
~ Tea Trav, 22
inch
£lB
£l6
£6
£ f >.
£lOO
Brummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS. ,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
m
m
r*
v/
I
i
K>
POINTS TO REMEMBER!
Wizard Lighting Systems are: —
Match lighting,
Auto cleaning,
Moth-proof,
Simple to use,
Absolutely efficient,
and so safe that no extra insurance is
required when it is installed.
Flood Your Country Home
with
WIZARD GAS LIGHT
and so fill the long winter nights with brightness and
comfort.
The Wizard Light has been designed and constructed
in Australia on the most progressive scientific lines
to meet specifically the exigencies of Australian rural
conditions. It combines all the well-known advantages
of old systems with the newest and most approved
methods and principles of country lighting construction.
Scientific analysis has proved Wizard gaslight to be less
injurious to the eyes and to more nearly approach
daylight than any other artificial light. It is, in fact,
THE LAST WORD IN HOLLOW WIRE LIGHTING.
Wizard Gas Lig'hts with a Match
Prices R.ang'e from £6/6|-
Wizard Lighting; Company,
HEAD OFFICE: 55 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
187 a FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE; CORINDA, BRISBANE;
JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA; GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
Exclusive territories available to live salesmen.


r s
/
Permanent Hair Health
Promoted by Cuticura
Frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted when necessary by
gentle anointings with Cuticura
Ointment, afford the purest, sweet-
est and most economical method
of freeing the scalp of itchings and
scalings and of establishing a hair-
growing condition.
Soapls., Ointment 1 s.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
MT Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
BECOME AN ARTIST!
*1
There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
You can
soon mas-
ter the
main prin-
ciples of
drawing if
you take up the
lessons of the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE.
Simple lessons
from the very rudi-
ments of art right
on to its higher
branches li a v e
been prepared by
Australia’s master
cartoonist and
poster designer, Mr.
Harry J. Weston,
who PERSONALLY
CRITICISES each
student’s work.
The course is fas-
cinating and cuts
out drudgery, giv-
ing a thorough
grounding in a pro-
fession which leads
to highly-paid posi.
tions.
SEND FOR THE
BOOKLET,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” in which
Mr. Weston tells
all about the
course and
gives examples
of the lessons.
Just forward your name and address, with three
stamps for postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
149 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
THE
“ Sombrero n
WIDE LEAF
FELT
Cf/t
A Stetson for the Great
Uut-of-Doars
The “Sombrero” Stetson affords splendid
protection to the wearer with its large
60/-
3i inch leaf, whice can be
worn either up or down. The
crown can be shaped accord-
ing to desire —the Grey shade with Black
band, and the Fawn with self or Black
band make for even greater serviceability
WRITE TO DESK S.B
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville, BRISBANE, Toowoomba
Missing Friends.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
LEONARD HART, who worked for
Mr. W. D. Young, Murwillumbah, N.S.W., in
1913, and whose last-known address was c/o
G. W. S. Campbell, Taiga, near Gundare, N.
Queensland, is asked to communicate with
his father —J. HART, West Bergholt, Essex,
England.
Biddle.— Will william biddle,
formerly of Kilmore, and late of Glen-
ferrie, Victoria, bootmaker, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts or what became of him,
please communicate at once with
McNAB & McNAB,
Solicitors, Kilmore, Victoria.
CROOK.— ELI M. CROOK, travelling
blacksmith, last heard of in 1913 at
Sydney, N.S.W. May have proceeded to
Gallipoli with Labor Battalion during war.
Knowledge of present address, or (if
deceased) of date and nlace of death, re-
quired bv RADCLIFFES, HIGGINSON &
THOMPSON, Solicitors, 2 Corporation
Street, Blackburn, England.
(Opp.
Station))
THE
‘WINton;
THE ‘ WINTON"
SADDLE
THE FINEST STOCK SADDLE
WE HAVE TET INTRODUCED.
Its great feature is its comfort-
able seat and narrow grip,
obtained by sewing the flap
direct on to the seat and doing
away with the usual skirt. The
pads are set well up along the
thighs, giving perfect security
to the rider for rough riding.
The tree is our high-grade
“Fouright,” with steel stirrup-
bars, and the fittings are folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups.
£l6
Freight Free for Cash with
Order to any N.S.W. Railway
Station.
Write for our Fine Catalogue.
POLO PLAYERS, WRITE FOR
POLO GOODS LIST.
Walt her & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
FEDERAL TAXATION RETURNS NOW DUE
INCOME-TAX RETURNS:—
All except businesses ■. . . JULY 31, 1922
Businesses .. : ;. ; . AUGUST 31, 1922
LAND-TAX RETURNS:—
Land owned at noon on 30th June, 1922 . . .... AUGUST 31, 1922
A complete statement ot all land owned must be furnished in Form “A” for this year.
Forms of Return may be obtained at Post Offices or at the Federal Taxation Office, Hamilton
Street, Sydney, where, also, full detailed information will be supplied.
T. S. HULME,
Deputy Commissioner for Taxation.
Warwick Buildings,
Hamilton Street, SYDNEY.
Tfia old
way.
>\
si
> <
\tcxT,
r / /
...A
m
sm
Tfie DtiCcill&lf wayjC >
Kaa
a
£
□
I
Aa
Maliey’s Complete
Hot Water Service
For the Modern Home and Bungalow.
Hot or boiling water simultaneously in bathroom, bedroom,
kitchen and laundry. No bother with fires; no delay; no
danger. A tiny pilot light at the heater works automatically
the moment you turn on your taps. Clean, convenient —
wonderfully economical. Can be seen under actual home
conditions in our show-rooms; failing that write for
descriptive booklet.
liarger models for hotel, boarding-house, hospital
and other large buildings.
Sole Distributors for Rogers’ Paints and
Varnishes for N.S.W.
<3O Liverpool St, Corner Kent St,
a. few steps from, Georde St..
The Plum R a zov
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steel,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced
tradesmen.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George St.,
D • in/a PAIR IN PRESENTATIONOft/.
rnce lz/b. CASE) post FIIEEi *p/
Blades Sin. and jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawsor, Chambers, SYDNEY
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, l/„.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
y V.
3&J
ft?
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights . 1/6
FUNNIEST F 0 UR
FARC E S, in one
book 2 /■
Contents —Ici on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who is Who? Who’s
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufTtciently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.A.: We printed a Shelley centenary
article on the same lines some weeks ago. .. .G.C.11.:
Reflections on “Art Critisisin” received. Whatever
value they may have is somewhat discounted by the
word being mis-spelt not once but six times. . .
Bartholomew Blowfly: Verminous yarn consigned to
the fumigator....W.A.W.L.: “Ambrosia” wanted
better cooking. .. .S.M. (Perth): The statement that
Dr. Johnson’s works were scorned in his lifetime is
absurd. It is the echo of his tremendous reputation
in his own day that has come down to u 5....
J. : All that rambling round the subject spoils
it... .E.A.W.: Mild album verse... .M.E.H.: No
use... .Vivian C.: Empty... .R.F.G.: Not up....
Yanga: The mirth drags wearily along in its rusty
chains. . . .R.E. (Barham) : Poor jingle.. . .R.H.M.:
The sonnet is near; the others are no g00d....
M.0.W.: Tame as Methodism and lawless as a
washerlady’s grammar. .. .Tempe: Misses... . A.W.D.:
Goes heavily.... Dry Yarran: Nothing fresh and
nothing g00d... .D.G.W.: Feeble stuff... .G.C.L.: No
use....M.G. (Bendigo): Very bad... .Valla: Never
heard of the poet “Swinburn”; but he must have
been pretty bad to deserve that.... Deborah: Two
lines of the fine little virginal thing:—
With interlude when I my bath do take,
Then I do shout, as though the dead to wake.
. ...C.E.P.: Nearly up to the level of the worst
vaudeville; and that is some distance below the
literary basement.... Uglyface: No use... . J.E.P.:
Has a bad smell... .D.F.L.: Poor stuff.... W.C.R.:
Album verse... .John R.: Very rugged.... Bess
Alalone: Schoolgirl humor... .A.R.C.: Not for us.. . .
O.N. (Riwaka): Bumps and muddles along to
nothing... .R.1.W.: No talent evident to the naked
eye.... Barber: The nigger, shorn of his loincloth,
who carries the naked missionary lady from danger,
has too much thrill to the yard of probability....
G.W. (North Sydney) : Your own view seems bounded
by the second-rate.... Fosco: No use... .Bessie R.:
Doesn't get near.... Marguerite: Can’t find any
“Fantasy” in it. It is a series of orders to the
“Bird of Love”,.. .R.1.G.: That dream business has
been done to death... .W.D.: The dainty thing found
the basket... .P.8.P.: Hard to say whether the prose
or verse is the more futile.. .M. 8.5.: Nothing in it.
.... J. J.H.: Why don’t you try reading some of the
things we print and seeing for yourself what is
wanted... .Julie R.: A romance of rats is a bit off
our track... .R. 5.8.: It needs very fine craftsman-
ship to carry verse without rhymes. .. .8.V.8.: Noue
get near.... San : One stanza :
In Fitzroy Gardens there layeth the scene,
Of a terrible thing that wouldn’t of been,
If two young Australians who went west,
Hadn’t liked imported things best.
. ...D.M.11.: Some distance 0ff....E.T. (Windsor):
Misses... .J.J.L.: Bad in form and weak in thought.
... .Betsy: Too thin. .. .G.: Very loose and rambling.
. ...E.8.5.: Verses not up. . . .0.C.T.: The “Devils”
waste their technical knowledge over a yam that is
not worth telling... .G.E.M.: “Brown” hasn’t enough
interest... .It.W.W.: Yarn begins as if it meant
something and ends in sheer lunacy... .W.E.L.: Far
too wordy.... May D.: The woman who was silent
because she had a cold is not exactly loaded with
mirth.... Maurice O.: Dreary vernacular narrations
in no known dialect inspire nothing but anger.. ..
C.W. (Toorak) : Very staggery verse... .G.E.M.:
“Let this elusiveness a lesson teach” spoils it.. ..
! Green Swag: No use offering bad prose as printable
• verse.... M.8.J.: Doesn’t move us.... Ariel: Misses.
. ...Saaedi: Don’t care for that setting of “The
Philosopher”... .M.D. (West Maitland): You make
nothing of it....Junos: The autumn lamentation is
a commonplace sort of dirge... .Jamie K.: No use
writing in a foreign tongue R.D.C.: What’s the
good of doing the same old things over and over
again?... .Oliver B.: “School Mates” is in your
best manner:—
Well, well! I’m be hanged, Tom;
Fancy meeting you in the city!
You remember, when making things hum,
When backing that colt in the city?
Yes; it was at that meeting at Yarrawanga,
Good many years ago, you know.
It was when I was at Yattalunga,
You was at Alagars’, punching doe.
My word, yes; that’s twenty-odd year ago,
When I was punching doe.
You told me to back little Joe,
He was a marvel, wasn’t ’e, though?
Well, well! It seems funny meeting you;
Yes, it’s years since I been down hear;
You were one of my best pals, I knew;
At that time we never had any fear.
Tom, it’s the best men ; it never hurt us, did it ?
Hear we are enjoying ourselves ;
We can have our cigars and a nip,
We battled, luck followed; why not enjoy our-
selves ?
....Come By Chance: Not up.... Sardonyx: Yams
done in the style of the second-best seller are no use
here.... Spots : Far too rugged.... Arthur H.: No
use S.J.L.: It only says the old things and
doesn’t say them we 11... .Jimmy 0.: The wages
screed made us sad by its sheer futility.... Frank
M.: Crude stuff.. . .R.8.L.: It has two good stamps
and ends on a very bad one... .W.S.: “Portland
Bay” suggests something that might be worth while,
but it doesn’t get beyond suggestion.... George G.:
As a schoolboy yarn it’s not badly done; but, then,
we don’t want schoolboy yarns.... Tom Hah: Three
stanzas, and there’s only one part of the paper that
will hold them :
QUITE SO.
Oh, girls, you sinners, when you go to confess,
The good father declines, because of your dress;
The necks cut too low are not the right sort.
The sleeves, like the skirt, are much too short.
Now your dear sister Eve, she wasn’t like you:
Her dress wasn’t low, nor was it askew;
With blouses or skirts, she wasn’t blest,
For when she met Adam she felt quite distressed.
When Eve met Adam, she was, oh, so shy:
Adam smiled, he heard Eve heave a sigh,
So felt so embarrassed, she was stricken with grief,
She got away quickly and donned a fig-leaf.
(Safety First.)
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Nardoo: Drawing a bit weak yet; P.rd develop a
broader style.... A.W.: Terrible... .M.F.: A long
way below par.... High: Weak drawing and weaker
gag....L.L.: Slight variation of very old joke....
K. : Pointless... .C.J.C.: You’ve got to learn to
draw yet... .N.E.8.: If you want to show girls’ legs
let ’em be legs.... J.C. Not up.... 5.8.: Try original
works —you’ve never seen ladies like that in your
town... .C. 8.: Balloonish person in bathers ruled
out. .. .G.H.: Too amateurish. . . .Rewa: Ancient gag.
... .L.G.: Not worth the trouble... .P.8.P.: Badly
drawn pencil sketches are bad enough, but when it
comes to a bad copy of a picture that appeared in
The Bulletin a few weeks ago nothing could be
badder... .K.F.: No improvement... .H.E.R.: Weak
drawing... .T.J.M.: Going Back... .F.W.C.: That
tram’s come to a full stop.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates ond
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 17.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. «c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANL
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. . . 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFI'TCE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens land.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. ~ £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £l’4Bo’ooO
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 . . £12,813i129
Directors ; Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Prank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George P. Todman •
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundie Street).
Manager ; R. T. Moodie.-
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E. 0.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . ■ 625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life OOice in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds •• •• .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow. Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
I he Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey ncross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
I’aid-up Capital
Reserve Fluid
Reserve Liability
Directors i
£5,000,000
3,600,000
5,000,000
£13,600,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve l’und . . £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. lvater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers—
from 7/6 to 35/-
0C
PEN
[1
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ALL ALSIKAUANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W C
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge. ain
Shlnpinff.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parkerl!M
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Retween Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji,
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service ever, four weeks fiom Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is lifted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Meibom ue occupies u-
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
M Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE. ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BA 1 AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other :ircumstauces permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.nt. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.in.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/6/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS."
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Cunadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown,


United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
n
k* rui>
\nn
v r*
wi wm
0
*Jloyal Cord ‘ ‘Nobby’ ‘Chain' 'Usco'
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
AUTOMOBILE
ENGINEERING.
MACHINE TOOL
ENGINEERING.
miCAI ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES USING
Fine tool work.
k
Every important Engineering
Industry uses Jessop’s Steel.
Crafts such as Machine Tool-
making an t. Automobile
Engineering each find that the
special grade of Jessop’s Steel
evolved for their particular needs
does its work more satisfactorily
than other steels.
Jessop’s Steels are tough,
wear-resisting, dependable steels,
specially graded for those indus-
tries which not only appreciate,
but demand, the very best in
steels. If it’s a steel problem let
Jessop’s Engineers co-operate
with YOTJKS.
MAILLER & QUEREAU, Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne,
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
f.
aw
YOB CAN NOW
PURCHASE
Sporting Rifles and
Guns without first
obtaining a license.
On receipt of
weapon license may
be obtained at
wmmmmmmmmmmamaMsmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmaKmmm
Police Station in
your own town.
Send us your
Order To-day.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS HOUSE,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: City, Suburbs, Newcastle 8 Brisbane.


Girls! There is Nothing Like
Rexona Soap for the Skin
and Hair.
MISS RENE MURPHY
{from a photo %y Monte Luke.)
I suppose you are quite tired
of hearing how much appreci-
ated your beautiful Rexona
Soap is, but I must make an-
other of the many who write
Rexona, claiming the right of
club membership.
There is nothing like Rexona
Soap—it reigns alone. For the
hair, complexion, hands and
teeth it is unequalled.
Shall I be asking too much
if I ask a Rexona badge ?
Several of my girl friends wear
them, and I would like one.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) RENE MURPHY.
Rexona Soap —the
Aristocrat of Soaps.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
will do more to improve your
skin than you ever thought a
soap could do. It is medicated
on the same principle as the
famous Rexona Ointment. Thus
it is able to exert the hygienic
effects of Rexona upon the skin
with every cleansing operation.
Prevents roughness, beautifies
complexions, soothes tender
skins, protects from infection
and disease, unexcelled for sham-
pooing, purifies the scalp, re-
moves dandruff, and brings
health to the hair.
REXONA SOAP,
1/- per tablet.
■y/AW'/,.
mi
?OV.^
y///z, ///.
it!
WM%
mm
mm
m
sfll
SKIN & FACIAL
mmm,
wwm.
V/'A
'aM
A AAA
A/
'//AA/mmmAia tTr
AAA'AAA
E3t
Jiv
Mi
m
i 3
Itki
& ."
m%T
w- ■'S&issß^C'SyV
V *
\*r?-i
y&c Cake. fSkli
leAind.
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
ii t/le A£ascnfoii&ei\ cpuditu
Packed in the Famous Red Boxes, and
mailed to you the day they are made.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 20/- and 30A
Post free to any address in Australia.
GuuStHiMux
fe stuaws
862-166 PBTT Street
& Cr George & King Sts
SYDNEY
Laughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O-DAY it is of laughter I would write.
The babe that on a doting mother’s knee
Tilts its first carol at a world of tears,
The school-girl, merry with her skipping-
rope ....
Maybe she finds between the rise and fall
Of hempen arches, nearness to the sky
(As though she kept a feather of lost wings
To float her in the pathways of the blue).
Pan, sprightly in his green-leaf pavisade,
Shaking the glossy twigs with mirth o’
Spring,
Silenus, jovial on the rotund cask,
Because of some smart sally Bacchus made —
Bacchus with vine-leaves in his ruddy hair,
Impatient of the witchery of nymphs.
To-day it is of laughter I would write.
The chuckle in the shallow of the streams
That rollick down the mountain, where the
fern
Primly withdraws itself from foolish jest
And bends its head as though it wore a cowl,
A Capuchin of bracken ! And the laugh
Of black-browed witches in the moaning
pines,
Witches with apple cheeks and amber
breasts,
That ride a trotting broomstick at the
clouds !
And there toss, in their levity, pert words
At the serene aloofness of the stars!
The laughter of the sun, as he sinks down
With crimson lips pressed to soft Twilight’s
mouth,
Succeeded by the sportive Lady Moon,
Whose strange, white whimsies make the
brown earth smile
To silver ripples on the tawny hedge,
And dimples on the face of the lagoon,
And jocund darts into the night-dark scrub,
Making a quivering joy of hidden trails....
To-day it is of laughter I would write.
Nasturtiums, winking through the blinding
rain;
Orange and yellow, or a tango red,
Insisting that life, after all, is gay
Under the novice veil of fine white showers.
Or the great-throated jollity of crowds,
Who see their favorite comedian prance
Bfetween the velvet curtains of a stage—
The laughter that makes strangers into
friends....
To-day it is of laughter I would write.
Some trembling woman in a lover’s arms,
Whose laugh holds the first carol of_ the babe.
The gaiety of schoolgirls, and the tKrob
Of mating Springtime in the pipes of Pan,
Laughing (she knows not why) because of
all
She yields to him.... for nothing else but
Love!
To-day it is of laughter I would write.
Laughter that sets a fool’s cap on the brow
Of the grey-featured, ircfn face of Life!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Four-o’clock Shift Whistle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHNNY ADAMS was lying quietly in
his bed. There was a pillow with a
white frilled pillow-case on it at his
bead, and the best patchwork quilt was
pulled up well round his chin. His mos-
quito-nets were tied back neatly with a
piece of red ribbon —ribbed ribbon, hard and
strong—and the white lace curtains at the
window were tied back with the same
kind of ribbon. Mrs. Adams had bought
it at a sale. On the horse-hair couch Mrs.
Adams was sitting crocheting a bootee
for Janey Hope’s new baby which was “ex-
pected Sunday,” and every now and then
she looked up at Johnny from her work.
The couch had been pushed in front of the
window so that she might look out at the
passers-by and tell Johnny of each of his
mates as they went whistling by on their
way to the mines. She knew them by their
whistle, but Johnny knew them by their
steps.
“That’s Ted Cousin,” he would say. “Has
he got his dog with him?” Or, “Here’s Billy
Myers. Bet he turns off at the mullock-
heap.”
The afternoon was sultry. Now that the
last mate had passed the road -was quiet. It
was “close on” 4 o’clock, and Mrs. Adams
stopped her work a moment to fan herself
with her apron. The scent of the jacaranda
in the garden w T as almost sickly. To try and
make the room cooler she had moved all the
opossum-skin rugs and daisy mats of wool
and cardboard from the floor, and had put
out her mother’s antimacassars.
The few, hard, straight-backed horse-hair
chairs did seem a little less hot to touch
draped in these. The white bareness of the
boards felt less stifling without the rugs.
Crocheting quietly, she moved across the
room noiselessly to straighten a picture of
young Johnny Adams, taken when they had
been courting. The picture was framed in a
gay assortment of round and octagonal pieces
of cork, which she had glued there herself to
the pieces of pine with which Johnny had
made the frame. Below Johnny there was a
picture of herself, with her hair down her
back, and this picture was framed in maple-
wood, to which her mother had glued a shin-
ing mass of fishes’ scales. Johnny’s eyes
were closed, but her light movement aroused
him.
“I think I’d be better if I sat up, Annie,”
he said wistfully.
“No, no. Keep still, Johnny. That was
the way the doctor asked me to keep you.
He said you mustn’t be moved, and you
must see no one. You must just stay quietly
as he left you. Don’t get up, boy.”
“Oh, youse women are all for fuss,” he
complained in a faint voice. “I tell you if
I sit up I’ll be all right.” Then he closed
his eyes again with the suddenness nis wife
had learned to understand and dread during
the days ot his ilmess.
“Perhaps he 11 sleep awhile,” she thought,
tiptoeing from the room to the verandah
where her mother was sorting odd pieces of
colored glass and crockery to make fern pots.
She looked up when her daughter stood before
her and her eyes asked the question, “Hew is
he?” Mrs. Adams shook her head as she
absently crocheted the bootee for Janey’s
coming child.
"Annie, O my God, Annie!” Johnny’s
sick voice sent her quickly back to him, and,
entering the room again, she dropped the
bootee. It fell with a dull, piteous little
click on the floor as the needle struck a
nail that was protruding. But when Annie
reached the bed Johnny’s eyes were closed
again.
She sat down on the couch listlessly, and
when her mother came in from her crazy
work, Annie was sitting fingering her spot-
less apron.
“Seems a great shame I can’t let a strong
man get up and have his mind, mother,” she
said pathetically.
“lie isn’t a strong man, my girl. What is
more he won’t be a man at all soon. You’ve
got to make up your mind for that.”
“And I can’t let him sit up when he wants
to. Ah, bless my soul, mother, the doctor’s
all wrong. What’s it matter if I let him sit
up a bit ? He seems so set on it.”
The sick man’s eyes opened again with
that sharp, grey, sudden flicker the women
had come to dread.
“I’m sure I’d be easier if you’d let a man
sit up, Annie,” he repeated feebly.
She did not speak, nor did she move.
There was a mournful pause in which she
strove to give him his way.
A whistle cut the silence. It was like a
signal from another world to all three. Their
eyes searched one another’s as if each ques-
tioned the other as to what the whistle could
mean cutting the silence just then.
“The four-o’clock shift,” said Adams in
a whisper. “By God, Annie, I’m not going
to hear that whistle again. For Christ’s
sake let a man get up. Help me up!” The
eyes closed again.
“Oh, mother, he’s dying! If I hadn’t
watched young Jammie Shaw go I’d not be
able to stand this,” said Annie. “Mother,
do you notice how slowly that clock is tick-
ing?”
“Ah, you’ve got fancies. When you see
the accidents I’ve seen, my girl, and watched
the eyes close I’ve watched”
“But he’s my own man, mother,” inter-
rupted Mrs. Adams.
“Annie !” She was at his side again and
her brown hands were trembling. Her plain,
freckled face was a passion of regret. “You
must lift me up. You must help me up,
my girl. What’s the matter with that
whistle?”
“Nothing, my man. Nothing at all.”
“Wish to God they’d stop it blowing.”
“It isn’t blowing, Johnny boy. The men
are down now. It’s a whilesince it stopped.”
“I’m still hearing it. Oh, give a man a
lift up, Annie!”
“But Johnny you’ll”
“I know. But a man that’s sat on his
heels and chipped all his life down a mine
can’t die like this. I can’t, Annie. I’m not
easy. For God’s sake give us a lift up.
Oh! Women’s just women.” Her face be-
came grey. “Dribbling out without a mate
to give me a lift up. God !” The eyes half-
closed.
Annie’s face went ashen. “Mother, it’s
no use,” she said quickly. “I can’t deny his
last wish. It is his last. I know it. You
and the doctor have been trying to hide it
from me and him. But we know. Come
and help me. He must have his wish. Look
how grey he is. Mum ! Mum !”
The elder woman moved obediently to-
wards the bed.
Adams’s eyes opened gratefully.
“Ah, I always said a man could count on
you, Annie —and Mum! Now, hoist up the
old horse !” He sat up. “By God ! That’s
good—worth living for. I couldn’t get out
on the floor, could I?”
“Yes,” said Annie softly. “It can’t
matter now you’ve made us move you,
Johnny. There, there wasn’t a chance any-
way,” she choked to herself, as she helped
her mother move his big rough frame —six
feet two of wasted manhood —big Johnny
Adams now as light as a boy.
They helped him to the floor. It was
piteous to see his happiness.
“Good ! Good ! Good ! By God, Annie,
I think I’ll get all right after all.”
“Yes, Johnny.” She watched him half
fascinated in her own and his despair. He
sat on his heels, and his hands bent a little
forward as if they held a pick. It was the
way he had always sat from the first time
she ever remembered him —young Johnny
Adams, just 16, an old hand at mining
then. Nearly all his 40 years had been
spent underground. The smile on his face
was as mild as a boy’s.
“Comes easier to a man,” he said. “So
used to it. You won’t tell me the whistle
isn’t blowing the shift .now, Annie?”
His eyes closed again suddenly, sitting
there in the way they had watched him sit
a thousand times. He never could use a
chair with comfort. He often found it easier
to go to sleep sitting on his heels. It came
easier—easier.
An accident in the mine in which he
worked, following on an attack of pleurisy,
and then a second attack, had given him so
much pain that the same relief he now
seemed to be feeling passed to the women.
They had watched their strong one fade from
brown to grey, from grey to ashy white, and
his thinness had become a pang to them. But
now he sat contented, and they, too, sat
do-wn tired and worn out from long, long
watching and waiting on him.
“Oh, mother.” Annie smiled with a little
sigh, seeing him sleep as happily as a
dream-eyed boy watching a top spin. “I
think my Johnny will get better after all.
I knew it was the best to give him what
he wanted.” She rocked on the rocker by
the bed quietly lest she should waken him
and the smile on her lips was almost holy.
She closed her eyes in momentary rest.
The elder woman, hands clasped before her,
sat smljinsr a little too. Doctors often
made mistakes. What a blessing after all!
Sleep was what Johnny had wanted. Sleep
was the real medicine—the good cure-all.
(Continued on next page.)


All
55
9
((
m
v
c
m
"Every Pietur
tells a Story*
Don t let that dull, constant backache discourage you.
Worry will only make it worse. The sensible plan is to
find the cause and correct it. That nagging backache
may be Nature’s way of warning you that all is not right
with your kidneys.
When the kidneys fall behind, the blood becomes over-
loaded with uric acid and other poisons. You suffer
daily backache, and a tired, weak, all-worn-out feeling.
You feel nervous and depressed; your head aches; you are
dizzy and annoyed by bladder irregularities.
You want to be well, and the best way to get well is to
give the weakened kidneys the help they need. Just take
things easier for awhile, and help the weakened kidneys
with Doan s Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped
thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor!
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
Mrs. S. Drew, .30 Briggs Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:— “Some
time ago my kidneys were in a seriously disordered state, and in consequence
I suffered terribly. My back never stopped aching, and I often used to feel
I could hardly bear it any longer. The pain took all the life and energy
out of me, and I was almost crippled with the ailment. Dropsical swellings
showed on my legs and ankles, and there was puffiiness under my eyes. The
state of my health worried me terribly, and as I had taken all sorts of
remedies without deriving any benefit I was beginning to think I would
never be well again. However, to make a long story short, at last I got
r f n .?, Backache Kidney Pills, and they proved a godsend. The first couple
of bottles eased my suffering a little, and seven bottles of the pills cured me
completely. The backache has gone, the dropsical swellings have disappeared,
and i feel splendid. I have pleasure in recommending Doan’s Pills to all
kidney sufferers.
M l '- John Simmons, Dutton Road, Bankstown, says:—‘‘For some years
I suffered dreadfully from backache and kidney trouble. I was under a
doctor for a good while, but his treatment did not benefit me very much.
Amend of mine heard of a wonderful cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
lills, so he urged me to try these pills, and I decided to do so. After taking
one bottle I felt very much better, and as I kept on with them the improve-
ment was maintained until finally I was completely cured, and I have not
a , Slgn backache and kidney trouble since. Doan’s Backache Kidney
1 ills have my hearty recommendation, and I hope many will benefit by my
experience and give them a trial.”
, Five years later Mrs. Simmons says:—“My husband has had no return
of his old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some
years ago. \\ e always keep this medicine in the house and find it a most
beneficial tonic for the kidneys.”
iackache
Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists anti Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
“Those mosquito nets are looking dusty
again, Annie,” she said presently. “And
you want some more starch in that bed-
valance.”
Annie looked up at the flowery art muslin
bed-valance. *
“Yes,” she sighed, “I think I’ll go and
make a cup of tea. Ah, he’s waking”——
Annie held up her finger. And so for a
moment they waited for Adams to waken
and ask them to put him back to bed. He
did not waken. He did not ask. The four-
o’clock shift whistle would never stop blow-
ing for Johnny Adams. He was dead.
ZORA CROSS.
Julia on Tour.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PHIL, the showman, merely nodded a
casual greeting when we met in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, the other-
day, and at once commenced yarning to me
as if he had seen me only an hour before,
whereas it was more than six months since
we had parted.
“Know anything about shirmpansies?”
queried Phil.
I wondered if he had developed a taste
for horticulture, but he explained. “They’re
a breed of monkeys, ’ighly inteller-gent. I’m
waitin’ f’r a bloke now ’oo swears blind ’e’s
got a monk’ like Wirths’ that can ride a
little Kleiner bike —mounts it on ’is pat
an’ starts th’ jigger by ’isself, too. Oughter
make a shine sideshow f’r- th’ tugs out in
th’ mulga an’ tli’ million farms arrears.
This bloke oo’s got ’im ses ’e’s a dinkum
dummy clown. Funny? ’E ses if yer
showed ’im in a butcher’s shop th’ bloomin’
blowflies ’d die laughin’ at ’im. Lives out
in Botany, an’ I’m goin’ out t’ get th’ strong
of ’im.”
Over a friendly mug, Phil recounted his
latest adventures.
“ ’Member me chattin’ yer about a bloke
named Leather Albert I was goin’ cobbers
with f’r th’ Queenslan’ show dates? Tra-
velled ’im as a ’Unran Orstrich, I did. ’E
useter eat nails an’ buttons an’ traybits an’
glassy marbles, an’ things like that. Seemed
t’ ’ave a appertite f’r ’ardware. An’ ’e’d eat
soap with relish an’ chew a lump outer a
long-beer glass f’r- a deener—after ’e’d
swallered th’ beer.
“We did fair out Alpha an’ Blackall way
an’ down tli’ Barcoo through Tambo t’
Charleville, workin’ th’ sheds w’ile we was
fillin’-in between show-dates. But ain’t a
man stiff? Jus’ as we’re doin’ orright in
Charleville, Leather gets crook. Th’ quack
ses ’e’s eat somethin’ wot disagreed with
’im. Muster bin a Warrego ’orseshoe. An’
so Leather ’as t’ dry-dock—l ’ope they can
keep ’im dry. I couldn’t. An’ wotcher think
’appens t’ me? I’m spruikin’ f’r- Splinter-
Murphy’s box-on tent, waitin’ f’r Leather t’
get right, an’ I loses me bloomin’ voice.
Can’t say a darn’ word ’ceptin’ a w’isper.
W’isperin’s orright in its way, an’ I knows
lots of blokes doin’ well at it. but it ain’t
my luck. Well, y’ want a steam fog-’orn
of a voice w’en yer spruikin’ t’ cockies, so
I lines up t’ th’ same crokus ’oo dry-cleaned
Leather. It costs me ’arf-a-jim, an’ ’e chats
me I got clergyman’s sore throat! Me,
mind yer! Blime, I breaks f’r Sydney after
that!
“An’ then I bumps Shan the Goat —the
mob calls '’im that ever since ’e travelled a
nanny that c’d tell forchins by th’ cards
better’ll Fat Annie. That nanny settled
Shan’s forcliin’ orright; got ’im a" drag in
th’ ’Ay boob —you jerry t’ ’Ay? Th’ place
out there on th’ Murrumbidgee w’ere there
ain’t a stone nor a gibber f’r fifty mile, even
th’ boob’s built outer brick. Shan gets lum-
bered f’r pinc-hin’ a surplus off a clo’esline in
th’ parson’s back yard. It was th’ dam’
goat wot shook it—eat it th’ same as Leather
does beer. But they found a yard or two
of it in Shan’s tent—’e was polishin’ ’is noo
tan shoes with it—an’ they identerfies the
stuff, an’ slung ’im three moon f’r snow-
droppin’, an’ ’im as innercent as you. They
calls ’im Th’ Goat ever since.
“Well, as I was chattin’ yer, Shan an’
me ’ears about a alligater f’r sale at Taronga
Zoo, a bloke fr’ra Townsville ’ad ’im stored
there. So we ’as a screw at ’im, an’ ’e’s
a bobby-dazzler orright. Shan an’ me was
both ’old in’ a bit, so we takes this ’ere
alligater on, an’ breaks f’r Noo Zealan’ with
’im. I’m a bit shook on th’ Maoris ever
since I took that there camel, Omar Khybosh
through there. Th’ alligater made a big
noise in Noo Zealan’, ‘Th’ Terror of th’
North’ we called ’im in th’ kite an’ on th’
calicoes, but in private we c’ristened ’im
Julia, ’cos ’e ’ad a smile jus’ like a Noah’s
ark of a woman oo’s got a Jack’s-come-’ome
pub in Gippsland, oh, a ’ell of a crook joint!
Yairs, Julia’s tusks looked jus’ like that
Gippsland dame’s yeller tats, an’ both th’
Julias ’ad th’ same kinder ’ide—chilled steel.
“Well, we readies ’em up, an’ gets all Noo
-Zealan’ talkin’ about Julia fr’m th’ Bay of
Islands right down t’ Puketeraki an’ th’
South Pole. An’ ’ow did they come at it!
Them Maories ’d Tome at a torn broad. It
was like Leather Albert linin’ up f’r charity
beer, an’ we was in th’ boom. ‘Man-eatiii’
monster cot alive! Deaths of three addults
an’ two innercent children traced to th’
Terror of th’ North,’ and all that kidstakes
—y’ couldn’t make it too ’ot! Mind ver.
I’ll say this f’r Julia, ’e was 14 foot "six
long—dinkum—an’ seven foot round th’
waist, an’ a fair cow t’ ’a,ndle an’ travel, but
’e drew like a mustard plaster, an’ ’ad th’
mob guessin’ all the time. ’Ere’s one of our
dodgers.”
Phil handed me a showman’s “hanger”
headed “Man-eating Alligator Caught Alive !”
with a harrowing description of the reptile,
concluding with an apocryphal excerpt from
a Brisbane newspaper telling how the terrific
monster, weighing more than 20cwt., was
caught at Alligator Creek, Townsville, after
decimating the population, and how it was
dragged, fighting, from its lair in the mud
by 40 wharf-laborers and a nosse of water-
police. The thrilling quotation wound up
with, “It is to be regretted that this monster
alligator, the largest of its kind ever taken
in Australasian waters, cannot be purchased
for the Brisbane Zoo.” I remarked to Phil
that I was hitherto unaware that there was
a zoo in Brisbane. “Blime!” said he, “that’s
wot a bloke at some E-fiat town like Guy-a-
whacker ses. ’E got dead sore, too, an’ Shan
’ad t’ pass ’im one on th’ point at th’ finish.
There’s narks in ’Eaven!
“Well, Julia is goin’ strong—strong ain’t
th’ word, though, ’cos ’e didn’t ’um, ’e
’owled ! Our on’y trouble was th’ pore cow
wouldn’t eat nothin’. I mighter jerried ’e
was crook, or that there Townsville bloke
wouldn’t a sold ’im. We tried t’ temp’ ’im
with dog, cooked or raw, sheep’s plucks, over-
ripe shark, game pork, an’ fruity delicacies
like that, but Julia wouldn’t ’ave it on ’is
mind. All th’ good it done was ter bring a
extra big push of Maoris sniffin’ roun’ th’
tent —we c’d a given a mattinny on th’ smell
alone, an’ sold a ’undred tickets. An’ then
a stickybeak of a John gives us th’ chat ter
clear out or be lumbered f’r plague restrick-
shuns, or some caper like that. We’d been
on th’ road five munce or more by then, an’
Julia’d never once ’ad a feed —not a mouth-
ful —never even cracked it f’r a peanut or
a dog-biscuit. I c’d see th’ pore cow was all
out an’ sinkin’ fast, an’ Shan an’ me was in
a ’ell of a query wot t’ do f’r ’im. Shan
reckoned we didn’t ’ave ’is tank ’ot enough,
so we bought another primus, an’ Shan got
potty one night, an’ dam’ near boiled Julia t’
death, same as if ’e was a prawn. ’E did
turn a bit pink, too, an’ that scaldin’ settled
’im, f’r soon after that ’e threw a sugar-
doodle an’ chucked in ’is marble, an’ that
tore th’ bloomin’ show!
“We packed Julia in ice an’ kep’ ’im goin’
as long as we could, but a John got us set,
an’ shot in a suppeena f’r unsanitary pre-
mises, an’ so we slung it. We give a bloke
a quid ter skin Julia. ’E took eight rums
first, an’ we stood by with carbolic, an’
ammonia, an’ eucalyptus, an’ lit joss-sticks
w’ile ’e did it, but ’e struck arf-way
through f’r more rum an’ another quid.
We paid. ’E could’ve ’ad a spinnaker if
’e’d arsked. Th’ Last Rose of Summer’d look
silly alongside th’ Last Days of Julia—’e’d
a made yer cross-eyed, ’e was as ’igh as
Kosciusko. It costs us a nice dry bit one
way—an’ another disposin’ of th’ body an’
gettin’ th’ ide cured, an’ givin’ Julia’s re-
mains a decent funeral, an’ then dookin’ th’
inspector of noosances not t’ crack boo. But
we done real well, an’ made tons of dough
outer Julia.
“After that we joins up with a bloke
named Sugar O’Brien, ’oo was (omin’ over
’ere with th’ boar in th’ world f’r
th’ Royal Show. We towered with ’im a
bit in th’ Taranaki, first, but we got scaled
—at least, Shan ses we did, but I got th’
ideal- ’e rooked me ’isself. ’E’s square-an’-
all w’en ’e’s sober, but ’e got on th’ tangle,
floggin’ over Julia. An’ ’e’s dead funny w’en
’e’s oiled. One town we was at ’e buries ’is
pogue full of dough alongside th’ king-pole of
th’ tent —over a ’undred quid ’e ’ad in it—
but ’e’s too shicker t’ know wot ’e’s doin’, so
I garroples ’is purse an’ keeps it f’r ’im. ’E
don’t remember nothin’ about plantin’ it till
three days after, w’en we’re in another town
a ’undred mile away, but blime! ’e gets t’
graft diggin’ roun’ th’ king-pole lookin’ f’r
’is dam’ brass! Yairs, Shan th’ Goat’s true
t’ label w’en ’e’s sozzled.
“We got back ’ere, an’ now Shan’s gone
on th’ with Sugar O’Brien an’ th’ big
boar, an’ I’m ’ere after this ’ere monk’.
Mind yer, a bloke’s got t’ be dead careful
showin’ a monkey. I know a bloke named
Brocky Joe ’oo travelled one of them there
shimpansies out West. ’E ’ad a fringe beard,
an’ Brocky ’ad a little motor-bus made f’r ’im
ter travel in. But Brocky made a ’ell of a
bloomer w’en ’e called ’is monk’ Dan O’Con-
nell, an then ’ad th’ name painted on th’
side of th’ bus. Nex’, ’e ’as th’ nerve t’ open
up at Mangan’s Flat. ’Arf that districk’s
O'Connells, up there, an’ th’ rest’s Doyles,
Dwyers an’ McMahons, w’en they ain’t
O’Reillys. An’ didn’t they go sour! One
old wire whiskers ’oo was a dead ring f’r th’
monk’ ’isself ses ‘lt’s a insult t’ th’ commu-
»erty!’ An’ they upset th’ motor-bus, an’ all,
an Dan O’Connell got loose an’ bit a publi-
can named O’Grady on the leg, an’ th’ John
shot ’im with ’is squirt f’r self-defence—
shot th’ monk’, I mean; O’Grady’s goin’ yet.
“So, if I gets this ’ere monk’ at Botany,
I’m goin’ t’ call ’im Billy ’Ughes, or some-
thin’ safe like that. A bloke’s gotter be
wise, side-showin’, an’ I always lets religion
an’ that alone. Prodestans or Profiteers is
all th’ same ter me. Religion’s unlucky in
th’ show business. Look at Shan an’ th’
surplus, an’ my clergyman’s throat! A bloke
like Brocky Joe, ’oo’d be mug enough t’ sing
‘Christians, Awake!’ outside a ’Ebrew syna-
gogue on C’ristmas mornin’, oughter keep
outer our game—’e’d be better in some ’ome.
“Well, I’ll ’ave t’ break if I’m ter keep
me date with this ’ere Bot’ny bloke So
long!”
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Tree Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grey lights and blue lights
And the merry forest green,
And lover talk of windy nights
When the moon rode queen—
I knew them in a Surrey wood
And beech groves of the west;
And oaks are fair and hawthorns good.
But wattle boughs are best.
Bright eyes and dark eyes
And laughter in the shade;
The leaves lisp, the wind sighs,
A man wooes a maid—
And, oh, for beauty in the night
Beyond the ivied wall!
But my love’s hand is moon white
And fairer than them all.
The long way, the green way.
Goes down among the years,
Heedless what the winters say
And waiting not for tears;
And love has flashing wings for feet
That fly but cannot part
From the grace of flame and the stingin?
sweet
That gallops in my heart.
n.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRTGHT.


mrsm
M
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
.SVrite for particulars and Book-
let BAI 414.
Tli£ VpSTIMCfiOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents-HOLMES &. CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office— D3-107 Featherstbn Street, Wellington
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, IVlelbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
MOTOR CARS
The weight of the Studebaker
LIGHT-SIX —2550 pounds—is so
evenly distributed over the four
wheels that unusually perfect bal-
ance is obtained. Economy and
easy riding qualities are the result.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebaker Year
)V
•v>
Vo
king Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling 1 factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
ice Building, 97 Pitt Street,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane.
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
'lth
ill!
The Proof
of a
Cartridge
is the Shooting
YOU cannot afford to let inferior shotgun
cartridges spoil your day’s shooting.
The best you can buy are well worth the price because you
can depend on them to do the work swiftly and accurately.
This means good priming, even loads, close patterns
and —best of all —the Remington special “wetproof”
process. All this brings SATISFACTION at the close
of the day’s shoot.
Shotgun cartridges of different brands may look alike,
but shooting puts them to the test.
Try Remington, and
D ’ 9 see the difference !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
TAKE*
*
a
JIM
N
s®^
r t/
THE WORLDS
FOREMOST -
assa^MEDICINE
IMPORTANT NOTICE
TO WOODWORKERS
When you pay for high-speed steel see that you get it. We know
that there are wood-working knives on the market here, sold as
high-speed, which, on analysis, show not a trace of the chief high-
speed steel constituent. Such knives will hold up your machines
a dozen times a day for resharpening. Beware of them.
CAPITAL
BRAND
Woodworking: Knives and Cutters
are Genuine High-Speed Steel.
They are made from ‘•Capital” Brand, the highest-quality high-speed steel produced
in the Sheffield district. “Capital” Brand, cuts clean and holds its edge for long
periods. It is a positive guide to dependable woodworking service. We make it
ourselves and stand back of every knife and cutter. May we quote you? Write
our nearest address. Ask for free book, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of JtJltra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 46 Boulder Boad, Kalgooriie; Paul & Cray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle;
H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Beid and Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte
Street, Brisbane; Chas. Atkins Si Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL &C ud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sidney.
■J 1
If any illustration appearing in Tiif
takes your fancy, write to the
r, who will quote you price for it.
I
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only*
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C<?
Slough, Bucks. Eng
R. G. WATKINS (& CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery ,an<l Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


ars
The Spirit of
SUCCESS
Success is the finest tonic
in the world. Broader and
broader grow the fields of
a man’s vision as Success
takes him higher and higher.
Success makes life very
sweet, and so < does
'■ ' ' .•» "I 1
Urtuar’s
